Mimﬁix-miﬁlﬁple£1'<‘-:‘{1"3ﬁ,‘:.5}.1pr»): . ,. .- .7 ‘9 Go -. E0 MOORE. 153;“

will be different for an experience from what they would be for
an imagination ; but “this difference is not capable of a deﬁnition
which shall be at the same time general and exact, since the
condition which renders such a deﬁnition possible in the case
of antecedentsé—namely, the identity between part of the
object of an experience and part of one of its causes, does
not hold for its accompaniments. It must be noticed that in
cases where the object of the experience is the existence of
something mentalyf—ign in the case of what have been called
“ experiences of the inner sense,” the causes by which it is
characterised as an experience will thus ea: Ihypothesz' include
something mental. But it may be useful to observe that in
this one case an alternative deﬁnition is abstractly possible,
if, as seems probable, every kind of mental occurrence both
invariably accompanies and is invariably accompanied by one
peculiar kind of physical eventérnamely, that any cognition
of . a mental occurrence, among the causes of which is included
the physical event having such relation to that occurrence, is
an experience.

 

 

 

\

“ £3 E (4) Having thus deﬁned the difference between experience
and all other ways of cognizing the same objects, it remains to
say something more with regard to WM
can be properly said to be experienced. It has been laid down
353W £391"aII'EHéh'dBjééEéEiusété’ﬁue, and must be existential
“ propositions. (i) From the ﬁrst of these conditions it follows
that every object of experience must be complex. That this
is so is implied by all philosophers who hold, as all do, that
inferences can be drawn from the subject-matter of experience;
but it- may be thought to conﬂict with the very common theory
that mtmm or sense-zmpresswns are experiences. “ Sensa-T
tions” are frequently spoken of as if they or their objects
might be simple; they are regarded as being or supplying the
elements of knowledge. This difﬁculty, however, seems to be
merely due to the fact that “ sensation ” is commonly used to
denote two qiute different forms of cognition, which are not in iii-“3

 

 

 

f
1':

 

 

a.

 

 

 

 

 




 

tEﬁmoE AND Wastes. ,
a l Wm W

WS’I‘ all philosophers now-a -days are agreed in speaking
respectfully of “Experience.” Before Kant’s time philosophers
were divided into Empiricists, on the one hand, and, on the
other, those Who held that so many and such important 0011+
clusions could be derived from ‘_‘ innate truths ” alone, that they
despised the aid of “Experience.” N ow-a-days “innate truths”
are wholly out of fashion; and though “ pure thought” may
still be thought to do a great deal, its function is geneially
limited to the “ interpretation of experience.” This change is
due to Kant, and its full signiﬁcanceis, I think, rarely recogi?“
nised. The statement that Kant made “experience” the gig
premass of all our knowledge will probably sound strange to
many; and it may seem even stranger to hear that those who
reject his conclusion that our knowledge iswlimzted to “ possible
experience,” do not for the most part differ from him in
making experience their sole premiss. Yet I think it is easy
to see that Kant did do this. Kant tries to defend the truth
of “ synthetic W propositions ” by showing that they are
“ conditions for the possibility of experience.” This he can
only do by showing that they are implied in actual experience.
But to show thatA is implied by B will not prove that A is
true, unless it is assumed that B is true. That Geometry has
a claim to validity, which Spinoza’s “ geometrically demon-T
strated” Ethics has not got, rests for Kant on the fact that the
former is and the latter is not implied in l“ experience.”
Spinoza’s system may quite well contain nothing but“ condif
tions for the possibility” of something other than actual
experience; but the difference in validity between it and
geometry would still remain for Kant. It is, therefore, only E11:

 

 

h

 

 

 




ex rammcam EMPIRICISM 81

the fact that actual experience is true which gives 'Kant a
reason for asserting the validity of “ transcendental” and
denying that of “transcendent” knowledge. Experience is
true, and geometry is implied in it; therefore, geometry is
true. Such is Kant’s reasoning. To have rested the claim
of geometry on its bare self-evidence would not have satisﬁed
him; for the “ transcendent” metaphysics, which he declares
to be “unscientiﬁc,” might make exactly the same claim. He
thinks he has mged the validity of geometry, and dtsprovedthe
possibility of transcendent metaphysics; and for this proof
“ Experience ” is his ggdlg premise <1.»

«ii-"’1 Now subsequent non-empirical philosophers differ from
Kant, for the most part, only in maintaining that more is
implied in “ experience ” than he could ﬁnd to be so. They do
not claim, any more than he did, to have other and indepen-EM‘
dent premisses for their conclusions, such as the pre-Kantian
dogmatists assumed. But this fact suggests two questions,
which the following paper attempts to answer :—-I. How much
do philosophers assume when they assume “ Experience ” as
their sole premiss? II. In what essential respect do Kant
and non-empirical post-Kantians diﬁ‘er from such philosophers
as Hume and Mill, who are deservedly called “ empirical ? ”

’7’ 3 In answer to the ﬁrst question, I shall endeavour to show
that, in assuming “ Experience” as a premise, philosophers
assume the truth of a vast number of propositions, which, as
a matter of fact, they subsequently conclude to be false.

‘ In answer to the second, I shall endeavour to show that
empiricists are distinguished, not by any theory of the W of
knowledge, but by the fact that they constantly imply that all
known truths are of the same kind as experiences, although, in

fact, they assume the knowledge of truths which are not of
3132...“, this kind. - ' ~ .
f1?! F5 : ”3;. SE

”(tinge "1 H" The proposition “geometry is' implied in experience ” is not..- a

 

k8,,” txpLDV g premise of the conclusion “geometry is true,” in the piece of 1

given above. (See Lewis Carroll, inlfiad, N.S. 14,1). 278.) :6"

y)...»

2‘
{alf- .@~L~~4i 7‘ g . x
_ N. t , ,-
6 g {inept—AA“ ""3 f: .‘ ,‘r «133,;

 

 




’3“ 3 CAD; 3-. 3
\ I. -—Eapemmce in its common philosophical signiﬁcance,
seems to denote a sum of actual expeiiences. Thus “my
experience” “your experience’ means the sum of. my or
your experiences; and “ experience ” without such qualiﬁcation
commonly stands for the sum of human experiences. “ Experi? "
ence’.’ does, however, also denote that common character, in
virtue of which actual experiences are classed together; and
it is obvious that only this common character is susceptible
of deﬁnition, since the number and variety of actual experi?’
ences is too great to be exhausted. ‘5 Experience,” then,
denotes a kind of cognition; and, like “cognition” and
“knowledge” themselves, the word stands for a double fact:
(a) a mental state, and (Q) that of which this mental state
, is cognizant. Thus “an experience,” like “ an observation,”
may stand either for the observing of something or for that
which is observed. .
127‘? l The kind of mental state denoted by cognition or con-.5
sciousness is itself of too simple a nature to admit of deﬁnition:
it is something which can be easily recognised as one'and the
same, existing in all instances of cognition, and differing from
the various objects of which it is the cognition. It will not
be disputed, however, that cognitions are also distinguished
from all other kinds of mental existents, if any such there
be, by the fact that they always do stand in a unique kind
of relation to something else—sometbing, namely, of which
they are cognitions; and the kinds of cognition are commonly
distinguished by the kinds of object of which they are
cognitions. That they also differ in themselves would appear
to be; proved by the fact that one cognition may be the cause
of another cognition, although the object of the ﬁrst is the
cause of something entirely different from the object of the
second—e. 9., in the case of association by similarity. But that
there is nevertheless no objection to distinguishing the kinds
of cognition by the kinds of their objects would appear to be
proved by the fact that in all cases where we know the effects 3:?

 

 

'1
(
l
. ‘1
V
, ,
i is
‘3'

 

 

 

 




WWEwmﬁwﬁﬁﬁﬁ :» . . *M’.’mw«~xaiueat~“8:‘l

of a cognition they seem to be connected by a uniform law
with the nature of the object of that cognition. It' would
seem, then, that though cognitions are distinguished from one
another by intrinsic differences, these differences always
correspond to some difference in the nature of their object.
In dividing them, then, according to the nature of the objects,
we shall be dividing them truly; and no other course seems
open to us, since no one has yet succeeded in pointing out
wherein the intrinsic difference of one cognition from another
lies.

f" f, (1) The ﬁrst-great division between objects of consciousness
is between those which are true and those which are false;
and “ experience” is generally and properly conﬁned to the
class of cognitions of what is true : a “false experience ”' would
be commonly allowed to be a contradiction in terms. The
word “ cognition ” itself is sometimes conﬁned, as its etymology
suggests, to awareness or consciousness of what is 5339;, in
which case it is equivalent to “ knowledge.” But a “false
cognition” would not be so generally recognised as a contra?”
diction in terms, as “a false experience” or “false know?
ledge ”; and since the word is grammatically more con“?
venient than “ awareness ” or “ consciousness," I have used it
above, and shall use it below, as equivalent to these terms.
“ An experience,L13_h_e__n, “isms,“ true, cognition ; and it must be

’noted that there is no evidence that a true cognition has any
intrinsic difference from a false one, since none of the properties
of objects with which the psychological laws of sequence
appear to be connected is universally a mark of truth. Thus
a true cognition may as readily cause a false one by, the laws of
association, or a false cognition a true one, as- either may
produce one of its own kind in this respect. Any cognition of
which the object is “ that a thing is true ” does indeed differ
intrinsically from any cognition of which the object is “ that a
thing: is false ;” but the cognitions of the things themselves ' N
do not so differ. In truth, then, we have a mark of all the {8‘};

“3,3...

 

c.

 

 




“$84....sumxmeba-‘ﬁdémw vWt»:-‘émﬂs~~ir~3n.:a:}ir~m~- 1-2“... .; .G- EH .MOORE 75:1:
n o

“gags, of experience to which, so far as is known, no intrinsic
property in the states of mind cognizant of them corresponds,
although every true proposition differs from any false one.
333‘ i But (2) not all true cognitions are experiences. The objects
of experience all fall within. the class 91...?“ momma“
"M‘existﬁin’gwthings, and/”existence is a mark-to ‘which we have.”
mappose that something in the state of mind corre:
spondsﬁgv states of mind cognizant of existential truths differ
intrinsically from those which are cognizant of any other class
of truths, although they do not diﬁ'er intrinsically from those
which are cognizant of false existential propositions. 4
57’ l But (3) the very same existential truths which we experience
may at another time be known to us by memory, or at the
very time when we experience them another mind may have
attained to a knowledge of them by inference or mere imagine-f i'
tion. What is it which distinguishes our experience of them
from that knowing of them to which we give these names?
The distinction for which we are to look is that which, in
Hume’s language, divides “ impressions ” from “ ideas.” He
held that this distinction consisted merely in the superior
“liveliness” of the impressions; and it seems to be true that,
at most times when we are experiencing, some part of what we
experience is cognized with a “ liveliness ” superior to that,
which belongs to most of our memories or imaginations; so
that by far the greater number of our “ lively” cognitions are
experiences. But (a) it must be remembered that at each
moment of normal experience we have experience of a vast
variety of objects: and it would seem certain that, whatever
this “liveliness ” may be, only a comparatively small number
out of this varietyr+-namely, those which are near the centre of
attention, are cognized with more liveliness than most imagina-T“
tions ; yet all are certainly experienced. And (b) there-
seems no reason to doubt that some true imaginations may,
like hallucinations, possess as high a degree of liveliness as any
experience. There does not, therefore, seem to be any intrinsic ['23

 

 

i.
J
a
S
“3
3
a
«'1
3
:3.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




, nxrnarnsca.,, AND» .mmicmm. v7 . 85

e", we”

property either in an experience or in its object which will
serve to distinguish it from all imaginations. We are driven
to the conclusion that an experience is in itself quite indis?“
tinguishable from a true imagination, memory, or inference,
and, if it is to be precisely distinguished from these, can only
be so by the circumstances under which it occurs But
language certainly demands such a distinction; it would be
generally felt that the term “ experience ” should denote some?
thing which cannot, even in a single case, be identical with
that which is denoted by mere imagination: and hence we
must say that exactly the same cognition, when occurring
under certain circumstances, is properly called an experience,
and, when occurring under different circumstances, a mere

. imagination.

f l When once it is thus recognised that an experience is to be
deﬁned not merely by any intrinsic properties of itself or its
object, but also by its circumstances, it, becomes easy to
distinguish it from memory and jnfggfeme. The only difference
which seems to differentiate these from it in all cases is one of
this extrinsic kindﬁ-namely, (g) in the case of memory, that it
has among its causes a previous cognition of the same object,
whereas any object can be eggmegzced only once; and (Q) in the
case of inference, that it has among its causes a mental process
of a peculiar kind, which is never among the causes of an
experience. Moreover, this method of deﬁning experience has
been very frequently adopted ; an experience has been
generally held to be distinguished from other cognitions by

_ its origin or accompaniments.
f‘"‘V§ There still, however, remains the case of certain true
imaginations. What kind of circumstances will always
distinguish these from experiences?

{a i 1. It has been proposed to deﬁne experience as “immediate”
knowledge. This is a negative deﬁnition, referring to the
absence of mental causes. But there are certainly some
imaginations of which we do not know the mental causes. We [29}.

 

a.

 




 

 

 

 

le,.1n..uww a... Mica-An ‘0 «LAN-A .W-dh-ow

b.§ Kan

xx. ;7‘ #11311? nmguumam-nnc

f." 1""? '1“... ..J.C“.'.i‘.‘ ‘."

w . -4 ~..... .Q-l

 

 

 

 

 

 

cannot, therefore, assign any deﬁnite class of mental causes
which is invariably found among the causes of an imagination
and invariably wanting among the causes of an experience ; and
to say, what is probably trueﬁnamely, that imaginations
always have some kind of mental cause, which experiences are
without, is merely to say that they 3gp be deﬁned by their
mental causes: it does not itself constitute that deﬁnition. It
may, perhaps, be said that among the causes of every imagina?‘
tion is some previous experience; but, even if this be true, it
requrres an independent deﬁnition of experience before it can
itself be taken as a deﬁnition of imagination. Nor, ﬁnally,
are we entitled to assert that experiences have no mental causes,
because we know of none. Accordingly in any sense in which
we are entitled to assert that experiences are immediate, except
that which makes immediacy deny causation by previous
experiences, we have an equal right to call some imaginations
immediate.

41‘,‘ ‘%§ 2. It is, perhaps, true that all experiences are accompanied
by cognitions of objects closely related to their ownTthat their
objects are always members of a simultaneously cognized con-
tinuum. But it is certain that some imaginations, if only
their objects be true, may be thus related to both experiences
and imaginations occurring simultaneously.

C- i 3. It would seem, then, that the only method of dis?
tinguishing an experience from an imagination is by means of
antecedents or accompaniments other than mental. Let us
take the case in which the same object is simultaneously
experienced by one man and imagined by another. The total
antecedents and accompaniments of both cognitions are the
same. If, then, they are distinguished by their antecedents,
this must mean, not that they have different antecedents, but
that the one has to some of their common antecedents a
relation which the other has not got. Nor can this relation
be identiﬁed with invariable antecedence, since in this case
the imagination and the experiengp have the relation in “

 

 

 

i




 

2141111111131111911111axnaemsm1erssa 1. .. . . . :er 87

question to different antecedents, and consequently neither
set of antecedents can be said to precede invariably the
cognition which is in one case an experience and in the other
an imagination We must, then, understand the statement
that an identical imagination and experience are distinguished
by the circumstances under which they occur, as meaning that
the one has the same relation to some of its circumstances
which the other has to others, and that this is a relation
which neither has to all; and this relation would seem to be
sufﬁciently deﬁned by the fact that from the circumstances in
question you could infer the future existence of the cognition,
although from the existence of the cognition you could not
infer which set of circumstances had preceded it. If we call
this relation “ causal,” then we may say that an experience is
always distinguished from a true imagination by the nature of
its physical causes; and there does, in fact, seem to be a class
of causes, capable of exact deﬁnition, some member of which 1
class is always among the causes of an experience, but never
among those of an imagination Each diﬁ'erent experience i
has, indeed, a different cause, but the class to which all such

causes must belong may be deﬁned in the following way: — A» -. _. ‘11:}; it: 31g “f, 1,4,1"??? 311, it.

#1:. l
.' i 5

1 Every event, and consequently every experience, has this 9it'.; P111" 1151 .1 f; ‘1'”? ”1‘ :2, 24‘ «ML
causal relation to some set of circumstances at every preceding '

moment, the set becoming larger and larger as you recede in

time from the event in question. Among these sets (which may

each be called one of the causes of any given experience in a

different sense fiom which each member of any one of them may

be called 333; ot its causes) there will always be one of which

the thing or event, the existence of which is the object of the
experience, is a. member. Among the causes of an imagination,

on the other hand, the thing or event, whose existence is its

object, will never be thus included. It follows from this that

among the [accompaniments of an experience there will always

also be some having to it the special relation that its existence

could be inferred from theirs, and that these accompaniments TE"? :

h

 




nr'MMAtNBw‘EMP’IﬁTGTSM "W W” ” ““89 ‘”

general clearly distinguished from one another. The proper
and usual meaning of “ sensation ” is that in which it denotes a
cognition of the emstmce of a simple quality , a sense in which
“ sensations” are experiences. But it is commonly thought
that this is identical with the cognition of a simple quality,a
form of cognition, which is undoubtedly possible, but which is
by no means so important.

{3 l (ii) It may seem strange to some that the object, 012m-
experience should he called a proposition. But such object
may undoubtedly be “ the existence of such and such a thing,’
and it seems impossible to distinguish the cognition ot this
from the cognition “ that such and such a thing exists.” The
object of experience, moreover, is undoubtedly true, and allows
valid inferences to be drawn from it, both of which properties
seem to be characteristic of propositions.

(,1:- i. (iii) What types of proposition can be properly included under
the description “ propositions about existing things,” and hence,
as objects of experience, is a more difﬁcult question. In ordinary
life we do undoubtedly include, among the objects which we
say we experience, successions and coexistences; and the usage
of philosophers seems to be generally in agreement with this
use of the term. We might thus be said, for instance, to-
experience the motion of a coloured point. N ow, it would

. seem that this proposition would be properly interpreted in
the form: “ Such and such existing things, having this and
that spatial position at this and that time, are divided from one
another by such and such a spatial distance and such and such
a temporal distance.” But this is not strictly an existential
pr0position, nor can its meaning ever be exhausted by any
number of such; it does not assert the existence of anything:
it asserts that two or more existing things have certain relations.
At most it is capable of analysis into “the position in space,
occupied now by this, has such and such a spatial distance
from the position occupied then by that, ” and “ the position in
time occupied by this here has such and such a temporal:

lava“:

ta

 




 

M
" N4”

’90 ‘» ' , '-:--:‘«Kn.»was:sapirs'v'ss-EAEQrEEWit}: ﬁll-.34: {,G.E.MO0RE. F

distance from the position occupied by that there.” But to
E, E. allow that such propositions may be objects of experience
EE E involves a twofold modiﬁcation of our deﬁnition. (4;) We
E must extend the deﬁnition of “ existential proposition” to
‘ include the assertion of a relation between existents of which
the existence may be the object of experience. It is by such an
inclusion of relations between existents that perceptwn is dis;

 

"W'Yv‘ﬂ w—v—mv -Ww—w~a Evy-w.“ ~W\‘r-xv¢~mg-f-0I-. 1,“ ,-

1)

l
i
i
E
E tinguished from “ sensation ; and perceptions are generally
E held to be experiences. (Q) We must also allow that the
existence of a position in space or time may be an object of
E experience. Yet it would be paradoxical to assert that positions
E in space or time could be among the causes of anything. We

;~r::w:mr.:r:.tL1-::mtv arr anew-“- -‘

a

a

E must, therefore, extend the deﬁnition of experience by adding
E that the existence of a thing which is not itself among the
causes of an experience, yet if it be included in the proposition
from which the effect may be inferred, may be an object of
experience. This extension of our deﬁnition will certainly
allow the existence of positions in space and time to be
included among objects of experience. For every causal
inference is from the fact that a thing exists gt; apartwular

p...
..

W

W
......WW..

 

 

au—

 

 

 

 

 

~“"‘r<"' '

w...

Wndplace to the fact that something else will exist at a
particular time and place. Though, therefore, we do in ordinary
language restrict the term cause to the thing which so exists, E
yet the necessary connection involved in the term does not hold E
between its existence and that of its effect, but between their E:
existence at their respective positions in time and space. The E
same extension of our deﬁnition will, however, also allow us to
include among experiences cognitions that such and such a-
quality exists, apart from any speciﬁcation of time and place.

ww'w

<c~ imam—.4," r...—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

114--., . ”w _ .. “fr. "

 

We have it, then, that an empirical proposition must either 543;" E "

(g) assert truly the existence of one or more members of one E ; EE =“~”'E*:?E ,5}?
of the following classes of entityﬁclasses none of which is E

EEE; identical with any other or with the sum of any others : 3 wt,

namely. Ed) this here now, (ESE this now, (if) this here, (SE this, . .
i ' ' (a?) this place now, (r) this place, 6'?) this time; or else (l2) L3H i
‘ ' 1 L-

t i

.0... NH» ..
iv. ......~.~.-

- —~I.

a

v—w—vv— w

 

... w.~.~y—_‘..~,.._o-u..-

 

 

 

 

 

 

O

 




"IEQCBEIUENCE..sARD--LEMR~IBIG:I$M.: 91

must assert a relation between some members, not of these
classes, but of the new classes formed in earzh case by all the
existing members of each of them; or, ﬁnally, (9) must assert
something collectively of some members of the classes last
deﬁned. Classes (,6) and (9,) may perhaps be more clearly
deﬁned in the'following wayT-jy‘namely, that those only among
relational and collective propositions can be objects of experi-f‘
ence, or empirical, in which the terms related or grouped
presuppose propositions of class (gt). _

‘51? i (5) In the above manner (3) must an experience be deﬁned
if it is to be distinguished from every case of true imagination.
It is to be noted, however, that the use of the word is
commonly extended to include cases of imagination which
resemble experiences in a respect which can only be deﬁned by
means of the above deﬁnition- For instance, when we see that
a table is wooden, this would commonly be called a case of
experience, although some part of the properties which we
mean by “ wooden ” are certainly not among the objects of any
cognition caused by the action of the table upon our eyes. In
such a case our knowledge of the existence of these properties
which have a certain spatial relation to those which ,ggg among
the objects of sight, and are experienced, must be allowed to
be a mere imagination, since it has‘not its objects among its
causes; but we call it an experience, because its object is
simultaneous with the object of an experience which is simul?‘
taneous with it. When, therefore, an imagination resembles a
simultaneous experience by having the same temporal relation
to its object, we commonly rank it as an experience of class (a) ;
and cognitions, into which it enters in the same way as true
experiences of class ((1.) enter into cognitions of classes (9) and
(9), may also be called experiences. ‘

5:“: l lI.{—Having thus given a precise meaning to “ experience,”
we may now inquire in what sense, if any, 6?an can be
deﬁned as implying that “experience is the origin of all our
knowledge.” . -

 




 

a ’53" 3 ”t

A It is plain, in the ﬁrst place, it cannot mean that experience
is its own origin; and, therefore, that by “ all our knowledge”
{I we must understand all that is not itself experience.
at 2 But with regard to that part of our knowledge which is not

itself experience: (i) it is certain that not every empiricist
’ need deny, or imply the denial of, the fact that the brain
co—operates with experience in determining what inferences,
imaginations, and memories we shall have, just as it co-operates
! with the object in determining what experiences we shall have.
It is not, then, essential to empiricism to hold that experience
is the sole gym of all knowledge other than itself. And
(ii) if our deﬁnition merely means that experience is 0729
among the causes of all such knowledge, then this is not
denied, but constantly implied, by many philosophers who
.- are not empiricists: 9.9., when it is allowed that experience
i is necessary as an am for the knowledge of a necessary '
‘ truth.
. £35 2 It remains, then, to inquire in what sense, if any, this
, , deﬁnition will hold, supposing that by “ origin" he meant
“premise,” and by “experience ” and “knowledge ” not our
- i - mental states, but the truths of which they are cognizant.

Understood. in this sense, the deﬁnition must mean that

experience is the sqlememglss of any truths we know which

are not themselves experienced. But this doctrine, as was

said above, fails to distinguish empiricists from Kant and from

post-Kantian non—empirical philosophers ; since they too imply

that we have no title to assert the truth of any proposition

which is not implied in experience.
(,5 f It appears, then, that no implicatiOn with regard to the
position of experiences as causes or as premises of all our
knowledge will sufﬁce to deﬁne empiricism. Yet empiricism
does undoubtedly imply the assignation of some kind of pre?
eminence to experience in respect of truth. There seems to
remain but one way in which this can be doneTlTnamely, by
implying that all the truths we know are of the same ”MM as ~

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MMM*~-~¥W~' A... ~-—-......—
.U.Er . x... -~... ‘4.._'. ... ...c. .—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“'5 r“- T.’i;.~.'3EL'. T. "" "' -

w,»

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2‘ II ﬁrst”

 

was...
*9

‘-
. uuyv r

 

w

a

m... N...
,

--... .-.........- H-
- ;-. .. . .. -3:

 

 

 

h

 

 

..
O
. . .-.. ~.._....- ‘-'—v- -vu-m -.‘
""“’W~‘“MM

 




. . A , - ~ . ‘_-,<"'1‘?' 7‘33335
, f? iwlilisilhﬁ ﬁ-awirat’zsrwtmaWLv 93 '
O

the objects of experience. From this principle it would follow
that, in a sense, actual experience was the sole gist; of all our
knowledge ; since it would be true that we could know nothing
but what Md be experienced, and that consequently any
piece of knowledge might be disproved by a possible observe-ii“
tion or experiment. On the contrary, it is characteristic of
non-empirical philosophers to hold that we have some pieces
of knowledge which no possible experience could disprove,
although. almost all sufﬁce to prove them. It would remain
true, no doubt, that the empiricist must imply that we have
pieces of knowledge which never are tested by actual experi?‘
ence, and which cannot (humanly speaking) be 80:73?" that the
moon is spherical. But this very fact helps to explain why
the doctrine that “ experience is the origin of all our know?"
ledge ” has been commonly supposed to deﬁne empiricism. '
For that doctrine by its very terms admits that we do know
more than we actually experience, and yet, at the same time,
exhibits a wish to maintain that experience is more certain,
more truly knowledge, than anything else we know. This
inconsistency may very naturally be suggested by the fact
that what is of the same kind as an object of experience
is just what can (in one sense) he experienced, although,
as a matter of fact, it never can (in another sense) be
experienced.

C} j There seems, then, sufficient reason for taking this implies?
tion “ That we can know nothing but what could be experienced,
fia, what is of the same kind as what we do experience,” to
deﬁne empiricism ; and this, item deﬁnition of experience has
been correct, is exactly equivalent to the deﬁnitionrthat
empiricism is distinguished by the frequent implication that
all known truths are truths about what exists at one or more
moments of time. And the correctness, of the deﬁnition. is
further conﬁrmed by the fact that the most general and
obvious characteristics of empirical systems seem naturally
to follow from this presupposition. Thus (1) empiricists are 1%.:

K

;

g3

 




m..~

cw...

-... m‘. ....

 

 

M'wmmmu~.n-v~.n ..-

 

__.._.... w..._—~M.-~._g_.~-_.__-..w..~_.....__."ml”a.
..-..<-L-.. ..... ..... _ ..

r
l;
I.
9;
l5
ii
’a
i}.
i

 

 

 

 

94am..-“ ,. G. E. moons.

always characterised by their treatment of so-called necessary
truths, of. which an extreme instance are the truths of arith-T"
metic. These truths are not existential truths, and hence we
ﬁnd that empiricists tend either (a) to admit their truth, but to
interpret them as analytic or insignificant; or (Q) to interpret
them as. universal, and deny that we can know them. By the
former device they are enabled to hold that such truths are
mere parts of What we experience, not something different,
which can indeed be inferred from‘experience, but cannot
be disproved by it. On the other hand, the device of inter?"
preting all such truths as universal is due. to an attempt to
assimilate them to existential truths of the form “all these
things have this character,” and thus to make them pcsszblc
objects of knowledge. . And the denial that we can know them
is due to the fact that these are a limiting case in which it is
impossible not to recognise the incompatibility of possible
knowledge in the one sense with that in the other. It seems
obviously absurd to maintain that we can observe every
instance of a given class; whereas it is not obvious that the
same absurdity, if it be an absurdity, is involved in maintaining
that we can observe somc instances, which we do not observe.
The empiricist fails to see the difference between the assertions
“ all these things have this character” and “ so many things 9!:

\ “this class have this character.” When he says, “all things of

this class, mamas limi‘tsof observation, are of this character,”
he can still think that he is making an empirical proposition,
a proposition in extension, because he seems to himself to be
making an assertion not about a whole class, but about a part
of a class. His assertion, then, that we can know only general“
and probable, not unzgersal and necessary propositions, seems to
be due to the fact that he applies to all truths the test of
conformity to the type of objects of experience, and admits as
certainly true those only which seem to him, because he con?
fuses this test with the test of actual experience, to have such

’ conformity. .(2) A second characteristic of empiricists, which ‘i

h

 

 




 

WEM’W‘EMWW ; . [up-cm .‘WM95‘

seems also to follow naturally from this presupposition, is the
tendency to regard all inference as either analytic or causal.
The view that it, is analytic harmonises with their presupposi?“
tion in the same way as the View that necessary truths are
analytic, and the characteristic of causal inference is that it is
inference from the existence of one thing to the existence of
another.

. n...— mm... n sv-a~-,....«~.a\_-
v ¢;_.U‘“‘»'J'-WJ m

r4!

1 mun“ Lif‘iil‘ .

r“
_a
.

\_“

 

 

 

 




