Junior Division Talks No. 2.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IMPRISONED
FO R LIFE

A great animal lover, Mr. H. S. Salt, tells us that when
he was a child he used to be taken, as a “ treat,” to see
men and women shut up in prison.

Very few boys and girls, nowadays, would look upon
such a sad sight as a “ treat.” And yet there are many
who seem to think it is a treat to see animals kept as
prisoners behind bars. For these animals are prisoners,
and imprisonment, as you know, is one of the most
severe punishments that can be inﬂicted on man for
crime. Try to put yourself for a moment in the sad
position of one of these animals conﬁned to prison
for life.

 

 




 

IMPRISONED FOR LIFE -. . T W O

 

Jacko is a squirrel in a small ’menagerie. All day long
and far into the evening a host of eyes stare at him,
and all day long and far into the evening he gazes
back. On the one side there is curiosity and
amusement; and on the other, weariness and
hopelessness.

How different all this is from his glorious former life
in the woods—-the life that he was meant for, the life
that he lived until the day of his capture !

Whenever he can forget these hosts of watching eyes
and sink into uneasy snatches of sleep, or at night when
they are there no longer, there come to him some
memories of those free, happy days among the trees—-
the dancing leaves, the laughing breeze, the swift
rscampering rushes up the trunks and along the boughs,
the joyous nibbling of the nuts which he hoarded and
all those delights of freedom which he has lost for ever.
For on one awful morning, two eager human hands
snatched him up in an unguarded moment, and robbed
him of all that he loved and understood.

He was thrust into a bag and, after hours of stiﬂing,
terrifying darkness, put into a wooden box. Later—his
life and freedom bought for a dozen coppers—he
became part of this small menagerie, where every day
brings more punishment and despair.

And—shame that one should have to tell it—Jacko the
squirrel is only one of many creatures in like case.
There are at least a score of them—~some with wings
meant for sure, soaring ﬂight; some with nimble feet
that are nimble no longer. They are a mixed
collection, but one and all are suffering in the same sad
fashion and for the same sad reason—that they have
been robbed of liberty and put in a place quite unsuited
to them.




IMPRISONED FOR LIFE - I H R E E

 

Not that the owner of the menagerie means - to treat
them badly. He knows little of the ways of living things,
tame or wild. He knows that the cages are not large,
but they seem to him large enough. He has never
studied the matter of food for his prisoners, but gives
them what he fancies (or has heard) that they like.
It has never occurred to him that narrow, stuffy
quarters are an offence to them, but he is satisﬁed if
the cages are cleaned out often enough to prevent
them from smelling badly.

From his point of view the menagerie is “a sound
thing,” and quite well managed. There are one or
two rather unusual creatures in it; people pay their
pennies willingly; and there is a brisk coming and
going for most of the day. Yes, it is a very successful
part of his business.

The people who stand and stare at the prisoners in
thosesmall, none-too-clean cages do not mean any ill,
either. They are interested, and curious, and amused.
They bring nuts and buns and sugar, and stuff them
through the bars. It is a “good“show,” and never for
a moment do they dream that the food may be harmful,
that the cages are stuffy prisons, and that the whole
thing is a sin against the laws of nature.

Worst of all-—and both I who write and you who read
must take some of the blame—Jacko’s menagerie is
not by any means the only place where these things are
happening. Evil is wrought by want of thought and.
lack of imagination, as well as by want of heart, but if
we loved and tried to understand God’s creatures as we
ought, everything of the kind would be quite impossible.

 




 

IMPRISONED FOR LIFE

 

Would you like to make it impossible P Of course you
would—and you can ! Not all at once, not by yourself.
But all of you, ﬁrst by learning to love animals and
birds, and then by helping others to do the same, can
do far more than you imagine.

That is yet another of the jobs that members of the
R.S.P.C.A. Junior Division have to do. In any land in
which the people guard and treasure freedom, there .
should be no living creatures kept in any sort of
captivity in which they have not enough space for their
needs, an ample supply of proper food, and the care
' and comfort which are required to make them happy.

All animal “prisoners and captives” who have not
these things need you as their champions. Won’t you
try very hard to get for them the things which they
deserve—and for which they long?

 

w.

.t "ilii\"

, ”lift“? ‘~“ I . ~ \. '

xvii-"ti", \ ‘\\\; ' a “ ’
I‘ .l“ I '

.‘ '\’\\

 

Issued by The
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals:
105, Jermyn Street, S.W.l.

5x/4/35. M. a c-

W W WIMALS
E“ in“
W ‘ L B RA N CH.
:3 owéz

"111;.53..CEWLuTE R, 3

 




