 

“.11 I! It If H H Ill II II II II H II II II H II M Jl H II II II I] II II H II II II II II

 

 

Cruel Experiments
on Dogs and Cats

PERFORMED IN .
BRITISH LABORATORIES

II II H ll "71 If“ II ll "1! Ir

 

 

By
L. LIND — AF - HAGEBY.

Reprinted from
THE ANTI—VIVISECTION & HUMANITARIAN REVIEW, 1927.

 

"1| ll H II H“ I] I] ”311111!!! [I [I "I! III] Iﬂﬂ'll‘n “11 IL“ "J! H II II IIJLII I] H II II I] II

 

 

PRICE TWOPEN CE.

Issued by 'I'lzeAnimalDefence and A ntle ivisection Society,
35, Old Bond Street, London, W.1, and

4, Cour St. Pierre, Geneva, Switzerland.

President: Hon. Director:
The Duchess of Hamilton. Miss Lind-af-Hageby.

 

“Z?
F
=
:1
E

‘ a
=
F
:
FI‘
=
A
1
3
:4
a
=
:
:
1
=
:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

II II [I H H 1| H II I] If H [I‘lf II I] ll H H II II II II "H II III II II ll II II II II II

 

 

 




 

Cruel Experiments on Dogs and Cats

PERFORMED IN
BRITISH LABORATORIES

In the Quarterly Journal of Experimental
Physiology for March, 1917, a publicatiOn edited
by English vivisectors, there was published an
account of experiments on cats, paid for with
public money under the Insurance Act. The

following shows the nature of these experiments:

“ Cat 91.——-The right sciatic nerve cut on 18/11.
Thyroparathyroidectomy* on 19/11. On 21/11 marked
spasticity, with ‘ water-shaking ’ and tremors. The facial
phenomenon was marked. On 22/11 coarse jerkings
were added to the other symptoms, and the animal ran
backwards and tended to fall to the left. On 23/11
spacticity, tremors, and jerkings as before. In the
morning the animal tended to fall forwards, with head
down and hindquarters up. In the afternoon, when put
on the floor, it spun or sprang round its long axis from
right to left, and when it reached the wall it leaned
upon it. 24/11, very depressed. Several times sudden
attacks of disturbances of balance. The head was ﬂexed
between the forelegs, the legs were extended, back arched,
and in this position it sprang round its long axis. These
attacks were brought on by placing the animal on its
back. It was killed by chloroform.” '

The cat was killed after a week or more.
Such’ things are paid for out of public money.
Do you as a tax-payer approve of it ?

Before me lies an account of certain experi-
ments performed at the Brown Institute in
London, and recorded in the Lancet of July,
1926. An account of these experiments performed
by Mr. Stanford Cade was given to the Royal
College of Surgeons. Healthy adult dogs were
the subjects.

Laparotomy (opening the abdomen) was performed
on a fasting dog; the gall—bladder was found to be fully
distended; the peritoneum over the cystic duct was
incised, and the duct isolated by carefully separating it
from the cystic artery and veins. The duct was then
diVided between two ligatures. The abdomen was closed,
and the dog allowed to recover. When well, a maximum
dose of sodium tetraiodophenolphthalein was given
intravenously; seven hours after injection the abdomen

 

* Removal of thyroid and parathyroid glands.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

was opened a second time; the gall-bladder was seen to
be normal in every respect, and its blood-supply un-
impaired; the gall-bladder was removed. . . .

In another experiment the cystic duct was
isolated and divided between two ligatures. The
abdomen was closed and reopened 7 days later.
Gradually increasing doses of tetraiodophenol-
phthalein were given. The following symptoms

are recorded :—

Weakness (animal could not sit), fall of blood-pressure,
diarrhoea, vomiting and convulsions. Post-mortem
examination revealed intense congestion of the liver and
kidneys, these viscera being almost black; the heart was
dilated; the lungs were bright pink. Histologically the
liver showed intense congestion, the intralobular veins
were distended, the portal capillaries engorged; the-re
were marked subcapsular haemorrhages and areas of
destruction of liver tissue were present in which were
seen particles of pigment (probably altered blood); the
kidneys were in a condition of glomerular nephritis; the
brain was engorged, and there was some fragmentation
of cerebral cells.

The following experiments took place in
Edinburgh and were recorded in the Quarterly
Journal of Experimental Physiology of May 22,
1923. Cats and dogs were used. The abdomen
was opened. The vivisectors were engaged on
pyloric pouch construction.

The following is a description of the technique
employed :—

The pyloric segment was excluded from the body of
the stomach by incising the sero-muscular coat over the
fundo-pyloric junction, freeing the mucosa submuscularly
and dividing it. A double partition of mucous membrane
was formed by closing the divided stumps, and the
interval between them, ‘5.6., inside the denuded muscular
tube, was ﬁlled by a pedicled graft of omentum. The
incision in the sero-muscular coat was closed and buried.
Alimentary continuity was re-established by posterior,
no-loop gastro-enterostomy. . . . The animals were apt
to suffer from enteritis and severe diarrhoea. . . . On
account of the unsuitability of the cat for our purpose,
we. next turned our attention to the dog. Operations
on exactly similar lines were carried out, but it was found
that invariably the pyloric pouch became gangrenous,
from too extensive an interference with its blood supply.
It became obvious that, in the dog, the construction of
the pyloric pouch must be performed at two sittings,
time being allowed between them for the re-establishment
of vascular resources at the part ﬁrst attached.

3

 




 

An interval of about four weeks elapsed
between operations on the same animal. The
following is a description of the animals—the
“ happy ” animals, as we are assured, of the
laboratory :—-

Cat.——Operation lasted about an hour and a
half. Lived thirty hours. Animal recovered
from the anaesthesia almost immediately, but
died from shock.

Cat—Operation lasted an hour and a half.
Lived eleven days. The animal did not do well.
Loss of appetite and diarrhoea.

D0g.——Made excellent recovery after operation.
Died suddenly on fourteenth day as a result
of profuse intestinal haemorrhage. Post—mortem
showed the lower three feet of the ileum to be
the site of multiple acute ulcers. Several of
these ulcers penetrated deeply into the muscle.

Dog.—-—Recovery after operation was somewhat
retarded by an attack of distemper which
caused prolonged gastro—enteritis and consider-
able loss in weight. This was aggraVated by
intestinal ulceration consequent on the operation,
and meleena persisted for six weeks. This dog
was subjected to a second operation one month
and a half after the ﬁrst operation.

What Happened to a Retriever
and a Collie.

The intelligence and the devotion of collies
and retrievers are known to most people who
can appreciate the friendship of a dog. But to
the vivisector they are but animated bundles of
material for experimental physiology.

The Quarterly Journal of Experimental
Physiology of March 26, 1917, contained the
following specimen of “ scientiﬁc ” work by
Messrs. D. Noel Paton and Leonard Findlay :—

“ Nothing can be more convincing than to
remove all the thyroid tissue—along with the
parathyroids—leaving one external parathyroid
with its blood-supply intact. Generally no
symptoms, or at most transient tremors, super-

4

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

vene, and only when the remaining parathyroid
is removed does true tetany develop.

“ Two experiments from our series may be
recorded here to show how clearly the effects of
parathyroidectomy are distinguished from those
of removal of the thyroid.”

Retriever . . . It was found dead evidently
after a convulsion, at 1.30 (on the fourth day
after the second operation). “

Collie. ——Thyroparathyroidectomy on 15/16.
The lower half of the left thyroid lobe left
in situ attached to inferior thyroid vessels. Next
day “ most violent symptoms,” which were not
relieved by calcium lactate given intravenously.
The animal was destroyed.

Heaven is believed to be a state into which
the merciful (“ blessed are the merciful . . .”),
the loving, and the self-sacriﬁcing enter. I wonder
if any Guardian of the Gates would open them
to the vivisectors and close them to the dogs?

Paid Fer Out of Public Money.

In the Journal of Physiology, Volume LVIII,
1923-24, there is a description of certain experi~
ments on a dog, which lasted 16 months ané
were carried out by Dr. G. V. Anrep and H. N.
Khan at University College, London. Dr. Anrep,
who is senior assistant in Physiology at Univer-
sity College, is the author with Dr. D. '1‘. Harris
of a book entitled “ Practical Physiology ” (a
guide to demonstration experiments).

A dog had a ﬁstula made in the left sub-
maxillary duct, and also a gastric ﬁstula. These
two openings were established three weeks before
the commencement of the experiments.

Vivisectors have a soothing modern expression
for the process of starving an animal: they call
it “ prolonged rest of the digestive organs.”
We are informed that after a prolonged rest
of the digestive organs the dog was placed in
a stand, fed with small pieces of dried bread
and the saliva collected in measuring cylinders.

5

 




The feeding continued for many hours, but the
animal was not forced to take food.

Poor silly canine mind !-——some youth of the
laboratory might reﬂect—the superior mental
qualities which would have made a man realise
the folly of eating under the circumstances ‘
were lacking! ;

We are informed that generally once every ‘
hour the gastric ﬁstula was opened and the '

 

gastric contents removed; thus distention of the
stomach was prevented and the dog continued
to eat for a very long time. “ The experiment
generally had to be terminated on account of l
muscular fatigue. During the experiment water
was injected through the gastric ﬁstula directly
into the stomach. During the period of recovery
the animal received food through the gastric
ﬁstula only.” The vivisectors were studying
secretion of saliva, and exhaustion and recovery
of the salivary gland. We are told that in
sixteen experiments the period of exhaustion of
the salivary gland by prolonged feeding ranged i
from ﬁve and a half to eight hours. “ After i
prolonged exhaustion of the submaxillary gland {
the dog received an injection of a large dose ;
of atropine,” repeated at intervals of a few
hours, for a certain length of time, and frequent
tests were made to determine whether the gland
was completely paralysed. “ Four separate
attempts were successful in producing prolonged
and complete paralysis of the gland.” These
experiments were performed at intervals of ten
l to fourteen days. The superior cervical ganglion
was cut out in the dog together with a piece
of the vaso-sympathetic nerve. “ The experi-
ments were resumed ﬁve weeks after the opera-
tion and continued for ﬁve months.” During
this period, we are told, the effects of the I
extirpation on the pupil and eye were well- I
marked. The expenses of this research were 1'
defrayedby a grant from the Medical Research !
Council held by Dr. Anrep-—-in other words, it 1

 

 

was paid for out of Public Money.
6

 

 

 




_ -v... mH—wmmwumhm ~.H.R.,. A,.,.,<.~-~.. ,,

Sixteen Months For A Laboratory Dog

Here we have a dog who is subjected to an
operation involving the establishment of a
permanent opening into the salivary duct,
another involving the establishment of an open-
ing into the stomach, a third involving the
cutting out of the superior cervical ganglion,
3 who receives repeated injections of atropine,
. is subjected to frequent tests, whose stomach

 

is cleared out through a gastric ﬁstula, some.
times once an hour, and who is kept alive for
experimental purposes for months. I do net

i think any sane person can deny that pain was
inﬂicted on that dog. ‘Nould the signatories of
the Memorandum* care to offer their own bodies
for such studies?

Dogs Grafted With Liver Taken From

Other Dogs: How They Die.

3 . The Journal of Physiology of January 12th,
1927, reports an account of Toxaemz'a from Liver
Grafting by D. T. Barry and J. Freud. The
writers relate that dogs grafted with liver sub-
stance intraperitoneally showed symptoms of
depression according to the weight of liver used
l in proportion to body weight. In those where
‘ three to ﬁve grams of liver from freshly-killed
dog were used per kgm. “ the results were all
fatal after intervals of from 24 hours to three
days (four experiments: C.D.E.T.). When the
size of the graft was reduced to about 2.5 or 3
grams per kgm. it was again fatal in all cases,
but two lasted ﬁve days (ﬁve experiments:
F.G—.H.J.M.; J. being a female with pup near
term).”

There was no pity here for the female with
pup. Our much despised animals will show
consideration for a female with pup, but not
so our super-intellectual vivisectors !

‘ ‘ When the graft amounted to about one gram
per kgm., not exceeding 1.5 grams, a fatal result
eccurred in one (8.) on the third day (ﬁve

* Memorandum against the Dogs Protection Bill issued by the
Medical Research Council, June, 1927.

 

 

 

7

l
l
1
r
i
l

 




 

 

 

 

experiments: K.L.S.U.V.). U. and V. were
killed for blood on the second day, and K. and
L. were allowed to live for 15 days in apparently
perfect health when they were re-grafted.”

The blood of dogs thus grafted was found
to be poisonous when injected into other dogs.
Can you wonder? The poison is “ elusive,” we
are told. “ The earliest period in which it was
found to be toxic was seven hours after opera-
tion, and the latest twenty-eight and a-half hours
after grafting.”

I now ask my readers to note the last para-
graph in this signiﬁcant account of laboratory
procedure. “ Death in the poisoned animals is
very characteristic: respiratory spasm, cry,
rigidity, stiﬂening of head and tail, post-mortem
twitchings are prominent signs. Positive effects
from intravenous injection of this toxic blood
were obtained in three cases without causing
death, while the characteristic death described
resulted in ten cases (Numbers 1, 2, 5, 6, 14, 15,
16, 17, 18, 19), a sufficient number to establish
the main fact with certainty.”

The Memorandum of the Medical Research
Council provides, as one of the reasons for the
use of dogs in vivisection experiments, the obser-
vation that the dog “ is not afraid of close and
friendly observation. ’ ’

' How “ friendly ” the observations of these
vivisectors must have appeared to these poor
dogs, especially to the bitch who had seven pups
the day after the operation in which liver was
grafted on to her.

In my address on one occasion I read the
accounts of what happened to a retriever and
a, collie, described in the Quarterly Journal of
Experimental Physiology of March 26th, 1917.

Also an extract from the same journal of May

22nd, 1923', relating to the effect of pyloric
pouch Construction, and an account of certain
experiments performed at the Brown Institute
on dogs by Mr. Stanford Cade, which were
recorded in The Lancet in July, 1926. All these

8

 

 




 

 

experiments were described in the J anuary—
February number of The Anti-Vivisection
Review. ‘

Public attention should be drawn to an experi-
ment, part of the expenses of which were
defrayed by the Medical Research Council. It
was reported in the Journal of Physiology for
December 10th, 1926 (Volume LXII.).

The experiments were carried out. by D. T.
Barry and D. S. Torrens. The object of these
experiments on dogs was to determine whether
a dog that has been bled recovers from the
haemorrhage more quickly if liver from another
dog has been grafted into its neck. Nine dogs
were bled and given one inj ection of liver extract
intravenously or intraperitoneally. Three dogs
were bled to the same extent as the other dogs
and treated by grafting liver substance in the
subcutaneous tissue of the neck.

A young healthy dog was taken and bled to
death. Boiling water was poured over its thorax
and abdomen so that the epidermis could be
removed with an ordinary sterilised knife. The
liver was cut down upOn and extracts or grafts
were made aseptically from it.

Extracts were used for some time before
grafts. In the grafting process a piece of liver
was cut out and transferred to the wound in the
neck of an “ experimental” dog.

“ For the test of regeneration the quantity of
blood taken in the ﬁrst instance was always 3
p.c. of the body weight. More than this amount
leaves the animal in very weak condition with
slow reactive powers.” .

“ About an ounce of fresh liver substance was
implanted under the skin of a bled animal and
in the course of three weeks the haemoglobin and
corpuscles were restored. . . .” The wounds in
two of the grafted dogs became septic. In a
third dog the jaws and lips were swollen for
some 48 hours. The symptoms shown by animals
which are bled are pretty uniform, we are
informed. They are weak and listless for some

9

 




 

 

days, showing little desire for food though thirst
may be pronounced. Combative and quarrel-
some dogs become subdued, and we are naively
told that there is little tendency to frisk or play.

An example of the intellectual status of the
typical vivisector is afforded by the following
remark :—

“ It seems that the fresh liver tissue even
when quite Sterile is capable of setting up irrita-
tion which passes off in time.”

More Permanent Fistulous Openings.

The Journal of Physiology, Volume XLIX,
1914-15, page 457, contains an account of
operations performed by the late Professor
Starling, at University College, for a Japanese

doctor by the name of Okada. Permanent .

ﬁstulous openings were made in the gall-
bladder of the dogs. The common bile duct was
tied so that the bile ran out through the opening
made. In order to measure the secretion of bile
the dogs were slung and a rubber tube inserted
in the ﬁstula. We learn that these dogs were
subject to “ excitement ” (note the nice homely
word) before being slung and that the introduc-
tion of the rubber tube into the gall-bladder
may cause irritation. Five dogs were thus sub-
jected to a nice variety of’experimental processes
in order to test the bile. They were tested with
acids, soap, bile, sodium salicylate, calomel,
chloral hydrate. They were given atropine,
nicotine, pilocarpine, alcohol, olive oil and baked
starch. They had injections of secretin (prepared
from duodenum) into their veins. The sufferings
which a disordered gall-bladder may cause
human beings are well-known. Imagine the
“ happy ” life of these mutilated dogs of the
laboratory.

The duration of these experiments may be
judged from the following. Dog A was operated
on on October 20th, and died on December 31st.
Dog B was operated on in January and remained

10

 

 




“ under observation ” until March. Dog D was
operated on in April, and killed in June.

Dog 0 had one gm. of chloral hydrate intro-
duced into the stomach. This had a strong
“ excitatory ” eﬂfect. This experiment was done
on March 23rd, 1915. This dog had previously,
on February 4th, 1915, after fasting, had a hypo-
dermic injection of 0.01 atropine sulphates.
“ The pupils were extremely dilated,” we read.
And further, “ Owing to the excitement of the
dog, the experiment was discontinued.” Dog
0 “ vomited slime ” after hypodermic injection
of pilocarpine (this was done on March ‘15th,
1915). This same dog “ vomited slime ” on
; March 17th, 1915, after a hypodermic injection
of nicotine.

“ The subject of this paper,” says Dr. Okada,
“ was suggested by Professor E. H. Starling,
to whom I am indebted for performing the
operations and also for advice and criticism
throughout the research. ’ ’

“Spinal Dogs.”

A glance at the life of what is known as

“ spinal dogs ” in British laboratories is

afforded by the Journal of Physiology, Volume

LVIII, 1923-24, page 405. There is a descrip-

, 5 tion of experiments performed by Professor Sir

I Charles Scott Sherrington. It should be noted

l that Professor Sherrington is one of the men who

signed the present Memorandum, declaring
charges of cruelty to be false.

A number of dogs were used which had had
their spinal cords cut in different places. They
thus became what vivisectors are pleased to call
“ spinal dogs.” Such a dog appears to be a kind
of performing (and amusing?) animal of the
experimental laboratory.

Professor Starling’s “ Principles of Human

Physiology ” gives a description of such dogs.

“ The state of profound shock produced in the spinal
cord by the operation passes off gradually. . . . The
skeletal muscles recover their tone within a few days,
and after a short time co-ordinated movements can be

11

 

 

   




 

 

brought about in the trunk and limbs by appropriate
stimulation ofsensory surfaces. At ﬁrst the reactions
thus produced are feeble and the reﬂex is rapidly
fatigued. Of these reﬂexes those excited by nocuous or
painful stimuli are the ﬁrst to make their appearance. . .

“ In a dog which has undergone complete cervical
transection two or three months previously the tone of
the muscles is somewhat increased. Although the dog
is unable to walk, if it be raised and given a little push
forward so as to stretch the extensor muscles of its hind
limbs, it may take two or three steps forward, before
its legs collapse. . . . With a little assistance impreg-
nation may be eifected in or by such a maimed animal
and in the female may result in normal parturition which
goes on to full term.”

Spinal dogs may live for a year or a year and
a-half. Such dogs, though half paralysed, are
perfectly alive. They are capable of feeling as
a partly paralysed man is capable of feeling.

In the particular experiments to which I refer
observations were made on impairment of tem-
perature regulation in the paraplegic dog. In
some of these dogs the spinal transection was
made as far forward as the cervical region. A
number of tests were made on these dogs by
immersing them in ice-cold water, and other
tests were made by subjecting them to heat.
Normal dogs, La, dogs the spinal cords of which
had not been cut, were subjected to similar tests
for purposes of comparison.

. “ A normal dog lightly anaesthetised and im-

mersed up to its middle in ice-cold water for 10
minutes showed a fall of mouth temperature.
. . . A small dog of approximately similar
weight, similarly immersed 530 days after spinal
transection, at ﬁrst thoracic level, showed a fall
of mouth temperature. . . .” Again similar im-
mersion of an unanaesthetised normal dog of
4 kgs. weight also brought down the mouth tem-
perature. This dog was again immersed in the
same manner thirty days after its spinal cord
had been out.

A large number of dogs were subjected to
various kinds of tests. The period at which these
tests and tests by transference from the stalls in
which the dogs were kept to a cold storage room,

12

 

 

 




 

 

were varied from 21 to 589 days after spinal
transection, and the results as noted varied with
the nature of the transection, etc. The tem-
perature of the cold storage room was 10 C. (near
freezing point), and the time for testing was 40
minutes. A normal dog transferred along with
spinal dogs to the cold room developed a rough
and knotted coat after 6 minutes, and was noted
to shiver 13 minutes after entering the cold
chamber. One of the spinal dogs shivered
earlier than the normal dog and the ‘ ‘ knotting ’ ’
of the coat of this dog was different from that of
the normal dog. In another spinal dog the
shivering became acute. “ Cervical dog B.
began to shiver about 2 minutes later than
dog A. and soon shivered acutely. . . .” “ In
both A. and B. the diaphragm seemed to shiver.”
We read of spinal dogs being transferred to
cold rooms 95, 122, 110 and 164 days respec-
tively after transection of the spine. Normal
dogs were made to go through the same per-
formance.

“ Spinal Dogs ”Immersed In Ice-Cold
Water.

Spinal dogs, carefully supported by the
axillae, were immersed in ice-cold water nearly
up to the front limit of the paraplegic region.
How fully they had recovered from spinal
shock is shown by the immunity with which
even those with cervical transection bore this
nearly vertical ‘ head-up ’ posture demonstrated
by L. Hill to involve fainting where severe motor
paresis is present. Such posture is easily fatal
to a dog in the ﬁrst month after cervical tran-
section, and three animals were lost early after
operation in this way whilst being carried. by an
unskilled attendant. The immersion was con-
tinued until the immersed skin felt quite cold,
indeed remained so long after withdrawal from
the water, yet no trace of shivering set in
behind the transection. The experiment was
repeated on a number of spinal dogs at various

13

£(

 




 

times, always with failure to produce shivering
behind the lesion. The ice-cold water cooled
the skin throughout the spinal regions severely.
The conclusion drawn is that shivering to
cold cannot be produced as a spinal reﬂex. . . .
In my experiments the knee jerk remained
readily elicitable though greatly altered in
character. . . .”

“ In a cold pail experiment shivering was
observed in the head and neck in a ‘ cervical
spinal’ dog. . . . The cars of the normal dog
plunged up to its middle in the ice-pail soon
felt quite cold as compared with those of the
cervical paraplegic dog.”

A Dog Supported, Kept Quiet, and
“Amused.”

“ Observations were then carried out on the
non-paraplegic, so to say ‘ normal’ region, of
the dog by immersion of the paraplegic region
in ice-cold water in a heated room. The pail of
iced water to receive the insentient portion of
the dog was set in a waterproof sack; directly
the immersion was begun the mouth of the dry
rubber sack was drawn round the chest close
below the headward limit of the skin anaesthesia.
An attendant supporting the dog, kept it
quiet and amused. The room temperatures
varied on occasions between 30° C. and 60° C.
and ﬁnally 63° C. An additional thermometer
was suspended close to the dog itself.”

No wonder the poor dog had to be supported
and amused during this dreadful heat and cold
experiment.

Another dog, a smooth-coated terrier, the
ﬁrst thoracic segment having been cut eleven
months previously, was immersed in ice—water
as described above in a room of tempera-
ture 66° C. to 67.5° 0. During the heating of
the room previous to the observations the wet
bulb thermometer stood at nearly 31° 0. when
the dry bulb was close on 60° C. “ Four days
before the immersion experiment the right vagus

14

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

was severed in the neck with full anaesthesia...
On the forenoon of the day of immersion the
left vagus was similarly severed. In the after-
noon, an hour prior to the immersion, a small
opening was made just below the xiphoid, 6.6.,
much behind the front limit of the body
anaesthesia.

Thermometers were inserted against the liver,
through the xiphoid opening so as to lie to left of
mid-line between liver and diaphragm. The dog
thus operated on was then placed in a pail
of water with great care and precision and the
changes in temperature in the various regions
noted. We read that the ears and the forefeet
felt hot and the animal was panting “acutely.”
Shivering commenced 13 minutes 20 seconds
after commencement of the immersion, which
lasted 15% minutes. We are told that this
observation illustrates that heat-panting and
also cold—shivering can take place after double
vagotomy (as already shown by Richet).

Heat After Cold.

The vivisector observed that in dogs with
cervical transection subjected to heat experi-
ments the tongue at frequent intervals
was swept forward to moisten the snout.
A dog with transection of 132 days was
transferred to a hot room at 61° C. At the end
of 25 minutes it showed a temperature of 416° C.
It began to “pant violently” about 12 minutes
before removal from the room, but its feet,
though hot, remained perfectly dry throughout.

This ingenuous vivisector informs us that
apart from panting this dog did not seem to be
distressed by the high temperature. A dog with
a different kind of transection of the spinal cord,
similarly exposed, showed a rise of temperature
to 396° C. and its fore-paws sweated freely.

Dark Prints of Moisture.

Three half-paralysed dogs having undergone
transection of the spinal cord at different places,
were exposed to heat along with a normal adult

15

 




terrier and a puppy 12 weeks old, the ,tempera-
ture ﬁnally reaching in over three hours 48° 0.
dry bulb. “A hot summer forenoon was chosen.”
The room was heated by hot pipes, electric
heaters and a gas stove. The feet of all the
spinal dogs remained dry throughout the experi-
ment, but “the feet of the normal dog and
puppy sweated so profusely that their steps left
dark prints of moisture on the cement ﬂoor.”
Panting began almost simultaneously in two of
the spinal dogs, one began panting 20 minutes
later. The panting ﬁnally became “ violent.”
The respiration rate rose to 146 per minute in
one spinal dog, 132 in another and 137 in the
third, whilst the puppy was breathing 46 per
minute and the normal dog was breathing 18
per minute. The feet of the normal dog were
wet with sweat. The normal dog panted in
short ﬁts. None of these dogs, we are told,
showed ill after-effects, but out of three African
monkeys which had not been removed from the

room as other animals were, one died and two
others that were found unconscious had to be
revived by cool baths. A large number of normal,
animals were subjected to heat experiments.

The conclusions and results of these experi-
ments are pitiably futile.

Issued by
THE ANIMAL DEFENCE & ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY,
35, Old Bond Street, London, W.1.
President: _ Hon. Director:
Duchess of Hamilton. Miss Lind-af-Hageby.
Price 2d.

 

ST. CLEMENTS PRESS, LTD., Portugal Street, Kingsway, W.C.2

 




