i t‘The great duty of—li—fe is not to give pain. *3

7 ,.

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

Editor of the Globe: I

Sir—Your correspondent need have no fear that" too
much is being said to secure better protection for the
poor dumb animals—defenseless before their tormentors,
deprived of speech save as their faithful friends bespeak
humane treatment for them. For every hundred persons
ready to extend aid to human beings, there is hardly one
person willing for the selfssacriﬁce needed to befriend a
suffering brute.

In a list of philanthropies recently published, dona
ions to the amount of $66,000,000 were given to relieve

/l1uman beings, but not one cent appropriated to relieve
animal suffering. And yet every day (for without their
aid civilization were impossible), we, each one of us, con-
tribute to the use and ubuse of the lower animals, and we
owe them a debt of honor to be conscientiously paid to
the societies pledged for their protection.

Around the millions of our human population is
thrown the protection of church and State, but only
recently was the ﬁrst effective voice raised in their be-
half. Cruelty is our meanest crime, and it should by
humane education be eradicated from the child nature,
just as much as lying and falsehood and other degrading
tendencies. But our educators cram the brain with use-
less knowledge, dry as dust, leaving the heart and soul
untutored; and the church, taking but small measure-
ment of ethics, is still in the grip of creeds and dogma.
What a beautiful, attractive religion it would be that
taught us and exacted of us to be truly kind to all de-
pendents, yea, even unto the least of these our “lesser
brethren!” How many fashionable cruelties—indeed
their name is legion would then be done away with!

But just so long as the leisure aristocracy ﬁnd pleas—
ure in chasing the frenzied animal to its frantic death by
baying hound; just so long as woman docks and woman
slays the song birds of our (now voiceless) forests that
she may adorn herself with a bird-bedecked bonnet, and
melts with ﬁre the shell from the living tortoise for person-
al adornment; just so long as the Eton hares are torn to
pieces by the Eton beagles that Eton boys may be amused
by their dying struggles, and our American educators
provide demonstrations in vivisection to degrade the
sensibilities of our youth; just so long as the medical
men (barring many noble exceptions) maintain the lock-
step of unbroken silence concerning the unthinkable
atrocities—casting its dark stigma of reproach over the
medical profession—0f laboratory experimentation, and
the church maintains her silence in the face of these
many prevailing wanton cruelties, just so long,'Mr.
Editor, we must rely upon your kindness for space in
your esteemed paper to call attention to these accepted
customs (hoping for their relief), which mark a retro—
grade in the place of a hoped for advancing civilization.

New York, Sept. 28. ETHICS.

 

It is God=like to protect those who can=
not protect themselves.

“If. when giving an account of our life’s
works in that dread day, we would ﬁnd mercy,
remember that we will have to show the omni-
potentludge that during our lives on earth we
have shown Mercy to both man and beast.”

 

 




 




