counsEs‘or LecIunean HUMANE SUBJEGTS
ALONG PBAGTIGAL EDUQATIDNAL LINES

Under the Auspices of Humane Societies
BY JOHN L. SHORTALL, COUNSEL

THE ILLINOIS HUMANE SOCIETY, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.

[An address delivered at the First American International Humane Conference,
October 10—15, 1910, Washington, D. C., and published by The American
Humane Association, Albany, N. Y.]

Government is deﬁned as “that institution or aggregate Of institutions by
which a State makes and carries out those rules of action which are necessary
to enable men to live in a social state or which are imposed upon the people
forming a State,” —and

"‘ A Nation, or Government, is an independent body politic. a society of
men united together for the purpose of promoting their mutual safety and
advantage by the joint effOrts of their combined strength.”

“ But every combination of men who govern themselves independently of
all others will not be considered a Nation; a body of pirates, for example,
who govern themselves, is not a Nation. To constitute a Nation, another
ingredient is required: The body thus formed must respect other nations
in general, and each of its members in particular. Such a society has its
affairs and interests; it deliberates and takes resolutions in common,—-thus
becoming a moral person, who possesses an understanding and will, and is
susceptible of Obligations and rights.”

“ Citizens are the members Of such a Civil Society or government; bound
to it by certain duties, and subject to its authority, they equally participate in
its advantages.”

“ Allegiance is the tie which binds the citizen tO the government, in return
for the protection which the government affords him. It is the duty of the
people, and the protection is the duty of the government+and they are
reciprocally the rights, as well as the duties, of each other-”

To better show allegiance to a Nation, private organizations for speciﬁc
public services are often formed by citizens actively engaged in such endeavor,
because a number, acting together, more effectively impress a greater num-
ber than could be by their acting separately and apart. '

During the centuries of the past, in which tyrannical rule, oppression, and
atrocious cruelties were practiced and permitted everywhere, history records
big hearted, generous souls as advocating, single—handed, the cause of the
Oppressed, and that mercy be shown to helpless creatures, man and beast.
Socrates, whom Lord Mansﬁeld, the eminent English jurist, called the great
lawyer Of antiquity, believed that the lower animals had souls, and advocated
that they be treated kindly.

And Mr. Salt, whom we have with us at this convention, in his admirable
book entitled “ Animals’ Rights,” reminds us, in these words: That “from
the earliest times there have been thinkers, who, directly or indirectly, answered
the question — if men have rights, have animals their rights also?— with. the
afﬁrmative. That the Buddhist and Phythagorean canons, dominated perhaps
by the creed of reincarnation, included the maxim ‘not to kill or injure any
innocent animal.’ ” “ The humanitarian philosophers Of the Roman Empire, ,
among whom Seneca and Plutarch and Porphyry were the most conspicuous,
took still higher ground in practicing humanity on the broadest principle of
universal benevolence.” “Since justice is due to rational beings,” wrote
Porphyry, “ how is it possible to evade the admission that we are bound also
to act justly towards the race below us? ” ‘

And so I might say that down through the ages to the present time, this
question has been debated, until now humane advocates are many, and are

 




 

to be found within all civilized nations, individually and collectively. champion‘
ing the cause of all helpless creatures. To—day there are men and women
congregated here in large numbers from nearly all nations of, the civilized
world, devoted and ardent in espousing such righteous effort; for they have
come solely for the purpose of furthering the Humane Cause.

The word “humane,” as deﬁned, signiﬁes: Having the feelings and
inclinations proper to man; having tenderness, compassion, and a disposition
to treat other human beings and the lower animals with kindness; kind,
benevolent—tending to humanize and reﬁne e. It differs from the ordinary
use of the word “merciful,” in that it expresses active endeavors to ﬁnd and
relieve suffering, and especially to prevent it, 11 hi‘e “' merciful” expresses the
disposition to spare one the suffering which might be inﬂicted. ~ A Humane
Society, in its exact sense, as I understand it, is an institution composed of
citizens of humane inclinations, banded together, not for pecuniary proﬁt,
but for the purpose of actively, freely and impartially endeavoring to ﬁnd
suffering and to relieve it, and especially to prevent it; humanizing and
reﬁning through the instruments afforded by government and other lawful
means ; co—operaiing with government and inviting co—operation generally with
itself, and in reality, rendering a charitable public service.

Since much suffering is inflicted through ignorance and want'of imagin—
ation, both in children and adults, education, though not the only deterring
weapon must always be the favorite one with which a Humane Society seeks
to prevent suffering. The education of children along these lines has been
ably treated from this platform, and I shall conﬁne myself to the subject of
the education of adults.

Some few years ago the Illinois Humane Society established a free School
of Instruction, consisting of lectures by experts 011 subjects of material and
economic value for those having horses or other animals in their care and
custody. These lectures, delivered by the expert mechanical engineer, the
expert veterinary surgeon, and the lawyer, all engaged by the Society for that
purpose, demonstrated how the owner of an animal can proﬁt—1. 6., make
money—by b‘eing actively kind and how the person haying the care and
custody of the animal may likewise substantially proﬁt himself.

During the ﬁrst year the attendance was limited to humane ofﬁcers and
a few team owners and their drivers. The second year saw a largely increased
attendance with growing interest, many policemen drivers an d team owners
attending, the number ranging from 20 to 100 at the lectures delivered 111 the
Society s buildi101 -1g , and at those held 111 a public hall. accessib le because of its
location in the vicinity of the large barns in the heart of Chicago, three
hundred or more persons were present each evening. At some of these, stere—
opticon views were used to illustrate the subject.

Our aim is, to teach what is the wisest and best relief to give in cases
of emergency 011 the road. and far from the stable, until the veterinary shall
arrive and the animal be removed to proper shelter; to instruct in the proper
care, shelter, and feeding of animals, and the economy of maintaining sani-
tary stables. For it is shown conclusively that the animal prOperlvb cared
for will do a greater days work, be more easily handled in the barn, and
will go through his working day more willingly. In other words. the
animal will be good tempered—a valuable and perfect running machine.

Thomas H. Brigg, civil and mechanical engineer, of Bradford, Eng-
land, has delivered before our audience in Chicago, his interesting and i11—
structive illustrated lecture on “Haulage by Horses,” and through the
instruction received from him, we are able to continue advancing his ideas
each year in our courses.

Mr. Brigg treats on the subject of utilizing the strength of the horse
while hauling, with the least waste of energy—showing how he may be
given the mechanical advantage over his load, and the entire question of
hauling be reduced to scientiﬁc understanding. 'He demonstrates this by

.4 ,
v.1
11/1441.
1";
"a r
”1' $5 ‘1?“ ‘T 'D ‘
~54 ‘1' 3.1}..11- ,1"...sfjwdtt_

-:' ‘ ‘ x :1". V 1, 1
,. 1." ,V ,. ‘1' ,n 01 :1 f




stereopticon and by physical tests on the platform. I have brought with me
a number of printed copies of Mr. Brigg’s lecture, with illustrating cuts,
which the Illinois Humane Society had printed for distribution, and will
be glad to hand them to those interested in this subject.

The lecture courses are of economic and vital importance as a means
of preventing cruelty.

We have lectured also upon child problems—because our Society is
organized to protect children as well as animals from cruelty. I will not
dwell on this phase of the subject, as this paper properly comes under the
“Animal Section” of the Conference.

Perhaps the clearest way to inform. you of the nature of these lectures
is to read to you last year’s program, wrich is entitled:

“A course of lectures on practical subjects, given under
the auspices of the Illinois Humane Society, at its building,
I I45 So. Wabash Avenue, Chicago.”

1910

Friday evening, january I4: 8 to 8:45. Winter shoeing as it relates to
horses’ comfort and safety; to sprains, fractures and Other injuries
incidental to falling down. Dr. A.‘ H. Baker, Chicago Veterinary
College.

8:45 to 9:30. Trafﬁc rules and regulations. Captain Charles C.
Healey, commanding mounted squadron. '

Saturday afternoon, January 22; '2 :30 p. m. The origin and scope of the
laws concerning cruelty to children. Mr. George A. H. Scott, Secre—
tary and Counsel, the Illinois Humane Society.

Friday evening, january 28; 8 to 8:45. Cruelty to horses by overloading
and thereby lessening their earning power, depreciating their value and
shortening their lives. Dr. A. H. Baker. ’

8:45 to 9:30. The origin and scope of the laws concerning cruelty to
animals. Mr. George A. H. Scott.

Friday evening, February II; 8 to 8:45. Harnessing and hooking to pre—
vent sore shoulders andvbacks ; to get the most out of horses’ efforts
and yet preserve their strength. Dr. A. H. Baker.

8 :45 to 9:30. clarn rules and regulations. Mr. Thos. j. Cavanagh,
Secretary, Chicago Team Owners’ Association.

Saturday afternoon, February 19,-2z30 p. m. juvenile problems: Delin—
quency and dependency among children, and the causes thereof. Mr.
W. Lester Bodine, Superintendent Compulsory Education Department,
Board of Education, Chicago.

Friday evening, February 25; 8 to 8 :45. Cruelty to horses by being worked
when lame from diseases of the feet, corns, treads, toe cracks, founder,
drop sole canker, nail pricks, open joint, side bone, quittor, furuncle.
A. H. Baker.

8:45 to 9:30. Application of laws concerning cruelty to animals. Mr.
George A. H‘. Scott.

Saturday afternoon, February 26; 2: 30 p. m. Lecture on juvenile prob—
lems, continued. . ,

Friday evening, March 4; 8 to 8 :45. Diseases of forelegs: Ringbone, Splint,
bowed tendon, knee—sprung, capped elbow Dr. A. H. Baker.

8:45 to 9:30. Last lecture on laws continued.

Saturday afternoon, March 12; 2:30 0. m. Child study. Dr. D. P. Mac—
millan, Director of Child Study, Chicago Public. Schools.

Friday evening, March 18; 8 to 8:45. Diseases of the hind legs: Ringbone,

‘ spavin, curb, capped back, string halt. Dr. A. H. Baker.

Davies, Chief State Factory Inspector, Illinois.

8:45 to 9:30. Open lecture.
Saturday afternoon. March 26; 2:30 p. m. Child labor. Mr. Edgar V .

o”

a a J

  

Q

'D

.I,

I
.Q




Friday evening, April 8; 8 to 8:45. Feeds and feeding: Heat prostration,
sunstroke and proper treatment of animals during hot summer season.
Dr. A. H. Baker.
8:45 to 9:30. Handling of cases on the street; evidence and prepara—
tion of cases for trial. Mr. George A. H. Scott.

These courses are made up each year by a Committee on Lectures
appointed for that purpose; the lectures are held under the Society's super-
VISIOn. A member of the committee always presides. I give to you the
personnel of our last year’s committee, that you may recognize the import:—
ance we lay to co-operation:

The Secretary of the Chicago Team Owners’ Association, the Captain
of the Chicago Mounted Police, a representative of the Joseph Stockton
Transfer COmpany of Chicago, and one of the Society’s lawyers and the
Secretary of the Illinois Humane Society.

At all lectures those in attendance are at liberty to ask questions perti-
nent to the subject after its delivery and to receive free expert advice at
that time. The meetings are enjoyable. They induce and inspire co—opera-
tion, which results. in better understanding and promotes a more humane
Spirit. The attendance consists, in a large degree, of teamsters, barn bosses,
shipping clerks, owners of horses, blacksmiths, representatives of large
commercial and manufacturing industries, and also members of the policing
force and ﬁre department. Often there are present those who wish'to
display some invention claimed to be a humane device in harness, shoeing,
hitching, feed bags, chicken coops, etc., etc., and which often are of interest
to the audience. ‘

Of course this plan is as yet comparatively crude, but we expect to
improve it from year to year.

It is our hope that. this work may demonstrate to universities and scien—
tiﬁc schools the ﬁeld of usefulness of the problems of horse haulage and
wagon construction open to the student of mechanical engineering, thus
securing, through man’s intelligent study, immunity for the horse of the
future from many things which the most kindly driven animal of to—day
mus-t endure—and proﬁting by the knowledge that will necessarily result,
that the national government may see the advantage of more beneﬁcent legis-
lation regarding humane treatment of all animal life—and that the respec-
tive states may be induced to pass uniform laws of like character.

I hope that other societies may see ﬁt to investigate the merits of this
plan. .

At the beginning of this paper I brought to your minds a few exact
deﬁnitions of words which we sometimes use as if they meant quite different
things. We are somewhat given to speaking of a citizen as if he were a
greater, purer creature than that aggregation of citizens which we call
society; —of a small society or institution as if it were less corruptible than
that aggregation of institutions which we call “the government.” Let us -
remind ourselves more frequently that this is an error; that the greater,
being composed of the lesser, bears its exact quality. with the additional one
of power which separation lessens. Let us be willing to sink individual
vanities and hobbies in the greater achievements of our local societies; and to
increase the effectiveness of our special societies by having them work openly,
straight—forwardly, and cordially so far as. may be in co—operation with the
encouragement of those greater societies—our municipal. state and national
government.

Note.——Tlhe American Humane Association publishes many leaflets of inter-
est to humanitarians. Information in! regard to the same can be obtained by
addressing the Association, Albany, New York, U. S. A. Single copies of indi—
vidual leaflets are furnished gratuitously. A small charge to cover cost of
printing and mailing will be made for leaflets furnishedl in quantities. Contri—
butions are solicited to aid in the distribution of humane literature and the
general purposes of the work.

 




