THE WHALERS IN THE ASCENDANCY

Tokyo’s International Whaling
Commission Meeting

The much heralded reduction in sperm whale quotas
achieved this June at the Canberra meeting of the International
Whaling Commission (IWC) was reversed in Tokyo in Decem-
ber. With a massive demonstration outside the Japanese For-
eign Office where the meeting was held, whalers and their
cohorts in the Seamen’s Union shouted into bullhorns and
waved signs calling for what they termed scientific utilization of
whales. The Commissioners rushed with unprecedented haste
‘to vote an increase of killing 5,681 sperm whales in the North
Pacific. (They raised the 1978 quota of 763, voted this June, up
to 6,444; the 1977 quota was 7,200).

The Chairman of the Commission, Arthur Bollen of Australia,
issued a press release at noon after switching from the Technical
Committee meeting into full plenary session. Commissioners
had only just received a scientific paper criticizing the figures
and had had no opportunity to study it.

Some of the commissioners had not even received this paper
by the world’s leading whale population scientist, Dr. Sidney
Holt of the UN. Food and Agriculture Organization. The paper
is reprinted in the column at the right. Dr. Holt flatly states that
the figures adopted by the Scientific Committee at its November
meeting, preceding the Tokyo IWC meeting, are not credible.
His reasons are clearly and scientifically stated and are worth
reading in full.

Other scientists found the analysis of Dr. Seijo Ohsumi of the
Far Seas Fisheries Research Laboratory so difficult to believe
that the Committee decided to pool the figures they had from
southern hemisphere sperm whaling with those Dr. Ohsumi
presented for the North Pacific. By mingling the incredible figure
with an existing figure from a different part of the oceans, they
came up with a figure which no scientist advocated on the basis
of research; nevertheless, since it issued from the Scientific
Committee, and most countries have slowly and painfully come
to the conclusion that the Scientific Committee should be
supported, most of the commissioners came to Tokyo with
instructions to vote for its findings and they did so.

Only France had the courage to vote against the massively
increased quota. The United Kingdom abstained. All other
nations (Argentina, Australia, Canada, Denmark, Iceland,
Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South
Africa, United States, and the Soviet Union) voted for the
increase.

The United States has fought hard over the past four years to
, end the former practice of IWC Commissioners voting quotas
much higher than those advised by the Scientific Committee. Its
success in establishing the reputation of this Committee created,
for this session at least, an uncontrollable monster.

All of the data on which Dr. Ohsumi’s paper was based came
from Japanese whaling vessels. The data goes back to periods
when there were no international observers aboard the vessels,
and even now, the observers are not in a position to attest to the
type of data involved. In any case, the raw data was not even
submitted to the other members of the Scientific Committee.
This is the sort of presentation on which the Committee, and the
Commission is asked to operate.

The Russians who kill even more sperm whales than the
Japanese simply refuse to supply any but the most limited data.
Scientists from non-whaling countries have devoted little time to
the analysis of such data as they are able to get their hands on.
Thus, although Dr. Ohsumi’s paper was not accepted without
doubts, questions and arguments within the Scientific Commit-
tee, it constituted by far the greatest inﬂuence on the outcome of
the Committee’s meeting at Cronulla, Australia just before the
full IWC meeting of the Commissioners in Tokyo.

Secrecy

The actions of the IWC, seem to an observer, to be guided by
two ruling passions: secrecy, and the killing of whales to the
maximum degree possible in the prevailing climate of public
opinion. At this session, it betrayed a strange dichotomy with
regard to the press. As noted above, the Chairman of the
Commission insisted that the Commissioners vote immediately
and finally on the greatly increased sperm whale quota for the
North Pacific because of the interest of the Japanese press in
knowing the outcome.

On the other hand, the secrecy rules with regard to the
Scientific Committee were so strict that nothing more than the
bare figure of increase leaked out until the morning of the
Tokyo meeting of the full Commission when Dr. Holt made
copies of his paper available.

On the following day, a statement by the International Union
for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN),
the major international body providing expertise on endangered
species, was issued by Dr. John Beddington. The IUCN state-
ment appears below. ‘

<..,

\

\Z
\

STATEMENT BY THE INTERNATIONAL UNION \
FOR THE CONSERVATION OF NATURE »
ON THE IWC DECISION ON NORTH PACIFIC
SPERM WHALES

The International Union for the Conservation of Nature
(IUCN) ‘ is unhappy both about the conclusions reached by the
Scientific Committee at their special meeting in Cronulla and by
the way they were reached. It is not confident that an adequate
assessment of the status of the stocks was made nor that the
mathematical model used is valid. It notes that the Scientific
Committee stated that the dramatic change in the stock assess-
ment was largely brought about by an adjustment of the effort
modifiers and it regrets that no indication of the sensitivity of
these results to those statistics was given. This is particularly
serious when one of the effort modifiers used, that for ASDIC
was calculated from data sufficiently problematic to be derived
from operations in both the North Pacific and the Southern
Oceans. IUCN further notes the Scientific Committee’s request
for raw data to be made available prior to the meetings of the »
committee and feels that this is an absolute prerequisite for
adequate assessment. IUCN therefore feels unable to support
the commission’s decision to endorse the Scientific Committee’s
recommendations on the quotas for the 1978 North Pacific
Sperm whale season. Accordingly, it reserves its right to con-
tinue to work for alternative assessment and management
procedures to those used by the IWC.

' Dr. John Beddington represented the International Union for
the Conservation of Nature at the Scientific Committee Meeting
of the International Whaling Commission at Cronulla, Australia,
November 21-25, 1977 as an observer. He also represented the
IUCN at the Tokyo meeting of the IWC where he submitted this
statement. .

SPECIAL MEETING OF THE
INTERNATIONAL WHALIN G COMMISSION
TOKYO, DECEMBER 6-7, 1977

Statement by Dr. Sidney J. Holt

Observer representing Food and Agriculture
Organization -

It was with great regret that the Food and Agriculture Organi-
zation (FAO) found that, due to unforeseen circumstances, it
was not possible for a representative to attend the Special
Scientific Committee meeting in Cronulla. This means that my
comments must be based on study of the report of the
Committee and of the background papers, instead of on; an
intimate knowledge of, and participation in the Committee’s
discussions, as is usual. I have however, consulted some of the
participants in the meeting and thereby assured myself that
there are no fundamental misunderstandings involved in the
following remarks. It is important, in such matters, to try “to see
the wood for the trees” and this is perhaps more easy than if we
had been involved in the very complex and difficult discussions
of the meanings of the data and the properties of the assess-
ment models used. In this position one may try to assess the
overall credibility of the advice the Committee has now pre-
sented to the Commission. I hope my friends in the Scientific
Committee will forgive me if I say that the results are not.
credible.

In recent years the advice of the Committee has on several
occasions been that quotas should be drastically revised, usually
downward. Such advice has been received with surprise and
displeasure by some Commissioners. Such proposals for revi-
sion have been based on analyses taking into account more
data, or using better analytical models, or both. In the present
case the proposed stock classifications are dramatically changed
and quotas revised upwards on the basis only of a re-application
of the same model, using few new data. This calls for a more
than usually close look at the way in which this has come about.

It is not easy to see by inspection how the “Allen model”
works. For this reason FAO posed last July—that is, immediate-
ly after the decision to call a Special Meeting—a number of
written questions to the Convener of the meeting, with copies to
the Secretary of the Commission and to the Chairman of the
Scientific Committee. Unfortunately these questions have not
been answered, but we consider them still to be relevant. They
concern the separate effects, on assessments, of changes in the
assumptions concerning the efficiencies of recorded whaling
effort, and in the assumed pregnancy rates and their depen-
dence on density. It seems that:

a) the reclassifications proposed are virtually entirely due to
changes in assumed efficiency factors—including the effect of
catcher size, but mainly the effects of ASDIC; and

 




MEETING OF INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION
[continued from page 1]

b) the suggested quotas for females derive essentially from
an assumption that pregnancy rate increases by 25% (from
0.20 to 0.25) from one extreme of population density to
another. Evidence has been presented concerning the average
level of pregnancy rate, but none whatever for the range of
density dependence, nor even that the pregnancy rate actually
has increased with the decline in numbers of biomass, either of
females, or of males plus females. In my opinion the range
adopted and even the direction of change, are complete
guesses. Thus, if the range were actually 0.210 to 0.235 the
quotas would be about halved; if it were 0.19 to 0.29 they would
be doubled; and so on. The actual range may well be outside
such assumed values. The proposed quotas should be viewed
in the light of ,such very considerable ignorance.

However, the biggest factor in the revised advice is the new
position taken by the Committee with respect to the effective-
ness of ASDIC, which is in some respects the opposite of what
has been written and said in scientific discussions in recent
years. It is now said not only that ASDIC is used by the
Japanese catchers only in chasing, but also that the main effect
of introducing ASDIC has been some reduction in the time
spent chasing. Since that time is a rather small fraction of the
catchers' day’s work, this is held to justify the Committee’s
adoption of a very low value of the ASDIC efficiency factor as
concluded in recent analyses by Japanese scientists. However, it
is admitted that many chases were, especially before ASDIC
came into general use, unsuccessful, and it has been affirmed on
earlier occasions that use of ASDIC greatly increases the
likelihood that a chase will result in capture. If this is so the
increase in efficiency could be great, and would not be meas-
ured as the inverse of chasing time. Unfortunately neither the
report nor the background documents are informative on this
crucial matter.

Then it is necessary to seek an explanation of why the ASDIC
efficiency factor reported by Japanese scientists is low compared
with all previously published studies, which range up to 100%
and more. A possible explanation is to be found in the detailed
account given of the Japanese operational method, in which it is
emphasized that catchers attached to one expedition always
work cooperatively, throughout the search and hunt. This
means that the comparison of catches by ASDIC-fitted boats
with those without ASDIC, in the same expedition and during
the same season, is spurious as a measure of the efficiency
factor. Further varying practices between expeditions from one
year to another might account for the extreme variation in the
estimates quoted. There is therefore no good reason to accept
the low values in preference to the much higher values obtained
in earlier critical studies.

There is an interesting consequence of the new theory that
ASDIC is not very useful—and it has been said that it could
even be a disadvantage—in sperm whale hunting, but that it has
been installed at considerable expense primarily because of its
value in baleen whaling. If this view were accepted, most
assessments for baleen whales would need to be revised,
because baleen whaling effort has not been corrected for
ASDIC in the assessments on which present classifications and
quotas are based. I suggest that such revision will lead at least to
enhanced protection for sei whale stocks and to prolongation of
the protection of fin whale stocks.

Another point that should be taken into consideration is the
decision of the Scientific Committee to retain 1947 as the initial
year on which to base classification advice. The catch data
presented show that, on the basis of the model adopted, the

land-station catches of females from the Western Division for 20
years before 1947 would have been sufficient to hold the
number of females down to between 90 and 95% of their initial
number. Consideration of this fact would be enough to lead to
classification of females as “protected” in the Western Division.

The last point I wish to make refers to the absurdity of con-
tinuing to equate one female with one male in calculating the
appropriate quotas for sperm whales, ignoring the fact that each
male yields two or three times as much oil, meat and meal as
one female. Apart from the fact that it has not yet been shown
convincingly that there is any sustainable numerical advantage
in catching any females, there is clearly no advantage in
catching females if account is taken of the great difference in size
between the sexes. Among the unanswered questions posed by
FAQ to those responsible for the models adopted was the
question of just how great the calculated marginal advantage, by .
weight or number is—if there is one—and how much, and in
what ways, such a calculation depends on the assumed values
of the parameters used in the model. It may be worth recalling
also, that if a stock is classified as “initial management,” as iSa
now proposed for the Eastern Division, there is even more
reason to take account of the size differences, while the stock is
still well above the “optimal” levels.

In sum, to an “observer” it does not appear that the advice
now presented is more reliable or more likely to be correct than
the advice previously offered. The complex calculations that
have been made are on the one hand incomplete in that the
properties of the model and their dependence on precise
parameter estimates and assumptions have not been revealed
and, on the other hand, are such that they obscure the facts that
the crucial parameters have been guessed rather than esti-
mated, and that the calibration of crude effort data to take into
account increasing efficiency is still very far from satisfactory.

Some breakdown of operational features has at last been
provided for one part of one of the pelagic ﬂeets, 15 years after
the Scientific Committee first asked for such data; but the
breakdown available still omits critical information—such as the
change in the frequency of successful chase, and the time series
of searching time per catcher day’s work. Further, the analysis of
such information as is given leaves a great deal of room for
doubt as to what is actually being estimated, and whether the
undoubted increases are yet adequately being taken into ac-
count.

Without departing from the principle that management must
be based on the best scientific advice, it seems it would be wise
for the Commission also to take into account:

a) the very great uncertainties in the assessment of sperm '
whales which persist, practically unchanged, despite the
best efforts of the Scientific Committee;

b) the likely direction of biases in the data and in the assess-
ments (including an arbitrary starting year of 1947, long
after intensive sperm whaling started);
the fact that assessments are still based on data from only
a relatively small part of the sperm-whaling fleet; and that
those data are incomplete and have been presented
selectively.
the consequences to the baleen whale assessments of the
“new theory” concerning the technology of sperm whale
hunﬁng.

It would be appreciated if these observations could be

included in the documentation of the present meeting.

6 December, 1977

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 




 

 

Piayfui Piglets Have No Room to Romp in wThese Cramped i
Battery Cages [Britain] 4

I,
-~ w-‘v Mn’va. ”7““ .

 




 

quikw ‘ .
\“LH . . "at / .
3534.? . F: .~

)

pica} British Sow Stalls.

‘ ' Pfisonéarls ony

”nu.-- .4‘

 




 

D__ex Harnson !
W"

E This CalfNeuer Knew Life Beyond thqsincredzb 1y Cramped
‘4 Stall Untzl It was Slaughtered [Denmark] .

" ' .._,- U5 7.. 4.. .— -,__.._

. - , ,

 




 

 

 




ALL OVER THE UNITED STATES cherished companion animals, pets, and trained hunting dogs fall victim to steel
jaws concealed by fur trappers under innocent looking leaves or loose earth. This compilation of a few of the increasingly
frequent news reports received by the Society for Animal Protective Legislation was prepared to acquaint citizens and
lawmakers with the most excruciating infliction of pain and fear still permitted in our country. The sufferings of domestic
animals are repeated many hundredfold on wild creatures, both those sought for fur and those birds and animals
designated as unmarketable “trash” by trappers.

Staff Photo by NEAL WILLIAMSON

 

Children at St. Mary’s Home Welcome Their New Pet, Polly

‘We have a great respect for life. We wanted this special dog
for our special kids because no one could better care for an

iniured'dog than our kids.’

— Sister Alvin

‘Special’ Kids Greet
Their ‘Speci‘al’ Dog

By CHERYL LAUER
Staff Writer

It was difﬁcult to decide who looked hap-
pier yesterday —— the wounded dog who had
just found a new home or those who made a
place for her.

Polly, the dog whose leg had to be ampu-
tated ThurSday because of wounds inﬂicted
by a leghold trap, was greeted with lots of
tender loving care when she arrived at St.
Mary’s Home yesterday afternoon.

Polly’s tail never stopped wagging as the
children who live at the home for troubled
youths came in from school and stopped to
welcome their new pet. ‘

St. Mary’s is a residential facility that

houses 35 children who have come from bro-'

ken homes, have been abused or have en-
countered some other kind of difﬁculties.
The nuns and the children at St. Mary’s be-
lieve Polly will ﬁt in perfectly. '

“Polly’s a lot like us,” said one teen-age
girl, as she put her arms around the dog’s
neck and gave her a hug. “We’ve had a lot of
troubles so we know how to care for her.”

The dog, which is a cross between a shep-

herd and a Labrador retriever, was picked
up Monday night in the Ogeechee Farms
area by a Chatham County Animal Control
worker who found her with the trap still on
her right front leg. She was brought to the
Savannah Veterinary Emergency Clinic
Where the operation to remove her gang-
renous leg was performed. _

After a story asking for a home for the
dog ran in Wednesday’s Evening Press, the
clinic received about 20 calls from people
wanting to adopt her. But the nuns at St.
Mary’s were the ﬁrst callers and they were
convinced Polly would ﬁt in well at their
home.

“When a new child comes, we all try to
make them feél real comfortable and'we’re
doing the same with Polly,” said Sister Al-
vin, director of St. Mary’s.

And Polly certainly acted as though she
felt at home as she rested on the bed the nuns
had made for her. _

“We have a- great respect for life. We
wanted this special dog for our special kids
because no one could better care for an in-
jured dog than our kids,” Sister Alvin said.

 

 

 

 

House cat freed

from steel trap

Ernest Kiddy, Sherman’s chief animal con-
trol officer, holds a steel spring $9.12; in
which a domestic cat was—'TdundﬂMonday on
private land just south of the city’s Baker
Park. The cat, which Kiddy estimates was
held in the trap by three toes for a day and a
half, is under observation at the pound while

the injury heals.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Warm Blood vs. Cold Steel

Furn Price of Primos, Delaware County, and her maimed‘wgagt,
“Lucky,” appear at the state Capitol yesterday on behalf of a bill to
ban steglﬁawediﬂgldJraps in Pennsylvania. Lucky’s left leg was
amputated after it Was mangled and infected by a trap. Rep. Tho-
mas Murphy, D-Allegheny, said he proposed the bill because, in his
experience as an outdoorsman, he has come across animals, in-
cluding pets, that have died cruel deaths in the traps.

 

BOY’S BEST FRIEND. .

. Kyl Sperry, 5, sits with his dog,
Badger, after the animal had a leg removed followmg five

days in a trap in the South Fork area. Kyl’s father, Larry,

Dog survives five days in trap

by MARK MARYMEE

Larry and Terri Sperry
gave up hope that they‘
would ever see their son
Kyl’s dog again.

The Sperrys, who live in
the Diamond Basin area of
the South Fork, had last
seen Badger, a one and-a-
half year old Australian
Shepherd, on Jan. 19.

After searching the
nearby woods for several
days and contacting
neighbors for any word on
the dog’s whereabouts, the
couple ﬁgured Badger had
been shot and gave her .up
for dead.

She wasn’t.

On Saturday, Jan. 24,
Badger came limping
home, the dog’s paw dangl—
ing from her front leg.
They later found out
Badger had been left to die
in a steel trap for those five
days.

“When she got home, you
could see the bones in her

feet,” Larry said. “She
broke a tooth trying to
chew herself out.

“She was skinny as a
snake when she came
home,” he added. “You
could see the bones stick-
ing up through her side.”

At first, Sperry wanted
to take the injured dog to a
veterinarian and have it
destroyed.

“But Terri wouldn’t let
me,” he said.

The couple opted to take
Badger, whom they esti-
mated had lost 20 pounds
while in the trap, to local
veterinarian Thomas
Roberts to see what could
be done.

Roberts, according to the
Sperrys, figured the ani-
mal had been caught in
either a bobcat or coyote
trap.

The veterinarian also
decided to take Badger’s
leg off at the shoulder,
rather than cause her

 

balancing problems later
on. The Sperrys were told
animals usually have prob-
lems by trying to walk on
limbs that are only par-
tially amputated.

“She’s a good dog,”
Sperry said. “The doctor
says he thinks she’ll get
along fine now.”

The Sperrys figured
Badger was caught in the
trap and made it out only
after a trapper got around
to checking the device.

A check with Terry Kil-
lough, Wyoming Game and
Fish district supervisor,
found all traps should be
tagged with a metal tag
identifying the owner of
the device.

The trapper is also
charged with checking his
traps once every three
days.

Killough said catching
up with trappers who do
not follow that rule is not
easy.

 

 

 

 

    

Ph by Mark Ma'rymee

 

believed it was either a coyote or bobcat trap that held the
dog captive.

“We make a few viola-
tions on it,” he said. “But
it’s a hard one to do. You
have to almost-go out and
sit on a suspicious trap for
72 hours.”

With the thousands of
traps in nearby woods, Kil-
lough said his officers don’t
have time to check upon all
of them.

“We do try to enforce it "
Killough said. “It’s not like
we don’t check. It’s just
that the traps are spread
out all over.”

The district supervisor
added failure to check a
trap within 72 hours is an
11th degree misdemeanor
which carries a fine Lip to
$100.

“Nothing should have to
sit in a trap that long,"
Mrs. Sperry said, “animal
or anything.

“It seems kind of un-
necessary that a dog has to
go through this,” she

added. . _
Sperry said his initial
reaction to Badger’s

spending five days in atrap
was one of anger, but .agj
reed that the 72 hour regu-
lation would be a “pretty
hard law to enforce.

“People should just have
more of a conscience than
that,” he added.

As for Badger, Mrs.
Sperry said the dog has
been rer eiving more atten-
tion now than when she
had four legs.

Sperry added Badger
has “turned from an out-
side dog to an inside dog.”

Both Sperrys said their
angerover the incident has
somewhat subsided. But
the need for checking traps
for injured animals is still
of serious concern to them.

“We just hope someone
who has a trap won’t let
this happen to another
kid’s dog,” Sperry said.

 

 

Three cafs
trapped
illegally

By David Gordon
StaffRepo'rter

Where is your cat tonight ?

If you live in the NOrth Ur-
ange Streetlarea, you should
be sure you know. Thige cats
in the neighborhood" were
caught in le -hold traps in the
last week of &cem5€r.

According to Bill Lloyd of
the Port Jervis-Deerpark
Humane Society, the cats
were caught in illegal traps,
which may have been withili
the city limits of Port Jervis.
All trapping is illegal in‘the
city. he said.

' Even if the. traps were jalii

 

 

This 3-year-old male cat was ‘found on} North
Orahge Sheer, «flagging a I‘m-haw ﬂap,

outside the city line, they car-
ried no identification, Lloyd
said, adding that New York

state law requires that all
traps be tagged with the name
of the trapper.

Gazette photobv Dovro‘ Cordon

effect offhe device can be seen on his rear paw.

The law requires regular
checking of traps, as well,
Llovd said, and from the con—

dition of the cats this was
prooably not done. The traps
can mangle a paw or break a
leg,henoted.

Of the three cats, two are
being treated by a veterin4
arian and will be returned to
their owners. The third is.
listed as a stray and is at the
shelter. Lloyd said he will be
put up for adoption when his
paw, which was crushed by
the trap, heals

The cat at the shelter was
found on NOrth Orange Street.
The trap had come loose from
the peg that held it. and the cat
was dragging it with him,
Lloyd said. There is thus no
.way to Know where the trap
was set.

Although the traps were
found in the North Orange
Street area, Lloyd said, pet
owners would be wise to avoid
letting their animals loose
anywhere.

 

WAYNE, PENNSYLVANIA — Suburban and Wayne Times, November 1, 1984

CODY, WYOMING — Enterprise, February 11, 1981

PORT JERVIS, NEW YORK — Tri-State Gazette, january 4, 1985

 




 

 

3-Iegged caiL will ‘testify'
for ban on leg-hold traps

Associated Press

 

 

 

 

Tripod is scheduled to appear before House subcommittee in August
The cat’s leg was amputated after being caught in a leg-hold trap

GALAX — Veterinarian Don
Fincher thinks his silver tabby has
been pretty influential for a cat, but
he never expected she’dbe lobbying
members of Congress.

Tripod is to appear before a House-
subcommittee hearing tentatively
scheduled for later this summer. It’s
not that she has something other cats
lack; it’s what she doesn’t have —-
her left front leg.

The House Subcommittee on
Health and the Environment plans to

consider legislation that would ban would like to see them banned. “Of the many ways wildlife dies, get free, he said.

use of the steel leg-hold trap. Tripod,
whose leg was amputated after it got
caught in such a device, is to be
presented as an exhibit ofsorts.
“Some committee members don’t
have as much time as they’d like to
hear eve:y.bit of information, so we
think it would be helpful to let them
see visually what these traps do,”
said Christine Stevens, secretary of
the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation. The group argues that
the traps are cruel, she said, and

Don Hoyt, president of the Nation-
al Trappers Association, said taking
the devices away from ' trappers
would be like banning duck hunters
from using shotguns. Many states
have leash laws, he said, and if pet
owners took care of their animals,
there wouldn’t be a problem of them
getting caught in the traps.

A certain number of wild animals
are going to die anyway, he said —— if
not because of trappers, at the hands
of Mother Nature.

those traps suffer the least,” he said.
“It’s a rare animal that lies down
and dies of old age.”

Originally set for June 11, the
House subcommittee hearing has
been tentatively rescheduled for Aug.
3, officials said. Also to appear, said
Stevens, is a hawk from Maryland
which lost a leg after getting caught
in a steel leg-hold trap.

Fincher’s first encounter with Tri-
pod was in 1981 when her owner
brought her into his office to have

‘ her mangled leg treated. The cat had

been missing for a week, he said, and
he assumes she was caught in the
trap during most of that time. She
had been chewing on her leg in an
attempt to free herself from the met-
al jaws, Fincher said.

The owner agreed to allow Fincher
to amputate the leg, then decided she
didn’t want a three-legged cat. So
Fincher decided to keep her, re-
named her Tripod and gave her full
run of the animal clinic.

The absence of the front leg
doesn’t appear to cause Tripod any
insurmountable problems. She
bounces from front to back when she
walks, and when she needs to race
down the clinic’s hallway, she leans
her unsupported shoulder on the
wall. She swats ﬂies and other bugs
and even leaps up to the top of the
clinic’s reception counter — one of
her favorite perches.

Tripod seldom goes outdoors, but
probably could fend for herself if she
did, Fincher said.

“She probably could catch a
mouse if she wanted to condescend
herself that way,” he said of Tripod,
who demands to have food in her
dish even if she isn’t hungry.

Fincher said Tripod’s presence at
the clinic has helped him convince
owners with injured animals thatjani-
mals can cope after a limb is ampu-
tated. And Fincher amputates many.
He said he treats about 25 to 50 dogs
and cats a year that have been
caught in steel leg-hold traps.

“A good many of them need ampu-
tation if they’ve been in a trap for.
any length of time,” Fincher said.
“The bad part about the trap busi-
ness to me is that you can bring one
in that has just been in a trap a very
short time, and you think you can
save it, but in a week or two you
start losing toes simply because of a
lack of blood supply.”

Steel leg-hold traps clamp down so
tightly that they act like a toumi-
quet, he said. Many animals will at-
tempt to chew off their own limbs to

 

 

One back foot was gone

To the Editor:

We are writing this letter
to bringto the attention of
trappers what terrible suf-
fering they can bring'to ani-
mals by putting out traps
and being negligent about
checking them. On April
2nd our beautiful 10-month-
old half collie, half German
Shepherd cow dog followed
a neighbour dog into the
woods- She didn’t come
home, and in spite of every
effort we made, we could
not find her. On June 5th
when we went into the barn,
this poor forlorn little dog
was there. After speaking.
her name, we realized that.
it. truly was Gypsy.~ One

back foot was gone and the
dog was about half her ori-
ginal weight. How she had
survived two months we
will never know. Gypsy was
delighted to be home —
glad to see the whole fami-
ly, even the cat. She has
been so brave that we will
do all we can tohelp herre-
gain her strength, but we

 

.7 f;

also make every attempt to
keep traps away from our
surrounding woods.

We hope trappers will be
more careful as a result of
this letter.

Sincerely,

LOREN SHERRER
FAMILY

Sutton

 

 

 

Outlaw trapping

To the Editor:

another trap-injured animal.

pets. not infrequently do just that.

we do? Plenty; if our hearts are in it.

trapping.

 

The dog had been released from one of those
damnable leg-,Wps. One leg, badly mangled.
was being dragged along. This puppy. which we
tried to comfort. was obviously exﬁ'a'tﬁted. Within a
space of a few minutes, with a moan which sound-
ed like total resignation. the peace of death came to

How much terror did this animal know? We can
only speculate on an anthropomorphic level. Sup-
pose. however. for better understanding of this suf-
fering. we substitute a human - any one of us.
Could this human. caught up in a device analogous
to an animal in one of these traps. after long suffer-
ing. including great thirst. chew off a limb in order
to get home to family? Trapped animals. including

A decent respect for life. free fromLavoidable ter-
ror. commands that ‘we cease being a nation which
permits this outrageously cruel practice. What can

Letters and telephone calls to the proper authori-
ties. expressing our indignation. would be helpful,
to all living creatures. Local. state and federal rep-
resentatives have hearts. too. We just have to get
under their political skins. Let's outlaw leg-hold

Kenneth Wade

 

 

Leg-hold trap victim

Now, it’s a case of dog looking for its family. After Friday, this
loo-pound mixed hound with an injured left front paw will be up
for adoption. “We’re just nursing him back to health and waiting
for the owners to call,” said William Laughard of the Humane
F 2‘ Society of Greater Akron. The dog was found dragging a leg-hold,
Y." tra along East Lake Avenue in Barberton near the Ohio Canal
on day. The Humane Society’s number is 43455500.

 

 

 

Beacon Journal photo by Paul Topic

 

 

 

 




 

 

.1-

Later put to sleep
Grover ”Pap” Atkins, Notchey Creek com
munity, poses with one of his fox dogs which
found its way into a steel-iawed trap not long
ago. The dog, valued at $100, was later put to
sleep after injuries to the animal's foot and leg
did not heal. MCA photo by Patrick Pennington.

 

Smashed foot and all
Bob Taylor Lee, Monroe County commissioner

stands with one of his prize fox dogs and the trap
the animal wandered into on a recent hunt. Lee
said similar illegal traps are scattered all
around Madisonville. Veterinarian bills for the
dog ran $65. MCA photo by Patrick Pennington.

 

 

 

By Patrick Pennington

Madisonvillearea fox hunters
are in an uproar over illegal
gro md traps tint have, in effect,
kill 5d several high-priced
hunting dogs and badly maimed
a number of others.

The hunters, who have pleaded
with state officials and local
game wardens for help, said
Monday the situation was
worsening instead of getting
better.

Soaring prices for fox furs and
the coats of other animals such
as mink and muskrat have
brought about the influx of illegal
trapping, fox hunters believe.

Although it is strictly against
the law to trap the rare red fox,
the coats of some foxes are now
selling for as much as $50 apiece.

In open trails

'l‘he often-baited traps, ac-
cording to fox hunter Bob Taylor
Lee, are set in open trails for
grey foxes and other valuable
game animals to find. But in-
stead of foxes or mink stepping
into the traps, hunting dogs and
other domestic aminals are often
the prey.

To be legal, the traps must be
set in 12-inch deep holes or in
ankle-deep water.

“Listen, we’re not against
people trapping legally,” Lee
said “But we would like to stop
the illegal setting of these traps.

“Trappers and hunters have
got to work together.”

Lee said the traps were set all
around Madisonville, from
Hiwassee community to Rocky
Springs. The traps have done
hundreds of dollars worth of
damage to fox dogs, Lee ex-
plained.

“What happens if a cow steps
in one of those things?” Lee
asked. “I promise you it would be
enough to ruin her leg.”-

Fox dogs f steel-jawed traps

The trappers often tie a live
chicken to a tree, then surround
the chicken with the strong-
jawed traps, hunters say. One
hunter, recently confronted with
the “bait trick,” found his dog
with traps on two legs.

Put to sleep

Grover Atkins, Notchy Creek
community, was forced to put
one of his fox dogs to sleep
recently after he found the
animal’s leg locked hopelessly in
a steel-jawed trap.

Atkins said the damage to the
dog‘s foot was so bad the animal
could never run again. His loss
was estimated at $100.

Lee said he luckily saved one ol‘
his prize dogs. valued at over
$250. several weeks earlier. Lee
found the dog in the trap before
the device had time to crush the
young dog’s foot.

The vetenarian bill still ran
over $65.

“A fox dog is no good after it’s
caught in one of those traps,"
said Alvin Moses, himself a fox
hunter. “People’will never again
believe the dog can run a hunt
and still come in without lim-
ping."

Fines are stiff

Fines for trapping illegally are
high, the hunters said.

Any person violating trapping
laws is subject to a $50 fine and
will be prohibited from trapping
or selling furs for at least one
year.

Any person caught hunting or
trapping while on probation will
be given a mandatory jail sen-
tence of at least 30 days.

To trap legally, trappers must
clearly mark their traps with
their names and must have the
written permission of the
property owner when trapping on
another person’s private
property.

 

 

 

Trapped cat’s paw removed

 

 

GROTON-—- Caspar, a black
cat that tripped a leg-hold trap in
the woods behind Burger King
lastiweek, is recovering nicely
from recent paw-removal sur-
gery. . . '

The saga of Caspar’s troubles

began'Jan. 14 when a Burger.

King employee responded to the
ﬂuffy, black male cat’scries
from behind the restaurant,

where it appeared to have .been.

trapped for several days.

Caspar’s owner, Deanna Chap-
man of Meridian Street Exten-
sion, claimed him and scheduled
an appointment at a local animal
Clinic.» The cat’s paw was not
broken by the trap, but the
mechan‘ism’s vise-like ' grip
Squeezed Ioff circulation and
damaged tissue.

The day Caspar was due to go
under the knife, he took off. “He

wasn’t lost. He was out. I think
he’s got a girlfriend up behind
Leiser Sound,” said Ms. Chap-
man.

Thursday, not only did Caspar
have his paw removed, he was
neutered. .

Friday, Caspar - dazed but.
awake and eating — came home
to Meridian Street.

His story has sparked the in-
terest of the Connecticut Coali-
tion to Abolish the Steel Jaw
Trap, which says the incident
well-illustrates its cause.

Ms: Chapman would still like
to know who set the trap. “I’d
askhim to pay the vet bill,” she
said. Caspar’s paw problems
cost nearly $300, but it’s worth it,
she said. . . '

“He’s like my baby. I have no
kids,” said Ms. Chapman. “My
animals are my babies.”

For additional free information you may use this coupon

or write us

i . ~—, __ . (47 l" ,‘ ‘1 « 2| Yr: T-r ./
l [1’ ..." L . x

.7

V

w, [ﬂu/“,7 1 .gr. .

l
' <:_‘.

/

_\,_.>

a letter r

k .

‘. 1‘.'(. .v. a
- , ,..
‘. .- um ’ .l
\ .i.... is...

(/1_.,_ . ,,_,-,. r’
V 1.1" "i 7 ‘ .-‘ .' ‘ 1' ‘- ,' . « -‘ "’ i" ' "

equesting information

Cl Please send me information on
pending legislation

[3 Posters

El Trapping Agony

A Statement by
Charles Darwin

Cl Petitions

1:] Copies of this
compilation

(up to 5 copies of each without charge)

I
l
l
l
I
I
l
I
l
l
L

Name

Address

 

 

 

Zip Code

 

 

 

 

-—-——---J




Ernest P. Walker, the author of “Studying Our Fellow
Mammals,” is best known for his three-volume classic,

0"

«w>r¥-::'—-“Lil‘s/Iamtnalsﬂofwthe" World,” published* 'by‘ the“j‘ohrr*Hop‘—“*‘

kins Press in 1964; but teachers throughout the country
know him for his “First Aid and Care of Small Animals,”
the very popular manual he wrote for AWI publication,
now in its sixth printing.

“Studying Our Fellow Mammals,” which he considers
his most important book, is a synthesis of the Walker
philosophy with the close and accurate scientific observa—
tion for which he is noted among mammalogists.

Ernest Walker’s knowledge and understanding of
animals developed over long years of study and work with
them, from his farm boyhood, through the University
of Wyoming, the Bureau of Fisheries in Alaska, the US.
Biological Survey on which he worked on problems of
migratory bird protection, then as the first commissioner
of the Alaska Game Commission, head of the Federal
Game and Bird Reservations, and finally assistant director
of the Smithsonian Institution’s National Zoological Park.

In testimony before a Senate Committee this year, he
expressed the broad-minded attitude toward mammals in
general which characterizes all his work. “Mammals,
including people,” he wrote, “are built essentially the
same, their main differences being in size and proportion

Please send me (

check

for .................... is enclosed.
money order $

My

azaarrwa
aazmx
a z a

~\\\\\\\\\\\\\

~\\\\

\
\\\\\\\\\\\‘\\\\\\\\
W

by
Ernest P. Walker

of the parts to perform the function of helping the spe-
cies survive. Of course, there is great difference in size ‘

‘r“between"*t'iﬁywslir‘ewswshd"b‘ig‘“w1ial'é§',"'and* their""f66d aﬁdﬁnﬁ

habits are radically different. In spite of the differences
between the great number of species, they obviously have
the same sensations of pain, hunger, thirst, taste, hearing,
etc. For some, their senses, such as sight, hearing, and
smelling, are far more acute than ours.”

“Studying Our Fellow Mammals” contains 172 pages
with 152 illustrations. Chapters include: Conservation,
Behavior, Intelligence, Form: Anatomy and Physiology,
Ancestry, Care of Captive Animals, Photographing Ani—
mals, Classification, and Animal Distribution.

Price : $1.00 each.

We are able, because of generous gifts for this purpose,
to offer single copies of this manual free of charge to
teachers and librarians. (Unfortunately, we cannot in—
clude student teachers or students in this offer.) Addi-
tional copies to teachers, schools, or libraries: $1.00 each.

Persons who wish to order copies of “Studying Our
Fellow Mammals” may do so by filling out the blank
below and mailing it to the Animal Welfare Institute,
P. O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station, New York,
N. Y., 10017.

) copies of “Studying Our Fellow Mammals.”

 

NAME (Please print)
ADDRESS

 

 

For teachers and librarians only:

Please send me one free copy of “Studying Our Fellow Mammals.”

teacher

 

I am a - - a
librarian (NAME OF SCHOOL 0R LIBRARY)

(GRADES)

 

(ADDRESS)

(ZIP CODE)

 

Please send book to

(NAME —- PLEASE PRINT)

 

(ADDRESS)

 

(ZIP CODE)

 




February 25 , 1952

TO: Members of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology:

. .De’ar Member:

,, In 1946 I wrote the following letter to Dr. Carlson pertaining to the National Society of Medical Research, then in

process of organization.
February 8, 1946

Dr. A. J. Carlson
Department of Physiology
University of Chicago
Chicago, Illinois

Dear Doc tor Carlson:

My answer to your letter of January 26th is delayed
due to the absence of Dean Furstenberg from the city. I
have spoken to him since his return and he asks me to
tell you that he is in sympathy with the objectives of the
National Commission for the Protection of Medical Sci—
ences. He also has every expectation that the University
will subscribe $300. 00 towards financial support.

You will find enclosed signatures of members of my
department urging financial support of the commission
by our Federation.

If the work of the commission is well done it will
be a great contribution to the biological sciences for we
need a comprehensive education of all concerned. In
that connection I would like to suggest that the commis—
sion give'attention to the education of the men of sci-
ence as well as of the public for in my opinion much of
our trouble originates in our own tanks. 1 am not one of
those who believe that the conditions of animal experi-
mentation are ideal. I believe the commission could
raise the question whether the experimental animal is
receiving the consideration to which he is entitled par-
ticularly as regards survival experiments in which the
animal is likely to suffer. It is my experience that
there are always a number of us who may be too sure of
man's privileges to experiment on the lower forms. Some
system of scrutinizing the soundness of biological prob-
lems and the skill and wisdom and consideration of the
scientist would do much to convince the public that our
minds are open to all sides of the problem. I doubt the

wisdom of a policy which offers no supervision of animal
experimentation whatever. ‘ The surest way of preventing
interference from the outside by enactment of laws re-
stricting experimentation is to convince the public that
we ourselves see the soundness of proper supervision. Our
committee should be best qualified to accept the re-
sponsibility of this supervision.

I will be on the look-out for you at the meetings.

Sincerely yours,

Robert Gesell

RB/mb

(See more recent correspondence below.)

Dr. Walter B. Cannon, the late Professor of Physiology
at Harvard, had seen the need of a restraining force to
contain man's curiosity within proper bounds of experi-
mental procedure and as a result of his efforts, labora-
tories throughout the land voluntarily posted a code of
experimental ethics. The fine inﬂuence from which this
movement started was, however, doomed to suffer from
the lack of a continuity of moral supervision.

Burke, the great statesman, saw in continuity of insti—
tutions the best guarantee to their improvement. The
shocking effects that come from total absence of restraint
are revealed in the following article reprinted with the
permission of the Lancet and the Universities Federation

of Animal Welfare.

 




EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS

A Reprint from the Lancet

 

Explanatory note : q ,
Two letters were published under the above heading in the Lancet of the 6th August, 1949, and a leading
article on the subject appeared in the same issue. All three are reprinted here by kind permission of the Editor.

Although the signatories of the letters acted in their individual capacities and not as representing any
organization or profession, it may be of interest that four of them hold or have held, Home Office licences for
experiments on animals, three are Fellows of the Royal Society, and all are members of UFAW. Dr. John R.
Baker is Lecturer in Zoology and Reader in Cytology in the University of Oxford, and a founder of the Society
.for Freedom in Science ', Prof. Sir Frederic Bartlett, F.R.S., is Director of the Psychological Laboratory in the
University of Cambridge, and former Editor of the British Journal of Psychology; Prof. A. C. Hardy, F.R.S., is
Linacre Professor of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy in the University of Oxford ; Prof. E. Hindle, F .R.S., is
Scientiﬁc Director of the Zoological Society and General Secretary of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science, formerly PrOfessor of Biology in the School of Medicine, Cairo, Milner Research Fellow, London School
’ of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, and Regius Professor of Zoology in the University of Glasgow; Major C.VV.
Hume was formerly Editor to the Physical Society and Hon. Secretary of the British Science Guild ; Dr. W. R.
Wooldridge is founder and Director of the Animal Health Trust, formerly Beit Memorial Fellow for Medical
Research, Hon. Secretary of the Veterinary Research Club and President of the National Veterinary Medical
Association ; Prof. F. Golla is Director of the Burden Neurological Institute, and was formerly Professor of the
Pathology of Mental Disorders in the University of London and Director of the Central Pathological Laboratory
for Research in Mental Diseases. Further particulars of each signatory will be found in W ho’s Who.

 

 

Letters to the Editor of the Lancet.

SIR,—-—What amount of suffering is it legitimate to
inﬂict in the course of experiments on animals? The
question has arisen from a study of some. papers
published in recent years and describing Canadian and
American experiments calculated to inﬂict the maxi—
mum of injury consistent with the temporary survival
of the animals, which are then studied physiologically.
A special machine has been designed in which un—
anaesthetized rats, with paws bound together, are
dropped 40 times per minute. In one experiment 10
rats were subjected to 700 falls in 17%- minutes and died
on the average 50 minutes later ', another 10 subjected
to 800 falls in 20 minutes died on the average in 47
minutes. The animals were not unconscious. In another
experiment 30 dogs, temporarily anaesthetized, had
their thigh muscles contused by-700 to 1000 blows with
a light raw-hide mallet on each leg. The anaesthetic
was then at once discontinued ; 25 of the dogs died after
intervals varying from 50 minutes to about 9 hours.
References to the papers describing these and other
exceptionally painful procedures will be given to
responsible inquirers on request.

We should be the last to underrate the importance of
experiments on animals, but that importance does not
override all other considerations. There must be a limit
to the doctrine that the end justiﬁes the means. The
1912 report of the Royal Commission on Vivisection,
.5 of whose 7 signatories were eminent medical men,
recommended the principle that is now embodied in the
pain rule attached to British vivisection licences : “ If
an animal at any time is found to be suffering severe
pain which is likely to endure, such animal shall forth-
with be painlessly killed.” This rule applies even when

the main object of the experiment has not been
attained.’

We therefore inviteScientists =~to assert'with us that
treatments of the kind to which we have referred at the
beginning of this letter are to be condemned as shocking
to a normal human conscience. We suggest that in
planning his procedure every experimenter should
earnestly consider whether the inﬂiction of the pain
involved is really justiﬁable in the interests of medicine
or science, and try to devise techniques that will
reduce suffering to a minimum.

C. W. HUME
A. C. HARDY
‘ JOHN R. BAKER

W. R. WOOLDRIDGE.
E. HINDLE
F. C. BARTLETT

SIR,-——-Despite the attacks of anti—vivisectionists, the
necessity for animal experimentation for the relief of
human suffering is more and more generally accepted.
The public realises that laboratory experiments per-
formed under licence in this country, after their
desirability has been justiﬁed to the satisfaction of the
appointed medical authorities, are invariably con-
ducted with humanity. '

It is because of the trust that has thus been accorded
by the general public that it is incumbent on the
medical profession to refuse to condone, by silence,
unjustiﬁable inﬂiction of suffering on animals. A series
of experiments have lately been recorded under the
title of Effect of Chronic Fear on the Gastric Secretion
of HCl in Dogs. I do not wish at this juncture to
discuss the scientiﬁc validity of the experiments or the

 

 




 

 

Conclusions drawn, but to call attention to the cruelty
With which they were conducted.

SeVen dogs were used—as a preliminary they were
operated on to render them incapable of barking. The
animals were kept in metal screen cages, and, in the
words of the author, an attempt was made to induce
and maintain a state of chroniczfear in the animals by
strong electric shOcks administered to the animals

through specially constructed grids making up the‘

ﬂoor of the cages. Combined with this form of stimula-
tion was an electric buzzer which might act either with
or independently of the shock; The stimulus was
administered by a mechanical device permitting some
randomisation of the intervalslbetween the stimuli——
74 stimulatiOns being administered within each
succeeding twelve-hour period. During the night the
grids were often short~circuited by faeces; otherwise,
the dogs were stimulated at irregular intervals night
and day. The experimental period lasted six months.

LEADING ARTICLE from the “

Experiments on Animals.

MOST people in Great Britain regard laboratory
experiments on animals as an unpleasant necessity.
They accept the practice because so much good has
come of it ; but they ha‘ve ensured by legislation that
it shall be used as Soaringly as possible, kept in the
hands of those believed to he humane and responsible.
and safeguarded by legal "restrictions fr‘om abuse.
This position has notjbeen reached by following any
principle to its logical conclusion. Indeed, principles
carried to that extreme, and then used as rules of
conduct, often prove cruel or silly or both. Clearly
it is as wrong to let a child die unnecessarily of diph-
theria as it is to regard all animals as a lower creation
designed to suffer for the beneﬁt of man. Though
both attitudes can be justified on principle, both
offend our humanity. We are thus compelled to
treat this like other moral dilemmas, and pick our
way uneasily along a middle course, never wholly at
peace with our consciences, but at least sparing them
the ﬁnal outrage of one gross evil or the other.

Certainly the compromise owes nothing to callous-
ness. As long ago- as 1871 the British Assoc1ation for
the Advancement. of Science resolved that no experi-
ment which can be. done under an anaesthetic should
be done without it. that no painful experiment is
justiﬁable for the mere purpose of illustratinga law
or fact already demonstrated (i.e., such experiments
should not be used' inteaching) ; and that when, to
obtain a new fact, it; is necessary to undertake a
painful experiment, every effort should be made to
ensure success, so that pain is not inﬂicted uselessly.
The Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876 was founded on
this outline; it Obliges' those who wish to conduct
painful experiments, or “ any procedure. calculated to
interfere with the normal health and comfort of an

animal,” to obtain a licence from the Home Secretary ;

Re rinted, b
p y ' \Velfare),

During this period an occasional break of a few days
allowed; control measurements of HCl secretion to
be performed on the resting animal. Otherwise, the
arrangements for arbusing in the dogs a state of
chronic fearand intermittent .pain for a continuous
period of six montigs seem to have been effective.

Science and humanity know no frontiers and no-one
who knows the selﬂess devotiOnand humanity of our
American colleagues would doubt that a more general
knowledge of these experiments at present hidden in a
specialised periodical Would arouse Widespread indigna—
tion. It would surely in some degree, involve us all in
the dishonour that Such practices cast on medical
research were we to ignore them for fear that attention
drawn to them might furnish communition for un—

‘ scrupulous arguments of antievivisectionists.

" F. GOLLA.

Newlands, Frenchay, near Bristol.

LANCET” of 6th August, 1949

”and it further requires that an animal suffering from

severe pain which is likely to endure should forthwith

, be painlessly killed, whether the main object of the

experiment has been attained ‘ or not. Moreover,
there is now a well-grown opinion among scientists
that animals should not be used inlarge numbers for
painful experiments of the facts can be ”established

V equally well by the use of a few. Within thiStrame of

regulations and customs it is possible to limit painful
experiments to a very small proportion of experiments
as a whole, and to ensure that the suffering experienced '
is not severe or prolonged.

In other Western European countries, and in
America, though most scientists doubtless impose on
themselves the same humane scale of values, there
are not the same stringent legal safeguards. It will
always happen that the tough-minded and the
tender—minded will differ over what constitutes
suffering for others, whether humans or animals, and
there will thus always be a scatter round the mean
of ordinary practice in the conduct of experiments.
But there may also be examples at which the average
laboratory worker and the ordinary citizen alike revolt,
as is shown in our correspondence columns this week.
CHARLES DARWIN held that to inﬂict any pain which
is not absolutely necessary deserves “ detestation

and abhorrence,” and all research—workers. of integrity

subscribe to this judgment. They know that .to
apply the criterion of necessity calls for unremitting
care and attention; but they also know that it can
and must be done. Since the pursuit of a new fact
can sometimes engross the mind almost completely,
they recognise that they must always be on guard;
and that wherever their keenness may have impaired
their sense of proportion they should seek the help and
criticism of colleagues. In the cases Cited by our
correspondents the essential criterion was not applied.

kind permission of the Editor of the Lancet, by UFAW (The Universities Federation for Animal
‘ 284 Regent’s Park Road. Finchley,

London, N3.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

More recently a study on drowning of 160 dogs in fresh
water has come to my attention. It describes how these
creatures were strapped to a dog board in the supine posi—
tion, how a specially constructed reservoir, «devised to
flood the upper respiratory passages, was affixed to the
neck and how the dogs were then droWned and studied
free of complications of general anaesthesia.

These ominous experiments make us search our souls
and wonder what the future has in store for us, for they
remind us so inescapably of the "Doctors of Infamy, "
(Henry Schuman, New York), who performed terminal
experiments on men and women without the use of an-
aesthesia. They become all the more ominous when it
is taken into consideration that they were performed on
creatures as sentient as man and in a free and happy '
country, and not under duress of a'harsh government
barbarized by global warfare. In the concentration
camps, atrocities were sanctioned by the command-
ment that "Necessity knows no laws. " In university
laboratories they are presumably justified by the princi-
ple that " The end justifies the means. " The studies on
the drowning of these dogs were published in a journal
sponsored by the Federation.

These experiments pose a number of difficult questions.
For example, how much infliction of pain and discomfort
on experimental animals are the people prepared to con-
done? What are the limitations, in animal experimenta-
tion, of the principle that the end justifies the means? Is
it wise to endanger the spiritual values of society by cheap
popularization of medical science in pictorial magazines,
thereby creating a callousness towards animal experimen-
tation? Is it a desireable objective to weaken and con-
fuse the humane societies of this country even though
such procedure insures abundant flow of animals into ex-
perimental laboratories?

A recently organized Animal Welfare Institute is at-
tempting to study questions of this nature in the hope
that equitable or at least partial answers will be found.
The broad objectives of the Institute have been stated in
clear, concise and unmistakeable terms. As outlined
in its prospectus, the aim of the Institute will be:

""To promote the welfare of all animals.

(To reduce the total pain and fear inflicted on ani-
mals by man. '

While the Institute is interested in every phase of ani-
mal welfare, it will, at present, concern itself particu-
larly with humane safeguards in the use of animals for
research and medicine.

On the urgent problems of laboratory animals, the
Institute will have the following immediate aims:

1. Care: The establishment of a code for the han-
dling and use of a laboratory animals.

2. Research: The encouragement of medical research

of the highest possible quality as opposed
to mere quantity.

3. Procurement Programs: The survey of existing -and
proposed programs for the procurement
of laboratory animals in an effort to dis-
cover the best possible method of satis-
fying the needs of humanity in the ad-
vancement of medicine, public health,
agriculture, etc. , without jeopardizing
practical animal welfare work of the
general advancement of humanity through
increasing consideration for all living
creatures. "

 

Though the Institute is less than a year old and though
it has not yet formulated policies of implementation, its
conservative position has been attacked from both sides
with a fanaticism less becoming the medical sciences
than the anti-vivisectionists who are allegedly guided by
sentiment alone.

The Animal Welfare Institute has from the very outset
invited exchange of ideas from all quarters and has re-
ceived helpful suggestions from members of the Federation
and in continuation of the policy of mutual cooperation
the Institute also made formal application for a bomh at
the forthcoming meeting of the Federation of American
Societies of Experimental Biology to present the results
of its studies to members who wish such information. The
following two letters will reveal the position which the
executive committee of the Federation has taken in re-
gard to the Animal Welfare Institute.

FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SOCIETIES FOR ElﬂjE'RIMENTAL BIOLOGY

2101 Constitution Avenue Washington 25, D. C.

January 15, 1952

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

7 30 Fifth Avenue

New York 19, New York

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

I have watched the development of the Animal Wel-
fare Institute with interest and with both some hope and
some misgivings. The hope was that certain portions
of your program, such as the matters of care, housing,
feeding and handling of animals would be emphasized
and made as a cooperative effort with the National So-
ciety for Medical Research. The misgivings were that
such an "on the fence" organization as the Institute might
fall over into the group of foolish, misguided, misan-
thropic, idle, mischievous or mercenary social perverts
who form the so-called antivivesection societies and who
have infiltrated the humane societies to a large extent.

From some conversation with your father, Dr. Gesell,
I had thought that the hopes might be realized. From




the statements made in the release of January 8 from

the New York State Society for Medical Research, how-
ever, I fear that the misgivings were well founded. Cer-
tainly the great majority of experimental biologists and
medical research investigators. do not want the counter-
part of the laws and regulations that the English have
imposed, and are entirely behind the Medical Research
Pound Bill pending in the New York State Assembly.

If there is a real and rational place for the Animal
Welfare Institute, it seems to me that it is in close
sympathy and cooperation with such groups as the New
York State Society for Medical Research1 and the Na-
tional Society for Medical Research, and not in the
orbit of the crackpot organizations. For example, ad-
vice and help on matters of laboratory care, housing,

sanitation, feeding and handling of animals are needed.
The methods of killing the enormous numbers of im-

pounded animals by city pounds and by "Humane" So-
cieties should be investigated. Some of their proce-
dures are ghastly and nauseating and should be changed.
Certainly no biologist would ever countenance such
cruel measures as these groups condone on the part of
their employees. 2 Your Institute could do a real
service in changing these conditions.

I hope that your Institute will consider most care-
fully its program of activities and its basic principles,
and that it will come to have a sense of social re-
sponsibility as keen and as true as that felt by the ex-
perimental biologists who work with living tissues.

Yours sincerely ,

Footnote #1. The New York State Society for
Medical Research like the Federation, refuses to work
in "cooperation" with the Animal Welfare Institute
(see Federation Letter #2). It has officially severed
relations with this organization.

Footnote #2. The drowning of 160 dogs without
anaesthesia would seem to be countenanced by pub~
lication in a journal sponsored by the Federation.

An answer to an immediate request for detailed in-
formation which would help to correct the "ghastly
nauseating procedures" employed by Humane Societies
has up to this date not been received from the Federa-

tion.

FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SOCIETIES FOB EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY
2101 Constitution Avenue Washington 25, D. C.

January 25, 1952

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

730 Fifth Avenue

New York 19, New York

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

_ At the winter meeting of the Executive Committee
of the Federation on January 22, the request of the Ani-
mal Welfare Institute for exhibit or display space at the
coming Federation meetings, was considered and was
refused. At the same time, invitations to use exhibit
space were extended to certain other groups for present-
ing display material on animal care and experimental
use of animals.

May I say frankly" that the reason for refusing your
request was the serious misgiving that the Federation
Executive Committee has regarding the fundamental
attitudes of the Animal Welfare Institute. The Feder-

. ation, is unequivocal in its points of view and is not in-

terested in any compromise position. For example, it
would unreservedly back .an animal pound bill in the
New York State Legislature similar to that introduced
last year. It is also entirely opposed to legislation pat—
terned after the present laws in England. The issues
are straightforward; the Federation comprises a large
proportion of investigators who are vitally concerned;

it knows rather precisely what these biologists want and
it knows that these desires are eminently sensible and
sound.

If the Animal Welfare Institute were to give a clear
demonstration that its interests and activities are in no
way antithetical to ours- -including a vigorous support
of the type of animal pound legislation we favor--then
I am sure we would consider requests in the future for
exhibit opportunities at our meeting.

Yours sincerely ,

Here then are three related events:

1. Dr. Carlson, President of the National Society for
Medical Research, expresses his faith in education.
"The National Society for Medical Research was '
conceived as an experiment--an experiment in
public education. It was based on the premise and
founded on the belief that public support springs
from public understanding. "

2. A Professor of Physiology active in the foundation
of the N. S. M. R. expresses the fear that the Ani-
mal Welfare Institute is more of a threat to sci—
ence than the anti-vivisection movement which

appeals only to the crackpots.

3. The Executive Committee of the Federation cate-
gorically denies its members the usual courtesy of
acquaintance with facts by refusing to admit an
educational display by the Animal Welfare Institute.

The dogmatic attitude of our Committee is difficult to
understand in the light of what appears to be a general

 

 

 

 

 




 

f

O

agreement on the soundness of the broad objectives of
the Animal Welfare Institute. Dr. Carlson writes me as
of January 15, 1952, "I have copies of the official pub-
lication produced by the Animal Welfare Institute. I
have no quarrel with any of the statements in that publi-
cation. except possibly that the Institute as described in
that publication is not necessary in our own country--"
In regard to the refusal of an educational boorh it is to
be remembered that the Institute has not formulated,
nor does it wish to announce specific policies without
sufficient study. Unfortunately the impatience engend—
ered by this desire not to arrive at premature conclusions
has led to the circulation of rumors and innuendo. Name
calling has come to the Institute from all sides, the in-
' variable experience of those who try to follow a middle

course, note, e. g. , Federation letter No. 1.

Anti-vivisection societies, on their part, circu-
late wide-spread warnings of a secret alliance between
Medical Science and the Institute and a SUBTLE mutual
agreement for procurement of living animals for scien-
tific laboratories. In their turn, the N. S. M. R. condi-
tions uninformed minds to issue statements of this kind
in regard to the Animal Welfare Institute. "It seemed
that the work of the Committee (i. e. the N. S. M. R.)
might be completed in the near future unless new ob-
jectives were sought. However, this is not the case. It
appears that the opposition--the anti-vivisectionists--
have changed tactics. They are working in more SUBTLE
ways. Their "professionals" are openly claiming to as-
sist medical research, but behind the scenes are trying
to effect restrictive legislation. Information from an
apparently reliable source suggests that some agents of
the Animal Welfare Institute may be following such a
policy. "

The overwhelming and almost irresistable urge to
see only that which meets with the IMMEDIATE atten-
tion is perhaps the greatest imperfection of the mind
and hangs over man. like the sword of Damocles, poised
to cut him down. Spencer expressed this fear when he
stated that emotions are the maSter and that the intel-

lect is but the servant of emotions. 'Lord Aeton must
have sensed. the role of emotions in his famous observa—
tion on corruption of the mind, for inability to compro-
mise corrupts the mind in direct relation to the power
which is at the disposal of the emotions.

Some years ago, in a personal conversation, un-
related to procurement, Dr. Carlson summarized the
imperfections of the mind, as he saw them in these con-
cise and blunt words, "There is no such thing as an
open mind." Dr. Carlson, of course, meant that the
mind is not open to all sides of a qtrestion at any given
time, for as all of us know, it is always open to either
one side or the other in controversial problems. The
tendency of the average mind to lock in one position
and to resist compromise has had regrettable effects on
many of the decisions of man since time immemorial.

And it would appear that bills of animal procurement
are no exception.

 

Consider for a moment the Illinois Bill No. 490,
1951, for procurement of dogs and cats through city
pounds. The need of living animals for the advancement
of medical science is sufficiently recognized to promise
success to a bill which gives careful consideration to all
factors concerned; experimental animals, medical sci-
ence, and society in general. -

Bill No. 490 reads well for the experimental animal,
medical science, and society, up to sections 9, 10 & 11
and yet it offers nothing more than vague promises as re-
gards the price which the dog & cat must pay to insure a
flow of animals into the scientific laboratories.

Whether by oversight or by intent, section 9 & 11
would virtually abolish humane societies in the State of
Illinois. No one could shelter a stray animal without
running counter to the law. In other words, the N. S. M. R.
would make decency a misdemeanor. Fortunately, for
all concerned, bill No. 490 was greatly modified before
its passage.

Sincerely yours,

Robert Gesell

Professor of Physiology
University of Michigan
Ann Arbor, Michigan

RELATED INFORMATION
SECTIONS 9 & 11 OF ILLINOIS PROCUREMENT BILL
NO. #490, 1951.

Section 9. In localities where public pounds are op-
erated by municipalities or orher political subdivisions or
under contract therewith, it shall be unlawful for any
private agency, organization or individual to pick up-or
confine stray animals without notifying the pound within
24 hours and it shall be the duty of the pound authorities
to pick up the animals; provided, however, that nothing
in this Act shall prevent farmers from "exercising any
right they may have to destroy animals attacking their
livestock or poultry.

Section 11. It shall be a misdemeanor for (1) any
person or institution to violate any of the provisions of
this Act or any rules and regulations promulgated there-
under, or (2) any person wilfully to fail to execute any
duty imposed on him by this. Act.

RECENT CORRESPONDENCE WITH DR. CARLSON
THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
Chicago 3'7, Illinois
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSIOLOGY

January'15, 1952

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Dr. Robert Gesell

Department of Physiology

University of Michigan Medical School
Ann Arbor, Michigan

Dear Dr. Gesell:

I have your telegram of the 12th. I will be in New
York on several duties the last of this month and I shall
try to contact you either going to or coming from New
York. I will let you know the specific date in time.

I have copies of the official publication produced by
the Animal Welfare Institute. I have no quarrel with
any of the statements in that publication, except pos-
sibly that the institute as described in that publication
is not necessary in our own country because all of our
medical schools and research institutes are just as
strongly in favor of animal welfare as this new institute.

I have only one direct experience with a man (Chi-
cago attorney) who told several of us here that he was
paid by the institute. This lawyer appeared at our
legislature in Springfield, opposing our bill just like
the anti~vivisectionists who were there opposing our
bill. '

Mr. Rohweder, the Executive Secretary of out So-
ciety, now six or seven years old, founded by and
sponsored by the American Association of Medical
Schools, has proven during these years to be a man of
ability, industry and integrity. This is my judgment,
and I think you will find most of the deans of our some
ninety medical schools will agree with me. Would you
kindly tell me in writing before we meet why you refuse
to meet Mr. Rohweder? Does the Dean of the University
of Michigan Medical School agree with you on this issue?

I hope you are in good health. You are eleven years
my junioras far as chronological age goes, but I, too,

try to carry on despite my coronary attack a year ago.

Cordially yours,

A. J. Carlson

A]C:mj

January 22 , 1952

Dr. A. J. Carlson
Department of Physiology
The University of Chicago
Chicago 37, Illinois

Dear Doctor Carlson:

First let me tell you how very glad I am that you are
planning to stop off at Ann Arbor on your New York trip.

 

In regard to Mr. Rohweder it is regrettable to answer
that my desire nor to meet with him was dictated by
circumstances. Since I have not met your executive
secretary, I am forced to judge his intentions by past
correspondence, including his circular letter to the
medical schools of this country. After very careful
consideration it seemed improper to me to offer fur-
ther opportunity for misunderstandings.

On the other hand, I am greatly encouraged that you
have no quarrel with the statements of the Institute, for
should that represent a general feeling there would be
much to gain from a strong support of the Institute by
the Federation. Surely no harm can come from a dupli-
cation of effort in the direction of humanity.

Animal experimentation, in our country is assuming
proportions of a major industry whose very survival will
depend upon sound humanitarian supervision, and you
will find in my letter to you of February 8, 1946 that I
have felt this way for many years.

I have for a long time regarded you as a very humane
person and can only believe that you are n0t aware of
what is going on about us. Nor can I be frightened by
problems of procurement of experimental animals.
There is much more to be feared in the harmful effects
of ease of procurement upon quality of research and
cheapened regard for life. We need only compare the
quality of, English, Swedish and American physiology
to quiet our fears on this score.

The " Chicago attorney" to whom you refer was not
paid by the Institute. But as to the legislation in ques-
tionI could never acquiesce to any move, even though
sponsored by the American Association of Medical
Schools, which would strike a blow at common decency
which would instill a fear of being kind to animals
through a bill introduced in the legislature to make it
a misdemeanor to harbor a stray animal without re-
porting to a designated authority of the state within
twenty four hours.

I can only hope that you will try to put yourself in
the place of one of millions of experimental animals
that we force to suffer for our comforts. You have so
often come to the aid of the human underdog. With the
help of your fine fighting spirit something. really mag-
nificent could be accomplished to the credit of medicine
and to the betterment of life.

Please write when you will arrive so that I can meet '
you at the station.

Sincerely yours,

Robert Gesell

RB/mm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




