ULAWS Monographs and Reports No. 2a.

REPORT

OF A DISCUSSION ON

THE DESTRUCTION OF
SEA—BIRDS
BY OIL WASTE

HELD AT UNIVERSITY COLLEGE
UNIVERSITY OF LONDON
ON MAY TO, 1937

ULAWS

(THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY)
42 TORRINGTON SQUARE
LONDON, W.C.I

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

I‘

A potential Victim of the Oil menace.

 

 

 

 




 

THE DESTRUCTION OF SEA-BIRDS BY OIL WASTE.

Introductory remarks by the Chairman,
Sir Richard Gregory, D.Sc., LL.D., F.R.S.
Editor Of Nature.

Subject of the meeting.

It was with great pleasure that I consented to take the Chair
for Dr. Adam’s lecture on the destruction of sea—birds by oil waste.
We are to have this evening a statement of the results of observation
on the subject of what oil ﬁlms mean upon water surfaces, and I am

sure it will be of great interest and scientiﬁc value.

Scientific objective of ULA W5 .

About eleven years ago, when Captain Hume and I were
associated in another organization, the British Science Guild, he
founded the University of London Animal Welfare Society. The
objects were similar to those for which the British Science Guild
stood, namely, the application of scientiﬁc methods and results to
social problems and public affairs. He aimed at introducing into
all matters relating to animal welfare the same scientiﬁc considera—
tion of facts. This aim is rather different from those of some other
animal—welfare organizations, because in most of these—~I think
one may say without any injustice—more stress is placed on the

entimental and emotional aspects of the problem than upon the
scientiﬁc side.

One of the objects of ULAWS is to enlist the active support of
men of science and women of science in the subject of animal
welfare and to show that it has aspects which should appeal par—
ticularly to them. Science stands for truth and righteOusness in
all things, and should include therefore the best interests of all
forms of life. I sincerely hope that those of you who are unfamiliar
with the work of ULAWS will think the Society worthy of your
support and encouragement.

I now have much pleasure in calling upon Dr. Adam to address
us. -
Address by

Dr. N. K. Adam, F.R.S.
Lecturer in Chemistry, University College, University
of London.

During the summer of last year I was invited by the Council
of the Royal Society to examine the sources of pollution of the sea
by oil, to ﬁnd out how serious the damage now is, and to examine
\what measures are available for its prevention and cure. With

3

 




 

only a few weeks’ vacation available, all that I could do was to
survey the problem rapidly in as many of its aspects as possible,
and make a report to the Council. Some of the facts and views in
that report are from my own observation, but a great deal has been
collated from information freely given by a great many different
people: bird—watchers, ﬁshery ofﬁcers, shipping people, naval
engineers, and others. '

Seances of oil pollntz'on.
There are three principal sources of oil pollution on the sea.

(I) Wrecks of oil banning ships 01’ oil tankers. The beach
may be rendered extremely unpleasant and impossible for bathers,
for days or weeks, for many miles around the site of a wreck from
which any considerable quantity of oil is set free, and large numbers
of birds are generally destroyed on such occasions. It is difﬁcult or
impossible to prevent such accidents; fortunately they are rare,
and eventually the mess does appear to clear up.

(2) Loss of oil when bilges 07/ ballast tanks are painped ant.
Many ships carry their oil in double bottoms or other tanks which
may be used alternately for fuel oil and water ballast. As the oil
is burned up, water has to be admitted to preserve the stability of
the ship; and when this water is pumped out in or near the port
where fresh supplies of oil are taken on board, it requires great skill
and care to prevent a little, of the oil going overboard also. There
are two methods of dealing with this source of pollution, which is
more frequent than the ﬁrst, though much smaller quantities of oil
go overboard at any one time. One method is not to empty the
ballast tanks till in port, and to pump the water through large
separating installations which are provided by several of the larger
ports. The other is to instal separators, of which there appear to be
a number of efﬁcient types on the market, in the ships, and to
pump out bilges and ballast tanks through these. The value of the
oil which such separators recover should go far, or the whole way,
towards paying for their installation. ‘

(3) The cleaning of sludge from oil tanks, especially in
tankers. . After a long period of use, heavy sludge tends to accumu—
late at the bottom of. tanks used for oil fuel. The cleaning operation
is extremely unpleasant, generally involving men going into the
tanks with steam hoses to soften the sludge, and scrapers to remove
it from the walls and ﬂoors of the tanks. In the case of double
bottoms of large ships, the cleaning is one of the most disgusting
operations known; this is, however, generally or always done in
port and the sludge removed is not put on the water, but taken away
and burnt. In the case of oil tankers, on the other hand, the
cleaning is generally done at sea for reasons of economy in labour,
and too frequently, though not always, the sludge appears to be
merely dumped overboard.




 

Oiled birds on a foreshore.

Published by the courtesy of .
the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.

N atm’e 0f the damage done

I was warned to look out for damage to birds, to the amenities
of beaches, and to ﬁsh. There appears to be no doubt that the most
serious damage is to birds. These become entangled in the sticky
ﬂoating oil and are rendered helpless. Although they may survive
if only slightly oiled, they die a lingering death if any considerable
amount of oil gets on their feathers. Few, if. any, persons have
seen birds actually becoming oiled, but the sight of birds drifting
helplessly inshore is quite common all round our coasts. Probably
many tens of thousands of birds are destroyed in this way each year
round the coasts of these islands. During twelve consecutive
months no fewer than I ,400 birds badly oiled were counted recently
near F olkestone on only I3 miles of coast. Some bird-watchers say
that internal inﬂammation is set up by the birds attempting to
clean their feathers, but it appears that the principal cause of death
is starvation through. the birds being unable to feed themselves.

There is reason to believe that the amenities of beaches are not
so seriously spoilt now as they were some years ago by the tarry
residues left by the oil. During August, 1936, I would not have
said that the damage in this respect was very serious; on many
beaches it was scarcely noticeable, and on none was it serious
except just at high water mark, where, unfortunately, most people
generally choose to sit or undress when bathing.

5

 




 

Although the ﬁsheries round our coast are undoubtedly
dirninishing, it seems very doubtful if this is due to oil pollution.
There seems evidence that the lighter Diesel oils have destroyed
large numbers of cockles in the important cockle beds of South
Wales on a few occasions; but I am not convinced that any damage
at all is done by oil to ﬁsh, or shellﬁsh, living wholly below low—
water mark. The damage to these (which. undoubtedly occurs in
some places) seems to me more likely to arise from sewage, or
soluble efﬂuents from factories, of which the acid wastes from tin-
plate works seen among the most serious; it is very easy for any
chemical works to pass efﬂuents into the sea which are poisonous
enough to kill everything but the most hardy animals for miles
around, and this undoubtedly sometimes happens at the present
time. Oil may get blamed for this because it is visible, as it
ﬂoats on the surface; but it is probably the invisible soluble
efﬂuents which are the most deadly.

Uliimazfefazfe 0f the oil.

It is a curious fact that even the worst pollution seems to clear
itself up in the course of a few months, if it is not removed. How
this happens is not by any means clear. When ﬁrst spread on the
sea, the oil covers a very large area with but few gaps; after some
days, probably owing to the evaporation of the, lighter constituents,
what remains tends to collect itself into much smaller, local patches ,
and the greater part of the surface is left clear. 'Much to my sur—
prise, this can occur even on a small tank in the course of some ten
weeks. Some people think that the oil ultimately sinks and may
do damage to the life on the bottom. I think it possible that the
residues sink, but do not think it proved; still less is it proved that
the residues do much damage to lire below after they have sunk.

Precautionary measures.

Some of these have been mentioned above. I hope that the use
of oil—separators will become more general, and I do not see why
these should not pay for themselves. There exists at the present
time a gentleman’s agreement not to discharge oil or the sludge
from cleaning tanks within 50, or in some cases of much indented
coast line 150, miles from the shore. This probably helps a great
deal in keeping the beaches clean, as the oil generally has time to
collect into quite small, comparatively thick patches before it
comes ashore. It may not help so much in saving the birds, since
the birds often live far out at sea and may become oiled there, and
later on drift ashore. Unfortunately, though the better ship—
owners observe this code and clean their oil tanks from sludge still
farther out at sea, not all do so as yet, and compulsion is diﬂicult to-
apply. .
There is evidence, however, that all parties, and not least the

6

 

ﬂ




,l-

‘— ‘6‘.

companies transporting oil and the shipmasters, are doing their
best to avoid the pollution of the sea, and that their efforts. are
meeting with some success.

Specimens of the various oils used in ships and 0f the tarry
residues found on beaches were shown, together with slides of
healthy and oiled birds, and a small model tank on which the
fate of oil on the water could be studied over long periods.

GENERAL DISCUSSION.

Mr. L. C. Harris,
Chamber of Shipping 0f the United Kingdom.

Eg‘forts of ship—owners to deal with the problem. The 50—m271e limit.

For many years I have been trying to get facts and l have come
to this meeting in order to learn more facts. I. am not going to say
that Dr. Adam has not given me any new facts, but certainly he
has said. a good deal to conﬁrm the information we already have.
We have been considering this matter since I92I. We succeeded
in getting the ﬁrst bill passed. Ship-owners have done all in their
power to improve matters and they are wanting to do more. We
tried to make the limit I50 miles from the shore, but people said 50
was enough and every ship—master knows he will lose his job if he
discharges oil within 50 miles.

There is another source of oil besides those which Dr. Adam
has described to—night. ft is the pouring of oil on the water for the
safety of life. The oil is poured on the water to enable the vessel
to escape. Men in the sea from a burning vessel have been saved
from sharks by the oil on the water.

Year by year we have asked for information from the Board of
Trade, bird-watchers and others, to try to ascertain the extent of
this damage. ' There is sometimes duplication in these reports;
neighbouring villages will be reporting the same thing. We have
always known that there is no evidence whatever. of ﬁsh being
affected. I am very interested to hear that birds are getting to
know how to avoid oil when they can see it. What-we want to
know is what becomes of the oil. I have heard that the ﬁsh eat it.

Reply by Dr. Adam.—I am afraid it is not an easy matter to count the
number of birds. Mr. Lockley, of Skokholm Island, says that ten can be
found any day. The estimated total number of oiled birds all round our
coasts each year is somewhere between 10,000 and 200,000.

Nobody knows what becomes of the oil. One person has said that he
has seen marine worms eating it. Many people say it sinks. What I can
state is that, if the oil has been on the surface for several weeks, it becomes
almost innocuous. It collects up into comparatively thick lumps covering
only a small fraction of the surface.

7

 




 

Mr. N. C. Lockhart,
The Anglo-Saxon Petroleum Co. Ltd.

Des‘idemm in separators. The 50-mile limit.

One trouble with separators is that they are not capable of
dealing with every kind of fuel. The ordinary separator which is
on the market to-day will not function properly when dealing with
fuels whose speciﬁc gravity approaches that of water. In the
modern J’oil tanker to—day there is no need for a separator, as the
ship itself is used as a separator. Oily ballast, if any, is discharged
in mid—Atlantic 500 miles from land. This is not going to affect
the British coasts. The question is the discharge of oil in conﬁned
waters which we absolutely prohibit.

The interests that I represent have spent a great deal of money
in circularizing their ﬂeet that no oil is to be pumped overboard
within 50 miles of any coast. The isolated cases where this has been
alleged to happen have always been taken up and traced to their
source. If the voluntary agreement which we observe were carried
out consistently by all ships we would not have this trouble.

Lord Headley .

Need for improved separators.

The whole problem of oil pollution can only be properly
settled when a really efﬁcient and economic type of oil separator is
put on the market.

I do not at all agree with Mr. Harris when he states that
pouring oil for the safety of life at sea is at stake. It is so seldom
necessary, and there are not all that number of shipwrecks or
vessels in distress each year to make such action a menace. His
remark. “every ship—master knows he will lose his job if he dis-
charges oil within 50 miles” strikes me as being singularly unfair
on the ship—master. Supposing, for instance, that Mr. Harris was
master of a coastal oil—tanker, and after discharging his cargo in
Liverpool he was ordered to proceed to London for a fresh cargo.
At the same time he must get his tanks cleaned on the way round
the coast, taking care not to spill any of it in the sea. It would
appear that he would stand a pretty fair chance of losing his job in
any case, whether he cleaned his tanks or not! With regard to the
theory of the ﬁsh eating the oil, I feel that we need hardly consider
it. One might just as well ask the ship—master to eat it!

Mr. N. C. Lockhart seems to have similar views to mine, but
there again, I do not altogether agree with him when he thinks it
necessary to ‘ ‘have it out with the master of the ship.” After all,
the poor fellow is only trying to do his duty.

The possibility of foreign ships pumping oil into the sea
round our coast is much more likely to make for bad pollution than
our own. There must be many nationalities to whom regulations

8

 

 




 

 

mean very little, and it would be almost impossible to keep watch
on these people, especially at night.

When the efﬁcient and economic oil—separator comes on the
market, then I feel that something may be done at Geneva.

' Mr. H G. Vevers,
Bureau of Animal Population, Oxford.

Observations at Ailsoz sz'g, Scotland.

Observations on oiling in the spring of 1936 and I937 were
carried out at Ailsa Craig , with a View to obtaining some idea of the
numbers of birds involved.

On April 1st, 1936, on 200 yards of shore—line, I counted 58
oiled birds (34 guillemots, 23 razorbills, I pufﬁn). None of these
were found alive on the following day. On April 4th there were
10 guillemots and I gannet oiled on a stretch oi 100 yards.

During I937 the following data were obtained :~—

24/3/37 I razorbill. ,

29/3/37 20 guillemots and I razorbill in a mile.

8/4/37 6 guillemots and I razorbill in 3— mile.

9/4/37 II guillemots and 2 gannets in I mile.

Io/4/37 22 gannets, 4o guillemots and 2r razorbills were counted
in a complete circuit of the rock (2% miles).

There is probably little doubt that a great deal of the oil
affecting the Ailsa Craig birds is carried in from some way out to
sea, where the masters consider it safe to deposit oil. It should,

Mr. Alan Best,
The Zoological Society of London.

Destructiveness of oil, particularly in breeding-areas.

Dr. Adam suggested that sea-birds have learnt to distinguish
between water with a ﬁlm of oil on it and unpolluted water, but I
cannot agree with this View. I have watched guillemots and
razorbills by the nesting colony on the Stack Rocks at F linston,
Pembrokeshire, alight on water that was heavily ﬁlmed with oil.
I counted, in one corner of the oiled area, over two hundred freshly-
oiled birds, and more were alighting every minute. They seemed
to have no idea that the oil was dangerous to them.

Another point that has not been brought up at this meeting is

have not collected for breeding.
There is also another side of this question that has not been

9

 




 

 

 

mentioned, and that is the fact that during the winter months
auks have left the coast to spend the winter out at. sea, their chief
range being between 20 to zoo miles from the coast, and at that
time of the year oil discharged over 50 miles from the coast would
probably be in the middle of the birds’ winter quarters. I think
this problem should be carefully examined. Information on the
subject could be got from Mr. Wynne Edwards, author of The H abit
and Distribution of Birds (published in North Boston), also Mr
E. M. Nicholson.

In addition I would like to add to the ﬁgures given by Mr.
Vevers with regard to oiled birds on Ailsa Craig, that there was an
enormous increase in oiled birds on the island during the last two
days we were there, April 12th and 13th, there being at times as
many as 25 to 30 on’ a single rock. Other small rocks projecting out
of the water held so many birds that there was not room for another
to force its way on without dislodging one of those that were already
there. About April 12th there were certainly no fewer than 100
oiled birds on less than a mile of coast. This estimate only includes
birds which were in the most conspicuous places. A detailed count
would undoubtedly have shown a great many more.

Mr. R. S. Pitcher,
Wye College Branch, ULAWS.

Physical reﬂects of oil on, sea—birds.

I think that much of the seriousness of the situation regarding
the damage to bird life lies in the fact that the quantity of oil
necessary to produce fatal results is almost incredibly small. A
tiny spot the size of a Sixpence, which may not affect the action of
the limbs in any way, will nevertheless bring the bird ashore,
presumably with the idea that cleaning (by preening with the
beak) will be more easily accomplished on terra firma. From this
point the factors of starvation, exposure, poisoning with oil and
exposure to attack from natural enemies begin to take effect.

I have experimented with attempts to clean oiled birds, but
it is very difficult ; only when they are slightly oiled is the attempt
worth while, and even then they present great difficulties by reason
of the loss of buoyancy both during cleaning and convalescence.

It should be mentioned, however, that most of the birds found
are really badly affected by the oil, so that cleaning is hopeless,
and they have to be destroyed. Most commonly one finds birds
alive with more or less of the feathers of the breast matted together,
but in very bad cases the birds are washed ashore dead, so com—
pletely covered that they seem to have been dipped in the oil. It is
difﬁcult to say which has the worse fate ; at least the latter die in a
comparatively short time.

IO

% ﬁe!




“ #‘

 

W'atcher and dead guillemots. Isle of \Vight.

, [Midis/zed by the courtesy of g
the Haj/II] Society/ﬁn the Protevtirm of Birds

Birds with only a slight soiling of the feathers resist capture
With all the vigour they can muster, dealing out vicious pecks, but
if a sprat is dangled before them they usually discover that it is
something really worth attacking. Up to the present I have found
difﬁculty, not with the removal of the oil, but with the maintenance
of the bird in a normally waterproof condition during the period of
convalescence. As far as the small experience which I have had
this winter goes, I feel that it is desirable to give the bird the
absolute minimum of artiﬁcial treatment, to give it as much
freedom in as large an area of water (preferably salt water) as
possible, and to return it to the sea as soon as it is ﬁt and weather
conditions are suitable.

II

 




 

Mr. R. Preston Donaldson.
Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.

The 50—mile limit not a solution of the problem.

Dr. Adam’s lecture has been full of interest and I am sure
everyone has learnt some new facts about oil pollution of the seas.
It was news to me to learn that ﬁsh and shellﬁsh living wholly below
the low water mark were unaffected by oil. However, it is the
welfare of the birds that I am most concerned with and although
it is impossible to give anything like accurate ﬁgures, there is no
doubt that the annual death roll is very large. Regarding the
question ,of the discharge of oil at sea, to make a limit of 50 miles
from the shore is obviously absurd and I doubt if a limit of 500
miles would completely obviate the danger. Many birds are found
far out at sea, and, although the oil may become innocuous after a
few weeks, surely it could have drifted a considerable distance
towards the shore in that time?

F ailui/e of international action.

The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds has pressed for
international action, but the International Conference of 1926
ended in failure through the lack of support from foreign nations,
and until universal international action is taken I cannot see much
hope for a diminution of this ghastly menace to our sea-birds.

Mr. R. P. Ampleford,

Parliamentary Department, Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Action taken by the League of Nations.

Very little has so far been said with regard to the fact that the
League of Nations has gone carefully into this matter and prepared
a Draft Convention and Draft Final Act, for the consideration of the
various Maritime Governments.

These have been carefully considered by the Royal Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which takes the view that
Article 2 , Section (I), of the Draft Convention which deals with the
establishment of zones outside which oil may be discharged at sea
would in no way prevent oil pollution: discharged oil would still
drift according to the tides, winds and currents and would ulti-
mately reach the shore of one country or another.

The Society is of the opinion, however, that the true solution
to this problem is contained in Section (2) on page 12 of the Draft
Final Act, which states

“ that the High Contracting Parties should recommend to ship-

owners that separators should be designed for and ﬁtted on

new vessels wherever practicable. .”

12

 

 

 

 




.“

 

 

and in Section (4) which states that

“ . . . few ports are equipped with appliances for separating
oil and water. Governments are recommended to take what

vessels throughout the world, and to keep as low as possible

Miss Phyllis Barclay-Smith,
British Section, The International Committee for
Bird Preservation.

[Mama tiomzl action .

The question of oil pollution of the sea is essentially inter-
national, for without the co-operation of all maritime nations no
steps can be wholly efﬁcacious. The matter was brought before the
League of Nations by H .M. Government of the United Kingdom in
1934, and, after having been studied by a Committee of Experts
convened by the Communications and Transit Organisation of the
League, was ofﬁcially adopted. Since that date various com—
munications have been issued by the League to the Powers con—
cerned, in order to secure their views and ascertain their attitude
towards this extremely difﬁcult and complicated problem. The
position at present is that the League Assembly and Council, after
considering the replies received from the Powers, have agreed to the
necessity for an International Convention on the subject of oil
pollution of the sea. A Convention has been drafted and the terms
have been circulated to the various Powers for comment. The main
terms of the Draft Convention are concerned with the prohibition of
the discharge of waste oil in certain areas, as from previous com—
munications it has been proved that, at the mOment, the nations
are almost entirely opposed to the compulsory installation of oil-
separators. There is provision in the Draft Convention, however,
for keeping the Powers informed of particulars of oil—separators,
oil-separating barges, and other processes for dealing with waste
oil.

The national sections throughout the world of the Inter—
national Committee for Bird Preservation are endeavouring to
inﬂuence their respective governments in this matter. It is
particularly noteworthy that in Mexico, one of the leading oil-
producing countries of the world, the question of oil pollution is
Viewed with the greatest concern.

I 3,

 

 

 




 

Mr. Sanford D. Cole.

Separator barges in ports.

The cleaning of oil tanks is usually carried out during a
voyage. Tanks are washed down with a hose and the dirty water
and oily sediment .are pumped overboard. The work is usually
done when the ship is well clear of land, but the oily ﬁlth has been
known to drift almost incredibly long distances. The evil of oil
pollution continues because unscientiﬁc methods are followed. To

get rid of pollution and its injurious consequences scientiﬁc methods
must be adopted. The prohibition of discharge within certain
deﬁned zones does not promise any real remedy. The use of
separating apparatus on board ships is practicable and effective in
many circumstances, but separating apparatus carried on board
small vessels which can come alongside ships while in port is

useful also .

r01
3——-P" '

l
\
l
____________ l
”l-
I
I
l
\

L-
I
L————~———

__—‘

|
l
J-
l
l
I
\—J
I
I
.1-
I
I
I
.3

 
  
   

   

_--_.__.__.__--1

 

l

DEEP OIL
FUEL TANK

The Wheeler System. The tank—cleaning ship on the left is
connected by ﬂexible metal suction hose and bv steam hose with
the double bottom of the liner on the right. Published by the
courtesy of Messrs Grayson, Rollo and Clover Docks, Ltd.

. These separator barge s stationed at various ports were the main
sub]ect of the debate on oil pollution which took place in the House

I4

  
  
    

 




 

 

 

 

of Lords on April 7th, 1937, and it is interesting to note that during
the discussion repeated references were made to one particular kind
of separator barge which is designed on scientiﬁc lines to clean out
toil tanks, double bottoms and bilges rapidly by mechanical means
and much more effectively than by any hand means. Other kinds
of separator barges available in various ports were stated to be
little used. As to the particular separator referred to, the Earl of
Ilchester said that this plant “has been in use in Liverpool for the
last three years. It is operated by Messrs. Grayson, Rollo and
Clover. It is knoWn as the Wheeler system. It is an American
contrivance, rather on the lines of a vacuum cleaner. I understand
that it has been installed by the German N aVy at Kiel and
Wilhelmshaven and is in use in all the American naval ports. I
also understood two years ago, when I ﬁrst heard of it, that it was
likely to be used by the French Navy and that it was then under
investigation by our Admiralty. It is claimed'for it that it does
away with hand cleaning practically altogether. Cleaning with
it can be done in one—tenth of the time. Consequently, and being
a mechanical device, it is far cheaper. One installation is sufﬁcient
for a whole port, and the oil recovered is used to operate the plant.
Accidents to ships and men are practically unknown, and the
insurance is one quarter of the original charges. All my inquiries
corroborate these views, and I urge the Board of Trade, if they
have not yet gone into the matter, to examine this process and, if
satisﬁed, to insist on the plant being installed in all our principal
ports, or in any case to insist on whatever they consider is the best
separator. I think it is quite patent that we have to endeavour to
educate the ship’s captain to realise that he can do this dirty work
much more quickly, and reasonably cheaply, in harbour, instead
of going outside and spreading his oil on the coast. If His Majesty ’s
Government can take some action of the kind that l have indicated
I feel that we shall go a long way towards curing this plague. ”

The Government spokesman in this debate, Earl Stanhope,
was constrained to admit that. ”the method (the W’heeler system)
is probably the best. ’ ’ He added that the Board of Trade’s feeling
in regard to provision in harbours is that it is really a matter which
should be taken up between the harbour authorities and the ship—
owners. “If, ” he continued, “the shipowners and the port
authorities could only come together and see that further provision
is made of some modern type, perhaps, and of one which is quicker
in operation, and if some guarantee were given by shipowners that
if this new plant were provided it would in fact be made use of,
then certainly the Board of Trade would do their very best to
promote such an arrangement and to give it every assistance in
their power. ”

Herein is food for thought and possibly also opportunity for
doing something useful on scientiﬁc lines towards diminishing the
evil of oil pollution.

I5

 




SOME ULAWS PUBLICATIONS.

The Animal Year Book:
Volume 1. Price 2s., postage 4d.

Contents: Parliament ,and the protection of animals; Directory of
English and Scottish zoophile societies; Clinical work at the Royal
Veterinary College; Animals abroad; Current problems; Recent books
dealing with animals.

Volume 2. Price 28. 6d., postage 3d.

Contents: The sense of pain in animals; Animals and the High
Court; Some evidence relating to the trafﬁc in trapped furs; Animals
abroad; Recent books dealing with animals; Euthanasia; Current
problems. . .

Volume 3. Price 28. 6d., postage 3d.

Contents: Whales; Oil pollution on our coasts; Perfumes; Is
e‘lectro-anaesthesia genuine? Humane education; Animals abroad;
Recent books dealing with animals.

Volume 4. Price 2s. 6d., postage 3d.

Contents: The tragedy of the possum; Africa’s vanishing fauna;
The inﬂuence of religions on man’s attitude towards animals; An
experiment in humane education; Animals abroad; Current problems;
Book reviews.

Some Publications dealing with trapping and the rabbit problem:

The Rabbit in Australia. By David G. Stead, formerly Special
Rabbit Menace Commissioner to the Government of New South Wales.
25., post free. ULAWS is sole agent in Great Britain for this book.

Monographs and reports :

3a. Facts about Furs. (25 for 15. 3d., post free)

30. Rapport sur le Probleme du Piégeage (in French) .

4a. The Rabbit Problem in Agriculture.

4b . Man Versus Rabbit . (Enlarged edition I934 , with 9 art plates
and map; 18., post free)

4c. A Solution of the Rabbit Problem (Cyanide Fumigation).

4d. The Rabbit Menace in Australia in 193 3 and the Way Out.

4e. Instructions for Dealing with Rabbits.

4f. Some Facts and Queries relating to the Rabbit Problem in
Britain.

Some other monographs and reports:

2a. The Destruction of Sea-birds by Oil Waste.

5a. Humane Education in Schools.

5b. Animal Welfare and the Teaching of Biology .

50. Children and their Pets . '

6a. Man’s Duty to Animals.

7a. The Pathological Effects of Poisons used for Rodents-
7b . Rat-control .

I6

 




