EXEQUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
¢OUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
722 JACKSON PLACE. N. w.

. WASHINGTON. 0. C. 20006

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF RUSSELL E. TRAIN

Russell E. Train became the first Chairman of the Council on
Environmental Quality when it was established early in 1970. In this

capacity the Chairman is chief adviser to the President on the environ-
ment.

Train has served in all three branches of the Government -- legis-
lative, judicial and executive.

A native of Washington, D. C. , , Train holds a B.A. ‘degree from
Princeton University and a law degree from Columbia. 1 He served in
. the Army from 1941 to 1946, rising to the rank of Major. In 1947
he'became an attorney for the Joint CongressiOnal Committee on
Internal Revenue Taxation and subsequently became Chief Counsel and
Minority Advisor to the House Ways and Means Committee in 1953- 56.
From 1956 to 1957 he headed the Treasury Department's tax legislative
staff.

a

In 1957, Train was appointed to the Tax Court of the United States
by President Eisenhower and was reappointed to a full 12- -year term in

.1959.

. Train became active in conservation work while serving on the Tax
Court. He founded and became the first president of the African Wild-
life Leadership Foundation, which led to participation in the work of
other conservation groups at home and abroad. He resigned from the
Tax Court in 1 403 to becon1e president _of The Conservation Foundation,
a nonprofit research, education and information organization concerned
with a broad. range of environmental matters.

' While President of The Conservation Foundation, Train was named
by President Johnson to membership on the National Water Commission
in 1968. President Nixon appointed him chairman of a special task
force to advise the incoming Administration on environmental problems,
later Under SeCretary. of the Interior; and finally Chairman of the Council.
' In 1971, President NiXon designated Mr. Train as the U. S. Representative
to the NATO Committee on the ,Challenges of a Modern Society. In 1972 he
was named by the President to head the U. S. Delegation to the 1972 U. N.“

Conference on the Human Environment at Stockholm, as Special Representa-
itive of the President to the meeting of the International Whaling Commission
in London; and Co:- Chairman of the U. S. -Soviet JOint Committee on Coopera-

tion in the Field of Environmental Protection to implement the Agreement
signed by the President on May 23 in Moscow. .

V I1 _..-~

 




from the Office of Public Affairs
Smithsonian Institution
Washington, D. C. 20560

Telephone: (202) 381-5911
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

RIPLEY TO PRESENT ANIMAL WELFARE
INSTITUTE MEDAL TO RUSSELL TRAIN

S. Diiion Ripiey, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, wiIT present the
Animai Neifare Institute's annuai Aibert Schweitzer MedaI to RusseTT E. Train,
Chairman of the Councii on Environmentai Quality, on Tuesday, November 2], at 3 p.m.

in the Nationai Museum of Naturai History.

The ceremony wiii take piace, appropriateiy, in the Hai] of Life in the Sea

under a fuiT—size modeI of a biue’WhaTe, one of the most spectacuiar of endangered
species.

Mr. Train wiTI be honored for his distinguished record of conservation
activities, dating from Tong before his professionai invoivement in the fier. Nhiie
a judge on the U. S. Tax Court, ' founded and we 3 first president of the African
NdeTife Leadership Foundation. The Foundation provided training in wiidiife con—
servation to Africans and deveioped the Mweka Coiiege of African Hiidiife Management
in Tanzania, the first such institution in the deveioping countries. Mr. Train was
a vice president oft tiie ”orid uiidiife Fund dUi ring the same period, 1959~T969.

Mr. Train resigned from the Tax Court in 1965 to become president of the.

Conservation Foundation. He served as Under Se Cietarv of the Department of the

more-«~

 




  

 

-2-

 
 

Interior from l969-l970. In l970 he was named first Chairman of the Council on

Environmental Quality.

Mr. Train was leader of the U. S. delegation to the l972 U. N. Conference on
.the Human Environment at Stockholm. He served also as the President's representa—
tive to the meeting of the International Whaling Commission in London.

Under his chairmanship, the Council has pursued a series of activities
invOlving threatened species, marine mamnals, and general wildlife conservation,
among them the develOpment of the governmental actions banning the use of poisons
for predator control on public lands, and changing the emphasis of the Federal
predator control programs from widespread killing to research and selective protection.

The Institute is a non—profit, educational organization that works to promote
the welfare of all animals, domestic and wild. It presents the Schweitzer Medal
each year to the ”individual who has contributed most outstandingly during the year

to the advancement of animal protection.”

*‘k‘k‘k‘k

11—17—72 ' 51—277-72

 

For further information contact:
Mary Krug 38245911

 




3. _ .
1 {£7 a“

THE WASHINGTON mun NEWS.
WRSt-ilthTON. D. (2..
0. 224.056 sail;1 173.587,

DEC H t968 53mm
ANIMAL WELFARE K932

 

2_ Scrippsﬂa ward President,

MMShMSCiwaigm‘A ward.

I . 5*. ‘ r. 13;?" . 5‘5
’7' A. '.-‘~.f"y'(‘:-~.f.n)f 2.213%} i.£i§,ﬁw€ . ¥ 3‘ ‘

“disc; . . I, . ..
* ‘_‘:By JAMES BENSON ., ‘, $13 on animal welfare ~ as against . 1
Viack} B. Howard, piesident of human weltfare.._ln my mind, the
Ser_'ippS>HOViaifld " Newspapers 2 WW? go hand 1‘11 ' hand.- '_'1" don"t
73nd Seripps-Howard Berearicast- believe we Wﬂl ever achieve our
' inqg Company, presented the 1968 goals in human weii-azre Without
Albert Schweitzer Meaai of the ach-ieveg our goals In ,ammal
Ariimal Weligre Institute to Dr. welfare-1";Mr- Hwa'r'd S'a'ldf ., - ,
John F- Q1111!“ 135* night. “The creatures wire are i the
Dr. Quinn, chief of the Animal A nimal Welfare Institutes Con-
Health Division of the Michigan cern earn teaudh us much; By ex- '

State Depaintinemt of .Agricuela posing ourselves to them thru

 

.t'ure,’received-17the award - .er I ‘§"”pi:ojevcts and programs oi the
.“his humane leadership and his I kind to which the man we honor
devotion to duty in enforcing] {this evening has dedicated hzizm- . .
Michigan laws for the protection seli,-- we may ‘lea'm- eventually . _ . . . .__News Photo by Gem-Fey 5,?me
”of research animals as well as him to live with each other,” t . '- ' -' ‘ ' -' . ” ' - '
those. used for food,” the oita- th e Swims-Howard publisher: 1 ,41YELHWEd’. git left’ presents "the medal to Dr. Q‘mm
tiOti said. ' '~ I i j_ . said. _ " 1'
{‘flnjthese brutal times some I As presi ent of the US. Ani-
peidple niay question the empha- .' mal {He a l t h Association, . DI
“ " - - ' ' Quin-n established the first corn-
, mittee on Animal elia’rje which
l" hefhelieves is very close to Ami-
V:..,,.iii~al._he-ailth. ' - p" _ . . .
" “T h e - permanenticommilt’bee
{{éigdeVelops model" laws for I swam“
and federal legislatures .infregu?
‘ _ latiﬁg the. proper treatment. of
“Our animal friends,” Dr. Qruum

V

“Everyone even remotely con-
neetedgwith animals mustbeen
couraged to take part in‘ann-M
2|. centrated effort to see that an

animals receive decent~ treat-

; merit,” he said. M
. Past winners ' 'Otf . the award in-
elude "Vice—President Hubert H
Humphrey and AssOCiate, Justice;
. of the "Supreme Oeurt Abe FOW-
. tas, , as well as Dr. Albert
,SehweitZer who received ﬁle
'frirSt award. ~ ~ ’

 




welcome to the twentynthird annual meeting of the
animal Welfare Institute. Today, the hundredth anniversary
of albert Sohweitzer's birthﬁzis being celebrated all over
the world. Here in weshington, the medal created in Dr.
Schweitzer's honor will be presented for the twentieth time
to one who greatly deserves recognition for his unswerving
dedication to the lives and fete of wild animals, Dr. Lee
Talbot.

Perhaps you would like to hear Dr. Schweitzer’s words
when hsewrote from Lembarene in 1952 giving his permission'
to the Animal Welfare Institute to have the medal struck.

“I am profoundly moved that you should wish to give hy name
to the_medal you founded. I give you this right with all my
heart. I would_never have believed that my philosophy which
incorporates in ethics a sympathetic attitude toward all
creatures would be noticed and recognized during my lifetime.
I knew that this truth would impose itself one day on thought,
but it is the great and moving surprise of my life that I
should Still he the witness of this prograﬁh of ethics. Your
medal celebrates this progress: philosophy obliged to inter-
vene for animals when up until now it has shown so little
interest in them."

You use on the Annual Report a photograph taken by

Erica Anderson of Dr. Schweitzer when e_goldreplica of his

model was brought to him in Oslo where he had gone to accept,

the Nobel Peace Prize.

 




if ”@11/ﬁmmuva , h1s farabears have davoted thamwelvas
ta raspectful study cf w1ld11fe and tha acaaystema 1n Which
thay play the1r var1aa r9133; than aetien ta pravant daapa1im
at1mn ana destruatien at tha natural warld.

Fram_Kanya to tha Philippinas, framJtropieal Sauthaatt
111a maths Middle East... he and Mame, his gift-ed and delight-
ful'wife, have travellad, studied.and_wr1ttan baaks tagsther.

Th3 mﬂnmwhe'best knaws tha value at Lee Talbet‘a devatian
ta thﬁ cause of threatened and endangered wild creatnraa and
to thesa, numaraua anaugh ta bald chair awn 13 5993133, but
paraeautad by wnuel pﬁiaona spread ever the land. is Russell
Train, A1m1n13trater cf the Envirenmental Prctaatlen Agency.
Many cf yau‘wara prasent when Russ was himaelf Séhwe1tzer
Madalliat in 1972, whan ha wag Chairman af tha Ceuneil an
Envirsnmental Quality. 31 navar laaaa an apportunity ta
apeak fer tha andangared'whalaa - 9r bo'wear big whale tie
at appartunﬁ timaa, as whan it raised tha quest1en, net 19mg
ago, an the Teaay Shaw. On a recent tr1p ta Maseaw, ha prasaad
tha isaug at tha vary tap reaehaa at thﬁ Saviat gevarnmant.
May hia pewera 1r parauaaiaﬁ aentinue to f1¢ur1ah both.abraad
and at hama_whnre hia good influeneg. 13 one fragmently reada

‘1n tha pgpara, is nematantly ahallangea by a vast array at

veatad inﬁaraats. ﬂha Hanarable Ruaaall Train.

 




Naw before we turn to the award cerhmsny, I will
briefly summarize the work of tha Animal Welfare Institute
for the year. It is given in mere detail in the printed
Repart. I

The bhycatt campaign tn have the whales has been a

major activity this year with demhnatrations in 75 different
cities before the June meeting cf the International Whaling
Cemmission in London. At the opening of thﬁa meeting, Wham ,
observers from international organizations recognized by the
Commission are permitted five minutes to axpress viaws on
whales and whaling, I showed the dalagated a map pinpointing
the locations ofaall 75 demonstratiens and described the
strong grassnroot sentimant which exists in this country
against thh extinction of the whale.

The cammissionera turned a deaf ear to thh international
call for a ten-year moratorium on chmmarcial whaling, and
tha fight continues. Japan and Russia are responsible for
85% of the present killing of whales, aha I hope each cf
ryou bars will Join us in the bcycott of Japaneae and Russian
geods till the whalea are savad, and that ycu will urge your
friends aha relations ta Join in the boycott, toe.

Congreasman Jahn Dingall introduaad and held hearings
on a bill Which'would previda for a gevarhmant ambargo 0f
any or all gaods tram nations Violating the intant of intern
national agreamehta on marine conservation, and in this
Congress, the friends of whales look to him fer vigoraua

aqtion on his proposal.

 




The AWI expects to continue its advertising campaign

'which hes alerted milliene of people t>the plight of the
 whelee. ”We have taken helfnpege ads in The New YerkTimee,
’ The Wall Street Journal, The Lee Angelee Times, Theﬂonolulu
'Advertieer and many other newepepere. The reepenee from
readers has been heartening.‘ V

Recently we took an ad in The Japan Times in Tokye
' urging readers to write to the three big whaling campehieS.
Although we don’t knew what these letters may have said,
they apparently worried thewhelere, fer the Japan Whaling
Aesecietion responded with e-helf-pege ad of their ewn.which>
ecught to refute cure. I would like to read a letter I Pe‘,
ceiVed last week from Tokyo: "Dear Friends:' I was very much“.
Aimpreeeed by yeur appeal to the Japanese peeple "Save-thee
Whelee" which appeared in Japan Times ebeut one month ago.
I absolutely agreed with your appeel. I will ask my friends‘
to protect the whales and write letters to stop killing Whelee‘
any mmre.‘ Therefore, te perfnem this action more effeetively,
I need mmre information as yen indicated in your appeal, As,
.e Japanese; I will do my beet to protect the whale.' we shall
overcome! . Dec; 18, 197M I »Keieuke Seeeki

This year, the first reports tanthe government on
painful experiments on animals by research institutions were
submdtted. Under the provisions of the Animal Welfare Act,

P.L. 91-579, research institutions are required to report to

 




the 311111113 of Agriaulture an their use 1f axparﬂmantal
animal a. F911awing a thorough 111111 1f thass reparta, I
”.111111111 111 111 11111 1111 11 1973, 111 111111 1111111
.111111111 praparad an 11111111 fer the Departmant 1f 1gri~
culture with raaammendationa £11 11111111111 in the $1111

and diractiona for thair use. Exeerpts £11m th1 AWI analyais'
are given in the prints 1 111111 report. ,

Th1 Anim11 Welfare Institute will be 111111 in th1 ‘
eemﬁng ysar in centributing 11 111111111 and gympoaia apanaored
by the Natinnal Aeédemy of Sciences concarning 1111111111
Ianimala, tha way they are traated and the ass of 11111111111
raaearch.mstheda, which may reduce the number of animals nnw
baing used, by aubstituting auah systems 11 tissua and 11111

cultures.

Th1 1W1 has bean active in attamgting to protect animala

111111 by the pat'trade, aupporting.the'proposad ban on thé
intarstate ahipmant of 1111 turtlas, and on tha importatien
of axatic p113. WE earnastly 1111 that the naulragulations
‘under tha 11111;111 will Seen by 1111 final by tbs 1111111111
cf the 11111101 11 the 111511 1urfaring and daath of handrads
or thouaanda 11 birda 1nd_1111111 intanded for tha pat traaav
will, at last, he ended. .

111'1111 1111 1111111 11 111 111111 111111 11;111
publicatiens. meetings, and finances, and I 1111 ha happy t1
anawar queatians later, but new we mnat proeadd 61 the Schweitzar ’
award ta Lee Talbot who carries a.proud family tradition, which
he is 11113111 to full £11111. Beginning with his grandfather,

 




”if

.iL £1 3

b1

p U 5 Ecologist
is a quiet rebel

By ANN McFEATTERS
Sc ripps-Howard Writer

WASHINGTON g— The
way Dr. Lee M. Talbot sees
it, he had two choices in life:
follow his family’s tradition-

al line of work or rebel and

do something different.
He chose to do both.

Talbot’s father was a well-
kndw range management ex-
pert who helped set up the
Gila Wilderness Preserve in
New Mexico. His mother was
a biologist and her father
was naturalist C. Hart Mer-
rian, who was adviser to four
presidents, used the US.
Navy to stop ocean poaching
and set up the precursor to
the Fish and Wildlife
Service.

Consistent with that back~
ground, Talbot at age 44 is
the nation’s top ecologist. He

is senior scientist at the.

Council of Environmental
Quality (CEQ), which advises
President Ford. He is also a
research associate at the
Smithsonian Institution.

In his spare time he is a
successful racing car driver
and occasional hunter. Inter-
nationally acclaimed in his
field of ecology, Talbot has
worked in more than 90
countries and written five
books and more than 135
papers. He entered govern—
ment service because he felt
a responsibility to seek ac

tion on a variety of
environmental fronts with
which he was having little
success as a private citizen. .

Since joining the Smithso-
nian and CEQ, Talbot has.
been credited with:

REVERSING U.S.-policy
which until 1971 favored
commercial killing of
whales.

WINNING passage of a '
tough marine management
law.

GE'ITING a ban on use of
poisons to kill predators.

SETTING UP internation-
al meetings on ocean
harvests.

“Our greatest environ-- .
mental challenge right
now,” he said, “is land use.
There you‘fix the options for
the people who follow. If you .
drain wetlands for develop»
ment or cut redwoods and
destroy other scenic won- ._
ders for highways, or flood -,
the habitat of a dying species
for a dam, you’ve made ir-
revocable decisions. They’re
goneforever.”

Talbot recently received
the AlbertWSchweitze-r Medal"
of the Animal Welfare Instia
tute for his work in saving
whales and for the poison
ban. Ironically he belongs to
the East Africa Hunting Club
and is vice president of the ,
Boone and Crockett Club.

 




REMARKS OF THE HONORABLE RUSSELL E. TRAIN
ADMINISTRATOR, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
IN PRESENTING THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER AWARD
TO DR. LEE M. TALBOT
AT THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

January 14, 1975

In paying honor and tribute to Lee, we really salute

what you might call an ecological tradition, very strong in
the Talbot family. I suppose that there may well not be any

4‘

other family which represents as strong an ecological tradi—
tion as does Lee. I know at least going back to his maternal
grandfather, C. Hart Merriam.....He was the founder and first
head of the Bureau of Biological Survey which became the Fish
and Wildlife Service. His father was founder of the Range A
Management Society, its President, and a very distinguished
early conservationist and range management and wildlife
specialist. Lee's wife, sometimes referred to as his roommate,
Marty: is a very distinguished biologist in her own right, who
has worked with Lee and is associated with him in virtually
everything he has done, professionally and.nonprofessionally.
. I know that my first acquaintance with'both of them goes back
to the days when Lee was working with Marty in East Africa

doing some of the pioneering ecological work in the Serengeti

area. Lee was terribly influential not only in the sense of

_ H

 




specific scientific products but in terms of the long range
influence on conservation policy among the African peOple
themselves. And I can't think of anybody who has had more
such influence in East Africa and wider on the African Con—
tinent than has Lee.

Lee's career is familiar to most of you, because I think
that most of you are part of the same family that I am. It
has embraced so many things, starting with the African exper-
ience, but going on to the Smithsonian where he was -- I get
all the titles wrong —— but I know, Head, and Acting Head of
the Environmental Science Program and ecological program,
until I was able to steal him away to the Council on Environmental
Quality. He came with us then when we first got that new
institution underway and became Senior Scientist which he“
still is and I think that there that Lee and I really worked
most intimately and close together. His contributions to so
many of the things that happened in terms of wildlife protec-

tion on a worldwide basis are just beyond compare. I recall

going back to 1968 to the time of our work at UNESCO Biosphere

Conference in Paris, work which really matured‘some time later

at the UN Conference on the Environment in Stockholm in 1972

 




when Lee was a member of the U.S. Delegation; the development
of the US—USSR Agreement on Environmental Protection. He
headed one of the major working groups under that agreement.
He was very active in the development of the World Heritage
Trust, which I guess Lee and I jointly had something to do
‘with cooking up, but then Lee carried the ball into implemen-
tation at the UNESCO'Convention meeting in Paris.which
successfully concluded it: The convention developed here in

washington in early 1973 on the Control of Trade in Endangered

Species...this was really Lee Talbot's brainchild which he

put forward in an early meeting of IUCN as I recall in Nairdbi
and had carried on from there. Those of you who are familiar
with international conventions and conferences know it is a
long,wlong roaderom the genesis of an idea to the actual
bringing off of a convention; and Lee was part of that from
the inception of the idea to being really our chief negotiator
as part of our Delegation here in Washington. All of these
are things that I had some peripheral contact with so I know
whereof I speak and without Lee'many of these things which I

have referred to would never have happened. And there are

very few peOple in this world you can say that about. It is

 




‘5

' ‘é'ttwaw-w 1:74am; '53-... h.._4 .- .‘ ‘1: .33! '.." .-

a particular pleasure to have the opportunity to not only
honor somebody who is associated with great things, but some—
body who has had the inspiration to motivate their happening

and who also has had the good fortune at the working level

to actually bring it off. And with all of this, Lee, we

salute YOUOOOOOOC
Lee, on behalf of the Animal Welfare Institute and on
behalf of all your friends, it is a great honor and a privilege

to present you with this Schweitzer award.

 




t .
.
S

at

 

.. . w ‘i; , , {3, 1-.. r t . 1») . ,, p ’ r .. ~ s». Hg;'.ao"_€t-
Lee T. aiiot An emioa : , , essds

. t .«...-,.cu'.;i".:>r.ts’-.t- an: ulé 11—¢-'~"

 

 

 

The meeting had reached one of its periodic low points.
The 30-odd wildlife experts——-government scientists in
tailored suits interspersed among rumpled-corduroy aca-
demics~~had begun to bicker about semantics and range
so far from the original topic one impatient listener corn-
plained they were in danger of “rediscovering the wheel."
Finally a bearded man at the head table who had said
little up until then suggested the group break into small
committees and draw up specific. recommendations along
lines. he then set forth. As the assembly obediently head-
ed f or their committee rooms, one scientist paused. “Lee
is a master at this,” he murmured.

Lee M. Talbot, at 44, has already performed ecologi—
cal work in some 90 countries, varying from the dime—-
torship of the East African Ecological Research Project
to biological studies at the Arctic Research Laboratory
in Point Barrow, Alaska. Now, from his vantage point
as senior scientist at the Council on Environmental Qual—
ity, he is determined to gently prod his fellow scientists
into standing up—A-—together to be heard on important
issues. An unfiappable err-Marine, who taught hand-to—
hand combat and has become a successful rao:--car driver,
Talbot combines a sot'tvspolien, understated approach
with great perserverance and an acute'sense of timing to
assemble “critical masses” of generally reticent scientists _
and lead them onto the intellectual battleﬁeld-ea‘ﬂo rock zone, Talbot says the animal has probably become
the bOilL” The significance of this is that in a region critical

In addition to organizing the Airlie conference on living of animal protein, where conventional breeds t .
natural resources, Talbot has been instrumental in re— have trouble surviving, the kouprey could prolta .73, have
versing US. policy favoring commercial killing of whales, been interbred with highly productive liiuropean strains
getting a ban on use of poisons to kill predators, and to produce a hardy, productive herding animal to sup»
helping develop the U.S.—U.S.S.R. agreement. on environ— plement the‘diet of starving people. A similar match was
mental protection. The convention on Control of Trade made between tl'ie African Zebu and some cattle in {was
in Endangered Species was, according to EPA Administra- to form the Santa Gertrudis, which has proved enormous-
tor Russell E Train, Talbot‘s “brainchild.” This year, ly successful in mz’u‘iy semi—arid countries. Unfortunately,
on the hundredth anniversary of Albert Scl‘iweitzer‘s birth, one promising chance to produce a hybrid. suited to an~
Talbot was presented the Schweitzer medal for his con- other sort of tropical environment has now probably been
scrvation efforts. lost, Talbot says.

Though most public attention has been paid to en— To prevent further ecological deterioration,Talbot calls
dangered species, Talbot says the health and productivity for a “holistic approach" to environi‘nental management.
of the many other species, upon which man relies for Unfortunately, the present educational system is not set
his welfare, must not be neglected. The focus, he says, up to train people with such a broad perspective, he says:
should be on the health of the entire ecosystem, and “l regard it as a powerful obstacle. The tradition“ uni~

n A.-. .. .. 1. u

i...~‘ -.~‘-\ I .‘y‘ 4-21ch “J-kiw‘plxralJo.‘ u. LiVl‘\"

 

 

7,, .. n.3,“.

 

 

 

mango-unru— “ '. 4" -»~ igniting. ,.:‘~‘-s.¢ualsf.l.s“..i‘s}.iu§r .4 . .L.l.-.1.-..~ . a“

i.’1't(4..

management theory must therefore undergo some funda- versity is divided into watertight. departments. . . . Vi’itile
mental changes. Since the concept of ntaximun'i sustain- many tmiversities have established interdisciplinary or in-
able yield first came into vogue, total world production terdepartmental titrograms, frequently little has changed
of ﬁsh, for example, has more than tripled, and knowl- but the name.” (Brian J. Rothschild, director of the
edge of complex relationships among various species has Southwest Fisheries Center, calls such ii‘ttitifWEty measures
increased enormously. “My concern,” says Talbot, “has “the great stapling,” in which basically traditional worli
been that our management concepts haven’t kept pace.” is lumped together and called interdisciplinary.l
By bringing together the experts “who wrote the books” What is needed, Talbot believes, is a “ditl't-rrent breed
and working with them to produce a coherent set of new of ecologists-4111 not even sure that’s the right term—w-
prineiples to replace the old doctrine, he hopes to influ- people capable of generalizing with scientiﬁc rigor.” Such
ence new legislation and such negotiations as the Law “scientiﬁcally rigorous synthesis” is the only thing that
of the Sea conference. can overcome what Talbot sees as the “understanding

Talbot takes a pragmatic approach toward preserving gap” between academic experts and the decision makers
Species balance, comparing those who would let animals they advise: When academics argue they have no sci~
become extinct, without any etiort at preservation, to entifically valid reason to reconfirnend either yes or no
peOple on a spaceship throwing out part of the life sup— to a question, he says, the decision. maker is liltcly to '
port system because they don’t understand its function. wind up storming, “ “I’ve got until five o’clock today and
Many animals have potential benefits to man not yet you have just spent eight hours telling me why i can sa.
dreamed of, he says, and cites an example from an ex- neither.’ ” But beyond the speciﬁc need for a ditierent
pedition he took to northern Cambodia. There a native sort of formal training, Talbot iii-(CS to recall the words\
ox, the kouprey, had been so decimated that less than of Albert Schweitzer engraved on his inetlalw-—-“\fs7e need it;

a hundred were left; and since the area is now a War a boundless ethics which will incl .ide the animals also." C3 ,

l

 

 

i

 

 

 

5639““0 News Vol. ie'r

 




In the shadow of this model of a blue whale, the members and
friendsof the Animal welfare Institute can feel a genuine hope for,
at long last, the saving of the whales has become a worldwide aim.
The AWI has been seeking justice for whales, recognition of their
wonderful powers, prevention of the ruthless killing which still persists -
tuough no longer by our country. I welcome you all here, friends of

whales and dolphins, our fellow mammals.

Soon the Schweitzer Medal will be presented to a man who has

fought hard for whales on behalf of our country, Russell Train, Chairman

of the President's Council on Environmental Quality, Leading the Ameri-

can delegation to the Stockholm Conference and representing the President
at the International Whaling Commission meeting he scored one stunning
victory, and, in the second instance, changed the character of the meeting.
As you all know, the United States proposed a ten-year international
moratorium on the commercial killing of whales and by a vote of 53-0

'with three abstentions the nations convened at the Stockholm Conference
approved it. It was not, of course, approved by the two nations who,
between them, kill about 85% of all whales taken each year, Japan and

the USSR. Russia did not take part in the Stockholm Conference. Japan

abstained from the vote. But the world expressed itself in that vote;

 




f.

rich.and poor nations of every political tinge agreed that the whales
should not be killed. The whale became the symbol of the Stockholm
Conference. That spirit must come to prevail in the secretive sessions
of the International Whaling Comission.

Chairman Train struck a forceful blow against that secrecy which
has allowed members of the IWC to destroy the world's whales with such
rspeed from the 1960's on. He sought to have the press admitted to the
discussions, but not a single country would second his motion. He did
not admit defeat, however, but, halfway throughthe week-long meeting,
called a press conference at the American Embassy and reported on how
the representatives of the different countries voted on the U.S. proposal
for a ten-year moratorium; four to six, with six abstentions.. Friends
of whales who voted with the United States were Mexico (which has created
Ia sanctuary for gray whales), Argentina, and the United Kingdom. Next,
year, let us hope that others will join in supporting the moratorium -

a moratorium during which that loathsome tool of torture, the explosive
harpoon, must be junked, and if whales are ever to be killed again at
some future date when their populations have recovered, a quick, decent

death is the absolute minimum that must be required.

Here is the description by'a ship's surgeon, Dr. Harry Lillie, of

the effects of the explosive harpoon. 'You can see the harpooning

 




graphically in the film behind you. The whales came to the aid of their
wounded fellow, and all were killed in what the film described as a
"jackpot climax."

"The present day hunting harpoon is a horrible 150 pound weapon

carrying an explosive head which bursts generally in the whale's

intestines, and the sight of one of these creatures pouring blood and

gasping along on the surface, towing a hOO-ton catching vessel by a
heavy harpoon rope, is pitiful. So often an hour oromore of torture
is inflicted before the agony ends in death. I have experienced a
case of five hours and nine harpoons needed to kill one mother blue
whale.

"If we could imagine a horse having two or three explosive Spears
driven into it, and then made to drag a heavy butcher's truck while
blood poured over the roadway until the animal collapsed an hour or
more later, we should have some idea of what a whale goes through.

"Radar, Asdic and aircraft have been brought in to join forces
with faster and faster catching vessels, yet the general adoption of
a new and already satisfactorily tested humane electrical harpoon is
held up by selfishness on the part of many people in the industry.",

Mrs. Russell Train's grandfater Bowdoin presented a model of a

blue whale to the American Museum of Natural History in New York.

 




Admiration of the whale, mighty monarch of the sea, as Jacques Cousteau
calls him, is well established in the family of the medallist.

Before he turned his efforts to whales, however, Russell Train
brought help to the land animals of Africa through the African Wildlife
Leadership Foundation which he managed to run very effectively out of
his judge's chambers, and important leadership on the endangered
species convention had its origins in the Foundation's work.

Chairman Train and his associates at the CEQ played a leading role
in bringing about that most humane executive order, the barring of
poison for predator control on the publiclands. His achievements in the
fight against ocean dumping and in the development of the World Heritage
Trust convention, will make it possible for countless creatures to have
a place where they can survive.

Before the presentation of the medal I would briefly report on
the year's activities of the Animal Welfare Institute. You have copies
of the annual report which you may wish to glance at for fuller details.
Publication and distribution of educational literature is a major AWI
activity. This year more than 1,100 Chiefs of Police ordered a free
copy of the Institute's paperback, "Animals and Their Legal Rights."

We hope these will be put to good use in stepping up enforcement of

animal protective laws throughout the nation.

 




You will see the statistics of distribution of the AWI manuals
and reprints, sample copies of which are on the table for your examination.

A new article by Dr. F. Barbara Orlans who will report to you on
her outstanding work to end cruelty in high school science projects, is
one of the new materials distributed this year, but I will let Dr. Orlans
speak for herself on this important undertaking.

The excerpts from a report on atrocious conditions for experimental
animals in a Mexican laboratory, partially funded by the Ford Foundation,
merits careful reading. We believe that the persistent efforts of
Mrs. Robert Dyce have now led to significant improvements for these
animals. It is with great regret that we must announce her resignation
from the position of Laboratory Animal Consultant for the Institute
after eight years of dedicated work whose effectiveness cannot be over-
estimated. Mrs. Dyce followed Dr. Anthony Carding as AWI Laboratory
Animal Consultant. By a happy coincidence, Dr. Carding is with us
today having arrived from Zurich, Switzerland where he heads the World
Federation for the Protection of Animals. May I ask Dr. Carding and
Mr. John Hoyt, President of the Humane Society of the United States,
to stand?

You will note important legislation passed during the year which

this report covers - and since that time the Marine Mammal Protection

 




:4

Act has become law. The listing of eight more species of wild cats by
Secretary of the Interior, Rogers Morton, is another important animal
protective action by the Executive Branch.

Regulation changes under the Animal Welfare Act are still under
consideration by the Department of Agriculture - in particular the
question of requiring laboratory dogs housed in cages to be released'
each day for exercise. Many scientific and commercial institutions
still permanently cage their dogs and will not stop this cruelty until
compelled to do so. As Dr. Theo Antikatzides an AWI Committee Member
who is both lawyer and veterinarian has pointed out ". . . we need not
seek for experimental backing of the argument that dogs need daily
exercise. Dogs are the defense in this case; therefore, the prosecution
(those that oppose the requirement for daily exercise) should prove its
case." The dog an animal that loves to run, play and romp, should surely
be allowed that opportunity at least once a day, subject, of course, to
the requirements of the experimental design as provided for in the law.
Dogs in laboratories give their lives for our benefit. Surely this is

the very least we can do in return.

A means of reaching men and women in a position to advance the

welfare of animals or prevent cruelty to them which the AWI has been using

in the last few years is the presentation of booth exhibits at conventions

 




“WM —-> ...._...._...a........ ._._ “:0‘ him—v. W. .i. A..,... _~.“..Mrmm__-_...-._vﬂr . . _, _ , .0 _ ,. , i f -4 -.,_.-
W- . . .__ i-..-....__ ., k..- . ,. . .l

of groups such as the American Veterinary Medical Association, the
National Association of Biology Teachers, the American Association for

the Advancement of Science, and the National Science Teachers Association.
A list of meetings is given in the Annual Report as is a summary of
activities from the Information Reports which are sent to all members

of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (some
9,000 in number) to thousands of libraries, laboratories, teachers,
veterinarians, as well as to all animal protective organizations and

AWI members.

The most recent Information Report carried a concise factual article

by Dr. Orlans, a report which a number of regular readers have informed
us they could not finish reading because it made them ill to learn of
one project after another involving long drawn out suffering and death.
I would like to ask Dr. Orlans a humane physiologist well known to

many of you to tell you about her first-hand experiences. - Dr. Orlans.

 




ENVIRONMENTAL
DEFENSE ;
FUND 162 OLD TOWN ROAD, EAST SETAUKET, N.Y. 11733/516 751 -5191

November 30, 1973

Mrs. Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
P. O. Box 3650
Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear Mrs . Stevens:

I am sure that many EDF trustees would be interested in attending the
Animal Welfare Institute meeting when Scott McVay is presented with the Albert
Schweitzer medal. Could you please send invitations to them? Their names
and addresses are listed on the attached pages.

We are very happy that Scott McVay is to receive this recognition of
his notable achievements.

Sincerely yours,

Roderick A. Cameron

Executive Director

OFFICES IN: EAST SETAUKET, NY (MAIN OFFICE); NEW YORK CITY (PROGRAM SUPPORT OFFICE); WASHINGTON, DC; BERKELEY, CALIF.
PRINTED ON 100% RECYCLED PAPER

 




L-

ENVIRONMENTAL
DEFENSE I
FUND

162 OLD TOWN ROAD, EAST SETAUKET. N.Y. 11733/516 751 -5191

November 20, 1973

OFFICE AND HOME ADDRESSES OF EDF TRUSTEES

 

Mr. Amyas Ames

535 Park Avenue

New York, New York 10021
2 12 -838 ~3072

Dr. H. Lewis Batts

7000 North Westnedge
Kalamazoo, Michigan 49001
616-381-1575

Mr. Roland C. Clement, Vice President
National Audubon Society -

950 Third Avenue

New York, New York 10022

Mr. Arthur P. Cooley
Bellport High School
Bellport, New York 11713
516-475-8260

Dr. John M. Emlen
Department of Zoology
Indiana University
Bloomington, Indiana 47401
812-337-1674

0. . .n
Wilmer, Cutler 8: Pickering
900 17th Street N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20006
202 -296-8800

Robert J. Geneisse, Esq.
Debevoise, Plimpton, Lyons 81 Gates
299 Park Avenue

New York, New York 10017

2 12 -752 -6400

 

* Members of the Executive Committee

Mr. Amyas Ames
Box 126
Cold Springs Harbor, New York 11724

Dr. H. Lewis Batts

2315 Angling Road
Kalamazoo, Michigan 49001
616- 344 -6624 or 671 -5899

Mr. Roland C. Clement
Weed Avenue

Norwalk, Connecticut 06850
203-838-8619

Mr. Arthur P Cooley

341 Durkee Lane

East Patchogue, New York 11772
516-289-2955

Dr. John M. Emlen

' Rural Route 6, Hendericks Road

Bloomington, Indiana 47401
812 -825-9810

Dennis M. Flannery, Esq.
4103 Woodbine Street

Chevy Chase, Maryland 20015
301-656-1310

Robert]. Geneisse, Esq.
1158 Fifth Avenue

New York, New York 10029
212 ~722 -2088

OFFICES IN: EAST SETAUKET, NY (MAIN OFFICE): NEW YORK CITY (PROGRAM SUPPORT OFFICE); WASHINGTON. DC; BERKELEY, CALIF.
PRINTED ON 100% RECYCLED PAPER *

 

 




Dr. Bruce M. Hannon 7
Committee on Allerton Park
1208 West Union Street
Champaign, Illinois 61820
2 17 -333 -0348

Dr. John V. Krutilla *

Resources for the Future

1755 Massachusetts Avenue N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20036

202 462 «4400

Anthony A. Lapham, Esq. *
Shea and Gardner

734 15th Street N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20006
202 -737-1255

Mr. Dan Lufkin

645 Madison Avenue

New York, New York 10022
2 12 -832 ~3310

Dr. James ]. MacKenzie, Jr.

Richard L. Ottinger, Esq.
Goldfarb and Singer

1616 H Street N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20006
202 -628-3266

Mrs T‘Margaret Owings
Wild 3193,,

Big Sur, California 93920
408-667-2254

Mr. Dennis Puleston *
Meadow Lane

Brookhaven, New York 11719
516 AT 6-0215

Dr. Bruce M. Harmon

1208 West Union Street
Champaign, Illinois 61820
217-333-0348

Dr. John V. Krutilla
6609 Beverly Avenue
McLean, Virginia 22101
703-356-7914

Anthony A. Lapham, Esq.
2919 Woodland Drive N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20008
202-387-7120

Mr. Dan Luﬂdn
Poverty Hollow Road
Newtown, Connecticut 06470

Dr. James J. MacKenzie, Jr.

36 Fabyan Street
Arlington, Massachusetts 02 174
617-646 -7928

Richard L. Ottinger, Esq.

235 Bear Ridge Road
Pleasantville, New York 10750
914-769-2768

Mrs. Margaret Owings

Route 1, Box 231

Santa Fe, New Mexico 87501
505-455 -2574

 

 




Dr. Clifford S. Russell *
Resources for the Future

1755 Massachusetts Avenue N.W. '
Washington, D. C. 20036

202 -462 -4400

Dr. Robert E. Smolker *

Department of Biology

New York State University at Stony Brook
Stony Brook, New York 11790
516-246-8668

Professor Ann L. Strong *

Institute for Environmental Studies
University of Pennsylvania

3400 Walnut Street

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104
215-594-5731

{katewart L. Udall, ESQ-

V

/

Overview

Suite 301 , Goldsboro Road
Bethesda , Maryland 2 0034
301 ~22 9 -1 152

Dr. George M. Woodwell
Brookhaven National Laboratories
Upton, New York 11973
516-345-2123

y ' Dr. Charles F. Wurster *

w‘

Marine Sciences Research Center

State University of New York at Stony Brook

Stony Brook, New York 11790
516-246 -4002

Dr. Clifford S. Russell
4344 Verplanck Place N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20016
202 -966 -3096

Dr. Robert E. Smolker
Box 889

Setauket, New York 11733
516-941-4278 '

Professor Ann L. Strong
324 Chester Road
Devon, Pennsylvania 19333

Dr. George M. Woodwell
Bay Road

. Brookhaven, New York 11973

516-AT 6-0798

Dr. Charles F. Wurster
P. O. Box 338
Stony Brook, New York 11790

 

Dr. Paul Craig should continue to receive memos and other correspondence sent

to Trustees and /Or the Executive Committee.

Dr. Paul Craig
National Science Foundation
202 -632 6957

[No mail here]

His addresses are:

Dr. Paul Craig

5418 Hawthorn Place
Washington, D. C. 20016
202 -362 -62 34

 

 

 

 




EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
722 JACKSON PLACE. N. w.

WASHINGTON. D. C. 20006
27 December 1974

Mrs. Christine Stevens
1686 34th Street, N.W.
Washington D.C.

(by hand)

Dear Christine:

Here are the brief biographical notes about my family you
requested after our last conversation. The regular biographical
data sheet is attached also.

My maternal grandfather was Dr. C. Hart Merriam, founder
and first head of the Biological Survey which later became
the Fish and Wildlife Service. He was a noted? natural
historian, an ethnologist with the Smithsonian Institution
(specializing in California Indians), geographer (Geographic
Board of Names, etc), mammalogist, ornithologist and ecologist.
Among his many contributions to science was the Life Zone
theory, still a basic ecological theory. He was appointed by
the then President as Bering Sea Commissioner, in the late
1890s I believe, with virtually unlimited authority to use the
Navy to discourage seal and otter poachers.

My mother, Zenaida Merriam Talbot, was Dr. Merriam's
assistant for many years and she is a biologist and ethnologist
in her own right.

My late father,M.W. “Tally" Talbot, was a pioneer in range
and wildlife conservation and ecology. He was a founder and
president of the Range Management Society. He and Aldo Leopold
wereclose friends and colleagues, working together to establish
America's first wilderness area, the Gila. Dad was later a
Charter member of the Wilderness Society. He was with the
U.S. Forest Service for over 40 years and later was a range and
wildlife conservation consultant here and overseas. He had a
lifelong dedication to conservation.

My room mate, Marty, is a conservationist and biologist in
her own right. She was a founder and director of the Student
Conservation Program, which was the pioneering program bringing

 




Mrs. Stevens 27 Dec. 74

student volunteers to work in the national parks and other
public lands. She has worked with me on ecological research
and consulting in some 60 countries. Among other activities
currently she is on the ExecutiveiBoardsof the Society of
Women Geographers,the Student Conservation Association, and
Defenders of Wildlife, and is a Member of the Fairfax.
County Park Authority.

Hope this is what you wanted. If you want more, or
different, let me know.

All the best,

Yours 'ncerely,

Le M. Talbot

 




Biographical Data —~ Lee Merriam Talbot

Born:

Education:

Married:

Present
Positions:

 

Past Positions:

 

Fall, 1974

New Bedford, Massachusetts, 2 August 1930

Deep Springs College, California 1948—49
University of California at Berkeley:
AA (Honors) Liberal Arts, 1951
AB Wildlife Conservation, 1953
MA Zoology—Vertebrate Ecology, 1963
Geography—Range Ecology~Vertebrate
Ecology, 1963

Martha Walcott Hayne, 1959.
Son: Lawrence Hayne Talbot, born March, 1971

Senior Scientist to Council on Environmental
Quality, Executive Office of the President,
Washington, D. C. 1970—

Research Associate, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C.

Resident Ecologist, Ecology Program, Office of
Environmental Sciences, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C. (Also served as Acting Head,
Ecology Program, and Acting Director, Office of

Environmental Sciences.) 1966—1970

Concurrent Position:
Smithsonian Field Representative for International
Affairs in Ecology and Conservation. 1966—1970.

Director, South East Asia Project on Wildlife
Resources and Parks, International Union for
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources
(IUCN). 1964-65.

Wildlife Advisor to United Nations Special Fund
and East African Agriculture and Forestry
Research Organization. 1963—64.

 




Director and Principal Research Officer, East
African Ecological Research Project of the
Foreign Field Research Program, National Academy
of Sciences, National Research Council, Govern—
ment of Kenya, New York Zoological Society, and
Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, University of
California. 1959—63 (with interruptions).

Staff Ecologist, International Union for Conser—
vation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN).
1954—56.

Biologist, Arctic Research Laboratory, Point
Barrow, Alaska. 1951.

Assistant Biologist, San Joaquin Experimental
Range, California (U.S. Forest Service and

University of California at Davis). 1948.

Military Service: U.S. Marine COrps. 1953—54.

 

Consultantships: A variety of long and short term consultantships
in ecology, conservation, land use and wildlifey
among others including:

 

Agency for International Development, 1969.

UNESCO, 1955, 1965, 1969. '

Pacific Science Board, National Academy of
Sciences, 1964, 1965.

United Nations Special Fund, 1963.

International Commission on National Parks,
1966~

Peace Corps, 1966.

Governments of various African and Asian nations.

Fauna Preservation Society (London), 1967*

National Park Service, 1968~

National Museum of Natural History, Washington,
D. C. (Special Advisor on International
Conservation) l966~70.

U.S. National Zoological Gardens, Washington,
D. C. (Associate in Ecology), 1966-

 




Boards and
Directorships:

 

 

Membership in
Professional
Societies:

 

 

 

Various, including:

Executive Committee, Board of Trustees, Population
Reference Bureau

Executive Board, International Union for Conser~
vation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN)

Board of Trustees, the Research Ranch, Elgin,
Arizona

.Chairman, Board of Directors, American Committee

for International Wild Life Protection
Editorial Board, Biological Conservation
Board of Directors, Smithsonian Center for Shortl
Lived Phenomena
Chapter Director, Range Management Society
Editorial Advisory Board, Agro—Ecosystems

 

 

Academy of Medicine of Washington, D. C.

American Association for Advancement of
(Fellow)

American Institute of Biological Sciences

American Polar Society

American Society of Mammalogists (Life Member)

Association of American Geographers

Association for Tropical Biology (Committee Chair?

Ecological Society of America

New York Zoological Society (Fellow)

Sigma Xi '

Society of Range Management

The Wildlife Society (Committee Chairman)

Zoological Society of Korea (Honorary Member)

Committees, and participation in other national and international
organizations, other than above professional societies
and Smithsonian—related activities:

Various,including: g

National Academy of Sciences: National Research
Council:

 




Various Committees and activities, including:

Committee on International Environmental
Programs;

Ad Hoc Committee on Ecological Change;

IBPmCE Committee of Division of Biology and
Agriculture;

Committee on Research Needs in the Behavioral
and Social Sciences on Environmental Problems
and Policies (Div. of Behavioral Sciences);

Ad Hoc Committee for Pacific Science Associa—
tion;

Pacific Science Board (Consultant);

African Science Board (Advisor);

Panel for Institutional Arrangements (Comm.
on International Environmental Programs);

U.S. National Committee for Man and Biosphereli
Program; also subcommittee on Grasslands;

Advisory Panel on Arid Lands of suh~Saharan
Africa (Board on Science and Technology for
International Development); .

Panel on Education and Training for Philippine
Environmental Programs (Commission on
International Relations);

International Council of Scientific Unions:

Special Committee for International Biological
Program (SCIBP) Terrestrial Conservation)
Section; _

Field Coordinator, IBP—Conservation Section;

SCIBP Herbivore Program (Co~Chairman); _

Scientific Committee on Prdblems of Environe
ment (SCOPE) Global Monitoring Group; also-
Environmental Impact Studiengroup;

SCOPE U.S. National Committee; A »

Pacific Science Association; Chairman Conser~
vation Committee.
U.S. National Committee for IBP, Advisory

Group for Conservation of Ecosystems.

South East Asia Development Advisory Group.
Rachael Carson Trust m Adviser.
National Park Service; Advisory Group on

International Affairs.

 




Conservation Foundation; Advisory Committee on
International Affairs; also, Advisor on
University Environmental Programs.

Boone and Crockett Club; Conservation Committee.

Survival Service Commission (IUCN); Member,
also Group Chairman.

Commission on Ecology (IUCN). ”

North American Education Committee of the IUCN
Commission on Education.

East African Wildlife Society.

National Parks Association.

Wilderness Society.

International Commission on National Parks (IUCNE..¢

Explorers Club.

Civic
Organizations: Advisory Committee on Environmental Quality to
Fairfax County Board of Supervisors (Virginial
-North Virginia Conservation Council

 

Honors and
Awards: Honorary Consultant a" Conservation in North
‘ ‘ America; and Principles and Policy of Conservaw'

tion. World Wildlife Fund, 1973.

CINE Golden Eagle Award, for Documentary Film on
East African Wildlife Conservation and Research,._.
with NBC, 1969.

Fellow, American Association for the Advancement
of Science, 1968.

Fellow, New York Zoological Society, 1967.

Honorary Member, Zoological Society of Korea,

Wildlife Society Award (jointly with Mrs. Talbot}
for ”Outstanding Publication in Wildlife
Management and Ecology,” l963.

Union Wildlife Foundation Award,
California, l962.

SCCA Outstanding PUblication Award, -962.

lational Academy of Sciences; National Research
Council, Foreign Field Research Program Award,
1959.

Taussig Fellowship in Geography, University of
California, 1958—59.

 

 




Current
Biographical

 

Listings:

Publications:

 

American Men and Women of Science
Physical and Biological Sciences
Agricultural, Animal, and Veterinary Services

Dictionary of International Biography

Leaders in American Science

TWOmThousand Men of Achievement

Who's Who in the South and Southwest

Who's Who in Government

Who's Who in Ecology

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Books and Monographs

1960. A Look at Threatened Species; Threatened
Wildlife and other Aspects of Conservam.
tion in the Middle East and Southern
Asia. London. 137 pp.

Land Use Survey of Narok District,
Kenya. District Administration, Narok,
Kenya. 68 pp.

An Introduction to the Landscape of
East Africa. (with Martha Talbot and
H. Lamprey). Nairobi. 31 pp + figs.

The Wildebeest in Western Masailand,
East Africa (with Martha Talbot).
Wildlife Monograph No. 12. 88 pp.

Renewable Natural Resources in the
Philippines (with Martha Talbot).
IUCN. 170 pp.

c l oi’

Conservation in Trop
Asia (Ed., with Mar h~ T.ui
New Series No. l0. "

Other:

About 135 papers, articles and other scientific
or technical publication, with some translations

in 8 languages.

 




Member, ch.

Delegation: UNESCO Conference on Conservation and
Rational Use of the Resources of the
Biosphere, Paris.

 

 

Inter—Governmental Working Group on
Conservation for the U.N. Conference on
the Environment, New York. (Alternate
Chairman of Delegation).

UNESCO Conference of Experts for the World
Heritage Trust, Paris. '

United Nations Conference on the Human
Environment, Stockholm.

International Whaling Commission, London,

Joint Committee for USmUSSR Acreement
on Environmental Protection, Moscow:

Wildlife Working Group, US~USSR Agreerent
on Environmental Protection, Moscow.

Plenipotentiary Conference to Conclude an
International Convention on Trade in
Endangered Species, Washingtone

International Whaling Commission, London, 1.

Joint Committee for USwUSSR Agreement on
Environmental Protection, Washington, D.C,
Intermeovernmental Meeting on Environmentii
Monitoring, United Nations Envirenment
Program, NairObi (Deputy Chairman of
Delegation),

1974. United Nations Environment P“egram
Governing Council, Nairobi.

International Whaling Commission, London,

 




‘Welcome to the Animal Welfare Institute's annual assembly at which
we honor those who have made the greatest contribution to humane work for
the year. The annual reports, which you will find on each chair, begin as
a matter of course with the implementation of the law, P. L. 89-544, the
Laboratory.hnimal'Welfare.Act, signed last year by President Johnson after
a six-year-long struggle. The Schweitzer medallists this year are the two
men who have done most to enforce the new law and to make it work despite
constant efforts to enfeeble or nullify it.

Not until the law was passed did animal welfare workers realize what
had actually been accomplished for animals by ensuring that the authority
was placed with the Secretary of.Agriculture. The photographs you saw as
you came in give a brief glimpse of what the.Animal Health Division of the
.hgricultural Research Service had done to prevent animal suffering, though
they cannot do justice to the tremendous scope of its work, affecting the

well-being of hundreds of millions of animals on farms and even extending to

wild life and small animals as a side effect, the elimination of the most

horribly painful diseases which had hurt and killed animals till the Division's

 




relentless practicality put an end to them. The white sheets, reproduced

from a study made in 1961 by the then Senator Hubert Humphrey's Subcommittee,

give a rapid outline of the.Animal Health Eﬁvision's achievements; and you

will note that the last three are marked in red. That is because the

medallists, Dr. Mnlhern and Dr. Jones, were so closely associated with all

three, slow, painful cripplers and killers, now gone without a trace from.

the United States because of the firm resolve and hard work of the hundreds

of veterinarians of the Animal Health Division and because of the wisdom and

humaneness of their leaders.

Now animals in laboratories and animal dealers' premises will have the

benefits of this same practicality, humaneness, and resolve. Administrative

officials of the Department of.Agriculture and veterinarians of the.tnimal

Health Division are here today, and I would like to ask them to stand. First,

however, I Wish to read a letter from the Secretary of.Agriculture, the

Honorable Orville S, Freeman 0 . , . . . and from Senator'warreanagnuson,

Chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee and co-anthor of the Laboratory

.Animal Welfare Act.

 




we are happy to have with us today.Assistant Secretary of Agriculture,

Dr. George Mehren, from whom.we look forward to hearing this afternoon;

Dr. George Irving,.edministrator of the Agricultural Research Service;

Dr. Robert Anderson, Associate Administrator; Dr. Ernest Saulman, Director

of the.enimel Health Division. The senior and staff veterinarians present

C. O. Finch A. F. Ranney
ES W. Hansen, Jr. ’ 1% F2 Schwindaman
J. L. Hourrigan, E. C. Sherman
R. L. Knudson J. L. Wilbur
J. J. Martin D. L. Williams
L. Meyer E. J. Wilson

R. E. Omohundro G. H. Wise

I wish to introduce, too, Mr. Howard Obenchein, Information Officer

for the Laboratory.ﬁnimels program, whose good work disseminating clear and

accurate information in a highly controversial field deserves special

commendation.

The Andmal Welfare Institute has done everything in its power to be

of service to the Department of Agriculture in this difficult first year

of law enforcement. we have brought out three substantial publications:

 




a new and completely revised edition of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory

.Animals, which is given free on request to laboratories which are improving

their animal quarters; audaAnimal Expressions, which is designed to help

everyone who must deal with animals to understand them better through

expressive gestures and facial changes. The cover is reproduced on the

annual report. "Without Dr. Mulhern's kind interest and advice, it could

not have been produced. I regret that the photographers, whose profound

understanding of animals created the impact and provided the variety of

the animal expressions shown, are unable to be present. Stan Wayman, whom

many of you will remember from last year‘s meeting after he photographed

"Concentration Camps for Dogs” for Life magazine, is in Pakistan. Erica

Anderson, photographer of Dr. Schweitzer and Lambargné; is in Great

Barrington, Massachusetts, where she has established the Schweitzer Friendship

House. Ernest walker is indisposed and unable to be here today. His photo-

graphs appear not only in.Animal Expressions; there are 172 of them in

Studying Our Fellow Mammals, the third major AWI publication to come out

this year.

 




.The film, "Laboratory Dogs,“ was completed this year and has had a
wide distribution showing how happy dogs can be even after severe experi-
mental surgery if only they are treated in a friendly manner and given
plenty of space and companionship of other dogs during their recuperation.
The film shows the essential nursing care and frequent administration of
pain-relieving drugs during the early stages of recovery from amputation
and replantation of a limb. ‘When Dr. Bennett Derby, Chief of Neurology at
Manhattan Veterans.Administration Hospital and a member of the new.KWI
Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research.Animals, saw the film,
he said it was the first time he had seen a happy dog in a laboratory bearing
a surgical scar. Yet these dogs are happy; and we believe that nearly all
of them and of the other animals, too, can be so when the practical, sensible,
humane attitudes I have found in the Animal Health Division of the United

States Department of.Agriculture have been-adapted?tw'laboratory scientists.

I would like to introduce the Laboratory.Animal Consultant of the AMI,

Mrs. Robert Dyes, whom many of you already know either personally or through

reading of her courageous work in behalf of animals. Neither physical danger

 




nor exhaustion nor any foolish attempt to intimidate her has ever deterred

Dorothy from the pursuit-~generally ending in capture~~of anyone guilty of

crueltya She will tell you of some individual animals who represent the
hundreds of thousands now benefitting from P. L. Sg-ﬁﬁh, the Laboratory

.Animal welfare.ﬁcto

 




'We are greatly honored today that the senior Senator from Florida
has come to present the Schweitzer medals. Senator Spessard Lindsey Holland
has had a most distinguished career, first as Governor of Florida, then as
Senator; and I was particularly interested to learn that his record after
four terms shows that he has missed less than five per cent of all the votes
taken. ﬁnch conscientiousness combined with knowledge, experience, brilliance
(he is a Phi Beta Kappa), and a profound interest in nature and animals,
which he shares with Hrs. Holland, a dedicated preserver of wild life, makes
it most appropriate that he should, in effect, represent Dr. Schweitzer at
this moment in bringing to us the basic philosophy of reverence for life,
the extension of ethics for animals rather than keeping it only for human
beings. Senator Holland has so many achievements to his credit that it would
be impossible to catalog them all, but his work for the acquisition of the
Everglades National Park, both as Governor and State Senator, and the setting
of its boddaries after he became United.States Senator is of special interest

to members of the.Animal‘Welfare Institute, and I would quote from his

biography with respect to rivers and harbors projects: "In the course of

 




authorizing and appropriating funds for these improvements, Senator Holland

has been highly successful in getting projects included in the federal

budget, restoring in the Senate projects which have been lost in the House

and holding appropriations in Senate-House conferences following the passage

of bills in differing amounts.“

Senator Holland ranks second in seniority on the Senate Committee on

Agriculture and Forestry and seventh on the Senate Appropriations Gommittee.

Senator Holland has been a true friend of animals. He supported and

voted for P, L. 89-544, he has steadfastly refused to be associated in any

move to repeal any part of it, and under his leadership the Senate voted

close to the full amount of the budget request for its implementation. ‘We

have faith in his continuing efforts in behalf of this humane legislation,

which must be fully enforced. we are glad that when Connie Mack offered him

a contract to join the pitching staff of the Philadelphia Athletics in 1916

he refused. The United States Senate would have lost, without knowing it,

one of its finest and ablest members.

 




In“? (w-rnn-«IM' Ll...“ ._ . . a,“ mud

gluoni éxuoo
{\ouax; , Losing

«I

,/

REMARKS OF SENATOR SPESSARD L. HOLLAND, NOVEMBER 27, 1967

Thank you very much Mrs. Stevens. I think the next time I run
for office in Florida I will have to import you as one of the official
introducers. One comment before I start and that is the statement you
made about my voting record - that it is my habit to always be on hand
and vote. That is one of the principal causes of complaint from some of
my peOple at home with whom I could not agree in voting for or against a
measure when they would prefer that I absent myself. I always think it is
best to be there.

I am happy to be here this evening and to occupy this particularly
responsible post in connection with the delivery of the Albert Schweitzer
Medals, presented this year when there are two of them. Incidentally,
these medals of the Animal Welfare Institute have been awarded beginning
with the original medal to Dr. Schweitzer himself in l95h, which was pre-
sented in Oslo, where he had gone to receive another important award. I
think it is useful and it may be of interest, particularly to those who

get the awards, to hear the comments made by Dr. Schweitzer on that

occasion. He had gone there from Lambarene and I don't have to tell

any of you about his tremendous efforts at that remote spot to serve man-
kind and other living creatures as well.... "I am profoundly moved that
you should wish to give my name to the medal. I give you this right with
all my heart. I should never have thought that my phiIOSOphy, which
ethically incorporates our compassionate attitude towards all creatures,
would be noticed and recognized during my lifetime. I knew that this
truth would impose itself one day on thought, but it is the great and
moving surprise of my life that I should still be the witness of the
progress of ethics. Your modal celebrates this progress: philos0phy

obliged to intervene for animals when up until now it has shown so little

 




z

a -: ,
.’ .. VAVa—u-nJ L»- w --—~ >4. mud-h hard
I

{Auoog jAdoo
953x; apt-13x,

- 2 -

interest in them." So spoke Dr. Albert Schweitzer in receiving the first
medal in l95h.

I wish I had the time and Opportunity to comment on each of the
great former recipients of this medal but I cannot do that. I just want
to say that last year and this year, in particular, the award has been keyed
to the passage and the beginning of enforcement of the Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act, mentioned by mrs. Stevens, which was approved'by the President
last August, 1966, and immediately put into operation, as the result of
a Supplemental Appropriations Act, and which is now getting in full-fledged
operation under the direction of two outstanding officials of the U0 S.
Department of Agriculture who are to receive as Medallists this award, which
is of great pride to them and to others in the Department of Agriculture,
which is charged with primary responsibilities.

I might say that I am particularly happy, too, that this year, in
addition to keying these awards to this Act and its implementation, each
of the Medallists is cited for their great services to animals in connection
with their work over the years in the EEpartment of Agriculture in preventing
vast amounts of animal suffering through their Skillful and scientific eradi-
cation of major animal diseases and pests and particularly in connection.with

two important eradication campaigns of which I know a little and which I

am going to mention later. Those of us who are interested so deeply in.

humane objectives toward animals for their own sake realize how frequently
these Objectives are coupled with economic reasons for their legal enforce-
ment. As to our two men - men that have performed outstanding services in
the two campaigns which I shall mention - one the eradication of a terrible
disease of animals, and the other, eradication of a pest scourge of the great-

est destructive importance, I am.glad that we are coupling out’interest in

 




humaneness for its own sake with tremendous economic values that
come from.humaneness in the treatment of animals which serve mankind.

It never does any harm to quote an able person who has spoken
before in this field, Mr. Justice Fortas, and I quote him with particular
interest. As a young lawyer, I squared off against him at one time, and
we have been more than mere acquaintances since that time. My wife says
I always find some occasion to mention I am a lawyer because I want peOple

to know that I once had a legitimate profession.

ibis is what Abe Fortes had to say about the meaning of Schweitzer

and why he was chosen for his name to be given to this award, a choice
which brought him so much pleasure: "ihis is Schweitzer's message --
. that life, in all of its forms and aSpects, has meaning and importance.
we know that to brutalize life in one of its forms is to invite brutality
generally. We know that solicitude and restraint towards life in all of
its forms induce the attitudes of care, compassion, and kindness which
are the makers of civilization.

‘gAnd so it is that the Sponsorship and enactment of a law to eliminate
some of the ruthless and needless abuse of animals is a blessed act ~-
an act which ennobles the doer and raises our civilization to a higher and
better level."

I hOpe that my quotations of Dr. Schweitzer and Mr. Justice Fortas
may be a source of pleasure and inspiration to the Medallists and to their
wives and their children. Their wives are here with them, and they realize that
they are receiving an award.which is very meaningful, as shown by the
quotations I have just given. NOt only is it an award.because of their
implementation and their aggressive enforcement of the Laboratory Animal

Welfare Act but also for their work in the two fields which I am going to

 




\ '.
;A (10;) r...)
iOU'JX

mention, namely the eradication of foot and mouth disease in Mexico

and, the other, the eradication of the screw worm in the Southeastern
portion of the United States. I happen to know a little about both of
these services. As a.member of the Senate subcommittee which supervised
eradication in Mexico, I visited.Nbxico and I may have seen our Medallista
who played so important a part in 1952. I shall never forget some of the
things that we saw there indicating the tremendous value to those peOple,
and, incidentally, to our peOple who raise livestock, in the eradication
of foot and mouth disease. I remember one day we went out to a community
where we were warned not to go without military Protection. We went there,
and there reported to us a Squadron of the cavalry. When.we looked over
the cavalry, we decided we would be safer by ourselves. There was one
Mexican trOOper on a weather-beaten horse, and it is almost impossible to
describe that horse or rider. He had on a battered campaign hat with three
decorations on it which he told us would.protect him. One was a haWk's head
attached to the front of the hat. The other two were a snakeskin and the
tail of a squirrel monkey wrapped around the hat. He was very sure that

he was safe from those three feared ravages so long as he wore those three

protective symbols.

we saw'numerous friendly Mexican families that day (they were of Indian

stock) who were devastated because of the fact that they had to lose their
ox. The ox would have a room on one side of the adobe hut where the ox
stayed at night and the warmth of his body helped to warm the whole hut
where they lived. The ox did almost everything for them besideiwarming the
house for them. He was something that could not be replaced. There was no

great source of trained.§Xen. He had been brought up from the time he was

 




a small calf. He was a highly important member of the family. They

would weep about the loss of their ox and ask us how and when we could

get them another ox.. Of course we could not. Their grief was part of the
result of the loss of over one million animals which had to be slain and,
incidentally, vaccinations were given to over sixty million animals. The
problem.had a vast meaning to the economy of our entire West and our

entire nation and affected not only domestic animals but wild animals, and
particularly the deer. I think the eradication from a great and rough
country like that of a pest so evil is a performance of which every person
who had a part in it can be justly proud. I think that one of our Madallists

tonight can be justly proud of it.

The other great accomplishment whiCh I mention is the eradication of

the screw worm in the Southeast United States. We in Florida suffered

most from that because of our mild climate. That pest could live all winter
with us where he couldn‘t in any other part of the United States. 'He became
a.multi-million dollar scourge to the industry of Florida, which spread to
nearby areas every year. The pain, the suffering inflicted upon animals

by the screw worm from.which so many died are simply indescribable. There
is one picture on the wall in the adjoining room of how destructive the
worms were which the screw worm implanted into the blood stream of the animal
that was the host. Both eradication campaigns were successful. They
required very great knowledge about biolOgy with vast knowledge of many
other sciences as, for instance, the use of cobalt on the screw work fly
and the release of billions of sterilized flies so that ultimately the

screw worm fly was eliminated.

 




». \
;A(!().)L‘/
10.3ij

I doubt that peOple generally realize the tremendous knowledge
that must be mastered by these peOple who accomplish eradication. Such
a tremendous boon to our country it was when both of the eradication

campaigns were successful.

I probably have talked too long - I know they always say that

Southern Senators do - but I am not here to filibuster, I am here to
give some awards.

Before I present the Medallists, may I present to you Mrs. Mulhern
and Mrs. Jones, if they will please stand. I thought it was highly
important for them to be here tonight because, in addition to the medals,
there 'is a good check to each recipient - so I think we have all something
to be rejoicing about tonight.

New, charged with the important responsibility of enforcement of
this new law, which is the main purpose of this award tonight, the
Medallistshaye behind them years of service and have helped greatly to
accomplish at least three of the most important eradication campaigns in
our nation.' I have not made mention of the successful campaign for the
eradication of Vesicular Exanthema since I have no personal knowledge about
it.

With my warm congratulations I present the Schweitzer medal and a
$500.00 check to each of the Medallists, Dr. Francis Mulhern, Deputy
Administrator of the Agriculture Research Service, U. S. Department of
Agriculture, and Dr. Earl Jones, Senior Staff Veterinarian in Charge of
Laboratory Animals, U. S. Department of Agriculture. I am happy for you

gentlemen.

 




km-

1 948

3' :1
. 21m.
.1 .7 _ .‘

UNION INTERNATIONALE POUR LA CONSERVATION DE LA NATURE ET DE SES RESSOURCES
INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR CONSERVATION OF NATURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES

1110 MORGES, SUISSE (SWITZERLAND) ® (021) 714401 TELEGRAMMES: UNICORN MORGES

Mrs. Roger Stevens

Animal Welfare Institute

c/o World Wildlife Fund - U.S. Appeal
910 Seventeenth Street‘ '
Washington, D. C. 20006

U.S.A.

7 January 1975

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Your kind invitation for Professor and Mrs. Donald J.
Kuenen to attend the ceremony at which the Schweitzer
Award for 1974 will be given to Dr. Lee M. Talbot has
just been received here in Morges.

While I will forward the invitation to Professor Kuenen
I know he is away from Arnhem and would have to send you
his regrets. He will appreciate knowing of the recogni-
tion that is being given to Dr. Talbot and will, I am
sure, be writing a letter of congratulations to him.

On behalf of Dr. Budowski, Mr. Nicholls and myself, all
of whom also received an invitation, we are sorry we can-
not be there, but we are writing to Lee to congratulate
lhim on this honor. We would like to put something about
this in our Bulletin, and if you can send me some details
on the Schweitzer Award and the citation connected with
Lee's reCeiving it, we would be most grateful.

Sincerely yours,

'(Mrs.) Lenore Smith

 




mu. man no. to
MAY I982 some»:
GSA F'PMR (41 cm). 202-12.:

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
M emora ndum

Mr. Williams DATE: January 6, I975

JeaneTTe GIadsTonei

SUBJECT; Animal Welfare InsTiTuTe, GreaT Hall, January I4, I975

copies: Messrs. Larsen, Goode, Buckler, Janes, Wells, Chambers, Johnson, CapT. Terrell,
Ridgewells, Siegel, Trover,‘Pinkney, Mrs. Roger STevens, Mrs. Rosenberg, '
Mrs. Beck, Ms. PoTTer. ’ ““”Twmw"

On Tuesday, January l4Th, The Animal Welfare InsTiTuTe will hold a
presenTaTion and recepTion for 200 from 5:30¢7:30pm in The GreaT Hall of
The SI Building. This is ﬁg: an SI EvenT. The group will pay all oVerTime
and The Fee is waived.

BMD .
DeTails as discussed on The "Walk—Thru".
Remove OTToman on The EasT buT, leave The one on The WesT side of Hall.

LecTern
As discussed on The "Walk-Thru".-facing easT. Tape; having ampllffcaTion
and a spoT on lecTern

 

TABLES - -
Food and bars as caTerer requesTed ALSO, l 6' long Table in N. EnTrance’
3 To 4 6' Tables in SI Lounge for KiTchen area.

CHAIRS
' PuT up 200 chairs on EasT side of The GreaT Hall facing The wesT side-
make sure There is a cenTer aisle. Have 50 exTra chairs on hand.
4 CoaT racks To be puT in The usual spoT, unaTTended.

Receiving Line on RighT side as you enTer The Hall wiTh UE and SI flags.

Please move InformaTIon desklonfgﬂdﬁﬂl>ouT of GreaT Hall.

The Building will be closed aT 4pm To visiTors. PLEASE HAVE A SIGN
MADE AND POSTED THE MORNiNG OF THE l4Th.

CATERER )
Ridgewellgs will caTer. ‘
They will bring napkins, maTches, Table cloThs and Table ash Trays.

MR. BUCKLER
Mr. Buckler will have palms in The Hall.

 

GuesTs may come eiTher door. Parking on Jefferson Drive and in SI
loTs/if possible.

Bu} U .5 . 5‘4?ng Band: Regularly on the Payroll Saving: P1422

 




TRUSTEES

CHAPLIN B. BARNES
International Affairs
National Audubon Society

KENNETH BERLIN

Attorney

Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison

ROLAND C. CLEMENT

Latin American Affairs

National Audubon Society

RICHARD ELLIS
Wildlife Artist

DAVID C. HILL
Endangered Wildlife

ROBERT E. JENKINS
Endangered Habitats
The Nature Conservancy

ROBERT PERKINS, JR.
Wetlands Preservation
Wildlife Preserves, Inc.

GUY TUDOR
Neotropical Ornithology

HOBART M. VAN DEUSEN
Mammalogy
American Museum

of Natural History

OFFICERS

DAVID O. HILL
Executive Trustee

ROBE RT S. PER LSTEI N
Secretary

KENNETH BERLIN
Treasurer

MARTHA HILL
Assistant Secretary
Assistant Treasurer

RESEARCH ASSOCIATE
M. PHILIP KAHL

Rare Animal Relief Effort,

c/o National Audubon Society
950 Third Ave., N.Y., NY. 10022

January l, 1975

Mrs. Roger Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
P. 0. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

Dear Christine:

We thank you for your kind invitation to the Schweitzer
Award celebration on January I4, I am sure you realize that
it would be a great pleasure for both of us to attend, but
our limited travel budget requires that l select only those
functions where my presence could be a direct contribution
to the goals you and l have striven for this past year.

When I am back flying again (hopefully by fall '75) we
will again be able to do more of the things we like.

Our very best wishes to you for a healthy 1975.

Warmest regards,

c k\~<~ Wlw

 




NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY

950 THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10022 (212) 832-3200 Cable: NATAUDUBON

January 10, 1975

Mrs. Roger Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
1686 - 34th St., N. W.
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Mr. Clement will be unable to attend the presentation
ceremonies of the Schweitzer Award for 1974 to Dr. Lee
Talbot. He sends his sincere regrets.

Sincerely.

5/). ‘ V

{3; .-v‘;‘,.2 2;}, ., K
3

Secretary to
Roland C. Clement
Vice President

AMERICANS COMMITTED TO CONSERVATION

 




 




R.S.V.P.

The Directors of the Animal Welfare Institute
request the honor of your presence
at the presentation by
Russell Errol Train f

Administrator)6iﬁiie Environmental ProtectionAgencyrfinf»§u

,1. p _. 1,1: ,
? ~’
x, ,.

of the
Schweitzer Award for 19714~
to

Lee Merriam-Talbot

r Scientist, Council on Environmentathuality

Senio

on Tuesday, the fourteenth of January
at five ofclock
The Great Hall, The Castle
The Smithsonian Institution

W
‘11000 Jefferson Drive, Southwest

Reception following
the ceremony

Mrs. Roger Stevens

337-2332

 

 

 

 




For some time, I believed that we were faced with an almost hopeless
situation in our struggle to get the critical Animal Welfare Act of 1970
Amendments passed. It was our good fortune that Mrs. Roger Stevens had
no such doubts, and it was she, more than anyone else, who kept all
the pieces knitted together. Her energy and dedication to getting this
legislation passed has never received the full and ample credit it so
deserves. If I were awarding the Albert Schweitzer Award, I would
award it to Christine Stevens.

One of the frustrating things in attempting to obtain legislation
providing for the humane treatment of animals in the United States is
the occasional resistance that one finds in Congress from people who are
expected to be friends of such legislation. They often tend to feel that
emphasis on animal welfare is a misapplication of priorities when we still
have so many areas of human welfare where critical reforms wait to be
fully accomplished. Yet, the reality is that if a society is truly
civilized, and if it has true compassion and humane consideration in its
values, certainly then it can be judged better on how it responds to the

needs of animals more than to any other area. The consideration for the

"‘3 .
care and the treatment of animals isgéertainllgnot in any sense a competition

with resistance to human values. It is simply a reflection of a society
which is compassionate and humane, truly sensitive to the condition of all

living things.

 




I am convinced that we are entering a new era in consciousness and
concern in this country over the conditions of life enjoyed by animals.
The legislation of the past three or four years is, as Senator Magnuson
has said, only the beginning, and I am sure that in the next decade we
are going to attack and successfully treat those areas that are still
without adequate legislation and protection. The effect of the Animal
Welfare Act is going to be largely felt not only in our country andW
influence the values of our society, but it is going to be one of those

1".

things by which we will offer international leadership. The United

States, more than any other nation, has written into its legislation and

made part of its national commitment, the care and concern for the welfare
of animals. When we look back, in some future century, on our society in

the 1970's it will be in this commitment that we will find one of our
\P
brightest achievements. I am particularly happy to have the award

presented here in this historic room since it was early in our history a
of you
scene of inhumane conditions and humane concern. For those/who may not
know it, at one time this was where the Senate of the United States met.
3% “~2
A:
In those three decades prior to the Civil War, ventilation was the .
{4} “ix" *3: 23%;», ‘; 3. K’ kw‘l' 251‘. N" "’34:” :7" f" :5?" :1"
infamy of man. Inméaet, inwehemgellerymwhere visitors would sit and
ﬁx-ﬁ"
listen to the debates, all the while silently sufferingﬁ,eher almost

\ﬂfé
expired

at times from the oppressive heat. The only source of relief
were those humane Senators who used to take sticks and hand up fresh fruits

and other refreshments to the gallery. The determination of the gallery

watchers has always amazed me, even today.

 




I am greatly honored by this distinguished award, one made even
more distinguished by its source and by the distinguished previous
recipients. I am also especially honored by all of you who have come
today to be present during the actual award ceremonies. Finally, I
would like to give one moment of recognition to someone who worked very

hard with me on this legislation. Franklin Roosevelt once said that

/§taff members had to have a passion for anonymity and that's all too

often the case, but I would like to give full recognition to Richard
Falknor,who was my staffman during the consideration of all of these
bills, and gave long hours of hard work to it.

Again, Mrs. Stevens, thank you so much. Thank you all very much.

 




FOR RELEASE DECEMBER 16, 1970 ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.O. Box 3u92
Grand Central Station
New York, N.Y. 10017

Telephone: 202-337-541h

Washington, D.C. - Senator Charles Percy (R., Ill.) today pre-
sented the 1970 Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute

to Bob Cromie, Chicago Tribune columnist. The cerembny took place at

 

#330 P.M., December 16th, at St. John's Parish House in Georgetown.

Mr. Cromde courageously criticized cruelty to animals in a series
of columns this year. Some of the reforms he plead for have already
taken place. For example, the Westinghouse Science Talent Search which

gives large prizes to high school science students has eliminated from

competition any projects in which animals could be caused pain or dis-

tress.

Rb. Cromie was an active supporter of The Animal Welfare Act of
1970 which expands the existing federal law, P.L. 89-5hu, to include
all kinds of warmrblooded animals in circuses, zoos, the wholesale pet
trade and throughout their entire stay in laboratories. The bill was
unanimously approved by the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate
last week.

The Schweitzer Medal is presented annually by the Animal Welfare
Institute to the individual who has contributed most outstandingly
during the year to the advancement of animal protection. Previous
medallists include: Rachel Carson, Hubert Humphrey, warren Magnuson

and Mike Monroney.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3492
GRAND CENTRAL STATION
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10017

(21 2) 581 -7320

December 4, 1971

Dear Member:

You are cordially invited to attend the annual meeting and 1971
Albert Schweitzer Award ceremony to be held in the United States
Capitol at 3:00 P. M. , December 14, 1971. The presentation will be
made in the Old Senate Chamber, 8228, in the Capitol. Tea will be
served following the ceremony. If you wish to bring a humane friend
with you, you will both be most welcome.

Congressman Thomas S. Foley is this yearls medallist.
Senator Warren Magnuson and Senator Henry Jackson will make the
presentation. Congressman Foley's devoted efforts in shepherding
the Animal Welfare Act of 1970 through the House of Representatives
are well known. He has worked to support other bills to protect
animals, too, notably the wild horse bill handled by the Interior
Committee of which he is a member.

Enclosed is a copy of the Twentieth Annual Report of the
Animal Welfare Institute. We hope you are encouraged by the results
of the Institute's efforts for animals during the year. We wish to take
this opportunity to report to you that the Animal Welfare Institute is
now classified by the Internal Revenue Service as a ”publicly supported"
exempt organization as described in the Internal Revenue Code rather
than as a ”private foundation. " The ”publicly supported" classification
permits individuals to make tax deductible contributions up to 50% of
their adjusted gross income to the Animal Welfare Institute as compared
with the 20% limitation applicable to gifts to private foundations. It also
means that private foundations may make ”qualifying distributions" to
the Institute. Private foundations can advantageously make gifts to the
Animal Welfare Institute. Members who may be acquainted with trustees
of a private foundation may wish to help the Animal Welfare Institute in
its search for funds by bringing this fact to their attention. Your support
is deeply appreciated and badly needed for the continuance of the work.

Sincerely,

M. :4»: f5...

Christine Stevens
President

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
‘VASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the twenty—third
annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute to be held
on the Centenary of Dr. Albert Schweitzer's birth, January
1A, 1975 at 5:30 P.M. in the Great Hall of the Castle at
the Smithsonian Institution, 1000 Jefferson Drive, 8. W. on
the Mall.

The Schweitzer Centenary will be celebrated around the
world on this day, and it is a particularly significant time
for the awarding of the Schweitzer Medal. Dr. Lee Talbot,
Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental Quality, is
the medallist, and Russell Train, Administrator of the En-
vironmental Protection Agency, will make the presentation.

Dr. Talbot's contributions to the welfare and protection
of animals have been especially significant in government.
He has been the major moving force which brought about the
Executive Order banning the poisoning of predators on the
public lands, and the resolution at the Stockholm Conference
calling for a ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of
whales. He has followed up these achievements with close
attention and strenuous efforts to hold the ground gained and
advance the cause whenever possible.

A reception will follow the ceremony. We hope you can be
with us on this important occasion to celebrate the Schweitzer
concept of life on the centenary of the birth of this great
humanitarian who has told us "We need a boundless ethics
which will include the animals also".

You are cordially invited to bring a friend or relative
who is concerned about the treatment of animals.

Sincerely,
@wfﬁ;

Christine Stevens
President

 




 




 




1120 Breaks Street,

Ann Arbor, Michigan, h8103,
December 30, l97h.

Mrsc Rogﬁr SteV&n3,
.Animal Walfare InStitute,
1686 35th Street, N;W},
Ngahington, D.CL, 20007.

Baa? Christine:

Mrs. Dice an@ I ragret that because of old age we shall be unable
to attﬂnd the prwsentation of the Schweitmer Award for 197h.

With an? hast regarda,

m ,3 a; *
-...» If g. ‘ h :ro‘
g _ IAi-»-'\ a

 




LAW OFFICES OF
KENT, BRADLEY, BURNS, KAPLAN 8. WlLLIAMS
ROGER KENT

JOHN LOCKWOOD BRADLEY I55 MONTGOM ERY STREET OF COUNSEL

ROBERT 5- BURNS SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 94IO4 MARTIN LALoR CRIMMINS
RICHARD M- KAPLAN JOHN G.SOBII—:SKI
ROBERT WESLEY WILLIAMS (4'5) 982“525O

JACK 'I‘OMLINSON CABLE ADDRESS
DINAI—I L.$HELTON ”CRIMKEN"

December 31, l97ﬂ

Mrs. Roger Stevens
Animal welfare Institute
P. O. Box 3650
W&mﬂgmm,DIL

Dear Christine:

any thanks for the invitation to the Schweitzer Award
Cerennny on January 14. I won't be in Washington at that time.
As time goes by, I become more and more impressed'with your tre—
mendously effective work on behalf of our "dumb" animal friends.

Happy New Year and best regards to you and Roger.

Sincerely,

o

:::1:ékent

 




. .PZCA.

Oﬂicers

Chairman of the Board
RICHARD L. BRICKLEY, ESQ.

President
DAVID S. CLAFLIN

Secretary

ROBERT S. CUMMINGS, ESQ.

Treasurer

EDWARD L. BOND

Assistant Treasurer

ORVILLE F. WESTOVER

Board of Directors

GEORGE F. BENNETT
President
State Street Research (5 Mgt. Cort).

EDWARD P. BLISS
Loomis Sayles 45 Co. Inc.

EDWARD L. BOND
Treasurer

M.S.P.C.A. é A.H.E.S.

RICHARD L. BRICKLEY, ESQ.
Brichley, Sears 6 Cole
Chmn. of the Board
M.S.P.C.A. é A.H.E.S.

DAVID S. CLAFLIN
President
M.S.P.C.A. <9 A.H.E.S.

ROBERT S. CUMMINGS, ESQ.

Peabody, Brown,
Rowley (‘3 Storey

GORDON B. JONES
Exec. Vice President
John Hancock Mutual
Life Insurance Co.

CHARLES KENNY
Partner
C. IV. Whittier é} Bro.

CHARLES G. RICE
Mgt. Consultant 6 Trustee

HON. FRANCIS W. SARGENT
Governor
Comm. of Massachusetts

CHARLES H. TENNEY, II
Chmn. of the Board
Brochton Taunton Gas Co.

GUS W. THORNTON, D.V.M.

Chief of StaﬁI
Angell Mem. Hosp.

Investment
Advisory Committee

GEORGE F. BENNETT
President
State Street
Research (9 Mgt. Corp.

LLOYD D. BRACE
Former Chmn. of the Board
The First National Bank
of Boston
GORDON B. JONES
Exec. Vice President
John Hancock Mutual
Life Insurance Co.
EDWARD L. BOND

Treasurer
M.S.P.C.A. (Sr A.H.E.S.

Trustees of
Permanent Funds

THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON
01d Colony Trust Division
Boston, Mass.

, \NIERNATIONM
9‘ var

MASSACHUSETTS
SUEIETY FDR THE PREVENTION UP EHUELTY TU ANIMALS

180 LONGWOOD AVENUE ° BOSTON, MASS. 02115
TELEPHONE (617) 731-2000

January 10, 1975

Mr. and Mrs. David S. Claflin
regret they will be unable to attend the
presentation of the Schweitzer
Award for 1974 at The Great Hall,

The Smithsonian Institution on

January 14, 1975.

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL HOSPITAL — OWNED AND OPERATED BY THE MASS. S.P.C.A.

 




   
 
  
  

,m ﬁrm. if x

.134 . . 3...} -
NT...» a}? 0K Jinx. .w w 5%.: ,1}.
. .,. n K5 :(c r 0,. KK/

w. m y . ... J. 1.... a “I”.
’3. Cf. ,Pnaxr maligned... re

 

.3. .

ﬂﬁnx P.) . ,... r A... K K- of r. rear

    

M
. x...» W
V . . _ .. . m

v

0’?
(’
>~

 
 

. 3..»
\ rm “11w”

  




January 27,

Mrs. Vivien.Drozdoweki
2767 South u8th Street
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53211

Deer Mrs. Drezdowski,

Your nomination of Jacques Cousteau for a Schweitzer
Award has great merit and will certainly be given con-
sideration for next year. Are you a member ef the

Cousteau Seciety? I have joined and hope fer great
things frem it.

' Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




i "\g‘ ,9-
L‘iNE GROSBgLé :gttfy’t ‘(:K- 4m LMgéé‘iE ’

SNOWY OWL SNOW BUNTINGS LBOHEMI/i: WAXWING COMMON GOLDENEYE RED SHAFTED FLICKER

for the National Wildlife Federation.

R ‘2 a. L, )}L&3 gt
4/}; ”Z’L’CAL ','
x /L« dML c—{KJ’JLLZLLﬁ‘C4f’J 2/.

1% [1.111151% / JLLéLLLLLJ..

fﬁégﬂfgm

”M14114 L11 (1 ' 4114/: 1 4.14%
1 Lg) LL; 11144. L £111. 6;,”
7 -1 [5511.21.41 4L4» 24 £412 LL13,
a 2:: /"¢/ [4“ “‘i1fZJ (:51 "1115743211-1

191/

i

«GAL £21" LL11: 1 1&6 if H‘chﬂ

LLJLLLL 1 1* £5111th

N

zcmx’m. .16 6,

L415 _ 1" 1:6: ‘ _& L

5.1918993 ampuM IeuoueN aux Aq p. .. M

£11 1144441 1L1 11L? (£11144
14.1%
7:11: 6’ {gay

‘ {iﬁ/ (CLJKLLLL A... ,
23316 ( «if 611 («/14 (j iatbﬁ f/Z(J(144</

gtL‘LGEESE 147445;)? ”’57“

 

 

 

 

 

 

:BTSENMSAL
“wmmm‘ ~ ~ w-r é“

1“ -‘ -. L-'W"' m”! '7 '/~>y<:1_.m ~., x

Q»

éﬁx 1M1? «7&4 [/4441 1

J ......'.n

f

f 0119144 :3 éb C3
ﬁiéédiLL/ujfi“ 1C: 6'
‘ZL S’ /1~,

:;L% 2 (4711:2215? 7

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

337~2332

Dear Mrs. Rosenberg,

The attached is sent to you at
the request of Ms. Gladstone.

Mrs. Stevens is meeting with
Ms. Gladstone on January 6th at
11 A.M. in The Great Hall, and

any questions can be resolved at
that time. If I can be of any
assistance prior to that date,
please do not hesitate to phone.

Your cooperation is appreciated.

Sincer 1y,

_ ~ .€;{//

Coo e

 




‘ Glitz Birmingltmn News

Tuesday, Jan. 14, 1975 ’”

um... ..

' Schweitzer centenary

BY ANN COTTRELL FREE
Special to The News '

Walk along the Atlantic shore as I did
the other day. Look up and see a V of
snow geese heading out. Look down and
see the gleaming brown shell of a
beached horseshoe crab. And think of
Albert Schweitzer.
. Think of what Dr. Schweitzer — who

would be 100 years old today -— would
' have thought. Hewould be pleased that
snow geese fly over our country safe
from hunters’ bullets and can find feed—
ing grounds at our wildlife refuges. And
pleased, of course, that the family of
the horseshoe crab has hung in there
since Paleolithic times. .

But, I suspect, when he heard of the
variety of threats against the safety
and habitat of these wondrous crea-
tures, Dr. Schweitzer would have
asked, “How much time is left?”

His questions, however, would not

have been COnfined to geese and crabs,

but to the destiny of man himself. For
Albert Schweitzer, though no ecologist
in scientific terms, saw years ago the
close relationship between all crea-
tures. For that is what his philosophic
legacy — “reverence for life” —— is all
about. '

Rachel Carson knew this. For when
she wrote Silent Spring and launched
the age of ecology, she dedicated it to
“Albert Schweitzer, who said, “Man
has lost the capacity to foresee and to
forestall. He will end by destroying the
earth’.” ' '

Schweitzer, who during his 90 years
lived the lives of many men -- organist,

theologian, philosopher, physician,‘

missionary, writer -— was baffled by
man’s renunciation of thinking. ‘ ‘ '

“It remains incomprehensible,” he
wrote, “that our generation, which has
shown itself so great by its achieve-
ments in discovery and inventions,

could. fall so low spiritually as to give up "

thinking."

These words were written before the" l.

horrors of World War II and, unfortu-

nately, before he could command a '
'large audience. Clearly, too few were ‘ .

listening —- let along thinking.

But now the audience is larger and is"
listening as never before to the Nobel ‘

Peace Prize winner, whose early days
were spent in a small Alsatian French

town where his father was pastor of a '

Lutheran church. As we head into the
uncertainties of the last quarter of the
20th Century, men and women in dozens
. of nations are proclaiming 1975 as the
Schweitzer Year.

Great organs in many cities —- in-
cluding the one in New York’s Carnegie

Hall tonight — will ring forth with the. ‘
affirmations of Schweitzer’s beloved

Johann Sebastian Bach.

School children and college students, . ‘
here and abroad, are discussing and '

debating the Schweitzerian ethic that is

so deeply grounded in the Christian doc- »

trine of love. UNESCO in Paris is con-
ducting an international Albert
Schweitzer symposium in June. The

Schweitzer . .

two Germanys are issuing postage,
stamps. Books, films, recordings are
being issued and re-issued. The Smith-
sonian Institution and the Albert
Schweitzer Fellowship are planning a

, grand climax next year to the Schweitz-
' er Year, which got underway in Wash:
ington today with the granting of the. 7
Schweitzer Medal by the Animal Wel- ,

fare Institute to Dr. Lee Talbot of the"

.Council on Environmental Quality. 4
The most broad-gauged observance“ .,

. Humanity ”Z!

'1

of the hundreds in Western Europe,l .

Japan, Taiwan is being held in the.

American South. And it is hoped that ’ ‘

before the year is over that many other
communities will have joined Atlanta
— where Schewitzer’s daughter lives -—
in commemorations of their, own.
Rhena Schweitzer Miller is the wife of a
U. S. Public Health Service physician

whom she met at her father’s African '

hospital.

One day in 1915, on a trip away '

from his missionary hospital at Lamba-

rene in French Equatorial Africa (now j

Gabon) —— as he sat on the deck of a
small steamer -— the meaningful words
flashed across his mind. For Schweitz-
er, it was as if the “iron door had yield-
.ed and the path in the thicket had come
'Visible.”

The main problem, Schweitzer con-
ceded, was that all life cannot be spared
when it conflicts with the will-to—live of
other lives, including one’s own. Should

the fish die, so the pelican can live? f

Does not the bacteria destroying the pa-

tient have its right to live? And what .

about the lamb, the steer killed for
meat?

This is how Schweitzer answered
these questions for himself: “If man‘
has been touched by the ethic of rever-

ence for life, he injures and destroys '

life only under a necessity which he

cannot avoid and never from thought- .

lessness!’

The Schweitzer Year may get us
thinking. It may help us to “foresee and
forestall”. It may make us stronger.
When seemingly insoluable critical
choices face us, “reverence for life” —-
in its truest sense — will guide all of us

. to right decisions. _

 




Pﬂae Directors 0? tine Animag Wegtat‘e Enstitute

request tilﬁ Loner 0t yeur Presence
at tine Presentation %y

S, Bitten Riptey

Secretary 0; tile Smitlnsonian institution

0t tine
Seiaweitzer Awartt tor 1972

to

Rnsseﬂt Erret Train
@Elairman 0t tile Conneit on Environmental Quality

on Tneséay, tile twenty-first 0t Nevem£er

at tE-nree o’etoetx

Tine “a” 0t Lit-e in tile Sen
Natural History Bnitéing
Maéison Brive on the Me“ at Tent}: Street

RSVP.

Mrs. Roger Stevens Reception {ollowing
1686 34ti’l Street, NH‘V the ceremony

 




SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

SPECIAL EVENTS STAFF
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20560
December 24,l974

Dear Mrs. STevens:

Per our Telephone conversaTion, I am
enclosing a Torm #600 To Till ouT as soon
as possible(please Type). Kindly send iT To’

Mrs. DoroThy Rosenberg

ExecuTive AssisTanT To The SecreTary

SmiThsonian lnsTiTuTion ~

WashingTon, D.C. 20560

I look forward To our meeTing in The GreaT Hall
on January 6 aT ll a.m.

ﬁx Happy Holidayaa

' . «Wﬁfh' ’
:P .‘ /
a 5 .2/ » f 3’ . .
;‘ . n" , r", y la»
“ =. .«‘r.~' “ ‘ .. .. ”I , ‘ a J
I,“ g ' ' a
J“ , _

\M

JeaneTTe GladsTone
AssisTanT Special
EvenTs Officer

Room 1405, Arts & Industries Building

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
‘VASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the twenty-third
annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute to be held
on the Centenary of Dr. Albert Schweitzer's birth, January
lu, 1975 at 5:30 P.M. in the Great Hall of the Castle at
the Smithsonian Institution, 1000 Jefferson Drive, S. W. on
the Mall.

The Schweitzer Centenary will be celebrated around the
world on this day, and it is a particularly significant time
for the awarding of the Schweitzer Medal. Dr. Lee Talbot,
Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental Quality, is
the medallist, and Russell Train, Administrator of the En—
vironmental Protection Agency, will make the presentation.

Dr. Talbot's contributions to the welfare and protection
of animals have been especially significant in government.
He has been the major moving force which brought about the
Executive Order banning the poisoning of predators on the
public lands, and the resolution at the Stockholm Conference
calling for a ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of
whales. He has followed up these achievements with close
attention and strenuous efforts to hold the ground gained and
advance the cause whenever possible.

A reception will follow the ceremony. We hope you can be
with us on this important occasion to celebrate the Schweitzer
concept of life on the centenary of the birth of this great
humanitarian who has told us "We need a boundless ethics
which will include the animals also".

You are cordially invited to bring a friend or relative
who is concerned about the treatment of animals.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




ION

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

January, February, March, 1974

AFL-CIO VOTES TO SAVE WHALES

The American Federation of Labor and Congress of
Industrial Organizations passed a Resolution at its last
annual convention to Save the Whales. The full text of the
Resolution follows:

Preservation of World Whale Stocks

WHEREAS, With the passage of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act in 1972, the United States committed itself
to a major campaign to reduce the senseless and wasteful
killing of marine mammals. Many of these animals,
including seals, porpoises and whales, were considered to be
endangered and had been hunted to the point where stocks
were seriously depleted and in some instances exhausted,
and '

WHEREAS, Since the passage of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act, signiﬁcant steps by the US, both
unilaterally and multilaterally, have succeeded in setting up
reasonable programs to preserve ocean mammlas, and

WHEREAS, However, one species of mammal, the
Whale, continues to be hunted by several foreign nations,
and the future survival of this ocean creature is in jeopardy.
The major hunters of whales are the Japanese, and to a
lesser degree, the Soviet Union. Together, the two nations
account for over 90 percent of the whales killed throughout
the world, and

WHEREAS, The continuing desire of these two nations
to maximize their whale harvest runs contrary to the views
of the majority of the nations, including the United States,
represented on the International Whaling Commission, the
body which regulates the worldwide hunt for whales, and

WHEREAS, At a recent conference of the Commission
in London, Japan and Russia voted to continue to take
whales in the face of worldwide sentiment that all whale
killings should be halted, U.S. representatives pointed out
that forecasts of whale populations are unreliable and that
even with quotas, there is a grave risk of stock depletion.
They urged that all nations follow the US. lead in declaring
whales “endangered species” and prohibit either the
hunting or importation of whales or whale products, and

WHEREAS, Thus it is vital that if effective management
of this ocean resource is to take place, then the wholesale
killing of whales must be prohibited until there is sufficient
knowledge about the size and habits of whale stocks. This is
particularly true in light of the many other less depleted
ﬁsh stocks available to the Russians and Japanese that
could replace the whale’s limited role as food for humans
and animals; therefore, be it

RESOLVED: That the AFL-CIO calls upon Japan and
Russia to abide by world opinion expressed at the recent
London meeting of the International Whaling Commission,
and cease the hunting of whales in order that this important
sea mammal can be preserved and allowed to grow in
numbers, and also urges the Administration to bring
pressure on these nations to comply with world sentiment
that whales are endangered and must be preserved.

 

INTERIOR PROPOSES MAJOR
RESTRICTIONS ON WILDLIFE IMPORTS

In Proposed Regulations published December 20, 1973
in The Federal Register, the US. Department of the
Interior, under the authorization of the Lacey Act (18
U.S.C. 42) would ban importation of most wildlife for
purely commercial purposes. The dangers of introducing
exotic species are well-known, and the proposed regulations
are published under the title, “Injurious Wildlife”. This is a
courageous step in the public interest, opposed solely by
those with a vested interest in buying and selling wild
creatures made captive against their will and subjected to
suffering in transit to market which is so severe that it
frequently ends in death.

P.O. Box 3650, Washington, D. C. 20007

Vol. 23 No. 1

TALBOT PRESENTS MEDAL TO McVAY

The 1973 Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal
Welfare Institute was awarded to Scott McVay for his
distinguished service to the cause of the whales, tens of
thousands of whose dwindling numbers are being painfully
killed by explosive harpoons to satisfy commercial avarice.
The presentation was made by Dr. Lee M. Talbot, an
intensive fellow fighter for the whales in his capacity as
Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental Quality.
. Jason Robards, star of A Moon for the Misbegotten, and
of countless other plays and films, spoke movingly at the
ceremony of his love for the gray whales he watches on
their annual migration as they pass his home on the coast of
California. Robards called for decisive action by Secretary
of State Henry Kissinger to halt the slaughter by Japan and
the Soviet Union.
Texts of the presentation and acceptance speeches
follow:

Remarks of Dr. Lee M. Talbot, Senior Scientist of the
Council on Environmental Quality, at the presentation of
the Albert Schweitzer Medal to Mr. Scott McVay. Kennedy
Center, Washington, DC. December 18, 1973

It is a great pleasure and honor to have been invited by
the Animal Welfare Institute to make the 1973 Schweitzer
Medal presentation to Mr. Scott McVay.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal is presented annually by
the Animal Welfare Institute to individuals who have made
an outstanding contribution to animal welfare. It is
particularly significant that both last year’s and this year’s
medals have been given to individuals involved with the
conservation of whales.

In its early days, the Schweitzer Medal was awarded to
individuals who had contributed to animal welfare through
work involving humane handling of experimental animals.
The fourth Medalist, then Senator Hubert Humphrey,
authored the first humane slaughter bill introduced to
Congress. Subsequently, the basis for the award broadened
as our awareness of the ecological facts of life has increased.

We have gradually become aware that animals do not
exist in isolation, but that they must be considered to exist
at the center of a web of interrelationships — and that the
welfare of the animal depends upon the welfare of that
web. ‘

More recently, yet, there has been broad recognition
that this factor applies as much to man as to any other
living thing with which we share the earth. We have come to
realize that our own welfare, indeed our own survival,
depends upon maintaining intact and healthy the
ecosystems on which we rely; and the survival of any of the
species which are components of these ecosystems is a part
of this. There has also been a growing international
component to this new environmentalism. This was
epitomized by the Stockholm Conference on Human
Environment where 113 nations to a large degree laid aside
their political differences to concentrate their efforts on the
world’s environmental problems.

The results of the Stockholm Conference included
agreement on over 100 specific actions, on United Nations
environmental institutions and a declaration of
environmental principles; yet the issue which became the
symbol of the Conference was the whale. There is probably
no living thing today that has come to be as representative
and symbolic of our environmental awareness as the whales.

Whales have become a focal point for international
conservation concern. They have represented a true tragedy
of the commons. They have been all-too exemplary of the
over-exploitation and abuse of the environment and its
resources by shortsighted human action. In the past they
represented a significant natural resource. With successful
conservation, they may again in the future. More than that,
they represent what is widely believed to be a high order of
intelligent being. The public responds to whales because of
their unique size, their social structure, their songs, and

 




 

from what many believe to be their kinship to us as
intelligent mammals, and their continuing plight and
endangerment at the hands of a handful of greedy
industries and peoples. Beyond all this, whales no longer
represent a truly significant economic or food resource. If
we prove unable to manage whales, it does not augur well
for our ability to manage any of the other species for which
there is so much greater incentive of exploitation. In other
words, if we cannot find a way to manage whales
successfully, it is unlikely we will be able to do so
successfully with any other component of our living
environment.

As a scientist, I cannot say it is more important to
conserve the whales than it is to conserve any other group
of living things; but as one concerned with conservation in
general and with the politics and policies of international
environmental concern, I can say that there is probably no
one group animal which has the significance of whales to
world conservation.

Scott McVay is at once a most unlikely protagonist of
the whale issue and a most appropriate one. He is unlikely
because there is little in his background to suggest whales.
In Princeton he majored in English and wrote his senior
thesis on George Bernard Shaw. When he graduated, he
listed sculpture among his special interests and indicated he
planned an architectural career. He subsequently became,
among other things, recording secretary, assistant treasurer,
and assistant to the President of Princeton. He is currently
Executive Director of the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation
in New York. This I submit is a most unlikely background
for a champion of the whales.

Yet, at the same time, it is a highly appropriate
background. As I have described earlier, the whales have
become a symbol to a great many people in a great many
countries. Indeed they are doubtless more important to the
general public than they are to the scientific specialists.

Scott says that his interest in whales was first aroused by
Melville’s Moby Dick. In any event following his work at
Princeton he went to the Communication Research
Institute at Coconut Grove, Florida, to work on a study of
the life and language of the bottle-nose dolphin, and by
1965, he wrote in his college year book that his intent was
to contribute to man’s understanding of the life and
language of the whales.

Since that time, he has made truly signiﬁcant
contributions to the public understanding and awareness of
the problem of conservation of the whales. In 1966 his
article in Scientific American “The Last of the Great
Whales” provided one of the first definitive views the public
had received of the tragic results of modern whaling. His
subsequent articles, for example, in Natural History
Magazine, the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, National Parks,
Audubon, the American Scientist, and two op-ed pieces in
The New York Times have all contributed to a growing
public awareness of the problem and concern with it.

In his role as spokesman for the public concern with
whales, he has served as the lead witness invited from
outside government at the congressional hearing in 1971
which led to the congressional resolution calling for
a moratorium on whaling; he was an invited speaker
representing the conservation vieWpoint at the 1971
International Conference on Whale Biology, and further in
his role as a citizen spokesman, he was Observer to the
International Whaling Commission meeting in 1970, and a
full member of the US. delegation to the IWC in 1971 and
1972.

He made a significant contribution to the decision of the
Mexican Government to declare Scammon’s Lagoon in Baja,
California, as a permanent whale sanctuary.

In 1970, he traveled to Japan to encourage SIX leading
scientists to form a committee for preservation of whales
under the chairmanship of Dr. Seiji Kaya, former President
of the Tokyo University.

Following his work on dolphin communications in
Florida, he expanded his interests to larger whales and has
organized two expeditions to the Arctic to study the
bowhead whale along the northwest coast of Alaska, one in
1971 and another this year. In conjunction with the
bowhead work he traveled with us to the Soviet Union in
January of this year as a member of the first working group
to be convened under the US-USSR Environment
Agreement. He is also co-author of “Songs of the Hump-

back Whale” which appeared in Science in 1971.

From this I believe it is clear that he had indeed
accomplished his aim of contributing to man’s

 

understanding of the life and language of whales, but — and
this is somewhat heretical coming from a scientist — in my
Opinion far more important is his contribution to public
understanding and awareness of the plight of the whales
and as a citizen spokesman, his contribution to Government
actions on behalf of the whales.

Last year’s Schweitzer Award went to Russell Train
because of his key role personally in our Government’s
efforts to conserve whales, but he also symbolized the
efforts of our Government.

But in this as in other endeavors the Government and
the public represents an essential partnership. This year’s
Schweitzer Award is being presented to Scott McVay both
because of his personal key role in and contributions to
whale conservation and also because he is symbolic of the
citizen role in this endeavor which is so important to animal
welfare and welfare of our environment.

It therefore gives me very great pleasure to present to
you, Scott, the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal
Welfare Institute.

  

  

,i

Schweitzer Medalist Scott Mc Vay speaking on whales.

Remarks of Scott McVay Chairman, Committee on Whales,
Environmental Defense Fund

“WHAT ON EARTH WAS A WHALE?
THE CHILD ASKED US
IN AN INNOCENT VOICE”*

This occasion gives me a chance to mention several
persons who have made substantial contributions to whale
conservation and acknowledge many more besides who may
be unrecognized, many whose contributions in the weeks
ahead will tell whether some species of whales will survive.
The crisis today is sharply deﬁned, carrying the unanimous
conviction of the United Nations conferences in Stockholm
and Geneva — and the principal conservation groups around
the world — the Killing of Whales Must Stop.

The scale of the whale tragedy may be sensed by the fact
that no one is working full-time on the conservation of the
whale, although two countries participate year around in
the continuing destruction of the whale, repudiating
recently even the moderate accords reached at the
International Whaling Commission meeting last June in
London. The time is ripe for sterner measures that may be
more keenly felt than the reason of science or a planetary
ethic that transcends terrible pockets of wastefulness,
aggression, and greed, or an obligation that reaches down
the centuries to leave as much of the natural world whole
and intact as we can.

To understand where we are going, we recall where we
have been. Conservation of the whale has had the
intermittent attention of a remarkable set of men and
women. At the top of the roster is the late Remington
Kellogg of the Smithsonian who worked toward
international regulation of whaling in the 1930’s and caused
the International Whaling Convention to meet in
Washington in December, 1946. With Johan Ruud of
Norway, Dr. Kellogg led efforts within the International
Whaling Commission in the 1950’s to curb unrestrained
whaling by five nations for an annual quota of 16,000 blue
whale units which was no quota at all. Through the efforts
of Ruud and Kellogg, a Committee of Three Scientists was
appointed in 1960 to review the data and make
recommendations. In violation of the Commission’s pledge
to comply, the recommendations of the scientists were
deferred and deferred again in 1963 and 1964.

I first met Dr. Kellogg in 1959 or 1960. On my third

*from The Day the Whale Becomes Extinct, by Kenzaburo 0e.

 

 




 

visit to his ofﬁce at the Smithsonian within the next year or
two, I pressed this fine old gentleman, who had high black
shoes prOpped up on his desk, why so little progress was
being made to conserve whales. His heavy mailbag as US.
Commissioner to the IWC suggested widespread concern.
He countered by saying the whale had no lobby, and only
one person came back three times. He said he was tired of
pounding his head against a stone wall and that others
would have to take up the cause.

As each of us in the conservation community and the
Federal bureaucracy has learned, things which matter most
with us must be acted upon. You can not assume that
someone else is carrying the ball. With Dr. Kellogg’s
encouragement, “The Last of the Great Whales” was
written in 1964 and eventually appeared in Scientiﬁc
American in 1966.

A member of the Committee of Three Scientists who
saw beyond the data the true scale of the whale tragedy was
Sidney Holt, a biologist for 16 years with FAO, who
showed leadership, vision and good sense at the
International Conference on Whale Biology in June, 1971,
making a major contribution to the basic recommendations
of the conference.

In Japan, Dr. Teizo Ogawa, who is completing a history
of Japanese medicine, is an authority on the anatomy of
the whale and in particular its brain. His work over four
decades testifies to the significance of the cetacean brain
and its importance in understanding the human brain. In
one paper he wrote,

The present author has often told his students a fable
of his own, imagining two high peaks in the realm of
Mammalia, namely, Mt. HOMO and Mt. CETACEA,
the latter boasting of a much greater height than the
former.

Dr. Ogawa is a member of our committee for the
preservation of whales in Japan, and he is especially upset
by the unchecked slaughter of dolphins and porpoises by
the Japanese.

Another staunch advocate for the whale is Rod
Cameron, Executive Director of the Environmental Defense
Fund, who approached me in 1969 to head up the EDF
whale effort. Among his contributions was testimony in
1970 in Washington at an Interior hearing to consider the
placement of the Sperm whale on the endangered list and
later in San Francisco at a Department of Commerce
hearing to consider closing down whaling Operations in
California. If the whales have an attorney, it is Rod
Cameron.

One biologist exemplifies a new approach to the study
of the whale, Roger Payne. For five years he observed and
recorded the Humpback whale off Bermuda, working on
the assumption that you must spend extended periods of
time with whales in their ocean habitat to understand them.
Our joint discovery of the Song of the Humpback Whale
and its detailed analysis was published in Science in 1971,
and through Roger’s efforts a record was made which has
sold 100,000 copies. (The whale is still more eloquent than
any of his surrogates!) It was Roger’s idea to recommend
the great whales for Interior’s endangered species list. Payne
is now nearing the end of more than 18 months’ study of
the Southern Right whale off the Patagonian coast of
Argentina. When he returns, his films and reports will
contribute substantively to our future View of whales.

The first of a progression of events which have led to a
consolidated U.S. position on the whale problem, with a
close working relationship between the environmental
community and Federal agencies, was the designation by
Secretary of Interior Walter Hickel of eight whale species as
endangered in the Federal Register of December 2, 1970,
following six months’ debate. “Buff” Bohlen ably sustained
this decision against heavy pressures within government and
from the importers of Sperm whale oil. Indeed, his role
cannot be overestimated.

The Secretary of Commerce followed in due course with
the closing of whaling operations in California in December,
1971.

Perhaps we should pause to acknowledge the leadership
of the next Secretary of Commerce, Peter Peterson, who
took steps to deal with the large-scale slaughter of porpoises
by the tuna fishery working out of southern Callfornia.
(This is usually referred to as “the znczdentazl slaughter of
porpoises.” The slaughter is not incidental. It IS part and
parcel of the purse-seine technique srnce the pole and 11ne
were put aside.)

A quarter million porpoises have been lost every year for
many years. How big a number is that? It is the number of
people in this room plus one thousand like gatherings. In
the early 1960’s as many as one million porpoises perished
every year. Secretary Peterson gave this problem high
priority, and substantial funds and personnel have been
committed to its resolution. Robert White, the
Administrator of NOAA (National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration), shares this commitment and
is seeing to its implementation. The tragedy is of staggering
pr0portions. Six to eight times as many porporises were lost
in tuna nets in the first three months of this year as there
were whales taken on the high seas last year (upwards of
300,000 against 37,000). This remains a National Tragedy,
and when an extension is sought for the two-year
exemption to the Marine Mammal Protection Act, the
appear warrents close scrutiny. (The Environmental
Defense Fund recently ﬁled a letter prior to the December
10, 1973 deadline for comment at this juncture.)

Perhaps we should pause to recognize another dimension
of the whale saga, the aesthetic one. Not only have
symphonies been composed using the song of the
Humpback whale, but the whale’s sounds and motions have
inspired performances of considerable diversity among
professional and college groups across the country.

An artist has emerged who has done a series of whale
works, major drawings and illuminated sculpture. He will be
regarded one day as an artist of the first rank. William
Scoresby noted in 1820, “. . .the drawings hitherto given of
many of the whale tribe are so unlike, and so preposterous,
that they tend rather to mislead than to assist the practical
zoologist.” The comment still obtains today, but we are
fortunate that Larry Foster of Oakland, California is
contributing to an improved understanding of the shape,
markings, and motion of the whale. He is known for the
beauty and precision of his work, and to see his originals is
almost as exciting as seeing a great whale. . .

Philippe Cousteau’s underwater ﬁlm of the Humpback
whale showed a fantastic underwater ballet of a mother
swimming on her back with outstretched ﬂippers cradling,
but not touching, an infant breathing frequently at the
surface. . .

The image of the great Arctic whale, the Bowhead, is a
living one now — after our expeditions of 1971 and 1973 —
an image of a whale that breaches in Spring, a great whale
that may on occasion be surrounded by a “halo” of smaller
belugas, a whale that can rise before you in those frozen
seas like the fabled Atlantis, again and again as it spouts
nearer. (A one-hour ﬁlm documentary of this year’s
expedition will be completed in April.). . .

Permit me to read a rough translation of a passage from
a recent book, The Day the Whale Becomes Extinct, by
Kenzaburo Oe, the leading writer in Japan today.

One desolate twilight evening

on a high tower overlooking a valley

deep in the woods where I grew up,

together with several adults

I stood looking toward. the West.

The dream was unlike other dreams,

because I was no longer a child

but was now one of those adults,

and yet in the sense that

I had been included in the group

as the one who least understood what was going on,
this dream was after all like all the others,

it became like one of those daily nightmares,
as the western sky took on a dark red hue
without a sign of light,

and we all sunk into the darkness and

were buffeted by profuse winds which blew up.
One old man, bursting the silent atmosphere of
expectation, said: “Ah, ﬁnally, the last whale died.”
We pushed each other for the ﬁrst position,
pounding down the hill as if trying to crush
pebbles beneath our sandals with our feet,

we went down to the valley,

but as we were about to say,

“finally the last whale. . . ”

to the child who was standing ,

on the cobbled path in the dark valley,

“What on earth was a Whale?”

the child asked us in an innocent voice.

I tried to explain to him about whales,

but since I didn’t remember a thing about whales
myself, I clammed up.

And then I realized with a sense of fathomless
annihilation that the old man of just now

 




 

 

 

was the “me” of the past
and the child none other
than the “me” of the future.
The face of the child,
looking up silently at me,
distinct in the evening light,
was crumbling away.

Besides major literary contributions in Japan by
Kenzaburo Oe and Sakyo Komatsu, and others, six
distinguished scientists led by Dr. Seiji Kaya, former
president of Tokyo University, have been working for the
preservation of the whale through articles, appearances on
television, and meetings with top government officials.

Also, the actions of our neighbors to the South and to
the North are encouraging. In response to a proposal we
submitted in June, 1971, to Eduardo Jimenez Qonzales of
the Mexican Embassy, President Luis Echeverria declared
Scammon’s Lagoon a permanent whale sanctuary. In
December, 1972, the Canadian Commissioner of Fisheries,
Jack Davies, closed their three remaining whale stations
(two in Newfoundland and one in Nova Scotia).

A year ago Russell Train’s formidable contribution was
recognized in this ceremony. Thanks to his interest and
leadership in June, 1972 the first resolution reported out of
the Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment
called for a ban on the killing of whales by a vote of 53 to
zero. (It is worth noting parenthetically that someone on
the periphery suggested a second somewhat similar
resolution be submitted substituting the words “human
being” for “whale”. Thus, a ban on the killing of human
beings for ten years was brieﬂy considered but quickly
abandoned since it would be such a departure from past
and current practices. . . And yet if we do achieve a
moratorium on the killing of whales, it may prove a useful
precedent.)

Chairman Train led the U. S. delegation to the
International Whaling Commission two weeks later,
providing inspired leadership, and he was ably followed by
Robert White, the new U. S. Commissioner, in June 1973.
(By the way tomorrow evening you may watch Dr. White
on the Dick Cavett show and sense the depth of
commitment within government to the whale problem; he
will speak about the follow-up to Secretary of State
Kissinger’s tough cables recently to Tokyo and Moscow and
perhaps of the leverage in soybeans and wheat.)

Six months ago, the moratorium was“approved by 8 of
the 14 delegations to the IWC, a majority but not the
necessary three-fourths vote required for adoption. As a
compromise three modest accords were reached. Fin
whaling was to be phased out in three years. A quota for
Minke whales of 5,000 was set, as was a by-area quota for
Sperm whales in the Antarctic. The Japanese have now
repudiated these three agreements, and the Russians the
last two. (The Russians have given up on the Fin Whale.)
The blatant disregard of the Commission means that we
have essentially an outlaw situation, and the imminent
collapse of the International Whaling Commission puts
other international negotiations, which also must proceed
on good faith, in jeopardy. We’ll come back to this shortly.

First, we should acknowledge four major books over a
five-year span written on this continent that have
contributed to the growing awareness about the plight of
the whale and our interconnected destiny. We will sample a
couple lines from each.

The Year of the Whale by Victor B. Scheffer (1969)
“Will the orbiting satellite speak through space to tell the
hunter where to find the last whale?”

The Blue Whale by George L. Small (1971)“The tragedy of
the blue whale is the reflection of an even greater one, that
of man himself. What is the nature of a Species that
knowingly and without good reason exterminates another?
How long will man persist in the belief that he is the master
of the Earth rather than one of its guests?”

A Whale for the Killing by Farley Mowat (1972) “(It
was) identified as a Fin whale, the second largest animal
ever to live on earth. We could see the marks of
bullets—holes and slashes—across the back from the
blowhole to the fin. It was just beyond me to even begin to
understand the mentality of men who would amuse
themselves filling such a majestic creature full of bullets.
Why try to kill it?”

Lord of the Fish by Faith McNulty (1973) “Leaders of
the conservation ﬁght in this country talk of a United
States boycott of Japanese goods and an appeal to the
Common Market to close off Europe as a market for whale
products. . .such tactics, which reduce the issue to dollars,
rubles, and yen, are the only ones likely to work where
appeals to humanity, ethics and pure reason have failed.”

One American scientist who has kept a low profile
(that’s how things get done) deserves our special thanks
today. He drafted U. S. policy for the 1971 IWC meeting in
Washington. He drafted the U. S. resolution at Stockholm
calling for a ten—year moratorium on the killing of whales.
He has been accessible to conservationists except when
behind the wheel of his sports car. Reminding all hands of
the shaky data base, he has contributed to the formulation
of U. S. policy for the past two IWC meetings in London
and has been a skillful negotiator in the hour-by-hour
deliberations with the Russians and Japanese. Last January
in Russia, he showed a gift for working with the Russians
on the development of joint studies of endangered species.
Lee Talbot, we are in your debt.

One of the perquisites of the pilgrimage for whales is
the people you meet along the way. Some join for a time
and are most welcome. Others are in for the duration. Such
is Christine Stevens, who if I could put her into one word,
and could pronounce it, it would be “indefatigable”. She
has stuck to the central issue — to stop the killing of
whales. Singlehandedly, she pushed the moratorium
resolution through the Senate in 1971, and in due course,
following public hearings, it was adopted by the House of
Representatives. This step made possible the next step at
Stockholm where the consolidated U. S. view found the
support of 52 other countries. Mrs. Stevens has,
furthermore, been a prime mover behind the broadly
supported boycott of Japanese and Soviet goods in the
United States which will persist until the whaling irons rust
in the racks. This gentle woman’s reverence for life and
tenacity for its preservation must become more widely
shared if we are going to make it.

Others making lasting contributions from the private
sector are known to you, the gentleman-from-Wyoming
Tom Garrett, journalist Michael Frome, biologist Steve
Seater, Lewis Regenstein of the Fund for Animals, and the
anonymous heroes of the editorial pages of The New York
Times and Washington Post. Joan MacIntyre is leading the
children’s crusade. Tom Kimball’s strong unequivocal stand
on the boycott commands respect, as he speaks for
three-and-one-half million members of the National Wildlife
Federation.

Tomorrow morning Senator Magnuson, a previous
Schweitzer medalist, and Senator Pell will introduce a
resolution expressing the concern of the United States
about the exploitation of certain marine resources, which
encompasses not only a condemnation of Japanese and
Soviet whaling malpractice but also deals with the depleted
salmon and halibut resource.

Finally, I wish to acknowledge my magnificent wife,
Hella, who has made my participation in the whale effort
possible and much more besides.

Henry David Thoreau once wrote,

Can he who has discovered only some of the values of
whalebone and whale oil be said to have discovered
the true use of the whale? Can he who slays the
elephant for his ivory be said to have ‘seen the
elephant”? These are petty and accidental uses; just as
if a stronger race were to kill us in order to make
buttons and ﬂageolets of our bones...

We wonder, is our obituary scrawled in the fate of the
whale? Maybe. But we have made a beginning at
restitution. We are dimly sensing the outlines of whales,
when spouting, breaching, courting, loving, nursing. We
know the True Use of the Whale transcends the marginal
uses of blubber, beef and bone. We sense that our own
humanity is inextricably wedded to the destiny of the
whale. We know that time is short, and the next few weeks
will spell the outcome of the struggle. Reluctantly, because
of other problems for the Japanese, we must carry the call
for the boycott of goods to the corners of the land and
beyond. These may be uncertain times, but of one thing we
may be certain. If the last whales die, something in us will
die, too. When the children ask later, “What on earth is a
whale?” — I hOpe we may answer, “THAR SHE BLOWS!”

 




 

 

 

 

LORENZ, VON FRISCH
AND TINBERGEN AWARDED NOBEL PRIZE

“The Nobel prize for Physiology or Medicine has been
awarded jointly to three zoologists,” an article in Science, 2
November, 1973 announced. The authors, P. Marler and D.
R. Griffin of Rockefeller University provided extremely
interesting background on what they termed “a new
departure for the Nobel Committee of the Karolinska
Institute, acknowledging for the ﬁrst time major advances
in our understanding of sociology, especially in the area of
behavioral science known as ethology.”

The prize was awarded to Karl von F risch, 86 years old,
of the University of Munich, Konrad Lorenz, 69 years old,
of the Max Planck Institute for Behavioral Physiology at
Seewiesen, near Munich; and Nikolass Tinbergen, 66 years
old, of the Department of Zoology at Oxford University,
for their discoveries concerning organization and elicitation
of individual and social behavior patterns.

“At a time when studies of learning in animals were
generally conducted in the laboratory, thereby posing
problems largely irrelevant to their natural biology, these
three men discovered in the natural behavior of animals
both learned and innate patterns, exquisitely adapted to
their particular phylogenetically determined ways of life,”
Marler and Grifﬁn wrote. “At one stroke they explained
some of the most remarkable examples of the ﬁne control
of elaborate patterns of behavior by external stimuli known
to science, sometimes learned, sometimes not, while leaving
in no doubt the crucial importance of genetic difference in
understanding the development of behavior.

Karl von Frisch, inspired pioneer of comparative
physiology, has opened our eyes to several unsuspected
‘sensory windows’ through which animals view the world,
and to complex and versatile communication behavior
controlled by insect nervous systems formerly thought
capable only of rigid mechanical responses. . . in 1944 he
found the real “Rosetta Stone” to decipher the language of
bees: Round dances mean a food source nearby, waggle
dances one at some distance. More important, the direction
of the straight portion of the waggle dance points the way
to the food, and its duration signals the distance. On a
horizontal surface the dancing bee points directly toward
the food, but ordinarily the dances take place inside a dark
hive on a vertical surface. Here straight up corresponds to
the direction of the sun, which serves as a directional
reference point. . .

“Konrad Lorenz, acknowledged founder of the science
of ethology, derived his insights into the causation and
organization of behavior from studying ﬁsh and birds. At
Altenburg in Austria, the house of his father, a Viennese
orthopedist, was always full of animals and birds. A
precocious naturalist, Lorenz developed early what became
a lifelong passion for raising both wild and domestic
animals by hand, and for living with them in the closest
quarters, and so gaining insights into the relation between
genome and experience in ontogeny. . .

“Some of his viewpoints as expressed in the p0pular
book On Aggression, which suggests an endogenous
motivation to seek out opportunities for ﬁghting in ﬁsh,
and perhaps in man as well, proved highly controversial.
However one senses deeper roots to the outrage with which
some react to analogies between animal and human
behavior. In the introduction to the 1970 translations of his
work, Lorenz reﬂects wryly, ‘The fact that the behaviour
not only of animals, but of human beings as well, is to a
large extent determined by nervous mechanisms evolved in
the phylogeny of the species, in other words, by “instinct”,
was certainly no surprise to any biologically-thinking
scientist. It was treated as a matter of course, which, in
fact, it is. On the other hand, by emphasizing it and by
drawing the sociological and political inferences I seem to
have incurred the fanatical hostility of all those doctrinaires
whose ideology has tabooed the recognition of this fact.
The idealistic and vitalistic philosophers to whom the belief
in the absolute freedom of the human will makes the
assumption of human instincts intolerable, as well as the
behaviouristic psychologists who assert that all human
behaviour is learned, all seem to be blaming me for holding
Opinions which in fact have been public property of
biological science since The Origin of Species was written.’

“The young Niko Tinbergen, an avid naturalist from his
boyhood in the sand dunes and pine forests of Hulshorst in
Holland, saw the intricacies of insect behavior, speciﬁcally
that of digger waSps hunting other insects and provisioning

nest burrows with the corpses, as a testing ground for
hypotheses about the sensory control of behavior. An
opportunity while a graduate student in zoology at the
University of Leiden to participate in 1931-32 in an Arctic
expedition added snow buntings, phalaropes and Eskimo
sled dogs to a growing list of animals into whose behavior
Tinbergen was to cast profound evolutionary insights. .
With von Frisch and Lorenz, Tinbergen has expressed the
view that ethological demonstrations of the extraordinarily
intricate interdependence of the structure and behavior of
organisms are relevant to understanding the psychology of
our own species. Indeed this award might be taken not only
as fitting recognition of the outstanding research
accomplishments of these three zoologists, but also as an
appreciation of the need to review the pictures that we
often seem to have of human behavior as something quite
outside nature, hardly subject to the principles that mold
the biology, adaptability, and survival of other organisms.”

 

ORLANS IN THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

A front-page article in The Wall Street Journal, January
25, 1974 reported at length on the work of F. Barbara
Orlans, Ph. D., a long-standing member of the AWI
Scientific Committee of Advisors, well known to readers of
the Information Report for her untiring efforts to prevent
cruel experiments on animals by untrained youths.

Dr Orlans’ carefully documented analyses of science fairs
showing the high prOportion of projects causing pain and/ or
death to vertebrate animals have appeared in Information
Reports Vol.21, No. 4, Vol.21, No. 3, Vol. 19, No. 2, Vol.
19, No. l, and Vol.17, No. 2. She played an important role
working with the Special Study Committee on the Use of
Animals in Biomedical Research andTesting, of the Humane
Society of the United States, in developing Guiding
Principles for Use of Animals in Elementary and Secondary
Schools. These Principles clearly designate procedures
which must not be undertaken by high school students.
They state in Part: “No procedures shall be performed on
any warm-blooded animal that might cause it pain,
suffering, or discomfort or otherwise interfere with its
normal health. Warm-blooded animals include man, other
mammals such as gerbils, guinea pigs, mice, rabbits,
hamsters and rats. It also includes birds, such as hens, quail,
and pigeons. This means that a student shall do unto other
warm-blooded animals only what he can do to himself
without pain or hazard to health. No surgery shall be
performed on any living vertebrate animal (mammal, bird,
reptile or amphibian)”.

It was highly encouraging to read in The Pharmacologist,
Vol.15, No.2, Fall, 1973, the following report: “Guiding
Principles for Use of Animals in Elementary and Secondary
Schools submitted by Dr. Barbara Orlans were brought to
the attention of the Council. They have already been
approved by the Humane Society of the United States, the
Veterinary Advisory Committee, and the Special Study
Committee on the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research.
After reviewing these principles, Council voted to endorse
them.”

The Council referred to is the Council of the American
Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics,
a member organization of the Federation of American
Societies for Experimental Biology.

 

U.S. PETITIONED TO BAN
SALES OF BABY TURTLES

A total ban on the sale of baby turtles has been called
for in petitions to the Food and Drug Administration, the
Center for Communicable Disease Control in Atlanta, and
the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The legal
documents submitted by Consumers Union and the
Humane Society of the United States are fully documented
showing the complete failure of current regulations to
control the turtle mongers who sell diseased animals by the
millions to the public. The result: serious illness and
hospitalization of children; suffering and slow death to
infant turtles.

Humane organizations have protested in vain for years
cver the cruelty inextricably involved in the turtle trade,
for the overwhelming majority of these small creatures
slowly starve to death. The serious public health
considerations most justifiably raised by Consumers Union
should help to put an end to this nefarious trade once and
for all. (See A.W.I. Information Report, Vol. 22, No. 4).

 




Inspection burdens become heavier as the number of
persons licensed or registered under the Animal Welfare Act
increases. On February 1, USDA had licensed 4,385 animal
dealers; registered 904 research facilities; and licensed or
registered 913 animal exhibitors. Lists of these, current as
of November 1, 1973, are available. Inspectors now cover
about 7,500 premises —— a more than four-fold increase over
1971. At current budget levels, inspections are limited to

AWI INFORMATION REPORT
ARTICLE INSPIRES BOOK

Author Elizabeth Yates McGreal wrote to the Animal
Welfare Institute February 4, 1974, telling how her popular
book about an unusual dog had come to be written.

“The story of Skeezer,” Mrs. McGreal wrote, “was

 

 

published by Harvey House last spring, but I have been
intending to send you notice of it for a very particular
reason.

“There never would have been a story at all had I not
read in the late winter of 1970 an article in your Bulletin
about this very dog. I was intrigued by the fact that Skeezer
was serving the cause of medicine with her life, not by
forfeiting it in a laboratory.

. “A sequence of events resulted in my spending some
time at Children’s Psychiatric Hospital, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, to see Skeezer in action, then the
book was written, checked with authorities for accuracy,
and published last spring.

“It is soon to be released in a paperback which pleases
me as it will be able to reach many more people with a
lower price.”

The Animal Welfare Institute salutes Mrs. McGreal for
her tribute to this mongrel dog.

Skeezer’s photograph appears as the frontispiece of the
book, Skeezer, Dog With a Mission'. It is reproduced below
with the accompanying description.

Courtesy Ira Rosenberg -

“This is Skeezer, who helps to heal emotionally
disturbed children. She lives and works at the Children’s
Psychiatric Hospital at the University of Michigan Medical
Center at Ann Arbor. Skeezer’s job is to reach troubled
children who have retreated within themselves and become
resistant to human help. Carefully trained, but responsive in
her own way, Skeezer makes her comforting presence felt
by a child starved for affection, by one who wants just to
be listened to, and by those in need of a playmate.

“Now in her seventh year of residency at CPH, Skeezer is
the trusted and beloved member of a medical team,
carrying out her mission as ‘canine co-therapist.’ ”

The original article about Skeezer (Ann Arbor News,
July 16, 1970) noted: “Unlike her professional associates,
Skeezer never goes off duty. Her home is beside Miss
Williams’ desk at the nursing station. But she has learned to
take free run of the hospital, through a combination of
great patience and uncanny knowledge of where she is and
where she wants to go.

“To commute through the six-story building with its
many closed or locked doors, Skeezer prefers the elevator.
When ready to travel she takes up a position at the elevator
door and simply waits for a human to enter or leave the
cage. Then she darts in and rides patiently up and down
until the door opens on the ﬂoor‘ she wants to visit.”

 

F OUR-F OLD INCREASE IN
A.P.H.I.S. INSPECTION LOAD

Enforcement of Animal Welfare Act Penalizes Dealers

The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
issued a summary of current animal care enforcement work

on February 11, 1974, four paragraphs of which follow.

two per year. Complaints, however, continue to get first
inspection priority.

Charges were filed December 3, 1973 against a New
Jersey animal dealer for shipping cats in substandard crates
and keeping improper records. Henry Christ of Farmingdale
will appear before an administrative law judge to hear the
charges. He also will have to appear in US. District Court at
Newark on charges filed October 23 that he violated a 1970
USDA cease-and-desist order. (See A.W.I. Information
Report, Vol. 22, No.4)

As a result of legal action on unrelated alleged violations,
K.G. Farms, Inc., Parsippany, N.J., and Edward
Radzilowski, Memphis, Mich., have signed separate
cease-and-desist orders. Mr. Radzilowski also received a
14-day license suspension.

US DA‘s dealer licensing requirement was upheld in
court, when Gary Te Stroete, a Sioux Center, Iowa, dog
dealer, was fined a total of $450 on six counts of violating
the Animal Welfare Act. He had been charged on December
11 with failure to obtain a license and shipping dogs across
state lines without proper identification.

RECENT CONGRESSIONAL ACTION
ON PROTECTION OF ANIMALS

The new strengthened Endangered Species Act became
law December 21, 1973. Following this action, the US.
Government deposited at Morges, Switzerland its
ratification of the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.Our country is
the first to take such action. Nine other countries must do
the same before the treaty goes into effect.

A Joint Resolution, to protect whales, S.J. Res. 184, was
introduced by Senator Warren Magnuson (D., Wash),
December 21, 1973, and a companion Resolution, HJ. Res.
866, was introduced by Congressman Alphonzo‘Bell (R.,
Calif .). The Resolution paves the way for economic
sanctions by the United States to halt Japanese and Soviet
commercial whaling.

A report on Problems in Air Shipment of Domestic
Animals was issued, December 21, 1973, by the Special
Studies Subcommittee of the House Committee on
Government Operations. It recommended an interagency
committee of the US. Department of Agriculture, Civil
Aeronautics Board, and Federal Aviation Administration to
try to meld jurisdictions (USDA has no authority over
common carriers on the way they transport animals). “Only
CAB has the authority to compel airline compliance”, the
Report underlined. The Report also emphasized the
extreme understaffing of USDA: “One witness, a Kansas
breeder, pointed out that each of seven USDA inspectors in
Kansas is supposed to inspect 193 kennels per month or 91/2
kennels per day. As the witness put it, ‘In a place like
Kansas, that is a lot of driving.’ ”

Oversight hearings on the Marine Mammal Protection
Act were held January 16, 1974 by Congressman John
Dingell (D., Mich.).

Hearings were held by Senator Claiborne Pell (D., R.I.)
January 23, 1974 on S. 2774 which would create a
National Zoological and Aquarium Board. Senator Mark
Hatfield (R., Ore.) is the author of the bill.

On February 7, 1974, the House of Representatives
passed H.R. 11873, Congressman John Melcher’s (D.,
Mont.) bill to provide funds for veterinary research,
including research on animal birth control, a provision
added at the request of the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation. The bill now goes to the Senate where hearings
have already been held.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Scientiﬁc Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. Paul Kiernan, M1), Samuel Peacock, M.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D. F. Barbara Orlans, Phi), John Walsh, M.D.

Lee R. Dice, Ph.D. . .
_ _ International Committee
T-G- Anilk‘dtlldes, D-VM- ~ Greece David Ricardo _ Canada

. N. E. Wernberg — Denmark
Major C.W. Hume, O.B.E., B.Sc., M.l. Biol. ~ United Kingdom

P. Rousselet-Blanc, D.V. — France
Ofﬁcers
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Christine Stevens, President

' . Barbara Gould, Administrative Assistant
Cynthla erson, Vice President

Marilyn Chamberlain, Publications Secretary

 




9 ,7; MLLM‘g/“\ ll/Lmaw
‘w" tAWTON, OKLA. /7
CONSTITUTION
SUN 24,00!)

/ l

 

ndon’s Hunt Provides Glimpse Of Extinct Elk

ART HALLORAN

.V now thrive in the Wichitas.
._.ECEMBER, more than

the elk stood with his large,
But back in 1869. On Jan. 8

beautiful eyes fiXed upon me.

the ranges as far as they ex-
tended. Through a glass, Mt,

‘ Nets 'try to bag a Wa-
t. American Elk) in the

in Mountains Wildlife

: .869lsobn after ’Fort Sill
Established, Gen. Phil

of that year, Gen. Sheridan
personally laid out a ground
plan and formally established
a military outpost that was
soon named Fort Sill.

Gen. Sheridan had a "news-

Webster at the western and
could be distinctly seen.

“I never was better repaid
for a journey than upon the
occasion of this visit, and I
felt better satisfied than ever

My motions must have excited
his curiosity the more. Having ‘
sufficiently recovered, I ram-
med a cartridge into the
chamber. .

‘ ‘ B u t ' w i t -

‘ having
an, .hun-ted the now ex-
iant elk of the Wichitas.
.natiVe elk of the Wich-
ere the. great M’erriam’s
These native game .ani-
j'iFWEGd from this high”
items. of Arizona and New
0 south into Old Mexico
.. ' $10 the Wichitas. They
Minot classified by the sci-
gilt-World until 1886 when
uNelson, a biblogist of
U.S; Biological. Survey
.ecessor to US.) Fish &
Idllfe Service) collected a
glaelk in the velvet at the
of Black River in the
.. . Mountains of. Arizona.
gamed this elk after C.
Q! Merriam, chief of the
ﬁgical Survey. Nelson’s

paper man with him 'who "that the mountain was worthy
wrote of-his campaigns. This ‘- of the name and great deeds
man, De B. Randolph Keim,‘ ‘of Sheridan, and particularly
wrote of Sheridan’s 1869 hunt. to commemorate the success
in the Wichitas to the west. of . of the winter campaign on the
Fort Sill on land now within “plains. ' 7 ‘ '
the refuge. , ‘
The hunt area was near Mt. ‘
Sheridan- Mt. Sheridan is
north of the Easter Pageant dars growing among the rocks
area on the refuge’s northern we made an immense fire. A
boundary just west of the road few minutes after our return
to Meers. to camp the Indian came. in
Keim told the story this with the hides of two splendid
way: 7 _ g 7 cow elks, the. carcasses he:
., having put in a tree‘out of the

“AS IT was probable in a..>-.va~iieach ofvwolves. A‘ good sup-
few days we would. break» ,j-per, prepared. for us by the
camp, Hazen, Audenried, and orderly, was readily disposed
' * L of Afterva social smoke, and
planning a hunt for the next

.nessed' .all this preliminary
stupidity, the elk "was satisy
fied, and bounded off. Before
2 the animal was a hundred
.yards distant,'I sent. a bullet -
after him. It was a good shot.
The animal flourished his
white tail, suddenly Changed
his course. at the same time
quickening his graceful gal-
lop. The old adage, ‘make
haste slowly,’ never. was: more
perfectly illustrated; It struck
me that it was a mild type of
‘Buck fev‘er.‘ , , f * ~
“We now set'Otlt, under cov-
er of the, hill, to intercept the
animal, on the way getting a
shot at a deer at close range.
By the time we came in sight
the elk was still bounding

 

a“ =m.\

“OUT OF the dry grass and
dead branches of scraggy ce-

 

’3.
-'Q‘3§'\»hh.§.
“lines

‘ a g.
This is- the origin
the giant elk,

be

he
e§§§%ﬁ

\\

specimen of » errioiﬁ-fggﬁlk utedt '.

u now géiinct,’ that once roamedthew ito Moun
gust, 1886. in Arizona. he right'beam is 55V4Ih ind-the le
._ ‘ uJUSﬂluseuﬁ Natural H

4'33}.

* scribe the species for science. Merriam’s Elk was

toins. This specimen was collected in Au-
ft, one is 58 inches long. ’

i\_w

phy became the type or
g’inal, specimen of Mer-
T’s-Elk.
ny years ago the antlers
Q is elk were sawed from
i-skpll. Thus it is impos-
le to secure an accurate
asurement of the spread of
Se massive head orna-
ﬁnts. Recently Dr. Robert
her of the mammal section

h

_ wjj' he us. National Museum
istory Photo Courtesy of‘ Robert D. Fisher)

0 Natural History in Wash-
1'. ton, D.C. measured the

i th of the antler beams.

‘ h- -~*¢ sar.'vh'wum’ﬁw 5““.
' THE RIGHT-beam is 55%
.inches long andthe left beam

is 58 inches long. Present-day
Wichita elk antlers seldom ex-

ceed 48 inches in' beam length.

Only a handful of in-
complete Merriam Elk speci-
mens is left in the world. A
complete specimen would con-
sist 0f skull with antlers and
hide with measurements taken
at the time of collection. As a
.. reSult, the true size is not
j known.
aIn contrast, thousands of
Wapiti or American Elk have
been taken by hunters. The
[latest champion-trophy fig-
ures, as found in the 1971

American Big .Game record
book, show only a few Ameri-
can Elk exceed this rare Mer-
riam’s specimen in length, of

 

i antlers.

.. The last known giant elk in '

Oklahoma was killed in 1881
f on Rainy Mountain (now in

15,.Kiuwa County) by A. T. Hop-
«kins. The last band on the
facefofrthe globe met its end

:in‘ 1.906 in the Chiricahua
(Cherry-cow), Mountains _.of
Arizona. ._ _

In 1906, .Edward F. Mor-
-ris.sey,- second supervisor , of
what is now the Wichita’r-ef-
uge, told a visiting federal
biologist he, had found many
. old elk antlers 'oh-Elk Moun-

headquarters area. None of
these old antlers was saved.

American Elk were brought in
frbm Jackson Hele, Wyo. to
replace the native Merriam’s
Elk. The descendants Of these:

 

Boone & Crockett Club North.

tain, southwest of the refuge V

IN 1911 and ~1912,'several '

ART HALLORAN
THE NATURE MAN _
myself planned an elk hunt.
This would close my own ads.

ventures in that wild country. "

One morning in February.
therefore, we set out with. an

Indian guide. an orderly, and

.carnpiing arrangementsi 1....
d‘A'bout‘ the middle of the af-
ternoon we spread our tent fly
on a beautiful stream, a tribu-
tary of West Cache Creek,
near the southern foot of Mt.
Sheridan. The camp was pecu-
liarly picturesque. Lofty
mountains. and bold crags
towered about us. The valley
was cOvered with giant trees.
“It was proposed, as we had
several hours before night, to
make the ascent of Mt. Sheri-
dan. Leaving our orderly to
look after the camp, we set
out on our journey. The Indian

accompanied us for a short

distance, and then set out to
beat up game. Our route lay
first through a dark forest,
frOm which we emerged, upon

an open space leading towards 1
an accessible place of ascent. ,

The higher we got the more
difficult became our task; un-

til, the..last few hundred feet,

we were obligedto crawl from
crevice to drag up a per-_
pendicular wall. The feat was
accomplished, but, looking
back, it was sufficient to as-
tonish our courage in under-
taking so dangerous'an ex-
ploit. ' . '

"Crossing the summit from

. the comb of the mountain and

looking over the trembling
height, the view was the finest
I had yet seen. The streams

. and groves were portrayed in

delicate miniature. The; posi-

tion, of the mountain also at-

forded a View up the long line

of-passes and valleys between
’ A

 

morning, we ‘turned 'in,’
much fatigued from the day’s

excursions. _
'r“At daylight, the colonel,

accompanied by the Indian,
set out in advance. An hour "
later, the General and myself .
tel-lowed. A walk of a 'short
distance brought us to a beau-
tiéiul valley completely sur-
rdunded by hills. Everywhere

. traces of elk and deer were

Vigible. Owing to this fact, we
genre the place the name Elk
Valley. The sun hag just” ri-
’5‘ "Theorem of the morning
" led on the plain; a thin
v l‘bf mist swept by the lof-
' 'ountains. A beautiful
. ran in. winding course
the valley. The Indian
tra ound through rocks and
' towards the mountain
Da8§§81 ' ' ‘ ' .
“While standing upon the
sulﬁi‘n’t of a»_ low hill com-
manding a fine prospect
games the valley, my atten-.
Honduras attracted by the gen-
erﬁi-Sh’outing. Considerable
“i".‘ised at his enthusiasm, _I
brfi’tght . down my rifle, not.
haggling. but ‘_ that we had falls.
. 7ul'»'ong’3savages.
fistulas but a'moment, how-
:“5i"‘?when I saw less than 60
' s before me a majestic

thﬁkﬁun'derbrush, having
‘wi‘r'rawn‘ the cartridge from

thfjl’iamber of- my rifle, I

witrthe ’ iece'up and pulled .
" ' p *‘tives. ‘We'reached :‘headquar-
"*ters before ' sundown, with

gger. No‘detonations re- p
‘ MngJ tried again. Again ,
Smile refused tofire. This

“cocking the piece, I
.ht‘up a third time; once

away in the dim distance. The
deer was wounded, biit not fa-

tally, and hobbled off.

“While the general and I

. were wandering about without
any very definite ideas of

what wevwere hunting, but
acting under. the. general prin-
cipal of takinga shot at every-
thing that came fwlthin. range,
the colonel and the Indian,
who were mounted, were gal-
loping rapidly across the. val-
ley after a herg of; 14 em
which than MW .- sane.

herd had headed -’towards a
gorge in the mountain... The
hunters were close after.“

. “Reaching a wood, the In-
dian jumped fromhis horse
and started into the timber on
foot. A'few minutes after, a-
shot was heard echoing‘, among
the mountainwalls. A fine
buck responded? to the megs-
senger of death. 'The Indian
having succeeded in turning
the herd, as it again emerged
from the wood, the colonel,"
who was lyingin wait, made a
fine rdnning shot and bagged
his game. . = ’ ..
. “Towards mid-day we re-

turned to-our camp. Prepara-

tions had already'rbeen made
for a hasty departure home-

ward. On the way, several
. herds of elk and7 a ‘ fewfdeer

Were started. A few long-
range shots from horseback
were made, ,buthad no other
effect "than. to expedite the
m0vements= of the. timid fugi-

goodly quantities of elk meat
and the hides of the animals;
killed as trophies of our suc- '
cess.”

 

».. y-r—ve ----- ‘ﬂ. .

 

 

 

 




Vitae Directors 0; tine Animat yvettoare Hnstitute

I’CCiUCSt $116 1101101‘ 01‘ your PPCSEHCC

at tile Presentation 1337
Russo“ Errol] Train

Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency

at the
Seinweitzer Awaré {or 19741
to
Lee Merriam Talk):
Senior Scientist, Council on Emil-WWW] Quality
on Tuesday, the tourteentll of January
at five-thirty o’cloeL

7371.9 Great 33a“, Tim Castle

The Smithsonian Institution
1900 Jeﬁcrson Draw, Southwest

R.S.V.P.

Mrs. Roger Stevens Reception following
337-2332 tile ceremony

 




 




