The Ofﬁcial Journal of the League for 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, Westminster, S.W.1.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

 

 

 

 

VOL. VIII NO. 2 FEBRUARY, 1934 2d MONTHLY: 2/? per annum,

post ree.

 

 

CONTENTS.

PAGE
VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR 10 SOME MEN WOULD SHOOT ANGELS
THE CASE OF REV. DAVID PUGHE 11 HUNTING CONDEMNED
DRAG—HUNTING POPULAR 12 THE HAHE’S POINT OF VIEW

Tée Editor accept; 720 retpomz'éz'lz'ty for opiizzbm exprajm’ 2'72 .rz'gzzm’ (mic/65.

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.— I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 




 

Page Ten

CRUEL SPORTS

February, l 934

 

 

VIEWS AND

NE WS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

Annual Meeting

The Annual General Meeting of members of
the League will be held on Thursday, March
15th, in the Council Chamber, Caxton Hall,
Westminster, at 2.80 pm. The usual busi-
ness respectingReport's, election of ofﬁcials and
111e111bers of Committee, etc., will be transacted.
and it is 110ped there will be a large attendance.

1401 the beneﬁt of those not knowing the Rules
it should be stated that any member may nomi—
nate a candidate for any of these offices, thC
only condition being that the names of the
candidate and proposer and seconder must be
lodged with the Secretary in writing at least
fourteen days before the date of the meeting.
The same applies to any proposals to alter or
add to the Constitution and Rules.

Public Meeting At Southport

A public meeting under the auspices of the
League has been arranged to be held against
the VVater‘loo Hare-Coursing, at the Assembly
Room, the Temperance Institute, Southport, on
Tuesday, February 20th, at {.30 pm. Canon
Blakeney will preside, ahd a stiong platform of
speakers, including the President is expected.

We hope that theie will be a gieat rally to
the meeting to help to still further undermine
this the major coursing iniquity of the year,
and so accelerate its downfall.

Eton College Beagles

Some months ago the editor suggested that
it! might be w01th while to try and get the new
Headmaster of Eton College, Mr. Claud Elliott,
to receive a deputation about the College
Beagles. The proposal was considered by the
Executive Committee who passed a resolution
in favour of it. After some delay, Mr. Elliott
indicated that he would be willing to receive a
deputation. The date was ﬁxed, but, the fact
got into the press, and Mr. Elliott, expecting
that the interview would be private, was an-
noyed, and at once wrote cancelling the appoint-
ment.

This was unfortunate, but it cannot be con-
sidered an adequate reason for not receiving
a deputation of representative humanitarians on
a matter of some public importance.

The Beagles may be deeply entrenched in
Society at present but they will have to yield to
a more enlightened public Opinion some day,
and the sooner the Eton Authorities realise this
the better.

The Rev. David Pughe.

On another page we record something of the
sensation created by the Rev. David Pughe, the
Leighton Buzzard Methodist Superintendent, who
hunted with the Whaddon Chase Hunt on the day
after Christmas last year. . His doing so is an
appalling callous comment upon the spirit of the
season consecrated to extolling Love and Good—
will to the Babe of Bethlehem, and it shows how
deeply early associations and the hunting—killing
———war mind can eat into and debase the men-
tality of some people, even Christians.

It is not enough to say that Rev. David Pughe
was brought up in hunting circles and so became
saturated with the blood-sports atmosphere. Nor
does it help much to urge that Mr. Pughe, as an
ofﬁcer during the Great War, was still further
surrounded by an atmosphere that cruciﬁed his
better nature.

As a Christian preacher who has vowed to
honour and exalt the Mind of his Master, Jesus
Christ, we claim the right not only to challenge
his position but to repudiate it. Even the
natural man and woman, as apart from the pro-
fessingly spiritualized and regenerated nature, re-
volts at the-barbarities of the hunting-ﬁeld, and
could not stoop any lower than to chase a helpless
sentient creature for hours for fun with a pack of
savaged dogs.

The Executive Committee of the League has
passed a resolution condemning Rev. Mr. Pughe,
and also asked the National Methodist Church
Council whether they endorse his action.

 

Farmers’ Wives I malted

In a recent article in a morning paper the
writer, a well-known authority on hunting, sug-
gested a way in which he thought farmers’ wives
could be talked out of demanding compensation
for poultry killed by foxes. He recommended
getting hunting ladies to call upon them as they
and the wives had so many interests in com-
babies, knitting, clothes. Then it Would
he said.

 

mon,
all be so easy,”

The member who sends in the article is
indignant at the suggestion wliich she says is
‘ a direct insult ” to the farmers and their wives
and “ disgraceful.” Certainly hunting must be
in a pretty bad way when leading supporters of
it stoop to trying to- cajole farmers’ wives out
of their perquisites for poultry damages in this
way. ’

 




 

February, l934

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Eleven

 

 

The Case of THE REV. DAVID PUGHE

THE METHODIST CIRCUIT SUPERINTENDENT WHO HUNTED.

Probably not since the Bishop of Taunton stag—
gered the country in 1927 by hunting with the
Devon and Somerset Staghounds has there been
such a callous indiscretion made by any religious
teacher as when Rev. David Pughe hunted with
the VVhaddon Hunt Chase on the day after Christ-
mas last year. A great many letters condemning
Mr. Pughe appeared in the press all over the coun—

try and we greatly regret space prevents us

reprinting a selection from these.

Below we put on record the facts as culled from
the Sunday Graphic and the Ncws—Chronicle,
together with a reﬂective criticism by “ John
Roadmender ” in the Christian World.

The Sunday Graphic, Dec. 17.——

There is no half-heartedness about the Rev.
David Pughe, the 64—year-old Nonconformist par—
son of Leighton Buzzard, who accepted the
invitation of members of the VVhaddon Chase to
hunt. Mr. Pughe, who was an acting-sergeant—

, major in the Royal Marines during the war, in-

tended to hunt yesterday. But Jack Frost
intervened and he must wait. Despite protests
from anti-hunting folk, he told the Sunday
Graphic : “ I am going out with the hounds on the

jocularly remarked that he had, been promised a
mount for the hunt. \Vhen he sat down he re-

ceived offers from members of the hunt.

The News-Chronicle, Dec. 27.—

The Rev. David Pughe, Leighton Buzzard’s
64~year-old Methodist hunting parson, is aching
in every limb to-night following his run with the
Whaddon Chase Hounds, his ﬁrst day’s hunting
for 3‘2 years.

But he thoroughly enjoyed it. “ When I
galloped across the open my feelings were akin to
Crordon Richards when he is winning by half a
neck,” he said afterwards. '

A jest by Mr. Pughe at a dinner resulted in
his being made an honorary member of the \Vhad—
don Chase pack and lent a mount by a member.

As the hounds moved off from \Vinslow, Mr.
Pughe’s daughters showered advice and caution
on him and urged him to take the straight and
narrow path but he refused to make any promises.

To-day he sat his great roan hunter like a
cavalryman. He took two hedges in ﬁne style,
but the third brought him down.

“ It was the ditch that did it. I didn’t know
it was there,” Mr. Pughe told

 

very ﬁrst day that the frost
gives over.”

An anonymous postcard he
received from Maida Vale, and
signed “Justice,” reads: “You
are disgusting to take pleasure
in killing and you can only be

Hunt”

 

REV. D. PUGHE.

“ I thank God for the joy of the
chase and the fellowship of the

il/Iorning Post, Dec. 18.

me afterwards. “ I mounted
again like lightning and made
my horse jump that hedge
again.”

Another member of. the
Hunt also was brought low at

 

 

described in the following— ~~—-
‘ The unspeakable in pursuit of the uneatable.’ ”

Another letter signed “ Dr. Beddow Bayly,”
says: “ I have read ‘ Thou shall not hurt nor
destroy in all My holy mountain.’ If you wish to
know the reason of the failing appeal of the
Christian Church to people of culture and intelli-
gence you will ﬁnd it partly, at any rate, in the
spectacle of ministers professing to follow the
laws of compassion and at the same time joining
in the barbarous sport of hunting defenceless
creatures. ”

These letters leave Mr. Pughe unabashed.
“ Fox hunting,” he told the Sunday Graphic, “ is
a clean old English sport for which I have a great
admiration. I am a Christian evolutionist and
believe that all these creatures were made for
man’s service and pleasure. I can ride anything
and I am looking forward to a good day. It is not
often that a Nonconformist minister goes out hunt—
ing, but at any rate Wesley was a good horse—
man.”

It was while proposing a toast at the dinner of
the Leighton Buzzard Fat Stock Society that he

that hedge.

Three hours late Mr. Pughe led his mount to
the stables at Winslow. He was tired but cheer—
ful. The family, there to meet him, were
immensely relieved, but secretly proud.

“ I haven’t felt so stiff or tired since my first
route march with the Marines,” Mr. Pughe told
me. “ It was a great experience.”

The Christian World, Dec. 28.—

“ I try to sympathise with as many human
points of view as possible, but I confess to a feel-
ing of defeat in the case of Rev. David Pughe.
Mr. Pughe is a Methodist minister who has
gained much publicity through his public praise of
fox-hunting. At a farmers’ service in his church
at Leighton Buzzard Mr. Pughe “ thanked God

for the joy of the chase and the fellowship of the

hunt.”

To hunt any animal “ for the joy of the chase ’
seems to me a dreadful thing. I could not hunt a
dog, because of the eyes of my own dog. Nor
could I hunt a fox for the thought of the terror in
its eyes. How differently men view common
things! (Continued on page 15.)

 




 

’ Page Twelve

CRUEL SPORTS

February, I934 .

 

 

DRAG HUNTING POPULAR.

Notable Hunts in Aberdeenshire, and the Wirral,

In Aberdeenshire

A scene commonly set in the hunting counties
of England was laid in the G-arioch district of
Aberdeenshire on Saturday afternoon, November
25, when the Aberdeenshire Riding Club held a
successful drag hunt with seven-and-a-half
couple hounds.

The club met at the Station Hotel, Insch, and
the drag was laid over ﬁelds belonging to Dr.
Cooper, Dunnyde-er, and Messrs. Middler, Ward-
house; Duthie, Old-town; and Williams, Myre-
ton.

The club was running to hounds for the ﬁrst
time, and the appearance of the red-coated
master, Mr. Laidlaw Smith, of Pittodrie, and his
huntsman, Will Metcalfe, and the other riders,
aroused much admiring interest in the village,
where a large number of spectators gathered to
see their departure.

Prompt to- time—after a stirrup-cup at the
hotel, Mrs. Smith, of Pittodrie, being the hostess
——the members trOOped off to the open country,
where, near Dunnydeer, hounds found and were
at once in full cry, the huntsman’s horn resound-
ing through the valley.

The drag lay over a course of about ten miles,
and members had one of‘ the best runs in the
club’s history. There was admirable variety in
the way of jumps, hedges, ditches, dykes, and
gates, and in the country crossed. Hounds ran
well, and a. fast pace was necessary to keep up,
as there were no checks.

The master, huntsman, and riders provided a
beautiful picture as they gallOped across country.

The run was not without its spills, a broad
ditch in particular taking toll, but no one was
injured, although a horse was badly cut.

Good time was made over the course, and
hounds “ killed ” with one or two members in
at the “ death.”

Back at the hotel, coffee and sandwiches were
served to the members and spectators.

I n the Wirral.

At the Priory, one of the typical white country
residences of the Wirral, lives Major R. K.
Lockett, who is doing much to encourage this
humaner form of hunting. Now that polo- in the
Wirral is under an eclipse he has formed the
Northern Counties Drag Hunt to keep the young
people of the locality in the saddle, and during
the Christmas holidays the hunt has been meet-
ing as often as thrice a week.

Laymg the Trail.

The meet on January 6 was in a paddock ad-
joining the house. Outside were between twenty
and thirty riders, exercising roans and bays,
blacks, and whites, cobs, ponies, and horses
under the black, bare branches of the trees that
fringe the paddock. There was also the pack, a
moderate number of tails and muzzles, frisking
about a man with a bottle of verbena and the
skin “ drag.” For the delectation of the dogs’
noses the verbena was poured over the drag,
which then went out of sight, towed by Master
Tony 'Mallet, the junior “ Whip,” who laid the
trail.

Meanwhile, the master of the hunt, Major
Lockett, took a stirrup-cup in the traditional
fashion, and the smallest rider, Pat Baird, went
to and fro on her \Velsh pony.

Nearly all the riders were young, including one
or two- little boys and girls. Most of the young
ladies wore felt hats and comported themselves
in their saddles as though at any moment John
Peel himself might come bursting through the
brake.
and presently (for there were pictures to be
taken) we were off.

The fun of the hunt was that it could be seen
from afoot all the way. The course was by the
Priory Fernery, the “ Great North Road,”
through the Dale (where there was a check, but
also a “
right to the Ford gates, and then away back
across the open of Hooton Park, with the hounds
exceptionally well ahead.

Now, the jumps are Major Lockett’s own idea,
his patent. They are on wheels, and can be
shifted about to accommodate rousing gallo-ps
without injury to countryside fences. Some of
us did the shifting, an affair of “ Yo-heave-ho! ”
on a chain, though properly, I suppose, the cry
should have been “ Yoicksl” while the Master
led the leaping.

However, there were beef tea and roasted chest-
nuts to follow, and then a walk to the station
through the dusky Cheshire lanes with horsemen
and horsewomen riding past one at/ every corner.
These meets cost only half a crown a “ cap "
compared with several guineas a “ cap” for
ordinary fox-hunting, and the Wirral, seen at its
winter best to-day, is a delightful country for
riding.
it is popular, and should do a. great deal to
promote the clean and healthy exercise of riding.

Instead, the master blew a little horn, '

View ” to the onlookers), with a turn '

The “ Hunt ” is in its infancy yet, but _

 

<>




 

V

February, l 934

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Thirteen

SOME MEN WOULD SHOOT ANGELS.

[Condensed from an article by Hamilton Fyfe in “ Reynolds’s News ” of January 14.]

The other day a large red bird ﬂew over a
bit of the Essex coast. It was a beautiful bird.
The ends of its wings were tipped with black.
A “sportsman” was on the sands looking for
something to kill. He killed it.

I don’t know how you feel about such an
idiotic, wanton, barbarous act as that. I confess
it makes me furious.

Killing for pleasure is all hatefuI. Killing for
food is part of what we call the natural order of
the world.

Killing creatures which are dangerous to us or
harmful is again reckoned part of that “ natural
order.” '

of wretched exhaustion. And their minds become
so twisted, so obsessed with killing, that if they
see anything strange and unusual, like that large
red bird in Essex, they promptly kill it.

The bird was a flamingo. He may have escaped
from a zoo or a travelling menagerie. He'may
have been blown by a gale from some milder
climate. Flamingoes could not live here in

. winter. Whatever he was, there was no sense in

shooting him.

Do you remember H. G. Wells’s story of
“ The Wonderful Visit ”‘2 An angel came ﬂying
over Britain, and some senseless killer, like the
man on the Essex coast, put up his gun and shot

 

Isn’t it a shame to kill a beautiful thing like this ?

All that may be considered protective killing.

But when we come to killing for pleasure, for
“ sport,” the case is altered altogether. No one
who believed in the universal fatherhood of God
could do it. We may kill a wolf in self defence
and still believe, as St. Francis of Assisi did,
that wolves are our brothers. We should have
to do the same to a blood—brother, if he were try-
ing to kill us and could not be restrained in any
other way.

But I do not see how anyone could kill for
amusement a creature he believed to have been
created by a common parent, a member of the
same great family as himself.

Large numbers of people spend their leisure
shooting birds for fun, or setting a couple of
dozen dogs to chase a fox or hare into a state

it. That is just what would be most likely to
happen. '

The whole mischief of this attitude to any
creature with which we are not familiar arises
from the notion that man has rights over other
animals, that he is the “ lord of creation,” that
other animals have no rights.

What I cling on to is this: We are all one
family. Life started in salt water, so far as we
can tell, and the earlier living creatures were
small jelly-fish or something of that sort. From
them we have all developed into numberless
species. Therefore (it seems to me) we shall
ﬁnd for ourselves and confer on others the
greatest possible happiness by behaving to all
our relations with as much kindliness and con-
sideration as possible.

 




 

P age Fourteen

CRUEL SPORTS

February, l 934

 

HUN TING CONDEMNED.

From “ The Tatler,” April 5, 19332——

‘ You would be doing a service by preaching
a sermon on the iniquity of leaving gates open,
riding over seeds and winter Wheat, and causing
unnecessary damage generally. One man I
heard of did not get his stock back for seven
days after the (Blank) had been across his land.
Another was d d annoyed because, after ask-
ing some of the people not to ride over his winter
wheat, they just crept a little way up the head—
land and then cut across. Some of these farmers
say openly that if anything happened to a certain
distinguished and hereditary Master so that he
gave up hounds, they would warn them off
their land ..... ‘

“ It is not fair on those who have to run the
show and keep on good terms with the farmers
and landholders that this sort of thing should
continue, and many Masters have written to me
about it.”

A.M.A.Y., Dorset, writes:—

Sir,—I have read the complaint of Mrs. Fer-
ranti in your January issue, and should like to
quote another case of wanton damage done by
fox-hunters, and the total want of consideration
and decent manners shown by those who organise
and pursue this sport.

The wife of a small-holder in this district was
engaged in putting up poultry fencing. The
Hunt came across their land andIa servant of
the Hunt deliberately knocked down the fence
by forcing his horse through it. When remon—
strated with he replied with insolent jeers and
rode away. She wrote to the MWFH and re-
ceived no answer. Acting on the advice of a
neighbour she repeated her complaint to the
Secretary of the Hunt, of which no notice was
taken either. In both these letters the small-
holders had requested that the Hunt should not
be brought over their land. But in spite of this
warning, further damage was done the following
season, hedges being broken down, and wiring
deliberately cut. '

Another letter of complaint was sent to the
Hunt Secretary, and this time a gentleman.
called to inspect the damage. Some slight com-
pensation was promised, but for the misconduct-
of the Hunt servant no apology was offered.

The expense of repairing fences is heavy in;
these days, and the danger of letting stock loose
upon the crowded roads very great. Your cor-
respondent complains of agate being left open:
in one of my own ﬁelds fox-hunters took the gate
off the hinges and ﬂung it into the hedge.

The whole institution of hunting is an anachro-l
nism, and a disgrace in a country which claims
to be civilised and humane.

 

BEAGLEBHMH"BANNED.
Edinburgh Hospital Protests.

A protest against beagle hunting in the grounds
of the Edinburgh City Hospital was made by Dr.
Guy, the city medical ofﬁcer, to the health com-
mittee yesterday. Dr. Guy says that twice in
the last month the grounds have been “ invaded
by beagles from Bedford Barracks, not only by
the hounds, but by members of the hunt who
scrambled through and over the fence.”

“ I shall be glad of the committee’s sanction
to forbid the hunt to trespass at Colinton Mains
or Oxgangs Farms,” Dr. Guy added in a report.
“ This will ensure that the hospital is guarded
against. any future invasions. I might add that
I have an intense dislike of the hunting of hares
in this fashion and shall be glad to see it
stopped.”

The committee decided to forbid the hunt to
enter the hospital grounds—Dec. 21.

~36 7‘6 96 9(-

LHUZRABBKHSFORIQKHNG
DOGS.

Track Manager Fined.

Mr. Everard Dickson, the Greenwich magis—
trate, imposing a. ﬁne of £10 yesterday on
Herbert Leonard Blann, of Rubens Street, Cat-
ford, co- manager of the Perry Hill, Forest Hill,

Greyhound Racing Track, f01 cruelly ill- treating.

“

certain captive animals,’ said:
“ It would be difﬁcult to think of any more
striking act of cruelty to animals, and in any
sport in which such a thing happens the sooner
it comes under proper and effective control and
supervision the better.’ -

The case for the prosecution was that a cord
was tied to the necks of three live rabbits, and
that the free end was attached to a football
which was drawn round the track by a cable
worked by a motor. The rabbits were pulled Off
their feet as the speed accelerated, and the grey-
hounds, being liberated, overtook the animals
and killed them.

The defendant alleged that the rabbits were
killed before being ﬁxed to the ball.

Mr. Theodore Elman, the solicitor defending
gave notice of appeal, and the magistrate sus-
pended the payment of the ﬁne for six weeks. -—
Daily Telegraph, Jan. 5.

 

 

 




February, 1934

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Fifteen

 

 

THE HARE’S POINT OF
VIEW.

By John Sussex.

“ Sport ” is a. blood thirst that is easily
aroused in the hangabout villager.

My love of “sport” had its setback a few
seasons ago, and from which it has never re-
covered.

A Boxing Day, and I was cutting out a few
trusses of hay of a stack bought of a neighbour.
In the distance could be heard the yappings of
dogs, and the chatterings of their human
followers.

It was 'a grand day to be out, a clear sky, and
a nip in the air, and I leaned upon the hay—
knife, rather envying the leisure of folk who
could take time off when it pleased them.

I tried to follow the trace of the scent by the
barking of the dogs and the shouts of their fol-
lowers. Were they making for Brown’s Folly,
or was it Fox’s Wood?

Suddenly I was aware of a slight stir in the
grass at the end of the stack, and the pantings
of a harried creature making a halt to- get its
wind—a hare with a pair of bulging eyes, so
strained with fright that they looked like drop—
ping out of its head.

For a moment it stood upon its haunches, its
ears erect, its front paws held out, looking like
a miniature kangaroo, waiting for the intimations
of the chase.

A dog yapped, a woman’s “vOice shrieked eX—
citedly, and the poor creature dropped into the
grass, quivering from face whiskers to the tip of
its tail in a sweating agony of dread. ,

I hated the whole business from that moment.
I saw the whole business fro-m the point of
view of the hare, and I have had to get my
cross-country fun in other ways since then.

—“ The Daily Herald,” Jan. 2.

S POR T.

Men call this sport: to hunt wild things
With gentle eyes and shining wings;
When ﬁeld and copse are golden brown,
To hunt the woodland creatures down;
Men call it sport to trap the faWn

And kill the doe; to hunt at dawn

\Vild geese, soft—feathered, bright of bill;
With beauty all. about, to kill.

Thanks to man’s trust in Kindlier Powers,
No fright, no wide-eyed dread, is ours;
Else should we fear some merciless One
Might hunt and harry us—for fun.

DUCK SHOOTING

This latest form of amusement, reported the
“ Daily Mail ” on December 9, cost a pilot £15

at Penrhyndeudraeth, Merioneth, recently.
Anthony Bridgeman mbbons was ﬁned that
amount for permitting the discharge of a ﬁrearm
from an aeroplane of which he was the pilot.

Mr. T. R. Jones, defending, said that Mr. Grib-
bons and his friend, Mr. Hewitt, conceived the
sporting idea of shooting wild duck in the Dwyryd
Estuary. Neither thought he was infringing the
law.

Colonel Bowen Jones, chairman of the Bench,
said that it was hooliganism and an absolute
negation of sport. A

Commenting on this strong statement, the
“ London Evening News ” says:—

“ Quite right, too. There are far too many
sinister influences at work trying to make bird—
rnurder ‘ scientiﬁc,’ with gas and artillery and
night-bombing. ”

S TAG-H UN TING AND
B ULL-FIGHTS

Sir,——In your issue of the 14th you describe
the chasing to death of a. stag which had taken
refuge. in a street. It had raced for three hours
for its life, and one would have thought that
human pity would have saved it from the orgy
of blood in which the hunters so delight.

We punish cruelty to animals in police courts.
I fail to see the difference in hunting a poor,
inoffensive animal and taking a horrible pleasure
in its death. We denounce Spain for her bull-
ﬁghts, but we are ridiculed because we are; self-
confessed hypocrites by these blood sports.

Christianity has failed if those who profess it
take pleasure in the suffering and death of dumb
animals. It is a disgrace to a nation which calls
itself civilised—Yours, in solemn indignation,

KATHLEEN SIMON. DB .E.

 

 

(Continued from page 11.)

Fellowship is such a precious thing that I can
understand a man thanking God for any sort of
bond which binds men together in a common pur—
pose. As comradeship is the only beautiful thing
in war—that hateful thing—so I suppose there is a
beauty even in “ the fellowship of the hunt.” But
there is surely a .choice of nobler fellowships.
Things have come to a sad pass if the fellowship of
the Christian crusade cannot satisfy the longing
of good men for comradeship. Brotherhood in a
common cause is the thing. Let us choose the
best cause. “ Brothers, let us unite to kill.”
That is one ideal. “ Brothers let us unite to save
and to give life, and life more abundantly.” I
take my stand with those who hunt With the
Hound of Heaven.”

JOHN BOADMENDER.

 




Page Sixteen CR U E L S P O" R T S February, I934

 

 

THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF

CRUEL SPORTS

l0], Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l.
Phone : Victoria 8496.

Hon. Treasurer— President— Secretary—

CANON F. L. DONALDSON. ALASDAIR ALPIN MAOGREGOR, ESQ. J. C. SHARP.

 

Vice—Presidents—

LADY CLARE .ANNESLEY. GERALD GOULD, Esq. E. ROSSLYN MITCHEIL Esq.

SIR HERBERT BARKER. REV. DR. R. F. HORTON. HENRY W. NEVINSON, Esq.

MISS MARJORIE BOWEN, F.R.Soc.Lit., DAME LOUISA '[NNES LUMSDEN. BEVERIEY NICHOLS, Esq.

ALD. M. CONWAY, J.P. LL.D. (Edinburgh). PHIIIP G. PEABODY, Esq” LL.B.
(Ex-Pres, Nat. Un. Tchrs.). LADY EMILY LUTYENS. EDEN PHILLPOTTS, Esq.

CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). DONALD MACLEOD, Esq. PERCY A. SCHOLES, Esq.

G. P. GOOCH, D.Litt. (Ex-Mbr. Brit. Olympic 01.). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE.

 

'WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suifering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”!

IT CONDEMNS fox, deer, hare, and otter-hunting, badger—digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “Blood Sports Condemned.” )

HIT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds Without the cruelty. ( See leaﬂet “ Drag—hunting”)

IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding” of children, and demands its cessation. ( See
leaﬂet “ Blooded.” )

 

 

AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application
to the Secretary. We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church
Group, etc., if out-of-pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also
available.

 

JOIN THE LEAGUE.

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

I enclose herewith*

State
Whether
Mr. , Mrs. ,

or Miss.

*5/- per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthly. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members £5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L. P. C. S. .. IOI, Chandos House, Westminster, S. W. I.

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST.

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested. '—

I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION or CRUEL SPORTS, London, the sum
of .............................. free of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be paid to the
Treasurer for the time being of such last— mentioned Society.

By virtue of the Act of Victoria. cap. 46, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

Published by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION 0F CRUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House. Palmer Street,
Westminster, S.W.1., and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS, LTD., Bond Gate. Nuneaton

 

 




