By Robert H. Spurrier

HE state of insecurity and of danger in

which we are living at the present time,

when at any moment of the day or night
our homes may be wrecked, our bodies man—
gled or destroyed, and our children and friends
removed, should quicken our imagination and
enlighten our understanding to the realisation
of, at least, a measure of the sufferings we
inﬂict—or, as a community, allow others to
inﬂict—on those intelligent, sentient fellow-
creatures we speak of as “ the lower animals.”

And these sufferings, it must be understood,
are inﬂicted not for limited periods of months
or years as the result of exceptional conditions
of enmity ﬂaring up into an outbreak of
hostilities between ourselves and them, but as
part of the established order of our everyday
individual, communal and national life, and

”ya-E

., 9.,

An Immediate Concern

 

are accepted as a matter of course and routine.
It is a war in which there is no discharge. It
presents a problem on which only a small
minority of the members of the community
exercise their intelligence and feeling ; by the
majority it is not realised as a problem at all,
let alone a problem which concerns not merely
the well-being of the animals but one which
is also of profound importance to human
civilisation.

These sufferings of which we speak include
those associated with unnatural and violent
death, to which we doom millions of animals
each year in our slaughter—houses ; the taking
of the newly~born from the natural affection
and care of the mother—as in the case of
calves ; the inﬂiction of prolonged pain in the
practice of vivisection ; the terror of bombing

 

ms 2. Mt. sierra;




    

to try out the qualities of poison gas and the
effect of blast ; the hunting and breaking—up
animals 'in spert. \W e subject them to the
sufferings-bf transportation, exile and life—long
impiisonment ;‘ to those inseparable from the
training of performing animals ; to the tor—
tures of the steel—toothed trap ; we breed them
in captivity for the express purpose of plunder—
ing them of their natural clothing and charac-
terise them as “ fur-producing ” animals ; we
dock them and despoil them of their sex organs.

Perhaps nothing could be more revealing
of the complete lack of imagination and
sensibility with which we regard these oi‘loer
animals as commodities, as chattels, as things
with no more intelligence or feeling than
stocks or stones—~“ as an entirely different order
of existencies, with entirely different purposes
and susceptibilities, from human beings ”—
than, for instance, a recent B.B.C. announce-
ment from the Ministry of Food relating to the
rationing of organs of the animal body—-
sheep’s heart and ox tongue were included in
it—at so much a lb. for sale in the market.
Is this the purpose for which these creatures
are created and endowed with organs of
sensibility P Brains, heart, tongue—signifying
intelligence, feeling, speech.

  

What fundamental difference is there between
our utter disregard of the rights and feelings
of these, our fellow~beings, and the brutal
violation by the Nazis of the rights and feelings
of those whom they terrorise and oppress ? Is
it not all part and parcel of that one great crime
~~“ the crime of considering some beings of
themselves as ends and of others as their
nieansﬂthe refusal to recognise the equal, or
approximately equal, rights of all to life and
its legitimate rewards—the crime of acting
towards others as one would that others should
not act towards them P”

If we are in truth waging this war to deliver
Europe and the world from the menace to its
freedom, for the emancipation of those who
groan under the yoke of Nazi terrorism and
tyranny, for a new order of civilisation, a better
way of life (based not on the right of might,
of privilege, of vested interest but on the
invincibility of righteousness, on equity and
goodwill), the recognition of the rights and
interests of animals in the conduct and prac—
tices of everyday life as ends in themselves, and
not as nzeanr to our ends, is essential to the
fulﬁlment of this high purpose.

we must make this recognition our imme—
diate concern and enterprise. Concerning this

we may have more to say in our next issue.

(Reprinted‘fionz T/Je Aninialr’ Friend of jam/my, 1941, for t/oe iVaz‘ional Council for Animal:

Welfare, 32 Queen’s Avenue, Marnie/l Hill, London, N.lO, froin 722/9077: copier
rpeeiznen copy of five Aninza/s’ Friend can momma on application).

of ibis leaﬂez‘, and la

 




