KIND KILLING.

Compiled by
F. JEAN WINTER, Tecmicai Secretwy 0f UFAVV.

Published by
UFAW
{The Unix-rersities Federation for Animal Weifare)
. 284 Regent’s Park Road,
Finehley, N3.

1950 I

3d;

 




CONTENTS

 

 

 

I. DOGS. AND CATS. .4 . ; Pagc ,
1!. Nembutali ‘ 1 i
'2 Shooting 1
3’. Chloroform 8
4‘ Carbon mommxid‘e 3m «heali-gas 6
5. Emergency shinning 7
(S. New—born kittens and puppies 8
11'. RABBm, GUINE.za.—EPM35. R/ECI‘ JRND 34mg «C :‘l‘TIVQ 8
HI. FISH )‘0
IV. LOBSTERS AND LM '10
V. TORTOISES 10
Vi. SLUGS, SNAILS AND R T(.U_c‘~ 11
VII. POULTRY 11
VIE. OTHER BIRDS 12
'J‘T‘his leaﬂet is intended to help theée
who may have to: destroy animaﬂs 2‘
when there are m» experts available.
it is - best to select the method ;
,.,,,

most suiteci tie ene’s temperament
and. to practise it on dead animal‘s
until it can be: performed skilfully.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1) NEMBUTAL.

Dog—lovers and cat-lovers who have to have pets destroyed can
ask the veterinary surgeon or representative of an animal protection
society to give nembutal. The injection of nembutal, eunarcon or
pernocton is an excellent method of producing deep sleep, a further
lethal agent can be given when the animal is unconscious; injection
is best made into a vein, failing this into the heart, lungs or
abdominal cavity. The administration of nembutal by mouth is not
so satisfactory in the case of dogs. In cats it acts pretty well when
given by mouth on an empty stomach, to ensure death give {’5
grain of nembutal per lb. of body weight of cat, i.e. 4 capsules each
containing 1—;— grains (0.1g) would be suitable for the’ average cat.
Nembutal is a scheduled poison and is therefore not available for
use by the layman, representatives of animal protection societies
can only give it under the direction of a veterinary surgeon.

(2) SHOOTING.
General Instructions.

A humane killer should be used if it is available. In this case
the instrument is ﬁred with the muzzle placed ﬁrmly against the
animal’s head in the required position. Humane killers are of two
types, those ﬁring a free bullet and those ﬁring a blank cartridge
which propels a captive bolt; the latter are the safer to operate.
Full particulars of these instruments and directions for their use are
obtainable from the R.S.P.C.A., 105, Jermyn Street, London,
S.VV.I, Scottish S.P.C.A., 19, Melville Street, Edinburgh 3, and
from animal protection societies throughout the world. If, instead
of a humane killer, a shot gun is used it should be of bore not
smaller than No. 20, preferably used with No. 5 shot at a range of
about 3 ft. from dogs, but closer for cats.

Before placing the animal in its ﬁnal position make sure that
the weapon is loaded and cocked and the extractor handy. Animals
must be adequately restrained to avoid inaccurate ﬁring. In the
case of restless animals wait patiently for a quiet interval. It is
essential that the shot should penetrate the brain, which, in the case
of the. animals in question, is of comparatively small size and is
situated in the upper part of the skull. If, immediately after
shooting, the eye is ﬁxed, dull, wide—open and insensitive to touch,
then, in spite of slight reﬂex movements of the limbs, the animal
is unconscious and has been effectually stunned. Turn the animal
left side up and feel for the heart beat which may continue for some
minutes after shooting. If it continues long or if breathing re-starts,
shoot again or insert a cane through the shot hole deep into the
brain, or hold the head in a bucket of water.

The following directions refer to the use of a humane killer :
the same point of application and direction of aim are required if
other ﬁrearms are used.

 

 

 




 

 

 

To Shoot a Dog.
Speak to the dog kindly and then either :—

I. Give it a plate of its favourite food when it is a little
hungry and shoot it as it eats ; or

2. If the dog is vicious or nervous, muzzle it by applying a
strip of bandage in ﬁgure of 8 thus: Place over the nose, tie
under the chin, bring the ends up round the neck‘ where the collar
goes and tie ﬁrmly. "If the dog is difﬁcult to handle put on a collar
and lead and fasten the lead ﬁrmly to a solid object. Have the
humane killer or other instrument ready charged. Clear everyone
out of the line of ﬁre.

“ For the destruction of dogs by the use of captive bolt pistols,
it is recommended that the anterior aim shall be adopted. The
operation should be performed with the animal in the standing or
sitting posture. The operator, standing on the right side of, and a
little in front of the animal should hold the skin of the neck with
his left hand and hold the pistol with the right.” (National
Veterinary Medical Association Report ” Small Animal
Euthanasia,” 1937). The humane killer should be applied ﬁrmly
midway between the level of the eyes and that of the root of the
ears (this will be about 5':— to 1-},- inches below the summit of the
head) a little to one side to miss the central bony ridge. Aim down
the long axis of the neck but slightly across the dog. The hand
holding the dog should be kept at least 4 inches away from the
muzzle of the humane killer.

3. A big dog can also be shot with a shot gun thus :-——
Feed the animal and shoot it behind the ear with the muzzle
of the gun about 3 ft. away and pointing towards the opposite eye.

To Shoot a Cat.

Cats can be destroyed by shooting with a humane killer or
shot gun, but this method is not recommended for use by the
inexpert. If shooting with a shot gun get quite close, nearer
than 3ft.

I. Place the cat in a wire basket the mesh of which will
allow the muzzle of a Safeti Killer (Greener’s) to be inserted. Speak
to the cat while adjusting the aim and when certain of it pull the
trigger.

It is best not to attempt to shoot savage cats. Put the basket
or cage containing the cat into a lethal chamber.

2. (Suitable for experts [only and not generally recom—
mended). With the left hand, gloyed if necessary, hold the cat by
the scruff of the neck with its forepaws and head resting on a table
and hind legs dangling. Apply the humane killer to the top of. the
head midway between the ears and shoot towards the throat. It
is best to place the animal’s body in a large receptacle such as a
dustbin immediately after shootng as violent reﬂex movements and
considerable bleeding will follow for about half a minute, although
the animal is unconscious. After a minute examine the body.

’)
a

 

 




 

In this country full particulars of humane killers can be
obtained from the principal animal protection societies; also from
Messrs. Accles and Shelvoke Ltd., Aston, Birmingham (makers of
Cash pistols), from Messrs. W. W. Greener Ltd, St. Mary’s Row,
Birmingham (makers of the original Greener humane killer for all
animals), and from The Temple Cox Development Co., Ltd., High
Street (Walter’s Yard), Bromley, Kent (Temple Cox pistols).

Particulars of a useful small pistol.“ Pistolet F lobert,” can be
obtained from Société contre la Cruauté envers les Animaux, 33,
Rue de Veeweyde, Anderlecht, Brussels. It can be used for dogs
and cats and is made by S. A. Auguste F rancotte et Cie, 61, Mont
St. Martin, Liege. (Last known-price 75of., out of production at
present, I949).

A reliable captive—bolt killer “ Le Matador” may be obtained
from Termet Pére et F ils, I3, Impasse Belloeuf, Lyon 3e, France.
It can be used for dogs. '

Particulars of a Swedish-type humane killer “ The F ormator,’
firing a free bullet, are obtainable from Maskinfirma G. Lindell,
Norr Malarstrand 58, Stockholm. It is not suitable for cats and
dogs. -

In Italy particulars of a humane killer and cartridges may be
obtained from the Secretary of the Hawksley Society at Lucca,
Signor Giacinti, 38, Via Pisana, Lucca.

In Germany the Schermer humane killers are being made
again by Messrs. Karl Schermer, Karlsruhe (Baden), Nebenius»
strasse 35.

(3) CHLOROFORM.

The chloroforming of an animal is a slow process requiring
patience. Dogs should not be chloroformed unless there is no other
way of destroying them as they take chloroform badly. Chloroform
bags have been abandoned by the R.S.P.C.A. as unsatisfactory.
They might possibly be useful to travellers, and are obtainable from
the Caledonian Rubber Co., 96a, Princes Street, Edinburgh. Price

I6/IId. (1949).

Instructions for the Use of the Automatic Cat Chamber.
(Reprinted by kind permission of the R.S.P.C.A.)

Only B.P. chloroform may be used in this chamber, and the
pads for soaking with chloroform should be only those supplied by
the R.S.P.C.A.

(I) When practicable, the cat should be placed in the chamber
by its owner or attendant. If on arrival it is nervous,
leave it alone or speak gently to it until quiet.

(2) When the cat is ready for placing in the chamber, soak the
pad in 4 drachms of chloroform, and whilst it is soaking
lift the cat quietly, place it in the chamber, close the 11d.
but leave the perforated portion uncOvered.

(3) Place the soaked pad on the round ﬁlter and close the top
cover, taking care to leave the air holes wide open. _

(4) The cat needs no further handling and Will gradually
become unconscious and fall over on its side in about 3

minutes.

3

 




AUTOMATIC CAT CHAMBER

 

 

Length 16 inches. :r‘
Width ... .. . 1 1 inches.
Depth 1 1% inches.

PRICE £2 153. 0d. 1949)
(Packinp' and carriage extra)

Obtainable from the Royal
Society for Prevention Of
Cruelty to Animals, 105, Jer-
myn Street, London, S.W.1

 

 




 

 

(5) When the cat is down, close the air holes, watch the cat
until respiration is hardly perceptible, then place the
chloroform pad loosely over the cat’s nose. If the cat
shows any signs of restless movement, re-open the air—holes
until such movements have entirely ceased, then re-close
them.

(6) If the chamber is quickly required for further use, the cat
can be removed in IO to I5 minutes, but only if no sign of
breathing or heart-beating are perceptible; it removed,
it is essential that the cat’s head be completely immersed
in water for I 5 minutes, watching the cat for the ﬁrst ﬁve
minutes to prevent risk of revival before death.

(7) No cat to be removed from the premises until quite stiff
(in rigor mortis).

(8) While the lethal chamber is not in use the lid should be
left open.

(9) The chamber must be kept scrupulously clean and dry,
and should never be allowed to stand on wet ground.

(10) It is advisable to keep the temperature of the room in
which animals are chloroformed as high as 70‘F. (21"C.).

N .B.————The same chamber can also be used for very small dogs
and any other small animals.

ACCIDENTS.

To Chloroform an Injured Dog or Cat without Delay.
(Reprinted by kind permission of the Scottish S.P.C.A.)

Get at once from the nearest animal shelter or chemist, two
ounces of chloroform.

Never attempt to move or handle an injured animal without
ﬁrst covering it entirely with a thick coat or rug, as the slightest
pressure or movement may cause the animal intense pain and make
it try to bite savagely. No useful purpose is served by running risks
that can be avoided.

The best plan is to spread a thick coat or rug entirely over the
animal as it lies on the ground. A coat is best, it is ea31est to
handle, and will fall in close folds round the body. It must touch
the ground all round.

Sick and injured animals often crawl away into darkcorners to
hide from the light, so being covered over will not frlghten the
creature.

Pour one ounce of the chloroform on a handkerchief or any
handy cloth or rag of about that size. Gently push it under the
coat.

 

 

 

’9 ’1 ~. -‘-.~ ‘ < asp/«Mylar. 4".»,“.»A ”r,” .1" -.~. .V-

 




 

 

Do not place it near the animal’s face.

The animal may move about and disturb the covering. If it
does so, replace the covering as needed.

After the first handkerchief or cloth has been under the
covering for about three minutes, pour the other ounce of chloro-
form on a second handkerchief or rag, and push it beside the ﬁrst
one.

(If you have not a second rag or handkerchief handy, pour
the second ounce on the coat and cover that over with another coat
or rug). '

The animal will slaver while the chloroform fumes are working.
After .a few minutes, when it has become quite quiet, lift the edge
of the covering and look at the head. If the animal has ceased to
slaver and is quite limp it is now unconscious. Wrap the two hand—
kerchiefs tightly round the nose, and cover again carefully, tucking
the covering closely all round.

Leave it like this for about IO to I 5 minutes, when breathing
and the beating of the heart will have stopped.

If you can, take the body to a shelter, or put it in a lethal
box (closed), if one is to be procured. If you cannot do either
you must make sure that the animal is dead. Lift up the body and
place it with the head in a pail of water. The water must cover
the head up to the neck. Keep it so for 15 minutes.

(4) CARBON MONOXIDE IN COAL-GAS.

Carbon monoxide in the pure form is dangerous to human life
and odourless. It is a constituent of coal-gas, and when the gas
contains a sufﬁcient percentage of carbon monoxide and is mixed
with sufficient air to prevent suffocation it is a useful lethal agent
if nothing better is available. Since coal—gas may contain as little
as 6% of carbon monoxide its use is discouraged by the R.S.P.C.A.
It IS safe to the operator if reasonable precautions are taken ; this
means NO SMOKING. When coal—gas is used a separate meter
should be provided capable of supplying 50 lights.

' A chloroform box may be adapted for use with coal—gas by
introducmg the gas by means of a rubber tube passing in through
a hole drilled near the bottom of the box. The air—hole must be
left open to let the air out until the animal is deeply unconscious
and the chamber full of gas. The chamber should then be com—
pletely ShUt 11p and the gas-tap turned off. The gas should be
sent 1n slowly or it will cause death by suffocation instead of by
carbon monoxide POiSODiDg ; by the end of half a minute the
chamber should be about one-third full of gas. The chamber
must. be used away from naked lights, and smoking strictly
prohibited ; the issuing gas must not be inhaled by human beings.
The chamber should be used near an open window or in the Open
am The anlmal should faint in a minute or less and will die a few

6

 




 

l

minutes later ; it should be left in the closed—up chamber for at least
15 minutes for safety’s sake.

If a lethal chamber for use with coal-gas is being constructed,
the size for cats should be 3 or 4 cubic feet; for large dogs more
space is required. When a small animal is put into a large chamber
the wasted. space should be ﬁlled up with a removable block. It
should be placed in the open air away from windows of houses.
The inlet pipe should be e to 3 inches in diameter and should run
all round the bottom of the chamber and be pierced with a number
of holes from which the gas is to issue. A board of. wicker—work or
perforated wood should be laid upon it for the animal’s comfort
and for cleanliness. The outlet pipe should be wide and its upper
end should be as high as possible. The whole top or side of the
chamber should form the door, and an inspection window, which
may be protected inside with wire netting, should be provided.

(5) EMERGENCY STUNNING.

If the animal is in serious pain stun it by striking it on the top
and towards the back of the head with a heavy object. To make
sure of death after using this or any other method hold the head
in a bucket of water for I5 minutes.

Note on Electrocution.

This can be very humane or excessively cruel, according to the
conditions. An important factor is the current strength (amperes) ;
the voltage is not a reliable criterion. There are grounds for
uncertainty as to whether the electrocution apparatus at present in
use is reliably humane.

If a current is passed through the head in sufﬁcient strength

- (amperes) to cause convulsions, instant unconsciousness may be

assumed on the basis of human experience in electro—convulsant
therapy. If convulsions are not caused, there may or may not
be unconsciousness. Most human beings require about 500
milliamperes, but there are wide variations from patient to patient.
The requisite amperage for dogs has not been measured.

When the current is passed doWn the body from the neck to the
hindquarters the animal’s muscles are thrown into Vlolent spasm
so that even if it is conscious it cannot struggle or cry out, and in
that case intense pain would be felt. It is known from researches of
Ferris and others that if the current is too small death is caused by
asphyxiation, but if in a small dog the current exceeds about zzo
milliamperes (say 300 for safety) the Circulation of the blood 1s
stOpped within 3 seconds by ventricular ﬁbrillation, which pers1sts.
In the cat, however, the heart may spontaneously return to normal.

The ideal arrangement would be one in. which a current of
sufﬁcient strength was passed through the middle of the head to
stun. and 'thenlfrom the head to the hlnd quarters to kill. -

7

 

 




 

 

(6) NEW-BORN KITTENS OR PUPPIES.

,Unwanted kittens or puppies should be taken from their
mother as young as possible, certainly within the ﬁrst three days
and preferably the ﬁrst time the mother leaves them. She should
not see or hear them taken away, and one should be left with the
mother.

(I) Put the animals into a shallow box or basket softly lined
and transfer this to a lethal chamber. This is humane if the
animals are not more than three days old ; older kittens are difficult
to anaesthetize.

(2) Use the method described for captive mice and young
rats (I).

(3) Persons with strong nerves can produce instant uncon—
sciousness by grasping the animal’s hind quarters and swinging the
back of the head against a wall. The animal should then be put
head down in a bucket of water till dead (15 minutes for safety).

N.B.———Drowning is not recommended. If it must be resorted
to use water at blood—heat. Hold each animal under water; or
place a ﬂower-pot over each animal, seeing that the water covers
the pot, and keep the pot down with a big stone.

II. RABBITS, GUINEA-PIGS, RATS AND
MICE (Captive)
Captive Rabbits.

(I) Hold by the hind legs in the left hand and strike the back
of the neck Violently downwards with a stick about I inch thick and
I 5 inches long or with a poultry stunner (See Poultry (I) ) . A man
or really strong woman can use the “ heel” of the hand tie the
back edge of the hand held with the ﬁngers extended and rigid, but
a very hard blow is required.

(2) Hold by the hind legs in the left hand, seize the head with
the right hand, bend sharply back and wrench downwards
simultaneously. Do not be alarmed at post—mortem reﬂex
movements

(3) When the rabbit is tangled in a net, seize the head in one
hand and the shoulders in the other, and force the hands together.
N.B.—-These methods, especially the last two, should ﬁrst be
practised on a dead animal.

(4) In the case of rabbits not required for food use a lethal

chamber. This is not nearly so quick or humane as method (I)
properly used.

Guinea-pigs.
. (I) Hold the animal across the knee with its head down and
dislocate the neck by a sharp, glancing downward blow on the

neck; a poultry stunner may be used for this purpose (See
Poultry (I) ), then cut the throat. ’

8

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

(2) Hold the body ﬁrmly and stun by swinging the back of
the head very hard against a sink. Make absolutely certain that
the blow really produces unconsciousness, then kill, e.g., by putting
the animal’s head in a bucket of water or cutting the throat with a
knife which is razor—sharp.

(3) Use the automatic cat chamber (chloroform). Only one
animal should be chloroformed at a time. (See Dogs and Cats (3) ).

(4) Use a lethal chamber with coal—gas (See Dogs and
Cats (4) ).

Captive Rats.

(I) If the rat can be handled take it by its tail and swing it so
as to strike its head very hard against a brick surface (See
Guinea—pigs (2) ).

(2) Use chloroform in a lethal chamber with the same care as in
the case of cats and dogs. Death from suffocation is not anaesthesia
(See Dogs and Cats (3) ).

(3) Use a lethal chamber with coal-gas (See Dogs and
Cats (4) ).

(4) See Captive Mice and Young Rats (2).
(5) In an emergency release to a good ratting terrier.

N.B.—-Drowning should not be resorted to if any better method
can be used. If this method cannot be avoided, submerge entirely
the cage containing the rat and weigh it down.

Captive Mice and Young Rats.

(I) Put the creature into a strong paper bag and close the
mouth of the bag. Lay it on a ﬂat surface, such as an asphalt path.
Smash the whole by a violent but careful blow with. a ﬁat—iron,
brick or shovel. For safety’s sake add a few more blows.

‘ (2) In the case of a mouse which can be handled, put it under
a funnel which is attached by rubber tubing to a gas jet. Hold the
funnel down, allowing a small air exit, and turn on the gas gently.

(3) ” If one takes a mouse by the tail and puts it on a surface
that gives it a good foot—hold, it nearly always places itself in the
best possible position for killing, which is done by laying a pen—
holder or pencil across its neck and dislocating by a sharp pull on
the tail. If, as sometimes happens, the mouse struggles violently
and does not put itself in the proper position when held by the tail,
lift it by the tail and strike its head hard on the edge of the table ;
this stuns it and dislocation of the neck as described above is then
quite easy.” (Kennaway, EL.)

(4) Use the method described under New—born Kittens and
Puppies (3)-

 

 




 

III. . EISH
(1) Trout under % lb.
Hold the ﬁsh in the left hand. Place the right thumb in the

mouth and the right foreﬁnger at the junction of the head and neck.
Bend the head sharply, when a crack will be felt.

(2) Large Trout and. Medium Coarse Fish.

Hold the body in the hand and strike a stone with the back
of the head.

(3) Pike and Large Coarse Fish.
Strike on the back of the head with a strong stick.

(4) Common Eels.

Eels should be killed as soon as they are caught. Hold the eel
with a cloth or big handkerchief, as it is too slippery to hold in the
bare hands. Then strike the back of the head on a stone, or else
hold the eel in one hand or put a foot on its body and strike the
back of the head with a heavy stick, It is important to strike the
back of the head and not the nose ; this also applies to trout, salmon
and coarse ﬁsh. It is wise to cut off the eel’s head with a sharp
knife after the blow, as the creature may be only stunned and not
dead. If an axe is available, e.g. in a ﬁsh market, eels and other
ﬁsh should be decapitated by striking with a sharp axe between the
neck and the head.

IV. LOBSTERS AND CRABS

An investigation carried out on behalf of the Jersey S.P.C.A.
and publicized by the R.S.P.C.A. indicated that, contrary to the
common belief, these creatures show no signs of distress when the
temperature of the water is raised slowly. When plunged into
boiling water they exhibit every appearance of distress, such as
attempts to escape. In the trade lobsters and crabs are plunged
into boiling water, which may go off the boil as the cold animals
are put into it so that it scalds without killing outright. It is
customary to “stick” crabs ﬁrst so as to prevent them from
shedding their front claws ; it is probable that if correctly done this
renders the animal unconscious, but the matter is still under
investigation. Crabs and lobsters should both be put into cold
water and raised slowly to the boil ; by this method they die of heat
stroke and without distress. The colour change takes place before
the death of the animal. The nervous system of the lobster is much
more primitive than that of the crab.

V. TORTOISES

(I) Draw out the head of the tortoise and cut it off with a very
sharp chopper.

IO

 

 

 

 




 

 

(2) An injection of not less than 30 drops of chloroform under
loose skin is recommended by the R.S.P.C.A. as being the most
effective and humane method of destruction. It is almost impossible
to kill tortoises in a chloroform chamber.

(3) Holding the tortoise upside down, a skilled person can
grasp the head as soon as it is protruded and then inject chloroform
direct into the trachea with a syringe.

VI. SLUGS, SNAILS AND REPTILES

In small numbers, kill slugs and snails by crushing. In large
numbers, collect them in an earthenware container and pour on
fast-boiling water. Water keeps its heat better in earthenware than
in a bucket, so there is less danger of scalding without killing if
earthenware is used. lt is not humane to put these creatures into
salt water.

Note on British Snakes and Lizards.

Do not kill them, leave them alone. If they are injured when
found they should be killed by hitting them veiy hard on the head
with a strong stick.

VII. POULTRY

Note that dislocation of the neck causes instantaneous death
only if the spinal cord is severed, stunning and decapitation are
therefore safer methods to use.

(1) Hold the bird up with the left hand by the legs, the. tail,
and the long feathers oft'he wings, and give a very sharp rap at the
back of the head (for fowls just behind the comb) with the edge of:
a ﬂat piece of heavy wood about 15 inches long. After stunning
cut the throat. If the bird is very heavy hang it downwards from a
staple in the wall with the legs tied together, and then stun.
Steel—bound stunners are sold by the R.S.P.C.A., 105, Jermyn
Street, London, S.VV.I., and by the Council of Justice to Animals
and Humane Slaughter Association, 42, Old Bond Street, London,
W.I for about 5/—. An effective stunner can be made thus : A piece
of wood is required 16in. long X Ziin. wide and %in. deep; of this
jin. is shaped into a handle. A metal bar IIin. long X iin. wide
X %in. deep is nailed to each edge of the remaining Inn. of wood.
The Council of Justice describes this method in an illustrated
leaflet.

(2) Cut off the bird’s head with a rather heavy and very sharp
chopper. An assistant should hold the bird by its legs, wings and
breast placing the head and neck sideways on a block, with the
bird’s eyes away from the operator. This is probably the best
method for turkeys and for geese which have tough necks and
present special difﬁculties. Both methods are fully described in
R.S.P.C.A. Pamphlet, New Series No. 82 by the late R. 0- P:
Paddison. Do not be alarmed at the reﬂex movements which
follow decapitation.

II

 

 

 




 

 

(3) The Jestimah poultry killer made by Youngs of Horley,
Surrey, price 7/— is suitable for amateurs who only occasionally
have to kill a chicken ; professionals can do better with their hands.

(4) Chicks up to I4 days: Hold the body in one hand and
the head in the other. Press the neck on a sharp table edge, using
the thumb to break the neck.

At the end of a hatch, before discarding unhatched eggs, make
sure that there are no live chicks in them.

VIII. OTHER BIRDS
Small Birds.
(I) Use a paper bag as for captive mice and young rats (I).
(2) Holding with the left hand, take the neck between the
thumb and forefinger—knuckle of the left hand. Apply the thumb
and foreﬁnger—knuckle of the right hand to the neck, close to those
of the left hand. Grip hard with both hands simultaneously, and

pull them apart with a twist. The head should come off
immediately.

(3) Hold the body in the hand and with a swinging motion
strike the head smartly on a hard object. Add a second blow for
safety’s sake. This is suitable for birds up to the size of a pheasant.

Large Birds, e.g. Oiled Sea Birds.
(I) Shoot, using a shot gun with bore not less than o.4ro.

(2) Catch the bird by getting between it and the sea and
driving it up the beach; make a gradual approach, do not rush.
Take. the bird’s body in the hand and hit the head very hard on a
solid object such as a rock. Do not use chloroform, as diving birds
can hold their breath for a long time.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This pamphlet is largely based on the chapter “ Euthanasia ”
by Major C. W. Hume in Vol. 2 of the Animal Year Book 1933,
which is now out of print. The compiler gratefully acknowledges
Major Hume’s assistance and also that given by the Royal Society
for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and by the Scottish Society for
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Additional information 'has been supplied by the following
persons and societies to whom also the compiler is much indebted :
Dr. John R. Baker ; Dr. H. F. Barnes ; Mrs. Frances Bellerby ; Dr.
G. C. L. Bertram ; The Council of Justice to Animals and Humane
Slaughter Association; W. Eyton Davies, Esq. ; S. W. Douglas,
Esq., M.R.C.V.S. ; Dr. Wilma von Diiring ; The Hawksley Society
for the Protection of Animals and Birds in Italy, Limited ; Professor
Sir Ernest Kennaway, F.R.S. ; Dr. A. H. B. Kirkman ; G. C.
Knight, Esq., M.R.C.V.S. ; Mlle. Marie Schaffert ; R. Glave
Saunders, Esq., C.B.E., M.R.C.V.S., all manufacturers referred

to in the leaﬂet, and members of the Scientiﬁc Sub-committee of
[’FAVV.

I2

 

 

 




 

 

AW

THE UNN’ERSITIES FEDERATiON FOR ANlMAL WELFARE
President: Professor EDWARD HINDLE, M.A., Sc.D., Ph.D., F..B..S

Chairman: C. KENNETH BIRD, C.B.E., B.Sc., BECK, A.M.I.C.E‘.. ll‘..S.I.A.
(Fouga sse).

rirector : lx'iAJOR C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc., R. blgilao (Retd).

Hon. Secretary for Scientiﬁc Investigations:

Profh. N. WORDEN, M.A., B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., F'.H.1.C.

Technical Secretary: F. JEAN VINTEB, MD.

Business Secretary: JOSEPHINE M. COZENS.

Branch Organizer: MARGARET P. WILLIAi is, B~.SC. @0011.)

The UFAW Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals
(London: Bailliere, Tindall & Cox, 813, 6d.). Chapters on: Law and
practice (the rights of laboratory animals); The animal laboratory,
Pests of the animal house; Housing, feeding, anaesthesia, euthanasia,
handling and hygiene of the rabbit, guinea-pig, rat, mouse, vole,
hamster, ferret, hedgehog, pigeon, canary, amphibia, and ﬁsh;
Bibliography for other species; Elements of statistical analysis.

The Animal Year-Book, Vols. 1 to 5, 23. 6d. per volume. Each contains
chapters on current problems (a good deal of technical and factual
information on a variety of subjects) and on animal welfare in foreign
countries, and reviews of books about animals. Other chapters deal
with: (Vol. 1, 1931, out of print) Parliament and the protection of
animals, clinical work at the R.V.C.; (Vol. 2, 1933, out of print) the
sense of pain in animals, animals and the High Court, the trafﬁc in
trapped furs, euthanasia; (Vol. 3, 1935, out of print) Whales, oil
pollution at sea, perfumes, humane education, electric anaesthesia
(is it genuine?) (Vol. 4, 1987) the possum, Africa’s vanishing fauna,
the influence of religions, an experiment in humane educationp'
(Vol, 5, 1938) game reserves and national parks, the early history of
the animal—welfare movement, animal photography for the amateur,
control of sealing, tuberculosis in cattle. (Volumes 4 and 5 are on
sale, vols. 1, 2 and 3 may be borrowed from the Ofﬁce).

Pamphlets and leaﬂets on trapping and pest-control. Instructions for
Dealing with Rabbits, Humane Destruction of Rats and Mice, Rabbits
on an Island (Lockley), Some Facts and Queries relating to the
Wild-rabbit Problem (Hume, British Association paper), The
Pathological Effect of Poisons used for Rodents (Wright), Man versus
Rabbit (Kirkman, with illustrations by Fougasse), Facts about-Furs,
An Appeal to Women, Canada’s Beavers, The Countryside of Britain
éplliotographs of trapped animals), Blind Spots, Living on the Farmer’s

arity.

Other pamphlets and leaflets. Expanding Justice. Form 1113. on Expanding
JUStiCe. Expanding Mercy, Destruction of Sea-Birds by Oil Waste,
Ugh E (Learning to live with animals), Man and Beast, National Book
League Book List No. 57 (Animal Welfare), HOV-T to Befriend Laboratory
Animals (16 p.11, 3d), Experiments on Animals (Reprint from Lancet).

The UFAW Courier, biannual, price 3d.

Lecturettes for children, with pin-up pictures (10: in. x 7i- in.) A Few
Bird Friends of Ours; Frogs and Toads; British Snakes and LizardS;
Pigs and Dairy Cows; Tame Rabbits; Animals. of the CountrySIde;
The Sheep; The Dog; The Cat; to be followed by 1101395 for teachers.
Cost price 1d. each.

Coloured posters by Fougasse, 20 in. x 16 111., cost price 3d, each. 1 ”When
you ﬁnd a bird's nest, don’t touch, don’t stay long, don’t go often.”
2. “It’s all right, humans don’t feel.” 3. “ Don’t let anybody knocli
the stock about. How would you like it yourself ? " Uncoloured anti-
trapping posters by Fougasse. Samples and priceson application.

Economy labels by Fougasse. “Utopia—private." coloured, 50 for 28 6d.
Gummed Strip by Fougaase, 2 colours, coils 1 in. Widf‘e 250 ft. lons- 23‘ 6d.
Christmas cards, 5 for 23. 6d.

 




 

 

Printed by the
COURIER C0. H21.
Grove Hill Road,

Tunbridge Weils

 

 

 




