 

 

FRANCES POWER COBBE.

BY

REV. JOHN VERSCHOYLE.

 

 

Reprinted, by permission, from “ The Contempowwy
Review.”

 

PRICE TWOPENCE.

15. 3d. per dozen.

 

THE BRITISH ‘UNION FOR THE ABOLITION OF
VIVISECTION,

14, ST. JAMES’S BARTON, BRISTOL.’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1
V '7‘
'\
«-
/
‘ ‘ . n ‘ . . i
. ‘ ,2 - "_ a... . ‘. .~,, u.” .7 ' r‘ﬂhkﬂ , ‘ l -

               




,_ ...- ___ _ , _,,_,I,, , If.“ <~""“"-”~~";"-. "‘1."~‘-‘:’-’\*-1‘7,. 7.... r ; , 7,5,... f
"main: LMARE-T1524-;'.a'»-::vﬁma5ummm- ~ ~;_- \ ~ « -.ﬁ_ _ . 2. 1.. .

..........................................

I MET Miss Cobbe for the ﬁrst time in 1878. A
poor woman, Isabel Grant, had been unjustly con-

if: demned to death for the murder of her husband.
Miss Cobbe took up the case, met me at the house of
5 g a friend and asked me to assist her in the Press in her

 

demand for justice. The demand was successful:
the sentence was commuted. I can well remember
the passionate indignation with which Miss Cobbe
entered on the task of redressing the wrong, and the
delight with which she received the news of the
victory. I worked under her leadership after this,
in a humble way, in the movement to obtain justice
for women, and in the movement to obtain justice
for the animal world. I found her always the same,
a champion of the oppressed, a modern knight-errant,
burning with a white-hot indignation against all
injustice, melting in the tenderest sympathy with
the wronged, always full of courage, energy, decision ;
in short, a true woman in being every inch the man.
For the last few years I have been assisting her con-
tinuously, by her own invitation, in her efforts on
behalf of the animals. Our meetings have been
frequent, our correspondence unbroken, and what
began as a friendly association for a common purpose
ripened gradually into a very close intimacy and a very
deep friendship.

A distinguishing characteristic, which I noticed at
our ﬁrst meeting in her conﬁdent prediction that we

A

 

 

 




 

(2)

should see the death—sentence commuted, was an
indomitable optimism. She saw the dark side of
things with open eyes, fearlessly, but the bright side
bulked larger in her view. This was in part the result
of her ﬁne physical endowment. Destined to shake
the comfortable certainties of medical as well as of
religious orthodoxy, she was born, happily for this
purpose, the child of a mother already in her forty-
seventh year. Thus, though according to accepted
medical theory, she came into the world a child of
aged parents, defrauded of her proper share of health,
vitality, and vigour, she was, as a matter of fact,
exceptionally well endowed with those good things.
Perfectly healthy and exceptionally strong and Vigo-
rous from the ﬁrst, she remained till very late in life-
a rare embodiment of natural strength. Her immense
Vitality and ceaseless ﬂow of animal spirits never
wholly left her even in old age. She once, described
her own appearance, with characteristic frankness,

as “ defective even to the point of grotesqueness

from an aesthetic point of View.” .This grotesque-
ness she accentuated, at any rate after I knew her,
by a dress designed for comfort, and for comfort
alone. “ My dear,” said one of her friends—she-
told me with much enjoyment of the laugh at herself
4—“ it. is not that you dress badly ; you do not dress
at all.” . But she arrested the eye with an attraction
of her own, that of a big, elemental humanity. Above
the mighty girth emphasized by the dress, rose a
strong, intellectual face, backed by a great leonine
head with a mane of strong, short-cut hair. A frank,
straight gaze of penetrating eyes that seemed to
read one’s unspoken thoughts carried the impression
of intellectual power and absolute truthfulness; and
then in another moment her face beamed with humour
and wit, or shone with the radiance of a great good—
will and kindliness, the natural language of a big;

 

44*...

 




 

44“

 

 

(3)

human heart. “ Large-brained woman and large-
hearted man ” might have been written by her friend
Mrs. Browning much more, ﬁtly of her than of George
Sand. Her genial laugh (she loved a good story
or a joke dearly) spread an atmosphere of good humour
around her, and was an irresistible infection even to
the gloomiest visitor, and, serious as was her inner
life, in social intercourse her high spirits never failed
her long.

She was, in fact, a great natural fountain of human
sympathy, with joy as well as with suffering, which
bubbled up according to the need of her companions.
An atmosphere of happiness, a breath of the joy and
the goodness of life, radiated from her like sunshine.
She was, on the whole, the happiest-hearted person
I have ever known. She combined in a rare way
the frankness and large geniality and generosity of a
man with the tenderness, the delicate thoughtfulness,
and quick perceptions of a woman. A delightful
companion, even to mere surface acquaintances, natur—
ally ﬁtted to be all things to all sorts of people, her
deeper self was reserved for the inner circle of friends
. who had some spiritual afﬁnity with her. Her many-
sidedness was almost as noticeable as her abounding
vitality. One noted her easy command of great
mental powers, seriousness and depth combined
with lightness and versatility. She would pass in a
moment from the brightest persiﬂage to the most
reverent treatment of the most solemn subject, and
one felt no incongruity, so perfectly easy and natural
was the transition. The high eloquence of her talk
on great themes became often the impassioned mono—
logue of one unconscious of time and surroundings,
and forgetful in her old age of the physical exhaustion
which generally followed the exertion.

Her abounding joy in mere living, in everything
she was doing, the ease with which she did all mental

 




 

work, came, no doubt, primarily from the fulness
of physical life, and the great reservoir of nervous
energy which it gave her. But her sunny religion
had much to do with it. She enjoyed life not only
without any hesitation as to the rightfulness of such
enjoyment, but with the feeling that the thankful
acceptance of natural joy was a part of religious
duty, and so joy was a duty to her,.and duty a joy,
in a way very rare and very beautiful. To know
her really well, to perceive the way the religious
mainspring moved the works of life, was in itself
an education in practical religion.

From her father she inherited a very strong will,
a masterful and somewhat imperious disposition, and
a somewhat impatient and ﬁery temper. Traces of
the bitter and unforgiving spirit she had had to over—
come in her youth remained in a considerable capacity
fOr quick and lasting resentment. This, however,
was much subdued in the last years of her life, when
her disposition, in spite of the sore trial of the failure
of her chosen cause to gain the anticipated victory,
mellowed, not without effort, and under the inﬂuence
of religious faith.

A good deal of her action which, on a surface view,
might be ascribed to temper, came from her straight—
forwardness and love of truth, which were inherited
from her father, and developed by the conscious
effort of her whole life. She was a keen judge of
character and conduct, and she trusted her own
judgment with the strong self-reliance that distin—
guished her. Want of straightforwardness, want of
truth, even in a friend, was certain to produce an
open change in her attitude. From her mother,
probably, she inherited the underlying vein of gentle—
ness and sweetness which became more prominent in
her latter days, and the sympathy which developed
in the work of life into a profound compassion for

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

“W l ‘ ‘ “—f"

 

all suffering, a compassion of rare sensitiveness and
intensity. She was undoubtedly ambitious, but her
ambition was a noble one, to be good and to do good,
and to this she dedicated herself to the exclusion of
all petty egotisms. '

The passionate quality in all her feelings and tastes
probably came from the immense natural vitality,
the fulness of life, which gives one of the keys to a
right understanding of her personality and her life.
Her love of God was passionate; so was her love
of goodness. Her love of truth, of. justice, of mercy,
had the same note of passionate intensity. This
is true even of her love of knowledge and of study.
A glimpse of this passionate devotion to knowledge
is given by her in her autobiography, which, by the
way, is shortly to appear, edited by Miss Atkinson,
in a new edition—completed by the account by her-
self of the last period of her life. After questioning
whether the modern methods, while conducing to
more accurate scholarship, convey the same delight
that she experienced in her solitary pursuit of know—
ledge, she says: “ When the summer morning sun
rose over the trees and shone, as it often did, into
my bedroom, ﬁnding me still over my books from
the evening before, and when I then sauntered out
to take a sleep on one of the garden-seats in the
shrubbery, the sense of having learned something,
or cleared up some hitherto doubtful point, or added
a store of fresh ideas to my mental riches, was one of
purest satisfaction.” This passage not only opens
a window into the years of her life up to thirty-ﬁve,
when on her father’s death she left her old home for
an independent life in the world, but gives some
measure of her remarkable capacity for, continuous
mental work. She had at that time, and till late in
life, a rare capacity for night work. Like George
Sand and Mrs. Oliphant, she could work all night

 




 

 

r!" ,, «r‘ ,gv-acy 'e.‘§" e,» .. .y .. ..L., , ., l. . M»
.f\,. M: ’ . .g. ,~~ «’3‘. vyfrv’f ”1 4, - ‘75: ,_,~‘;:‘. ” 7:! ': .5: TViszaLQmséxwpw.qun.:_.‘r..,7miv.73.. , .

at her books or with her pen, and preside over her
father’s house and entertain the guests all day with
unexhausted energy and good spirits. Without any
incentive of external reward or honour, and in the
rather discouraging atmosphere. of a great country
house, where her love of study was shared by no
one, she gave herself to the pursuit of knowledge
with an energy that made her mind one of the best
equipped of the minds of the women of her time.
Thus she studied carefully, and thoroughly an enor—
mous mass of literature and science, from the lite-
rature of Italy and France to that of Greece and
Rome, from geometry to German philosophy (read
in translations—she never learned German), from
the philosophers of Greece to the religions of the
East. The curious knowledge with which her mind
was stored would sometimes crop upin her old age.
For instance, I found her to be a lover of Plotinus,
Whom she had studied in those days of her youth,
and whose theological speculations still gave her
enjoyment. One of her own books, “ Alone to the
Alone,” takes its title from a passage in Plotinus.
Much of his Neo—Platonism has a curiously close
afﬁnity to her own Theism.

Her delight in bodily exercise was as genuine if
less intense. She had done a great deal of riding,
and always recalled with pleasure the memories of
her. journeys on horseback in Syria and her long rides
with the friends of her life in Italy. “Till an accident
occurred to her ankle she was a great lover of walking,
and kept-up the practice to the small extent that
the weakneSs of the ankle and the development of
great obesity. permitted. But her favourite exercise,
she told me, had been swimming, and her keenest
delight to take this exercise in the midst of beautiful
surroundings. Her love of swimming was closely
associated with her love of nature, which was

 

 

 

 




    
   
   

""“ .‘ ~ 5.7:»: Vs“: '”aﬁ‘t‘ifri‘mfi'aa‘tamﬁmzx‘mpmmujxﬁémwumugawg:Izwfammwnrma >m1~r3353¢=57~‘ .- .«---—; ~~ W . \
l

WW3"? ' ._..._.....

a..-

('7)

passionate. It was the beauty of nature, she often
told me, that delighted her in Italy far more than the

picture galleries and the architecture. She had
gained a knowledge of the glory of nature, she said,
in her Eastern as well as her Italian wanderings,

which was a great addition to the joy of life. “ Never,”

she wrote, “ shall I forget the revelation of the love—

liness of the xZEgean- and Ionian Seas, of the lower

slopes of Lebanon, and of the Acropolis of Athens,

seen as I saw it ﬁrst at sunrise.” She was a very good I

sailor, and loved the varying aspects of the sea, espe— {a

f

r

l

rfiirwﬁﬁ

:wmézr 19*- {37

:47???

4;; . L44“

 

‘cially under a southern sun. Her feeling for the
associations of the great past enhanced her appre—
ciation of scenery, and in the Holy Land she said she
had felt supremely happy as “ the place where from iii
the earliest times the human soul had highest and l
oftenest soared up to God.” This sense of the pre-

sence of God in His works gave a religious depth to l
her enjoyment of the beauty of nature; to her the l
forest sanctuary was a holier place than any cathedral, /

 

 

and she found the same inspiration to prayer in the
woods about her Welsh home in later days. She had
‘a poet’s eye for nature even in her old age. In our

 

drives together, when I stayed with her at Hengwrt, [
I noticed this in her swift response to every impression,
the colour of a ﬂower, the form of a mountain, the ‘
sweep of a river, the song or ﬂight of a bird. I
The happy life of the wild~ things of wood and I
mountain was a‘ continual joy to her; their joy in life
was, she Said, a psalm of thanksgiving in which she i
joined to the 'God who cared both for her and» them.
She liked to dwell on the general happiness of the
animals and considered that their joys greatly ex—
ceeded their sufferings. The view'that sees chieﬂy
the cruelty of nature she considered an entirely erro—
neous view, caused by conﬁning the attentiOn to
isolated facts. I remember with what eagerness she

 




l

S l
g
g!
i
if
:1
a

315‘...“ _. _:1'&Ewm‘ ”" ‘ Tm“ rMLm

34$." 4 4 i____

395:4.

— _ , ﬂy... it: 1‘
-N -. . . LL§Jlu‘Afl;-

 

‘ : ”mi—4"."- . i. >,- ..» a , . .._
, v-V, ., .yv 7 ~ « — «“2" .> W“ -.... mir‘rN—sz—rwm-4'» . -»~.- .

(8)

discussed the theory, strongly supported by the
experience of sportsmen in the jaws of the larger
carnivora, that as these great beasts anaesthetised
their prey, so by the same arrangement of Providence
it seemed probable that the suffering involved in the
survival of the ﬁttest throughout nature was more
apparent than real. She looked on the life of the
animals, as on her own life, as on the whole a blessing,
the joys far exceeding the sufferings. This was her
view of the slaughter of animals for food, a quick
ending—as it ought to be, but as I sometimes reminded
her, it is very often not—closing a placid and com—
fortable bodily life.

She had no sympathy with sport—with the killing
of animals for amusement. She detested the cruelties
it involved, and made her home a refuge for the wild
life of the surrounding country; and her vigorous
denunciation of the otter—hunters when she met them
on one occasion was probably the cause of a very
disgraceful though unsuccessful attempt to discredit
her humanity in the case of a favourite old horse
originally bought to deliver him from a hard master.

Her own domestic animals were treated with un—
failing kindness and thoughtfulness. She treated the
dogs not only with affection, but with courtesy, and.
used to say “ a well—bred dog hates to be laughed at.”
She was pleased when I produced Biblical support for
a high view of such duty, by giving her the right
translation of the familiar passage in Proverbs:
“ The righteous man knoweth the soul of his beast ”
—that is, enters into its character and understands
its disposition with intelligent sympathy. Any animal
that was suffering or inﬁrm from age had her ten—
derest attention. The last time I was with her she
took me, as usual, to visit and feed with bread a very
old pony which lived in the ﬁeld by the house as a
sort of pensioner. The pony then as always came

 




 

 

 

(9)

to her call like a dog, and rubbed against her to be
petted and caressed. They evidently understood each
other perfectly—~the old friend of animals and the
old pony together nearing the end of life’s journey;
and she observed gently that the same unseen Power
that has provided for and cared for both in
this world might perhaps provide even for the
humbler life in the next. She leaned to Bishop
Butler’s view, and thought that a future life for
anlmals is not improbable on grounds of justice and
also on the grounds of their possessing, at least in
embryo, capacities that belong to the higher life of
men. This humane attitude towards animals was
a part of her religion, and her practical rule was to try
to make the lives of all in her house as happy as possible. .
She loved hospitality, and took from her early years
a positive pleasure in housekeeping. She was equally
thoughtful of the happiness of her servants, gentle,
considerate, and courteous to them. ' In fact, I think
the chief pleasure of her old age was to watch the
happiness of others and to plan how to bring it about.

She had had in earlier life a great delight in good
poetry, as in nature and in study, and though the
passionate quality died out of this as of other en—
joyment with the weakening of her powers by old
age, a quiet pleasure remained. She was fond of
3 writing lverse herself, which, if it lacked mastery of
form, always had some fundamental brainwork in it,
_ and of this a favourable specimen is “Alone in the

Schwartzwald,” a religious interpretation of nature
in blank verse. Shelley stood alone as her favourite
poet even in old age. A copy of his poems had been
her companion in her wanderings in the East and in
Italy, and she loved him still in her last days. She loved
not only the music of his verse, but his humane attitude
towards nature and man and the whole animal world.

Her lack of ear for instrumental music went, as is
A—2

 

 




.ﬂ. “ ,7. .. v ~ , 7

(10)

often the case, with an intense delight in the music of the
best verse. So strong was this love of the music of
words that her complete sympathy with her friend
Browning’s optimism could not reconcile her to the
frequent ruggedness of his lines and his perverse
ingenuity in hideous rhymes. The music of nature
she loved at least as much as the music of words. The
carol of a bird or the singing of the little river in the
woods of Hengwrt was dearer to her than the best
that human skill could produce from the most perfect
instrument.

She had a great love of gardens and gardening. Her
garden was a perpetual solace of her old age. The
garden at Hengwrt, bosomed in great'trees, is a restful
solitude of verdure lit up with colour when the big
azaleas inside it or the tall rhododendr’ons on its
borders are in ﬂower, and with the blossoming of
luxuriant roses left to grow at their own will. In
this garden, when too old to walk much further, she
used to wander about or sit in the green seclusion and
think: a renewal in old age of the custom of her
youth of making the great garden of her father’s house '
her cathedral for solitary worship while the rest of the
household were at the village church.

But whether she was in the garden or in the house,
the evening of her life, which she desired earnestly
to spend in quiet communion with God, was never
left long undisturbed. Wherever she might be,
she was not suffered to forget the heart-breaking
crusade against the practice of vivisection, of which
she remained the inspiration till the end. Sheaves
of letters came from workers in America, as well
as in England and on the Continent, seeking counsel
or sympathy or help, and the most unknown worker
or seeker who wrote to her about the cause received
a prompt and full reply from her own pen. After the
letters telegrams kept arriving, and an observer could

   




 

(11)

not help seeing that, however much the hostess devoted
herself to her guests, she could at no time call an hour
her own.

But the mere labour of her anti-vivisection work
would have been nothing. It was the failure of her
efforts to suppress vivisection, a purpose to which she
had deliberately consecrated her life, sacriﬁcing every-
thing, her literary income, the most precious and loved
work of her life—~her work as a writer on religion,
her friendship with distinguished scientiﬁc men, her
leisure, and much of her great joy in life, this became to
her a bitter and intolerable experience. “ I have sacrie
ﬁced everything to it and it is a failure,” was often her
sad admission. She had succeeded or shown the way to
success in every reform she had undertaken before;
and it took years of unsuccessful conﬂict to convince
her that in this struggle with scientiﬁc research
immediate success was not to be expected. The
strength of the whole movement of research by eX-
periment in other directions lay in reserve behind
the practice she had set herself to abolish. Victory
for this cause was the N unc Dimittis for which, with
a mere memory of buried hopes that she would live to
see it, and with failing powers to carry on the battle,
she waited in her last days in vain. There is some-
thing inﬁnitely pathetic to those who knew her well
in the dreary discouragement of this last period of her
life. What she suffered as the hopelessness was borne
in upon her, it is not easy for lesser minds and less pas—
sionate natures to realise. She had forced herself to
study the whole literature of vivisection, and her
memory was ﬁlled with the pictures of tortured animals
and ruthless men, so that she realised what vivisection
means as very few do. And in long sleepless nights,
as she drew in the agonising consciousness of the.
steadily rising tide of injustice and cruelty and the
stiﬂing consciousness of her own impotence to stay

 




' V W .xiiiE33};ff‘m‘"ﬂiﬁﬁﬁm¥m7$ﬁ3mﬁmwkmmm'mawwuwvzt:u7R -' ”ﬂat ' ‘ “' "

(12)

its advance, she told me she was often scarcely able
to breathe and at times unable even to pray. J oyfully
would she have accepted immediate death if by her
death she could have purchased victory. -

And, literally, she gave her life to the cause. With
her great natural vitality and power of recuperation
she might have lived for years had this crushing weight
been removed. When the sufferings caused by vivisec—
tion are disputed, it would not be unjust to remember
that there is no anaesthetic for the sufferings of many
of the best and noblest men and women on whose
lives the growth of this practice has laid a heavy burden.
The effort needed to persevere in the work in spite
of its heart—breaking failure was increased by her
intense personal distaste for it, and the continual
longing to turn to the work she loved best, the study
of religion. She spoke or wrote to me of this repeatedly ; ’
and not long ago she ended a letter to me on religious
books and religious progress with these words : “ Oh !
how different it is to think of these sublime subjects
and our sad work ; whenever I revert to them, or look
into these books, my heart yearns to dwell again in
such a pure atmosphere.” .

But just as in young days she resisted the strong
temptation to abandon the squalor and drudgery
of her life of workhouse reform in Bristol and
return to the life she had enjoyed in the midst of
beautiful nature and congenial intellectual society in
Italy, so in her last days she resisted the strong tempta—
tion to retire from her almost intolerable task and
allow herself rest from her labours. With failing
strength but steadfast soul she continued her work,
an example of service faithful to the end. In her last
days she often referred to the way in which the call of
duty had decided her course. “ I have found in life,”
she used to say, “ that the very work that I least liked
to do, I had to do.” That was the case emphatically

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

(13)

with vivisection. She made the cause her own,
because she could get no one else to do so. The relief
with which she gave up her early work to the Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and
the dismay with which she discovered that the
great J ermyn—street society would not undertake
the task, were very real. And her experience of
the work, as she told me more than once, was far worse
than her worst anticipations. She could never have
stood the strain but for the extraordinary power of
the prayer-spirit which she possessed and which was
the support of all her serious work. Prayer was to
her not merely a duty but a necessity, an exercise of
function, a natural act, “ essentially simple and in—
voluntary,” as she once said, “like the drawing of the
breath.” In the power of the prayer-spirit she engaged
on the work at the beginning, realising some of the
’ sacriﬁces it involved; in the same power she persevered
when the greatness of the sacriﬁces she had made
' and the absence of the results she had anticipated
had brought. the deepest discouragement.

At her great age, and suffering as she did from con-
tinually increasing weariness and weakness, the work
she carried on, the continual writing of articles and
pamphlets, the enormous correspondence (all of it
written with her own hand, for she never would con—
sent to dependence on a secretary) were made possible
only by the most iron resolution. The great soul,
true to the high ideal of duty which had guided it
through life in the days of strength and vigour, had
literally to force the weary and failing old body to
do the work. “ How often,” writes one of her nieces
to me, “ have I seen her sit down by the ﬁre to rest and
warm herself, thinking she had ﬁnished her writing ;
and then think of another letter that might do some
good, , get up immediately, and set to work again.”
And in the last few months the tide of life ebbed

A .,_..l;.

HM*‘MHL..R___1..’~A'_ " I"

I;
r
l
f
j».
i;
if
5
l
a
l
l

 




(14)

fast. The tendency to heart failure became more and
more pronounced. But through all the gradually
increasing weakness and weariness she continued her
strenuous life of duty, rose early, came down to her
desk, and carried on her correspondence and all her
other work. Long before the end she had accepted with
resignation'the practical certainty that she would never
live to 'see the victory she had laboured for so long.
It must not be thought that all her days were spent
in labours which it was a pain to perform. To the
last she had a happy power of detachment ; without that
she would never have survived so long. She delighted
to the end in social intercourse, and remained a brilliant
talker, full of interest in the movement .of the world.
When I last visited her at the end of January I pre-
dicted that she would live for years. I could not be—
lieve she was near her end, so eloquent was her talk,
so alert her intellect, so full of varied interests her
mind.

Our conversation, then as at other times, was
chieﬂy about the future of religion. This was the
direction in which we both agreed her best work
had been done, and this was always her chief interest.
A few extracts from her recent letters will show the
movement of her mind at the end of life.

“ To try to liberalise the great old Church from
within ’.’ (she referred to the Church of England, with
the Liberal. movement in ‘which she was deeply in
sympathy) ;“ is a noble endeavour. The religion that
must arise out of the ashes of this controversy by—and—by

311:. must be very different from what either the Ritual-
ﬂ’ ists or the Evangelicals hold, one in which you and ‘I
will not be very far apart. I cannot live to see it,
but I should prophesy that after great and painful
disturbance of minds and vehement controversies
there will arise a noble new Church. which may be
called one of Christian Theism, in which the Church

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

(15)

of England, the Dissenting Churches, the enlightened
Jews, and many now numbered as Agnostics will
join in essential if not in formal unity. I suppose
you know that we (Theists) have pretty nearly all
come to the belief in what we may call the normality
of inspiration. . . We think that the wonder is how
our poor puny spirits, which live and move in the ocean
of the Divine Spirit, are so far and so often separated
from Him. And we conceive that the action of God
on the intellect is altogether parallel with His action
on our moral naturesn We call the latter inﬂuence
‘ grace,’ and every religious man believes in it, but does
not believe it makes the recipient impeccable, and just
in the same way we believe the Divine inﬂuence
on the intellect to be ‘ inspiration,’ but it dees not render
the most inspired of men infallible. I have written
all this because I should like you to see the point of
view from which I look at the Bible. I see here and
there through it what appears to me to be undoubtedly
Divine inspiration. Many of the utterances of the
Prophets and Psalmists were most justly heralded by
the preface, ‘ Thus saith the Lord,’ and that the
main current of Christ’s doctrine is truly and in the
highest sense inspired I also believe. But it does
not in the least interfere with my profound reverence
for such utterances to ﬁnd them in a book full of every
imaginable historical and even moral error.”

Again : “ It is astonishing how much real scepticism
underlies the boasted faith of orthodox people. They
believe implicitly that. God spoke long ago to Abraham
and a great many other men, and that they know
exactly what He said and where and how, and have
it all infallibly written down word for word in a book.
But what God says now—the revelation of His love
and holiness, which He ‘in whom we live and move
and have our being ’ makes naturally and by no miracle
in the hearts of His creatures ; this they treat as of no

' :31?

"g" r " ‘ ' “."ﬁ‘f". “F_ '.T,', 17'7‘3'1‘W-1mv—1—s—Tw 2‘-
-—-——~—__-....A____._. _'.' , . - ~ .~':..__"__..r», . La . .-, _

~14... . 1

t.
l;
g.
l
k;

5
fl,
l
l
g
I

 




T‘xgx *7 Pk

343‘ ‘
ii
i;
jiﬂ
2:13 .

“mm; then—:5:- J; ﬁe; run—4 i _ 4 4 4

_ _Eiﬁﬂ'}

 

 

 

 

 

|

' 'f‘. *mr~“=r-r'v‘*'r

\r- A~..~._:..‘ Awaunﬁ. .~ ,, . g. j,.»....___

(16)

account at all, not to be thought of as a safe and
sufﬁcient reason for faith and love. There is a
great religious change obviously hanging over this
world, and blessed be those who help it to pass safely
and teach men not to lose hold on God because they
are forced to lose hold on rotten cords which, they
imagined, bound them to Him. The more I live the-
more I see that there are really in the world, as always,
from elder time, two religions, the one which bows to'
mere might and seeks to please it, in one age by sacri-
fices (even of sons and daughters), in another by
sacraments and forms which are magic, the other which
only adores what'it sees to be good and worships by the
effort to be. good and to do good likewise. When two
human souls belong to the latter religion they are
nearer to one another than any community of nominal
creed or earthly bonds can make them.”

It is strange to think that Miss Cobbe was in Syria
before Renan, but left before his arrival, to write the-
life of J esus—a book which, with all its charm of
style, displeased her deeply, for she detected at once
the tendency which afterwardsappeared openly in the
Abbesse de J ouarre. Her optimism did not blind her
to the defects of the advanced Liberalism in religion.
of which she approved. She perceived with regret
the failure of many of the advanced Liberals to re—
cognise that negative criticism is only valuable as pre~
paring the way for a deeper and more real religion.
They seem, she said, to regard the Higher Criticism as.
an end in itself, not as I do, as a means. “ What pains.
me much,” she wrote. recently to me in this con—
nection, “ is to see that therecognition of the absolute-
goodness of God, and the love for Him which naturally
follows such recognition, is not advancingas it ought
to do pom} passu, with liberation from the old views.
There is a positive side as well as a negative to our new
ideas which sorely needs to be put forward.”

 

 




 

 

 

(17)

How true and illuminating are some of her sayings
about Christ; for instance, this ﬁne tribute to His
unique headship of humanity :—

His coming was to the life of humanity what Regeneration is
to the life of the individual. This is not a conclusion doubtfully
deduced from questionable biographies, but a broad plain inference
from the universal history of our race. We may dispute all details,
but the grand result is beyond criticism. The world has changed,
and that change is historically traceable to Christ. . . . He
is not merely a moral Reformer. . . . Nor merely a religious
Reformer. He might have taught the world better ethics and
better theology, and yet have failed to infuse into it that New
Life which has ever since coursed through its arteries and pene-
trated its minutest veins.

When we descend the slope of old age and are
nearing the last steps, the world of our younger
days often returns to us and we live again in the
past. It was so with her. Her thoughts in the last
week of her life went back to her own younger days,
to her life in Italy, whither I was on the point of
starting. She described to me the happy years she
had spent there nearly half a century before, lived
again in memory in the old surroundings and with
the old friends, Mrs. Somerville, the Brownings,
Theodore Parker, Mrs. Beecher Stowe, and many
more, all long ago dead. She enjoyed giving me advice
what to do and what to see, and looked forward to
listening one day to my impressions with an eager—
ness that showed that her mind had not aged. “‘ If
you make any stay in Rome,” she wrote, “ do take a
long drive in the Campagna, where the air does one’s
very soul good; and so few people ever go out of the
galleries and the churches to see God’s gallery there...
Mary and I made our friendship riding together
alone all over it, so it is sacred ground to me.” It was
a bright and beautiful sunset to the holy and solemn
eventide of her laborious life.

The life beyond the grave was in the last few

_ 1????" . “A . TC." 3'": :1»; ‘.-!‘ ,1 (“1”“- -_"4" ‘3, 3.7177" “G 77.7“."
. . - - .. ‘ 4' .. . v

f A ‘ A ﬁ;.~ ‘ J“ ‘~ 2‘; '—< . '1‘ _ w,
m ,.m__, ..__'-_._r;i._W._'r*.-r:’rw ..

m... ..,.

*m"

l
E

 




 

 

 

 

 

(18)

mo-nths much in her thoughts. Full of hope for the
future of religion, full of hope for the 'moral future
of humanity, she continued also full of hope in a better
and fuller existence after death. That dark gateway,
the darkness of which she felt intensely, was the
way, she was certain, to a life of goodness and joy"
far exceeding human conception. She based this
hope boldly on the absolute goodness of God. “ Either
man is immortal or God is not just.” She rested
it, too, on the common sentiment of immortality
in mankind, on the testimony of the universal heart
of man. Shortly before her death she wrote out and
sent me two passages from Sir Alfred Lyell’s “ Asiatic
Studies,” which she thought most helpful to a right
view :—

(1) This idea of the wandering'soul is so universal, so obviously
founded on the instinctive human refusal or incapacity to accept
death as the ﬁnal extinguisher, that it may be taken as the ultimate
basis of religion in a state of nature. . . . (2) But, however"
this may be, one‘thing seems sure, whatever may be the reason
of it, that although the fact that all men die rests upon most direct,
conclusive, and unquestionable evidence, constantly renewed,
yet no race of men ever seems to have accepted death as the certain
end of the dead man’s personality.

To this broadbased faith in personal immortality,
a faith she considered of profound importance to the
maintenance and development of the higher life in
man, she added a corroboration which she thought of
some value, though quite subsidiary. What appears
to be the last vision of the soul on the brink of depar-
ture, in cases where the mind is calm and its powers
unimpaired, suggested to her a beautiful and com—-
forting possibility. She thought it possible that the-
affections draw the beloved and loving spirits of the-
dead to the threshold to receive their arriving friends,
and that the mysterious joy sometimes seen on the
face of the dying is due to- the sudden vision of what
awaits them. With this possibility in her mind she

 

 

 




 

 

 

(‘19)

lived much, she said, in the last months of her life,
in the thought of her loved ones who had gone before.
- On the morning of her death she rose very early in.
the cold grey dawn, opened the shutters to let in the
light, and as she walked across the room, the gates of
the unseen world opened to her with the merciful.
swiftness she had hoped and prayed for, and she passed
the threshold, perhaps to ﬁnd her loved ones waiting
to receive her in the new life.

A word as to her life-work. Her main work was.
that of a pioneer of religious and moral progress.
Yet the visible reforms accomplished by her were not
inconsiderable. This is plain when one glances over
the three chief departments in which she worked for
reform : the movements for reform in religion, in the-
treatment of women, and in the treatment of animals.
Of the ﬁrst I have said something already.

In the reform in the treatment of women her record.
has visible results to show of which few will question
the value. Her labours in the reformatories and
workhouses had their part in helping the organised
progress that has gone on since, and this is also true
of her labours to befriend young servants. Her
suggestions in The Philosophy of the Poor Laws are
embodied in the laws of New South Wales. Her
efforts to advance the higher education of women long
ago bore such fruit as the granting to them of University
degrees. She did her part in the work that procured
the passing of the Married Woman’s Property Act;
the Act to Amend the Matrimonial Causes Acts was
practically hers, and continues to do a work of wide—
spread usefulness. If she did not live to see Woman’s
Suffrage an accomplished fact, she saw it far on the
way to that position. In the remaining department

in which she laboured, the reform in the treatment.

of animals, the results, though not, I think, less

valuable, are plainly much less apparent. This was,

 

.. ‘..;_‘/

_ . r"..\

.. .,3,~_ < ‘,:>.,_‘

u..4.g__~.__u._ . " as" 2,; .! . . 4_ ~——» .. ,
....__.. __.__._.____.».,. . ,. . ., _ ._

3" “u 0; HT“ '13-‘4’7-224‘waﬁ'ﬂ " T'

. v7: :‘Q‘FYIIN'F‘I" w.

“at".

fry—.ng—cwx

u i . n-.ﬂ_.———-zmmi_ma




 

 

 

 

l 20 )

inevitable. A new ﬁeld of morals had to be explored
and mapped out, what the splendidly-signed address
presented to her in her eightieth year called “the
Dark Continent of our relations to our dumb fellow-
creatures.” This pioneer work she did with rare
diligence and efﬁciency, sometimes with the happy
intuition of a genius in ethics. If she failed in her
main purpose, the suppression of Vivisection, she laid
the foundations broad and deep for that and all future
reforms in a true conception of human duty to the
animal world. All the reforms in the treatment of
animals which have been so conspicuous a part of
moral progress in England in recent years, the reforms
with which the immediate future is pregnant, owe
much, if they do not owe their very existence, to the
movement of which she was the master—builder, and
thus her achievement where she‘ thought she had
failed is really considerable, measured by the indirect
results of her work.
JOHN VERSCHOYLE.

'Published by the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection, 14, St. James’s
Barton, Bristol. Price 2d. each ; 1s. 3d. per dozen.
Printed by W. Speaight & Sons, Fetter Lane, London.

 

 

 

 

 








M
m

 

 

 

 




