 

   

FIGURE [. Electrodes : (A) Correct condition. (B) Condition C}?

unduly high resistance

When electric stunning was ﬁrst introduced, practically nothing
was known as to its mode of action and it was used quite recklessly
In recent years, however, a great deal of relevant knowledge has
been gained through the treatment by electroplexy of human beings.
suffering from certain mental ailments, and this, source cs?
information has been supplemented by laboratory experiments.
carried out with the aid of the electro-encephalograph and other

modern equipment. Details will be published shortly in the
scientific press. ‘

5/12 of electrode

 

FIGURE 2., Where to place the electrode,




RUTGERS . THE STATE UNIVERSITY
NEW JERSEY AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION

NICHOL AVENUE

DEPARTMENT OF FOOD SCIENCE April 1 7, 1 9 58 NEW BRUNSWICK NEW JERSEY

Mrs. Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street

New York 3, New York

Dear Mrs. Stevens -

Thank you for your letter of April 16th. The
talk at Omaha roughly covered the progress to date which is
brieﬂy:

1. Electrical stunning in past has been suspect
because of appearance of petechial lung
hemorrhages.

In our early work; virtually every animal
showed these small hemorrhages and even
massive hemorrhaging.

Though we don't feel we ‘ve finished thework,
we have eliminated the massive hemorrhages
and reduced the petechial hemorrhage s; to
about 1 out of 15 stunned animals and in many
instances none in 20.

The animals are completely out for periods
up to 5 minutes, depending on the severity
of the shock.

In summary, considerable progress has been
made in the elimination of hemorrhaging. We aren‘t sure, but it
may be that the low level we are now getting may be "normally"
present with no stunning at all. We have asked the M. I. D. of the
U. S. D. A. , who have cooperated and supervised all through this
work, to investigate this. In the reasonably near future this
packer sponsored work may very well bear fruit to yield a satis-
factory method of stunning animals in a manner and at costs that
can be borne by all, big and small.

 




WNTIAL FACTS
The following facts can be stated with conﬁdence:

(1') A shock applied to the head can produce genuine
:wsg'sgsthesia for about 60 seconds provided Heat the right conditions

(2) The test for the genuineness of the anaesthesia is that the
:,E,‘.c;':2ck must produce a normal electroplectic ﬁt, the nature of which
5 be described below. If the shock is not strong enough a
-' entitition known as “ missed shock ” is produced, and this may be
. a'igything but humane.

(3:) A pig recovers consciousness about 60 seconds after a
.r.‘%:~.s'~;tactory shock has been given and may then, for about 30
22:»;_:.ends, be sensitive to pain but paralysed. This. condition is the
" nightmare state ” of Leduc or “ electric curarization about
Rich there has been so much discussion; the use of the electro-
.mcephalograph has made it possible to settle this controversy.

»,-:",;‘ijf?'l"JDITIONS REQUISITE FOR GENUINE ANAESTHESIA

(1) Strength of current (amperes). The strength of the shock
f-i,.,+pends on two factors jointly, if ordinary alternating current
skyrived from the mains is used. One of these two factors is the
nrength of the current, which should not be less that 250
militiamperes. The strength of the current depends, in. turn, on the
'-/:::-=itag'e (which should be not less than 75 volts), and on the
1,7“:5’lStaI1CC in circuit. Under present conditions in Britain the voltage

, i the mains may ﬂuctuate widely; when a feeder is over—loaded
and a cut is imminent it may drop considerably below its nominal
mine. The resistance lies mainly at the contact of the electrodes
'a'vi'th the skin; it depends on the construction and condition of the
electrodes and skin and on the pressure exerted on them.

(2) Time of application. Provided that the current in
i‘oilliamperes exceeds a certain minimum. an electroplectic ﬁt can be
induced by keeping the current on for a sufﬁciently long time. The
time required varies with the current—strength and also varies from
pig to pig, but under the conditions recommended here about 10
seconds is generally—speaking a safe time. It th1s fails to stun the
pig the tongs should be applied again, but repeated failure probably
means that some other factor is at fault.

(3) Position of electrodes. The current must pass through
the upper part of the brain, including the thalamus. The electrodes
must therefore be positioned in accordance With the instructions
given below.

(4) Condition of animals. Individuals (and possibly breeds)
vary in their susceptibility; this fact must be allowed for.

The electrical resistance is least when the skin under the
electrodes is clean and moist; when the caloric intake (cereals, etc.)
is restricted before killing; and when plenty of water is drunk.

(5) Prompt sticking. Since the pig may recover consciousness
about 60 seconds after receiving a satisfactory shock, it must be

stuck immediately after the stunning.

 




Mrs. Christine Stevens - April 17, 1958 - Page (2)

I hope you can find time to get over to see us
some time. We would like very much to have you visit with us.

Roy E.) Morse, Professor
Department of Food Science

 




Blood splash is due to delay in sticking; commercial as well as
humane considerations therefore require that sticking shall be
done as promptly as possible.

(6) Frequency and wave-form. It is assumed here that the
current will be the ordinary sinusoidal alternating current derived
from the mains, with a frequency of 50 cycles per second (in America
60 c. / s.) If this is not so the ﬁgures. given here for current—strength
and time of application must be changed.

THE ELECTROPLECTIC FIT

Since the electroplectic ﬁt is essential to effective stunning its
nature should be clearly understood. A typical tit consists of the
following stages, though the times are subject to variation and are
given only approximately:

» (i) Hind legs stretched out violently, forelegs stiff, head bent
back. Breathing stopped.

IF THESE INDICATIONS ARE ABSENT THE PIG HAS
NOT BEEN STUNNED.

(ii) After about IO seconds the animal gradually becomes
less stiff, and the legs make vague walking movements.
(iii) After about 60 seconds from the start the animal becomes
conscious but is paralysed for 30 seconds or so longer.

PRACTICAL INSTRUCTIONS

(I) Make sure that the skin on the cheeks, under the
electrodes, will be clean and free from mud ; fast the animals for 12
hours before slaughter; give them unlimited water to drink.

(2) Check the voltage across the electrodes with a voltmeter;
the open-circuit voltage should be at least 75 volts. If it is not,
use a different tapping on the transformer.

(3) With electrodes of the tongs type inspect the metal
pad-holder weekly and get rid of any corrosion; see that the pad,
which must be at least 2%; inches. in diameter, sticks out from the
holder as at (A), Figure I, and does not leave a gap as at (B) ; dip
the electrodes in brine before each pig.

With electrodes of the 3—prong IWel type, clean the bristle
contacts twice daily and have a spare set available.

(4) Apply the electrodes, one on each side of the face, at the
point where a vertical line through the base of the ear cuts a
horizontal line through the upper tip of the snout; see Figure 2.

(5) Press the electrodes tightly together to ensure good
contact ; hold on for IO seconds.

(6) If the pig does not throw an electroplectic fit (see above)
give it another 10 seconds. If this keeps on happening report it;
there is something wrong.

(7) It is recommended that indicators should be ﬁtted to give
a warning if the current falls short of the requisite 250 mA. and if
the time of application falls short of 10 seconds. An electrician can
improvise such indicators.

 

Courier Co., Ltd., Tunbridge \Vells.

 




.55..va

a! W
4

“97".
A .

21'-

PA
: a!

14%;”.

A :5
i '1

5 >53." <9 :i*
41w; "r!" 3V” M? #6! N} l

I k ’
3:14

). u.’

5,}. A. Mm“, : . ‘ '

”L g,

3"”!
,g

.5. 24!“
1&34‘ ray-4

.‘ V ’5

1+4 .', W5,
’25! Jay. .-5 . 1,»;

w

‘5‘ ".« ‘
w '.

5‘1. ?¥ “4?“
:4? 4;,

1“. W \‘5

san’
(i ‘35
".;-7“

Jaw;
,.

'w
“a

! J 4, .1

.mﬁ
:

w:

3:11:49“; ‘ m.

u
a
DA 1\'T

4-”):

 




EX

Conditions of Sale (EX) of Goods sold in or from the United Kingdom.
for Shipment abroad exclusive of Erection.

l. GENERAL—The acceptance of our tender includes the acceptance
of the following terms and conditions:

2. VALIDITY.——Unless previously withdrawn, our tender is open for
acceptance for the period stated therein, or when no period is stated,
within thirty days only from date hereof, and is subject to conﬁrmation
at the time of such acceptance.

3. ACCEPTANCE—The acceptance of our tender must be accompanied
by suﬂ‘icient information to enable us to proceed with the order forthwith,
otherwise we are to be at liberty to amend the tender prices to cover any
increase in cost which has taken place after acceptance. Any samples
submitted must be returned to our Works, carriage paid, within one month
from date of receipt or paid for.

4. PACKING.——Unless otherwise speciﬁed in our tender, packing in
accordance with our standard export practice is included.

5. LIMITS OF CONTRACT.———Our tender includes only such goods,
accessories, and work as are speciﬁed herein.

6. DRAWINGS, ETC.——All descriptive and shipping speciﬁcations,
drawings and particulars of weights and dimensions submitted with our
tender are approximate only, and the descriptions and illustrations contained
in our catalogues, price lists, and other advertisement matter are intended
merely to present a general idea of the goods described therein, and none
of these shall form part of the contract. After acceptance of our tender, a
set of certiﬁed outline drawings will be supplied free of charge if desired.

7. TESTS.——-Our manufactures are carefully inspected and, where
practicable, submitted to our standard tests at our Works before despatch.
If special test or tests in the presence of you or your representative are
required, these, unless otherwise agreed, must be made at our Works and
will be charged for extra, and in the event of any delay on your part in
attending such tests after seven days’ notice that we are ready, the tests
will proceed in your absence, and shall be deemed to have been made in
conformity with this condition and your requirements.

8. PERFORMANCE—Any performance ﬁgures given by us are based
upon our experience and are such as we expect to obtain on test. We
will, however, accept no liability if those ﬁgures are not obtained unless
we speciﬁcally guarantee them with provision for an agreed sum, as
liquidated damages, and a bonus if our ﬁgures are improved upon. All
ﬁgures given are subject to the recognised tolerances and rejection limits
applicable to such ﬁgures.

We are to be given reasonable time and opportunity to comply with the
terms of the guarantee before you call upon us to pay any sum in respect
of such liquidated damages. If we fail so to comply, you may reject the
goods and we will repay to you any sum paid by you to us on account of
the contract price thereof, and any sum that may have accrued due to
you in respect of delay in despatch under Clause 9 up to the date of
such rejection.

You assume responsibility for the capacity and performance of the goods
being sufﬁcient and suitable for your purpose.

9. DESPATCH.—Any times quoted for despatch are to date from
receipt by us of a written order to proceed and of all necessary information
and drawings to enable us to put the work in hand. All such times are
to be treated as estimates only not involving any contractual obligation
unless we have speciﬁcally contracted otherwise. Any such contractual
obligation is subject to our not being delayed by instructions or lack of
instructions from you or by industrial dispute or by any cause whatsoever
beyond our reasonable control.

If notwithstanding the foregoing provisions we incur any liability for
late despatch such liability shall not exceed one half of one per cent. of
the Contract Price per week of the period of delay with a maximum of
ten per cent. of the Contract Price.

10. EXTRA COST.—-—In the event of the suspension of the work by
your instructions or lack of instructions, the contract price shall be
increased to cover any extra expense thereby incurred.

11. DELIVERY.——Delivery f.o.b. port stated in our tender is included.

12. TERMS OF PAYMENT.—The prices quoted are strictly nett, and
payment in full in respect of the goods shall be due upon presentation of
shipping documents and invoices in the United Kingdom; or if from any
cause beyond our control we are unable to despatch the goods or if
obtaining Bills of Lading is not our obligation, then payment of the
Contract value of the goods shall be due upon presentation of invoices and
notiﬁcation from us that the goods are ready for despatch.

13. STORAGE—If we do not receive forwarding instructions sufﬁcient
to enable us to despatch within fourteen days after notiﬁcation that the
goods are ready for despatch, you shall take delivery or arrange for
storage. We are prepared, however, if our storage facilities permit, to
store the goods, making a reasonable charge per ton per week, until the
goods are despatched, and the goods shall be paid for as if they had been
despatched. Any charges for storage or demurrage after despatch must
be paid by you.

14. DAMAGE IN TRANSIT.-——-We will not be responsible for loss or
damage to goods beyond the point of shipment, nor shall we be under any
obligation to give you further notice, statutory or other, that we accept no
responsibility. When Bills of Lading are taken out by us, we will, on
your instructions and at your expense, insure against loss or other risk,
and will, on receipt of your indemnity, take all reasonable steps to recover
from the underwriters any loss or damage for which they may be liable.

15. GENERAL LIABILITY AND GUARANTEE—Save as provided in
Clause 8: In lieu of any warranty, condition, or liability implied by Law,
our liability in respect of any latent or patent defect in or failure of the
goods supplied, or for any loss, injury, or damage attributable thereto, is
limited to making good by replacement or repair defects which, under
proper use, appear therein and arise solely from faulty design, materials,
or workmanship within a period of twelve calendar months after the
original goods shall have been ﬁrst despatched, at the termination of
which period all liability on our part ceases: Provided always that you
shall notify us of every failure or defect within 14 days of its discovery
and that all parts are promptly returned free to our Works, Jnless otherwise
arranged. The repaired or new parts will be delivered free of charge f.o.b.
British port of shipment.

In the case of goods not of our manufacture, you are entitled only to
such beneﬁts as we may receive under any express or implied warranty
given to us in respect thereof. ,

16. PATENTS.——We will indemnify you against any claim for infringe-
ment of Letters Patent or Registered Design (published at the date of the
Contract/ Order) by the use or sale of any article or material supplied by
us to you and against all costs and damages which you may incur in any
action for such infringement or for which you may become liable in any
such action. Provided always that this indemnity shall not apply to any
infringement which is due to our having followed a design or instruction
furnished or given by you or to the use of such article or material in a
manner or for a purpose or in a foreign country not speciﬁed by or
disclosed to us. And provided also that this indemnity is conditional on
your giving to us the earliest possible notice in writing of any claim
being made or action threatened or brought against you and on your
permitting us at our own expense to conduct any litigation that may ensue
and all negotiations for a settlement of the claim. You on your part
warrant that any design or instruction furnished or given by you shall
not be such as will cause us to infringe any Letters Patent, Registered
Design or Trade Mark in the execution of your order.

17. CONDITION OF LIABILITY.-Any liability on our part is subject
to the terms of payment and all your other obligations to us under the
contract being strictly observed.

18. ARBITRATION—If at any time any question, dispute or difference
whatsoever shall arise between you and ourselves upon, in relation to or in
connection with the contract, either of us may give to the other notice in
writing of the existence of such question, dispute or difference, and the
same shall be referred to the arbitration in England of a person to be
mutually agreed upon, or failing agreement within thirty days of the
receipt of such notice, of some person appointed by the President for the
time being of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers. The submission
shall be deemed to be a submission to arbitration within the meaning of
tﬁe Arbitration Act 1950, or any statutory modiﬁcation or re-enactment
t ereof.

l9. LEGAL CONSTRU-CTION.——The proper law of this ‘ contract is
English Law and the parties hereto submit to the jurisdiction of the High
Court of Justice in England.

Industrial Waste Eliminators Ltd.

lLONDON, E.C.4. January, 1955

 




71 CO

”L.

7
J.

r

: "
“L. Li.

~ ‘2‘ 1-
‘ I. §

.
h} .2; "wL.

’73:-
V?

L.
(.2 J. l ‘ ‘

a,

LAKE ‘CHARLES,

O?

x w‘ :27,
‘ J
4..

NOTARY PUBLIC

“ 1
.L
I
4 I}? O .
t

.-
I
z 1

LOUISIANA
‘1 '- 71
"M3. a}

' I'

~3— “z

a: v.1;
”‘3
40:.

.4“

4“ n.-

a}

z ”:1

®
('9
Q
'3
5:?
('9
@
§
4—-‘
5‘
E.
o—
F?

O
““er
L06

:
.L 4-
_ J: r3?
“-4. MM ks). ,
“I
1.

at
I
4

\

‘r .J‘ m- 1.9..

t

.w'

PHONE HE. 6-0660

:L'f'z :F'a »
5""

Q

1
”a

ii.
an 1
be

°m
31
L. 11

,7

l

1 ‘ J .
1..-”,

31

.L

ousnagd

 




Zﬁ'fSH‘é’ONE.‘ INDUSTRIAL WASTE ELIMINATORS LTD.
(3 LINES) _. . .
' 7/” Old Bailey

TELEGRAMS :
Tunermsm. CENT. LONDON London E.C.4.

- (ﬁlﬂiib' _31LEKZIEHQJQﬁEEiﬁQAEEEWEliiﬂﬁlilaiiséll

 

QEEEBAQ

The most humane and also the cheapest and most efficient
way of slaughtering pigs, sheep and calves is to stun them first
with an electric shock. It is painless, almost instantaneous
and leaves the carcass in prime condition.

 

£3,319... 29.9. amass. PER Hora

The Electrolethaler consists of a mains unit (A.C.) which
should be mounted on the slaughterhouse wall and a simple pair of
tongs, which are easy to use and perfectly safe for the operator.
It needs no re~loading and no attention once the current is
switched on. With it you can deal with.up to 2RD animals per
hour.

BETTER MEAE

Careful investigation shows that by electrically stunning
the animal before sticking, the blood flows more freely. 'Using
the Electrolethaler you get about 13 per cent better bleeding than
by direct sticking and there is no “splashing". The curing
prOperties of the hams etc., are not affected. There is no
damage to brain or carcass, no jerked hams or torn muscles due to
struggling. The meat is left in first class condition.

STRENGTH AND SIMPLICITY

Heavy accuratery machined components are used in the
construction of the Tongs and there is no complex switch mechanism
to go wrong. The ebonite ear caps carrying the brushes and holders
simply screw into the castings making the change over of the brushes
quick and easy. These Tongs have been tested thoroughly in
different parts of the country and maintenance and Spares costs are
considerably less.

 




Aﬁmﬁ; 1:55; 3 ggggyg

“‘4" 1‘53; ”a ""r‘f'
any?

a. I :43 > . 1‘ “Karat;

a .J - ‘ ;
w ;v {jg 13- <4» \ , ”:'~?;J‘;‘ “‘

 




mums. IouNDiPrsionerel Hithjiuff er w: nd 1 ms

The Unit has two double wound transformers9 with a buffer
winding to withstand short circuiting of the secondary side for
short periods without causing damage. An automatic cut—out
switch is also fitted which is easily re—set by the Operator and
obviates the necessity of renewing fuses. The whole unit is
encased in a metal water-tight tank for wall mounting.

PERFECTLY sAsg

The phOSphor bronze wire brush electrodes on the tongs
are completely insulated from the frame to prevent current leaking.
These electrodes can be re—bristled at'a low cost providing only
the holder is returned. The tongs are most suitable for the
stunning of pigs9 sheep and calves. A low voltage of 70 - 90
volts is used.

INSTALLATION

The Transformer should be fixed to the wall 5‘6" from the
ground. The mains should be led by a watertight enclosed conduit,
via a 5 amp isolator switch9 to the input side and be connected to
the apprOpriate tapping. The secondary wiring should be led by
conduit to a watertight metal switch socket9 enabling the tongs to
be removed from the slaughterhouse when not actually in use.

OPERATION

 

When the Electrolethaler is plugged into the mains a pilot
light shows that the apparatus is ready for use. These Tongs do
not have to be dipped into brine and the Operator's only concern
is to place the electrodes in the best position for stunning.

With pigs this is where a horizontal line through the tip of the
snout cuts a vertical line from the base of the ear. With sheep
and calves it is between eye and ear9 and the operation is carried
out most conveniently by placing the animal on a cratch. The
stunning period is ten seconds. It is essential that the animal
should be hoisted and/or stuck as soon as possible after stunning
in order to avoid recovery of consciousness either before or

during bleeding.

CONSUMPTION

80 watts (approximately).

It is advisable for each user to carry a Spare pair of Tongs
enabling maintenance to be carried out Without interruption.

MAY l956.

 




Hog Shocker

Stuns Animals
for Slaughter

Butcher of Cedorburg Uses Humane
Device That He Imported
From Germany

Milwaukee (Wis.) Journal, Sunday, Oct. 23, 1955
By LEWIS C. FRENCH Of The Journal Staff

 

Cedarburg, \Nis. An electric chair for pigs?

Well, not quite, but a counterpart that stuns
a market hog unconscious in a jiffy before
packing plant slaughter is in operation here.

Emil Paulus, who operates a meat market,
butchers his meat in an abattoir to the rear of
the store. He uses an electric shocker for more
humane butchering of both swine and beef.

Shaped like a giant hedge clip-per, the equip-
ment imported from Germany works quick and
sure, almost like a flash.

The shocker has long plastic handles cov-
ered with rubber for protective insulation. At
the other end, worked from a hinge, are two
huge claws with steel electrodes at the tips.
At the contact points are two wells lined with
foam rubber. Teethlike spikes half an inch
long project inward to give a firm grip on the
hide of a shoat or steer.

There are two rubber buttons on the handle.
Press one and nothing happens. Press both and
220 volts surge through those contact points
like a lightning flash.

Scene Isn’t Pleasant

Now there is nothing pleasant to the eye
or ears in a packing plant slaughtering de-
partment. This is especially true when a pen
of husky market hogs in the prime of life

 

smells and sees the fate of its kin. They know
that their number is coming up quick and
that there is no escape.

You never heard such squealing terror. The
porkers seem to know they haven’t got a chance
and squeal to the last gasp.

Hans Antoni and Erick Voss, who learned
the trade in Germany and now work at the
Paulus market, told their boss that the noise
wasn’t necessary. When other storekeepers and
neighbors protested about the noise every time
the Paulus market butchered for pork, the
Germans persuaded Paulus to send to Ger-
many for an electric shocker. He has been
using it for more than a year.

“No Complaints”

“We’ll never go back to the old method of
using a maul to whack a steer or shoat,” he
said. “No complaints now.”

At butchering time in the Paulus plant there
usually are a dozen lopeared Yorkshire hogs in
the pen. They are the lean butcher type mar-
ket hog without much lard, each animal
weighing around 212 pounds.

The hogs huddle over in the corner. One
of the butchering crew approaches and quick—
ly applies the shocker claws, one end behind
the ear and the other at the jowl.

Then 220 volts surge through the circuit,
hitting the brain of the animal like a flash.
The pig keels over, perhaps with a twist of
the tail and kick of the leg, unconscious.

Takes Only Seconds

The first contact is just for a second or two.
Socko. Down without a squeal. Then a second
application at the head and there is not a
quiver.

Others of the crew hook a chain around
a hind leg and the hydro-electric lift yanks
the senseless hog to the proper height. Then

a razor sharp knife is jabbed into the jugular
vein for bleeding.

“Works just as well with beef. Just a touch
and they are out,” said a member of the
butchering crew.

Both state and federal meat inspectors have
had appraising looks at the shock method.
Several times a committee from the veterinary
science department at Michigan State univer-
sity and the University of Wisconsin college
of agriculture have visited Paulus’ shop. So far
there has been nothing but approval.

Humane Bills Pending

One of the reasons for the interest in this
Cedarburg electric shock method is that there
now are bills pending before congress to pro-
hibit interstate shipment of meat except when
killed by humane methods.

If the measure becomes a law, a committee
of. four, representing packing plants, union
labor in the plants, humane officers and con-
sumers, would advise the secretary of agri—
culture on acceptable humane methods. The
objective of the bills is to require packing
plants to first render insensible all meat ani-
mals before slaughter. The only exception un-
der the bill is where traditional religious rites
are required, such as with kosher meats.

“This Cedarburg application of the electric
shock proves humane practices are practical,”
said Mrs. Marie Graves Thompson, 2545 N.
65th st., Wauwatosa, a member of the National
Humane society and president of the Animal
Protective league. If the federal law is adopted
for interstate shipments, it is likely that a bill
will be offered in the Wisconsin legislature
for meat sales within the state.

Other electric shock methods have been
tried in American meat packing plants, in—
cluding those in the Milwaukee area.

 




3o) ELECTRICAL STUNNING or SMAIL
Have you heard.ebout our n

hnefro 1
base of :7QI
Beam

ANIMALS.

erlectroletheler Tongs Type GwR.2, because we have
revolutionised the design and construction of this
latest model? ‘Wire brush electrodes are fitted,
(but arranged.for easy removal) and immersion in
brine is not necessary. Heavier end.aocurately
machined components are used in the assembly, and
we have dispensed.with the complex switch gear used
on earlier stunners. After testing thoroughly some
12 pairs in different parts of the Country, we feel
certain that maintenance will now be less and-spares
OOStS lower. ‘

Numerous other refinements and features add up
to a streamlined efficient device to assist humane
killing of pigs, sheep'and calves. The Tongs should
be held with the thumbs to the inside and on top,
ending; in the manner of lawn shears. Approach to
the animal should be from.behind and the electrodes
applied quickly and firmly for a minimum.of 10
seconds to ensure genuine anesthesia. The correct
position to apply the electrodes for pigs is at a
point where a vertical line through the base of the
ear cuts a horizontal line throu, the tip of the
snout, (see accompanying diagram . For sheep and
calves, the Tongs should ip between the ears and
the eyes.

Can we send you details for your perusal‘with~
out obligation ?

Yours faithfully,

Bales unnager.

.A HiE E N'A.FI G-R 0 U'P' C 0 MIPKA N'Y.

 




Objections in Past

In the past there have been objections, gen-
erally for two reasons. One was that the
electric stunning often tended to coagulate the
blood, preventing proper bleeding and dis-
coloring the meat. The second objection was
that the heavy voltage often developed lesions,
or small blisters, making it difficult for public
meat inspectors to tell whether they were
caused by a disease that would condemn the
meat or from electric shock alone.

“We haven’t had such problems,” says Pau-
, citing the fact the best trained veteri-
narians and meat inspectors have looked over
the results. “Those from Michigan state made
a most thorough check.”

lus

Around the midwest improved packing house
methods are on the way.

Now most packing plants marketing pork
use a huge revolving wheel, hooking a chain
around live hogs to lift them into the air.
Then the animals are stuck with a sharp
knife and bleed over a railing.

One Minnesota packer gives market hogs a
whiff of gas to anesthetize them before killing.
The swine are unconscious in a matter of
seconds.

In beef packing some plants, including one
on the market here, uses a captive bolt sys-
tem. A short steel bolt is fired from a pistol
to penetrate the brain at a precise distance
to knock the animal out quickly but not spoil
the meat.

The electric stunning method, says Hans
Antoni and Erick Voss, is mandatory in Ger-
many and in Denmark, and is used widely

in Holland.
V

Additional copies of this brochure may be
had, gratis, by writing to

ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEAGUE, INC.
2545 North 65th Street
Milwaukee 13, Wisconsin

Marie G. Thompson, President

    

 

Wisconsin Man

 

Proves
Successful Use
of Humane Device
To
Electrically Stun
Hogs

ADAPTABLE TO
PACKERS AND
SLAUGHTERERS OPERATING ON
A LARGE OR
SMALL SCALE

NO LESIONS ARE PRODUCED

 
 

BY THIS METHOD

     




Zﬁ‘f5“2?5; INDUSTRIAL WASTE ELIMINATORS LTD.
(3 UNES) f
7/” Old Bailey

TELEGRAMS :
TURatNISM. CENT. LONDON “ London E.C.4.

TEETORARY INSTRUGT Ii‘tii per use and ‘ g-.-.;AINTEN_ANCE

 

 

of

'IWEL' EIECTROLETHALER TYPE GRgll.

THESE TONCS ARE OF THE DRY ELECTRODE TYPE. DO NOT DIP IN BRINE

1.

Grip the Tongs with the thumbs on the inside and on tOp so that
with the arms held out the Tongs hang downwards, Egg like a pair

of lawn shears.

Approach the pig from.behind and apply the Tongs quickly and
firmly. The correct position for the electrodes is at the inter-
section of a line drawn down from the base of the ear with a
horizontal line drawn through the tip of the snout.

For sheep and calves apply Tongs between ears and eyes.

Keep the Tongs in position for a TINIIUl'of 10 seconds. The 90
volt tapping is-recommendcd for most-sizcs-of animals.

Clean the bristles after each days kill (it is advisable to carry

a spare set of brushes).

Periodically check the cable connection and ensure that the brass
gland is holding the cable firmly.

To repack the main bearing with grease, unscrew the monogrammed cap
and undo the hexagon headed nut and countersunk set screw underneath.
This enables the baseplate to be removed, the shoulder casting can

now be parted and repacked with grease.

 




      

RUTGERS . THE STATE UNIVERSITY
NEW JERSEY AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION

     
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
 

NICHOL AVENUE
DEPARTMENT OF FOOD SCIENCE NEW BRUNSWICK NEW JERSEY

April 9, 1958

Mrs. Christine Stevens
President
Animal Welfare Institute
22 East l7th Street'
New'York 3, N.Y.
Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Thank you for your letter of April 3rd. l
have been busily working on electrical stunning of animals for
some time now but I have not made sufficient progress to warrant
publication. The talk at Omaha was primarily on methodology and
problems yet to be beaten. As soon as a publication is available
I'll be delighted to send you one, in fact, you will be invited
to a demonstration for comment and suggestions.

Thank you for writing me.

Sincerely,

Comma

Roy E. orse, Professor
Department of Food Science

REM/bu

  




 

Pig Slaughtering

 

 

Pig slaughter requires a specialized set of equip-
ment which can be housed, if circumstances permit,
in the main slaughterhall together with the cattle and
sheep equipment, or in a separate building. The
steam area containing the scalding tank, etc., must
be walled off from the other slaughterhalls and from
the dressing area, in order to localize the humidity.
Local considerations will determine the degree of

A typical “ I WEL ” Pig Dehairing Plant.

rails, shackles, gravity droppers or mechanically-
operated lowering units, scalding tanks of all sizes,
dehairing machines, dressing hoists, gambrels, con-
veyors and rails (bacon factory equipment is described
in another section). Suitable choice of equipment is

The “ I WEL ” Electrolethaler comprising Stunning
Tongs and Transformer unit.

subsequent separation, and whilst it may be per-
missible to process carcasses in common, custom
or convenience may demand a complete segregation
of pig meat and products at every stage.
For pig slaughtering, equipment is supplied to suit
the actual intended daily throughput. Modern
practice demands that the pig shall be stunned,
hoisted to a bleeding rail for bleeding and then
dropped mechanically into a scalding tank, after
which dehairing and the normal dressing operations WW . . .. . .
can take P1300 The IWEL range 0f Pig Slaughter“ The “ IWEL ” Lifting and Lowering Device, wit/1 Scalding
ing equipment includes electrolethaler tongs for " Tank.
Stunning, chain elevators or spiral hOlStS, bleeding Both the above illustrations by courtesy of Corporation of the City of London.

 




SINCE I921

Barker
lgou/lry ggui/ament Company

MANUFACTURERS OF POULTRY PROCESSING EQUIPMENT

TELEPHONE: MURRAY 4-6528

OTTUMWA, IOWA
May 17 , 1957

animal'welfare Institute
22 East 1? Street
New York 3, New York

Attention: Estella Draper, Exec. Secretary.

Dear Miss Draper:

In compliance with your letter of May 9th, please find

enclosed six copies of the Bulletin covering the Electric Poultry
Stunner.

Our results with these two models of Stunners, as shown,

have been excellent, and we certainly can highly recommend them
to all processors.

we welcome the opportunity of furnishing these pamphlets to

you, and under separate cover, we are sending you one of our general
catalogues.

Very truly yours,

BARKER POULTRY EQUIPMENT COMPANY

R. E. iﬁjailsom , SALES DEPARTMENT

REJ:rc
enc.: 6 yellow pamphlets.
catalogue under separate cover.

“'ﬁﬁYV
,W?e
.‘

PRODUCTS POINT
TO GREATER POULTRY PROFITS

 




Telephone ‘ . ‘ - Telegrams
CITY 6063 (3 Ii“35) Turbinism, Cent, London

 

INSTRUCTIONS
for the use and maintenance of

IWEL ELECTROLETHALER TONGS Type GR II

THESE TONGS ARE OF THE DRY ELECTRODE TYPE
DO NOT DIP IN BRINE

Grip the Tongs with the thumbs on the inside and on top
so that with the arms held out the Tongs hang down-
wards, NOT like a pair of lawn shears.

. Approach the pig from behind and apply the Tongs
quickly and ﬁrmly. The correct position for the electrodes
is at the intersection of a line drawn down from the base
of the ear with a horizontal line drawn through the tip
of the snout (see ﬁg. 2). ,,

For sheep and calves apply Tongs between earsand eyes.

Keep the Tongs in position for a MINIMUM of ten
seconds. The ninety volt tapping is recommended for
most sizes of animals.

Clean the bristles after each days kill (it is advisable to
carry a spare set of brushes). The Brush Holders simply
screw into the ear Castings (see ﬁg. 3). Electrolethaler Tongs Type GR II

Fig. 1

Periodically check the cable connection and ensure that
the brass gland is holding the cable ﬁrmly (see ﬁg. 4).

To repack the main bearing with grease, unscrew the
monogrammed cap and undo the hexagon headed nut
and countersunk set screw underneath. This enables the
baseplate to be removed, the shoulder casting can now
be parted and repacked with grease.

 

\ &$Ah‘ v _ I A. .
‘ ' - '7 \ ‘ ’ ‘~
KB‘kN ‘- \\‘~ \\\‘\ ‘ \

Fig. 4. Cable Holding Gland

We are the sole distributors of this appliance and will deal with enquiries, sales,
repairs and service of a technical nature. Appointed agents abroad will act on
our behalf.

 

 

 

 

 

 




Reprinted from The Veterinary Record. 66. 561. September 25th, 1954.

Cortical Activity in Electrocuted Dogs

T. D. M. ROBERTS
Institute of Physiology, University of Glasgow

 

N many places in Great Britain where numbers of

unwanted dOgs and cats have to be destroyed, it has

been the practice in recent years to kill them by
electrocution in a specially constructed cabinet. The
procedure is, simple, rapid and effective. It has the
additional advantage that it can be safely entrusted to
a comparatively unskilled person. Certain doubts have,
however, arisen as to what actually happens to the
animals while they are in the cabinet.

From human experience in accidental electric shock
(e.g., Motton, 1986) and in electroconvulsant-therapy,
it appears that for a shock to produce unconsciousness
a substantial amount of current must pass through the
brain. In the standard cabinet, hitherto in general use
for the electrocution of dogs and cats the arrangement
of electrodes (Fig. 1) makes it extremely unlikely that
suﬂicient current is passed through the head to produce
unconsciousness. At the request of the British Veter—
inary Association, experiments have now been carried
out to determine whether, in the routine procedure for
electrocution, the shock itself does, in fact, produce
unconsciousness or not. '

SAFETY CONTACTS
ION DOORS '

ﬁLJ

 

 

It is difﬁcult to apply the usual tests for consciousness
in such a case as they depend on movements produced
reﬂexly. During the shock most of the animal’s muscles
are in a state of tetanic contraction from the direct
action of the current and cannot therefore exhibit
reﬂex movement ; immediately after the current has
been switched off, the musculature may still be pre-
vented by fatigue from showing reﬂex movements.
Such a state of paralysis—comparable to curarisation—
is not necessarily associated with unconsciousness.

In the experiments to be described, the electrical
activity of the brain was used as an index of the state
of consciousness of the animal.» The experiments were
carried out on dogs. The animals were anaesthetised
with cyclopropane (after induction with thiopentone),
electrodes were implanted in the skull, the wires leading
from these electrodes were passed under the skin to 4
emerge just behind the shoulder-blades, the wounds
were closed, and the animals were allowed to recover
from the anaesthetic. The Wires coming through the
skin were led to a connection—block carried in a harness
on the back of the animal. Records of the electro-

x—a

’5'”.
a;

K‘s
W)

CAT
,r E LECTRODES

I

CHAl N .
/ COLLAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LlGl-iT msros
CABINET

FIG. J‘.——Circuit of standard cabinet used for the electrocution of (logs and cats. The thin lines indicate the modiﬁ-
cations introduced for recording currents and voltages.

I

 




Blow Tank, for subsequent processing.

For the ﬁnest ﬁnish on porker pigs, IWEL can
offer the ANCO-TOBIN Depilating system, for which
we are the sole European licencees. Pig carcasses
are immersed in a hot adhesive compound which
forms a completely sealed coating. When the ad—
hesive cools to a plastic state, it is peeled from the
carcass, removing with it, all sebaceous material,
hair, stubble and roots.

Careful attention is given to the recovery and re-
use of the adhesive to minimize running costs.

An 8-cwt. capacity “ IWEL ” electric p1}; Hoist specially
designedfor dressing onﬂat bar rail system.

available to suit a range of capacities from 20 pigs
per hour to 200 pigs per hour.
It will be noted that for pig slaughter as for cattle
and sheep it is recommended that the animals are
shackled by the hind leg and hoisted to an overhead
rail for sticking and bleeding. This method not only
ensures that the carcasses will be completely bled with
a consequently improved quality in the meat product,
but also ensures that the blood can be readily collected
for subsequent treatment. The blood can be imme- View of Pigr Dressing Line at Cold Storage Commission
diately caught or drained into an IWEL Blood Premises» Salisbury, 5- RhOdeSia-

 

INDUSTRIAL WASTE ELIMINATURS LIMITED

7-11, OLD BAILEY, LONDON, E.C.4
Telephone: CITY 6068 Telegrams: TURBINISM, CENT. LONDON

 

 

 

Printed by Cheney & Sons, Ltd., Banbury, England

 




 

encephalogram (E.E.G.) could then be obtained at will.
The animals recover from the operation very rapidly
and do not appear to be in any way inconvenienced.
With this procedure it is possible to obtain characteristic
records while the animal is certainly conscious and
apparently in a normal state. If the animal is now
anaesthetised or goes to sleep, characteristic changes
occur in the E.E.G. The occurrence of ﬁts or seizures
can also be very readily detected.

Methods

The E.E.G. electrodes were each carried in a small
cylindrical metal carrier, open at both ends and furnished
with a screw thread on the outside and with ﬂats by
which it could be gripped and turned. The end of the
recording lead was ﬁxed into this carrier with insulating
material. A small piece of silver wire, connected to the
lead, protruded from the insulation at the inner end of
the metal carrier. A hole of suitable size was drilled
in the skull with a trephine or dental bur to expose
the dura, and the metal carrier was screwed ﬁrmly in,
cutting its own thread in the bone. In experiments
where the animal was to be electrocuted on the same
day as the operation for implanting the electrodes, the
metal carriers were of brass with a T56-inch Whitworth

thread, and the leads were held in place with sealing

wax”. Where the animal was to survive for more than
- one day, silver carriers with a {gr-inch Whitworth thread
were used and the wires were held in with “ Vinagel
118,” a thermal-setting plastic (Vinyl Products, Ltd.).
Two electrodes were placed about 3 cm. apart and about
1 cm. to the left of the mid—line. The posterior electrode
was usually about 1 cm. in front of the nuchal crest. A
third electrode was screwed in on the right side of the
skull to serve as a reference “ earth” for the balanced-
input, push-pull, resistance-capacity coupled, ampliﬁer.
The leads were drawn under the skin to an opening in
the skin of the back, using a long blunt-pointed bodkin.
The same bodkin was used to position the E.C.G.
electrodes under the skin. These consisted simply of
insulated ﬂexible wires with about —% inch of silver wire

m
u ,
0.:
V?
3
,x
.U
.0 >
I
40

attached to the end, the soldered joint being insulated
with “ Vinagel 116.” The silver wire was hooked into
the eye of the bodkin, this was introduced through the
wound on the back and pushed under the skin until
its tip lay in the desired position over the right shoulder
or left ﬂank. A gentle tug on the wire now detached
it from the bodkin so that the latter could be withdrawn
leaving the electrode in position. '

Intracranial pressure was recorded by connecting an
electronic transducer—manometer to a cannula screwed
into the skull. The intracranial pressure normally
shows rhythmical ﬂuctuations which reﬂect the pulsa-
tions in the blood-pressure. A record of intracranial
pressure thus gives some information about the pumping
activity of the heart. The cannula resembled the metal
carriers for the E.E.G. electrodes and was ﬁtted with a
narrow—bore plastic tube obtained by pulling out the
conductor from a length of insulated wire. The dura
was slit open at the mouth of the cannula. The con—
necting tubing was taken under the skin and anchored
to the harness on the dog’s back in just the same way
as for the E.E.G. leads. As the connection to the
manometer was by an air-ﬁlled plastic tube, recording
of intracranial pressure could be continued without

electrical interference even during the application of the
shock.

Results

Animals prepared in this way have been subjected
to the routine procedure for electrocution, the current
being passed, in a standard GECAM cabinet, for
various periods of time. The currents and voltages
actually applied to the dogs were recorded with a
duplex recording milliameter. The only alterations
made to the cabinet are those indicated by the thin, lines
in the diagram (Fig. 1). These do not materially alter
the operating conditions from those used routinely.
The resistance normally ﬁtted in the primary circuit of
the cabinet reduces the effect of differences in the
resistances at the electrodes. For 19 dogs the average
current was found to be 486 mA. ; S.D., 29 mA.

 

F IG. 2.—Record of E.E.G. and E.C.G. obtained in a case showing all the signs of a typical destruction.
12th second after the start of the shock, the E.E.G. record resembles that obtained before the shock.
develop in seconds I3 to 16; from the 17th second onwards the activity diminishes gradually to zero.

Note that up to the
Large, slow, waves
The E.C.G. (lead II,

inverted in this case) shows a ﬁbrillation pattern as soon as the ampliﬁer clears after the shock.

 

FIG. 3.——Record from another typiCal routine destruction. Note that the sequence of changes in the E.E.G. after the shock

corresponds to that shown in Fig. 2.

2

The E.C.G. record is spoiled after the shock by movement artefact.




tamaﬂivcooic/wggvuu

‘3 ‘8333333
Uéeq OEIB GAEQ

JQQMHU E
pEEEEJEx-

pt: EL
M£1§TA

O

«ELIE?

‘“£Pﬂaf?
‘HEA E3

9E 9&3

IEMJET Eu; EE
£911?” 1. 5.3.8 U17. 1’1 .3
4- SEQUEAEW

EUEU EEEAE E
.183- 4‘3Eogg E33323
EsEth 3mm 30
EEE

9.33.138 LG?
{EEEEL EE

“EEEJEE 3E
a W
9‘?

0§IQ EAEq “““ 3
. Eff}. HQE "QUE LENLE
qu EEEmEEHEE
EEEEE EEE E
163E377

1"“!

M
rug
‘3'
£2
414’}

«H rri

‘ 4
rs".

\
3
(w

QEEE

{f3
:3

C3
““9
E
‘5‘
.‘--4E =44

G I

(.

333333.433;

. S 3;» (3-3
513
is}

".2
*r433
{33%

., ,3

+23

‘4‘!

51.,

G.) r44“!
14"

334

pg .

3.; (3:;

3.33-

4‘3
544(1):"!
3

S? c

r54"

Lg
a.

,3

a.
4......"

; 9....) {-4
i} 1....) M

,' i “‘4.
"3
at.

“.3
3-
3’?)

43-445 3""‘5 25:34 Q;
(L '3

Ya»?

r— 3

C9 {

K

’4’
+23

04:

( *4
PM
4.3

4.) 2'93 4334‘ o

‘3

‘ C)
E
H...
L
'31};

3E ad

n 03 J9
Er

QEEE 3E

[83 :3 H0303 E @Qi JO EE

E~E3 33
3:3;1 Q :3. :23;

(D

431$§3Jﬁ 3E9 3

”if <1)- ..
Q
”:3

3333 3E3 33
E893E3JEE EU3 JO

(3..

.5
'2

r .

.LD
n

t r”:
5—
0:44.

EE

3%

pa...

393.3 E.

pUtg-tg 1.9” A’iaiﬂ

L1: :19

+3
EL}

EEC}:

Jig

r.
93- .3

:13 223 4&3an
EEHE

“m 1:733 (E43

QEEEH
(23344-3430

5 “3.32323 23.3333 3:133:38ng
VEEEEEJEE

“SUU

I
.-

5'“
3‘)

:3
W3
If.)

("'45
(if)

L
n

r} .
{.1} “

E-
'C"
C: “3:3 :3 +3

E
I

E44

,...
4.} Q

£534 84
4..E E:%%
~ 4.14.?! .J {.3 EC? 3:)

E

31}
" F“?

t

4:2?
>4

E

.32 3:3
.
3.? 4’3

w‘r
€ 4.3

33 E, EEEEEEEEV
EE3E'E3 EEEE EAEE
“EEtEEEEEEE.

5 41'4”": ‘gLii

E3
EEE E.g
EEE ;

EEEHEE
{MEUWEE

 

«3.13.? f}

3123' 3.3”? {'1’}.

EEE

 

'17'3'3 ‘NOCINO'I
‘AE'IIVE (no I l/L

'SElil'lleOanlN CINV SLNBWNHEAOQ NOIEHOJ GNV 'IN'H OJ. SHOLOVHLNOO ONV SHEENKONE

'LNEWdanE BHOLS 0103
CINV ‘SMHOM NOISIAOHd
‘AHOLDVJ NODVS ‘HIOLLVSV

u 13M| n

'.LNV"'Id SNIHECINEH ABC!
EHnSSEHd WVNUELNI
.LNELVd

u SGVVT'IEMI n

'(Il’l SHOLVNIWI’IEI ELLSVAA "IVIHLSDCINI

(53mm 8) 8909 A+|3

:3NOHd3'13_L ('

I

/

..'NoaNo1 '.LN3:> 'WSINIEHDL”
S‘UIHOOV I'IUVO V 3|HdVUDB13L

'NOan NHSLSEM 'SAB'ILNEB

36300:)

 




VFJLER- . w.

 

 

l

 

 

 

“ " f‘V-V-u ’ ‘ “‘*J‘—’" “‘“ﬁ “""""" " ‘ - J W“‘W“‘ _ Wka/ﬁ} ,____ CCCCC ‘ -777 ( ,v-., W- 1,. > 7““ a... -l‘“ .,.\y_,11, {-N l\ v—«x-“A” -....',-"V«~n~-K~W-¢‘“U F~~Vw
i V
i, ‘ DUMMY SHOCK SWlTCHING
(LEADS NOT CONNECTED) ARTeFACT
—EC 6 “‘4 “MW—Wt Vﬂ/WVMM'$/+-W‘vatw-_-%d .ﬁpﬂ(._‘,,._,yﬂ_v] .' _ . . ._J_.___._-.-.— .—~—. ~ __. I.._....... .m.... ..-.—._.'.w..‘. .. , ..... . . » .cf"“‘-~-\I-Nw Mqu-Arv *r...4_,,4 “4-r4---s.-b-q “-1--MA‘4...
.. ,.r~-.‘....,_".__. . _ R-.- .R,, _- 1);. . ,l , ,-.-PC,.. _.-HL.~ ”Jo,” _ er , ‘ _ an. Arumun ___;.7 _ __J,__ .m‘ W_~f1_‘_ _,I, ___,,.!\_. .-.m." . m___,__,_;\__ m L-”_I\ f ._,.’x 7 _ 7, _ _-, . . pg 7‘ j
k
10
CE G. i
v-«M'wJ-‘WWV xv‘”"‘w'MV-/L4w-e WAN"‘A~.~M~MI /; 4‘ K v 4 ' /
i «a- W damn—«.7». ., - q . .. ,W ‘ 7,.
l ‘ 0—" “'5’” "" ‘ ﬂ 7' ‘ ’
| i \\ rpa/""
‘ SWITCHING \ J 1/
T FACT 1’ '
suocx AR E . \— , .
. x. ‘\ ”K ,I '
EC G j'. a 1/1 \A \W «a J/\ \I 7“" I / .7 m"
“an.“ _ , .-.. g _- ,. 7 , . _ ,. . _, __ . 11-. .-, . ’ 7 ~ . 7.. . . M-v "W uxww PENS -~~.\
‘1 CAUGHT
F O I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 IO ll I2 l3 l4 l5 l6 l7 SECONDS
A ~_ J _ t Ju. I J'L __H_,-r‘.__..,ﬁ,r\__. HHMJ Ra,.____...‘b_.__,IL __ h,- ‘Ji " ,r\_ , jg . , .,h,,_,, M ,. a run “Jt‘, . _ rimmﬂ, ,,,._.’\_ .~-_)\.__ \_._- It-“ .-'\. mn

FIG. .4.———Two records obtained in succession from the same animal. In the ﬁrst record no shock was given as one of the leads
had inadvertently become disconnected. The EEG. following the lethal shock shows no signiﬁcant difference from that fol-
low1ng the dummy shock until about 16 seconds from the start ofthe shock, when the activity begins to diminish.

__ nr‘n ._~_.r\_..—AL—__:k_-_._.T

 

° ' 2 3 4 5 6 . 7 a
INTRAC RANIAL PRESSURE

\-i’\_/\/
\J‘KJoL L l

4 ac c. ~ .V\.Mr..!..._rg;

\\\\\\

I

,7 «L

i); 4

WKEEG. E

RECORDING INTERRUPTED
DURING SHOCK ~ 8 SECS

 

4 9

IO

_\——7\—~J\—-—JL~§_T\_._N.%_,L_J‘ ___r\__.Ju___J-\___:\~_n_.__ @L-.m.___J-L_~L__Jx_._m._mtx_.n___ﬁx_._r\___;x .__;

ll 12 l3 14 IS l6 I7 18 I9 20 SECONDS

 

W , ‘

\\\

N.—

N

M

xv.

. \ ﬂux \‘ ‘
WW
‘ ‘. . _..
NWWIWWW

FIG. 5.——Record from a case which showed increased-amplitude, fast, activity in the E.E.G. in seconds IO to 12, preceding
the phase of large slow waves. This record shovvs very clearly that the pulsations in the intracranial pressure cease abruptly
at the onset of the shock.

As the electrocuting current would seriously interfere
with the apparatus for recording E.E.G.s, this apparatus
was disconnected by a special device while the shock
was applied. It has been possible to obtain analysable
E.E.G. records very soon after the end of the shock
in13 out of 21 cases.

If it is assumed, in conformity with general experi-
ence, that loss of consciousness is associated with changes
in the pattern of the E.E.G., then we can examine the
records in these experiments for signs of unconsciousness
during the period just after the shock, by comparing
the EEG. record for this period with that obtained
during the presumably normal period prior to the
shock. In 10 out of the 13 successful experiments no
change in the electrical activity of the brain could be

.detected until about 12 seconds had elapsed after the

current was ﬁrst switched on (Figs. 2, 8, 4, 10 8: 14).
In one case special precautions were taken to standardise
the artefacts produced by the vibrations of switching,
etc. A mechanical device was constructed to carry
through automatically the full sequence of switchings.
When this was ﬁrst tried, the animal did not receive a
shock and it was found that one of the leads had inadver—
tently become disconnected. The fault was remedied
and a lethal shock wasgiven. The EEG. following
the lethal shock (Fig. 4) showed no signiﬁcant difference
from that following the dummy shock until about 16
seconds from the start of the shock.

In the single case illustrated by Fig. 5 a phase of
increased-amplitude, fast, activity appeared in the
EEG. record just after the shock and before the onset
of the large, slow, waves. Such increased-amplitude,

fast, activity is also found during induction of anaes-
thesia with thiopentone and during the stage of llgl’lt
anaesthesia obtained with this drug. Sugar 8: Gerard
(1988) observed a somewhat similar stage as one of the
early effects of acute cerebral anoxia produced. by
arterial occlusion. It may be that in this case the anlmal
was particularly sensitive to cerebral anoxia. .

In three cases a deﬁnite seizure was seen (e. g., Fig. 6)
but it should be mentioned that in two of these (eg,
Fig. 7) there were some signs of abnormality appearing
in the EEG. record a second or two before the current
was switched on. (See p. 564.)

In the cases which did not develop a ﬁt, the changes
in the pattern of electrical activity starting at about the
12th second from the onset of the shock were character-
istic and led to cessation of all activity at about the
20th second.

The effect of the shock on the activity of the heart
was also studied. All shocks of one second duration
or longer produced ventricular ﬁbrillation (Figs. 8 and
10). A shock lasting half a second did not produce
ﬁbrillation (Fig. 9) and did not kill the dog on any of
the three occasions on which it was tried. It has been
possible to obtain information about the action of the
heart, even during the application of the shock, by
recording the intracranial pressure through an a1r-ﬁlled
tube of insulating material. The intracranial pressure
shows marked pulsations so long as the heart is beating
(Figs. 5, 7 and 10). These pulsations cease as soon as
the electrocuting current is switched on. This means
that the heart stops pumping at this point. T hIS 18
What could be predicted from the work of Ferris et a].

 




... “h.
' :‘w 4.-

w t?”
._ .1
‘1
.,.,..

é

. M

3

_r.

3.3."

m
’33
3 T ‘
i

f a
\
. a. \vw‘

W},

‘3 37-1

...3 :5

-3... 1‘ .ﬂ.
..: .La ”a,
.1.
3

3 z
”:9 4’ Jjwa, }

 

 




06 VUMCL 4 ..n .u.

.
.vx .
0‘ x
u L

111(1))‘gllii

 

 

. )
. .21.... ..
.. . :5. {r : ,. L. a.
2:0 ,4 . ..

.I‘ c
. ._“..’l «a
r}

 

 




TELEPHONE: Coozs: TELEonApmc a CABLE Aoonass:

CITY 6068 (3 LINES) BENTLEYS. WESTERN UNION. "TURBINISM. CENT. LONDON."

INDUSTRIAL WASTE ELIMINATORS LTD.

“ IWEL-LAABS ” : “ IWEL ”
PATENT ABATTOIR. BACON FACTORY.
INTERNAL PRESSURE , ' I» PROVISION WORKS. AND
DRY RENDERING PLANT. ‘ ‘ 7 COLD STORE EQUIPMENT.

S .

ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS TO H.M.LAND FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS AND MUNICIPALITIES.

7/1 1 OLD BAILEY,
LONDON, E.C.4.

0”“ REF' 1:1 9246/56/331U/Vt1/20
201311 {1.1113, 1956c

The Animal Welfare Institute,
350 Fifth Avenue,

\ ‘3'

lie?! Yor‘k ’ U. V . Jilin.

Deer blrw’ Be: Humehe ﬂtuhhino of Pies,
‘ Sheep one Calves ‘
'IWEL‘ Electroletheler ~ Type G.h.g.

we theme you for your intereet in our equipment and have
pleeeure ih submitting, in iuolioete, our specification and tender.

he ehoulo like you to appreciate that we have been eupplying
Humane otuhhihg Equipment to the meet and allied tredee for a con»
eiderehle number of yeare. We are now offering eh Electrolethaler
of our latest deeighq which we ooheider ie superior to appliances
outplied by no in the poet or at preeeht aveilehle'from our com—
petitore.

Because of theee recent modificatione our printed literature is
not yet available, hot this doee not imply that the device hoe not
been thoroughly tested to conform with the rigoroue conﬂitions
ueuelly encountered. Meanwhile, the enclosed leeflete are eent for
your guidance.

We suggeet the ourcheee of two peire of Tongs eo that one pair
can he kept in reserve against a possible breakdown one the first
pair of Tchge being out of action for repair. It is also recommended
that you keep in etock two paire of rhoeohor Bronze Wire Brush
Electrodee. ee theee are the iteme that are most likely to need
replacement. The Tongs are of eimple but robust design and have no
oomplicetei ewitoh mechanism which previouely proved troublesome.
The Tonge do not require dipping in brine prior to stunning ae the
Phoephor Bronze Electrodes carry the current into the pig's or
sheep's head. The new type Stunning ionge are suitable for use with
treneformere of previous design and manufacture.

Our offer ie ee follows:

‘WG mm or 'WWR TOW 1 NW
having phosphor bronze wire hrueh electrodes completely
iheuleted from the frame, thue preventing the peeeege of
leakage currehte.

 

(5.2;? £28. 10¢ 06: “per pair.

PRICE EOE. TWVQ PIX-IRS: us-Iacccnccaaoonag-oucuccncon £1 7.

 

Contd/.....uuu

 




a ' ‘. . ‘
' . 'v r .
I
0 a
l f ’ .
D I .
a I i I I .A I I ’ |
I ‘ . I I I . I
. I D I O O . ‘ ' | .
I ' ' I . I
.n'\ IIII‘ q-IILII III III“ 'III .Eln r. vlf; 'I'v I14 1:" u L'. .f; |.:. I31. «ii-f {V IN'H II I ,1. ’3'! «abft'.
1'17 ' JHH‘IHY IIH' Hurrn’ fI-v.'.!:1' MN. '3. I I‘ »: ::;.:,':I '\\ it: =:'.\ ' " .mI Kw I I I; :r'wnzw-I '.. 'IH‘
.: vtthIvHIr‘. II IIlr IIIJII !. .u? :31“ . “71.7,. 'L:.H III“! III J 1‘ It" 'i‘ '\.'I.':’." 31A,;gg;,1!‘.‘..l:kl!k.' -'.l" I IN‘
.z'nux In. III!‘ .Inut ..Ilu-I\!1331I\I111-1.:I.' {4 gm‘3 ~I‘:.t7.z\": ‘::;~‘. It't.":,' ”I fir \Il.l!‘.;'-'. in “I“ I I ‘4'
\ ‘ ‘0 . " .I'v - v ‘D.I I. .v I' ., "‘ I 1" .. I. v _'
Izﬂcct nf( :rculamrv Arm-51 ....) .I AN: .1. I» I Is. ‘9‘ "h -' W
'I I ‘9." "I". "I 'I.‘ «I;.lf;,"‘- HI‘-"I‘.t‘\I .II'V! (’II‘t'quHIIHH
3‘": (\‘I‘IIIIII('III\II.I\(‘IH‘IH‘JHH It‘ll. "HAHN?!” . g1 . .
g I .. . It,’ '_ ~ .ULI 2““ («umurmm' ~!:.H1‘.'vm In HH‘
III‘ 'II\_g-I‘.I.II kIIJII‘JI“ III I I (, IIII'.,I1':!IIv ....H' I I . .
"I(\'Y'.I.II.I"‘..1'.\HI'.'.V‘I‘I.l!HIv'IIH‘.‘.H1‘.'.HIVYIJIHI‘IHJHH
v ~\\.'1I!I' ~Il‘NI\ _”(~ IIIHN' ‘u‘.III| II \‘I‘HIIII I“. 1.3.?” ‘ Hm! I
'1 . !H .mm '91-" .J .mzz II. Inn. Iwrn :rIms'nI Iw warml
2...;x .ll'( ‘1 HI IIH‘ \IIIIIIJ'XIDII I.) III! I‘thtx 1., V . . .
I ‘ I “"7?“ 7~ “THIN-tn Cx I).HI~\ Jung I’M: . \II;'_|I ‘\
IIH‘ (-I'th, ()II III! II (' III .l -'I‘.‘.'.!I IIIIII"I‘III ' . ‘ I .
I I ‘ "'Z'H‘I- ‘._«‘ \ ‘HI'N I"~-", I!!! (J't‘ ‘\ IIHIIHH.
I'l‘HH" 'IIIII‘I\ I'IIIIFIII'JII'I'HII |III"'\‘,‘,a71'I\I:I\.If.,: ' ‘ ,
I . . I"- I " I'. Hut .L'v,IH‘I.HI1.|IHHIHHHHHJH'IHI IIw
« Iqu‘Hm' \\.l\ .H .l «‘Izr. HI "I“ “Wm. ‘.l.:'.': ‘sz .
I .. ~..xr:~=1 r1 Imz'. .wzw {.mI‘. IIH-I I\. m Hm Htm' n! ”114‘!
. .um :Inrtn .nnI .lwIHn Iunmnwna Ifw :rxu- _ ‘
. , . I»! 911' «Ixtzlrzm'mn ..z II1‘III!\.|I.I\Y!‘.:I‘.
HII‘IH“ \\('l(‘I1(‘\IHH(‘.l&I1 nhIt‘ .lI IIH‘ Ivy"; Hf 2h.
”I“. ”W (JIHIltI .Hh‘luu \u'n' Imunfh' 9,. .m (()n(""g'(,nq
.II‘IF IHIJIIHII III IHIII. HI WI‘IH IRIIII I‘IIIH' I iHl If! I' f. «HIM I‘IuI' .I II;.|9 IIu‘ ‘IIJH‘JV- IH 'Il‘tIlH .lI .l= II‘.II\
I I” I'HHHII I"HI“HI‘ IIIFIHH‘II.‘ “VI“ ”HI‘I-“II'WI ”I ’IM I‘?.ltll IIIIIII'AIHK IHIHIIH‘ (Ir'\'qullHHH III III('
II Ill” ““1 ”I“ 1‘3““ “‘7’" I‘Y‘HHTI” "‘13 I“ J IHH‘.‘ \ MI‘ \\I \.1I'xm‘I .HI IIIHJ‘ In In «\Iu I h «I IIIHII IIH‘
IH~ II.“ I 1|.III‘IIIDII\I(-\l)\(~l(‘\I \I’IX \\('II Huff: III. 4‘ ..-II\'I‘|I't ..2 9h. IHJHJIMIIILIIIJTJIM{.12. HI INN-I ‘JJ .'
"ltum‘ .nnI Iu-Imwa m IIH‘I! HurrzmI. Iwnhz v1, IIUH 4m 2m x'zuumI. In! Audubnuf Hm! tIu .Ixa-‘I.
IIIII\ I.I‘\IIII)II. IIII: I‘IIHIFIQI . IIIIIWII‘, JII\ I1)x-|)I(III).|I(|I].I|0,.|IIIII1‘
m mun nummn‘, IImmfIl Hut «m .III, wmIIm .‘z-tn .mmui
I?“ "”"II‘I I"”I“ “'m """“‘I II” ““1”” "' IJIH'. \‘Ht’mme umfixnmhnn ”I IIHI Inxnlnmm (nmr.
("JAN '(I‘IH‘HHH I“ ”I" I‘I'M‘I "”I‘I‘I“ I" ’I‘“ I‘Y-HH Hum I'm» ...:zzu. In tIu‘ Icultlllc‘ 11.4‘ ”I :Iw \JI‘IIH‘I
H "“‘I IIII- H” “"”‘I “IU'V‘H 3“ Il'.’ I'1~ I»? Inr ‘.I1. I MmtxunutIIn-ﬁmnnII.H,II1«‘IHII«HIHItnm‘
"“4 -|~ 1' ”NIH-Hr» IIM‘ (HIHI‘IW «Imm’r Ifwftl \m fur :qu 3! Mar (HTYQIII :‘ .uIIumnI 1.. run! .ImuImI cm
""‘hml‘x‘ I" “’““‘ """“‘ I“ ”I“ ‘-‘~' ’1'” 34'; qu Int-m Hm? :7 2M HHH'IH x. put. Ian u?! H... ..mn {hr
”mun“ “"l‘""“ “J“ ‘I""”-”“""I\ III“ In? “.1. .m:m.1‘;'!w\\.';».m 4:111» II IIH- IIJI‘I‘MI. .m meHuHJI
'HH .l \\.HHH‘<I IJI‘II‘ .HhI, (Ilnlmf .l nIv‘IJ‘. xx'fszr .nzna‘ .Ilm'r‘ :‘ '1.:|.|IIx yin: n R: ...va. n? I I I} ,nnI I ('1 ;_
7-H“ .II TIHHI‘IF \‘».t\ Iu‘mzf .I’M Ih‘d «I 'n, III" .mm: H. e. H ”Imtm. .I «12:34 .I .Ing “.1. waxImgj .lIIv’I .1 Ivn I. II‘Hf. I I)
V' VI“ ‘HH‘ ‘7‘“ I' ‘IHH'W ”H“ I‘ITI” “I”? " ‘1’”12'“ "‘ IN“- ”1-".-‘I'Il"‘i;IIHhrInxut u.z..qur.nI\ m tquaIIan.
“V "“"WIHI *I'HIH‘J J IJHII I‘rmI'w‘uI Iv. III-Mu! th I I (., um. um <‘zazlxxtx\.ut\tlx IIHIc‘u-m hum III.”
‘
I'AIUV'DI I‘xn‘.r\
(Woo twp-om:
3 o
I
u ' " I
s I‘ I | I I ' '3 ‘ l 4 Il ‘ II" '1‘! ‘
VI ' n, » L“, I ~ - . .
Cf
‘« Hum-E 2 W»: .3”. 1:: I I 'v :2 T’v';?i,; Z 5' . = 'L‘.-.‘ '- 'I my}. I»? .; =1: -‘ t'mtt‘x‘.

 




I

s. 9u‘6/56/Pu/VM/20 (2)

The Animal Welfare Institute.

20th July, 1956.

ONE [EWEL' TRahSFORMER, suitable for use on 200/250 volts
A.C. supply, and provided with tappings at 70, 80 and 90
volts as required.

PRICE: OIGIIIICCOOCOIOCDDOCOCOh‘IOOQOCIIO0.00000C".I £u8. 0‘

 

TWO SPARE PAERB 0F PHOSEHOR BRONZE hIEE BRUSH E ECTRCDES

EICE In.lildiﬁnnsonogaacoﬂﬂdlﬁi.naaittlnl‘llOOOO‘i-‘tl gui. 8' Odd

(For two pairs)

 

This Tender is subject to our Conditions of sale EX attached
hereto, and to the follosing special oonditions:~

PRICE‘VARIATION: Contract price is based on cost of materials,
labour, transport and statutory obligations
ruling at the date of tender? ans if between
that date and the date of despatoh of the
goods variations either by rise or fall shall
occur in these costs, then the contract price
shall he increased or decreased accordingly.

EESPATOH: Transformers En Stock, stunning Tonga 3 to u
weeks9 subject to remaining unallocated.

DELIVERED: ‘ Ext works packing ans carriage charges f.o.h.
extra at oost and estimated to be.£3.0.0a for
one pair of Tonga with Transformer.

If two pairs of Tongs and one Transformer Unit
are sueolied, peeking and carriage charges f.o.h.
are estimated to he sh.l0.0d.

TERMS OF PAYaENT: Our terms of Payment would he 23% of the total
- 'value with order and 75% against shipping doom»

mente in London (or within one month of the goods
being completed ready for despatch), the value
being covered by irrevocable sterling Letter of
Credit at a leading London Bank and payable against
shipping documents permitting part shipments, such
credit to he opened within 10 days of placing the
Order.

saaaoXIath SHIPPING PARTICULARS

.Sinale Pairs of Tongs, can he posted ahroad where the weight limit
is aoproximately 22-lhe gross.

Transformer alone. Nett weight approximately 0 w -
Gross W “ ‘O ' 0

Size of case M 20 X 19 x lu"
One Transformer with. hett weight " O - O ~ 22
one pair of Tongs. Gross ” ﬂ 1 — O a 2
Size of case V 39 X 21 x 20”
One Transformer with Nett Weight ” 0 ~ ~

two pairs of Tong . Gross ” 1 ~
Size of case 39 X 26 x 20"

COﬂtd/CI’...‘

 




 

 

 

INFLATE
CAROTID CUFF

 

 

 

 

f
E.C.G.

WWWAWWJWWA nﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ

O | Z 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
_. ,. . H___J‘.____’\__.~rg____" " . "

 

 

*—Tc..—L __._.I;_!\__J\-J\___h__

12 15 l4 l5 re 17 SECONDS

W

FIG. I 3.——Record to show the time-relations of the changes in E.E.G. following arterial occlusion, for comparison with the
changes followmg electrocution (Figs. 2, 3, 5 and 10). The vertebral arteries had previously been tied at the level of the ﬁrst

rib. The carotid loops were compressed by pneumatic cuﬁs whic
of 200 mm. Hg. The pressure in the cuffs is indicate

recorded before the shock. The implication is that, if
a second shock had not been given, the animal would
still have lost consciousness and died in due course, as
the heart had stopped pumping. A shock lasting only
one second will kill a dog eventually, as it sets the heart
into ﬁbrillation. \

The second conﬁrmation comes from a single experi-
ment in which a dog was allowed to recover from the
shock. The current was‘switched on for only half a
secondso as not to kill the dog. The shock was followed
by a bout of screaming lasting 26 seconds. The attitude
of the dog to the experimenter and to the room where
the shock had been given underwent a profound change
as a result of the shock. Previously it had been a
friendly animal, running inquisitively all round the
laboratory. After the shock it could not be persuaded
to go near the laboratory, and though' it would play
happily in the animal house, it stopped at once and
retreated to a corner when the experimenter entered
the room. There can be no doubt that this dog retained
some memory of an unpleasant experience.

In the standard cabinet (Fig. 1) the dogs are electro-
cuted by passing current from a ﬂexible metal collar
round the neck to a metal tray on which the dog stands,
or in some models to a metal shackle on one leg. The
cats are constrained to stand on two trays of insulating
material with their forefeet on an electrode in one
tray and the hind feet on another electrode in the other
tray. The current is then passed from forefeet to hind
feet. It usually takes about seven seconds to be sure
of killing a dog whereas a full minute is required to
kill a cat. From consideration of the path of the current

h could be connected at will to a reservoir of air at a pressure
(1 on the upper trace by a transducer-manometer.

on the two cases, it is clear that the conclusions about
the effect on state of consciousness derived from the.
experiments on dogs can be applied with equal forer;
to the case of the cats.

These conclusions were reported to the Euthanasia
Sub-committee of the British Veterinary Association
May 7th, 1954, and it was resolved to recommend that
the use of the present model of electrocution cabi‘a‘w;
should be discontinued forthwith. No objection {is
however, be taken to the destruction by electrocution
of an animal which has already been fully anaesthetised
by some other means. , .

Summary

Dogs have been subjected in a standard
cabinet to the procedure for electrocution used in tlgae
routine destruction of unwanted dogs and cats.

The EEG. recorded shortly after the shock indicated
that, although some dogs developed a ﬁt, in most cases
no signiﬁcant change in the pattern of the EEG.
occurred until about 12 seconds from the beginning of
the shock. Records of E.C.G. and of intracranial
pressure indicate that the heart stops pumping when.
the current is switched on. Compression of carotid

loops after the vertebral arteries had been previously
tied at the level of the ﬁrst rib usually caused. the dog
to faint and produced changes in the pattern of the.
EEG. comparable to those seen after electrocution.

It is concluded that the unconsciousness which pro»
cedes death in the routine procedure of electrocution
with the standard cabinet is due to cerebral anoxia

.7)

 

FIG. I4.——Record from a case which required a second shock. Although the E.C.G. (lead II, inverted in this case) shows that
the heart was in fibrillation as a result of the shock, the dog wa
second shock was given. A microphone had been connected in this case to an earpiece sew
tention of recording the heart sounds during the shock. This proved to be impracticable, but the phonocardiogram record
(P.C.G.) serves to indicate the onset and duration of the howling. The EEG. is complicated by occasional large swings which
are presumed to be some unexplained artefact. Between the swings, however, the record can be seen to be very similar to

s not killed outright but howled for several seconds until a
n to the chest wall with the in-

that obtained before the shock.

 

 

F 7____g_ﬁ __r

4v“ 1‘4




(3)
E.9H6/55/PU/Vﬁ/2O 20th July, 1956.

$39 Anima; welfare Ingﬁitute.

we trugt that this offer will be of interest to you
anﬁ we lack forward to recaiving yaur furfher ingtructions.

m“ Ycurﬁyfaitgfully,' ”
for IﬁﬂUﬁfRIﬁL wggwg ﬁhiﬁlﬂgfohﬁ L?3.

‘1:

galeﬂ mamaﬁer

 




 

 

following stoppage of the heart. There are no grounds
for supposing that the shock itself produces directly any
loss of consciousneSs in the animal.

The conclusions drawn for the case of the dogs are
held to be equally valid for the case of the cats

Acknowledgments.e—Acknowledgments are due: to
Professor W. L. Weipers for drawing my attention to
the problem and for his close interest throughout all
stages of the work ; to the Dog and Cat Home, Glasgow,
for the loan of a standard cabinet; to UFAW for
the loan of a duplex recording milliameter; to the
EEK/TA. for funds to meet certain expenses; to my
coileagues, Mr. A. M. Andrew and Dr. J. W. Black,
for assistance with certain of the experiments.

References

ASENJO, A. (1939). Lokalisierte biologische Ableitung von
- der Hirnrinde bei experimentellen Storung des Blutkreis-
laufes des Gehirns. Zeitschr.f. Neurochz'r. 3. 198—204.

FERRIs, L. P., KING, B. G., SPENCE, P. W., & WILLIAMS, H. B.
(1936). Effect of electric shock on the heart. Electrical
Engineering. 55. 498—515.

MOTTON, S. J. (1936). Shock by electricity (Letter to Editor).
Vet. Rec. 48. 1364.

SIMPSON, H. N. & DARBYSHIRE, A. J. (]934). Electrical
activity of the motor cortex during cerebral anemia. Amer.
}. Physiol. 109. 99.

SUGAR, P., & GERARD, R. W. (1938). noxia and brain poten-
tials. j‘. Neurophysiol. I. 558—571.

TEN CATE, J., & HORSTEN, G. P. M. (1951). Effect of
hypoxaemia on the electrical activity of the cerebral cortex.
Acta Physiol. Pharmacol. Neerl. 2. 2—12.

—————, & —. (1952). Sur l’inﬂuence de la ligature
temporaire de l’aorte sur l’activité éléctrique de l’écorce
cérébrale. Arch. int. de. Physiol. 60. 441—448.

 

 

Printed in England by H. R. GRUBB, LTD., Croydon.

 




36) emcee: CAL STUNNING OF 3mm

.3 v .—
‘ ;.‘a. 7.: '-.
, .V w.

lane from
base of g

seesa/

ANIMALS.

Have you heard.about our nelelectrolethaler Tongs hype GmR02, because we have
*‘ ,revolutionised the design and construction of this

latest model? 'Wire brush electrodes are fitted,
(but arranged.for easy removal) and immersion.in
brine is not necessary. Heavier and.accUrate1y
machined components are used.in the assembly, and
we have dispensed.with the complex switch gear used
on earlier stunners. After testing thoroughly some
12 pairs in different parts of the Country, we feel
certain that maintenance will now be less and spares
costs lower. '

NUmerous other refinements and features add up
to a streamlined efficient device to assist humane
killing of pigs, sheep and calves. The Tongs should
be held.with the thumbs to the inside and on top,
and not in the manner of lawn shears. Approach to
the Shinal should be from.behind and the electrodes
applied quickly and fixme for a minimn of“ 10
seconds to ensure genuine anesthesia. The correct
position to apply the electrodes for pigs is at a
point where a vertical line through the base of the
ear cuts a horizontal line throu.h the tip of the
snout, (see accompanying diagram . For sheep and
calves, the Tongs should grip between the ears and.
the eyes.

Can we send.you details for your perusal with-
out obligation ?

Yours faithfully,
for INDUSTRIAL WASTE ELIMINATORS LIMITED.

Sales manager.

11 HIE E N'A.FI GVR O'U P G 0 NIE’A.N'Y.

 




f'ft‘f ‘CW'V-r-
l I . 11

na- [mil

’1 ,s m. r : .., 5, 2.
2621...“. 2.2... «mt. am MN; 2223* 2.2....32
@3222 3.3 iﬂyga

v

r. ,3» 2122‘ .~2- ' 'I. 2 .
232.2 25222131.}. aagpx‘amam 1*2223222‘2r22w :22 3223222,-
!2222‘ .23?ﬁ::"1322222:2222‘2‘§ "‘2‘ 237222“ :22“ 23-: 2.2212“
8

nuw

‘5 73,3312- .2“; «a , .: 2.215 ”“5 C: {153‘}
2-2 2.222222222252222

‘e’g‘l
, 1:5:
.33.. $312222

~ . «#2123222»: 29m
:2? l-J "-22.22. “‘2‘”: 3

', "2 '21 2:
2-13. . 2.22 . ”*2
- ”.223... 32.13.22 M2. «4

 




2%?”23’53 INDUSTRIAL WASTE ELIMINATORS LTD.
I 7/” cm Bailey

(3 LINES)

TELEG RAMS : g
TURBNSM, CENT. LONDON “ " London E.C.4.

TEMPORARY INSTRUCTIONS for USR Egg RAINTENANCE

 

 

9f.

‘I‘J-JEL‘ EIECTROIETWXLER TYPE GRJII.

THESE TONCS ARE OF THE DRY ELECTRODE TYPE. DO NOT DIP IN BRINE

1. Grip the Tongs with the thumbs on the inside and on top so that
with the arms held out the Tongs hang downwards, Egg like a pair
of lawn shears.
Approach the pig from.behind and apply the Tongs quickly and
firmly. The correct position for the electrodes is at the inter~
section of a line drawn down from the base of the ear with a
horizontal line drawn through the tip of the snout.
For sheep and calves apply Tongs between ears and eyes.
Keep the Tongs in position for a TINITUY of 10 seconds. The 90
VOlt tapping is recommended for most~sizes Of animals.
Clean the bristles after each days kill (it is advisable to carry
a spare set of brushes).
Periodically check the cable connection and ensure that the brass
gland is holding the cable firmly.
To repack the main bearing with grease, unscrew the monogrammed cap
and undo the hexagon headed nut and countersunk set screw underneath.
This enables the baseplate to be removed, the shoulder casting can

now be parted and repacked with grease.

 




since 19;.

Barker
[you/try Equipment Company

MANUFACTURERS OF POULTRY PROCESSING EQUIPMENT

TILIPHONI: Mon» 4452. ‘

(NFTCW‘VVAQHDVWA.
March 25, 1957

Miss Marian Storm
Hotel Reforma
Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico

Dear Miss Storm:

The letter you sent the buanson Turkey Company was referred to us,
since we are in the poultry equipment manufacturing business. we
have for thirty some years been making machinery to facilitate the
dressing of poultry and turkeys. The industry has developed into a
rather large one for the benefit of mankind. Our latest machines can
dress many thousand chickens and turkeys an hour.

There are some devices on the market for the purpose of electrically
shocking the poultry before it is stuck so bleeding will occur more
freely.' One of these is‘described on the enclosed pamphlets. They
are not expensive for the smaller models. They do a good job of
stunning the poultry. '

The main objective of these machines is not>to stun the bird to re-
lieve its pain but to keep it from flopping in the death struggle so
there will be no broken bones which would cause the bird to have less
sale value. Also, the stunned bird will bleed better and give a better
looking appearance. In practice, the sooner the bird is scalded and
picked after it is stuck the better it will be for human consumption.
And the object of the whole process is to prepare food for humans. We
believe the Bible which states man has dominion over the fish of the
sea, the birds of the air and the beasts of the field. So, the birds
are not slaughtered to torture them, but it is just a step in their
preparation as food. Killing the birds in the manner you mentioned‘
is not economically practical here so it is not done on a commercial
basis. If you are sensitive to this matter, I realize it may>be
difficult for you to overlook some of the practices being carried on.
However, as one goes through life there are many instances where man
must protect himself against the beasts, diseases and other natural
forces which would destroy him as quickly as he does a chicken.

If you or someone you know is interested in one of these Stun-O—Matics
you may purchase it from us or from the firm which makes them.

Very truly yours,

BARKER 3 ULTRY EQUIPMENT CO.
by 1%) I :5 M
W?

-’. I
"““~‘ RBBzvam Hebert R. Bruce, ‘ .i‘>
"000C“ POINT

memmnwuummenc. Assistant General Manager

 




‘1

‘Wﬂhm up” It .5. .1.

5555:5555 3‘1? , 195535

T} '1',

wt”... 5: “a '2 7 .. ﬂ _ .
m : ~::5:¢:-5 P55551355.
W35! (339» a
:"f‘"? it...) 1:5.‘351135535,
”‘9 £2... 5.: 5558529555535:

.5 -, v, .. 5....

. . .. . .

5 :.r:'>-*=.«. 1*. Arc-«~52 512:“? .5
a: ”M“; ;-~ 2. J. 5 f. 5;.“ ‘my...“; in») a

in 95;; 3"”; ﬁrm “a; 5 E37": "me-5a 72.231 225-; ; .: 4-5: {5:453
3‘ 45'}. J.W{,2u‘n * 3‘“ .53.}.

W
“5'
5

,, m. r); w a»- 3:4; - 5 . . . . ~ 3; ' I 4* “L ,.~.,,- 4} : m u
3;” 53:5. ”-55 55.: .5 ,- ,.-~: 1+?- ;. :5} 55: 53.” 5‘3: 35“! 5 If: pﬁ1“5....155..a1“5 55%;: 21.5%.?
. ‘ 3,2535;

5 3' ., , . . . 2 ~ . ,5. -z; "3, .5-.. -
a3 .. . _‘ .~ ’._ ‘ ’. 57.. ' .irla.5. 5352.373 i. 53 L: LL11, 3 1.5%.: 1535.35135— 3
‘5'

:5. 5 5:: <5... ..
5.52:5 x -- 5 5511.3“ :2.» i": 55:55
11:52:23.1 s ,. g»? .17"- :E:‘5...‘V~W.5W .5 ‘52:.
' 5:15:05“ :51. 5:553:55: 52532:...“
we 55“":"55 5.55.; 55453....“ 55:43:55.5":
a?“ '5

“2... 55.57.5555 “555.531 3:55:53, :1. .. 5552:: ~
.2155: 555 3:53:52: ﬁ:‘"““’35’ 5:5 0:25:52.

{~39 N A r‘ " . r,
5.1:: {3.359% ,

 




Hot having been able to obtain any exact information aoout the

Swanson method of killing poultry, praised in so many publications
of the humane societies, I got their address (WOrthington, Minn.)
from the Consulate here and wrote them a polite inquiry. They did
not acknowledge my letter, but this appalling reply from the people
who I suppose manuiaoture their equipment (I do not know this) has
repelled and depressed me profoundly.

Perhaps you too will wish to answer this brutal man.

It says much that is bad for our time, that they only two decent
methods of killing food animals were discovered for profit and for no
other reason. The Hormels, the Swansons and the Barkers appear to be

without pity for their fellow beings or gratitude to them. Horrible.

 




our experiments in an effort to show you a
few of the things that are involved. To the
. casual observer it may seem a simple task to
develop and perfect a new and practical
method of stunning animals, but experience

has demonstrated that progress can be
achieved only by a liberal expenditure of time,
effort and money. with constant executive at-
tention and continuous trial and experimen—
tation.

 

Electrical Stunning of Hogs

By R. W. Regensburger
Swift & Company

In introducing this phase of the experi-
ments in stunning live stock with electricity,
it may be of scientiﬁc, as well as of historic
interest to you, to give a brief review of
some observations made by Leduc almost
thirty years ago when he discovered the un~
canny properties of electric current of cer-
tain characteristics. Leduc was a professor
of medicine at the University of Nantes.
From statements in his writings, it is evi-
dent that an electrical anesthetic was the
goal he was seeking, but, being an innate
scientist, his interest in the subject carried
him into many byways in his experiments.
Some of the observations in tests recorded
by Leduc sound strange and unbelievable,
but they indicate the inherent curiosity in
the scientist and the thoroughness of the in-
vestigation he made.

The current which Leduc uses is de-
scribed by him as a direct current which is
interrupted from 9,000 to 12,000 times per
minute. The cycle of interruption itself is
divided so that the current is on only 1/10
of the period and off for the remainder.
Depending upon the results he desires, a
voltage varying from 12 to 220 is applied.
The range from 110 to 220 volts, however,
is only used where it is intended to kill the
animal, while between 12 and 30 volts are
employed in inducing sleep or the equiva-
lent of anesthesia. Speciﬁc mention is made
of the fact that there must be no self induc-
tance in the circuit, and the accuracy of
this observation of his has been proven in
our own experiments.

In speaking of the general characteristics
and effects of the current, Leduc gives the
following account, translated from one of
his papers:

“The animal is placed in the circuit,
placing on the shaved head a cathode
formed of absorbent cotton impreg-
nated with a solution of sodium chlor-
ide at 060° and covered with a metal-
lic plate; a wide anode is placed on the
shaved back of the animal, at the pos-

terior extremity of the body; the inter-
rupter being in operation, the electro-
motive force is rapidly increased in the
circuit until generalized contractures
are produced, the animal falls on its
side, the respiration stops; the indicator
hand of the commutator is then brought
backward until the respiration is re-
established; at a certain degree of cur-
rent, a tranquil and regular sleep is ob- ‘
tained, the respiration continues with-
out modiﬁcation, the heart functions
normally, but all of the cerebral func-
tions are suppressed; the animal, dog
or rabbit, free, without fetters, remains
lying motionless in a profound sleep,
the muscles are relaxed; the animal, if
one raises it by a fold of the skin, is
Happy and completely inert; if it is
pinched, pricked or cut, it does not re-
act, unless by some reﬂex movements.

“The duration of the sleep may be
very prolonged; we have some animals
which have been kept asleep many
times for over two consecutive hours
without any alteration of their health.

“The awakening is brusque, sudden;
as soon as the current is interrupted,
the animal gets up (1 frisks about
joyously; not only is here no consec—
utive effect, but im , ediately after the
awakenin the dogs seem to be gayer
and more joyous.

“The establishing of the current does
not seem to cause pain, for the animals
do not utter a cry; aside from the con-
tractions and contractures caused by
the current, they do not make any
movement of defense or of ﬂight. If
the current is established slowly in or-
der not to exceed the necessary dose
and avoid contracture, there is a period
of agitation, analogous to that which
chloroform gives; the sleep is then
longer to obtain, and the operation
Seems more painful.

“In summary, with these currents,
one can instantly, without apparent
pain, bring about the complete inhibi-
tion of the cerebral centers, leaving in-
tact the centers of respiration and of
circulation; one thus obtains a tranquil,
prolonged sleep, and a complete gen-
eral anesthesia; the somniferous actidn
is regulated and is suspended as quick-
1y as one can act on the electric cur-
rent, the sleep is not followed by any
consecutive reaction.”

 




  

. 22 333.33 17331 Str33‘b
u... 3-.

 

 
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
      
    

 

1‘ 33:33:33 13.9, .1957.

 

3333... 33'... 3.3333321. 9 3333333333
33333133333331 .1 ”13.533236 gﬂwm
33331332333339 3.1.“ 1:313:33

Bear 33:. 3:133:31:

33:33:33: 31:13:33: 333: 3:33: 33333333333 29313 33133333333333: infomtim 3:3 3333

3313333333 33333 313331333: 3333333333331 :33 31333333133, :33 333333 3333333333 m~

$331333 33.333.333.333 31.933.133.311 .3311:th '33; "333.33: :33 :33 3:13:33. 31333331333333}:

3:333 33. 3:33:13 3.33 *3 "33333 3.3333. 33.1.13. 31333333333 f" .33. 3* 333311333373: 33333:: 3

33.333313 3933123331333 3313 333133313 brain. If it 33.033 1333, the 3313.333. M
:33 3333332333333 3.33:3. .3333 33333 133131 3333353 33333333 3:33-3:33 313333. I £331

333:. 33333 ..i: .3 ”3.31" 131333.33103: '33:: 3:23.13 313 3.33:3 13.333133313013339:

31:333. 132. 3331 31 3:. 33331: 3.3.3.1 33333333333333 33333.13? 33333.33 333 333133 933::- 333:,

33.33, ":3. 3.133 3. 3:31.313: 3.333333 3:33 1.. 33333 3133333333 3333339333..

 

'1

m " .9 ‘ 3 .
313133333,




according to my experience. In the last
chapter of the Byology Synthetique
there is a photograph of a cataleptic
dog, immovable on three legs standing
on the three feet of a chair turned up-
side down. This photograph is posed
and it can be seen that the hanging
foot is not clear on account of move-

You will recall that Dr. Leduc reported
that upon waking after subjection of the
current, the animal seems to be gayer and
more joyous. In view of the following re-
port of the scientist, I am certain that he
was feeling very sad and blue at the time
this experiment was performed, for he says:

Leduc Submitted to Current

“With the help of Professor Alfred
Rouxeau and Albert Malherbe, I have
submitted myself to the electric nar—
cose, the only disagreeable sensation,
which, however, can well be borne, is
the sensation produced by the current
on the skin of the forehead. As soon
as I was unable to answer my col-
leagues and to speak to them they
stopped the experiment but they had
not entirely extinguished thought and
sense and I begged them to do it
again; they left the current on longer
and I could not move, I could not
speak, but I heard their voices as from
a distance, and I could think feeling
sorry that they would not continue the
experiment further. My inability to
move and to speak with the ability of
still being able to think is comparable
to a dream state or nightmare where
one in the presence of a great danger
is neither able to move in order to
escape nor to call for help.

“As soon as the current was shut off,
I recovered my faculties immediately
without any after effect. Shortly after
I gave an improvised speech before a
numerous audience with usual ease.”

Reports Another Leduc Test

ment caused by the breathing of the
animal. This dog remained immovable
during the lecture of one hour before
an auditorium of students which tried .
continuously but without success to
rouse him from its state of immobility.
In coming out of this state the dog
walked ahead for several hours seem—
ingly senseless, not seeing where he
went, because he ran into things and
hurt himself, went in»: water, in ﬁre,
and in spite of being able to see, be—
cause he is irresistibly attracted
towards windows, he must be closely
watched ..to prevent him from going
through the glass.

“If the excitation is done with the
cathode in the neck and the anode in
the lumbar region the physical reaction
is quite different, the animal ﬂees the
light and is afraid to move, he retires
and holds himself still in the darkest
place he can ﬁnd.”

Tests Were Practical

In coming to our experiments in stun-
ning hogs with electricity, I regret that I
am unable to report tests and observations
as intriguing and striking as Leduc. We
have, naturally, conﬁned our efforts to the
practical aspects of the subject.

The objective in our application of elec-
trical currents for stunning isdierrent, of

course, from the result desired by Leduc.
which of interest though of no application. \Nhere he was endeavoring toproduce a
It does, however, demonstrate the extent of prolonged condition equivalent to‘ anesthe-
the' experiments and the curiosity of the sia, our purpose is to stun the animal
inventor: quickly and render it unconscious for a pe—

One other test is reported by Leduc

“A very curious reaction of the ex-
citation of nervous centers is obtained
in putting a small cathode on the upper
portion of the neck in contact with the
occiput and the anode at the lower end
of the cervical column. It is' necessary
to produce several excitations with 30
to 60 second intervals, through closing
and opening the circuit. The following
reaction consists of three periods: one
of lethargy, one of catalepsy, and one
of somnambulism. The period of cata-
lepsy is the most curious. When the
animal has come out of the lethargy
condition following the excitation, it
is as if made of zinc, he holds the posi-
tions given to him immovably. This
period is Of longer or shorter duration

riod long enough to dispatch it without
sensibility to pain.

Our work was begun over a year and a
half ago at the G. H. Hammond Co. plant.
The special pen for conﬁning the animals
was provided then and our investigation
has been conﬁned primarily to exploring the
resulting effectiveness of different charac-
teristics of the current and investigating
methods of applying the current.

In the ﬁrst series of experiments the path
of current was from the head above the
eyes to the flanks of the hog, and was ac—
complished by terminating one electrode in
short plates on the two converging sides of
the trough on which the hog rested when

 




I

l

36V
2;;1'3 1.

1"

L

r?)
3, .310 III

\2 -L

'm {"2

.1
Via

A
CL.

003

q 3.,

A). ‘uv‘

L")
‘l

....,- u

C ”I" S

C"
\‘J

”79
«.1

“11

4
1
,_ .J

.2.
"I11”

”1

”I
1‘ e (11

L;

3

fr ( A ‘
L1 I) if)

t...)

‘1

q

f ' “a
:1.

OJ

9
; f
I. .1

1‘

Ala.

val

I! )

unit

in
«Raﬁ».

J3.
If:

’x

!
‘w—

I‘

" 7‘
\l
u

*3
I

I
.1.
3
w

, '2 . 'm z”
" «1.16.3 J. ‘v

’ 'L
1,1

5
”1
4|.

u.

D I?

,.
I

g.)

l
'm
.2. a

30

7
f
;.

Ii)
.1. L

ctor

VOlV'
er,
'3:

J

he

r:
I

J
J
U
8
J

C

.flC - -.

.1.“ I . .2}...
5‘ ' ) i I
E) A ‘3 L1

10

t
J.

J? ,-
’- a
LA

C‘ -
x) -

. 1)
L I

"W m

“a”
xiv-L ‘wii.

1"} 3:3
I_ ‘4

I

1"

eaz

«u..

1

,3

{£4 ”UNI

w\
Cv

1-} 2:.) vi; .

if) 11

l")

"£373

A3

2-: C)
\J

'0

-0
O

.L?
in.

3’19

, l
‘...'A.

III} ‘

“I

i' {3 J?

"v

' i; hr) W5: :3
i' I .L
.. TIG‘J'KMJV w.

> IL

I”

1

J-
DEBIII.‘
.4" ,, .
8 911.11"

W)

Jinx

‘v
r J,
kJ

I .1
.. 4. L) 14.1..
.i? n ., "
O -I. Ci

'1. l

a,
«I
-4.

g
' C

Ils waul

('7

d1

(3 in 5:1
I‘- ‘ .

T- {5
«I.

:3
v

g' a
‘V

wult

D T

n

.L

musculat

.‘

I

s.

I???

3 3’1

.r

l

\
C,”

I

1.011 O]?

1‘

l ,
y...-

C.)

.L

'3.

7
}

008%”
lﬁbd

Vt.

:3 v
’3

(I)
,&

r.

“p.

I
~42]

7..

\1

”31

O
TA

V

th

'7”)
.3.

"III"
3.

'1- ? .
\l (7;:

LI
"”3 C‘.
3&1

I-
53

sent
9‘,

for

I

3y
“SI

~
I
I

Blood
I

1

SpOtS,

7

I18 i110]? 1‘ 3:1-

é 'x
{IL

I

S

(3 f1

('1
x43

no. "
iii.

.41V 8’ If“

t
\
u

511% 53 S‘

(1} ('7
r‘ ,N’
are C)

e

.,- I
Ln

{3 "

VQILHJ

a:

.
1"
. x.

I

x-)

'u

I-
L:

L.
-';.c. I...)

O

(2‘ ‘2}

IL 011

J-

a
RN...)

#3
0

~vans-

r' -°

x III
n. 1 F2

an x.» .. Cs“.

\J

Tm .L. 4' .1.
“MSblb,

 

MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY
OF AGRICULTURE AND APPLIED SCIENCE - EAST LANSING

COLLEGE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE ' DEPARTMENT OF VETERINARY PATHOLOGY

 




dropped, while the other electrode was con—
tained in a brine soaked sponge at the end
of a short prod placed on the head of the
animal. The sides of the hog were wetted
before entering the stunning pen to im—
prove the contact with the plates on the
sides. The current then traveled by some
line or lines from the point of application
on the head to the two hips of the animal.

Changed Stunning Pen

The arrangement of stunning pen was
then altered in one detail by extending the
metal plates on the converging sides to full
length so that the hog made contact all
along his sides instead of merely at the
ﬂanks. We were looking to the future and
considering means of adapting this method
of stunning to large scale operation. It ap—
peared necessary to combine the advantages
of the V trough with those of the moving
conveyor to accomplish stunning with facil-
ity. An easy adaption was apparent in the
use of a conveyor having the same shape
as the pen and embodying similar charac-
teristics. \Vitli such equipment the easiest
means of applying the current seemed then
to be in the use of the conveyor as one
electrode and to secure the same effect in
the stunning pen, the metal plates were
lengthened so that contact was effected over
the entire area on which the hog rested
when suspended by the converging sides of
the trough. Further reference will be made
to the possible use of the conveyor de-
scribed.

Current COmbinations Were Tested ,

\Vith these two arrangements of stun-
ning pen, several series of tests were made
exploring the relative effectiveness of dif-
ferent combinations in current character-
istics. \Ve had arrived at what we thought
was a satisfactory solution to the ﬁrst step
of the problem. To our dismay it was
found, however, that the accompanying ef—
fects of the electrical current was produc-
ing broken loins in many of the hogs so
stunned. There is a severe and sudden
muscular contraction upon the application
of current under these conditions which re-
sults in an extreme arching of the back,
causing the breaking of the bones in the
spine. The fracture is often so severe that
it appears as though the bone were shat-
tered by the blow of a hammer. This con-
dition has been characteristic of all previ-
ous attempts to stun animals with elec—
tricity.

Other investigators in the ﬁeld of elec-
trical stunning found thesame inherent de-
fect in the method, but also observed that
the unfortunate and undesirable condition
could be avoidedby applying the current
differently. By placing one electrode on
each side of the head—presumably causing
the current to travel from one side to the
other, either through or in proximity to the
brain—~there was found less damage to the
loins. Accordingly, we constructed new
tools for applying the current at each side
of the head and began a new series of ex—
periments.

There are then two distinct methods of
applying the stunning current; the one by
a single prod placed on the forehead; the
other by the pincers or tongs on the sides
of the head. Of the two, the application

 

 

 

Empty Pen.

with the prod is the easier. As you will ap-
preciate there is likely to be considerable
difﬁculty in coaxing a hog to hold his head
still long enough to get the pincers in
place. Study and attention has been given
to ﬁnding the proper point for applying the
two electrodes when using the tongs. These
German pincers (See illustration) are de-
signed to be used over the eyes and ahead
of the ears. In studying the structure and
shape of the head of the hog, it appeared
to us that a better location existed just
behind the ears and somewhat below. If
you have observed a hog head split in two,
you will recall that the brain terminates
about at an imaginary line connecting the
openings of the two ears. Likewise at about
this same point, what appears to be the,
cheek bone of the hog, ends. Consequently,
it is possible to reach a point from 1” to
1%" closer to the brain just behind this
bone protection, and the path of current

 




36th Year

Catalog

u...
S
n
e
_
l
6
c.
I.

 

(

,x ,
J;
(.2

.'

 

L! ,l\

.5...” n‘il"ln.l¥ w

   

 

.ﬂ

 

 




will not be impeded by bone except for the
shell surrounding the brain, which is thin
at this point. In the application in front of
the ears the current travel is almost entire-
ly along bone as the conductor. Which of
these two paths offers the greater resist—
ance, we do not know, but we believe the
evidence from our results and observations
points rather deﬁnitely to more consistent
and sustained effects with the application
behind the ears.

Determined Value of Current Changes

To reach the most vulnerable point in
placing the electrodes behind the ears, we
have tried several designs and believe the
last one prepared to be the best. In brief,
it is a long knob about an inch in diameter
and 2%" long, which is fastened on the end
of the tongs. The center is drilled out and
a sponge inserted to carry a small quantity
of brine to assist in making effective con-
tact at the point.

In the two series of tests using the single
prod method of application with the sides
of the pen as the other electrode, consider-
able data were accumulated on the relative
effectiveness of changes in the current
characteristic.

Voltage Is Important

In exploring the effects produced by the
different elements in the current, We have
found the voltage to be the most important
factor. Below about 60 volts the current
will not stun, while above 115 volts the
shock is so severe there is danger of seri-
ous injury and from Leduc’s reports, death
may even result. The range of voltage va—
riation within which satisfactory results oc—
cur is rather well deﬁned and narrow. In
contrast to this, it was found that the other
elements could be altered appreciably with-
out visible effects upon the performance.

In our tests the interruptions were varied
between 4,000 and 12,000 per minute. No
marked difference in effect could be distin-
guished, although it appears that somewhat
better results were secured between 8,000
and 10,000 interruptions per minute.

The relation between the “on” and “off”
periods in the interruptions was varied from
1/10 on and 9/10 off, to 7/10 on and 3/10
off. No decided difference in the effect was
observed, however, throughout this range.
The current was applied to the hog for pe-
riods varying from one second to 12 sec-
onds. The results indicated that contact of
about 4 seconds gave the best results, for

below this the stunning was not certain,
while above, no added effect was accom-
plished and, in fact, there were some indi-
cations of poorer results. Four seconds is
now pretty well established as the best pe-
riod of application of current for stunning
hogs

Great differences in the effect of the cur-
rent upon individual hogs were observed in
every series of tests. Undoubtedly the in—
nate resistance of the animal has a marked
bearing upon its susceptibility to, the cur-
rent and, of course, there may be differ-
ences in the effectiveness of the contact. At
any rate, the log of the test shows many
variations and it is only by averaging a
great number of tests that any semblance
of satisfactory data can be compiled. As
there are so many variables which may af-
fect the result, it has been impossible to in-
vestigate each current characteristic thor—
oughly and we have been guided, to a
certain extent, by trends and personal judg-
ment in these conclusions on the effects of
the different characteristics in the current.

 

 

 

 

 

Stunning Tongs being Applied to Hog.

Fundamentally it is impossible in our
practical tests to compare accurately the
relative effects of two different current
characteristics. We are striving to render
the animal insensitive to pain and are then
attempting to measure the length of the
period insensibility. remains; when, as a
matter of fact, wehave no indisputable way
of telling when the~ animal resumes con-
sciousness. In short, we are attempting to
measure an effect when we have rubber
tape measures by which to compare two
results.

In our tests we have used the best known
means of ascertaining the data desired and

 




Barker Poultry Hauling Truck

BARKER POULTRY LINER

This specially designed trailer is Barker’s newest offering to the poultry hauling
industry. For large volume pick-up this truck is unexcelled. Built from heavy gauge
steel, hot-dip galvanized for rust protection. Poultry can be fed and watered while
in this trailer. Open center aisle and open sides give plenty of ventilation. Top is
insulated against heat from the sun.

Overall size of trailer is 35 feet long, 8 feet wide, l'l’-9‘/2” high. Trailer equipped
with 10.00x20 l2-ply tires. Standard Fruehauf rims 20x7.5. Axles 3% x4% l’l”
beam. Brakes 16V2 x7 MAB. ICC approved lights and wiring.

160 compartments. Each is 33%”x 40%” x 14-5/16” overall. This includes 4%”
for feed trough. Empty weight approximately 23,500 lbs.

For further information on prices and how this can help you, contact us.

BARKER POULTRY EQUlPMENT COMPANY, Ottumwa, Iowa

(Oldest and Largest)

Barker Branches

Western Division Southwest Division Delmarva Division Southern Division New England Division
315 Kansas Ave. 2719 Ludelle St. Fulton 8: Allen St. 1229 Wills St. 180 Allen Avenue

Modesto, California Fort Worth, Texas Salisbury, Maryland Gainesville, Georgia Providence, Rhode Island

Barker Poultry Equipment Co., Ltd.
407 Desautels St., St. Boniface (Winnipeg), Canada

Processing Equipment News

 




 

have employed the corneal reﬂex as a
gauge by which to indicate the return to
sensibility. The corneal reﬂex, as you
know, is the involuntary action of the eye-
lid to close and protect the eye when some-
thing foreign, as a cinder or one’s ﬁnger,
touches the eyeball. In the tests, an oper-
ator placed his ﬁnger upon the eyeball of
the stunned hog and observed the time
when the eyelid closed ﬁrst upon his ﬁnger.

Tests Must Be Extensive

\Vhatever the corneal reﬂex may or may
not mean, there is some thought that while
the absence of the reﬂex denotes uncon-
sciousness, the return of the reﬂex does not
necessarily prove revival of consciousness,

and a corneal reﬂex may be found before ‘

sensibility occurs. In brief, we have no
suitable tool by which to gauge the effects
of current of different characteristics and
can only judge the results by long series
of tests and observations.

In these early tests the animals were
seized with convulsions in varying degrees
following the application of the current.
Our chief concern was to modify the cur-
rent to minimize the intensity of these
convulsive movements as the appearance

was one of suffering. The changes, which
have been accomplished, have materially
reduced the degree, although there still re-

main some convulsive movements after

stunning.

Scientists Were Consulted

\Ve were curious to learn what scientiﬁc
men might think in viewing the stunning
operation of the resulting condition of the
animal. Dr. Lipman of Swift & Company
invited a few leading medical authorities
to witness the operations upon hogs in our
tests at G. H. Hammond Co. The opin—
~ ions we secured were varied. Our ﬁrst vis-
itor was Professor Boris M. Zawadsky, a
distinguished physiologist of Moscow, who
has achieved an international reputation
for research work in physiology. Professor
Zawadsky stated that he thought stunning
by electricity would make slaughtering
much more humane because it renders the
hogs unconscious instantaneously. He was
quite emphatic in the opinion that the ani-
mals were insensible to pain immediately
after they received the electricity, judging
from the appearance and their behavior.
He stated that, although there is no test
that can be applied quickly to prove deﬁ-

nitely whether the animals are conscious
or not, he thought it reasonable and log—
ical to assume that an electrical charge such
as these animals are gitfen, causing as it
does apparently profound shock to the
nervous system, must also abolish con-
sciousness.

A short time after Professor Zawadsky
witnessed the experiment, we were visited
at G. H. Hammond Company by a mem-
ber of the staff of the Billings Memorial
Hospital of The University of Chicago Clin-
ics. He has an international reputation for
his brilliant and original research work in
the anatomy, physiology, diseases and sur-
gery of the brain and nervous system. He
stated that he was convinced that stunning
as developed renders the hogs unconscious,
for to him an electric charge sufﬁciently
powerful to produce the marked effect seen
in the animals mUst at the same time abol—
ish consciousness. He compared the ani-
mals after they were stunned to human be-
ings in a typical epileptic seizure in which
there are convulsions similar to the move—
ments shown by the animals. In human
beings consciousness never returns while
the convulsions are present, so that when
convulsive movements can still be seen,
consciousness can be assumed to be absent.

N. U. Professor Raised Question

After these two reassuring opinions, we
were rudely awakened, however, by the
statements of the nex visitor, who is a
professor at Northwesérn University. He,
likewise, h s an international reputation for
research in physiology. He stated that the
conditions observed might be indicative of
unconsciousness or they might simply de-
note lack of control of the muscles with
full possession of the sensations. It is pos-
sible, he said, to paralyze the muscles and
throw them out of control by the nerves
without at the same time affecting the
nerves which carry the sensations of pain.
In consequence, the condition observed
might be merely a temporary paralysis with
the animal. retaining full sensibility to pain.
The hog cannot squeal because the throat
muscles will not respond, and it cannot run
or walk because the inuscles are out of
control, but it may be aware of all that is
going on.

Obviously we were somewhat concerned
over this possibility, for if the animals are
not rendered insensible to pain by Ithis‘
method, then stunning by electricity is not
accomplishing the result desired. Unless

 




POULTRY STUNNERS

STANDARD MODEL

STANDARD
DE LUXE FEATURES

For the user who desires the best in stunning
equipment using the best in safety design. Most
rugged in equipment . . . most ﬂexible for use.
This unit with the SAFETY KNIFE gives you the
”tops” in stunning equipment.

The Standard Model FS incorporates all, the
deluxe features that can be designed into the best
of stunning equipment.

The transformer is heavy duty, specially designed
for this equipment. A grounded shield isolates the

ECONOMY

For the user who desires safe but quality equip-
ment at low cost. Has the safety features of the
higher priced model.

0 This cabinet is used with our regular SAFETY

KNIFE.

0 Four positions for stunning.

ECONOMY MODEI.

MODEI. FS

windings of the transformer. This gives you SAFER
and more DURABLE equipment.

The cord is a heavy duty cord to withstand rough
service in a plant. The load units are all heavy
duty to resist heat and constant operation whether
operating on a high or low position. Steatite
insulation is used in the construction of the rotary
switch to prevent high voltage breakdown due to
moisture.

Wiring is of a special gloss asbestos type wire
to resist heat and voltage breakdown.

MODEL G

0 Large metal cabinet prevents part overheating.
O Fuse protection to equipment.

0 Pilot light to show when unit is “on.”

0 Uses standard size transformer.

0 Wiring of unit is of glass asbestos type.

THE CABINETS

The cabinets used for both Standard Model FS
and Economy Model G are of an easy mount flat
design. The size of the cabinet is 10 in. high by
14 in. long by 5 in. deep.

The Water fall and closed design of the cabinets
protects internal parts from water and moisture.

Both cabinets are constructed of a heavy gauge
material sprayed inside and out with beautiful

January 1957

hammertone. The metal cabinet is completely
enclosed, protecting the parts from water and
mechanical iniury.

The thinness of construction is of a design to
permit setting or easy wall mounting and not have
cabinet protrude into the room. The ﬂange in
back of cabinet permits easy mounting without a
specially built shelf.

HAND SINGER

Model No. HS-I

Operates on any type gas. Be sure to specify
which type when ordering. Pilot light burns
to ignite torch when lever is squeezed.

47

 




true unconsciousness is produced, the sys-
tem is of little use for it would not be ful-
ﬁlling the requirements in more humane
slaughtering. In cognizance of this pos-
sible failure, the arrangements were made
to have Dr. A. C. Ivy undertake a thor-
ough scientiﬁc investigation of the subject
to ascertain the exact state and condition
of animals stunned by this peculiar elec-
trical current.

Circuit Must Not Have Inductance

Dr. Leduc in his writings was very careful
to point out that the current must have no
inductance in the circuit. Our tests have
indicated rather clearly that the inventor’s
observations were accurate. In our ﬁrst
experiments, a standard motor generator
set was used, converting the available alter-
nating current to direct, which was then
adjusted in voltage and interrupted by the
segment wheel on an independent motor.
As the results were not all that could be
desired, a large storage battery was substi—
tuted with a marked improvement in the
accompanying results.

The average period of insensibility by the
corneal reﬂex when using the generator
was in the neighborhood of ten seconds,
but when the storage battery was substi-
tuted, the period was increased to about
twenty seconds and more consistent results
were secured. The motor generator set can,
no doubt, be used if suitable correction is
introduced in the electrical circuit to mod-
ify the inherent inductance.

Reﬂexes Appear in Twenty Seconds

Since the adoption of the practice of
applying the current to the two sides of the
head, no extensive investigation has been
made of the effect of different character-
istics of current.
with this method that about twenty seconds
elapse before the corneal reﬂex returns
after stunning, but it is again as long before
the hog shows the slightest sign of re—
turned interest in the happenings in this
world. '

There are still two serious and important
details to be worked out in attempting to
make an adaption of electrical stunning to
practice. We still encounter an occasional
hog which is not effectively stunned by the
current. Instead it seems to exhilarate it
and it becomes very lively in action and
voice. So far no satisfactory method has
been developed for securing one hundred

We ﬁnd on the average r

per cent. stunning. If it is the natural re-
sistance of the animal to shock by electric
current, it appears to present a difﬁcult
problem, for the current now employed is
suitable for the large majority of animals
and if the characteristics are changed to
be effective for this occasional hog, it will
very likely cause damage to the normal run.

The second important problem is one of
mechanical construction in providing fa-
cilities which will permit large scale appli-
cation without seriously affecting the speed
of killing ﬂoor operations. From our analy-
sis of the requirements, it appears that a
moving conveyor having the same charac-
teristics as the present stunning pen will
meet the conditions. In such an arrange—
ment the hogs would be run into the con—
veyor having the same shape as the pen
when fully closed. As the unit moves along,
the ﬂoor on which the animal stands should
lower, leaVing the hog suspended between
the converging sides of the conveyor. In
this position the animal may be stunned as
it is conﬁned and the movements restricted.
As the conveyor moves along, another plat-
form should rise to carry the hog out as on
a moving table, where the shackle may be
fastened and hooked on the rail. As the
table moves on, the animal is then sus-
pended from the rail in the usual manner
and the bleeding can be accomplished.

Obstinacy of Animal Offers Problem

There are several features in this plan
to be worked out in particular;‘unique meth-
ods must be devised to induce the hog to
move into the conveyor. The seemingly ob-
stinate nature of the animal makes the han-
dling difﬁcult and if experts ,in any hog
psychology can offer sugestions‘for making
this operation easy, they will be entitled to
all the honor and acclaim customarily be-
stowed upon inventions of genuine merit.

Careful examination and inspection has
been made of the product on several occa-
sions, but we have failed to detect any dif-
ferences. It is unlikely that there would
be any marked improvement in the appear-
ance of the meat or bone for the hog under
present methods of dispatching is bled un-
der the best of conditions, which would be
difﬁcult, if not impossible, to improve upon.
As the hog is not stunned with a hammer,
no injury is done to the brain. There is a
possibility that less bruising may result
under the method of handling already de-
scribed, in which advantage to the electrical
stunning method may accrue. The viscera

 

 




POWERS THERMOSTAT

Powers Scalder Thermostat. Very dependable.
Available in two sizes: 3A” for high pressure steam;
1%” for low pressure steam. Balanced valve type.
Double union for easy installation and removal.
5-foot ﬂexible tube with l-inch pipe thread for

scalder tank.

No. 21418. Mercury-filled Binoc
tube. Metal pocket carrying

case. Zero to 220 degrees F.

Molded case. 5 ft. flexible tube. 4V2” dial. Easily

read white numerals on black face. 100 to 215 degrees

Fahrenheit. Pipe thread pipe connection ________ (size)

Processing Equipment News

 




of the stunned hog has no different ap-
pearance or color, although it was thought
that there were more instances of conges-
tion in the lungs than by the regular
method. This may be a logical consequence
as the effect of the current is to arrest tem-
porarily the respiration of the hog. That
short period may cause a congestion in the
lungs, although sufficient evidence has not
been accumulated to ﬁx this conclusion
with certainty. The meat after curing like-
wise has no different appearance and what
keeping tests we have made show it to be
equal to product from the usual method.
Several tests have been made in which
meat from electrically stunned hogs was

cooked and compared with regular product-

and no difference in ﬂavor or texture could
be detected. There were several instances

in which the samples from the stunned hog
were more tender than the regular, but the
advantage was so slight we attributed it
to the original quality of the animal.

The brains of many electrically stunned
hogs have been inspec'tEd and there is no
distinguishable difference from the organs
of animals killed in the usual manner.

In brief, electrical stunning does not ap-
pear to affect the product, to save any
brains, to add to the appearance of the car-
cass, or to improve the color of the meat.
It does, however, do one thing which the
public has prophesied would be done some
day by the packers. The perennial joke will
become a reality in the packing industry.
As the electrically stunned hog has nothing
further to say and utters no sound, we may
ﬁnally say we are saving the squeal.

 

The Model Packing Plant
of 1930

By Myrick D. Harding

Armour and Company

At a joint meeting of the Operating and
Engineering and Construction Sections of the
Institute held October 22, 1926, a number of
talks were made forecasting the location, de—
sign, and operation of a model plant in 1930.
I have been asked to review those forecasts,
indicate what ones have been actually real-
ized, and outline also developments not fore-
cast which have taken place since, or are in
course of development at the present time.
In looking through the talks given at that
time I have been astonished to note not only
how many of the changes forecast have ac—
tually been accomplished, but also the large
number of developments which were never
forecast at all.

Pork Division

In his talk on the Pork Division the speaker
foresaw the elevating of live hogs to the
sticking bar by an inclined moving conveyor
or walk with adjustable sides from which
they were hung off on the sticking bar. While
this forecast has not been realized to date,
use of such equipment will follow the adop-
tion of electrical stunning.

A change that was not forecast but which
is now being adopted by packers is the ex-
tension of the chain from the hog horst to

convey the hogs one by one from the hoist
past the sticker. This prevents bunching of
the hogs and simpliﬁes the sticking so that
the chances of having shoulder stuck hogs
are not so great.

It was also predicted that the dehairing
machine of the future would be equipped with
heaters at the front end and torches at the
rear end so that the hogs would be dehaired
and singed at one operation. Instead of this
development, there has been quite a general
adoption of a rosin and oil mixture which is
sprayed upon the hogs immediately after they
leave our present style of dehairing machines.
This rosin and oi sets on the skin of the
hog and, when rezoved, takes away all hairs
and hair roots left by the dehairing machine.
This/eliminates to a great extent the neces—
sity for either shaving or singeing, and gives
a much cleaner carcass. Some efforts have
been made to dehair hogs by means of high
pressure jets of water. This development is
still in the experimental stage.

A"number of packers are using electrically
driven saws for marking the hog carcasses
before they are split. 'Marking serves as a
guide for the splitter and reduces to a mini-
mum the number of miscut loins.

Reference was also made to automatic grad-
ing scales. This has actually been realized.
There is now available a scale that auto—
matically records the weights of hogs as they
pass by on the moving chain. Its use is equally
applicable to the weighing of hogs from the
cooler and to the weighing of beef carcasses
in and out of the coolers. The weight is
automatically stamped upon a paper ribbon

 




1111111111111? 1531?, 15,33,113

11 1 1" 1 11 .1 .
1.1.111 .1 133. 3-1.; 1 1:1 111. 11111 111'
w "1’“ V
13‘1“ 31:" g... 11L 1: ’EM 1” 3:111:12.“ 133:1? :1:
_ . “M any 3 7-4 h " - “.I.‘ a .- .r m1 I 5'
1 1M1, 13 151.1 @1233 31:11 11.212133111111311»

“1/ m .11
""31!

1%?111 1.11%); 3,1531%, :4 a “La

”min“ :1 gray f{'1_ , 9-31..." .

11:11 11111111111111.111111111 111721.
1:31" a EMA“. =1 r111»; 91419-13119 an} 75$ €331,152)? mg: ‘tg}}*iﬁ;“
”F - " u '1 bi"
. . 11111 11111 . 3111.1. 11111 111113.11 1'1 111 1113111

3.: wﬁuug‘; “ .5 .35; :‘ .4151“; J. 133‘"? ”1:33;! 3" if} if“ ~7';; 0‘

'3‘" .1" ' f "’ I 1 ,
1.1:: 1 .1111 1 1 1 11111114 mm
.3 . Lk‘ 1 -. ; .1. $. 1: ia‘k ‘ . m “.17

7.1”»- ' I w‘ w " I X
11111 1111111 111.1113 111111131

 




which can be removed as wanted. The scale
will easily make ten weighings a minute.

Improved methods of washing hog carcasses

were foreseen. This deveIOpment has been .

directed toward the use of high pressure
Sprays which accomplish the work much more
satisfactorily and more sanitarily than brushes
whether manually or mechanically applied.
The carcasses pass through cabinets in which
the sprays are so located as to reach all
parts. Flaps at the entrance and exit of the
cabinet prevent the escape of the water. By
directing the jet downward it is kept off the
rail. Sprays are also used for washing sheep
and beef carcasses, beef and hog necks and
soaked meats. For neck washing the gun is
adjusted to deliver a jet in a downward direc—
tion. It is not necessary to heat the water.
High pressure sprays save labor, water, and
ﬂoor space, and minimize loss of material.
Specially constructed pumps are required to
boost up the usual house pressure to 350 lbs.
These pumps must deliver water steadily at
the high pressure without unusual mainte—
nance. Specially designed nozzles. are supplied
with the pumps capable of being changed
quickly from spray to jet and vice versa.

Improvements Are Listed

A new method of deheading hogs has re-
cently been developed, which has already been
described in a separate talk.

An improved type of snout puller has been
designed, which will pull long cut or short
cut snouts with equal eﬂiciency. The eye
meat is also recovered. Forehead skin can be
removed if the head is marked. .The snouts
are deposited upon a table by the snout trim-
mer, instead of beneath the table as with
former types of machines. This eliminates
contamination of the snouts from dripping
blood.

The splitting of hogs with power operated
cleavers was mentioned in 1926. While this
problem has not been satisfactorily solved,
, there is every hope that a power operated
hog splitter will shortly be placed upon the
market.

Within the last year a system of cleaning
casings has been perfected, which eliminates
the necessity for fermenting the casings in
barrels for twenty-four hours. Under the
new system the casings are' alternately soaked
in warm water, machine stripped a couple of
times, and are then run through two ma-
chines, after which they are ready for grad-
ing. A new method of salting casings has
also been developed. With this method the
casings are salted and placed in a machine

similar to a laundry extractor which removes

the water. At the same time the salt pene-

trates the casings. This cures the casings in
three minutes. They are practically odorless
and very uniform in color. As a result of
these two methods, casings can be handled
much more expeditiously than formerly and
with considerably less odor. There is in addi-
tion a decided saving in ﬂoor space. It is
said that the casings are also stronger and
better. Several types of machines which
measure casings quickly, accurately and with-
out stretching, are now available.

In the handling of hog coolers, there has
been an increasing use of individually con-
trolled refrigeration for each cooler. This
enables proper temperatures and brine circu-
lation to be maintained. Under the former
method of a central refrigerating system for
several coolers, the same temperature brine
was used for both hot hogs and partially
chilled hogs. This made it necessary to cut
off the sprays on the partially chilled hogs
in order to avoid freezing them. Cutting down
the sprays reduced the air circulation and
this increased the danger of sour hams. Un-
der the new system, the temperature of the
brine is allowed to rise as the hogs become
chilled and the full volume of the brine spray
is maintained at all times.

Electricity Put to More Uses

The forecast in 1926 mentioned the use of
electric saws for ‘sawing hams, This is now
quite the general practice. Similar electrically
driven saws are also used for scribing and
for sawing 05‘ the feet.

Power chOpping machines have been re-
placed with rotating circular knives. These
are much simpler machines than the choppers
and require very much less maintenance. A
number of machines for skinning green bellies
and for ﬂeshing small pieces of pig skins have
also been developed which are reasonably
satisfactory. Attempts are still being made
to design a satisfactory mechanical loin puller.

One of the chief developments in the pork
trimming department has been the method of
packing the trimmings for freezing. It has
been very conclusively demonstrated that
trimmings packed in air-tight packages will
retain “their original color after being frozen,
and will not become rancid.

In the rendering department there has been
an increasing use of dry rendering equipment
for inedible fats; The adoption of dry ren-
dering for lard has not been quite so general.
There have also been some installations of

 




TELEPHONE: CODES: TELEGRAPHIO a CABLE ADD

$JITY 6068 (3 LINES) BENTLEYS. WESTERN UNION. "TURBINISM. CENT. LOND

INDUSTRIAL WASTE ELIMINATORS LTD.

« lWEL-LAABS " _. « IWEL ”

PATENT w ABATTOIR, BACON FACTORY,
INTERNAL PRESSURE . ' _ ,. PROVISION WORKS, AND
DRY RENDERING PLANT. f .- COLD STORE EQUIPMENT.

ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS TO H.M. AND FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS AND MUNICIPALITIES.

7/1 1 OLD BAILEY,
LONDON,E£L4.

The ”nimal Slwﬂre IﬂW
35S Fifah IVSSSS

I f

SSW YSrk, anelo

'7"! I
S633“

 

1 1%??ng

w?

We a ,_; Iii? S SSS ta SppSS
ISSSSISIL?. ﬁ.:-,g S jIIgﬁﬁﬂlb ICIIII
IGSSISIS Sum Sf VSSSS. W;
Sf our latSS . degigﬁd WhiCII SS
S“QSIISS by SS .“ ”SS pSSt OS

“StitoSS

“SSS 8;? Sf tII SSS SSSSSI I:. Wﬁ' St SSIIISS
I

SSI ySS SI rIIIIPW u; ShiS {IS 0 ..r .1“ t In? thS CISV.
bv,S ISSSSSSSly I SSSS SS SS

SSSSIly SSSSSSISSSS, MSSSSSIIS§

your ﬁﬂidﬂﬁﬂSa

Y

SS SSE

SS S SS SSSI .;..3 _

3231? Sf TSSQS -IMW; ,. 3+ 2 ' wt . SSSSIS.
IJIIIt +;IQH.IIGSEI ,3 ;t~.-I. -g. ;S~»ﬁ: S' ISSSSESISS -
”3 SSSI ~' =. ﬁII SIWIISSSS

"" 3
“Sulacement ADI Sun “S I.
”SSTVISU.JSI‘SSSS”

A.

S SSISS SS1 S

7"
I‘Jj

SIX-I
:7

5;; 3

I,

2 i411. " I.

The TSIIgS SS IICII: SSS.
SSSSSSSI BSSSSS SIS “U“?SSS lﬂbﬂ
SSS, SI'S SSSI The SS SSIS SSS

ISSSSFSSSS S Sf SSSV « ;ITIS' III ;I .SSCSSS

(”1;

CI‘

33...:

J
I: (:4
- “5

{IF 'LIIEL’ Izngngh “3““ ITOIIGIS , $337133: 13$. :2 ,
bSSSzS WI ,:.w_ SISSSI SLSS CQMWISISIY
from thS ISSSS 1;-S -SSSSISISS the SSS3S3S Sf
SSSSSSSS,

"I 1‘35“!)
gm“;

73’) ”I II I) TIMI", 1“ TT‘T‘I a
1"‘i‘I‘ICN 330;, *"k 5*“4-vii’waa a a % a a a a a a a a a a a v «a a a a a 0 a a 9 a a a m S

 

m -. 'V
tw-‘QIQ. GSSSSSSSSQQS

 




270 Park Aveme

131233 ‘ 5*}:3087

3331333 28, 1956

331:». 3’3. 3.. 33333333323333, Via-3 21333133333
Swift 333:3 63323313313

6332.331 Stack 3323333

033303333 9,. 11133313

333331- 3343. R3g3naburg3r:

In behaflf 03’ 33233.. 33333333 3333 is 33333333 £3333
3313 35.33; 332' 3 £33 33333, I 33233233136133 your 1332333:- 33.” 3333332 3.6
in 333323333- to 33333 of 3133333 12. I333 133333 33351 1133 3331033333
3:311 333 333.1332! $3 3232* 3 33233333 M33323 3313' 3pm: 3233 r3turn. 3

33233333133 33333 ,

3333113 331-33333?
1333333323333 smmmw

 




 

 

 

 

up

v5.4.
Wlu

h

 

 

I, .

P.
A}

m- ﬁr pm

tw‘

x

'3“ T'\
i
ah-

‘7'}

p
t

“a." “m: "f £71 1::
1V: .- L n...“ L-A-‘u‘m ,“ “1.”:

Eh
wan}.
H

i.

A. ..
Li 5:3

't “z"
“‘1;

7
t

 

‘31??? IV" 53:

»-x a-

U

,.,, ‘.

1,...

.0
E.

«F

(:1.

I}

1h

0
1
p51

, E j;

g
nu>~1

VT? *7“???
',.L. Li. s):

(I
.m,

"r". t
.13

“1"“. ~"\ "1?"?
y", '1‘ i
.3, -’~ in "z, *x.'\...

Yum .
1.”: 2...;
4L;

»
$.-

T?”

 

WQul;

{.59 35% (3%

42'}

9

e
m a

E
A

E}
v
I"

*2 vs“,
I.

hiya-v
‘J.

5.13 .L i. U

M A“

1'"
I

1
F

7,
Al"

5
p-

i

“J
'wf'

tatal

yrifge

14‘
C21

!

"argeg

f3 C391"

".
L: a;

 

”W 1U?- w

4 EL"-
wu— tr.

E LAM

G
a?

J
V

aak”

k

«a
g
:

 

65.?

of deg

g

a :J

I

E:

I:

mier,

 

 

$89GEIQOI‘OCQlSEQCICﬂiﬁﬁCGODIODGGﬁGGGOO‘OOCGOCQ

 

mm
! ,

is Q; :4!

Lm'

\ *4 1.‘ -
.L -'.

Nnﬁ’ﬁ
«w ‘,

1-».

V‘ Y I 17“?
4‘ ‘4' '- L Li.

“DVD.

1‘ 1' (fr T_'r

E

1}. LE' 5,
..>... a- m.»

Al

I

lEL

701

mg.
I

L
J.

7“ “if:
.,/ LJT‘J

 

.GQCIOOQdﬁﬁﬁiﬁcﬁﬂQIOOOG‘COD§CC.G&&I.0306

50CGO

 

 

 




Swift & Company

UNIDN STUCK YARDS «' CHICAGO 9.1LLINUIS

QﬂauJPﬁmemkm
March 16, 1956.

Mrs. Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
270 Park Avenue

New York 17, New'York.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

In.response to the request in your letter of March 12, am
enclosing a cepy of the text of the final report by Dr. Simonds, dated
September, l9ﬂ7, which you may retain.

The material is complete as to text, but does not include
copies of the photographs to which reference is made.

The latter are in black and white, and I do not think they add
much, if anything, to the report. If, however, you do wish to see the
photographs, I will loan you my copy of the report. As a result of
normal attrition in the files of those who originally received cOpies,
we know of only two remaining copies, one of which is mine, and I have
been guarding it zealously. Shall be happy, however, to loan it to you
if you wish to see the photographs.

In addition to the text of Dr. Simond's report, am attaching a
copy of a letter dated November 19, 1947 from Dr. A. B. Miller, Chief
of the Meat Inspection Division, United étates Department of Agriculture,
stating the conclusions of the M.I.D. on the study conducted by Dr.
Simonds.

The paper to which reference was made by Mr. E. O. Longley was,
I believe, one which I presented at a meeting of the American Meat
Institute on October 17, 1930. In this report the preliminary and early
work in stunning hogs was reviewed. There was considerable development
after the date of this paper, but no subsequent reports were prepared.

My files, apparently, contain the lone survivor of the report
of the meeting in 1930; hence, I am forwarding a photostatic cOpy of the
material, which you may retain.

Sincerely yours,

/7;%07i2;Fb¢oa/égmyﬁ7libtlx’

F’O FORM C 3945

 




f /r--”'
, ‘33?"

J

/ PU

/.. ﬂ. ,.
‘l I

3' .3 .

l

i
o

’90

 

I... I .
I i
«it

.H I ,L

a I I I
T; REL...
. . main

Ma

 

 




COPY

UNITED STATES DERARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ADﬁINISTRATIGR~
BUREAU OF ARIMAL INDUSTRY
WASHINGTON 25, D. 0.

Address Reply to .
”Chief of Bureau of Animal Industry"
And Refer to

Y - 7.135-

movember 19, 19a?
ﬁr.‘¥esley Hardehbergh, President
American Meat Institute
59 East Van Buren Street
Chicago 5, Illinois

Dear Mr. Hardenbergh:

we have read with interest the report of the research study

by Dr. J. P. Simonds concerning the electric stunning of hogs

just prior to slaughter. He‘were sorry to note Dr. Simonds‘
finding that every combination of voltage, milliamperage and timing
used in the experiments produced confusing petechial hemorrhages

in the glands and organs. So long as this confusion exists, we
would not be justified in permitting the use of this method of

stunning in establishments operating under Federal meat inspection.

We hope that procedures moy yet be perfected which will preserve

the desirable qualities of this method of stunning, without

interfering with the proper conduct of post mortem inspection.
Very truly yours,

. 1/ A 7*: 1.7! 1 ‘5 ,
r! I. s. ... I]
5355‘s»; 3“. a , u 4: ‘. .3-.L..i.*v’3r

A. R. Eiller, Chief
Meet Inspection Division

 

 

/\




“41‘ 2’; .
A i? ,
V,' "I, 1 3 J i. ' i In.
: ’IV ilk-Vin J "~" I '

ELECTRIC STUNNING

OF

PIGS

The conditions requisite for ensuring
humaneness.

By PHYLLIS G. CROFT, Ph.D., M.R.C.V.S.

UF AW Research Fellow, Neuropsychiatric Research Centre,
V’VhitChUI'Ch Hospital, Cardiff.

 

Published by
(The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare)

2.84 Regent's Park Road, Finchley,
London, N3.

 




EX

Conditions of Sale (EX) of Goods sold in or from the United Kingdom
for Shipment abroad exclusive of Erection.

1. GENERAL—The acceptance of our tender includes the acceptance
of the following terms and conditions:

2. VALIDITY.—Unless previously withdrawn, our tender is open for
acceptance for the period stated therein, or when no period is stated,
within thirty days only from date hereof, and is subject to conﬁrmation
at the time of such acceptance.

3. ACCEPTANCE—The acceptance of our tender must be accompanied
by sufﬁcient information to enable us to proceed with the order forthwith,
otherwise we are to be at liberty to amend the tender prices to cover any
increase in cost which has taken place after acceptance. Any samples
submitted must be returned to our Works, carriage paid, within one month
from date of receipt or paid for.

4. PACKING.—-Unless otherwise speciﬁed in our tender, packing in
accordance with our standard export practice is included.

5. LIMITS OF CONTRACT.——Our tender includes only such goods,
accessories, and work as are speciﬁed herein.

6. DRAWINGS, ETC.—All descriptive and shipping speciﬁcations,
drawings and particulars of weights and dimensions submitted with our
tender are approximate only, and the descriptions and illustrations contained
in our catalogues, price lists, and other advertisement matter are intended
merely to present a general idea of the goods described therein, and none
of these shall form part of the contract. After acceptance of our tender, a
set of certiﬁed outline drawings will be supplied free of charge if desired.

7. TESTS.—Our manufactures are carefully inspected and, where
practicable, submitted to our standard tests at our Works before despatch.
If special test or tests in the presence of you or your representative are
required, these, unless otherwise agreed, must be made at our Works and
will be charged for extra, and in the event of any delay on your part in
attending such tests after seven days’ notice that we are ready, the tests
will proceed in your absence, and shall be deemed to have been made in
conformity with this condition and your requirements.

8. PERFORMANCE—Any performance ﬁgures given by us are based
upon our experience and are such as we expect to obtain on test. We
will, however, accept no liability if those ﬁgures are not obtained unless
we speciﬁcally guarantee them with provision for an agreed sum, as
liquidated damages, and a bonus if our ﬁgures are improved upon. All
' ﬁgures given are subject to the recognised tolerances and rejection limits
applicable to such ﬁgures.

We are to be given reasonable time and opportunity to comply with the
terms of the guarantee before you call upon us to pay any sum in respect
of such liquidated damages. If we fail so to comply, you may reject the
goods and we will repay to you any sum paid by you to us on account of
the contract price thereof, and any sum that may have accrued due to
you in respect of delay in despatch under Clause 9 up to the date of
such rejection.

You assume responsibility for the capacity and performance of the goods
being sufﬁcient and suitable for your purpose.

9. DESPA’FCH.—~—Any times quoted for despatch are to date from
receipt by us of a written order to proceed and of all necessary information
and drawings to enable us to put the work in hand. All such times are
to be treated as estimates only not involving any contractual obligation
unless we have speciﬁcally contracted otherwise. Any such contractual
obligation is subject to our not being delayed by instructions or lack of
instructions from you or by industrial dispute or by any cause whatsoever
beyond our reasonable control.

If notwithstanding the foregoing provisions we incur any liability for
late despatch such liability shall not exceed one half of one per cent. of
the Contract Price per week of the period of delay with a maximum of
ten per cent. of the Contract Price.

10. EXTRA COST.—In the event of the suspension of the work by
your instructions or lack of instructions, the contract price shall be
increased to cover any extra expense thereby incurred.

11. DELIVERY.——Delivery f.o.b. port stated in our tender is included.

12. TERMS OF PAYMENT.———The prices quoted are strictly nett, and
payment in full in respect of the goods shall be due upon presentation of
shipping documents and invoices in the United Kingdom; or if from any
cause beyond our control we are unable to despatch the goods or if
obtaining Bills of Lading is not our obligation, then payment of the
Contract value of the goods shall be due upon presentation of invoices and
notiﬁcation from us that the goods are ready for despatch.

13. STORAGE—If we do not receive forwarding instructions sufﬁcient
to enable us to despatch within fourteen days after notiﬁcation that the
goods are ready for despatch, you shall take delivery or arrange for
storage. We are prepared, however, if our storage facilities permit, to
store the goods, making a reasonable charge per ton per week, until the
goods are despatched, and the goods shall be paid for as if they had been
despatched. Any charges for storage or demurrage after despatch must
be paid by you. _

l4. DAMAGE IN TRANSIT.——We will not be responsible for loss or
damage to goods beyond the point of shipment, nor shall we be under any
obligation to give you further notice, statutory or other, that we accept no
responsibility. When Bills of Lading are taken out by us, we’ will, on
your instructions and at your expense, insure against loss or other risk,
and will, on receipt of your indemnity, take all reasonable steps to recover
from the underwriters any loss or damage for which they may be liable.

15. GENERAL LIABILITY AND GUARANTEE—Save as provided in
Clause 8: In lieu of any warranty, condition, or liability implied by Law,
our liability in respect of any latent or patent defect in or failure of the
goods supplied, or for any loss, injury, or damage attributable thereto, .is
limited to making good by replacement or repair defects which, under
proper use, appear therein and arise solely from faulty design, materials,
or workmanship within a period of twelve calendar months after the
original goOds shall have been ﬁrst despatched, at the termination of
which period all liability on our part ceases: Provided always that you
shall notify us of every failure or defect Within 14 days of its discovery
and that all parts are promptly returned free to our Works, inless otherwise
arranged. The repaired or new parts will be delivered free of charge f.o.b.
British port of shipment.

In the case of goods not of our manufacture, you are entitled only to
such beneﬁts as we may receive under any express or implied warranty
given to us in respect thereof.

16. PATENTS.—We will indemnify you against any claim for infringe-
ment of Letters Patent or Registered Design (published at the date of the
Contract/ Order) by the use or sale of any article or material supplied by
us to you and against all costs and damages which you may incur in any
action for such infringement or for which you may become liable in any
such action. Provided always that this indemnity shall not apply to any
infringement which is due to our having followed a design or instruction
furnished or given by you or to the use of such article or material in a
manner or for a purpose or in a foreign country not speciﬁed by or
disclosed to us. And provided also that this indemnity is conditional on
your giving to us the earliest possible notice in writing of any claim
being made or action threatened or brought against you and on your
permitting us at our own expense to conduct any litigation that may ensue
and all negotiations for a settlement of the claim. You on your part
warrant that any design or instruction furnished or given by you shall
not be such as will cause us to infringe any Letters Patent, Registered
Design or Trade Mark in the execution of your order.

17. CONDITION OF LIABILITY.—Any liability on our part is subject
to the terms of payment and all your other obligations to us under the
contract being strictly observed.

18. ARBITRATION.——If at any time any question, dispute or difference
whatsoever shall arise between you and ourselves upon, in relation to or in
connection with the contract, either of us may give to the other notice in
writing of the existence of such question, dispute or difference, and the
same shall be referred to the arbitration in England of a person to be
mutually agreed upon. or failing agreement within thirty days of the
receipt of such notice, of some person appointed by the President for the
time being of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers. The submission
shall be deemed to be a submission to arbitration within the meaning of
tge Afrbitration Act 1950, or any statutory modiﬁcation or re-enactment
t ereo .

l9. LEGAL CONSTRUCTION.——The proper law of this contract is
English Law and the parties hereto submit to the jurisdiction of the High
Court of Justice in England.

Industrial Waste Eliminators Ltd.

ILONDON, E.C.4. January, 1955

 




 

DIRECTIONS

For use on llO-V A.C. 60 cycle only. Do no+ use over. 8 ampere
+use in #4.

I. Place +he cabine+ on a shehc or hang from +he ceiling so +he
cord +0 +he kni+e will no+ drag on +he floor. Cabine+ mus+ be kep+
dry a+ all +imes. .

2. Connec+ a grounding wire +0 +ermina| No. 5. Connec+ 0+her
end +0 conveyor or shackle bar.

3. Connec+ a ground wire from conveyor or shackle bar +0 a
wa+er pipe +ha+ has wa+er in H a+ all +imes.

4. .Wear a Iigh+ rubber glove on +he hand +ha+ holds +he bird's
head.

5. Se+ in+ensi+y con+ro| knob No. 3 according +0 size of birds
being killed. Turn se++ing as low as possible bu+ high enough +0
s+un and keep +hem from s+ruggling. Keeping in+ensi+y se+ low
permi+s be++er bleeding and loosens +he +ea+hers. Too high a
se++ing will kill +he birds.

6. Touch bird's head wi+h blade and when H s+ops s+ruggling
s+ick in usual manner.

 




25%.?“23’55 - ' _\ INDUSTRIAL WASTE ELIMINATORS LTD.
7/” om Bailey

(3 LINES)

TELEGRAMS: , .
TURBINISM, CENT, LONDON London E.C.4.

2%” LLWEL‘ ELECiBQLEIiMﬁELQEIELﬁmﬁiéi

t mam-W; 1—-

QEEEEAL

The most humane and also the cheapest/and most efficient
way of slaughtering pigs, sheep and calves is to stun them first
with an electric shock. It is painless9 almost instantaneous
and leaves the carcase in prime condition.

EEMEQMEEQ ANIMALS PER HQER

The Electrolethaler consists of a mains unit (A.C.) which
should be mounted on the slaughterhouse wall and a simple pair of
tongs, which are easy to use and perfectly safe for the Operator.
It needs no re—loading and no attention once the current is
switched on. With it you can deal with up to 240 animals per

hour.
BETTER MEAT

Careful investigation shows that by electrically stunning
the animal before sticking9 the blood flows more freely. Using
the Electrolethaler you get about 13 per cent better bleeding than
by direct sticking and there is no ”splashing". The curing
prOperties of the hams etc.7 are not affected. There is no
damage to brain or carcase, no jerked hams or torn muscles due to
struggling. The meat is left in first class condition.

STRENGTH AND SIMPLICITY

Heavy accurateLy machined components are used in the
construction of the Tongs and there is no complex switch mechanism
to go wrong. The ebonite ear caps carrying the brushes and holders
simply screw into the castings making the change over of the brushes
quick and easy. These Tongs have been tested thoroughly in
different parts of the country and maintenance and Spares costs are

considerably less.

 




22? 3323. 1? Sta

ﬁr. ﬁﬁ gm J6 ﬁmﬁthmia

Eiﬁr: g, E: Eﬁgtafa

?::{. $0 Egprwsantativa im Eran
’aﬁgmﬂmak Earnamﬁﬂ «

. mmmmﬁ 393mm?

ﬁghawan, Iran
ﬂax? ﬁrm ﬁanthmia,

a {ﬁmnk 3793;: fear 3393.213} mm; intwmtimg {3mm
{35" 32an Masaryk I am {ﬁlzhmﬁ {3:3 {3:33; the“ “i; 03.22" Paint
3737mm 33333533373133 33m mmimg {3:3 {333335131 3:333 .33 hzzmne Maugﬁmr
‘hwmﬁﬁ in €ﬁharan aaﬁ that gaad prmgre$$*i$ being'maﬂe*
1%? 7:293:39. that gm; will centima m jimmy 3m inimmri M'-
' {iWMgmm {3331; ' ' ‘

Ehelmmd is {3 mpg; 03f tar as;1rr{3{{{;., Imfcmtwm 3
Rapmr$ in wﬁich tha amnoumcamamt camawxmﬁmgjyam an&.ywur
. {33:13:33 {33:33:33: 2353319 {mam 31132333.:gggﬁzuﬁw m 3313:3131 {3:3 {h We gmaﬂy
ummmMe 3313M 3mm am {19m 9

mm {{:3 ml?” 3

 




QQHEQEWTQENQliﬁdhéﬁgﬂhﬁﬂﬁsquihgﬁaiier Winding

 

The Unit has two double wound transformers. with a buffer
winding to withstand short circuiting of the secondary side for
short periods without causing damage. An automatic cut~out
switch is also fitted which is easily re—set by the Operator and
obviates the necessity of renewing fuses. The whole unit is
encased in a metal water~tight tank for wall mounting.

_EBRFECTT.Y SAFE

The phOSphor bronze wire brush.electrodes on the tongs
are completely insulated from the frame to prevent current leaking.
These electrodes can be re—bristled at'a low cost providing only
the holder is returned. The tongs are most suitable for the
stunning of pigs9 sheep and calves. A low voltage of 70 - 90
volts is used.

INSTALLATION

The Transformer should be fixed to the wall 5'6" from the
ground. The mains should be led by a watertight enclosed conduit,
via a 5 amp isolator switch9 to the input side and be connected to
the apprOpriate tapping. The secondary wiring should be led by
conduit to a watertight metal switch socket9 enabling the tongs to
be removed from the slaughterhouse when not actually in use.

OPERATION

When the Electrolethaler is plugged into the mains a pilot
light shows that the apparatus is ready for use. These Tongs do
not have to be dipped into brine and the operator's only concern
is to place the electrodes in the best position for stunning.

With pigs this is where a horizontal line through the tip of the
snout cuts a vertical line from the base of the ear. With sheep
and calves it is between eye and ear9 and the Operation is carried
out most conveniently by placing the animal on a cratch. The
stunning period is ten seconds. It is essential that the animal
should be hoisted and/or stuck as soon as possible after stunning
in order to avoid recovery of consciousness either before or
during bleeding. ,

CONSUMPTION

80 watts (approximately).

It is advisable for each user to carry a Spare pair of Tongs
enabling maintenance to be carried out without interruption.

MAY 1956.

 




03.925352 omm z>=oz« :25 3:» amtﬂﬁu (bug... or»? a.» cunt“...
, . . ﬂak—k.» 990.3%

9

f _

m:

. _ ...
.ﬁx a .. w»
A. .ALL:-7;>-» W
L. » r1. 1 KM . ‘.

..-...IL..... ...». ...... I»... . ......W.._...L. .....W... W.. r...
’4. . ’9 ”z. r
_ H2. .. ..L. . .
.A» wiwyl.ri.iwma1w.krsaxd.LHMQI;1WIA. Cars/f (xiv r ... .11.». mPFfKe-ut..»rsﬁlraﬁxm\. “(1rd

» w. .. L...» _ . W W...
F...“ .» ...» L. . l..w-..-»,..h.wf2({.h .

L. .... W .. L000 .920 >oancss~m oxo>2ﬁ>=oz ._ _

...... . o." Em czzmo 2.5.0sz c I.

{IL 2310......» I'lllll
Enema 3:03 W. L . . >> _ mm _ 0 Z .— 0 _ a) Z now—o cacao...» " manoaoaar wage—so: . 40:33
W .. W1”? . .. ...». .1»... LN...“ T: (Tud... . .... .. monoaaaa: Mommas”:

.. LL III-V. >.<o:..»...m1:.. man—3..

W .. ...W. % ......» ...... It... I... Iii... W . .

“.wa 2». 40:02»: «SIbE b

y W I
\LL ,:-3.WI(A:I: LIL
L. LIL. .
r»&\r\..m.»<fﬁ ”WWI. 52g QIEC ......Cr L/lnwtkrrlprvk I»
I»? ir.e\>\§\(r».kﬁ.»( ...»... L _ .
Li}. L... if. ﬁt): I .. ...LM 65.....wa . ~
4. ......tw WK . . , r . a... R» .
. . . L... .2... ...... ....
L... .. ... .

(A. I?» MIL}. CW1. CLIVE... ﬁrm...» CK...» Lg if». IPA?»
. . v. ... m .....r .L.
WW». IL...» :3. .r

r.>_._>>mZ..>._._OZ m... _..>0_~_nc_....c_~m
. . O 8 O O o
3 .. Qakﬁv .uu gawgm Qawkmﬁ
. WW 1...» , .... Var?!WLII»&..»I.WF....-.(fo......ﬁ..n
.. ...: E. 3.2. . 3:» . 3.3
L
...»; g3...» LI.» kgﬂag T... .2»... .....CK...
LL... (...... ...... . »I; E Léxc I???» 52:58»... ....E
......r If»; m...» I»... .r».K»CI>»ICL1¢k: . “... giL
I. LI... .... L. .... ...... . .
W Emma... .. ......I».:....{ . ......W ......2? 3g? LICCLIIPPIKI ...L... ......r... L. .....Kka. (CI: r (5-2»
In? WIHCIQ if? r»? CL... LC: 25.2% CI» .r. ...Q...
.37.»? Er?(f C2,... CIKIA. »\LI&.WICCIL.LW. (In... I My?

_ . _ J... .5.
1.1.")... . v” A ..N. l.‘....11.Lm, . L f») b.
. .. .. W .. . I. ... . J21... ......LILVI 20.x..I ......me If ...». L»..»...»L.L.....».IL.\......W» Q4 .. .... (WC :(LIW DI» It» A... ..-.
L r. .. _.
3m . 31;. m\ A [HHTWWI b «.1. r. .. . LL..\. ..
A» ....»C 5.2:». If)“ E?) >13.» W» .. CF»... ..f hI»:.TkIKriﬁI.

...» ”LL/f». . ..... .«»3 PF»): 7&1. 4

I»: ..W 1...... :1 »«

.. L...» .W. ...». {Ix w LII». 3.x.» #4» (f. Li. “2.0.x an; : r11 (Lift ...!kfi...
’1 [I M .

... LL.» v.11. “Qty... (...-(P If???» ......r:

max?
L
L.

. w I .m .... 1... 5
1‘ (gain flkfklitmw»:1\ .

....» . .
«3.... IA?! ..Wn..\

..1‘ . r
(a...

W.
W.

VP‘KVIVJ 1» ..Lw‘. .k...»

.
,

LL . ..
LC...» .1513...
L .

....
r

Xe... . ...

. .l. .A
I

L...

AW» .....W. .. . \W I. , \. ...... ..
2...} 2...... LI... . ...»... ...... r :24. r ......».CL(W.W.,...WW.52....

(\Cfv)
W,

W .L
.. .2» . . ...
..\, (if \ HE} \J 7/ .....K.» ... \
. m...» II». ......C» . Ntﬁbﬁr

(7.»... «...... L. ...... ...... I. 2......

_ . .C MILPLCIC QC $be $2.?!“ ILL 0T». IE1 or}?
WLW . T m R
T is... I» W LLYAIWIPFICLIIAL » 1150,} hr; . at», ELL.» ﬁrtICLr

. .H‘vll.

L:.....2.I.rxfxfy?x WA . .L «x»
. . .L L.» . . ,.
L3}... . ......W...» .W . p XﬂiECrfA (WWII... g» L...» h» (fr n. ... m»
. Quaker» . ....» Cc... .K» C». ...» ("LCCCK » QCIAL <5»... ...». L...»..CL ..LI .IrFPALLU» § LU. ».....CJL(F.W.A_(
.....W... .WIP»IM».F ..-...»iLwA H2». g?»§§»(§ﬂ r1». gﬂ LAC.» Ir mm???

a» WWII... .. x I; . L L ,

w... r (\L... 7.26 2%». (ALIC 2&3... ALI CAL €220 Lk%\
......(IL . (ALIA A... (I c3.....»2.w..» L2? F... LI Cw...» L .. .....W .

. .. L W»... (L...
-LLILL.(,.LIWL.A

L...» VI
. ::1taAL A‘X Witt-Ra“ a.
L .. .. L . 1..
M I» ... v W.L3 L. .. m. L “(A L x. . .... . m ._
. .. . . . _ .4 .. . .. .... .... ...... L. .. ....‘Xn
w...1\.h...\»r5\”\¢&1x. 4:1. k..~o§a{% Pkr {I‘LL-WWII .\ ...!1\ . . ....» «531“..«5; f 2, 51%.-.»1‘» 1.. A (\HNHAP .....t.»
M»...

L. ....n..
\w . «Ix $1.»... ... L k
L ...... he...» ......» I...» 121. I... {R2I% .E L»... ....» LL...» .. I.» hubhwfxm.) LL. .. W...)
L».

/..I

L:

l . .. IA?

L.

 




03.225552 0mm 22502.2. :25 25:» 62.225...» 22222.21. 02.6.2... Ga c.9212...
p.>2_zmzq>:oz 3. 5.029522%

c—ktkb EL:

Qakﬂw nu gay” Qawvr
mOOU >20 >02~2nc5c2~m OmO>Z_N>.:OZ

01 2mm czzmc 2.5.028 or:

2093 9:03 2 3 ..m m _ 0 Z 4 O _ a) 2 new? cannon... 2 manoaasar «02530: . 2.1.3:

manoaaaa: 9252:: «or LSV0 . 202,; . 20:0
><u=co man—2.:

g 2.222... 2...... A .aoroqaa _N .. .T...AAA_ 2... .2
QKCKAI C2. 2. .2... t. 9.... .2... 2 , .A . A r .2 .2. .2 .2.A.._.r.A2.A..2Az2<.. 2....2 fag .2. ..........._..2A.-.,-
my.

gfx AXCCgQ 11(xrfifls

2.2 . ,. . A. A. A . . ... . 1
grfﬁ 62%,. ark“. Ekﬂwrw~ 2...... EXWA... A A .A .A A, . __ 511142.22} 2- LL...) 22A... 22...... {£er 22.2....2 LPKSAM 2.2.1.2..
@122 DEW. 2.2,...ng 2......) 22.. 2.2.2.... . M. 2, .. .

t

..2 +2.2? .2, A... .A.. .

ﬂ - 2 . gAf k:r:;-e....i2 .--.:.2

"NJ rt W41. 0‘ .12 .... 1.” ﬂat -. +. r t r A\I%\f 9 MI\ :2.
«22......- 29.12-26.21 2.2.2....ci...:2 .- 2.... 2.... . .12.... .A.... 2%.... 2

y... . - 2... 2..2.....,A........A . .22.... . 2 .. 1.. AA
2 . 2. (F 2-. - 2 12.... 2A mad E :2. 2.2.2.. (222...... ércrcxr-J 2.2....- 2.2.2.2 2......- VC. (.2... 2. 2,.- AA...

WI. It... .

A12: LP... (KER. Air. 2%..Er... .11.. .rKﬁI.“ 91.222.21.22... 2 iahfiv beFxtfwTﬁ: 2?...ng 21......- I»... . 2.1.1.2....K2222NK2P. .1-............-.-.ﬂ.\
§Afxsc2 2...”...2k (N g2\.¢ {Fri/T .22. . AA A 2 A. 2 2 2

2x 2. .2 . a... 2 A 2......2
(0.2 .22 .2... .r .22.... (.2...- .22.. 1.2.2 2...... _A Sgt-.2. 22...... 2,-2.2. .12 .22....234 22.2.2... 1.. ._._ A
.A .2 .1 . A... I .2 1...... A A .
.1... 22.2912/2va xx. 9... (ha? A.:-2.9.- FEAK 2.2.... 211.222.. 2. . . .2222... A N.
2% .2 .-

_ . . . 2.. . .. r
2212... 2 _ . a... A. 2 -2221,- 21%.
{(221.2 .A.-.2.- .2.. A . A. ,
x2 21.2.2...- 2.2%... 2.}. .F A . ﬁ 22.2 SEQ-2.2

C... P. mt? .27.. (121.22.; 22.22.412.662?

$1122.22E2H A 2.22.22.25.22)?

2.

. .A.. 9(9)...» 22.2.... {2r22r1.-. A. E (21?th 2-...2... 2
. 2.. .-
W122...» In... K» ”.A.-(L2. ﬁrth. LLEIF? “1 E2222...- t.s,22rr 2.1.2.. .2..:

2%(2 .1992? 22,-1.1? TLé2-rM..2 2W .2. A . A

CF12 22.....ng A

-T .2. .1 .i‘ . X} ~ / .22 .2... A m f. A... u .2... . .2 .v 1:. .
2 .7 \v. 2 .9. hr. . .A.. 2 .2 .2. m A2 .. 2. .13.... .. 2...
’1‘! 1.22 . 2... .. 21k.«t\..fa \Iﬂr‘tokkb ﬁhft. a." ‘ . (ct-22...... .39» 2...... .2 «9% A‘ f. . in.” .9 .L( “6&(J1aoa‘ 6 (2.?‘KA112122... . . . .30”. «wit-t. . . .. .2

.22 2 2 . . .. .2. ..
{.6 N .1...- .. I». (‘1. (a... x .

.A 2.... m . 2. .- 2. .2
.N/.rl...€..&\f2g .2222... Wk 0% {LP- wk” Eff“ t... Mé2f-A. 2....) LL.- 1. 1... f... .(xlvx; .12... (if-Kr... 2L 21.2fm. #:121- 41.... . .2312
l...

,2

H

2.... . A..... . 2. .
”nu-1... .i-ft m5... 2;. fawfﬁk. 2 A 25!
/ .22... K. .

Ed“. r‘. f‘kudx 2“ V... 24.2.3 A IF.2V\ m 211014.? I“. 2 “C11. .ulxm; .2... 1K 2.2«IX. .r‘...» 1.19.168? “0.1.5. 2.2.2....1!‘ We»... . 2.. ..

.22.. am... .2. 22-222.... 2.2.... .92 2 \pf (.21 .2 (I; .2... .d... -A

2.1.2.... 2S 2.2.... . 2...}. A.

.2... A. 2 22-2,. .AA-.A.-..f 2......- .A.

% .2. fl... 2.... 22.1.4... .vav... N {*1- ....... r21...
. . 2.3/2 (I; 2.2 , .A .
2.21.2...“ . 2.... 11.2.; F§I>SKP 21%? TE 21.2.... . 2.231.242...- .21.... it. . 2.2... 2.2 l T

22.2 . ..» 2A A . :\..........2(. 2.2%.? fa..ﬁ.av.....r.x- 1m 22.2.1...

V w} MM(>I\P3&2.1.‘€ NFL: ¥ 2 '22:!
.2 2...
2.

. .ra... 2 .m .. . .. 1 J. m. c 2......- . $11.; .
.11....Kf... .. . .2 . 1:. .. 2 .2 2
2 RE... 2.. 22 .. N . A A . . .-
. .- 1 2 .2. r . . n.- - o. ,-

1

II.\\

...l..

. . - .1... 21.22.21.222 A..-.2.-
$12.. 2.. myssér We @2219 £22ng 2.... 2
0 9; MXWQI.) 4.2 21......»er 22.2% ““227er W6 2... 23.21.)...
222.2... (2.22» a? 22. ,.A,.AA .2. 2,-2.2 -2. .2. .2. Lr A, A

. 2...
CF21. 2.... :212 VLT C2... NAM-.221... 2.2121...- 1%.

 




1 February 9: 19%

EEE», EEE, J . J. EEEEEEEEE
ETEEEEEEEEEIEEE 31E
EEEEEEEEEEE ,1, EEELEEIEE

BREE!“ 331". EEEEEEEEEiE 4,.

TEEEEE EEE EEEE' EE- EEE yam? helpm End EMEEEE EEEE :1me EEE“
JEEEEEE EEE. 3-: EEE EEEEEE EEE EWEEEE EEE DEE EEEEEWE EEE “i EEEEEE hm
E0 PE‘EEEEEE :EE EG- “EE EEE EhEE EEE? ﬁxtm EEE EEEE Ii E111 EEE EhlE E IEEEE ”Elp Ell EEE
r-EfErEEc-EE EEE EEE mm}? EEEEE EE. 3: EEEEEE EEE EEE EEEEE EEE EEEEEEEE EEhiEE EEE
EEE" EEEEEEEE EEE”- EEEEEE EEEEE *EEEEEEE EEE. SEE :EE Em EEEE EEE EEE-E?

EEE EEE; EEEEE EEE EEEE E‘EEEEEEEEEE EEE. E‘EilE-Er ‘E EEEEEEEEE EEE-EEE Em
Elm EEEEE’E. EEEEEEEEE? EEE EEE WEE!” NEE-EEE ’ E Elam 501’“ 331%?- Qf that 1th” EppErEEuE?
EEEE EEE EEEETEEEEE EEE EEE CET‘iﬂal EEEEEEE fEIE‘l‘" EEE Em. EEE EEIE in EEEEEEEE EIEEEE
m EEEE 332;, ME EEEEEE EEEfEEEly? EEE EEEEEEEEE EEE 1mm EEE Elamgiltﬂr 1E WC E g
iEcmE E'iEEEEEy EEE‘EEEE, EEE EEE EEEE Emmy EEE EE’ 1:333:31 EEEEE EEE. EEEEEE EEE EEE EEE-Ear
if EEE EEEEEREEEEE ”EE- Ee-E EEEEEEEEE E 'EEEEEEE EEE E535 EEE 11h“ ‘ {531" 3:57 1ErgE
ElEEthEEE EEEEEEEEEE WEE EEEEE EEEEEE EEEE IE; EEE EEE EEEI‘E if} {EEE E’E ’ E Er EEE. r ’ s or
EEEEEEEE EEEEE m EEE EEE. EEE EEEE Eff“ EEEEEE EpEEEEEEn EEEEEE SSWE ’ E E3 EEEEEI EEE EEE'EEEE
E-Ery EEEEEE E EEEEEEEEEEE EEE EEE EEEEE IE EEE EZWE’ER prEEzEErEEE E0 EEE EEE-E EEE EEEEEEEE 1y fa EEE
EEEEE EEE". ‘ EEE MEEE EEE EEEEEE EEE EEE EEE EEEEE E EEE E EEE EEE idlE E WEE pErE 0.?
the Emmy E E WEEEEE EEEElE EEE fEZEEESE“ EEEEEEEEE EEE, “hm "WEEK. EEEEEEEE pm Emu!" EEE-“Hg:
EEEEEEEEEEE ”E, but I {Emit EEEE Eh Ey ’EEEI’E EEEEEEEE Emmy; EEEE PEEE frcm EEEEE I EEE Ermd.
EEE-E EEEEE EEE EEE EEEE Elm : , E mm rapidly EEE EEE EEE'E EEE EklEEi' mygﬁﬁkﬁr '
EEE mm up WEE EEE E1 E0 EEE EEE EEE EE‘EEEE: Eh End EhEE'Ed EEEEE iEEEE E EEE“
clEEEEEE Ear ElEEdE .. ., I EEE mm, EEEEEE EEEE EEEEE E1116 Ea. EEE E ‘rEtE EE‘ 1863 per ham.
EEE EEE-EEE ET: EmthMﬁg EEEEEEE EEE EEEEE Elam in mm Ema ,, EEE I EEE- mm EEE EEE EEEE
EEEEEElinE EEE EEEEEEEE Ema; 1E Elm EEEE EEE? EEEI‘EEE EEE IEEEEE. EEE EEE; E EEE .EIEEEEEEEI‘ECE
EEE EEE EEEEEEEEEE plEEE, jEEE EEmEE ME EEE 3’2me GEEErEl (EEE 123$ Wilding». EEE:
will meEb-Iy EEEEmEEE Em plant Mm my EEEEcripEim and I EEEEM appmeia EE it.
WEI? EEEEE. 1f 'yEE-s. amid lEt a -: EEEE EEEEEEEEE‘ EEEEE 1E EE large EEE Em” EMT: 35E 53‘” in
Gﬁiﬂﬂgﬂ.

EEE}: kind rEEEmE

Emmmly,

 




     
 

I "i

. ﬂ/NM/Q/A .

OPENBAAR SLACHTHUIS
EN VEEMARKT ROTTERDAM, January 25rd 1956.

TE BOEZEMSTRAAT34
ROTT E R D A M TELEFOON 117220

DIRECTEUR
Dr. M. j. ]. HOUTHUIS

      
   
         
 
   
        
  

hrs. Christin~ Stev
c/o rut AHILAL WELL
350 Fifth Avenue
Oxford 5~9146.

via-”var 7 rm”
It} 3 W 1 0 £113. 0

O

    
 

JMRE INSTITUTE

  
     
     
 
 

 

Dear hrs Stevens,

 
  
     

In reply to your letter of January 19th I should like
to state the following.

    
 

After the electric stunning the throat has to be cut crosswise

 
 

in order to get a perfect and quick bleeding out, for by sticking

 
 

behind the ear only a part of the arteries and venae are Opened.
Thus the bleeding will never be as perfect as when all blood—

O

vessels are Opened crossu se.

  
      
 

On page 44 of the symposium the correct procedure is

 
 

circumscribed for sheep, goats and bobcalves. (Sub b of my

,4

    
 

analysis).

   
  
 

M&y I point out that this way of applying the throat-

 
 

cut is imposed by law? such is stated in art. 10 paragraph 1

 
 

of the Decree of the hinister of Social Affairs and Public

        
 

health. (page 70 of the symposium).

    
 

As regards blood splashes, much is said on page 60,

    
 

line no. 11 from above of the svmposium and f rther until

9.

      
 

page 62. In particular I would like you to note my conclusion

     

on this page, that hemorrhages must be due to

      
      
 
 
  
  
 

a. an unsuitable apparatus (either transformer or tongs)
b. an incorrect administering of the current.

Some time aso I read a report from Dr. Phyllis Croft,
who arrived at the same conclusion: Blood splash is due to
delay in sticking. In other words, either when consciousness
is partly restored or when there is no effective electric
fit. I believe you have mad a similar reference in your
article on Humane slaughter in the Netherlands.

Elmmamnss

  




regard to Kr. Eshbaugh's statement (such is his

correct name), I feel he has misunderstood me. In fact W
gave “a m-~ and as many hog diseases as in America, Whose
diagnosis may give rise to confusion with the said hemorrhages.
However we never had any difficulty in identifying the cause
of the hemorrhages.

HOping this information might help to clarify things,
I remain dear Mrs. Stevens,

Yours sincerely,

«ff73.J. Houthuis.

 




ﬁx1ﬂrﬁ.ﬁ hlﬁm

13:11:11: 1:,- 11:31:»

31113“ H: :3,» 13 a: 311:, :33
3311:1331: 1:111: 31:
13133333133311, 11131111111

"’1'3‘3‘3 1‘1 33333-3333 1:34:33 11:: ' 3:131:11: 1:31:11, 33::

1 33:3”‘3333‘3‘3113 3.1111333“ 31:12:11 3.11: f 311:: 533131-1111 1 {13:11:11r3'133
33311141111: 11*: Q“ 4W3 '33:: 53W 9 3’3”“? 3-311 31:31:13’3331‘3 3-3 1 :1 331313; “’33:: 31311131111:
., 133;: 3111111133113 “31:11:33 333:3 31:13:. 3331:1313 3333:1133? :33 33:13:31.1: 1:1: 2:11:11 1* '3 :1 :1
3w ,,,,,,, 1.3121113 :13. 11:11:: 11311211: :1: 11313111111: 11:11: 1,, 11111 1111311111, 1:111:12. 11111
3333133131 21 :31 1:31:11 3:33:33 3:: 1111:: 1.1; 1:11: :13: 1:11:11: 111:1 1,111.1 1111 11
ﬁtiﬂﬂ 1:111; mlvfﬂuﬁ :JI313W tikﬁﬁ '3“ ﬁﬂyﬁﬁga {11111113111 111111, 1111111111? .111:
ﬁﬁﬁ’? “1:33:31 r333? 331.73% Mﬁﬁ‘ﬁ’g £111, @133 ﬁ:1?‘t 1:13.111)?“ Wﬂﬁ “(1% W133}? 1&11111 1111:1111 11111111111111.1111“
1;,113113111111‘3 133133 1:31:31 ‘31": 11:11:13, 3:13.11 3::mrm‘3 1:21: 1:11,: 13:11: 1:: 1111;111:312: m: 1111,
3 33333 313233 331331 33313331331113. 11.3 :13: 33: 131:: 31:33:31 313’ 3:3” 31:11 33:1; :21: 1: 1.1-2:: 3:11:11:
3333 33333333331 :33 3 ©1133 3*”:3‘111131111: 11:: 32:13:11111133111 31311 31:1: :31" :11: 1::
113111;”23’33" 333’ mmﬂﬁ ﬁg? 151 “E13 53km 1 1 $1141 1111111113111: :1 $111 111111.111“

131331333: 4'3” i3 11, 311:1: 3111113313 :11. 1: 1.1111111111111111 :31: 13313: 31:51. 11111111,
33331;: :3”; ﬁﬁaié‘ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬂ’ 1:311:11 1111;111:111 1211111111111 1111:1111 11:: 11:11.1 1111' 1111 11111111 1111111 1,11,11,11}
33111111131333.3333? ii? 33W3 b113,; :13 3133* 313 ”(3%. 1.161;“ 311:1 1111111111 111.1111 1.1 11 1:, “111 11 wgiﬁﬁﬂﬁ
WW 1311:1131: 3'13”" "“3333: 1:111:1331111: :1 111:1. 31:113. :11: 3:“:31113 121:1 3:11:31
1131331311113 31311113111. :31: 1311:1111: 31313311131: 3:: :3: 3:: 11:13 11:11; 1: . «11 11:: 113:3
3‘3”}3? 11333333 a111,: 33f 3131?: :13.) 2,» 13113313333333: 13:33:11: 1311111113111 1111111511; 1111 111.1 1111111111 11, 111111111
311131113333133311 .33; 3311113 33:: 11:11:17, 1111111113133“ 1:11 11:: :1 131:, 11111:: 1111111111. 1111
335 351333133 1*: 1113* 31311311131: 3:: 1: :13: :1: :1 3 111111111: 1 :31»

3311:2131“ :1 31:11: :11: 3‘3: 13111111111 1 1:13;” 1.1 2:11 1:31:13 3:133:1331113 '31:: 11:3 1
11:11:13.1:33121 Z 3:333

1‘ 1:313 313*11111

 




'v- #41222, c‘ mc'nwr
aim? 52532 4;:qu :

“'2 f
2 222.2222: 22
2:2 2 2222322222 , 2 2:222:22

2‘- MT. 4: 3; g “5) ,’
29.22., 2:22.22: 242.2,, 2:22; «32:2 2225222 2,

-\

2222222 222222222 222

,h {g .
$322222 222 2“.“2 22 2: :22

291222222222. 12,133

2., 23’ 222:” 22 Eiﬁ’l‘t 32:3» 255? 5

2222:» m2 .2222 22212.2 .3 222% M22 222.22 22
2:, 222222222": 2W2 22222 m
”22:22:21,422, 22222 2'2 22:22 211.22 :2 2222222222222

k«34.,
‘2 m

’2- 22 22 2.222; 2222 32:12 222222 222322

”up,

A

2'22?” 2.2.. '2»; _’ ' . ,2 » . 293‘ _‘ , ,5, ‘ g “.3
2,222.22 22:; 22222222222, 3., 2 22:

2322.2
3:

~32; @‘ﬁﬂm 2'32.”

22.222 22.22223 2222;332:222”,

an?“ "n-M. saws.

.2 “’3,
my. 752% 73W; *5 :22: 32+ 2», «a F”:
“x? 1‘ "‘ ‘ ’.
g,“ 2”) am» if

:23 w

2122;222:2222?“ 22222,

:Wﬁe’ih $33 ”225 3’3.” 3

‘22»:
£2?“
$=M§x

£32312,

3

:3” ”a” W“ W’f: “'3’

2222222

22:2
.22 2‘2

 




“1

“an «a met-mm, H'm

222. 2:322:22; 2222:2222:
- 12*?! 21.22222“ “Er 21':th
.‘ 2: 22-2; :22 EEEEE“EEEEEEE
j? 222:2{3 ‘2‘ 2224.. E2“ '11“ 2:222
E EEEQ“2

2 21" a 2‘???" if” ’

$222
E2222 EE2222 EEEEE 222E222: E222 :2 EEEOEE 22E “*2 2 EELEE 22 I 222.22%
222 22 E22 22222222222: 2222222222222 222 EE22 222222222222 2222222222222: 2222 222222 22:32:22:
EEK“. 122225.222 EEEEEE, EEEMEEEEE‘ @E‘TE E“ “222.2222 ElmaghEmEmEEE 22E“
Egt 222223222: 22222222122232 2 222222222222 22223 EEm E E222 2.2 222222 22:22 2222;, 2222 2222»
22222 E2252 E2222: 22 E2222 222222’2 2 22 222222 E22 2422222122222“ .. 222' E222 22122-2 :222E
" 22:22 2212222 2222 };EEEEEE’E‘ E2222 22222.

EnEE EEEE. EEEEEEE ‘ E22 EEEEEEEEE: 2222-2-22
32:32. ilﬁt fﬁw‘? ”If”?

whit a :9.

1222 222222 2222 EEEEEEEEEE E33,?“ 122E 2222' EEEE 22.2
2222222222; 22222 £22 22222 2222222222: , E 2.
22222222 23E“?

“:2? 2.

.E‘E-"v “
2.2:.

2.2 2

E22222 222 3222:2222
MEWEEEEE 222 22222 22:22

 




The Connaught Hotel,
Grosveno, 7070. Carlos Place,

Chataigne,Audley, London. London, W 1.

"E (7: r :2;

“aw-n- 4...“,
mm» “MN.“
,w u

H‘“

‘\ X'V a.
r” 1 ET»K“"‘Z‘N>:‘YMJC;;FI-.(“j—p» ..
'- s, IQ- ._., . ., V ‘
~ 9 v
. 1'5 ”,3 .,
‘~ ‘ ...:_ A \x

 




.- 1.4-
’ CJL‘ l‘..-‘

FQMCVLC 51v wwu LWAW L. t/W " tgwbt {kl . , , .
the $8.12 ML ' ' ' 7 ‘ {VH'V’LW .. 63.1 .31...sz fwmv A < I . ’ - 36.) ‘7; Wake“ LJ; , MU:
my? M anQ/ W' ' I I g , i4, 1! L734 1““,34 W‘W’n MK €54; VWLPK lye/ti ISL

WWW“? w   , . ,LMLeLLLM...

15 I I " : / « ‘W*UWK/VW~ JWhvﬂLi LAW" ‘64., 7 LL £2) ﬂu
. “fﬁMW MILL ‘ ”LL41; , ku. LBMW

1.2.0 WW to 2&3th ti...

gm LL. “Lyra/1%.

. ..,_ .. ‘r .\ - . , . 4 0 k ,/-‘
5.

3W 5‘8 A VFW 7/3“ 91 Q" Wi‘ {93¢pr M MiG/Le/LCLA 3.2 LLLLWJW ”W

Cw {ow/HE» Gun
1 Lgmﬂ g}

 /4;~@1 iw.L
,r. E; “M

 




 

 

ED. 90 500 8-‘55

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

z 0 i

{2.3

m V a;

11‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

V1

Dr. M. J. J. HOUTHUIS

DIRECTEUR

OPENBAAR SLACHTHUIS
EN VEEMARKT
R O T T EER D A M

ROTTERDAM,
BOEZEMSTRAAT 34

TELEFOON 11 72 20

 

 




.‘l
q-«x 30 Km

W
71ml .b (an): id“.

r“ f?

,

a
. """':v!"‘-’ {Mp
.< NJ” ‘,»' ,.

«n5»

I»; \. ﬂ “'4. -,\,

. f?
a t“? “3

.1 My

5M I,”
3 1- d“, i

L

. ‘ t
i v m; a". "a?
. 3 N»

n .:L nil“;

.
ﬁsz‘?” '1 r '
CHM; m. u .

,5. '3:

, :uﬁ' an;

3

wh‘
‘9

a “\w u

i-

‘ 3;
hm“

* 5335315

.rn

V 471:“;

wimpy, 0'.
Il‘n

«mfrwﬁag,

.-
3.
’9
hi.

.' Iv -.

A. 5‘. .n
.u Mama.

it
"V" “"‘5 “T;

" mnwh

«I
’ E
we

- .A._ m“.
we?»

33:13.33? {35, 1:”?th

- gm” '4""‘?'i"‘ c5
5:. My .3 1 v ~ 7%

3377.;{1 ﬂ

. 5 1,.»
{y} :13 tilt

all-w -

“555$

.r“ wtanﬁiv 'h

”.7" ">1”
r " A z

‘5' .
. 5% «3:99
u‘o.

"9
’)

y!" jug.
L ‘

.3. L.

 




" .‘k 2 .. “g .3,
11‘1”: ”(It-”€13;

E
"“0“”er TEE t
‘Roﬁtérdam. E

w .m, .. ,'7,_ J 2‘,
JJJE LJu Em JthiJ4

2;; J3 sou EJJJ, E‘EJVJ 10mg JJJJ
'i’J. erJJEJc 3n :J Jperatian 0f yJJr :JJJ”
JJJJEEJJJJJJJe‘ﬂ;EJEEJEJJJJE JJ: ye. t0
ha in he Jana €~J J few JJyJJ J rJJ JJJE J
Lime JJ JIJJWJW E0, J" Jj/tj it; J J3 J» the
uJJ J? thJ Elthr JtJnning JJJJIJEJJ DJ
NJWJJEJJ EEEE‘JJ.EJVJJJJJ 9L J*t wtié JVJ r
JJJld ,J J JOJJJJiJJt fOE yJJJ

. ‘CJJEJ EJE JJ EJ w JET
thJ JEJJJ v 7, 'J JEJJ l JEJJEJ JJJJ,[
iJ JJula be much apprJCtheJ.

(J , *3 - ,
JEWEJJJJ,

EEEE'RQEeE SEJVJJJ , -
AEJJJ‘ JJliJrJ Zthituteg
New $03k}

 




Dr. M.J.J. HOUTHUIS.
Director of the Public Slaughterhouse.

52 BOEZEMSTRAAT.
ROTTVRDAM.

 

“. 4;. '- "QM '- M
1 31 ...» m gh ..

American

A ,. -5“... Wm... “*M W a.- «VWW

and ﬁne

The hmmcur

Frcducticn 0f
Micteccfao

.f] ‘1 -/ 95 f‘ - ,A\ -‘~« .I - A q ~| ‘A t
{“139 jg: .1. 3-3%., QTPOK 8131.011

1' 1’ ‘ij 4;} 1""; If}; g. M!" E» T: «' E'M’U'lé? Y“ 8

E - 9 4'- 3,471,! sh 3‘. ,r :1 K >- I {‘ifué-{x “,E ., .E. «i. a)» I. ri‘) i a Q‘

V>ﬂ3 [Lnﬁiﬁenf Merkei luccrpcratimn

“ . 7 _w. f v.“ » w
«.5 add“? ,1, 1.7.1 4 v 113 UV? Y Li- 7?. H. 1

>3 bruecx geszatamt Froduction Control Mam&ger
1’ a. 1363 d F «’> «11, "1. "£36.11, {1 a "t me Hi .. A HMO UR &
COMPANY. Cﬁicagog Illinois,

Dre A.R. Miller wrote down in our guestwbook:
"renew an enjoyable acquaintance under the nicest circumm
stancee", and I could BhOW the Chief of the Meatminepectﬁcmm
branch of the U.S.A. how we in Rotterdam are making ace cf
the electric stunning for all animale, and how our meatinapccw
tors are doing their work.

 




x 4t
I
1 ;

I'VE‘

r.“_.’;.....h‘.m-‘-

.

 

 

~. .w-m »~.-.-. ”a..." man—N“ ,— c...- A «3-, H...“

.._~-...

..

__
W
w
a
w.
w
.
a
a.

v

4

.4. . .....,,...v,..-

“.1. . U

 




.ne

Vw’V Mew .— -.,...,

3

o

1VF

. —-1 v.‘ »-.n-'.-v.~ \ .

3‘

‘I‘9 C:(
).Vk.4*

.m......._u - .
(
(:1,

F3

‘.

‘Ik.

1‘ m (1’

t

.C“‘
from
vame

g ’ f .1 E:
s

\rI‘

[“

r
L.

eat t}1€

werir
(‘t
hununl beirgg.

I
L

h .
artinm:

(\4
eep

8
C arm

An
p
k

‘ £,.

5
to

,..‘
\

 




>

. ; kw:..1..:».¥531§¢2.i!.,:{

.
k.
‘ .
a‘ill’l. 15$: ‘- ..v.fl.: :II" III .2 4
) ,
\ . ,
, A
f._ A . .
S... sHial. .1. .2 ‘2 - .123 4. .
4 4 1 a . . .

“(A 0K

2 ‘(r
, _
f. /

bin-{’11. Jig. tall «tilt-iii!

3

ail-his! rill-:13».
.51. ‘ , . .
.3 r .x ,

iii
4 ~ 3
~ _. r,.

31

. 5 . ‘1: [fin .1)! .'I!.0.il(ig)t
. . : » J... .V I .\
k. . a , 11‘
L}: . . Slniatiliiii .1229!

4. " 4.1x
. + , A, ;
a: .
{.lt-ILE’...‘ . illu‘lt‘tll

. ,

. y x .r:
31.233235
.4: z x A‘ H

k 1

 

‘nll. .10! ‘nlliul 2|! 1| l||av| I!
D . \ a. 1., A. .
,9. v

 




 

 

 

 

 

I. !l . 3.15.322, .1! «till-l...

.4

r. . :4 . \
-5.-. .i ,ﬁsé
.9. .r . . , ,. ,.
.2, w. H

.

.. 99:-..

Sal-V. I... . E: 21.3.2.1: $.25:
J...

\2. :1. 7.1.35.5... ..

 

c 3-3.;.211‘..x..l..t:.:.. .
l , J. .

.

..5|r£... r. ..........l.!.. 1 ,.
a... a .
.2 .53... a... .. ...ll.:x.1? 5.19:3.

( 4 . .
- 11...)...22 . 5.2- .
J
t . (

.... . .
5.2...- . .3...:11:.1...\. .. 11...?

 

. .
.l.’ (o3..iz ; v. .1... I:
A
~
. s
iv 1;. .l.
A

.. 6.. it. z.

:2! .\ t .2 1.12....

.

...-.:....z...%i..|.. 5. .1... 5..
. I
a: . .
. ............o.............{. p .
« . . . .
...JJ..4\
.. . .. .._, rkuc v.

f

Ll] at..~l..}1l.vu. $1511.... 3! .11. 1.. {:ﬁe C. t 4. i
.. . _
S i! is... 31...... f

.w‘.
n. l!

 




 

 




j .

, r' a
.. . A. .A. 0 4 ’5

--r-—~ v-»- “a mumm- n-.. "~m-

n ‘ .

~w 4.. - . u.u..~u......._ uw‘

 




 

 
 

 

 
 

. . , a ,
If \ f . I. , L 4 III 7L 47L
A ~ L \‘I/ II .V J \.
L: z I A I. x I I . . m iI V I
“ I . 4 ‘II J

. . . I I fI 4.,» II I IVV Ti .5 Ga
W I ~ ,I ,N v A . I , : I I _ . I‘ (A It;

.I , III II V: I I. I 4k, . II .4. I L. m

I A II . V . _ . 4y ..I .v I. 5v I a I x . . II . IL
I I I .r . ,3, - .1. I. , . . . I AC .Tx :1 .
.I) .III. r If 5.14 IVX \ I II
.TII 2) .1) «II. \m. 3. II I

. .14, If. I a . .vi.

 

I

I

l
r"
I

\
,7/

I)

 
 

I
I
.’~

 

 

 

 

I\ I .L
II I ii I. I I . .I II . .
» . . I4. I ~ I In kIL ‘II rk
. I . It .\ 4 I Tl
I . I . I I« I V/ I I
. . I I. I \ y I I I II I . I J ;
'IIL I l I I » \' 1 _ l {v
.u A . . I I I A
I . Iva .
. . n I ‘4
.v I \ I. r . I I. I I A, r ., VIII
I a I u
A I I rI. . I I. PI.»
I I1 Wu . o I I . I III .‘ I K .
i w I 4
I 4 l r\ .I—\
I Iv. . I II I . .
. . . . . y . _ I x I I
I I . . , ,I, . . 3.. I I
I . I . . I
I.' ' r I 4 I I A
I I ~ vV, \ ‘ I .
‘ I I I
I A I . III. I I I ..
t I I I I . .
It . . I I II}:
I _ I I I a V r ‘l I
x I . I .
I I . I .fi .. . y .
4" . I . I I v
I I I
\ I If 1. I . I If —
.9 . I I.I
I g . r .I. T I £II.
_
rr‘ I; r 4 I I I. I II III
« r .
I . . I ~ I . VII
1 I . I I Y . IA _
u‘. .Ir
7 I A A
I . .
. I;
I I v I. .V J
, A A I '\
I. (I . . . . II
I,\ I I L\
I I. . .
1 II \ I
4 I I
I h 0 V 1
7 I I /
_ u
v 1 O J
1' I I I 4 . V
.1
. . e i
Y I .
I y 2L 9., .I Yk. .I L”
I — \ . ~
.I I I \ I. I I
I I I \
I I I. I I. I r I.
7) I; I- I
/
. . . .I I I... I A .
Q . I 4 I
. . I . Iva 10A
4, “I .I \
I u I ‘I .1. I?)

V t _
v 4 I V..x
. . . . I *
n I _ I I A
I .. J.
A u u I r .
s \ . l I I N .
. I, I _ . I l u I w, A
I . . . v ..
A I, N ~
. . ,. I .

V II. v I I a \
I u I ‘

. I If y

I I _ . . \ I ,

I w a
, I I . I ..r .

I v I. . I ,I/
a 9 I I.
. .I . I I 1. .. L
1 .. , .

.. . I I. I I

I I 4 I ,, I L I

. I . . .IKI .1.

4 I In
' M I 4 1/ \ ‘0 It, ’ A.
I v V .

. II. II . I \

 




 

 




 

 

 

 




11's.... 1- .

~_.1 L

‘4

wsfx 1‘

 




 




 




. Ci

 

‘A,
I
\
ﬂ ,
.
.
. . .
f. v .
.

 
 

 
 

 

(
u 1 ‘
k
9. ‘ V ;
u . V: , . i .
V \. . ~ , ,
.. . r. _ .. .. « q » , \ . , r L
.:y k t . f ‘ .

. 1 . .— . ~ I — 1
. . p » \ A ‘J
r p 4‘ (A ' .

L I . , x ., . . r
r w A , x, n v
| . u
. ‘ . . - ‘ r , .
. .. ‘ v
. .
A .
. ‘
. r
u , y .
z . .. , :
.
w
. , f“
r ,
ﬂ
. .
r
r

 




 




7
A

 




 




 




 




T“)
T: ! ff
1’

f‘ ,2: (”if
.L. ‘. I \J -
“/7 .3 T.“
./ A-AL‘ 4L
Armr’
,3 ,3 ..
L: L. :4
" L13 Y")
‘K/V .LL
'6
;.LL

.1.

. 1.1
w. \
,9;

I10 {I

,.
I
[:1

1+

x ( V
L)
.J L.) O

‘

1
LIX J. [111.115

1.

 

QlOI‘

'Y‘o
J.
+
{I

 

 

‘w vmu nun—.3 .w—unvw -. mm.

(

C:
¢k4
O

\

1

Y
.L
L
1 u n

V
J,

 

J, 7"
L;

“(3. £3

"a
1.1."

'3

3’
m ~|x\‘-~m— : an .nl’ cum-- uncn’mn W/‘n-‘Vv ’wa was. u. m

.n~~~u~e ~~ .. {Jar-vi,“
L
> ,.
L. A. ‘»
.

\y‘ﬂ

a] “ti.

 

.r.»- I

k .

'3.

k /
ru- mun-w“,

.V
.m.‘
1/ _
Mt;
“I‘m-nu»?

" a ' w
{An S"
. ' 4

:0 0 “r
C. If

—"1

l‘rw n. a:
’ ' a /
j u ~... .- -
arm m‘wﬂrvnm-"I—m‘ﬂ
, .

I

{(1

_. _ J

 

u- inn-anon 1M“‘ur~~m~— nv u-‘lv w- «mu-.4 anion -w
’C

4.“ f

. ‘\

k,/ N...
--....

 

 

l

1
k.

1'“ I,

mm: van—on“ nun-4
(w “
k.) .1.

J
‘l!(‘
‘4’;

J

r
x,
(“

Pig 1"
“11.1

K) k-
I" ‘

C

‘
i

.4,
C :51“
"r n

l

r- “n
O ‘ %~
1.

\,
\

 

‘
\A.

 

 

 

 

 

,. '1.

muw'ﬁy—n.wu. .wu n‘vu—vm “w- ur.-~" . . -v

 

a.
1.»

 

 

rat'n- ~ mm 'x -m

A71

’,7 . (1.:
72.1 L ‘1.»
. (W
.J. .
1 1A, «A '*
L

my:

-mq .1‘:5-

 

is“

 

 

 

A-

l

I,“ “
h 1*.

b
nnq'w‘ .
x
u
4-.
a.
i

)
.L.
w- I \I‘dl “mm-1:1 1 man
('\
.

r? ‘V
- ..»‘ “,
1

-r“ r. ~ra «ac-n «nun-mm

m

, ' N
Lyiag‘u “Tu-nu“.

.11

"a (31

1!, L) ,

 




I ,.,

W
m
m
.
m.

w I‘D-A *1 “p “.1:

 




I” " \a
1: 110"“? :11 {.3111 :1. “$11.11.: 33331..“13
(13:: 130121021 :1..J..1. 110111112213,: Director of the. 11.112211123351111. War—.1010: Hatterdam)

 

4:: 112-1111. 311.111.21.901: 12.12221. .1 31.11.3191, 1:221: 3.1.2.1 1 £12011. 1:12:11 1211.113; start 2221.13.12 .1: {13:11.11
(21:12:11.1..111 13:13:11: 1:111: 11:11.1. .1. 3.22111 31111111121...

:1. 3.11:: 11:22:: 1.1:: 1131:1121: 3111111231: 11111 8111111112111 13:11:21.1. 31.1.13. 11:25:}...12111101‘: as: a 111:..1u
teem 1121111111 1211111211111; (3. :13 1.1: 3:313 V1311 :3) 11211111111 1:: 3111112211: $11.12;... 1:111. (31:11 3.11 111301111);

1:. 31:11.1. 1:.- :2 .1, affarrmﬁg :1. lawn-13111111121913 :21 1112111212: 111:” 11:12:11» 7£3 V0111; 1:1: mm t3.- 21:11:11.1:
1.11:: 3211:1111 12.112.11.211: 31.21112111g 1011: 111111113:

. 3211;111:1113: 21.11: 1:211 11113.33" 1:111:21: :12°.922:aa1£1 1137 111.1111: 1:: 11:11.1. g. 1.511341 1:21:11: trial
1:22:11; 1111121111 11:11.1 1212111111131: 111111113111: 11111111121111.1111: , 21:11:11.1: 21.212. 11:: 1111 11111111112111.3113. :12-
:1111212112113. :::::::::11. 1112.1. 111111.112: 2111211 121121111111: 111111211111 1.1 11.111: 12:21:. .111: 11112111111111: 1.: ..
112.111.1111: 1:: 1111111112111: 9..- 1111.2 121.11 2.111131121111211. 1:21 :11? (21": 1111111111136. 111.12 1. 1:: 1:13. '11:: :r-imm1ial
11111112121131: an 1.1-1. 1111 112211.111 112 1:12:12. 113.111.11.121: 11111111111311: 11111111122111 1:12 21.21.21 r1111; 11.1: :11:
2.11211: "21.1 11:1 11.11 11:11:11 12.11 1111113111111 11311:: :11”: :2. 11.11.2112: gran: 2: 1: ”1:21 1:11:11. as? 1311.: 11mm]. 81113
31111111111112: 1:11 21211:: 111.21. :1: 13.111113111311211 , 21.122 111111111 111111112: 1:79 1112:1111 1.1:: . » 111:3. 1111:1163:

12:: 1:11.11 11:11:. ‘11:. 1111.23.11: 21:31:12: 12211111211111.1111: «1 121:: 1:11:12. 11211111111: 1111111112111 11:2 1.12:1 1:121:11.
:11111ﬁzxw1’: 11:13 11112111. 1111:.

3.12. 11:11:11.: “1.2.1121 11:21:11: 11111211111111: 11:13:11.1: 1112. 11:11 mnﬂwiw :11.“ 11111111110111.1111112321 11:12:: 1a: 11:1.“
13.111111111111112 :1: 1111.111: 2121:1311: in 1:11.: 1:: 1.1:: 11:13.1 11:11,: 11.11:: 111111.121“ .12: 12121:: 1.11.: :1.” 12111111111115.
1. 1111.13.12 1: 111: 1:11.122 11111:: 11:12:21 11:12. 12:1 13:11.1: 1:111:21 111’ 11.211111111211111 :11: 1:11:11. 1311:1112. 1:11:13. 1...; 21.111211211111111 ‘
1.1. 12:: 31:13.12 :12- 1111121111111 (:3 1.1.1::- 121112111111122‘: 13:11:21.: 1:111 12111111. 12:11:. 35111.: 1111111111.. 11:11 12.11::
13:13:11.1: 1113;111:1123 :2 1.1111111111113111.

3321.: 1.1111111: 1:111:11: 11.1 1: 11111113111111: 1111112 1121113111 211111111 12111111111, :1: 114:... 2121.12.11: 118111-cia‘11y
11111112121111.1121 21:: 1.11:1 321.112.1931" 121:: 91111113111111 111211. 11311113111151: 12:1? 11311112111111: 11121181111131: 1.:
111111111: 19111111111311. :1911111111, 111.121. 2121.21.11 11111111121 21.11 11112111131111.1331 1111233311131: .1111 21:11:12.

- 11.112121111111211: .. 1 .1... 1111 121.112.321.111: 13:11:11112 1:: 1111111111121: 111:2 1:1: inf: 2: .1: 1:11: 1111:1322:
1212211112.: .111 11/1211” 12.12:: 1.111.122; :11111111211111: 11:11:111111. 12111-».-11131 11111111111112.1123. '
1113.3211111111111 1:: 1.1.2.11. 1: 1.1.3:. 1:121:21 1111111121111 2.111111..-::1.11.11:13.J {:11 {1:11:11} , fret-1111:1133: 11:11:12. 31:11:21
:11: .112: .111112111111. :1.» 1.1.3121: :1 1:11:21: 11.112111211221111 11:11.: 21.31.111.111: 1:1; ’11:: a 11:11: 11111211: shinning...
11111111112111. 1121:1121 1111;111:1211111, 112:: 1:11:21 1:: 11111.11: 111.11., 1.11111: 11:11:11.3. 1:111: , .1111: 111.1: 21m
1.21.11: 1:13 21:12:11.1: 2111:1121. 11:12.11: 1.1.: 11. 1.111.121.1111: 1121:1111 1.: 1:1: 13:11.21: . 1311:: 112.111. 121.2121 0:3
11.22.1121, 1:11.: 121111.111: :1: 12.12:: 11:11:: 1.11:: 1111:1111: 12:: 11:11:31. 1171112121.... 1213 12:11:11: 12:12:11,213. .11:
faw:.:tl11 1.31., 2:11:11: 1. 1: 11133.11. 2.1.1.111: $111111: 111.33.111.11 11121233111. 11111:: and 1:111 31.11. Tim
1:11:11: 1211:: 11111231212211.1111: 11112112111 1:112:11 1.12.2 3.11.12}: 1.111111- ‘12.111 matter“ 111.11: 1:. gum}. 2:12:13.
211111121112. :11: .31111111, 11:21: 11:21:21.1: 211111. 11111111111121”: 11111212211111: will be: aafeegmuﬁad.

t

 

mm.- .., .IW“

11:41:11.. 1111.11.11.11: .1111: 1111;; . .: :2...

$1113.11. 31.11.111.11: 11.11.111.11: 11.11.11- 21.11 121:: 1131;112:1111 11:12 ::1111..1.n:: 111:: aback-11:11:: 2:113... "311:: 21:11:81,111:

' ” ' :11 1.11:1 121.111.11.111: 111.2. 11:11:11.1: 1:11: 212.11 121:: 12:11:12., 1:311:21. 1:12:11: 21:11:: 1321121111111. 1.21:: 31113.22: 112111111331
131:: 11:21:11.. 11121111111122.1221. 3. 11111121121. ‘41:: 3. 1:16:11: 1:11.: 11 11.1.3.3, 1.11:1.» waﬁential .11: :1: g:
.1111: 11:12.: -1111: 3.12% 21:11: 3Q .11.:‘1smwe. 131‘ 11:11:11.9 1.12:: 111311111133: 3:112:11: 1.1:: 121:: 2111;111:1113 pm
3:11:11: :11 1:11.21 1.111 12.1: 1121.114 1:: 1.12:: 121111111131 11.221131141111113.-
€11: 11:11. 11:11:11; 1.1:. 1111 11191111111112.2121. 1:11: 11:11.- 1.:: 1111:1112 21.1: 3121211211211. a: 1:111: grim 11:1: ill-v
1.1211111111111121; 1.1:” 1:111: 1111111111,. 1111:: 1:11: 1:12.: 1111:: 2m 3.1;, 1:12:11. 21.1: 11:1. 11:11.: ghMMQe-uhmmm,
1111:1111 (11:22:13.1: 1:21.11: 1:11.112: 13.11.1311 11:11:11: 61111111111111.1133)", ~ 11:21.11. elac-tmahmz‘lwsymem 33.11.1313
61:21:11: as: 1.1131111213111132111: mmawmmwamm 11:21.1.“ 115.12»; 31:11:13 :13? 112.121.1111..-
131:: :11112121 12111:: 2:11 11:31:12.211311 11:21:21: 1212:1111. 1:21: 12:11: la:...:::.1: 1.1.3:. 1.: 111-12.» 11:21.1. aware 021‘
21:11:: 11:11:... 11:11:12. 1:111:11 111.111 11:11:11: 11.111221111121123, 11111112211 2:11:11; :1; 11111111111 quantity 013
11111111112121.1113. 111111121. 2’21 2.1:: warm 11.11.311.113 “1.111121121212211 21:11:: 1211:2121, uncanmimamw 1111111212.»: 11.111112
.12 1:11-21:21: 12:: 1112111111112. :1- 1M111113 11:19:21.1: 1:21:11. :11: 11111111111111, 21:12:21 -1: 1.111.113.1311: 111.11.111.11:
11.11112121211 a... 11.111114: 12:11:11.6: 111: mmwm‘ly :21: 1111311131111 11:! 3.1111.

 




399.3 991399

‘2‘

33199 19 993111939 3.99 9199 99939999131 931993-1913 11111.3 17:13:31 91:11:31 9 391191.911, 111193
3191.9 993993391 9991rgy 9999399 3999999 399 99939, 999199 1 999999 to 1 999999

‘999 9 9913 9999939 3999.290 39 399 1993~9991 T99 9999 999933399 ..9999939w 399

91131.11. 3911.13 93' 33:19 9199391211399 3199 39 99 91111 999913.

3399 3:319 1“ 9111913. 9113111919. 9931“ 3219 9319931913 9211.3 with 911931 ‘91 391.119.3119 313193 11933.9
91311.3 113939113 99, 3319 93.993939 99.93993 13119391 3191.3 9 9999913. 39 9119 91199913 111-
99991 9119933913 33193 33.1.9 9199319913911 3:19 9939‘ 3.1.1.3 9191‘ 939 1» 3319 11939113393 9999a
999939" 3999999 399 99939 99999 3999.3139 259 9933~999. 3 9999391 93999399
99999931193 9 9999911933 93.911913993991991 .1191 ~11 3.37139 939921.99 91399 3.39 1‘19“3‘ 31:1 :3 319
91111911111931.1111 99919111913119 ‘9. 939119 ~— 1199 9991‘; 139931119. 191‘ 9.1999, 11311:: 91‘ 9 319399
1331999913 ‘93 .39 39.99 99 331931“ 319931;. 1331.19 999993.19"? 1911191191“ 3119.3 91:19 91:1.“ 3111919
999 93.91.11 91399913 1339993137 9339121 3.19 9.1111199“ 99 9 319911 9113. 9‘1 ‘3‘ 1131911 919999939199999
9999939 339933.

1136333 33333 9‘12 '1: 93 1919123 39319 9331333393313. 331.31" 3319 3133333454 “1‘3 351513319“ 6‘13 31.11 931391919.
"-3171 <19 9111 3‘19 93199999391113 9 319311;: 99‘1“ 331“ 1111111 ‘39 311.11.11.99 .9... 3.9 1111 91.1911 11:19.3 191119
3319 91. 9:19:13 :39 3319393: 31139913119913 13.12.111.91“ 3. 91191111113 «1.— 917.1919 1.9 93‘ 1.319 1‘1 9999.393931-
93’ 9. 11111211199 9933119311993 9.1; 3319 9331. 9311191199 111. 1.19 999993193. 9111119.; 1.3 1:1-31.111 33:19
3111:1939 9511111111 31-1 23133 39 313333 9139» 111:1. 319911999, 91191.1 31911 9 1.111 3219‘

91911991199 :19, 9 3199133119 99933:, 911, 3319 113 9311113 9.49 331‘: 11199911111911.9991. 9913 93113319

99331931 191111 1.991133, 99.319 .1111 933111.11 133.91.19199931 '19, 1991139“ 1.11 ‘9“: 1.191, ~ .
11191141939 93. 99 .9319 .13 3.9999 91.3139 .1. 993931 91199 '3 .1 9.9 "3:13. 91113 1311:1931. 11113 3‘91:
31191911 91111911119311.9111. ' '

‘ .33; :39 3‘99 331999 11999999, 39191. 3319 91.1.21? 99191 9.3 93993919 93319.11 .199?
3319 91:19 3:19 3132:3991 9: 1.99911 11999.99 91: 9311:1113 ‘39 392339 9913 91.1.1- ..99 :1“ 31993 .1911. (13:3 .
319 33 99999139) 39 711111 9911111113, 39 911911139 113.999 119939119119 3.9. 111911999 '

331.9 [1913119993 39 1.9911119 9 99931193 1199911 939119991111 1191.3 3111119313321 112 g,

19 9391199,. 9113199.. .1

‘ 39 9913931 39 1119.39“ 911.9111 33913 33111 1199999913; 993911339“? 91“. 999.31“ 1.9 9113.119

9.112111135999133, 91.1 91.1 3191‘ 3:99 39 3.19 3991399993 311 31-1.1 11.113-939.19 133991.133.

3319 99111111911 9199 39 999 319 33., 1.31.93. 1.91111 939913.131 193 3.91:". 911119993 999 1193

13119991113 3193.99 61'.“ 99.13.999.11, 3‘99 1:13.11 111193 .19 3191‘» 19.3.3 ‘99 91 1121:1993 9.11.9999 33193

39911339939113 19199999391199.9911 39999 11999. 9193311 1.113 11119991191113 39

3197119 3111 1 9199311191 9999993913 9333111 9 1191199939991. 1119111111119 99 91 111.191.9111 991 1.9.3 31911

31319 9919:1993; 993993391 911111199 239 319.1111“ 91311139393919.1131. I313 111 3191111 99113399139

1.1999912337113193 9. 91133393911329 1391.9 99999 31.99 111991.. 99 391:3 3.3.93.3 9.9 9:199 9.9 3319 3199

9331111393199 339 91-913 39119 9193119 3319 91:23. 93“ 931.111.119.119. ‘
311“ -- 3399 931999 1199313911913 1311119191 :33: 9.3-" 9 9999 33111911111199.1199 15.39.99; 1399}

911..- 9 91:9 1913.91.11: 931.1199 99 9.991913331911919 9.9 119911 113.9 331.111 3.119 91:13 93‘ 93993939

93.191.11.13 1;: 3199 319119 99999911191193, .2311 99:9 9999 19.33.11.111 91 111.3 111139 93999 331.39.

339 991.1113. 3.3.119 39 99393:. 9113:. 3‘ 3193‘. 119.93. 3199 9999 99.39 9319113. 91199911312191. 91931193

3311999 in; 311199 9913 39 99699 ‘39 99931121113 99:; 3'331-31‘1‘9‘31‘199‘3 9.1 1.31111 11111311911, 99933.99

99993139 ‘39 ~' % 9 9331911 33199 9933339, 3.319 9911111 99‘ 3319 391931.13 99119991931999

9999913399 3319 391999919 9119233911 911.9933 33'“ 1:11. 993993.91. 9.119119“; :19 91113111211 39

911911993 3319 999923.199 93993399 31191133, :39 991.111 31319 93993999319911. 993999 39

3191.93; 999139113.

119 319179 33191.11 ‘33 33". 9139199939 39 911931939 39111 9391.119; 139391.191 19911993933999
119119913399 3.39 93119911111 1199999311999, 9.9 3333991193 9999‘ 911931.991. 991:1 1199133 91:13.9.
{3111191192319 99 9.1.9 999‘ 931113 339 313 999111.113 39 1319 393399311“ 1‘11 111139 9:11.91
1193; 3‘19 , .111 9991313911 91111 91‘“ 111.131 ‘1‘ 91.113 .1939 .19 339 11199311111933.1111

’ :13 31:11:13 1319 9999933911 “1129191111119 '1 i319 119119 119.119 39 3:19 9911939993913 39
91.1931 9. 19111999,’ 113193 191119 91.1.91 ‘11“, - 99913 9993111193. 39 9991111913. 39 99113713993179.1111
119:9 311:1 111 11991999111913.1111 3111999933119. ‘

313111 93999919139399 9...; 1.193. 11933.. .3119 9399399131119 931 3319 93.119199 3.11919 91115.3.» 999
“L .331 331% by 131.333.13.33, ”3'13 9.999999 9% '33th 3333.133 ‘ wréﬁn‘t {3099 111012;, 3333315333
“6311911191 319 399311 3:11.13 339319 9119‘ 9.3.9111“ 3319 911113999 9.3" 3:319 313119._' 1.1311, ‘99
3‘ 9 531 3:11.. 99911 11999911931 911119119 31119 9. 99. 9 .119 39 911111111 9 1119 11 1‘19“ ‘ 3‘. 9:3”
113.1 91‘: 3319 3999933391191 9993939999 9991 ' .1.» .39 9‘ 99 1.931119 91.999 11‘ 1‘1 11931.99

 




@011. :11 3111 1111212112; 11:13:11.1. Fart: 1111111111: 1313.1 1111.111 “ta observe 13.113 1. .1:- 51111111111133; 131311111111
31111 2111 1911.111... :31: 111111221 1111:: 2211-32.. 1.31 13.1111- :11 11:1" 11. 11111312111111: 1:3 1111::11, 1131111161 £13111 11.3111
311) 31.111111 1.111111 111.111....11111112.‘ 1:111 1.1111; 1311101111: :1 1:31: :21 1.11.1113 112’ 113111. 11:11:12. 111111.111) 2113:1111
21,50 (lama- "3.2.1.11 1111111111» 111111111 3.222: {”1113 .- ....1:1 1.1111111111111391‘1131111911111311 13:11: fall 2.2111921.
033111111 :11: 111-1112 3111 «12:13.11 to 11:11-11:72 1111 we?” 112’ {100 11111-111112. 11%. 111.1 13111111111111
11111111111161: 112‘ 3.2323 3.1111111... 1131111 11:11. a 111111.111 1.11. “'3" 271111.11 1.12:. 1.111 1111.111; 210133.31
3:111 11111713011111.1112.

3.11.2.1: 1.11 1122.1 3: 112131 3.1112113112111111. 1111111“: 1.131 1113.113. 211 1131 11.111.112.12 1: 1.11 '11-‘11: 111113 1112* 3.00 -
2120 1» 3-00 - 21012) «- 2200 11111 1100 Watt-$111. 2:31:11: :22; will ha 13.11913, 22.1 3111:1111 2‘13 $11311.

3121 112131111 2:111 3111111121131 £13.11: 1111111111111. 1:11 12.13.111.111 11:31:11 121111 111311111171 111 6 2111:1111:
111.1121 11 1111113111111 11.1“ 30213 22113 2111., 2.11.11; 1:311 11211.1 3." :11: 11111 11111111111112.1111 11.. ad;:1111t.1113;
11.11 "3111111. 1:111 3111- 291.1111 02.111111111211121 111.22 111113: 1.11:1 1111:0211111 (3.111111112111132.

' 111:1 1.11111 11:: 2.11 111111111111: .1111: 111.111.11.111. .2 1.12; 1550 02111111, 21111111311111 22:11 1111111111111
133111 .112; 1117113111111 :2." 112111 31111110111111 1111131. 111121 1121131313 3.131 1111.111... .2111 11111.1. 113.111 211
1111.13.11.13: 13111 2.11: 1111111111 1111111112 1-1 1211111 111.111. 2111.110 211111 :1 1.1311111111113311? 311.12.131.11111111 11:12:31
11312 1111111111: 111 2111 111:1 112:1...-111:%t;21?111 1123 all. @111 0211: 11.2111: 21111111 1111. 211111112... 111111111. 11111111111111
«13111311311: 11311111110 11121113111: 1: 111111.1‘311111111. 1.2111 3311: 111 2511111 21131. 1111113. 111121.11 151111 1111111112. 121121111.
12111 111121111. 211111211133. 311111113131 11f 3111.111. 1.113111 11.1. 211.. 1111 11:11:11 1.1121111 animal 233: 11112111111111.1116
”1112‘ 1132 1'12 1121111112113”

1.1 :11. 2.11 21211. 121111,: 1111142111112 .11. 1. .2 2111111111 131111111111: 11-. 111111113. 11111111121111.1111:-

..111111 111111-... at. 2.22:" 1111113111111, 12111 111.131.113.131. 211.1- 2.111.31 3211111111 111.1111. 1:11:15 3111:1110
112‘ :111113 21111 21111113 11.111111111119321 211.1 132131 1.33111; if 6120 ‘2 mahwa. 1.1.1111 1111111 11111111113111.1110
31111111. 11112. 11 £112.11: 1311111111311 1111111113111: 111113 11111 1121 garmrly.

221111 13111111: 2* 21111 "1311110 11311.1 311211111111 1711111. 2’11}: 12111 1.13111 23111.1 21211111 12.: 111:1 £11303
11:11:31 31111111111111.131- 111-11112 113.1 {11.11131 2.11 1.... .111: 1113“ 1.1111 131.11.113.11 311‘: 1111111111111 5.1311111:
"2111 1.1.1121 1111 0.131111, 33:11.21 11111 11.11 1121.1: 211112.12. 11112.1 211:. 11123111 1122:1111.

 

 

 




ah‘v; ‘1
~ '3 T4 371:; " ’Y "'““ K11??? ’11 «113?; “1’7?"31 w
3T ‘2: 3 :1" Rfﬂamn": M Ma» J11"? Ema 2&1»;

(33y 11131131111.11.11 1. 11211331131311, 311131.731: 313‘ 3.1113 3 11113.1: 7:}..3 1311111111111 (13‘ 13113311111111)

 

~11 -1. 1 1' 1- ‘ .1
m - .. , , ”3;, , 111 . , w-
.1311 1111111111321“ .1311: ‘3'.» 1.1 131311, 1131 11‘11121" :‘1 131133 111.1 1313*: 3311331113 11331 3.1 1311‘": 113.1-
ﬁiwtﬁmw. 1111.1 ‘31:, 3311131331211 111-11.113.11; 33111131311211.1313

1.3 1. 3.3311 1.11311 3.111 1111.133 11.331 111.1131 13.3. 1 311.1 1111311 1111;311:1111: .1111 11,133.: 331.3. ..1133 13:1; 11. H 111»-
13133313. 13111 1.311111% {1‘33“} 3:31 31:1: ‘31}. ‘31:? 1.315.111: 11 13.13133: 3113:: 11.11.31”.1 (1:31:10 '2 3.“ 51"11313‘?

f b. mm: 1113: 331111, 131131-? 11 1111111311133 31131113111 11 3131111311. 1331“ 1.11311 2’1} 3311131: 151:1 333131 31“: 1311133111311
13111 $111.31 113311.131 1.311311“... 1321 “11:3 3.1" 331131.

TxpmiirﬁmQ :11; 311.131 1:11.111 2 ' 311,11 1131*: Q 3:117. 111113 33:13" ‘33 1 311: “m 1113.... 1‘31 1131:1111 1.1113131 3:11:33 131.1 {$23331
3311»: H131 1111-“ 311111111113 11111131113133.1111 11113111131133-111‘13311, 1; 111-.i‘ 1111 -1: ”3133 3131 33311113331111.3131? 1:131
31113131133111 3.111113311311311, 31131‘11-“ia3. 3331111113. 1311111113 11313111131311: “3.111111 1 :3 :11 31.... 131.1 - .
$311111: 1:1 3111 31111111111 $1131 11111 133113111311: ‘1: 1‘13 11 1311111311311 3‘33“ ’3‘: 1:11 ‘11. 2.; 3.111311311333111
11133111133111: .1. 31111 11111331111331 1111’ 11111: 1111311333311 13131113111311 3.1.1 3113111331313: 313: . 1 .33 1.1...
11311111331111.3331: 11.11 1111.131 1111: 11131131331313.2111 3:11.11 111111331313 31.33 1113111131111. 3:311: 1“ 1 1. 31 11-. W :13. 11113
1331111311115: 1111 1.1111 11113: 1113‘ 3111111 f (311111.111., 1.11 113.11.11.11 111211 11 11131 31:11 111133 111111 1111.1 1111“ 11.1111“? 111121
"11-33 131111 33121131 33 3312111331,; 13.13113 1.311111131131311: .1333 1111 ‘13:: 3.1.11 " - .. "L9” 13 "1" 1.3. 1 3.311“ ~
113111113. 11-131111. 3.31. .

1111111131111: 31.111131 11:31 1.1131 1.1113313111113313 31311111313311.1113 311131 11111331313311: :11; 1.111111. 3.13 1.111.111.1113 1.1,: 11111311 111‘
11131133111311.3113 .311 3:11.313. 311111.111. 13: 3111113111 3.113311111311111 11 ,1 ,1, 1.1111 111113.313 3.33 1.11111 1.11 11 11:1. 31111111311311.3333,
1111111111 11111 131.1311 3111111 1111111111" ’31: 1.31.. 1.1 1.1.331 1:11.: 11 1:“3‘111133: .11 1.1 1:11 1111: 31131111 1.?‘3‘1-2I-z1131111331
3133 1:113 111111.113. 311313.313 1133131133 131:? 3.1333 “3111.11113111‘11 3.13 13;: "1:11:13 11131111111111.1131: 1.11.1.1: 13133311332311. 13.1. 11.111
31113131111111 1.12131 11:11 11.11.11 1.1111311131113333...

”E13113: 313113113311 11131 133 111 ..1:3.11--'2113111“....3‘3 1.133 $1311.11: 311311" 1711 31 1113:3111“ 31“ "-111 11131213111111.1393?
.1131111131‘1131 313.1 :15: 1311 1.13131 1:11 1133:3333... 11:11 1111111 1111131131.... 11;, 11.. 11.1111 1.11111 13111111~113311111.11 3:113

11313.31, 131.211.111.111“: '31:;1121131‘13331331‘33, 1.3111131 11‘33: 1 11 1111131513111 13111:“ 1113“:
M11111111111: 33:. 11 11 .3331 1113131111 1331112111111. 3.11 11111.3: 1113.1 1‘11 11.31 3111 313.113.1111 111.3 1“: 111.6-
”11.1.11 11:1 111113/333 1,... Q1111: "1311411.”1131333111 13:11:11.1 11“: 311131.11. 1:11“ 1’1 1:11-11333111111
4:11:1’1113‘3911: .11 1.11.313. 1 3" 11113.. 111111 1:11 13}: 1131111111 3' ‘11 1113113111?” 1:131 1:111:13? : 1‘1 11113111111131 1 111‘" ‘3“‘23111
3131 1131 11111113113. 112111111 W 11 31131113111111 3.11:. 1. 1111.13.11 11.. ‘11 -1: 1131 111111 .11. 11.131 1.311...
11311111131113“, "En-31131111 .311}. 1.1.1.11 11:3 , 11311 11333313 .11 1111:1311 1311331, "‘"1331 ,13113 1111 1:11, -3133: 1:1. 11:1 “1113113
3.3131; 11111:? 1111.313 :31 11313133 12:13.11 11: 3113 1.4.1,: 11.1.1133: ‘13311 31 ""W‘ 11:1 1311.....-‘1‘1111311 a3"

1111?: 3.113331113111311 1311 12133 1331111 1-1:. 1:1“: 31 3111 11111311 1.31 1:139 #3” 11111,: 11.131.111.11. 1
$131111 3113.11M, .1113 1.11 1113.31.13.31 3.111113131311111 113.23; 2.111 113: 1.313.311.5113 31113331 11 111‘ 111111 3131.3... W111
11131131131 3.31.111 13111111....11. 131313.13 £11331ﬁi1111 111111111 3:11 3.111131 3313.11 1331.1. 11.13.131.111 1-11.11 13 1111111 .3. 313131
1331133 ‘ :11“: 1.1111 .1131333111, 11111. 1111111133131 111131 1. 13.113131173111311 131-1311113111 113.33. 3111 11.113131111131111 31311...

 

W

1...

33.111111113111331 1:111 31“ 11111:: .5 1::

[631111111 “3111 1.111 1311 1" 1113.: 3111.311 3113 3:113 1131.13111113 1311 1111.331 311: ‘1 11-311 13.11111 1.. $131.21 111111 33.113:
31:.” 3.111 1.311131131313123 1111'1...-..‘3133‘:1 ' 3111 3:11 M 31:13:31., ”‘11. 1111133. 311111 1.1111111 13:. ‘11: 113111. (111.111.: 113
1‘“: 13" :13‘1‘11“ "311311-... “3:31:11: 3.. 11113111311. 3. ”1111;3‘11“ 3.1.31 :3 11313.11, 1.11131 "1.11:. 1.11.1113. 1.3: :51"
11:11:11.1 3: 1.1131111: . ‘1; 11331 11111111111111. 1.1. 1211:. 11.1.1 11:31.1 1....11 313111311111 11111 31131311 1:111 1311 1111111113131 131311
37:31:11.3 3‘1‘1‘1‘ 1111 131.313.33.111 .3311 :1:1:1:113‘11.31I21 131 31:1. 33113331311111
’31 1111 111111. 333: 3311.1 31%: .3111: 1.311331 1133.12 :11 1111131131 1:13 1 311313111143 31131 133111 91.31.13.313 31:: 1‘13.»
31331131111131? 31.373: 11:11.1 131121.11113, 1.1111 11.1133 ‘1 113111 11.1 .131, 1:13 11:31 .3: i111 11111111111113111133311133,
111123.11 1333132111 13111 “3111.111 131.111 11311 33311112 1.11.31 111311111 11:31, 31:133.: 3121 11133111131111.1131: 113311311 1.11. ,1:
31133111231 m 33111111131111.1111: 111113111113 131 3131.13 111 11.1 “151.31 1.151. ‘ 11;: 1.13321...
11 1111111111 111 3121:: 3.31 111331131 1313., 1.11. ‘ 1113.1 11.: 15.}. 3311311111111. 1.13.131. 13111 1111.13. 311311119 1:3“
3.3111 3.311: .1, 121.11% 111313: 13:13:. 1 31.11.1113: .1131 21.11.31.131, 111111131111. 1.113: 1.1 331133.111: 13.11113: .1313 3133'
131:1 1131331. 13. 11131111111123: 131.111.," 1111311311111 ‘3... 3 11.1 31311-12331, 13.11211 31311111333311.1331 111311113: 3 3.1333132”:
1’13: 1131311131 1:111 111111311331: 13 1111111391.- 3-111‘1 1111111111. 111:1 .11 111 13.31 31131 111131113“, 1:1 31133.1 11.1.3.1 31111131131.
(511.111.113.311, 11.? 11.111313311713511 “33.133 1.11 1:111 :1," 1111111131,}..- f 113:. 3.11313 1:21;, 1.1.1311,

 




~ ”211211.111: 1:13.133

#20.

"111:. 1 :13 11.11.3111: 11111:: 3:111 1.111111133111111 111,1 11111111111111 1.11.11 1“:11 with 11111111 11 1111111311111, 1.11.1113
11:11 11111131111111.1111 11111111331 11111151111“ 13111111111111.1111 1111111 11, 111.111.1113 3’. 11116131111 ta 1 15151612511123
1111111 111113 31191111111 11111111 {112111 :11: “11113 1.311 .- 11 T1113 111111111 1111111111.. 11111 11111111111111.1111 1111:
11:131.:11311.-.1111 1111‘ 1:11.131 111111 11111111111111 1113111 1:111 1:111 11- 11111111111111;

4 ‘1 11:1 1111.. 31113.11 1111.11.11.13 1:13:11” 1.13 311110111111 11.1111 111.131 11111111 1: 111.1113 1111111; 1311.13
111.1 “ 1111;; “‘11 $111111? 1.1.1 1211111131111 111.111.: 1‘ ‘31.? 11. 1111-1111111 1.11 111111 3111.11.11.11...

11:11: 1111:1111 1.11:1 1.1111111: 1.111111 111111.111: ~~~~~ a 1111- 1.113111111111211 11111111113131 12111.11 11113111131112.111111gy
111311111 1.1111111111111111: 111111.111 11111111111111 31:11:11 :13 1.1.1 11% 111111331111 1'1 W131 331111111111
11111 11111111111111 :1 111113.111 1.11.11.11.11 1.1111111 11113111112 1-1 1111.13 1.1 r
11111111" 111.1 11.11111 11111111111111. 3.11.11 3 31.111111 11-. 1111.11 1111111: 11111111111111. 3111111. 11111211," 11111111131113 3111.11.11
311311111111 11 -1111 13.1.1111 1:111 1.1111111 113.11.. 1131111 .111 11111111111111.1131 1111111111 .11 1111113 1.. 1111.1 111111111198
11113 113.111 1:111 11:1. 111 1111113 113W 111.11 111.1- 1111111 1... 11.1111 11111111 111 ‘1: ‘11‘1. 1111311 11111111111111111111-111111111
11111111111111 :13 *1 13:1

111.1 11:1“ 11211111 1 1111.31: 1.13 11.11.11.113 11.131.111.31 1111. 111.111.111 31111111113.
“:11 1.11:: 1.11 31111111 3131111111 1:: 1111 111. 411.111.1111., 1.1.111 1.11111 .1111 11:1 1111 1.1111112 11.11.3111 11111111
11:11 1111111113113 111 1.131.111 1.1111113111111111 11.111.111.111: 11'. 1111111111111 «1-1 1 11.1.11 1.1.11 3211 111111111 111131113
11:1 11-. 4.4.3133: ‘-‘~:‘:a:~11:. 11... 1:11.11: 11111111111111... 1... 111.3 111111111111131 1111111 .1 .111“ 111.111.1111 1111-111
”111113.111 1111111111111 1351111111 2’31 1111 331:1 11131111111111... 1111111111111, 111111- 1111 11 11111.1 11111111;
1111.111 :11 11111 111 :11 1111111111111 4.4111111“: 1111:, 111111 1113311111, . ' "- '
11111311111111.1311j'..,:.-.,11 1.1111 1111 1111111111111“

1 ‘ 1111111 .1 11 111’ 1 111111111111...

 

 

. 111311 2‘1’311111115 3111111 '13 1.11111 131.11.» 3311.41. 1‘1 f 1-1313
11.1111 111111 1111 111.111.1111. 3:“ :111111 11111111111111 1:11"? 1111-2111 111 1111113 11.11111 11.: :11 1.111.113.1131 311131311 1111 (11“

3.33 .1 51111¢€3¥11333 2L3 ..-> “‘ , 3.2.3.1113: 333 3331‘ 3311? 111333 333333“ 33 33" " ‘
1:111 111 . 111.111, 13.111111 1; 111111 1111- .11 11111111111111; 11.11;:- 11111113111111 1:111 3333333 31...... V
1.11111 1319-1111111 .1 _ ‘ I“ L
> 114-2. 1111“ 1 ~ 11111111111111.1311 11111111111 1.11 1111;111:113
111111111 11.12.: .‘ :1 311111131111 3% 1m 1111 1111 1.11 1.11. 1111. 111111113 131.113.13.31
11 1:. 1111 11111111111 111-11: 1.11 111111 111 1.11 11-11. 111-1 11111 1:13 111 1:1 1'1“”1‘113 1111‘? 3‘3
11:1. 11113111111 1‘1‘121 11112.14 -~ 1.11, 11111 111.11 a ‘11. 1111111111111 111111.11
111111111111 1111111111111?" 31111121111111 13 “111111111 111‘ 111113331113 313*
:. ...-.._. 1111111111111";- 111 11 ~ {.111 11$ W 11 3113 131- 33331 3333
1:11:11 1111111111113 1‘1111111m31 3‘11 1111 331111 13111111111131.1133
.1. 1111.11 11.11.11.111. 1131111111 1.1111111 111.11 11:11:11 1111 111111 11111
' ,-*3'-f:1.1 13.113 11f 1111111134:
11111111111 .11. 11-1; 11 11- 1111111111 11111.1 111111 -
.4. 1;? 1.1111 1111111 :3 1111111111111
1311111111111, 1.34311113111, 1.11 11.11 11,1 11.11111: 11111111111 1' 11.1.1111 1:111 11.31.1111 1.111.311
11:11 “3315313.,” 3.3.1133? % $3133.33: {1, 33333 3311:3311 133$; 35331111} $311.13 3.115111. ‘3': “73331331313211.3313 again“
33333111131 1 .311; 1'1“; .111 W4, r 3.19 313111131113 13%? 313W11113‘311113 33... if} - 93133311! 33333113"?
1 1111111111 11111.11 111111111113 1111111 33.11111 33 111111 1.11511 11311311331133“
$31.11 3111111331111 “ _ I; i 1113.}. 1111331 1" 111 1113131“ 3’
1111 1.1111111 1111.1. 1. 31111111111113 1.111111. ".11; 2 .. 11111: 1111.1. .1111 1.1
- '1 “3.3.1330 '

 

.w- WWW

 

 

‘ 19111 1.1 11111111. 1111:1111 11111 11111111111111 £111.11 5111111141. 1331113113 111113111111113
1111131111 1111 1.1.11.1 1111. 11111111 1 11.111131111311331, :13 11131111113111 1.1111111111111111: 1111.11 11111111 11111111111111.1131
.. 11. 11 1.1111 3111.31111111111 1111.11.11 1111111111111

 

~ 111:1: 1“ “11°33 3 :11

 

 

g... 11 11.1111111igm 11 11.111111 114-1111111111 3111 3111111111. 1111

 

 

 

43311111: ”131133 121111344921

 

 

 

11121111.: ..... 11 11.4 111131.11. .

1 111 ‘ 1 1.1111111111111111 1. 1111111 _

 

 

 

 

* *1 11 311 11‘ 31-11113 11111111111111.1111 311111111111 .-
131113‘2 33.11 3 g; ,.., . .,

 

"WW".-

 




: 1.22222. 2" .
222.222 222 “£222 322222....22'2 27.22 22:22:22 22 3222:" “2‘22 2»
2.22 2.22222 2222.22 (2222': :2 222222.222 2' 2222'

if”? 'ﬁ’ﬁru‘y 2522‘» -‘2. 152. $22 .2“?
2.....2: 2... 33.... 2.222 2222.2 '22
2"‘22322222222222' 2. "22222 2:... ’222:
222222 222222.. '2 2.2”“ 2.33"? 2222 .2222

2:222 2'22?» ”32”?"

2” ' 322 2‘2 22" :22 232222 3:33 3,
3525*.222'2 22222225.

.2. 2. $.27 ”22"2‘2

"F

#7:
53.22. £233” 1% 23.4.22 ’7... $32” 22.22.22.231’22’33
222222 222': 222222222 22 2:22 22 2212.2 2222222222 '2 -13..
2213.23 222 :23 222' 222222 32222222222221 2'2 2.2
22222. '22": 222' 2222 22.22 22.2 222222222 222: 2213...
”22.2 22.22222: 22" 22" 22.22222222222-
2222: -222 2'2. 222222 2222222222. 22:2“ .2222 2.22.
.2222 22.2“ .22 2222 22.2.32
2.22 2'2 22.22.22... 2:23.; 22 22322222 2
22222. 22222212 222'. "-22 3.12'223222222'222 3 2.22
23.2: 22222.22 .2222 22222222 2.2223 2.22 2.222
;22 ‘ "322:2 22 2.2.2323: 222.223.225.22222 22::
.222... .:.......2.. 222.22 22222 22:222. 2.222. .2222
222222 322222....s.2s22.2222 222.22.23.22 222222 '22222-‘z; '

2.42: 4 2
2 222223.222...“

22:2. .

:22 222222....» 2:222:23 ‘2“2“

.33 , '22, 2'2. .2... 22:2 2222'
$2223 3:. ’
22233222 2322' 13.22“: ’2’ 22222333 2""
222...}; .322 13,22. 22.222 2222. “2““ ”2““ 22”. {2’2" {2'
-22 22222.2 2'2"“: 22. 2:.

2 ~- - 2"
{X} 222 13222-312233
'“ 2223222222

gﬁliﬁﬁ 23322322; m3 .333 3.333
.232
:2... 2222222: i122 2222 222222.22 2322 3,3 2.3., 3.3333333333333333

.2... :2:
1:222? 222.2222. 2.2222 22222 3222212222223”.
22222 222222 2222' 2222

.222: '2 2:222 2222222222., 22222. 222222 222’ 2.2 2.2 22 #2

'- 222222. 2222 222222222222 2.2 2'. 2.2 2 .222“ 222222.222.
222 “2'"""““'22 2222': .2222
22 .22 .2": - 22.2 2 "22’? 222.22.22.22 2222
2222222222222 2 '2 «2'2. ... 22222 22 :2“ 1:2 2:222 22222:...
2&“2‘““’M{3., .3. 25322225213 1
if 235:)? 1.2.2:“; 221...»; t.” 1.} “432:2

~24

“Mi“

SJ": 2&2”
.'.:..'222 .2222 22... 2" .222

722222 222 142.. 3..
2:2 222 "2'22 22222223

.2321’2222‘22

2.2.2 22222 2222.. 2.222 22:22.2 2.22 22'
it 223” :23. 15?? ’..:.23£ @223 2
““‘"2.2222 2:2"1‘2‘ 22222 222.22 2.22. 2"
' 222 22222: '.2....2:2.2..-.22 2'2" ‘
.2: 22222222222 222222 .2 2.2. 2.2..
222'.- 2- 2‘ 222222 2222222222: 22:22 222222222. 22
222 22 2222222 222 22.22222... 222 22222222
2~ 2'2 2.22222 $22222 22 2: 2222222 222222 2222.2 22223222222222
2222 .22." '22'222 2"" "2222 2.2..

‘22 222 2.2 22"; 222" 222.22. .2... . .2. . _,
2'23; ’5 . “ .33. 7. . .3.
3&2}? {22:3 t ‘9’} £25 2222.. <33: Egg-5i. 2‘- 1?! "22.17'2'2-32". .12. {.3 2°22 22 .22 agiﬁu’t

2'22. .2 .22. .222 222.222 .2 .2 2.22 22 -2... .22....

S

223 ". 2'22 222 223; 2222 2.22-2.22

at.

2.22
2222222222 2222.1

2222

22 22222 222222222222 22 2222222
222222- 222222. 2'22 222222 22.22. 2 7
2223222222222. 2.222222 222222 2.2 '.
2.2... 223' 2.2 222222 '2 -22 22222 2222222222
212" 22'2” '2'“ 22222 223222222222 222“ 2223.22 2.22:. ‘ ‘

2 22222 22 2.2222. - -'

 

 




31'3“.“ «153“?3;
it 2.2:. FF" 4

*W“ FF‘F‘F. ”‘32P mv’ni‘m’ a.

3... «3- 3 ' F F . .213 "’3" 33.. 2: 35 " » .
.3": 3:: 333W -3333: 3:3 33 33 3:: 33333333., .. 3:." Wm 3-3 :33: 3:33:33: 3:33.333 "333% 333 332.3333:
-”y, MiF >y_ .. “L 1* . ‘5,
32:...332333 33.3.3 33:33:33: "3.33m .33.. .333. 3:. 3 :33 3333333333:

.3... F33: 3333*": ‘ 13F “33333233 :33. .3... ”3.3 333":- 323. s... .1... j 33:33:: 3 "33 ".3". 2.3333332 3333. :33? :3: 233331233!!!»
2.3333333333333333: 3 333:3"3333. {2. F333 3:33 33333" 3.3332333 "3333 13.33.333.33).

. 3333333333333: 33%: 333 .3333: :33” 333333333 ”2’3? 32.3... 33::- W3": t3: 1:333:33:

. "3333 3333 333:: 333332... 3.3.3 FFFFFFF FFFFF FFFFF‘
. .3 3:3 .233“: 3% 3:333:3332333 33W 3'3"" “333.:33F33 .33 3:3: 333323332. FF
3... ":33. j 3: 33333333332. ”332.333 3 33W3W33 "'3 "3. F3333. 33F. 3": 333333.332 :3 3:3 ».
.3 333W 3:3 .33 3‘3 3:3” "3:33:33 3...... 3.3.. 33 33"" “3.33.3... 3233:. “3:3. -233 33 3313.332.
- 3.323.333": 3-... .33.. 33333333333333: 3533:" "33 3323333333.: 33333333332 .33 13:33:33: 2- 33:: 3.3.23 WWW 33. WFF
:.;,;-:"3.. 33 3333 3.33333 3333 "-3.333333133 3333 "333333333 3:33 W... _: 3.333333 *" "3:33:33 "1‘33 :33. '3 :33? 3.333 "333333333. 33333
- wﬁyfw 222$ 333$me ‘23; {33 36* 3&3} £§$¥2ﬂ$23$§$

» .~ . ' . :33- 33 33333332333333.3333 33.3" W...” m?
:‘F-A'ZW3 333 33:33.33." 33.332.33.1- " 3w 323.333.3233" 3.33 "32333 33:3 "3:33 . W3333’33233333...
2.3 3333;. 3:333:33 3333 33": 23331.3..3W "333 333.333.2333 “33%: 3.2.3": 333F333. 33:13:31 333““: .—:g‘*'
:33: ":33 33333.3": .3 333*:3.3~3.1 33$ 3.: 33.3 "3333333333333 3.". "3. 33: "" "333W 3.3": .3333 3:33:33. 33.: 3333333333... 3:33“ 3.:
3333.13. "3... 33.33333 " -
2.32.3.3 ”3233322333 "F3333 "j ‘ ‘ ., 3:33:33: 13 33:33:."33" 3.2.3:“: 35"
gﬁﬁ‘iﬂiﬁai .. .FFF;.F‘ @333: a 5..“ 331‘“: :3; W 2.2 $1.33
3333333.. 3 .333 ***** 3333333": ""3 "’3 3:3 :3 j. .
33333333333333 "3:2; ' 3.. ~ 3333" z: ""3333": "3 F1333 F3333
FFFFF F ‘F F' Fr: 33% 3 329:?" Wﬂiﬁﬁ 333.3" :53 3333:; F ' .
33:3 3:3": 3:: "333333": .323 "333-33 3: .... .333, 33‘ 3:33.333? .3 41 i 3:" 3 3333333223“, 23‘3"":33333": "33.2“ “3333": 33332.33
33.. 33.33 33.3": ""33 33;. 3333"" :33 F3333: 33: “3.333333 .3: "3.3 32 .3 333.33 33.33 "3:. ....3:3 3:33:33" 3.33. 3" 33:“ “3.33333 33:...
33.33.3333" 333" "3333.3: ' 3:: 32.333333... 333333,. .F‘F 3.33 .33 3:333 33:. 3333:... ”F333: 3333333332333 333.33,. "mm": 3:} 3"" 33:33:53:
~ 4 ' ' 3333.3" 3333:” ”t. ”3333 33:33 "333:": 333...... 23233 .1: F FWMM 322‘“? F3» W 332-33" F 33‘. ”FF-F 33F
W333... 313333 33 .3333 323‘": 3333 33": . "3.3.": 3.333333333333333 "33:33.1 mg}. -33 3:33“ "33.33:": 3:333:33... 3:3
.. . 33.33"" 33-" 333:. 33333333": 3.33:": 333.313. 33333. 33333333 333333 333333" 3.11... F333.
M333" 3....3": 33.333.333.333. 33.3: 3ng" . #333333- 3: 33:33:: 3333 3.333333 3333.3: 333.3 "333.3331: 3333.33": :3 333 -- 4°13. 3:333
" 123233.333: 3:13.332. 3:333 mfammrﬁrﬂ;

 

 

1-2-9 "3.33:: 333333333: 3-33.. :3... 23333: x 3.3333333:
. 3: 3333.333. ".3334 "3.33 3:333 3.33:3 3., 33333. 333.333. 3:333 3:33-13". 33.: 3333‘ .33": 333333.33};
F233“: 233.3333 33333333 "333233” ‘2. 3333:23333F 3.3:: 2 WWW 3.3 :33 .1332? F333" 3.3333223... 33.: W 3'3"” '-
. 33333.33 .W 333.32 .335 3333339.: «333333. 33.3 3333333333 3. 3": ﬁtWWWMW F3333?“ ‘13:: W: 5.533.353.3333? 231W
333:. 3333.... "33:: 333.33 3""- .33 3333333333331. 3:: 33. "33333..
3.3 32*. ﬂ'FFﬂt ”EFF EFFEFF ﬁFﬁﬁFFFﬁaM‘tii‘}
@WWW’E WW 32332 ‘39:. "3.2333323, 33333. 33333 33:13 333333 3.3: "F 3., 3.33.3313 .3": b3. 332.333.33.333 ":3 4333333333,
3333333 333333323: :3 F333"":333 133.333": 33:36 3:33:33 .. «3.3333323: 33’333 33.333333333333333 “WWW 3.3.
333333333333 :33 53.33.. "3233.333. "333. 333 33333333333333.3333. ;.,"33333 3. 3.. 23:3: .33.": 33: :33 3.3:: 333mm
”"333- :3'3333333 3‘33"" .3 3.2.33 $35233 33333. .3332... 3:33 23:": 2.3.?" 31”" "$323 313-2%» 33-33 331‘“ FFFFFF-F 33% W
33:":- 33333. 3"“ "3. 3:333: 33 3.3.3:... 3.3333333: 333.33.333.33; "3 "3333333333... 33333 3.3 333113333 33.33333; .33" :33? f_
m ~~"-..:..-~"?:3-:32. 3233:: 3...... r12:- .3? 3.....«3 3333 3.233333. 3": "3.3 :33 3.333333% 33 1.1""33333im3333w23333 3333-3333:". 3 ,1 ,
33: 33:33:33.3: 3.33 "3" 333333333333: 33. 3333-33.."3223333 3333333 3: .3333 :3. 3333 33.33 :33: ..'M33*, ":3 .3: 33:3“: 3:33:33... 3:: - -
3333333333....233” 33:32 3:33.: 3‘3"" W .3313 ~““" W 2333* 33.333.333.33333333 13223?“ .3:"“*”“‘:3:3. 3.2.3332 FF" .3131...

 




“2....

1 Elm a: 3.3..qu 6 m 533% Wﬁﬁ 3:33;?“ gam$29§5 1%. 3‘ 3 3 9’ {3‘ a ﬁaﬁﬁi w, :ﬁmt
3.3 2: 3333333233.... :33 3:33:33w .3:::..3:: 33.33333 , 2:3 .2: 9, :22; 3.: 33:23:33 3:3 1‘. 33:33:: :3
3:333 :3. 333:3: :3 3:31;: W” :2 .9 .. . "'5. 3333322333333 33333 .339. 2. .3333
ﬁne“ 3‘3333 {3? 3333‘ 93$": “515:. H 3 ‘ '

3 3’3"” 3.3:: :3 g .3333}. 33:33... 3. 33:3 "33:3. 3333' 3.33
. “33:33:33: .33. 3333333233333 3333:“ 323:3 L423:- 3% 33:33:32: 3.33 3... 3: :33: 3:33 3.:
3393:2333 733333333323 3... 9:3, 3.“: 31:33.: 3* 323:3 3: . ’3 :3 .3 “333.2333. 32.333333?
3333:3333-3339- :33333‘3 3.7.3:: 333233333 3333333332233: 3:: .3: 3.3.3- 33: f8 29:3, .2... :3 :33 3:: 3.3.3. “33333339 "
33.333333331333333 3:: :u «13.333. 33.53323“: 2.... 3.33:3: .... 3:33:33: 3:33:33: 339-3333 3.3: 33:3 3.3:... 3 3‘-
:m::33: :33:...::: 33:33:33.: g3 33:: «~- 33: 3332-33. .333: 3‘ 22:33.: :33: 22.23.333.33”, 33 3 :3”: 333233333
332.923.3333: 3: 3 3:22 3:33.: 3333 33:333.: 33:32:33... ‘3 33:: .3332: 3:333:33: 32:: ' 3:33. :13: ,
:33: 3:33:32'3393333333333 33.33333 3333:: 3:3 3:: 3:: 33:33 :2: 33:. .932 33 33:: *3“ 333 3 :33: 3:33:33:
«33:33:: 33.33:

‘ .' f. .95 2 .. , . 9 .. . . _ ‘“ ' k .‘ f 9
33.33 3:333 9» >9... - 9 9 «.329 .9 9 --.. 9 2 “ :33: 3
‘ : f‘hf . . .. - . 1. ‘— . ”A“ 3.34% £3“; ‘ '3 i ”33.2! 2 A .‘ 3.3,, 3N. 2 a ‘ .. , , .35} h 1.
a: “ ﬂ

3‘3 3'3: 339 3333 . .9 9- :2:. 33:3 3:33 ”‘39:: 3" “33:3 3.3: 3" 3.3:” 3‘":

WW: ’ . ‘- 2
(I ‘n

~ .. . '9 .“'.-_"“ ' :- ,3 9 1* *2: 2N, " '- '3 ' ~. . 1943's: “ b3 .
{33333 “2“”?333'3'3 ,9 9. =3 4 9» 9 . 2.2:: , ,9... 1 331.333,“: 3.3333 3...: 33323323333 3:23“: :3: 53.333: .. .9, .
$933 33 15% 33333 3333;333:2333 " #333 3399 3’ 9",: 9"”9 ‘ .23“ ““3333“ku 33.;- ‘37‘53 ".9 y ‘

3 :3 . , ‘ , ~ . . f3 -. - 2..- . 3. , ..... 2 - 9
MK“ 3; 3333‘33335 - S? 9.9-9?- 2 9-? “23 39.1321 393' 32‘3" 3.:
:33 9.99.9.3: 9' ‘ ~ . ~. .. .2 2 . 2

'x
'1

 

 

 

 

W 33:33:94 ‘ ‘
" ' 2 33.333 33... 333:3“... ,9'

3:: ”3333.333: :3 3‘5 3: 33M :33: *3 “3: 3.3:“ 33‘ “333:..333‘3 {1
“”3333 23:3 '7 ,3. 39>:- 2.2. “WW ”3‘3 3: 3933333,
. , 9 ;_ ‘ . 5.,‘2. 9. I: :33. 3.3;: 1,335.} 3333333333333»: m M... .

 

2,, 9- ‘9 33:33 3.33333. 3.3.: 3333:: 33.3332... 333333333233 333.333:
3.3333333333939521. 5:? gig: 23:33.23 -- 9 = 3 :23 33 33333333323333...
3333: :3“: :3"- 3333: 33:: 33:33:: ‘3: :33: ‘j £29 3‘3: :33 :33: 333.: 33:33
33.333333313233323 3333:} 3.9»“9 99. “ :3 3. 3333:“: 3.3.3.1 3333 :3 3:33.33 3:33:33: 333.33%
33:32:33. 33:33.: 3:33: 233:: , 9 ‘33 ‘3“ 3:: .2... 33 33:33:: :32 3.:
33:33: 333“ .3: :3:- .J 99 ~ ‘ ; ,7 ,3? “3,323“ 33‘: :3 ”
“3333:“- :3333333333 3333332333333“? ,3, 3;. 32 .333 ‘ 9'
333333333 333333 2: 3:33.333: 1 ‘2 2.3333333: 2:333:11“: 3:33:33 33.3.- 9333.“ 33:: :9. 33:3 “w 333 :3:
33.3.3: 3: :33 23.33“ ‘33 33 ‘33. :3: 3:33.. 9
“3233:: :33: 2.33333” 1.9+ . 3332‘} 33:33:39.3: 3.3:“ :33“: 33. 23:33:33.3. 3.333.393.2333 ”:3 ‘ 33.333. 3233
9-133: 3 3333 33333323333333.3333 3333 ,913333323‘3‘: 333333135“ 33:: 33:33:?“ ”3 ”*3: 3333‘”: 33.333 3333:. 30“”, 3.2739293 ‘
33333333333‘ ' “ H 3331;333:3333 :3 :3 94:} 3333323” ‘ A"? 3ﬂﬁ3"”3 .33 ‘3 3333333332: 33.: “3"? ”331333392
” " 33.3 33:32: 3333*”: 333333 $333333 3 “3333‘: 3:3“ ”‘3 '-
3 -. - 3 35:33 33%" .323. 3333:3333. 3» “" <
:33: 333.. 33.33.3333: 3.33:3 :9 3:23 3:3 333“” 3‘" .9333
”33:33“ “32 3 f‘ﬁ 3.33.3 wyﬁfﬁggﬁ $33333 by: 3333133333333? 3’33: 5?; 32%: 333.1 ”33%.... 343:: ‘1‘“: 31.33:“ 3333” W
- 33333333333333" 33.33:: 339 - 3"“ "“ 23.3.33 33: 33:33:: 3.33: 33.33.; 3

‘- 33:33:: 333'. 3.. 33:333. 333333.33:- 3:: 2 333333333: 35:: 3‘33: ““3 .33" .333“ 333333.32“ 3333“} ‘33 2.... 3.
“3"“: 333’“ 3.” “3333: 333.333.13.333: ”3.3333333333333333: :3: ”‘3... 3323:3331: 33:33:33.3”:3333“ .33.. 333332 33.3.2323: 33.23333:
" .951 If; 5.." 3 33:3. 3: :33 33“ “3333-93333 .3 3:: 3 33.3.3233“ 3‘ :3- 33.233: 3““ .333
33:33. 3'3: . 33:33. 3, 333333 :33 2.33.3333: 333:3 3333* ,. ”’2 3.3:: 3:3. 3. “323333333:
m .3333? ﬁrm?!” “ , M .9 9“. '- ‘ 3.333“ 133V? ‘3 3334‘" (33333333
3.31.3033 92’???“ .2; “3 . “ . ‘, ”M73” 313'}. “3““ W“ 33 3.333.233.3333:
:"312’3333 333...: ‘ " 2 ‘ '- '

 

 

 

3:33"? $33.83*”: 9..“

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




.l ‘ *‘ 1W» -' g3 '13. .
@335? ' ‘3? 3 1:34;:
'7 > V. W 3 v\ .
33w :37) {5413‘ a: i:

'3. .73.. ' _-3 -

3-33.33 3.33., - 33. {iii-“*1: -'

" 17‘. ': 13$... 31;.7§~ . 3.2; «Ag-30»: ‘ 7“ ' a! ﬁg. g’fi
*VL

{iii-£1.27 , 3-3-3773? 77‘! {3‘3’i’ "‘ ’f‘fﬁﬂxgi . iﬁi 3&3:
(I'..'.9'J3:1 "1“}
333333153” 1,433,533 3:} ﬁfﬂr‘mz (7:77! 3.37, $3.71,},m vim“?
7 «A 3
33333317: "-3313 ”,3 3.3" 3;,

, :i' .333 3, :3 3‘
xii-3.3333337 33 $337332. «3'
1-3 74.}? $37 if it
i333}.

ébg, _ in}; 7“
iii} 331-???

ig‘ﬁi :7??? {3‘41 1.31213 1 i 677k “£73“
£7.33 7 M137?) 371%: 71-.
37:32 3333373

"7 1-333".-
"' 7 - how's-13 7

‘ ' ‘ 3 «a
' _- , .- y. ‘3; 1}
7:“

~: .33

£33333 :3 & “3.3.33.3...“ 3... {3333 ,.
3333313333 3333* WW 72?

'3- ‘ 273E 523733-3333- t‘aﬂ ”’77:

33:3 .3 3.1375333 ”3:33:

W3,“ «731 wsﬁrwﬁ

. 7"
=23: frag-3.
v:
'2; '23. ' "'
q}

’25,“, f3 ‘3- [$031,473 .7'
7‘7“} ‘7’ Man- AW

MQRFK
9K}:
,3; E“;

7:773 $3713.»
33‘ 737371771737.

.33:- 3333 333::

‘33. iii-133w“ i773” 4"" $77-$73

1.35:31‘? mini}. a?
Mxiﬁiixi“

‘ g3; wwW‘ixi-ﬁ ”’ ”7‘7"" 7373-33--

3; iﬁm

3%???

if? H ;
3:33“ 333 -3237

33311333333 3 i 3.33::

.1 #7 1332377 1-3-3:

333.13.377.31;

.. .. aw «N‘
3.33- “£33237? €77”:

@ﬁﬁlﬁfﬁm, 7‘? 333 {mﬁﬂﬂx 3

7 3 33.33 Vii-£37317:

Mi: ”$32.33 3-3137, if

. ‘ .,’ 3! ‘3‘ : . _ ‘ +55;- ‘ I“ 3,,
33': .: 3.353793 3, 3.3.3333 ,- ,. . 1 2-. my *«pxwta 311-27.;
3 I 73533377323333: 3': .3 3.3.3 .. ; .3. 7”. 3.333333: 33-. .. 3,.
-7' E i.

7 ' mmﬂvﬂi 3-33
1"‘1‘359 Zak};- Mw‘?
33‘3"? ii

3* '3 33 333,333..»

"I $331353: ijfkﬁr @373 :-.,,1 {g 3:} it; ‘4‘» M73 7‘»,
7.733;. '
33:1: w-E» 3- ~33 33-37% 3 33': ii
755733573? 7i; {77 EW ‘33 Vﬂﬁiﬁ am

3m i3M‘i3 333137373 “‘7‘”

’ ' L‘fe Ti“?
3-,}; ,3:-(.73.: 1y

{7; ﬁiﬁwj‘vaif 5%{37 ﬁghﬂfﬂ $7373 "7:37: i277 *3,“ 773323.;
3-3377; :3 3.7:. i iiilit

7‘?!” - .3 32.3.:- w.-
’1;- 3213;. 31L; 1.. 27??

a - -. ,
33333.-;,.,\xr3. 3, f. . , _ .. - , . 717713“: _,,
""'~"" a “7-' fa. .31.?"
W 5‘. 3‘ V "'w’": -- ﬁ. ,~.- j ‘-‘. v.3; -,~.. wm :. 4%.; r

LVN

33:33:33.3"33‘3333 '

3-33: WE? 33m aiiwwx
3.333133 ‘3:

12:33 £332 3'3 a: :3’17:‘3':*7°133"'i.“i 3 3-3-3 31" fiisx “ i m
“Hi “ﬁm3f (:37 :4 V A: mil-i“: “371 ii;- '35:» - ‘ 7
433-333-3133-3333 ‘3?“- “"?7‘- ‘mﬁ 1-73 3'3- 4“ "’7‘ $1"? 373'
37333463 33271-1131 33-56; “‘7 my 4‘3- 3-72? £3 £33 7‘2" «w ans-w: 3&6. 11‘
{333 {3” 3:713 W 7377* “7&3: 333m ’3 ’31 73.373 if” brﬁ’aﬁﬁi
.: 3333.313 3.47% flit.- 333 373- 337333 i :33 3'31; -7%xi

fawn '3 7 ‘3;

1;.

\"A- .y, -a-
3,1,.

33-3 21% '3 3"- 333'3233 33.3? 33.32
.3 33333333, '13 3'3 3'37 3333‘ xii
{3"73‘“: '7’ 33-- 33::433'33 Tit“: 35 3,1333%
Miviizaizx“ :1. iii 3:371.“ 3-." .1 33:33.37“
iii ”“3132..- =3: - .3 1'1: mimixxiixxi y...
7“ x33. i233; 33:33:31: '4 Swami.“ 1.
7333:3333 3 “‘3‘ 33333-7 3: ix:
3:3 3;... .. xx: 3.9 3333333333 :3.
ix 3- 3 333:3 ., . immi; 3373:3333. -_ '-
3233323113 3 mime: 3733333333

§£§Wa .3 J I
‘7’
'4 auxin
,
9‘ 'G- 35an gig“??? ka“

ix} 3%“:

333333.3-

4.

333‘“ 7‘ me why“ ,4
i3; 3; 3., 33;} m7

3, if? ‘71"- "-3413 -a- 31.7337

V
533737371733

“£23 :E, m3“ ﬁs‘x"g$ $137733?- .333 ‘
7 " ' ' ' 7' ”ﬁgf‘ﬁ‘m g3, iii-$183" 3:? 13.3%» 77:73, .
77 77 7 3337.3 i’iiisf‘iﬁﬁ

Wk"

““i’ii‘ ii ”ii iii.“ ﬁrm“:- i3: :33}
" Mm: {if ' - 33-3-33ii333 ”3337731333333;
“3i 3:333 iii‘im

1i": ‘1‘ 7 ‘

 

 




National humane Education society

Boston §§§§§§XXXX , 1711 Mass. Ave.

Washington 6, D.C.
XXXXXXXXXXXX
Adams 2n3358

December 19, 1954

Dr. M. J. J. Houthuis, Director
Openbaar Slaughterhouse
Boesemstraat, Rotterdam

Dear Dr. Houthuis:

With other humane organizations and with the help of certain
individuals who have been studying the subject, we have started upon the
long hard road of slaughter reform in this country.

We are collecting information and comment from several countries.
We have a most stirring report of a visit to your plant from Miss M.
RaymondeuHawkins of England.

Will you be so kind and helpful as to answer the following

questions - questions usually raised here in connection with any method
of rendering the animals unconscious before killing:

1. Does the Either method render them completely and positively
unconscious, and not simply immobile?

2. Does it cause lung lesions or any change in the tissues which
pcould be mistaken for disease?

3. What rate cf kill per hour can this method produce?
4. Is it applicable to all types of food animals?
5. What is the cost of the tongs?

Have you any other information or suggestions which would be
useful in our campaign of education which must preceed any consultation
with the representatives of the Meat Industry or with members of Congress.

With appreciation of any advice from you and with the highest

personal regards, I am

Yours very truly,

Edith J. Goode
2141 wyoming Avenue
Washington 8, D. C.

 




house
Boston XXXXXXXXXX I711D Mass. Ave.
Washington é,
National rium‘al’le XXXXXXJCXXXXLX
Education Society Adams 2-«3358

CO

December 19,1

Dr. M. J. J. Houthuis, Director
Openbaar Slaughterhouse
Boesemstraat, Rotterdam

Dear Dr. Houthuis:

With other humane organizations and with the help of certain
individuals who have been studying the subject, we have started upon the
long hard road of slaughter reform in this country.

We are collecting information and comment from several countries.
We have a most stirring report of a visit to your plant from Miss M.
RaymondeuHawkins of England.

Will you be so kind and helpful as to answer the following
questions — questions usually raised here in connection with any method
of rendering the animals unconscious before lcilling:

1. Does the Either method render them completely and positively
unconscious, and not simply immobile?

2. Does it cause lung lesions or any change in the tissues which
could be mistaken for disease?

3. What rate of kill per hour can this method produce?
4. Is it applicable to all types of food animals?
5. What is the cost of the tongs?

Have you any other information or suggestions which would be
useful in our campaign of education which must preceéeaany consultation
with the representatives of the Meat Industry or with members of Congress.

With appreciation of any advice from you and with the highest
personal regards, I am

Yours very truly,

Edith J. Goods
2141 Woming Avenue
washington 8, D. C.

 




From.Miss M. Raymonde-Hawkins, Raystede, Ringmer. October 1951.
ngggﬁwgp visitmpaid,to theﬂgpepbaar Slaughterhguse at Boezemstraat, Bottepgmm

When I asked if I might visit the Rotterdam slaughterhouse during my stay
in Holland this week as a member of the world Federation for Animal Welfare Commit—
tee, I anticipated a brief visit to such an abattoir as Reading or frighten, and
little expected to experience a revelation of progress in both scientific and engi—
neering technique.

Slaughterhouses are not the pride of British municipalities, and leave much
to be desired in our rural areas. The entrance at Boezemstraat Slaughterhouse was
my first surprise, for the car might easily have been turning into the offices of
some affluent business house instead of to the gates of a municipal abbatoir.

The gate porter from.his office directed the car to the.office of Dr. M.J.J.
Houthuis, by whom I was received into a lofty and elegantly furnished office and
Board room to which Councillors come monthly for the report on the work of the abat—
toir. When coat and hat was taken from me I realized that this was to be no casual
call but a real visit and inspection, which indeed it proved to be, beyond any ex-
pectations when I asked to pay this visit. ’ ‘

Dr. Houthuis, over coffee, told me Something of the set up, and of the re~
lationship of his work to the State, and produced interesting reports and photo-
graphs of the improvements he has made of this old style slaughterhouse bringing it
up to date in every possible way. He has returned recently from Persia, where, at
the request of U.N.O. he has designed slaughterhouses for Iran and Irah. This
Dutch slaughterhouse has cost thousands of gelders to bring to this level but is
also bringing in 20,000 pounds annually from the work that passes through it day
and night.

He stressed the urgent importance of antemmortem inspection, which while
being insisted on in Continental countries, is not required in Great Britain. It
is important that qualified veterinary officials should inspect the live animal at
'the abattoir and for this purpose Dr. Houthuis has six veterinarians and eighteen
lay inspectors engaged full time on this alone. Both antemmortem and post mortem
examinations of all caresses is insisted upon by Dutch law, not only in the abat-
toirs but even where the farmsteads {ill their one hog annually for domestic con—
sumption.

lh'inspection started after about two hours of interesting discussion, and
having been requested to wash my hands, and be covered in a long white coat, cap
and clogs (Oh: the agony!) we set forth to the lairage where there was adequate
' Open and covered space, watering and feeding places. 240 cows had been there an
hour previously but it was Spotlessly clean. Then to a spacious and Very lofty
white tiled hall where the first examinations take place, and on to the actual
slaughtering, by electrical method. Here all animals are rendered unconscious by.
electrical method known as the Elther which resembles a pair of earphones fixed
over the animals head by a type_of large "Tongs" and the current regulated so that
a potential energy of 420 to 460 is applied for l to lé-seconds. I saw twelve pigs
thus slaughtered and there was not a sound from.either, and in two minutes from the
start, all twelve in turn were taken up by the escalator, ,assed over the blade,
bled into a shuts which received the blood, passed into large baths of hot water,
passed along to the other end when electrically the bristles were removed, and by
similar electrical power every process completed without any handling. Cloths, tow—
els and brooms are not allowed in this ultra hygienic place - sprays from the soil—

 




ing, foot controlled by every operator are placed at intervals of a few feet give
limitless water supply, and the hot air drying of the floors and hands is operable
with equal facility.

The caresses are cut up and the stomach passes to another floor. The in—
testines pass through-s-mile of journey to be washed after the manure has been
blown out and sucked into steel containers. Carcases are passed by overhead rails
into cooling halls, or, in the c se of suspect carcases into a detention room, and
the meat accordingly stamped or canned and sealed on the premises. Any'offal or
piece of meat suspect is tipped into a shute, from thence it falls into a padlocked
bin, thus preventing anyone from handling or using it.

The importance of cleanliness is stressed from the moment the men arrive,
for their overalls and hats are thoroughly laundered and dried daily, and they have
to pass under showers before and after work. Their canteen and recreation room was
a model of spotlessness, with flowers on the windowsills and on the tables.

The excellently equipped laboratories are staffed by qualified men, and in
no instance here or elsewhere in Europe is condemned meat dyed as in Great Britain
and sold for animal consumption.

The meat market continued the high standard of organization and cleanliness,
and throughout the day, during which I saw the slaughter of pigs, sheep and cows, I
was impressed by the humanitarian way that all animals were handled, and in Dr.
Houthuis one met a great humanitarian, who said that still to him, eve hill is a
pain, and as a vegetarian, he portrayed to me a great character, a disciplinarian.
Indeed, while as animal welfare workers we tglg of this type of place, here I found
it, an example to all from the sanitary and humanitarian angle.

The British Federation might take this as a standard for which to press the
local councils of this country, and whenever possible to press for the closing of
private slaughterhouses and aim at municipally controlled centres in the hands of
capable and qualified vetinarians and electrical technicians.

 




OPENBAAR SLACHTHUIS
EN VEEMARKT
TE ROTTERDAM,
ROTTERDAM~ Boezemstraat 34 _
Telefoon 1172 20
December 22nd 1954.
Directeur
Dr. M. J. J. Houthuis
Miss Edith J. Geode
2141 Myoming Avenue
Washington 8%WD.C.

Dear Miss Geode,

Acknowledging receipt of your letter of December 19th I'm.glad to
learn that the idea of protecting the animals from injury is rapidly
gaining ground nowadays in your country.

Hereunder the answers on your questions:

1. Indeed, all animals are unconscious for about 2—4 minutes.

2. We have never seen any lungmlesions nor any change in the tissues
which could be mistaken for diseases.

3. On applying the shockumethod the current is going through the brains
during %-— 1% seconds; with the 70-Voltmmethod it takes about lO~l5
seconds to stun them, which last method I preferably apply on hogs.
As the rate of killing does not depend upon this stunning, while this
is only a matter of seconds, one may — all according to slaughter»
houseprovisions, workingorganization and schedule of slaughtering»
actions ~ raise the killing rate, so to Speak, indefinitely per
tine—unit.

4. It is applicable to all types of food animals

5. The cost of the tongs themselves is very low, but the Elther—
apparatus are more costly. The complete set costs about 800 guilders.

However I would like to remark that our cattle are rather meek
and are used to being lead by the hand daily. Therefore it is quite
easy to put on the poles of the tongs without any danger for the people
handling the apparatus.

When a few months ago I saw a film produced by the Canada
Packers Ltd, about the newly developed method of beef~dressing on the rail,
I realised that the cattle in the USA are far more difficult and even
dangerous to handle in the way we're used to. It will then be necessary
to have another instrument constructed provided with a long handle to put
on the head, in order that the electrodes of the instrument may be
conveniently be hooked upon the temples without any danger after having
driven the animal into a knockingupen.

Furthermore I would suggest that you seek contact with Mr. Philip
H. and Mrs. Elsie It Sherwood, 400 Grove Street Westwood, Massachusetts,
whom I gave detailed information and my view on the case. For your
convenience I have enclosed copy of my letter to then, also some photon
graphs, the same as an article I published in a paper.

I am convinced that a concerted action from all humane
organizations in your country will ultimately ~ and I do wish

 




before long — load to the fervently desired end, i.e. the

revolution in the mind of all those, directly or indirectly

connected with the killing of slaughteringwanimals, in favor
of these dumb and defenceless creatures.

Yours sincerely}

/s/ Dr. M. J. J. Houthuis.

 




gm 1‘
«4.; N. a

“Hum; ‘. ,,

"I;

L 1
5 {1‘5 ‘- ”r“?
If £2.- L . . l.

7' 22‘???
£14,.» ‘;1

1
('4 afﬁﬁi P“
‘ éﬁ , 9
‘\:-~‘“ Mani.“ .2. 4“,; 1

on,

I ' “m,
' '-' ”a ‘- tun M71
1.. . U 4« 31,4),3'

.51 .1,

 




J 1 1 :1:
’35 - I h "L _
wank}: "Lu’ ’ If! > a" M

1""; hwy 4’“ “' T 33 z
IA *» 1L. $11.. .1 ,5'

1.1 _
13333*33 3331333 ~333313 13 133 313313
311333333 3 3h
13313;:31, 1311 3

"I!

13333EVQ313333'3333 £33 33‘? 13133333133 33w 33
131133. ‘ 313w 1:3 E1“ 53331 :1; 31-3113; 1132' 1". 31 3:1 4431:331‘ 33
3'33 33 1;;'* *331 3333313; at 31331 31 ﬁka~s ‘1 31 : ' 1 33
r 311 31331 33 male.

~Iv

”'1" 2 _, ‘ ‘ “‘ﬁ $ *3 1, 5‘: ’ ’M 1 . ‘x 1 ’1'» ‘9 ‘1': F”
1 131 33 113131 3311 33 333 33313333 3033 33 3331 35

t3 3313 3333133' 33 33 33 31r3 3:13 333 3313011 3333 333331331’1
“ 1333 f: 31133 to < 333“331 1331 3133 33313333 that 333 31:1
113333333133333s1~3333,“E1 31323313'”? ' '

311»
11:131....15 ‘3 Jr,

 




. ROT'IEEDAN, l3thNay 1955

OPENBAAR SLACHTHUIS , , ~ Boezemstraat 3h '

EN'VEEMARKT Telefoon 117220

Te , .

ROTTERDAM ‘ ' . The.§nimal welfare Institute
' ~~~ ‘ " ‘ BSO'Fiih avenue .

Directeur ‘ , ’ ﬂ
'Dr. M. J. J. Houthuis ‘ ‘ New York. Oxford S~21h6

 

In reply tOyour letter of hay lOth,ihereWith the
answers upon yOur questions: i * “ . v ‘

~1., Indeed, there are two methods of stunning hogs by means of electricity.. None
‘ of these methods produce lesions, provided the_apparatus is not faulty;

2. You are not well informed on this point; on the contrary We apply electric
.stunning for all cattle now. For.the reason of the positive unconsciousness thus
obtained and the better bleeding out of the slaughtered animal everyone is satisfied.

3. Horowith notes on electric stunning in which paper all technical informations
'are contained. ‘

h; -Pigs are stunned one after another by two men each one-of them.handling a pair

‘of tongs in an enclosure. The animals are apparently never frightened nor apprehensive,

in fact they look quite unconscious of what is going to happen to them.

5. I never witnessed a paralyzed hog through incorrect placing of the tongs. The-
thing is very simple; the (qualified) stunner grabs the pig with the tongs about the
ears and the pig falls down instantly. (The stunner takes care to catch the pig,

which is running freely in the enclosure at the very moment and place near the
converyorchain, that when the animal isrtunned, it can be shaCkled at once at one
hind-leg, hoisted up and conveyed to the place where it will be bled out), Immediately '
after the pig has fallen down one electrode of the tongs is placed.in the neighbourhood
‘of the left or right eye and one electrode on the opposite side behind the ear. After
about 10 to 15 seconds the animal stretches its hind legs a-this is a practical and ‘
sure sign that the animal has reached unconsciousness n'and it lies down quite motion~
less up to 5-10 minutes,~after which period it stands up again and acts quite nermal.
*The best way to prevent a faulty stunning is to place the electrodes on the above right
’places. In order to make sure that the current is going unhindered through the brains,
.a signalling apparatus is being introduced in the electric circuit, which apparatus
'warns by means ofra buzzing sound, that the correct potential energy is passing through.
If this signal does not work, there must be something wrong and.the electrodes should be
set aright. -

Please get into contact with Mr. Arthur Bedman,"lSOT Ravenna Blvd., Seattle 5, Washington
and With Mr. Philip H.and.Mrs. Elsie B, Sherwood. DQO Grove Street. Westwood, hassachusets,
'tO‘whom.l have given detailed infermations as well as photographs. I have none more left ~i
of these. A v ‘ '

 




-2-

The-National Humane Society in Washington invited me to meet them.and confer with
Michigan btate College scientists. The chances are that I will come over; so
keep contact with the said society, we might see one another eventually;

6. About 100 to 120 hogs are being Slaughtereé per hour at Rotterdam, with A qualified
stunners, nt we can.easily raise this rate; this is a matter of organization.

I hope that these informations are to your entire satisfaction.

Yours truly,
(s) M. J. J. Eouthuis

DI“ o riot]. cl] 9 HOUthUiS

 




. 3‘11”" 131, 1311'}.- 3111‘" 12$?
01311111 311“”TW'13 . 10333m3 uraab.3l3 '
3333 331.1 13131033 117210
_ Te
1’3 ‘” 13.1n1331 ~3113 133311333
3533: 1133:1333333333

333313 318 V - ' 3:3 .333 323. 3.33.3 33331 1n???

.n

a 313-113 3333 113133 31 11; 11133 1333313h
333 3333 3:331 3133 33333333 3 ‘

‘21. '131111 11333 333 133 ”’11111 31 33 333%3‘1331 13 31333 31 31333311131.
3 A .. 3 ,2
01 131 n 3:3? 1W 333 3331 1333333, 93331333 333 333333313 11’333 33.13%

2. ,133 333 331 3311 1113ww31 am M 313 3?9236_ ;3 131 03333333*m3 33313 31333313

513nn3 3113 3113 3313 333. 1&3 1? 333 ’ 313 “0333133 3333331333113“ 313
931313333 331 “ha 333 er 11331331 333 31 133 1313113 31 33 31311 33333313 13 $3= 3133131.

3. 13333131 33133 3331333330 312% 133 11 31131 313: 3311 1331310'1 1nf333313rng
333 933311131. ' 2 2

h» T131 133 mtanm31 0m3 31333 3313133 133 333 13323331 331*53 33333 33131 3 3313

1

3.}:
01 11115 11 31 3131333313 T31 3133313 333 1333331313‘33333 333 33» 371 333 333333131133,
in 1161 3133 1331 33133 33333331333 31 3133 13.33133 33 133313 La 3133.

'S. 1 33 333 wiquaﬁgad 3 313313331 10” 1233133 111333033 3133133 91 113 13133. The.
111n3 13 3333 333313; the (3331113311 3313333 3331 11 313 3131 313 tum11 31331 113
$311 111 313 311' 11118 13mm 3n3333113. {1‘3 113333 31333 3133 33 33131 313 113,

33’33 133'1nn3n 133313 11 313 313193333 $13 333 333 “333-3 333 31333 3333 313
6333333930131n’ 1131‘Whaﬂ_133.33331121 - .33 d, 13 33m 3. 11111311313333 33 333
hin1w13g, 1033331 333 33w 3333331 13311 31133 3.133 13 .111 33 1131 3333. 13331133313
1111? 111 111 113 131131 3331 333 313333333 33 .33 33333 13 311033233 3:3 3H3: 331333:d
31 313 131133 31313 333 331 333 313 33 @113 33 tum #333331» w1_m 333333 333 313. .11333
3102.33 10 to 133' 33ca313 313 33 3331 “traucwwa 113 1335 333 w tuwg 13 3 333311331 331
3111122 3: 311 1213131. 313 11111131 111:5 1133333331 11113333... 333112133 .311 *- 33111 13:; «3 3133131 3:133 ‘1.» 33333151131333”
1111 m3 no ﬁnlﬂ 31331335 31133 33311 313133 it 333313 13 37311 331 3333 qu133:333311.
The bawﬁxmny 33 3333333 3 133133 33 31133“ 13 33 31333 113 3133333333 33 313 31333 31311
3116. 110 a 3.33 10 3313 3.33 3131 113 0333333 13 33113 3313313331 1133331 113 133133,
3 81113111‘3 3‘“333333 331311 33133 ”331 In .13 11333333 313cu11; 311.31 nwmaxaﬁua
13131 13 “(3&1 $1 3 533313, 831$“. 1111 3h 69? 3391 matvnufa1 nn3333 13 333 ..~ ﬁhrmqw
I3 3313 $32 331 13333 361 33313 33133 3 . 33 1333333 3 33333 31m 313 01:.130 13 313333‘13
33-331. mg.“ ¢

T111'“ $11 1333 6331101 2:33 33. 13ﬂ3x $11.31, 1513 “133333 11331.3 1333311 1, 331313133
@3111 11:1. 1311 113?. 1.3.1le? gig 3331,? ‘11-?qu 115.3153” 11111331111901. 1.31% {11113134131 33%“?5121}. 43.5% 1.333;} W13 1&1 gavhﬁﬁgﬁhg
30 when 1 have g1van 3111113ﬁ.13 33311103 33 3311 3% 31111333333. 1,vag myn3 may? 3:31
91 333333.

 




The 2737777171173 Txmimne Tmcir 135 in 7777777777 7707 1717 3.777777 77 77 ’77 7 7:77 77777.7 777 with
ﬁicﬁiian @7777 771 777 87777777t37 Th7 7%: 7777 777 7777 1 v1 T11 CO m OTCTS 30
R777 7777777 7777.ih7 7717 7777777, 77 377 777 777 770 ”he? 7W 7'7771;

a. an»? $10 :‘ﬂ': 3 "t.. ‘3’ _ 8”; ¢ .
T. .77777 Tﬁﬁ 77 130 $737 777 n n: ﬂ.7377Tc‘gi 7r haur 7t:‘ TQtT777777 leﬂ a-Qﬁﬁ17579d
v7«w~77«7 hat 77 777 777TT¥ 77T77 777» 7717; 7'. ;> 7 777777 7T 77777777377

tux .LT "1&5 a!

7* 7777.17 777 “777 77777 777%.77 77* 777717771771.

77 .73 . T717777T777i7

 




ﬁgﬁifi

inc-31

$113111?!"

2* 11:12”
t1; 7"" 171

m?

=11-
Ii.

$3.43,. 1‘.“
1 3* 'L'

.138
11
13‘ .
.133.

ﬁvax? .5,§{41 WK”. . . ,
11.9.1 :11? l- . .4
“'1 1’13 111."?11’11;

"311113:

1 M58! «131’

“11

t

11 11:71.;

~11
mu {-1

.. ~
‘1 1.
11.5”?1. 1.1
11,111
3111313“. 1.1 -

4,1

11:11 .113“

“5““
33:51.

1:1"? 11:1
1113‘”; 5'12

‘31::
ﬁg,-

““591
if

”I?

:1
i
wq.

'I..
p:

. 11:11

.. 1. 3‘, 1;.

«13'1“ 1K1”) Way 1 :3

«My-1 1:
11;:

gyt‘gmg)’ 111101116
1.511 3.3

VJ
{ u”
1;?“ '31»me

WV‘
331

gr.
‘1} Lﬂﬁﬁ?

‘ . . .v
1 7‘ 341$;

11

WW1“? .
4-» 1‘4. 141‘.

1:1:

”1‘

g} - 1-1-1. ..
m .. .11 1131.1“

gin-1'1: ah; :v-m-E‘fyi 33‘ Vt“ m?“ i.
1 ., 111453-21 1313

15’

xanf'

1:11 .13” 1. 3311'?!»

 

€5,35va

3..“ ..
£1.91

.{11g} E
111121;» ”.911.

4“ M “a“?ﬁ km? ‘11::

a ‘ $316M

 

’1 5,. {I {“"1 d?“
117,153? «$14513 1’,

A {

ail. ..
5}. mm..-

1.?

‘1;‘$*~»"~. ('21 1 .w gas":
'12 i :1". _. .1

It!"
1:: ;

3' 1 '1'?

iv? 1'ch

«My?

. .
1M 1.. a”, -

. 1 .

r: N "_

1'11”sz .
W1???
1‘ 1‘)" 44m

‘11 1. 1.111
1‘;

m. “N“
’.|{‘
(x

1;“
. ., 1V} b» "“1

"arm if. a“ 1"- '
as -

1‘6

19'

21"}3
" dv‘h

.1111

”1‘1. " .11

3 ‘11.:
£3,151. .

W931»: .‘

‘1 .15; 911..

11-33» ..

12411.11 um vs»

11*... .‘M
i

21‘: 1.

0% -. . ;
'i' "HW‘ g
%; Age/u”

WWW"
. 1 .ﬂ. .«
11
1:171 43‘“ :1
1 $1,314 ‘17;

, .3
. vu}*\....¢ i

1 , ..
mm 11:11“ :1. 1:11

«,5

if
1
a.
la

1mm“.

" ‘ 1 Mr
.1 \ mm
1.

3'5;

1" H ,
w
'19”

1.1121111

Yuﬂ'm
1.1..
1 :3)“

v ,
u




_ - . 2», - ~ .413 s _ ‘ “ w. ~19;- 1 t ‘ '
Tm.» . . 2111:2231, 1mm » .. 1:1: z .
{-‘L 6’- ”3:15;. A " 2 i. L .m: L 5‘ x» L‘ 8- ‘ "(gm

§§sgpamké¢ f?"- “ ”:r. ' 1i .1" '1 = £41; 1L3- QI'Wﬁ

' 1 .1 as?
1%?
59:

=1 1L. 1 . . . ~ 1. , ., _ ‘- , - .1 *f'?‘ - __ .1 3, j; 3 ; 1 . .‘
in"? $1,;. ; 11:41.: 1 . " .31 my “17%” 1.1.3.: 3 , {if‘lmfwﬂﬁ

7 " .r _
X,»‘- (R .‘r. .IL n:

x\',A,'$J'W 7;?” ‘ . V '1“ 'f »; '1 U-_ ‘ ' "wanr‘nm‘w'

 




 

OPENBAAR SLACHTHUIS
EN VEEMARKT ROTTERDAM, 12 1:11 My 1955.

TE BOEZEMSTRAAT 34
R O T T E R D A M TELEFOON 117220
DIRECTEUR

Dr.

E. D. 90 500 12:54

M. J. J. HOUTHUIS

The Animal Welfare Institute
550 Fifth Avenue

New York. Oxford 5—2146.

 

In reply to your letter of may 10th, herewith the
answers unon your dues stions:

1. Indeed, there are two methods of stunning hogs by means of
electricity. None of these methods nroduce lesions, provided
the apparatus is not faulty.

2. You are not well informed on this point; on the contrary
we apply electric stunnine for all cattle now. For the reason
of the nositive unconscious 3ness thus obtained and the better
bleeding out of the elaugntered animal everyone is satisfied.

3. Herewith notes on electric stunning in which paper all
technical informations are contained.

4. Iig3 are stunned one after another by two men eech one of
them handlinv a ouir of tones in E1n enc1053ure. Th.e animals
are nearently never frightened nor anJrehen sive, in feet
they look quite unconscious oi what is going to hanpen to

them.

5. I never titnecs d a paralvzed hog throumh incorrect pla cing
oi the tongs . The thing is very simnle; the (cu1liii d)
stunner grabs the pig VJ’lth the ionrs z1hout the ears and the
pig falls down instantly. (The stunner takes care to catch
the pig, which is running freely in the enclosure at the
very moment and place near the conveyorchein, that when
the animal ~s stunned, it can he shackled at once at one hind-
leg, hois sted up and conveyed to the niece vhere it will he
bled out). linediatcly miter the his has fallen down one
electrode of the tongs is placed in the neighbourhood of
the left or right eye and one electrode on the cpncs its side
behind the ear. After about 10 to 15 seconds the aniral
stretches its hind 13in w this) is a nractical and sure sign
that the animal das r11ched un.consc1oancss n and it lies
down quite motionless up to 5~10 minutes, miter which period
it “ten/“is up 213:: ain a161n acts quite norr 11:311.

he he: 31:1wry to nreverﬁ;31ifeulty stu1nm1u§ is to place time
electrodes on the above rig ht nlaces. In order to make sure
that the current is going unhindered through the brains, a
signellinr epneratus is heine introduced in the elc-111c
circuit, w11ich dlﬂdTeLUo Warnk by means of a buzzing sound,
the-t the correct potential energy 's passing through. If
thi r signal does not tor1., there must he something wrong
and the electrodes should he set aright.

 




Elesse get into contact with tr. Arthur ﬁednan, 1507 Revenna
Blvd, Seattle 5, Meshington.sno with Er. Bhilig H. end 11s.
Elsie E. Sherwood. 400 Grove Street. hestwood, Nassschusetts,
to whom I heve given detailed infornetions as well as photo—
graphs. 1 have none sore left of these.

Ehe Rational human Society in Msshington invited me to meet
them and confer with Tichigsn State College scientists. The
chances are that I will come over; so keep contact with the
said society, we might see one another eventually.

6. About 100 to 120 hogs are being slaughtered ner hour at
Rotterdam, with 4 Qualified stunners, but we can easily raise

.4.

this rete; this is s metter of organization.
hope that these informations are to your entire satisfaction.

Yours truly,

 




Boston xxxxxxxxxx , 1711 Mass. Ave.

xxxxxxxxxxxx
Adams 2w3358

December 19, 1954

Dr. M. J. J. Houthuis, Director
Openbaar Slaughterhouse
Boesemstraat, Rotterdam

Dear Dr. Houthuis:

With other humane organizations and with the help of certain

individuals who have been studying the subject, we have started upon the
long hard road of slaughter reform in this country.

we are collecting information and comment from several countries.

We have a most stirring report of a visit to your plant from Miss M.
RaymondenHawkins of England.

Will you be so kind and helpful as to answer the following

questions ~ questions usually raised here in connection with any method
of rendering the animals unconscious before killing:

1.

2.

3.
4.
5.

Does the Elther method render them completely and positively
unconscious, and not simply immobile?

Does it cause lung lesions or any change in the tissues which
could be mistaken for disease?

What rate of kill per hour can this method produce?
Is it applicable to all types of food animals?

What is the cost of the tongs?

Have you any other information or suggestions which would be

useful in our campaign of education which must precedmaany consultation
with the representatives of the Meat Industry or with members of Congress.

With appreciation of any advice from you and with the highest
personal regards, I am

Yours very truly,

Edith J. Goods
.2141 Wyoming Avenue
washington 8, D. C.

 




OPENBAAR SLACHTHUIS
EN VEEMARKT
TE ROTTERDAM,
ROTTERDMM Boezemstraat 34
Telefoon 1172 20
December 22nd 1954.
Directeur
Dr. M. J. J. Houthuis
Miss Edith J. Geode
2141 wyoming Avenue
washington 8. D.C.

Dear Miss Goods,

Acknowledging receipt of your letter of December 19th I'm glad to
learn that the idea of protecting the animals from injury is rapidly
gaining ground nowadays in your country.

Hereunder the answers on your questions:

1. Indeed, all animals are unconscious for about 2—4 minutes.

2. We have never seen any lungmlesions nor any change in the tissues
which could be mistaken for diseases.

3. On applying the shockumethod the current is going through the brains
during %-— lé-seconds; with the 70~Volt~method it takes about lO~lS
seconds to stun them, which last method I preferably apply on hogs.
As the rate of killing does not depend upon this stunning, while this
is only a matter of seconds, one may — all according to slaughter»
houseprovisions, workingorganization and schedule of slaughtering»
actions m raise the killing rate, so to speak, indefinitely per
time-unit.

It is applicable to all types of food animals
The cost of the tongs themselves is very low, but the Elther~
apparatus are more costly. The complete set costs about 800 guilders.
{owever I would like to remark that our cattle are rather meek
and are used to being lead_by the hand daily. Therefore it is quite
easy to put on the poles of the tongs without any danger for the people
handling the apparatus.

When a few months ago I saw a film produced by the Canada
Packers Ltd, about the newly developed method of beefmdressing on the rail,
I realised that the cattle in the USA are far more difficult and even
dangerous to handle in the way we're used to. It will then be necessary
to have another instrument constructed provided with a long handle to.put
on the head, in order that the electrodes of the instrument may be
conveniently be hooked upon the temples without any danger after having
driven the animal into a knockingmpen.

Furthermore I would suggest that you seek contact with Mr. Philip
H. and Mrs. Elsie Ii Sherwood, 400 Grove Street Westwood, Massachusetts,
whom I gave detailed information and my View on the case. For your
convenience I have enclosed copy of my letter to them, also some photo-
graphs, the same as an article I published in a paper.

I am convinced that a concerted action from all humans
organizations in your country will ultimately - and I do wish

 




before long — lead to the fervently desired end, i.e. the

revolution in the mind of all those, directly or indirectly

connected with the killing of slaughteringuanimals, in favor
of these dumb and defenceless creatures.

Yours sincerely,

/s/ Dr. M. J. J. Houthuis.

 




‘ «9.
f.
ELECTRIC STUNNING or sHEEP.

it,
.1 ,
\ .-

Report to the Central Council of Societies in Scotland "e
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

By Phyllis G. Croft, Ph.D., M.R.O.V.S.
and I

C.W. Hume, B.Sc.

ulouooonoo-oolt'

 

l. OccaSion and nature of report.»

At the request of the Central COuncil of Societies in Scotland
.for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals we obserVed the slaughter
of 51 sheep in the abattoir of the Glasgow Corporation on the 17th
and l8th February, 1955. The equipment used for stunning, including
a Quickstun applicator, has been supplied by the North British
Appliance Co. Ltd., 27 Jamaica Street, Glasgow.
‘ 2 Out of the El sheep, 27 undoubtedly were stunned effectively,
one probably was so stunned, as to one there was doubt, one was not
effectively stunned before slaughter, and in one case current had to
be applied three times before stunning was effected. Our conclusion
is that there is no difficulty in stunning the average sheep
effectively, but that in a small proportion of cases the process is
not so satisfactory. The slaughtermen say that old ewes and rams
are sometimes difficult to stun.-

We shall make certain recommendations in this connection in
'secticns lO and ll below.

V2. ‘The current~supp1y circuit;-

 

Current for stunning is taken from a transformer which is
mounted on the wall of the abattoir and is supplied from the public

mains.

 




.TheTOpen—circuit voltage across the electrodes was nominally
90 volts but varied in practice between 78 and 82.5 volts as
measured by us. Fluctuations in the supply voltage are usual
in heavily loaded mains, and must always be allowed for in the
design and use of electrical apparatus.

5. The Quickstun applicator. This consists essentially
of two electrodes 2, 5, Figure l, joined by a rigid handle which
incorporates an on-off switch 4. The applicator, comparable in
shape and size with a telephone receiver, is designed for use with
one hand, so that the other hand is free for controlling the sheep.

The electrode 2 is a slightly curved perforated metal plate
which is pressed against the nose of the sheep. The electrode 5
consists of a metal tube with serrated end. .This tube contains a
Sponge which projects slightly from the metal holder. The distance
between electrode 2 and the centre of electrode 5 is 7 inches, and
electrode 5 is about 1 inch in diameter.

The whole apparatus is dipped in a bucket of water at intervals.
There is no possibility of altering the distance between electrodes
2 and 5, and the position of electrode 3 can only be varied along
the circumference of a circle whose centre is the nose of the sheep,
and whose radius is 7 inches. In practice, electrode 5 is applied
near the eye of the sheep, but the size of the sheep's head determines
whether 5 is above the eye (Figure 5) or below (Figure 4).

4. Duration of shock.

 

For the first four sheep on the first day (see the appended

table) the slaughtermen were left free to take their own time.
They then applied the current for from 10 to 14 seconds. For the
remaining seven sheep on that day the duration of the current was
prescribed by ourselves, and was 5 seconds for each of two sheep
and 3 seconds for the remaining five.

On the second day the slaughtermen were left free to choose

the duration of the shock. ‘They now usually applied the current

 




 

 

 

Figure I: Quickstun applicator
l, handgrip; 2, nose electrode;
3, face electrode; 4, switch.

Figure 2: Location of thalamus in sheep’s head.

he .
3“?“ Bram

,5 ye

Figure 4: Correct placing of face

electrode.

A, position of nose electrode 2;

B, best attainable position of face
electrode 3.

Figure 3: Incorrect placing of

face electrode.
A, position of nose electrode 2;
B, wrong position of face electrode 3.

 




O -5- O

for 5 or 4 seconds, but in one case for 2 seconds and in one case
for 5 seconds.

The difference betwee their choices of timing on the first
and second days may have been due to the fact that they were
performing under observation and accordingly wished to make quite
sure until they had gained confidence.

5. Strength of current.

 

The current fluctuated during each application, presumably
as a result of Variation in the firmness with which the electrod s
were pressed against the head. The upper and lower limits of the
readings taken with an AVometer are given in the accompanying table.
At some instant during each application the current rose to at least
200 milliamperes. The maximum to which the current ever rose was
the 540 mA. noted in the case of sheep No. 29. The minimum to
which the current ever fell was the 100 mA. noted in the case of
sheep No. l, but the current applied to that sheep rose later to

250 mA.

6. Criterion of effective stunning.

 

Unconsciousness was assumed to have been produced if the animal
showed the signs of an electroplectic fit. Absence of these signs

was assumed to indicate what is called ’missed shock’. The course

of an electroplectic fit is as follows:

(i)!Tonic phase. Immediate flexion of all four
limbs and closing of eyes, followed in'a few
seconds by extension of hind-legs. This
stage takes about 10 seconds.

Clonic phase. Gradual relaxation of muscles,
followed by vague walking movements of hind

legs. Eyelids usually open during this

stage and the eyes are seen to be rotated upwards
so that the pupil cannot be seen. This stage
lasts about 50 seconds after the end of the tonic
phase.

Recovery (not normally seen in the slaughterhouse
The animal's eyes appear normal and it looks around
and tries to rise or lift its head. The animal
is no longer unconscious by this time.
7. Probable cause of occasional failure. We believe
this to have lain in the positioning of the electrode 5 on the

sheep's face, rather than in variation in individual susceptibility,

although it is known that the latter varies from animal to animal

 




. ~4- .

and from one human being to another. (For instance, a current
which, when correctly applied, is quite sufficient to stun the
average pi; may fail to stun an old boar, though applied in

exactly the same way. This fact is allowed for in the Elther
apparatus, which will be referred to in paragraph 9, and which
provides differently graded doses for different classes of animals.)
nor, in the present instance, werezgzo or three failures attributable
to any Variation in the strength of the current, which was much the
same in those as in the successful cases.

The most probable cause of occasional failure lay, in our
opinion, in the placing of the upper electrode 5 on the animal’s
face. In particular, the length er a sheep's face varies from
animal to animal, while the distance between the electrodes is-fixed-

In order to bring on an electroplectic fit, with attendant loss
cf consciousness,-it is necessary to produce a sufficient current—
lensity in the brain, in the neighbourhood of the thalamus. - The
position of the thalamus is roughly shown in Figure 2.

Out of the total current flowing; an appreciable.fraction
passes by way of the outer muscles of the face and misses the brain
altogether. , Of that part which does pass through the brain, only
a fraction on the outer edge of the current stream passes through
the thalamic region so as to be effective for stunning, and the
magnitude of this fractien will vary with the position in which the
electrode 5 is placed on the face. Since the distance between
the electrodes is fixed, the current—density in the neighbourhood
of the thalamus may be insufficient to cause a fit if the sheep
has an eXceptionally long face, or if the upper electrode is placed
out of line.

If the head is large the electrode 5 may be below the brain as
shown in Figure 5, and the current-density near the thalamus will
then be insufficient to cause a fit. The fact that the electrode
3 was in the position Shown in Figure B'in sheepros. 2 and 7 seems
to be the most probable explanation of the faulty stunning in these

animals. The electrode appeared to be in a simiklr position in

some of the other sheep in the group ll~ ll, but apparently the

 




O O
-5»

Spread of current was sufficient to cause unconsciousness in
these cases, since a satisfactory electroplectic fit occurred.
The electrode 5 was in the position shewn in Figure 4 in all
the sheep in the group 12 — 51. There appears, however, to
be an insufficient margin: the current—density around the
thalamus is too near the lowest permissible limit to be reliable.

8. Saftey of the operator.

 

Everybody who occasionally tinkers with his electric lighting
system without first Opening the main switch must have touChed
live conductors by mistake from time to time. Although the'
pressure may be 240 volts, no harm has resulted beyond a
momentary sting which made him withdraw his hand. Danger to
life from voltagarof this order arises when the conditions are
such that the hand closes over the conductor and cannot be'
released, or when for some other reason contact is not immediately
broken.

The voltages in general use in slaughterhouses could be
fatal with sustained application and good electrical contact;.
on the other hand they could safely be increased provided that
Suitable precautions be taken.

For the safety of the Operator a transformer is used as a

buffer, and either the secondary circuit may be completely

insulated, so as to haVe a floating potential, or a chosen point.

in it may be earthed. In any case the conductor which is most
likely to be touched by the Operator must be earthed, as it is
(through the cable) at Glasgow. As an additional precaution

the handgrip of the Quickstun applicator is covered with
insulation, though the effect of this safeguard will be diminished
if the handgrip is wetted. However, a man wearing rubber boots
Iruns little risk in any case.

9. The Either system.

 

This is in use in Holland and is made by the Ingenieursbureau
Cohen Stuart N.V., Electro~medische Apparaten, Vaartweg‘66,
Hilversum. It has been favorably reported upon by J. Hickman

(1954) and by Dr. F. Jean Vinter, Technical Secretary of UFAW,

 




O O
-5-

who has seen it in operation at Rotterdam. It is, however,
little understood in Britain, probably because_the available
translations of Dutch texts use unidiomatic terminology {for
instance they refer to whatvve call a imissed shock’ as an
'abortive insult‘), and because they.eXpress the dose in terms
Of the watt-second, a unit which may be unfamiliar to non—

electrical readers. ‘ The duration of the shock is restricted

by a time switch to %, l or 1% seconds, and its strength can

be varied from 99 to 630 watt—seconds to suit the type of
animal (pig, sheep, young bull, old bull etc,) The dose
recommended for sheep is 198 watt—seconds and that for old
bulls 420’watt-seconds. . The preferred duration is 1 second.
The advantages of using a time Switch for antenatically_
'restricting the time are that (l) damage to the carcase is

prevented.- There might be haemorrhage anc fractures if too

much electrical enercv were applied. (2) The safety of the

, CHI:

Operator is greatly.increased, both by diminishing the chance
of his touching a live contact and.by limiting the energy in

the shock.

The electrodes are metal rings with teeth which are pressed

.through the hair on to the skin.u They are mounted on tongs and

applied to opposite sides of the head at carefully chosen points.

They could, however, be mounted like earphones on a hoop~shaped
‘”spring if a single—handed use he insisted upon.

With the Elther‘apparatus the strength of the shock is much
greater than that used at Glasgow. For example, in’a typical
instance at Glasgow a current of about 0.250 amp. was passed for

:15 seconds under a pressure of 80 volts; the dose was therefore
60 watt-sec., whereas the recommended dose for sheep, as given 9
by the Either apparatus, is 198nwatt»seci This increase in the

O}

strength of the a c ° 5- a; partly by using a higher voltage,
about 140 volts in tho present instance, and partly by reducing
the contact resistance.b The latter is about 100 ohms in the
present instance, as against'SOO or more ohms at Glasgow.'

'The effectiveness of the shock is still further ensured by

 




7.

passing the current transversely through the brain from side to
side of the head, instead of down one side of the head as with

the Quickstun applicator, with which only the outer edge of the

v

current stream reaches to the essential thalamic region.

10. Practical recommendations for Glasgow.

 

'The existing emiipment at Glasgow has been in use for a long

time, the slaughtermen are accustomed to it, and it effectively
stuns the average sheep. A very strong case wouki probably be
needed, therefore, before consent to any drasticinnovation couIi
be obtained from all those who woul’ be entitled to a voice in
the decision.

There are, however, two improvements that could be made without
any drastic change being entailed, and they might considerably
reduCe-the risk of failing to stun.

(l) The voltage could be raised;, the current-density in the
thalamic region would then be raised in a higher proportion, for the
resistance of living tissue decreases with increase in voltage.
The safety of the operator would be but little affected by raising
the voltage from the present nominal 90 volts to 150 volts or even
higher, provided that a buffer transformer be retained. The earth
connection through the cable is an important precaution against
accidents.

(2) By careful instruction and supervision the placing of the
sponge electrode 5 on the side of the face could be improved, so as
to maximize that fraction of the current which passes through the
thalamic region. ‘The ideal site for the sponge electrode 5 is
between the eye and the base of the ear, about an inch nearer to
the midline of the sheep’s face. The rigidity of the applicator
limits the choice of , < but it is important to avoid applying
the Sponge electrode below the line oining the eye and base of the
ear. 'If the sheep are hor ed, the electrode should be applied
close to the base of the horn.

ll. Erectical recommendation for new installations.

From paragraph 9 above it will be seen that the Elther

apparatus appears to have considerable advaitages over the Quickstun.

 




O 8 C

With the prescribed dosage it can a , stun the most
difficult animal, and by automatica ‘miting the duration
of the shock it increases the safety of the slaughterman and
obviates all risk of damaging the 9%?9386: sgis therefore
recommend that an Elther apparatus should be obtained from
Hilversum and tried out in a Scottish abattoir.

1.312. 'General criticism ofﬁelectric stunning.

Electric stunning has the following disadvantages as compared
with shooting.

(1) Subsequent inepection of the carcase does not disclose
whether or not the animal was_stunned before slaughter.

(2) There is a tendency in many slaughterhouses to reduce
the nominal voltage to a minimum, say 70 Volts (though 80 volts
is used at Glasgow). A drop in the mains voltage, due to heaVy
loading Of a feeder, may then easily give rise to missed shock.

(3) Missed shock ensues if the electrodes are wrongly placed.
Instances still come to our notice in which pigs are gripped behind
the ears with the stunning tongs, in which case they are paralysed
ibut not rendered unconscious. The temptation to make this mistake
is censiderable because the easiest way to seize a pig with the
tongs is the wrong way, and the animal, being paralysed, looks as
if it were unconscious.

15. AckhOwledgments.

 

We have to thank the Central Council of Societies in_Scotland
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals for inviting us to make
this investigation and paying all our expenses; Mr. Geo. S.
Drysdale for making the necessary arrangements; Mr. Alex. McNab,
General Manager of Markets, Mr. Sydney G. Abbott, M.B.E., M.R.C.V.S.,
D.V.S.M., Corporation Veterinary Surgeon, and Er. Crawford,
Independent Slaughterman, with his staff, for affording facilities
and helpful co—operation; Mr. S. Simpson, Foreman Electrician, for
assistance;. and.the.RoyaleOQi§ Y for 103D Of an Avometer.

References.

 

F.W; lervoert, K. Cohen Stuart and J. Stroes: "Contribution

to Electric Stunning of Slaughter Cattle and Application of the

 




-9-

Electroshook Apparatus Elther in Cattle Slaughtering". Duplicated

script translation from Schweitzer Archio. fur Tierheilkunde, 9=

(1950).

V ’
m

 

£.J.J. Houthuis, "Notes ' +lectrlc Anaesthesia" (Duplicated

Script).

P.G. Croft, "The Effect of Electrical Stimulation of the

Brain on the Perception of Pain“, J. Ment. S013, 98, 421 (1952),

 

o . ”’1 o 1 u n a a .A v - a 't
J. Hlokman, "The blectrlcal Sturolog OI aolmals for Sladghter

Vet. Record, 9?.» 498 (1954).

”

 




Observations on stunning of shee_o9

 

 

 

'Sheep NOIT fCurrert (mA.) g ' a 3; Remarks.
proJueeJ

 

 

 

 

 

Open-circuit voltage before killing: 8235 V.

......

lOO~253 5 V les i Operator one)“

After 5 3 his own time.
Shocks ‘
Y e s
176 S

 

Yes Obs ezev er
Yes
No pre stﬂeibed

 

@mqmm +1303

time

Dowbtful "
Yes "

 

 

Hrs
P-JO

 

 

 

 

 

Open~oiiwnli"

 

 

Not 1>Hcrved ‘ g r.i é Operator
25; ' chose time
"by“; 2?.

UKJ J
lSOwﬁjﬂ
510 * “

.h
6.

550«BSO
250
509

280’"5 JO

210- :30

 

25
240w280
260
2"?!“
190~270

QaCNCﬂDDCﬁ. khtbtﬂfﬁfﬁ

280
290
540
250
260~510

 

 

mm®¢m

 

 

 

Open—circuit voltage after killing: 82»

 

 

 




December 15th 1954.

To Mr. Philip H. and P s.
Elsie B. Sherwood.

400 Grove Street

Westwoad . .liassacmmmtlaiiﬂéii

I could not repress a feeling of abhorrence on reading your
Open letter.

I am wondering how it is possible that such cruelties exist

in the United States, a country that we are looking up to in
many respects, a country that is always regarded as an example to
other ecuntries.

We sober Dutchmen regard cruelty as a crime to our own soul, it
humiliates human dignity. We respect the transition from.life to
death of any creature.

But even if "some" people in your country have no respect for

the life of these dumb creatures because they only serve to create
dollars, a more adequate, not to speak of humane, treatment, would
render them.more dollars.

This sounds all the more incredible because judging by the
publications I happened to read, there exists in America something
like the National Livestock Exchange and a Ihreau of Animal Industry, .
that have taken great pains to give.stockholders advice how to ship
cattle 0

Moreover I am.informed, laws on cattlemtransport seem to exist in
your country not only to safeguard public health but also to ensure
a safe conveyance of cattle, so your information quite surprises me.
Possibly the institutions charged with the carrying out of these
regulations are failing in the fulfilment of their duty.

In the Netherlands strict regulations are in force to prevent cruelty
to animals. Violations of these laws are severely punished.

It might probably interest you to have a glance at a paper, herewith
annexed, I delivered to the Seminar in Copenhagen arranged by the
World Health Organization in February this year. In this paper you
will find the Netherlands regulations on cattle—tranSport; these

rules have been inspired by the Netherlands Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, which society enjoys the patronage of the Queen.

The difference between your and my country might probably be that
here leading personalities such as statesmen, scientists, etc. are
impregnated with the idea of protecting animals from injury;

 




-2-

As regards slaughtering previous stunning is lawfully prescribed in
Holland; inspectors are regularly traveling over the whole country
to see to it that the rules on stunning are carried out. I can
assure you that severe verdicts have been passed on transgressions.
Striking on the head as a means of stunning for example is explicitly
forbidden. j

I enclose herewith translation of the articles on stunning previous
to slaughtering. From.the trend of these rules and regulations you
will see that we are ever trying to perfect the painless killing of
slaughtering—animals. No method can be good enough to mitigage the
suffering of animals.

It might interest you to know that the law on electric stunning
is very new for our country. In Denmark it is the only lawful way
of stunning.

A committee composed of scientists in human and veterinary medecine,
amongst whom the undersigned, and also in electrophysics etc. has
explored this vast field of electric stunning for several years and
we have come to the conclusion, that this way of stunning is more
humane than stunning by means of the captive bolt. Moreover it is
absolutely painless. I believe you know electric stunning is common
in humane therapy. Patients that have undergone such a treatment on
interrogation afterwards declare to have no reminiscence of pain.

It is a common occurrence that after such a treatment patients
frequently ask whether and when they have to under go electric
stunning. So this phenomenon is the best proof that electric stunning
is quite harmless and what is more important for the case we are
fighting for, painless.

Only a few weeks ago a Seminar was held at Utrecht (Holland) in which
the most eminent scientists participated and we have brilliantly won
the plea for electric stunning.

For those addicted to the dollartheory it might be interesting to
learn that from an economic standpoint electric stunning is far more
preferable than stunning by captive bolts because:
1. Electric current is cheap; every cartridge for a captive bolt
on the other hand at least costs a few cents.
2. This method of stunning does not cause haemorrhages and does not
damage the brains as captive bolts do.
Cattle will bleed out more effectively, thus favoring the
tenability of the meat.
4. Electric stunning is working noiselessly in contradistinction to
captive bolts, which will make the other animals nervous.

From a humane point of view I also prefer electric stunning. On appli»

cation of the captive belt I found the following symptoms.

1, When an animal is pierced with a sharp object it reacts.

2. When the tail is stood upon it reacts.

3. Also on pricking with a pointed object between the claws, it
tries to strike with its leg.

4. A hog after it has been bled out gave reactions when put in the
scalding~tub.

5. A horse tried to raise its neck and head after it fell down.

Nobody will convince me that the animal is quite senseless after stunning
with the captive bolt. On the other hand, on electric stunning none of
the named reactions could be observed.

 




I have inserted some notes, also from the technical point of

view on electric stunning.

I fail to see why stunning previous to slaughtering, whether it is
electrical or by means of the captive bolt should not be practical
in big slaughtering-plants. The difficulty is to get the people in
your country to practise stunning previous to slaughtering. If
people show willingness, if they are prepared to be reformed
socially, the rest will be a matter of organization.

From.the enclosed photographs with explanations you will observe
that even in big plants stunning may be managed conviently and
adequately. .

I quite agree with Mr. John C. Macfarlane to get the public opinion
aroused against the present system in your country.

An effective means to obtain that end may be to show a film (talky)
in technicolor of that detestable way of slaughtering and one of how
it is done here in Europe. The people will then be able to judge to
which method of slaughtering preference should be given, with or
without previous stunning. '

Also publications might contribute to win this cause. I have no
objections against publication of this letter if you think it
suitable for your purpose.

Wishing you success, I am,

Yours sincerely,

Dr. M.J.J.Houthuis
Director of The Public
Slaughterhouse of
Rotterdam.

 




EXTRACT FROM THE ROYAL DEGREE OF SEPTEMBER 10th 1954.
CHAPTER 3. Procedure of Slaughtering.

Article 7.

Slaughtering-animals have to be killed by ble<3ding them out as

soon as pos‘ sible, in any case within one minute after previous

stunning.

The rules on stunning are not applicable to slaughteringanimals

of which the men t is de: stined for consumption by Israelites and

in connexion whereof the animals are destined ior killing according

to the Israelitic rite.

. Article 8

Stunning has to be effected:

by means of apparatuses, through which the great brains otherwise

than by a bullet are offended as a cause whereof consciousness

is discontinued as soon as possible and unconsciousness of suf~

ficient duration will manifest its elf.

by means of administering an electric current through the gr at

brains such that consciousness will be discontinued and unconsm

ciousness will mariifest itself.

by means of gasses.

Shooting the animals through the brains is only admissible in

cases of emergency.

The methods of stunning described in sub~paragraph l b and c are

only admissible in plants, whose direction or owners have obtained

a written permit from the minister and are subject to the conm

ditions stipulated by the minister.

The permit will be granted for one or more kinds of sla.ughtering

animals, that will be cxpressedly named; the grant is issued until

further notice.

In case of refusal or revocation of the permit the interested

party may Within 30 days from the date of the despatch of the

verdict, appeal to the Queen.

Article 9.

It is prohibited to strike on the animals head and either to pierce

or to cut the spinal marrow in order to effect unconsciousness or

immobility.

Striking on the head is defined as striking with an object at which

is attached a pin, the head of the s aughteringanimal as a result

whereof the great brains are offended.
Article 10.

In case of slaughtering according to the Israelitic rite, the

following rules have to be observed:

a. The fettering and laying down of the animal may only be effected
with due care, in accordance with the instructions from the
veterinaryminspector in charge.

b. The material being used for these manipulations shoull be in good
condition.

0. When laying down the animal, care has to be taken that its head
and horns shall not be offended; aiter cutting open the throat the
head should be kept still until continuous motionlessness manifests
itself.

Fettering and laying down the animal may only take place when the
subject charged with cutting the throat is present.
Immediately after laying down the animal the throat has to be
cut open.
Article 11. ,

It is prohibited to execute any actions excepted shortening of the
artery during or after the bleeding out before a constant immobility has
manifested itself.

Article 12.
Hanging the animals before stunning is prohibited.

 




   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
     
   
   
   
   

to

l.

3.

3.

2.

l.
2.

ORDINANCE OF THE MINISTER OF SOCIAL AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC HEALTH

Taken into consideration art. 8 of The Royal Decree of June 5th 1920 Statue-Ebok
€85, lastly amended by Decree of September 10th 1954, Statute-Ebok 424, the
Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health ordains:

Article 1.

The permit designed in article 8 of the aforementioned decree, will be subject

the conditions stipulated in the following articles.
ArtiCle 20

Apparatuses and installations used for electric stunning shall be approved of by
the Director~General of Labor.

- Article 3.

For the electric stunning of cattle, calves, newly-born calves, sheep and goats

only apparatuses may be used, with which an alternative current of 5D hertz

during 1% seconds at most is administered through the brains, in such fashion
that unconsciousness of sufficient duration will take place.

The apparatus designed in paragraph 1 should when used for stunning adult

cattle, at a resistance of 150 Ohm between the electrodes, be capable to

develop a potency of at least 600 Watts and when used for stunning of calves,
newlyborn calves, sheep and goats, deveIOp a potency of at least 300 watts.

The tension between the electrodes may attain at most 300 Volts when used for

stunning adult cattle and at most 225 Volts when used for stunning calves,

newly—born calves, sheep and goats.
Article 4.

For the purpose of stunning hogs may be used:

a. an apparatus as described in art. 3 for calves.

b. an apparatus by means of which an alternative current of SO hertz and at
least 600 miliuamperes will be administered during lO~l5 seconds through the
brains, through which unconsciousness of sufficient duration will be
effected. A distinctly readable mili-anperemeter for the stunner the same
as a buzzer, which by a buzzingnsound indicates when the current has
attained the said minimumwvalue, has to be fixed in the electric circuit of
the apparatus.

The apparatus described in paragraph 1 under b, shall be capable to develop a

potency of at least 60 Watts at a resistance of 115 Ohm between the electrodes.

The tension between the electrodes shall, when using an apparatus as described

in paragraph 1 under b, not exceed 70 volts.

Al‘ti 019 5 o

The electrodes must be shaped such that a good contact with the animal's head

is at any time ensured. , '

Article 6.

Every stunning-installation should be devised such, that it will not at the

same time bring under tension more electrodes than those of one handle.

When two or more stunning-apparatuses or two or more electrode-handles are in

use inone and the same slaughtering~plant, the apparatuses or electrode-handles

should be distinguished from one~another by an indelible mark.
Article 7.

The stunning-installations should always be in good state of upkeep.

The stunning—installations shall be inSpected periodically by an

engineer appointed by the Director—General of Labour. '




Page 2.

Article 7 continued.

Of every inspection the results have to be recorded by the inspecting~
engineer in a register, remaining under the custody of the Veterinary-
inspector, chief of the veterinary~service or his authorised officer. The
entry has to be checked by the lastmnamed official.

Article 8.
The electric stunning of the respective slaughtering~aninals shall
take place:
a. in case of adult cattle and hogs in standing position.
b. in case of calves, newly-born calves, sheep and goats after these

animals have been put in back-or sideposition.
The electrodes shall be placed on the animals head such that the current
will run along the shortest way through the brains.
In case of hogs that are not kept in a fixed position by means of a
catching-pan, one electrode may be pressed behind the ear and the other
electrode at the other side of the head beside the eye.
During the administration of the current care has to be taken that a
constant contact of the electrodes with the animal' 3 head is ensured.
It is prohibited to moisten the electrodes.
. Article 9.

When electric stunning by means of an apparatus designed in art. 3 has
been effected, a cross-section of the throat has to be made immediately
after cutting off the circuit, taking care that the hide, the artery and
veins of the throat will be entirely cut open in order to ensure an
unimpeded and continuous bleeding out; in case of hogs the breast may be
but Open lengthwise.
When electric stunning by means of an apparatus described in art. 4,
paragraph 1 Sub b has been effected, the hog should be killed by bleeding
out, as soon as possible, in any case within 1 minute after the electric
current has been cut off.

Article 10.
Electric stunning may only be applied by trained stunners, who are in
possession of a testimonial bearing their professional ability, checked
by the veterinary-inepector, chief of the service.
This testimonial will be issued by the veterinary~inspector of Public
Health, in whose district of supervision the stunner has passed his
examination.

Article 11.
The veterinary-inspector, Chief of the service, is charged with the
supervision on the effective application of the electric stunning.

Article 12.
The holder of a permit mentioned in art. 1 is due at all times to comply'
with the instructions from the veterinary inspector, chief of the service.

 




\

“\
\ .

\
\

\

.3555 22’? ,, 1952

225. .2. 2252'. 5 $2225? 855555253 .

22.53 22552523 2‘55 5225 25555123355 52‘ 85225123 25 22225515
122,22 35 2': 525552. -

L555553 3 3 .1, 355315135

"1.37" 3.352 322.2%323 ’2'"

I 5555 55555513 2:25:22 22.25 555552552 2:3 52‘ 5552555255 2212:}: 232' 2255555 and 225 225525 51555

52’ 2:55 22555. 3225 5.2555255 2:2 25 1562155 5221522; 3:55 55 22125213 553253155. 525 1.5
555: 552. 25 2.2 25 255.555 53.52.25.552: 5:2 2:535 5253. 22:53 555 5552: 15355553553 2.5 2215 325022152.
35 52 5:22.52 2225 2: 2.512.552.2512 55 222......- 5155522255 22221522 355 33.555 55, I 5525 that the
3.5.2555 5555 125551 by 5225* 55515223 3.5 12.233 5.553. 2:12:22. 2:25 555 52‘ 5225 553222155 22512. ,.
2 25253. 5522255 232255 512.5 53.555535 5555515.... I 53.55 5555 2.352. the 1255515 25125265155 *
5532; 222.522 53 2255521 5152. 25.52.55 3521155255 23155 22253 dc: 3352. 5525555555155 51th ﬁEm
553:2 22.55 22512. 325251 2:222. 551;. 52.222 2:225 515525535 55155. I 3225552555 255% 2.5 553.:
35.223552 55552. 23225 5555212313? 55525521155553 52:11.55 2.....- 12225 55325135 2253.1: 32125251,. 5562
5551:2255 12: 2255 2155 555535555132 (215555353 1.5 2:215 5153 52:55 51? 32.535 in 2.2-1. Britain
15 25552 52’ 2:225 53.55 255152225155. I 555555 2.3252: 2.2555 553 2:25 52.2255 5522 25323115153;

22' 22215 :25 2.225 5555 I 55 5555555523. 5.5552: 52 25 521‘me 235235555 1:325 515

552315325 2555 1:215 2555221551 22522555 5255325152.. 22252. 15, I 55.22.... 5 £353.53; 1:: 551522155

251.2. 5525.3 555 52‘ 5225 3:152:51 552 23.5 2.25 1555255153. 55 2.55 5111553. 225515 5555555511y _ Y
555525 55555552555 2225.555 5 553.5y 15 5515221225 51222.: 2' 555 52‘ 5225 515525515thaler 2223222.
55 5532: in 2.225- 505555253 52’ 555552 55555.25 2:23 2.125 551.553... :25 5523.22 225 5 mﬁicumly
253552552. 395.252: .25 55352355 '65 2325‘ 52.22 2.5- 252.552.52.55 51t55r 555 55 2:55 other 112
55553555 52.532.52.55 55555.55 2.22525 5.55- 5515 3.5.52.5 51‘ the 2251253 3251.55, , in which they

51.3.3 552. 225515 2.225 2555315 «52" 1555-1515:: by ‘ » 1553. r5552555352212'55 53‘ 235mm 55-. ’ V
53.52. .255. I2: 555123 55 52’ 2355 52.552 153255225555, 22255 53555, to 2522-5555 5 3551-»er
225232 25:11 12’ 5... 1.2555555 533555 555352555 235 552. it 555532.553 15 25 be 5555.225 32:

555.222 2'25 555 2: 225332253. 25 22555 3555 5522515555 {32.25 3:02.52; .

3225 5325522 5.22 522.22 515553 2:11:22 5211.521 25 235 52555555 52‘ 5513515 555 25 515552225553

55355 5555155555 5 52M 5555533 15325522552: £551.55 in 55551555 525235155 .., I 52155121

225 5552. 221555525521 2.5 2:555 522532155 :2 55. 513211: 2555 2132.505 555115515 512 tlm 5 ~. -

5552255 52‘ 22535 53555222 555 15 m 5255,15 55y 2.5 553' 25535 553 5531-5555555 M21521 ..
522522.515 5125 1:225 25252255 52‘ 555 55551555 2:5 5.552255... 2.522 2:225 55512.1 551. 155 2.25% 222555 555 ,3

5553 2555555 55 2.522 5.13312; 2252 :5 55522 52.35555 5: 15555.55 2252. any 52:22- 2:5 51‘ 2253552252 '
521 222115 5555552 5222.532 355 22553 513221: ‘55 2222521 "5525 2.5 52 55515553 . * ‘

I 2515.555 12: 522.5 525255 2.2252: .225. 225.55rd525 25115555 2 at. 25' V2.2 22555 555555 by 1555::
5552. 5:125:35, 352 3 225 551: 555511 the 53552: {W55 C5525 3'55 35.55 2.21555 2.5 552

I 5553' 5552: 533555525 55 2225 5325525 2222.252: 355 22555 55 25 5:: simply 55 5123: 555555553;
1535555221511. I 5552: 5 555.11 w5tributicn ”2.5 $225 '32:: .2 55 5y raturn 5135 55513 ”222:5

_ 2.5 553123.555 1:5 555152. .15 5531531115 2325 5552:. '55 35:25 555152.3' 52’ 55323213155 £5555 55

2:. 5y 52:5 mailed...
815555513,

\3 21252 I , ‘ (32515 2155 Stemm-
_ - . - - ‘ P55515551:

 




X32; j“ "‘ 3.3"wa
w}

,"ﬂ‘q, ‘4“): h. -.,_~
Mm in; ‘ {4;

*ﬁWWW 35 1?;

if??? :‘,"“*§¢‘-"3 .3
; ' a. i.

z "Aw

rm. ‘ .
"'4" 1". f r‘xyﬂfr'i" “Aw-"x 5* '4 am wk . .w.
( , , v 3 . ‘ 913‘ w ‘ {W ,.

~ 3:: 4w! A 3‘; ‘9 i, _; n.1, Lug; ’ ',i S, ,1

i :1 :7 amt} m...
‘Kxaazuviﬁ ,2 _ , ‘ _‘ éi’ﬁ‘fﬁggwézai:
' 4541‘“ “f1 1 «Mime
Gr ‘71:??? -: .‘ u, {g I ‘ ‘ , " W” 22".? ‘- 4;“? ’23:}
1‘ " wrﬁm I I ‘

5':- 3‘1 1‘73,
, s i. (.3

a:§l “an '3 if}! r N“ Q}? ‘9 ,_,V
~‘* fl :1 .;,, Lu. 1.1.33. :27 f} [:5 V“
.‘_‘1‘ w ,,

i»;

M .,,-
7 a :1?
«Jaw-Kip M3;

”‘4‘; {-3

1"?
..

 




g,
/ 4‘

,. ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
350 Fiﬁh Avenue
New York I. N. Y.

OXford 5-2 I46

Pig stunning tongs

General Radiological Limited
15-18 Clipstone St.

Great Portland St.
London W 1, England

 




 




 

TELEPHONE: WHITEHALL 7J7?
TELEGRAl‘gS : CRUELTY LONDON

PLEASE

When repiying or We ,-
telephoning please quot. a; ° ~* ‘:
v this reference To

iih iii; _SECREIARY
ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
IOS JERMYN STREET. LONDON. S.W.l

 

W

 

go MP8. Roger S’tGVEJIIS, . . 14th 1211:]
President,
Animal telfare Institute,
hen York 19, N.Y.

Dear Mrs. Roger Stevens,

Thank you for your letter of 27th June, the first two
paragraphs of which I passed to Messrs. harsh & Baxter. The
enclosed is a copy of their reply which as you will notice gives
very precise figures of the timing in respect of the operation from
the lairage until the pig ' In this connection I shall be
obliged if you could give “ lar information of one of the large
packing houses in the U.n ‘ comparison of the two sets of figures
would make it very .e In accordance with your request I

of hr. Ricardo's figures dealing
with the voltage. ’

Finally, there is the question of Messrs. Marsh & Baxter’s
nrevious statement that splashing always occurs in a pig carcass when
the captive bolt pietol is used. You will notice that in writing
about this Messrs. Marsh 8: Baxter do not exp‘ain it as ful

would wish. My own opinion is that in their first 1

 




.. ‘. -‘

to convey was ha
hrobably had Som‘
because I do

bolt at any

C" L}:\lab .z-
verv mucy
”I .L.’.'~. in...

time during

Yours SiﬂCb relv,

Chief

Secretar*

down
t 13.5. 1.)

ca Uta ive
1; o, the

decade.

 




 

July lOLh_1952. (Dated).

.73
”Ga?

he (kmative
“the la r3 er.
constant

vou1113rLLer of Live Lb
belt 8

CPLPQlly used for pi
oun WLPL, as LNG “lSLOlS
om up Lhc Speed of Lill’

The electric SL111nnCP Gngblaithe rate of SlBUE

jiLer Lo
igﬁweﬁsou, and Lhere 13 no constant hold ups for 331:7)13Lol~loadi
—333335 in pwoviﬁin3 ammunition.

(J13.yLiLa Bel“ ?istol is beLLer’ ,
“*is does noL mean that it 03::
is uged for sLunnin3 L11_e
or an e‘lectric curreni is
“are Lhe meat.
11 Lnulahd facLOIias killin3 about

7000 pigS a week W Li
31ll«1€4LG of 500 @138

per hour, are considered good.
PG? boar LHMC“3H one dehﬁring machine only).

kill of lSOO pigs 18 'one in 5 hours:-

0

@138 into Hoib sLin3 Pen.

‘ gar JLP>onncl dis persed over scaldin3,

3 dehairing, and
sing as in Lmericgn fa:cLopieS.

"Yours fa iLhi‘u 1133
Sam 61" Limited,

 




 

suite of test on 8 hogs electrice;ly stunned by a
worth British Electroletheler on December 5th 1950; at Clappison
Packing Plant, Haney, British Columbia, by the Vancouver Branch 3.0.

S‘Pb COB .

Hog N0. “Einm Volts Milliames eppeeximate weight,

8805 100 670 200 le.
100 500 A

100 670

10 100 600
10 100 506
10 100 672
10 80 562
80 487

fa“.
$.\.-‘
0

m

(‘0 IO [‘3
‘50 {\Q If} ‘00 RS)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

LL!

"v “K

I hereby certify the timing wee taken by etoy watch
by Mr. P.H.U. Stratton, the Voltages and emﬁeegee taken
Mr. Howard of the Elworth” Electrical Company, tie Live Weights

and the Stunning tongs operated by Er. 3.8.

~mnnommamI—vwmu'rnwim—um—a

 




HUMANE SLAUGHTER

WE WERE VERY INTERESTED IN RECEIVING OR. CROFT'S RECENT MEMORANDUM CONCERNING
ELECTRICAL STUNNING OF HOGS BUT WE ARE STILL NOT CERTAIN HOW PRACTICAL IT WILL BE
LOCALLY IN VANCOUVER T0 ENFORCE THE VARIOUS REQUIREMENTS SHE LAYS DOWN AS BEING

NECESSARY TO HUMANE STUNNING.

THERE IS, HOHEVER, STILL THE QUESTION OF BLOOD SPLASH, IE.EXTRAVASATION OF
BLOOD. THESE SHALL LESIONS CAN HOST EASILY BE SEEN AS LITTLE REDDY SLACK SPECKS IN
THE FATTY PART OF THE DRESSED HOD. OUR VETERINARY HEAT INSPECTORS HERE CONSIDER
THESE LESIONS APREALLT SERIOUS MATTER FROM THE PRACTICAL POINT OF VIEH AND THEY NEREO
CERTAINLY PRESENT IN EVERY HOS INVOLVED IN THE LAST TEST HE CA RRIED OUT. I KNOW
THAT THE ENCLISH CANNOT UNDERSTAND EITHER HON HE CDT SLOOD SPLASH OR HHY NE HORRY

ABOUT IT.

SO I AM HONDERINC IF You HOULD MIND CHECKING ON THIS FOR US To SEE IF POSSIBLY
THEY 00 GET BLOOD SPLASH ALWAYS BUT THAT THE AMOUNT THEY DO GET IS NOT CONSIDERED
SERIOUS DY THEIR HEAT INSPECTORS. IF THIS SEEMS TO BE THE CASE, NE HOULD GREATLY
APPRECIATE YOUR ASKING U.F.A.H. OR THE R.S.P.C.A. OR SOMEONE TO HAVE A TYPICAL PIECE
OP PORK FAT NITH BLOOD SPLASH PHOTOGRAPHED AND ENLARCED AND SENT TO US AND HE HILL

BE PLEASED TO STAND TUE COST.

WE DO QUITE REALIZE THAT BLOOD SPLASH IS GREATLY INCREASED BY ANY TIME DELAY
BETWEEN THE END OF THE APPLICATION OF THE CURRENT AND THE MOMENT OF STICKING THE HOG.

HOWEVER, WHY WE ARE SO CONCEENED ABOUT THIS WHOLE QUESTION OF BLOOD SPLASH
IS THAT IN OUR LAST TEST THERE WAS EXTREMELY LITTLE DELAY AS.MENTIONED ABOVE AND
YET WE GOT SUFFICIENT BLOOD SPLASH TO RESULT IN A STATEMENT FROM A FRIENDLY AND
RESPONSIBLE CHIEF VETERINORIAN TO THE EFFECT THAT THE ELECTRICAL METHOD HAS IMPRACTICAL
BECAUSE OF THE AMOUNT OF BLOOD SPLASH.Q

 




 

 

 

8

 

KEMP & LAURITZEN A/s

lNGENIﬂRER FOR ELEKTRISKE ANLIEG 0G AUTORISEREDE ELEKTROINSTALLATﬁRER
GRUNDLAGT1882

TELEGRAM-ADRESSE: KEMPLAURITZEN - ABC CODE 5TH EDITION
POSTGIROKONTO 929

FILIALER
ORDRUP --------- 700
RUNGSTED ------- 276

ROSKILDE 1023 as 2155 ,3
K¢BENHAVN v., DEN 1“ th [)er ° J 1955 °

TELEFON CENTRAL 936
VESTER VOLDGADE 9

HJ/MN.

The Animal Welfare Institute,
350, Fifth Avenue,

New York 1,

N.Y.

Gentlemen,

At the request of Miss Marian Storm, Hotel Reforma,
Calzada Independencia Sur No. 557, Guadalajara, Jalis co, Mexico,
you will find our booklet "Electrical Pig Stunning Instruments"

enclosed.
Yours faithfully,

K e m p//} L aOu r i t z e n A/g,
//W 1/2,, a

 

/ f \

Enclosure: 1 booklet.

ENHVER BESTILLING UDFERES UNDER FORBEHOLD AF STREJKE. LOCK-OUT. TRANSPORTUHELD 0G ..FORCE MAJEURE”.
VORE PRISER ER AT FORSTK NETTO KONTANT. NAR INGEN ANDEN AFTALE FORELIGGER.

 

4000. 4- E 5 30750

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

6

 

 

 

1

KEMP & LAURITZEN

9.VE$TERVOLDGADE - COPENHAGEN V
TELEPHONE: CENTRAL 936

 

 

 

____..._..




 

The apparatus is operated by one
hand only.

 

K. & L.’s electrical stunning instrument for pigs is suitable
for use in every slaughter-house. The stunning effect as well
as the technical construction have been approved by the ap-
propriate Danish authorities and the instrument has been
recommended by “The Society to Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals“ in Denmark.

The instrument is easy to handle, one hand only being
necessary for placing and removing the gear.

The electrical current used for stunning is automatically
switched on and off by the operating handle. The instrument
is reliable and the effect even on large hogs is instantaneous
whilst it IS completely harmless for the operator. The electricity
consumption 1s very small and amounts to 60—100 watts only.

The instruments are made in Denmark only and protected
by Danish as well as foreign patents.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

The unconscious am.
being relaxed and
are easy to deal \Vi»

 

 

The animals are neither killed nor paralysed by the Cla‘
shock. They are rendered unconscious only and as hea %
well as lungs work normally under this condition the .1
runs off in the ordinary way after killing.

When using the electrical stunning instrument the ani 43%
are not frightened and, therefore, they do not damage l1
other. Furthermore, slaughtering takes place without the 1.. «mil

heart-rending noises. The stunned condition lasts a few “ai-
nutes only but this is sufficient for the hauling up and kiltqig
to take place and for the blood to run off without the animal
regaining consciousness.

Several investigations by competent Authorities have proved
that the use of the electrical stunning instrument results in
a better bleeding than the old way of slaughtering

Apart from the main purpose, i. e. to relieve the animals
from sufferings during the slaughterng process the electrical




stunning instrument thus offers great advantages in several
other ways. Also the slaughter-house workers have accepted
{this new apparatus with delight particularly because the use
of it relieves them from the dying animals’ deafening noises
as K. & L.’s electrical stunning instrument enables the work
to proceed quietly.

Experts have agreed that the use of our instrument is a
“valuable step towards improved slaughtering conditions and
also towards present days humane ideas of slaughtering
animals.

 

 




"Deﬁnite

to be known before using the electzt
stunning instrument.

It is necessary to know what happens to the animal at.
the tongs are put on its head and the electrical circu} ~’
closed.

The animal, stiffens, stretching the head forwards. The i
legs are stretched forwards whilst it draws the hind leg
under the belly. In this way the pig first sits down, then 53;,
over on the side. All muscles contract due to the electric Sli"

In the brain, which is most strongly affected, the muscle.
the blood vessels contract and thus instantaneously render

animal unconscious. When the stiffened front legs of the
relax it may be taken as a sign that the stunning is effective

With the correct voltage on the instrument this will hap;
within 7 to 10 seconds and the electrical circuit should iii]:
be disconnected immediately.

Protracted use of the electrical current will affect the hen? z;
and the venous blood will remain in the veins instead iii
running towards the heart. This causes various obstructions.
to the normal blood circulation and may force the blood into
the smallerveins which may cause hemorrages.

The first sign of having had the electric current switched on
too long is dark spots on the lungs. These may even be dark all

 

over. If the current is kept on for 40 or 50 seconds the liver ll
may be filled with blood and as a result it may appear very l,
dark. At the same time the meat will change to a reddish j
colour. If the electrical stunning is continued for 2 or 3 Ini— "

nutes the heart will be paralysed and the animal will die.

 

 




wtordingly the electrical current led through the head of
ﬁg must be of the shortest possible duration, i. e. suf-
at for stunning the animal but not long enough to affect
heart.

".ie resistance against stunning differs in the various ani-

" and some are rendered unconscious quicker than others.

, its. rule the hogs are stunned quicker than the small pigs

‘9 it is largely a matter of experience to keep the electrical

;:-._:it closed just the right length of time.

_:‘:'-ie strength of the electrical current is just as important,

{he length of time the current is switched on. Too strong
u'ﬁent makes the contraction of the muscles unnecessary

“rant and, therefore, it is important that the saltwater with

ch the electrodes are moistened is of the correct solution.
weak solution gives less stunning effect than a strong

'r'iation.

Ui‘he animal remains unconscious 2 to 3 minutes after dis—

zilatinuation of the electrical current thus giving ample time
for hauling it up and for the blood to run off.

If the pigs are wet and the entire tongs including the handle
it wet too you may feel a slight vibration in your fingers
when using the tongs, but this is in no way dangerous. Through
the. wet surface of the tongs electricity of a few volts is led to
the handle. The vibrations can be avoided by keeping the tongs
dry and dipping the electrodes only in the salt water solution.

 

 




 

 

 

 

(procedure

when stunning loose animals in the pea.

First fill the solution container with water until 3” from t
top. Dissolve two handfuls of coarse salt in the water. Bril-
from the pickling room should never be used for the tongs,

. Close the main switch and make sure the pilot lamp ,
alight as this is a clear indication that the instrument "
ready for use.

Close the current through the apparatus by moving t
operating handle to the ’on’ position. Touch the spikes on t
electrodes with dry fingers to test whether they are alt:
When the fingers are dry the current will be felt as a sligjzv
vibration only.

Disconnect the current by moving the operating handle »
the ’off’ position. Dip the tongs in the saltwater but only
far that the sponges are immersed.

Wait until the pigs have calmed down after arrival in i
pen, then approach the pig you have selected, preferably fl‘efhfgh
its left side. Take the tongs with your right hand, summgé.
them with your free left hand and place them on the meek
of the pig so that the electrodes are placed right under the ears
slightly behind the eyes.

Then press the operating handle down in the ’on’ position,
that is towards the back of the pig.

When the electrOdes are in the correct position and pressed
against the temples of the pig this will stiffen up with the
first shock, raise the head, stretch the front legs forwards,




‘ Lille hind legs up under the belly and thus get into a
position. .
advisable when placing the tongs and during- the
23; to support the pig with your right leg and not to let it
rwards or to the side. When it has been stunned turn
“ on the side and pull it away from the other pigs to
that these push-off the tongs or damage the electrical

) an eye on the front legs — when they relax the animal
, :onscious. ‘ s
t - trove the tongs before the hind legs stretch out as this

. ;%':,:.:,2s that the stunning is overdone.
tongs are removed by drawing the operating handle to
~é,"f’ position.
:01“ stunning the pig’s hind legs are attached’to the chain
is hauled up in the usual way. There is ample time for
as the unconscious conditiOn lasts 2 to 3 minutes.
g e certainthat the tongs with exception of the electrodes
.: iv and clean during the operation. ‘
"2‘27ifieii finished rinse the tongs with plain water and when
in use keep them in a dry but not too hot place.

 

 




 

,- g/ 2/ /2// 2/2 / «,2/ 2222/ 02/22 ,. ,1 / xxx/n92? 4/
PtM/ey far cow) fen bye/:9}?!
Pool/e _poul‘ confre_—,00/a’5
)Po/Ie fur Seyeﬁyé‘W/c/zf
Pu//ey for N/ééel’ caé/e

Poul/e ”ow, cab/59 a’e 17/56 9/2 taco/above
Ro//e w- éum/mscb/aucbkabel

 

 

fofar Conmrfel‘
Ca rent/5501”} , . A __ _
Um/ormer

 

 

waned/on 89x
Bozz‘e Co//ecz’mce
-_.____~_ 5amme/a’ose

 

 

 

 

 

Ma/n 5 [fa/7 I “M“

will; maﬁa/$34472; O D?
Mien/w [ear/armczéog/ l 2;?
area / m/oe md/ca nce l3 - j;
. 53/744327» “ _q~
m/z’ ﬁpzeye Adm/0e

' o r 7 o (annec/op
Fans/armep ‘ pct-a (1,0 /emeﬂf
Worm/ormaz‘e I- l ; lI 1401/0/01qu
Transform or J l 11
o i ‘
0L ___ I
r — [I W - bf Tony; open-aka”? a’zkconnecz‘ed
Va #0 e Selecl‘opﬁ‘ I'cé I it €00” 3” 3/3 377685 cure/#95 e! 3405 cauro/M‘
‘ ~7 Comm” 4 9”,, l l; cop/re—po{d’ Za/{ye offer) and 5/pom/pei
5,04nr2w3y5—K/msc/M/z‘en 0‘, l O Ge/eﬂfen’m f \\ ~
”I \‘ Sivan/‘ny,zloﬂy5 , .
' 9‘1)ch a must/waver

   

/ NIX EC/dﬂéunyszdnye

 

   

m;- ,)
@féeZpgfil’Zc if: sad/ee‘ 7bnys 5/)02‘ — czrcu/ / c/qs ed

Ho/zye 435 0711’ 5d/zM/c75é'6ﬂ Langue ferme‘es el‘ ”7153 en c/pcw/‘z’
Zanye yescb/ossen, Show dpyecba‘ {61‘

 

 

  

 

Ma/‘ps ,
Raf/m 55/00
E/nz’ass

 

 

 

The above sketch shows the complete stunning equipment. The tongs are drawn to a larger scale than the other parts of
the equipment. The rotary converter is required only if the installations is connected to DC supply. The stunning equip-
ment is therefore cheaper if it can be connected to AC mains.

 




Wisconsin Man
Proves

Successful Use

of Humane Device
To
Electrically Stun

Hogs

ADAPTABLE TO
PACKERS AND
SLAUGHTERERS OPERATING ON
A LARGE O'R
SMALL SCALE

NO LESIONS ARE PRODUCED
BY THIS METHOD

 




Hog Shocker
S’runs Animals

for Slaughter

Butcher out Cedorburg Uses Humane
Device That He Imported
From Germany

Milwaukee (Wis.) Journal, Sunday, Oct. 23, 1955
By LEWIS C. FRENCH Of The Journal Staff

Gedarburg, Wis—An electric chair for pigs?

Well, not quite, but a counterpart that stuns
a market hog unconscious in a jiffy before
packing plant slaughter is in operation here.

Emil Paulus, who operates a meat market,
butchers his meat in an abattoir to the rear of
the store. He uses an electric shocker for more
humane butchering of both swine and beef.

Shaped like a giant hedge clipper, the equip--
ment imported from Germany works quick and
sure, almost like a flash.

The shocker has long plastic handles cov-
ered with rubber for protective insulation. At
the other end, worked from a hinge, are two
huge claws with steel electrodes at the tips.
At the contact points are two wells lined with
foam rubber. Teethlike spikes half an inch
long project inward to- give a firm grip on the
hide of a shoat or steer.

There are two rubber buttons on the handle.
Press one and nothing happens. Press both and
220 volts surge through those contact points
like a lightning flash.

Scene Isn’t Pleasant

Now there is nothing pleasant to the eye
or ears in a packing plant slaughtering de-
partment. This is especially true when a pen
of husky market hogs in the prime of life

smells and sees the fate of its kin. They know
that their number is coming up quick and
that there is no escape.

You never heard such squealing terror. The
porkers seem to know they haven’t got a chance
and squeal to the last gasp.

Hans Antoni and Erick Voss, who learned
the trade in Germany and now work at the
Paulus market, told their boss that the noise
wasn’t necessary. When other storekeepers and
neighbors protested about the noise every time
the Paulus market butchered for pork, the
Germans persuaded Paulus to send to Ger-
many for an electric shocker. He has been
using it for more than a year.

“No Complaints”
“We’ll never go back to the old method of

using a maul to whack a steer or Shoat,” he
said. “No complaints now.”

At butchering time in the Paulus plant there
usually are a dozen lopeared Yorkshire hogs in
the pen. They are the lean butcher type mar-
ket hog without much lard, each animal
weighing around 212 pounds.

The hogs huddle over in the corner. One
of the butchering crew approaches and quick-
ly applies the shocker claws, one end behind
the ear and the other at the jowl.

Then 220 volts surge through the circuit,
hitting the brain of the animal like a flash.
The pig keels over, perhaps with a twist of
the tail and kick of the leg, unconscious.

Takes Only Seconds

The first contact is just for a second or two.
Socko. Down without a squeal. Then a second
application at the head and there is not a
quiver.

Others of the crew hook a chain around
a hind leg and the hydro-electric lift yanks
the senseless hog to the proper height. Then

a razor sharp knife is jabbed into the jugular
vein for bleeding.

“Works just as wel; “withnj'beeff. Just a touch
and they are out,” said a member of. the

butchering crew. ‘ .

Both state and federal meat “inspectors have
had appraising looks at the 'shock method.
Several times a committee from the veterinary
science department at Michigan State univer-
sity and the University of Wisconsin college
of agriculture have visited Paulus’ shop. ,. So far
there has been nothing but approval.

Humane Bills Pending

One of the reasons for the interest-in this
Cedarburg electric shock method is that there
now are bills pending before congressﬂto pro-
hibit interstate shipment of meat except when
killed by humane methods.

If the measure becomes a law, a committee
of four, representing packing plants, union
labor in the plants, humane officers and con-
sumers, would advise the secretary of agri-
culture on acceptable humane methods. The
objective of the bills is to require packing
plants to first render insensible all meat ani-
mals before slaughter. The only exception un-
der the bill is where traditional religious rites
are required, such as with kosher meats.

“This Cedarburg application of the electric
shock proves humane practices are practical,”
said Mrs. Marie Graves Thompson, 2545 N.
65th st., Wauwatosa, a member of the National
Humane society and president of the Animal
Protective league. If the federal law is adopted
for interstate shipments, it is likely that a bill
will be offered in, the Wisconsin legislature
for meat sales within the state.

Other electric shock methods have been
tried in American meat packing plants, in-
cluding those in the Milwaukee area.

 




 

Objections in Past

In the past there have been objections, gen-
erally for two reasons. One was that the
electric stunning often tended to coagulate the
blood, preventing proper bleeding and dis-
coloring the meat. The second objection was
that the heavy voltage often developed lesions,
or small blisters, making it difficult for public
meat inspectors to tell whether they were
caused by a disease that would condemn the
meat or from electric shock alone.

“We haven’t had such problems,” says Pau-
lus, citing the fact the best trained veteri-
narians and meat inspectors have looked over
the results. “Those from Michigan state made
a most thorough check.”

Around the midwest improved packing house
methods are on the way.

Now most packing plants marketing pork
use a huge revolving wheel, hooking a chain
around live hogs to lift them into the air.
Then the animals are stuck with a sharp
knife and bleed over a railing.

One Minnesota packer gives market hogs a
whiff of gas to anesthetize them before killing.
The swine are unconscious in a matter of
seconds.

In beef packing some plants, including one
on the market here, uses a captive bolt sys-~
tem. A short steel bolt is fired from a pistol
to penetrate the brain at a precise distance
to knock the animal out quickly but not spoil
the meat.

The electric stunning method, says Hans
Antoni and Erick Voss, is mandatory in Ger—
many and in Denmark, and is used widely

in Holland.
V

Additional copies of this brochure may be
had, gratis, by writing to

ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEAGUE, INC.
2545 North 65th Street
Milwaukee 13, Wisconsin

Marie G. Thompson, President

 




REPORT ON A S’E’UDY OF
ELECTRIC STUNIEING OH HOG-S
MADE FOR

THE AMERICAN MEAT INSTITUTE

James P. Simonds, M. D.

Department of Pathology

Northwestern University Medical School

September 1947

(Reprinted June 1955)

 




Chanter

Foreword

SECTION.A
I

11

SECTION B
I
II

Appendix

‘ OF CONTENTS

Introduction
nethOdB O O O O I O 0

Changes in the Viscera of Electrically Stunned
Hegs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Analysis of Results . .

Discussion of Results .

O O O O

Introéuction. . . . . . .
General Description of 30g Cholera.
Discussion. 0 O D I D C O O D I D D O U O O 0

Summary of Differences between the Lesions of
Electric Stunning-and Hog Cholera. . . .

General Summary . . . . .

 




ii

LIST OF TABLES

Relation of Variations in Voltage to Hemorrhages
in the mugs. 0 O O D O O O O O a O D O O O o 0

Relation of Variations in Voltage to Congestion and
Hemorrhage in the Paratracheal and Parabronchial
Lymph N 0 d- e S t O O O D O O I O I O O O O O O O O

Relation of Variations in Voltage to the Occurrence
0f squeal ing 0 e o o c O Q a o o O o o a O o O 0

Relation of Variations in Amperage of the Current
to Occurrence of Petechial Hemorrhages in the
Lung S I O O Q C O I O I O I O O O O O O I O O 0

Relation of the Milliamperage of the Current to the
Occurrence of Congestion and Hemorrhage in the
Paratracheal and Parahronchial Lymph Nodes. . .

Relation of the Milliamperage of Current to the
Occurrence of Squealing . . . . . . . . . . . .

Relation between the Duration of Flow of Current
and the Occurrence of Petechial Hemorrhages in
the ngs O O 9 O O O O O O O O O O 0 O Q C O 0

Relation of Duration of Flow of Current to the
Presence of Congestion and Hemorrhage in the
Intrathoracic Lymph Nodes . . . . . . . . .

Relation of Duration of Flow of Current to the
Occurrence of Squealing . . . . . t . . . . . .

Correlation of Timing and Voltage with Reference to
the Occurrence of Petechial Hemorrhages in the
L‘mg s . O I O O O U . O O O O C O O . O O O C .

Correlation of Duration and Voltage of Current with
the Occurrence of Congestion and Hemorrhage in the
Intrathoracic Lymph Nodes . . . . . . . . . . .

Correlation of Duration and Voltage of Current with
the Occurrence of Squealing of Bags after Being
St‘mned 0 O I I I O O O O O O O O I O O O O O 0

Correlation of the Milliamperes and Duration of
Current with the Occurrence of Petechial Hemor-
rhages in the Lungs O 9 O I O O I i O O O O C .

 




iii

LIST or TABLES (con‘td.)

Correlation of the Milliamperes and Duration of
Current and the Occurrence of Congestion and
Hemorrhage in the Intrathoracic Lymph Nodes . .

Correlation of the Milliamperage and Duration of

Current and the Occurrence of Squealing after
Electric Stunning .

O O O O O O I O O 0

Showing the Relative Frequency of Hemorrhagic
Lesions in Different Crgans of Hogs with Cholera

Comparison of the Distribution of Lesions in Elec-
trically Stunned and Cholera HOgs in Percentage

 




F O R E W O R D

_ In 1936 electric stunning of h0gs immediately prior to slaughter was
given a trial at Swift & Company's plant in Chicago as a measure of coopera—
tion by the packing industry with certain organizations devoted to the protection
of animals against undue cruelty. The method of stunning was developed by Mueller
in Munich about 1921 and, at least up to the beginning of World War II, was used
extensively in Germany and in England. It was found in its use at Swift &
Company, however, that this method of electric stunning produced changes in the
lungs of stunned h0gs which, under the conditions of Federal inspection, could
not be readily differentiated from changes characteristic of hog cholera and
other natural diseases of these animals. It became necessary, therefore, to
discontinue the use of this method of preslaughter stunning.

The present study was undertaken at the request of the American Meat
Institute in order (1) to discover a method of electric stunning of h0g8 that
would not produce confusing changes in the lungs and other viscera; and/or
(2) to find a method by which changes in the Lungs induced by electric stunning
could be differentiated from those of hOg cholera. It was evident that any such
method would have to be economically sound from the standpoint of the industry,
and applicable by Federal inspectors under conditions of inspection of the car-
casses of hOgs in any packing plant at any peak load.

It was rec0gnized (1) that it is the duty of inspectors to protect
the public against the sale of meat from diseased animals; (2) that in the pre—
sence of justifiable suSpicion of the existence of spontaneous disease, the
public is entitled to the benefit of the doubt; (3) that the packing industry
cannot Operate if too many hogs are condemned merely on suSpicion; and
(h) that under the conditions of inspection, when the carcasses and organs of
h0gs pass the inspectors on a moving rail or table at rates up to 600 animals
per hour, it is impossible to use methods of diagnosis that are finer and more
accurate than mere gross examination.

This Report is divided into two Sections. In the first Section there
will be presented the results of efforts to discover a method of electrically
stunning h0g8 in a manner that will actually render them insensitive to pain and
at the same time will not produce changes in the organs that can be confused
with the lesions that are characteristic of hog cholera and other spontaneous
diseases of these animals. The changes induced by electric stunning will be
described and illustrated and the probable mechanism of their production will
be discussed. The experiments upon which this Section of the report is based
were carried out at Swift & Company's plant in Chicago. I wish here to express
my deep appreciation to Mr. R. W. Begensburger and his assistants who provided
the h0gs and much of the equipment used, arranged the details, organized the
procedures on the killing floor, and furnished men to help in the various opera-
tions necessary to each group of experiments. I wish also to thank the inspec-
tors assigned to Swift & Company's hog killing department during the period
of this investigation. They were uniformly courteous and cooperative, and
pointed out the similarities between the changes induced by electric stunning
and the lesions of hog cholera. Dr. F. D. Gunn, formerly Associate Professor
of Path010gy in Northwestern University Medical School, made the photOgraphs

 




used to illustrate this Section of the Report. Dr. Lewis J. Pollock, Professor
and.Head of the Department of Nervous and Mental Diseases in Northwestern Uni~
versity Medical School, furnished the automatic timer, the milliammeter, the
voltmeter and the escilloscope used in the experiments, and with Dr. A. J. Arieff,
of the same Department, Operated these instruments.

In the second Section of this Report the changes induced in the organs
of animals stunned with electricity will be compared with those characteristic
of hOg cholera. This disease is so rarely encountered on the killing floors of
abattoirs in this country (at least at Swift & Company's plant) that it was
necessary to go to Whitehall, Illinois, to study hog cholera in animals used in
the preparation of anticholera serum. For the information thus gained I am
indebted to Mr. Regensburger and Dr. L. D° Frederick of Swift & Company, to
Mr. C. S. Greene, Manager of the Gregory Laboratories, Whitehall, Illinois, and
to the Federal inspector assigned to the Gregory Laboratories at the time of our
visit. Mr. Greene and the inspector were most cooperative and not only allowed
me to study the carcasses of 107 hegs with hOg cholera, but also kindly permitted
me to use the official record of the inepectoris examination for statistical
purposes in this report.

 




SECTION A

Experiments on the electric stunning of hogs in an effort to discover a method
that will produce insensitivity to pain without producing lesions similar to
those characteristic of hog cholera.

I. INTRODUCTION

Protein is an essential part of the diet of man and of all other
animals. It is a normal constituent of every cell and of most of the fluids of
the body. Proteins of the diet are derived from two sources -~ animal products
(eggs, milk and meats) and from certain vegetablesi Cereals furnish about one—
third of the protein of the typical American diet. Two factors determine the
suitability of any particular protein for human consumption ~~ its digestibility
and its biolOgic value. In general, proteins of animal origin are more easily
digested than are those derived from plants. The bi010gic value of a protein
depends in part upon its digestibility, but chiefly upon the completeness of its
utilization by the body and upon the amount of essential amino acids which it
contains. A protein that is highly digestible and has a biolOgic value of 100
is completely utilized.by the body and will replace the nitrogen losses occurring
on a nitrogen~free diet without any excess, i.e., unusable nitrOgen appearing
in the urine.2 An essential amino acid, of which there are at least eight for
man, are dietary components "which cannot be synthesized by the animal organism
out of materials ordinarily available at a Speed commensurate with the demands
for normal growth."

Most animal proteins, gelatin being one exception, contain practically
all the essential amino acids and are therefore "complete" with a biolOgic value
of 100. The proteins of many vegetable foods, even though relatively abundant,
have a low biologic value. For example, the proteins of navy bee s have a bio—
lOgic value of 38; white flour, a value of 42; whole corn, of 60. Furthermore,
the taste for animal foods acquired by man over a period of many centuries, makes
them more digestible because of the psychic effect of pleasant taste.

If men are to eat the flesh of animals, there is a moral responsibility
that the animals used for such food be killed as humanely as possible. various
methods of humane slaughter have been tried. Stunning of animals immediately
before slaughter was compulsory in some parts of Germany,5 e.g., Munich, and in
England.6 All methods that have been employed have in common an attempt to '

 

1 Maynard, L. A.W.Handbk.ofiNutrition. Chicago, A.‘Ma A., l9h3, p. 2&1.
2 Mitchell, H. H., J. Animal Science. 23 263, 1942.
3 Rose, F. 0-, thsiological Reviews. 18: 109, 1938.

M Mitchell, H. H. and Hamilton, T. S., The Eiochemistgy g£_Amino Acids,
Chemical Catalogue Company, New York, 1929.

5 Mueller, M.. Vet. Journal. London, 88: 452, 1932.
6 Editorial Comment, Lancet, London, 2:436, 1935.

 




n2“

stun the animal and render it unconscious before it is stuck for the purpose of
bleeding it. In general the more completely an animal is "bled out " the better
its meat in palatability: appearance and keeping qualities. Hence, any method

of stunning, in order to be practicable must not interfere with the completea
ness of bleeding.

The methods most used in stunning animals prior to slaughter consist of
(l) the s wing hammers? (2) the ”Bolsenschussapparat" of Beyersdoerfer and
Schermer; (3) the free bullet fired from a pistol which is not without danger
to workmen; and (4) the electric current. The last of these seemed to be the
most promising method of prewslaughter stunning. But under the system of Federal
inspection in the United States this method was found to produce complications
that made its use impracticable. This is the reason for the present study.

Electricity in the form of Leduc9s interrupted direct current has been
used extensively for stunning animals in Germany and. to a less extent in England.
Alternating currents have also been tried. Mueller considered the Leduc cprrent
the perfect method for rendering animals unconscious for slaughter. Junack
was also convinced than an electrically stunned animal was rendered entirely
anesthetic to pain. The Leduc current is said not to be dangerous to the
operator,11 as an alternating might be. and it appears to produce complete
unconsciousness. The completeness of unconsciousness and the degree of analgesia
following electric stunning has been debated vigorously. It is possible that the
unconsciousness is more apparent than real.

Leduc12a submitted to the passage of an interrupted direct current of

35 volts and u milliamperes through his own hergﬁ To observers he appeared to

be completely unconscious for several minutes.it But Leduc9 in describing this
experience, stated that first the speech centers and then the motor centers were
inhibited so that reaction to pain stimuli was impossible. The condition was
like a nightmare in which one feels face to face with a terrible danger, but can
neither cry out nor move. In spite of this he was, throughout. sufficiently
conscious to regret that his colleagues did not increase the current suffici-
ently to produce complete inhibition.

Hertz13 applied a similar but stronger current to patients with incur»
able diseases. These subjects retained consciousness throughout the experiment
and, when able to speak or move9 pointed out the places on their bodies she‘s
they had been pinched during the period of apparent unconsciousness. Hume
comments on the 8”scantiness of really reliable data" supporting the claim that

 

7 Hill, L.‘, Vet. Records Londong, 2;: 167, 192a.
8 Laux, Zt. f. Fleischm u. Milchhyg... 373 310, 192647.
9 Mueller, M.9 Deutsche Schlachthof Zeitung, 1932. (Translated in Vet.
' Jour., London. 888 331. 397. 1932.)
10 Junack, Deutsche Schlachthof raising. 28,. 66, 132. 1928.
11 Weinberger, Deutsche Schlachthof Zeitunga 288 23, 1928.
12 (a) Leduc, St.” La narcose spectrique. Paris9 1902; (b) Leduc, St..
Malherbe, A. and Roueeaug A.9 Compt. rend. Soc. de Biol., 5%: 12979 1902.
13 Hertz, J., Rev. de path. comp... 33:385., 1.933.
1“ Hume. C. W.9 Animal Year Book of the Univ. of London Animal Welfare Society,
38 Chap. 7, 1935; Lancet. London. 28 1.0219 1935.

 




b
13,

electric stunning produces "genuine anesthesia." Stief,15 from his experiments,
was convinced that the Leduc current did not produce actual narcosis, but a
primary severe inhibition of motor mechanisms. Ivy and Barry1 were unable
actually to prove that an interrupted direct current produced complete uncon-
sciousness and loss of sensitivity to pain, but considered the evidence "strongly
presumptive." It is possible, therefore, that hogs that have been electrically
stunned may merely remain paralyzed or unable to move or squeal for a minute

or more and yet can still feel the knife.

The type of current and the duration of its application have varied in
the hands of different operators. In most cases of stunning of h0g3 for slaughter,
the Leduc current has been employed. Raschkel7 used both interrupted direct and
alternating currents and found that the latter was four times as effective as
the former. In his Opinion, the strength, direction and duration rather thag
the tension were the decisive factors in the effects of any current. Marti
used an interrupted direct current of 70 volts and an "ordinary" current for
lighting brought down to 42 volts. Anthony19 employed an “ordinary" Egrrent of
200 volts reduced to no to 70 volts with a transformer. Regensburger reported
that Leduc currents of less than about 60 volts will not stun h0gs and. at
currents above 115 volts produce dangerously severe shOck. Tschagowet and
Bini22 used alternating currents in experimental work. Van Harreveld2 and his
coworkers were convinced that any current capable of stimulating the central
nervous system can be used to produce narcosis.

Marti18 applied the curgent for 15 to 20 seconds; Baschkel7 used two

shocks of 5 secOnds each; Hobday2 varied the duration according to the size of
the hOg, applying it for 10 to 15 seconds to ordinany "eight~score" pigs and

20 to 30 seconds to large "twentymscore" boars and sows. Regensburger 0 applied
the Leduc current to h0gs for from one to 12 secondg and concluded that contact
of h seconds gave the best results. Ivy and Barry found that the minimum
effective time (for dogs) for application of the current to produce narcosis

was 10 seconds the optimum being 15 seconds. Frostig, et al., van Herreveld
andDandlikerZé applied the current in their experiments for 30 seconds.

 

15 Stief, 1., Arch. r. Psychiat., 1013164, 19311.

16 Ivy, A. C. and Barry, F. 5., Amer. Jour. Physiol., 998 298, 1932.

17 Raschke, 0., Zt. r. Fleischa u. Milchhyg., 38: 209, 1928.

18 Marti, P., Revista de hygiene y sanidad pecuarius, Maquune, pp. 335~340,
' .1931. (Abs. Vet. Jour., London, 88: 76, 1932).

19 Anthony, D. J., Vet. Jour., London, 888 16“, 1932.

20 Regensburger, R. W., (a) Proc. of 1930, Ann. Meeting of Am. Meat Inst.,
p. 10; (b) Personal communication.

21 Tschagowetz, w., Arch. f. d. ges. Physiol., 196: 567, 1912.

22 Bini, L., Am. Jour. Psychiat., 99, Suppl., 172, 1938.

23 van Harreveld, A., Pleste, H. S. and Wiersma, C. A. G., Amer. Jour.
Physiol., 1378 39, l9h2.

2“ Hobday, F., Vet. Jour., London, 883 #54, 1932.

25 Frostig, J. P., van Herreveld, A., Reznick, S., Iyler, D. B. and Wiersma,
C. A. G., Arch. Neurol. and Psychiat., 51: 232, 194“.

26 van Herreveld, A. and Dandliker, W. 3., Proc..Sox. Exper. Biol. and Med.,
60: 391, 1945.

 




~4-

Numerous articles have appeared in English and German verterinary litera~
ture dealing with the humane slaughter of animals for food. 27 But, unfortunately,
thegedeal chiefly with (l) the relative merits of the different methods of stunn—

(2) with the effects of the various methods upon the saleability of the
meat of animals so stunned because of the occurrence of hemorrhage in the edible
portions of some of the carcasses; i.e., the production of "splashed meats"5; and
(3), particularly in the German veterinary literature, with the question whether
the various methods of stunning animals before slaughter would interfere with
Jewish ritual.2

Practical y all the methods of stunning produced "splashed meat" in a
varying percentage of animals. 7 None of the articles thus far found in German,
French or English veterinary literature dealt with the problem of the occurrence
of changes in the organs of electricalLy stunned hogs that might be confused with
hog cholera and other natural diseases of these animals. This is probably due
to the fact that inspection of slaughtered animals in European countries is far
below the standards of inspection in the United States. Regensburger20 on a
visit to a packing plant in England in which electric stunning was used, observed
“splashing“: i.e., hemorrhages in the lungs of begs and sheep. Among 60 "plucks"
that he observed 17 were clear, 32 showed moderate and 11 marked "splashing." The
only attention given to these changes was to cut away unsightly parts of the lungs
which.were sold. Since this is the problem with which we are most seriously con~
cerned, we have been unable to secure any aid from the experienngof others in
the stunning of animals for commercial slaughter. Regensburger observed
petechial hemorrhages in the lungs of h0g3 during his experiments with the Leduc
current. He has informed me that pre—slaughter electric stunning was introduced
as routine practice in Swift & Company's plant in Chicago, but was discontinued
because of objections by Federal inspectors on the grounds of the great frequency
of occurrence of these perplexing changes in the lungs.

However, long before Mueller developed the method of electric stunning
of hogs in.NMnich, as well as since that time, the effects of the Leduc inter~
rupted direct current and of the alternating current had been extensively studied
in experimental animals and even in man. Some information of value to our problem
can be gained from a brief review of this literature. In the first place, animals
of different species show marks 0differences in susceptibility to eleptricity.

For example, the horse (Arloin 0) and the dog (Prevost and Fattelli3 ) are very
susceptible and are easily killed by relatively small amounts of electricity.
Variations in individual susceptibility among animals of the same species have
been observed in the experimental laboratory (Lidbecsz, Bini2 2) and in abattoirs
(Hobday2 a). Gralnickﬁ3 concluded.that results of electricity upon animals depend,

 

27 An excellent review of the literature on this subject was published by
Kolbe, 2t. f. Fleischs u. Milchhyg., 43: #31 and n7n,1932+33.

28 Hundred, E. J., Vet. Record, London 1: 619 1921.

29 Mueller, 11., Vet. Jour., London, 88: 1183, 1932.

30 Arloing, 8., J. de physiol. et de path. gen., 38 967, 1902.

31 Prevost, J. L. and Battelli, E., J. de physiol. et de path. gen., 1:
399. “27, 1899.

32 Lidbeck, W. L., J. Neuropath. and EXper. Neurol., 18 81, 19h“.
33 Gralnick,.A., Jour. Nerv. and Ment. Dis., 102: A83, l9b5.

 




“.5...

among other things, upon the species of animal used, the strength, frequency of
application and the duration of current employed and the position and size of
the electrodes.

The mechanism by which an electric current produces its alleged nar~
cotizing effects is not important for our problem. (v. Neergaard3 has theorized
at length upon this subject.) We are, on the other hand, deeply concerned with
(l) the immediate effects of an electric current upon an animal; and (2) the
mechanism.by which electric currents produce those changes in the organs of the
body that can easily be confused with the lesions that are characteristic of
certain natural diseases of animals. Many articles in veterinary literature
contain facts pertaining to the first of these points. For information concern~
ing the second point we are limited to experimental and human pathology.

Mueller9 described the effects of the Leduo current on hogs as follows:
"The muscles are hard, the flexibility of the limbs is arrested, cuticular sensa-
tion is absent, eyelids closed. With the muscular contraction there is at the
same time contraction of the respiratory muscles, bringing breathing to a stand-
still; as a result of contraction of the blood vessels there is venous stasis.
Cyanosis, especially of the conjunctivae, appears but disappears when reapira-
tion begins again.“ At first there is a tonic contraction of all the muscles
of the body, including those responsible for reapiration. These tonic convul~
sions are followed, in turn, by clonic convulsions or irregular jerking of the
limbs. Mueller compares these effects of electric shock to epilepsy which they
do resemble in that tonic and clonic convulsions and apparent unconsciousneSs
are present.

v. Neegaardgu studied the effects of the Leduc current on rabbits, cats
and degs. He found that it produced pronounced muscle tonus (continued contrac—
tion) which changed very little during a prolonged narcosis. During this time
one sees and feels fibrillary twitchings in the general musculature and chorea—
like jerkings occur. The muscles of the abdominal walls are especially tense.
The effect on reSpiration is most important. The thoracic and abdominal muscles
are in slow tetanus~like contraction pulling in the cartilaginous portion of the
ribs, giving the appearance of a funnel~shaped chest. After a relatively long
time there occurs rather suddenly a relaxation of these muscles. This relaxa-
tion corresponds to reapiration thus producing a paradoxical condition between
the expansion and contraction of the chest in breathing. It resembles a type of
carbon dioxide anesthesia in which, with normal irritability of the nerve centers,
a tetanic contraction of the general muscularture occurred, which only relaxed
when, as a result of overloading of the blood with carbon dioxide, the irrita~
bility of the nerve centers had sunk so low that they no longer reSponded to the
stimulation of the current. Only after the current induces asphyxia is reapira-
tion resumed. Respiration is markedly hindered, perhaps as a result of spasm
of the glottis as well as of the tetanic contracture of the general musculature.
The result of this is congestion of the portal system and hemorrhages in the
lungs. With relief of spasm of the glottis normal respiration is restored. The
activity of the heart is relatively less affected, and then chiefly by strong
currents. -

 

3“ v. Neergaard, K., Arch. 1*. klin. Chir., 1222 100, 1923.

 




-6-

Raschkel7 stated that upon application of the current the animal sinks
to the ground with all muscles, especially of the extremities, tense and rigid.
Sack and Koch35 found that all combinations of frequency of interruption and
voltage caused tetanization of the muscles, including the muscles of respira»
tion. The resulting stoppage of reapiration caused anoxia gad the animals died
if the current was continued for from 1 to 2 minutes. Bini passed a "street
current" of 120 volts through the bodies of degs for periods of 1/15 to 1/20
second. During the passage of the current the animal howled, had a violent
tonic spasm with episthotonus (contraction of the muscles of the back arching
the neck backward) which lasted for several seconds after the current was stopped.
Then there appeared frequent and violent tonic and clonic convulsions with foam?
ing_at the mouth, biting of the tongue and incontinence of urine and feces, all
lasting for l to 2 minutes. This was followed by a state of coma with complete
muscular relaxation and stertorous breathing. Bini22 also thought that this
resembled typical epilepsy. According to Frickinger36 a hog that is stunned
with the Leduc current "doubles up and lies on its side.“

During the course of our studies on electric stunning of h0gs in Swift
& Company's plant in Chicage, we were fortunate in interesting Dr. Lewis J.
Pollock, Professor and Head of the Department of Mental and Nervous Diseases in
Northwestern University Medical School, in this work. Dr. Pollock37 observed
the effects of the passage of an electric current through the heads of many hogs
and described the results as follows:

"Immediately following the application of the current, the animal goes
into a state of tetanic convulsions (that is, rigid contraction) apparently of
all the muscles including those of the face. For a time it remains rigid, tail
extended, then there is drOOping of the tail and head and gradual sinking of the
forelegs, at which time the animal falls over to the side. At the moment the
current is interrupted the animal promptly develOps clonic convulsions (that is,
irregular contractions of the muscles), involving head, face and legs. The con-
vulsions continue after the animal is elevated and the head hanging down, at
which time the forelegs are extended. 1 was unable to differentiate the clonic
movements into such as might be due to involvement of levels above the spinal
cord. In one of the animals I was able to observe the moment of involuntary
urination and it occurred coincident with the tonic (i.e., rigid) phase of the
seizure.”

All observers of the action of a nonwfatal electric current on hogs
and other animals agree, (1) that the immediate effect is a tonir; i.e., tetanus—
like, convulsion that involves all the muscles of the body which continues during
the flow of the current and is accompanied by complete stappage of respiration;
and (2) that this type of convulsion is followed by clonic convulsions and,
apparently, complete unconsciousness.

 

35 Sack, G, and Koch, H., Zt. f. ges. exper. Med., 993 3&9, 364. 1933-
35 Frickinger, Deut. Schlachthof Zeitung, 28: 83, 1928.
37 Pollock, L. J., Personal communication.

 




«7...

The tonic convulsion produces profound changes in the circulation. Ivy
and Barry,1 Frostig and his coworkers and van Herreveld26 found that the immedi—
ate effect of application of the current —~ either interrupted direct or alternat~
ing ~— was a fall in blood pressure due to temporary stOppage of the heart from
stimulation of the vagus nerve or its center in the brain. In a very few seconds
the heart escapes from the vague inhibition, begins to beat again and the blood
pressure rises considerably higher than the prenarcotic level due to stimulation
of the vasoconstrictor mechanism through the sympathetic nervous system. The
continued contraction of the skeletal muscles during the tonic convulsion squeezes
the blood out of them and reduces the amount than can enter them while in this
condition. The blood thus excluded from the muscles accumulates in the large
veins and in the right side of the heart. More blood is therefore pumped into
the lungs, raising the pressure in the pulmonary system. During the tonic cone
vulsions respiration ceases and oxygen deficiency or anoxia develops. In other
words, the animal is partially suffocated. In addition to these changes in the
circulation, the passage of the electric current is said to have a direct effect
on tissues. Thus, Jellinek38 states that the walls of a blood vessel through
which a current of electricity has passed are rendered brittle and friable.

The endothelial lining is changed and parietal thrombi (clots) are attached to
the lining of the vessel. This great vulnerability of vessels, in Jellinek‘s
opinion, accounts for the hemorrhages that occur as characteristic complications
of injuries due to electricity.

Kawamura39 made graphic tracings of blood pressure and introbronchial
pressure in experimental animals subjected to the passage of an electric current.
The introbronchial pressure was markedly increased, probably due to the contrac-
tion of the muscles of the chest walls and reduction in size of the chest cavity
together with the spasm of the glottis. This increase in introbronchial pressure,
transmitted to the substance of the lungs, results in rupture and tearing of the
walls of the alveoli, and this, in turn, results in hemorrhages in the lungs.
Kawamura’m also studied at autOpsy the changes in 35 persons who had
been accidentally killed by electricity. These victims showed punctate and
streaknlike hemorrhages in the leura, and the lungs were bloddy, wet and yielded
frothy fluid on pressure (edema . The lungs of experimental animals subjected
to the aCtion of electric currents also showed hemorrhages.

Joergensenul found edema and hemorrhages in the lungs of a man who
had committed suicide by allowing a 220 volt current to pass through the body.
Jellinek,38 Gralnick,33 Lidbecka and others have described hemorrhages and/or

edema of the lungs in men killed by electricity. One of the dogs used by

Frostig, et 81.2 died after ”application of the current for a prolonged time."

 

38 Jellinek, S., Wien, klin. Wchn., 183 1139, 1905; Arch. internat. med.
leg., 13 279, 1910; Wiertljrschr. f. gerichtl. Med., 56: 221, 1918.

39 Kawamura, 1., Ztschr. f. d” ges. exper. Med., 12: 168, 1921-
“0 Kawamura, 1., Virchows Arch. f. path. Anat., 231: 570, 1921-
1+1 Joergensen, J. Vo, Dent, ZtSChI‘. f0 do gee. geriChtJ-o Med-o, 28: [+083 19370

 




is...

At autopsy, edema was found in the lungs, but no mention is made of petechial
hemorrhages. After fatal electric shock pulﬁonary hemorrhage and edema weﬁg
found in rats Hi Langworthy and Rouwenhoven, 2 in guinea pigs by MacMahon,

while Schridde stated they were present in 56 per cent of fatal cases in humans.

There is every reason to believe that during the period of flow of the
current the lungs of hOgs stunned with electricity show changes similar to those
described in the lungs of men and of experimental animals that had been killed
by electricity; i.e., the pulmonary vessels were engorged with blood. In the
fatal cases, both in man and in experimental animals, the blood remained,§g
situ.and hence at autopsy the organs, particularly the lungs, showed the marked
congestion and edema described by various authors. In the case of the hogs
stunned by electricity, on the other hand, the animals were immediately bled to
death, and blood escaped from the vessels, thus removing all traces of congestion.
The only blood that remained in appreciable quantities was that which had escaped
from the vessels into the tissues or into the alveoli of the lungs, i.e., in the
areas of hemorrhage. This very fact, that in the process of slaughter animals
that have been electrically stunned or that have hog cholera are bled out leaving
the lungs very pale except for the areas of hemorrhage, adds to the difficulties
of differentiating these two conditions.

 

“2 Langworthy, O. R; and Rouwenhoven, W. B., Jour. Indust. Hyg., 1%:
1932.
“3 MacMahon, H. E., Am. J. Path., 5: 333, 1929.

an Schridde, 3., Klin. Wchnschr., u: 21n3, 1925.

 




“9,

II. METHODS

Electric stunning in these experiments was accomplished by the passage
of an electric current through the head of the hOg. The current was applied by
means of an instrument which was a modification made in England,18:l9 of the
method devised by Mueller.8»9 It consisted of two slightly bent iron strips
fastened tOgether near the middle by a bolt that permitted free motion like that
of a pair of scissors or tongs. One end of each metal strip was covered with
an insulated wooden handle held by the Operator. To each Opposite end of the
strips was attached an electrode, measuring 2 by 3 inches, made of aluminum with
rows of tooth-like elevations on the flat surface. Between the "teeth" was a
rubber sponge. Immediately before applying the instrument to the head of the hog,
the electrodes were wet with a saturated solution of common salt to reduce the
resistance to the passage of the current. The current was obtained through two
insulated wires, one attached to each of the electrodes, and brought up along
the metal strips to a place near the handles in order to keep them out of the
way and to prevent entanglement by the animal. On one of the handles was a
switch. The electrodes were applied to the head of the hog immediately behind
the ears and the switch closed.

In the first series of experiments the Leduc interrupted direct current
was used. The current was allowed to pass through the head of the hog for from
3 to ll seconds. The length of time was governed by the effect upon the animal;
that is, the current was continued until the animal appeared to be completely
unconscious. Since the number of h0g8 stunned by the method showed a very high
percentage of confusing lesions in the lungs, the type, strength and duration of
the current were changed. Accordingly, a voltmeter, a milliammeter, an automatic
timer and an oscilloscope were introduced into the circuit in the proper manner.
The oscilloscOpe is an instrument designed to determine the form and dimensions
of an electric wave. Since certain data were not available for accurate inter—
pretation of the readings on this instrument, its use was finally discontinued.

Raschke15 had stated that the alternating current was four times as
effective as the interrupted direct current. We, therefore, used alternating
currents of 100, 125, 150, 175, 200 and 225 volts, ranging from 210 to 1,000
milliamperes. By means of the automatic timing device these currents were
allowed to pass through the heads of the hogs from 1/4 to one second. It was
thought (1) that a stronger current would effectively stun the animal (Bini,22
van Herreveld,23 and others); and (2) that the action of the current for only
one second or less would decrease the frequency of petechial hemorrhages in the
lungs by reducing the duration of the conditions (etc page of respiration with
the resulting changes in the circulation and asphyxia which are believed to be
the cause Of these confusing changes.

For identification, a metal tag carrying a number was clipped to one
ear of each hog. Just before the dead animal was passed into the dehairing
machine, the other ear was wiped clean and the same number as on the tag was
written on the skin of the ear with an indelible pencil. When the carcasses of
the stunned h0gs reached the inspection table the viscera were examined and
changes from the normal were recorded.

 




-10...

The immediate effects of the alternating and the interrupted direct
currents upon the animals were essentially identical. They have been described
above but may be briefly recapitulated here. With the closing of the switch
on the current applicator, the hog went into a tonic convulsion with all the
muscles of the body, even including those of the tail, in tense contraction.
Respiration ceased, partly because of the firm contraction of the muscles 0%
respiration and partly, perhaps, because of spasm of the glottis (Neergaard )
As soon as the current was stopped the animal passed into a state of clonic
convulsions. During this period it was shackled, drawn up on the wheel and passed
head down to the executioner. While thus suspended many hOgs drooled frothy
fluid which, in some animals, was white, in others, blood-tinged. This was an
indication of the profound changes in the circulation through the lungs induced
by electric stunning.

The electrodes were applied to the head in order to produce the greatest
effects of the current on the brain of the animal. But it is known that when
an electric current passed through any part of the body from one electrode to
another, it tends to diffuse through the tissues. An attempt was therefore made
to reduce this diffusion as much as possible. .The size of the electrodes was
altered (GralnickSB). In the beginning electrodes measuring 2 by 3 inches were
emplqyed. These were reduced in size until toward the end of the experiments
we used electrodes 3/“ inch square.‘ The size of the electrode had no perceptible
effect upon results.

Under ordinary working conditions it is often difficult to place the

electrodes accurately upon the heads of the animals. Some are standing still,
others are in motion, when the electrodes are applied. The accuracy of contact
is likewise diffiCult to determine. Also there are differences in susceptia
bility 28H obda'y,2 “LidbeckBZ ) and in resistance to the flow of current (Hume,
Hobdayz ) in individual animals. All these (accuracy of placement and contact
of the electrodes and individual differences in susceptibility and.resistance)
are variables that it is impossible to control adequately and to evaluate
accurately; All of them would be present under ordinary working conditions

in any abattoir. Regensburger a was familiar with these uncontrollable
factors when he remarked that "The seemingly obstinate nature of the animal
makes the handling difficult.”

 




..

m. CHANGES in THE VISCERA or ELECTRICALLY 3mm HOGS

1. Changes ip.thg,Lungs

The changes in the lungs of hegs that have been electrically stunned
are characteristic, but before describing the lesions certain coexistent changes
that may be present must be differentiated.

l) Differentiation of Possible Unrelated Coexistent Changes in the Lungs

(a). .Aspirated blood. Occasionally in the process of sticking
the trachea is cut and the dying gaSps of the animal draw blood into the lungs.
In this condition (1) the cut in the trachea is easily demonstrated; (2) clotted
blood is present in the trachea and bronchi; (3) since the animal is hanging head
down and aspirated blood tends to gravitate into the anterior lobes of the lungs;
(a) the blood in these lobes is lobular in distribution; (5) the margins of the
portions of the lungs into which blood has been sepirated are often rounded and
somewhat translucent (emphysema) due to the forcing of air in front of the blood
into the outermost portion of the involved part of the lungs as occurs when water
is_drawn into the lungs in drowning. An occasional hOg gasps one or more times
after it is in the tank. Since the animal is then in a horizontal position the
water does not gravitate to any particular part of the lungs but is more evenly
distributed through them. .Furthermore, the color is not red but grayish and
dirty water can be seen to escape from the bronchi when the lung is incised.

(b). Atelectasis. When during life a branch of a bronchus becomes
occluded or blocked by exudate, or possibly by lung worms (Metastrongylus apri),
the air in the portion of the lung supplied by the occluded bronchus is absorbed
and.the lung tissue collapses. An atelectatic area is depressed below the
surrounding lung surface, is dark red to red—brown in color, depending on the
age of the lesion; is soft and pliable but noncrepitant; and has sharp and dis-
tinct margins because it is limited to a particular portion of the lung supplied
by a particular bronchus. Since these portions of the lung contain no air,
pieces out from them sink to the bottom in water. More than one area of atelec-
tasis may be present in the same animal, but aLl have the characteristics just
described. ,They vary in size from a single lobule (about 5 mm. in diameter) up
to an entire lobe.

(c). Bronchopneumonia. In this disease the infectious agent is
irregularly distributed in the lung tissue by way of the bronchi. The lesions
are, therefore, scattered throughout one or both lungs. Their appearance varies
with their age. In the early stages they are red but later fade to brown, gray
or even almost white. They vary in size from that of a single lobule to larger
areas up to 2 or more centimeters in diameter. Such areas are firm, elevated
above the surrounding cut surface of the lung, and their margins are only moder-
ately sharp and distinct. Since the air in the affected regions has been dis—
placed by exudate, small pieces cut from them sink promptly to the bottom in
water.

‘ One or all of the three conditions mentioned above may be found in the
lungs of h0gs that have been electrically stunned. They can usually be differ~
entiated easily, because the individual lesions are much larger than are those
that are characteristic of electric stunning. However, if a considerable number
of the latter lesions are closely grouped together, the red areas may approach
in size those seen in one of the other of the conditions described above.

 




“12-

2) Lesions in the Lungs of Hogs Due to Electric Stunning

The characteristic change observed in the lungs of hOgs that have been
electrically stunned consist of tiny red spots scattered rather indiscriminately
throughout the lungs. They are due to escape of blood into small groups of
alveoli (air sacs of the lungs). These are called petechial hemorrhages. They
vary in size from that of a pinpoint to about 2 mm. in diameter. Occasionally
they are larger. They are best seen in the pleural surface, but they are also
present in the substance of an involved lung. They are bright red in color
because the hemorrhage is fresh and the blood which has escaped into the alveoli
has not changed with.time. These petechial hemorrhages are found in any part
of the lung and vary markedly in number. Occasionally only one or two are found;
in other h0g3 they may number up to hundreds. Occasionally several such hemorr—
hages may occur so close together as to give the impression of a single larger
lesion. But usually careful observation Williams that the larger area is composed
of many smaller ones. In a few h0gs hemorrhages were seen in the parietal pleura
lining the chest cavity. (See Figs. 2 _ 8b.) .

3) Lesions in the Parabronchial and Paratracheal Lymph.Nodes

Several masses of lymphoid tissue (lymph nodes) are found in hogs
along the trachea and bronchi. These vary in size up to 1 cm. or more in
diameter. They are normally uniformly pale pinkish gray to pale red in color,
rather soft in consistency. In hogs that have been electrically stunned, these
lymph nodes may be quite normal in appearance, but in a considerable number of
such hogs they are swollen and mottled pinkish gray and dark red in color or
are uniformly dark red. This is due, as demonstrated upon microsc0pic examiner
tion, either to marked congestion or to actual hemorrhage into the substance of,
the nodes. (See Figs 5b, 6, 7 and 8b.)

The appearance of the changes produced in the lungs and intrathoracic
lymph nodes is shown in the 12 black and white photOgraphs of Figures 1 to 8b.
For comparison, Fig. l is a normal lung except for an area of atelectasis in the
upper part. The remainder of the surface is uniformly pale and without petechial
hemorrhages. In the other ll photographs petechial hemorrhages are seen in vary~
ing numbers and distribution. These appear as distinct, grayish, round spots
which in the fresh lung were bright red. In most of the pictures the lung sur-
face between the petechial hemorrhages is pale and unchanged. In four of the
photOgraphs of the medial surfaces of the lungs, a parabronchial lymph node is
seen. In Fig 5b the node is pale and normal in appearance. In Figs. 6, 7 and
8b, varying degrees of congestion and hemorrhage in the intrathoracic lymph nodes
are shown by the increasing dark grayness of the node up to almost complete
blackness in Fig. 8b.

h) Lesions of the Heart in Electrically Stunned Hogs

In a very small number of h0g8 that had been electrically stunned, we
found petechial hemorrhages in the pericardium.that covers the surface of the
heart. The number of animals in which this lesion was present was so small as
to be negligible.

 




-13-

5) Lesions in the Kidneys of Electrically Stunned.Hogs

In a small percentage of these stunned hogs an occasional petechial
hemorrhage was found immediately beneath the capsule of the kidney. The number
of animals showing this lesion was greater than the number with such hemorrhages
in the epicardium, but far smaller than those showing hemorrhages in the lungs
or congestion and hemorrhage in the parabronchial lymph nodes.

. In summary, the characteristic lesions found.in h0g8 that had been
electrically stunned consisted of tiny, petechial hemorrhages. These occurred
in greater number and with greater frequency in the lungs than elsewhere in the
body. They were found occasionally in the kidneys and very rarely in the epi-
cardium and parietal pleura. A further characteristic lesion found in a large
number of these hogs was congestion and/or hemorrhage in the parabronchial and
paratracheal lymph nodes.

6) No lesions were found in the peritoneum or liver. The peritoneal
cavity was, in all these hogs, free from fluid. The intestines and stomach‘were
not Opened for observation, but showed no evidences of pathologic changes on
external examination. Furthermore, the muscles of the animals were not examined
except such parts as could be seen without incising them and thus rendering them
unsaleable. The bones were not examined. The brains of many of the animals
showed some congestion, but none of those examined showed grossly visible hemor—
rhages. The spleens of the stunned hogs were smooth, of uniform consistency,
not enlarged and were the normal dark purple~red in color.

 




ulh~

IV. ANALYSIS OF RESULTS

The number and percentage of hogs showing petechial hemorrhages in the
lungs, congestion and hemorrhage in the parabronchial and paratracheal lymph
nodes and squealing after having been stunned have been tabulated in order to
discover any possible relation that might exist between these changes and varia—
tions in voltage, milliamperage and duration of application of the electric
current. The results will be seen in the Tables which appear in their proper
places in this Report. Although a quantitative differentiation in the number of
hemorrhages in the lungs and the degree of congestion and hemorrhage in the
lymph nodes was attempted, this differentiation probably has little value because
a very few petechial hemorrhages in the lungs might be confused with the lesions
of hOg cholera.

1. Variations i3 Voltage

The results of varying the voltage of the current are shown in Tables I,
II and III. In each of these Tables the effects of varying the voltage is con~
sidered without reference to differences in milliamperage and duration of applica-
tion of the current.

Table I
Relation of Variations in Voltage to Hemorrhages in the Lungs

Begs with.many 3 Bags with few 2 All h0gs with : Hogs without :

hemorrhages Total h0gs

Volts

 

 

00 0°

: hemorrhages 8 hemorrhages : hemorrhages
; No. 3 Percent ; No. : Percent

No. 8 Percent ; No. 3 PercentéNo.3Percent

 

22 6h.8
0 0.0
13 26.0
9 18.8
8 29.6
13 31.0
8 3h.8

H

32.4

0.0
14.0
37.5
11.1
28.5
17.4

1 2.8
100.0

60.0

43.7

59.3

40.5

h7.8

52
100
125
150
175
200
225

34

5
50
#8
27
A2
23

24.1 2128 44.1 3229 100.0

33

O
20
27
ll
25
12

ca 00 oo oo

00 co co co co co co
H H

4:- N b.) (I) \1 O H

00 9° 00 00 00 00

‘00 no 09 co co co no

oo co as be so a. no

.0 00 o.

.0

73 31.8

Kn
Kn

 

From the data analyzed in Table I it is evident that any current
between 52 and 225 volts will produce petechial hemorrhages in the lungs of
hOgs. 0f the 229 h0gs in this entire group 55.9 per cent had petechial hemorp
rhages in their lungs. The 34 h0gs in the first line of the Table were stunned
with a 52 volt Leduc interrupted direct current; all the others were stunned
with alternating current. The number of h0gs (5, or 2.2 per cent of the total)
stunned with a 100 volt alternating current is too small to have statistical
significance. In the case of the hogs stunned with the Leduc current, the

 




”15-

switch was kept closed and the current flowing until the h0g appeared to be
completely unconscious; that is, from 3 to ll seconds. This time was relatively
short compared to the duration of application recommended by German and.English
veterinarians. For example, Martil applied the current far 15 to 20 seconds;
Raschkel7 used two shocks of 5 seconds each; while Hobda'y2 applied it for 10 to
30 seconds, depending upon the size of the h0g, and Regensburger for l to 12
seconds. In our experiments the alternating currents were applied for periods

of l/h, l/2, 3/4 and 1 second. In a few h0gs the current flowed for 1-1/2 seconds.
The percentage of hogs with confusing petechial hemorrhages in their lungs varied
from 40 per cent to 97.2 per cent. The condemnation of 40 per cent of hogs
because hog cholera was suspected would render the slaughter of h0gs commercially
impracticable. The percentage of hOgs showing petechial hemorrhages in the lungs
did not increase pregressively with the increase in voltage. This was probably
due to differences in combinations in the duration of application of the current
in the different groups.

Another frequent finding in electrically stunned h0g3 was congestion
end/or hemorrhage in the paratracheal and parabronchial lymph nodes. The rela-
tion of this lesion to the voltage of the current is shown in Table II.

Table II
Relation of Variations in Voltage to Congestion and Hemorrhage
in the Paratracheal and Parabronchial Lymph Nodes

 

 

: Hogs with : Begs with. 2 Bags with : Hogs without
:marked conges;:slight conges»: congestion & : congestion &
:tion & hemor~ :tion & hemor» 3 hemorrhage 2 hemorrhage Total hOgs
:rhage in lymphzrhage in lymph: in lymph : in lymph '
_. _. noses. .. ._ 3.. _. 11.09.68. .. .. 3.. _. 1.1.0868 _ _. 8.. _. noses. _. ..
. No. Percent : No. Percent 3 No. Percent : No. Percent No. Percent

3h 15.5
5 2.3
50 22.7
45 20.5

21. 61.8
0 0.0
11 22.0
17 37.8
4 18.2
12 29.3

13 38.2
5 100.0
39 78.0
28 62.2
18 81.8 22 10.0
71.7 #1 18.6
-i_ﬂ&__-wdjag-_32_mé._
70 31.8 . . 220 100.0

1 29.4

0.0

l

.0

0

N

0
00 O. 06 00 GO .0

Ocoaooooaooo
0000600009”

0
0
n
9
2
7

OU‘Nm'ﬂOH
“00 99 00 0. 00
NH
m‘H-QWOCD

O
O

a. '
co
0

0
0
1
.1
8..
8

b)
00
Km)
.Q
H

0

 

Among the h0g5 included in Table II the highest percentage of animals
with congestion and hemorrhage in the lymph nodes about the roots of the lungs
occurred in the group stunned with the 52-volt Leduc current which.was applied
for from 3 to ll seconds, or, until the hag appeared to be completely unconscious.
The average occurrence of this lesion among the entire group of 220 h0g3 was
31.8 per cent. By comparing Tables I and II it is evident (1) that congestion
and/or hemorrhage in the paratracheal and parabronchial lymph nodes are less
frequent than petechial hemorrhages in the lungs themselves; and (2) that there
is no distinct correlation between the voltage of the current and the percentage
of hOgs showing this change.

 




   
 
  

~16~

 
 

In mamy of these experiments record was made of the occurrence of
squealing by the stunned hogs. The results are shown in Table III.

  
 
 
         
    
   
      

 
 

Table III
Relation of Variations in Voltage to the Occurrence of Squealing

 

!

 

 

3 Bags with = Hegs with 8 Total hegs 3 ﬂags without 8

Volts : slight 3 marked 3 with 3 squealing 3 Total hogs
3 -sauaﬂian 3.. squealing. _. 3... squealing .. 3 _______ 3 .......
8 8 3 8 8

No. Percept No. Percent No. Percent No. Percent

 

   

52 . . z ,, p s w .~ , : ',.
100 3 0 0.0 3 2 40.0 3 2 40.0 3 3 60.0 3 5 3.2
125 ° 14 31.8 3 8 18.2 3 22 50.0 3 22 50.0 3 44 28.0
150 ‘ 3 7.7 3 9 23.1 3 12 30.8. 3 27 69.2 3 39 24.8
175 4 18.2 3 4 18.2 3 8 36.4 3 14 63.6 3 22 14.0
200 3 5 20.0 3: 1 4.0 3 6 24.0 3 18 76.0 3 25 16.0

3 7 31 8 3 1 4.6 3 8 ' 3 14 3

  
      
   
        
 
     
   
   
  
 
   
   
 
  
   
  
   

 

 

  

At the time when the interrupted direct (Leduc) current was used, no
record was kept of the occurrence of squealing. The data in Table III are based
upon.the relation of variations in voltage to squealing without reference to
milliamperage or duration of flow of the current through the heads of the h0g3.
Of this entire group of 157 hOgs 36.9 per cent squealed after application of

the current. With the alternating current there was no definite relation
between the voltage and the extent of squealing. However, for whatever it is
worth, attention may be called to the fact that of 44 hOgs stunned with a current
of 125 volts, 50 per cent squealed afterward, while of 25 h0gs stunned with a
current of 200 volts, only 24 per cent squealed. It is likely that with any
voltage squealing was the result of imperfect contact or imprOper placement of
the electrodes on the heads of the begs. This view is supported by the fact

that relatively few of the hogs that squealed after application of the tongs

to their heads showed petechial hemorrhages in their lungs. But the factors of
individual differences in susceptibility and differences of resistance to the
flow of the current in different animals cannot be egcluded. The resistance

‘was measured in a considerable number of these hogs and ranged from 9 to 100
ohms. These measurements were, perhaps, not too accurate in the case of those
h0gs to which the current was applied for 1/4 to 1/2 second.

It is evident from Tables I, II and III that currents of any of the
voltages used will produce petechial hemorrhages in the lungs, congestion and
hemorrhages in the paratracheal and parabronchial lymph nodes and will fail to
prevent squealing or to produce complete unconsciousness. This conclusion is
based solely upon the strength of the current in volts without reference to
other factors. In a later section of this Report an attempt will be made to
correlate the combined effects of time and voltage, voltage and amperage, and
time and amperage with the frequency of the changes described as results of
electric stunning.




2. Variations ;Q_Amper§ge

An ammeter was connected in the circuit and the amperage was recorded
in milliamperes, which ranged from 210 to 1,000. For convenience the hegs were
divided into three groups; namely, those exposed to currents of less than #00,
currents of #00 to 700, and currents of more than 700 milliamperes, respectively.
The results are shown in Tables IV, V and VI.

Table IV
Relation of Variations in Amperage of the Current
to Occurrence of Petechial Hemorrhages in the Lungs

‘f‘
‘j

Hegs with : Hogs without
__h§_m_o_r_r_h%gs_ : hemor;ha_g_e_s__ __ gets; h_Ogs_
o

Milliagperes No. Percent 8 No. Percent, N . Percent

_Less than #00 milliamps 12 #8.0 13 l#.3
too to 700 milliamps 24. 35.3 . 38.8
Over 700 milliamps

 

Petechial hemorrhages occurred in the lungs of h0gs in all three groups
in which the volume of current in milliamperes was recorded. The percentage of
h0gs with such hemorrhages was somewhat lower in the group stunned with currents
ranging from #00 to 700 milliamperes. But even in this group the percentage was
far too high for practical purposes. Of this group of 175 hogs #7.5 per cent had
petechial hemorrhages in their lungs.

The frequency of occurrence of congestion and hemorrhage in the para—
tracheal and parabronchial lymph nodes was compared with the milliamperage of
the current used on 176 h0g3. The results are shown in Table V.

Table V
Relation of the Milliamperage of the Current
to the Occurrence of Congestion and Hemorrhage
in the Paratracheal and Parabronchial Lymph Nodes

 

 

Hegs with Hogs without

congestion & congestion &
Milliamperes . hemorrhage in hemorrhage in
_ _1ymph_ngdgsg _ _ _lzmph nodes

Total bags

0 O. O. O. .0

 

Less than #00 milliamps 12.5 ° 87-5
#00 to 700 milliamps 15.7 88-“
Over 700 milliamps

 

 




 

~18~

It is evident from Table V that the milliamperage of the current is a
factor in producing congestion and hemorrhage in the lymph nodes at the roots
of the lungs. Approximately 41 per cent of the hogs stunned.with currents of
more than 700 milliamperes showed this change, while it was present in only
about 12 per cent of those stunned with currents of less than 700 milliamperes.
In the entire group of 177 h0g3 26.2 per cent showed this lesion.

The occurrence of squealing was compared with the milliamperage of the
current used on 149 hogs. The results are shown in Table VI. The number of hogs

 

 

Table VI
Relation of the Milliamperage of Current to the Occurrence of Squealing
Hogs with Hogs without

.._.§snselins. =

No. Percent : No. Percent 3 No. Percent

Milliamperes

co .0 06

Less than 400 milliamps : 19 86.4 : 3 18.6 : 22 14.8
400 to 700 milliamps 8 25 36.2 : 4& 63.8 3 69 46.3
Over 700 milliamps : 11 19.0 3 #7 81.0 3 58 39.9

2 55 36.8 “ 94 65.2 : 149 100.0

eXposed to currents of less than 400 milliamperes was relatively small, but the
per cent of animals that squealed after being stunned with.this amount of current
(86.u per cent) was much greater than the per cent of animals stunned with
currents of more than 400 milliamperes. In this latter group were 127 hogs, of
which 36 (or 28.b per cent) squealed after being stunned, while the average for
the entire group of 149 hogs was 36.8 per cent. These figures are of question—
able value, however, because of the small number of animals in the first group
and.because the accuracy of contact and placement of the electrodes could not
be adequately controlled. These factors would be just as uncontrollable under
ordinary working conditions in any abattoir. The ability to control these
factors would diminish.with every increase in the number of h0gs slaughtered

per day.

3. Variations ;Q_Timing

The instrument used in measuring the duration of flow of current through
the head of hogs automatically broke the circuit at the end of the time for which
it was set (fraction of a second to several seconds). Hence these measurements
are accurate. The relationships between the time of flow of the current and the
changes already described are shown in Tables VII, VIII, and IX.

The relation of duration of current flow to the frequency of occurrence
of petechial hemorrhages in the lungs was recorded he a group of 257 hogs. The
results are shown in Table VII. The automatic timer was set for more than one
second in nine h0g5 stunned.with alternating currents. These added to the 34
hogs stunned with the Leduc current gives a total of 43 animals in which the time
of current flow exceeded one second.

 




r19“

Table VII
Relation between the Duration of Flow of Current
and the Occurrence of Petechial Hemorrhages in the Lungs

 

Hogs with Hogs without
_._hemorrhages
Es. Pgrcent Percent No. Percent

Time in Seconds

00 .0 ‘0

1/4 second
1/2 second
3/4 second
1 second
More than 1 second

8 42.0
34 36.2
21 37.5
26 57.8

58.0 7.u
63 .8 36.6
62.5 21.8
42.2 17.5

'9 be 90 co ca
09 co co

GO GO

 

" Of the 257 hogs in Table VII, 49.5 per cent had petechial hemorrhages
in their lungs. The number of hogs stunned with a current of one—fourth second
duration was relatively small. Omitting this group there was a pregressive
increase in the percentage of hogs with petechial hemorrhages in their lungs with
each increase in the duration of flow of the current. A comparison of this
Table with Tables I and IV suggests that voltage is the least important, and
duration of current flow is the most important of the three factors (voltage,
amperage and duration) in the production of petechial hemorrhages in the lungs.

, Table VIII y
Relation of Duration of Flow of Current to the Presence of
Congestion and Hemorrhage in the Intrathoracic Inymph Nodes
WWW—“w
Hogs with Hogs without
congestion & congestion &
hemorrhage in hemorrhage in. Total hogs
_lxmph nodes
No. Percent

00 00 so 00

Time in Seconds

.9 .0 6G O. O.

No. Percent ‘ 3 N°%~ Percent

00

1/4 second
1/2 second
3/4 second
1 second
More than 1 second

1 5.0
18 22.2
12 33.3
15 34.9

19 95.0 20 9.3
63 77.8 81 37.8
24 66.7 36 16.8

28 65.1 43 20.1

00 90 .9

ee 90 co 0. 09
.0 9. .0 06 90

 

In the group of 214 h0g8 in Table VIII 31.3 per cent showed congestion
and hemorrhage in the paratracheal and parabronchial lymph nodes. It is evident
that duration of flow of current through the heads of the hogs was an important
factor in producing this change. The percentage of h0gs with this lesion
increased with the increase in the length of time the animals were exposed to
the electric current. When the duration of flow of current exceeded one second
the percentage reached 61.3, while with only one second exposure, it was a little
less than 35 Per cent.

 




- 20.»

Table IX
Relation of Duration of Flow of Current to the Occurrence of Squealing

 

.— A‘” W

Hogs with 3 Hegs without 8
immﬂme-J--ﬂymms_J-JQO%s__
No. Percent : _§b. Percent 8 No. Percent

Time in Seconds

00““

1/4 second 12 70.6 29.u
1/2 second 43.8 56.2
3/ﬂ second 18.5 81.5

1 second 22.

17 11.5
64 1+3 .3
27 18.2

co co co
.0

.0 .0

 

It is evident from Table IX that the greater the duration of flow of
current, the smaller the number of hogs that squealed after being stunned. The
difference was particularly marked.in h0gs that were exposed to the current for
more than one~half second. Observations were not made on the frequency of squeal-
ing in the group of hOgs stunned with the 52 volt interrupted direct current, in
Which the time of flow of current was never less than 3 seconds. But in that
experiment the timing was done with an ordinary watch and was, therefore, not as
accurate as the timing in the case of the h0g5 included in Table IX'When an auto~
matic timer was used. However, it can be said that squealing was much.less common
in the hogs stunned.with the 52 volt interrupted direct current because the switch
on the tongs was kept closed.until the animals were definitely unconscious.

h. Correlation g: Effects Q£_Voltage and DuratiOn 9§_Shock

In the preceding sections of this Report it was shown that the duration
of flow of current is a more important single factor in the production of petec-
hial hemorrhages in the lungs and congestion and hemorrhage in the intrathoracic
lymph nodes than were either the voltage or the amperage of the current. In this
section an attempt will be made to determine which combination of these factors
is the most significant for the production of these changes. In Tables X, XI and
XII the combined effects of voltage and duration of flow of current are shown.

In Tables VII and VIII it is seen that the percentage of hOgs showing these
changes was definitely less in hogs stunned with currents of one-half second or
less than in those h0gs stunned with currents for more than one-half second. For
this reason, in these Tables all hOgs stunned with currents of the same voltage
are divided into two groups according to whether the duration of the current flow
was one—half second or less, or more than onenhalf second.

 




-21-
Table X
Correlation of Timing and Voltage
with Reference to the Occurrence of Petechial Hemorrhages in the Lungs

‘3‘“ ‘ w.
I

' Hogs with
Volts Time in Seconds ° Number ‘_
ofrhnsaw E9._;__Irarnail___

1/4 to 1/2 second . 29 7 ' 2t.2
3/4 to 1 second 21 13 62.0

1/4 to 1/2 second 5 32 15 46.9
3/4 to 1 second 12 11 91.7

l/4 to 1/2 second ; 8 4 50.0
3/4 to 1 second 13 3 23.1

1/4 to 1/2 second 3 19 58.0
3/4 to 1 second - 22 - 59.1

1/4 to 1/2 second 12 41.7
3/4 to 1 second

 

From the data presented in Table X from a study of 179 h0g6 it is evident
that the frequency of petechial hemorrhages in the lungs of h0gs stunned with
currents of the same voltage increases With the duration of flow of the current
through the heads of the h0g3. The only exceptions to this generalization were
the h0gs stunned with a current of 175 volts. This was the smallest of the five
groups in the Table and the difference may be due to the smallness of the statise
tical sample. The above principle is further supported by the fact that h0g8
stunned with the weakest current used — 52 volts of interrupted direct current
allowed to flow for 3 or more seconds — showed the highest percentage (97.2
per cent) of hemorrhages in the lungs. (Table I.)

_ Table XI
Correlation of Duration and Voltage of Current with.the Occurrence
of Congestion and Hemorrhage in the Intrathoracic Lymph Nodes

 

 

 

 

Number : <:Eogs with
of hogs :_

O
O
D
O

Volts Time in Seconds

: Percent:

1/u to 1/2 second 29 13.8

1/2 second
1 second

1/2 second
3/4 to 1 second

1/2 second
3/4 to 1 second

 

 




-22~

Except for the group of hOgs stunned with a current of 175 volts, the
smallest of the five groups in Table XI, the percentage of hOgs showing conges-
tion and hemorrhage in the intrathoracic lymph nodes was significantly greater
'in those animals that were subjected to the shock current for periods of more
than one—half second then in those stunned for one-half second or less. Here
again, as in all other combinations studied, the percentage of hogs showing this
and other confusing lesions after electric stunning is far too high for any
method thus far used to be economically practicable.

The correlation between the squealing of h0gs after being stunned and
the duration of passage of the shock currents of varying voltage is presented in
Table XII.

Table XII
Correlation of Duration and.Voltage of Current
with the Occurrence of Squealing of Hogs after Being Stunned

 

 

Hegs with squealing

number
Time in Seconds of hogs Percent

l/h to 1/2 second 56.0
3/h to 1 second

l/h to 1/2 second
3/4 to 1 second

1/4 to 1/2 second
3/4 to 1 second

l/h to 1/2 second
3/h to 1 second

l/h to 1/2 second
3/h'to 1 second

 

In general, it appears from Table III that the higher the voltage and
the longer the duration of flow of current the less frequent is the occurrence
of squealing.

5. Milliagpegage ang,2u§ation 9: Shock

In this section a comparison is made between the combined effects of
the volume of current in milliamperes and duration of flow with the frequency of
occurrence of petechial hemorrhage in the lungs, with the occurrence of conges-
tion and hemorrhage in the intrathoracic lympy nodes and.with the prevention of
squealing of the hOgs after stunning. The results of these studies are shoWn
in Tables XIII, XIV and XV. .As in previous comparisons of the various factors,
the h0g3 were divided into three groups; namely, those that received currents

 




“23-

of less than 400, from 400 to 700 and over 700 milliamperes of current,
respectively. Each of these groups were further divided into those in which
the duration of flow of current was less than one-half second, and those in
which the current flowed for more than oneahalf second, respectively.

Table XIII
Correlation of the Milliamperes and Duration of Current
with the Occurrence of Petechial Hemorrhages in the Lungs

 

 

HOgs with

' Milliamperes Time in Second§_ -' Percent

1/4 to 1/2 second #6.?
Less than.400 ma. 3/h'to 1 second

1/4 to 1/2 second
3/4 to 1 second

l/& to 1/2 second
More than 700 ma. 3/4 to 1 second

~~~“-~-—ﬂ’-‘w-’~-~~-u~~“~~--—--

172 83 “8.3

 

From Table XIII it is evident (1) that petechial hemorrhages occurred
in the lungs of hOgs in all three groups with a minimum of 27.3 per cent showing
this lesion; (2) that with the weaker currents (i.e., less than too milliamperes)
the time element does not play as important a part in the production of this
change as it does with stronger currents; and (3) that with currents of greater
volume, i.e., more than too milliamperes, the percentage of hugs with.petechial
hemorrhages in their lungs was significantly higher when the duration of flow
of current exceeded one-half second.

The relation of the combined effects of the number of milliamperes and
the duration of the current in the production of congestion and hemorrhage in
the intrathoracic lymph nodes is shown in Table XIV.

Table XIV
Correlation of the Milliamperes and Duration of Current and the Occurrence
of Congestion and Hemorrhage in the Intrathoracic Lymph Nodes
: 1 : Begs with conges—
: Number : _tipg,§_hemp§rhage_,
: Time in Seconds of hogs : No. Percent

1/u to l/2 second 1 6.3
Lessltnac 9.09.. mac. ._ .. .. 1/ d .3... _. .. 32‘s.. _ ..
us “0 1/2 second ~ 3 9.1
9.09. 3.0.79.0...ma- ..... 311+ $4-820an _____ 5.0 ..... l5- .. _ 10.2.0. .. ..
1/4 to 1/2 second. La 13 30.2
Qver_79.0_mao ______ 3/

Milliamneres

 

 




.. 214...

The data presented in Table XIV confirm the conclusion previously
stated, namely that the time factor is more important in the production of these
lesions than is the milliamperage of the current. But that the milliamperage is
also an important factor is indicated by the fact that the proportion of hegs
stunned with currents of over 700 milliamperes for periods of onewfourth and
one-half second was almost identical with the per cent of h0g3 stunned with
currents of MOO to 700 milliamperes flowing for three—fourths and one second;
namely 30.2 and 20.0, reSpectively. The percentage of h0g5 stunned with currents
of less than 400 and of 400 to 700 milliamperes, respectively, for one-fourth
and one~half second showed no significant difference, which demonstrates again
the accuracy of the division of these groups on the basis of milliamperage of
current. The critical point appears to be about 700 milliamperes. Currents
above that strength produce more profcund effects regardless of the time factor.

Table XV
Correlation of the Milliamperage and Duration of Current
and the Occurrence of Squealing after Electric Stunning

 

 

HOgs with‘

Number .ssusaling_

Milliamperes Time in Seconds of hogs No. Percent

l/h to 1/2 second ' 78.6
Less than #00 ma. e3/4 to 1 second

l/h to 1/2 second
B/b to 1 second

 

From Table XV it appears that both the number of milliamperes and the
duration of flow of the current are important factors in the prevention of squeal—
ing of h0gs after electric stunning. The percentage of hOgs that squealed after
being stunned with currents of less than 400 milliamperes was much higher with
both shorter and longer periods of current flow than in h0gs that were stunned
with currents of more than 400 milliamperes. With currents of more than 400
milliamperes the influence of the time factor is distinct. In both of these
groups (too to 700 and over 700 milliamperes, respectively) a much lower per-
centage of h0g8 squealed after being shocked with currents of more than one»
half second duration than of those which were stunned with current flows of
one~half second or less.

 




-25-

.6.

When an attempt was made to tabulate the combined effects of voltage
and milliamperes of current, statistical difficulties arose. This procedure
required making three subgroups according to the classification under milliam—
peres for each voltage group. When tables were prepared-in this manner the
distribution in some subgroups became too thin to be of statistical significance.
These Tables will not, therefore, be presented. But it was possible to draw some
tentative and general conclusions which are as follows:

(1) In the groups of hogs stunned with 125, 150 and 175 volts, petec-
hial hemorrhages occurred with much greater frequency in the lungs of those
stunned with currents of more than 700 milliamperes than in those stunned with
less than 700 milliamperes. In the groups stunned with currents of 200 and 225
volts, respectively, the frequency, i.e., the percentage, of petechial hemorr-
hages in the lungs did not show very marked difference between the three groups
based upon milliamperage; namely, less than 400, 400 to 700 and more than 700
milliamperes, respectively. Currents of high voltage and less than 400 milliam—
peres appear to produce petechial hemorrhages in the lungs with about the same
frequency as currents of lower voltage and milliamperes over 700.

(2) The frequency curve of the occurrence of congestion and hemorr-
hage in the intrathoracic lymph nodes seemed to follow the same rule as that of
petechial hemorrhages in the lungs. That is, in each of the graips of h0g8
stunned with.currents of 125, 150 and 175 volts, the frequency of occurrence of
this change increased with the milliamperage of the current; while with currents
of higher voltage the effects of increasing milliamperage of the currents were
not so pronounced.

(3) The frequency of squealing decreased rapidly with each increase
of milliamperage in the groups of hOgs stunned with alternating currents of 125,
150 and 175 volts; while in those groups stunned with currents of higher voltage
the difference was less marked.

(4) In general, it may, therefore, be concluded that voltage and
milliamperage of the stunning currents supplement each other and that currents
of high voltage and high milliamperage are much more effective in producing the
perplexing lesions than are weaker currents.

 




~26~

V. DISCUSSION OF RESULTS

In the beginning of this investigation we used the Leduc current
supplied with the apparatus employed in the same manner as at the time the
method of electrical stunning was given a routine trial at Swift & Company‘s
Chicago plant some years ago. Three facts were very evident from the start
concerning the use of this method. (1) The number of hugs showing petechial
hemorrhages in their lungs was far too high for this method to be practicable.
(2) The time during which.this current had to be applied to produce narcosis or
apparent insensitivity to pain was much too long. (3) It appeared that one
of the chief causes of these hemorrhages was the length of time respiration was
stopped and the animal was in a state of suffocation.

For these reasons it was necessary to seek:other types of current and
methods of application. It appeared probable that a stronger current would
stun very quickly; that is, in one second or less, would reduce the time during
which the animal was in a state of asphyxia and decrease the tendency to hemor»
rhage. We, therefore, used alternating currents of higher voltage, because
this type of current has been employed in the electric shock treatment of
certain types of mental diseases in man and could.be used.without fatal results,
and because Raschke had stated that the alternating current was four times as
effective for stunning as the direct current. However, stunning by every com»
bination of voltage, milliamperage and timing used in.these eXperiments produced
confusing petechial hemorrhages in the lungs, congestion and hemorrhage in the
intrathoracic lymph nodes too frequently, and failed to prevent squealing in
too high a percentage of hOgs to be practicable and economically sound from the
point of view of the Packing Industny.

The duration of flow of the current through the head of the hog
appears to be the most important factor in the production of petechial hemorr~
hages in the lungs. .As a rule, the weaker the current the longer the time
required to produce narcosis. In our experiments alternating currents of varying
strengths effectively stunned.h0gs in one~fourth.second when the electrodes were
accurately placed and contact perfect. This period was so short that there was
hardly time for the full effects of asphyxia or even of the usual changes in the
pulmonary circulation to take place. And yet, many of these hogs had confusing
hemorrhages in their lungs.

The time required to produce garcosis varies with the type and the
strength of the current. Regensburger2 has reported the shortest period of
flow for the Leduc currenteanamely, h secondsw—as giving the best results in
bags. Others have applied the current for periods up to 20 to 30 seconds. Ivy
and Barry found that 10 seconds was the minimum timeuto produce naﬁgosis in
degs, the optimum being 15 seconds. .Both Maclachlan 5 and Koepper have stated
that the severity of the injurious effects of electric currents, as seen in human
victims of electric accidents, increased in preportion to the prolongation of
time of eXposure to the current. Any method of preslaughter stunning, to be
effective and economically sound, must produce its effects quickly and complet»
ely at a single application. It would not be practicable to use a method of
electric stunning that required application of 30 seConds, i.e., onenhalf

 

”5 Haclachlan, w., J. Indust. Hyg., 16: 52, 193i».
“6 Koepper, 5., Arch. f. exper, Path. u. Pharmakol., 178: 65“, 1935.

 




' Jr -27-

minute, to each hog in order to stun the animal. At the peak load of 600 hogs per
hour at which one hog is killed every 6 seconds, it would not be possible to use

a method of stunning that required 30 seconds to produce its effects. The peak
load with such a method would be 120 hOgs per hour.

A consideration of the fundamental action or actions of an electric
current upon an animal organism will furnish a basis of understanding why we
were unable to find a satisfactory electric current of preslaughter stunning and
why there is reason to believe that it will continue to be impossible to find
such a current. These may be summarized as follows:

a. The tissues of the lungs are very delicate. The walls between
adjacent alveoli (air sacs) are extremely thin and easily ruptured, as is seen
in the disease emphysema of the lungs; so that a sudden.increase in.intra»alveolar
pressure might easily result in multiple minute ruptures of internalveolar walls.
The capillaries in these delicate intersalveolar walls are lacking in support
from adjacent tissues such as capillaries in other parts of the body here. Any
increase in pressure in the pulmonary circulation will act upon the thin, unsup~
ported walls of these vessels to distend them and thus to produce congestion.
Multiple small hemorrhages into the alveoli are a constant accompaniment of
the passive congestion of the lungs characteristic of heart failure.

b. The conditions that accompany and are due to the tonic or tetanize
ing convulsions of electric stunning have a very direct tendency to cause just
the conditions that are capable of producing petechial hemorrhages; that is, of
rupturing numerous capillaries in delicate alveolar walls. These are: (l) Tetanic
contraction of the muscles of the chest wall and of respiration in general
greatly increases intrathoracic pregzure. When as appears likely, there is
spasm of the glottis (v. Neergaard, Kawamura 39) and marked increase of intro~
bronchial and intrapalveolar pressure, the effects of increased intronthoracic
pressure from tonic spasm of the muscles of the chest would be augmented.
(2) The tetanic or tonic convulsion stops respiration, which, in turn, shuts off
the animal's supply of oxygen; that is, the animal begins to suffocate. The
anoxia that results from stoppage of respiration injures the lining of walls of
capillaries wherever they are located. Injury of capillary walls by any meanse~
chemical, mechanical (including electrical) and bacterial or infectious-~pre~
diaposes to hemorrhage of the petechial type. (3) The immediate effect of an
electric current of sufficifgt strength to stag an animal is to stop the heart 26
temporarily (Ivy and Barry, Frostig, et a1, and van Herreveld and Dandliker )
as a result of the stimulation of the vagus nerve or of its center in the brain.
At the same time that the heart is stopped, the blood is forced out of the skeletal

‘ muscles as a.result of their powerful tonic contraction. Most of the blood in

the body, therefore, accumulates in the large veins, increasing the pressure
within these vessels. As soon as the heart escapes from the influence of the
vague and again starts beating it has an abundant supply of blood and the general
systemic pressure, and probably that in the pulmonary circulation, rise consider»
ably higher than preshock levels.‘

 




~28-

c. According to Jellinek38 electric currents increase the fragility of
walls of capillaries as one of their direct effects.

It appears, therefore, that any tetanizing current used to induce
preslaughter analgesia stunning would be expected to produce petechial hemor~
rhages in the lungs, and, to a less extent, congestion and hemorrhage in the intra»
thoracic lymph nodes. This is because a tetanizing convulsion stOps respiration
and produces oxygen insufficiency or anoxia, increases blood flow, and probably
blood pressure, within the vessels of the lungs, including the thin—walled
unsupported inter—alveolar capillaries which lie in the very delicate, fragile
alveolar walls that are easily ruptured. It, therefore, seems to be useless to
pursue the search further for a means of electric stunning by any one of the
well—known types of current, all of Which produce tetanizing convulsions, and
all of which, therefore, give rise to conditions that predispose to the forma~
tion of the perplexing lesions.

.The search should rather be directed toward finding a type of current
that will effectively stun and render an animal insensitive to pain without
producing the tetanizing convulsions. Even such a current, if it can be found,
may still produce petechial hemorrhages in the lungs because of the direct effect
described by Jellinek on capillaries.

 




-29.

SECTION B

Comparison of the lesions induced by electric stunning of swine and those
characteristic of certain spontaneous diseases of these animals.

I. INTRODUCTION

In Section Ayof this Report it was pointed out that electric stunning
produced petechial hemorrhages in the lumgs of a high percentage of bags and in
other organs much less frequently. Since similar petechial hemorrhages are
characteristic of hog cholera and other spontaneous diseases of swine, it is
necessary to present briefly the nature and causes of these lesions in order to
understand the differences in mechanism of production in the two groups of
conditions.

Hemorrhage is defined as the escape of blood from the heart or blood
vessels. This blood may escape into the tissues or cavities or to the outside
of the body. Petechﬂﬂ.hemorrhages appear as tiny red spots, 1 to 2 millimeters
in diameter, andaire so named because of their resemblance to the small red area
that forms about the bite of a flea (petechia). In such lesions a small amount
of blood, sufficient to be visible to the naked eye, escapes from a capillany
into the surrounding tissues. These hemorrhages are due to many causes.

The capillaries are tiny blood vessels with very thin walls composed
of a single layer of flat endothelial cells. It is from the capillaries that
oxygen and nutrient materials pass from the blood into the tissues; and into
the capillaries come the waste products of tissue activity. The walls of the
capillaries are very delicate and are easily injured.by a variety of causes.
When a capillary ruptures, blood cells escape into the surrounding tissues and
a petechia, or petechial hemorrhage, is formed. Among the causes of petechial
hemorrhages are septicemia, toxemia, certain vitamin deficiencies, anoxia
(deficiency of oxygen) and increased intracapillary pressure.

Septicema is a condition in which pathogenic organisms —~ bacteria,
viruses, etc. -— are present in the blood stream. Bacteria may lodge in a
capillary and cause direct injury to its endothelium. The products of some
pathOgenic bacteria and viruses, vsnoms of some snakes and other chemical sub—
stances are toxic, and insufficient concentration damage the capillary walls;
the injured endothelium gives way and petechial hemorrhages result. This occurs
in human beings in infections with the streptococcus and meningococcus and some
viruses. In swine it occurs characteristically in hag cholera, in swine plague
and in swine erysipelas. It seems likely that the toxic products of the various
pathOgenic organisms which cause the above—mentioned diseases in hOgs are the
sole cause of the petechial hemorrhages seen in these diseases. No such cause
acts in the production of these lesions in hogs subjected to electric stunning.-

 




-3 0....

The endothelium lining the capillaries is very sensitive to lack of
oxygen. Any condition that reduces the supply of oxygen to the body for even a
short time will, before death occurs, give rise to rupture of the walls of capil—
laries that have been injured by lack of oxygen. Petechial hemorrhages result.
in human beings who have been drowned, suffocated, choked to death or aSphyxi~
ated by gas; a very characteristic and diagnostic change is the presence of
petechial hemorrhages in the serous membranes, particularly in the pericardium.
It is doubtful if anoxia is a factor in the production of petechial hemorrhages
in spontaneous diseases of swine. It is a very important factor in the causation
of such hemorrhages in h0gs that have been electrically stunned.

Over-distension of capillaries by excessive pressure of the blood.in
their lumens causes their walls to stretch and become thinner and thus more
easily ruptured. In the first section of this Report it was pointed out that in
electric stunning the generalized spasm of the skeletal muscles and the stoppage
of respiration during the passage of the current through the body of the hag
causes a marked increase in venous pressure. This continues for a variable
period after the current is broken. Increased venous pressure induces an increase
in pressure within the capillaries, particularly of the lungs, and causes their
walls to be stretched and to become thin and easily ruptured. This is, therefore,
an important factor in the production of these lesions (petechial hemorrhages)
in the electric stunning of h0g5, but is not concerned in the production of
similar lesions in cholera and other spontaneous diseases of swine.

Thus, while petechial hemorrhages are characteristic both of electric

stunning and of certain spontaneous diseases of h0g3, the factors concerned in
their production differ markedly in the two conditions. In hog cholera and
other infectious diseases they are due to direct injury to the capillary walls
by toxic substances produced by growth of the pathOgenic Organisms in the bodies
of the swine. 0n the other hand, in electric stunning no toxic substances are
produced, but marked changes occur in the circulation within the hOg during

and as a result of the process of stunning. These changes increase the intra~
capillary pressure, overdistend these delicate structures, reduce their supply
of oxygen, and cause them to rupture and thus produce the petechial hemorrhages.

 




-31-
11. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF HOG CHOLERA

Hag cholera is an acute, highly contageous, generalized, infectious
disease of swine, caused by a filterable virus. It is characterized anatomically
by multiple hemorrhages, necrosis and infarction in the internal organs of the
animal. One effect of the virus is to render the sick animal more susceptible
to complicating, secondary bacterial infections. It has not been definitely
proved whether the lesions characteristic of the disﬁase are due solely to the
virus or to some associated bacterial agent (Kinsley7

Human beings are not susceptible to infection with the virus of hog
cholera. There are, however, numerous reasons for condemning the carcasses of
hogs with this disease. (1) The hemorrhagic lesions render the meat unsightly ‘
and, therefore, unsalable. (2) The secondary bacterial invaders, particularly
staphylococci, paratyphoid bacilli, etc., might be a source of food poisoning
in humans. (3) The chief reason for such condemnation is the protection of hogs
in uniﬁgected areas. The transportation of cholera—infected hogs to market
(Udall ) and the sale of the meat of such animals are means of spreading the
disease among herds of hegs previously free from the disease. Birch concluded,
after an extensive investigation, that it is impossible, even.with the most rigid
and careful inspection of carcasses, to remove from the market all h0g8 with the
virus of this disease. In 21 sugarwcured hams from infected hogs without visible
lesions, the virus was found in 12 and it persisted for 80 days. He concluded
that in the Eastern States it is probable that from 85 to 90 per cent of new
outbreaks of hOg cholera can be traced to the virus in pork scraps fed as garbage.

In this Report we are not interested in the symptoms-of hOg cholera
but in the pathOIOgical changes induced in the bodies of animals by the disease.
In very rapidly fatal cases when the animal dies quickly from an overwhelming
infection, the changes may be very slight and consist chiefly in parenchﬂmatous
degeneration, or cloudy swelling of the heart, liver and kidneys (Udall,
Kinsley,u7 Hagan50). In the less rapidly fatal form of the disease, character-
istic petechial hemorrhages may be found in most of the organs and serous surfaces
of the diseased animal.

The skin may be hypermic or even scarlet red in color and there may be
subcutaneous hemorrhages, particularly inthe soft, loose skin on the under surface
of the belly and the inner surfaces of the thighs anJi forelegs. These hemoE-)
rhages may vary in size from petechia to larger areas of ecchymosis (Kinsley7
The ears may be involved, with the areas of necrosis along theiEBmargins.

Similar areas of necrosis may be present about the vulva (Udall

 

”7 Kinsley, A” T., Swine Practice, Chicago, 1936, p. 281.

“8 Udall, D. H., The Practice of Veterinary Medicine, Ithica, New York,
‘ 1916 , 46%473 .

”9 Birch, R. 3., Reg CholeniTransmission through Infected Pork, J..Amer.
' Vet. Med. Assoc., 51, 303, 1917.

50 Hagan, W. A., The Infectious Diseases of Domestic Animals, Ithica,
New York, l9h3, pp. 586—594.

 




-32.

Complicating bacterial infections may cause pneumonia. But the most
characteristic lesions of hog cholera in the respiratory tract consist of hemor—
rhages of varying size. Petechial hemorrh es are often seen in the mucosa of
the larynx of the trachea (Hagan,5O Kinsleyi7). Hemorrhages are more frequent
and more numerous in the lungs. These occur both in the pleura and in the sub—
stance of these organs. They vary in size from petechiae to one centimeter or
more in diameter. Both lungs are usually involved and the lesions are widely
scattered in the different lobes. Such hemorrhages are among the most constant
of the various lesions characteristic of this disease.

The lymph nodes are usually involved in hag cholera, but the distribue
tion of the affected nodes varies greatly in different animals. In some, only
one group of nodes is affected; in others, almost all the nodes of the body may
be involved. The characteristic changes consist of simple swelling, congestion
and hemorrhage. The affected nodes vary in color from the normal pink in the
simply swollen nodes, through red to almost black. .The simple swelling is due
to edema; the red color may be due to either congestion or hemorrhage or to both,
and the depth of color depends upon the amount of blood in the tissues of the
node. In the very dark red almost black nodes, there is extensive hemorrhage.
Since hOg cholera is a generalized infection it is to be expected that lymph
nodes in widely separated portions of the body will be involved. This is in
contrast to the distribution of affected nodes in h0gs subjected to electric
stunning, in which only the paratracheal and parabronchial (i.e., intrathoracic)
nodes are affected. In hog cholera there is a tendency for the congestion to
be limited to the subcapsular portion of the node, thus producing a red ring
about the periphery. The same type of change has been observed in the intrar
thoracic nodes of hogs which have been electrically stunned.

The Spleen, as in most acute infections, is often but not always
enlarged or swollen in hOg cholera because of the presence of an excess of blood.
Small red spots, firmer in consistency than the surrounding tissues, may be seen

under the capsule. These lesions resemble very early small infarcts of the
spleen, They are likely to be most numerous near the hilus of the spleen.
Sometimes larger red areas of the same consistency as spleen tissue are also
seen. 'These are areas of hemorrhage into the substance of the organ.

Areas of congestion and hemorrhage may be found in any part of the
gastrointestinal tract in hOg cholera. These occur in the mucosa of the pharynx,
stomach and small intestine and, more rarely, in the large intestine. Hemorrhages
in the serous coatn—that is, in the visceral peritoneumeumay occur on the stomach
and on the small and large intestine. These hemorrhages vary from tiny, milli»
meter-sized petechiae up to large ecchymotic lesions. Occasionally, in the
chronic form of hag cholera, raised ulcerative lesions-~"button ulcers"~—appear
in the mucosa at the site of chronic enteritis. It is probable that these
ulcers are the result ﬁg a complicating infectious enteritis rather than to the
cholera, itself (Udall ).

Subend0cardial petechial and ecchymotic hemorrhages and petechial
epicardial hemorrhages are common lesions in hOg cholera (Kinsley 7). Injury
to the walls of the smaller blood vessels and capillaries, thus weakening their
walls, by the infectious agent (virus) are the cagfe of the small and large
hemorrhages, as pointed out by Seifried and Cain.’

 

51 Seifried and Cain, J. Exper. Med., 56, 3H5, 1932.

 




-33-

Of special significance are the tiny, sharply circumscribed hemorrhages
beneath the capsule of the kidneys. They are said to be only ﬂarely absent in
hog cholera and.are almost pathognomonic of the disease (Udall 8). Of equal

pathognomonic importance are petechial hemorrhages in the mucosa of the urinary
bladder (Kinsley 7).

Dark areas of hemorrhage may be found in the bone marrow, particularly
in the ribs. Occasionally small hemorrhages are found in the meninges and in
the substance of the brain.

It is evident from the above brief summary of the pathOIOgic changes
observed in hOg cholera that the lesions of this disease are these common to any
acute infection with any highly virulent organism; namely, parenchymatous degen-
eration, or cloudy swelling of all the parenchymatous organs such as the heart,
liver and kidneys; petechial and ecchymotic hemorrhages and congestion in mucous
and serous membranes, such as the gastrointestinal and bladder mucosa, the peri-
toneum, pleura, endo— and peri~cardiumg and swelling, congestion and hemorrhage
into the lymph nodes of the body.

The above general description of the patholOgic changes found in
animals suffering from hOg cholera was obtaine from standard textbooks o
Veterinary Medicine, such as those of Kinsley, Udall and Hagan5c,. This was
necessary, first, in order to acquaint one's self with the changes to as expected
in the carcasses of h0gs with cholera; and, also, because so few h0gs with this
disease ever reach the killing floors ofjpacking houses with adequate inspection
that we were unable to make an adequate study of the disease for comparison with
the changes induced by electric stunning. This lack of material for such study
was rectified through the efforts of Mr. R. W. Regensberger and Dr. L. D.
Frederick, of Swift & Company. In accordance with arrangements previously made,
Dr. Frederick and I went to Whitehall, Illinois, where, through the courtesy of
Mr. O. S. Greene, Manager of the Gregosy Laboratories, and with the kind coopera-
tion of the Federal Inspector, we were permitted to study the changes in the
carcasses of 107 hogs suffering from known cholera. These animals had been pre-
viously infected with the virus of the disease and were sacrificed on the day
of our visit for the purpose of obtaining serum for the control of hag cholera.
The carcasses of these animals were examined.by the Federal Inspector who recorded
on his official report the changes found in each organ. The relative frequency
of occurrence of lesions in the different organs of the bodies of these h0g8 is
shown in Table XVI which is based upon the official record made by the Inspector
on the day of our visit.

Table XVI
Showing the Relative Frequency of Hemorrhagic
Lesions in Different Organs of Bags with Cholera

Total number Number Percent
Organ of h0g§7 with lesions with lesions

Lungs 107 63 58.9
Spleen 107 65 60.7
Lymph nodes 107 99 92.5
Intestines 107 100 93.5
Kidneys 107 101 94.“
Bladder 107 106 99.1

 




-34.

The changes found in the carcasses of these h0g8 were declared by
Dr. L. D..Frederick and the Federal Inspector, both of whom are trained and
experienced veterinarians, to be characteristic of hog cholera. 30g cholera
is a variable disease. The animals examined at Whitehall were in an advanced
stage of a very virulent, artificially induced infection with hog cholera
virus. The lesions in these h0g8 might, therefore, be expected to be more
numerous and, perhaps, larger and more widely distributed throughout the bodies
of the animals than in an ordinary case of spontaneous hOg cholera, particularly
in its earlier stages, such as might be found.in the carcass of a hag that had
escaped the preslaughter inspection and reached the killing floor. However, the
changes in the organs of these hogs furnish concrete evidence of the types of
lesions that are characteristic of hag cholera and thus furnish a basis for the
comparison of the frequency distribution of these changes in the different
organs with the frequency distribution of the somewhat similar lesions that
result from the electric stunning of bags. The accompanying photOgraphs were
made from the organs of the hegs whose carcasses were examined in Whitehall.
They illustrate the type, distribution, variation in size and the appearance of
the lesions characteristic of hag cholera.

The lesions present in the lungs of the hOgs observed in Whitehall
are illustrated in the seven lungs from five hOgs shown in Figures 1 to 3.

The lungs from two h0gs in Figure 1 show rather wide variations in
the character of the lesions. In Figure la (left) the lung is pale except for
an irregular area of atelectasis in the anterior lobe. Scattered irregularly

over the surface of the pale posterior lobe are numerous dank spots (petechial
hemorrhages) that were up to slightly more than 1 millimeter in diameter. In
Figure lb (right), similar dark spots are seen less distinctly on the darker
(dusky red) background of the congested lung.

The lungs in Figure 2 are from the same hog. The left lung is more
congested and was more dusky red than the right. On both lungs, particularly
on the posterior lobes, there are numerous hemorrhagic areas (dark in the photo-
graph) ranging from less than 1 millimeter to more than 1 centimeter in diameter.
Atelectasis is also present in the anterior lobes. 0n the surface of the aorta,
which lies between the lungs, there are several areas of hemorrhage in the adven—
titia, or outer layer, of the vessel.

Figure 3 contains three lungs from two hogs. All three of these lungs
are somewhat darker and were originally dusky red in color and less crepitant
than normal (that is, they contained little air). Against this dark (dusky red)
background much darker (red in the fresh Specimen) spots, or petechial hemor-
rhages are visible.

The lesions in the Spleen do not show well in these photOgraphs. They
are most distinct in the second spleen from the left in Figure 4 in which four
spleens are shown. The characteristic lesions consisted of purple red areas on
the external and cut surfaces of these spleens. Some of these areas were not
elevated, had about the same consistency as the adjacent splenic tissue and
represented simple hemorrhages into the substance of the spleen. Other lesions
were distinctly elevated above the surrounding external and cut surfaces, were
definitely firmer in consistency than the adjacent splenic tissue, and were
recent hemorrhagic infarcts of the spleen. These lesions in the spleen are due
to the destructive action of the virus on the walls of the blood vessels, as

 




-35“

shown by Seifried and Cain.5l Injury to and roughening of the linings of the
smaller blood vessels leads either to thrombosis of the injured vessel and thus
to infarction of the region supplied or drained by the affected vessel; or the
weakened wall gives way and hemorrhage occurs.

As shown in Table XVI, the lymph nodes were involved in 92.5 per cent
of the hogs examined. No attempt was made to record the distribution of the
affected nodes. I gained the general impression, however, that none of the
various groups were exempt, but that perhaps the mediastinal and mesenteric nodes
were more frequently involved than were other groups. The affected nodes showed
several degrees of involvement. Some were merely swollen, soft, moist and
edematous. Others were uniformly pale red or pink, swollen and edematous
(Figure 5c). Some nodes were swollen, their centers pale gray or pink and bulg—
ing on cut surface, while beneath the capsule was a narrow ring (Figure 5d).
Other nodes were swollen, soft and dark red (Figure 5e) to almost black in
color (Figure 5a and b). The latter group showed both congestion and extensive
hemorrhage into the tissues of the nodes.

. 7 In this group of 105 cholera h0g8, 93.3 per cent had lesions in their
intestines. These consisted of (a) portions of the gut in which the entire wall
was dark purplish red in color for distances of a few to several centimeters.
This appeared to involve all the coats of the small intestine. (See upper left
portion of Figure 6.) (b) In other parts of the intestine of the same animal
there were numerous petechial hemorrhages in the serous coat of the small intestine.
(See central, upper part of Figure 6.) The uniformly dark red portions resembled
infarction of the intestine, which could have occurred either as a result of
thrombosis of a branch of the mesenteric vessels, or from extensive hemorrhage
into the tissues of the wall of the intestine as a result of the damaging effect
of the virus on the walls of many small vessels as described above. It is to be
noted in Figure 6, also, that the mesenteric lymph nodes in these animals were
very markedly hemorrhagic.

Of this group of cholera h0g5, 94.h per cent had tiny red Spots, or
petechial hemorrhages immediately beneath the renal capsule. These varied in
number from a single petechia in many kidneys to great numbers as seen in the
central kidney in Figures 7a and 7b. These two Figures are photOgraphs of the
same group of kidneys. By turning the board upon which the kidneys were placed
through an arc of 90 degrees, the high lights were shifted so that the hemor~
rhages can be best seen on one kidney in one photOgraph and on other kidneys in
the other photOgraph. The central kidney in each group has a great many of these
tiny subscapsular hemorrhages, while the others have only one or two such lesions.

, Kinsley and others have stated that petechial hemorrhages in the mucosa
of the urinary bladder are almost pathognomonic of hOg cholera. In this group of
h0g5 with cholera, 99.1 per cent had such hemorrhages in their bladders. No
attempt was made to photOgraph the mucosa of the urinary bladder partly because
the curved inner surface of this viscus makes focusing upon the entire lining
practically impossible. .

 




--36-

No record was kept of the number of hogs seen at Whitehall that showed
lesions of the skin. But these were present in a considerable number, and one
of them is shown in Figure 8. These changes consisted of hemorrhages into the
subcutaneous tissues of the loose skin of the under side of the belly and on the
inner surfaces of the fore and hind legs. They varied in size from a millimeter
to a centimeter in diameter.

Many of the h0gs with cholera had large quantities of clear, straw~
colored fluid in the peritoneal cavity (ascites). Although no accurate record
was kept, and therefore, the actual percentage of animals showing this lesion
cannot be stated, probably at least 50 per cent of these h0gs showed this
condition. This lesion not only was not observed in the electrically stunned
h0g3, but because electric stunning is an acute process, such a lesion could not
occur in animals subjected to this procedure as a result of the stunning itself.

Although hOg cholera is the disease which is most likely to be confused
with the effects of electric stunning, two other diseases of these animals should
be mentioned; namely, swine erysipelas and swine plague or hemorrhagic septi—
cemia of swine. Both of these diseases may occur in an acute form and be accom~
panied by the occurrence of petechial hemorrhages in the mucous and serous mem—
branes of the sick animal. In their very acute forms, these diseases can be
differentiated from hgg cholera onkg with difficulty. In fact, some veterinar—
ians, notably Kinsley and Udall, believe that some cases diagnosed as swine
plague or hemorrhagic septicemia are in reality hOg cholera. In swine erysipelas,
hemorrhages occur in the skin. But these can usually be differentiated from those
of hog cholera in that in the former disease hemorrhages are frequently seen in
the skin of the cars, a location in which they rarely occur in hOg cholera. In
addition, the hemorrhages in the skin in swine erysipelas have a characteristic
rhomboid shape so that this condition is often called "diamond disease." In
these two diseases (swine erysipelas and swine plague) there are usually severe
lesions in the yiscera of the animals. In both there is generally a pneumonia
of a type not usual in hOg cholera; and, particularly in swine plague, there
are numerous hemorrhages and extensive ulcerations and inflammation in the gas~
trointest inal tract .

 




-37.

111. DISCUSSION

For purposes of differential diagnosis, comparison of the lesions
observed in the cholera h0g8 in Whitehall with those seen in hOgs subjected to
electric stunning has both advantages and.disadvantages. In the first place,
the h0gs studied in Whitehall had knowm hag cholera, since it had been inten-
tionally induced by the inje~tion of the pure virus of the disease. Fbrther-
more, the disease in these animals was apparently in pure form and not obscured
by the results of secondary infection with pathogenic bacteria. In comparing
these two conditions, therefore, we are dealing with authentic, proved hag
cholera and its characteristic pathologic changes. However, the hag cholera
seen in Whitehall was well advanced: that is, the animals had been sick for
several days. In the best abattoirs with Federal inspection, no hag with such
advanced cholera is likely to reach the killing floor. These are separated in
the pens and are diverted to other parts of the plant. This accounts for the
difficulty in finding hogs with the disease in Swift & Company‘s plant in Chicago
and for the necessity of going to Whitehall to see this disease in any large
number of animals. In actual practice, therefore, the inspectors must differ-
entierte or recOgnize hOg cholera in its early stages in which the lesions may
not be so numerous or so widely distributed or so characteristic as they become
as the disease pregresses.

There are, however, certain definite differences in the lesions result—
ing from electric stunning of hogs and those that occur in hOg cholera that
should be emphasized. In the first place, approximately one minute, on the
average, elapses between the time the hog is electrically stunned and the time
when it is killed by severing the large vessels in the neck. Within another
minute or two the animal is dead. Path010gic changes cannot occur in a dead
animal, and more time is required for the development of most of them than is
available between the stunning and the death of the hog. It would be quite
impossible, therefore, in this short period for ascites, pneumonia, infarction
of the spleen or enteritis-~all of which may be present in hog cholera, swine
plague and swine erysipelasm-to develOp in an electrically stunned hag. Such
lesions, when present, therefore, could not be the result of the stunning, but
are due to some preuexisting spontaneous disease.

As pointed out in Section A of this Report, the lesions, particularly
the petechial hemorrhages, seen in hogs that have been electrically stunned
are results of (a) the profound disturbances of the circulation due to the
tonic convulsions induced by the passage of the electric current through the
animal; (b) the anoxia, or oxygen lack, which results from the stoppage of
respiration; and (c) possibly, an increase in fragility of the capilla ies due
to a direct effect of the electric current, as suggested by Jellinek. In
hOg cholera the hemorrhages are due to damage to the walls of the capillaries
as a result of the direct action of the virus of the disease. It would seem,
therefore, that since the most profound changes in the circulation in electric—
ally stunned h0g5 occur within the chest cavity~--~while in hOg cholera, which
is a generalized septicemia and, therefore, affecting more or less equally all
the organs and tissues of the animal~~~there should be and is a difference in
distribution of the lesions that would be helpful in differential diagnosis.

 




~38~

The relative frequency of lesions in different organs and tissues seen in the
cholera hOgs studied in Whitehall, on the one hand, and in the electrically
stunned h0g3 observed at Swift & Company's plant in Chicago, are shown in

Table XVII. Since in the experiments on electric stunning currents of different
types and of different strengths were applied for varying periods of time, the
minimum and maximum percentages of occurrence of the lesions in different organs
and tissues have been selected from the several Tables in Section A of this
Report for comparison with the percentages of the same lesions in the h0gs with
cholera studied in Whitehall.

Table XVII
Comparison of the Distribution of Lesions in
Electrically Stunned and Cholera HOgs in Percentage

 

 

‘1

' -_Ewmyﬁmm@e_-
Organ Keg Cholera Minimum Maximum

Lungs 58.9 23.1 (x)* 97.1 (I)*
Lymph nodes 92.5 5.0 (VIII)* 78.5 (XI)*
Spleen . 60.7

Intestines 93.5

Kidneys 94.4

Bladder 99.1

 

I"Refers to Tables in Section A of this Report.

As in all acute generalized infections, hOg cholera may involve one
organ more severely than another. It is not always easy to determine whether
this variation is due to differences in (a) the portal of entry of the virus
(respiratory or gastrointestinal tracts); (b) to some peculiar tropism of a
particular strain of the virus for one organ; or (c) to the fact that in one
animal one organ and in another animal another organ may be a place of lowered
resistance (“locus minoris resistentiae"). These facts must be borne in mind
in any consideration of the percentages given in Table XVII. For example, while
9h.4 per cent of the cholera h0gs studied in Whitehall had petechial hemorrhages
in their kidneys, only a few had as many of these lesions as are shown in the
kidney in the centers of Figures 7a and 7b. In view of the above considera—
tions, the distribution of hemorrhages in the different organs and tissues
illustrated in Table XVII has only limited value. Certain facts not revealed
in this Table will be discussed later and their significance pointed out.

 




-39“

The lesions in the lungs in hOg cholera and after electric stunning
are very similar in many reSpects. These organs were by far the most frequently
affected in electric stunning, but the frequency varied with several factors.
The lowest percentage (23.1 percent) of hOgs with petechial hemorrhages in their
lungs occurred in that group that was stunned with an alternating current of
175 volts with a duration of three-fourths to one second. The highest percentage
(97.2 percent) was observed in the group of hogs stunned with the Leduc inter—
rupted direct current of about 52 volts, but with current flows up to ll seconds
(Table I). Among the cholera h0gs studied in Whitehall, 58.9 percent had lesions
in their lungs. These lesions consisted chiefly of small millimeter sized hemor—
rhages in the pleura and substance of the lungs. There was no characteristic or
constant difference in the distribution of these hemorrhages in the different
lobes of the lungs. All lobes were about equally involved. There were, however,
two differences between the lungs of the cholera hogs and those subjected to
electric stunning. In the first place, the petechial hemorrhages in the elec-
trically stunned hogs were bright red, while many of those in the cholera hogs
studied in Whitehall were brownish red. The petechiae in the electrically
stunned hogs had very sharp margins while those in the cholera h0g3 frequently
had hazy edges. The lungs cf the cholera h0gs were the seat of definite
pneumonia or of diffuse congestion much more frequently than were those of the
electrically stunned hogs. When such conditions, particularly pneumonia, were
present in the lungs of electrically stunned hOgs they were due to some other
cause that produced its effects before the animal was stunned.

The differences.between the lesions in cholera hogs and those elec~
trically stunned are due in part to a time element and in part to the differences
in the mechanism in production. In the first place, hemorrhages in electrically
stunned hogs occurred during the period of flow of the current or immediately
thereafter. They had existed, therefore, for only one or two minutes before the
actual death of the animal. The areas of hemorrhage were, therefore, occupied
by fresh, unaltered red blood cells. There was not time enough for diffusion
of hemoglobin out of the red blood cells in the tissues which would give the
areas a hazy margin; nor for disintegration of red blood cells and the forma~
tion of the red brown hemosiderin pigment by phagocytes. In the cholera h0g3
many of the hemorrhages had existed for a few days before the death of the animal
and both of the above processes~~~diffusion of hemoglobin out of the cells and
formation of redabrown hemosiderin pigment-~«had occurred. For these reasons,
some or all the petechial hemorrhages in the lungs of the cholera h0g3 had a
brownish tint and hazy margins. These differences would, however, apply only
to h0gs that had had cholera for #8 hours or longer.

.The changes in the lymph nodes in hog cholera and after electric
stunning were very similar except that those in hog cholera often had a brownish
tint instead of being pure red. The reason for this difference lies in the longer
duration of the changes in the cholera h0g5. The hemorrhages in the lymph nodes
in the electrically stunned hOgs had been present for only one or two minutes;
while in the cholera hOgs they had been present for hour up to a few days.

When the changes in the lymph nodes consisted of congestion only, there could be
little difference in the color in the two conditions.

 




“no-

There was, however, a marked difference in the frequency of occurrence
and in the distribution of the lesions among the various groups of lymph nodes
in the body in the electrically stunned and the cholera hogs. Among the cholera
hOgs, 92.5 percent showed changes in their lymph nodes. Among the electrically
stunned h0gs the frequency varied from 5.0 percent in the group in which the
current was allowed to flow through the head of the animal for only one~fourth
of a second, up to 78.5 percent in the group (Table.XI) that were stunned with
a current of 150 volts allowed to flow for from three~fourths to one second.

The most-marked difference between the hogs that were stunned and those with
cholera was in the distribution of the lesions among the various groups of lymph
nodes. Among the electrically stunned hogs the intrathoracic nodes were pracm
tically the only ones involved. This is easily understood, because the,most
marked changes in the circulation during the period of flow of the current are
within the chest cavity of the animal. Among the electrically stunned hogspi
lymph nodes outside the chest were practically never affected. When lymph nodes
outside the thoracic cavity were found involved, ithis possible that they were
not due directly to the process of stunning, but mawyhave been due to some
unrelated condition. Among the cholera h0g3 the mesenteric lymph nodes were
cengested or hemorrhagic as frequently as were those within the chest cavity.

0n the basis of this observation, congestion and/or hemorrhage in the mesenteric
lymph nodes almost certainly excludes electric stunning as their cause.

The h0g8 of both groups; that is, those electrically stunned and the
cholera h0gs studied at Whitehall, were bled to death. This fact makes comparim
son of the lesions in the two groups more valuable. Also, any hOg with cholera
that might be found on the killing floor of an abattoir would, likewise, have
been bled to death. In both groups the viscera were, therefore, pale and
contained little blood except in those areas in which hemorrhage had occurred or
in those in which there was congestion due to loss of tone of the capillaries
and veins in a region that was the seat of pathologic change. Blood which has
escaped into the tissues obviously could not be removed by massive hemorrhage
which occurs when a hag is "stuck." Evidences of antemorten congestion may
remain as a result of two Special conditions in spite of the "bleeding out“ of
slaughtered animals by sticking as on the killing floor of an abattoir, or by
removing all the blood possible through a canula in a vein, as in the cholera
hogs whose serum is to be used for making anti-cholera vaccine. In massive
hemorrhage in any animal the small blood vessels throughout the body contract
and squeeze as much blood as possible out of the various organs in order to
keep the heart and larger blood vessels as full of blood as possible and to
maintain blood pressure. However, in certain tissues, such as the lymph nodes
in which the circulation is peculiar, the tissues may not give up as much blood
in massive hemorrhage as some other organs with a different type of circulation.
This is the reason why in both groups of hogs the lymph nodes still showed
evidence of congestion in spite of the fatal hemorrhage. Oh the other hand,
when capillaries and veins are affected by disease, as in hog cholera, or pose»
ibly as a direct result of the action of the electric current in the region of
its maximum effect, they may not be able to contract normally as a result of
the massive loss of blood. Such areas of the body, therefore, show congestion
even after fatal hemorrhage.

 




-ul-

As seen in Table XVII the spleens of 60.7 percent of the cholera hogs
showed pathologic changes in the form of congestion and/or infarcts. In the
electrically stunned h0g8 the spleens were not found to be affected. One func-
tion of this organ is to store red blood cells in rather concentrated form.

In cases of hemorrhage, the spleen, which contains much smooth muscle, contracts
and thus delivers into the general circulation a considerable amount of stored
blood which aids in maintaining the total number of red blood cells in the cir—
culation of blood. The virus of hog cholera damages the vessels of the Spleen
along with those of other organs. The spleen thus damaged as a result of the
disease is unable to perform its normal function when hemorrhage occurs. This
is particularly true when some of the blood vessels have become thrombosed and
infarcts have been produced. In the cholera hogs, therefore, it was to be
expected that the spleens would show marked congestion. In the electrically
stunned hogs the vessels of the spleen were not damaged, they contracted down

as a result of the hemorrhage, and the spleens of these hogs were, therefore,
smaller and paler than those of the hegs with cholera. To summarize, the spleens
of the cholera h0gs were large, congested and frequently contained infarcts; in
the electrically stunned hOgs, the spleens were small, pale, contained little
blood and were free from infarcts. The presence of definite pathOIOgic changes
in the spleen (marked congestion and, particularly, infarcts) of an electrically
stunned hOg may, therefore, be interpreted as the result of pre~existing spon-
taneous disease in the animal. Unfortunately, the absence of lesions in the
spleen of a hog does not completely exclude the presence of hag cholera.

. The intestines of 93.5 percent of the cholera hOgs showed definite
pathologic changes in the form of hemorrhages into their walls. These were of
two types: either diffuse hemorrhages involving the entire thickness of the
wall for a considerable distance along its course, or tiny petechial hemorm
rhages which were usually present*in the serous coat; that is, immediately
beneath the peritoneum. These hemorrhages were due to the direct action of t
virus on the walla of the blood vessels, as pointed out by Seifried and Cain.‘
Although Jellinek 8 has claimed that the walls of a blood vessel through which
a current of electricity has passed are rendered brittle and friable and may
become the site of thrombosis, the conditions under which hogs are electrically
stunned for slaughter would render such a process impossible because the animal
is bled to death almost immediately after the current has passed through its
body. Time is required for the formation of a thrombus. Hence it is not sur-
prising that the intestines of electrically stunned hogs were free from lesions.
Furthermore, it is doubtful whether enough electric current passes through the
viscera of a stunned hog to affect their blood vessels in the manner claimed
by Jellinek,3 because the electrodes were applied to the head. Any current
that might diffuse through the tissues to the intestines of the animal would be
too weak to'produce an effect sufficiently severe to give rise to lesions
resembling those seen in cholera hogs. The presence of petechiae or larger
hemorrhages in the intestines of an electrically stunned hog are, therefore,
probably due to spontaneous disease.

In a very small percentage (one to two percent) of the h0g8 that had
been electrically stunned one or two petechiae were found immediately beneath
the capsules of the kidneys. Similar lesions were an almost constant finding
in cholera hogs; that is, 94.4 percent of those studied in Whitehallh The
presence 85 subcapsular petechial hemorrhages.are stated by Kinsley, 7 HaganSO

and Udall to be almost pathOgnomonic of hOg cholera. The presence of

 




-142...

subcapsular petechiae on the kidneys of an electrically stunned h0g may be due
either to coexistent cholera or to circulatory disturbances due to the effects

of the process of stunning. The latter possibility may be explained on the basis
of the peculiarity of the renal circulation. The renal arteries are short and
come off at right angles from the aorta, so that the pressure in the capillaries
of the glomeruli of the kidneys is known to be higher than that in the general
systemic capillaries. In like manner, the renal veins are short and enter the
inferior vena cava almost at right angles. Increased pressure in the vena cava
due to the marked disturbances of the circulation which occurs in electric
stunning would be transmitted through the renal veins to the capillaries of the
kidneys and might be capable of producing petechial hemorrhages in these organs.
The presence of subcapsular petechial hemorrhages in the kidneys of a hog do not,
therefore, entirely exclude electric stunning as a cause. When present in large
numbers, as in the central kidney in Figures 7a and 7b, they may be safely
considered as due to hOg cholera.

Unfortunately, the bladders of the electrically stunned hOgs were not
examined for the presence of petechial hemorrhages. On the basis of the circula~
tory changes incident to stunning, there is reason to believe that hemorrhages
in the mucosa of the urinary bladder do not occur as a result of this process.
This is true (1) because the bladder is too far from the place of application of
the electrodes for the current to prgguce a direct effect upon the capillaries
of this organ as claimed by Jellinek ; (2) because the bladder is not within
that region of the body in which the greatest disturbance of the circulation
takes place during electric stunning; and (3) because the circulation in the
bladder does not possess any such peculiarity as that in the kidneys whereby
increased pressure in the vena cava could be transmitted in sufficient degree
to cause petechial hemorrhages. But since direct observations on this organ
are lacking, it cannot be stated with certainty that petechial hemorrhages did
not occur in the bladders of electrically stunned hogs. It can only be stated
that it is not probable. Most authors on veterinary medicine, however, state
that petechial hemorrhages in the mucosa of the bladder are more nearly patho-
gnomonic of hOg cholera than similar lesions beneath the capsules of the kidneys.
This view is supported by the fact that 99.1 percent of the cholera hOgs studied
in Whitehall did have these hemorrhages in their bladders. The presence of these
lesions should, therefore, be considered evidence of infection with tht virus
of hog cholera.

The official record of the inspection of cholera h0g5 in Whitehall
did not include the changes observed in the livers of these animals. However,
it was observed that these organs were large, pale and showed cloudy swelling
or parenchymatous degeneration. This was to be expected because hog cholera
is an infectious disease and accompanied by fever, two conditions that almost
invariably are characterized by this pathologic change. Cloudy swelling of the
liver was not observed in the electrically stunned h0gs. It could not occur
in these animals if they were previously healthy, (1) because infection and
fever were not present and could not be induced by stunning within the time
involved; and (2) because the time that elapsed between the flow of the current
and the death of the hog was not sufficient for this condition to develop.

 




-43..

No hemorrhages were observed in the skin of the h0g3 subjected to
electric stunning. The actual number of h0g8 that showed this lesion in
Whitehall was not recorded. .It is sufficiently frequent in this disease to be
mentioned in discussions of hoS cholera in textbooks of veterinary medicine
(Kinsleyﬂu’7 Udall!”9 and Hagan5 ) The appearance of these lesions is illustrated

in Figure 8. The presence of hemorrhages in the loose skin of the under side

of the abdomen and inner surfaces of the thighs and forelegs may be considered
strong evidence of hOg cholera. The irregularity in shape and size and the
distribution of the hemorrhages in the skin are characteristic of hOg cholera,
while the subcutaneous hemorrhages in swine erysipelas are so typically rhomboid

as to be diagnostic.

 




-uu.

IV. SUMMARY OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE LESIONS
OF ELECTRIC STUNNING AND HOG CHOLERA

The hogs with cholera observed in Whitehall were the only animals
available in adequate numbers for a comparative study of this disease and the
effects of electric stunning. With the distinct understanding that the disease
in these animals was in a more advanced stage than is likely to be seen on the
killing floor of any well~conducted abattoir with preslaughter inspection, the
following may be pointed out as diagnostic differences between the lesions of
hog cholera and those induced by electric stunning.

1. Changes in the lungs. (a) Petechial hemorrhages in the lungs
occurred in both conditions without significant differences in number or distri—
bution. However, since the petechial hemorrhages in the lungs of h0gs subjected
to electric stunning were caused by the profound disturbances in the circulation
and the anoxia induced by the convulsions that resulted from the passage of the
current, and.since these hogs were bled to death within one or two minutes after
the steppage of the current, all the petechiae in the lungs were produced
practically simultaneously. All of them, therefore, have the same appearance.
They were bright red in color and had sharp, distinct margins. (b) The
petechial hemorrhages in the lungs of the cholera h0gs were caused by the direct
damaging action of the virus of the disease upon the walls of the pulmonary
vessels during the course of the several days in which the animal was ill; that
is, they were produced at different times. These hemorrhages varied in color
from pure red to red-brown, and their margins were either sharp or hazy, depend—
ing upon the age of the lesion. Larger areas of hemorrhage were frequent in the
cholera h0g5 and absent or very rare in the electrically stunned animals.

"(c) Diffuse congestion of the lungs occurred in both groups of hOgs, but more
frequently in the cholera animals than in those subjected to electric stunning.
In the cholera hOgs this was due to a wide-Spread paralysis of the vessels of
the lungs as a result of the direct action of the virus, rendering them incap»
able of contracting and emptying themselves when fatal hemorrhage occurred.

(d) A few bags in each group showed definite pneumonitis (pneumonia). This was
not uncommon in the cholera hogs. When it was found in electrically stunned
.animals it was a pre—existing lesion and not due to stunning.

2. Changes in the lymph nodes. Congestion and hemorrhage in lymph
nodes were common to hOg cholera and electric stunning. (a) In the electrically
stunned h0gs the lesions were practically limited to the thoracic nodes, because
they were subjected to the direct affects of the circulatory disturbances induced
by the process of stunning. (b) In cholera, the lesions were more widely dis—
tributed among the various groups of lymph nodes throughout the body. In cholera
the mesenteric nodes were especially involved. It is characteristic of any
severe infection that the lymph nodes which drain the infected area or portion
of the body become involved by the passage of the infectious agent from the
primary focus of infection to the lymph nodes that drain the area. The distri-
bution of the involved lymph nodes in hOg cholera depends, in part at least,
upon the particular organ that is most severely affected by the virus. When
the lungs are the chief seat of infection, the parabronchial nodes become
congested and may show hemorrhages. When the intestines are the seat of
involvement, the mesenteric lymph nodes show the characteristic changes.

 




-45.

(c) In electric stunning the lesion is very acute and of only one or two minutes
duration and the cut surfaces of the affected nodes are pure red; while in hog
cholera, since some of the lesions are of longer duration, the affected nodes
may have a definitely brownish tint due to the disintegration of red blood cells
and the formation of brown hemosiderin pigment.

3. Changes in the spleen. (a) The spleen was involved in slightly
more than 60 percent of the hogs with cholera, either from congestion or infarcts
or both. This organ was not involved in any of the electrically stunned hogs
as a result of the process of stunning. (b) Hog cholera is an acute infectious
disease, and, as in all such diseases, the spleen is enlarged, partly from
congestion and partly from hyperplasia. Although the cholera hogs were bled to
death, in practically none of themrwas the spleen contracted down and small as
is the case when an animal dies from hemornhage. (c) The spleens of the elec-
trically stunned hogs were relatively small, soft, pliable, of uniform con-
sistency and rather pale because during the hemorrhage which caused their death
the spleen contracted and squeezed out most of its contained blood. The spleens
of the cholera hogs were larger, darker red in color and, when infarcts were
present, of irregular consistency. In the early stages of hOg cholei-
which we had no Opportunity to study, the spleen would probably be larger and
darker red, but of uniform consistency if infarcts had not yet had time to form.

4. Changes in the intestines. (a) The intestines of the electrically
stunned hOgs were normal in appearance. Thay did not show petechial hemorrhages,
because the liver, which can impound a large quantity of blood, protected the
capillaries of the gastrointestinal tract against any back pressure in the infer—
ior vena cava resulting from the increased venous pressure due to the circula-
tory disturbances induced by electric stunning. (b) In hog cholera, on the other
hand, the venules and capillaries of the intestines, along with those of other
organs and tissues, are injured by the infectious agent (virus). It is not
surprising, therefore, that more than 93 percent of the cholera hogs showed
intestinal hemorrhages. The type and extent of involvement of the intestines
is determined by the degree of severity with which the infection affects these
organs of a particular hOg. In some animals, the intestines appear to be the
organs most seriously involved, possibly because the infectious agent entered
the body through the gastrointestinal tract. When the infection of the intes-
tines is particularly severe there is a wideSpread injury to the venules and
capillaries of all coats of the gut and extensive hemorrhages, involving consider-
able lengths of the intestinal walls, may be seen. When the intestines are less
severely affected, isolated venules and capillaries are sufficiently injured to
rupture and give rise to petechial hemorrhages as seen in some animals. (c) For
the above reasons, petechial and diffuse hemorrhages in the intestines are not
due to electric stunning, but when found in an electrically stunned hog, at least
in noteworthy numbers, are due to some disease which was present at the time the
animal was stunned.

5. Changes in the kidneys. (a) Petechial hemorrhages beneath the
capsule of the kidneys are recOgnized as eSpecially characteristic of hog cholera,
and were found in 94.4 percent of the hOgs examined at Whitehall. (b) These
lesions are extremely rare in h0g8 that had been electrically stunned. They may
occur occasionally because the kidneys, unlike the intestines, are not protected
against the effects of increased venous pressure caused by the convulsions

 




to ~46—

induced by the passage of the electric current through the body of the hOg. The
kidneys lie outside the thoracic cavity where the chief effects of the circula»
tory disturbances are manifest. {c)4The number of subcapsular petechial hemor~
rhages in the kidneys varied markedly in different hogs with cholera. The pre-
sence of petechiae in the kidneys of electrically stunned h0g3 may be considered
presumptive evidence of cholera infection, although it does occur occasionally
in normal animals that hams been stunned. Conversely, the complete absence of
such lesions in the kidneys of electrically stunned h0g8 is presumptive evidence
of the absence of cholera, even when petechial hemorrhages are present in the
lungs..

6. Changes in the urinary bladder. (a) Petechial hemorrhages were
found in the mucosa of the bladder in more than 99 percent of the cholera h0gs
studied at Whitehall. In veterinary literature this lesion is considered almost
pathOgnomonic of cholera. (b) Unfortunately, the bladders of the electrically
stunned h0g5 were not examined. When the differences in the mechanism of producw
tion of petechial hemorrhages in hag cholera and electric stunning are considered,
it is probable that this lesion does not occur in h0g3 that have been electrically
stunned. (c) The presence of petechiae in the mucosa of the bladder of a hOg
should, therefOre, be considered presumptive evidence of cholera.

_ 7. Changes in the skin. (a) Hemorrhages occur in the skin of cholera
h0g8 with a high degree of frequency. (b) It does not occur as a result of
electric stunning. ,

8. Cloudy swelling of the viscera. (a) As in all acute infectious
diseases accompanied by fever, the livers of hogs with cholera show cloudy
swelling or parenchymatous degeneration. (b) This lesion is not present in
electrically stunned hogs because the conditions necessary to produce it are
absent and because there is not time enough for it to develop.

9. Factors concerned in the production of the lesions of hOg cholera
and of electric stunning: The above summary indicates that the effects of eleca
trio stunning of h0g2; in some respects resemble very closely those that occur
in hOg cholera. There are, however, differences between the lesions found in
the two conditions that might be used in differential diagnosis. (a) The two
factors responsible for these differences are (l) the time element and (2) the
mechanisms of production of the lesions. (b) In electric stunning all the lesions
are produced within a time limit of one or two minutes; they occur during the
period of convulsions produced in the hOg by the electric current. (0) In hog
cholera, the lesions are produced at various times between the onset of the dis-
ease and the death of the animal., (d) In electrically stunned h0gs all the
petechiae are bright red and have sharp margins; in h0gs with cholera, the oldest
lesions have a brownish tint and hazy margins because of the disintegration of
red blood cells in the tissues and the formation of brown hemosiderin pigment.

 




-47..

10. Factors influencing the distribution of lesions in hog cholera
and in electric stunning. (a) In electric stunning the petechiae are produced
by the increased venous and intra-capillary pressure and are most numerous and
most frequently found in those parts of the body where this increased pressure
is most marked: namely, in the chest cavity. (b) In the case of hog-cholera,
on the other hand, being an acute generalized infection, capillaries in any part
of the body may be injured by the causative agent and permit hemorrhage.

(c) Widely distributed petechial hemorrhages throughout the body of the animal—-
that is, in such organs as the intestines, kidneys and bladder—nare indicative
of hag cholera.

ll. Preslaughter inspection. (a) In well—regulated abattoirs, all
hogs are inepected by competent veterinarians before they are sent to the kill-
ing floor. Any animal that is found to be clinically ill is sent to a part of
the plant that is not used for preparing meat for food. It is rare, therefore,
to find hog cholera among animals that are to be used for food. (b) For this
reason, the finding of petechial hemorrhages in the lungs of preslaughter
inspected h0g8 that have been electrically stunned should be presumptive evidence
that these lesions were the result of stunning and not of cholera.

 




-48..

V. GENERAL SUMMARY

1. As a basis for this report 229 hOgs were electrically stunned by
various methods and 107 hogs with known uncomplicated cholera Were studied for
comparison.

2. The following types of current were used in these investigations:
(a) the Leduc interrupted direct current of about 52 volts; (b) alternating
currents of 100, 125, 150, 175, 200 and 225 volts. (c) The amperage was varied
from less than #00 to more than 700 milliamperes. (d) The time during which the
current was allowed to flow through the head of the hog was one-fourth, one-half
three~fourths of a second, one seCond and more than one second. The shorter
intervals were measured accurately with an automatic timing device.

, 3. No combination of type of current, voltage, amperage, and timing
was found that did not produce petechial hemorrhages in a considerable number
of stunned hogs.

h. During the flow of the current ofzﬂl types and strengths the animal
was in a state of tonic convulsions and respiration ceased. Upon breaking the
current the hog passed into a state of clonic convulsions for a period varying
from a few seconds to a minute or more.

5. The generalized muscular contractions, particularly during the
tonic convulsive stage, squeezed blood out of the muscles into the veins and
thus increased intravenous pressure. More blood, therefore, reached the heart
to be driven into the lungs under increased pressure. This distended the pul-
monary capillaries rendering their rupture easy, and thus causing petechial
hemorrhages.

6. The steppage of reSpiration during the stage of convulsions deprived
the animals and their tissues of oxygen. This deprivation (anoxia), to which
capillaries ave very susceptible, increased the tendency to the occurrence of
petechial hemorrhage.

7. The greatest disturbance of the circulation in electric stunning
occurs within the thorax and involves especially the lungs and parabronchial
lymph nodes. For this reason, the lesions due to electric stunning tend to be
limited to the organs within the chest of the animal.

8. Electric stunning does not produce large areas of hemorrhage.

9. .The mechanisms by which petechial hemorrhages are produced in
electric stunning depends upon the profound circulatory disturbances and the
anoxia which are the direct results of the passage of an electric current
through the body of the animal.

10. HOg cholera is a generalized infectious disease due to a virus
that directly injures the walls of blood vessels, particularly the endothelium
of capillaries. The petechial hemorrhages, as well as the larger ones, that
occur in this disease are the result of the rupture of capillaries and small
veins that have been rendered friable by the action of the virus.

 




.19..

ll. Since hOg cholera is a generalized infection there is no tendency
for the hemorrhagic lesions to be limited to any particular part of the body of
the infected animal.

12. The following characteristics of these two conditions may be
useful in the differential diagnosis of hog cholera and the effects of electric
stunning at the time of inSpection:

a. In electrically stunned hOgs the hemorrhages are all small, about
1 millimeter in diameter, and petechial in character. In hog cholera most of
the hemorrhages are also petechial, but larger areas of hemorrhage also occur.

b. The petechial hemorrhages in electrically stunned h0gs all occurred
simultaneously, were bright red in colr and had sharp margins. In cholera the
petechiae occur at different times and in the older ones the color tends to
brownish and the margins are hazy.

c. The hemorrhages in electric stunning are practically limited to
the intrathoracic organs and only rarely occur elsewhere. In cholera, the
lesions are widely distributed in many parts of the body.

d. In electrically stunned h0g3 the intrathoracic lymph nodes are
often congested and hemorrhagic, but nodes in other parts of the body are not
affected. In cholera, the lesions are-not limited to the parabronchial nodes
but other groups are involved, particularly those of the mesentery.

e. The spleen in electrically stunned h0g3 is small, pliable and
pale. In cholera, the spleen is congested and often shows hemorrhages and even
infarcts.

f. Petechial hemorrhages under the capsules of the kidneys and in
the mucosa of the urinary bladder are almost pathognomonic of hag cholera.
These lesions are extremely rare in electrically stunned h0g8.

g. In cholera hogs the visceral organs, such as the liver, kidneys
and heart show cloudy swelling. This does not occur in electric stunning.

 




APPENDIX

 




-51-

LIST OF PHOTOGRAPHS

N

U

ﬂ t

0

it

C

3
3
L;
a
4
5
5,
5
6
6
7
7
8
8

OJ

 




