a 13 week

transcribed program

offered

FRE

for sustaining use

 

 




 

LIST EN ER INTEREST

A wave of interest in dogs such as has never before been
known is now sweeping the country. Best estimates put
the dog population at 20 million and growing every day.
Registrations by the American Kennel Club have tripled
since the war, dog shows are drawing the biggest gates in
history and almost every national magazine devotes some
part of its space to the subject of dogs and their care.
Using the usual estimate of 35 million families in the
United States, it is obvious that approximately half the
families in the country keep a dog. This ownership does
what no other subject except babies can do—it reduces
the scattered interests of all people, rich and poor, to
one common denominator. ‘

BACKGROUND

Nobody understands this national phenomenon of
“puppy love” better than Tom Farley, author of the
column, Dog Tales, featured in nearly 200 newspapers
from coast to coast. Nobody is better qualiﬁed than
Farley to advise on dog care and training for his knowl-
edge of the subject is drawn from both personal experi—
ence and contact with breeders, trainers and authorities
in the ﬁeld.

FINANCIAL SUPPORT

'I‘om Farley’s work is made possible by an annual grant
of funds from the Dog Food Division of the American
Meat Institute. No mention of the Institute, their mem-
bers or their members’ products are ever made in his
columns, magazine articles or radio programs. He is asked
only to work toward the improvement of the care and
training of dogs and to encourage the keeping of dogs
as pets. He promotes such activities as the work of the
humane societies, dog clubs, obedience training clubs,
national dog week; publicizes things which improve the
welfare of dogs such as research in dog diseases, govern-
ment inspection of dog foods; and gives hints for better
feeding, care and medical treatment.

TEST SERIES

To test station and listener reaction to the program's
format, a series of four programs was prepared last fall
and offered free for sustaining use to all listed stations
on a ﬁrstocome, ﬁrst-served, one-station~in-a-city basis.
Over 800 stations requested the show and when dupli-
cations of territory were eliminated it was actually aired
by over 600 stations. Both station and listener comments
were laudatory and nearly half of the program directors
wrote asking that the series be expanded into a regular

feature.

 

v__—.A—/r_ %_

 

SC]
1%
m

p1

se:
th
in
us
C11
c0
vii

of

co
ti<
su
or
yo
se;




NEW SERIES

Now a new series of 13 transcribed programs has been
prepared and is being offered for airing on a once a
week basis to start any time after June 1. Planned par-
ticularly to take care of summer replacement needs, it
is carefully worked out to be good at any time, morning,
afternoon, or evening. Transcriptions are of ﬁrst quality
and the programs are open end, 121/2 minutes, with
scripts furnished for suggested live opening and close.
An additional feature is a series of 13 thirty second pro-
motional spots, one for each program, that can be used
prior to each broadcast to build up interest.

AVAILABLE FOR

Although designed as public service programs, the test
series showed that many advertisers are keenly aware of
the interest in dogs and local sponsorship is possible in
many cases. The new series is offered free of charge if
used as a sustaining program or sponsored by a local dog
club or humane society. However, it is also available for
commercial sponsorship over regional networks or indi-
vidual stations for a fee equal to 10% of the time charge.

NOT AVAILABLE

The one exception made for commercial sponsorship is
the case of manufacturers of any type of commercial dog
food. Since basic costs for the preparation of the program
are paid by the Dog Food Division of the American
Meat Institute, individual companies, whether members
of the Institute or not, may not sponsor the programs.

AUDITIONING

The programs will be shipped well in advance as a
complete package so that every program may be audio
tioned before the ﬁrst of the series is scheduled. ”We
suggest that you ask an ofﬁcial of your local dog club
or humane society to sit in at the auditioning, and if
you, or he, doesn’t like the series just bundle it up and
send it back at our expense.

THE AUDIENCE

Tom Farley’s Dog Tales is directed to every person who
owns a dog or would like to own a dog. It has just as
much interest to the owner of a mutt as a champion. If
a person likes dogs, he will like this program. And most
people like dogs.

 

 

4.1

 




 

The Programs:

The 13 open end transcribed programs run 121/? min-
utes and copy is furnished for a live opening and close.

The format of each program is about as follows:

Opening and introduction of guests... 1 minute

Discussion .................................................. 6 minutes
Editorial .................................................... 2 minutes
Questions and answers ............................ 3 minutes
VVindup ...................................................... 1/2 minute

 

 

1. Dogs and Society

FANNIE HURST, popular novelist, author of “Back
Street” and “Imitation of Life”, etc., takes an active
interest in dog welfare work.

ROBERT SELLAR is president of the American
Humane Association, a national organization that in-
cludes in its work the Sponsoring of “Be Kind to Animals
Week”. '

A dog’s place in family life, his general contributions
to society, and the work of humane societies are pointed
up in discussion with Tom Farley.

2. Research and Your Dog

DR. HERBERT ROBINSON is head of one of the
large research laboratories that conduct studies in dog
nutrition.

DR. CHARLES GROSS heads up a similar labora-
tory that conducts extensive studies to improve dog
health through proper feeding.

These scientists discuss with Tom Farley the dietary
needs of dogs and give advice on care and feeding.

3. Lost Dogs

HELEN JEPSON, the Metropolitan Opera and con-
cert star, is an ardent dog owner, and has taken pre-
cautions against losing her own dog.

\VARREN McSPADDEN is Director of Education
for the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, an organization that handles many stray dogs.

Both guests and Tom Farley give some sensible tips
to insure against the loss of dogs.

«3-- ‘1

O

()




4. Dogs in Europe

ELIZABETH FAGG is a foreign correspondent re-
cently returned from a tour of Europe on special assign-
ment for the Reader’s Digest.

DONALD BAIN is famous for his animal mimicry
on both the stage and radio.

Miss Fagg reports to Tom Farley on the conditions

of dogs in European countries, while Mr. Bain supplies
comedy relief with accurate animal imitations.

5. The Well Trained Dog

FRANCIS HARTSOOK is one of the country’s ﬁnest
dog trainers, and conducts a school for dogs and their
masters in New York City.

JOHN I-IUGELMEYER is a well known lens artist
who has photographed many dogs and illustrated several
articles on dog training.

Some tips on training dogs at home are furnished by
Miss Hartsook, and Mr. Hugelmeyer instructs in dog
photography.

6. Better Mannered Dogs

ILKA CHASE, actress, radio and television star, and
author of “Past Imperfect”, “Free Admission”, etc., is an
enthusiastic dog owner.

ARTHUR JONES is editor of the American Kennel

Gazette, ofﬁcial publication of the AKC, and author of
the newly published book, “Care and Training of Dogs”.

Miss Chase offers her theories on canine manners,
while Mr. Jones together with Tom Farley offer more
professional advice.

7. Better, Healthier Dogs
EZRA RUY LE is an inspector of animal foods with
the United States Department of Agriculture.

WILLIAM WALKER is a prominent mid—west ﬁeld
trial judge and trainer.

What the government does to insure the health of
dogs is discussed along with a description of how a ﬁeld
trial is conducted.

 




 

8. Problem Dogs

jANE'l" MACK is one of the leading breeders of
Manchester terriers and toy Manchester terriers.

CLARENCE HARBISON is president of the \‘Vest-

chester County (N. Y.) SPCA and editor of a dog
magazine.

Re—training problem dogs and placing them in new
environments makes up the subject matter discussed
with Tom Farley.

9. The House Dog

ALBERT STAEHLE, a well known illustrator, is the
creator of “Butch”, the cocker spaniel that appears on
many Saturday Evening Post covers. 4

FRANCIS HARTSOOK has trained thousands of
dogs and their masters at her New York school.

What owners can do to make their pets better house
dogs is discussed by Miss Hartsook and Tom Farley,
while Mr. Staehle tells about his famous “Butch".

10. Transporting Your Dog

OLGA ROGERS is a well known New York breeder,
handler and broker of dogs who ships her dogs to all
parts of the globe.

WILLIAM ROGERS shares his wife’s enthusiasm
for dogs, and as an executive of the Railway Express
handles the shipment of many dogs.

The best methods of shipping a dog are discussed
and hints for automobile travel given.

II. Your Dog in Today’s World

DR. DONALD VAN HOU\VELING is director of
Professional Relations of the American Veterinary Medi-
cal Association.

WILLIAM OGILVEE is a director of the American
Kennel Club and secretary of the International Kennel
Club of Chicago.

How veterinarians are improving dog health and
what dog shows do to improve the breeds is talked over
with Tom Farley.

 

 

4 ‘A_L_.____.u._...~—

 

 




12. Making a Living from Dogs

EDITH PYLE breeds airedales and operates her
own kennel a short distance from New York City.

FRANCIS HARTSOOK is a successful trainer and
has conducted schools [or dogs and dog owners in llolly-
wood and New York.

How to successfully enter the field and the best
means of making a livelihood from dogs is brought out
in the discussion.

13. Recognition for Dogs

NICK KENNY, song writer and columnist, writes

many poems on dogs which appear in his pOpular syn-
dicated feature.

RAY HANFIELD is executive secretary of the
National Dog W'elfare Guild, sponsors of National Dog
Week.

Together with Tom Farley, the guests discuss plans
for this year’s event to take place in September, and
Mr. Kenny reads a few of his dog poems.

PROMOTIONAL SPOTS :—

Accompanying each set of programs will he one side
containing thirteen promotional spot announcements by
Tom Farley—one for each of the programs in the series.
They may be used prior to the appropriate programs
with a live “tag line” giving the time and date of broad-
cast; \Vhile there is no compulsion to use this material
it will give the series an extra boost and may provide an
unusual announcement on or between your regularly
scheduled programs.

3“
p)

5;:
5"

 




The Plan:

The Tom Farley’s Dog Tales series is available to radio
stations on the following basis:

EXCLUSIVE RIGHTS :

The programs are offered exclusively on a first-come.
first-served basis in each area except that regional nets
are given preference over individual stations if requests
conflict.

COSTS :

The 13 programs will be shipped prepaid, complete with
suggested copy for live opening and close and transcribed
promotional spots and may be had on the following
basis:

I. For sustaining use as public service programs, No
Charge.

2. For sponsorship by local dog clubs or anti-cruelty
societies, No Charge.

3. For commercial sponsorship (for exceptions see
page 3), 10% of time charge payable after last pro-
gram is broadcast.

AUDITIONING :

The entire package will be shipped at once so that all
programs may be auditioned before the first is scheduled.
If unsatisfactory, they may be returned at our expense.

PROGRAMMING :

You will be furnished with a card to be returned show-
ing time and date of ﬁrst program and anticipated
schedule for remaining shows and notifying us whether
they are to be sponsored or sustaining.

WRITE OR WIRE:

Dog Tales

49 West 46th Street, New York 19, N. Y.

 




w
‘
.41'
5 I?
,- y
'\

I

5

: I
THE ANIMAL CLUB OF THE AIR
RADIO PROGRAM OVER STATION WMEX
SATURDAY * * * * OCT. 30, 1948
ANNOUNCER: Well, friends, it is time once again to bring to our microphone your friend
and director of this weekly program called "The Animal Club of the Air,“ Mr. Albert A. Pollard,

Director of Education of the American Humane Education Society, and its affiliate, the

Angell Memorial Animal in; Hospital, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston. Good morning, Mr. Pollard.

MR. POLLARD: Good morning, , and good morning, boys and girls. Tomorrow night

 

is Halloween, but from what I hear it will be celebrated tonight. No doubt many of you are

looking forward to a lot of fun and you are all excited with your plans. Perhaps you have

been drawing pictures in school on the subject of Halloween. I can imagine most every boy

and girl whether or not they have much talent for drawing can sketch a long nosed spooky

witch with a high hat riding across the sky on a broomstick. You can almost hear the cat

with arched back perched high on a fence howling at another cat on the ground, as the witch

rides by in the moonlight. Then a picture of three white ghosts and a hooting owl almost

makes you scream. All of us know why we celebrate Thanksgiving, and Christmas, and the 4th

of July, but what is Halloween? Why, as the day ends on October Blst and the dusk deepens

into night and the stars break through, do boys and girls with lighted Jack O'Lanterns let

 




 

'2‘

their imaginations run wild with excitement. I will tell you.

Long before the birth of Christ, there were in the country we now know as the
British Isles a group of religious men known as Druids. Nevember lst was a Holy day and It:
the Druid priests believed that wicked souls in the form of ghosts and witches wandered
abroad the night before their holy day which they called Hallowmas, or All Saint's Day.
W The priests really believed that by lighting large bon fires these evil spirits
‘would be driven away. This custom has come down through the year and the eve of Hallowmas
is known to us as Halloween. I suppose as long as boys and girls like to imagine ghosts and
spooks, and witches, we will carry on the old Druid custom.of frightening them.away and
having a lot of fun.doing it.

I can remember all the fun I had as a boy on Halloween, as grownups answering the
bell, opened the front door, looked down on three or four figures covered with a sheet and
x hideous faces and really appeared to be frightened at the weird xtlnglxxx strangers.
Finally'when the grownups got over their pretended fright we were asked in for cookies and
other good things to eat. Thinking that no one would recognize us in our costumes of ghosts
and witches, we suddenly realized that a pet dog had barged in With us and some mother would
say, ”It2must be Frankie Jones and his friends for that is his dog," and taking off our

false faces the better to eat the crisp doughnuts, we all had a good laugh.

 

 




- 3 -
Hell, you.know, boys and girls, it often happens that someone at loose ends carries

their fun too far. There is no excuse for ripping off gates, damaging houses and public

buildings, or parked automobiles, or thoughtlessly disturbing elderly persons, or people who
are sick. Nobody likes that and I am glad to know more and more communities are arranging
get together parties where everyone can let off steam, and yet celebrate with a lot of fun
and spirit. Expensive repairs and destruction of property that result from wild play, only
bring trouble and the police. So let's have our Halloween fun with safety to ourselves

and consideration for other people.

Those of you.who sent in answers to our last animal Quiz Contest are, I know,
anxious to hear the correct answers and the explanations as to why the question is True or
False. I was delighted with the response and most everybody'answered two out of the three
questions corectly, but slipped up on one of them. There were four members who answered all
three questions correctly and in a few minutes Ind: I will read their names and if they
haven't all received their dollar prize by now that a good friend of the club made possible
they will have it early next week for the checks are all in the mail. Last week as I was
finishing my broadcase, Joe Grant of Station‘HMEX gave me some facts about a German shepherd
dqg that was reunited with his old Army pal after a two year mystery journey from.Syracuse,

New York. Here's the story as I put together the facts.

 




-4-

It was back in 191.5 in a North Carolina Army camp. Several buses had arrived in

camp and a happy boisterous group of soldiers were piling out, their faces tanned and

bronzed from long hours of training out of doors. There were noisy greetings and warm hand-

shakes and pounding of each other's backs as a few soldiers recognized an old pal. "How

you been, Joe, ain't seen you since them cold drizzly days outside of London. Thought you

were going to France ," said a tall rangy sergeant to another sergeant standing by looking
over the newcomers. I'Ivl’ell, I didn't these ribbons and medals riding the roller coaster at
Coney Island, pal, I 've been to France and then some. Then the orders was to come here.
Where you been, hobnobbing with the brass, palling around with Eisehouer, you had it soft
when I last saw you." ”I've been around,'1 said the rangy sergeant, "and I ain't kicking
about coming back to the U. S. A., even if North Carolina ain't Massachusetts.u “You're
better here this time of the year than up North shoveling snow. I'll see you later, Bill,
I got to get this outfit lined up to report for inspection." He called out an order to the
soldiers milling around. "Fall in, soldiers, and report to Headquarters. The Colonel
wants to see you and he doesn't like to be kept waiting." is the soldiers fell into line
wisecracking and jolly for the routine march to the Headquarters where the large American
flag fluttered in the breeze and warm sunshine, a handsome German shepherd dog appeared from

nowhere and began circling around the soldiers as it looking for someone. Bill noticed him

at once. "W

 




-5...

"Here , Pal, " he called out. The dog looked up a little bewilds‘ed, hesitated,

and was off in another direction. "Sure like that dog,wonder if he is the camp mascot.u

Inapection over, Bill went to the mess hall still thinking about the dog. He wrapped a piece

of meat in his paper napkin and sauntered out looking for his pal, Joe, the sergeant, and

hoping to see the dog again. He wandered around the camp, some of the soldiers began to

throw baseballs to each other and a game was in the making. "How you making out, pal," a

voice called out and Bill turned around to see Joe, the sergeant, walking up to him with

the German shepherd dog a few yards behind. "That your dog, Joe," "No, never seen him be-
fore, and besides I got plenty to do without taking care of a dog.” " I sure would like

to own him, reminds me of a dog I had when I was a kid by the name of 'Ben.", said Bill.

The dog, by now, had timidly approached them, not quite sure of himself and whether these
soldiers would pay any attention to him. Bill took the napkin from his pocket~ and unwrapped
the meat. “Come here, Ben," he called out, and the dog recognizing a kindly voice came

over wagging his tail,ears alert, and took tn the meat from his hand and devoured it
greedily and looked up hoping for more. "He hasn't got a collar, J on, and you say you never

seen him in the camp before." "No, we used to have a dog, a good one, too, but a careless

truck driver clipped him one day, we all felt pretty bad about it." The German shepherd

barked joyously, as Bill patted him, and Joe remarked, "He sure likes you, Bill. What are

 




 

 

~6-

you going to do with him?a ”Well, if nobody claims him, he is mine for keeps and the
Army missed a bit when they didn't have him for patrol duty.“ No one in camp had any doubt
after that to whom Ben, the German shepherd belonged. He followed Bill around and would
let the other fuss over him, but his eyes always seemed to say, "0. L, but Bill is my
man.” When Bill was on duty he would lie down by the parade ground or headquarters waiting
for hours at a time until Bill was on leave again. Weeks went by, and then it happened.
Orders came through. Bill's new duties made it impossible to take Ben along, and he was
leaving the next day. What was to be done about Ben. Sure, he could remain at camp, but
Bill wanted this dOg when the war was won and he would be able to take care of him. If he
left him at camp -- well, that just wouldn't do. A friend was being discharged from the camp
on account of 111:: injuries and was going home and offered to take Ben along. 80 with a
great big hug and a few tears, Bill took leave of Ben and was off. Ben and his new friend
went to Syracuse, New York, and for two months all went well and then Ben disappeared. He
could not be found. The months went, by - no word of Ben. The war was over. Bﬂl had
returned to Boston, often thinking of his last pal and friend. They say truth is m
stranger than fiction, which means that sometimes something happens that could only happen

in a story. One day two years later, Bill parked his car. Looking across the street, he

saw a dog which resembled Ben who he last saw at the North Carolina camp. This dog had no

 




.. '7 ..
collar, and though Bill knew it couldn't possibly be Ben, it looked like him, and he called
out his name. The dog hesitated, then walked slowly over to him, he sniffed his shoes and
his legs. His tail began to wag furiously and with a quick jump he was at Bill's side,

putting his paws on the ex—sergeant' s shoulders. There was no doubt about it, it was Ben

Wham-93
s

1"“ ’ '“
. ’ . I V'
W Kw r M. r ’..’

in: “I don't know where he has been for the last two years, but t'll never leave him again. a". 2
Am. I happy, imagine a dog remembering me after all these months of separation."

I think that is a wonderful story of devotion, don't you, and I am sure Mr. Ripley
could well use it in his column, "Believe It or Not."

Now for answers to the Quiz Contest and the names of the winners. The first

statement was: THE HUMMING BIRD IS THE ONLY BIRD THAT CAN FLY BACKWARDS. The answer is

TRUE. The humming bird's wings beat every second 60 to 70 times, so that it can perform

almost unbelieveable aerial acrobatics. The second statement: BATS FREQUENTLY GET TANGIED
IN WOMEN'S HAIR. The answer is FALSE. Bats have a unique sort of radar system which enables
them to avoid objects on a pitch black night. They do roost in belfires, but not in a woman's

third
hair. The 3355}; statement: THE COTTONMOUTH WATER MOCCASIN IS FOUND IN NEW ENGLAND WATERS.

 

The answer is ms: FALSE. The cottonmouth water moccasin is a deadly poisonous snake

common in some southern states, but it does not extend its range into New England. Well, here

are the names of the winners: #1, Jean Campbell, 491 Quincy St. , Dorchester. #2, George

McKenzie, 388 warren St. , Roxbury. #3, Jean Shaw, 15 Hamblen St. , Lexington.

 




-8-

#4, Dorothy Jaclnnan, 33 Trask St., Gloucester. Dorothy, I am glad to say has signed our

pledge and we welcome her as a new member. Next week there will be a new quiz, so if you

didn't win our dollar prize this week, be in there trying next week, won't you, So until

then, I'll say, Take good care of your pets and be kind to all animals. Happy Halloween

weekend .

ANNOUNCER: All boys and girls everywhere are cordially invited to become a member of the

Animal Club of the Air. There are no dues. All you have to do is to copy down the pledge

which I shall repeat slowly. I SHALL TRY TO BE KIND TO ALL LIVING CREATURES AND TRY TO

PROTECT THEM FROM ANY ACTS OF 0mm. Give} your age, sign your name and address, and

mail it to Station WEEK, 70 Brookline Avenue, Boston, and a membership card, button, and

a copy of OUR DUMB ANIMALS will be sent to you.

80 friends, we come to the end of our weekly broadcast "The Animal Club of the

Air" presented by Mr. Albert A. Pollard, Director of Education of the American Humane

Education Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston. This is Station WMEX inviting you to tune

in again next week, same time, same station, for another interesting program.

******

 




 




 

ANIMAL CLUB OF THE AIR

RADIO BROADCAST oven STATION m
SATURDAY Wmvmm 6, 1948

Well, friends, it is time once again to bring to our microphone your friend and

 

director of this weekly program called "The Animal Club of the Air,” Mr. Albert A. Pollard,
Director of Education of the American Humane Education Society, and its affiliate, the Angel].

Hmorial Animal Hosgitel, 180 Longmod Avenue, Boston. Good morning, Mr. Pollard.

HR. POW: Good morning, . and good morning, girls and boys. I haven't told our
where diet a great loss we had in my family about a month ago. I felt too badly about it
and while it was on my mind all the time I just couldn't bear to talk about it. Our faithful
friend and member of the family ”Turvy," our great St. Bernard is no longer with us. For

12 years he was an affectionate devoted friend, loyal to all of us, never complained even though
we had to leave him alone at times, always expressing joy and delight at our return. Tuiwy
this post owner was not himself, he tried to be cheerful, but he no longer vented to go on
the route with Eddie, our jovial postman, who loved him I am sure almost as much as we did.
The doctors did ell they could. When one night at dinner my youngest boy said, ”Dad, when is
Turvy coming home,“ I could hardly speak for that day Turvy wee put painlessly to eleep for
he would never be well. ”Isn't he getting better Dad. Can’t Dr. Schroeder make him well?”

M1; boy knew from my exoreesion and broke into tears, and all of us were very sad.

     




«2.»

No dog could ever take Turvy‘s place. We took away his feeding pans and bed with heavy

hearts. Then one day a friend said, 1 have the most adorable kitten that needs a home.” We

had never owned a cat and said, aPerheqzoe, sometime, but not now.“ Apparently we had not been

too convincing in our refusal. The kitten appeared, a cuddly mess of fur and blue eyes. Well,

it was lonely without W, and the kitten was cunning and seemed happy and contented to be

with us. “Oh, let’s keep him, Mother, he's sweet, look at the lovely markings of his fur,

let's call him "Pepper,” eeid Bob. Pepper purred a bit as if he knew his fate hung in the

balance. ”Sure, let's keep Pepper,” said John. Mother smiled and looked at me and Pepper we:
adopted. Now, he is growing into a beautiful cat and we couldn't part with him, and I am

We xx neither would Pepper ever went to leave us. All of this reminds me of a story I

once told when I m saw the cover of the October, 1947, OUR DUMB ANIMALS. It is a picture

of two kittens, all grey, their chaste end§£eet splashed with white for sitting together
looking up at their mother and the title of the picture is "Don‘t ever let me see you do

that again.“ You can just tell that she is saying something very important for the kittens
are giving their undivided attention to their mother. One of them apneere to he a bit defiant
but scared just the eeee, while the other, with a gentle expression, seems juet about ready
to cry. You know they come of a geod family worthy of e hale ribbon someday, and I named

these kittens "813' and ”Sen,“ and tried te imagine the true story behind the picture. You

just know their $015119? is trying ’00 bring them up properly, but Sin and Sen enjoy lots of

 




      
   
   

-3...

:nlechief end are naughty at times. I can see them.£rolicing around before an open fire in

a tlxhlxttltlg.lergeZlivingureom. They are running about chaeing imaginary mice and being

  
 

very brave about it. {A spool or thread dropped from the eewing basket is all snarled up for

   
 
 

it was lots of fun.to set it rolling and pounce upon it at the far end of the room. Then one

  
   
   
      
   
 

kitten, as they always will; meet have said to the other. ”I em stronger than you ere. Let’s
have a wrestling match.” The other, not quite sure of htmeelf, but certainly no coward, piled

on the other kitten and two silky balls of fur with short legs and tails flying about rolled

   

all over the rug. The mother eet warming herself by the fire looked on indulgently, for

you.mey be sure she loved her two children. Besides, they were all alone in the room and

    
 
 

'were disturbing nobody end the fighting and snarling were all in fun of course. By and by

     
   
       
    
   
      
      

the kittens became tired end stretched themselves out for a nap. It was very quiet in the
house and the ticking of the hall clock could be heard distinctly. The mother cat got up and
'welked around the reﬁne The kittens slept, purring softly enen though their mother bent

over them.llcking patches of fur back into place for the kittene' epoeerence after the

‘wreetling bout was not all it should be fer'welldmennered kittens to present themeelvee for

supper. 'Where is everybody, thought the nether cat. I em.getting hungry end Ste end Sam

 

will be famiehed I know'when they wake up. She climbed on top of the devenport couch near

      

‘the'windowe and looked outdoors. It was cold outside, although there was no snow; Behind the

 




.. 4 ..
pinee and bircheo of the field across the street the one wee coming to the end of its journey

across the sky. Every now and then an automobile would pass swiftly by the houee. I am glad
my children are here beside me, mused the cat, looking down at Sim end Sam eleeping together
on the mg before the fire-mime. I do worry about them, for they don't seem to have any
sense of the dangers about them. That big ﬂog down the street means all right; he is just a
big, Mastering fellow who wouldn‘t hurt anybody, but he did some Sim and Sam the other day
while we were out walking. It‘s the automobiles I worry about most. Some people aloe down
and are real polite when a cat or e dog is crossing tin street, but other drivers «dear nae-
they just think the streets are made for them and come racing along never thinking of cats or
dogs or children who do have to go across the street to visit their friends. She hopped off
devonport

the W and left the room. Just then in heavy tones resounding through the house the
hall clock etruok four. It muet have awakened the kittens, for soon their eyes opened. They
yawned once or twice, stretched themselvoe and got up looking for their mother. Where is
mother? We‘re hungry and it met be time for supper. Where was f-‘oggy, the daughter of the

house, who elweys fed them their were; milk by now. By now, they were wide awake and went in

search of somebody. They looked in the hell and no the stairs into the Mann dining room,

kitchen, and etudy. All was quiet, no one was about, even their om Heather had dieapgeeered,

They felt like crying; they were so lonely, a little afraid, and very, very hungry. Just then

eyeglasses
there was a click of the handle of the front door and Aunt Cathie, who had broken her ‘efei-‘g’iﬂ‘fe'e‘

 




-5...

and was almost helpless without them we letting hereelf in and! ampping a bundle or two she
was carrying at the same time. Sim and Sen were all attention, the door stood open. They
rmemberdd what their mother had told them so many times. “I don't want either of you!
kittens to go out of the house except with me until you are much older.” ”Shocks,” said m,
"Mother’s are all right, but they are always telling you things you. can't do.“ 0:? cow-ea, he

do
didn't want to remember all the things mother eeid they couldﬁ and a. lot of them were fun,

too. He was just cross now for being left alone. He whispered to Sim, “Let's go out the
door; Peggy will be back soon and she won't mind and mother will never know the difference."

Sim know he shouldn't do what Sam suggested, but it was fun to be outdoors. ”Come on," said

Sam, "Aunt Cathie will have the bundles picked up before we know it and the cioor will be

closed.” Sin hesitated and yielded as San led the way and both of them were outdoors in two

jmps. I#12311, as it does to all people who do wrong, justice catches up with you end the
kittens Sim and Sam were no exception. Pretty soon, Peggy came home and noticed the mother
cat, She was beside herself, frantic, for Sim and Sam were nowhere around, She did not
want any supper and would not be comforted and began to mew so dolefully that you youreem
could almost cry. ”Don‘t take on so," said Peggy. We will find your babies.” Outside there
was a screeching of brakes and Pegg y went to the window. Sure enough, e. delivery emu}:

had come to a sudden stop. The driver was walking to the front of the cor anti me “pending

 




“_5‘.

over picking up samething. Peggy rusheé outdoora fearing that somecne had been hurt.

The man.sbood up; in his arms were twc frightened kittens, Sim.and Sam. ixxxx”1t'waa ,
close, lady, but they are not hurt a bit. I didn't see them at first; they jumped out §f
the ills busheSQ ”.xv‘?:~"a~* I am glad they are all right, for I love animals myself.
Peggy thanked the mﬁn and took tham in the house to the mother. what happened after that
is the picture yauf see on the October iSSue of OUR,DUEB AKIMALS, of the mother cat,
relieved for having her children back, but with the sternest look saying to them, “Don‘t
you ever do that again.“

(There will be more quiz questions next week)

AHNOUNCER: All boys and girls everywhere are cordially invited to became a mamber of the
Animal Club cf the Air. There are no dues. All you have to do is to in.copy down the pledge
which I shall repeat slowly. I SHALL TRY TO BE KIND T0 ALL LIVING CREATURES AND‘TEE T0
PRGTECT THEM FROM ANY ACTS OF CHUELTY. Give year age, Sign ysur name and addresa, and mail
it to Station'WMEX, 70 Brookline ﬁwenug, Bostan, and a membership earé, button, gnd a eopyl
of OUR DUMB ANIMELS will be sent to yen.

So, friends, we came to the end cf Gur weekly'braadcast “The Animal Club of the Air“

presented by'nrx Albert A. Pallard, Directar of Education of the Aaarican Humane Education

 




-7...

Society, 180 Long-road Avenue, Boss tan. This is Static-ﬂ $413251 inviting you to tune in. again

next week, same time, same station, for another intereating pmgmm.

*§*********

 




m

1 ’31:; 9 511:1”

to

"‘1” . , é - ‘
-, " . . ,, . 1 ,, : . 1 '; ‘ . V . 1 ' “ k 531'“ '-c{hl 5“».4uk ’7, ,'
~ .2 ml. . I Q 1. , 1 ’ . .9. , , .. 1; , z, . . ~ v 2,; w ,1" a}, “a“: ﬁn ‘3] 1

‘— ‘ 5 VI. ‘ x
‘ ‘5' .,, f”; :st‘: ’“ " ’ 1. ' " - 1.- 01 ' . , . 1 '0' =3 ». ~ - ~ , ﬁ- " .
w uﬁwwﬁ ~umv .u. ~+,,v~.= 2a .. w n~ . z*.= :mM 11% Q?»

@117 u.

1, 3.11::- m; E“: “t

' . . .
Augm yam $3

whiny?

v
“ 1r (.11. ‘2" 2:
u 1‘ 51", 1

hr "3'- 17:.
‘4' ".3 .1

t I, . 1 ‘\ " '
~..'.. ‘ -. . : ' ' ,v , ' ‘, 1 “ ,y‘ . 7 A . . ' ' ‘,
, V V . 4 4 3

1‘ t ﬁ 3 o. v.
. . a .- 9 a. ,
.1. ‘3 “I"; .11 .2. 1.5

" I“ ' -' . r “w . i“‘.- «a ‘-
11 . var M ~1» «aaianu?

Juiﬁ; .3 , v

«ﬁx-1. f .- . 2.. ‘ .-. . . ten=* »
3. ‘1 c‘ . ‘ 1‘9 - ' ‘ ‘ ‘ " I 2‘ u i at;

r. 'r
-' .‘1 1
|' ‘a\\.*

{E‘Yl‘y’y}

/’ 7‘. 4 “f M-
, H ,2 ,
{(2% .

J» .4 Ana ,.4,~.-y.,-.;, ‘1" ‘1
N H‘. I v' .12 {3. i ..

ﬁﬁ‘./s‘£ {v.33
-, I RJOJ. .'

‘5‘ {”1031 r2.

. V
k ' 1 9;. 'w' 9-1"

 




ﬁr

, .
T
—.
ﬂ
7‘

3-". r I
“ 4

4

Ln

1
I

h
J

10353

‘-»

O

.I'r
t.)

'11: ..
CUP: 1.17””

xx}

.s‘

‘.- - 1“".
‘ f‘ .19

s

)

C"
n

11:) r

a

.43.. ‘ v

. 7

.’ WIT}- ;,

,_’.

2':
6

‘1 OT.“ :1", H .5.

‘17
.kw
J

£53122“

.g
«L.

r 7‘
~ .z.

.

" V 1!")01‘

Ir’
v

1
1‘1 g
I

.n.

w:

'9'"

in.

w 2‘ n :13"
w

W 01"“

k ‘

"7r; mr:

u

.-
-."-

‘v u' m

t.

? 31:32 ‘2“ 7:71: . n

w.
i
o.-

.. ...
‘ 'V gm: .,
> ‘p‘ I," 5/ 1““
i»

I!

ma.

‘5 "f“ ‘i‘

A’.
:2. '1’”! “é MM ”'1‘
J1 :11 -'

l

«'1
»

.,..‘. m.

"3'
‘3“ kn

_L
'5

.91.
.37

33111

#12? g
2.; -w-

1

vs
.

Ti” ,1:

 




 

Grolock,

': "W
#:431- .

IL W‘3

have been received.
t33y do 3 verv goou

«3 have
Jones, Who is doing
continue.
in local it3"3, and
is abaut to davolve
jab, 333 I Lurcd
scripts WriLtén not
gatnar that L33
caueeL yau Lo 3Lop
occurr3d 1m):M3 L331
Written by 3133
mioht be 3313
to help 33 g3t out
Off3r33 Ly L33
by 1r. Jones and
30331313.

1t 13
33
(180

f; :57 3 1. 53-351
five
thought I
ava1labl3
suggestion:
WWould be much

Wouln

0U

#ith L33t

NICE
Wanteo to 13L you 333W 30W W311
We Were Just atouL t0 L3 egin from your scripts

jus

Only, alas,

inex

fartin
Lo Lorre“ tf€m
13113118" 11 CO
333.

3“ job
we1l
with
are at dreson1
$013 Weeks
write
a

a O ‘ av, 13‘! can
(I. L.) \.a £4: u .4: w

21331;
apnr3eint3d-

Wovember,28, 1948

3nd 1
Nth h
that time,
anﬂ

L3 333 vou at the convention,
Lhe radio oregrams
at
We have LWo eXperienced voices,
Jab Wit 3 your good MaLWV131.

'L finished time 1311La scriQL, and LP.
parL 3f th3 narrator, Wauld like
more scripts. i have 133:3 n writing
L333 of Writing L33 333133 3cript
33. 111110? it is going to 33 a big
if? Ly 33v :hance, you 333 3333 oth3r
for nat13331 distribution, 81303 I

plicaLl; poor recepWion Lhey receive&

them. To be u1L3 frank, it
333 same 301ipts for 1 use

3333 )Ln31 competent WriLel, I
We 3 bit of nlagiarizing
3.33 shift L3 L33
local talenﬁ 333 103111
3133 0313? offered
'nly

Like
no
.L113
on

if you ,e1f1
or

33%

s

w
7': A
"nu-l
U‘w _,

‘ {'1
JP.

‘1
13¢)
L134

to supervise

as 311.1numan3 eduea
311 the e; and

in

'71 13’

you;

that

3+? 2'
3‘4

13f: 12:1}?

.1 1/,

'316118,

._ '0
3171 3 1’19

 

Lﬁumscrigtions

tanccn13353m1 if




There is the Shelia? loo ated?
.3 harber 333., 3u3t off ﬁcxtcr, heWMWd thc

c033‘ ,3
30313? , :«1. s 303139

K

1

cafe fer e3; 1., 3;,T ac yum ugualiy have“

Can I telephon t3» Shelter aid ask 33% t0 pick 3g; an anima
If i- H a stray animal tic umch iccicty Will pick
”' ' 331331 is VOU 0W3 *30 sccicty moca 303 pic“

- cases cf hardship or real need.

3 charge fox thi 3?
There 1. 3c M rye 1f the <3‘:r : a atray.

a3 “caV13N tOWn permgncntly 333 3.: . give my ca: 3?
ill the Society help me?
If you take your ﬁﬁlYGl to .. and turn at over to 3
Gociety they ﬂi7l find a 1 3 . Cgpcct anyone £0? hvn‘W;

f

“*3 service to bwccmc a u.vts' cf the lociety.
“WWLUTQ .113
33 yea r.

6",
f
o

a sick or injured qnwvc
‘ 0W3, tckc it to a vatcr5.3ary.
do. 30 feel that v} ’taht ta

and 61:»:3135111 "£330 ="::t‘e.

u consider t¥cwwout 13 ;c crtcnt 33rt of
St, t0 CGTG 10? all j11ﬁiiﬂls iLa L379
1330 7u-L O? desWrbgéd ﬁﬁeonﬁlvg t0 in? "
03383 0: creeltyd 83d by persuasion or ”
aituation.

 

 




 

DR. ERIC H. HANSEN. PRESIDENT

WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, SECRETARY AND
EDITOR
WILLIAM H. POTTER. JR., TREASURER
EUNICE C. PICKETT. ASST. TREASURER
ALBERT A. POLLARD. DIRECTOR OF EDUCATION

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD

- TRUSTEES OF PERMANENT FUNDS
JOHN R. MACOMBER. CHAIRMAN: DIRECTOR. FIRST BOSTON CoRR.
CHARLES G. BANCROFT. ATTORNEY. TRUSTEE AND CORR. OFFICIAL

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION
THE SOCIETv‘s REST FARM FOR HORSES
AND ANIMAL SHELTER
METHUEN,MASS.

COUNSEL

PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY

 

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

I80 LONGWOOD AVENUE
BOSTON I5. MASS.

October 1948

Dear Friends: OUR PRIZE~WINNING RADIO SHOW IS YOURS!

 

Have you ever wished you could purchase an inexpensive, ready-made
radio program, to be broadcast locally for the benefit of your Society?

If you have ever tried to write a fifteen-minute script for delivery,
especially on a week~to~week basis, then you know how much work it entails.

Our American Humane Education Society of Boston, Massachusetts, is
happy to announce, for your benefit, a brand new service, never before offered
in this country, to Humane Societies only. We are making fifteen-minute radio
transcriptions available to you because we know it meets a long-felt need of
Humane Societies, as publicly expressed at the recent national humane convention
held in New Orleans, Louisiana. Many Humane Societies are anxious to have
ready~made programs available to present over the air at local radio stations.

Undoubtedly, you are aware of the fact that your local radio station
must renew its license to broadcast, every six months, and in applying for
renewal, it must state how much free time it has given to worthy charitable
organizations Operating in the public interest. Your Society is one of the
groups usually entitled to free time on radio stations, provided your program
is up to standard.

The radio transcriptions we will have available are called, "Animaland,"
and are of superb quality, as evidenced by the fact that the program won the
George Foster Peabody Award for 1947, which is radio's outstanding distinction,
of equal importance with the "Oscar" awarded motion pictures of excellence.

This broadcast has been presented in Massachusetts for the past four years,
where it has won for itself an ever-widening audience of devoted listeners.

"Animaland" consists of most interesting and attractive dialogue between
"Paul and Peggy" ~- two Splendid radio voices who have worked together for many
years. They tell charming and delightful stories about our animal friends,
pointing up their value to mankind and the need for kindness to and consideration
of them. The program runs for twelve minutes, allowing time for some representa-
tive of your Society or .he radio station announcer to make local announcements

UJJV
at the beginning and again at the end. There is no mentlnq -t any time in the

t'o a
program of our Society, and we recommend that immediately upon receipt of this

 




Page 2 October 1948

letter, you get in touch with your nearest, local radio station and ask them if
they will give your Society fifteen minutes of time, on a weekly basis, for at
least twenty—six weeks ~~ preferably fifty—two.

If you would like to subscribe to such a service, depending upon the
radio station's granting you the time, then we shall be glad to supply the tran—
scriptions at a cost which will range from $2.50 to $5.00 per week. The final
cost will depend upon the number of Societies which will subscribe to this serv~
ice. If enough of these organizations take advantage of this offer, the cost
will definitely be $2.50 per week. Furthermore, if enough Societies purchase
the program, we would have certain funds available with which to advertise the
prOgram in your local papers.

For your information, in the event that 250 Societies subscribed, the
cost to each one would be $2.50 per week. The transcriptions would be sent
directly to your station, and all you would need to do is to furnish the local
station with two minutes of information regarding your Society. You would
then have a ready-made, fifteen—minute program of highest broadcast standards.
Should your local radio station wish to secure additional information concern—
ing this program, before granting you time, we suggest that you refer them to:
dr. George Watson, Production Manager, tation WHDH, 6 St. James Avenue, Boston,
Massachusetts. This Station is owned and Operated by the Boston Herald~Traveler
Corporation, where the program is heard weekly.

When the service goes into effect, a six-months' supply of transcriptions
will be shipped to the radio station at one time, and payment can be made in one
sum or budgeted, if necessary, to meet the convenience of your Society.

We feel that "Animaland" is adaptable to all communities, and would help
bring new members and friends into your fold.

Will you kindly let us know at once, on the attached post card, whether
or not you are interested in this unusual offer.

Sincerely yours

l.‘\‘ .
" i... /
l. ‘1
/

- , , .. . l/\ ., "I ._,'¢:',.,¢‘ ~:/'
‘9 Director of Education

my

Enclosure

 




 




h
."

Plaza 7-8550 ,

MDGTALE

gar/é, Manning, 6.15:0.- am! proclucer a 49 WEST 46 STREET, NEW YORK 19, N. Y.

 

 

 

 

 

 

4%

April 27, 1949

MT. Del Hester
Radio Station WPAG and WPAG—FM
Ann.Arbor,iMich.

Dear mr. Hester:

Some months ago your station ordered four test transcriptions of Tom Farley's
D03 Tales. Because 850 stations requested this series and because of the
laudatory comments received from stations and listeners, we have now pre-
pared a series of 13 Open end programs.

As in the previous series, the prOgrams feature Tom Farley, whose newspaper
column is carried in over 150 cities and whose readers are numbered in the
millions. Expense for their preparation is borne by the DOg Food Division
of the American Meat Institute as a service to dOg owners and to promote
the keeping of dogs as pets. However, no credit is necessary, and neither
the name of the Institute nor any of its members is ever mentioned.

You can have these quarter hour programs without charge for presentation as
a public service or for Sponsorship by your local dog club or'humane society.
Or they can be used for a commercial Sponsor (except a dog food) for a fee
equal to 10% of the time charge. In any case, they are kept exclusive to
one station in each city.

You.probably remember the previous series and.your records may Show that you
received excellent listener response. However if you are still undecided,
send in the card anyway. Then arrange to have the head of your local dog
club or humane society audition the series. If he doesn't say it is the
best dOg prOgram he has ever heard, send them back to us.

Since you are being given.the first Opportunity to receive these pregrams, we
do request that you return the enclosed post card promptly. Then upon re-
ceipt of the recordings will you please try to notify us within 15 days if,
for any reason, you decide not to program so we may offer them to other

stations in your area.
9 Cordially,
Farley Manningv//;7—“‘Ji

Tom Farley's Dog Tales 0 Tom Farley’s Dog Tales of the Air 0 Mike 8. Masie Cartoons
and Special Features for Newspapers, Magazines, Radio and Television

 

 

 

 




