 

FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMA

BISHOP BARRY

AND

CANON, WILBEBFOBGE

ON THE

MORALITY OF VIVISECTION.

 

 

A PUBLIC MEETING to discuss this sidijoct was held in the
Albert Institute, Windsor, on Thursday, December 17th,
1891, under the presidency of the Right Rev. Bishop Barry,
Canon of St. George’s. There was a large attendance,
including a great number of the clergy of the town and
neighbourhood. The proceedings were opened with prayer
by the Chairman.

The BISHOP, in setting forth the object of the meeting, said
that not without a feeling of grave responsibility had the
meeting been convened to deal with a subject, which he
held to be of great moral and spiritual importance. The
responsibility that lay upon them was expressed in the Collect
just used; they were there to ask “what things they ought
to do ;” and, when they had come to the conclusion what
those things were, they desired to have “ grace and power ”
against all opposition “ to fulﬁl the same.”

The one point he desired to bring before them was the
moral aspect of this great question—whether the practice
of what is called Vivisection, that is, the performing upon

 




 

2

live animals experiments which are calculated, and are
certain to induce pain, can be morally justiﬁed? It is on
this aspect of the question that we cannot put ourselves
into the hands of experts, however highly qualiﬁed they
may be. He had the very highest respect for the medical
profession as a whole, for he doubted whether there is any
profession that does more service to our common humanity;
but on this matter he would not put his conscience into the
possession of any living man. They were there neither to
praise, nor to denounce persons, but to know for themselves
what they ought to do. And as we cannot put ourselves
into the hands of any living men, so, on the other hand, we
cannot hold aloof, as though the matter did not concern us,
for we are a community, and everything tells for good or evil
upon that community. With freedom and power comes
moral responsibility. There were other aspects that would
be considered by other speakers, but these were to us
subsidiary questions. The great question was: what we
are bound in conscience to do on this great and important
matter.

Our conception is, that all animals are God’s creatures;
by Him, to a large degree, committed to our charge,
and those that are domesticated lavish upon us a large
treasure of faithfulness and love. That being so, God
having made all and loving everything that He has made, and
having committed these creatures to our charge, what have
we a right to do with them ‘2 We have a right to use them ;
but have we a right to inﬂict pain and torture upon them ‘9
Let us suppose—it was as yet but a supposition—that
we shall advance knowledge, and by advancing knowledge
bring a beneﬁt to humanity. Are these two hopes sufﬁcient
to give us a right to inﬂict torture? If not, he held to
the old-fashioned belief that what is wrong is against the law
of God’s Providence; and so that to do wrong cannot bring
real substantial beneﬁt to humanity. If a thing is wrong, it
cannot be blessed, and if it be not blessed, these great results
cannot follow. Therefore, the question of result is to some
degree bound up in the question of right. But primarily
it was the simple question of right that he asked them to
consider, as Christian men and women. We have not a right
to do evil in order that good may come. We are not of those
who hold that the end justiﬁes the means. There could be no
doubt that, if we were to have the highest form of vivisection,
it would be performed not on animals, but on human subjects;
for the results gained from study of the effects on animals
are vague and delusive, because that which produces a
certain effect 011 them, often produces a different effect on
the human subject. If we want the surest knowledge,
unquestionably that would be gained from human vivisection.
But from that we should recoil with horror, because
we hold that to inﬂict torture upon man is a contraven-
tion of the law of God. He did not wish to be

 

 




 

3

misunderstood. He was not placing animal life and
human life on the same level; but what is shown by
the fact that we thus recoil from the idea of human vivisec-
tion, is that we cannot consider the result we hope to
obtain independent of the moral aspect of the subject.

So we come back to the question, have we a right to
inﬂict lingering pain and torture upon these animals?
We know we have a right to take animal life for our
sustenance and for our service, although that service may
shorten their lives, and inﬂict upon them a certain amount of
hardship. But we have no right to do that which is deliberate
cruelty. By our law for the prevention of cruelty to
animals we confess that we may use animals for our service,
but that we must not use them inhumanly. We must not
work them to death, nor so work them as to inﬂict torture
upon them. The law again says: “You may kill animals
if you require them for food, but you shall not kill them
cruelly, and if you do so, your right to take life shall not save
you from the punishment that cruelty deserves.” If that
is acknowledged, then we claim that the principle should be
extended to what is called “scientiﬁc cruelty.” This claim
is partly acknowledged. In 1876 was passed the Vivisection
Act. Before that law was passed, vivisection was
practised, unregulated and unrestrained, and the evidence
before the Royal Commission showed that, where this was
done, excessive cruelties were committed. He could hardly
bring them to believe what were the cruelties that were
recited even by those who conducted the experiments
themselves. Therefore it was by the consent even of
physiologists that that law was passed; and that law allowed
no person whatever to perform vivisection at all, unless he
had a license from the Secretary of State, and then only in
certain places open to inspection. The Act also said that no
vivisection should take place unless the animal were placed
under anwsthetics so as to produce insensibility from pain;
and also that if the animal recovered, it was to be killed
immediately.

It was clear, he thought, that the true intention of the
Act was to prevent any inﬂiction of cruelty in the name
of science. If, indeed, it were possible that all these
experiments could be effected upon the animal in a
complete state of insensibility, and, when recovered, it
was to be painlessly killed, he did not think anyone would
have raised the voice of objection, because the matter would
then have been 011 the same level as taking life for the service
of humanity. .

But, unfortunately, in the ﬁrst place, we have this great
diﬂiculty in the observation of that statute—that it is hard
to secure complete and continued insensibility, and that for
anaesthetics men are tempted to substitute such a drug as
the horrible cmure, bringing utter powerlessness, but heighten-
ing sensibility. How great, almost insuperable was the

 




 

4

diﬂiculty about carrying out this provision efficiently, they
would hear from others. _
Again, in the second place, by an unhappy concession, the
Legislature laid down that, under certain circumstances and
for certain purposes, a person might cut into the ﬂesh and
nerves of living creatures without giving them anything to
produce insensibility, and undertaking afterwards to kill them;
and under this provisiOn it is possible, (and he feared it was
actually done,) to inﬂict the most terrible torture and leave
animals to linger in torture for weeks and even for longer periods.
Concession was unjustiﬁable and fatal to the intention of the
Act. He could not but think that the intention of the Legisla-
ture was that the holding of these licenses should be a very rare
and exceptional privilege. But, unfortunately, that had been
proved not to be the case. He had an ofﬁcial return given by
the authorised Inspector of the Government, of all the
experiments reported to him, but by no means believed to be
the whole of the experiments that had taken place. He found
that more than twelve hundred of the experiments he had
described, without the obligation to produce insensibility, had
been performed in 1890 ; and, moreover, he noticed their num-
ber increased, and that very rapidly. He believed that within
ten years the number of persons holding licenses and the
number of experiments had been multiplied by at least four
or ﬁve; and if we read the scientiﬁc journals, we can then
see that there is a constant pressure in that direction, and
that our scientists are impatient at being under restriction.
They are using pressure not only to extend vivisection. but to
make it a part of medical education. This is of
vital importance, and gives great urgency to the question at
this moment. A remarkable Memorial had been presented to
the Home Secretary against the attempt to extend very
largely this practice of vivisection under a specious name;
and, although names had to be collected in a comparatively
short time, it contained no less than fifty-one thousand signa-
tures, and these headed by men of the highest possible import-
ance and authority. The names he need not give, but if he
did, they would. see that in all the various walks of life, of
skill, and of opinion, this petition was signed by men who had
a right to lead, and to give their opinion of the matter.
Under these licenses what had been done ? In some cases,
no doubt, the experiments had been trivial, but in many cases
they had involved the most intense and inhuman cruelty. Of
these cases they would hear from others; but if they read
what had been done by foreign vivisectionists, and examined
the extent that they had been imitated in England, they would
see how great cruelty is being inﬂicted in the name of science.
Then, thirdly, the inspection provided for under the Act is
very insufﬁcient. He found that the Inspector could not
have paid more on an average than a visit and a-half per year
to the places where these experiments were going on, and he did
not think that they were “visits of surprise.” Therefore, if

 

 

 




 

 

 

5

"the Inspectors were earnest in their work, and not biassed

in favour of the profession to which mostly they belonged,
nevertheless the provision for inspection was altogether in-

- sufﬁcient.

But without adequate inspection, can we trust the
operators not to commit cruelty? No! There was such a
thing as a terrible enthusiasm for science; and he thought
they would ﬁnd that the greatest cruelties in the history of the
world had not been wanton cruelties, but cruelties com-
mitted in the name of some great cause. The tortures of the
Inquisition were inﬂicted by men of sincere devotion, of
great earnestness, and otherwise humane, because they ﬁrmly
believed that by them they ‘were doing God service. So
wherever there is in men’s minds a belief that they are
serving the cause of science, they harden their hearts
though they may not be hardened in any other direction,
and, as some of them tell us, they look upon the sufferings
of the lower animals without any feeling at all. Some go so
far as to impose upon our credulity by telling us that animals
are not sensitive of pain, and, possibly, are mere automata of
ﬂesh and blood. Therefore he could not trust those who had
this consuming enthusiasm for science. Moreover, there was
another thing to be considered, that, if this practice is
immoral, it is demoralising to those who commit it. A
man gradually stiﬂes the feelings of humanity in his nature
until they cease to exist, and he has a callousness against
suffering in opposition to the other characteristics of his
nature. If it should be the case that young medical
students were to be called upon to witness experiments as a
part of their education, which, without anaesthetics, inﬂict
cruel pain upon animals, then we are in danger 0f demoralising
the rising profession, upon whom we depend, and to whom we
owe so much. Therefore he could not think the high
character of those who support this vivisection movement
is any security that there will not be cruelty inﬂicted in the
name of science. In the literature spread about theroom
they would ﬁnd more particulars on this painful subject, but
they had spared them some of the horrible details.

In conclusion, he had endeavoured to put the case before
them, ﬁrst on the ground of facts that cannot be contradicted;
and, in the next place, to urge them to consider our moral

duty before God with regard to His creatures committed to

our charge. He held it, therefore, to be a moral and religious

question. If it were not so, he would not have dared to have

taken it up, and to have presented it to them. It was not
without sense of responsibility and some reluctance that he
had done so, but it was a matter that admitted of no paltering
with duty. They must look upon it fairly and honestly in the
face. He would ask them not to be discouraged by appeal to
authority—by appeal to the character and life of those who
defend the practice, against whom he had not a word to
say. When they stood before the bar of God, let them

 




 

6

remember that their responsibilities could not be thrown
off upon others; therefore the matter was one which they
must determine for themselves. Nor again must they
be discouraged by the extremely haughty and contemptuous
tone, in which their opinions were disposed of by. scientiﬁc
men. In a copy of the Illedical Journal, which he had
received, an attack was made against his friend, the Bishop-
of Manchester, in a tone which he could only describe
as insolent, and on grounds of conﬁdent assertion rather
than proof. If ever there was a man who looked upon
questions from the largest point of‘view possible; if ever
there was a man so free from fanaticism, and incapable of
doing injustice to an opponent, it was his friend Bishop Moor-
house; yet he was treated as an ignorant sentimentalist.
After all, this mattered little. The clergy were used to being
despised by those who called themselves the leaders of
scientiﬁc thought; but they comforted themselves with the
thought that they were treading in the same way as the saints-
who had gone before them, and, if they bore contempt, it was
some degree of evidence that they were following in the
f00tsteps of their Master. Therefore, let us look the thing
fairly in the face; look at it morally, and make up our minds
that we have a responsibility on the subject, and when we
have made up our minds and asked God what things we ought.
to do, then ask for grace to do our duty unshrinkingly, for
humanity and for the glory of God. (Applause)

Dr. BERDOE, who next addressed the meeting, prefaced his
remarks by saying that the position of a medical man on the
Anti-vivisection platform required some little explanation, and,
on examination of this important question, it would be found
that very few medical men could be found who would take
part in it, and there were many reasons why this should be
so. First, esprit cle corps was, perhaps, stronger in their
profession than in any other; certainly it would bear very
favourable comparison with the esprit de corps of the Church,
for clergy would be found Speaking and writing in papers-
violently against their bishops; medical men never spoke
against the heads of their profession in so disrespectful a
tone. Unhappily, the heads of the profession were committed
almost to a man, to the vivisection iniquity. De Quincey used
an illustration in describing the island of Ceylon, which he
would adopt on the present occasion. De Quincey said the
Government of Ceylon might be compared to a peach. In
the centre of the soft ﬂesh of the peach is a hard, rough
stone, which he compared to the Kandian Government, which
was one of the most cruel and ferocious Governments that ever
cursed that beautiful isle. The outer ﬂesh was composed
of a people who were exceedingly simple and gentle—
the Cingalese. This was an illustration that very well served
his present purpose. All who knew anything of doctors,




7

knew that they were not more cruel than the average man;
but there was a scientiﬁc centre, the operations of which
the ordinary medical man seldom knows. They were pledged
to laboratory work, and were actuated by a desire to
remove the reproach from medicine that it is not scientiﬁc.
He did not think it could be. Medicine is an Art, and
can only indirectly be called a Science. The reproach
of being unscientiﬁc they considered should be removed
by performing experiments of every possible kind, with
every possible kind of drug, or any other thing supposed to
have inﬂuence on the human body, at ﬁrst on the lower
animals, utterly regardless of the fact that there is not
a single drug which acts in the same manner upon the
lower animals as upon the human system. They admit
that it is so, and we know that it is so; but they also say
that they will still pursue their studies until they have found
out the reason why it is so. And so it may go on and require
hecatombs of victims. Thus they were dominated by this ultra-
scientiﬁc, this cruel hard centre which presumed to rule the
whole of the profession, and there were very few men who would
dare to oppose, because in doing so, they would be opposing the
voice of the leaders of the profession. They would be told that
these charges of ours cannot be true ; that medical men are not
unkind, and would not commit themselves to this sort of
thing; but that the details they would hear were very grossly
exaggerated, and had no foundation in England, even if they
were true as to the Continent. So far however from any
exaggeration being used in the Society with which he had the
honour to be connected, or in any of the speeches made in
connection with it, he could assure them that they were almost
morbidly inclined to say nothing that could not be justiﬁed
from the very words of the men who performed the experiments
themselves. It was impossible that whatever they had heard
could be exaggerated, because the whole of the statements
were taken from the writings of the men themselves who
were responsible for the experiments. To-day, in our univer-
sities and colleges, at this very moment, were going on these
cruel practices and atrocious experiments on living animals,
which he did not dare more than refer to. He dare not give
details, for they were too shocking to give in such an
audience as this, partly composed of ladies. The practice
of vivisection was very alarmingly on the increase. In
1889 the persons licensed numbered 87, which increased
to 110 persons last year, who were licensed by the
Home Office for the performance of these cruel experi-
ments. Out of this number 77 persons availed themselves of
their licenses and experimented, and certiﬁcates were granted
so that 796 experiments were made without anaesthetics.
That reminded him of a point of which they would hear a
great deal. They would be told that the experiment that
involves pain was performed under an anaesthetic by which is
meant something that takes their senses away, usually

 




 

 

8

chloroform, ether, or chloral. A great number of experiments,
especially of the class performed at Cambridge University,
deal with the action of drugs upon the blood, especially upon
the kidney secretion, and it was utterly impossible to use
"either ether or chloroform. This question was fought out at
Cambridge a year or two ago, when he was charged by several
professors with having slightly exaggerated in this statement,
and he pointed out that certain classes of experiments could not
be performed under chloroform because that would have vitiated
the experiment. The real drug was curare. It was that
poison referred to by Lord Tennyson as “hellish,” because it
paralyses all the nerves of motion, so that a creature under
its inﬂuence cannot even breathe. It feels the pain all the
more acutely, and yet cannot express by any warning or cry
its pain. It involves a cut in the creature’s throat, and con-
necting the throat with an artiﬁcial respiration apparatus
which is sold in Cambridge at the scientiﬁc warehouses.
That apparatus costs £50 and was in constant use for
animals under the inﬂuence of this drug. This drug had
actually been specially recommended by an eminent
vivisector because it facilitates the performance of experi-
ments. Therefore it was a drug practically always used
for the performance of these experiments, because it kept
the creature in a condition like plastic paste. There was
no law that prohibited its use. If a whiff of chloroform was
just given to comply with the Act, then the drug curare
was given which caused the creature to feel the pain more
acutely for the reason he had given. He quoted from a letter
written by Dr. Borell, a vivisector who, in effect, stated that
he had vivisected horses, rabbits, monkeys, and, above all,
dogs, and he had formed three opinions. It was impossible
to employ anaesthetics so as to render them insensible, as, for
example, ether and chloroform, and then referring to the use
of curare. Experiments performed in England were said to
be altogether different from even those that their opponents
recognised were as cruel because they were done abroad,
though he believed that their counterparts were constantly
performed here. He had very good authority for believing this,
' because the Inspector of vivisection said in his last Report it was
only reasonable to suppose that our medical men in England
would like to try the same experiments as were done abroad.
One of the experiments performed in our universities and schools
here was to dissect a kidney out of a living animal, and, separated
only from the chief tissues that do not involve the nerves and
blood vessels, it was placed in a warm box and surrounded
with warm oil. There was an apparatus sold for this experi-
ment. Another consisted in cutting open the creature’s chest
and exposing the heart, making what was called a “ window ”
in the chest, and applying an apparatus to the heart to register
its beats. Another consisted in cutting holes in the creature’s
head, and cutting and boring to get at the brain. This
class of experiment was known as Professor Ferrier’s. There

 

 




 

Do.

 

9

were other cases of a similar kind, and these things were
going on at the present moment, and could not be done with-
out involving atrocious suffering. Then there was the science
of bacteriological research, the research for micro—organisms.
In the Report this particular class of experiment was referred
to as involving no greater pain than the prick of a needle.
That was so, but the effect of operation itself was so slow as
to entail horrible suffering. A few hours after, the poison
would work, and the body of the creature would break out
into abscesses, entailing the most horrible suffering. What
was the good of all this ‘2 Was there a single disease the
treatment of which had been improved by these experiments ?
Not one. Professor Schiff, it is said, used fourteen thousand
victims in ten years in these experiments, and he had
not made one discovery big enough to be explained to anyone
not a physiologist, nor were any of them of the least practical
value. After reading the opinion of Professor Lawson Tait, that
vivisection had not advanced abdominal surgery, but retarded
it, Dr. Berdoev proposed the following resolution: “That, in
the opinion of this meeting, the inﬂiction of pain and torture
upon living creatures cannot be justiﬁed by any result, real or
supposed, to knowledge or usefulness; and that it ought to be
restrained by the force of law and public opinion.”

Canon WILBERFORCE, in seconding, said what he understood
by the moral aspect of the question was the religious aspect,
and he did not believe there was a ﬁner word than the word
Religion, for it signiﬁed the ligature that bound the soul
to God. He referred to the eighth chapter of the Epistle
to the Romans to show the relation of the lower animals
to man. The lower animals were called “ dumb ” because
we were so adapted that we could not understand the

wonderful language of these animals, just because we

have lost the power of conversing with them, and when
it pleased God to open the eyes of man then we should
again understand them. He would like to know how
came the idea that we are separated from them. There
was the closest possible link between us and the lower animals,
for we were more dependent on them than they on us; 206
times in the Bible the lower animals were mentioned, and
always in connection with man. I11 the Book of Genesis the
ﬁrst blessing was upon the birds, those beautiful birds which
ladies were not ashamed to trim their bonnets with after they
had taken the poor life out of them ; they might just as well
wear ihe scalp of some Pawnee warrior—~it would be equally as
consistent,but would not look so nice, perhaps. Was it not
most remarkable that some of Christ’s most powerful sermons
should have been preached upon the lower animals, and the
most beautiful sermon He ever preached upon the Fatherhood
of God was upon a sparrow. He Himself actually com-
pared Himself to an animal, the Lamb of God, and the
Lion of the tribe of Judah. The blessed Lord also
recommended us to imitate the serpent, to be as harmless

 




 

10‘

as doves and as wise as serpents. He did not know if they
had cared much for animals; he did not mean merely their
individual pets. There might be some lady present who had
at home a wheezy old pug dog, and the whole household was
made miserable because of that pug dog. There was a great
deal of selﬁshness in caring for one pug and not for all the
animals around them. Did we not know that there was very
much akin to reason in the lower animals? For himself, he
could not deﬁne reason from instinct, for instinct, in some
animals, was far in advance of any reasoning power that we
have. With regard to the meeting, it was not a large one,
but it was not from large meetings great results sprung, for
there might be a small band from this meeting determined
that there shall be a branch in Windsor, and they could not
tell the immense amount of good that might be done, for
public opinion was very much like a barometer, which goes
up and down with the pressure of the moral atmosphere.
Public opinion will be changed in every direction until
these abominations would be made impossible. He did not
wish to speak of the unspeakable barbarities of vivisection,
for if he were to speak of what he knew from the Blue Books,
he was quite certain none of them would be able to remain
in the room. Animals were being tortured to death in every
conceivable manner. More than a thousand monkeys had
had their brains burned out with hot irons in order that
certain connections between the brain and muscular
power might be found. Professor Schiff was so
abominable that even Florence vomited him out, and
these things were going on to a very great extent in this
country. When they thought of a dog, which, perhaps, had
been stolen from his home, because dog-stealing was always
actively going on, nailed down in the laboratory, and when
they thought, after hours and hours of cruel experiments upon
that dog, the experimenter would go home to his dinner and
his rest, and leave the poor animal all night with air being
pumped into his body by a steam engine, and if Sunday
intervened, he was left till Monday, they must come to the
conclusion that such proceedings tend to demoralise the
whole race. They were thoroughly dissatisﬁed with the
present system of inspection of vivisection, and were not
satisﬁed with any regulation short of total abolition of vivi-
section. There was achanged feeling abroad in the country, and
he had no doubt that they would succeed in securing the
abolition of these abominable practices. There were several
reasons why they were determined to abolish vivisec-
tion. First, because the practice of vivisection pandered
only to the lowest nature of man; it appealed only to our
cowardice and desire to relieve ourselves from physical pain.
If a man were to say to him : “If you had one dearer to you
than life, and believed that by carving up a rabbit you could
save her,” he would say, “How can you ask what a man
would do in a crisis; how do you know whether, being

 

 




 

 

11

an impetuous man, I would not say, Have the whole College
of Surgeons cut up”? He hOped that God would always
give him grace in the time of crisis; but that was no argu-
ment. The second reason was that it ran the risk of turning
loose upon the world a crew of young devils. How was it
possible for lads, fresh from their homes, to be introduced
to such scenes of diabolical cruelty, and yet have the
tenderness that is the characteristic of the physician ?
It was Professor Haughton who said that it would turn loose
upon the world a crew of young devils. The second reason
was, therefore, for the honour of the medical profession. By
starting in this way it always ended in performing experi-
ments upon the human body, and if they knew how many
were performed in hospitals secretly, it would make every
one of them join the Society. The third reason was that
vivisection was useless. They might say, What was the use
of a layman pretending to understand the secrets of the
profession ‘2 Medical men had told them that there had not
been one real practical discovery as the result. They were
no nearer a cure for heart disease and consumption than
20 years ago, and yet they had waded through unspeak-
able horrors and rivers of blood, with the idea that they had
brought a great deal of knowledge to the medical profession.
Sir Thomas Watson told him that the lessons learned in the
laboratory had to be unlearned at the bedside. For their own
sakes, and for the sake of humanity, they objected to these ex-
periments; for they only came to false conclusions that brought
suffering to the human race. He would like to put a single pin
into the awful bladder of Pasteurism, for if ever there was a
mechanism invented for the propagation of appalling disease,
it was that. He had every reason to believe that rabies had
almost doubled since the invention of Pasteurism ; for a new
form of rabies, called rabies-paralysis, had been introduced.
From 1848 to 1885 the deaths in England were only one per
million from hydrophobia, and Pasteur claimed to have
cured a great many more than there were. Since his
system there had been a great number of cases of rabies-
paralysis, and he could give case after case of the results of
Pasteur’s treatment. He also condemned the Koch method
which had led to nothing beneﬁcial. Another reason for the
abolition of vivisection was that it is harmful to the human
race, and would only produce new diseases; therefore for
their own preservation they ought to join the Anti-vivisection
Society. It was not so many years ago since the Queen
wrote to Lord Harrowby : “ The Queen hears and reads with
horror of the sufferings that are inﬂicted by ignorant persons
upon the lower animals, and she fears also from experiments
in the cause of science.” It did that noble heart credit.
They were all bound to do something to make this world a
little brighter and purer than they found it, and there was one
way in which they could do it most effectually: by their
influence and subscriptions, by their prayers, and by

 




12

circulating literature in connection with this Society. He
had, therefore, the greatest possible pleasure in seconding the
resolution.

The Right Rev. CHAIRMAN submitted the resolution to the
meeting, and declared it to be carried naming contmdz’cente.

Mr. B. BRYAN moved that “ A branch of the Society for the
Protection of Animals from Vivisection be formed for Windsor
and its neighbourhood.” One great reason why a branch
should be formed there was that by organisation the work
would be so much better promoted. The result of the Act of
Parliament of 1876 had been to give freer play than before,
with the exception that the‘Act said no person shall perform
an experiment without a license or certiﬁcate from the Home
Ofﬁce. Under the licenses all experiments must be carried
on with anaesthetics; whether they were, was another
thing. Sometimes they heard that they were not, but
it was extremely difﬁcult to get proofs. In other cases
there were certiﬁcates for performing experiments with-
out anaesthetics. Last year there were 316 experiments
that were admittedly painful to the animals. The
inspection under the Act was inefﬁcient and illusory, and,
armed with licenses and certiﬁcates, men might do very much
what they chose, while requests for a fuller inspection were
derided by the Home Secretary. Therefore his Society, seeing
no alternative, asked them to co-operate in demanding the
total abolition of vivisection..

The Rev. CROKE ROBINSON (of London) seconded the
resolution.

The resolution was unanimously carried.

Bishop BARRY announced that he and Mrs. Barry would be
glad to receive any names of those who were Willing to form,
in the ﬁrst instance, a provisional committee. The question,
he repeated, was of very great moral importance. It was a
question upon which no man was to put his conscience into
anyone else’s keeping. It was a question on which no man
or woman could possibly stand idle, but it was one that they
must take up, think over, and pray over.

The proceedings then ended, as they began, with prayer.

 

Reprintcclfrom THE ZOOPHILIST, January 1.925, 1892.

 

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF
ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
AssOCIATION FOR THE TOTAL SUPPREsSION OE VIVISECTION, 20,
VILTORII‘I STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W. 1.92.

Price One Penny.

 




