IMMUNISATION AGAINST
‘ DIPHTHERIA ‘

What Eminent Doctors Think About Inoculation

By M. Beddow Bayly, lVI.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

THE following quotations are without exception from the writings of
Medical Ofﬁcers of Health and other authorities of unquestioned
distinction in the domain of medical science.

They must be regarded as the considered opinions of doctors whose
position in public ofﬁce and experience in public health matters
entitle them to a serious and respectful hearing at the hands of their
colleagues throughout the profession.

I. James Gordon Cumming, M.D., D.P.H., in an article in the
journal of the American Medical Association .'

“ The eradication of diphtheria will not come through the
serum treatment of patients, by the immunisation of the well,
or through the accurate clinical and laboratory diagnosis of the
case and the carrier followed by quarantine ; rather it will be
attained through the mass sanitary protection of the populace
subconsciously practised by the people at all times.”

(I. A. M. A., March 4th, 1922, p. 632.)

2. Dr. James Wheatley, in Presidential address to the Society of
Medical Ofﬁcers of Health, in October 1927, stated :

“ If disease is looked upon as an unmitigated evil, to be got
rid of at all costs, and by every means available, then I think
we are only taking a very partial and one—sided View that in the
long run will lead to disaster.

“ It is not sufﬁcient to get rid of disease, it must be got rid of
in the right way, otherwise the balance of good and evil may be
on the wrong side.

“ One often hears a statement such as this : . . . the Schick
test should be applied throughout the land and followed up by
immunisation. My contention is that the problem is a much
more complicated one, and that before deciding upon such a
course the balance of good and evil should be carefully weighed.”

(Public Health, November 1927.)

. Dr. Stephen Rowland, Medical Ofﬁcer for Northampton :

“ The mere fact of there being a lull in the number of notiﬁca-
tions of diphtheria following immunisation does notnecessarily
prove anything.”

 




 

Commenting on the almost entire absence of the disease from
Northampton, he wrote :

“ This happy state has not been brought about by toxin-
antitoxin immunisation, for it has never been attempted here.”
(The Lancet, December 24th, 1927, p. 1366.)

In his Annual Report for 1933, he wrote :

“ Immunisation has not been practised in this town, the
marked decrease in diphtheria during recent years having come
about without any artiﬁcial means, it is merely a phase in the
periodicity or wave of the disease, a periodicity not conﬁned to
diphtheria but. seen in other infectious diseases. . . . Had we
practised immunisation and ‘ protected,’ say, two thousand
children of different ages during the last few years, we could
have pointed to 1933 as a triumph of immunisation, but with
how much truth P ”

(Quoted in The M edtcal Oﬁ‘icer, March 9th, 1935, p. 95.)

4. Dr. Stephen Rowland also quotes a Swedish M.O.H. who, when
asked if the disappearance of diphtheria from his town could be
attributed to immunisation, replied :

“ Certainly not. Whatever be the cause, it is not immunisa-
tion, for I have not practised it and do not intend to do so, as I
do not believe in it.”

(The Lancet, December 24th, 1927, p. 1366.)

5.’ L. A. Garcia has written :

“ All physicians have seen cases of repeated diphtheria, and it
is difﬁcult to believe that the immunity which spontaneous diph—
theria cannot give to the child can be produced by vaccination.”

(Arch. Latino-Amer. de Pediatrta, January, 1929.)

6. J. F. C. Haslam, M.D., M.R.C.P., D.P.H., author of “ Recent
Advances in Preventive Medicine ” (1930), writes in regard to the
value of immunisation :

“ None of the published ﬁgures of results in children, of which
I am aware, is valid proof of this advance ” (p. 293). However,
he admits : “ Be the ascertained facts whatthey may and the
ﬁnal issue what it may, a health department will probably get
away with it, if it comes before the public with a fresh method of
prevention ” (p. 296).

7. Professor J iirgens, discussing the value of immunisation before
the Berlin Medical Society :

“ Antitoxin had never been found in the blood of diphtheria
convalescents or in cases of diphtheria after death. There was,
therefore, in his opinion, no certain proof of the value of
immunisation against diphtheria.”

(The Lancet, March 14th, 1931, p. 598.)

2

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

8. Dr. Austin Priestman, Medical Ofﬁcer for Folkestone, advised :

“ Rather than attempt wholesale immunisation by artiﬁcial
means we should adopt the same plan of campaign against
bacillus diphtherim as we adopted against the bacillus of tuber-
culosis—namely, provide better ventilated, better lighted and
better equipped schools and feed all children who need feeding.”

(Medical World, February 6th, 1931, p.. 627.)

9. Dr. Friedherger, in an address before the Berlin Medical Society:
“ As regards active immunisation against diphtheria . . . its
introduction had not caused any change in the occurrence of
epidemics, and that all the statistics as to its success, which
mainly emanated from American sources, were based on the
erroneous conclusion that the decline in the incidence of diph-
theria was due to immunisation, whereas the immunisation was
being carried out when the disease was already showing a

tendency to abate.”

(The Lancet, March 14th, 1931, p. 598.)

I0. J. E. R. McDonagh, F.R.C.S., the eminent bacteriologist :

“ The whole subject of immunity is built upon an entirely
false basis.”

“ Every infection carries with it the weapons which are
ultimately to destroy it.” He warns us that the action of these
weapons “ may be seriously interfered with by the production
of man—made milder infections.” .

(N atare of Disease journal, Vol. 1, 1932, pp. 69 and 1.92.)

11. Dr. C. Banks, Medical Ofﬁcer for Nottingham, in his Annual
Report for 1933 :
‘ “ I have not considered it desirable to start a campaign
towards general immunisation against diphtheria in a com-
munity which has shown itself so unwilling to avail itself of
vaccination against smallpox.”
(Quoted in The Medical Ojﬁcer, March 9th, 1935, p. 95.)

12. Dr. Vynne Borland, Medical Ofﬁcer for Bethnal Green, in his
Annual Report for 1934, stated that statistics :

“ indicate that reduction in diphtheria incidence sometimes
occurs irrespective of immunisation schemes and that this is
markedly true of the great improvement in diphtheria mortality
which has occurred during the past thirty-four years. Whether
such improvements would be enhanced by immuniSation is
arguable.

“ In the absence of substantial proof . . . is the proper line
of action to launch a vigorous immunisation campaign (any—
thing less would appear to be of little value) or to spend the
money and labour involved towards other more tangible public
health activities?

 




“ In all the circumstances the weight of evidence seems to me
to be decidedly in favour of the second of the two courses
indicated above.”

13. Under the heading “ The Public Health Department : From
the Desk of a ‘ M.O.H.’,” a medical ofﬁcer writes :

“ So far as the claims made on behalf of the immunisation cam-
paign. are concerned, I cannot help feeling that, for the present,
at any rate, in this country, it may be dangerous to exaggerate.”

(M nnicijbal Engineering, Sanitary Record and Municipal

Motor, January 10th, 1935.)

14. Dr. C. V. Dingle, Medical Ofﬁcer for Middlesbrough, reported
to the Health Committee of that town :

” I came to the conclusion that it was too much in the experi—
mental stage for me to recommend it. It has its drawbacks.
The child has to have three injections which may set up some
local disturbance, which may be mild or severe, and it takes a
month or more for protection to be established. . . . I cannot

advise you to go in for a wholesale public immunisation in
Middlesbrough.”

 

 

(Yorkshire Post, January 16th, 1935.)

15. D. M. Cameron, M.B., B.Ch. :

“ Scarlet fever and diphtheria are questionable as regards the
value of prophylaxis, and reactions are not sufﬁciently regarded
by enthusiasts. Before the country is stampeded into mass
immunisation this problem of side effects should be most
thoroughly gone into, e.g. anaphylaxis with serum, encephalitis
with vaccination.”

(The Pharmaceutical fonrnal, February 2nd, 1935, p. 117.)

16. C. Killick Millard, M.D., D.Sc. (then) Medical Ofﬁcer for
Leicester, in a Report to the Health Committee of that city :

“ In view of the facts and considerations adduced above [in
the report] I feel that I cannot recommend the Health Com—
mittee of Leicester City Council to take any action at present in
the direction of encouraging inoculation of the general public.
I think it would be wise to wait until there is a little more cer—
tainty that good and not harm is likely to result.”

“ Taking the ﬁve years 1929-1933, the average diphtheria
mortality ﬁgure for Leicester comes out at three per 100,000.
The ﬁgure for England and Wales was seven. That for Birming—
ham was six, in spite of the fact that 45,000 children had been
inoculated.” (See Tables on pp. 7 and 8, post.)

(The Medical Oﬁ‘icer, March 9th, 1935, p. 96.)

17. Dr. Austin Priestman, Medical Ofﬁcer for Folkestone :

“On the surface it seems unlikely that a measure so per—
petually expensive in time, labour and money should yield
satisfaction.”

   




“ It is safer to help man and his resistance through the healing
channels of work and food and recreation, and to leave to Nature
an immunisation which she will give, perhaps more slowly than
we wish, but more efﬁciently and with a more true economy.”

(The Medical Oﬁicer, March 9th, 1935.)

18. Dr. Modlin, Chairman of the Health Committee of the Sunder-
land'Town Council, at a meeting of the Finance Committee

“ opposed a Labour amendment to reinsert in the estimates
£500 for immunisation against diphtheria. He said the system
was not infallible and many expert medical men were against it.
It was impossible to obtain the general consent of parents and
unless 80 per cent. consented it was useless ; £500 would be
merely touching the fringe of the question. ‘ The cost,’ he said,
‘ is 105. per child, treatment takes ﬁve months to become effec-
tive, and during that time you are increasing the danger because
you have increased the number of carriers of diphtheria germs.’ ”

(Manchester Guardian, March 13th, 1935.)

19. Dr. W. F. Betenson, School Medical Ofﬁcer, Breconshire :

“ Asked for his opinion on the matter [a scheme for the
immunisation of school children] Dr. Betenson said he did not
agree with the suggestion. So far there were only three cases
notiﬁable. If they decided on immunising school children there
was a danger of them conveying the bacilli to children who were
not immunised, and they might easily catch diphtheria.”

(Hereford Times, April 6th, 1935.)

20. Major Greenwood, D.Sc., F.R.C.P., F.R.S., makes the follow—
ing signiﬁcant statement in Epidemics and Crowd Diseases (1935,
p- 75) =

“ It is a great deal better to provide clean houses and food
than to pre-immunise people against the possible consequences
of dirty houses and food, leaving environmental conditions alone.
It is fortunate for the world that pre—immunisation against the
typhoid group was not discovered in the days of laisser faire ;
had it been, many more thousands would have died of typhoid
than actually did. Eighty years ago it would have been hard to
persuade the possessing classes to spend money on safeguarding
water supplies if so cheap an alternative method of protection
could have been provided.”

21. The Medical Officer of Health for Wemhley, in his Annual
Report for 1934 :

“ In recent years the incidence of diphtheria has shown a
tendency to decrease, and one cannot be certain that the alleged'
improvement in the mortality rate is really due to the immunisa—
tion, especially as the larger towns, where nothing has been
attempted, show a precisely similar drop in the number of deaths.”

(Wembley N ews, August 23rd, 1935.)

5

 

   




22. Dr. Harris, Minister for Health in Victoria, Australia :

“ You can state anywhere, at any time, that I did say publicly
that on no account whatever would. I risk my own children’s
lives by having them immunised.”

(The Voice, Hobart, Tasmania, May 15th, 1936.)

23. J. Wﬁstenherg, a German medical scientist, is quoted in the
British Medical journal, October 3rst, 1936, as stating:

“ Although wholesale immunization against diphtheria has
been undertaken in Germany during the past few years, opinions
are yet divided about its value.

“ It would seem that there is at present no criterion by which
the degree of protection against diphtheria afforded by active
immunization can be gauged.”

(Epitome of Current Medical Literature, p. 69.)

24. Dr. E. Angus Johnson, Medical Ofﬁcer of Health for Adelaide,
8. Australia :

“ Dr. Johnson says that he was, therefore, ”still of the opinion
that Adelaide Board of Health should not recommend, for the
present at any rate, general immunisation, as a lot had yet to be
learnt concerning immunisation and its effects on the com-
munity in general.”

(The Western Australian, July 24th, 1937.)

25. Dr. T. B. Hill Scott, Medical Ofﬁcer of Health for Antrim Rural
District :

“ In conclusion I wish to congratulate you [the Antrim Rural
District Council] on the stand you have taken and your refusal
to be rushed. You evidently feel very much as I do myself, and
I have every sympathy with you. Like myself, you are doubters
and, before experimenting in such a vitally important matter,
you are inclined to wait for more exact and convincing informa—
tion, if such be forthcoming.” ‘

(The Belfast Newsletter, October 19th, 1937.)

 

 

 

26. “ The Medical Times,” November 1937, in its Editorial stated :

“ We believe this is the only medical journal that has warned
its readers against the risks attending immunisation against
disease. To—day we have prophylactic sera or vaccines against
such diseases as the common cold, inﬂuenza, typhoid, and so on.
Immunisation against diphtheria is one of the latest, we might
almost say one of the latest crazes. At any rate, we again wish
to sound a note of warning against it. We really know far too
little about the actual results of immunisation to warrant us
meantime in adopting such measures. Unfortunately deaths
following immunisation have been reported from time to time.
This should make us go very cautiously.”

6

 

 




 

 

 

 

27. A Medical Authority, writing under the caption “ Grains and
Scruples ” in the Lancet, January Ist, 1938, states :

“ That diphtheria can be prevented by immunisation no more
implies a command to immunise people than the fact that nitric
acid and glycerine make an explosive mixture implies a com—
mand to blow up our neighbours. Yet the immunisation of the
masses is undertaken with almost religious fervour. The
enthusiast rarely stopped to wonder where it would all ﬁnish or
whether the fulsome promises made to the public in the form of
‘ propaganda ’ would ever be honoured.

“ Those who have had to take detailed notice of the immunisa-
tion accidents of the past few years know that to get the truth
of what really went wrong generally calls for the resources of
something like a secret service. '

“ Immunisation surely should remain a matter of private, not
of public, venture—a question for the individual to decide on
personal grounds and in terms of his own risks, fears, and
prejudices.”

. DIPHTHERIA MORTALITY (PER 100,000)

Comparing Birmingham, where there has been an active campaign,

with towns which have Virtually done no inoculation.

(From Dr. C. Killick Millard’s Report to the Leicester City Council.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

g E
o 0.
g E *5. Q
no 3'5 :9 "ED 5‘ E 8
.E 4(7)) O C: Eu: .2 >4 I
E a g ' E '4'3 <0 4.: .9 £4”
34 H Q) '4'" > H H O
a.) .H a.) 4:1 0 O 0 CD 4-:
>4 m A (I) Z L) Z Q m
1920 22 I7 6 34 7 10 i 8 8
1921 I3 10 4 IO 6 10 7 7
1922 10 8 7 4 ——, 10 } 8 6
1923 15 4 3 4 5 4 i 2 3
1924 IO 15 4 4 6 1 g 21 3
1925 10 I4 I 6 9 II —- i 11 7
1926 12 15 l 10 26 4 16 l 14 8
Inoculation
campaign Practically no inoculation in these towns.
started.
I927 q 6 4 6 23 I5 5 9 4
1928 5..) "c3 7 7 7 I6 26 7 12 _ 2
1929 g g 9 5 7 21 21 I3 11 4
I939 EE 9 3 4 I3 23 9 I6 4
1931 g 8 6 2 1 2 6 4 11 6
1932 8 8 3 2 1 3 2 I 7 2
I933 a” 3 4 4 2 6 I 6 2
1934 ‘0 8 8 8 2 6 2 6 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Although Dr. Killick Millard is “ in no sense hostile to inoculation
on principle,” he comments :

“ It will be noticed that a big drop in diphtheria mortality
in Birmingham occurred the very year after the inoculation
campaign was started. At this time, the number of children who
had been inoculated was insigniﬁcant. . . . So that the drop
which occurred in the years immediately following the inocula-
tion campaign clearly cannot be ascribed to the inoculation
campaign. The further drop which occurred in the two years
1931-2, however, might well have been attributed to it, but for
the fact that a precisely similar drop has occurred in other neigh—
bouring towns—Leicester, Shefﬁeld, Nottingham, Northampton,
Coventry, etc. (See Table.)

“ Up to the present, it is difﬁcult from the Birmingham ex—
perience, if compared with that of neighbouring towns, to feel
such assurance that any material results have been achieved.”
(See p. 4, ante.)

 

Comparing Diphtheria Mortality per 100,000 before and after
Immunisation Campaign in Birmingham.

 

Birmingham
Leicester
Shefﬁeld
Nottingham
Coventry
Northampton
Stoke—on-Trent

 

A Average of
5 years 1922—26

ON
0

 

B Average of
5yearsrg32—36 5-7 3-96 8-8 - - 1-62

 

 

B as percentage
ofA 50 35* I46 46* 89 19* 7o 64

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* Showing greater reduction in three towns in which immunisation
was not carried out to any extent.

Anyone desiring full particulars regarding Diphtheria Immunisa-
tion, its failure, fallacies and dangers, should write for a copy of the
booklet : “ The ‘ Schick ’ Inoculation for Immunisation against
Diphtheria,” by M. Beddow Bayly, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. (price 4d.
per copy, post free).

 

Published byithe NATIONAL ANTI-VACCINATION LEAGUE, 25 Denison House,
296 Vauxhall Bridge Road, London, S.VV.I, and printed by the GARDEN CITY
PRESS LTD., Letchworth, Herts—E7088

CLEPTQ‘E AID DChlu’i‘ [liml-IEESEQTME Lf . . _ -
E

Hon: Sec: 51, GORE ROAD, .9.

 




