3A
I
,2
7
‘i
.
4
3'}
f
.
4)
1‘
I,
I'I
3

““Fg‘mgwr ...A "‘:W/ «wan-
:, . . . < y I -

 

FOXHUNTERS’
; PHILOSOPHY

A GARLAND FROM
FIVE CENTURIES.

EDITED BY

BERTRAM LLOYD

THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION
OF CRUEL SPORTS

56 BLOOMSBURY STREET, LONDON, W.C.l

1939
[COP YRIGHTJ ‘ ,

PUBLICATION No. 36] [PRICE THREEPENCE

 




 

 

 




 

FQXHUNTERS’
PHILOSOPHY

A garﬂaﬁd fmm

ﬁV© centuriw

EDITED BY
BERTRAM LLOYD

 

SECOND EDITION

 

THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION
, OF CRUEL SPORTS
56 BLOOMSBURY STREET, LONDON, v7.0.1

1 939
I Copyright

 




MOTTOES

Without humanity, a Virtue which comprehends all
virtues, the name of philosopher is little deserved.

VOLTAIRE.

Fins, furs and feathers, they are and were
For our use and pleasure created,

We can shoot and hunt and angle and snare
Unquestioned, if not unsated.

ADAM LINDSAY GORDON : Ye Wearie Wanderer (1865).

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

PREFACE

I] I! AVING been requested by the publishers to compile a

small anthology of thoughts and aphorisms on this
important British custom, I soon discovered, as would-be
anthologists usually do, that the field was far too vast to
allow of my doing anything like justice to the harvest of
material at my disposal. It was, for instance, at once apparent
that sporting fiction would have to be excluded, thus depriving
the collection of extracts from such celebrated English novelists
as R. S. Surtees and Whyte Melville.

Though there are many general anthologies of fox-hunting
in verse and prose, the need for one in a cheap form for the
use of writers, speakers and readers has long been obvious.
That need the present all-too—short collection—a Garland, in
the pleasant old phrase—attempts to meet ; and though I am
well aware that owing to the exigencies of time and space it
is by no means comprehensive, I think that it may fairly claim
to be representative of the many and various aspects of fox—
hunting thought and philosophy. It is, in effect, intended for
fox-hunting addicts—and others. Here the layman who knows
nought of the sport will find reasons for its existence ; here the
experienced fox-hunter may find some memorable aphorisms,
and even, perhaps, a new idea or two touching the pastime he
loves ; and lastly, the opponents of fox-hunting, that growing
body who regard it as in no true sense a national diversion,
but rather as an anachronistic national disgrace, will find, it is
hoped, much useful matter in these pages.

The collection might easily have been extended to ten times
its present size, without any noticeable difference in quality.
A very similar anthology of each separate branch of “field
sports ” could be made without difﬁculty. Indeed, the pub—
lishers are actually contemplating the issue of further pamphlets
dealing in like manner with stag-hunting and otter-hunting,
if our anthology of the more fashionable sport meets with the
success it deserves.

To some people modern fox-hunting seems the Samson’s
pillar of the whole Philistine edifice of sport. A main, if not a
Philistine pillar, it certainly is in the view of Major H. S. Read
(page 24), though he somewhat grudgingly admits that there
are other forms of sport. ..

In making my selections I have confined myself strictly to
the pronouncements of fox-hunters or authors extolling the

3

 




 

 

"noble science.” The purely literary quality of the collection
is thus naturally not a high one, the views of many “ cranks ”
who have satirised fox-hunting—such as Fielding, Cowper,
Thomas Hardy, Henry James, Cunninghame Graham and
Bernard Shaw—finding no place here.

In case the reader should imagine that some of the passages
in the text are mere inventions on my part, or have at least
been tampered with, I must state that I have striven to give,
wherever possible, the ipsissinia verba of the philosophers and
teachers from Whom I have quoted.

The views of the philoSophers cited are based on many
systems—religious, mystical, social and even humanitarian——
differing as markedly from one another as do the systems of
most other phiIOSOphers. Some, for instance, put forward a
theory based on the Fox’s Enjoyment of the sport (see page 20).
Others strongly oppose this, advocating a theory based on
Their Own Enjoyment—of scenery, good fellowship, early
morning air and so forth. Strangely enough, few, nowadays
at any rate, proclaim a system based on their own enjoyment
of killing foxes, though this was no doubt the one upheld in
the good old days of the eighteenth century by the author of
“ the most important work on fox-hunting ever written,” Peter
Beckford. “In Beckford’s day foxes were scarcer in most
parts of the country than they are now,” says Mr. Charles
Richardson, one of his twentieth-century editors. The opposite
is a very commonly held fallacy.

Beckford, despite his protestation that “ fox-hunting is now
become the amusement of gentlemen,” was the brutalitarian
who advised his readers (“ on the supposition that young foxes
cannot so well be spared ”) to practise their young bounds on
a badger after first carefully breaking his teeth. Though he
possessed a greater veneer of culture than many of his fellow
fox-hunters, he was none the less in the true line of descent
from those jolly Squires so often satirised some three-quarters
of a century earlier by the English poets and dramatists,
Samuel Butler, Sir John Vanbrugh and Fielding among them.

The Country Gentleman in Vanbrugh’s Aesop, who thus
pithily describes his chief distinction : “ Sir, I am by profession
a gentleman of three thousand pounds a year, sir. I keep a good
pack of hounds and a good stable of horses,” might well have
been his ancestor ; and so, too, might the Squire in Fielding’s
Joseph Andrews, who set his pack of barriers on Parson Adams
for fun. As Captain Ayloffe wrote in his “ Letter to a Friend
in the Country ” in 1696 : s

4

 

 

 




 

 

 

“ Does not a Masque give a more Christian-like chase, and
conclude in more satisfaction than the Animal you wot of?
I saw your Letters to some of our Club, and laugh’d not a little
at the strangeness of your Style. . . . The chief Topicks of
Discourse (for Conversation you have none) are Hawks, Horses,
and Hounds; every one of ’em as much God’s Image as he
that keeps them. . . . This you call a seasonable retreat from
the Lewdness of London, to enjoy a Calm and Quiet Life.”*

The learned Dean of Gloucester, again, writing in 1697,
though admitting that “ Hunting has now an idea of Quality
joined to it, and is become the most important business in
the life of a Gentleman,” yet agrees that “this extravagant
passion is a strong proof of our Gothick extraction, and shews
an afﬁnity of humour with the savage Americans.”

Some of the passages in the text may appear to be too
richly decorated with emotion for the taste. of the ordinary
reader, but it must be remembered that sentimentality—a
vastly different thing from sensibility, to which, though it is
often confused with sentimentality, fox-hunters can of course
lay no claim—is a quality inherent in the British conception
of this sport, and one which, however carefully disguised, is
bound at times to peep forth. Interesting modern examples
of this, from the writings of Mr. Basil de Selincourt and
Mr. W. 8. Dixon, will be found on pages 17 and 21 respectively
of our anthology.

However this may be, virtually all the extracts are taken
from writers who are at least masters of their subject, some
being in addition Masters of Fox-hounds. A passage from
Heywood, that'stout seventeenth-century defender of hunting,
is an interesting exception to the rule.

Poetry is unfortunately very poorly represented, for despite
the quantity of verse about fox-hunting, it rarely, if ever,
breaks into poetry. In this connection it is interesting to note
that the sporting verses of Adam Lindsay Gordon, the
thirteenth-rate poet, extracts from whose Jew’s—harp threnody
conclude this collection, was deemed worthy of a luxurious
reprint as late as last year (1937). As I have said, there are
many widely differing schools of thought among fox-hunters“
and it is not pretended that they all find expression here. An
anthology, if it is worth anything at all, must represent its

* A longer extract from this Letter is printed in that most delightful of
all anthologies The Minor Pleasures of Life, edited by Rose Macaulay
(London, 1934).

5

 




 

 

 

editor’s personal taste. But we find, for instance, Major Harding
Cox maintaining that cruelty is an essential element in field
sports (page 24), while Lieut.-Col. Boles hunts the fox for
humane reasons, and Lieut.—Col. L. Rolleston appears to have
been on speaking terms with a fox who was “ absolutely
devoted to fox-hunting ” (page 20).

Again, what could be more violently at variance than the
fox-hunter’s own views on the fox’s quality ? Anthony Trollope,
for instance, in his justly celebrated defence of fox-hunting
which appeared in The Fortnightly Review of December 1869,
in answer to the strictures of Professor E. A. Freeman, wrote as

follows : “ Mr. Freeman . . . says truly enough that the fox
becomes so precious that the word vulpicide has been created to
denounce a most hated crime. . . . Then, though he is not abso-

lutely nurtured as a house-lamb, he receives all the care that is
essential to his well-being and education. The fox is almost
worshipped, and becomes, as I have said, lord of the coppice
and great freeholder of the covert.” '

Yet a recent writer in The Staffordshire Sentinel describes
the fox as “ a lustful, marauding murderer, a brutal, sly, pitiless
animal,” and denies him any redeeming feature (see p. 22) ;
and Lord Latymer, though with fewer adjectives, concurs
in this view (p. 12). Lord Latymer’s idea of fairness to the fox
is somewhat reminiscent in tone of the good medieval (and later)
days when animals were often indicted and solemnly tried,
condemned and executed for “ crimes ” against mankind.*

One of the finest, as it is certainly one of the most remarkable
of our extracts, is that touching the intimate companionship
between the fox-hunter and his quarry, elaborated by a
Member of the British Field Sports Society in an essay published
not long since (page 18). This is a deeply interesting statement,
for it at once raises the question as to whether we may have
overlooked this factor of “ companionship ” in our modern
condemnations of the torture-chamber. No doubt the gentle-
man whose duty it was, but a few centuries ago, to apply the
thumb—screw, or tighten up the rack, was in reality upheld by
his sense of companionship with the victims to whom he
dedicated such labours. This “ Member of the British Field
Sports Society ”——-and surely so brilliant a writer must be a
well-known member——may perhaps be taken to represent the
views of the majority of that large and popular body. “ I an:

* See, e.g., The Criminal Prosecution and Capital Punishment of Animals,
by E. P. Evans, London, 1906.

p 6

 

 

 




 

 

at one with the [hunted] fox himself,” says this philosopher.
I at first thought that he must have written “ at odds with the
fox ” ; but since, unlike so many of his colleagues, this author
is evidently a mystic, there is no need to assume any printer’s
error ! Indeed his thought is curiously reminiscent of that in
Andrew Lang’s cricket-song parody:

I am the batsman and the bat,
I am the bowler and the ball,
The umpire, the pavilion cat,
The wicket, stumps, and pitch, and all.

A deeper philosophy, perhaps, than most of those here
represented will be found in the extract from the Rev. J. Price’s
musings on vicarious suffering, which attempt to prove that
because Vicarious suffering pervades all history, it is right and
good for us to derive enjoyment from the infliction of pain and
terror on foxes (page 21). It is true that Mr. Price advances no
reasonable reason for his remarkable teaching, but that is un-
necessary, since it is apparently based on divine authority.
This philosophy, though it seems markedly different, is in
reality not very distantly connected with that of a well-known
sportsman, Sir Alfred E. Pease, who in his monograph on the
badger (1898) wrote: “ Paradoxical as it may appear, my

‘very love of animals increases my passion for hunting them.

Besides the longing to come to grips with them, the desire to
possess and handle them, there is the natural ambition to be
even with them.”

But perhaps after all these interesting personal statements,
when stripped of their little flowers of speech and pietistic
feeling, really amount to no more than the famous dictum of
the observant foreigner: “The Englishman says ‘ It’s a fine
day, let’s go out and kill something.’ ” In short, it seems clear
that Proteus himself was a mere novice as a quick-change
artist compared with the sportsmen when they are put to their
shifts to defend hunting ; and it is this remarkable elusiveness
of the fox-hunter whenever the question of the ethics of his
hdbby arises, which makes argument with him so tedious a
task. On the other hand, it is just this gay and reckless variety
of argument and idea which renders the hunting man’s philo-
sophy so amusing a study, and (I hope) helps to save such
a collection as the present Foxhunters’ Philosophy from the
all-too-prevalent dead-level dullness of many little books of
“ sporting ” selections.

 




- away—Err“; ___-._‘..... .0“ .0.» ,7 ,, .w

 

 

I have sought to keep the text as far as possible free from
the intrusion of notes and comments; but, having already
drawn the reader’s particular attention to the notable passage
on Companionship with the Quarry by the anonymous mystical
writer, I may now venture to confess my personal preference
for Lord Clarendon’s excursion into the psychology of nursing
(page 16) and Anthony Trollope’s striking piece of theological
zoology touching the fox’s scent (page 10). Unfortunately we
have no knowledge as to whether Trollope would have advo—
cated, on similar lines, skunk-hunting, or even, like one of his
modern followers, Captain L. C. R. Cameron, stoat—hunting.*

It is interesting to speculate on what would be Lien Chi
Altangi’s criticism of these, his fellow philosophers, could he
revisit this land, the customs of which so puzzled his sagacious
mind more than a century and a half ago. It will be remembered
that Goldsmith’s Chinese Philosopher wrote in respect of the
English : “ The better sort pretend to the utmost compassion
for animals of every kind ” ; but he also noted that ” Man was
born to govern the brute creation, but is become their tyrant.”

* 1‘ * 3|:
For help in preparing F oxhunters’ Philosophy I have to
thank various friends, in particular Miss Edith Ward and

Mr. Charles Oldham.
BERTRAM LLOYD.

* See his Minor British Field Sports, London (1921).

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

lFUXlIrlIUN'J'Fll'E.RSy PHILQSGPHY

A garland from ﬁve Centuries

Of Fox-hunters

So that men vaunt in vaine, which say they hunt the Foxe,
To kepe their neighbors poultry free, and to defende their ﬂockes, . . .
No, no, the minds of men, which still be vainely bent, _
Must have their change of Venerie, as ﬁrst the Hare in Lent, '

The Hart in sommers heate, and me, poore Foxe, in cold :

But Whereto serve their sundry sports, these chases manyfold ’9
Forsooth to feede their thoughts with dregs of vaine delight,
Whereon most men do muse by day, whereon they dream bynight.

GEORGE TURBERVILE :
T/ye lVob/e Arie of Venerie'or Hunting (1576).

Why Hunting is Noble
. . . It is a Noble sport
To recreate the mindes of Men in good and goodly sort ;
A sport for Noble peeres, a sport for gentle bloods ;
The paine I leave for servants such as beate the bushie woods
To make their masters sport. Then let the Lords rejoyce,
Let gentlemen behold the glee and take thereof the choyce.
For my part (being one) I must needes say my minde :
That Hunting was ordeyned ﬁrst for Men of Noble kinde.

GEORGE GASCOIGNE: Commendatory Verses in
Turbervile’: Boo/ée of Hunting (1/5 76).

Hunting to God’s Glory

Why doth the world yeeld choyce of honest pastimes, if not
decently to use them ? Was not the bare made to be hunted '9 the
stagge to be chaced Z and so' of all other beasts of game in their
several] kindes. Since God hath provided us of these pastimes, Why
may we not use them to his glory ’5

THOMAS HEYWOOD: An Apology for Actor: (1612).

God’s Gift to Man
. . . the soul
Of man alone, that particle divine,
Escapes the wreck of worlds when all things fail.
Hence the great distance ’twixt the beasts that perish
And God’s bright image, man’s immortal race.
The brute creation are his property,
Subservient to his will, and for him made . . .

9

 




 

 

The prudent huntsman therefore will supply
With annual large recruits his broken pack
And propagate their kind. . . .
W. SOMERVILE in The Cbaee (1735),
an oft—reprinted hunting classic.

“ Artfulness ” Punished
If I wanted a further justiﬁcation of hunting I might ﬁnd it
in the artfulness of the animals pursued—~e.g. the wiles instinctively
taught him by which the fox not infrequently eludes his pursuers.
W. YOUATT: Humaﬂig‘y to Brute: (1837).

Happy Herbivores hunting Carnivores!

There never was biped who entered so thoroughly heart and
soul into the joys of the chase as does the horse ; and if he be not
urged beyond his powers . . . his hunting days are his happiest.

. IBID.

The Creator’s Gift of. Scent to the Hound

For what object was given the scent of the hound and the
exultation with which he abandons himself to the chase ? If he were
not thus employed, for what valuable purpose could he be used ?

IBID.

Fox-hunting: the Creator’s kindly Gift to Man

The charge of cruelty, too, has been brought, in these days of
sentimentalism and reﬁnement, against the followers of ﬁeld sports ;
but against such malevolent attacks, and in support of the legality
of fair sport, we have the highest authority from the very earliest
ages of the world even up to modern times. And we have un-
doubtedly a full right to exercise a domination even unto death, so
long as we do not inﬂict wanton torture, upon all those animals which
the Almighty has destined for our use ; whether we consider those
ordained for daily food, or those which he has created to assist man
in his labour, and contribute to those amusements which were,
without doubt, kindly given to him to lighten the burthen of his
toils which he is doomed to undergo in this life.

ROBERT F. VYNER in Notitia Venalim .-
A Treatise on Fox—bunting (1841). (Vol. I, 1910 edn.)

Anthony Trollope Expounds God’s Plan

We cannot doubt but that the fox’s scent was imposed upon
him in order that he should fulﬁl his destiny of falling a prey to his
pursuers. . . .

10

 




 

 

“ Act of God ” for the .Fox

The animal creation in all its forms, is put under the requisition
of man, not only for his needs, but to suit each whim, supply each
luxury and gratify each taste. . . . We do not know that the Creator
has given any animal a freedom from this bondage.

ANTHONY TROLLOPE in a defence 'of foxehuntin g
in The Fortnightly Review (I 869).*

The True Fox-hunter

Sport is but a secondary consideration with a true fox-hunter.
The ﬁrst is .the killing of the fox: hence arises the eagerness of
pursuit—chief pleasure of the chase. I confess, I esteem blood
so necessary to a pack of fox-hounds, that, with regard to myself,
I always return home better pleased with but an indifferent chase,
with death at the end of it, than with the best chase possible, if it
end with the loss of the fox.

PETER BECKFORD : Thought: an Hunting (1781).

N OTE.—-This classic treatise (“ with which every hunting man and woman
is familiar ”) has passed through many English editions besides being trans-
lated into French and German. A full-dress biography of Beckford by a
modern M.F.H. was published in 1937.

The False Fox -hunter?

The exhilaration of riding over a country, hearing the joyful cry
of hounds and seeing them work, is something quite different from
blood-lust. If the result of a day’s hunting is “ chopping ” several
foxes in cover, it is a bad day. If a good fox gets away after a
rousing gallop, it is a good day. Who worries about the fact that
no blood has been shed?

T. GIBBONS: A letter in The Lin‘ener, 6/1‘0/1937.

* It is strange with what unanimity the votaries of hunting always expound
and strive to follow the Wishes of the Creator—~at least as regards their own
particular form of sport (Anthony Trollope, for instance, drew the line at
bull-ﬁghting). Thus as far back as 1576 we ﬁnd in The Booke of Hunting
(ascribed to G. Turbervile):

I should seem to argue against God’s ordinances, since it seemeth
that suche beastes [i.e. deer] have bene created to the use of man
and for his recreation.

Another instance is seen in the quotation from Thomas Heywood, the
dramatist, printed above. These are but samples selected at random. They
are followed by many more ’in similar style, until in our own day we ﬁnd a
Vicar of the Anglican Church, the Rev. J. Price, writing in The Western Mail,
15/5/1936 : “ Mr. Bertram Lloyd asks me . . . whether I can seriously
contend that man possesses divine authority for killing for sport. In reply I
say that I can and I do.”—-EDITOR.

ll

 




 

 

Is thy Servant a Dog?

The foolish cranks with no knowledge of the sport who rave
about the cruelty of running a poor little fox to his death, do not
realise that the men who follow are not pursuing the fox, but leave
it entirely to the hounds, and it is out of sympathy with the pack
that they rejoice at a kill.

J. OTHo PAGET: Foxbam‘z'ag (Lama’ale Libragl, 1930).

NOTE .——It is interesting to compare with this the following passage from
the same chapter by the same author: “ . . . the other day I watched a fox with
hounds not far behind come onto the road where I was standing. He did not
see me, but on reaching the road he turned up it for half a mile. His ruse

might have succeeded had not good visibility enabled me to mark where he
left the road, and therefore impart the information to the huntsmen.”

Giving him his Due!

No one has ever accused me of cruelty, but I do say, as one who
thoroughly understands the animal, that no death could be too
prolonged for a fox, as, to begin with, does he not live by killing,
and we know the scripture sentence on those that take life.

W. W. S. in Tim Sportsman, 11/1/1911.

The Criminal Again
The fox is so ﬁerce a killer himself that it is fair enough to kill
him. . . . He is a self-conﬁdent villain, not even frightened when he
is hunted.
LORD LATYMER: “ A Defence of Hunting ”
in Blackwood’r Magazine, May, 1929.
An Appeal to Humanity
I would ask the cohorts of the supersensitive . . . if they are

prepared to face the appalling holocaust of animal life which must .

inevitably follow if the wild deer and the fox are hunted no more.
IBID.
Naughty Nature!

Fox-hunting is accused of being cruel, which, of course, it is;
but it is idle and ridiculous to place the blame on fox-hunters. It
is Nature itself which is guilty. Nature has ordained that a fox will
always be both the hunter and hunted.

VISCOUNT CASTLEROSSE in Tbe Dai/y Expreu, 7/ 1/1935.

Canine Instinct—and Human Intelligence?

Hunt ofﬁcials and servants are keen on “ blood,” not because
they like hurting animals, but because they believe that the efﬁ ciency
of their hounds and their ability to show sport depends on the
satisfaction of a deep~seated canine instinct. They may, too, have
a sense of responsibility in the method of reducing the number of
deer, foxes, or hares, so that they do not cause excessive damage to
the property of farmers and others in the district.

THE MARQUIS OF TAVISTOCK : “Field Sports and the Humanitarian”
in The 1307‘!”ngth Review, December, 1929.

12




Foxhunting not Devoid of Cruelty

Hunting, like many other things which nevertheless ﬂourish
exceedingly, cannot be justiﬁed on the grounds of being Wholly
devoid of cruelty. But the mistake people make is in assuming
that it is, therefore, a bad thing. On the contrary, it is for that very
reason an excellent antidote to the demoralising and softening effect
of the legislation of an over-parental Government which bids fair
to kill the virility and individuality of its subjects. Anyone who will
Compare the characters of an old-time fox-hunter and a modern
devotee of the “ physical ﬁtness ” campaign will see the difference
between character based on natural indulgence of an instinct and
that based on morbid self-consciousness.

T. A. RICKARD: A letter in T/Je Scat/J Wale: Argm, 8/12/1957.

Is Cruelty Really Wrong?

I think he would be a very bold man indeed who set forth the
argument that hunting was so cruel that it was absolutely wrong. . . .

DR. C. G. LANG in an address in i915.

NOTE.-—-DI‘. Lang, now Archbishop of Canterbury, gave an address at
Moor Monkton Church, on 16/11/1913, at the dedication of a stained-glass
window to the memory of an aged clergyman killed in the hunting ﬁeld in the
previous year. The Window, as described by The Yorkshire Post, contained
a representation of St. Francis of Assisi !

A Democratic Sport?

I venture to say that even the labourer, when he feels the stir
of the meet, or sees the sudden bursts of the hounds and horses, gets
just one of those fresh events, excitements and interests that he
needs in what otherwise is often a very monotonous life.

IBID.

The School for Democracy

The hunting ﬁeld is the greatest Democratic Institution in
England. There the head of the Ducal House on his expensive
hunter and the humblest peasant on foot meet on equal terms and
with the same surpassing enthusiasm for the noble game.

ANON. in The Daily Grapbz'a, 17/10/1922.

Limited Society! .

. . . I have met but one man in my life who had the hardihood
to avow that he disliked hunting, and we could hardly count him,
as he was a banker, and considered the pursuit of wealth more
absorbing than that of the fox.

THE EARL OF CLARENDON : “ Field Sports and the National
Character ” in The Tramactz'om of ﬁn Herzfora’Jbz're Natural
Hin‘ogt 50521991 (1890).

13

 




 

“ Men are but children of a larger growth ”

Why is it that the baby-in-arms crows with delight as the
pageant of the chase sweeps through our country villages 3 Why
the death-bed request of the famous huntsman that he might once
more hear the maddening “ view-holloa ” which proclaims a fox on
foot ? It is that the spirit of the chase is nascent in the one, and has

never been lulled to rest in the other.
11311).

Babyish ?

At a cubbing meet of the Quorn at Ashley Pastures, last week,
an interesting little ceremony was held. Anthony Leslie Oswald,
the ten-months-old son of Sir and Lady Hanson, and the youngest
member of the Quorn Hunt Pony Club, was duly “ blooded ” to fox
to the accompaniment of the orthodox “ twanging ” of the hunts—
man’s horn. Held aloft in his mother’s arms, the budding foxhunter
took his “ blooding ” like a sportsman and accepted the brush with
great dignity. “ The earlier you blood the young entry the better,”
said a sporting old Leicestershire farmer who witnessed the ceremony,
and so say all of us. '

“ CLODHOPPER ” (the writer of weekly “ Hunting Notes ”)
in Tbe Sbooz‘ing Timex, 12/10/193 5.

“ Kind words are more than coronets ”

The non-hunting Farmer certainly has little advantage to set
against the hoof-marks, the gaps and stock astray which he ﬁnds
after hounds have run over his land. But he generally bears it all
with the most enduring patience and reﬂects that, after all, his
father hunted . . . And did not the Master only last week at the
market, over a glass of port, ask after the young horse and deplore
the price of lambs ?

WILLIAM FAWCETT : “ Hunting and the Non-Hunting
Farmer ” in The Morning Post, 3/11/1933.

“ Wise Spending ”
If everyone in England had spent their money in the same way

as fox-hunters, England would not be in the plight it is now.
GEORGE EVANS in Home and Hound, 13/11/1931.

Patriotic Women are doing their Bit

Whereas thirty years ago there was only one Lady Master of

Foxhounds,there are today ﬁfteen in England and Scotland alone
. . and nearly as many Masters of Harriers. . .

Perhaps women are more prepared to make sacriﬁces in these
hard times in order to enjoy the distinction of writing M.F.H. after
their names _; perhaps they are more patriotically alive to the vital
necessities of the situation or keener on the social aspect. . . .

MRS. CAMERON DUNBAR in Tbe Morning Poxt, 16/2/1932.

14




A Patriotic Necessity—Hunting helps Poultry-farming

Farmers and covert-owners preserve foxes for hunting on the
clear understanding that the Hunt, will do their best to kill them. . . .
We must go on hunting, as we are under an honourable obligation
to do so. . . . Hunts have just been appealed to by the Chairman of
the Board of Agriculture to do their best to keep foxes down, that
there be no undue damage to poultry. As that can only legitimately
be done by hunting, our packs must go on with the work. . . . Its
discontinuance would be in opposition to the practice of economy.

LT.-COL. DENNIS F. BOLES, Master of West Somerset Foxhounds,
in a letter to the Humanitarian League, January, 1916.

Hunting frightens few Foxes—It kills only one in ten!

As regards fox-hunting, at least everything is carried on in the
light of day. Nine times out of ten a hunted fox escapes, and
escapes without so much as a fright. . ..

J. W. FITZWILLIAM, Secretary of the British Field
Sports Society, in a letter in Tim Liverpool Post, 26/1 /1934.*

Arduous Duties of Tactful M.F.H.s

The wounds which matter are those secret stabs that are not
noticed at all for some months and then appear as an indeﬁnable
weakness in the fox supply. In neither case should the Master
make a pretext for a quarrel. For open murder there is no need to
quarrel. For secret murder there is no evidence. The tactful
Master works on the opposite principle. He stays in his own country
during the summer, makes it his business to know what is going on
there, meets as many people as possible and, with some emphasis,
thanks those who preserve foxes.

Tbe' Times, 7/ 2/ I 936 (Article on “ The Vulpicide ”
by the Hunting Correspondent).

l

The Sport of the Poor

Foxhunting in these days derives more strength from the
cottages of the poor than the mansions of the rich.

WILLIAM FAWCETT: “ Hunting and the Non-hunting
Farmer ” in Tim [Morning Post, 3/11/1953.

" Strangely at variance with this is the View expressed by another sports-
man who, in a spirited defence of fox-hunting in a leading article in The Dorset
Chronicle, 11 [2 / 1936, states : “ There is no doubt whatsoever that hunting is
cruel. The foxes must die in great pain, and the experience of being hunted
to death is one of the most terrible that the world can put in the way of man
or beast. To argue that the cruelty is absent is merely futile.”

15

 




 

 

 

 

How Choir-treats help Hunting

The people who live in the country all the year round and
who devote their energies, not perhaps entirely to the cause of
fox-hunting, but continuously to that interchange of neighbourly
interest on which foxhunting is so largely dependent . . ’. Clubs,
village cricket, hay, women’s institute, puppy show, choir treat,
harvest, ﬂower show, cubhunting, British Legion—here and now a
summer diary could be written for any one of them. But you will
observe that it is all hopelessly mixed up. The hound puppies are
just as much in evidence at the ﬂower show as the cubs in the corn
at harvest time.

T126 Timer, I / I I / I 9 3 4. (Hunting Correspondent.)

How Hunting helps Nursing

There are not wanting instances of the fairer sex apportioning
their lives between ﬁeld-sports and works of mercy and charity . . .
and who shall say that their ministrations to the sick and needy
are not the tenderer, their zest for the labour of love the greater,
for occasional indulgence in the sport [i.e. fox-hunting], which is
graced by their presence ?

THE EARL OF CLARENDON : “ Field Sports and the National
Character ” in the Transactions of the Herg‘ordr/yz're Natural
Hin‘ory 50mg: (1890).

How Hunting helps Religion

Hunting is the great bond which unites us all in the country,
non-hunting farmers and. labourers join with enthusiasm when the
hounds are on the farm. The death of the fox is part of the day,
but it is always with a certain regret that one sees him die, and it
carries with it the general philosophy that death is death and it has
got to come to all of us, then let us run straight. . . .

If I were a fox I should support fox-hunting and be sure of a run
for my money. As a man I know it keeps me young, cheerful, and
a better and broader Unitarian than I should otherwise be.”

NORMAN D. BLAKE in The Inquirer, 10/2/1934.

How Religion helps Hunting

I have always been taught to observe Sunday and to ride straight
—_—both of which I have tried hard to do. I am only an infant as far
as hunting is concerned, having but seven seasons to my credit, but
the only three rules I ever got from my father were : “ Go to church,
ride straight, and (either going to a meet or to church) arrive looking
as tidy and well-dressed as possible. Never mind if you are muddy
coming home.

A correspondent in Home and Houud, 10/2/1955.
16

 

 

 




 

The Fox’s Generous “ Gifts ” to Fox-hunters

He may have entered history as “ vermin ” : he may to-day be
labelled “ varmint ” : but he owes all his life to those who hunt
him, and, in return, they receive from him the gifts of healthy
pleasure and exercise, the cementing of friendliness between all
kinds and classes of people.

1. R. YOUNG: Fox/mm‘z'ng (1934).

How Hunting helps Temperance

.Another thing you anti- -sport people forget, is the health of
the nation. . . . Skill 1n sport has done more than anything else to
stop drinking. This and open-air life have made us live far longer
than our fore-fathers.

LADY OXFORD in “ Should Blood Sports be Abolished ? ”
in The Listener, 8/2/1935.

How Sparing the Fox helps Hunting

I never forget the keenest hunting-man I ever knew describing
to me, years ago, how, walking round his farm one day, when the
hunt was on and he, for a wonder, not out with it, he saw the fox,
dead beat, lying full length in a furrow ; their eyes met, and the
fox said to him in a language he could not mistake, “ Old fellow, I
can count on you, I know,” and, of course, my friend walked on and
gave no sign. I am sure every true gentleman would do the same
and that, if all who rode to hounds had the same spirit, the game
would be good for another hundred years.

BASIL DE SELINCOURT : “ With the Hounds and the Hare ”
in The Cat/”#312724”, October, 1955.

How Hunting helps us All

Representatives of the Peterborough Royal Foxhound Show
Society, in appealing against Income Tax assessment, contended that
the improvement of fox-hound breeding was a “ charitable ” object
because : I

1. Fox-hunting was good for the community at large.
2. It got money into the country districts.
3. It was good for the ofﬁcers of the Army.
4. It made for the well-being of animals useful to man.
Mr. Justice Lawrence in giving judgment said, “ Though I am
ﬁrmly convinced of the truth of these propositions, I am unable to take

the view that the Society is established for charitable purposes
only.” [Italics mine.——ED.]

From a report in The Daily Telegraph, 9/4/1936.
17

 

 

 




 

 

The Miseries of Spring

There is something to me always particularly melancholy in the
spring. . . . Whether it is the consciousness of the departure of
life, or feelings imbibed from the soft Favonian ﬂavour of spring,
I know not, which makes this period appear so depressing to the
spirits, and so productive of a desire to moralise; but there is
undoubtedly something in the atmosphere of this season which is
not to be perceived during any other quarter of the year. . . . Every
object upon which we allow the mind to dwell seems to remind us
that May is not the month of the year for fox-hunting.

ROBERT F. VYNER in Notitia Venatiea .-
A Treatire on Fox—bunting (1841). (Vol. I, 1910 edn.).

At One with the Fox

Ahead, strung out like white clouds on the hillside, stream the
hounds, their voices chiming faintly in the breeze. . . . Above all,
before all, I am at one with the whole wide country-side, with the
ploughman halting his team to watch as hounds sweep by, with
the labourers, fox—hunters all, who, casting work aside, rush to the
hill-top, with the hounds casting slowly and wisely over the cold-
scenting fallow, with the jay that ﬂies screaming from the tallest
oak tree, with the baby rabbits that scurry to the hedgerow, with
the fox himself as he steals down the furrow.

“ A Member of the British Field Sports Society ” in
St. Martin’s Review, October, 1934.

The Poetry of Fox-hunting

Well-known is yon covert
And crag hanging o’er !

The little Red Rover
Shall reach it no more !

The foremost hounds near him,
His strength ’gins to droop ;

In pieces they tear him,
Who-whoop ! Who-who-whoop !

R. E. EGERTON WARBURTON: “ The Little Red Rover ” (1833).
A popular hunting song reprinted in The Poetry of Sport in
“ The Badminton Library ” (1896).

“ For each" man kills the thing he loves ”

I hold that fox-hunting with the slight suffering involved is
mOre than compensated for by the greater love I have for horses,

hounds and animals generally, foxes included. We are all part of"

one another.
NORMAN D. BLAKE: The Inquirer, 24/2/1934.

18

. m.‘+.—V-.v-~— ../

 

 




 

 

A Parliament of Foxes favours Fox-hunting

Nor are we quite in the same position. with regard to the fox as
the bear—baitcrs to the bear, for we take from the fox what we have
given and What we have the right to give or withold from the lower
animals, the permission to live. The fox receives certain privileges
in order that he may be hunted, and though he cannot be a party to
the arrangement, it is clearly for his good. . . . I am sure that if we
could call a parliament of foxes and they could understand the
question, then there would be an enormous majority in favour of
fox-hunting. Each fox would think that it would be others'who
would be killed. He would know that he was alive . . . and intended,
if speed, intelligence and endeavour availed, to remain so.

THOMAS P. DALE: The Fox (1906).

Humane Slaughter for Foxes

The hunt death is the natural and the kindest death, and there—
fore I support the continuance of hunting [i.e. during the war of
1914—1918] inter alia on the ground of humanity.

LT.-COL. D. F. BOLES:
A_ letter in Tim Humanitarian, February, 1916.

Forethought for Foxes

At the luncheon just over a year ago, I asked people to help in
increasing the supply of foxes. People have been extraordinarily
kind, and foxes have been found in parts of the country where there
had been none for some time. '

THE HON. ANNE LEWIS, M.F.H., in a speech at the Puppy
Show of the South Pembrokeshire Hunt on 15/6/1931, as
reported in Tbe Pembrokesljire Telegrapb.

Difﬁcult to Imagine !

Can you imagine a mass meeting of foxes being asked whether
they would rather be immediately exterminated or continue to be
allowed to have the off-chance to escape ? . . . I fancy foxes would
become rather degenerate if they were not hunted. What gives the
fox the greatest pleasure in life ? Is it not being as eiﬁcient an animal
as it can be ?

THE REV. J. ROSSIE BROWN, in a speech at a meeting of the

Edinburgh Education Committee, 22/1/1934, as reported in
T66 Scotsman.

The Happy Hunted

What your correspondent does not know is that death by hounds
is instantaneous, and that nine out of ten foxes actually enjoy being
hunted.

“ Truth,” in a letter in T126 Sbeyﬁela’ Telegrapb, 4/11/1936.

19

 

 

 

 




 

How Foxes enjoy being Hunted

If foxes, like women, had a vote, I think they would vote
unanimously for keeping up fox-hunting. They would prefer to
enjoy the sport of being hunted than to be caught in traps or
wounded with guns. I have known a fox that was absolutely
devoted to fox-hunting.

There was a black fox in the late Mr. Albert Heymann’s gorse
at Lambley and we called him “ Albert.” We hunted him regularly,
and he was so fond of being hunted that even when we had not been
drawing the gorse I have known him jump out on the road and try
to get up a hunt on his own account. After we had hunted him
many seasons I regret to say we killed him in the ground at Oxton.

COL. SIR LAUNCELOT ROLLESToN, D.S.O., in a speech at the
presentation of a solid silver fox to the retiring joint Masters
of the South Notts Hunt—The Daily Telegraph, 6/11/1934.

The Truth harms Hunting

At the annual meeting of the Hunt Secretaries’ Association on
June 2nd, members stated that in their opinion harm to hunting
was caused by reports of unusual methods of killing foxes,* and it
was hoped Masters would be able to induce those who wrote the
accounts of runs from their country to omit all such reports and, if
possible, to get them to say no more than that the fox was accounted
for after being run to ground and dug out.

The Field, 14/6/1930.

Best for Them—and Best for Us

Civilised England has been obliged to exterminate the wolf and
the bear, but it can accommodate the fox and the deer in their
natural surroundings, asking of them nothing to which they have
not been accustomed, except that any hunting shall take place at a
time when man can follow with enjoyment. [Italics mine.——ED.]

M. F.: The Case for Stag-hunting,”
in The National Review, May, 19 30.

Scarlet the only Wear

When the economy crusade was at its height two years ago, one
Master of Hounds seriously suggested that he, his servants and
his subscribers should wear black instead of red coats. Fearful
thought ! Can anyone imagine a farmer opening the gate onto his
own wheat for a procession of funereal horsemen ? Such a move
would rob the chase of all its picturesqueness, all its prestige, and
much of its excitement. Fox-hunters must wear scarlet.

The County) Life Monthly Calendar, October, 193 5.

* I.e., burning them out of chimneys Where they have taken refuge, and
so forth.——ED.

20

 

 




 

 

”Even in Heaven

. . . Angelic choirs ? No, justice must provide

For one who rode straight, and in hunting died.

So if Heaven had no Hunt before he came,
Why, it must ﬁnd one now :

If any shirk and doubt they know the game,
There’s one to teach them how :

And the whole host of Seraphim complete

Must jog in scarlet to his opening Meet.

ROBERT GRAVES: “ The Dead Fox-hunter”
in T173 Wertmz'mz‘er Gaqez‘te, 20/9/1916.

A Three-fold Cord

How is one to sum up such a life ’2 He lived for God and for his
King. . . . If I were asked how in'his declining years he spent his
time, I should say roughly speaking that a third of it was devoted
to business, a» third to matters connected with the hunting field, and
the other third to prayer.

THE REV. FATHER L. WALKER, S. J., in his funeral sermon
on Lord North at Banbury, as reported in Tbe Banlaurj
Guardian, 14/4/1932.

Are Fox-hunters Sentimental?

A lady . . . had her son with her, a lad of about eleven years old.
[The son had “ a nasty fall,” but remounted, urged on by his mother].
At the end of another twenty minutes hounds rolled their fox
over and not many were there to see the ﬁnish. Amongst them were
the lady and her son. . . . When we parted I said, “ Good son !»
Noble mother ! ” There was a catch in her voice and tears in her
eyes, as she replied, “ I want him to be a man.” And her prayer
was answered, for he distinguished himself in more than one great
battle, and made one more instance of the truth of Napoleon’s
great saying.

W. S. DIXON : Fox-bunting in the Twentiet/y Cem‘my (1925).

Vicarious Suffering for Foxes!

The principle of vicarious suffering pervades history, some
sufiering and dying for the good of others. The mother for her sick
child, the doctor in his laboratory, the missionary among the
heathen, the soldier on the battleﬁeld—-~—these suffer and sometimes
die that others may live and be happy and. well. Is it not in accord-
ance with this great principle that animals should play their part
by sometimes suffering and dying to help in keeping Britons hardy,
healthy and brave 2 . . .

21

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

This law is continually seen in operation. The supreme example
of it was shewn to the world (I write with reverence) on Calvary.
Why should animals be exempted from the operation of this law
or principle ? _

THE REV. J. PRICE, Vicar of Talley, in “letters to
The Western Mail, 11/5/1936 and 15/5/1956.

“ Vicarious Suffering ” Exemplified

So forty fair minutes they run and they race ;
’Tis a heaven to somew’tis a lifetime to all . . .
Till the gamest old varmint that ever drew breath,
All worried and stiffened, held high for a throw,
O’er the Squire’s jolly visage is grinning in death,
Ere he dashes him down to be eaten below.
While the daws ﬂutter out from a neighbouring spire
At the thrilling who-whoop of the GaIIOping Squire.

G. J. WHYTE-MELVILLE, “ The Galloping Squire ” (1868)—
reprinted in T/Je Poetry ofSport in “ The Badminton Library ”

(1896).

How Discipline obviates Cruelty

Well-meaning cranks who talk about the wickedness and cruelty
of fox-hunting should study the rules of the game in the book of
experience. They would ﬁnd, as the young hound. ﬁnds, that the
lash of authority is long, and that discipline is the very essence of
the chase. .
R. ARKELL: Rte/yard jeﬂerz'e: (London, 1933).

“ I’ll learn you to be a fox! ”

One correspondent said the fox is a beautiful animal. Well, I
have never seen any beauty in him. He has a shaggy, coarse, dull
and faded-looking brown and black coat. He is, in disposition, a
lustful, marauding murderer, a brutal, sly, cunning, pitiless animal.

. The fox has no redeeming feature.

E. HAUGHTON: A letter in
Tbe Staﬂora’sbire Evening Sentinel, 2 / 9 / I 93 6.

Redeeming Features ?

N 0 one loves animals more than I, and no one could more enjoy
and delight in their pretty ways, and the sight of some fox cubs at
play——little rogues as they are—than I, as I once saw them on a
farm lawn with their vixen. . . .

The fox is a strong animal and difficult to ﬁnd without dogs,
which necessitates hunting.

LADY ERSKINE CRUM : A letter in lee ,Qneen, 4/11/1957.
22

 




 

 

The New King of Beasts

Hunting is really kindness to the fox. Instead of being the
scum of the earth—as low in the Opinion of man as a rat—he has
become almost a king, respected by nearly everyone.

Major V. D. WILLIAMS, Chairman of the Institute of Horse
and Pony Club, in a lecture to children reported in
Tbe Daily Herald, 2/1/1937.

The Definition of a Sportsman

For years past sport and sportsmen in this country have been
the butt of ceaseless viliﬁcation from a small but fanatical band of
- people who suffer from that fatal megalomania which numbs the
good sense of its subjects and turns them into creatures of insane
single-mindedness. . . . Those who are about to defend sport have
on their side all the most native and deeply rooted instincts of this
nation, all the love of fair-play and the sincerity of purpose which
have made the title of “ Sportsman ” most enviable.

J. WENTWORTH DAY in an article welcoming the formation
of the British Field Sports (Defence) Society in The Field,

14/6/1930-
The Definition of the Opponents of Sport

First among the ranks of the foemen [of ”Sport ’] one may
observe the cranks and faddists and anti- vivisectionists. . They
are what they are, poor things; they exist in a murky world oi
their own imagining, beyond argument, beyond hope, and many
leagues removed from charity. . . . Next we come to a class, a very
large class, of folk—cultured and amiable, literary or musical or
artistic as often as not—who consider that the inﬂiction of pain in
any degree is a much worse sin than adultery, to which indeed,
some of them appear rather partial. . . . Then there is the third
rank of the enemy . . . who profess to suffer in their pocket from
the damage done by beasts of the chase and their pursuers. . .
Perhaps they are on the whole, a more serious menace than the
pulpy-hearted.

LORD LATYMER in Blarkwood’: Magazine, May, 1929.

The Fox-hunter’s Mental Superiority

~We would even go so far as to suggest that the race of men
which would arise in the country to exterminate foxes by [other]
means, whether fair or foul, would be far inferior mentally and
physically [italics mine—ED] to those who to-day ride over their
own and their neighbour’s land in pursuit of healthy and innocent
recreation.

Fox/mating: A few Part: -—-A pamphlet issued by the British
Field Sports Society, 19 32

23

 

 

 




 

 

“ Mental Superiority ” Exemplified '

In retaliation for the shooting of a fox by a North Yorkshire
farmer the supporters of Lord Middleton and the Sinnington Hounds
held a remarkable display at Slingsby, near Malton, yesterday.
The fox had been shot and thrown into the premises of Will Grant,
eX-huntsman 'of Lord Middleton’s Hounds. The hunting men,
wearing crépe bands, ﬁrst held a mock run with the hounds, after
which, with due solemnity, they interred the carcase of the fox,
Whilst some of their number ﬁred a volley over the grave, and the
“ Last Post ” was sounded on the huntsman’s horn. The incident
gave rise to much excitement in the district. '

The Standard, 19/11/1913.
The Only True Sportsman

Hunting, ﬁshing and shooting come under the heading of
“ Sport,” and, of the three, I hand the laurels to the huntsman.

A huntsman possesses the only true principles of a sportsman—-
an honour to which he is justly entitled. Give me the fox, hounds,
horses, and the stout-hearted people in pink, for then I get both
music and sport.

MAJOR H. STAPELEY READ;
A letter in Tbe Sfaﬂora’sln're Evening Sentinel, 1/ 9/1 9 36.

The Awful Penalty of Abolishing Hunting

. . . I am good to maintain that ﬁeld sports and the cruelty
undoubtedly involved are also necessary in order that the standard
of virility in our people may be fully maintained, and that we may
not become a 0.3 nation of degenerate and spineless wastrels.

MAJOR HARDING COX in Tbe Daily Crap/m, 24/9/1927

An Utterly British Type—the Fox-hunter
If there are two types utterly British which make us, under the
Providence of God, a nation of free and independent men, they are
the British farmer and the British fox-hunter.
THE BISHOP OF RIPON (in 1938) reported in
T/Je Meat Trade: journal, 16/6/1938.

The Glories of our Blood and Stud
, We have no wish to exaggerate
The worth of the sports we prize.
Some toil for their church and some for their state
And some for their merchandize,
Some trafﬁc and trade in the city’s mart,
Some travel by land and sea,
Some‘follOw science, some cleave to art . .
Yet if once we efface the joys of the chase
From the land, and outroot the stud,
GOODBYE TO THE ANGLO-SAXON RACE,
FAREWELL TO THE NORMAN BLOOD.

ADAM LINDSAY GORDON: Ye .Wearz'e Wanderer (1865).
24

 

 




 

 

Publications
of the

National Society for the Abolition
of Cruel Sports

THE COST OF A FOX. By Charles Oldham, F.L.S. Id.

WHO ARE THE KILL—JOYS? By Henry S. Salt. Id.

DRAG HUNTING. By Basil Tozer. 5d. post free.

THE BEASTS THAT PERISH. A West—Country Sketch
by A. L. Salmon. Third Edition. 2d. post free.

GENTLEMEN VERSUS FOX. By A. P. Herbert. Id.

WHAT SHALL IT PROFIT? The Economics of Hunting.
By H. G. Chancellor. 2d.

IN AT THE DEATH : Freeman on Cruelty in Sport. Id.

ETON COLLEGE HARE—HUNT : A Protest and a
Memorial. Gratis.

THE HUNTING OF THE STAG. By Edith Ward. 3d.

THE CASE AGAINST COURSING. By T.E.B.Clarke. Id.

TWO SIMILAR PASTIMES : SPORT AND WAR. By
Henry 8. Salt. Id.

OTTER-HUNTING. By John Tunnard. Id.

DIGGING-OUT AND EARTH—STOPPING. By Lady
Rolleston. 2d.

THE END OF A FOX—HUNT. Eye Witnesses’ Account.
By the Students of Paton College. Gratis.

FASHION—INFECTED SPORT. By Llewelyn Powys. Id.

SHOOTING FOR SPORT. By Mrs. Edward Clodd. 5d.

SHOULD BLOOD—SPORTS BE ABOLISHED P A B.B.C.
Debate. 2d.

OTTERS AND MEN. By H. E. Bates. Id.

‘ Junior Series ’ Leaflets :

(1) What do Young People think about hunting
Animals P

(2) Hunting the Fox to Death.

(3) The Gentle Deer and the Gentle Men.

(4) The Coursing of Hares and Rabbits.

(5) Is Otter-hunting Fair Sport?

(6) The Cruelty of Shooting.

Price Id. eat/.2 are; mpz'erfor IJ‘.

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS

56 Bloomsbury Street, London. W.C.1

 

 

 

I’ll/J/imz‘z'on N0. 36. Price 3d.
Printed by Roger; G. Parter, Lid, 1726 Carl/e Pram, Nam/Jam .S‘lreet, Bedford.

 




 




