W/

«W

,9 , Q
9 _ g;
122 O The Strugglefor m ‘l s -

. V M r6
lent 0f JUdO. {L ~ - mple of this other way

of taking the offensive. It isn’t th ast word. Maybe 1t r132:
even the first. But it might do oome good. Never 13 and
estimate the importance of ha mg glfted, ta e? (f3 , ani-
famous individuals associate w1th the strugg e or .

. ’ res
$ﬂ7 31:1 nghtsieW It s important to rea

’ ' this regard.

dee , owerful resources we h ve 1n .
\piﬂljxivginportant are these esources" , 1mportant

enough fo Ame, . -r r-ﬂ

fm

/’

lize the

A

lb!" 69%;?- J4?

’

m

lb/6 0%
C

K 7%
MM”

The Role of Culture in the Struggle for Animal Rights 0 123

faction in what we are doing. For make no mistake about
it: We are on the side of what is good. And we are
succeeding.

The signs of success are everywhere. In the classroom,
for example. Not long ago the very idea of animal rights
would have been laughed out of our halls of learning — if

nyone had even dared mention it. But times have

; . a
(JV 0‘ %hanged. In philosophy, for example, where before there

were none, now there are
discussing animal rights
classrooms because the i

perhaps 100,000 students a year
. Animal rights is in philosophy
dea is in philosophy textbooks.
And it’s in philosophy’s textbooks because philosophers
have taken the idea seriously enough to write about it.
This same kind of transformation, from no students

 

A lxliltal

‘ part of our Movement’s future depends on how (Eve mg:
identify and support the gifted hands, voicesilan Trk _
who express positive concern for animals 1n t e1r Woetry
in their painting, theatre performances, dancg, pltura2
legal and moral theory: in the broad sweep o as tion
endeavor. That’s what the Culture & Anlmals Foun a

(CAF) is all about. That’s CAF’

\

Those of us involved in the struggle for animab k to
are part of what is best in the world, not k ow aghat
what is worst. We know that. We a ways ongwn too.
Our challenge now is to ' ure that thepubllc 0?‘S,amé
One small way eet this challenge 1s to be a n

at’s the small step I take in . 742%;

we W’
lb} ﬂ Q/Cféq/g 69/;
(5 v 7", ”VJ; . ,
It’s always good to be part of something good. Ancll 1t s
better by far to have a hand in success rather than fa1 ure.

That’s why those of us involved in the struggle for anlngal
rights have at least two solid reasons for taking some sa 18-

K.

 

. . . - . r2 {I i, . I‘ '.
‘>~ 4"“ ‘ AmMu.» - “4.. .—..;.:-...a ._, anmm

sage/rida. We (€201: 5:911 ﬂax ,f

A: 'i

3‘ I .
r ., ,
6. K” < ,5

to tens of thousands discussing animal rights, is beginning
to take place in other academic subjects. In law, for
example, and even in anthropology and introductory
composition. The logic of this change is everywhere the
same. Material about animal rights is showing up first in
the professional literature, then in the textbooks, and
ultimately in the classroom. Those simple facts make all
the difference in the world. They are a tangible, powerful
sign of the growing success of our movement. They give
our cause legitimacy.

Changes in the halls of Congress are no less a tribute
to our success. Not very long ago people in Washington
ran for cover if someone talking about “animal rights”
paid a visit. Whatever the visitor had to say, it couldn’t
make any sense. That was the dominant view. Doors were
closed, sometimes not very quietly.

Today those doors increasingly are open. Ani al
rights is recognized as a serious political issue — the rt
of issue that means votes when election time rolls arou d.
And more each time people cast their ballots. Writing-in
the March 1, 1986‘ issue of The Lancet, David McKie
observes that “for increasing numbers of young (English)

I!
9'

.. 1‘
l; ,
g r:
Tlv

 

 

 




lecture, these things have to be seen to be believed. This is one role
visual artists can perform.

Of course, in suggesting that visual artists might depict what is
horrible, one flies in the face of two powerful artistic ideologies. The
first is that a work of visual art should be a ”pretty picture,” the second,
that visual art isn't about anything, it just is what it is (a painting, for
example, just is ”paint on a canvas"--nothing more, nothing less).

Each of these ideologies has had its share of respected partisans.
But neither can claim an exclusive market on the Truth. The visual arts are
like a multi-purpose camp Knife, one that can be used to open a bottle or
to turn a screw, to file a rough edge or to cut kindling. Like the knife, the
visual arts have not one but many possible purposes, and one of them is. . .

to make the invisible visible, even if what is seen is ugly. Or worse.

SUE COE'S CULTURAL ACTIVISM

The noted English artist Sue Coe, who now makes her home in New

York city, has shown the way. Her prints and drawings are not "pretty

pictures." But neither are they just the equivalent of ”paint on a canvas."
They are full of truth amut the world, and the truth they depict, more
often than not, is an indictment of human action within the world.

Coe's is an expansive eye. Certainly she sees evil and injustice
among the extended human family, in the oppression of the poor and in the
murder of those who would unbound the chains of poverty. Like others
before her, she also sees it in the faces of the homeless, in the mute
stillness of the victims of rape, and in the glazed, empty expressions on
the faces of exploited workers. in this way, her work is reminiscent of,

and has been compared to, George Groz's and Otto Dix's. Not a few have

likened it to Goya's.

 




If Aristotle's vision and Descartes's declamations had been
neglected, their effects might have been judged benign. But both were
heard. Worse, both were believed. Worse still, both were acted upon.
Witness this example from the pen of one of Descartes's contemporaries
(remembering, as we must, that anaesthesia was not discovered until the
latter part of the nineteenth century).

The (Cartesian) scientists administered beatings to dogs
with perfect indifference and made fun of those who
pitied the creatures as if they felt pain. They said the
animals were clocks, that the cries they emitted when
struck were only the noise of a little spring that had been
touched, but that the whole body was without feeling. They
nailed the poor animals up on boards by their four paws to
vivisect them to see the circulation of the blood which
was a great subject of controversy.

But it was not only Descartes's contemporaries who found comfort
in his arrogant doctrines, any more than it was only the aristocratic
citizens of ancient Athens who nourished their moral sense on Aristotle's
happy message of a select human supremacy. Something like a
combination of the Aristotelian-Cartesian views has dominated Western
thought and motivated Western action.

Stripped of their many differences, the combined teachings of this

odd couple come to this: We (humans) are the master animal species. Every

other animal species that exists is inferior to us. Therefore, every other

animal exists f_o_r us--to eat, to wear, to hunt for pleasure, or to train to
perform for our amusement, for example.

When Aristotle and Descartes talked, Western civilization listened.
To this day their influential ideas are part of the unadvertised ingredients
in every Big-Mac, every mink coat, every stuffed wildlife ”trophy," and in

every animal act performed at every circus.

 




CULTURAL ACTIVI SM

TOM REGAN

Not too long ago animal rights was an idea that was, if not beyond,
then at least on the fringe. People who talked about the "rights of animals"
generally were viewed as occupying a place somewhere between those
bedraggled doomsayers who carry placards declaring the end of the world
on May 1, 1990 (or was it May 2’?) and fundamentalist devotees of the Flat
Earth Society.

Times change. Sometimes they change for the better. When it comes
to animal rights, the change has been both real and an improvement. And
one species of cultural activists--academic philosophers--can take part

of the credit for this change or, depending on one's outlook, part of the

blame.

THE WAY THINGS WERE

In order to make any contribution at all, these thinkers have been
obliged to redeem the sins of their forbearers. The plain fact is,
philosophers have not always been animals' best friends.

Speaking from the ancient world, for example, Aristotle teaches
that animals (and-~as it happens~-slaves, too) are meant "for Man," while
almost two thousand years later, in the 17th century AD, Descartes
insists that animals are mindless automata: They are not aware of
anything-—not sight nor sound, not smell, not heat nor cold. Nothing.
Instead, they are, in his words, ”nature's machines,” no different in kind

than a piece of human machinery like a clock.

 




 

126 . The Struggle for Animal Rights The Role of Culture in the Struggle for Animal Rights 0 127

' hemselves. On this are easy targets. What about medical research —cases

what they are 1111:3138 t30?:q811t:1irlbetck’s insight should where we humans have benefited or are likely to do so in A

matter, as on 0 ’ '- the future. Here surely there is only room for the oppo- M/

sition of ignorant fanatics — irresponsible misanthropes , W

who can’t count to ten without using their fingers.” /
Well, is that a fair description of the great art critic
and historian John Ruskin? Who would dare to say so?
And yet Ruskin resigned from Oxford University in 1885

prevail.

We have never understood why men mount heads
of animals... Possibly it feels good to these men to
be superior to animals, but does it not seem that if
they were sure of it they would not have to prove 1t .

The Sea of Cortez when that august institution decided to allow animal

experimentation. “The best I could do was wholly at the

service of Oxford,” he writes. “I meant to die in my

harness there, and my resignation was placed in the Vice-

Detested sport Chdancellor’s hangs on tthlf lgondayfollovxzirlig the vote

. : - 1 , en owmg v1v1sec ion in e n1vers1 y, so e y m conse-

That owes 1ts pleasure to another S pal-ml; quence of that vote” (italics added, letter to the Pall

That feeds upon the sobs and dy1ng shrle s 1: G A .1

Of harmless nature, dumb, bUt yet endued “ azette, 24 p r1 1885)’ . . . .

. h 10 uenc e that agonies inspire, , . Are Robert Browning and C.S. Lew1s lacklng l’n
WIt- e q ’ dh rt-distending sights! Intelligence? Who could suppose so? Yet Brownlng s
OfSﬂent tears, an ea . disgust for vivisection explodes on the page. “I despise

The heart is hard in nature, 39d unﬁt and abhor the pleas made on behalf of that infamous
For human fellowship as belng VOId, practice, vivisectionl,” he declares in one of his letters.
Of sympathy, and therefore dead alike And Lewis is no less stern in his opposition, mixing it with
To love and friendship both, that 1s not black humor:

pleased . it” ’

With sight of animals enjoying hfe, .
Nor feels their happiness augment hls
own...

The eighteenth century English poet William Cowper
makes a similar point in his poem “The Task .

 

 

 

Vivisection can only be defended by showing it to
be right that one species should suffer in order that
another species be happier... If we cut up beasts
” ,1 ,1 simply because they cannot prevent us and because
In another of his poems,entitled“Tit for Tat, Walter .3 we are backing our own side in the struggle for
De La Mare takes us down an imaginary ,road towards existence, it is only logical to cut up imbeciles,
retributive justice—the day when the poem sprotagonlst; criminals, enemies, or capitalists for the same
the “sportsman” Tom Noddy, gets h1s due. An Olgre reasons.
from another planet hunts and kills Tom Noddy, 13,309: The Problem of Pain
him on a hook where he glares ‘ 1n an empty stare, an 7,, . . . . .
f' all is cooked himself. 1 Lew1s, of course,.1s not hlmself endorsmg the cuttlng
1n Py h 8 some people who are not yet part of 0111' 5-1»: up of imbec11es, criminals, and the like. He 1s merely
Movefilerlltpwill say, “But hunting and other blood sports pointing out where the philosophy that might makes

 

 

 

 




132 0 The Struggle for Animal Rights

And Seneca: .
We shall recover our sound reason only if we shall
separate ourselves from the herd — the very fact of
the approbation of the multitude is a proof of the
unsoundness of the opinion or practice. Let us ask
what is best, not what is customary. Let us love
temperance — let us be just — let us refrain from
bloodshed. None is so near the gods as he who
shows kindness.
Epistola, cviii

And not only “secular humanists,” those dreaded
devils, have spoken for the animals and against thelr
ruthless exploitation for food. “We have,” wrltes the
Anglican cleric Dean Inge,

enslaved the rest of the animal creation, and have
treated our distant cousins in fur and feathers so
badly that beyond doubt, if they were to formulate
a religion, they would depict the Dew] 1n human
form. _

Outspoken Essays.

Perhaps nowhere is that form more obvious than.in the

case of factory farming. And so we are not surprised to

ﬁnd Thomas Merton writing the following.
Since factory farming exerts a violent and unna-
tural force upon the living organisms of anlmals
and birds in order to increase production and
profits; since it involves callous and cruel exp101ta-
tion of life, with implicit contempt for nature, I
must join in the protest being uttered against 1t. It
does not seem that these methods have any really
justifiable purpose, except to increasethe quantity
of production at the expense of quality — if that
may be called a justifiable purpose.

Unlived Life.

. .( , - .
" " ‘ " ,. MW 43 "w”"iv‘. ,_ .vzva‘r-a Li»;
H... ~ {A ,. , ~> w 9;.” .. . .. _ ‘ . :- :”. E'.M~xt£‘¢g_L-u;
w. . . . , » ,7 . . ,.-. (.21.,9 a: ., . . ,. “ﬁn.“ “ammm-L... -
. - A W; ,... - - .. - - &s%«,w~.gbwwxuh
r n" - 1-‘:;....,s._‘,.--.._., .__.~-

The Role of Culture in the Struggle for Animal Rights 0 133

When Lincoln says “I don’t think much of a man’s
religion if it makes no difference to how he treats his dog,”
he gets at part of the truth. Merton’s point is that the same
is true if one’s religious faith makes no difference to how
hogs and chickens are treated. Those of us who have
taken it upon ourselves to be the voice of the voiceless
increasingly will be called upon to put our principles
where our mouth is. Difficult though the change is, we are
all called upon to move closer and closer to eating
compassionately, not just speaking compassionately. Veg-
etarianism is the path we all must learn to travel.
Together. Let us all take both comfort and inspiration
from the knowledge of the great and gifted men and/,9
women who have blazed the trail before us. ‘ j 43/1
There are, of course, more doors to the Animal RightS/ ‘
Movement than those of thought and culture. We have not W6?)
been doing a very good job of opening some of them. Z k / 1
—Where are the chronically disadvantaged in our ()9 (7% . 3
Movement? K
—Where are the Blacks, Chicanos, and other 9 '
minorities? / Su Nd)»,
—Who is forging alliances between animal rights V; i
and other movements for social justice? ﬂ};
—Who is joining hands with blue collar men and f ' C
women? M '"'

In all these cases —- and more — we need to do better. / ( I, Y 3 L '
Much better. And we will. For at the deepest level, as 7
Harriet Beecher Stowe remarked, “It is a matter of taking
the side of the weak against the strong, something‘the
best people have always done” (The Minister’s Wooing).

Something the best people have always done...
The best people...
The Christina, Rossetti’s of the world, who
realize that
...other eyes than ours

 




"CULTURAL ACTI VISM"

By ”cultural activism" l mean that people in arts, letters, and
scholarly pursuits, for example, focus their creative energies and work on
one or another progressive social cause--one or another attempt to wrest
power and influence away from those who have a vested interest in
maintaining the status duo. In this sense, these creative people are
activists in a no less real sense than those people who demonstrate
outside a fur store, say, or who write letters to their elected
representatives. It's just that cultural activists use their work in
philosophy, history, or legal theory, for example, as the medium of their
activism (which does not mean that they do not demonstrate, do not write
letters, and so forth).

As an academic philosopher and advocate of animal rights myself, it
was my acquaintance with the work of animal rights philosophers that
was the beginning of my understanding of the power of cultural activism.
Belief in the independent worth and rights of other animals is hardly a
new idea,- it's been around, in one form or another, for thousands of years.
But it was not until philosophers began to publish academic papers and

books on the idea, that animal rights broke down the classroom door.

Whereas some 20 years ago there was not a single student in America's

universities discussing animal rights in classes in philosophy, today this
number exceeds 100,000 annually. And this number is growing every year.
If philosophers could exercise this kind of influence as cultural
activists, then why not other thinkers? This was the next question that
began to be answered. In 1984, for example, a precedent setting
conference was held in London, on the theme ”Religious Perspectives on
the Use of Animals in Science.“ The scholarly papers presented at the
conference were published the following year, and the publication of this

book (Animal Sacrifices, Temple University Press) helped set in motion an

 




Oscar Wilde's famous description of fox hunting ("The unspeakable in
full pursuit of the uneatable") captures the sentiment against recreational
hunting and other blood sports our most gifted minds have shared. This
same sentiment burns through the lines of Walter De La Mare's jolly little
poem, "Hi!"

Hi! Handsome hunting man,

Fire your little gun.

Bang! Now that animal

Is dead and dumb and done.

Nevermore to peep again, creep again, leap again,
Eat or sleep or drink again, oh, what fun!

And as for the use of animals in science: Robert Browning and Thomas

Hardy, Samuel Johnson and John Ruskin, C.S. Lewis and George Bernard Shaw

are only a few of our culture's more famous illiterates who have condemned
this lucrative business of animal abuse. Why? Perhaps Mark Twain says it
best. "I believe I am not interested to know whether vivisection produces
results that are profitable to the human race...To know that the results

are profitable...would not remove my hostility to it. The pain which it

 

inflicts on unconsenting animals is the basis of my enmity toward it, and
it is to me sufficient justification of the enmity without looking
further." Like Luther Burbank, Twain believed that the weakness of animals
and their inability to protest demands "that man should refrain from
torturing them for the mere possibility of some knowledge which he believes

may be to his own interest."

 




liberation." If we could but learn to liberate the other animals from our
oppression, we would be liberated from the need to oppress them. Or—-as
has been written elsewhere-~our true freedom lies in ceasing to be their
jailers. If there is a central theme to Sue Coe's art, it is this. It is
therefore doubly ironic that, among the slaughterhouses this singularly
brave artist has visited, one is for prisoners who, as a condition of their
parole, must learn how to slaughter animals. From Coe's point of view,
"successful rehabilitation" in this context can only mean, ”out of one

prison, and into another."

POSITIVE IMAGES

Painters and other visual artists have another possible role to play
in addition to the one Sue Coe‘s work exemplifies. Hers is the depiction of
evil. Others might remind us of what is good--the grace of a bird in flight,
the serenity of a cat napping, the fierce loyalty of wolfes, the
indomitability of the coyote, the vulnerability of the rabbit, the stoic

nobility of the horse. Franz Marc did this in his work, as others (for

example, Druer) had done it in theirs. Indeed, few significant visual

artists have left us a body of work that does not include testaments to the
beauty, strength, grace, nobility, courage or sagacity of other animals. The
difference is that, today, visual artists can make a contribution to a
progressive social movement-~the animal rights movement--by carrying
on this tradition.

There are other progressive social causes besides the animal rights
movement. The environmental movement is an example, efforts to
safeguard the rights of racial minorities, workers, and victims of Ale
are others. Visual artists have an opportunity (some would say, an
obligation) to use their talent for these larger social goods. There is much

invisible evil that needs to be made visible. And much forgotten good that

 




assault on the doors of courses in religious ethics comparable to the one
that already had occurred in the case of philosophy.

Even the religious establishment has become involved in animal
rights, most notably the World Council of Churches, which sponsored a
colsultation on Justice, Peace, and the Integrity of Creation, in Annecy,
France, during August 1988, and which issued a progressive (one might

even say a revolutionary) set of recommendations regarding the rights of

animals.

ORGANIZING CULTURAL ACTIVISTS

This attempt to enlist theologians as cultural activists in the
animal rights movement is part of a larger agenda that was first
formulated in the early months of I985. It was during that time that a
number of people committed to the struggle for animal rights discussed
the ways and means of broadening the scope of these efforts, to go beyond
the mainly academic focus these efforts had had up to that point in time,
and to include any and every form of cultural endeavor: film and video,
fiction and poetry, dance and theatre, painting and sculpture, for example.

Out of this process of discussion was formed-~in June 1985-—the Culture

and Animals Foundation (CAF), a tax-exempt educational charity.

CAF's goals are both simple and ambitious: to foster the growth of
intellectual and artistic endeavours united by a positive concern for
animals--and, through this unique form of activism: cultural activism—-to
improve the ways in which animals are treated.

In order to achieve these objectives, the foundation has created
three programs:

Research: This program supports scholarly research into
the lives and ideas of creative individuals who have

expressed a positive concern for animals. Examples of

 




8

But Coe sees with a difference. That rape and poverty are evils needs
no argument. In Coe’s syllogism, however, an important premise is added.
It concerns the evils visited upon our animal brothers and sisters. Groz did
not see this. Di>< did not see this. Goya did not see this. Before Sue Coe,
few (if any) visual artists saw this, and none with such conviction, none
with such power and resoluteness. To stand before her work, is to stand
before a visual confrontation with a previously unacknowledged prejudice.
That prejudice now has a name. It is called speciesism—-the belief that
only human interests, needs, and feelings, only human lives and purposes
matter. In their written work, animals rights philosophers and theologians
have refuted speciesism's claims to truth. In Coe's work, this same

prejudice is assaulted.

WHAT MISS PIGGY NEVER TOLD US

Nowhere is this more evident than in her current project. Entitled
Porkapolis, it is has consumed her life for two years. It is her visual story
of what in ordinary life we call 'pork'. Coe's work does not permit verbal
escapes. What we call 'pork' actually is the dead, purtrifying flesh of once
living, breathing pigs——or, as Porphyry said almost two thousand years
ago, ”Disguise it though you will, what you are eating (when you eat 'pork'
or 'bacon' or 'barbeque') is a corpse."

Coe spares the viewer nothing in making the invisible reality of the
pork industry visible. Into the grime and agony, the steam and maladorious

odors of 'pork' production she takes us. Here we see, in the starkest

interior blacks, inert grays, and cold whites, the reality of mass animal

production, with so-called "breeder sows" confined to metal stalls too
narrow for them to turn around in, not for a day or a month but for years.
Here we see the piglets, quickly separated from their mothers and turned

into hormone assisted food conversion machines, tightly packed in dimly

 




needs to be remembered. Somerset Maugham may go too far when he
observes that "the value of art is not beauty, but right action." Even if
Maugham overstates the case, we would understate it if we denied that
"right action" is one of art's values. Visual artists have a tremendous
opportunity to use their talent and vision to do more than produce “pretty
pictures" or put "paint on canvas." There is the larger biological,
ecological and social world we all share waiting to be understood or, in
response to the arrogance of power, changed. Sue Coe has blazed the trail
for contemporary visual artists who would be cultural activists, but she

would be the first person to insist that there is room for many others.

Tom Regan is founder and president of the Culture & Animals

Foundation, 3509 Eden Croft Drive, Raleigh, NC 27612. Under the auspices

of CAF, Sue Coe will be giving a slide/lecture presentation at the City

Gallery of Contemporary Art in Raleigh at 7:00 pm, on Saturday,
September 8, 1990. CAF's major event-~its "Spoleto Festival for the
Animals"—-is scheduled for October 5-7, also in Raleigh. For more

information regarding Sue Coe's presentation or the Festival, contact the

Culture & Animals Foundation.

 




"CULTURAL ACTI VISM"

By "cultural activism" I mean that people in arts, letters, and
scholarly pursuits, for example, focus their creative energies and work on
one or another progressive social cause--one or another attempt to wrest
power and influence away from those who have a vested interest in
maintaining the status quo. In this sense, these creative people are
activists in a no less real sense than those people who demonstrate
outside a fur store, say, or who write letters to their elected
representatives. It's just that cultural activists use their work in
philosophy, history, or legal theory, for example, as the medium of their

activism (which does not mean that they do not demonstrate, do not write

letters, and so forth).

As an academic philosopher and advocate of animal rights myself, it
was my acquaintance with the work of animal rights philosophers that
was the beginning of my understanding of the power of cultural activism.
Belief in the independent worth and rights of other animals is hardly a
new idea,- it‘s been around, in one form or another, for thousands of years.
But it was not until philosophers began to publish academic papers and
books on the idea, that animal rights broke down the classroom door.
Whereas some 20 years ago there was not a single student in America‘s
universities discussing animal rights in classes in philosophy, today this
number exceeds lO0,000 annually. And this number is growing every year.

If philosophers could exercise this kind of influence as cultural
activists, then why not other thinkers? This was the next question that
began to be answered. In l984, for example, a precedent setting
conference was held in London, on the theme “Religious Perspectives on
the Use of Animals in Science.” The scholarly papers presented at the
conference were published the following year, and the publication of this

book (Animal Sacrifices, Temple University Press) helped set in motion an

 




 

128 0 The Struggle for Animal Rights

right, taken to its logical conclusion, leads us. And that is
a philosophy he himself clearly does not embrace.

Neither does the great German composer, Richard
Wagner. “Human dignity begins to assert itself, he
writes, “only at that point where man 1s distlngulshable
from the beast by pity for it” (The Regeneration of
Mankind). More specifically, the thought of animals
suffering in the name of science “penetrates with horror
and dismay into my soul,” Wagner writes, adding that 1n
the sympathy evoked I recognize the strongest Impulse of
my moral being, and also the probable source of all my art.
The total abolition of the horror we ﬁght against (that is,
vivisection) must be our real aim... If experlments. on
animals were abandoned on grounds of corripassmn,
mankind would make a fundamental advance (from a
letter to Ernst von Weber, 19 October 1879).

George Bernard Shaw is one of the most famous of
this century’s anti-vivisectionists. “You do not settle
whether an experiment is justified,” Shaw wr1tes 1n h1s
Preface to Doctor’s Dilemma, .

by merely showing that it 13 of some use. The
distinction is not between useful and useless experi-
ments, but between barbarous and civ111zed beha-
vior. Vivisection is a social evil because if 1t
advances human knowledge, it does so at the
expense of human character.

More ithily, he writes: .
P ...If you cannot attain to knowledge w1thout tortur-
ing a dog, you must do without the knowledge.

Ibid.

And lest it seem that vivisection’s only celebrated
critics are from the other side of the Atlantic, let us listen
to the voice of one Samuel Clemens, ahas Mark Twaln.
Here is the spirit of the man:

 

The Role of Culture in the Struggle for Animal Rights 0 129

Loyalty to petrified opinion never broke a chain or
freed a human soul.

Inscription beneath his bust
in the Hall of Fame.

That is the philosophy of someone not adverse to
marching to a different drummer. Which is how Twain
marched in the case of animal experimentation.

Twain had great respect for the so-called “lower
animals.”

In studying the traits and dispositions of the so-
called lower animals, and contrasting them with
man’s, I find the result humiliating to me.

Man is the only animal that blushes, or needs to.

From Following the Equator.

Twain did not write, but he would agree with the
observation that “the more I learn about mankind, the
more I like dogs.” Twain, however, did write that “Heaven
is by favor; if it were by merit your dog would go in and you
would stay out” (What is Man?). And on the particular
question of Vivisection, we find the following:

I believe I am not interested to know whether
Vivisection produces results that are profitable to
the human race or doesn’t. To know that the
results are profitable to the race would not remove
my hostility to it. THE PAIN WHICH IT IN-
FLICTS UPON UN CON SEN TIN G ANIMALS is
the basis of my enmity toward it, and it is to me
sufficient justification of the enmity without look—
ing further.

Ibid.

Twain is joined. in his principled opposition to vivi-
section by famous Americans from other quarters. By
Luther Burbank, for example:

 

 




134 0 The Struggle for Animal Rights

Were made to look on ﬂowers.
To What Purpose this Waste

The William Wordsworth’s of the world, who see the
advocates of animal rights in these terms.

...Birds and beasts,

And the mute fish that glances in the stream.

And harmless reptile coiling in the sun,

And gorgeous insect hovering in the air,

The fowl domestic and the household dog

In his capacious mind, he loved them all:

Their rights acknowledging he felt them all.

The Excursion.

That captures well what we all aspire to be: of
“capacious mind” as we defend the weak against the
strong. But we are more than this. We are for life, for
beauty, for health, for worker safety, for environmental
protection, for the disadvantaged, for the advancement of
science, for compassion, for peace, for justice, for love —
always and everywhere for the good. For we are affirmers,
not deniers. We are for the best, not just against the worst.
To get that message out —to help the public understand
what we stand for, not only what we stand against — is
among our most urgent demands. The public must feel our
strength like the pull of a magnet. We must be seen for
what we are:

— people with a shared sense of the moral significance
of our lifes;
united by our bonds of love, commitment, and our
communal confidence that we are in the right;
tolerant of diversity within our ranks, intolerant of
injustice beyond them;
people who are fulﬁlled and self-actualized by serving
the needs of those who cannot speak for themselves;
a growing force that may at times bend but never
break.

 

The Role of Culture in the Struggle for Animal Rights 0 135

All this — and more — must be conveyed to the public.
Increasingly they must see us not only for what we are but
also for what they themselves would like to be. Otherwise
they are unlikely to join with us. And when it comes to
securing justice for the animals, we (and the animals)
need all the help we (and they) can get.

For we are the best people, those of us who ﬁght for the
weak against the strong. And though it may be true that
nice guys finish last, the best emerge victorious.

 




\‘58/

So, no, we should not be surprised when today's defenders of animals
are able to count to ten without using their fingers. The voice of
compassion always has been the voice of intelligence. This is not new. As
Harriett Beecher Stowe observed more than a hundred years ago, to fight for
the rights of animals is "a matter of taking the side of the weak against
the strong, something the best people have always done." Not the "lunatic
fringe." Not the "little old ladies in tennis shoes." To speak up for
animal rights is "something the best peOple have always done." "That's

something the public is beginning to learn. And that is new.

 

Tom Regan is the author of The Case for Animal Rights (University of

California Press) and President of the Culture and Animals Foundation.

 




PHILOSOPHERS AT THE BARRICADES

it was in the 70s that academic philosophers--for reasons
historians and anthroplogists, sociologists and psycholgists have yet to
explain-—began to attack the legacy and foundations of this dominant
view. The idea of a "master species," they argued, is as barren of rational
support as are the ideas of a "master" race or a “master" sex. The hard
truth is, nonhuman animals are not our tasters, we (humans) are not their
Kings.

That, in a few words, is the gist of what the new wave of academic
animal rights philosophers have been arguing, not only against their
quizzical professional peers but also before the court of public opinion.
These philosophers have done the unusual. They have taken their case
beyond the dusty pages of professional journals and into the streets. And
this has made a difference. What could have been little more than a
cerebral brushfire, sporadically aflame in the pages of learned academic
duarterlies, is today a spreading social conflagration. When, within little
more than a year of each other, both Newsweek and The Nation feature
cover stories on the animal rights movement, it may just be true that
”animal rights" is an idea whose time has come.

if this is true--if Western civilization really is in the midst of what

would be one of the most fundamental social and moral changes in

recorded history—-then we should not underestimate the contributions
philosophers have made in forging the revolution. Their contributions are

an example of the idea of cultural activism.

 




projects assisted in this program: The re-issuance, by
Roberta Kalechofsky, of John Vvyan's In Pity and in Anger and
The Dark Face of Science.

Creativity: This program supports original work by artists
and thinkers that expresses a positive concern for animals.
Examples of projects assisted in this program: Carol Adams's
recently published (and critically acclaimed) The Sexual
Politics of Meat, Andrew Linzey's Christianity and the Rights
of Animals, and Jayne Loader's forthcoming film, Why Do They
Treat Us Like Animals?

Performance: This program supports performances and
exhibitions, including the products of CAF's Research and
Creativity Programs, which express a positive concern for
animals. Examples of projects assisted in this program: A
sold-out performance by the Paul Winter Consort, the East
coast premiere of performance artist Rachel Rosenthal's
riveting “The Others," a reading by the acclaimed American
poet Galway Kinnell, and the satirical antics of the Montana

Logging and Ballet Company.

TWO ROLES FOR THE VISUAL ARTIST

From the beginning, CAF saw the special contributions that could be

made by visual artists. One of the foundation's goals is to make the

invisible visible, meaning that we work to help people realize what goes

on behind the closed doors of those industries that routinely exploit
nonhuman animals--in the name of science or fashion, for example. The
normally hidden world behind these doors is not pretty, and while people
can gain some sense of what takes place in these "Only authorized

personnel allowed" spaces by reading the printed word or listening to a

 




lit stalls, their tails docked lest they release their pent—up rage by
resorting to cannibalism.

But there is more. The loading of the animals onto filthy trucks. The
auction house. The hectic ride to slaughter. The wild turmoil and
resistance on the ramps to the slaughter itself (even seasoned workers

believe the animals can "smell the blood”). Then the final act of human

arrogance: the plunge of the knife. The convulsive gasp. The blood.

Everywhere, the blood.

And for what? Coe refuses to allow her viewers an easy escape. The
plain truth is, none of it is for anything we need, really. It is only a
culturally conditioned palate, convenience, mass advertising, and
everywhere, as thick as the odor of porcine blood in the slaughterhouse,
the smell of money, big money—~it is only these tainted social forces that
diminish the individual consumer's autonomy, deaden compassion, and

drive the wheels of the pork industry.

ANIMAL LIBERATION IS HUMAN LIBERATION

As direct and challenging as Coe's work is, in its confrontation with
speciesism, it is more than this. People who work in the pork industry are
scarred by it. While the pigs lose their biological life, the humans who
make a living off the backs of these dead animals often lose what in
another time would have been called their "spiritual" life. These people
are psychologically deadened by the killing. It shows in the vacuity of
their gaze and the slope of their shoulders, their too-big clothes that
drape them like shrouds, the immobility of their stride. In Coe‘s vision,
more than pigs are the victims of the pork production industry, and more
than pigs, therefore, would gain from its dissolution.

In this respect, Sue Coe's work is a variation on a familiar theme in

the animal rights movement—~namely, ”Animal liberation is human

 




 

8

The Role of Culture in the
Struggle for Animal nghts

Here’s a menu of verbal abuse that’s famillar to
everyone involved in the struggle for an1mal rightsnal ”
“People who care about animals are too emo 10 . . -
“Animal lovers are mostly uneducated and umn
2:32:11]. right to be kind to animals, but people who
say animals have rightlsbare (tzrazyéllre sick ”
“Advocates of ‘anima 1 era ion .
These entrees could be expanded tenfold, but eacthlfv:
one would merely be a variation on the same theme. . al
theme is simple. It’s that people who advocatet 2:211:36
rights just don’t have their heads screwed on rig 1 ,., “emo-
“sick,” “weird,” “crazy,” “ignorant, lllogica , e 'd)
tional,” or (I kid you not — this actually has been 1sin
“part of the communist conspiracy! As if the rutlo ess
violation of the rights of animals was unigue to capltfa lstrkili.
This verbal war would be com1c 1f 1t weren t olr f e
tragedy in the background. Those of us who struggg ft 1(1):
animal rights can take the abuse. We re use to 11:1. ’tuh ve
animals are in a different situatlon. They shou n . ait
to endure the pain and death human greed and curios ay
demand. This isn’t a laughing matter. It 1s, one m1g s y

120

' . ,‘ . ... . ._.‘,. in“ w .. ‘~ - ‘
_ > :_ ., . . , . , . . .7 ,. A: :1, ’l. __ m
’ ’ ‘.- ".!‘:'“.3'— ”Ex-f» T‘s-.4 “32' ",2. .x ‘Iizl’l’ﬁair ...! . - has}: b
' ,, .- . k ,u f “‘33.“;

 

 

 

The Role of Culture in the Struggle for Animal Rights 0 121

-— and one should say this — a matter of life and death.

As I said in my introductory remarks to “The Case for
Animal Rights,” (see above), I am of the old school: I
believe the best defense is a good offense. And one form
a good offense can take is to post a series of reminders, a
set of references and quotes that help the literate public
recall the identity of various people who have been
involved in the struggle for animal rights. The aim is
simple: We want the public to know and appreciate who
said what, when this is favorable to our Movement.

This way of taking the offensive is not an argument
for the truth of the animal rights’ philosophy. That is
given in the philosophical works that help define our
Movement (in The Case for Animal Rights, for example).
N 0, this way of taking the offensive (the posting of
reminders) is different. It simply asks the literate public to
make some informed decisions.

Was Leonardo DaVinci (he was a committed vegetar-
ian, for moral reasons) “crazy”? Was Mark Twain (he was
an abolitionist regarding the use of nonhuman animals in
science, again for moral reasons) part of the “communist
conspiracy?”

The logic of this way of taking the offensive isn’t hard
to figure out. Any remotely intelligent human being will
answer these questions with a resounding, “No!” And
every halfway sensible person will therefore begin to
realize that it can’t be fair, can’t be rational, must be
“emotional” to categorize all animal rights advocates as
“crazy,” “weird,” “agents of the communist conspiracy”
— or worse. On the contrary, every semi-literate person
will begin to get the idea that it is the opponents of animal
rights who give more than episodic evidence of being
“illogical,” “uninformed,” “emotional,” and so on. And .

that, of course, is precisely why this way of taking the
offensive is a very good defense. It shifts the burden of
false accusations onto the accuser. It’s the moral equiva-

i
f

.4 ,.: 3.. m‘" ' “I,
5;: pg. a :n‘ . .5. u g".

‘-: ﬁv'v‘ﬁhmtﬁ. .
...., w, -u~...'~., w .

““35... “as":
r-amww MW
_ ... w

i» p...» .-.,A ,
a“ .» mitt/Pu; WM.M

. -...» ... "7'V"~""":7:~'.4'_'~ ...). .' . _
uv n'v- Aer-'xvhuvwwigumrw'sv'Ma.MN>w
. ".1 . . ...-m. .... . ‘ . m4. n. , a“: ‘

tau.

. . ..........v. .:;.-...:...—&z..." " 21W: 0".. ~43-.-

 

 

 

 




 

‘

‘.

1:

.i-
(,1,
‘4'.
1‘
M
. f3.
‘ 2..

.
AI.
s. ..~
13. .
.5'.
.‘1,
’ l .
37‘.-
«.2;
1.1,
"5-;
1:5“;
V.
a
.1413 -
w.-. ‘
s,» ‘.
‘57-”:
1<~' ~-
4; ‘ ,
f.”V C’
‘1'?
.,~ .~ 4
in:
“5:: .
11’};
4‘ .l
i2?
91": '.
“‘1 IA?
51.. .
‘33::
7:1";
25‘: '
3211.
v.2;
T; -
’5. 3i .
:_ .
Ed“:
is“:
(3..
1“

as?
85",“
tit?
"32;?
F;:‘
2 z .
IN.”

. ‘“ , w/
(5
124 0 The Struggle for Animal Rights

voters, animal rights belong not on t e fringes of .the
political debate, but right at the heart of 1 The political
momentum... is growing year by year.”.YI‘he A can
political process isn’t any different. A rights has
come in from the cold to become“a”part of the hot moral
agenda of middle- 'ca. That means power. Animal
' ' s are getting the giggled respect they

Even th?1f:lig(ious commgfnity, once thought to be
categorically opposed to animal rights, grows steadily
more responsive. Thoughtless exp101tat10n of animals is
today seen for the great offense to God and God 8 creation

1,- it has always been. Our deadly sins know no species

f) boundary. The same evil impulses that lead people to
15% victimize the least powerful of our human brothers and
sisters lead them to abuse the least of these —— our cousms,
the animals. Cruelty to humans and cruelty to animals
are cut from the same defective cloth, whichis why the
religious community is beginning to recognize that we
won’t make any serious advance on the .momentous
problems of “man’s inhumanity to man” if we fall to
address our inhumanity to animals. .

All these changes —- and more — are taking place, are
part of our emerging power, and are symptoms of our
growing success. And yet valuable though they are each
leaves important stones unturned. Despite these advances
the public’s image of the Movement remains largely the
one the media serves up. And that image is one of nay-
saying, not yea-saying, of people who are aga1nst,ono$
people who are for, of largely uneducated kooks pitte
against the priestly caste of modern intellectual life ——
physicians and research scientists, for example. ,

Why many people continue to View the Movement s
members in these ways is easy to explain. The media, both
print and video, thrive on plane crashes, calamity and
conflict, not peace and quiet. What whets the media 3 appe-

 

The Role of Culture in the Struggle for Animal Rights 0 125

tite is confrontation, not rigorous thought. Just try getting
on TV to present the philosophy of animal rights in an
emotionally uncharged atmosphere, free of unsympathetic
hosts or hostile panelists. No, the media likes us when
we’re chanting and protesting, not when we’re speaking
softly and carrying the big stick of reason.

This false image of who we are and what we stand for
is the biggest obstacle standing in the way to our making
a quantum leap in terms of our power to effect social
change. There’s just no getting around that fact. But there
are ways to get over it. We must learn to present the truth
about ourselves and our vision. This will require that we
ourselves become conversant with the deep, abiding
cultural foundations on which we stand. We are not the
last to proclaim the rights of animals. But neither are we
the first. Great men and women from the past, people of
real genius and accomplishment, have shared our values
and expressed them in both word and deed. If we are to
alter our present image in the media, if we are to educate
the public about our true identity, then we must use every
available opportunity to reveal our cultural heritage. For
ours is the message of the finest minds, the most gifted
hands.

In the case of hunting and other blood sports, for
example, we need to have the Oscar Wildes of the world as
our constant companions. Wilde’s famous description of
fox-hunting (“The unspeakable in full pursuit of the
uneatable”) captures well the condemnation of hunting
and other blood sports shared by everyone in our Move-
ment. This same spirit burns through the lines of Walter
De La Mare’s jolly little poem, “Hi”, which tells the story
of a “handsome hunting man” who kills an animal with a

gun, and concludes with the (sarcastic) line, “Oh, what
fun!” .'

True, there are occasional miscreants — the Heming-
ways of the world, who glorify in their conquest of animals

 




130 0 The Struggle for Animal Rights

If, as we know, the creatures with fur, feathers, or
fins are our brothers in a lower stage of develop-
ment, then their very weakness and inability to
protest demands that man should refrain from
torturing them for the mere possibility of obtaining
some knowledge he believes may be to his own
interests.

Letter to Mrs. C.P. Farrell, 2 October 1909.

So let us be aware of the great men and women who have
been a part of the demand to end the abuse of animals in
science — all of it. Let us be sure to share this knowledge
with the public. And let us work against the triumph of the
View that all sane, informed, intelligent humanitarians
must approve of at least some research on animals. That
is a petrified opinion, undeserving of anyone’s loyalty — a
loyalty that will never break the chains keeping anlmals
in the laboratories of the world.

In the case of eating animals some of our forebears
have used harsh, vivid words to describe both what people
eat when they consume animals and what values we find
in those people who place disproportionate importance on
food. “Disguise it though you will,” Porphyry writes (1n

0n Abstinence from Animal Food), “what you are eating .

after all is a corpse” — an unsettling but not on that
account an inaccurate assessment of the situation. For his
part, the famous French advocate of human rights, Jean
Jacques Rousseau, subjects the gourmet to rigorous
consideration.

I have sometimes examined those people who
attach more importance to good living, who
thought, upon their first awakening, of what they
should eat during the day, and described dinner
with more exactitude than Polybius (the Greek
historian) would use in describing a battle...
Gluttony is the vice of souls that have no solidlty.

 

 

The Role of Culture in the Struggle for Animal Rights 0 131

The soul of the gourmand is in his palate. He is
brought into the world but to devour. In his stupid
incapacity, he is at home only at his table. His
powers of judgment are limited to his dishes.

Emile.

These are sentiments such noteworthy vegetarians as
Oliver Goldsmith and Ovid would endorse. And so, too,
would Leonardo daVinci, who writes:

I have from an early age abjured the use of meat,
and the time will come when men such as I will
look upon the murder of animals as they now look
upon the murder of men.

From daVinci’s Notes.

Or consider these lines from the great English poet (and
vegetarian) Percy Bysshe Shelley.
Never again may blood of bird or beast stain
With its venomous stream a human feast
To the pure skies in accusation screaming.

Revolt of Islam.
And Pythagoras:
Alas, what wickedness to swallow ﬂesh into our
own ﬂesh, to fatten our greedy bodies by cramming

in other bodies, to have one living creature fed by
the death of another!

Depicted in Ovid: The Metamorphoses,
translated by Mary M. Innes.

And Plutarch:

But for the sake of some little mouthful of ﬂesh we
deprive a soul of the sun and light, and of that
proportion of life and time it had been born into
the world to enjoy.

Moralia.

 




//

NO M A IMAL C ZIES!

om egan

The Animal Rights Movement recently has received a good deal of media
attention, much of it favorable. When unethical, wasteful research
laboratories are closed for good because of the Movement's efforts,
everyone is a winner -- both the animals and the tax-paying public.

As a result of this positive media coverage the public is beginning to
see that the Movement's leaders are not terrorists or barbarians. Instead,
they are well informed and well spoken. They don't sound like -- they
don't even look like -- Stanley Kowalski.

This revelation has been a disappointment to those in the business of
exploiting animals. Their job would be a lot easier if animal rights

advocates would cooperate and play the fool in public.

But these advocates are no more fools today than was true in the case

of their predecessors. Ovid, Pythagoras, Plutarch, Porphyry and Seneca are
among the more illustrious figures from the ancient world who have demanded
justice for animals. And the great painter Leonardo DaVinci, the English
poet Percy Bysshe Shelley, the French philos0pher Jean Jacques Rousseau,
the Russian novelist Leo Tolstoy, and the German composer Richard Wagner
are a fair sampling of more recent animal crazies.

Each of these barbarians took the idea of respect for animals rather
seriously. They were vegetarians. Each and all. On moral grounds. Like
the contemporary Pulitzer Prize winning novelist, Issac Beshavis Singer,

they found it difficult to show respect for animals while eating them.

 




PHILOSOPHERS AT THE BARRICADES

It was in the 70s that academic philosophers-~for reasons

historians and anthroplogists, sociologists and psycholgists have yet to

explain-—began to attack the legacy and foundations of this dominant
view. The idea of a "master species,“ they argued, is as barren of rational
support as are the ideas of a "master" race or a “master" sex. The hard
truth is, nonhuman animals are not our tasters, we (humans) are not their
Kings.

That, in a few words, is the gist of what the new wave of academic
animal rights philosophers have been arguing, not only against their
ouizzical professional peers but also before the court of public opinion.
These philosophers have done the unusual. They have taken their case
beyond the dusty pages of professional journals and into the streets. And
this has made a difference. What could have been little more than a
cerebral brushfire, sporadically aflame in the pages of learned academic
quarterlies, is today a spreading social conflagration. When, within little
more than a year of each other, both Newsweek and The Nation feature
cover stories on the animal rights movement, it may just be true that
”animal rights" is an idea whose time has come.

If this is true~-if Western civilization really is in the midst of what
would be one of the most fundamental social and moral changes in
recorded history-~then we should not underestimate the contributions
philosophers have made in forging the revolution. Their contributions are

an example of the idea of cultural activism.

 




