 

PUBLICATIONS

 

AND FILMS

 

AVAILABLE FROM THE

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007

 

 

 

.

 

 

 

 




 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

Laboratory Dogs
16 mm sound film showing humane care and
housing of dogs in an experimental sur ery labo—
ratory. Produced by Crawley Films. e week
rental ........................................................................... $10.00
$50.00 refundable de osit required. (please in-
clude separate checksf;

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
illustrated manual for those planning to build,
remodel or re-e uip animal quarters. AWI re-
vised edition, 19 9. 108 pages, 165 illustrations.

One copy free on re uest to scientific institutions,
veterinarians, or arc itects. To others ................. $ 5 00

Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental
Animals: A Review of Scientific Literature from
1975-1978
By Jeff Diner with a foreword by Samuel Peacock,
.D. AWI, 1979 195 pages ................................... $ 5 00

Beyond the Laboratory Door
continues the above review, 1978-1984, and in-
cludes two new sections: "Unjustifiable by any
Standard" (citin USDA reports of laboratory
inspections) an "Photographs of Experimenta
Animals" AWI, 1985. 266 pages ........................... $ 5 0

Mistreatment of Laboratory Animals Endangers
Biomedical Research

Commentary from Christine Stevens, Nature, Vol.

311, 27 September 1984 ........................................... Free

Humane Consideration for Animal Models
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Ani-
mal Models of Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases.
National Academy of Sciences, 1976. 8 pages. Free

Humane Perspectives
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The
Future of Animals, Cells, Models, and Systems in
Research, Development, Education, and Testing
National Academy of Sciences, 1977. 9 pages. .. Free

Im roved Standards for Laboratory Animals
ext of the 1986 amendments to the Animal Wel-
fare Act from the Congressional Record, Vol.131,
No. 175 ........................................................................ Free

A Bibligogra hy for the Use of Non—affiliated
Members of nstitutional Animal Care and Use
Committees
Annotated. Includes books on alternatives to ani-
mals, laws and re lations, training courses, and
the psychologica well-being of prlmates. AWI. Free

Excerpts from: Housing, Care and Psychological Well-
being of Captive and Laboratory Primates, a 544 page
book edited by Evalyn F. Segal.

contains quotations from 50 leading primatolo-

gists and other scientists, 3 pages 1989. ............... Free

 




the
case
for

humane

VIVISECTION _

by Paul W. Kearney

FEW SUBJECTS generate more heat
and less light than “vivisection,” or
animal experimentation. Because the
sad fact is that the advocates of un-
restricted scientiﬁc research can
grow as hysterical as the most ardent
anti-vivisectionists.

This is deplorable to a neutral ob-
server who can calmly consider: 1)
The great beneﬁts derived from in-
telligent animal experimentation.
2) The distressing abuses committed
in the name of scientiﬁc research.

Unfortunately, it is too easy for
those who applaud the ﬁrst to dis-
miss, as crackpots, those who abhor
the second.

It is undeniable that if “the price

RePrinted from November 1957 issue of CORONET

of the iron lung was 24 cats, or the
cost of Insulin was 33 dogs,” we got
a rare bargain. On the other hand,
one is entitled to question the neces-
sity for a Boston laboratory, while
studying the causes of human deaths
by ﬁre—to burn live pigs to death in
gasoline ﬂames. And to wonder if
the researchers would have learned
any less if the animals had been an-
esthetized. It was in criticism of four
other equally inexplicable examples
of cruel animal research that the
late Professor Robert Gesell, chair-
man of the Department of Physi-
ology at the University of Michigan,
who had performed animal experi-
ments and taught the techniques for

Copyright 1957 by ESQUIRE, Inc.

 

 

 




 

years, said: “These ominous experi-
ments make us search our souls and
wonder what the future has in store
for us.”

One is entitled to question, too,
the needless suffering caused living
creatures in haphazard and unsuper-
vised experiments by students in
high and even grade schools, espe-
cially when those experiments prove
nothing which has not already been
proved.

The British medical journal, the
Lancet, takes a dim view of such un-
inhibited experimentation, stating
that in Great Britain laboratory ex-
periments on animals are regarded
as an unpleasant necessity. The prac-
tice is accepted because so much
good has come of it; but for a cen-
tury legislation has insured that it
be used as sparingly as possible, kept
in the hands of those believed to be
humane and reponsible, and safe-
guarded by legal restrictions from
abuse.

FROM THE HUMANE standpoint
alone, you realize the enormity of
this problem when you consider the
huge volume of experimental ani-
mals now in use. There is no na~
tional census available, but a typical
large research laboratory will use
annually around 80,000 chickens,
1,000 dogs, 1,000 rabbits, 500 cats,
40,000 rats, 500 pigs, 5,000 guinea
pigs, 280,000 mice.

I have personally visited quite a
few such laboratories in various
parts of the country. And in many cf
them conditions were abominable,
as these notes made on the spot will
testify:

At a Boston hospital: stench over-

powering; sick and well dogs
crowded together; mange and dis-
temper evident; dogs too sick to
move lying on wet concrete ﬂoors.

At a New England medical
school: no exercise, although out-
door runways are available. Dis-
temper a serious problem. Bad odor;
quarters not good. As many as nine
experimental operations performed
per dog.

At a New York medical school:
dead dogs left lying in cages where
they died; live dogs in cages soaking
wet from floor cleaned with hose;
metal mesh ﬂoors in cages with no
resting boards; small animals in
cramped quarters with barely
enough room to turn around.

In another hospital, where an ef-
fort is being made to rectify matters,
dogs recently subjected to drastic
surgical experiments, and too sick
to stand up, sprawled on wet cement
ﬂoors which were encrusted with ex-
crement and dirt. On the door was
tacked a copy of the American Med—
ical Association’s Code governing
the handling of animals in labora-
tories.

I can give a dozen more ex-
amples, but these cases should be
sufﬁcient to raise two rather perti-
nent questions:

1. Can scientists who tolerate
such shameful conditions in their
laboratory-animals’ quarters be
truly called humane?

2. If they are unaware of such
conditions, are they really ﬁt for re-
search work?

' Dr. Gesell put it this way in a
heated exchange with the National
Society for Medical Research, the
public relations arm of the AMA

charged with combatting anti-vivi-
sectionists :

“The National Society for Med-
ical Research would have us believe
that there is an important issue in
vivisection versus anti-vivisection.
To a physiologist there can be no is-
sue on vivisection per se. The real
and urgent issue is Humanity versus
Inhumanity in the use of experi-
mental animals. . . .”

This might be put down as the
personal bias of one man were it not
for the fact that I have had a dozen
reputable physicians conﬁrm it pri-
vately. And among them there is a
very lively conviction that far too
many animal experiments are con-
ducted for the prestige of the re-
searcher rather than the beneﬁts
to society.

Unquestionably, too, some are un-
dertaken for baser motives. A classic
example was the notorious series of
experiments carried on for six years
by research institutions to prove——
and disprove—the theory that to-
bacco containing glycol caused less
damage to tissue than that contain-
ing glycerin. Scores of technicians
under the direction of 12 eminent
Doctors of Medicine were involved
in the experiment.

One of the many tests employed
was to blow continuous streams of
tobacco smoke against rabbits’ eye—
balls to ascertain how much, or how
little, damage results. In another
experiment, smoke was pumped
through the nostrils of dogs until a
more diligent researcher came up
with the idea of cutting incisions in
rabbits’ tracheas so that smoke
could be pumped directly into the
lungs. Yet only one physician admits

to having anesthetized the animals
he used. (All of this came out during
exhaustive hearings held in Wash-
ington by the Federal Trade Com-
mission.)

Such questionable behavior for
purely commercial purposes is dis-
turbing enough. But now we are
faced with the rapid spread of an-
other distressing development: the
encouragement of unrestrained ani-
mal experimentation by high school
students; and the official (both med-
ical and pedagogical) approval of
fatal feeding tests on living animals
for the ediﬁcation of children in
primary grades.

Today, from coast to coast, class-
rooms from the third grade up are
displaying cages of white rats, ham-
sters or guinea pigs—which are be-
ing slowly starved to death on a
vitamin-deﬁcient diet while control
subjects are fed a balanced ration to
dramatize the distinction.

The National Cancer Institute
provides detailed instructions for a
variety of demonstration-experi-
ments for school use in which can-
cers are implanted in healthy mice
so the children can watch them die
over a period of three weeks. One of
the experiments involved skin graft-
ing—by amateurs! At Port Washing-
ton, New York, high school students
are performing these cancer trans-
plants on living animals.

This wholesale employment of
animals for classroom work is a gross
violation of the accepted principle
that a minimum number of animals
(in painful experiments) be used to
accomplish the purpose.

As a result of all this we now see,
with increasing regularity, such

 

newspaper headings as this from the
New York World-Telegram {'9’ Sun
of February 1, 1956:

GIRL CUTS ANIMALS

INTO TALENT MELON

Beneath is the story of a 15-year-
old girl who won an award for scien-
tiﬁc talent. The true scientiﬁc sig-
niﬁcance of her efforts is summed up
in the sentence: “She found the
study ‘very interesting,’ but said she
did not care to delve further into it.
She wants to study engineering
physics. . . .”

In Atlanta, Georgia, a 17-year-
old student won an entry to the Na-
tional Science Fair by putting black
widow spiders in the deep-freezer,
then injecting the venom from the
spiders’ fangs into mice. “I watched
the mice closely,” the Atlanta [our-
nal and Constitution of June 24-,
1956, quotes him, “and I observed
all the symptoms of black widow poi-
soning as the mice died.”

In Utica, New York, a 19-year-
old student won a science prize for
radiation experiments on nearly 300
animals in his cellar laboratory “at-
tracting many neighborhood chil-
dren who came to watch.” With
tons of literature on the subject in
the Atomic Energy Commission ﬁles,
it seems inane to have a boy stum-
bling over the same ground when
the needless suffering of living crea-
tures is at stake.

The basic point is that none of
these amateur experiments has the
least scientiﬁc value beyond the sat-
isfaction of a morbid curiosity. Fur-
thermore, competent psychologists
might be able to tell us quite a bit
about the effect of this incipient
sadism on the minds of juveniles.

There is no valid scientiﬁc justi-
ﬁcation for such haphazard experi-
ments on living animals—especially
by amateurs—which cannot pos-
sibly provide knowledge we do not
already have. And if the lessons of
the nutrition tests are considered
signiﬁcant enough to warrant visual
presentation, which is debatable, this
can be done by photographs, slides
or motion pictures. Thus the demon-
stration could be made once and for
all on a few animals, and not need-
lessly repeated over and over again
on thousands.

SUCH OUTLANDISH practices sim-
ply emphasize the extent to which
we Americans have blindly turned
“scientiﬁc research” into a fetish,
with the result that there is today
virtually no limitation on what any
Tom, Dick or Harry with a kitchen
knife can do to an animal so long as
he wraps it in the protective cloak of
“scientiﬁc research.”

Such practices, amateur or pro-
fessional, would not be tolerated in
Great Britain, unquestionably the
most enlightened spot on the world
map of animal experimentation.
And it has been since the passage in
1876 of its famous Cruelty to Ani-
mals Act, which has provided British
medical science with its enviable
record of both humaneness and
achievement.

Brieﬂy, the Act gives the Home
Secretary power to grant or w1th-
hold license for the employment of
animals in experimental research.
Thus, if a scientist wishes to conduct
an experiment on a living animal he
states the purpose and nature of the
experiment, and his qualiﬁcations.




 

The application is checked by a
medical board appointed by the
Crown.

Furthermore, inspectors from the
Home Ofﬁce have the authority to
visit, unannounced, any research
establishment at any time—and to
bring any violator into court, where
conviction may result in a stiff ﬁne.
Jail sentences, plus loss of license to
practice, face repeaters.

The guiding light in the British
approach to animal experimentation
is the factor called “the pain con-
ditions.” The ﬁrst principle is that
pain must never be needless: if for
any reason pain is unavoidable, it
must be minimized to the absolute
limit.

For example, one clause of the
Act speciﬁes that in no case may an
experimenter permit suffering which
is both severe and likely to endure,
whether or not the main object of
the experiment has been attained.
And when the main object has been
attained, neither brief severe suffer-
ing nor prolonged mild suffering
may be permitted.

Thus in any operation—which
means not only surgery, but such
things as bruising, crushing, burn-
ing, explosion, electric shock, cor-
rosive poisons, or stress, the animal
must be completely anesthetized by
someone who is responsible for see-
ing that the subject does not pre-
maturely regain consciousness. If
any serious injury is caused by the
operation, the animal must be pain-
lessly destroyed before recovery from
the anesthetic.

In contrast to practice in this
country, no painful experiment may
be made in England to demonstrate

something already proven; no ex-
periments may be made on living
animals merely to perfect manual
skill or to satisfy pure curiosity. And,
regardless of his technical standing,
no researcher with a reputation for
callousness, indifference or careless-
ness can obtain a permit to experi-
ment on any vertebrate animal.

It will be contended that all of
these criteria apply in this country
without beneﬁt of mandatory legis-
lation. But this is far from the truth.

Last winter, for instance, I visited
a southern medical school which has
earned a commendable reputation
for keeping its experimental work
humane. Yet, even here, a visiting
surgeon was working on an anesthe-
tized dog which he had opened up
from throat to pelvis. Suddenly an
unexpected development transpired
in the test, which was of major im-
portance to the experiment but
which required library checking. So,
hastily and haphazardly sewing up
the dog, the researcher rushed to his
books. Some time later a volunteer
humane worker came in to ﬁnd the
animal fully conscious and in agony,
still strapped to the operating table.

It is not to be implied that prog-
ress is not being made in this coun-
try, through the voluntary efforts
of our more enlightened medical
men, and through the missionary
work of the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute of New York. Yet it is signiﬁ-
cant that this organization—num—
bering among its charter members
such eminent scientists as Dr. Gesell;
Dr. Lee R. Dice, Director of the In-
stitute of Human Biology; and Dr.
Peter Okkelberg, zoologist and as-
sistant dean of the Horace Rankin

School of Graduate Studies—is reg-
ularly attacked by the extremists
on both sides.

The more progressive researchers
are also making great strides in the
development of materials which
supplant living animals for an in-
creasing number of investigations.
Lederle Laboratories’ pioneering in
the use of chick embryos in the
manufacture of their rabies vaccine
is a notable case in point. So also is
the use of embryonated eggs for the
control of cancer growth which was
reported last year by two Univer-
sity of Texas scientists.

The substitution of lower forms of
animal life is also an encouraging
trend; the satisfactory use of beetles
(in lieu of rats) at Rutgers; the em-
ployment of frogs (instead of rab-
bits) in US. Navy research work.

Generally speaking, however,
such voluntary policing as is repre-
sented by the AMA Code for experi-
mental laboratories doesn’t work.
Nor do such gestures as inviting “in-
spections” by local Board of Health
doctors.

I know of one case in New York

City where a humane worker re-
ceived permission to accompany one
of these inspectors on his rounds
through the laboratories of a large
institution. While point'ng out how
ideal conditions were, the inspector
walked right past a dog whose in-
cision had come open and whose
entrails were hanging out.

Not until the humane worker
protested vigorously did the inspec-
tor report the condition and only
then was something ﬁnally done
about it.

My purpose here is not to present
a ready-made solution, but to draw
the attention of open-minded peo-
ple, both lay and professional, to the
very real and urgent issue of Hu-
manity versus Inhumanity in the
use of animals for experimental pur-
poses. Such recognition must come
before any rational corrective mea-
sures can be considered. And in
the absence of that recognition, no
such measures have been proposed
by either the numerous Anti-Vivi-
section Societies, or by their oppo-
site number, the National Society
for Medical Research.

Printed in U.$.A.

 




a" INC.

DRJnrhiy, lercll 14 , 1‘983
Director of Animal Resources
Mt. Sinai School of Medicine
100 St. and Fifth Ave.
New York, New York, 10029

Dear Sir:

On Monday, February 28, Rudolph Vrana of Millville, New Jersey, was
arrested and charged with cruelty to animals. Vrana was transporting 90
dogs, cats, and rabbits in his small van to three laboratories in New
York City and the Bronx.

These animals were reportedly in very bad condition, packed into cages
too small for them, and stacked so closely that urine filtered from one
level to the next. it is possible that some were stolen property.

Mt. Sinai School of Medicine was reported as one of the laboratories
scheduled to receive the animals. The total price to be paid Vrana was
reported as $4,47l from the three laboratories.

The newspaper articles describing this incident are reminiscent of the
Nazi concentration camp conditions in World War 11.

Action 81, Inc, a private foundation chartered in Virginia, operates
within a network of contacts in forty states. Its purpose is to prevent
and publicize theft of privately owned dogs and cats.

The present system of procurement of laboratory animals through
contracts with dealers and pounds can invite theft of pets. To fill the
orders for specified types of’dogs and cats by set dates necessitates
_purchasing from auctions, individuals, and pounds..

Tt is not difficult to add' rgai obtained animals to a legitimate

collection. Records are easily adapted to the situation. The buyer may
or may not know that stolen ”merchandise” is involved.

The fact that Registered Research Facilities purchase only from Licensed
Federal Dealers does not preclude their receiving stolen animals.
Likewise, it does not guarantee even the barest minimum of decency in
the transportation conditions.

The three laboratories mentioned are respected institutions. It is
indeed appalling that any of them would be accepting animals transported
under such shocking conditions. Some explanation is surely due.

Very sincerely yours,

Mary C. Warner, Pres.
Action 81, Inc.

Route 2, Box 151 / Berryville, Virginia 22611 / Telephone 703-955—1278

 




'<

- . ". "v '
-: {gay-f” '
Vt ' ._ {’23 stigﬁh ‘ -

..........

 

' . 5H”; :- -- .. -

d’ r' "' _ . .1- : 2’2’ 42122553.. . _.....;' :2, '. -‘c-I‘-:<-Z";:'

- --"--*’- 4am
Assouated Press

Ed Jones of the SPCA holds a rabbit removed from the van

 

Lahanimal supplier
charged with cruelty

By Andrew Maykuth

Inquirer Staff Writer

A South Jersey man was arrested
yesterday morning for cruelly trans~
porting about 90 dogs, cats and rabo
bits for sale to New York City labora-
tories. The animals were crated and
crammed into a van.

Rudolf Vrana, S4. of Millville, Cum-
berland County, was arrested at 8:30
am. yesterday as he drove his van
along US. Route 206 in Burlington
County, authorities said.

“The truck was packed right to the
roof,“ said Charles Gerofsky, chief
officer and president of the New Jer-
sey Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals. “We had trouble
getting the first crate out.“

Vrana was charged with 20 counts
of cruelty to animals by improper
transporting. Each state offense is
punishable by a $1,000 fine. Vrana

was released yesterday afternoon af- '

ter posting 10 percent of his 85,000
bail.

Officials suspect that some of the
ammegs/9:9.-ssz19n-m Some ..oi..1_b_e
drgs matched descriptions of ani—
93.1.1.5. ~taken . resent 1y. -inﬁu mberlend

£21m IYLQQJZQISKYN said.“

.EeLmsors. than. “seveujiears. -Mrana.
113512999. lice.n_s,e._d.,byc1he US Die pare-

 

 

MLQLAng c_ul_,t_ure.-to.. -o QQIaICMElD...

33.1 ml pound- indheconxerted -gaa.
rage of his Millyille,,home. said Ger~
ofsky. \"rana's license may be re-
voked because of yesterday's

incident, he said.
Sect:.pmkerscemm0n.1x-b.uy._their.

-~A._.

animals IQEJJ. dollar‘or twowfrom

auctions in New Jersey and Peninsyl-a

m.._.saLL_QerefimThe~-auctm--

_h0..u..-s.e“ .aressueplieibxéeunﬁml __.._Wa._r.~
denswho‘sell unwanted pets after
they haye remained at the municipal

-h...

~shelters for more_than seven days.

\t’rai‘aﬂt‘h'en took the animals and
made weekly trips to thregljgw York
19129[.aa_0r10§_._...w.hi9_h use the.._@_uim;ds

£52m 911m euts.-..!r_a.rta-.-:~v_..as_,te.._.selL

 

 

 

Estersizy;§__shi2mcatatonﬁszuhhe 4

§§i$14;i911._£§ﬂ§9§; .Qerofskyasam.
:Lhers‘ :2,_c'z.,<11,_1_i,<;_l_<~ p_r9fit__ih-_tbi.s.;;-

An employee at one of the New
York laboratories observed Vrana
unload ng his half-ton Dodge van
two weeks ago and tipped off the
New Jersey Society for the Prevene
tion of Cruelty to Animals, which is
charge-3- with enforcingthe state‘s
anticr'uelty laws.

SPCA officials observed Vrana
packing the van Sunday afternoon.
and followed him when he departed
yesterday morning for New York.
They stopped the van in Mansfield
Township, near the SPCA‘s regional
headquarters in Mount Holly.

Officials counted at least 30 large
dogs that were packed in groups of
four or five in cages constructed for
one animal, said Gerofsky. The re-
mainder of the animals, about an
equal number of cats and rabbits,
were “jammed very tight into the
crates," he said. “There was no room
for their to move.“

9

I

t
l
i

 

 

[ men

5? Emma W119i .95

8861 ‘i qvlew ‘ﬁepsanl o 9

(D
H
(/1
CD
‘<:
a
CD
C+
H
O

3
am
5;
335‘
(a:

 

0

[1011338

 




