\V

x   n 9:!"

Issued by the R.S.P.C.A. Caged Bird Poster Fund. Hon. Sec. :
Miss M. BRADISH, 95, Park Road, Chiswick, WA.

INCORPORATING THE BIRD-LOVERS’ LEAGUE MAGAZINE.

 

N0. 29. AUTUMN, 1943. Quarterly: Annual Subscription 1/6, post free.

.

“ LITTLE MISS CURIOSITY ”

 




 

 

CHILDREN’S PAGE

 

BELINDA VISITS BIRDLAND

By E. M. CRAMB

 

 

Belinda was a little girl who had always
loved birds. From her very earliest days
when Mummie had put a few crumbs
into her chubby little baby hand and told
her to give them to the “biddies,” till now
when she was six years old.

She was not at all surprised therefore
when one lovely summer evening, just as
she was going to bed, she heard a soft
whistle at the window, and there was Mr.
Blackbird, with his ﬁne black glossy
feathers and his cheerful orange coloured
bill. “Good evening, Belinda,” he said
blithely. “Good evening,” responded
Belinda politely. “It’s a beautiful even-
ing, isn’t it?” “Yes,” replied Mr. Black—
bird. “How would you like to come with
me to visit Birdland?” “I would like to
very much,” answered Belinda. “But how
could I get there?” “Oh you could ﬂy,”
said Mir. Blackbird airily. “Fly?” echoed
Belinda in a bewildered tone. “Yes, Why
not?” asked Mr. B. cocking his head side—
ways as he looked at the little girl with
one of his spar ding black eyes. “Just
nestle down into the ﬁne soft feathers on
my back and hey presto we’ll be there in
no time at all.” “But won’t I be too
big and heavy for you to carry?” objected
Belinda. “Take a look at yourself and
see,” advised the bird. Belinda looked at
herself all over and found in amazement
that she had shrunk considerably until
she was just a nice size for Nlr. Black—
bird to carry. The curious thing was she
felt just the same though grown so much
smaller. “Come,” called the blackbird,
“we must hurry.” So Belinda put one of
her tiny feet gently on to the bird’s wings
which he had kindly spread out for her
to step on, and then up she went on to

The
W 1711 ged Messenger

his back and they were off.

Mr. Blackbird conversed cheerfully as
they ﬂew through the sweet scented air.
“We’ll visit my home ﬁrst,” he said.
“Mrs. Blackbird will be expecting us.”
And sure enough there on the edge of her
nest, made of grass and rootlets, and
lined with mud and ﬁner grass, stood Mrs.
Blackbird all trim and brown, and look-
ing very well and happy. “Come away
in,” she said to Belinda, “and have a
little refreshment.” To Belinda’s sur-
prise and delight she was offered a lovely
little cup made of rose leaves, and in it
was a clear honey-coloured liquid. “Oh,
thank you,” she said, “is it honey?” she
asked wonderingly. “\Well, my dear,”
said Mrs. Blackbird, “it’s just a taste of
very early honey from the clover blossoms
which the bees let us birds have as a very
special treat, before they start making
hnney in earnest.” “How kind of them,”
Belinda contmented. “It tastes delicious.”
Then Nir. Blackbird suggested that they
should go and visit his friend, Nlr. Blue-
tit, who lived in The Hole in the wall.
So after Belinda had thanked Nlrs. Black-
bird for her hospitality, she stepped care-
fully on to l‘dr. B’s back again and they
flew off once more.

It did not take them long to reach The
Hole in the Vii/all and Mr. Bluetit was at
the doorway to welcome them, resplen—
dant in his blue and greeney yellow feath-
ers. “‘W e are always pleased to see you,
Belinda,” he said in. answer to her greet-
ing. “\We know you to be a nice, kind,
little girl, who always remembers to put
out odd scraps of suet or fat for us in
winter, and a saucer of cool fresh water
in the hot dry days. Come in and see

 

 

 




 

 

 

my little home,” he continued as he led
the way along a narrow little passage
which broadened out at the end into a
little circular “nesty” room lined with
moss, wool and tiny soft feathers, which
Belinda thought was very attractive.
“While you. are here I would like to show
you some of my newest acrobatic feats,”
said IVI'L‘. Bluetit, and he proceeded to give
a wonderful display on a tiny horizontal
bar which was stretched across a corner
of his little room. He made Belinda gasp
with astonishment more than once, but
he clung on so tightly with his little navy
blue feet that he never once faltered or
fell. “How very agile you are Nlr. Blue—
tit,” she said. “Yes,” he replied with a
conﬁdent air, as he ﬁuf‘fed out his little
biue feathers. “I ﬂatter myself that there
is not another acrobat like me in the whole
of Birdland.” Nlr. Blackbird, who had
been watching the bluetit’s performance
with a somewhat amused, though kindly
air, now stepped forward and suggested
that as time was getting on perhaps they
should be going, so Belinda bade Mr.
Bluetit “Goodnight” and thanked him for
his entertainment.

“I think we have just time to peep in
and see Robin Redbreast,” said Mr. Black—
bird “and ﬁnish up with a call on Mrs.
House—Martin.” “That will be lovely,”
said Belinda. They made their way to a
thickset holly hedge and there in a grass,
wool, and moss lined nest they found
Mr. Robin at home. He was very ﬁne
looking with his red waistcoat well to the
fore, and he bowed politely as he chirped
his greeting to Belinda. “Good evening
my clear,” he said. “I know you well.
How I enjoyed those crumbs I used to

. eat out of your hand in the cold days last

winter.” “Oh, I’m so glad,” replied
Belinda. “I did so love your coming and
your song too in the dull dark days when
no other bird sings. W'ould you sing
now to us please?” “Certainly, I will,”
responded Nlr. Robin, who was a very
obliging little bird. He sang and trilled

so sweetly to Belinda and her escort, and
when he had ﬁnished she clapped her
hands, very gently, so as not to frighten
him, and said “Thank you very much, Mr.
Robin. I think you are so courageous to
sing in the cold winter days.” “Well,”
replied the little bird, “I do it partly just
to please myself you know, and partly to
cheer up anyone who happens to hear me,”
he concluded with a smile.

“Now I think we must go on,” said Mr.
Blackbird, with a note or two of his own
ﬂutelike song. So after bidding Mr.
Robin farewell they ﬂew off to pay their
last visit for the evening. They ﬂew up
and up this time until they reached the
eaves of a house and Belinda noticed that
it was the eaves of her own house, and
there was Nlrs. House—Martin, in a trim
black and white gown, peeping over the
edge of her mud covered nest. “What
a lovely View you have from here,”
exclaimed Belinda when she had settled
down comfortably. “Yes,” agreed Mrs.
House-Martin complacently, “that’s one
reason why I like to live so high, and then
too, we catch all our food on the wing, so
to speak, so it suits us to be high to begin
with.” “I sometimes watch you playing
at Hide and Seek and Tag in the sky,”
Belinda said as she smiled across at Nlrs.
House-Martin, who had such a nice ex—
pression on her homely face. “Yes, we
are very fond of those games,” she replied,
“we play with our great friends the
Swifts.” “And now,” said Mr. Black—
bird, “I think its time you were thinking
of returning home, Belinda, and getting
to bed, or you will be falling asleep up
here, and that would never do.” Belinda
reluctantly agreed, and so with a wave of
the hand they said “Good—bye to Mrs.
House—Martin, and the next thingr Belinda
knew was that she was safe in her own
little bedroom. Mr. Blackbird tarried
outside the window only for a moment to
say “Good—night,” and Belinda said “Oh
thank you so much for that lovely, lovely
trip to Birdland. Good—night, good—
night.”

The
W'inged Messenger

 




 

THE

WOODPIGEON

 

 

 

One of the most abused and relent-
lessly persecuted birds, the Woodpigeon,
is hated even more than the Rook. The
farmer shoots Woodpigeons, and any fool
with a gun is encouraged to open ﬁre on
them. “They give the gunner some-
thing to pit his skill [sic] against when
the game season is closed.” (Wood pigeon
Shooting, Imperial Chemical Industries,
Ltd.).* “Sportsmen want Pigeon shoot-
ing.” (Woodpigeons—How to Kill Them,
The Kynoch Press). The fact that Wood-
pigeons afford good “sport,” e.g. “fun” in
taking life, is stressed in various publica-
tions. There is no word of regret at the
destruction of a feathered creature, but
rather jubilation, the bigger the “bag” the
better!

So it is that: “. . . A man shot 1,582
Pigeons to his own gun between 27th
March and 24th July. No less than 14,671
have been killed by one man. . . . His
average . . . more than 2,000 a year.
Another man has killed more than 40
Pigeons in an evening “dozens of times,”
taking birds coming in to roost. He has
repeatedly killed 500 in a week. . . . A
party of four guns shooting on three con—
secutive evenings bagged 208, 331 and

*Imperial Chemical Industries Ltd.
manufacture cartridges.
242 Pigeons . . . A man shot just over 150
Pigeons in two hours.” (Woodpigeons—
How to Kill Them, The Kynoch Press).

Hides, decoys, decoy calls, trapping,
and “battue” shooting are used to swell
the “bags.” Everything from 5th col—
umn work to the blitz! Such sporting
methods as shooting at sitting birds and
at thirsty birds coming to drink are also
used.

Of all the birds shot how many are
killed outright? How many thousands

The .
Winged Messenger

In Defence of Public Enemy No. I

By
E. G. BARLOW

are left to linger on in pain and misery
until they die? “It should be remem-
bered that pigeons carry a great deal of
shot.” (Advisory Leaﬂet No. 165, Min-
instry of Agriculture).

Why this slaughter? Because “Pigeons
are vermin.” The charge against them is
that they “damage the farmer’s crops and
affect his pocket.” Pockets do not exist
in Nature’s plan, she provides plenty for
all, but when Nature’s gifts are not divi-
ded equally between men, how can mere
birds hope for a share?

(If Woodpigeons are “too numerous”
in any district that is because man, think-
ing of his pocket and his fun again, has
practically eliminated birds of prey which
keep down the numbers of Woodpigeons.
Man, not Nature, has upset the balance).

The damage they do to crops has been
overrated. They are also useful birds.
Even the Edward Grey Institute, Oxford,
conducting researches into Woodpigeon
extermination (as reported in The Star,
12.2.1943), is not sure what 50 per cent.
of \Voodpigeons feed on!

Woodpigeons have a fondness for seeds.
They consume large quantities of weeds
and weed seeds—charlock, runch, goose-
grass, spurrey, chickweed, dock, ragwort,
sorrel, etc. The average person thinks of
weeds in terms of the few which come up
in his garden. But in cultivated ﬁelds
weeds do considerable damage, they take
up space, good plants are crowded out,
and they also absorb food materials, thus
lessening the value of the plants among
which they live. “It was estimated be-
fore the war that about $516,500,000 per
annum were lost by farmers in growing
(and erradicating) weeds. Owing to the
higher cost of labour and machinery, this
ﬁgure must undoubtedly be much in-

4




creased.” (Advisory Leaﬂet No. 52, Min-
istry of Agriculture). As this is a pre-
this-war leaﬂet the ﬁgure must be even
still more increased!

“. . . Much of their food often consists
of worthless seeds . . . a fact that may
easily be ascertained by examining the
contents of their crops. B h remarks
that “shortly before harvest Woodpigeons
may often be seen ﬂying in small parties
to the ﬁelds of Wheat and barley; after
wheeling round for a time, the birds will
disappear from View into the standing
corn. An examination of the state of the
ground on which they were lost would

doubtless cause astonishment to those .

who imagined that the birds were in pur—
suit of grain; on reaching the spot it
would be discovered that for a consider-
able space the crop was exceedingly
scanty, completely choked, in fact, by a
mass of weed, rank and strong, whose
seeds well-nigh ripe, had proved the sole
attraction!” (W. R. Ogilvie Grant in
The Royal Natural History).

Acorn eating causes poisoning among
cattle and sometimes (as in 1933) heavy
losses among young cattle, hitting the
farmer’s pocket badly. But Woodpigeons
will eat any number of acorns, thus .. sav—
ing cattle from acorn poisoning.

Apart from weeds and acorns Wood-
pigeons also take many harmful insects.
In 1918 damage was done to oak trees in
Kent, Norfolk, and Sussex, by caterpillars
which completely denuded the trees of

leaves. A correspondent to The Times, .

14.6.1918, wrote: “. . . I have a friend in
the Woodpigeons as I have found the
crops of some lately killed quite full of
the horrid green caterpillars which were
doing the mischief.” The usefulness of
Woodpigeons in destroying grubs and
insects needs emphasising. Among ﬁeld
crops the birds are at once assumed to
be in mischief but it is a mistake to as—
sume anything of the kind. “ One bird
shot among turnips had been busy feeding
On grubs; and the crops of many have

been found full of the caterpillars of
harmful moths—-—in two cases with the
larvae devastating-the leaves of oak trees.”

'(Bird Notes and News, Winter, 1940).

Reports of farmers and sportsmen
shooting Carrier Pigeons (the shooting of
such a bird with the consequent non-
delivery of his message may mean death
to some airmen or soldiers) in mistake
for Woodpigeons, show how unobservant
and how unwilling the average farmer and
sportsman is to learn anything about
the usefulness 0f birds. He jumps to too
many hasty conclusions!

 

OB ITUARY.

It is with the deepest regret that we
record the passing of Mr. Arthur Mee,
who, as Editor of the Children’s News-
paper, did such a wonderful work of edu-
cation and recreation among the youth of
this country. Animal lovers especially
felt that his constant inﬂuence with re-
gard to the care for and love of animals
was one of our greatest assets. The
Children’s Newspaper is unique, cheerful
and entertaining without being silly. It
appeals to children and at the same time
enlarges their mental outlook. We are.
grateful that Mr. Mee was kind enough
to reproduce our 1943 Valentine in the
pages of his paper, and we earnestly hope
that the Children’s Newspaper may ﬂour~
ish and carry on as usual in spite of the
great loss sustained.

Less publicly known, but deeply appre—
ciated by friends of animals, was the late
Mrs. Dixon-Davies. Her noble life was
largely given to work in connection with
the proper treatment of animals, and to
the cause of world peace. As a member
of the Roman Catholic Church she sought
without rest to inﬂuence her fellow
Catholics and undoubtedly succeeded in
so doing. There was about her a grac—
ious dignity that impressed us, together
with a delightful sense of humour.

 

The
Winged Messenger

 




 

THE BIRD IN A CAGE.

Oh! who would keep a little bird con-
ﬁned?

When cowslip bells are nodding in the
wind,

When every hedge as with “Good Mor-
row” rings,

And, heard from wood to coombe, the
blackbird sings.

Oh! who would keep a little bird con-
ﬁned

In his cold wiry prison?—1et him ﬂy,

And hear him sing “How sweet is
liberty!”

W. LISLE BOWLES.

AA
vv

It has been suggested by Miss K. J.
Millward, one of the kindest friends of
this and all other work for animal pro-
tection, that new readers know but little,
if anything of the R.S.P.C.A. Flying
School for Birds, so that apologies must
be offered to old friends who have visited
it, or had bird friends taken into its care,
for this repetition.

TEACHING BIRDS TO FLY.

For many years the R.S.P.C.A. has
been opposing the keeping of wild birds,
created for ﬂight, in cages—we must re-
member that it is not only our native
birds which suffer, but those hundreds of
thousands of birds caught in foreign
countries, and imported for sale in this
country at the cost of immense suffering.

The
Winged Messenger

THE

FLYING
SCHOOL

FOR

BIRDS

The idea of a “Flying School” was
started by this interesting piece of news
in The Guide of March 7th, 1936:—

NO MORE BIRDS IN CAGES.

“Quite near Neufchatel in Switzerland,
more than six hundred birds of every kind
found a new home, to replace the horrible
tiny cages in which they have been im-
prisoned.

A lover of birds has set up, in his prop-
erty at Serrieres, an ideal aviary. It con-
sists of two glass houses for those birds
who suffer from the cold, and a huge
open-air enclosure on the site of an old
tennis court. Small openings enable the
birds to pass freely from one enclosure
to another. Everything has been arranged
for their comfort, and they will ﬁnd there
bathing pools, drinking-fountains, houses
and trees in which to build nests. There
is also an inﬁrmary, in which birds of
the locality, if injured, receive care, and
are set free again when they are cured.

The institution invites people to send
their caged birds to ﬁnd a home there, but
it makes a rule never to buy birds, for
fear of encouraging people to catch them
on purpose.”

After long and careful investigation it
was decided to erect a model aviary at
the R.S.P.C.A. Animals’ Home at Ember
Farm, East Molesey, Surrey, where a
splendid open space provides the ideal
Slte.

     
 
  
  
  

  




The aviary is 12 feet in height, 44 feet
in length and 24 feet in width, and every
sort of contrivance to provide exercise
for the birds is installed, including shrubs,
grass, swings, nesting boxes, etc., so that
those birds which have forgotten how to
ﬂy will learn again. In winter the sleep-
ing quarters of the foreign birds will be
heated.

The ﬂoor of the aviary is concreted to
keep out rats, except for grass plots in
the centre.

A full-time attendant, well trained in
~ the habits of birds, is in charge, and con-
stant visits are paid by an expert
superintendent. A Veterinary Surgeon
is available in cases of illness.

The objects of the “Flying School” are
twofold : —

(1) English wild birds that have been
caged will be taken in and released directly
they have recovered the full use of their
wings, provided the time of year is suit-
able.

(2) Foreign birds that cannot be re-
leased will be given the happiest life pos-
sible without complete freedom.

No Birds will be bought—our slogan
is “NO MORE BIRDS IN CAGES!”

The war has brought new conditions
to the Flying School. In addition to its
ordinary activities, we have had placed in
our care a number of birds whose owners
have been driven from home by bombing,
or are away on special work, and we have
been delighted to be of service. Many
parrots and cockatoos are in the aviary.
We only take birds whose owners allow
them liberty at home, for to make any
bird happy in the Flying School and then
return it to conditions of close captivity,
would be most cruel. The parrots and
cockatoos are a lively, noisy crowd, and
some of them are most destructive to the
woodwork of the aviary!

We have had birds named after many
celebrities. “Nelson,” an early inmate,
picked up in Kensington Gardens one

7

cold winter’s day, with a lame leg and one
eye. He lived with us until we found
the other eye was going and life had but
little to offer, so he was put to sleep.
“Mussolini” was a blackbird, rescued by
an English lady from the miseries of a
small cage hanging on a hot wall in Italy.
On her return to England, she brought
him to us. Under her care he had de-
veloped into a handsome young fellow
when released became a veritable
dictator to the other birds in the aviary.
When the time was suitable, we released
“Mussolini” into the meadows which
surround the Flying School, and he is
now doubtless a British subject with an
English wife and family! “Hitler” and
“Goebbels” were handsome green par—
rots, Whose looks were better than their
tempers. “Hitler’s” translation to be the
mascot of the Taunton Oﬂicers’ Mess,
where he is having the time of his life has
been told in these pages. “Goebbels” is
still with us, and has picked up as a
friend a small and lovely Parrakeet, who
insists on sharing his cage and by whom
he is ﬁrmly kept in order.

We ﬁnd many friendships among the
birds, and not only between those of the
same variety. In fact, they are so like
ourselves in some ways, with their likes
and dislikes, their enjoyment of food, and
dislike of wartime changes of diet, their
gradual appreciation of friendship offered,
of which at ﬁrst they are suspicious . . .
above all their love of that LIBERTY
which is the birthright of all living crea—
tures, that we wonder more and more how
anyone can tolerate the idea of a bird in
a cage.

. Please visit our family of birds in
“Liberty Hall.”

Please help us with money gifts.

And do not forget us in your Will, any
legacies either to the R.S.P.C.A. Caged
Bird Poster Fund or

R.S.P.C.A. Flying School for Birds,
105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1.

The
Winged Messenger

 




TRAFFIC IN WILD BIRDS

Readers who may imagine that the
trafﬁc in English wild birds is ended may
have their eyes opened by the convic-
tions below. We would especially draw
attention to the case taken to court by
Inspector Stephens of Southend, in which
the defendant, a young soldier, was sen-
tenced to 3 months Prison for spending
his leave in the trapping of birds. This
was evidently lucrative, for he stated that
15 / - is the usual price for a chaﬂinch. Of
course, the soldier was committing an of-
fence against the law, as it is now an
offence to “have in possession for sale”
any wild British bird which was formerly
caged. For the beneﬁt of readers the
two Acts of Parliament of 1925 and 1933
are given below. Copies of these may be

obtained by application to 95, Park Road,
Chiswick, \V.4.

By an Act passed in May, 1925, it is
an offence punishable by a Maximum
Fine of £25 and 3 months’ imprisonment
with hard labour— ‘
1.—-To capture, or attempt to capture,

alive any wild bird by means of a live
bird used as a decoy which is teth-
ered or secured by braces or other
similar appliances or which is blind,
maimed or injured.

2,—To use bird lime or any substance of
a like nature for the above purpose.

3.—To keep or conﬁne a bird in any cage
or other receptacle of insufﬁcient

(continued on next page)

Thanks to Inspectors of the R.S.P.C.A.

 

Case No. and Inspector Offence. Penalty.
Date heard. and Court.
H.3244. Stephens Wild Birds—Braced as decoys. 3 Months
2 / 6 / 43. (Southend) Prison.
Do. Do. Chafﬁnch—Conﬁned in small cage. 3 Months
Prison.
Do. Do. Goldﬁnch—Conﬁned in small cage. 3 Months
Prison.
Do. Do. Wild Birds (2)—- Fine 103.
In possesion for sale.
Do. Do. Wild Birds— ' Fine 105.
Using nets for the purpose of
taking.
H3318. Heming Starling—Tying wire to leg. Fine £3.
10/6/43. (Epsom) Costs 55.
H3255. Dowling Heron—Shooting. Costs 4s.
15/6/43. (Bedford) W.B.P.A. 1880-1908. Censured.
H3315. O’Donnell W.B.———Conﬁned in small cage. Fine 55.
21 [6 / 43. (Wigan)
Do. Do. Wild Birds— Fine Ss.
Using traps for the purpose of
taking.
Do. Do. Wild Birds— Fine Ss.
In possession recently taken.
H.3358. White, W. R. Thrush—Torturing. Fine 105.
28/6/43. (Eastleigh) Costs 53,
Do. Do. Thrush—Torturing. Fine 103.
' Costs 55.
I’I.3424. Oxley Pigeons (4)—- Boy sent to
13/7/43. (Wallasey) Killing in an improper manner. Approved
School.
The
8

VWz'nged Messenger

 

h—‘u




 

.0 /

 

height, length or breadth to permit
the bird to stretch its wings freely.

Certain exceptions as to the size of
cages are permitted in respect of Poultry
or other birds, which are being conveyed
by land or water or whilst being shown
at competitions when conﬁned for a
period not exceeding 72 hours.

By an Act passed in November, 1933,
it is now an offence punishable by a ﬁne
of £2, or in the case of a second or sub-
sequent offence, by a ﬁne not exceeding
£5 :—

l.—To take any wild bird, being a bird
to which this Act applies, with the
intention that it shall be sold alive; or

2.——To sell, offer for sale or have in pos-
session for sale any live bird, being a
bird to which this Act applies other
than close-ringed specimens bred in
captivity.

3.—The birds to which this Act applies
are the birds speciﬁed in the schedule
to this Act being birds of a British
species, and for the purposes of this
Act a species shall be deemed to be a
British if it is a species resident in or
visiting Great Britain in a wild state.

Case 3318 (Inspector Heming, of Ep-
som) speaks for itself!

Case 3358 (Inspector White, Eastleigh)
is one which shows two young boys age
16 and 17 climbing a tree to a nest and
removing the 3 week old nestlings, tor-
menting them in many ways, and in one
case tying the little bird by the wings,
suspending it from a branch and then
shooting with a catapult at it from a dis-
tance of 4 feet.

 

AA
77

PERCHES ENDOWED.

Mrs. D. Thompson

Miss K. J. Millward

Miss W. M. Morgan
Sidney Peak, Esq.
Leonard T. Hawksley, Esq.

mNNNwm
ooooww
000009

9

FLAG DAY RESULTS 1943.

Although we felt that Flag Day results
this year were likely to be less than last
year as so many sellers were on war
emergency service, actually the Flying
School sellers took nearly £62 as against
£36 last year!

Space forbids giving all results, but we
must give our most ardent thanks to
Lady Moore, who with her own circle of
friends took £17 148. 1d., and to Miss
Peyton, whose tins actually contained
£8 2S.! We must also thank from our
hearts the following ladies, who all col-
lected splendid results:

Mesdames Ashmore, Dobie, John, Mil-
ler, Nugent, H. Smith, Turnbull and
Valentine, and the Misses Bloomﬁeld,
Chalmers, Bennett, Hook, G. and M.
Ferguson, Fox, Haggerty, Hosali, Mose—
ley, Stutchbury, Tulloch, Lenane and
Couzens.

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FAIR at the
Caxton Hall, Westminster,
on Friday & Saturday,
December 3rd & 4th,

and that you are most earnestly begged to
send whatever you can that is useful or
beautiful to
BERT, THE LONDON SPARROW’S
STALL

Last year you were specially asked to
send imitation jewellery, necklaces, ear—
rings, brooches, etc., and your splendid
response brought in results beyond any
we have ever had. The demand for
these articles continues. People pay good
prices, as they are now not being made,
and at Christmas we can sell them like
“hot cakes.”

Please send and also collect from your
friends, and despatch in good time.

Naturally other articles will be most
gratefully received and in these days of
ingenuity can ﬁnd many ways of making
something out of nothing.

 

 

The
Winged Messenger

 




 

 

FRIENDSHIP WITH BIRDS

mmmsmm

Little bird will you not be my friend?
I’d love to have you fly to me,
iii/bile I’m out walking,
And come and perch upon my knee
‘While in the garden having tea,
I’d love to have your company,
Will you not be my friend?
\W. B. REDMAYNE.

Nir. Redmayne’s charming verses give
the exact idea of the object of the little
essay competition for children from 8 to
10 years of age. The Winner of the prize
is:
Adrienne Clinton, of Chingford, aged
10%. because her essay shows that she is
not only a theoretical but a most practical
friend of Birds, and it is also obviously
written, not as a remembrance of a talk
on birds that she has heard, but straight
from her own experiences.

“I have always loved birds, and put
crumbs and water out for them every
day. In the winter I give them extra
food and also fat. I love to watch them
have a bath in the bird bath in our garden.
.My aunties take me into the forest to
watch them. Every Spring there is a
Cuckoo’s nest near my home and the same

irds often come. I have two special
birds, and I call them Cheaky and Streaky,
they always come when I call them. At
school I put my crumbs out for them
when I have eaten my lunch, I do hope
they don’t miss me on Saturdays, Sun-
days and holidays. I would never keep
birds in cages.”

Thank you, Adrienne, you are a true
friend of the birds, but do Cuckoos have
nests of their own?

The next essay is a wonderful feat for
a girl of 8, and is by Deya Knapp of
Broadgate School, Broughton in Furness.
She will receive her own copy of the
“Winged Messenger for the period of a
year as a consolation prize.

The
Winged Messenger

CHILDREN’S ESSAY COMPETITION

“mm-Livia mm

“People ought to be kind to birds. They
do good and eat grubs, flies and slugs
and other insects. People ought to be
specially kind to the Rooks which eat the
grabs in the cornﬁelds. Robins are the
tamest birds. Any winter day you can see
them hopping about. It is kind to put
out crumbs for them and the sparrows.
It is cruel to catch wild birds so a law
has been made not to do so. Some people
secretly do though. Some cruel people
like to keep birds in cages, though. They
ought not to do so. The cuckoo sings
sweetly, but he is not a very nice bird.
He takes other birds nests for his young
ones. Some birds ﬂy to warmer coun—
tries across the sea. I think birds are

' 39
IIZC’S.

SUMMER HEAT.

If the season continues as hot as at the
time of writing, you can help to protec1:
the Caged Birds from being parboiled in
their cages hung against brick walls in the
full sun, by writing to ask for leaflets to
send to any house where you see this,
addressed to “The Owner of the Caged
Bird.” If however the cage is illegally
small, do not write, but send me the
address and I will have the matter inves-
tigated—The Editor.

vv

 

“UTILITY HOUSING”

The excellent articles by Mr. E. G.
Barlow on “Utility Housing” are now
available in leaﬂet form. Please send
to: supplies, 1/6 per dozen post free.
They have the same illustrations as ap-
peared in our Spring number. It will be
remembered that they deal with the best
methods of erecting comfortable, roomy
Homes (not prisons) for fowls and
rabbits, giving details of how to secure
the necessary materials and hints on food,
62C.

 

Mr --,_n_____.___. -— ﬁrs—«wo—

 




 

 

 

 

 

”at- r- .._.T‘ A

 

 

tow—r -_

 

 

 

Correspondence

AUSTRALIAN BIRDS.
From Miss E. H. Cox.

Miss Cox was a Froebelian teacher for
years and in 1931 was called to keep
house for her brother in Australia and
resided there for 6 years:

“A lady living in Camberley, near Niel—
bourne, offered to take me with her on
her usual Sunday expeditions into the
Victorian Bush, and so began a friend-
ship that will last my life. Well, we set
out that ﬁrst Sunday morning, she being
like myself a great walker—told me she
often did a 20 mile hike in those days.
She had told me a great deal of the beau—
tiful ﬂowers, koala-bears, etc, but had
not said much about the birds. So they
came upon me as a most wonderful and
delightful surprise. How very thankful
I am now that I was able to hear them
(n.b. lViiss Cox has recently become deaf)
-——the last bird songs this world will ever
give me.

Well, after the short train journey, we
set out from station and stepped straight
into the Bush, full of Gum trees, \X/attle
trees, etc. we had not gone far when
loudly and clearly I heard a “Whip,
whip?” I said to her “What is that?”
“Oh,” she said, “that is the ‘Whip-bird.”
Such a bright little sound. Hundreds of
little Blue Wrens and Wagtails hopped
round us all day as well, and black and
white Iﬂagpies or minahs as the Aus—
tralians call them. Then like a ﬂash there
ﬂew by a red and blue Rosella parrot. My
friend said she often saw many on her
Xpeditions,’ but that day we saw but one.
\Vell then we came out on to a farmhouse
clearing and there sitting on posts and
fences were about a dozen Kookaburras
(Laughing Jackasses). As we came up
they burst out with their most curious
“Ha, Ha, Ha,” laughing call which I
heard many times afterwards . . . such
quaint, old fashioned, funny looking birds.

11

Months afterwards we went for another
walk into the deeper Bush and heard the
wonderful Lyre Bird which imitates so
marvellously for hours together at times.
As we walked silently along the track, she
turned to me and said, “Did you hear
him?” I said “No, I only heard what
I thought was men sawing a tree ” and
she said “That was it.” After boiling our
billy and had our picnic lunch, she said
“We will go back to Bellbird Valley.”
That was the most lovely and beautiful
experience I have ever known. No one
who has heard the Bell Birds of Australia
will ever forget it. Thousands of tiny
birds tinkling together and I struggled to
see them, but they are such quick,
tiny, brown things, ﬂitting about in low
bushes, playing a wonderful kind of hide
and seek.

The Lyre Bird also does the most
curious kind of dancing, but although I
saw the “mounds” on which he does it,
was not lucky enough to see it. They

. t .a .
are very shy and hide 101' miles in the
dense scrub . . . and one has to keep to
the tracks for fear of being lost.”

AA
vv

THE ETERNAL AND UNIVERSAL

DIVINE LAW (Nomotheism) OF
EVOLUTIONARY DISCIPLINE.

From S. Claude Tickell, Vicar of
Latton—curn—Eysey, Swindon, and Hon.
Director: “League for Protection from
Nian of Rooks and all other birds espec—
ially in the nesting season, and of all other
creatures, preying and preyed upon.”
(LRR. . . .):

“Some creatures (eg. Verminivora) are
created to prey upon others (eig. Vermin)
or die, themselves or their offspring, of
hunger, foxes to prey upon rabbits, and
birds upon rats, voles on insects, and this
for their mutual evolutionary discipline
(unconsciously teaching each other to
acquire relevant knowledge and capacity)
and if Nlan continues to ignore this arr—
angement of Providence and upset this

(continued overleaf)

The
ll’z‘nged Messenger

 




Balance of Nature by hunting, shooting,
trapping and poisoning, his Terriculture
and indirectly his Animaliculture must
suffer and Famine ultimately follow.

The British Commonwealth of Nations
should therefore protect from Man all
other Animal life always and everywhere
and insure all Terriculturalists (Farmers,
Gardeners and Foresters) and Animali—
culturalists (e. g. Poultry-keepers) against
immediate loss due to ultimately proﬁtable
Verminivora (e.g. Insectivorous Rooks)
even though they are seeking to devour
Vermin (e.g. Insects).”

B.L.L. EOTES

I only have a short message to bird-
lovers this quarter. Owing to error in
the last number of the “Winged Mes-
senger” the titles, prices, and descriptions
of two of my books were wrongly put
together. This has caused considerable
trouble to readers ordering books and not
getting what they expected or wanted. In
fact I have had a bit of bother over it
myself and I apologise to those who have
been inconvenienced by the mistake. I
hope the following list will be in order:

The sale of these books, all by S. V.
Benson (Mrs. Hillier) and published by
Frederick Warne & Co., Ltd, helps the
B.L.L. funds, especially if orders are sent
to the address below: The Observer’s
Book of British Birds, price 4/—, postage
3d. A small pocket book, illustrated on
every page by the best bird-artists.

Birds at Sight, price 2/6, postage 2%;d.
British birds as we see them at a glance.
An. easy guide with 126 illustrations in
black and white, by the Author.
The Child’s Own Book of Prayers and
Hymns, price 2/ —, postage 2%,:d. For mod—
ern children of all ages. Frontispiece by
Margaret W. Tarrant.
The Greatest of These, price 1/6, postage
235d. Great thoughts and verses on
Christian love.

S. VERE HILLIER (Mrs).
Croft—end, Gillingate, Kendal,

Westmorland.

 

Society, The National

HOLIDAYS AT HOME.

An Appeal by the Quarterly Conference
of Animal Welfare Societies.

At a Meeting of the Quarterly Con-
ference of Animal Welfare Societies held
in London on April 19th, 1943, the
following Resolution was unanimously
agreed : —

This Conference of Animal Welfare
Societies desires to appeal to all Local
Authorities not to include Performing
Animal turns at any Circus Shows that
may be held in Parks and Open Spaces
in connection with arrangements for
Holidays at Home.

The Conference believes that the
training of the animals used for these
turns has involved cruelty and suffering
even though no such thing may be
apparent during a performance, and
feels that the whole idea of forcing wild
and domestic animals to go through
actions foreign to their nature is a
thoroughly objectionable form of amuse-
ment and a misuse of the animals.

The Conference further believes that
such animal turns will have a harmful
effect upon children, and tend to make
ineffectual the educational efforts of
teachers and others to foster an appre—
ciation and love of animals that go hand
in hand with attempts to teach the
young to be humane and just where
animals are concerned.

It was agreed that copies of the above
Resolution be sent to the London County
Council and other Local Authorities
throughout the country.

D. Jeffrey Williams,
Chairman of Convening Society.
Yvonne A. M. Stott,
Secretary of Convening Society.

Copies obtainable from the Convening
Council for

Animals’ Welfare, 32, Queen’s Avenue,
London, N.10.

Send this copy of the “ Winged Messenger ”
to a friend

 

 

Line & Armstrong. Printers. 468 High Road. Chiswick, “7.4

 




