Junior Division Talks No. 3

 

 

 

 

 

1 'CHIVALRY.

A True. Incident.
By MARGARET NEWELL.

I It was On a wet and windy afternoon in spring that
Binks, black Persian kitten, six months old, crawled
through the hedge of “ Rosedale.”

' More dead than alive was Binks that day. He was thin
to emaciation, his fur draggled, and his right eye entirely
‘out of business, being merely a mass of blood and
matted hair.

His people, .who lived in a villa near, had gone for a
holiday and forgotten Binks. After many ineffectual
attempts to get in at the bathroom window—his favourite
place of ingress when shut out, he gave up hope and
went foraging on his own account.

 

 




 

CHIVALRY T W O

 

He found life as a sort of free-lance cat hard and un-
comfortable, but for food he had not done badly. There
' were plenty of mice and a young rabbit or two and for
his age Binks was a mighty hunter.

But last night he had been crossing the road in the
dusk. Suddenly a great whirring shape—a mass of lights
—-cut round a corner. Binks ran—as any cat would—but
he was not quite quick enough. Something hit him on
his head. He lay still in the ditch for a long time after
that. When his senses began to return he stiﬂly and
painfully prepared to return to active life. His eye was
hurt—no doubt about that. He could not see out of it.
A badly battered cat, he crept to the barn where he
slept, and lay till morning.

Next day Binks felt quite unable to go and forage as
usual, but he had to go.

He was slinking along the hedge-side when he smelt
something—meat! He lifted his black nose and sniffed——
certainly meat, and freshly cooked too! The enticing
smell seemed to drift through the hedge which bordered
“Rosedale.” He found a gap and followed it, every
whisker quivering. Usually he avoided this house and
garden. Strange noises came from it——howls—barks-
which meant “ dogs.”

Now dogs of course—I leave you to think what Binks
thought about dogs—were to be shunned at all costs.
But to-day he was too hungry to care. Dogs there
might be—but food there was—and Binks was in desper-
ate need of it. '

Like a stealthy shadow he went, following the scent.
It led him to a big wooden shed. The door stood open—-
he had run that delicious smell to earth! On the ﬂoor
was a dish full of some strange stuff, good and meaty,
and covered with gravy.

G




CHIVALRY .T H R E E

 

Binks sampled it carefully at ﬁrst, then did justice to
his unexpected feed. Next, feeling happy and replete,
he looked for a place to sleep. He could not see very
well out of his one available eye—but surely that was a
box, and something black inside—he stepped softly in.

Binks had the fright of his short life then—dogs ! Two
of them! He was preparing to ﬂy, when one of them
turned—sniffed his wounded eye—gave it a perfunctory
lick, then moved in sleepy fashion as if to make room

for Binks. ’

He could not believe his eyes—or rather eye. The other
dog looked up and growled, but the bigger and blacker
of the two—by name Roger, apparently said something
of this kind to him : “ Yes, I know it’s a cat—or rather a
kitten, but it’s hurt—been running into a car I should
say—that horrible thing next door probably—nearly
got me yesterday. We can’t turn the poor chap out into
the cold if he is a cat, when he’s hurt. It simply isn’t

done—move along, old chap, and give him a bit more
straw.”

So Binks, fed, warmed, and content, went peacefully to
sleep between Robin and Roger. The kennel-maid
looked in, collected the empty dish, locked the door,
and went her way.

Next morning, however, when she came to let the
dogs out, she espied something strange. She had left
two “ Scotties ” whom she had put to sleep in the food-
house as she was short of room. She found them sleep-
ing sweetly, and between them a black kitten, head
pillOwed conﬁdingly on the ﬂank of Roger.

“‘ Well, I never! ” she said to herself. “ A cat ! ”

She went in search of her mistress, and together they
disentangled a sleepy and protesting Binks. He yawned
as if to say “ Oh do let me stay! I was very happy.”

 




 

(HIFLALRJT

 

. Binks was fed and groomed, and his eye attended to,
.which treatment he accepted with gratitude and purrs.
Then he evinced a desire to go back to his home in the
food-house, and his companions of the night before.

I really don’t think we dare leave him with them
’to- night, Kathie,” said the owner of the Kennels, “ he’s
a cat, you know—Heaven knows why they didn’t kill
him last night. YOu know Roger!”

So Binks spent the night with some puppies. Nothing
happened. So having no home, and being of such an
amiable disposition, it was decided that he should be
allowed to stay.

Binks has grown fat and sleek. He is the privileged
pet of the Kennels, and the redoubtable Roger is his
greatest friend.

“Talk to me about a cat and dog life,” says Binks.
“ Just you try it.”

, xrvﬁhJVkMNMJMlxﬁii\

(“ill/(<4;

., \

l‘
0 - I;-

; ,./
/ * { ' -\

‘ ,’-I\‘\l" J A! ’5
Aiiil'h‘~e£iﬂpu“’-

;"¢
A{_ﬁ.

 

Issued by The
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

105, ,JeRrrCrsgiAStlreetscSDHévléT "V

FOR THE

PREVENT '11:» :1? ﬁﬁxllMALS
WAG/25' MANCH: CHM & C
‘2’ (in, 113.31 Jig: ggg;:;:f;é;'s“,

3" fl. [‘6 P3 ‘51 {ml F"): 5“..." faring.” £212.:
E'ijiéigg\vu inn-NJ A II 5

 




