_ SEALSKINS +-
How they are Obtained

7)

“ Sciences et Voyages of February 18th, 1932, contained an article
by R. The'venin from which we translate the following:——-

There a1e animals, sought after for their fur, their skin, or their
plumage, he writes, which are hunted with a cruelty unwo1thy of our
civilisation and which should be dealt with by international law.

Seals of different kinds go each year in great numbers to certain
islands in the Paciﬁc wheie the males and females and the young of the
preceding year all meet.

Once established on; the land these animals, which are very difﬁcult
to get near in the sea, become an easy prey, by reason of the large numbers
assembled in a small space of their comparative slowness on land and of
the obstinacy which they display in staying on the spot which they have
chosen.

The skin of these animals as well as the fur being fairly valuable, they
are naturally much sought after. In some districts their pursuit is even
1egulated so as to prevent the total disappearance of the species within a
few years as has happened to others such for example, as the a1ctocephale
seal of Kamchatka

In the Prybilov islands, for example, the right to hunt them has been
granted by the United States to a commercial company, with the reservation
that only the males are to be killed and those only of a certain age. Other
concessions of a similar 11a tu1e are granted by Columbia, Uruguay etc.
The shareholders ﬁnd it a paying proposition: in 20 years of exploitation
the island of St Paul alone brought in a proﬁt of more than 30 million
dollars; nearly 38 million francs a year.

If a similar company exploited, in Chicago for example, an abattoir,
and if the slaughtereis attached to the establishment took several hours to
kill each pig or each sheep, with unheard of 1eﬁnements of cruelty, doubt’
less the police would quickly deal satisfactorily with the matter and public
opinion would be justly indignant. But these islands are a long way off
and seals are wild animals. There is no protection society to concern itself
with them. Their fate is not an enviable one, as will be seen.

Operations start at the beginning of the summer. At this time the
seals are gambolling joyfully 011 the shore in compact bands. This is a
favourable moment. The huntsmen arrive by sea, gently drive the ﬂock
back inland, soas to prevent their escaping, and separate the males from
the rest by driving them into enclosures. When all the victims are ready
the butchery begins.

There is nothing—not even considerations of piactical utility or of
economy of material—to prevent the use of pistols or instruments which
would inﬂict a quick death. A stick, however, is preferred, although it
tears the skin and causes the fur to be stained with blood.

But a stick always has been used and old customs die hard.

 




It is not enough here to describe what. happens. One must in some
sort prove it, not by one’s-own statement, but by the testimony of thOse
who have themselves had a part in it and who cannot therefore be accused
of partiality. ’ , . .

This is what one of them, Steller, who is not a rough native but a
well/educated and careful observer, says 2—— i

“ These animals cling tenaciously to life. More than 200 blows on
the head with a stick are needed to kill them. And even when several
men are at it one has to stop several times to rest. When all its teeth are
broken, its skull'in pieces, its brain practically entirely destroyed, the
animal continues to defend itself.

I know of one whose skull I had to split in two, whose eyes I had put
out, and which still remained alive for more than a fortnight motionless
as a statue.” '

This method of taking out the eyes is moreover highly to be
recommended, according to those who know. .It prevents the animal
escaping. He stays where he is, not knowing where to go, and supported
on all sides by the dense crowd of his fellows. One can understand that
this must considerably facilitate matters.

When there is a danger, with too many seals, of their escaping
towards the sea before enough of them have been massacred, they are as
far as possible speedily blinded. They can then be found later on when
wanted and in the meantime one can take one”s time, have a rest, a meal
and a sleep before ﬁnishing them off.

The great thing is to make as good a job of it as poSS'ible and to collect
as ,many skins as possible. Further, it would be useless and ridiculous
sentimentality to wait for all the victims to become corpses before skinning
them.

As. soon as they no longer can bite or struggle in an inconvenient
manner they are skinned. If the steaming body continues to heave after
the skin has been taken off, that is not of the slightest importance. One
has got what one wanted from it. ,

It should be added that a wounded seal sheds tears very freely, groaning
painfully all the time, as though entreating those who torture it . . . .

It is perhaps in order to spare themselves this sight, which touches
their ever/sensitive hearts, that these murderers put out their eyes.

' [The article from which the above hasbeen translated is illustrated by photo,
graphs showing the terrible callousness and cruelty with which these poor animals
are massacred]

Women who wear sealskins do not know the methods by which they
are obtained. The above account of terrible barbarities, published by a
well’known and widely read journal, should enlighten them.

Reprinted from PROGRESS TODAY: The Humanitarian and Anti/Vivisection Review.

Issued by:
The Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society,
1’5, ST. JAMES‘S PLACE, ST. JAMESS STREET, LONDON, S.W.1,

and at 4 and 6, Cour St. Pierre, Geneva, Switzerland.
President: Hon. Director:

THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON. MISS LINDrAF’I‘IAGEBY.
Secretary: MISS L. K. SCHARTAU.

 




