 

‘VIVISECTION

AND

THE HOSPITALS,

BY

_T. A. WILLIAMS.

Reprinted from THE BRISTOL MERCURY. .

“So I say it has been With the practice of Vivisection
as a method of research. It has constantly led those Who
employed it into erroneous conclusions, and the records
teem with instances in which not only have animals been
fruitlessly sacriﬁced, but human lives have been added to
the victims by reason of its false light.”—LAWSON TAIT,
F.R.C.S., in “Uselessness of Vivisection as a Method of
Scientiﬁc Research.”

—_._

Printed at the Oﬁicc 0f the Bristol Mercury.

 

 

 

 




 

VIVISEGTION AND THE HOSPITALS.

______+————

This appeal is put forth under a strong sense of
responsibility to warn the public of a rapidly growing
danger, and in the desire that our noble public charities
may be made the unmixed good that they ought to be.

It is said by some that if animals were not experi-
mented on human beings would be the substitutes. It
is the object of this paper to show that animal vivisec-
tion is the chief cause of human experimentation.

Readers will probably be told that the English vivi-
section Act permits no cruelty, but this is a grand mis-
take. We are told by a legal authority who has especially
studied it, “ That there is no limit either to the acute-
ness or continuance of the pain which a vivisector may
inﬂict, provided that he holds a certiﬁcate under proviso
2, that which dispenses with the use of anasthetics.”*
At the time of the latest return, 122 British vivisectors
held such certiﬁcates, and how many students are
allowed to work under their chiefs’ licenses we are not
told.

“ Commentary on the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876,” by the
Hon. Bernard Coleridge (now Lord Coleridge).

 

At a recent meeting of an Anti-Vivisection Society
one of the Speakers expressed a fear that evils derived
from the practice of Vivisection have crept into
the hOSpitals. This led the chairman and one
of the speakers to say that the institutions over
which they respectively preside were free from the
dangers which had been alluded to. One is glad to
hear this avowal from those who are in a position to
speak with knowledge of all the facts, but that there
is a good deal of suspicion in the public mind as to
the treatment of patients in many hospitals in the
country few will be disposed to question, and the
truest friends of the medical charities are those who
do not hesitate to point out the close connection
existing between the vivisection of animals and
experiments on human beings—for which last the
hospitals offer a too convenient ﬁeld.

Those who are opposed to the practice of animal
experimentation have been at pains to show that, if
it proves anything, it proves too much, and that, by
a logical consequence, it drives the vivisector to the
further step of experimenting also on mankind, if
only for the purpose of testing his otherwise valueless
conclusions. It will be hotly denied that danger to
human beings exists, but Professor Rolleston gave
the following important caution, many years ago,
before the Royal Commission on Vivisection :—“ It
is the besetting sin of absorbing studies and original
research that they lift a man so entirely above the
ordinary sphere of daily duty that they betray him
int-0 selﬁshness and. unscrupulous neglect of duty.

 




 

3

Vivisection is especially likely to tempt a man into a
certain carelessless, the passive impression produced
by the sight of suffering growing weaker, as is the law
of our nature, whilst the habit and pleasure of ex-
perimenting grows stronger by repetition.” And to
have, as is the case, nearly 190 licensed vivisectors
exposed to the dangers here referred to, of whom
a large number hold responsible positions in our
great medical institutions, and are also instructors
of our future doctors, is certainly cause for
alarm. If some hospitals have so far been kept
free from the “ passion for research,” if their
doctors are healers rather than experimenters,
Which I believe is the case, this proves to my mind
that careful bedside observation is the important
thing, and not vivisection, which leads to contradic-
tion and error. Sir Charles Bell, himself a great
discoverer, said of the latter that “experiment had
never been the means of discovery," and that “the
Opening of living bodies had done more to perpetuate
error than to conﬁrm the just views taken from the
study of anatomy and natural motions.”

Human experimentation is by no means a new
danger. It is spoken of by Galen in the second
century as having been fashionable hundreds of
years before his day, therefore more than 9000 years
ago. He mentions particularly two celebrated anato-
mists, Herophilus and Erasistratus, who are said to
have dissected between them no fewer than 600
living men and women. The human victims of these
cruelties were mostly prisoners procured from gaol, but
animals were also used. So ancient indeed is the
practice of vivisection that believers in its efﬁcacy
might marvel that we have so many incurable mala-
dies to-day. Tertuilian, an early Christian writer,
referring to one who practised it, said, “in order to
know men he hated them,” and Celsus, a Roman
physician of the Augustan age, wrote forcibly not
only of the cruelty of the practice, but also 0f
the absurdity of supposing that experiments
on the living frame, with their abounding
elements of confusion, could yield trustworthy
results. “ It is alike cruel and. unproﬁtable,”
he said, “ to lay open with the knife living bodies, so
that the art which is designed for the relief of
suffering is made to inﬂict injury, and that of the
most atrocious nature. If in the entire and unin-
jured body we can often, by external observation,
perceive remarkable. changes produced from fear,
pain, hunger, weariness, and a thousand other affec-
tions, how much greater must be changes induced by
the dreadful wounds and cruel manglings of the dis-
sector in internal parts, whose structure is far more
delicate, and which are placed in circumstances alto-

 




 

4

gether unusual.” (Book III.) If the above could be
said of experiments on man, how indeﬁnitely, for
purposes of medicine and surgery, must confusion be
further increased when animals of totally different
species from himself are chosen for the subjects of
observation.* The plain truth is that, in all ages of
mankind, authorities, as such, have too often become
the foes of liberty and righteousness, and consistent
thinkers are forced to the conclusion that wrongs done
in the name of science must be as earnestly challenged
as any committed from mistaken views of religion and
uty.

Returning to the subject of the hospitals, it is
necessary to quote views of some prominent. men in
this .oountry as showing the hardening inﬂuence which
the last 20 years of vastly increased vivisection have
exerted on the medical mind. It cannot, indeed, be
denied that already, in the ranks of the profession,
there are men Who regard at least the great London
hospitals as little more than departments of their
‘ medical schools, in which last—and not in the
hospitals themselves—the vivisection of animals is
freely taught and practised, the vivisecting instruc-
tors and experimenters passing from the gruesome
work of the laboratory to attend on the sick in the
adjoining wards of the hospital. In an article in
the “British Medical Journal” on “The Abuse of
Hospitals,” Dr Hickman is reported as saying that
the large and increasing number of hospitals and
dispensaries was not an evidenceof the intense interest
taken by the profession in the poor, nor was the large
amount of time and labour gratuitously devoted to
their service simply an index to the disinterested
philanthropy of medical men. The object of this
interest and these services was not the beneﬁt of the
poor, nor of the profession, but the particular beneﬁt
of the individual, who looked forward to be amply
repaid in the future by increased experience,
enhanced reputation, and. the legitimate adver-
tisement of himself, which was almost the only
opening to high class practice and high class
fees. The eminent surgeon, Mr Timothy Holmes, is
quoted in the “ British Medical Journal” as saying,
April 23rd, 1884, that, “ Firstly, a hospital should be
a place for medical education ; secondly, for the relief
of suffering, and thirdly, for the training of nurses, all

* We read that several drugs which are deadly poisons
to man may be eaten with perfect safety by certain animals
and birds. Thus “ goats eat hemlock and take no harm ;
rabbits devour belladonna with impunity ; pigeons are not
aﬁected by doses of Opium enough to kill a man.”—Dr
Berdoe’s “Futility of Experiments with Drugs,” p. 5.
Could the danger of arguing from animals to men he
better proved!




5

of which objects should be considered in due pro-
portion by those exercising the management.” The
then President of the Medical Society, speaking at the
Mansion House, is reported in the “ Lancet,” June
26th, 1886, to have said—“The greatest use of
hOSpitals is to promote the advancement of medical
science, and to afford an improved method of recognis-
ing and treating disease,” and a London physician of
good standing, in a letter to the "Standard,”
November 24th, 1883, wrote :——“I think we, as
medical men, should not attempt to conceal from the
public the debt of graiitude they owe to the ‘ corpora
vilia,’ for such there are and will be, as long as
the healing art exists.” By “corpora vilia” was
meant contemptible human bodies. A Select Com-
mittee of the House of Lords had to report,
June, 1892 :—" It is one of the complaints of
those who ﬁnd fault with the present hospital
system that the hospitals have become mere
adjuncts to the schools, plunging into all kinds of
extravagance for the sake of their students, and for
the advancement of science, when they ought to be
strictly devoting themselves to the relief of the
suffering poor, and to no other object.” It is obvious
that to have medical men amongst us whose views as
above quoted justify these complaints is, to say the
least, dangerous, and unless the keen and jealous eye
of the public is awakened, the evil must still further
increase.

“ The intimate connection between the Vivisectional
laboratory and the hospital ward,” says Mr Ernest
Bell, “was, however, best shown when two vivi-
sectors in this country, having described their experi-
ments with a powerful drug on some cats” (see
“Lancet,” Nov. 3rd, 1883), “remarked, apparently
quite unconscious that they Were saying anything
unusual, ‘in addition to these experiments, we have
made some observations clinically,’ and then they
proceeded to give details as to how the patients
experimented on felt throbbing pains in the head,
turned blue in the face, fell to the ground in a. swoon,
and so on.”

In other countries experiments on the brains of
human beings have been openly advocated, because,
as the late Claude Bernard put it, “human beings
have faculties which animals do not possess,” The
case of Mary Rafferty, who died from experiments on
the brain, is an illustration in point (Roy. Com. Evid.,
3390), and the cancer-grafting case reported in “ The
Times” of June 27th, 1891, shows still further the
truth of the saying that there is but a step from the
laboratory to the hospital ward. We are told of
experiments of varnishing the skin of patients—so
often tried on animals—of inoculating children with

 

 




 

6

tuberculosis. leprosygnasal discharge from horses, and
blood of scarlatina patients, &c., of “a beautiful
experiment" of inducing erysipelas in animals and
men (“British Medical Journal ” Dec. 29th, 1883, p.
1298). A well- known advocate of vivisection has
said, “A human life is nothing compared with a new
fact.”

Most or all of the experiments mentioned in the last
paragraph were probably done elsewhere, but we have
in England abundant proofs of the spirit now every-
where ar. work. An eminent London surgeon, a strong
advocate of vivisection, said of a certain experiment
at a medical conference—“ I have not yet ventured to
make it, though I have long had it in contemplation.
It is a serious thing to experiment upon the lives of
our fellow men ; but I believe the time has now arrived
when it may be tried.” (see “ British Medical
Journal,” August 16th, 1890). A well-known London
physician said that he had purposely delay ed the cure
of a hospital patient who was “in a miserable con-
dition from pain and irritation,” caused by skin
disease, for the instruction of the students (“ British
Medical Journal,” January 7th, 1882). A professor
lecturing some months ago at Cirencester on tuber-
culosis advocated the feeding of criminals condemned
to death with the milk of diseased cows. For
experiments on two children at Manchester with the
terrible drug curare, see Royal Commission Evidence,
5407. In his standard “ Handbook of Therapeutics,”
which gives a large number of experiments performed
on patients, not for their beneﬁt, but in the interest
of science, Dr Sydney Ringer, late Physician to
University College, London, writes :—-“ In a boy aged
ten, who had never in his life before taken alcohol in
any form, I found, through a large series of
observations, a reduction of temperature. . . Dr
Richards and I gave to a habitual drunkard, making
him dead drunk, twelve ounces of good brandy, in a
single dose, without the smallest reduction of
temperature” (p. 362, ninth edition).

From the same book, which, in the preface of the
sixth edition, was said to be “ especially intended for
students and. young practitioners,” a few more
experiments may be given : «—

“ In conjunction with Mr Bury, I have made some
investigations concerning the action of salicine on the
human body, using healthy children for our experi-
ments. . . . The first set of experiments were
made on a lad aged ten. He had been admitted into
the hospital with belladonna poisoning, but our
observations were not commenced till some days after
his complete recovery. Though he was a very lively
boy he became very dull and stupid, lying with his
eyes closed. ” Accounts are given of the distressing

 

 




 

 

\ .

 

'.

7

symptoms observed in the children—headaches often
so severe that the patient buries his head in the
pillow, &c. One boy, who alarmed the experimenters,
was still dull and rather deaf 65 hours after the last
dose (“ Ringer’s Handbook,” 9th edit, p. 623).

‘ To test the effects of geleenimum in the circula-
tion, I made 33 series of observations on patients in
whom we induced the full toxic effects.” . .
And again, “ I gave it to six persons on 17 occasions."
One patient felt a painful sensation as if the crown of
the head were being lifted in two pieces. Some of
the patients staggered and were afraid to stand, much
less walk. So giddy was one that he nearly fell off
the form (Ibid., 9th Edition, p. 530).

One might multiply accounts of. experiments and
abuse of the sacred art of healing too many and
detailed for the pages of this paper, not inventions
of “sentimental anti-vivisectionists," but the bald
statements of the vivisector himself when writing his
reports for the eye of his professional brethren. It is
idle to protest that no experiments are performed on
patients in hospitals. For every instance that the
public hears of, there may be a score known to the pros
fession, for the rage for research is of such a character
that it naturally absorbs the whole mind of the
experimenter. In his mutilated animal he fancies he
sees the unravelling of some great secret that he
hopes may bring him fame — perhaps even some
alleviation of suffering to mankind. Such a one,
imbued with the weakness of our common humanity,
and with this “ passion” strong upon him, cannot be
trusted with the sacred ofﬁce of dealing with the
individual sufferer, who, to him, inured to contem-
plating pain, becomes, not a fellow man, but “a
case” with dangerous fascination. In the medical
profession a power has grown up almost, if not quite,
as great as any in the days of despotism. And it
becomes of the utmost importance that this great
power should be rescued from the faintest touch of
the vivisecting spirit. The physiologist has not a
right to degrade the profession of healing by com-
mitting cruelties in its name, and injustice to animals
is also the sure precursor of injustice to men. What
knowledge, were any procurable by these means,
could possibly compensate for the moral deterioration
which must result from burning with acids the brains
of animals, breaking their limbs to observe the process
of setting, the torture inﬂicted by destroying their
eyesight by the inoculation of» virus, and a hundred
other ingenious atrocities? Are our bodies more
important than our souls? I ask my fellow citizens,
in the words of an eloquent writer, “are men who
have passed through such a hellish training ﬁt con-
ﬁdants in the hour of our physical danger, ﬁt persons

 




8

to whom to trust the care of our children and our
women in the most solemn and necessitous moments
of their lives ‘2” The evil is already with us. Let the
public demand that the government of our noble public
charities be placed in the hands only of those whose
sole aim it shall be to remove disease and to alleviate
suffering—the doctor’s great and holy calling. If our
local hospitals, of which I am a great admirer,
are free from the dangers pointed out, will my fellow
citizens yet be foremost in pressing the common
demand, and insist (to use the words of the great
living surgeon, Lawson Tait) that the “ useless
and misleading practice of Vivisection shall be stopped,
so that the energy and st ill of scientiﬁc investigators
may be directed into better and safer channels?”
There is no conﬂict between the wise humanist and
the true scientist.

The vivisecting branch of the medical profession is
at the present time much occupied in seeking to cure
man’s diseases by inoculating him with a variety of
dangerous substances. Already *anti-toxinwhorse-
serum—since several immediate deaths have followed
its application, shows signs of disappearing, but as,
one after the other, these noxious compounds
are found failures and discarded, others are
unfortunately produced. If those who use the
hospitals continue to maintain such silence as
they observed during and after the widespread
experiments so openly made in hospitals a few
years ago, when consumptive and lupus patients
were inoculated with Dr Koch’s dangerous lymph,
they need hardly be surprised if such errors are
repeated. The sick and feeble within hospital walls
require to be protected by outside opinion, that voice
of the people to which managers of these institutions
must defer when once it is clearly spoken. In another
direction most important help might be given. The
Act of Parliament of 1876, which legalised vivisection
in ,Great Britain, and under which the deplorable
practice, with all its resulting evils, has grown to its
present dimensions in this country, requires to be
swept from the Statute Book, and this can alone be
effected by the mass vote of the people.

T. A. WILLIAMS,

Lecturer to the Bristol and West of England Anti-
Vivisection Society. Ofﬁce, 20, Triangle, Bristol.

Published by the Bristol and west of England
Antl- Vl’viseetz’on Society, 20, The Triangle, Bristol.

Price 1d,,- 6rl. per dozen; 3s. per 100 ,- 21.9. per
1000.

 




