TO THE SUMMER VfSITORS.

DEAR FRIENDS:

While driving for pleasure and enjoying the beautiful scenery, we
pray you to consider us, without whom this enjoyment would not be pos-
sible. 1'

There is very much that you can do to protect us, your willing ser-
vants, from unnecessary suffering and permanent injury.

ft is true that our 'owners must keep us through the year, and we are
willing to work hard and earn as much as we can for them during the
short season that you are here, but we appeal to you to try to create a
public sentiment that will protect us from abuse while we are doing our
best to minister to your pleasure.

If you, would. refuse to ride in (my conveyance that is overloaded, or
behind those of us who have had the misfortune to become lame, and if
you would encourage our drivers to consider us, and not urge them‘to
whip us or drive too fast, a very different state of things would soon exist.

"Please use your inﬂuence to prevent o-'urmbeing driven again when
we have already done a hard day’s work.

Fast driving, and too many hours of work, injure us more in one
day than weeks of hard work with kind management.

Do not overload our buckboards or other carriages; it is often on ac-
count of your want of thought, and not from the fault of the drivers, that
we are overloaded.

The drivers, naturally, wish to please those who hire. them, and not
all have the courage to do what they know to be right.

it will help us greatly if, when we come to steep hills with a heavy
load, some of you will lighten our task by walking.

, Stopping a few moments on the way at the top of a hill to enjoy the
scenery will often give us a much needed rest.

Well-oiled axles will save much of our strength.

Do not encourage drivers to race with each other.

_ if possible, hitch your horse in the shade in summer. Do not allow
_ him to stand facing the sun in summer or the wind and storm in winter.

NJ)»

 




Remember that we need My] eni‘oya drink of fresh water very often

Before 11111111315 please see that our saddles tit well,d11d that 0111
backs are 1101‘ 5016, ind teach your young one and daughters that there is
a limit to the endurance or hoi‘se; that the constant fast riding or driy—
ing which is a delight to thei11 11th1 mean great suffering to us.

When hiring your horses, please (11111011111911 the barbarous 111111111519
0f docking, by giving the preference to those of us who have not. heen
mutilated and doomed to lifelong suffering from ﬂies and other insects.

‘W e also appeal to our owners. 1 1

it any of you think that you must use the instrument oi torture
called the “021611116512 1’6111,” do kindly lessen our sufferings by loosening
it while we stand waiting for you.

\Ne are glad to learn that it is becoming uniashionable, and that some
of our ﬁnest horses no longer wear it.

We can do more work and go iurther and taster with our heads iree.

\Nhat a conitort it would be it we could get rid «of those blinders
which dazzle and injure our eyes, and often cause us to stumble].

We are told that in some European countries they are never used.

When you ﬁnd that we do not. eat well, please examine o 11‘ teeth and
see if. they have 'become long or sharp and are lacerating our mouths.
They may need tiling down, which a veterinary surgeon can do in. a few
minutes. '

Do not forget that to drive us ias st down hill is dangerous, besides
often injuring our teet and knees.

Please remember that there are days when we do not ieel well, ltiere—
fore do notexpect us always to go as fast as you would like.

Constantly or (ring us when we are already doing our best, and snap—
ping the whip when we are standing still is irrita ating to us and does no
good. . ~
if there is in this place an Agent of the Society for the “Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, ’ we beg that you will. report to him any case of
cruelty, and that you will in every way encourage ant] aid all. those friends
of ours who sustain societies tor our protection.

Humane literature'may'be obtained by addressing AMERiCAN 'Htt—
MANEEDUCATION SOCIETY,45 MILK STREET, Bosron, MASS.

Hoping that you will consider our appeal,

Respectfully submitted by your frienwds
THE HORSES

 

 

Price 8c. per dozen, 30 cents per hundied copies, pOstage paid. Address: M L.'Ha]],
23 Hammond Street, Providence, R, I.

 




