HUMANE DESTRUCTION OF FOXES
Cyanogas Method.

This new method, which has been devised for the
destruction of rabbits in districts where they are too
numerous, can also be used for the destruction of foxes.

A farmer writes : “ Knowledgeably used, of course,
it is in general circumstances probably the most humane
of all methods. It is effective, quick and easy, and as it
becomes more generally known, will supersede all other
methods. I have an outﬁt, and from the demand for its
services in my own aera, know that it is now almost the
exclusive method. “Cyanogas” (calcium cyanide) is used.
It is in ﬁnely divided form, and agitated into cloud form
under air pressure, and pumped willy—nilly into a fox’s
hole or den. A high concentration is quickly attained
and the gas is released immediately the powder strikes the
atmosphere. It cannot possibly take many inhalations to
bring about unconsciousness and death.”

Cyanegas outﬁts may be obtained from Geo. Monro,
Ltd., Waltham Cross, Herts. Cost 10/6 to 42/—.

A well—known Animal \Welfare Society, recom-
mending this method for the destruction of rabbits,
says : “ That the method is completely humane, is shown
_ by the suddenness with which animals are found to die,
by post—mortem examination of the bodies, and by the
experience of human beings who have been accidentally
gassed in the course of research work.”

The method is suitable for all districts: for hunting
districts where farmers are pestered with foxes whose
numbers are kept up for the beneﬁt of the hunts, and in
wild districts such as the Lake District, where they are a
real pest and where many cruel methods, hunting, traps,
poison, etc , are used. It has been found the best method
of rabbit destruction in Australia, and has recently
been demonstrated in Pembrokeshire. It is also suitable
for rat destruction, but must not be used to fumigate
dwellings. The operator should of course avoid breathing
the gas.

The wider knowledge of this method will save
thousands of wild animals from useless suffering.

Oxford and Dirtrz'a‘ Society for AIM/Mon of Cruel Sporty.

 

 




 




