COLONEL OSBORN

Ol\

CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SCIENCE.

[The following article, Originally published in the Calcutta
‘S'z‘utesmcm, was written by the late lamented Colonel Osborn,
of Hampstead, shortly before his death :—]

(FROM “THE STATESMAN," CALCUTTA, OCTOBER 6, 1888.)

WE have never felt much interest in the numerous attempts
which have been made to show either that Christianity and.
modern science are in harmony, or that they are hopelessly at
variance. All such attempts, it seems to us, are based upon
the radical error of claiming for the physical investigator a
position on a par with that of the moral teacher. It is to
place the former on an elevation far above that which he legiti-
mately claims. Darwin was a great physical investigator, but
to say that he ever won for himself a position in the hierarchy
of humanity beside that of the poet Shakespeare is, to our
thinking, a manifest absurdity. The greatest of our scientiﬁc
discoverers must, of necessity, represent an inﬂuence that
rapidly passes away; whereas that of a great poet or great
religious teacher remains powerful and undiminished by the
ﬂight of time. Shakespeare was never a greater force in the
world of thought than he is at this time, whereas his great
contemporary, Bacon, if his fame rested only on his scientiﬁc
achievements, would have almost passed out of the memory
of men. Again, it involves a radical misconception of the
essence and purpose of Christianity to suppose that its-
truth and life are involved in a particular determination
of historical, critical, or scientiﬁc difﬁculties. No doubt
there are important relations between Christianity and such
difﬁculties, and their right solution is among the most interest-
ing problems to which the mind can devote itself. But on
the assumption that Christianity is a message addressed to
learned and unlearned alike, such questions do not touch its
essence, and their determination, either in this sense or in
that, will not—if Christianity be true—affect its vitality or
diminish its power. Christianity in its universal aspect as a
message addressed to all sorts and conditions of men, is essen-

 




 

2

tially a spiritual claim. It is not even a system of ethics-—
that is to say, it does .not ‘prescriberzformal rules applicable to

every variety of, circumstance ;”‘_ but it teaches those who
embrace it to carry into the practical business of life the
spirit of Divine love or charity, and to make this the supreme
dictator of all that men say or think or, do. And until itcan
be shownwthat this spiritof charity is too narrow a founda-
tion for the building up Of family, Social, and national life,
Christianity will remain the strongest force in the world, what-
ever be the issue of the debates onithe scientific and critical
questions which chance to be connected with it. Now, it is
at this point that the spirit of Christianity comes as it seems
to us into direct collision with the spirit of modern science.
The spirit of modern physical investigation which specially
arrogates to itself the name of science, exalts the desire of
knowledge to the supreme .place where Christianity would
place the spirit of love. We see this notably in the practice
of what is known as vivisection. It is not asserted even
by vivisectors, that a man has a right to cut up living
animals, or put them. to death under prolonged and incon-
ceivable tortures merely for the trial of. the thing. But it
is asserted that he has a right to do these things in the
pursuit of knowledge. Knowledge is so supreme and sacred
a thing, that moral considerations must stand aside to give it
complete freedom of action. . ,,
Now there is an antagonism here between the Spirit of
Christianity and the spirit of modern science, which no special
pleading can harmonise or attenuate. It cuts down to the
roots. It is precisely the same antagonism which is recorded
in the story of the ﬁrst temptation, the “desire to know,”
the knowledge of good and evil contending against the spirit
of trust and obedience. And here, as it seems to us, is the
weak point in the armour of modern science. This desire
to know, divorced from moral restraints as to the means of
attaining knowledge, is; plunging the physicists of the present
day deeper and deeper into that ignorance and bewilderment,
from which they are seeking to escape. When science and
Christianity are arrayed one against the other, it is, of course,
implied that greater advantages will accrue to the human race
if, the conduct of lifebe ruled by the desire to know than if
ruledby the spirit of charity. ‘This is seldom advanced in
so‘ many words. Sometimes it is even denied, but what We
maintain is, that whether admitted or denied, it is the logical
issue of the position. For, unless the physicist means this, he
allows thatthe spirit of love should be the supremeguide
and ruler, and “the desire to know” should Operate in
subordination and» obedience to it., In other words, the
Christian and the scientiﬁc stand-point become identical, and
there remains nothing to disputeabout. That the desire to
know is laudable, none but a fanatic would deny; but it has
to. ,beborne in mind that» it is in. a very large measure kindle
in our mind by the fearful suffering entailed upon humanity




s-

by ages "of deviation from the spirit of charity. If we
try to imagine a world, the inhabitants of which were
absolutely obedient to the Spirit -' of the Christian faith, we
shall’ﬁnd it to be a world from which nine-tenths of the
wretchedness of life has been eliminated. The spirit of love
ruling'in a family would‘prevent the introduction of domestic
jars, and ruling in society Would eliminate class hatreds and
go'far‘to extinguish pauperism. The same spirit dominant in
international'politics would cause wars to cease in all the world;

“From growing commerce, loose her latest chain,
And letthe fair white-winged peace makers ﬂy
To happy havens under all the sky.”

'Or let us take a single ill of suffering humanity, sickness
for instance, in all its innumerable forms, and try to hark
back to its ﬁrst and more efficient cause. It will be found to
be a deviation from the spirit of Christian charity, and the
assertion of selﬁshness in'its place. And, just as it is the
selﬁshness and cruelty of men which are responsible for the
epidemic-breeding slums and alleys of modern cities, so.
it is the spirit of charity which enters with healing on
its wings into these dens of suffering and wretchedness.
Not a legion of physicians could do a fraction of the good
to the poor and the outcast which could be effected by
a single wealthy landlord building anew their dwelling-places,
from pity. Nine-tenths of the evil which we inﬂict upon
ourselves, not less than upon others, is due to our not doing
unto others as we would they should do unto us. But all this
it may be urged is mere truism. It is so ; but none the less is
it of the ﬁrst importance to insist upon these truisms again
and again. Coleridge has told us—“ Truths of all others the
most important to us, are often held as so true that they lose
all the power of truth, and lie bed-ridden in the dormitory of
the soul, side by side with the most despised and exploded
errors.” It is so as regards the far-reaching power of the
spirit of Christian charity. What are all the huge and
complicated machineries of life,——our constitutions, laws,
parliaments, police, divorce courts, and the like—but cumber-
some and ineffectual contrivances to get along in a sort of way
without the direct operation of the Christian Spirit ‘2 And yet
is it not as clear as daylight, that but for the saving power of
that very spirit, all these ingenious contrivances would avail
us nothing? It is this which holds societies and nations
together. It is in exact proportion to the measure in which
this spirit is to be found in any nation, that its relations are
in a sound and healthy condition. It is only necessary, it
seems to us, to place beside this simple and sublime Charity
the gospel of modern Science—*tlie sacredness of the desire to
Know, to feel its utter wretchedness and futility. The worth
of a man to his fellows is never measured by the extent of his
knowledge. Though he possessed all knowledge and had not

charity, he would be a sounding brass'ror a tinkling cymbal.

 




4

» ‘We see, in fact, an acknowledgment of the supremacy of
the Christian spirit in the protest made by most vivisectors
that they torture their victims from pure and disinterested
affection for mankind. Unfortunately fOr this pretence, the
practice is so greatly at variance with it, that it has not even
the semblance of plausibility. It is a notorious fact that
thousands of living animals have been and are being cut‘to
pieces for no purpose at all, except the off-chance that from
the inspection of their dying sufferings “ something may turn
up.” Between these practices and Christianity there should
be no parley possible. They are absolutely antagonistic. It
is, of course, asserted by the practisers and the advocates of
vivisection, that the right to vivisect does not extend beyond
the brute creation. But this limitation is as inoperative in
practice as it is fallacious in logic and in ethics. The right
not to be vivisected consists in the fact of sentiency, not in the
order of creation to which the victim may belong. The evil to
the vivisector consists not in the nature of the creature on which
he practises his dreadful ingenuity, but in claiming a right to
subordinate the Spirit of Love to the desire of Knowledge. A
man who has disregarded the agonies of hundreds of animals,
in order to gratify his intellectual curiosity, will not be over-
sensitive of those of his fellow-men when it is set against this
same insatiable curiosity. And as a matter of fact, it is
notorious that the great European hospitals are regarded by
the hospital staff, as well as by students, as schools for the
acquisition of knowledge at almost any cost. The patients
are too often treated as subjects for experiment. Perplexity,
confusion, endless altercation, and ever-fresh series of experi-
ments—these and nothing else are so far the results of an
amount of suffering inﬂicted upon living creatures which no
imagination can conceive. If vivisection had been as fruitful
in discovery as it has notoriously been the reverse, its dis-
coveries, at the best, would but mitigate an inﬁnitesimal
portion of the suffering and disease which Christian Love
would utterly eradicate from among men.

 

 

 

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION '
0F ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION, UNITED WITH THE IN’I‘ERNATIONAL' ,
ASSOCIATION FOR. THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION OE VIVISECTION, 20, 1“
VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W. 10.90.

 




