10

THE LAST OF THE
GREAT WHALES

by SCOTT Mal/TA)?

REPRINTED FROM

SCIENTIFIC
AMERICAN

AUGUST I966

VOL.2I5. No.2 PP. I3-2I

WE
=l PUBLISHED BY W. H. FREEMAN AND COMPANY 660 MARKET STREET, SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 94104

6 COPYRIGHT @ I966 BY SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

 




 

 

 

SCIENTIFIC

Established 1845 AMERICAN August 1966

Volume 215

Number 2

 

The Last of the Great Whales

After bringing two species of great whales in the Antarctic to the

Verge of eyctinction and badly overhunting two others, the whaling

industry is now endangering the last abundant species in the world

he order Cetacea—the whales—
l consists of more than 100 species.
The 12 largest either were in the
past or are now commercially important
to man. At one time their oil was valued
as a lamp fuel and a high—grade lubri—
cant. Today most whale oil is made into
margarine and soap, some whale meat is
eaten and the rest of the animal is uti-
lized as feed for domestic animals and
fertilizer. Whale hunting is proﬁtable,
and as a result a majority of the 12
commercially hunted species have been
all but exterminated. In the 18th and
19th centuries the whaling vessels of a
dozen nations sailed all the oceans in
pursuit of ﬁve species of whales. In that
period four of the ﬁve were hunted
almost to the point of extinction; the
complete disappearance of these whales
during the age of sail was probably pre-
vented only by a slump in the demand
for Whale oil late in the 19th century.
With the age of steam another seven
species (which were unsuitable as quar—
ry in the previous era) became the
hunted. These species are now also in
danger of extinction. It is the purpose of
this article to trace the circumstances
that have allowed this sorry episode to
be repeated in so short a time.

The ultimate fate of the great Whales
has been a question for more than a
century. Herman Melville included such
a query among the observations that
make his M oby Dick an encyclopedia of
whales and whaling: “Owing to the al-

by Scott McVay

most omniscient look-outs at the mast-
heads of the whale-ships, now penetrat-
ing even through Behring’s straits, and
into the remotest secret drawers and
lockers of the world; and the thousand
harpoons and lances darting along all
the continental coasts; the moot point
is, whether Leviathan can long endure
so wide a chase, and so remorseless a
havoc; whether he must not at last be
exterminated from the waters.” Mel-
ville’s conclusion was that Leviathan
could endure. This was not unreason—
able at the time (1851), when Whalers
pursued whales in open boats and killed
them with lances. The ﬁve species of
whales that were hunted then included
only one from the suborder Odontoceti,
or toothed whales; this was the sperm
whale (Physeter catodon). The other
four were baleen Whales, of the sub-
order Mysticeti. These were the bow-
head (Balaena mysticetus), the two right
whales (Eubalaena glacialis and E. aus-
tralis) and a lesser cousin, the gray
whale (Eschrichtius glaucus). All ﬁve
were hunted because they do not swim
too fast to be overtaken by oarsmen and
because they ﬂoat when they are dead.

The bowhead whale and the right
Whales suffered near extinction. Very
few of these once abundant animals
have been seen in the past decade. In
May, 1963, for example, the Norwegian
ship Rossfjord was steaming west of the
Russian island Novaya Zemlya when a
whale with “jaws [that] were extremely

curved” was sighted. The event was
duly noted in the Norwegian Whaling
Gazette with the observation that the
whale—clearly a right whale—belonged
to “a species that the crew had not
previously seen.”

Today all four of these baleen whales
(the gray, the bowhead and both right
whales) are nominally protected by in-
ternational agreement, although three
right whales that were sighted in the
Antarctic in the early 1960’s were
promptly killed and processed. Perhaps
because of its gregarious way of life,
the gray whale has managed a slow re—
covery from the pressure of hunting.
An estimated 6,000 gray whales now
migrate annually from the Arctic Ocean
to their breeding grounds off the coast
of Lower California [see “The Return of
the Gray Whale,” by Raymond M. Gil—
more; SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, January,
1955]. No one knows today how many
(or how few) bowhead and right whales
are still alive.

Of the eight great whales that are the

quarry of modern whaling fleets,
seven belong to the suborder of baleen
whales and six of these to the genus
Balaenoptera [see illustration on next
two pages]. The largest of the six is the
largest animal known to evolutionary
history: the blue whale (Balaenoptera
museulus). Weighing as much as 25
elephants and attaining a length of as
much as 85 feet, this is the true Levi-

3

 




 

 

athan. It was known to Melville, who
remarked that blue whales (he called
them sulfur-bottoms) are seldom seen
except in the remoter southern seas
and are never chased because they can
“run away with rope-walks of line.”
The modern catcher ship, armed with
cannon-launched explosive harpoons,
proved to be the blue whale’s nemesis.
Over the past 60 years antarctic waters
have yielded more than 325,000 blue
whales, with an aggregate weight in
excess of 26 million tons [see “The Blue
Whale,” by Johan T. Ruud; SCIENTIFIC
AMERICAN, December, 1956]. Even
though the blue whale is now a rare
animal, many of the statistics concern—
ing baleen whales caught in the Antarc—
tic continue to be reckoned in terms of
“blue-whale units,” as are the Whaling
nations’ annual antarctic quotas.

Five other baleen whales of commer-
cial significance are the ﬁnback whale
(Balaenoptem physalus), the sei whale
(B. borealis) and three smaller whales:
Bryde’s whale (B. edem’) and the two
minke whales (B. acutorostmta and B.
bonaerensis). The ﬁnback averages little
more than 65 feet in length and yields
only 10 tons of oil, compared with the
blue whale’s 20 tons. Accordingly in
terms of blue-whale units it takes two
ﬁnbacks to equal one blue. The sei is
slighter, averaging 55 feet in length.
It is comparatively blubber—poor and
meat-rich; six sei whales equal one blue-
whale unit. Bryde’s whale and the
minkes, the ﬁrst averaging 45 feet and
the other two 30 feet, are not separate—
ly identified in whaling statistics. When
taken, they are probably counted as sei
whales; they will receive no further
mention here.

The remaining baleen whale to be
taken commercially is the small but oil-
rich humpback whale (Megaptera n0-
vaeangliae). This animal. is shorter than
the sei, averaging about 45 feet, but it
is so stocky that it yields some eight
tons of oil. Two and a half humpbacks
thus equal one blue-whale unit. The
humpback has evidently never existed
in large enough numbers to constitute a
major whaling resource. Nonetheless,
until recently some 1,000 humpbacks
were taken each year.

The eighth and last whale that is
hunted today, surprisingly enough, is
one that somehow escaped the near ex-
termination that was the lot of the gray,
bowhead and right whales in the days
of sail. This is the sperm whale, which
dives deep to hunt for squid along the
ocean ﬂoor (its deepest-known dive is
about 3,500 feet) and can remain sub-

4

BLUE WHALE
(BALAENOPTERA MUSCULUS) .

:., , 7
. Mia ﬁﬂéww 1g;

14"" I4 "Ti"???7";14'19ihp‘1{urn/:4...".4. WI , “X
.. .. \uMilllllllllllllll'lllllllllllllllllllllllullxamminimalism.«1.1.9 '

.' -o
2.9: 1 u
z .

a}? ﬁaﬁfﬁx _ ~
"32’, I, .

BRYDE’S WHALE
(BALAENOPTERA EDENU

. .—r L)": ‘
eée’svb:
\W 0-.

\ll

.. 71“?» ‘w

K

 

 

 

FINBACK WHALE
(BALAENOPTERA PHYSALUS)

WWI

.., u
WK“)?- '
.

,{c

SPERM WHALE
(PHYSETER CATODON)

 

 

 

 

WHALERS’ QUARRY TODAY consists mainly of animals of the baleen suborder; six
0f the seven species are illustrated above. The blue whale, the world’s largest animal, is on
the verge of extinction, as is the oil-rich humpback. The ﬁnback is seriously overhunted
and the same fate is befalling the sei whale. Kills of Bryde’s whale and two minke whale

 

 

 

$.

‘ , A "mxpm‘xgiu
’ ‘J-';...\

A

 

 

.m'ﬁw $13“ '
r .A' . 1,1 ..
’l 7' ﬁﬁﬁy‘b

V l
'. riﬂe-21.4.25”
:v I,,"_-_-ﬁ?m._,y:,

l
u

‘ ‘ — ‘rr ,- . ,
, 5% aﬁ'ﬂrfi’gésmﬁis

 

WHITE WHALE
(DELPH/NAPTERUS LEUCAS)

\\ ‘
\<7

. .1 A
ﬁliiuﬂWW s

species (one of which is not illustrated) are not reported by name
in the whaling statistics; they are probably counted as sei. As a
result their present numbers are unknown. The toothed suborder
of whales includes such familiar animals as the porpoises, the dol-

SEI WHALE
(BALAENOPTERA BOREAL/S)

 

MINKE WHALE
(BALAENOP TERA ACUTOROS TRATA)

NARWHAL
(MONODON MONOCEROS)

w ~r
”RE/”r Vii?
‘ L'm 17*“; :S-‘rf’f
“19’" 31:" éﬁ’j—gﬁﬁﬁ" ~ 1::
E’TT—ugw, “1;. In“; :12:
r‘ ‘ " — -

«9,1
r.‘ K

HUMPBACK WHALE
(MEGAPTERA NOVAEANGL/AE)

phins, the grampus, pothead and the true and false killer whales.
Three of the toothed whales are illustrated. Only the largest, the
sperm whale, is commercially valued and endangered by overhunt-
ing, although the narwhal and white Whale are hunted occasionally.

5

 




 

 

CATCHER VESSEL pitches in a heavy antarctic swell. The stubby device seen silhouetted
on the bow platform is the cannon that ﬁres harpoons loaded with explosives. A dead Whale,
probably a ﬁnback, has had its ﬂukes bobbed and is chained by its tail to the ship’s side.

merged as long as 90 minutes. The
sperm’s huge square head contains the
largest brain in the animal kingdom: it
weighs more than 20 pounds. Sperm
whales roam the mid—latitude oceans in
groups that Whalers call pods, including
bulls, cows and calves. Once a year the
mature bulls leave the pack and travel
to antarctic waters for the summer
months. As a result the whaling ﬂeets
have an opportunity to kill sperm bulls
in the Antarctic and bulls and cows
alike during the voyage to and from the
ﬁshery.

As the population of baleen whales in
antarctic waters has dwindled, the whal-
ing fleets have begun to spend more
time in the North Paciﬁc, where the
primary quarry is the sperm whale.
Every year since 1962 the industry has
killed more sperm whales than whales
of any other single species; the peak

6

catch (in 1964) was more than 29,000.
Sperm whales are not counted in terms
of blue—whale units, and as yet there is
no limit on the number that may be
taken in any year. The only limitation is
on the minimum size of sperm cow that
may be killed. The bowhead and the
right whales, on the other hand, are
supposedly protected everywhere in the
world, as are the humpback and the
blue whales throughout the Paciﬁc and
the humpback south of the Equator
around the world.

Before World War II whaling was a

laissez faire enterprise. Then in the
postwar epoch of international coopera-
tion 17 interested nations entered into
a convention designed to regulate the
whaling industry. In December, 1946,
the International .Whaling Commission
was established as an executive body to

oversee the conservation and sensible
utilization of the world’s whale re-
sources. The participating nations in
the Western Hemisphere were Argen-
tina, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, Panama
and the U.S., although only Argentina
and Panama were then active in the
industry. (Both have since abandoned
whaling.) Among the nations of Europe,
Denmark, France, Britain, the Nether-
lands, Norway and the USSR. were
signatories. So were Iceland, South
Africa, Australia, New Zealand and
Japan. At that time ﬁve nations operated
factory ships and catcher ﬂeets; today
only Japan, Norway and the USSR.
are major whaling nations. The Nether-
lands and Britain have abandoned their
ﬂeets, although the British continue their
shore-based antarctic whaling enterprise
(which is now conducted jointly with
the Japanese) on the subantarctic island
of South Georgia.

Since its activation in the fall of 1948
the International Whaling Commission
has been charged with such tasks as
protecting overexploited whale species,
setting minimum-size limits below
which various species may not be taken,
setting maximum annual catch quotas
for the antarctic ﬁshery and designat—
ing areas closed to hunting. Although
each commissioner is in principle re-
sponsible for his nation’s observance of
the commission’s regulations, the com-
mission itself unfortunately has neither
inspection nor enforcement powers; any
member nation can repudiate or simply
ignore the commission’s actions. Non—
member nations, of course, are equally
unrestricted in their whaling activities.
It calls for little political insight to fore-
cast that recommendations made by the
nonwhaling members of such a body
will be ignored by the whaling members.
What comes as a surprise is the fact
that both the whaling and the nonwhal-
ing nations on the commission were un-
responsive to the signiﬁcance of the
whaling statistics that were presented to
them each year during the 1950’s.

In the years after World War II the
waters of the Antarctic constituted the
world’s last great whaling ground. Bec-
ord catches such as the one of 1930—
1931 were never repeated, but up to
1950—1951 the Whalers killed some
7,000 blue whales each season. The
commission’s annual quota for the ant-
arctic ﬁshery was 16,000 blue-whale
units; the catch of ﬁnbacks (at the rate
of two for each blue) helped to fulﬁll
the quota. During this period about
18,000 ﬁnbacks were killed each season
[see bottom illustration on page 8]-




As the 1950’s progressed, however, an
ominous trend was evident. The blue
whales were becoming scarce. The blue-
whale kill, which totaled only about
5,000 in 1951-1952, fell below 2,000 in
1955—1956 and was down to 1,200 by
1958—1959. To counterbalance the de-
clining catch of blues, the Whalers
pursued the ﬁnbacks more vigorously.
By the end of the 1950’s, 25,000 or more
ﬁnbacks were being taken each season.
Those familiar with patterns of preda—
tion could see that the blue whales were
being ﬁshed out and were in need of
immediate full protection. The ﬁnbacks
in turn probably could not survive
another decade like the preceding one,
during which some 240,000 animals had
been subtracted from the stock.

By 1960, in spite of continued indif-

ference on the part of the whaling
nations, the commission ﬁnally decided
to undertake some fact-ﬁnding. A spe-
cial three-man committee was assigned
the task of assessing the antarctic whale
populations, even though an expert as
well-regarded as the Dutch cetologist
E. J. Slijper declared that the danger of
their extinction was “surely remote.”
The committee was also to recommend
any actions necessary to maintain the
ﬁshery as a continuing resource. It was
agreed that, to avoid bias, the three men
should be neither citizens of any nation
active in antarctic whaling nor experts
on whales. Three specialists in the ﬁeld
of population dynamics were chosen:
K. Radway Allen of New Zealand,
Douglas G. Chapman of the US. and
Sidney J. Holt. Although Holt is a
British subject, he has the status of an
international civil servant by virtue of
his employment with the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations. The three men were asked to
report their ﬁndings to the commission
at its annual meeting in 1963.

As the special committee set about
its three-year job, the world’s whaling
ﬂeets continued to kill whales indis-
criminately in the antarctic ﬁshery. For
the ﬁrst season following the appoint-
ment of the committee the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission failed to
set any quota for the antarctic catch.
The whaling industry took more than
16,000 units that season, as well as some
4,500 nonquota sperm whales. Within
the 16,000 units the catch consisted of
1,740 blue whales (510 more than the
previous season) and 27,374 ﬁnbacks
(a record number for kills of that spe-
cies). The industry also took 4,310 sei
whales, 718 humpbacks and even two

protected right whales that surfaced
within range of the gunners.
During the second year of the com-

. mittee’s work the whaling industry did

less well in the antarctic ﬁshery. Once
again the commission set no quota; the
industry only managed to process 15,-
229 units. A few more sei and sperm
whales were killed than'during the pre-
vious season and another right whale
was illegally shot. Among the whales
that counted most—the blues and the
ﬁnbacks—a larger number were imma—
ture and the numbers of both were
diminishing.

The ﬁnal season before the com-
mittee’s report was due (1962—1963)
produced a similar record. The commis-
sion set a quota of 15,000 blue-whale
units. There was a modest increase in
the sei and sperm kill but a sharp de—
cline in blue and ﬁnback kills. For the
ﬁrst time since World War II the kill of
blues fell below 1,000.

In July, 1963, the commission met in

' London and the special committee pre-

 

sented its report. The committee stated
that in the antarctic ﬁshery both the
blue whale and the humpback were in
serious danger of extermination. It was
estimated that no more than 1,950 blue
whales'—possibly as few as 650—still
survived in antarctic .waters. The com-
mittee also noted that overﬁshing had
reduced the stock of ﬁnbacks to ap-
proximately 40,000, far below the popu-
lation level required for a maximum
yield. It was recommended that the
taking of blues and humpbacks be im-
mediately prohibited and that the an-
nual kill of ﬁnbacks be limited to 5,000
or fewer. Elimination of the blue-
whale-unit system of accounting and
substitution of separate quotas for each
whale species was also strongly recom-
mended.

Finally the committee’s three mem-
bers gave the whaling industry a pre-
diction with a clear practical meaning.
They forecast that, if unrestricted whal-
ing were permitted in the 1963—1964
season, the industry would not be able

 

 

FINBACK WHALE is winched from the sea up the ramp of a factory ship. Its tongue is gro-
tesquely expanded by the action of air that was pumped into the corpse to keep it aﬂoat. On
the ﬂensing deck (rear) another whale is having its blubber stripped off for trying out.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

'200

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NUMBER OF CATCHER BOATS

 

 

 

 

BLUE~WHALE UNITS (AVERAGE PER CATCHER DAY)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

50 7 i -
’45 '46 '50 '51 ’55 '56 ’60 '61
ANTARCTIC WHALING SEASONS

 

 

 

 

0.2

PRODUCTIVITY of the antarctic ﬁshery began a sharp decline in
the late 1950’s (color). The decline, measured in terms of the catch
per catcher-day, continued unchecked into the early 1960’s although
the number of catcher vessels (black) remained well above 200.

100.000
50,000

25,000

10.000
5,000

2.500

1.000
500

250

100

NUMBER OF WHALES

(f1

{5
()1

1930~T931
1931—1932
1932—1933
1933—1934
1934—1935
T935~1936
1936—1937
37~T938
1938—1939
1939—1940
1940—1941
1941~1942
1942—1943
1943—1944
1944—1945
1945~1946
1946~1947

\
t)

*1"

AVERAGE LENGTH OF BLUE WHALES (FEET)

80

\1
(II

\1
O

 

65 .
'55 '56 '57 '58 '59 '60 '61. '62 '63 '64
ANTARCTIC WHALING SEASONS

 

NINE-SEASON RECORD of the average length of blue whales
killed in the Antarctic shows a decline that began in the 1959—1960
season. The average mature female is 77 feet long and a mature male
74 feet. Evidently recent catches have included immature whales.

 

OOovor—mmwmaomoo \r— so LO
gamgmmmmmmmggggbgcog
_V_C,27r0_>@ovouo>ovov®oviil©®ovovov
Nooovox—meLmLOIi'OUQJ—NC’DILO
gaggmmmmmmmngQC-LOELO
wﬁ_~299999992939999992

ANTARCTIC WHALING SEASONS

RTSE AND FALL in the numbers of blue and finback whales that
have been killed in the Antarctic during the past 36 years shows a
correlation between the steadily diminishing blue-whale catch dur-

8

ing the 1950’s and an increase in the catch of ﬁnbacks (color).
Just as the blue-whale stock dwindled away under the pressure of
overhunting, the ﬁnback stock is now showing a severe decline.

 

 




 

 

to harvest more than 8,500 blue-whale
units and would slaughter 14,000 fin-
backs—nearly three times the recom-
mended number—in the process.

The prediction was disregarded. The
commission voted a 1963—1964 quota of
10,000 blue—whale units for the ant-
arctic fishery on a motion by the
Japanese commissioner that was sec—
onded by the Russian commissioner. In
view of the committee’s predicted maxi-
mum catch this was in effect no quota
at all.

As for the committee’s other findings,
the commission failed to act on some
and was lukewarm toward others. In
the case of the now economically in-
signiﬁcant humpback the commission
could afford to be forthright; that whale
was declared protected anywhere in the
world south of the Equator. In the case
of the blue whale a partial sanctuary
was established in all waters south of
40 degrees south latitude except some
3.3 million square miles from 40 to 55
degrees south latitude and from the
Greenwich meridian to 80 degrees east
longitude. Japanese Whalers had taken
some 700 small blue whales in this zone
during the 1962—1963 season; they con-
sidered it too good a hunting ground
to be put out of bounds. The suggested
elimination of the blue-whale unit and
the establishment of species quotas were
ignored. The commission added a fourth
man (John A. Culland ()f Great Britain)
to the special committee and asked that
a further report be presented in 1964.
At that time it was intended to set the
antarctic quota at a level in line with
the committee’s ﬁndings.

In 1963 a few members of the com-
mission may have viewed with skepti—
cism the ability of the three committee
members to make accurate forecasts of
a phenomenon as full of variables and
unknowns as the effects of harvesting
the antarctic whale stock. If so, the
results of the 1963—1964 season settled
their doubts. Sixteen factory ships and
their catcher fleets worked the ﬁshery;
the industry’s statistics, weighing such
factors as the number of days each
catcher was able to spend in hunting,
showed that the total effort of the
catchers was 91 percent of that during
the season of 1962—1963. The number
of blue whales killed, however, was the
lowest of any season in the industry’s
history: a mere 112. The committee
had predicted a total catch of 8,500
blue-whale units; the fleet managed to
process 8,429 units. The committee had
predicted that 14,000 ﬁnbacks would be
killed; the finback toll came to 13,870.

The committee’s forecasts thus proved
to be highly accurate.

t the commission’s 1964 meeting the
enlarged committee added the sei
whale, formerly the least prized of any
in the antarctic ﬁshery, to the list of the
overhunted. The committee pointed out
that the total sei population had prob-
ably never exceeded 60,000, yet more
than 20,000 sei had been killed in the
course of the four previous seasons.
With a whale stock of reasonable size
it is a rule of thumb that 10 to 15 per—
cent of the population can be harvested
annually without causing a decline.
With the expectation that more and

more sei whales would be killed each
season as the finback population thinned
out, the committee anticipated sei kills
above the sustainable level in the im-
mediate future. In line with the com—
mission’s declared intention of setting
quotas according to the committee’s
ﬁndings, it was proposed that the antarc-
tic quota be drastically reduced in three
annual steps. A limit of 4,000 units was
sought for the 1964—1965 season, a lim—
it of 3,000 units for 1965—1966 and one
of 2,000 units for 1966—1967. This de-
gree of restraint, the population experts
declared, was necessary merely to hold
the number of whales in the Antarctic at
the present level. They once more ap—

 

100,000

50. 000

 

FINBACK

 

 

25.000
\

TOTAL BLUE-

\\\3/

 

10003%VVHALELMwTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPERM
5,000 .................................... / \ \
SEI \
2,500 N
' BLUE
\\
(f) 1.000 _ x
E HUMPBACK \\\
<r
§ 5% \\\\
LL. \
O \\ \\
a: 250
LLJ
[D
2
D \
Z 100 \ \
50 \ \
25 \\
10 \ \
5 \ \
2.5 \
1
1960—1961 1961—1962 1962—1963 1963—1964 1964—1965 l965-1966

ANTARCTIC WHALING SEASONS

CATCH RECORDS for ﬁve species of whales killed in the Antarctic during the past six
seasons show that increasing catches of sperm and sei whales have failed to counterbalance
the decline in the ﬁshery’s productivity. The yield, calculated in blue-whale units (color),
has dropped from 16,375 units in 1960—1961 to one-quarter of that amount in 1965—1966.

 




 

pealed—once more unsuccessfully—for
the establishment of species quotas in
place of the blue-whale—unit system.
Finally, a new gloomy statistic came
before the commission: in 1963, for the
ﬁrst time since modern whaling had
begun in the Antarctic, the larger part
of the world catch had been taken in

 

1932
1933 i
1934
1935 ‘5
1936 _
1937
1938
1939
1949 L
1941 i

YEARS
E3
f:

 

 

3 3

5 1O 15 20 25 30

 

 
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
     

 

other waters. The most heavily ﬁshed
area had been the North Paciﬁc; most
of the whales taken there had been
sperm, which continued to be free of
quota restrictions. The committee point-
ed out that this diversion of the indus-
try’s effort from the dwindling antarctic
whale resource to the North Paciﬁc

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i
40 45 5O 55 6O 65 7O

WHALE CATCH (THOUSAN DS)
WORLDWIDE WHALE CATCH during the 40-year period through 1964 exceeded 1.6 million

animals. The increase in numbers of whales taken from the 1950’s on reﬂects the antarctic
ﬁshery’s growing dependence ﬁrst on ﬁnbacks in lieu of blue whales and next on sei whales
in lieu of ﬁnbacks. From 1963 on the antarctic ﬁshery has provided less than half of the
world’s whale catch. Figures are from Norway’s Bureau of International Whaling Statistics.

10

could have ominous consequences for
the sperm-whale stock.

The proposal for a reduced antarctic
quota came to a vote in the commission.
Japan, the U.S.S.R., Norway and the
Netherlands all voted against it; in spite
of the commission’s declared intent to
give substance to the committee’s ﬁnd-
ings, the 1964 meeting adjourned with
no commission quota set for the next
antarctic season. The four whaling na-
tions subsequently agreed in private
that they would limit themselves to
8,000 blue-whale units in the 1964—
1965 season, a ﬁgure twice the one
recommended by the committee.

The 1964—1965 season was disas-
trous. The industry processed only 7,052
units, more than 10 percent short of its
self-established quota. Only 20 blue
whales were killed. The ﬁnback kill, de-
clining for the fourth successive year,
was 7,308 animals, or only a quarter of
the 1960—1961 peak. As the committee
had anticipated, the industry made up
the difference by overkilling sei whales
—almost 20,000 of them. In spite of this
slaughter and a fairly large nonquota
sperm—whale catch, the antarctic ﬁshery
for a second year supplied the industry
with fewer whales than were taken in
other waters.

For the ﬁrst time since the beginning
of the crisis the International Whal—
ing Commission convened a special
meeting. At this meeting (in May, 1965)
the commission established a quota for
the 1965—1966 antarctic season that re-
flected, at least in part, the committee’s
concern. The catch, even the whaling
nations agreed, should not exceed 4,500
blue-whale units. At the regular June
meeting that followed, the reduced
quota was approved, and the commis—
sion agreed on a plan for further suc-
cessive reductions of the antarctic ﬁsh-
ery’s quotas in the seasons to come.

The commission also attempted a ﬁrst
step toward partial protection of the
world’s sperm—whale stock. Up to that
time the only restriction governing
sperm kills was that cows less than 38
feet in length should not be taken. In
1964 the worldwide sperm catch had
risen to a high of more than 29,000.
The ﬂeets en route to and from the
Antarctic had killed 4,316 sperm
whales. Once they were in the antarc-
tic ﬁshery they had taken 4,211 more;
most of the rest had been killed in
the North Paciﬁc. In the hope of pro-
tecting Sperm cows in Temperate Zone
waters the commission ordered a world-
wide hunting ban in the area between

 

 




 

 

 

150 120 90 60 30 0 30 60 90 120 150 ‘ 180

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

150 120 90 60 30 0 30 60 90 120 150 180

 

 

REFUGE AREAS within which designated species of whales are The humpback is also protected south of the Equator elsewhere in

safe from hunting by member nations of the International Whal- the world, but the blue whale’s protection elsewhere is limited to
ing Commission have been expanded in recent years. The nearly a zone south of 40 degrees south latitude (gray area). Even within
extinct bowhead and right whales enjoy worldwide protection. The this zone of protection 3.3 million square miles of ocean were kept
blue and humpback whales are protected throughout the Paciﬁc. open for blue-whale hunting at the request of Japan until a year ago.

40 degrees north latitude and 40 de- recovers to the level of the middle gained from recent efforts to establish
grees south latitude. All three whaling 1950’s. Recovery to the levels before quotas in the North Paciﬁc, where the
nations, however, objected to the com- World War II, which depended almost absence of quotas or restrictions allows
mission’s order; the ban has simply been exclusively on the blue whale, is im- hunting all year long. In spite of efforts
ignored. The worldwide sperm catch in probable. This giant mammal—one of by Canada and the U.S. the two whaling
1965 was somewhat lower than in 1964: the most remarkable ever to appear on nations with ﬂeets in the North Paciﬁc—
future catch records will reveal whether the earth—has probably been reduced in the USSR. and Japan—could not even

or not this drop reflects overkilling. numbers below the level that allows a agree to restrict the ﬁnback kill, let
The imperative need for a reduced species to survive; its worldwide popu- alone that of either sci or sperm.
antarctic quota was demonstrated clear- lation today may well be less than Each of two past eras of whaling has

1y enough by the results of the 1,000. Certainly there are 594 fewer virtually eradicated its own most highly
1965—1966 season. With a quota of blue whales this year than last. Whaling prized whale species. The bowhead
4,500 blue-whale units the antarctic from land stations in Peru and Chile— Whale and the right whales are monu-
fleets could process only 4,089 units. two nations that are not parties to the ments to man’s thoughtlessness in the
The ﬁnback kill reached a new low, international convention—accounted for days of sail. The blue whale and hump-
less than 10 percent of the 1960—1961 449 of these casualties in 1965. back—and possibly the ﬁnback and sei
peak; in spite of protection, one blue The crucial question today does not as well—are monuments to an industrys
whale and one humpback were taken. concern the antarctic ﬁshery but rather lack of fore31ght.1n the days of steam.
Again it was the sei whales that bore the the future of all whaling. Continued The whaling natlons today face a third
brunt of the slaughter, and even their overhunting of the ﬁnback whale can and almost certainly a ﬁnal decision-If
numbers were less than in the previous be expected to do to that species what essentially unrestricted whalmg contm-
season. The conclusion was inescapable: has already been done to the blue ues, the only surv1v1ng stock of any eco—
The antarctic ﬁshery, with its seasonal whale. Last year, in addition to the nomic importance—the sperm whale, of
yield down to less than 100,000 tons of antarctic season’s kill of 2,314 ﬁnbacks, whose numbers more than 250,000 have
oil, Was no longer economically signiﬁ- roughly 4,500 more of these animals been killed in the past 12 yearsj—is
cant. were taken in other waters. Through- doomed to become a monument to 1n-
out the world’s oceans today the only ternational folly. Only sharply reduced
great whale that survives in economical- annual harvests and protective regula-
ly signiﬁcant numbers is the sperm. Yet tions that are both enforceable and en-
a measure of the industry’s lack of con- forced offer the possibility that the last
cern for its dwindling resources may be of the great whales will survive.

Can the antarctic whale ﬁshery ever

be restored? Even with the progres—
sively reduced quotas now envisioned it
may take 100 years before this resource

 




 

 

The Author

SCOTT MCVAY is assistant to the
president of Princeton University. Fol-
lowing his graduation from Princeton in
1955 he worked for three years in Ber-
lin as a civilian with Army Intelligence.
Then he spent nearly ﬁve years as re—
cording secretary of Princeton Univer—
sity and two years as assistant to the
director of the Communication Research
Institute in Miami. McVay was an En—
glish major in college and became inter—
ested in whales as a result of reading
Moby Dick. He has spent much time in
reading, correspondence and research
on the subject; he writes that what
troubles him most is “the prospect that
the whales, possessing the largest brains
on earth and gloriously unique in the
scheme of living things, will be gone
from the earth before man may be able
to understand them.”

Bibliography

CETACEA. William E. Schevill in The
Encyclopedia of the Biological Sci—
ences, edited by Peter Cray. Rein-
hold Publishing Corporation, 1961.

MOBY DICK on THE WHALE. Herman
Melville. Garden City Publishing
Company, Inc., 1937.

MODERN WHALES, DOLPHINS, AND Pon—
POISES AS CHALLENGES TO OUR 1N—
TELLIGENCE. John C. Lilly in The
Dolphin in History. The University
of California Press, 1963.

WHALES. E. J. Slijper, Basic Books,
Inc., Publishers, 1962.

WHALES, DOLPHINS AND PORPOISES. Ed-
ited by Kenneth S. Norris. The Uni—
versity of California Press, 1966.

 

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

Welcome to the twenty—second annual meeting of the Animal
Welfare Institute. It is good to see activists from many different
agencies here, both from government and private conservation and
humane organizations. The urgency of the problems which face us,
symbolized by the terrible plight of the whales and dolphins of the
world, bring us together to fight for animals and the ecosystems
that support them and us. Interneoine battles are lessening and

willingness to help other organizations and share credit for such

victories as are won’is growing. This year, the ten-year moratorium

on commercial whaling is the target of targets. The Animal Welfare
Institute will continue to exert every means open to it to achﬁwe
that purpose, and it will not stop until the objective is achieved.

It is good to see here, Dr. Robert White, Administrator of the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; Curtis Bohlen, from
the Department of the Interior; Dr. Mulhern, Administrator of the
Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
Dr. Cass, Chief Veterinary Advisor to the veterans Administration; Dr.
Buchheister, President-Emeritus of the National Audubon Society; Tom
Garrett, Wildlife Dirctor of the Friends of the Earth; Lewis Regen-
stein, Executive Director of the Fund for Animals; and many other
leaders and workers from these and other agencies.

You will hear from the medallist, Scott McVay, a veteran fighter,
and a diplomat, too, in the whale campaigns, about the work that has
been done by many of those here today, and by some far away, at the

ends of the earth.

 




-2-

Now I will briefly summarize the work of the Animal Welfare
Institute during the year. Each of you has a copy of the annual
report, and you'll note the United States won a majority vote this
year for the whaling moratorium at the International Whaling Com,
mission meeting in London. That was important, even startling progress,
but it wasn't enough. Dr. Lee Talbot will, I hope, give his expert
opinion of where we are now.

In another field in which wild creatures are being killed by
means as hideously cruel as the explosive harpoons that are hurled
at the whales, the AWI has sought to focus attention through publica-
tion of Dr. F. Jean Vinter’s "Facts About Furs," copies of which are on
display here. Dr. Vinter wrote the first edition fifteen years ago
for the Universities Federation for Animal welfare in England, where,
owing to Winston Churchill’s intervention, the leg-hold trap is no
longer permitted. But in the United States, thousands of animals still
gnaw off their own legs in order to escape from the intolerable pain
and fear inflicted by this savage device which has been compared to

crucifixion in the torment it produces on the captive.

Other captives which deeperately need the help of all humanitarians

are the permanently caged laboratory dogs which some scientific
institutions stubbornly refuse to release for so much as half an hour

a day. Indeed, they have mounted a well-organized campaign, incredible
though it may seem, to prevent the humane veterinarians of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture from publishing a modest proposal in The Federal
Register to require such release. One of the AWI publications this

year was a reprint from College Management, in which roomy pens and

 

runways were recommended by such leading institutions as Johns Hopkins

and the Pedical College of Virginia. But spOkesmen from the University

 




-3-

of Texas have told the press they plan a three million dollar animal
research building in which the suppressed regulations will 223 be
observed! Only strong public demand will end the completely unnecessary
cruelty of perpetual caging for research dogs in those institutions
that refuse to recognize even minimum animal rights.

I will not attempt to refer to the full publication and distri~
bution program of the AWI, but in connection with the work of Barbara

Orlans to stop cruel experiments by school children, I would note that

many of our publications are designed for teachers to assist in this

fight. Two major articles by Dr. Orlans detailed the infliction of
pain and death on science fair animals. A highly encouraging sign
in this long fight was passage by the State of California of a law
prohibiting painful experiments on animals by high school or grade
school students. In Maine, an attempt to repeal a similar existing
law, failed.

Last year's Schweitzer medallist, Russell Train, now Chairman
of the Environmental Protection Agency, fought for whales and other
endangered wildlife. He was chief of the U.S. delegation which Spent
three extremely active weeks in February and March of this year seeking
the strongest possible treaty for the protection of endangered species.
Dr. Lee Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental Quality,
was in the forefront of this struggle and deserves enormous credit
for the provisions it contains. The treaty, which includes important
humane requirements in addition to its basic conservation provisions,
was ratified by the U.S. Senate in August and will be deposited in
Mbrges, Switzerland as soon as the implementing legislation has been
passed. Both Houses of Congress have acted on it, but at the present

time, Senator Steve 3 of Alaska.ha put a hol ﬁﬁ'e legislation in
n/‘IHK MAW my“
the conference committee. f the bill is not released by the committee

 




-u...

this week, some states will be put behind a whole year in their
implementation of the law. Other nations watching the United States

lead, aniwe are the leading nation in the effort to save endangered

species, will hang back and let the paoachers continue their nefarious

trade. Let us hope the conferees will agree on an effective bill
and that it will become law in 1973.

Lee Talbot admits to being an ecologist, a geographer and a
conservationist, but he is more than that. He has a disciplined,
scientific mind, but he does not suffer from the lack of nerve which
is likely to be an occupational concomitant. It is a pleasure to
be able to introduce to you a scientist who uses his analytical brain,
his knowledge and his experience - youthful though he is - to protect
the natural world against the destruction which current fads, linked
to ancient instincts, seem set on putting in motion. Only the other
day while being subjected to the tacit assumption that "scientists
and experts” canenlve all our problems, allowing the rest of us to
relax quietly, I was moved to point out that if all scientists were
like Lee Talbot or Rachel Carson, we wouldn't have to worry, but
unluckily, very few are. With more than lhO scientific or technical
publications to his name, he is a solidly established member of the
scientific community. It will be good for the earth and its inhabitants
if he develops a solid following in that community. Lee Talbot.

 




It is a pleasure to introduce a fellow whale-lover who needs
no introduction - Jason Robards.

If you have followed his career you may know that his genius
as an actor was first recognized when he played a supporting role
in "The Iceman Cometh." He then played "A Long Day’s Journey Into
Night," "Hughie," "Stalag l7," and "The Chase" followed, and after
Shakespearean roles at Stratford, Ontario, he played more leading
roles in "Big Fish, Little Fish," "Toys in the Attic," "A Thousand

Clowns," and many others.

In "A Mbon for the Misbegotten" he is visiting the Kennedy

Center for the second time. Many of you doubtless saw "The Country
Girl" in 1971.

To list just a few of the films in which he has appeared:
"The Journey," "By Love Possessed," ”Tender is the Night," "A Thousand
Clowns," "A Big Hand for a Little Lady," "Any Wednesday," "The War
Between Men and Women," ”Murders in the Rue Morgue," and "Death of
a Stranger". He has just finished filming "Pat Garrett and Billy the
Kid," and “Rover Blood".

But, quite apart from.his preaeminence as an actor - a true
star in these almost starless times, Jason is a close observer and
an intense admirer of the gray whales who pass in migration along
the California coast each year. In fact, I believe they are on their

way again now. Won't you please tell us about these whales?

 




Biographical Sketch Relating to Whale

Conservation and Research

Scott McVay

Chairman

Committee on Whales
Environmental Defense Fund

Home: 4566 Province Line Road
Princeton, N.J. 08540
609 924—2690

Office: Executive Director
Robert Sterling Clark Foundation
100 Wall Street, 18th Floor
New York, N.Y. 10005
212 344-4576

His efforts, through the Environmental Defense Fund, have
contributed in part to four major developments affecting Cetacea
(whales, dolphins, and porpoises) in this country:

(1) the listing of the great whales on the endangered
species list by the Department of Interior in December, 1970,
thereby closing the United States to the importation of whale
products (one-fourth of world market until action was effective
in December, 1971);

(2) the closing down of the last whaling Operations in
California in December, 1971 by the Department of Commerce;

(3) the unanimous passage by the Senate and the
House of Representatives of a resolution calling for a ten-
year moratorium on the killing of whales, which subsequently
became U. S. policy at Stockholm in June, 1972 and then at
the International Whaling Commission meeting in London;

(4) the high priority assigned by Secretary Peterson
of the Department of Commerce to the speedy resolution of
the problem of incidental slaughter of ca. 250,000 porpoises
annually by the tuna fishery (see 63-page NOAA report dated
September 8, 1972 indicating direction of applied research
as well as recent funding).

Publications: (a partial list)

. Scientific American, Vol. 215, No. 2, "The Last of
the Great Whales," August, 1966, pp. 13-21

 




Scott McVay

Natural History, Vol. LXXX, No. 1, "Can Leviathan Long
Endure So Wide a Chase?", January, 1971, pp. 36—41 and 68-72.

 

Science and Public Affairs, Bulletin of Atomic Scientists,
Vol. XXVII, No. 2, "Does the Whale's Magnitude Diminish? --
Will Be Perish?", February, 1971, pp. 38-41.

National Parks & Conservation Magazine, The Environmental
Journal, Vol, 45, No. 2, "Whales: A Skirmish Won, But What
About the War?", February, 1971, pp. 1, 3, & 14-19, with ten
photographs by the author including cover.

Science, Vol. 173, No. 3997, co-author, "Songs of
Humpback Whales," lead article, August 13, 1971, pp. 585—597,
cover & 11 illustrations.

Audubon, "Saving the Whales: Any Hint of HOpe?,"
November, 1971.

New York Times, "The Great Porpoise Massacre," March 19, 1972
and "The Jaws of the Whale," September 3, 1972.

 

American Scientist, "Stalking the Arctic Whale,"
January-February, 1973, 15 illustrations including cover.

 

Served on U. S. delegation to the International Whaling
Commission in 1971 (Washington) and 1972 (London).

Lead witness invited from outside of government at
Congressional Hearings on July 26, 1971 regarding the whaling
moratorium.

Based on a proposal he submitted to the Mexican
government, President Luis Echeverria declared Scammon's
Lagoon in Baja California a permanent whale sanctuary in
January, 1972.

Traveled to Japan in August, 1970 to encourage six leading
scientists to form committee for the preservation of whales,
under chairmanship of Dr. Seiji Kaya, former president of Tokyo
University, with kind assistance of Dr. Edwin Reischauer.
46-page report.

Invited to deliver paper on occasion of International
conference on Whale Biology in Skylands, Virginia in June,
1971 from "conservation vieWpoint". Paper titled "Reflections
on the Management of Whaling" will appear in book of proceedings
to be published by the Harvard University Press.

Traveled to USSR in January, 1973 as member of U. S. group
on endangered species.

 




Scott McVay

Led expedition to Arctic in May, 1971 to study the Bowhead
whale along the northwest coast of Alaska. Results of study and
current status of knowledge of this whale appeared in American
Scientist article noted above. Organized and led second expedition
in April—May, 1973 under sponsorship of World Wildlife Fund.
National Film Board of Canada is making one-hour documentary
of expedition.

 

 




in a superconductor and thereby
med, for soft supercomluctors, the
tile predictions of the BC'S theorv.
thereafter, in 1962, Brian Joseph-
irust upon a not-entirely—receptive
his famous predictions about
unneling between superconductors.
ison tunneling, perhaps the crown-
iievement of the tunneling branch
sics, has since,“ through its do and
cts, led to an entirely new area of
8,. namely macroscopic quantum
mes, an area vigorously explored
ercereau and his collaborators.
eviewer feels that, sooner or later,
obel Prize committee must ac-
dge Josephson’s achievement.)
. Josephson effect has even led to
est revision of the magnitudes of
mdamental constants (Taylor,
and Langenberg, 1969). In-
tunneling has yielded phonon
in Pb and other materials
1 and co-workers, Schriet‘fer and
ers, 1963) and excitation spectra.
hzed defects in thin insulating
Jambe and Jaklevic, 1966). This
ipressive list of accomplishments
ates only the brightest. of the
its, and even in that respect is,
bt, incomplete. Abundant mys-
et remain, and in Sept. 1969 a
Conference on Non-Supercon-
Tunneling was held in Maine.
ook is based upon the lectures
d at the 1967 NATO Advanced
nstitute at Riso', Denmark, from
to June 30. There are 36 chap-
tten by 32 authors, including a.
bly high percentage of the most
nt contributors in the ﬁeld (e.g.,
1aever, Franz, Kane, Rowell,
r, Mercereau, and Scalapino,
others)-—a verit-ably unique
anee (for solid-state phvsics)
ssible by the felicitous timing of
.Itute to precede directly the
l. Conf. on Electron Tunneling
, also held at Risé. The lectures
0 give a remarkably compre-
‘urvey of tunneling phenomena
md-1967, including even two
on atomic tunneling. The book
y be useful to both the pros and
ents of the ﬁeld (except, see
t is a highly readable book,

 

the many-body Green’s function formal-
ism dominating completely only 3
chapters and rearing its head signiﬁ—
cantly in only a couple of others.

The one painful aspect of the book is
its price! How can one recommend to a
graduate student that he pay $35 for a
book—~any book? Libraries—yes, by all
means (since they have the means);
workers in the ﬁeld—a cost-effectiveness
problem to be worked out by each indi-
vidual in solitude, or in the concerned
company of his wife; graduate students—
no, unless they have a source of inde-
pendent means. Murray .4. Lampert,
Electrical Engineering, Princeton Uni-
versity

The Year of the Whale by V. B. SCHEF-
FER; 213 pages; $6.95; Charles Scrib—
ner’s Sons, 1969. Illustrations by L. E.
FISHER.

Victor Schefier approaches the ideal of
“the thoughtful scientist,” “not content
to stay within his ivory tower; he must
relate to man, communicate, involve
himself to the limit of his ability with
the large open-ended problems, the ﬁnal
problems, of man adjusting to a world
containing man.” Scheffer has coura-
geously written a book on the ﬁrst year
in the life of a sperm whale calf—few
seasoned biologists would undertake a
major narrative in fictional garb.

In a few years it should be possible to
write on the basis of ﬁrsthand observa-
tions of the life of whales at sea. Yet
awhile, however, data will remain sparse
and inferences large. For 99.9% of the
observations of whales in the past cen-
tury have been—and continue to be—
by whalers on the hunt. What is best
known of a whale’s behavior relates to
killing, thousands of times a year, in all
the seas. We know how a whale dies.

Scheffer ponders eloquently (p. 121)
how sperm whales navigate. The ques-
tion of how they know where to go is,
to me, less interesting than study of
their behavior along the way and, in
particular, the signiﬁcance of their sonic
emissions. After all, the tiny Arctic tern
as well as the giant sea turtle and a
host of other birds, reptiles, and animals
find their way'by methods unknown to
man. Nevertheless, the central question

@Micm (texl‘l’l’

with the sperm whale must remain,
Why the giant brain?, when sharks and
squid of similar size get along in the sea
on a pea-sized brain. Scheffer writes,
“no one has yet unlocked the secret of
the mighty dome,” but he does not ask,
Why a. brain six times that of man? What
are its functions? From what we know
of computers, the larger the instrument
the more information it can handle.-
What kind of information can this
fantastic biological instrument handle?
What relation do its signals bear to this
information? These central questions
Scheffer does not touch. But he avoids
few others. _

Scheffer does not duck, for example,
the salty speciﬁcs of life at sea for whales,
large and small. The common View of the
dolphin, for example, is that of a coasting
character in the bow wave of a ship,
seemingly without a care or enemy,
ﬁnished in form, complete and carefree.
Against this notion, Scheffer reveals the
multitude of hazards that have threat-
ened the whale both before and simul-
taneous with the human carnage:
“Their enemies are the small, erosive,
unimpressive costs of living: the storms
and droughts, ﬁres and ﬂoods, days of
starvation, dangerous cliffs and treach-
erous bogs, thin ice, scratches, infections,
tumors, lice and other biting bugs,
roundworms and tapeworms, broken
teeth and bones, poisonous foods, and
all the thousand natural shocks that
ﬂesh is heir to. Death comes to them
slowly. . . sperm whales die far at sea,
their passing rarely known to man.”

Errors seem marginal and open to
argument, but one might question:

(1) The heavy inferences about whale.
behavior drawn from dolphins observed
in captivity, e.g., “ultrasounds of a
thousand whales communicating.” Most
whale sounds are exceedingly low-
pitched in contrast to the dolphin’s high-
pitched mode. With reference to play,
mating, pregnancy, and parturition,
Scheﬁ'er used observations of captive
bottlenose dolphins without a reference
note.

(2) The descriptions of the whales’
perspective drawn from a visual point of
view (“they raise their stubby heads
above the water and gaze quickly but

389A

 




. xmswmymnw‘wtg,

 

intently toward the horizon. . .”),
glimpsed from the air, as though from
the deck of a ship. The whale, however,
moves through a weightless world of
water, and the primary sensory input is
sonic, not visual. The neural network
of the brain for visual purposes is not
comparable to the massive acoustical
network. In contrast. to our world, the
whale’s is essentially a world of sound,
motion, and weightlessness.

(3) The notation: “like all whales she
(the mother of Little Calf) can go for
weeks without. food, living on the reserve
fat in her body.” This notion may have
currency for rorquals, but it is unsup-
ported by evidence for toothed whales.

(4) Scheffer’s arbitrary estimate of
age. Data based on recovered whale
marks are clear, but inferences from ear
plugs, teeth, and ovaries are still un—
substantiated. To postulate a whale of
75 years overreaches what we can now
know.

Each of the dozen species of great
whales is either endangered or already
exterminat-ed, and Scheffer reports that
the sperm whale stock is badly abused,
with some 25 thousand kills each year.
With swift strokes of the pen, he makes
clear what is going on: “In man’s
attempts to catch more whales more
cheaply, he has tried to poison them with
strychnine and cyanide and curare. He
has tried to electrocute them. Spotters
in airplanes and helicopters now search
them out and report the position of the
herds to whaling vessels below. The
ships hunt them down by ASDIC, the
system that can feel the whales in total
darkness. A ‘whale-scaring machine’
frightens the beasts into ﬂight with
ultrasound and tires them so the hunter
can overtake them. What will be next?
Will the hunter cut a phonograph record
of the mating call of the whale, or the
cry of the calf for its mother, and play
back the sounds beneath the bow of his
ship? Will the orbiting satellite speak
through space to tell the hunter where to
ﬁnd the last whale?”

We remember with a start that all we
have seen closely to date—and watched
with strange fascinatiOI —are “death
ﬂurries,” the tragic scene that plays to
an inert bloated conclusion 50 to 60
390A

thousand times a year. The “life ﬂur-
ries” remain essentially unknown be--
cause no man has stayed with a whale
pod hour after hour, day and night, week
after week. I think I know one who will.

Biologists ﬁll many notebooks with
observations in the course of a lifetime.
Narrow bands from this material are
selected to appear in papers. Too few
biologists, however, are able or willing
to make the kind of large-scale general
assessment of a. substantial segment of
life’s domain, of appeal to both the
critical scientiﬁc establishment and the
layman. Mr. Scheffer deals with the
“open-ended questions, the. ﬁnal ones. . .”
His effort succeeds. From the ﬂotsam of
observations from scattered sources, his
integrative mind has generalized here
with grace, raising ﬂags regularly to
mark the near boundaries of our ignor—
ance. He has worked bits of information
from a thousand sources—which to-
gether form a crude outline of our ig-
norance rather than a map of knowl-
edge—into a book giving a whole-cloth
impression of the sperm whale. Not
since Moby Dick has this elusive
mammal been as celebrated. Even after
118 years, we still do not know much
more than Melville did, though we may
have identiﬁed 20 “harmless” kinds of
parasites in the belly or found that the
guts measure a quarter mile long.

Much in Scheffcr’s book is fresh and
important, for he weaves a fascinating
tale, studded with new information and
pointing the way toward what must be
sought out—Scott .lIcVay, Princeton
University

Antagonists and Nucleic Acids by
M. E. BALls; 293 pages; no price
given; John Wiley & Sons, Inter—
science, North-Holland Publishing
Co., 1969.

This book presents a useful and
unique treatment of the subject by
integrating work carried out on various
kinds of inhibitors in different biological
systems. Although the references to
early contributors are sometimes in-
complete, on the whole the author covers
the subject quite thoroughly and ac-
curately. Of particular importance is the
fact that Dr. Balis discusses comparative

 

 

biochemical and pharzmmalumni .

of the action of \’:tr!Hll~' 3.”

antagonists in

cussions of antibiotics

- J .«
H 5!

bacteria. («\zwr”
animals, and man in a ‘.'.'ciiv~«»t‘,.‘
manner. Although this book t3..s‘.‘
difficult for persons who have 2:1:
ground in the nucleic acid ticili, 2'. ~~
be valuable as a reference t'oiztsm .
a text in advanced courses on :
acid metabolism. it provides a
needed treatise on thc action of -E
inhibitors of macromtilccnlc am
cursor synthesis, brought tug. 1%
one place and well-integrami. ’1”:

that

protein or nucleic acid sjcntlsw
interacting at ditl‘crcnt sites “2'.

macromolecular

structure,»

rer- : «w
I

 




A 50—foot, 30-ton humpback whale makes a tremendous, crashing,
backward leap in a rare photograph of a rare leviathan
by lohn Dominis of Life Magazine. (Copyright© Time inc.)

 

by SCOTT McVAY

O ANYONE INTERESTED IN THE CONSERVATION OF

WHALES, the patchwork reporting in the press during
the past year has been bewildering. lt is obvious that many
of the species of great whales are in bad shape. But just
where does the regulation of whaling now stand?

First, it should be clear that the United States, after more
than a century of whaling, has taken steps to disengage
itself from complicity in all aspects of whale killing except
its regulation..On December 2, 1970, the Department of
the Interior placed eight species of whales—the bowhead,
right, gray, blue, humpback, fin, sei, and sperm—on its
”List of Endangered Foreign Fish and Wildlife.” By this
action the U. S. prohibits the importation of whale products
into this country, thus eliminating a good 20 percent of the
world market. In a follow-up action the Department of
Commerce banned the killing of whales as of the end of
1971. Domestic whaling operations in recent years have
not been very profitable and account for a minuscule .5
percent of the world catch. In fact, whale stocks available
to American operators have been so depleted that the com—
panies have been able to keep going only by taking pro-
tected whales—grays and immature sperm whales—under
special scientific permits.

Recently another slaughter of marine mammals involving
the powerful tuna industry has come to light. Porpoises of
at least three species, including the remarkable spinner,
which often gyrates longitudinally when leaping clear of
the sea, are killed inadvertently by a purse—seining tech-
nique in use during the past dozen or so years. Because
porpoises feed on the same small fish as the tuna, schools
of porpoises numbering 500 animals or more are com-
monly encircled in the net along with the catch. As the
seine is drawn tighter, many porpoises hit the net and
drown. In the early days of using the purse seine, porpoise
mortality ran very high because fishermen knew no way
to get them out of the net. However, the development in
recent years of a rescue. method called ”backing down”
the net allows a varying proportion of each school to

46‘

escape. But an estimated 250,000 animals still perish each
year in the tuna fisheries of the eastern tropical Pacific
alone. Better techniques for releasing the porpoises have
been proposed but have not yet been fully tested.

An International Conference on Whale Biology held last
June in the Shenandoah National Park in Virginia attracted
34 leading marine mammalogists, biometricians, and con-
servationists from Asia, Africa, Australia, Europe, and North
and South America. The purpose of the three-day gather-
ing was to indicate gaps in our knowledge of whale popula-
tions and to suggest ways to curtail the whaling industry's
continuing exploitation of these great marine mammals.
Most regrettably, two invited participants from the Soviet
Union—one of the two major whaling nations—were, at
the last minute, unable to attend. But six Japanese scientists
were on hand. These two countries together take 85 per-
cent of the whales killed each year.

Although the conference participants never questioned
the prevailing assumption that whales must be killed on a
large scale, they nonetheless began what may evolve one
day into a Magna Charta for whales. indeed, the confer-
ence itself represents a turning point because many of the
participating whale biologists began to think seriously for
the first time about the problem of whale conservation.

Among the principal conclusions of the Working Group
on Biometrics, Conservation, and Management, chaired by
Sidney J. Holt of UNESCO in Paris, were the following:

0 An international observer plan should be instituted
immediately to insure that greater reliance can be placed
on data used for scientific assessments, that protected
whale species are not taken, and that other rules of the

international Whaling Commission (lWC) are honored.

O The Blue Whale Unit must be abandoned. (This irra-
tional measure lumps separate species together as ”catch”
units, and under it, for example, one blue whale equals
two fin whales or six sei whales.) Each whale species and
the separate regional populations within each species must
be managed on an individual basis.

AUDUBON/NOVEMBER 1971

 




O Conservative quotas should be set, preferably by
stocks (regional populations), for the whale species that
are still hunted in order that depleted whale stocks may
recover.

O A quota should be set for minke whaling in the
Antarctic. (The minke is a small baleen whale Just begin-
ning to be hunted by the Norwegians.)

0 All nonmember whaling nations should be encour-
aged to join the IWC so that its regulations are universally
applicable.

0 Regulations should be established for the rational ex-
ploitation of the sperm whale. These should recognize the
differences in habits and size of males and females, with
separate quotas set for each.

0 An internationally coordinated program of long-term
whale research, including work on live free-ranging whales,
should be fostered. This would require a substantial in-
crease in the numbers of scientists and available research
facilities.

The scientists chose not to deal with the thorny question
of permits to take protected whales for scientific purposes.
At present, any member of the IWC can issue permits for
the catch of whale species that the commission has de-
clared to be endangered and in need of complete protec—
tion. For example, the Canadian government granted
permission again this year for the catch of 30 Atlantic
humpback whales. In the opinion of some participants,
such permits should be approved by a small internationally
constituted group of scientists who are convinced that the
proposed research is worth the danger inflicted on the
whale stock in question.

THE CONFERENCE or WHALE BIOLOGISTS was fol-
lowed the next week by a meeting of the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission in Washington, D. C., the first
to be held in this country since the commission’s founding
in 1946. While the U. S. commissioner commented that he
was ”encouraged by this year’s progress,” The New York
Times took a rather different view. In a blistering editorial
the newspaper labeled the meeting a ”dismal fiasco.” The
commission’s deliberations can perhaps most fairly be
appraised in three words: business as usual. The familiar
delaying tactics in acting on the scientific recommenda-
tions were again evident.

At the opening session U. Alexis Johnson, Undersecre—
tary of State for Political Affairs, warned the members that
the entire concept of the multilateral international com-
mission as an effective means of dealing with the conserva—
tion of major living marine resources is on trial. He pointed
out that ”concern is running high in the United States
about the future of whales and whaling” and added that
the actions taken by the Departments of Interior and Com-
merce to protect whales ”express the views of the people
of the United States that the International Whaling Com-
mission has acted neither soon enough nor forcefully
enough to prevent destruction of a valuable international
natural resource.” His words were little noticed.

 

Scott McVay has led the Environmental Defense Fund’s
effort to save the whales, and served on the American dele-
gation to the International Whaling Commission meeting.

48

The Blue Whale Unit was not rescinded as the method
of tabulating the kill of Antarctic whales because of a
”technicality”: it was not specifically on the agenda. The
setting of controls for the once abundant fin whale popu-
lation in the Antarctic was not based on sound scientific
advice but rather on a response to pressure by Japanese
and Soviet whalers, who between them account for roughly
36,000 of the reported annual world whale catch of 42,000.
With the fin wh’ale population reduced to about 20 percent
of its former abundance, the number of kills that the
population can sustain without being further depleted was
estimated by scientists to be in the neighborhood of 2,200.
The US. proposed a quota of 1,700 fin whales to allow
the population to begin to recover (even so, it would re-
quire two hundred years at that rate). The net effect of the
Blue Whale Unit quota is to allow a catch of as many as
3,000 fin whales, substantially more than the population
can produce. The inevitable result is further depletion of
their numbers. ’

The commission set no quota on the catch of minke
whales in the Antarctic.

The commission agreed to reduce quotas by 20 percent
for all whales taken in the North Pacific in 1972. This is an
acceptable action for the fin whale, but some scientists
question the high quotas for sei and sperm whales. Also,
the ”fudge” factor of 10 percent that allows what is not
taken in one baleen species to be taken in the other was
approved for yet another year.

One encouraging development occurred during the
week following the formal lWC meeting. The Soviets and
Japanese agreed on regional observer plans for whaling in
the Antarctic and North Pacific. Thus it is possible that by
November an exchange of observers will have taken place
among the Soviet Union, Japan, and Norway, and factory
ships steaming toward the Antarctic will for the first time
have qualified observers aboard. It would be the most
significant international development in whale conserva-
tion to date.

On June 29, 1971, the US. Senate unanimously ap-
proved a resolution requesting the Secretary of State to
seek a ten-year moratorium on whaling. A similar measure,
now slightly altered, was considered in detail by a House
Foreign Affairs subcommittee at a hearing on July 26, 1971.
If the resolution is passed by the House of Representatives
as expected, the hand of the United States at the June
1972 meeting of the IWC in London will be considerably
strengthened.

In the light of the ruthless pattern of predation that has
stalked the great whales in every decade of the present
century, a ten-year moratorium on whaling is not only
reasonable but minimal. The pause in whaling would
present a fine opportunity for the study and observation of
live whales in thewild, in contrast to the emphasis placed
in the past on the study'of dead whales by scientists who
have often been dependent on the industry. A moratorium
would also allow time to establish international controls
to assure long-term protection. Naturally, the passage of
this. resolution by Congress will not bring an immediate
halt to whaling, but it will make clear the conviction of the
American people and their government that the havoc
wrought by modern-day whalers may be healed only over
time and with the exercise of great restraint. I

AUDUBON/ NOVEMBER 1971

 




Reprinted from

13 August 1971, Volume 173, pp. 587-597 8013 NOE

Songs of Humpback Whales

Roger S. Payne and Scott McVay

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

N
\ g \ {cg — g - i

 

\

W

 

“‘

m— : ‘ ‘5‘: - .- _ _—'--
"" g ‘M ﬂ ”‘5‘” “‘““"
> \

‘ ~13 z.“

 

 

 

Mrrrrrrrrlhr- 1.- r rrr Firff’ff/f r r rr

 

 

Mr H g'f‘r'r—r—r—I‘rrrrrl i I {irrrrrrrr'v-r / ‘1 q

 

 

 

 

 

' {{‘I‘m—m"r'rrr—I‘F f / {r , , , , , , 1 1 ; r r771

 

‘77-’77/ ///f[f/l7//f{[f"/[[~~

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WV ~— 0 x
‘ *v’ § _\ \ W
Q ’\ § "\ § ‘\ o? ‘\ 3 i
A m, \
w‘ L L ‘1‘“ J" , 5 ./\\ w ‘ ‘ ~ ~ ~ ~

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Songs of Humpback Whales

Humpbacks emit sounds in long, predictable patterns

ranging over. frequencies audible to humans.

Roger S. Payne ‘and Scott McVay

During the quiet age of sail, under
conditions of exceptional calm and
proximity, Whalers were occasionally

able to hear the sounds of whales trans--

mitted faintly through a wooden hull
(I). In this noisy century, the wide-
spread use 'of propeller-driven ships and
continuously running shipboard gener-
ators has made this a rare occurrence.
Not until World War II, when research
in sonar and antisubmarine warfare
fostered major efforts and facilities for
listening underwater,’ did it become
generally known that many species of
whales are vocal. At this time the ﬁrst
whale recordings were made.

Of the 25 or more species of whales
that have been recorded, most are
Odontocetes (toothed whales). Their
sounds fall into three rough categories:
short broad-band clicks, longer narrow-
band squeals, and complex sounds (2).
The complex sounds usually consist of
rapidly repeated clicks. Most authors
assume that both clicks and complex
sounds serve principally for echoloca—
tion and that whistles are primarily
for communication. However, there is
little direct proof of either assumption
(2). There seems to be no evidence
that the sort of sound-patterning with

which this article .is concerned occurs

among Odontocetes, but there are good
reasons to suppose that it might.

 

Dr. Payne is assistant professor of physiology
and animal behavior at Rockefeller University,
New York, New York, and research zoologist,
New York Zoological Society. Mr. McVay is an
administrator at Princeton University, Princeton,
New Jersey.

Mysticete (baleen whale) sounds are
varied and complex, consisting, for the
most part, of lower and longer sounds
than have yet been recorded from
Odontocetes. The ﬁn whale (Balaenop-
tera ph-ysalus) makes very low moans
(at a fundamental frequency around
20' hertz) that are monotonously re-
peated in a regular pattern (3, 4). To
date, the most vocal Mysticete that has
been studied is the humpback whale
(Megaptera novaeangliae).

Humpback whales, like sperm whales,
are found in all oceans of the world.
However, while the sperm whale has
been, and remains, the most numerous
large cetacean on earth, the humpback
has never been very plentiful. The prin-
cipal concentration of humpback
whales is in the Antarctic Ocean (5),
where they have probably never num-
bered more than 34,000 at any one
time. However, the intense whaling of
the past 40 years has reduced the num-
ber of humpbacks there to no more
than a few percent of the original
numbers.

The International Whaling Commis-
sion has called for full protection "of
the humpback. Yet, even if this mora-
torium is honored, the number of
humpbacks in the Southern Hemi-
sphere seems dangerously low, perhaps
too low to provide the pool of genetic
variability needed to survive the next
natural or man-made crisis.

Though they have also been serious-
ly overhunted in the Northern Hemi-
sphere, small herds of humpbaCks ap-

pear in a few areas during natural
periods of concentration (that is, for
feeding, migration, delivering young,
and the like). The waters near Bermuda
are well known as such an area. Hump"—
backs are found to the south of Bermu-
da in considerable numbers during their
annual spring migration from winter
breeding grounds in the south to sum-
mer feeding grounds in the north (2, 3,
6). It is from studies of the herd so-
journing in these waters that we have
become aware of what we believe to be
the humpbacks’ most extraordinary fea-
ture—they emit a series of surprisingly
beautiful sounds, a phenomenon that
has not been reported previously in
more than a passing way. We describe
here one part of the humpbacks’ sonic
repertoire—a long “song” that recurs
in cycles lasting up to 30 minutes and
perhaps longer. '

History of Recordings

The ﬁrst recordings of humpback
whales that we know of were obtained
in 1952 by Schreiber (7) from a US.
Navy hydrophone installation on the
underwater slope of Oahu, Hawaii. Al-
though Schreiber did not identify the
species, Schevill (2) subsequently rec-
ognized the sounds recorded by
Schreiber as coming from humpbacks.
Most of the sounds that we describe
here were recorded by Frank Watling-
ton of the Palisades Sofar Station at
St. David’s, Bermuda. Watlington re-
corded from a hydrophone installation,
similar to Schreiber’s, deep in the North
Atlantic on the slope of Bermuda.

Humpback whales may winter near
Bermuda as well as pass nearby during
their spring migration to northern At-
lantic waters ('8). The fortunate loca-
tion of the broad-band hydrophones
used by Watlington made it possible
for him to record humpback sounds
during spring migrations from 1953 to
1964. The broad-band hhydrophOne
from which all of the recordings ana-
lyzed here were made was in about 700
meters of water, about 3 kilometers
southeast of the entrance to Castle

 




 

 

4 SIM lllllS

L —_J_-JN—p-J

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

~——

/ ///

___J-_a_ h—q—Jw“

Y—

llllll lllll IIIII lllll'

 

 

mm 1 um um um um mm
W J ‘ *T T W """
x ”“3; PHASE # ____
rm: mm
\m T _.___

 

Y

Sﬂlﬁ SESSIOI

Fig. 1. Diagrammatic sample of whale spectrograms (also called sonagrams) indicating terminology used in describing songs. Fre-
quency is given on the vertical axis, time on the horizontal axis. The circled areas are spectrograms that have been enlarged to show

the substructure of sounds which, unless slowed down, are not readily detected by the human ear.

Harbour. Watlington’s hydrophone-
preampliﬁer combination was ﬂat in re-
sponse (i3 decibels) from 500 hertz
to 10 kilohertz, with an amplitude loss
of 6 decibels per octave below 500
hertz. A cable from this hydrophone
extended to Watlington’s ofﬁce, where
the sounds were taped by a Magne-
corder, type PT 6-AH, operating at
19.1 centimeters per second. Thus,
when whales uttered sounds within
range of the hydrophone, Watlington
was able to make recordings, free of
the usual shipboard and cable noises,
with the assurance that the whales were
not being disturbed by the presence of
an observer.

Evidence that Sounds Are
Correctly Ascribed to Humpbacks

Schevill and Watkins (9), apparent-
ly referring to some of the same sounds
from the same Watlington tapes that
we have described here, have already
pointed out that the sounds come from
humpback whales. Additional evidence
that this is true comes from observa-
tions by Watlington. By using binoc-
ulars, he was able, on several occa-
sions, to observe whales, blowing in the
vicinity of the hydrophones during a
recording of “whale sounds.” On rare
occasions, Watlington was able to veri-
fy that these whales were humpbacks
by noting the prominent white ﬂippers
when the whales breached. However,
such observations did not accOmpany

all of the recordings analyzed in detail
here.

In addition to the tapes provided by
Watlington, we have taken into con-
sideration several hundred hours of
recordings made by Payne, who has
studied humpback sounds and behavior
off Bermuda during the past ﬁve
springs (1967 to 1971). Payne and
Payne (10) have reviewed many of
these tapes by noting the form of the
sounds in a simple shorthand and, in
some cases, by spectrographic analysis.
All of our general conclusions about
songs are based. on considerations of
both'the Watlington and Payne record-
ings, but all spectrographic analyses
shown here are from the Watlington
recordings.

The evidence that Payne’s recordings
come from humpbacks is as follows:
(i) when the sounds (such as those
to be analyzed here) that were heard

were loud and whales were visible in
the area, the whales proved in each in-
stance to be humpbacks; (ii) interposi-
tion of a motorboat’s wake between
identiﬁable, nearby humpbacks and a
hydrophone reduced the intensity of the
sounds being recorded (the bubbles in
the wake presumably acted as a partial
screen); (iii) unfavorable orientation
of a hydrophone array in relation to a
visible group of humpbacks reduced
the intensity of the sounds recorded
(one occasion); (iv) pauses in an ex-
ceptionally loud series of sounds were.
correlated with blowing of a nearby
humpback at the surface (several oc-
casions) and with a breaching hump-
back (one occasion); and (v) while
drifting in a boat on a very calm sea,
Payne went near a pair of clearly
identiﬁable humpbacks and heard one
whale emit a complete sequence of
sounds, of the sort described here,

Fig. 2. Here, as well as in Figs. 3 to 5, the right side shows a machine spectrographif:
analysis of two complete songs (labeled 1 and 2). Frequency and time scales are 1nd1-
cated. The left side is a tracing “of the spectrograms on the right, emphaSiZing loud
notes of the song and leaving out noise, echoes, distant whales. and all harmonics (ex-
cept inrthe case of pulsive sounds, which depend on their 1. . 'monic structure for the
effectfhey have 0n the human ear). The gap between spectrovraphs of songs 1 and 2
1s desrgned to make the individual songs clear and is not indicative of any gap in time-
Thls ﬁgure shows two songs of whale I, recorded 28 April 1964 by F. Watlington 9f
the Palisades Sofar Station, St. David’s, Bermuda. Note dynamite blasts occurring in
pairs every 10 minutes. These two songs are part of a series of seven from this whale,
and by comparison with earlier songs, lacking the dynamite blasts, we ﬁnd that the
blasts do not have any. detectable effect on the whale's rendition of its son8~ We
have other examples of whales singing, without change in the form of the song, right
through loud underwater sounds generated by other research activities in the area; The
dashed line at about 500 hertz represents propeller noise from a passing freighter‘

5.21:3) are prominent, making louder sounds appear three times on the original spec-
s.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

l I .
( I ..
I {a V'" m“ t A _ A i A W : II} ’5‘

h

I ‘ ﬂ
0 \ ' .——’
‘ A J, a
‘ "ﬂ ‘ id iii *‘~ _u W
\ ~ ‘ ' \
._—v—’ .
w msa$§% «1“ “NW ( I I

 

 

 

 

 

‘ .

Prrwrrrnrrr “fT7“

- T A/‘f/‘x‘v.

 

 

 

 

 

 

fr —/‘ 'f‘f‘l‘ /.’I“—/\"'

if [/1

1‘ , ’J' [HM-TH

)1} Jﬁﬁfﬂrgr‘\\ r;-:.;\/_;;;\ \\
-- \ Uyulito
\ :2; =3; \ ‘ U _ \“ y \ .‘ \ «I \ -H \
“\z .__ ‘\§ _~ “§ ,.~ ‘4§ __ “§
>_\ . \ \ \ \
‘-:: —-' \--:L -———J' \-;t —-’ \_::' ~r-‘ ‘—:i ._ 4__,
\ \ \ \ \
”Q Q 4 ‘9‘ Q \ \1

"‘H Ff,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I

"l!

m

 

 

 

”III

 

 

 

fz’
/
r
I

i

A

I
)
I"
”V
9
<

 

 

 

 

pal

 

_ awe .4333; \ _ *r-
‘_ ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

““‘rlxrrrn“ r rr‘rnrr rr;
HIE—f— HH ”

 

 

 

 

 

H r "
‘———ﬂ"—//'\
I i 1 1 , 11,15
A ‘yluitu I ‘ ‘ \
- ‘ Q 1 g :z; \\ ~_ Q
\ 1M4 ‘ I" , ’m\ ‘ ‘ \¥ ﬂ\\ r\.\ ‘ ‘ ‘ 4-
’ I’lillll \ § §
.‘\ A ~-- “‘é: a-—— \-N\ ‘_ _ —~i—~ “r\' -—— ‘.‘\ ‘§‘_ ~ o~—-
\ \ \ \
\ \ - \ \
‘-\\ \—‘\ \n\\ ‘v'\

o 5 10- 15 20 25 30 35 40 45. so 55 ‘30

 

 

 

 

 

 

to
‘rr’
I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

//
”f

{

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

”/

\

l’/

 

 

 

   

Fig. 3. Whale II, recorded by Watlington in spring, 1963. At the end of line 4 the w
it started singing again, line 5) was not taped. Note, however, th

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a _Stops

 

 

true start lost

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C I a.

\ \w I
‘ ﬁq‘ ( — at ‘
K

g .\ I f

‘ I
l\ \ I 4'11 1"

\ \ "I4"- (

\. ‘\ S

I“ “ r

\

: I ( ”w’ r”:
‘u '. I I
\ a 04”"

\ l .
'I/J ‘
\ h ) A
f
r c (
K "r? I
k
u i p ‘
g \ l f “’
i .\ I' It !
r—
x \ L "- ’
K
5
\ 4
; ~ ‘v I
\ ¢ ’
\ \ ‘ Mt
.K g l
. I ' x
\ i” . ’ l

”’

 

—

&

\A

\a

 

 

 

u u a.

-nLﬂM_

 

 

Sounds of a second and more distant whale are prominent on the

second song, whale II stopped singing—one of our few examples

"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if 3
L. “ K
K
‘ ‘
g \
lgk
. I \‘
I ’ k ‘
x __
'5 ‘
as :
1"!l's -— s
k : ‘
I \
\’—~ 5
I ‘—
g s
K“ K
K x
l k 2‘
, ‘L 1 S
1‘ "~
\ \Jr
\ '~——
l ‘ id
‘h
‘! r
- :I
"—u“
s x}:
I g ‘I
A \F
» 8 z:
1'! KL
_ l
N

 

[I

/I”I.’/./"// {

/

 

 

"I—I’I/

 

 

 

 

 

47/ /

 

 

 

NI‘

“fa!

’r/

 

 

I”

r,,o’

 

 

 

 

55

50

45

40

35

30

25

2O

15

IO

 

hale stopped brieﬂy, and a small blt (Just afltier
at the whale resumed singing in proper sequence Of the :oﬂ‘jge.
spectrographic record midway through song 2~ At the end 0

of the end of a song.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

h' shorter than. the secon

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

00 on On nv 0‘ an on ma ON 2. o. n 0
2:3»
”(I
u .I\ I l m I. u I. . I m I m I I. II .. [I I I . (
m/ .1 ell .I , on) I . I. u I!
«(It ,Iucr...“ I .(Tr J..\ J 1m}.w(. /.
., .J K / . ./ (
p I I. (\ II I\ .. .
a K \ x ‘
. \lu! I|I\ L, '5'! III.
x< sit: t: . .E. a .2:::Ts7..
L \C 9‘ C In It.) #i 'l(\l
gun... JI. 10% (.0! ..o.: W! l‘li» II!
a. m.“ .m
«kl-ll I3 1‘ .I‘lq' ‘
53.”... ﬁlﬂnmmnwil ﬁnal
I l . 3‘
wdmuum... x53... kins. (A.
(III. I||u1
II I . .I I! uh In!
II."IIW II-Jurl\ u, I. . .r
.I... ll. “Kite .(tI... [ha
I, In"
x I. w .J «I W I (I. Mr / t/ we
1 w
I I. I ( .' (I r. r N
{ III.- r’ r If
\ ~«xr e x4.» ~ \ L1. 1 kgk .x.
_~. ... a \ :ugxgngyg
iwuai ’MUu l...
whim “and... Huh”!
.I .( III‘II- ' ‘ “

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ins with an un-

ich beg

,wh

d

rst song 18 muc

The ﬁ

in May 1963

mgton

Fig. 4. Whale 111,

recorded by Watl

usually long ﬁrst 'thcmeq

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

f‘ r7 :7 “E" F“ T“ "T :— F T“ T" T7 5"
.\ ._ g ' a» :
.. S " t ‘ -1
\ I W)— ! l ‘ 2:4 a f \ " f “ $ 1
l 'x ’ ‘ ﬂ '3' ( i
x i 7 ﬂ ’ z .‘ \ \ " :a
t K \ W _ I :
‘ ': I "r :‘ ‘5 7 s :
. .‘ 3 /‘ i ' . | ‘ I ‘ h.‘
. \ > " .1. l , ‘ . \ . j‘ Z i i
" ’ $ “ ﬂ . ‘ \ ~ ‘ I ;.
I \. § 3‘ I i } \ \ i s f,
. L ‘l i ‘ \ \ W I 3
\ > - ‘ ‘ i \ 3 i 5 :n
K ‘7 2 t. \ s, .. :
f l s I 1’ \I. I \ \ ' j E :6
Q a, i . . 2’ ‘ s, W i", 5 \' .J E :n
.. 3 ~ , , .1 ‘ 5 " 2 ‘ I
b . ( I 1 ., - 2 , ‘ :3
I :‘ i , x I ‘ 3 $ .
g x V - i I i \‘ f.‘ B "a 4 3-
\ I E " ' ‘ | :R
x if a 1 J ' I 1 I \ \ > 4 1‘ ‘ :
. _ I . E.
g x. I 3 \ R't \ t5 - i :—
1‘ \ ’ I , (I (S \ ~s . z :
l _ 5 f ’i i " l, “ :
a x r i g hi ﬁ \ ’ 1 3: ‘ :2
f g \ ‘* I
\ K . K [ .u.
I r “ mum l ,l \ ~ a i -
. / ‘ ., '\ "“1 , ’ ‘ I
'“ LQLQLEZE‘iij7“'
g g

N.
3

F.ig’ 5, WhalelV, recorded by Watlington 12 April 1961. This is an example of a
different song type.(type B) from the previous three examples. The poor signal-to-noise
ratio of the recording caused the spectrograms for the highest frequency, lowest inten-

sity signals to be quite faint. At the end of song 2, the whale stopped singing. This was,

actually the fourth and last consecutive song Watlington recorded from

.. . this whale
this occasron, and thus also indicates a true ending. on

 

While the pair were submerged. He
was using no hydrophone, the sounds
coming directly through the bottom of
the boat. Observations such as these
have removed most of our doubts that
what we have been analyzing are
humpback sounds; yet the great vari-
ability of the sounds still leaves us with
residual reservations about ascri'bing to
one species (the humpback) all of the
sounds we are analyzing here.

Analysis of Humpback Sounds

On ﬁrst hearing humpback vocaliza-
tions, one has the impression of an al-
most endless variety of sounds. Spec-
trographic analysis shows, however,
that all prolonged vocalizations Occur
in long, ﬁxed sequences, and are re-
peated with considerable accuracy
every few minutes. Because one of the
characteristics of bird songs is that they
are ﬁxed patterns of sounds that are
repeated, ‘we call the ﬁxed patterns of
humpback sounds “songs.” The prin-
cipal differences between bird and
humpback songs are that bird songs
usually last for a few seconds, while
humpback songs last for minutes; and
one song of a bird is usually separated
from the next by a period of silence,
whereas humpback songs are repeated
without a signiﬁcant pause or break in
the rhythm of singing.

The term “song,” as used in discus-
sions of sounds made by animals, has
received considerable attention. In one
case, no fewer than nine pages of
a comprehensive glossary by Brough—
ton (see 11) are devoted to a de-
tailed discussion of the many uses, mis—
uses, and meanings of “song.” Brough-
ton ﬁnally arrives at three meanings,
or categories of meanings, of the term
“song,” which he characterizes as sensu
latissimo, sensu stricto, and sensu
strictissimo. The median of these three
(sensu stricto) is deﬁned as “a series
of notes, generally of more than one
type, uttered in succession and so re-
lated as to form .a recognizable se-
quence or pattern in time.” By that
deﬁnition (and by Broughton’s other
two as well), we feel justiﬁed in using
the term “song” to describe repetitive
sound patterns of humpback whales.

In deseribing the humpback whale
song, we will adhere to the following
designations. The shortest sound that
is continuous to our ears when heard
in “real time” will be called a “unit.”
(Some units when listened to at slower




 

speeds, or analyzed by machine, turn
out to be a series of pulses or rapidly
sequenced, discrete tones. In such
cases, we will call each discrete pulse
or tone a “subunit.”) A series of units
:is called a “phrase.” An unbroken se-
quence of similar phrases is a “theme,”
and several distinct themes combine to
form a “song.” Finally, a series of songs
within which there is no pause longer
than 1 minute is termed a “song ses-
sion.” Some sessions last for hours.

In summary: subunit < unit <
phrase < theme < song < song ses-
sion. A diagram is shown in Fig. 1.

The shortest complete humpback
song we have yet timed lasts 7 minutes,
and the longest more than 30 minutes.
Since these two songs are quite dif-
ferent in form and were recorded in
different years, they are probably from
different whales. But even the same
whale, repeating its own song, will
show different cycle lengths during a
song session. For example, two succes-
sive songs of whale 111 (Fig. 4) last
7 minutes and 121/2 minutes, respec-
tively. In spite of such variations in
length, we call these vocalizations
“songs” because they differ primarily
in the number of times the phrases of
a given theme are repeated. In our
sample, the sequence of themes is in-
variable, and no new themes are intro-
duced or familiar ones dropped during
a song session. Except for the precise
conﬁguration of some units and the
number of phrases in a theme, there is
relatively little variation in successive
renditions of any individual hump-
back’s song. Yet, although we will not
deal with it in detail here, we must
not overlook this variation, for it is
obviously an important feature of the
songs.

Besides the variation among succes-
sive songs of one individual, there are
often large differences among songs
sung by different individuals. This
raises the question of whether there is
a single, species-speciﬁc song pattern,
01‘ whether each humpback sings its
own pattern. All songs of humpback
Whales that we have heard consist of
the following three main sections: (i)
trains of rapidly repeated pulses that
often alternate with sustained tones;
(ii) many short, high-frequency units,
mOSt of which abruptly rise in fre-
quency; and (iii) lower, more sustained

notes that are monotonously repetitious-

in rhythm and frequency and contain
many units that fall in frequency. We
feel that these three sections constitute

a very general, species-speciﬁc song
pattern.

Within this very general framework,
the many variations sung by individ-
uals seem to sort naturally into several
distinct categories or song types, the
number of which is still unclear. In
all song sessions in our sample, each

whale adheres to its own song type
throughout the session. We consider
here two song types (designated as
types A and B). As will become clear,
these two song types have strong sim-
ilarities, even though they depart in
form markedly at one point.

We include three examples of type

 

 

f
a;—
l
l

 

\

 

 

if ‘ ‘
\ Q -
W\ w\ ‘1'
\ 172%
‘E A 5/5; 'I
.5 .. A
4 -~ ‘f

 

 

l
f
L
l
l

1 l... ..
j g , .

 

 

 

 

.i‘
I
J

i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ir—
l

_‘—.\_.-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Whale II

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"W

 

I".
l

f

 

“Will

 

l

i!

 

 

 

‘3’
l
l

 

Hi

i

I
l

 

Whale III

 

 

 

 

Fig. 6. Theme 1. In this ﬁgure, as in Figs. 7 to 9, the enlarged top view ShOWS diagram-
matically a typical example of the phrases of Wind] the theme 18 composed. Beneath,
at reduced scale, are tracings of all phrases in each of. two songs of whalesol, II, and
111. No phrases or other sounds are omitted or changed in order, and. no time is left out.
Observe, by referring to the enlarged tOp VleW, the slow evolution of thlS. phrase.
Note that the short pulse train becomes longer and higher in frequency With each
repetition. We have aligned eaCh phrase 30 that 6301‘ moment 0f onset'of sound 18
brought out to the left edge of the column. The sequence of phrases Within the theme
reads from top to bottom. Note that in song I of whale III, theme 1 contains more than
twice— as many phrases as does theme 1 of songzpf. the same whale. .

 




 

A (whales I to III, Figs. 2 to 4) and
one of type B (whale IV, Fig. 5). The
recording of whale IV was done in
1961 and is the only recording we have
from that year. Hence, our treating
whale IV’s song as representative of a
type is an assumption; the possibility
remains that this whale was aberrant.

A clear example of song type A is
shown in Fig. 2 (whale 1). This ﬁgure
shows sound spectrograms, at a greatly
reduced scale, for a complete pair of
songs. The pair of songs was lifted
from the middle of a continuous song
session that contained at least seven
songs (there may have been more, but
Watlington’s tape ran out). The fre-
quency scale in all spectrograms shown
here is logarithmic, since that is rough-
ly the way in which the human ear
interprets frequency. Had we wished to
deﬁne precisely the frequency com-
ponents of each unit, we might have
favored a linear frequency display, but
our chief purpose was to facilitate com-
parisons between spectrograms and the
sounds they depict. The spectrograms
in Figs. 2 to 5 were made by the
exceedingly tedious process of extract-
ing successive 9.6—second segments of
tape-recorded sounds and analyzing
them on a Kay spectrograph (model
6061B), being careful that no time on

r ”If

   

the tapes was omitted. The effective
ﬁlter bandwidth was 60 hertz, and the
highest “real time” frequency seen by
the spectrograph under these circum-
stances, 2000 hertz.

Once the spectrograms were made,
the hundreds required for each song
were carefully matched, glued to large
sheets of paper, and photographically
reduced. Because the ocean is a noisy

place (some of the tapes include wave

noise, ship noise, dynamite blasts, and
distant Whales), and because loud
sounds in the water are invariably fol-
lowed by trains of echoes, we have
isolated the whale sounds by tracing
them on a separate sheet, thus omitting
echoes and noise. Our tracings also
exclude harmonics, since they are of
little or no consequence in establishing
sequences and are often spurio-usly
generated by the spectrograph (.12).
The only sounds for which we have
traced harmonics are brief, pulsive
sounds that, to a human listener, are
atonal' (even when slowed down) and
must therefore have a rich harmonic
structure. The tracings, of course, fail
to show variations in darkness of line
—the only indication of intensity that
spectrograph machines provide. How-
ever, darkness of line, even on the
spectrograms shown here, can only be

N f f //

1 FTFFTFFF FF F {F F F F H

 
 
  

2 Ffll‘ff‘

I, ”’F r/rlrpr’

nrrinhrhfrr r' f rr/‘r

‘r‘ 'thrr/rr

 

Fr F F FlF F

r rH HWHF I

{HUN-WW

relied on to reveal relative intensities
within any particular 9.6-second sam-
ple, since the level of input to the spec-
trograph machine was often adjusted
between successive samples in order to
obtain the least distorted rendition.
However, a thick line indicates ocean
reve'rberations, in some cases, thus de-
noting a loud sound.

From inspection of the spectro-
grams, it is immediately «obvious that
phrases in most themes are repeated
several times before the whale moves
on to the next theme. As mentioned
above, we ﬁnd it true of all song types
in our sample that, although the num-
ber of phrases in a theme is not con-
stant, the sequence of themes is. (For
example, the ordering of themes is
A,B,C,D,E . . . and not A,B,D,C,E
. . .). We have no samples in which
a theme is not represented by at least
one phrase in every song, although in
rare cases a phrase may be uttered
incompletely or in highly modiﬁed
form (compare phrase 4 in the ﬁrst
and second songs of whale III, Fig. 8).
Figures 6 to 9 compare themes in song
type A as sung by what we assume to
be different whales, since the songs
were recorded at different times. In
this analysis, all phrases within any
given theme are shown for each of

f r

t H m ’5]

 

WH ALE I

{If

WHALE III

Fig. 7. Theme 2 consists of one long phrase. Note that, in the second song of whale II, this theme is three times as long as in
song 1. The interunit spacing of this theme also varies considerably from song to song of the same whale.

 

 




 

 

twoson'gs sung by each of three whales
(I, II, and III). No sounds have been
omitted, changed in order, or shifted
in time (although we have cut our
traced record into pieces, we present
the pieces in their original sequence and
have omitted none of them).

Before discussing song type A, we
must make one ﬁnal point. Some
phrases in humpback songs are further
complicated by being inexact replicas
within a theme. That is, the phrases
systematically Change, or “evolve,”
with each successive repetition during
a theme. The phrases in theme 1 of
song A are a good example of this.
The six themes of song type A are as
follows.

Theme 1: Figure 6 shows that
each phrase in this theme consists of
three principal units—unit 1, a sound
like a motor running [a pulse train in
which the number of pulses (subunits)
per second changes during the train],
followed by units 2 and 3, a pair of
sustained ,or wavering tones. (Some-
times each sustained tone is followed
by a faint pulse, and sometimes the
phrase ends with a very low grunt.)
With each repetition of this phrase,
unit 1 becomes longer, and, toward
the end of the theme, each sustained
tone tends to occur at a higher fre-
quency than the previous one. (In
song type B, the pulse trains are given
without sustained tones between them
or with just a brief tone tacked on to
the end of the train of pulses—see
Whale IV.) Thus, in song type A,

theme 1 consists of a series of se-
quentially modiﬁed phrases changing
1n a predictable fashion.

Theme 2: We arbitrarily designate
the onset of theme 2 as the moment

when sustained tones give way to short- ‘

er tones, or rapidly ascending fre-
quency sweeps. Theme 2 is one of the
most variable in our sample. It may
consist of a great variety of sounds,
but all, or most, of them are ascending
frequency sweeps or brief (less than 1
second) high-frequency squeaks or
chirps. The theme has no obvious sub-
sets that repeat predictably. Theme 2
is quicker in tempo and less rhythmic
than the rest of the song, which is com-
posed of more measured, drawn-out
phrases.

Theme 3; The phrases in theme 3
have as their ﬁrst unit a loud, ascend-
ing frequency sweep, which is emitted
from one to three times and is fol-
lowed by several fainter, high-fre-
quency harmonic arpeggios. In some
cases, the arpeggios become more elab-
orate with each repetition of this
phrase, until, by the end of the theme,
the component notes become more sus-
tained. (See Fig. 10 for an expanded,
scale view of arpeggios from the songs
of whale II and whale IV.) The loud,
ascending frequency sweep, marking
the beginning of each phrase 3, usually
occurs twice (only once in case of
whale III) at the outset, but in the
course of the theme changes to three
repetitions and stays at three. When
there is a transition from two to three,

, it is as irreversible as the basic se-

quence of phrases in a song.

Theme 4: Theme 4 is one phrase
long. It starts with a loud, ascending
sweep that is similar to unit 1 in theme
3. Each successive unit in this theme
rises and falls in frequency, but returns
each time to a lower frequency than
the preceding unit. (This gives the im-

pression of a deepening series of roars

or bellows.) The last units of theme 4
are low-frequency grunts (which may
be descending pulse trains).

Theme 5: The phrases of this theme
typically have six units. Unit 1 is a
downward sweeping note; unit 2, a
loud, low, rising or slightly warbling
note (followed sometimes by one or
more brief, descending, pulsive notes
that are hard to detect in poor record-
ings). Units 3 and 4 are very like
units 1 and 2. Units 5 and 6 are
grunts. Since there are usually two
such grunts, each phrase in theme 5
usually consists of six units. However,
there may be three (rarely more)
grunts, and sometimes one or even
none. This whole phrase is usually re-
peated once; thus, theme 5 is usually
two phrases long.

Theme 6: The components of this
theme are unit 1, a loud, sustained
tone; unit 2, a descending note (some-
times in the form of a slowly falling
warble); unit 3, another sustained tone
similar to unit 1; unit 4, a descending
note similar to unit 2 (sometimes there
are faint pulsive , notes after units 2
or 4, or both); and a series of one to

 

l

L

I. (/%9

 

 

/ '1

\.

._ /”‘

 

 

K/,__/ ~r/w‘

 

—l

ff_/_i
[I f

M

\

WW) 1 J ”j

#7” H77” WHALE I
J 1}) j H

 

1b,g:ggagfj

‘ ‘\\:
2D / ,Aasu‘m- -

 

 

 

 

 

’II“I I) r”// ilJ]

H

 

 

'0

III”

%

IIJTJJJJJJJ

H

VJWHALE ll

 

 

\
"Axx F‘l

\
\I
”A‘s; r.‘

 

 

 

 

 

I—l

*\

‘5
\

 

-_, [i
1);! H

WHALE l l I

1E:j .
2Vﬁ«l“~..a‘l
l

 

 

Fig. 8. (Left) Theme 3. Note the evolution of the phrases comprising. this thfemeuzlrlgm
1°.Wed by short, high, harmonic arpeggios, to three loud, sweeps rismg 1n Areq y,
(nght) theme 4 (only one phrase long) is the shortest theme 1n song type .

 

two loud sweeps rising in frequency, fol-
followed by more sustained, rising notes;

 




 

four grunts (units 5, 6, and so on).
This phrase is usually repeated quite
exactly ten or more times. An interest-
ing sound that is sometimes superim-
poSed on the grunts may represent the
audible component of a. train of ultra-
sonic pulses, but this possibility must
await recordings on equipment sensi-
tive to ultrasound.

Song type B (as shown by whale
IV) resembles type A in themes 1, 2,
and 3, but by theme 4 the parallel is
less clear. The series of descending

notes shown on line 4 of Fig. 5 is not
comparable to anything in song type A,
unless it could be thought of as a
series of units similar to those in theme
4, but with the duration of the units,
and the silences between them, being
much greater. The subsequent very
short and rapidly delivered notes are
certainly unlike type A songs. At the
end of its ﬁrst and second songs, whale
IV emits sustained notes that are fol-
lowed by a low grunt. In a broad
sense, this is quite similar to the basic

phrase of theme 6 in song type A.
However, in type A the sustained notes
differ markedly in pitch, whereas they
are delivered at roughly constant pitch
in song type B. In some ways, type B
is intermediate between type A and the
very different song type C. (We have
various examples of type C from 1969,
but they will not be discussed here.)

Since variability within a ﬁxed gen-
eral pattern is such a prominent feature
of humpback songs, it may be worth
taking a detailed look at some of the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\ —\ \ \
\/‘ —— ‘—"—
\ \ \ \
l 2 l 2
\,_-=-.\,-_HT Lynx“? _.\..\=_ _l L*-\‘__.‘l
...::: ‘\.. \ § 1
,4-\‘r~=\ ‘HW kgti\p ‘ g‘l V-~\ - i LV~‘\ c -
§ \
~\__\ _ ‘1 L“~“~- I
\ 1 § 9
-~\\~._w_ I if\-‘\.-.l
-<,4‘ “l Ls,.3~§“_l
.4,4 I 1 L4-4 J
\ \ § §
~\\wh§“ "li L\\~\\ \. ‘J
i t 1 I t x l
d‘w‘.‘ ‘ _ \ ‘\ .
-s,44 l 4 ‘
-\,\‘:_l
. WHALEI
~wi W 1 p 7 E: I
.J—\ v‘__ r‘ w‘__ \\ __\_ _ V” ~\_ _
~ {*3 1 [‘7‘“ I i 7 E; i
V“ m, _ A w\- Js _ ‘ __’\,\ _.—u ‘ _ ~o __r\‘ _
- 1 r 1 1 <
JQ w: _ f~ﬁ ./ ‘ A h"\\_\ - - \\ \
as g 7
34:. |
x; N 7
“Hi‘ﬁ
WHALEH
" ‘4‘“; I [:as\\— | --~ H ‘1
a \ if! \ l j.
I“: M‘_i ’ e..- «‘E~“r
j J
\‘u \v‘
K“ 1“
WHALE'IH

 

 

 

 

Fig. 9. Themes 5 (left) and 6 (right). The starting moments of the ﬁrst unit in each phrase are aligned at the left margin of the
column. Note the very regular duration and spacing of these sounds.

 




 

 

highest frequency units in the song——
the arpeggios following the loud rising
units in theme 3 (Fig. 10 shows such
units from whales II and IV, song
types A and B, respectively). The com-
plexity of the arpeggios and their vari-
ation from song to song are obvious.

Beginnings of Songs

Following the last phrase of the ﬁnal
theme in either song type A or B, the
whale starts the ﬁrst sound in the next
song (which we have labeled the ﬁrst,
and shortest, pulse train of theme 1)
without any noticeable break in the
rhythm of singing. The pause between
any two phrases of the last theme is,
if anything, longer than the pause be-
tween the last phrase of one song and
the ﬁrst phrase of the succeeding song.
This fact should make it apparent that
not only is our designation of phrase
beginnings and ends arbitrary, but so
is our choice of the start of a song.
It is also possible that what we have
designated a “song” may, in fact, be a
long segment of a still longer song,
but that possibility must await further
analysis.

The criterion we have used here to
determine a starting point is inﬂu-
enced by our large sample of recorded
songs from the years 1969 and 1970.
In these songs, the overwhelming ma-
jority of starts, stops, and blows occurs
at a point corresponding roughly to the
starting point we have chosen here.
Watlington’s tapes include very few
records of whales beginning to sing
and only slightly more of the ends of
song sessions. (Usually the tape ran
out, the noise level from passing ships
rose to mask the whale sounds, or re-
cording was stopped.) Thus the Wat-
lington sample is really too small to
Warrant any conclusion on this point.
It is clear, however, that, regardless of
Where a song may begin, the whale
continues the sequence of themes in the
Same irreversible order (that is, 3, 4,
5,6,1,2,3,4,5...)

F18. 10. Linear, wide-band spectrograms
(upper frequency limit 2 kilohertz, effec-
tlve ﬁlter bandwidth 200 hertz) Show the
C9mplex and variable structure of the
hlghest notes in phrase 3. Columns 1 and

are from songs 1 and 2 of whale II.
Columns 3 and 4 are from songs 1 and
2 0f Whale IV. Read sequence of sounds
rom tOp to bottom. (The intermediate

OW.” and 1011591“ frequency sweeps are

Evidence that One Whale

Is Responsible for a Song

We have been assuming throughout
this discussion that any given song or
song session is the performance of one

whale.

The evidence that a song is produced
by one whale and not by two or more
in alternation (“duetting”) follows. In

 

 

long samples of sounds: (i) we never
heard anything less than a song (if we
had ever heard songs in which themes,
phrases, or units were absent but in
which there were pauses of appropriate
length to accommodate the missing
piece, we might suspect that two
whales cooperate to produce a com-
plete song); (ii) no units, or subunits
(excluding what are obviously echoes),

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

tr '
”in: J}, '
.,-a-'““-“~ . .,
c", I
O. M
my, *’ .1. w.
m
" at
t W
> ‘ “v , uttfﬁ‘é
a“; ‘m. #5 ,
a: », , ' a, '
3 ’ - ‘
'1.“ ’f «t »V \ C’»
Ii ~ 4 7,15,,
W wimas‘m ...... w y " ' H ' 3“ . a.
Song 2 _ .. w , w a? g
“9. mi» as a ‘ 6: ‘t 5 i?
a» .
t 3‘ is i “.33
‘ a a?
Song 3 ' ‘
4 ' ' w s ‘: ﬂ .;
Whale 11 .
- a?» ‘ g I
‘ 2w“ ' 1:;
w“- ”.3 W"
i P
a “a. M' s
“:55? W ‘ .ww’eﬂw" l i 1? W
Read sequence of sounds
from top to bottom
* t
14““ i.

 

Whale N

 

«an in: .9
We? 4»
‘ U
”5‘
*v Song 4

 




 

have been found to overlap in time;
(iii) in some recordings (not reported
or diagramed here) we ﬁnd two com-
plete songs that differ in average vol-
ume (indicating two whales, one near
and one distant), each progressing in
its‘ own rhythm and form with no ob-
vious relationship to the other. An
example of a distant whale. singing may
be seen in the spectrograms, not the
tracings, of the second and third
themes of the second song of whale II.
Here the loudest sounds of a distant
whale’s phrase 6 are detectable. In ad-
dition, some of Payne’s 1969—1970
tapes include several whales producing
sounds at once. In some cases (pre-
sumably when the hydrophone was
roughly halfway between two whales),
two sound sources are at equal volume,
but analysis reveals that both sources
are rendering complete songs. Neither
' whale seems to depend on the other for
any phrases or notes. In many cases,

one of the sources stops while the other
continues repeating complete songs.
None of our observations absolutely
excludes the possibility that songs are
actually duets between whales swim-
ming very close together. (Pairs or
trios of humpbacks are frequently ob-
served near Bermuda, and they are
often in bodily contact when traveling
together.) But if the whales are duet-
ting, they are very precise in their
alternation of sounds and unfailingly
wait their turn to add their own notes.

Sex of the Performing Whale

On the question of whether songs
come from males, females, or both, we
have nothing yet to offer. It is possible
that there will prove to be signiﬁcant
differences between the vocal apparatus
of males and females. However, since
we are not really sure that the larynx

 

Fig. 11. Upper left, “ﬁnning”; remainder of left column, “lobtailing” (two pictures
separated by one-half second—the dorsal ﬁn of a nearby whale just starting to dive is
prominent). Right column, three pictures (by R. M. Johnson) of a humpback

“breaching,” showing the impressive splash that follows. Frames are about one-half

second apart.

produces these sounds (though it seems
likely that it must be involved), we
would not even know what part of a
humpback corpse to examine if we
had one (and we have never had one).
Mature male humpback whales are
smaller than mature females, but, be-
cause there is so much overlap in size,
it is only on very favorable occasions
at sea that one could hope to determine
the sex of a given whale. In addition,
it has been our experience that hump—
back whales stop singing when we get
close enough to distinguish subtle dif-
ferences in their morphology. [Leven-
son (6) reports the same difﬁculty, as
does Schevill (2), although Schevill’s
remarks are restricted to Odontocetes.]
It will take a very fortunate occasion
indeed to see whether males, females,
or both sexes produce the songs.

Other Species

The songs we have described are
often sung very loudly (a detailed dis-
cussion of the theoretical consequences
of this is in preparation); therefore,
one need not be within viewing range
of the source to record the songs. Al-
though this makes recording easy, it
raises the constant specter that we have
tried too hard to ﬁnd similarities be-
tween songs recorded on different oc-
casions near Bermuda. It is also pos-
sible that we may, in fact, be lumping
together vocalizations of more than
one species.

As mentioned earlier, there is good
evidence that ﬁnback whales produce
their moans in set patterns, and Cum-
mings and Philippi (13) have evidence
of cyclic sounds from what they be-
lieve to be a right whale (Eubalaena
glacialis). If their species determina-
tion is correCt, it could mean that sing—
ing is a common form of Mysticete
vocalization. For this reason, also, we
advance the possibility that we may
have combined the sounds of a stray
right whale or some other species with
true humpback sounds. The large num-
ber of humpback whales in the vicinity
of Bermuda during April and May (the
only months from which our analyzed
records were taken) and the apparent
lack of right whales in that area at the
same time (with the exception of one
pair that Payne observed 25 miles
southwest of Bermuda on 13 April
1970) argue against this concern. Yet
the possibility remains that some other
species have been included with our
data on humpbacks.

 

 




 

 

Possible Signiﬁcance of the Song

Schevill (2) notes: “The sonorous
moans and screams associated with the
migrations of Megaptera past Bermuda
and Hawaii may be an audible mani-
festation of more fundamental vernal
urges, for in New England waters and
at other seasons we do not hear any-
thing nearly so spectacular from this
species.” The implication here is that
courtship is seasonal. However, there is
good evidence, from measurements of
embryos collected by Whalers, that,
even though most successful humpback
matings occur during two peak seasons
each year, some matings do occur
throughout the year (14). Mating, of
course, does not always immediately
succeed courtship in all species. Even
if some humpback pairs mate year-
round, it is quite likely that courtship
activities leading to pair formation are
seasonal. In this case, the songs may
be related to pair formation.

The playful behavior of humpbacks
near Bermuda in April and May has
suggested to some observers that they
are courting. The whales slam their
tails on the surface of the water (lob-
tailing), wave and slap their ﬁns on
the water (ﬁnning), and frequently
and repeatedly jump (breaching) (Fig.
11). However, since these activities
are frequently observed at other lati-
tudes and at other times of year (8,
p. 288; 15), they do not seem to be
particularly linked with singing. If we
wish to consider such antics, as well
as songs, part of courtship, then we
might conclude that the songs are in-
volved with seasonal pair formation,
and the acrobatics with year-round
mating. Of course, if pair formation

occurs year-round, such theories have”

no meaning.

Winn (16) has heard and recorded
humpback songs near Puerto Rico in
February, so the songs are apparently

sung for at least 3 to 4 months. Thus,
if songs are part of pair formation, we
would expect it to be a lengthy process
lasting from midwinter until well into
spring. '

In the North Atlantic, this time pe-
riod (February to May) also corre~
sponds to northward migration. Thus,
one might imagine that the songs serve
as a sort of ﬂock call to hold a loose
cluster of individuals together during
their long migration. Until there is
further evidence, we can only guess
what function this remarkable series
of vocalizations serves.

Summary

1) Humpback whales (Megaptera
novaeangliae) produce a series of
beautiful and varied sounds for a pe-
riod of 7 to 30 minutes and then repeat
the same series with considerable pre-
cision. We call such a performance
“singing” and each repeated series of
sounds a “song.”

2) All prolonged sound patterns

(recorded so far) of this species are

in song form, and each individual ad-
heres to its own song type.

3) There seem to be several song
types around which whales construct
their songs, but individual variations
are pronounced (there is only a very
rough species-speciﬁc song pattern).

4) Songs are repeatedwithout any
obvious pause between them; thus song
sessions may continue for several
hours.

5) The sequence of themes in suc-
cessive songs by the same individual
is the same. Although the number of
phrases per theme varies, no theme is
ever completely omitted in our sample.

6) Loud sounds in the ocean, for
example dynamite blasts, do not seem
to affect the whale’s songs.

7) The sex of the performer of any

of the songs we have studied is un-
known.

8) The function of the songs is un-
known.

References and Notes

1. H. L. Aldrich, Arctic Alaska and Siberia
(Rand McNally, Chicago, 1889), p. 35; C.
Nordhoﬁ, In Yankee Windjammers (Dodd,
Mead, New York, 1940).

2. For a review of this area see W. E. Schevill,
in Marine Bio-acoustics, W. N. Tavolga, Ed.
(Pergamon, Oxford, 1964), pp. 307—316.

3. B. Patterson and G. R. Hamilton, in ibid., pp
125—145.

4. W. E. Schevill, W. A. Watkins, R. H. Backus,
in ibid., pp. 147—152.

5. N. A. Mackintosh, The Stocks of Whales
(Heighway, London, 1965), pp. 119, 201.

6. C. Levenson, Informal Report No. 69-54
(Naval Oceanographic Office, 1969).

7. O. W. Schreiber, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 24,
116 (1952).

8. A. G. Tomilin, Mammals of the U.S.S.R. and
Adjatent Countries, Volume IX, Cetacea,
O Ronen, Trans]. (Israel Program for Scientiﬁc
Translations, Jerusalem, 1967), p. 270.

9. W. E. Schevill and W. A. Watkins, Whale
and Porpoise Voices (a phonograph record
accompanied by a booklet) (Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Mas-
sachusetts, 1962).

10. R. Payne and K. Payne, in preparation.

11. W. B. Broughton, in Acoustic Behavior of
Animals, R. G. Busnel, Ed. (Elsevier, London,
1963), pp. 824—910.

12. W. A. Watkins, in Marine Bio-acoustics,
W. N. Tavolga, Ed. (Pergamon, Oxford,
1967), pp. 15—43. .

13. W. C. Cummings and L. A. Philippi, Pub-
lication No. NUC TP 196 (Naval Undersea
Research and Development Center, 1970).

14. Tomilin (8, p. 280) bases his claim (that mating
occurs year-round) on 68 humpback fetuses
collected during whaling operations in the
North Paciﬁc. By extrapolating from embryo
lengths, he calculated conception dates and,
thus, the number of humpbacks conceived in
each month: January, 1; February, 9;
March, 12; April, 14; May, 4; June, 3;
July, I; August, 1; September, 12; October, 8;
November, 3; and December, 0. Although
two periods of increased mating activity are
apparent, they are not sharply deﬁned. Yet,
even from such a small sample, we see that
successful matings have occurred in 11 out
of 12 months.

15. W. E. Schevill and 'R. H. Backus, J. Mam-
malogy 41, 279 (1960); R. G. Van Gelder,
Amer. Mus. Novitates 1992 (1960), pp. 1-27;
anecdotal observations of many authors.

16. H. Winn, personal communication. ,

17. Research was supported, in part, by NSF
grant GB 5564 and by grants from the New
York Zoological Society. We thank M. Kon-
ishi, P. Marler, and F. Nottebohm for letting
us use their sound analysis equipment and K.
Payne and E. D’Arms for helping us with the
spectrography. We are particularly grateful to
Frank Watlington of the Palisades Sofar Sta-

- tion, St. David’s, Bermuda, for so generously
making tape recordings available to us.

 




December 10, 1973

z’h‘o Arata .

City Duplicating Canter, Inc. .
161? Eye Street, N;W.

‘ washingtan, D C. 20606

'~'Dear Wr. Arata,.

_. Wbuld you 915558 have the letter of invitation to ﬂhe
Annual Maeting 9f the Animal Wblfare Institute mailed via .
FIRST CLASS mail tadqy. Dar #10 envalopes (we had ta use plain
. stock but this 15 5k) have buen sent yum with th15 latter.

. ; Wb wanld lika ta have any ram51n1ng copies of the
V‘invitatien on ybur next delIvery aver ta the bangs.

Many fhanks.

31m: My, ~

Baﬁbara Gauld ,.
Administrative Assistant

 




B IOGRAPHI CAL SUMMARY
Dr. Lee M. Talbot

Fall 1973

Ecologist, Geographer, Conservationist. .Experience includes
policy and program development, establishment and direction of
programs, scientific advisory positions, and international nego—
tiations; field work conducted in over 80 countries has involved
research, survey, assessment and consulting in environmental
matters, particularly ecology and management of natural resources
(including land use and wildlife), and environmental impact of
development activities; and the planning, organization and evalu—
ation of technical assistance and scientific research programs.
Also lecturer, writer, and photographer.

Born: Massachusetts, 1930.

Education: Graduate of the University of California, Berkeley,
with A.A. (Liberal Arts), B.A. (Wildlife Conservation), M.A.
(Zoology—Ecology), and Ph.D (Geography, Ecology—Vertebrate, Range

 

and Forest Ecology).

Married: Martha Hayne Talbot, biologist and conservationist
with experience in America, Europe, Africa, and Asia.

Present Position: Senior Scientist, Council on Environmental
Quality, Executive Office of the President.

 

Past Positions have included:

 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.:

Resident Ecologist

Smithsonian Field Representative for International Affairs

in Ecology and Conservation

Acting Head, Ecology Program

Acting Director, Office of Environmental Sciences.
Director, South East Asia Project of International Union

for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN).
Wildlife Advisor, United Nations Special Fund.
Director, East African Ecological Research Project.
Staff Ecologist, IUCN
Biologist, Arctic Research Laboratory, Point Barrow, Alaska.

 




Consultantships: Has held a variety of long and short term
consultantships in ecology, conservation, land use and wildlife,
including: UNESCO; U.N. Special Fund; National Academy of Sciences;
various African and Asian Governments; A.I.D.; Peace Corps; National
Park Service; International Commission of National Parks; National
Museum of Natural History; National Zoological Park; Life Magazine;
N.B.C.

Many other consultantships, short projects, expeditions, and
other assignments under a variety of auspices.

Served as an organizer of various international scientific
and conservation conferences under U.S., U.N., and other inter-
national auspices.

Military Service: U.S. Marine Corps

 

Delegate: Member of various U.S. Delegations including UNESCO
Biosphere Conference, Paris, 1968; U.N. Intergovernmental WOrking
Group on Conservation (Co-Chairman of Delegation), New York, 1971;
U.N. Environment Conference, Stockholm, 1972; US—USSR Environment
Agreement, Moscow, 1972, 1973; Endangered Species Conference, Wash—
ington, D.C., 1973; International Whaling Commission, London, 1972,
1973; World Heritage Trust, UNESCO, Paris, 1972.

Author: Over 140 scientific or technical publications, books,
papers, and monographs (recipient of Award for the "outstanding
publication in wildlife ecology and management"), with reprints of
some in seven foreign languages; and various popular articles.

Professional Societies, Committees, Awards, etc;: Member
various Committees and Panels of National Academy of Sciences and
of International Council of Scientific Unions. Fellow, member,
and officer of numerous national and international scientific and
professional organizations. Recipient various national and inter—
national awards.

Current Biographical Listings: Who's Who in Government; Who's
Who in Ecology; Who's Who in the South and Southwest; American Men
and WOmen of Science; Dictionary of International Biography; Leaders
in American Science; Two Thousand Men of Achievement.

Residence: 6656 Chilton Court
McLean, Virginia 22101
Telephone: 703—356—3765

 

 

 




December 6, 1973

We Ara-ta I ‘ ‘

City Duplicating Center, Inc.
1617 Eye Street, NM.
Washington, DJ). 20006

Dear Hr. Arata,

I Nauld you please run Weepiea of the enclosed letter
of invitatian t6 the annual meeting 91' the Instituts. These
ehauld be famed inward and held there far mailing in our
._ steneiled envelepes.

PLEASE DO THIS TQDAY MID THEN HAIL THE @RIGINAL

LETTER T0 LEE LET?ER SERVICE IN THE INICLQEED ENVELDPE away.

They will do a. milling ta the membership on Menday in NYC.
Thank you for year help.

, Sincerely,

_ Barbara Gauld
Admiﬂo A3513.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
\VASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the twenty-second
annual meeting of the Animal'Welfare Institute at The Atrium
in the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
Washington, D.C., at three o'clock, Tuesday afternoon, the
eighteenth of December.

The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Scott McVay
in recognition of his vigorous nine~year~long campaign to
stop the cruel killing of the endangered whales. Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental
Quality, brilliant and influential student of the plight
of the whales and of other persecuted animals, will make
the presentation.

Famous star of the stage and films, Jason Robards, who
loves whales, will be guest Speaker.

-The medallist is the Chairman of the Committee on Whales
of the Environmental Defense Fund, and he played an important
part in major developments protecting whales and dolphins
in the past three years. First, the listing of the great
whales on the endangered species list by the Department of
Interior in December, 1970, thereby closing the United States
to the importation of whale products (one-fourth of the world
market at that time). Second, the closing of the last U.S.
commercial whaling operation, December 1971, by the Depart-
ment of Commerce. Third, unanimous passage by the Senate
and House of Representatives of resolutions calling for a
ten-year moratorium on the commercial killing of whales which
subsequently became U.S. policy at Stockholm in June, 1972
and at the International Whaling Commission meetings in London
in 1972 and 1973. Mr. McVay has been active in seeking a
solution to the drowning of dolphins in tuna purse seines.
He is a strong proponent of the boycott of Japanese and Russian
good.which the AWI together with other humane and conservation
organizations are pressing to bring about agreement on the
ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of whales.

A reception will follow the ceremony, and you are encouraged
to bring a friend with you who is interested in the protection

of animals.

Christine Stevens
President

 




 

 

S, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, I970

., By RUSSELL BAKER

LONDON, Aug. 31—Can any-
one remember ,what August
used to be like in America be—
fore the Thirty Years War? Be
fore the era of the Long Hot
Summer? Before revolution be-
came chic and rage became all
the rage? No? Perhaps this
summary of the news that .ab-
’sorbed' Britain during the
August now ending may help
revive memories Of those pas-
toral days and remind us that
life among the English-speaking
peoples need‘not necessarily be
waged constantly at the brink
of deSperation. _,

At the start of the month the
Prime Minister, Edward Heath,
was. photOgraphed in his sail-
boat at Cowes. He had to share
headlines with Missing Man,
who, as usual, was Sought by
Police at the behest of Female

Companion. She, poor dear, had ,

last seen him entering the sea
fora swim and, after a long
interval during which he failed
to emerge,» had notified police
‘ of his probable drowning. Then
f -e—the plot thickening; but ’not
. much-«police had discovered
that he had renteda car in an-
other part‘ of England; , ‘
The mystery: Why was the
gentleman’s ham-handed effort
to give Female Companion the
slip regarded as news in Fleet

Observer: Like Days of Old

Street? Answer: It was August,
and at least it wasn’t an animal
story.

Animals were making head-
lines as easily as if they had
been Student Leaders in the
United States. A dog’s paw was
injured in a subway escalator.
Maxie, an extremely tough cat
from Aden, had terrified all the
other cats in his neighborhood,
as well as most of the dogs,
and provoked an outraged
citizenry to petition for his re-
moval.

Dog Power

, In Cheshire Ken Potts told a
reporter that his German shep-
herd, Prinz, had gained “com-
plete power over me,” includ-
ing the power‘to make him-
Mr. Potts—feel everything the

.dog feels. “When he fell off a

wall, ‘I started to get pains,”
Mr. Potts said. ‘

. On Aug. 12, the grouse sea-

son opened in Scotland. The

Prime Minister, Mr. Heath, was
not there. He was sailing.

A, bishOp of the Anglican
Church went to see “Oh! Cal-
cutta!” at the request .of a
newspaper that wanted his
opinion. He said it was boring.

Bus fares went up in Lon-

' don. Someone called fer a mass ,
refusal to pay the increase. ,

Public response to this call to

revolt was no response. No one
seemed particularly outraged
either when the Government let
it be known that it intended to
strip B.O.A.C., one of the more
profitable of Britain’s state
corporations, of a number of its
air routes in order to deliver
same to a privately-owned cor-
poration.

Peter Sellers was married, for
the, third time; and again David
Frost had to deny rumors that
he was about marry.

A young man was badly in-
jured, as was his date, when a
bag he had found under" a the-a.-
ter seat. and placed in his car
without examination preved to
be a bomb. Large headlines sug-
gested, without evidence, that
the Irish Republican Army was

at. work. The theater of, the.

bomb was showing “Wood-
stock,” on which Sinn Fein’s
political position, if any, is, ob-
scure. ,

Hitchhikers Aided

Meanwhile, in faraway Scot-
land the Duke of Edinburgh
gave a lift to a honeymooning
couple hitchhiking‘ in the rain.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Heath,
visible now only in the sports
pages, was reported sailing. ‘

The soccer season opened,

A woman who was naked to
the waist attempted to stroll

.; }
I K r

past Buckingham Palace, but
was halted by a policeman,
covered and led to custody. 5 '-
England’s Cricket team, hav-
ing challenged an international
all-star team called The Rest of
the World, was beingjbeaten,
as what nation should _'not ‘be
if it challenges the rest fothe
world? There was a ,' narrow,
miss at London Airport‘,,,
In an operation onlypeslightly
smaller in scale than the inva-"
sion of Cambodia, Scotland
Yard surrounded and infi’ltnated
the London Hilton Hotel and
apprehended two Arabs: avndwan,
American who appear tohave
been engaged in a surplus-gun
sale. ~
A plan to revise the London
Telephone Directory 50 that
telephone subscribers might no
longer be listed in alphabetical
order was stopped in the nick
of time after someone pointed
out that it was asinine. Subse
quently the Prime Minister,:er.‘
Heath, was reported to 7 be
sailing. ' ._ .
On the Isle Of Wight, Tiny
Tim led thousands of youngsters

at a rock festival in. amass

singing of “There’ll AlwaysBe
an England.” :

,Yes, Tiny Tim and thousands
of pop-music fans, it looks-as
if there always will. ‘

Letters to the Editor of The Times

Troop Cut-off Date
To the Editor;.

It seems to me that the
- McGovern-Hatfield approach to
‘ _ getting the United States out
of” Vietnam is doomed to fail-
ure due 'to' President Nixon’s
success in convincing the ma»
jority o-fthe American pepole
that he is ending the war in
the only imanner consistent
with American standards of
honor. [Editorial Aug. 31.] ' ’

The doves must take a dif-
ferent approach to hasten the
end of our involvement in Viet-
nam. They should press for en-
actment of a bar to further use
in. Vietnam, after Dec. 31, of
any soldiers who have not vol-
unteered for duty in that
country. ,

While the President has con-
vinced the majority of Ameri-
cans that the stakes of an “hon-
orable” peace are worth our
present level of casualties, this
silent majority is not paying
the price which is required to
achieve this peace. In fact, the
men who pay this price, for
the most part, have grave
doubts about the value of our
current pOlicy.

The majority of our combat
troops are draftees. Career sol-
diers andvolunteers are mostly
in Vietnam in a support capac-
ity which is not very hazard-
ous (I am ”lucky enough to
have such a job despite being
a draftee). '

If the silent majority thinks-

an honorable peace is worth
eighty men killed and hundreds
maimed each week, they should
be asked to prove their good
faith by making the necessary
sacrifice. If they are really
committed to the President’s
course there should be an over-
abundance of volunteers for
Vietnam combat duty from the
ranks of . career soldiers, re-
servists, national guardsmen
and patriotic civilians.

This probably won’t hap-
pen, for most of these peOple
acquiece in our present leVel
of casualties precisely because
they areinflicted upon some-
body else.’ If America had, to
fight this. war with people who
‘ thought an “honorable” peace
wOrth theirown lives, I think
we would be out of Vietnam
by next June at the latest.

Therefore the Congress should
ask the President’s silent ma-
jority to attest to their support
of our current policy by bring-

reorganization of the depart-
ment, the most important as-
pectof which is the appoint-
ment Of two career civil serv-
ants, Harry Scharaga as First
Deputy Commissioner for 0p-
erations, and James Scully as
Chief of Staff. Together, they
represent seventy years of pro-
fessional experience in that de-
partment. Their promotions
indicate a recognition that the
use of professionals from the
ranks at the command level is

absolutely vital to improving

productivity.

Your readers should be as-
sured that nothing is “drift-I
ing” in the Sanitation Depart-
ment. A great deal is happen-
ing: the Mayor is increasing
the work force in the depart-
ment by 1,500 sanitation
this year—the largest in
by far in the history of t
partment; pick-up
are being regularized f

operational improvemen
being planned and will
stituted quickly; new

on the way to deal with spe-
cial problems; a citizens’ com-
mittee has been revitalized,
through the Mayor’s Council on
the Environment, to produce
more public cooperation.

In short, a determined effort
is being made to come to grips
with an enormously complex
technological problem in- the
midst of an unprecedented
rise in refuse in the biggest
city in the nation.

RICHARD R. AURELIO
Deputy Mayor

City of New York

New York, Aug. 28, 1970

Program for ’70’s
To the Editor: .

For 35 years irresponsible
spending by Federal, state and
local politicians has constantly
edged us toward the brink of

total bankruptcy. This has de- .

velo-ped an environmental cli-
mate enabling hippie-s to attack
with impunity fundamental prin-
ciples and traditional virtues
that made America great.
Voters who cherish life, lib-
erty and our right to pursue
happiness can make the seven-
ties sensible. We must defeat
profligate politicians at every

election and elect instead only,

freedom loving patriots who
will enforce basic economy

’major' hospital serving the
entire upper East Side, would
permit easy access bOth to
patients and, equally important,
to staff, many of whom must
travel far and walk through
dark and often dangerous
streets. ,

Currently this hospital is
seriously understaffed. Bypass-
ing it on the new subway will
make it permanently inacces-
sible, and permanently un~
staffable.

- Additional consideration ‘of

human and health needs is re-'

quired before engineering con-

siderations alone are permitted

permanently to damage a com-
munity. [Editorial Aug. 29.]

EDWARD GORDON, M.D.

North Salem, N. Y.,

' Aug. 28, 1970

Conserving the Whale
To the Editor:

The Times’s concern about
whale conservation is encour-
aging. Your recent editorial

“Thar She Blows—How Long?” '

urging the continuance of the
United States modest Whale
Research Program, which was
axed on short notice and costs
only $65,000 a year, was well

timed: the research effort has .

since gotten a six-month re-
prieve. ’

In your editorial of July 14,
“Last Call for Whales,” the
Japanese are pictured as the
sole villains of the piece. The
facts are otherwise. While it is
true that Japan and the Soviet
Union do 85 per cent of the
world’s whaling today— and
that stubborn fact dare not be
ignored —- at the beginning of
the 1960’s five ' nations were
participating in the plunder Of
the Antarctic fishery.

, In the short span of one
decade the whale Oil yield from
the Antarctic has dropped five-
fold, from two million barrels
of oil to less than 400,000
barrels. If the havoc had been
less remorseless, the'Antarctic
would yield every year one

mil-lion barrels of whale oil,’

indefinitely; the blue whale and
the humpback would - not be
endangered species, and the
once plentiful finback would
indeed be the staple of the
trade. ,

The United States has any-
thing but a marginal role in
this whaling business. As a
major importer of whale oil

' (for tanning leather, transmis-

sion oil, cosmetics, lipstickland-f
whale meat (dog and cat food),
the United States has helped
to generate the ”demand that
keeps the Whalers going even
when the yield in the Antarctic
has dropped fivefold in. the
past decade. It is precisely be-
cause of US. complicity in the
decimation of this vast -- re-
source that the Department of
the Interior’s action to ban the

_ importation of whales in" any.

form under the Endangered
Species Act of. 1969 isa sig-
nificant and courageous action.
It is hoped that this action
will spurr the International
Whaling Commission to im-
prove on its paSt record-and.
that next June in Washington,
D. C., the Commission will set
appropriate quotas and imple-
ment the International Observer
Scheme which was approved in.
principle some years ago. “For
Without international observers
on every factory ship and" at
every land station, theCom-
mission’s regulations are un-
enforceable and unenforced.
SCOTT MCVAY'
Chairman
CommittEe on Whales
Environmental Defense Fund
Princeton, N. J., Aug. 21,1970

 




Cun Cling/JULY 1971

 

How do you know but ev'ry
Bird that cuts the airy way Is an
immense world of delight. clos'd
by your senses/7w?

—— William Blake

 

 

 

Whales Sing

Up and up and up the scale
beyond the topmost upper note
and beyond that
straining for ultimates
leavinga low wailing
asmall sob before
and beneath
to the reachingest next-to—God note of all,
a Humpback sings his song.
The Song of Songs.
The Hymn of Hymns.
No other creature
utters
a like fantasia
ofarching highs and belly lows,
birds and bottom fish,
fusing each sound with the memory
of '
what’s gone before.
The “string-ed ensemble”
in the front ofthe head
trys out
a magnaproposition.
Ifsome shrink before a remote
mind,
let them seek
his song,
and let the universal binder
bind blind extinction and bind us anew.
His song shall unbend us
'til we put away guns
and forget enough
to recall what counts.
1 need these string~ed sounds of odd shapes
the way a body aches for spring
in February.
50 do I need the sounds
to swim and dream in
to ﬂoat and bob and dream in
to ride and rest and sleep in
to coast and cradle and nest in
I need the notes to swing by
and envelop.
If the whale‘s voice be stilled,
then I shall be quieted utterly.
l have this tape
and I‘ll listen
until I know each linked sound and
can play them all in
my mind whenever...

What man has not searched for the grail?
other grails of various shapes
nestle here and there,
yet let me say flatly-~——
no better song can be
only other songs.
[must know all songs
and their pat ts, and
this single great aria
will lead me through
other arches, cathedrals and gardens
ofsong.
Songs sung over a thousand rolls of the seas
and turns ofsun and moon.
Songs to light the way
of lost men.
Songs to show the way
for lonely women.
Songs to answer
the laughter and song ofchildren.

Endless trills and low notes
to strike each plane
ofthe inner surface of
life‘s shell.

 

Before Watlington we intuited
such miracles -
now knowledge almost unbearable
- saturates the senses,
charges the mind.
Music must be the language
that blends
two otherwise separate paths
fora way, ‘
making eachjourney more
thaneither alone,
linking alljourneys.

A noble song ﬁlls the head
- impiications shake me.
Share first with one or two
well chosen
and then with all who care.

—-—Scolt Me Vay

 

 




 

 

A WHALlNG VlSlON

Imagine the day—«not too far
awaywwhen you can take
your kids on photographic
safari underwater to tatiow a
herd of vl/hales. 'V‘t‘hat splen»
did sport it would he to see a
whale moving through its
water world to photograph
that great gr ragetul hulk in
the well- illum hi:n:ited waters
near the sur iace as readily
as you woul d an elephant on

the Serengeti Ftain today

Yet as certainty :‘is technoi- "
ogy Wiil cater: u; with this
dream so cte seem as
certainly bent on talranlll ng
that chance i} the almost
unchecked siaugtitizzr of the
remaining whales. Today
every 12 n'iinutes the charge
in the head of a harpoon :—:i:<~
plorjies in a whales boatiy
Five yea rs a” o g ' t "
ldHed everyiéinhhnosa"

. . .
I i
V

interval lar‘VH iriiinss‘ti‘i;
not widen i'i‘luch turti‘icr
tore the OCQL‘ii'iS \ll l he as
empty of whales as our skies
are empty of eagles.

-mScott McVay

 

 

 




1967 Dr. F.J. Mulhern and Dr. Earl M. Jones Of the.3nited
Statee Department of.Agriculture in recognition of
their contribution to the welfare of research animals
in implementing P.L. 89+5hu, the Laboratory Animal
Welﬁﬁre Act and for their work over a period of years
in preventing great amounts of animal suffering

. through eradication of animal diseases.

Dr. John F. Quinn, State Veterinarian and Chief of

the Animal Health Division of the Michigan Depart~
ment of Agriculture, in recognition.cf his dedication
to practical advancement of animal welfare in the ‘ *
enforcement of the Michigan Dog Law, Humane Slaughter
Law and Laboratory Animal Welfare Act and his wisdom
.in creating the first_standing committee in Animal
Welfare of the United States Animal Health AssOciation.
(Mr. Jack Howard, President, Scripps~chard.NeWSpapers
and Scripps-Howard Broadcasting Company, made the
presentation.) .

Stan_wayman, Life photographer, whose expressive
photographs 0? animals have helped to change the
attitudes of many readers toward the creatures
Mr. Magman has so feelingly depicted. '
(Senator Philip Hart, Chairman, Schommittee on

Energy, Natural Resources and the Environment, who
conducted the Endangered Species Bill hearings, made
the presentation.)

Bob Cromie, journalist, in recognition of the many
columns written against cruelty to animals.
(Senator Charles Percy made the presentation.)

Congressman Thomas Foley, for his leadership in the
»passage'of the Animal Welﬁare Act of 1970.
(Senator Warren G. Magnuson made the presentation.)

Russell Train, Chairman of the Council on Environmental
Quality, in recognition of his role in obtaining the
S3~O vote at the Stockholm Conference in favor of a
ten~year international moratorium on commercial killing
of whales. -

(Mr. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian,

made the presentation.)

Scott McVay, for his distinguished service to the

cause of the whales.

(Dr.dLee Talbot, an intensive fellow fighter for the
whales in his capacity as Senior Scientist of the

Council on nnvironmental Quality, made the presentation.)

 




 

 

‘ﬂ

ants In Hevtew

5’:

ﬂags.“ y," g: rm»!

mm ML, (44:11er

(Jet. :97:

 

7

.--c

us

it’ll, hv Gear-3‘3

Wrzizersztv

‘ ‘ I ”1.
. ~ 7 t. ;- . t ,
17;;3...L.:rcouse-fzze or

(“m3 “.2 Kurt Von ?; .
Eng of Dremfeu

J11

W'oodeut shows sperm

.000 persons perished—~21 book that
on} him twenty—ﬁve years to get out of

ﬁns ffl'w' because he did not know how
a) mite about such violence—there is a
refrain, a phrase that begins to gather

enwe meaning as the seemingly in~
T1="?*TUC"£S story unfolds. Whenever a

brutish or Vicious act occurs, so brutal
and Vicious that no commentary is pos-
sible, Vonnegut invokes the refrain,
"So it goes.” At those moments, one
wonders if we are going to make it, or if
all the ego-tripping is not ﬁnally going
to do us in. '

 

 




b
p

A similar refrain, less subtle, more
direct, permeates C1-3orge Small's book,
The Blue Whale. It is, "But the killing
continued.” We are told, for example,
that "international conferences were
held and treaties were ratified to protect
the. whales. But the killing continued.”
The l11t1 rnational W l11l1ngr Commission
met again. But the blunt: tort: inued.
During:r the past half-:1 enturj more than

2.000 000 whales have been killed,
and the only respite the whales have
known was the period when the pri-
mary resources of hour {23. .émerica,

over the verbatim record of the inter-
national Whaling Commission. Every
graph and chart shows yet another view
of the 13.111éo111passi11g tragedy of the blue
whale. Not only has Small uncovered
scores of original sources, especially in
Norway, but he has also integrated the
material with the grace of an authority
steeped in his subject. This book is the
painstaking work of years, a loved la-
bor, and it shows.

This does not mean that gnat-piekers
may not ﬁnd statements to argue with.
For example, the word extinction is oc-

 

nature of a species

e is he tone form 2f iife

ach one of which is i

t? It mignt he

”The tragedy of ne blue v. hale IS the reﬂection of
an even greater 2:7..e that of man himself. What is the
that knowingly and without good
reason exterminaies anotlier‘ZHow long will man per-
s: st in the belie:'2.. he is the master of this Earth
rather than one o: .2 guests? When will he learn that

among countless thousands,
some way related to and de-

:2
dent on all otners" How long can he survive if he

er for man to acknowledge

epoeiidence on other tits: in

rms if he could recog-

 

 

 

An 1885 engraving of the

capture of two large whales.

longer plays a signiﬁcant role in the life
of the oceans.

The only break. for ”blue whales is
that they travel farther south, closer to
the pole, than the smaller, remaining.
commercially hunted baleen whales.
They seek the abundance of food found
in the coldest waters of the antarctic
summer, and that may be their salva-
tion. The Whalers seldom get that far

iskinship with 2:25:22 . . .Survival chances for

south anymore. it isn’t worth the trip.
Besides, the blue whale is now "pro-
tected” by an amendment of the Inter-
national Whaling Convention.

:human race v»: :3; :2e greatly enhanced when man
concedes to the Earti --. and all its life forms the right .
to exist that he we. :2 s for himself. The only homage

 

enemy.”

 

he can now pay to the blue whale is to learn the les-
sons of dependence on and kinship with all life. If he
does not learn them the great blue whale will have
died in vain-havitng taught nothing to his only mortal

GEORGE L. SMALL
The Blue Whale

 

 

and Japan we e engaged 111 W orld Y? 31‘
II, which involved atrocities on a :eale
not known before and which may be re-
called by saying the names of places:
Auschwitz, Pearl Harbor, Dresden,
Hir shima. So it goes.

In contrast to Omueh whale writing.
The Blue Whale is not a rehash of ma
terial published elsewhere. With the
thoroughness of a scholar de termined to
get a complete story, Small has pored

casionally used loosely in the book.

While the blue whale population has
dropped to commercial insignificance,
we do not know if its stocks are now
too small to be biologic ally viable. The

threat of biological extinction is real’

enough, yet the shatteiing, indisputable

fact is that as a result of whaling mal.
. Q.’

practice, the blue whale, the largest

animal known to have lived on land or

sea since the beginning of time," no

 

Small’s prognosis is that the blue
whale is ﬁnished, and he may be right.
Every major stock of blue whales has
been devastated. Yet we may dare to
hope that his prediction of extinction
for the blue whale proves erroneous. Al-
though history is on the side of his pre~
diction, it is possible that now that the
blue whale is ﬁnally being protected, it
will make a slow comeback over the
next century. Perhaps only a morato-
rium on all whaling can breathe life

into this thin hope. Or, at a minimum.

an inspection plan that will make cer-
tain that the "protected” species are
truly protected not taken 'in error i
and listed 1n the day 8 log as something
else.

Thanks to this book, we now know
what happened to the blue. whale. But
we know not the blue whale. 50
goes.

Scott lICVm is chairman of the Com-
mittee on Whales of the Environmental
Defense Fund and an administrator at
Princeton Universin

 

 




 

ﬁx. 1-1. i. c ...x -. 41?». 1 - {ii _.-.: 4.-::\-:m..-..-n-.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

  

 
  
 

  

 

L
\
1
k . 1:.
x
.\
a.
4 -
ﬂ - .
y . - . - -
A .
. T. -
-- K - . .
_ l”:-
f, . (I. -.

  

(

\ \~hn. .rllvl... I

 




 

Our command car.

This is our man in charge of
saying “No.”

No to Captains. No to Vice-
Presidents. And even no to The
Chairman of the Board.

Which is just what a good
mechanic ought to say.

He thinks nothing of keep-
ing a 7 million-dollar airplane
in the hangar because a 10¢

 

 

part needs replacing.

Or checking the burbling air
in a fan-jet 20 times—until he’s
satisﬁed it’s burbling just right.

All of which, we’re proud to
say, has made American one of
the most dependable airlines in
the business.

We wouldn’t dare be other-
wise.

American Airlines

 

We built this airline with the
professional traveller in mind
—the man who rates an airline
on the service it gives, not how
glamorous it looks.

And if his plane is late on
Sunday, we know his Travel
Agent won’t be calling us for
tickets on Monday.

Or yours, either.

The airline built for professional travellers. (You’ll love it.)

 

PRINCETON ALUMNI WEEKLY Vol. 68 No 4 October 10 1967 Published weekl ' ' ' ' '
. ‘ a , , . - , _, . _ y durlng the college year exce t durm examination and vacation
per1ods. Second-class postage pa1d at Princeton, NJ. Printed at Princeton University Press. Annual subscriptionp$7.00 (fgoreign postage $1.00 extra);

single copies, 25 cents. All orders must be paid in advance. Chan e of address ‘h < - ’ ' ‘
Prlnceton, NJ. 08540. © 1967 Princeton University Press. g s ould be sent to. Bureau of Alumni Records, New South Bu11d1ng,

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

.Qefters

Princeton At War

 

Dear Sir:

Frankly, I am surprised and appalled by
the letter of Allan M. Butler ’16, in which
he says “ . . how come Princeton was
associated with a participant in activities so
inappropriate and foreign to the interests
and purposes of a university?”

If Mr. Butler can tear himself away
from the soporiﬁc atmosphere of Santa
Barbara and come East and go into the
central area of Nassau Hall (which per-
haps he never did before), he will ﬁnd
on the marble panels the names of the
Princeton men who gave their lives for
their country in all our wars, including
the Revolution.

I. M. REYNOLDS ’22
New York City.

Northern “Suppression”
Dear Sir:

In order to add insult to injury I would
like you to convey my shock and outrage
to certain Northern communities in New
jersey, New York, Ohio, Maryland, Michi-
gan, etc., for their brutal suppression of
Negroes in their moment of eloquent and
heroic protest against ﬁremen, policemen,
and merchants who have, undoubtedly,
inﬂicted some great wrong upon them. The
use of riﬂes, machine guns, and armoured
tanks against these righteously indignant
Negroes is equivalent to the Edict of
Nantes and reﬂects almost as much im-
patience and cruelty as the use of ﬁre hoses
and “snarling” police dogs in Alabama, de-
picted so dramatically and condemned so
eagerly by the Northern press, letters in the
ALUMNI WEEKLY, etc., etc., etc.

What is really called for now, I think,
is a self-appointed committee of Southern
intellectuals from the University of South
Carolina to take it upon themselves to
journey to the communities in question in
order to study police brutality, racial per-
secutions, and bigotry in Northern cities.
After the fact gathering the committee
would analyze its own ﬁndings, make re-
ports to Southern newspapers, and present
its panaceas to the North. Sounds vaguely
familiar? How do you like the idea?

FRED STEVENSON, IR. ’64
Charleston, SC.

Architecture Teaching?

Dear Sir:

Along with the article outlining the
grand goals of the School of Architecture
appeared an interesting statistic in the Iune
6th University Magazine. The ﬁgure de-
scribed Princeton as leading the nation in
the amount of “highly paid personal at-
tention each student received.” After
reading of the activities of the recently
overhauled School of Architecture, one had
to question their goals. Are these vague
and general, yet fashionable studies aimed
at beneﬁting the student or rather the
school itself? The purpose of the College
is to teach and that of a University is to

learn. Princeton has always felt this an
important distinction as the above statistic
indicates. Are the undergraduates in the
School of Architecture still being taught?
The article itself mentioned the danger of
oﬂering a man too many generalities and
having him end up “terribly superﬁcial.”
This reader found the danger looming
larger as he completed the article. No
mention was made in the entire eight pages
on the teaching process: lectures, classes,
preceptorials, or drafting table criticism.
No mention was made of the man to man
personal interchange which is so vital to
any educational process.

One couldn’t help but be impressed by
the number, scope and magnitude of the
various research projects under way. No
doubt this will bring the school a great
deal of notice it never had, or ever felt
was necessary for the business of teaching
architects.

IOHN W. KELSEY MFA ’63

Cambridge, Mass.

Wrong—Way P—rade
Dear Sir:

You have wrong-way Alumni P-raders
in a recent issue (note reversed letters on
reviewing stand banner).

The column of marching Reuners has
been proceeding in clockwise manner, both
at University Field and Clarke Field, for
many years—ever since the countermarch
was eliminated, if I remember correctly.

ASA S. BUSHNELL ’21
Princeton, NJ.

Portland Basketball
Dear Sir:

The Princeton basketball team will be
appearing here in Portland December 27th
through 30th in the Far West Classic bas-
ketball tournament. Ticket sales are being
handled by the host school, Oregon State
University. The Princeton Club of Oregon
is arranging for a bloc purchase of tickets
for its members, and we would be pleased
to extend our services to the alumni body
in general. We are contacting the larger
West Coast alumni organizations directly,
but would appreciate it very much if you
could get the following information in an
early issue of the WEEKLY this fall for the
beneﬁt of any other interested alumni:

Season tickets, entitling the holder to
attend all games, are $14.00 each. Checks
payable to “Princeton Club of Oregon”
may be sent to Paul N. Wonacott ’61,
1310 Yeon Building, Portland, Oregon
97204, together with a 2 5¢ handling
charge for each order prior to October
2 5th. The early closing date is to insure
that we can place our order on November
1st, when the seats go on sale, and get as
good a block of seats as possible. Tickets

will be mailed by the Princeton Club of -

Oregon directly to ordering alumni around
mid—November, and the mailing will in-
clude a schedule of social events at which
all visiting alumni will be welcome. Tick-
ets can also be obtained any time after
November 1st from the Department of In-
tercollegiate Athletics, Oregon State Uni-
versity, 103 Coliseum, Corvallis, Oregon,

(continued on page 17)

 

 

 

 

R C.
49’ 00
v 4’
a, .
.1
0
O
‘6
’P o
’NcE‘

The Need for the Course

“An executive may delegate
operations and functions to
others; he may delegate re-
sponsibility and authority
to subordinates.

“But he cannot delegate the
understanding of people.

“The problem of predicting
human behavior is inﬁnite in
scope. Each executive owes
it to himself and to his com-
pany to study and apply the
practical techniques pre-
sented in our hard hitting
ﬁve day Evaluation Tech-
niques Course.”

J. P. CLEAVER

The Purposes of the Course

1. Motivation of Current
' Employees (“Payroll In-
vestment”)

2. Organization Planning—
for future of the Com-
PanY '

3. Management Develop-
ment—to add strength to
Company

4. Selection of New Man-
agers, Salesmen and Em-
ployees

5. Training of Managerial
and Sales Candidates—to
aid Company growth

Basic Evaluation Techniques
Course Schedule

Oct. 9-13 Los Angeles, Calif.
Oct. 23-27 Chicago, Ill.
Nov. 6-10 Princeton, NJ.

 

 

 

EVQWGWW

Organization and Management
70 Nassau Street Princeton, New Jersey

 

 

OCTOBER 10,1967 a. 3

 




 

 

On 7716 Campus

IXER season had hit again. The

mixer, a unique sort of dance
held early in the school year in college
gymnasiums all over the country, theo-
retically enables a lonely Princeton
freshman from Dubuque to ﬁnd love
and happiness with a forlorn Vassar
yearling from Salt Lake City. But sel-
dom is it love at ﬁrst sight, if only
because the gymnasiums are often so
dimly lit that partners have difﬁculty
seeing each other. Conversation, po—
lite or otherwise, is out, thanks to the
volume of the music. Bands seem to
have a theory that mixer participants
have nothing to say to the opposite
sex, and that partners feel much more
at ease if they can’t even attempt to
converse. The mixer, nevertheless, is a
handy way to meet new faces. But the
Princeton mixer scene- seemed some—
how different this autumn. True, fresh-
men turned out in droves for a Briar—
cliff—Bryn Mawr affair in Dillon Gym.
But upperclassmen, perhaps testing the
new-found mobility of legal automo—
biles, had ﬂed the campus. Most of
them seemed headed for one or an-
other of the East’s more renowned
women’s colleges and the inevitable
mixer. Several were noticed at a Man-
hattanville dance Friday night and at
Sarah Lawrence the next. But at least
one older Princetonian stayed in town
to attend the Dillon dance: President
Robert F. Goheen.

 

Drug Report

The report was anything but earth—
shaking, but from the attention it
received from the national press, a
narcotics ring might as well have been
discovered within the Nassau Hall ad-
ministration. The student health com—
mittee’s “Psychedelics and the College
Student” was a deliberately non-con—
troversial attempt to examine the
growing use of drugs by college stu—
dents, at Princeton and elsewhere. The
committee’s 12 undergraduates had
spent months investigating the drug
situation at Princeton and at colleges
around the country. The report was
ﬁnished late last Spring and mimeo—
graphed c0pies received limited circula—
tion then. But over the summer Prince—
ton University Press turned the report

into an attractively printed booklet,

44 .. OCTOBER 10,1967

which was distributed to every under—
graduate during the ﬁrst week of
classes.

The psychedelics report seems des—
tined to gain more than a parochial
reputation, however. Aside from the
national publicity, or perhaps partly
because of it, several other colleges
have asked Princeton if they can use
the report. The P.U. Press plans to
sell the pamphlet at 50 cents a c0py.
Noted Press Director Herbert Bailey:
“a low—key factual account, written by
the undergraduates themselves, could
receive much more attention than one
written by noted authorities.”

The 23-page report begins with a
glossary of terms associated with drug
use, deals with legal, medical and so-
cial aspects of drugs. Two ﬁctional
accounts consider “A Successful Trip”
and “An Unsuccessful Trip.” The re—
port ends with a plug for the various

counseling services available at Prince—

ton, a conclusion and a two-and-one—
half page bibliography of books and
articles on drugs.

Senior Kim 1. Masters, chairman of
the health committee, said that
“whether or not drugs are good is a
highly personal thing. We are just go—
ing to discuss it from as many points
of view as possible.” The report does
just that. The legal section tells the
reader that use of marijuana is pun—
ishable in New jersey by a ﬁne of no
more than $2,000 and two to 15 years
at hard labor. The committee says it
“feels that the bulk of medical evi—
dence indicates that the medicallv
deleterious effects on individual and
public health from alcohol are cur—
rently as great as marijuana,” although
the effects of drug use must not be
dismissed. The report draws a picture
of students who smoke marijuana for
“social” reasons, much as other peo-
ple use alcohol. It says others use
drugs “to gain psychological insight”
and that these peOple are most likely
to try the more powerful psychedelics
such as LSD. The “successful trip”
passage describes the “total under-
standing of myself and my place in the
world” said to come from an LSD
experience. The “unsuccessful” por-
tion tells of horrible hallucinations
which led to four weeks in a hospital.
The committee’s conclusion: “the col-

 

EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN Ill ’68

‘

legcs—on whose campuses drug use
has spread so rapidly—should take a
much more active role in increasing
the amount of information available.”

So said, the committee set out to do
just that. It sponsored two forums on
drug use during the ﬁrst week of school
and plans a series of monthly lectures
throughout the year. The impact of
the report 011 Princeton is yet to be
determined. The only even semi—sci-
cntiﬁc study ever made of the use of
drugs by Princeton undergraduates was
a survey last Spring by the University
Press Club. From a sample of 150 stu-
dents, the journalists estimated that 15
per cent of the umlergraduatcs have
experimented with non-addictive drugs
and that 10 per cent have used them
more than once. The ﬁgures have since
been called both too high and too low.
The student health committee at any
rate has decided the matter is worthy
of further consideration.

Coedueational Choir

The University Chapel has stood
solidly on its present ground for al—
most four decades. Its current Dean is
starting his 13th year at Princeton. At
the ﬁrst regular chapel service of the
new school year, however, there was
something new, perhaps even a herald
of things to come. Girls.

Girls are certainly not new to the
chapel. Dean Ernest Gordon says the
highest chapel attendances of the year
are on Sundays of big party weekends,
when he ﬁgures dates bring their
Princeton boyfriends to the 11 a.n1.
service.

But ladies in the choir? Never, at
least not until this year. Now there
are 20, critical language girls at Prince—
ton for their junior years and the
wives of graduate students and faculty
members. “The choir is the ﬁrst ofﬁ—
cial organization on campus to become
coed,” the dean noted at the chapel
service. Later he said that he felt the
innovation necessary because “the
chapel is here to serve the entire uni-
versity community,” which now cer—
tainly embraces women. He added that
the new members of the choir “should
add greatly to the range of mUSiC
performed.”

 

 

 




 

 

U nioersilj/ Mew

 

N 1961 Princeton admitted its ﬁrst

woman, and since then the door
has swung Open more and more to the
distaff side. Last year there were 31
women graduate students, this year
53. Plus 15 female undergraduates, on
leave from their own campuses in the
ﬁve—year—old “critical languages” pro—
gram.

Slight Surplus

In 1965—66 the University budget
for the ﬁrst time dipped into the red
with a deﬁcit of $617,950, and for
1966—67 the projected ﬁgure was
$1,104,000. Yet by a record year in
Annual Giving and a heroic set of
economizing measures (plus some jobs
as yet unﬁlled and other technical
“savings”), the ﬁnal ﬁgure was
$54,218 surplus on a total expenditure
of $62,443,958. Unfortunately the
outlook for 1967-68 is once more
gloomy, with projected ﬁgures far in
the red. Financial Vice—President Ri-
cardo A. Mestres ’31 says, “There
aren’t going to be any pat answers to
Princeton’s budget problems. I have
serious reservations on the future.”

Wilson Seminars

The Opportunity to help the’ na—
tion’s most crowded state create new
communities will challenge a group of
University graduate students this year.
Working under the direction of Dr.
Paul Ylvisaker, New Jersey Commis—
sioner of Community Affairs, six ad—
vanced students in the Woodrow
Wilson School of Public and Interna-
tional Affairs will help map out where
New Jersey will attempt to concentrate
its new growth.

Dr. Ylvisaker, former Director of
Public Affairs for the Ford Founda—
tion, is serving on the Princeton fac—
ulty‘ as a Visiting Lecturer with rank
of Professor. He is supervising one of
nine workshops offered during the
academic year, each of which is con-
cerned with a key policy problem in
public or international affairs. Other
workshOps on the graduate level will
examine such areas as government and
the Negro community, pollution con-
trol, and revolution and modernization
in Vietnam.

 

 

ON THE COVER: In the article
which begins overleaf Scott McVay
relates the rather cheerful study of
the dolphin to the broad scientiﬁc
problem of the phenomenon of
hearing. Here “Sven,” small but a
show business Coney Island type,
leaps in anticipation when a visiting
lady-dolphin is lowered into the pool
at Princeton’s Auditory Research
Laboratories—so quickly and ex-
citedly that he lifts a “hump” of
water with him. Ulli Steltzer photo.

 

 

 

Speaking about urban problems, he
told his Woodrow Wilson School
students in outlining the work—study
program that “learning these days in
community affairs involves going to
where the problems are.” The se—
lected students will do a substantial
amount of background work for his
ofﬁce as it maps where, and how, new
growth in the state should be concen—
trated. While the group will meet
periodically as a class in his Cranbury
home, much of the program will in—
volve ﬁeld work. Dr. Ylvisaker, whose
department indicates the state’s p0pu—
lation will double by the year 2000——
or earlier has begun studies to create
an agency to deve10p the North Jersey
meadowland on a regional basis. Other
communities with ultimate sizes of
2 50,000 to 500,000 population are also
to be projected.

Reﬂecting the growing nationwide
concern with pollution, the Woodrow
Wilson School is also initiating pro—
grams on both the undergraduate and
graduate levels which will consider
formulation of public policy to control
air and water pollution. They will
focus on inter—governmental relations

 

and on conﬂicting bureaucratic and
economic interests.

The courses will be directed by Dr.
J. Clarence Davies III, Assistant Pro—
fessor of Politics and Public Affairs,
who was chief examiner for environ-
mental health and consumer protec—
tion with the US. Bureau of the
Budget before coming to Princeton
this summer. Dr. W. Duane Lockard,
former Connecticut State Senator,
Professor of Politics and Public Af-
fairs, and author of the book Toward
Equal Opportunity, will direct a work-
shOp on “Government and the Negro
Community” during the spring term.
Particular emphasis will be given to
anti—discrimination laws, integration
in education, urban renewal, and as—
pects of the poverty program. Other
policy workshops for graduate students
enrolled in the Woodrow Wilson
School include, during the fall, the
“Impact of US. Trade Policies on Un-
derdeveIOped Countries,” and “French
and US. Planning and Administrative
Problems.” Spring sessions include
workshops on “Campaigns and Elec-
tions,” “Afro—Asian Violence and
Great Power Diplomacy,” and “Soviet
Foreign Policy.”

Theodore C. Sorensen, adviser to
the late President Kennedy, is offering
a graduate seminar on “Presidential
Leadership in Foreign Policy,” similar
to one presented here last year for
undergraduates.

A seminar for undergraduate sen-
iors, “The Corporation in American
Society,” is being given by Ralph
Nader ’ 55, Visiting Lecturer in Public
and International Affairs, author of
Unsafe at Any Speed. Seven confer-
ences on public affairs also are sched—
uled for undergraduates.

Engineering Tours

The undergraduate Engineering
Council will offer conducted tours of
the Engineering Quadrangle on morn-
ings before home football games, be—
tween 10 and 11. They are designed
to give alumni and secondary school
applicants a chance to see the research
projects therein and direct questions
at students.

OCTOBER .10, 1967 O 5

 




 

 

    

 

Haw H cars
7726 Walla/22°72?

SCOTT MCVAY ’55

“Think you of the fact that a deaf person cannot hear. Then,
what deafness may we not all possess? What senses do we lack
that we cannot see and cannot hear another world all
around us?”

from Dune by Frank Herbert

HE DOLPHIN’S EAR has undergone a remarkable, pos—
Tsibly unique transformation in the course of evolu-
tion. It is the primary sensory input of a creature which
originated in the sea, evolved over millennia on the land
like other mammals, and then—more than go million
years ago—returned to the sea. What happened to the
dolphin’s hearing in the course of this postulated deve10p-
ment which has now come full circle?

As a very young man, the late Arthur McBride, then
Curator at Marine Studios, in St. Augustine, Florida,
was the ﬁrst to observe that dolphins live in a world of
sound. Eight years in advance of his discovery that dol-
phins (or porpoises) possess a sonar system similar to
that of bats, McBride noted in 1939: “The portion of
the brain devoted to receiving sensations of sound, we
learn, is particularly well deve10ped in the porpoise. It is
extremely interesting, therefore, to watch the behavior of
an animal whose principal concept of his surroundings
comes to him through his auditory apparatus.”

The phenomenon of hearing has been studied from

 

Before his appointment as Assistant to President Goheen
(and last month, Assistant Treasurer) Scott McVay spent
two years at the Communication Research Institute in
Miami. Among his manifold duties, it should be added,
is writing PAW’s ’ 5 5 Class Notes—ED,

6 0 OCTOBER 1051967

Ann Wiseman Denzer

 

 

A Research Project

At The Auditory Laboratories

its aquatic beginnings in ﬁsh, in scores of living systems
on land and now, for the ﬁrst time, in the dolphin. In
hundreds of examples of terrestrial life, the structure and
mode of hearing have several similarities. The great in—
terest in the dolphin’s hearing—besides the size and com—
plexity of that function’s development in the brain—turns
on the question, how does an auditory system that de—
ve10ped initially on land (an “air ear”) function in the
water? That question prompted Dr. Ernest Glen Wever
of the Department of Psychology and James G. Mc—
Cormick, a graduate student, to undertake a research
program at Princeton on dolphin hearing.

Dr. Wever, a world authority in the ﬁeld of audition,
is Director of the Auditory Research Laboratories on the
Forrestal Campus, which have nine buildings on a ﬁve-
acre site overlooking Lake Carnegie. Forty years’ study on
hearing in such diverse creatures as insects and men
sharpened Dr. Wever’s curiosity about a mammalian ear
in an aquatic environment. His experience, which has had
a profound inﬂuence on auditory research since 1930, is
coming to bear on one of the most soPhisticated and
elegant ears on the planet.

The project is being conducted in c00peration with
the Naval Bioscience Facility at Point Mugu, California.
One of the Navy’s primary interests in the dolphin is to
discover how his sonar, or echo-ranging capacity, operates-
Naturally, the Navy would like to improve its instruments
for underwater navigation and detection from knowledge
of.the dolphin’s sonic system. The research interest at
Princeton, on the other hand, is non—applied or “basic"

like most of the 410 Sponsored research projects cur—
rently funded at the University.

    

- awn-a.» a.» w saber ..

 

”-7-

 

 




 
 

 

 

    
       
      
   
    
     
  
 
 
 
 
 

(Top) Five men lift large female dol-
phin, after she is vaccinated, from plane
to waiting truck, on arrival in Princeton
from Florida. Middle After a three-
minute ride from F orrestal Airport,
dolphin is lifted gently from foam mat-
tress in truck, author McVay in middle.
(Bottom, right) She is then lowered by
hand crane into pool at Auditory Re-
search Laboratories. Craduate student
McCormick jumps in water to assist
dolphin as she tries to orient herself
to the new environment. Bottom,
left After a nudge from “Sven” who
is on the cover of this issue the new
arrival surfaces slowly, awkwardly, for
the first breath, and everyone sighs with
relief.

Photos hy Ulli Steltzer




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Some behavioral studies with dolphins owned by the
University got underway quietly in 1966. In October of
that year the New York Times learned that Princeton
was moving two of its dolphins from summer quarters at
the Coney Island Aquarium back to their regular abode
in Philadelphia and did a picture—story. The research has
drawn little public notice since then except that two of
the dolphins, “Princeton” (a young male) and “Miss
Nassau” have gained. some distinction in Philadelphia as
stars of a show at Aquarama. Between shows and in the
evening, jim McCormick, an NIH pre-doctoral research
fellow, studied their sleeping habits and their sonic
emissions in air as part of his graduate independent work.

The main thrust of the research effort, however, is the
investigation of the dolphin’s hearing. In january, 1967
at Point Mugu, exploratory studies of the dolphin ear
were initiated. During the Spring, a pool was built at
Princeton’s Auditory Research Laboratories so that the
dolphins could be brought to the best setting to get on
with the work. The facilities here are admirably equipped
for this study, and the site assures surroundings that are
relatively free from extraneous noise. Equipment is in use
which permits measurements of the characteristics of the
ear over a wide range of frequencies and levels.

The pool is 26.5 feet long, 16 feet wide, and from four
to eight feet deep. It is equipped with two ﬁlter pumps
which recirculate 7,020 gallons of water through the pool
every hour. A desirable level of salinity has been found
to be about one—third that of seawater. Initially, 1,600 lbs.
of salt were put into the 16,000 gallon pool, and then a
100 lb. bag is added as needed every few weeks.

A hand-Operated crane, made at Forrestal from Spare
parts, is used for lifting the dolphins in and out of water.
Incidentally, the cost of feeding a dolphin runs about
$100 a month in contrast to an undergraduate’s board of
$80 a month. While the latter’s menu is varied, the
former has to settle for a steady diet of thawed—out Bos-
ton mackerel.

A C heery Arrival

june 24, 1967 was an historic day. The ﬁrst dolphin
ﬂown up to Princeton from Steinhatchee, Florida was a
young male, subsequently named “Sven.” His arrival was
unmarked by photographers, but when a second dolphin
was ﬂown in on August 5th, a few pictures were taken.
Although the large female which was put in with Sven
was quite stiff and disoriented after a ﬂight which had
taken her to an elevation of 14,000 feet, she rallied quick-
ly. Within a few days she was jumping completely clear
of the water, presumably looking over the new surround—
ings. Such behavior is seldom seen for many days among

‘ newly captured animals.

Of some 55 species of dolphins in the family of whales,
the bottlenose (Tursiops truncatus) adapts most readily
to captivity because he is used to moving through waters
of the innermost part of the continental shelf, and he
frequently swims up rivers and estuaries to probe the
shallow edges of his world.

In studies involving the dolphin, the question of their
intelligence often creeps into discussion if seldom into
print. The Soviet government added fuel to this ﬁre in
March, 1966 with the announcement that it had banned
the catching and killing of dolphins because their brains

are “strikingly close to our own.” Fisheries Minister Al—

4 , 8 0 OCTOBER 10,1967
j _.,1. “ﬂ-

Sound Pressure, db

 

‘
s‘_
‘~
~~
~~~
~~
‘~

 

 

 

—— 6o — \\ ~ ........... " ,~ ——
\.\ ........... ’I/
_. 8O —- "~ \\\\\\ \~ """"""""""""" ",x" _
—— 100 | I l I l l l l I
o 1 0.2 0.4 1 2 4 10 20 40 100 150
Frequency

Hearing Sensitivity is shown for four species, the bottlenose
dolphin (———————-), man ( ———-—.-— ), the cat (..__.__),
and the bat ( ................ ) as determined by beliavioral testlng.
Frequency is plotted logarithmically; consequently, while the
low frequencies (where man hears best) are drawn out, the
high frequencies (where the dolphin 18 at home) are squeezed
together.

exander A. Ishkov said the decision was taken after
extensive research in the Soviet Union and abroad showed
that the dolphin’s brain power makes him “the marine
brother of man.” Ishkov indicated that he “accepted the-
ories that dolphins can talk and may eventually be able
to teach their languages to man. Research shows that the
dolphin’s brain is very big and very complicated and
strikingly close to our own.”

The concept of intelligence is slippery enough within
our own species to make deﬁnitive comparisons with
other Species still premature. Psychologists have different
ways of deﬁning what intelligence is, and at the present
time no one way exists to measure intelligence. While
Dr. Wever, Eugene Higgins Professor of Psychology, is
not interested in the large and lumpy question of intel—
ligence per se, he believes that one viable approach to
the subject is to estimate the ability of an animal to solve
its usual life problems. In dealing with other Species, we
often make the mistake of judging them by what people
do or are expected to do. In the few years that dolphins
have been in captivity at some 25 places in this country,
they have been viewed generally through the commercial
prism of how well they perform in a circus. Their ability
to jump through ﬂaming 1100ps, play basketball, ring bells,
sing on command, pull boats, bowl duckpins and such has
been assiduously rewarded and promoted.

The question of language, which is entwined with the
question of intelligence and hearingm-at least in the hu—
man species—has gone largely unprobed in any rigorous
and systematic manner. We recognize in our own kind
that the capacity to communicate may be closely allied
with the level of intelligence. \Vhile dolphins can emit a
great variety of sounds, their primary modes are whistles
and clicks. The whistles have been thought to be main—
ly communicative. (Among four different Species of dol—
phins, fairly discrete whistle “dialects” have been IC‘
ported—’though certain signals seem to be common to
all four.) Clicks may be emitted at varying rates from 0116
or two per Second to 400—500 bursts per second or even
higher. The clicks have been thought to be used pri—
manly for food—ﬁnding and navigation purposes. The
Cth trains, or sonar, search the seaseape in front of a
dOIPhln in much the same way that the cone of light

 

 

 




Pat‘s-“Q if

 

_._mz

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

A dolphin’s curiosity seems insatiable and most of his
questions are sonic probes, here at a hydrophone.

from a miner’s headlamp shows his way through a mine.
In the presence of reﬂected light, we see where we look.
In the presence of reﬂected sound, or the echoes of their
own clicks, dolphins hear where they point their beam of
sound. The click—echoes returned from the environment
before the moving dolphin are information-bearing. The
echoes contain information about the size, shape, loca—
tion, movement if any, and texture of the living and non—
living things in the water. The dolphin seems to have
exquisite control over his sonic mechanism, and one
wonders if he can simulate the information—bearing
echoes to a degree that such a function would be part of
a communication system among dolphins.

The dolphin generates sounds by means of an air—sac
system in the front of his head. Connected to the blow—
hole and positioned a few inches below it is a double air—
sac system of four small chambers by which clicks and
whistles are produced. In emitting these two kinds of
sounds, sometimes simultaneously, the dolphin doesn’t
normally Open his mouth nor his blowhole. Air under
pressure is apparently bubbled through the membranes
of this closed system to create the sounds he lives by.
Unlike our voice system which uses air only one time as
it leaves the lungs and is shaped by the vocal chords,
throat cavity, tongue, roof of the mouth, teeth, and lips
—the dolphin can “talk” underwater without losing air.

 

Catching Fish By Sonar

The way a dolphin catches a ﬁsh is an example of how
the total clicking—echo sonar—hearing sensory—cerebral sys—
tem utilizes sonic information.”< When a dolphin detects
a ﬁsh worth pursuing, he may increase the repetition rate
of the clicks he emits from 10-20 clicks per second to 100-
200 clicks. The frequency of the click train increases
gradually as he gets closer, and the cone of sound narrows
down as he approaches the ﬂeeing ﬁsh. As he gets very
close, the dolphin will swing his head back and forth
across a 10° arc—apparently doing a kind of binaural
pickup while keeping the ﬁsh ﬁxed within the sweep of
the sonic beam. The ﬁsh is ﬁrst grasped with the rows
of conical teeth and then turned in the mouth so its
head is toward the throat. The Sphincter at the back of
the throat closes down on the still wriggling ﬁsh, wringing

* See drawing on page 6.

 

three stomachs.

With multiple stomachs and other characteristics, the '

dolphin appears to be a distant kin of the bovine family,
but in several respects his world and anatomy diﬂer mark-
edly from those of land mammals. The dolphin moves in
a water world where sound travels four to ﬁve times as
fast as in air. He is almost weightless, not in an air
atmosphere where gravity is a fact of life. Since he is
an air—breathing mammal, one may ask why a dolphin
cannot live out of water. Although he can take short
periods out of water if his skin is kept moist, his body
structure is not designed to withstand the force of gravity.
His lungs collapse if he is out of his element for very
long. The dolphin’s massive and ﬁnely structured brain
seems to have more in common with man’s than with
the cow’s wee instrument, in spite of seemingly con—
nected origins eons ago. The visual part of the human
brain is roughly ten times the size of the dolphin’s. The
neural development of the auditory portion of the dol—
phin’s brain, on the other hand, is about two and one
half times larger than man’s. We receive important in—
formation sonically as the dolphin does visually, but cru—
cial information about the surroundings is received pri—
marily through the visual path in man and through the
acoustic path in the dolphin.

If a person is swimming in a pool under water, and

someone at poolside speaks in air, the swimmer will have,

diﬂiculty hearing the Speaker. Most of the sound would
be reﬂected at the air—water interface. A dolphin in air
is in an analogous situation. The air—body interface is al—
most as reﬂective as the water’s surface, and we would
expect the dolphin’s hearing in air to be poor.

Regarding the relationship between intelligence and the
quality of sensory information, Dr. Wever points out that
animals—people included—generally have more sensory
information than they use. The practical boundaries of
perception are determined not so much by the quality or
quantity of sensory information, but rather how that in—
formation is integrated and put to use by the living or—
ganism. Limitations are determined by the central nerv—
ous part of the animal system as well as the peripheral
sensory part. Through time, the sensory system does not
always develop as fast as the central nervous system in—
cluding the brain mechanism.

The “shape of an echo” may be deﬁnitive. Even using
crude man-built sonar, for example, the sounds returned
from a vessel whose broadside is exposed seem quite dif—
ferent from those when a vessel is oblique to the listener.
Such sonar still cannot sort out submarines from whales
every time.

As you increase the frequency of a sound, it begins to
resemble a light wave. Even at high frequencies, a sound
wave is a great deal longer than a light wave, but the
point is that when wave lengths are relatively short, they
carry a precise image- The precision of the acoustical
images that the dolphin receives is obviously not compa-
rable to our visual images, yet he will react to a BB- shot
dr0pped into a quiet pool at a distance of so feet by
promptly training his sonar on it. A dolphin can also
detect and retrieve a dime, thrown a hundred feet over
the surface of the water, which drops quickly through a
depth of ten feet into a silt bottom.

(continued on page 17)

OCTOBER 10, 1967 0 9

out the water, and it passes on for action by the ﬁrst of

      
 

     




 

 

 

 

I ﬂ Wemoriam:

@cm Sac/25 ’60

HERE is a Special attribute about the memories held
Tof Dan Sachs. It is not elicited by any single recol-
lection. The reﬂections of many of those who loved and
admired him must be taken together, and only then does
this extra response emerge: that each man who knew
Dan Sachs found in him the quality which that friend
valued foremost and hoped to be thriving in himself. He
had a rare sc0pe and penetration that made it possible
for him to leave intense impressions upon the most
diverse company.

The strong who speak of Sachs cite ﬁrst his courage;
the ambitious specify his drive; the intellectual, his love
of learning; the tender, his understanding; the philo-
SOphical, his vision; the moral, his diligence to live by
his own stern values. He won the reSpect of each man on
his own grounds; yet always he was constant with himself.

His own search was for the heroic, and it can be
judged that he found that. At the memorial service for
Dan, the Rev. Mr. Milton Yeack said: “Life is not to be
measured by accomplishments alone, but also by com—
mitments.” Daniel M. Sachs ’60 died of cancer on june
20 at his home in Bethlehem, Pa., a few weeks before
his twenty-ninth birthday. He left his wife, the former
Ioan Lundstrom, a brave young woman whose courage
mirrored that of her husband, and their daughter,
Alexandra, who was one year old this September 15. His
own father, an air force colonel, died in a plane crash
when Dan was only eight. “It is best that Dan did not
have a son himself,” says a close friend, “for Alexandra
will not have to face the task of growing up to be her
father.”

Her father’s standards were exceeded only by his goals.
Dan Sachs’ life could have been one of greatness. He
prepared himself for that, not in cocky anticipation, but
in studied precaution, so that if the Opportunity ever
did confront him, he would be provided for it. Shortly
after he left Princeton, as a Rhodes Scholar, he wrote:
“If we fail to seize the vision now, in the years of in—
tellectual strife when character becomes formed, then we
can seldom hope to breathe life into the myth once we
take up the tools of the world.”

The possibility of making any concession to the or-
dinary forced him after excellence. “I fear mediocrity

'IO 0 OCTOBER 10,1967

 

     

Dan Sachs, cropped from the
group picture of the Oxford
University rugby team

 

more than I fear anything else,” llC said. He came to
Princeton with low college board scores, the ﬁrst ever to
enter the University from Emmaus (Pa) High School.
He was graduated from Princeton a Rhodes Scholar and a
Phi Beta Kappa, with High Honors in French. He also
earned honors in History at Oxford, and was elected to an
oﬁice that is equivalent to class president in his college,
Worcester. He endured Harvard Law next, not as a prel—
ude to the Bar, but as an essential part of the structure
of the career he planned in politics.

He never did like the study of law. It was too dry for
his curious mind, one that raced in excited pursuit after
ideas and experience. Sachs was a voracious and eclectic
reader—history, philOSOphy, poetry, novels—and he pon-
dered everything he read. He studied constantly. Yet—-
and more so in his last years—he also began zealously to
scrutinize the peOple about him, especially—intentionally
—those of different style and alien temperament. It began
as a determined exercise, his own kindergarten for
politics; it ended up bringing him an even more genuine
appetence for life.

He probably never was satisﬁed that he was able, as he
put it, “to become natural and easy.” He was envious of
those with that facility, and showed his admiration for
them—which is perhaps why those of wit and warmth
now are determined to maintain that Sachs had much
more humor than he was ever credited with. Dan himself
was convinced that “my phlegmatie, essentially German
soul” was capable of laughing only at his own inability
to laugh. “How can peOple live just for the moment?” he
asked with jealous perplexity after spending one weekend
of a French visit with a tough, scurrilous Algerian truck
driver and his whole ribald family. That question Dan
posed in 1960. By 1964 he had answered it sufﬁciently
to become the only elected member of an impromptu,
outlandish social order among Harvard proctors and
graduate students that was titled “The Select Committee
of the Whole Group” and was solemnly devoted to ac—
complishing absolutely nothing except an occasional
night 0f intramural bedlam, as practiced in the guise of
fellowship. And he loved it; he was learning to relax.

From the time he met joan, his ways were easier and
happier. He was introduced to her one day in the spring

 

 

 




“:54“— .b‘w- ‘~

 

of ’64. “Well,” he told friends later that evening, “I just
met the girl I am going to marry.” (He let her in on this
observation somewhat later.) He courted her with walks,
not because he was cheap or impecunious (though he
never had much money), but because he was peculiar
that way—Dan Sachs liked walks. Long, ambling, saun—
tering, meandering, striding, happy, serious—well, old—
fashioned—walks. They were his parties. He reserved
them for his best girl or for his good friends, as others
save a bottle of wine or a newspaper clipping. ‘With
Joan, he walked along the Charles River that spring, and
it was to be the happiest time in their lives.

ORMALLY, deSpite the panorama of his successes,

Sachs approached each new experience with trepi-
dation. He was as wary and withdrawn when he came to
Oxford as he had been when he ﬁrst arrived in Princeton.
Ease—much less conﬁdence—would come only when he
felt that he was in command of a situation. He was de—
termined to play football at Princeton deSpite his slight,
fragile build simply because he appreciated that the sport
was the one thing he could be immediately proﬁcient in,
and that the football stadium was the one place where a
young man could ﬁnd a touch of recognition. After he

 

To perpetuate his memory a Daniel M. Sachs Scholar—
ship Trust has been established; for the present it will
provide for the education of his daughter but its
eventual and permanent purpose is to endow distin-
guished fellowships for graduating seniors who intend
careers in politics or public service to study and travel
abroad. If feasible, a similar fellowship will allow an
Oxford man to study at Princeton. Inquiries should be
directed to Professor Charles C. Gillispie of the His—
tory Department, one of the constituted advisors to
the Trustee—En.

 

 

 

received one of the more serious of the myriad injuries
that he took from football, his faculty advisor asked him
point—blank one day why he played the game when it cost
so much suffering. Sachs answered directly. “But, sir, I
must,” was all he said.

He did truly love the game and Sport. He won three
letters in both football and lacrosse, and he remained at
Oxford for a third year in order that he might become
one of the few Americans ever to win a Blue, playing
rugby against Cambridge. At Princeton, his many honors
included the captaincy of his freshman football team,
All-Ivy selection as a sophomore, winner of the William
Winston ROper Trophy for all—around excellence in
athletics, and co—winner of the John Prentiss Poe Cup for
football. Coach Dick Colman feels that Sachs and Royce
Flippin have been the two best running backs to play
for Princeton since the war. Sachs’ ability to accelerate
was rated as without parallel.

His only deﬁciences were, ﬁrst, his size, and, second,
his failure to accept that ﬁrst deﬁciency. He permitted
himself no special consideration; he ran, his coaches say,
“too hard for his body.” Why he played—“I must”—
was why, too, he played as he did. Sachs wrote, after
seeing his ﬁrst bullﬁght: “Something of the medieval
remains in my soul, I guess. Man against beast, the im-

minent threat of death, man armed with his skill and
courage—this appeals to my sense of heroism.”

It is not inappropriate then, de8pite the promise of his
life and his incipient accomplishment in so many areas,
that his only demonstrable public success was logged
within the chalked lines of the playing ﬁeld—a wispy
number 46, the shock of black hair swept under his
helmet, now dashing and hurtling around end. Yet even
that image—preserved now in old game ﬁlms that have
been stOpped and started a hundred times, to see how
the left tackle blocked and where the linebacker moved——
was denied the full exposure it deserved.

What caress of fame Sachs did have was restricted
almost entirely to his soPhomore season, a decade ago,
the fall of 19 57. That was the All—Ivy year, the only one
even relatively free from injury. It is a conspicuous, but
not exaggerated, analogy that Dan’s football career, like
his life, was more of promise than fulﬁllment. But the
corollary to that is just as legitimate: in each episode of
his life he began tentatively, searching, and ended suc—
cessfully, mastering. The pattern for great accomplish—
ment in a full life was clearly established.

HE cancer was originally detected following his ﬁrst
Tyear at Harvard Law, on July 10, 1964. It was located
behind the left knee, an area which had previously been
Operated on because of a hamstring injury. Initially a
local Operation was performed. Later, in the spring, sum-
mer and fall of 1966, a further local operation followed
by two amputations eventually took all of his leg, but
failed to arrest the malignancy. Dan married Joan, ﬁn-
ished law school, and had the joy of their daughter in
the shadow of time left him. He exercised his profession
brieﬂy in a law ﬁrm in Allentown in the intervals of
hospitalization during the winter and Spring of 1966—67.
Near the end, while only the faint hOpe for miracle held
amidst the pain, he displayed a strength of will, a selﬂess,
continued interest in those about him, and also, a re-
markable facility for detachment. He could calmly discuss
the consequences of his impending death for his family;
he was so concerned about what he considered a rude
inability to remain alert for visitors, that he took to
lifting weights on the day before he died in an effort to
recapture some strength. There was massive dignity evi-
dent until he died peacefully on June 20 in the morning.

Dan approached his death with neither bitterness nor
self—pity. “I am not afraid,” he said. The emotion he
did display was that of angry frustration, a torment that,
simply, he should be denied his chance. “He was, after
all,” a friend says, “pragmatic more than philOSOphical,
and romantic without being sentimental.” He was an
exceptional young man, cast out of qualities that rest
easily in few men of any age, at any time.

In one of his moments of introspection, shortly after
he left Princeton, he wrote: “This is a difﬁcult time for
me. The successes of my Princeton career are behind me
and for the next ten years or so I pass into the shadows
of the unknown. I feel the beginning of obscurity, and it
has shaken my conﬁdence. I’ve played before the crowds
too long.” The sorrow is as much for the crowds as for
Dan Sachs that he was deprived of the chance to come
before them again, that his life gave him time for only
great commitment and a few bold Saturday afternoons in
the autumns of a decade ago—F rank Deford ’61

OCTOBER 10, 1967 O 'l'l

 




 

 

 

v

Nassau Hall, south wall of west wing,- scar from cannonball in Battle of Prince-
ton (1777) is beneath ivy between windows at lower right

“A walk through Princeton is a walk through American architectural
history.” Betty Menzies’ photographs, many of which appeared ﬁrst on
the cover of PAW, together with a selection of contemporary prints, maps
and photographs, capture the charm and special characteristics of Prince—
ton architecture, both town and campus. In an extensive essay interwoven
with the pictures the authors relate these towers and college buildings,
homes and churches, to the town’s history and to American architectural
develOpment, incidentally not hesitating to speak their minds on certain
of the “modern” examples.

the Dean’s House, by Robert Smith, 1756, occupied by all Presidents of the
College from 1756 until 1879

Creel: Revival houses along Alexander Street

lohn Notman's ltalianate reeonstruction of
Nassau llall, following disastrous tire of

the Creek Revival:
Hall, 1838

 

even sanitary facilities shared the rogue lor the
classic: Cloaca Maxima, 18¢

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Nassau Street in 1915, with new Holder Tower at right

Trin ceion
wry/1116mm

A Pictorial History
Of Town and Campus

by Constance M. Greiﬁ, Mary W. Gibbons
and Elizabeth G. C. Menzies

zoo PAGES, 194 ILLUSTRATIONS, $10

7

UNTIL JANUARY lST

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS

Lowrie House, Tuscan Revival by John
Notman, 1848, now a University guest
house

Gothic in modern terms

 

 

“Morven,” 1701, Princeton’s most his-
toric mansion, now ofﬁcial residence of the
Governor of New Jersey

 

Alexander Hall, by William A. Potter, 1892, appreci-
ated in its own day if not in ours, called by a leading
contemporary architectural critic “a design upon the
whole quite worthy of the robust master [H . H.
Richardson] himself . . . a vigorous, consistent and
reﬁned piece of work, carried out, without and within,
with an amplitude of means which the artistic skill em-
ployed upon them prevents at any point from degen-
eration into mere ostentation or sumptuosity”

Original plans for “Prospect,” by john N otman in 18 52,
showing irregularities of silhouette common to Victorian
era, now residence of University Presidents

 

Lourie-Love and 1922 Halls, 1964, strong statement by Hugh Stubbins of

  




 

 

 

 

 

Princeton 2.2, R utgers 21

TODD SIMONDS ’68

 

RINCETON football is not for the

faint of heart. Last year three
fourth—quarter victories in November
strained every heart and every voice
as the Tigers scrambled to a third of
the Ivy League championship. Last
Saturday in Palmer Stadium, the squad
picked up right where it had left off,
turning a 21-14 deﬁcit with two min—
utes remaining into a 22-21 win over
Rutgers. Football’s oldest rivalry never
had it so wild.

When Rutgers’ outstanding half—
back Bryant Mitchell gallOped into the
end—zone with two minutes and four
seconds left in the game, Princeton
hopes were barely ﬂickering. But senior
tailback Bob Weber took over with the
ball on the 43—yard line and marched
to a touchdown in seven plays, all of
them passes. Quarterback Bob Schoene
pulled in the last of these, diving into

 

In place of the antique small—type play—
by-play account of the game, this year
PAW ventures a chart (facing page)
which, it seems to us, should be clearer
and easier to “read.” “Comments ap—
preciated."—ED.

 

the end zone to bring Princeton within
a point. Fifty—seven seconds remained.

Rutgers and Princeton had never
tied, and coach Dick Colman wasn’t
going to break any precedents. Into the
game he sent third-string tailback Scott
MacBean, who lined up at wingback.
The snap was to fullback Don Hazen,
who handed off to MacBean. Mac—
Bean ﬂipped the ball into the corner
of the end zone, where tailback Weber
batted it with one hand, grabbed it
with the other, and fell to the ground
clinging to the winning points. All
hell broke loose.

In the shower room after the game,
Colman told the elated Tigers, “You
win at football, and you win football
games, but today you won a game you
are going to remember the rest of
your lives.”

Though it was the last two minutes
that made it a lifetime memory, the
whole game was outstanding for a sea-
son Opener. First eﬁorts usually lack
the smooth timing essential to a good
team, but such was not the case Satur—
day. The offensive team worked for
the most part like a well-oiled ma-

‘I4 0 OCTOBER 10,1967

  

 

v25.

 

conveyed by blockers Bo

with characteristic singlewing blocking Ellis Moore slashes to 1 down on Rutgers 16 in 2nd period

chine, and the defense had spells of
invincibility. Though both teams did
make mistakes, team coordination and
individual heroics indicate that the re-
building is going well for Princeton.
And the Tigers didn’t take long to
prove it. After the Opening kickoff,
quarterback Schoene piloted the team
69 yards in ﬁve plays to score, with
Weber sweeping left end for the ﬁnal
two yards. Soccer—style kicker Ted
Garcia boomed the ball through the
uprights for the conversion. Five min-
utes later, fullback Ellis Moore sparked
an eight—play drive for 62 yards and
another touchdown. The sophomore

 

 

 

b Weber climaxes 69-yard drive for ﬁrst ’l'l)

\

<- '« .
Warm” , . harms-WA g "Q-

_ 1:: - 4..

Moore bulled through the line to score
from three yards out, and everyone
settled back for a rout.

Everyone, that is, but Rutgers.
Though the Scarlet Knights gained
only one yard in their ﬁrst eight plays,
a fumbled punt gave them the ball at
mid-ﬁeld. With this impetus, they
were able to push into the end zone
in seven plays and change the tone 0f
the game. The second quarter was
scoreless, as three Princeton drives mis—
ﬁred, twice with errant ﬁeld-goal at—
tempts and once when Rutgers inter—
cepted a Weber pass in the end zone.

I

 

Bob Matthews

    

 

 

 




 

 

 

atthews

1 period

 

 

 

 

 

G

5

IO [5 2025 30354045 504540 35 30 25 20 15 IO 5 G

 

 

(

LAKE

ww

-4

AN \/\/\/V\/\r

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

|V\ \ LL 1 K A Md
/\ K. CK 0;: ~ GARCtA 9:7:
/\ I \ \
M Pm WA 3%ng gg/ngvmsz ‘ ~
g\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/‘ Ami-,2 an. GA‘WR
- M d MQ‘F’CHEL soQE J'
Imook! x MOORE MgLEw. _00 .E a
’V\/\ “00‘ OFF/\— camm 8H“ LONE ./‘\/\/~
’\/V\/\/\/\ /V\ ‘VW\/V\
325----.. MW E a.
PUNT - chEAV as To P—Mg L“&....... K M‘chiu. 1.2.1.
/\N\/\/\/\/\/\/\’\/\/\/\/\/\N
Main ‘ _ W “YNG‘ C F‘wnrsus HE. -
‘ x. ,A KW: K' T Rex . BR<~w~ (R3
ngo {Iv—M :1
m: ”xx; ,
7 *3 = ‘2 "" -— Duluu ‘l‘u p.414
Mncu Eu.’ SIN-NOE VVi\/\/\/V\/\/\/\r\/\/\
' mm: txxxx Knot?
[Aft Dogs” W213i?“ “M“Iﬁfk P 1' (“NQORJ'
EKXRWCAXAAMM "mm“: vow:
"dc. BAKEQ~ M cTCHEh L
_4__._ ”"‘ “X Xxx
P— VAH‘ AVsNzu xxzx“ 953$ ‘51 L (R‘
‘1‘YX1KX
Rﬁ *XXYK x
mm - a Nags/W R
: - 1 TER
QSLD emu. Afﬂi- -— GARC
N v\/\/\/V\/‘ \/\/\/\/\c3
BHKE'IW PUNT' — V AN Nis'is To 1945
/
NXyaggeLy‘mya/g;
xx
xx x Xxx,” xx
A _ *ﬂ‘iﬂqotﬁk‘u’egxg \NﬁaRF‘Em
ws___e-=—R agitazfi‘ﬁi‘; "W .. 8€KLE22~2-.S:.WEBE”‘
WEBE :i‘ " ILLEG:
XX
1) :”:"KKxa:ae
W‘B‘EK AS$ a
INTEKCEFTIC .4 . PUNT _.. GRELAVES “to V*30 .
ex puma yVWA/vaAW/VVVVW AM
ﬁle,- -_ _’__ ‘HRZEN {N 3
MW“ afﬁx-“23935“ A " we
"EL“ “0‘ M:j:::;- HA‘LEJaV w EBER
A'ﬁEM?T‘ T TAuED TCHE b V4.3- __ lNQ
—1l"— “—<F’-_ ,4
i— 4—-——-—-“-N<-— pUNﬁ_ ngpwes To vP-Ib
P J AWJW\/V\/W\N\N\/;W\a
R4 '4 Eur; 1g HALF: WEB 41:39
R r. 7 WAXFJE P
R WMCK OF? -- but P~|0 m
x .
N‘AUNE‘ if MA. NE‘C 1.46
REC. vQLLF -(-_HE\_"‘ aRQ‘NN
ogcx OFF 7—- DQL\N TQ E. u M i
\NNWNVW\ VVVVVVVV /
.Acxeu- GAwaﬂi'Mo RAJ‘. VUL-ﬂ
' "St'i— x
’90:
BRncKeN aL/JS- H)
‘ Xx. "‘
VUNT~ E _N To 1L4}, N‘xxx,
lg\/V\/\/ WWW
55:1...‘3
Haze» 15:1 35“?“ mean“
~ alarm? ?.OFF$\1>§$
BRACKEN ~ Pu u-r" "" “gijﬁﬁEN
Ou’r cs? 33DUNBS a
J\/\/\N\/\N\/ V\_/\/W\/\/V\ W
H jAZENC\N$BEE‘ HAZEM YNE
\ \ ACKEN ”TO ‘E‘20 N ‘LLEK WhP’ER
”\NWVN/vs/WVWWJ
_~£ __ P .. G ’ ?.10
5“"'”°‘ Egg—WWAAMNVN . > WW «WAYNE
"I ENo 394: QuATLTeR o V‘ _‘ 55
NULL ER A HAZE“ glue-<6»: .333
p G u ' F JLEM . R
p/ rr'f Banana» To r;
«MNWWVW/VW kOCK
mum-4H ~ mm (m
wwr— C!“ To R~» 41 ,
FA‘R WK“ WVWWW/VW ‘
Sta WE 3 u... -511 “T ‘14; 5._
17.: mrrcn-VELL ' MN K
smnNo BAKER m: Yea: (50m.
M ! T A ._.~lz._ fM‘T‘HEkL "—5—. “1.9“" MrrcHELL. n / vr
' K\QK,\ 0FF~~‘€)uL\N TO V~ZF1 . EM
V ' \ VVV‘ Mina ~—
mam‘ Bum GAG TON _ ____________J._ C___ FA‘KED
N iiwagaR-J N. Rune. 0" ”03
, w - :- -' . _ _ . , I .
(”AK—1 ON ﬁEEER— EKES V536" gm “XXXKXXXC ENE
ich .err— ~— (BARCJ R T9 ’9 8
/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\ NV VWvW
' INC—d ___ __ ~EK ' EAN PAS‘
we _ _ ____*_ M'hEHEKT. 3 Nat}
FIEL-D (30‘ WS~._.. __ - ~___:§ C¢NV:RS\ON
ammp‘r
b 7V\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/ ’WWNNV‘
uuM - GAME. ELI-40$ F|N RL'.
ElnkE‘D
-L__

 

 

 

 

 

 

G

oPRuNcE‘roN
-RUTGER‘$

 

5

 

 

 

I015 20 25 3

 

 

‘ST DOW N

‘5':- DOWN

 

035 40455

RUN

mus ........—

 

 

O 45 4O 35 30 2520 I510 5

K‘cK /W\N\

PENALTY xxxxx

 

G SoMCK ‘

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

At the start of the second half, an—
other Princeton fumble on a kick gave
Rutgers the ball on the Princeton 30—
yard line. Halfback Bryant Mitchell
pounded the left side of the line for
28 of those yards in three plays, scor—
ing the tying touchdown on a ﬁfteen—
yard sprint. About an hour later,
Mitchell scored his third touchdown,
and Princeton responded in the man—
ner already related.

It’s always nice to beat Rutgers, and
Princeton has done it go times in 58
games. But perhaps the nicest result
of Saturday’s game was the number of
question marks that straightened into
exclamation points. Most noticeable of
these was Bob Weber. After a prom—
ising sophomore year behind Ron Lan—
deck, Weber spent much of last year
on the injured list, watching then—
SOphomore Rich Bracken take charge
of the offense. This year it is Bracken
that is injured (his broken ﬁnger
should be fully mended) and Weber
had to plug the dike. He did. Not only
was his passing a thing of beauty (10
completions in 16 attempts for 11;
yards) but he gained 52 yards on the
ground. When Bracken returns to tOp
form, Coach Colman will be in the
pleasant pickle of having two ﬁne all—
around performers competing for the
same position.

Double that. The same situation
exists at the fullback slot. 50phomore
Ellis Moore has been called the best
since Cosmo Iacavazzi, and in the ﬁrst
half he looked it. He carried 13 times
for 77 yards before leaving the game
with an injury to his Achilles tendon.
In trotted junior Don Hazen, who pro-
ceeded to carry 14 times for 8; yards.
To round out the backﬁeld, junior
Wingback Dave Miller rolled up 68
yards in six carries. Statistics like these
make coaches pinch themselves.

The backs neither pinched nor pat-
ted themselves. Instead, they heaped
praise on the oﬁensive line. Rutgers
had two SOphomores at the defensive
tackle positions, and the Princeton
linemen manhandled them with ease.
junior Bruce Eckman (tackle) and
Bohdan Stefkiwsky (guard) earned
coach Colman’s praise as “two of the
best we’ve had.” Though timing in
the backﬁeld was a little OE, the squad
displayed the potential for an impres—
sive offense, totaling 428 yards.

The other half of the team was al-
most as impressive. With only ﬁve
former lettermen on the ﬁrst string
defense, this was perhaps the biggest

'I6 0 OCTOBER 10,1967

Other Sports
ROGER A. HALL ’68

OACH Pete Morgan’s varsity cross-
C country squad displayed an awesome
strength and depth as they demolished
Seton Hall 15-45 in their ﬁrst meet of the
season. The runners raced conﬁdently over
their home course to sweep the ﬁrst ﬁve
places and take eight of the top eleven
spots. Senior captain Al Andreini and
quick-stepping sophomore Eamon Downey
led the way over the warm, wet ﬁve-mile
course, ﬁnishing in a tie for ﬁrst place in
a time of 26:41.7.

Princeton’s resurgent soccer team scored
successes in its two Opening games. In their
ﬁrst outing, an away contest at Lafayette,
the Tigers controlled the ball completely

question mark before the game. Yet
from the start the Tigers played with
passion and precision. The defensive
secondary allowed only two comple—
tions in 14 pass attempts, and only the
ﬁne running of halfback Mitchell en—
abled Rutgers to make up for this on
the ground. Mitchell gained 162 of the
Scarlet Knights’ 236 yards rushing,
over 100 of those in the second half.
In that stanza, the Tigers played
mostly in a short-yardage defense, with
seven or eight men on the line. In
such an alignment, power sweeps of
the ends are particularly dangerous,
and in fact the 33—yard touchdown
Sprint by Mitchell was a sweep of the
right end.

The defensive standout was senior
safety Bruce Wayne, who was voted
by the press box corps the outstanding
defensive back of the game. Wayne
was credited with four individual
tackles and was the cornerstone of the
all-but—impenetrable pass defense. Cor—
nerback Dick Sherlock played an out-
standing game, accounting for seven
tackles.

One statistically disappointing de—
partment for Princeton was the kick—
ing game. Tiger punters averaged only
31 yards per boot, and place-kicker
Garcia missed three ﬁeld goal at—
tempts. Garcia reported that he was
taking too long a stride, causing him
to hook the ball much like a golfer,
but that he felt he could correct the
ﬂaw. And the punting was intention-
ally short, for under the new kicking
rule (linemen can’t leave the line of
scrimmage until the ball is kicked) a
short, high kick is preferable to pre-
vent long runbacks.

Coach Colman had said before the
game that he expected mistakes. Mis-
takes he saw, but outstanding per-

011 the way to a 1-0 victory. Lafayette’s All-
Mid-Atlantic Conference goalie, Bill Bun-
geroth, “was the only man to keep the
game from being a 6-0 shutout,” explained
coach jack Volz. The Tiger forward line
continually worked the ball up the ﬁeld,
only to have Bugeroth kick it back three-
quarters of the way downﬁcld. Most of the
game was played between Lafayette’s 18-
yard line and their goal, and the Tigers
simply bombarded the goal with shots.
“We must have had 35 additional oppor-
tunities to score,” said the coach. “Every-
one of our forwards should have had at
least one goal apiece. But I’m pleased with
the scoring opportunities the boys set up.”

formances he also saw, and a team co—
ordination that covcred up many of
the miscucs. In a rebuilding year,
Princeton promises to have an excit—
ing team, if the Rutgers performance
is any indication.

 

Coach Dick Colman has the mem-
ory of an elephant. In the second
quarter, a Princeton touchdown was
nulliﬁed by a holding penalty. After
the game, the coach was asked to com—
ment. He replied: “They claimed that
Kashatus was holding on a wedge
play. That’s almost impossible. Only
once before in all my years of coaching
have they called a lineman for holding
on a wedge. That was against Yale in
’53. They called holding on the cen—
ter, it cost us a ﬁrst down, and we had
to give the ball up with less than a
minute to go. First thing they did was
ﬂip a pass to that little trackman,
Reno, who had never played football
before, and he went clear to the twelve.
Next play, Bingo! Six points, Yale wins
by two. Holding on a wedge!?
Hmmph.” Saturday’s game should be a
memory just as distinct, but less a
source of chagrin.

TEAM STATISTICS

PRINCETON RUTGERS
27 First Downs 13
298 Rushing Yardage 236
130 Passing Yardage 12
21 Passes Attempted 14
12 Passes Completed 2
56 Completion Percentage 14
1 Passes Intercepted by 1
5 Number of Pants 9
31.1 Punting Average 36-6
2 Fumbles Lost 0
6 Number of Penalties 6
53 Yards Penalized 7O
130 Yards Returned 67
PRINCETON 14 o o 8—‘22
RUTCERS 7 o 7 7’21

 

 




 

 

“Letters ”

(continued from page 3)

but tickets so obtained will probably not
be contiguous to the block arranged by the
Princeton Club of Oregon. Due to the un-
certainty of what times Princeton will be
playing after the opening round game, we
are unable to handle single game ticket
orders for out of state alumni.

DONALD H. BURNETT ’52

President, Princeton Club of Oregon
Portland, Oregon

Calendar

Oct. 8—University Chapel Service. Dean
Carl D. Reimers. 11 am.

Oct. o—“Dylan Thomas Growing Up.”
Emlyn Williams. McCarter Theatre.
8:30 pm.

Oct. 10—Classic Film. Bernardo Barto-
lucci’s “Before the Revolution.” First
in series on “Youth in Revolt.” Mc-
Carter Theatre. 8 pm.

Oct. Iz—Poetry Reading. Kenneth Koch,
New York City in reading of his work.
Social Science Lounge. Firestone. 8:15.

Oct. 13—Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night.”
McCarter Theatre. 8:30 pm.

 

Oct. 14—Football. Cornell. Away—in
Ithaca. 2 pm.

Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night.” Mc-
Carter Theatre. 8:30 pm.

Oct. 15—University Chapel Service. Dean

Gordon. 11 am.
EXHIBITIONS

Architecture Building Exhibition Gallery.
Design, Drawings and Model for a
County Nature and Science Museum by
Michael Graves.

Art Museum. Chinese Paintings. A selec-
tion from the DuBois S. Morris Col-
lection.

Firestone Library. “Literary Landmarks of
Princeton.” Main Gallery.

“Portrait Engravings by Robert Nan-
teuil.” Princetoniana Room. Main Floor.

 

 

 

“How Hears The Dolphin .9”

(continued from page 9)

Only at the upper end of our hearing do we gain some
idea of the characteristics of objects from which echoes
come. Deprived of his primary sense, a blind man per—
ceives the world about him with greater acoustic sensi-
tivity than many of us who may suffer from sensory
overload generally and noise pollution in particular. With—
in our usual auditory range, an object must be as big as
a house to produce a noticeable echo for most of us. Our
ability to recognize objects by hearing echoes reﬂected
from them is extremely gross.

In comparing light waves and sound waves, we note
that a wave of yellow light is a mere 580 millimicrons
(that is, millionths of a millimeter) in length. A sound
wave in the 50,000 cycle per second range is about six
millimeters in length. Thus, the ratio of the length of a
visible light wave of sunlight to the length of a sound
wave at 50 kilocycles is one to 10,000. As a consequence,
the sound patterns which govern the dolphin’s world of
perception do not begin to approach the resolution of the
light patterns that illumine ours. However, Dr. Wever
points out that a sound “picture” that a bat or a dolphin
receives is still a reasonably good image if the wave
length is shorter by perhaps ﬁve or ten times the diameter
of the object which is perceived. This is pure physics,
simply the way waves are reﬂected from surfaces. It’s
quite apparent that both the bat and dolphin go beyond
the image limitation imposed by the length of the sound
wave even at its shortest (that is, highest frequencies).
The bat and dolphin continually receive, interpret, and
act on the information that they are getting about the
objects before them. A lot of trial and error is involved.

Dr. Wever describes his interest in the dolphin as
“somewhat limited” and a direct outgrowth of his work
with other creatures. He wants to know how the dolphin
ear works. Over the years, in seeking to ﬁnd out how
different ears may work in different ways, Dr. Wever and
his associates have studied quite a variety of creatures
from the invertebrate (insects) to the vertebrate (frogs,
monkeys, men). In what basic ways have these different
ears been studied? In two ways essentially: simple be-
havioral testing and electro—physiologically. With the be—
havioral approach a guinea pig, for example, is trained to
give some response to sound. In this way one can ﬁnd
out what sounds he can hear and how sensitive his ear
is. At Princeton the hearing of grasshoppers, crickets,

katydids, goldﬁsh, catﬁsh, marmosets, cats, raccoons,
sheep, and others have been systematically studied.

The ear of every living creature has an electrical po-
tential, Dr. Wever discovered, and he developed the
electro—physiological approach for measuring it at diﬁfer—
ent frequencies and intensities. When you stimulate the
ear with sound energy, the sensory (or hair) cells pro—
duce an electrical potential. The potential can be meas—
ured by an electrode placed in the inner ear (cochlea).
This approach reveals a typical pattern of sensitivity and
range at different frequencies without the necessity of
obtaining a behavioral reSponse from the animal. Be—
havioral testing usually requires long periods of training
to teach the animal to re5pond to the desired stimulus,
and the results are liable to large deviation. The results
of the electrical method, on the other hand, are less
subject to error and more easily repeatable. Every ear
gives off an electrical effect, indicating what the ear is
doing, which stimulates the auditory nerve in its normal
activity.

Each approach, however, to the hearing experience
gives a different kind of data. Naturally, there is some
overlap in the information, but the electrical approach
reveals more about the peripheral hearing system (that is,
the early stages of what the nervous system has to work
on) while the behavioral approach has the advantage of
involving the whole system in action.

The chart on page 8, based on behavioral testing,
shows the relation between frequency and intensity of
sound for four species: man, the brown bat, the cat, and
the bottlenose dolphin. The lowest part of each curve
shows the highest degree of acuity. An exhaustive be—
havioral test on one dolphin by Scott johnson at Point
Mugu revealed a sensitivity to sound across a seemingly
incredible range from 75 cycles per second to 150,000
cycles, with greatest acuity between 5,000 and 120,000
cycles. Human hearing is most sensitive in the range of
600 to 6,000 cycles per second. The most sensitive range
for the bat is from 10,000 to 80,000 cycles and for the
cat is from 400 to 40,000 cycles.

One of the purposes of the Princeton experiments is to
determine how closely the electro-physiological results
corroborate those obtained by Scott Johnson with the
behavioral approach.

Carrying forward the studies begun in january, 1967,
Wever, McCormick, and Sam H. Ridgeway from Point
Mugu successfully measured the electrical (cochlear)
potential of the right ear of one dolphin in Princeton

OCTOBER 10,1967 0 17

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

during the last week in August. With the dolphin out
of water a sound source of 20,000 cycles per second was
placed on 180 points of the surface of the body to ﬁnd
out where it was sensitive to sound. By means of an
electrode attached to the inner ear, the results revealed,
not unexpectedly, a remarkable sensitivity to sound in the
head and jawbone. Somewhat surprising, however, were
preliminary indications of hearing as high as 250,000
cycles.

The dolphin’s sensitivity—to—sound system is naturally
coupled to function in water. The density of the dolphin’s
body is close enough to that of water to render it almost
transparent acoustically. It seems reasonable that the
head and jawbone act as pick—up points for sound, but
still the problem of ﬁnding the pathways to the inner
ear remains. What is there in the structure of the dol-
phin’s head, jawbone, and ear that controls the character—
istics of the sound transmitted to the inner ear? Are all
frequencies transmitted equally well? Or are some fre—
quencies suppressed and others enhanced? This is only
the beginning.

Of all the puzzles that the dolphin’s aquatic ear pre—
sents, the most intriguing one is: how does the dolphin
ear get its high—frequency sensitivity? We do not yet
know how the bat gets his high frequency sensitivity

either. But the bat is a small creature, and his ear is
delicate. For physical reasons, a small, light, stiff structure
will have its resonances in the high tones, whereas a
large, heavy, more elastic structure w111 have its resonances
in the low tones.

T wo examples may illustrate the way that physical
properties can inﬂuence the way the car hears. Katydids
can perceive tones of up to 100,000 cycles per second,
and presumably they can em1t sounds up to this fre-
quency. Or they may have an enemy in that range. At
the other end of the scale of size, the ﬁn whale, a beast
some 65—70 feet long, has been detected making Signals
as low as 40 cycles per second a barely audible “basso
profundo” to the human ear. Very little is known about
the hearing capability of the ﬁn whale except for a keen
sensitivity to low frequencies.

The dolphin’s upper hearing range is about ten times
that of man, and it would appear that some part of the
anatomy of the dolphin car must be fairly stiff to ac—
commodate the high frequency range the dolphin ap-
parently responds to with ease. The thrust of the research
on the dolphin at Princeton is to ﬁnd out how the ear end
of his sonic system works, and thus eventually explain his
extraordinary sonar capability.

 

 

MEMKDBUAES

JOHN STRUTHERS STEWART ’99

 

JACK STEWART’S death occurred May 27, 1964
but due to a misunderstanding on his daughter’s
part, this notice was delayed. He was born June
25, 1880 in Struthers, Ohio, founded by his
ancestor, John Struthers and named for him.
Jack had the honor of serving one term as its
mayor.

His impressive war record began in August
1917 with three months at the 2nd Ofﬁcers Train-
ing Camp, Ft. Benjamin Harrison where he was
commissioned 2nd Lieut. FA. in November.
In May 1918 he went overseas, saw action in
the Meuse-Argonne offensive and for ﬁve months
was in the Army of Occupation. His discharge
occurred June 19, 1919 at Camp Sherman, Ohio.

In addition to his Princeton ’99 BA. degree,
he was awarded an LL.B. from the Law De-
partment of the University of Michigan in 1903.
Fifteen years were spent in business with the
Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co. before starting
his teaching career, which began at the Struthers
High School, then as Principal of Poland Sem—
inary High School, and ﬁnally at the Rayen
Youngstown High School for the years 1923 to
1944. He retired then, due to ill health. With
time on his hands he wrote several books, among
them “How Ohio Governs Itself” and a three
volume history of northeastern Ohio. Politics
attracted his attention and in 1936 he was a
Robert Taft delegate to the Republican conven—
tion. Continuing his active interest in current
affairs, he was elected in 1935 chairman of the
Mahoning County Charter Commission and
Commander of Struthers Post 158. Even though
retired, he supervised the Rayen Record, a
school publication, and in 1941 was president of
the Tri—County Journalism Association. The
former Alice Rex and he were married August
25, 1915.

Jack belonged to the United Presbyterian
Church of Struthers. Living such a busy and
useful life he has left a ﬁne heritage for his
two daughters, Mrs. John A. Amadio, whose
husband is a Lt. Col. Ret., and Mrs. Gene
Mangis of Bartonville, 111.; a son, Wilfred R.
of Phoenix, and ﬁve grandchildren to whom our
deepest sympathy is extended.

The Class of 1899

EDWIN KIRK LARGE ’02

EDWIN KIRK LARGE died in Flemington, NJ. on
Sept.,6, 1967. The Class of 1902 has lost a loyal

and devoted member who in his later years has
given much of his time to Princeton and 1902.
No member of the Class was more widely be-
loved and he and his charming wife, Edna,
were often hosts to many members of the Class
at their home in Flemington.

Eddie was born in Flemington, the son of
George H. and Josephine R. Large on Aug. 14,
1880. He prepared for college at Flemington
Public Schools and Lawrenceville School and
entered Princeton in September, 1898. His
room was in Middle Dod Hall. He was a mem-
ber of Sophomore Club Veado and Tiger Inn.
He graduated C. E. with the Class in 1902.

From 1902 until 1910 he was an employee of
the Pennsylvania Railroad in various positions,
in Jersey City, Altoona, Morristown and Ches-
ter, Pa. He resigned to take up his profession
of civil engineering in Atlanta, Ga. in 1910.
This continued until 1922 except for two years
during the ﬁrst World War when he was engi-
neer for Camp Gordon. He became postmaster
of Atlanta in 1922 and served until 1934. In 1937
he moved back to Flemington and was active
until 1967 in engineering real estate and insur-
ance. He was a member of Rotary and director
of the Hunterton National Bank.

He was president of the Large Foundation, a
charitable organization founded by the family in
1957, which arranged for the use of “Uplands”
the former Large estate in Raritan Township, as
a rest home for the aged.

For many years Eddie represented the Class
of 1902 on the Princeton University Graduate
Council and he acted as reunion chairman since
1961 and did a wonderful job.

In 1907 he married Edna Orton Page who sur-
vives him. They have three children, Edwin Kirk
Large Jr. of Flemington; Mrs. Berrien Moore
Jr. of Atlanta, Ga., and Mrs. Nelson S. Talbott
Jr. of Cleveland, Ohio. A sister, Miss Helen
B. Large of Flemington also survives. Eddie and
Edna had ten grandchildren. To all the family,
the Class extends its sincere sympathy.

The Class of 1902

WILLIAM S. HOUSTON ’08

BILL HOUSTON, retired partner in the ﬁrm
James W. Houston C0,, wholesale grocers, died
on Sept. 10, 1967 following a long illness. His
home was at 1035 North Negley Ave., Pitts-
burgh, Pa. He was one of ﬁfteen Princeton class-
mates who prepared for Princeton at Shadyside
Academy. Through the thoughtfulness of Bob
Christie, ﬂowers from the Class of 1908 with
orange and black ribbon were sent to the fu-
neral service. Bob Christie and George Hackett
represented the Class at the service.

To the surviving members of Bill’s family the
Class extends sincere sympathy: to his wife,

Mrs. Rachael McCormick Houston; to a sister,
Mrs. Ann Dysart and to two brothers, J. Gar-
ﬁeld Houston and Alfred E. Houston.

The Class of 1908

EDWARD MILLS DODD ’09

ON June 30, 1967 Ned Dodd passed away
quietly in his sleep and the Class lost another
of its great spiritual leaders. He was always so
approachable, so kind and so helpful, and his
friendships so warm and satisfying that it was
easy to underestimate the ﬁrm and unswerving
purpose of this remarkable man and his equally
remarkable accomplishments. His ﬁrst coronary
was in 1941 but he managed to carry a full load
of work in his chosen ﬁeld and others until the
last few years when a series of illnesses grad-
ually wore him down.

He was born in Cesarea, Turkey, on March 30,
1887, the son of a medical missionary, Dr.
William Schauﬁ‘ier Dodd of Smyrna, Turkey,
and Mary Louise Carter of N. Y. City. HIS
childhood was spent in a backward region in the
heart of Asia Minor under the old Ottoman re-
gime. His Turkish accent and diction were SO
natural and so true that even a few years ago
experienced persons could identify the locallty
where as a boy he was “like the other little
Turks.” At 13 he began his American studies,
prepared at Montclair High School, and grad-
uated AB with the Class in 1909. He knew
precisely what he wanted to do and was soon
back in Turkey, after acquiring his MD at
Cornell Medical School in 1913 and serving h_IS
internship at Methodist Episcopal Hospital in
Brooklyn. From 1916 to 1921 in a tiny ijlF
ridden and desolate corner of Northwest PerSIa,
wedged in between the armies of Russia an_d
Turkey, this stalwart Christian acted his herow
part as a combination of relief worker and
apprentice medical missionary in the midst of
massacres, ﬂights of whole populations, anarchy,
pestilence and famine. He was stationed among
the Nestorian Christians whom he tried to pfe‘
tect when they were attacked by the Kufd_15h
tribesmen of Eastern Turkey. On one occaSIOn
of extreme peril to the whole population pf
Dilman, our classmate saved the day by dls‘
playing scraps of white cloth on which he had
written in red ink the Turkish equivalent of
“City Surrendered, Dodd.” By the time he left
his assignment in charge of the mission hosplta1
in Tabriz for home in 1921 his health had been
seriously impaired. But he was soon restored to
health and then began what turned out to be the
ﬁnest accomplishment of a long life of Chrlstlan
service as the head of the newly formed medical
department of the Presbyterian Board of Foreign
Missions. This involved supervision of the health
of the whole overseas personnel, acting as 1121150n

EYE




fa

 

and advisor for the Board’s 70-odd hospitals and
its medical missions abroad, and recruiting for
them. This he continued until his so-called
“retirement” in 1957. In the meantime he met
Rose Dulles Wilson (Vassar ’15), the daughter
of missionaries, on a trip to Istanbul, where she
was doing relief work, and they were married
in 1922. This “great good fortune,” as he de-
scribed it, enriched his life, fortiﬁed him in the
continuance of his noble work and brought him
much happiness. She died in 1960 and he went
to live with his son Bob “and his lovely wife
and three darling small grandchildren.”

Except when abroad or too ill to come he
attended and thoroughly enjoyed every one of
our reunions and other class gatherings. His
cheerful smile and gentle humor endeared him
to every classmate. While he never talked about
it everything he said or did reﬂected his belief in
the Christian faith in God as “the foundation,
direction and hope” of his life. He was proud
of Princeton and 1909 and never refused an
opportunity to serve 'them. It is said that he
collected genealogical tables to prove there were
more Princeton men in" his family than any other.

To his son Robert W. Dodd of Upper Mont-
clair, his two daughters, (Nellie) Mrs. Robert
Janes of Birmingham, Mich., (Irene) Mrs. Wil—
liam Davis of Kutztown, Pa., his three brothers,
Dr. Aleck Dodd of Rifton, N. Y., T. Carter
Dodd of Stamford, C'onn., and Dr. Stuart Dodd
of Seattle, Wash., and his seven grandchildren,
all of whom survive, the Class extends its most
sincere and heartfelt sympathy.

The Class of 1909

CHARLES BRISTEDROCKWELL ’12

AFTER a conﬁnement of nearly two years Charles
Bristed Rockwell died at his home in Bristol,
R.I., on Aug. 20. He prepared at Hill School
and received the degree of CE. from Princeton.
Upon graduation he went into his father’s
worsted spinning business and stayed in this
ﬁeld until his retirement in 1963 when he was
president and treasurer of the Allendale Com—
pany Of Cranston, R.I.

“Carl,” as he was known to the Class,’ was
one of the ﬁne examples of Princeton in the na-
tion’s service. In his home town of Bristol he
served for 16 years as chairman of the School
Committee, for 40 years as a director of the
Y.M.C.A., for 20 years as president of the
Bristol Nursing Service, and for 6 years as
president of the local Community Fund.

In his industry also he was a leader being a
member Of the commission representing the US.
Department of Agriculture and the National As-
sociation of Worsted and Woolen Spinners at the
International Wool Conference in Paris in 1928,
a member of the National Research Council sur-
vey group to South America in 1941, chief of the
Wool Bureau of the War Production Board
during World War II, and chairman of the
worsted and woolen group at the National Se-
curity Resources Board in 1949.

Though a conservative by nature, he was the
ﬁrst manufacturer to appear before both House
and Senate committees in favor of the 30—hour
week and minimum wage laws.

He had been a director of Rhode Island Hos-
pital Trust Co., Blackstone Mutual Fire Insur—
ance CO. and a number of other enterprises.

His avocation was sailing, especially on his
yacht Belisarz’us, the last yacht designed by his
friend and neighbor, the world renowned N. G.
Herreshoﬁ. He had been commodore of the
Bristol Yacht Club for several years, member of
the Mystic Marine Historical Society, Of the
N.Y. Yacht Club, and the Cruising Club of
America of which he was a member of the board
of directors.

For a great many years starting in 1928 Carl
Was New England regional member of the 1912
Executive Committee.

To his family of three sons, Charles B., III,
Henry B. (’37), and Paul S., and his two daugh—
ters, Mrs. J. M. Edelstein and Mrs. Stephen Mil—
let, the Class of 1912 extends its sympathy and
warm recollections of the fellowship of one of
its most devoted members.

The Class of 1912

BYRD DOUGLAS ’16

BYRD DOUGLAS, one of our most distinguished
versatile classmates, died on Aug. 11, 1965, in
Nashville, Tenn., where he was born and where
he spent practically his entire life.

According to the Nassau Herald, he expected
on graduation to study agriculture and take up
farming; but his farm in the Cumberland Val-
ley could not absorb all his energies and wide-
ranging interests. FBI agent, law professor,
baseball coach, owner and operator of a pro-
fessional ball club, author of a deﬁnitive book
on river steamboating, active participation in
civic and church affairs, and a distinguished
career on the bench were among his accomplish-
ments. Perhaps the honor he cherished most
was his designation as Princeton’s all—time
catcher.

The affection and esteem of his fellow towns-
men was movingly demonstrated at the time of
his death by a lengthy front page review of his
career; an editorial entitled “Lifetime of Serv-
ice His Enduring Monument”; a cartoon en-
titled “Like the River He Loved—Quiet, Re-
freshing, a Deep—channeled Life of Useful—
ness”; and a column on the sports page which
described him as a “paragon of fair play, a
virile gentlemen.” To these tributes we add “a
beloved classmate.”

To his wife Mary, his daughter Mrs. George
M. King, and his three grandchildren the Class
extends its sincere sympathy, with apologies for
the delay in publishing this tribute.

The Class of 1916

ERIC FERGUSON ’16

WE note with sorrow the passing of another
classmate. Eric Ferguson died on June 25, 1967,
as the result of an automobile accident. Per-
haps our most enduring memories of Eric are
of his singing—Triangle Club, Glee Club,
Chapel Choir.

His business career included railroading, fur-
niture manufacturing, an automobile dealership,
and public relations. At the time of his retire—
ment in 1960 he was Assistant Director of Pub-
lic Relations with United States Steel.

In World War I he served as a First Lieuten-
ant of infantry. In World War II he was direc-
tor of rationing for the State of Ohio. Among
his civic interests was the Pittsburgh Chapter
of the American Red Cross to which, as head
of its public relations bureau, he contributed
his considerable talents in that ﬁeld.

To his wife Elizabeth, his son, two daughters,
and eleven grandchildren goes the sincere sym-
paty of the Class.

The Class of 1916

CHARLES CAMPBELL COLE ’34

CAM COLE, public relations director for the New
Jersey Historical Society and formerly associ—
ated with the Paper Mill Playhouse, in Mill'burn,
N.J., died at his home in West Orange on Sept.
3 at the age of 55.

Cam was a warden at St. Mark’s Episcopal
Church in West Orange and a member of the
Maplewood Flower Club. “I have been fairly
lucky,” he once wrote, “in growing Chrysanthe-
mums for shows.” He served as secretary of the
New Jersey State Chrysanthemum Society in
1959.

The only child of Charles G. Cole, of the
Class of 1898 who died in 1952, Cam was born
in Orange, N.J., and lived most of his life there
or in neighboring South Orange or West Orange.
He never married, and he leaves no immediate
survivors. W. Arthur Campbell ’33, of Ho—Ho-
Kus, N.J., is a relative.

Cam prepared for Princeton at Newark (N.J.)
Academy, where he was a member of the track
team. Shortly after graduation from college and
after a brief period in the saleS.department of
Addressograph—Multigraph Corporation, he joined
the advertising department of Macfadden Publi-
cations, in New York, and sold space in True
Story and other Macfadden magazines. In 1941
he enlisted in the Coast Guard and served for
ﬁve World War II years.

He was in the advertising department of the
New York Central Railroad for a short time
after the war, then became associated with the
New Jersey Zinc Company in sales and technical
work. In 1952 he was made Eastern sales man-
ager of American Zinc Products, a division of
Ball Bros. Co., Inc., manufacturers of glass,
plastic and metals. His association with the
Paper Mill Playhouse came in the early ’605.

The Class of 1934 mourns the loss of Cam

Cole. Contributions to Princeton in his memory
may be sent to the Recording Secretary, Prince-
ton University.

The Class of 1934

GEORGE LAWRENCE HALL ’34

GEORGE HALL died of lung cancer on Aug. 11
at his ranch in Millville, Ca1if., where he had
lived for the past six years after retiring as a
management consultant and lecturer on man-
agement efﬁciency.

Between 1956 and 1961 George was in busi-
ness for himself in San Francisco as Hall & Co.,
management consultants, specializing in the oil,
aircraft, electronics, explosives and rocket pro-
pellant industries. He also gave lectures as a
member of the University of California faculty
in both business and hospital administration
and helped in the reorganization of three hos-
pitals and three departments Of the California
state government. His travel “from one to an-
other of various clients’ far-ﬂung outposts” be-
came so demanding, he explained at the time,
“I am almost more at home in airliners and
hotels than my own home here on Nob Hill.”

For the ten years prior to forming his own
ﬁrm George was with Standard Oil Company
of California, in San Francisco, as an organiza-
tion specialist, then as organization counsel. A
graduate of Hastings College of Law, San Fran-
cisco, he practiced law in St. Louis from 1940
to 1946. In World War. II he served overseas
for four and a half years with the 9th Air Force
as a combat pilot, air base commander and
group commander. He was discharged as a
Lieutenant Colonel.

A native of Helena, Mont., George entered
Princeton from the Tamalpais School in Cali-
fornia, - where he was baseball and football
manager and active in dramatics. At college he
majored in politics and was a member of the
polo squad.

George is survived by his wife, Gretchen, Of
Millville; a son, Lawrence, and a daughter,
Jane. He was previously married and divorced.
His mother, Mrs. Frank Hall, lives in Berkeley,
Calif.

To George’s family and friends the Class of
1934 offers deep sympathies;

The Class of 1934

CHARLES LOWELL LENTZ ’53

LOWELL LENTZ died on NOV. 20, 1966 in Indian-
apolis, the city where he was born and lived
most of his life. Lowell prepared for Princeton
at the Washington High School where he was
a top student and athlete, and at Phillips Exeter
Academy. His activities at Princeton were varied
and he approached them all with his character-
istic enthusiasm and determination to excel. His
drive and leadership qualities led him to be
selected as headwaiter of Commons in his senior
year as well as positions in other extracurricular
activities. Lowell’s outgoing nature and concern
for others made him many friends at Princeton.
We will long remember his sense Of humor and
his hearty, infectious laugh.

Lowell’s deep religious faith, personal quali—
ties and interests led him naturally into the
ministry, and it was in 1955, while he was study—
ing at the Princeton Theological Seminary, that
he temporarily lost his sight; he was later
diagnosed as having multiple sclerosis. Lowell
approached this aﬁiiction as he did previous ad—
versity—with an' Optimistic spirit and a deter-
mination not to let it interfere with what he
had chosen to do with his life. After receiving
medical care, he returned to complete his work
at the Seminary and was elected president of
the Seminary class of 1956.

After being ordained, he served as the Assist-
ant Minister at the Prentice Presbyterian Church
in Indianapolis. While there he married Judy
Cox, and in 1959 they moved to New Jersey,
where Lowell served as the Assistant Minister
at the First Presbyterian Church of Millville.
The progressive degeneration of Lowell’s body
functions caused by the MS. disease forced him
to use a wheelchair for mobility after the fall
of 1960. In 1961, his health required that he
retire from the active ministry and he returned
with his wife and son, Nelson, to Indianapolis.

In spite of his failing physical health, Lowell’s
spirit and interest in others kept him associated

OCTOBER 10,1967 0 19

 

 

 




 

 

 

with the Indianapolis Presbytery, and he was
elected by that body to be a Commissioner to
the State of Indiana Synod. Lowell was also
active in the Indianapolis Alumni Club. A
lengthy picture-article describing his ﬁght with
M.S. appeared in The Indianapolis Times.

Princeton was very important to Lowell and
he wrote the following for our tenth reunion
book: “I am very grateful for my Princeton
education, because I learned even more the
importance of clear thinking which has been so
necessary to me in this M.S. situation. My
father used to tell me as a child, ‘What you
don’t carry in your head, you carry in your
feet.’ ”

With Lowell’s death, we have lost a man
and friend, who by his own Christian ideals and
practice of them, inﬂuenced all with whom he
came in contact. He will be greatly missed. To
his wife Judy, his son Nelson, his brother
Wayne ’58, his sister, mother and father, the
Class of 1953 extends its deepest sympathy.

The Class of 1953

 

@MlSS N©TFES

 

EDGAR M. GIBBY
99 158 Fifth Avenue, E.
Roselle, NJ. 07203

Are we thankful that an All-Wise Provi-
dence watches over His children! The child
in this case was Walter Upson. As he was
making a turn from a side road, a truck
came hurtling down a steep hill and
smacked into his car. A bone in his right
wrist was broken but no other damage was
sustained except bruises and abrasions
which kept him in the hospital for ﬁve days.
He says he received a knock on the head
which laid him out cold but to his regret
made him miss all the excitement. It turned
out for the best as he suffered no pain or
discomfort in the operating room and was
well on the road to recovery when conscious-
ness returned. It was such a relief to receive
his letter, typed by his left hand, and learn
of his almost complete recovery.

All this came at an unfortunate time for
his second booklet had just gone to press,
so proofreading and other details were dele-
gated to other hands. Fortunately, Anna
Leigh bore up remarkably well during this
excitement.

Walter’s ordeal was considerably mitigated
with good news about his granddaughter,
Bobby-Ann, daughter of Joe ’33. She re-
ceived at her graduation from Middlebury
in Vermont, an award ($100) for the senior
girl who best exempliﬁed the ideals of an-
other girl who died some years ago. A gen-
uine joy and satisfaction—Walter—your
classmates rejoice with you and send our
sincere congratulations to you, to Bobby-
Ann, and to her parents.

From a recent much-appreciated letter
sent us by Edith (Woodcock) Bennett, we
have the sad news of her mother’s death that
occurred July 29, 1966 following a long and
serious illness which sapped her vitality.
Her going was lovingly described as “drift-
ing away,” a great comfort to her children,
Edith, Anne (Woodcock) Lawrence, and
William, who have our warm sympathy.

A word of encouragement goes to Anne,
convalescing from a serious operation, and
our hope for a complete recovery.

A class memorial appears in this issue.

WALTER C. CARROLL
7 Hunting Lane
Wilbraham, Mass. 01095

The usual fall announcement has come
from the Bureau of Student Aid regarding

20 0 OCTOBER 10, 1967

scholarship recipients for the academic year
1967-68. The following have been selected:

Henry J. Cochran Scholarship Fund—
John Hilley ’70; Arthur Poe, Class of 1900
Scholarship—Robert T. Brownstein ’68,
Ronald W. Brass ’69; Harold Imbrie Me—
morial Scholarship—Irvin Busse ’70; Fred-
erick Oswin Waage Memorial Scholarshlp—
Rollin L. Olson ’70. _

As soon as word comes in about the 1n-
terests, activities and future plans of these
recipients, we will pass the word along.

Jane and Goodwin Thacher celebrated
their 60th anniversary this summer at a re—
ception which also honored the 35th anniver-
sary of daughter Janet and her husband,
Vinton Hall. We appreciate his answer to
a prod from us for a few details about his
party. Some 70 guests attended the cham-
pagne buffet supper which was held in the
garden to the tunes of a string quartet, under
ﬂood lights and Japanese lanterns. Thomas
Goodwin Hall ’55 received with his parents
and grandparents. From all accounts it was
quite a party.

EDWARDS T. CASEBOLT
©ﬂ Sand Spring Rd.
New Vernon, New Jersey 07976

For the academic year 1967-1968 the fol—
lowing men have been selected as recipients
of scholarships founded by members of the
Class or by the Class of 1901:

John W. Aitken Scholarship—Clyde
Pentz ’70; Class of 1901 Scholarship—Tim-
othy S. Perry ’69; Everett Lake Crawford
Jr. Scholarship—David E. Winter ’69, Ken-
neth Homa ’70; William Rome Gelston
Scholarship—William Weismann ’70; Wal-
lace Blauvelt Lydecker Class of 1901 Schol-
arship—James E. Childs ’70; James Ham-
mond McLean Jr. Memorial Scholarship—
John R. Kubacki ’69; John McWilliams
Scholarship—William E. Vorhies ’68, Rob-
ert L. King ’71; Alfred E. Vondermuhll
Class of 1901 Memorial Scholarship—
Charles M. Crank ’70; Lt. Irving Wilson
Voorhees Memorial Scholarship—Bruce T.
Harris ’70.

We have received many interesting letters
from recipients of scholarships in the past
and we hope to hear from the above listed
men this year. Any letters received will be
passed on to you through the PAW.

ISAAC HILLIARD
©2 419 West Jefferson St.
Louisville, Ky. 40202

We should take our hats off to Chap Bar~
ron. He is in Europe on a two month or
longer trip by himself visiting all the places
he has enjoyed in previous trips. At his age
(and nobody knows how old he is) it should
be quite a job—a task few of us in the Class
could undertake.

 

A class memorial appears in this issue.

WALTER F. HOLLENBACH
3 88 Summit Avenue
Jersey City 4, NJ.

ALLER GUTEN DINGE SIND DREI

Harold Greene of Auburn, Calif., reports
that both his wife and self are enjoying
good health and take pleasure in visiting
their children and grandchildren. They now
are driving to Montana to spend some time
with their son Geoffrey and family. An ad-
ditional attraction is the ﬂy—ﬁshing in Mon—
tana’s beautiful clear streams with their
many beaver ponds. He does not state how-
ever what success he has, but nevertheless
he takes great delight in his efforts.

Report comes from the Bureau of Student
Aid that 17 students are receiving ﬁnancial
assistance by way of scholarship, founded
by our classmates.

John G. Armstrong:

Robert G. Goebel ’68, Bruce Hultgren
’68, Joseph Sobditch ’68, Michael Fremuth
’69, Dennis K. Jones ’69, Robert Meushaw
’69, Edward Wroe ’70, Richard L. Beard
’71.

Forrest G. Pearson:
Robert C. Mickle ’70.

Olive Corning Pearson:
Richard McClintock ’68.

Alexander Stobo:
Thomas Hutchinson ’70.

Albridge C. Smith:
Thomas Pirelli ’69.

Robert C. McNamara:
Stephen R. Scher ’68, Robert A. Jakse ’69,
Charles Dressel ’71.

Class of 1903 Student Aid Fund:
Peter C. Kopf’f ’70.

Charles H. Higgins:
David Hutchison ’69.

ROBERT E. RINEHART
@é]. 9 East 30th Street
New York, N.Y. 10016

No less than a ﬁrst hand, on the ground,
eyesight report on Jack Heard is able to say
that he is an exact replica of what he was
at reunions two, maybe three, reunions ago.
He spent most of the weekends of last sum-
mer at his retreat, where he vouches there
are a few mountains, but he is most faithful
appearing at the ofﬁces of Reed, Smith,
Shaw & McClay, the law ﬁrm of which he
has been a member for nigh 60 years.

Not content with being the author of a
long brochure on the founding fathers of his
ﬁrm, which incidently has provided US.
Senators and at least one Secretary of State,
he is now engaged at writing an extensive
history of the ﬁrm, which means a huge
slice of the history of the city of Pittsburgh.

Having undergone two important opera-
tions in as many years, Herb Muzzy is now
squared off to ride herd on the 1904 mav-
ericks ranging Southern California, six of
them including himself. His ﬁrst round up
was mid-September. Though football, espe-
cially Princeton football, is still his favorite
sport, yachting as represented by the “Co-
lumbia” and “Intrepid” seems to be cutting
in on his favor.

After winter and spring at Clearwater,
Fla. Stewart Day is moving back closer to
Princeton. He made Staunton, Va. 21 way
stop. Though he is no stranger to this com-
munity, he intimated that sooner rather
than later his permanent address will be
nearer the campus.

After a deal of wavering and maneuvering
Al Pelham worked out a modus operandi
whereby he made sure of attendance at all
home football games. He has a friendly
football buff who drives him down to
Palmer Stadium. He declares he will watch
the Yale game on TV but it would not be
surprising if he showed up at the Yale Bowl.

JOHN D. GORDON
S 39 Wiggins Street
Princeton, NJ.

Some persons may think 1905 is dead or
inng, but we’re very much alive and will be
for many years to come. Let’s look at the
forecast: In this year of Our Lord 1967,
young men to the number of 21 (recorded
to date) have been awarded 1905 scholar-
ships to help make their road to success a
bit easier:

-ﬂalh,”

 

 




 

‘\ _ #7‘ _ I

 

Class of 1905 Memorial Fund
John Baird Atwood Fund
Lambert Cadwalader Fund
Walter Longfellow Foulke Fund
Frederick Kibbe Haskell Fund
Norman Abijah Heath Fund

The Lyon Fund

William H. MacCrellish Fund
Henry Steele Morrison Fund

j—L
t—xt—twi—nOt—dI—tt—ktx)

Of course you’ve all heard that old tune
“The Whistler and His Dog.” Well, our
very own Mars Hubbard and his dog David
are making our notes this week except that
Marsden is not whistling, but David is for
his master and mistress. From far-off Swit-
zerland Marsden’s tune goes in part like
this: “We put David in a deluxe boarding
kennel where he could converse and make
friends. Poor David, we hope he is not griev-
ing for us and is content and happy. We
will return to him on Oct. 1 and promise
never to leave him again.” Now, class-
mates, you may whistle all you want but not
too loud for David might be taking his
nap.

Clarence Ward, who suffered a heart at-
tack several weeks ago, tells us by phone that
the surgeon inserted one of those plastic
valves in his heart. Now he is as good as new
and sends his best to you all.

ROGER HINDS
©© 157 S. Harrison Street
East Orange, NJ.

For the academic year 1967-1968 William
B. Craswell ’70 has been selected as the re-
cipient of Class of 1906 scholarship, and
Timothy McFeeley ’68, for the James F red-
erick Cross Scholarship. The Class will get
to know them through their promised get-
acquainted letters to this column to be pub-
lished in an early issue.

Vernita and Pop Seeley concluded their
round-the-world lecture tour in Athens in
May. In late August Pop addressed 5,500
students in Boston, coming from 1128
groups in all the continents. They expect to
be at their home base in Portland, Ore. for
some time.

One of our doctor members wrote a let-
ter to his brother welcoming him to the
“Association of Octogenarians.” The invita-
tion was scorned on the ground that “the fees
are too high.” ’Ray for Medicare!

To those who mourn the fact that we
haven’t heard from Bill Atherton for a long
time will be heartened by the news that it
won’t be long.

From Dawson City, Alaska, Jack Ormond
writes that the Alcan Highway is “a very
good road”, whose length Charlotte and he
covered by car following her Fifty-ﬁfth at
Smith. How many of the second—' or even the
third—generation would consider it a holi-
day jaunt to grind out so many hundreds of
miles through the relatively untrod and un-
known!!

 

We had not heard until a week ago the
sad news of the death of “H.” Van Zandt
on February 6, at Houston, Texas. We had
reported him as among the “missing” in a
recent column. He was the only alumnus of
Princeton who lacked a “ﬁrst” name. He had
only a single initial. (See “H’s” “Letter to
the Editor” on page 29 of our 55th Reunion
Yearbook.) A memorial will appear in an
early issue.

EDWARD W. WALKER
W 4Brook1ands
Bronxville, N.Y.

. J. Spencer writes: “Almira and I are hav-
mg our 50th wedding anniversary this Sun-

day (Aug. 27); 50 years of wonderful hap-
piness.” V

Deacon Murray writes in May: “I have
been taking singing lessons for the last ﬁve
years from Serge Damowiski, the great
Russian basso. My son W. Clapham is the
head of the Drama Department of New
England College at Henniker, N.H., about
seven miles from Concord. In summer he
acts with the stock company at Tamworth,
N.H. He lives in an old house in Hopkin-
ton (near Concord) with a wife, a daugh-
ter, age 7 (?) and a boy age 4, also two cats
and a dog. They also have a summer hut
near Tamworth which the raccoons occupy
in winter without paying rent. We hope to
arrive at Tamworth on Aug. 17 and remain
until after Labor Day. We spent this week-
end with my daughter Alice Randall who,
with her two daughters, a son and a delight-
ful husband, live on the Severn River near
Annapolis. Our daughter Priscilla Lerch has
six boys, a daughter and a husband. They
live in Virginia just outside of Washington.”

In a letter from Gus Wuerth in July he
reports: “Our California family, Jack Wuerth
and Joan and four daughters are still at our
Katama Bay Cottage and this afternoon,
daughter Elizabeth Jones, her husband, Peter
and three children, on leave from Lima,
Peru, arrive from Pelham for two weeks at
the cottage.” And in a subsequent letter in
August he writes: “We leave here (Edgar-
town) Monday, Aug. 14 for New York. We
plan to sail on 8.8. Ryndam of Holland
America line on Aug. 15 for Rotterdam.
Our journey at leisurely pace to Belgium, Ger-
many (Bavaria) and Austria will consume
7 weeks. We are due to sail back from Rot-
terdam on S.S. Rotterdam on Oct. 13.”

 

We record with sorrow the death of
George Sloane at Pompano Beach, Fla., on
Sept. 13, 1967. A memorial will appear in
a later issue of the WEEKLY.

COURTLAND N. SMITH
©. 353 Ridgewood Avenue
Glen Ridge, NJ.

We are amazed and naturally delighted at
the number of classmates who have in-
dicated their intention to be back with us
next June at our 60th. Almost a dozen have
already written, most of them men who have
not been back for reunion in many years.
The newest to report is Dolly Shafer of
Richmond, Va. His daughter, Jean, writes,
“I am going to do my best to get him to
come back next June although he ﬁnds walk-
ing somewhat difﬁcult. He is still a won-
derful guy!”

George Gray spent part of the summer
in Northern Ontario, an area dominated by
the Texas Gulf Sulphur ﬁnd. George, being
a mining engineer, was we assume on a bus-
man’s holiday.

During the summer the Louis Reams took
a couple of trips on a chartered boat which
took them to Edgartown and Nantucket.
Make a note of their new Florida address
where they can be reached after Nov. 1:
The Bar Harbour. 86 MacFarlane Drive,
Delray Beach, Fla.

The ’08 scholarship funds which honor
the memory of Emil Joy, Sanford Price and
Sanford Samuel, for the present academic
year have been awarded to Patrick Ryan
’68, Gregory McNeil ’70, William Talbot
’70, Martin Mansﬁeld ’68 and Gordon
Chang ’70.

For the 10th year the Montclair Golf
Club women’s contract bridge team of eight
players won the trophy for highest total
score in the series of games played against
teams representing Glen Ridge Country
Club, Canoe Brook, Essex Fells Golf Club

and Upper Montclair Golf Club. Mrs. Court-
land Smith headed the Montclair Golf Club
team.

Away from Fort Lauderdale much as he
loves it there, Eph Banning spent most the
summer on Candlewood Lake, Brookﬁeld,
Conn. joined there by many welcome mem-
bers of his family.

 

The sad news comes from Bob Christie
that Bill Houston died on Sept. 10, 1967
while Bob was away at his Canadian Lake
summer place in the Mushoka—his 65th
year there. A memorial to Bill appears in this
issue of the WEEKLY.

JAMES Woomzow
©© Box 502
Independence, Kans.

Don Roberts and his wife Frances were
guests at the White House on May 9
when the President and Mrs. Johnson en-
tertained at a luncheon honoring the Vice

President of the Republic of China and
Mrs. Yen. St. John’s University, Shanghai,

is the alma mater of Vice President Yen..

Also many of the more than a hundred
guests at the luncheon had both past and
present ties with China and with St. John’s.
This university, too, is where Don and Fran-
ces taught for many years. A number of
those present, including Vice President Yen,
were students in classes of one or the other
or both while they were teaching there. Fol-
lowing lunch in the State Dining Room, the
President spoke of the early days of Sino-
American relations to which Vice President
Yen replied warmly and appreciatively.

This unique experience was reported in
interesting detail by Don at our Class Din-
ner at Reunion and is repeated here for the
beneﬁt of those Classmates who were not
with us that evening. Mary, daughter of
Frances and Don (Mrs. Peyton Craighill),
and her husband are continuing to carry on
the family tradition as they are now in
Taiwan teaching at the college in the south—
ern city of Taiwan.

Hugh Chaplin and Turk Martin again in-
dulged in their ever enjoyable summer sa—
fari of tripping around New England. The
top pleasure of such a trip is the dropping
in on a number of the great guys thereabouts
for a surprise visit—all of which they did.

Fall Field Day, our delightful and tradi-
tional get-together, will be held at Prince-
ton on Friday and Saturday, Oct. 20 and 21.
Plans therefore have been forwarded each
classmate by Joe Boyd. Be seeing you there!

Attending the Kick-off Annual Giving
Dinner Meeting at the Princeton Club of
New York Sept. 11 were President Ivins and
Class Agent Wallace. You will be hearing
from Ralph anon.

Two other changes for your Directory:
George Armstrong is back at 6 Bond Ave.,
F armington, NJ. and, after diligent and long
searching by Chic Turner, Norman Mackie
has been located at Artemis Dionysiou,
Vrachi Hotel, Vivari, Drepano-Nauplion,
Greece. Norman reports that he is building
a permanent home there.

 

A class memorial appears in this issue.

JAMES S. WOLF
ﬂ© 142 East 7lst Street
New York, N.Y. 10021

Dick Duane has made a ﬁne recovery fol-
lowing an operation for hernia. This has not
been Dick’s healthiest year, as you will re-
member he underwent surgery last spring.

OCTOBER 10,1967 0 21

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The Frank Brewers spent a number of
weeks in August on Cape Cod and, as al-
ways, enjoyed their stay.

Jack Kendricks writes that he has noth-
ing to report. We don’t agree. He is active
in a number Of clubs through which he
keeps in touch with local, national and in-
ternational affairs. In his spare time he keeps
busy doing odd jobs around his house, and
taking care of his lawn and garden. One of
his grandsons is a Lieutenant in the Ma—
rines. After one tour of duty in Vietnam he
was married while home on leave and is now
back in Vietnam.

Don Olds continues to ﬁnd his stamp col—
lection absorbing and spends a great deal
of time working on it. Don is also an ardent
Tiger baseball fan, even tho he seldom gets
to Detroit to see a game.

Back Ewing writes that he has nothing
to report for the class notes and adds
“when we get to be our age We are not apt
to create excitement.” How right he is!

The Bill Flammers spent most of June
in Kentﬁeld, Calif., Visiting their daughter and
her family before going to Hawaii for July.
Their oldest grandson is a junior at the Uni-
versity of California, and another is a fresh-
man at the University of the Paciﬁc.

On June 9, Ned Dimock was named win—
ner of the Letter in Life citation, the highest
award given by the Pingry School to a grad—
uate Of the school.

IT HAPPENED 60 YEARS AGO: In the race for
the Carnegie Cup the freshman and sopho-
more boats will be steered by coxswains,
while in the junior and senior boats there is
only room for four. The Sophomore boat
consists of McCord, coxswain; Janeway, bow;
Bradford, #2; Whitman, #3 and Livingston,
stroke.

ONE-ONE FOR ALL: ALL FOR ONE-ONE

Don’t let anything interfere with your
coming to our Class Dinner, Saturday, Oct.
28, (Penn Game) if you can possibly man-
age it.

“On July 4th, 1783 the entire Continental
Congress sat down for dinner in the high
ceilinged diningroom of Morven (now the
residence of the Governor). On a recent
evening . . . (at) a typical informal dinner
party . . . Mrs. Hughes went into dinner
on the arm of William Abbotts the guest of
honor. Years ago Mr. Hughes worked with
Mr. Abbotts, who has had his law ofﬁce in
Trenton for 53 eyars.” N.Y. Times June 8,
’67, page 57. Thanks to Ev Jessup.

Following Reunion, as was also arranged
a year ago, Jim Tams was visited by Jim
Collord with the help of Rich Tracy. Jim re-
ports that Jim Tams is greatly improved and
able now even to go short distances in
a walker. All sorts of therapy have helped
but Gladys’ “direction, guidance and incen-
tive” have been even more important.

HNH, agnew symbol, appeared on the
Stock Exchange May 22. A front page
spread Saturday, May 20 in the ﬁnancial sec-
tion of the N.Y. Times underlined the fact
that Handy and Harman (as always) are at
the center of the silver price program.

HUGH CHAMBERLiN BURR
1396 Elmwood Avenue
Rochester, N.Y. 14620

Eddie and Helen Prince continue to cover the
globe. In July they were in London at a meeting
of 1000 astronomers from all over the world.
Helen was the only woman invited to present a
paper. (They vacationed in Scotland for a week
before ﬂying back home.) Late in August there
was a 10 day Conference in Prague followed by
another 10 days in Budapest. At the latter Helen
presented two papers and chaired the ﬁnal ses-
sion. These were their ﬁrst conferences behind
the iron curtain. “Hungary, though as ‘cur-
tained’ as Czechoslovakia, seems quite different”
—he wrote from Budapest. He promises more
comment when he reaches home again.

22 0 OCTOBER 10,1967

We have a friend in the football hierarchy,
“Jake” McCandless ’51, now right.next to Dick
Colman in the newly created position of assoc1-
ate coach, according to an announcement in the
May 23 PAW. “Jake” is also Tom Bradshaws
son-in-law and entertained us enormously With
his account of what goes on behind the scenes
in football at our Fall Dinner in 1961.. “Jake
has also another distinction. When appomted, he
was the only alumnus on the coaching staff.

We have two stories about Charlie Reigner,
each of which deserves more elaboration than
we can provide. May 16 at the 155th Com-
mencement Exercises of Union Theological
Seminary at Richmond, Charlie and Stella were
honored. To quote from the graduation pro-
gram, “(on the) twentieth Anniversary of the
founding Of the Charles G. Reigner Collection
in the Library . the Seminary gratefully
(recognizes) the important contribution to the—
ological education in the Church made by Dr.
Reigner in many ways, but especially through
the Reigner Collection and the Reigner Record-
ing Library.” A news dispatch adds that nearly
8,000 volumes have been purchased during the
20 years. The Recording Library, founded in
1953, is still unique in its pattern of free Opera-
tion. The other story must wait.

112

We are getting along in years—the young-
est man in the Class (Dick Knott) reached
the three—quarter-of—a-century mark on Sept.
21.

Meyer Greenbaum, a member of the Al-
legheny Bar until World War I, then operator
of the family furniture store, couldn’t stand
retirement. Shortly after appointment to the
Armstrong County (Pa.) Board of Viewers,
he was sworn in this summer as a member
of the Bar Association of that county in
the court Of his old friend Judge J. Frank
Graff (’11). It was reported that Greener
would not deny suggestions that he might
act as a public defender.

News from the 50-year honeymooners:
Doss and Rudie Lent celebrated the event
on June 5 in Copenhagen having ﬂown
there after ﬁve days in Rotterdam. Agnes
and Bill Rich observed the occasion (Sept.
1) by touring through Germany, Austria,
Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Rumania and Hun-
gary.

Another author: Dean Mathey has
broken into print in a delightful 75~page
book of reminiscences entitled MEN AND
GOTHIC TOWERS, written especially for
Princeton alumni and term trustees with
whom he was so closely associated for 34
years. The edition is limited so when Dean
gave us permission to announce the book we
promised not to encourage requests for it,
as only a few are left.

We regret to report that Maybelle Boese
Wells, Wife of Stick Wells, who had been
ailing for a long time, died on June 29.

Changes in address:

Roy Dyckmanfrom Tennyson Drive to
17 Crescent Place, Short Hills, NJ. 07078.
Bill Clearwater from Union Club to 101 E.
69th St., New York City, 10021. Carrol Tyson
to 630 F St., San Diego, Calif. 92101.

S. BAKER WILLIAMS
Brook St.
Jamestown, RI. 02835

 

A class memorial appears in this issue.

113

In the confusion of transfers of responsi—
bility for these notes, one piece of sad news
was omitted. Pauline Johnson, wife of
Courtney, died last May. Pauline will be
fondly remembered as a good friend of many
classmates and their wives, and an ever-loyal
member of the Class. Our deep sympathy
goes to Johnny.

ALAN F. RANDOLPH
7-B Court Drive
Wilmington, Delaware 19805

ﬁg Wilder Penﬁeld is the ﬁrst winner of
" " "’ the $50,000 Royal Bank Centennial
Award, offered by the bank in annual recog-
nition of “outstanding achievement of such
importance that it contributes to the com-
mon good and human welfare of Canada
and the world society.” Pen’s achievements
are well known to us—his world-famous dis-
coveries and medical and surgical practice in
neurophysiology and neurosurgery; his crea-
tion and building up of the Montreal
Neurological Institute; his presidency of the
Vanier Institute of the Family; his essays
and novels. The selection of Pen as ﬁrst
winner of this prestigious award merely con-
ﬁrms his status as Canada’s first citizen. And
now, related to his work with the Vanier In-
stitute, comes another book, “Man and His
Family,” analyzing the current breakdown
in family life. It is published in Canada by
McClelland and Stewart.

Your Sec.p.t. has received very cheery
cards from Joe Smith and Mac Lowe, the
latter from Lake Placid, July 22. In fact, he
has received letters from Mac Lowe of June
6, 23 and l4—about which, up to the pres-
ent, he has done precious little.

tlél

Fred Ingraham in Amityville, N.Y., due
to having had cataract operations last De-
cember and March, no longer runs a reg-
ular Ofﬁce but does estate and consultation
Work with other lawyers. He is trying to
accustom himself to the use of contact
lenses.

Don Campbell’s wife, Dorcas, broke a
bone in her foot but did not let that stop her
from entertaining Sam and Jean Slaymaker
and your secretary at cocktails. She got
about her house at Seal Harbor, Maine with
the use of a walker so agilely that she
seemed not to depend upon it. Don also
looks younger than his years.

The Mayor of Atlanta. Bill Howland ’23,
disclosed that the way Jim Granbery broke
his femur was while curling at the Seignory
Club in Canada. Though his walking was
curtailed Jim still hunts in the winter in
South Carolina and is active as Laird
of Seven Springs Farm in Tennessee.

Miracles still happen. Walt Voorhees is
both witness and principal. Stricken sud-
denly, he was rushed to a Trenton, NJ.
Hospital where immediate diagnosis showed
that there was an aneurysm on his aorta.
Since Trenton could not perform the opera-
tion, he was sped the 30 miles to the Uni-
versity Hospital, Philadelphia in 25 min-
utes; the one surgeon essential for the work
was fortunately at dinner, left it and was
ready when Walt arrived. Not only did Walt
come through the operation but he has now
convalesced sufﬁciently to be practicing his
putting, preparatory to resuming his golf-

Harold and Agnes Stuart, ﬁnding it bur-
densome to maintain two houses, have sold
their farm at Epping, N.H. They now are
free and can go South in the winter and,
as they did this summer, go to Sugar Hill,
N.H. where they had a cottage connected
with the Ledgeland Inn. Last April they
sailed to England and returned in mid-July.
They mostly visited relatives and old friends
both in England and Scotland. They did not
say whether they called upon their old ene-
mies the Campbells.

115

On Sunday, Oct. 8, Lehigh University
celebrates “Founders’ Day,” and on that day
a distinguished son of Lehigh and one of 0111‘
most honored classmates will receive a DOC-

 

CARL W. MESSINGER
8306 Crittenden Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19118

JOHN H. FABER
Argyle Road
Essex Fells, N .J .




tor of Engineering degree. Phil Drinker
modestly reports that “things being what
they are, I’d imagine this will end my de-
gree getting.” I would not accept that state-
ment as ﬁnal.

Annual Giving is here again. Bob Miner,
continuing as our Class Agent attended the
“kick-off” dinner in New York on Sept. 11.
He gathered much information on the
“whys and wherefores,” which will be re-
leased to you from time to time. Last year
Fifteen had 161 contributors for a total
amount of $18,889, which was a very cred-
itable showing. You will be hearing from
Bob, soon and often.

Just a few bits of the summer travels.
Frank Hendrickson and Dorothy to Eng-
land to celebrate their Fiftieth, and enjoyed
the Derby at Epson Farms. The Fabers to
Scandinavia, where on July 1, they watched
the Inter-Scandinavian Ski meet. Helen and
Tharratt Best to the Far East. Cap Dev-
ereux (the wise old owl) to Peckett’s on
Sugar Hill in New Hampshire. Jim Adams
and Katharine accompanied by Julie Faber
to Expo 67. Ike Swart practically on a trip
around the world, alone, or at least he
started alone. Larry Levengood in Vermont
and the Adirondacks and so it goes. The
other 160, more or less of you no doubt
found comfortable and interesting places to
hide out in. Welcome home to all of you.

I have a photo of Pop Smith donating a
set of encyclopedia to a young man repre-
senting Camp Curtain Branch of the
Y.M.C.A. in Harrisburg. John looks strong

enough to have carried the entire set him-

self, but is being thoughtful enough to only
present one volume at a time to the youth.
A gallant gentleman.

C. FREDRICK MARTIN
315 East Center Street
Nazareth, Pa.

When Herb Hudnut and Edith Visited
Manila on their world tour last May they
took a picture of a large bronze tablet com-
memorating the Inauguration of the Repub-
lic of the Philippines in 1946 and listing Na-
thaniel P. Davis as co-chairman of the
Philippine-American Joint Commission to
arrange the proclamation of Philippine in—
dependence. At that time, Pen was the US.
Minister to the Philippine government; and
later he received the Distinguished Service
Award bestowed by the Secretary of State
for “superb performance of diplomatic
functions without regard for personal safety.”

Now Pen is about to publish his memoirs,
covering more than 30 years’ active duty
with the State Department in various na-
tlons, and including two years, 1941-43, as
a prisoner of war with the Japanese. Entitled
“Few Dull Moments,” the book will be out
this fall, and may be obtained from the
Rldge Book Shop, 196 Ridge Street, Glen
Falls, N.Y.

It really isn’t news, because it was an-
nounced last year, but it’s worth repeating
1n this paragraph from the Fiscal 1966 Re-
P0rt of the Committee on Class Affairs of
the Alumni Council released in August:
“The Class of 1916 with a resounding
92.34% participation in dues paying, which
must be an all-time record, was the winner
Of the Class of 1932 Award which is pre-
sented to that Class attaining the highest P61"
centage of participation in Class dues. An-
other record must be their increase of
22.54% over last year. Treasurer, David G.
Kennedy, achieved this fabulous record.”

 

We report with sorrow the death of J.
Howard Neely, Aug. 26, at his home in
MIﬂlintown, Pa. A memorial will follow.

Class memorials appear in this issue.

GRAHAM T. JOHNSTON
Smith Ridge New Canaan, Conn.
Phone: 203 966-1172

 

1917 LUNCHEON
Colgate Game
Charter Club

Oct. 21
11:30 am.

 

Bill Cotton thought our 50th just won-
derful. He thinks that everyone having any-
thlng to do with it has our everlasting
thanks. Here! here! Skibby and Red Gilmour
both enjoyed it. Allan Brown along with
dues sent item that Dot landed a 13 1/2"
Rainbow on the old dry ﬂy for her ﬁrst ﬁsh
landing. My, My, all these years in North-
ern Wisconsin and just landing her ﬁrst ﬁsh.
Hard to believe!

The Honorable Prentice Cooper from
Governor, State of Tennessee with Mrs.
Cooper arrived in New York Harbor, Aug.
29 on the Queen Elizabeth. Jane Joeck sent
a card of greetings and thanks for the 50
Year Book from Holland. She was happy
to ﬁnd Dad in it. Jane visited Boston, Eng-
land with the Mayﬂower Descendants. The
Percy Buchanans made their annual trip to
Westport, N.Y. to visit his brother. The
weather was not good and his golf worse.
Heaven forbid!

Dave Tibbott saw the sun a couple of
times at Chatham on the Cape but did man-
age to get in 18 holes of golf with President
Goheen and Brian Leeb (1918’s oldest liv-
ing recent graduate). On the other end of
the Cape Dave played golf at Woods Hole
with Harold Helm, Ed MacNichol and
Harry Neuberger. Perry Hall joined them
for dinner.

Just for the record, Alle Alleman the
squire of Hanover, Pa. authority on trotters,
Phillies and the Philadelphia Eagles, writes
in to say that unless his presence at fall
luncheons obviates he too should have been
included in the list Of those who never be-
fore attended a reunion before until the re-
cent one. We don’t know the ground rules,
Alle, but load up your breast pocket with
cigars and come on over to the luncheon on
Oct. 21.

WILLIAM A. B. PAUL
a]. #.

Easton, Md. 21601

 

We will enjoy together,
October’s bright blue weather.
ELM CLUB, SAT., OCT. 28,—PENN GAME.

 

One of the joys of country living is going
down the lane to the rural mail box and
popping down the lid to discover what is
in it. After a busy day on the river, a
young granddaughter this summer said,
“Pop, why don’t you put a crab in every—
body’s mail box?” We tried to explain that
we were always more interested in what
came out of the mail box than in what went
into it,—and we certainly are because we
have 32 notes to write for this column this
year. The mail box has been good to us this
summer. Always it is a joy to ﬁnd exotic for-
eign postals with bright postage stamps
and kind messages tucked in between the
bills, advertisements, and periodicals.

We have learned that the Vic Hockmeyers
had a wonderful time in Greece, and then
toured much of Europe. The Fran Rues
started in the Baltic and covered much of
the north. Josh Everett was in London and
loved it. Bob Gillies is looking forward to
leaving his Berlin duties and attending our
50th reunion.

Dick Preston from Holderness, N.H.
also promises to be on hand in ’68, and says

that he has 'come out of retirement far
enough to preach on Sundays at the Trinity
Church, Newton Center, Mass. If you hap-
pen to be going by, drop in and hear him.
Charlie Arrott writes that he and Margaret
love Phoenix, Ariz., and he expects to re-
main there. His wood carvings get better
and better.

Harrisburg, Pa.: Sixteen outstanding
Pennsylvania women were named by Mrs.
Raymond Shafer as members of a special
committee to help furnish the new exec-
utive mansion now under construction in
Harrisburg. Among them is Mrs. Donald S.
Leslie of Erie. In case the column below
missed this news, we also note that on the
committee are Mrs. John Wintersteen (’19)
and Mrs. Jay Cooke (’19). Possibly one
room will be done in orange and black.

RICHARD H. RANDALL
ﬁg 3906 Clover Hill Road
Baltimore, Md. 21218

_Good letter from B. Kirkendall: “I was
one of the ones who did not return to Prince-
ton after World War I and therefore do
not know the class too well except those who
were with me at Lawrenceville.

“I retired a year ago last May. I had been
Divisional Manager for Waddell and Reed,
Underwriters of the United Funds. Cam
Reed, President, was a ﬂyer as I was in
World War I. I went with him after I got
out of the Service in W.W. I. My two
adopted daughters have presented us with
eight grandchildren, two boys and six girls.
My wife and I hope to do some travelling
or go broke.—One or the other. We are now
planning a motor trip around the Gaspe
Peninsula this fall. Hobbies and exercises
are all one and the same—elbow bending.”

Card from Gus and George Saville—after
Europe, back to Harwickport—then Prince-
ton and back to Sarasota for the winter.

A nice letter came from Don Street. He
saw the Raleighs (Tom and Helen) at
Westerly. Went on to Newport for the ten-
nis. Returns to his winter address about Sept.
21. He’ll make most football games.

Jim Denby, (who has been Director of
the Museum of the Society of the Cincin-
nati at Anderson House, D.C.) writes a full
letter and sends me a copy of the Museum
Booklet he has just published. He has re-
signed this job and is farming in Virginia.
He feels young enough for this but thinks
it is the last career on which he will embark.

I learned by round about route that David
and Maddy McDougal are considering leav-
ing Chicago for Arizona. Seems Maddy
hasn’t been too well and the Northern Trust
had a policy withholding their ofﬁcers from
sitting on other Boards. Results Dave had
little to hold his interest in Chicago.

PHILIP B. TOWNLEY
2© Llewellyn Park, West Orange, NJ.
Phone: 201 731-8500

 

COCKTAIL PARTY AND LUNCH
11:30 A.M. OCTOBER 21
Cap and Gown Club
COLGATE FOOTBALL GAME

 

This is the biggest and best party of the
whole year. Be there!!

Reports on some Summer Doings:

Catherine and Walter Wylie spent part of
their summer visiting her brother and sister-
in—law on Martha’s Vineyard. Walter writes
further that he is “in good shape and glad to
forget a series of bad illnesses which are now
over.” He expects to be present at our 50th
Reunion, reads the column faithfully and is
always happy to have news of the class.

John Harlan “really had no news to re-
port beyond Ethel’s and his usual plans for

OCTOBER 10,1967 0 23

 

 

 




 

 

 

the summer at their place in Connecticut
during the Supreme Court’s recess.”

Sally and Carl Sadowsky summered on
the continent as usual. First London and
then to Barcelona where Carl’s shirtmaker
takes care of his requirements in that de-
partment. He sure does a good job in keep—
ing Carl clean and neat and trim as he al-
ways is. (That’s a darned good excuse for a
trip to Barcelona!)

Bun and Ed Schickhaus with their daugh—
ter, took the beautiful California Zephyr
train trip through the Feather River Canyon
to the West Coast and a couple of weeks
in the San Francisco area in June. There-
after they went to their Nantucket cottage
for the rest of the summer.

Virginia and Francis Callery, taking off
early in August, spent some time in Rome
and in between points before Stockholm
and back home some six weeks later.

On our way home from the wilds of Maine,
Eva and I had a most delightful visit with
Chouteau and Stu Chapin at their beautiful
summer home. They had had a nice visit
from Kathryn and Tom Heath during the
summer.

JOHN H. LEH

@ﬂ “Sherwood Forest”
27 Lehigh Parkway North
Allentown, Pa. 18103

Another ’21er who has been ill with a
heart attack is Alex Butcher. He reports
that he is making very satisfactory progress
but that he is going to have to take it easier
from now on. Butch has been Sales Man-
ager of the Maine Paper Supply Co. of At-
lantic City, who are paper and twine dis-
tributors. He lives in Egg Harbor City.

Mort Meyer is busy sending retired exec-
utives to Kuwait, Manila, Tehran, Bangkok,
Beirut, Managua and San Salvadore etc. At
least that was true up until the recent Mid—
dle East Crisis. So, if any of the retired
’21ers are interested in acting as a consul—
tant in their particular line on a three or six
month’s tour, contact him. He will take care
of you. You can take your Wife along too.

We doubt the statement, “that he is al-
most forgotten today,” for to a generation
of armchair adventurers of the ’20’s and
’30’s, Richard Halliburton was and still is
the synonym for romance. He was as much
a product of that age as were the other pop—
ular heroes. Dick was to many people what
they believe Princeton graduates to be, until
Scott Fitzgerald introduced the public to the
ﬂapper and shieks of the jazz age. Dick
capitalized on his romance and when he died,
he left his estate to the Princeton Library to
found the Richard Halliburton Library of
Geography and Travel. Part of the income
of this estate comes from the royalties for
the publication of his books, which are still
quite popular. Two of them are now being
issued as paper backs. “The Royal Road to
Romance” and “The Glorious Adventure”
are being published by Pyramid and are on
the book shelves at 75 cents.

The ﬁrst roster of 88 names inducted in
the Hall Of Fame of the new Madison
Square Garden Center which will be atop
the old Pennsylvania station in New York
has been completed. Since 1967 marks the
88th year of the Madison Square Garden
name, that total was ﬁxed for honor in the
fourth arena and the glories of some of
these individuals go all the way back to 1897.
One of the great names in track and ﬁeld
development has been Asa S. Bushnell and
we are particularly delighted that Bush has
been honored by having his name among
the great athletes and sport leaders of the
past century. He again brings distinction to
the Class of 1921 and we are proud ~of our
Class President.

24 0 OCTOBER 10,1967

HAMILTON COTTIER
@@ 4 Orchard Circle
Princeton, NJ.

For those who had no opportunity _to
talk to Theodor Oxholm at Reunion: Chief
avocations since retirement, oil painting, cut-
ting jigsaw puzzles, working on-his large
place, and accompanying his Wife, Mary,
an avid traveller, on trips in the U.S.——last
year to San Francisco and Nova Scotia, this
past spring from Houston to Rochester v1a
New Orleans, and several times to Cape
Cod—and he stays home in Esopus each
year until March because he loves the rug-
ged winters and has no yen for Florida.
Ted’s son, Theodor (Trinity ’54), an insur-
ance underwriter, lives in Wellesley, Mass.,
with his wife, Barbara, and their three chil-
dren, Wendy 9, Theodor III 6, and Thom-
as 3%. His older daughter, Mary Louise,
and her husband, James W. Shepherd, a re-
search chemist, live in Gibsonia, Pa. with
their three children, Betty Jean 11, Martin
10, and Joel 3. His younger daughter, Anne
M., and her husband, George F. Reid, an
accountant, are living temporarily in Dobbs
Ferry, N.Y., with their son, George Reid
III, aged one. That Ted and Mary are in
splendid shape is proved by their having
had all seven grandchildren visit them at
once.

T. H. Vail Motter, honored by Princeton
with the title of Visiting Fellow for 1967—
68, is roaming the British Isles in pursuit
of material for a second volume on Arthur
Henry Hallam (the ﬁrst was an edition of
Hallam’s writings, 1943). On his retirement
from the editorial board of The Papers of
Woodrow Wilson last spring, a testimonial
dinner was given him by the Board, and the
Editor, Professor Link, presented to him
leather-bound and suitably inscribed copies
of the ﬁrst two volumes of the Papers, the
excellence of which owes not a little to Vail’s
unfailing taste and scholarship.

Anyone at all interested in the presentation
and rehabilitation of the countryside should
write to Eddie Hole’s American Aggregates
Corporation (Greenville, Ohio) for a copy of
their brochure Project Parklands, full of pic-
tures of the beautiful real estate develop-
ments that have replaced the barren land and
pits left after the sand and gravel have been
harvested.

RUSSELL D. GRAY
Q3 357 Cold Soil Road

Princeton, NJ.

 

CLASS FOOTBALL LUNCHEON
Before the YALE GAME—Nov. 18
Lunch—12 o’clock Game—1:30
In the Armory Room MS-49

 

Last August, Charles R. Callanan ’49 be—
came the sixth headmaster of the 55—year old
Park School of Baltimore, a private, coedu-
cational institution for children from nurs-
ery school age to the twelfth grade. He is
the son of Marion and Cal Callanan who
classmates will remember best as “Pop.”
Two years ago, Charles gave up a ﬁne busi-
ness career of 15 years to prepare for a
teaching career—his ﬁrst love. He entered
Johns Hopkins University to obtain his
Master’s degree. During World War II, he
was a naval gunnery OITICCI‘ in the Paciﬁc
and during the Korean War was a gunnery
liaison ofﬁcer with the 2nd Marine Division.
He is married to the former Mary Gamble
and they have ﬁve children.

Following a ﬁne, old Princeton tradition,
Marion and Cal recently moved—“Back to
Old Nassau.” They now reside at 4307
Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ. 08530.
Sarah and Frank Talmage are neighbors—

their address is 1296 Old Nassau Road,
Jamesburg, NJ. 08831.

From W. Bradford Craig, Director of the
Bureau of Student Aid, Princeton University
comes the following: “I am happy to in-
form you that for the academic year of 1967-
1968 James D. Woodward ’70 has been se-
lected as the recipient of the Class of 1923
Scholarship.”

David Sheldon is the Minister of the Ovid
Federated Church at Ovid, N.Y. Several
years ago they built a new Educational
Building and Fellowship Hall and named it
“Sheldon Hall.”

Our Secretary for Class Wives, Betty
Spence, is on a Mediterranean Cruise. She
will visit points in Spain, Portugal, Italy,
Greece and Turkey before returning late in
September.

J. P. NEWELL
2&1 Rm. 325—Boulevard Building
1819 Kennedy Blvd., Philadelphia, Pa.

Dick Hobbs reports seeing Cootie Davis,
Tom Fentress, Peery Koehne, and Lou Laf-
lin in Chicago. All looked well and happy.
AS for Dick, he and Dorothy visited Expo
’67 last June and spent a few weeks riding
and ﬁshing at a dude ranch in Wyoming.

Our Treasurer, Henry Bradbury, is follow-
ing an interesting line as a consultant with
his former employer, American & Foreign
Power Co. His work has to do with prep-
aration of a claim against the Chinese Com-
munist Regime for the conﬁscation of the
properties of the Shanghai Power Co. in
1950. Henry expects to be on this partic-
ular assignment for several more months.

Former Class President, Henry Sutphen
retires in October, having just reached 65.
While feeling somewhat confused, the ap-
pearance of health and enjoyment of so
many classmates has led Henry to the con—
clusion there must be something in it.

“Swede” Shannon, sufTering for several
years from psoriasis, affecting his hands and
feet, says he is not entirely unhappy with
his problem. While restricting most physical
activities which he enjoyed so much, it also
precludes grass cutting, weeding, repair
work, etc.

Your Secretary was very fortunate to be
an Ofﬁcial delegate to the United States of
America Standards Institute at the Inter-
national Standards Organization Biannual
Counsel in Moscow recently. This gave me
an opportunity to spend seven days in Mos—
cow and three days in Leningrad and other
Russian cities ending with a day in Stock-
holm. It was quite an experience.

Bob Garey, a long way off in Sydney,
Australia, retired last December from Time,
Inc. He is staying on as a Director and Con-
sultant to Time-Life International (Australia)
Pty. Ltd., and is retiring and settling down
in Sydney. Bob says it is a lovely place and
extends an invitation to anyone venturing
that way.

After not having heard from Rhea Ewing
for some time, we were pleased to note that
he is now serving as Stated Clerk, Presbytery
of Santa Barbara, United Presbyterian
Church in the USA.

2 JOHN B. HULL JR.
§ Box 599
Great Barrington, Mass.

More than 100 alumni attended the An-
nual Kickoff Dinner for the 1967-1968 An—
nual Giving Campaign which was held at
the Princeton Club of New York on Sep-
tember 12th. Representing 1925 were Class
Agent Buel Weare and Horace Moody 0f
the Annual Giving Ofﬁce. The 1967—1968
campaign begins ofﬁcially on November lst.
Last year 1925 had 313 contributors and
a total of $58,685.

14




Jim Carruthers sends along the news that
Jim Swan was a candidate for the Wiscon-
sin State Senate in the Republican Primary
on September 12th. We will let you know
the result as soon as we hear from candi-
date Swan.

While our man Carruthers was vacation-
ing at Lake Michigan last summer, a cruiser
pulled up in the harbor off his beach and he
heard his name being called with a bull
horn. Jim got in his outboard and chugged
out to ﬁnd Joan and Charley Taylor and
their guests Walt Rentschler and Alex
Chiles who had cruised down from Charle-
voix. Jim reports a delightful reunion and
adds that Walt and Alex were proud of the
good job they had done on the bright work
but if he had them as a crew he would be in-
clined to paint everything.

About a month ago we received a gracious
note from Lucy Caldwell telling us how
much the moral support of Charlie’s class
means to her. Lucy still ﬁnds her work
with the USO in Vietnam absorbing and very
heartwarming.

Pete Street retired from US. Steel in Au-
gust and is now living in Norfolk, Conn.,
where he has spent his summers for many
years.

Round-the-world traveler, George Cun-
ningham, checks in from London where he
reports having talked with John Maxwell and
on plans to get together with him later. By
now, the Cunninghams are probably headed
for Australia and expect to be back in Cali-
fornia in October.

GLEN PERRY
@© 8104 Du Pont Building
Wilmington, Del. 19898

This week’s column will be devoted to a
listing of Class of 1926 events during the

college year just begun. You might want
to make note of the events that interest you,
so you won’t wake up some day and kick
yourself because you forgot.

Saturday, Oct. 28, 1967

10:30 a.m. Class Council meeting,
Room MS—52, R.O.T.C.
Building, Princeton.

11:30 a.m. Cocktails and lunch in MS-
52 for class members and
and their guests

1:30 pm. Penn football in Palmer
Stadium

4:23 p.m.* Resumption of pre-game
party in MS-52

*—or thereabouts

Tuesday, Jan. 16, 1968

5:00 pm. Class Council Meeting,
Princeton Club, 15 West
43rd St., New York City

6:00 pm. Annual dinner of Class of
1926, Princeton Club

Saturday, Feb. 24, 1968

11:00 a.m. Cocktails for class mem-
bers and guests, Wilcox
Hall, Princeton

12:15 pm. Alumni Day luncheon, Dil-
lon Gymnasium, Princeton

Saturday, June 8, 1968

11:00 a.m. Class Council meeting, Nas—
sau Club, Princeton

12:00 A1 fresco lunch for class
members and families,
Nassau Club

It is perhaps belaboring the obvious to
point out that the more Twenty-Sixers rally
round for these various events, the more re—
warding they will be. So plan to get to as
many as you can. You’ll be glad you did.
And so will your classmates.

JOHN F. MACKAY
7 Box 255
Syosset, N.Y. 11791

Two of 1927’s most distinguished fam—
ilies were united in matrimony at Crafts-
bury Common, Vt., Aug. 26. The bride was
Alison M. Stuart, niece of Reed Stuart
and daughter of Doug ’35. The groom was
Frederic A. De P. Todd, son of Jim, and
Princeton ’67. We learned from the report
in the N.Y. Times that the Stuarts are
descended from General J.E.B. Stuart, the
pride of the Confederacy. One of the
groom’s ancestors was mayor of New York
in 1691—when Wall Street was in the
suburbs.

From Lew Gordon via Lam Cliﬁord
comes news of Lew’s doings. He’s in Europe
now on a sabbatical but last term was differ-
ent. Our classmate delivered one of the
ﬁve addresses at the Mediaeval Academy
of America at Harvard. Previously, he had
spoken before the Dante Society of Amer—
ica and served as president of the American

Association of Teachers of Italian. Morgan ‘

C utts is Lew’s doctor in Providence and Lew
sees him socially, too, between classes at
Brown. If you happen to listen to Decca’s
new record of the Pro Musica Antiqua So—
ciety this fall, note the ﬁne Italian diction.
Lew is the Society’s linguistic coach. All this
and he speaks to scholars from all over Eu-
rope in French.

 

 

 

We’re Keeping Company With Some of the Finest Companies

TOP corporations just naturally gravitate to Princeton Inn for their
more important conferences, sales meetings andsemlnars. Th1s prestlge
setting, adjacent to the university campus, 1s Just an hour from New
York and Philadelphia. Groups of up to 100 ﬁnd our 139 guest rooms
and 9 meeting rooms ideally suited for the busmess at hand and the
informal after-hours sessions in the Inn’s relaxed lounge are stimulatlng

and rewarding. Write for our special brochure.

Sam Stewart, M ana er

Telephone (609) 924-5200

 

 

OCTOBER 10,1967 0 25

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

HENRY A. GREENE
Q. 940 Gladstone, S.E.
Grand Rapids, Mich. 49506

Jack Dalenz, Pete Leland and Sam Payne
represented ’28 at the Annual Giving din-
ner-meeting at the Princeton Club of New
York on Sept. 11, the kickoff for the 1967-
68 campaign. They heard President Goheen
reemphasize Annual Giving’s continuing im-
portance to Princeton and express again the
University’s gratitude to all who help make
the program a success.

More from Doug Neale. He and Vera
are taking a long vacation trip. Starting in
Florida, they go to California, Hawaii,
Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong, San Francisco,
St. Louis and back to Florida. While in
Tokyo, Doug expects to see Fuji F ujiyamae
Tanaka. No doubt Doug will also see Morrie
Skinner in Honolulu. Speaking of Morrie,
1 want to use this column to thank him for
his nice letter which reads in part: “I have
just had a most enjoyable reunion with
Serge Korﬁ‘ and Betty, his wife. As you
know, Serge is Doctor Korff, having won his
Doctorate at Princeton after he graduated
with us. I suspect that Betty, too, has a de-
gree, in charm if in nothing else. Although
his work has taken him into the rariﬁed at-
mosphere of cosmic physics, he wisely keeps
in close touch with the modern generation
by teaching an undergraduate course or
two and is understandably pleased with this
phase of his work. I was happy to have him
conﬁrm to me that the youth of today is
much like that of yesterday when we were
in college, the' hippies and other protesters
to the contrary notwithstanding.” Thanks,
Morrie.

After a trial of some nine months, Doug
Neale has found that banking is not his cup
of tea. As of this summer he was undecided
about staying in Florida or returning to
Pennsylvania. Either way, we wish him the
best.

Saturday, Nov. 18. Class Luncheon—
Armory—Yale. -

JOHN B. LUCKE

@9 1156 Gladstone S.E.
Grand Rapids, Mich. 49506
Tel. 616 452-2814

 

PRE-COLGATE BASH!
Oct. 21 at Elm Club
Call Bob Bennett now

 

On the Fourth of July we crossed Lake
Michigan on the Milwaukee Clipper, a
pretty trip made a rare treat by the approach
in late evening of the Wisconsin shore,
punctuated by a dazzling row of ﬁreworks
displays. After a day crossing the Driftless
Area and America’s dairyland we lunched
most delightfully at the Sky Top Restau-
rant Of the St. Paul Hilton with Ted Jarrett
and Susan and Dick Okie. They pointed out
landmarks of the land of Golden Gophers
and 3M, while we reminisced about 1929.
All too brief.

Two and a half days later we joined Jack
and Peg Fanshawe and son Paul at their
lovely home on East MacDonald Drive, just
under the Rimrock cliffs with the bronze
statue of William S. Hart, overlooking Bil-
lings. Sunday we spent in and around Red
Lodge where Jack and I cut our geological
eye teeth together in 1931. The Yellow-
stone-Bighorn Research Camp a thousand
feet above the town on the shoulder of Mt.
Maurice is larger but just as beautiful.
Professor Erling Dorf was in charge, mak-
ing it seem what it was long called—the
Princeton Camp. Two miles down Rock
Creek the Fanshawes have a dream

26 0 OCTOBER ‘IO, 1967

“cabin” with all conveniences, plus four
wheel drive jeep for winter. Paul is a sopho-
more at Montana State University at Boze-
man. He looks like his old man, but Will
probably not follow in his footsteps. Jack 15
geologist for the Montana Power Company.

Sue and Jack Vhay boast six grandchil—
dren, but only Libby was home in Spokane
when we dropped in after 17 years! Then
as now, Jack is working on mineral deposns
for the US. Geological Survey. He’s not
been much of a reuner, but almost prom-
ised to grace our 40th. Libby somehow
looks like Dad and at the same time is a
beauty!

LEONARD R. BARRETT
3@ 41 Maple Street
New Providence, NJ. 07974

Doug Hannah’s daughter Katharine was
married May 6 to Edward R. Servick, a
Wharton alumnus and advertising account
executive. Charlie Hertz’s son, Charles, Jr.,
became engaged to Louise Elizabeth Gluck,
prize-winning poet, and Lou Klauder’s son,
James ’64, a Lt. (jg), to Polly Burke San-
ford—both in April.

Jack Nelson was the speaker at a Kiwanis
luncheon in Allentown, Pa., in April, on
“War and the Draft.” His son had recently
returned from Vietnam where he had been
a helicopter pilot.

Dr. Frank Johnson and his Princeton col-
leagues, as mentioned in PAW and the New-
ark Evening News, have been carrying on re-
search which resulted recently in the pub-
lication of the exact structure of Luciferin
and Luciferease, two chemicals which pro-
duce the glow in Cypridina (a small Japa-
nese crustacean), otherwise known as the
“Sea Fireﬂy.” With this substance Frank can
make food glow in the dark. Also wine. So,
next time you want a light repast—

Do Cuyler, membership chairman of the
New York Zoological Society, in June an-
nounced the birth at the Bronx Zoo Of ﬁve
new animals: two Siberian tigers, a Nyala
antelope, a Jackson’s hartebeest and a white-
tail gnu. In case you don’t recall, the other
name for hartebeest is Alcelaphus busela-
phus. Now don’t ask, “So what else is
gnu?”

Whitey Ward retired in February from
advertising and is apparently living the life
of Riley. Note: Riley was supposed to have
been at Princeton in the ’twenties, but in no
particular class.

FRED R. GIBNEY
gﬂ 69 West Ninth Street
New York 11, N.Y.

Instead of holding the usual father-son
dinner this year, we have invited all the
Class sons on campus to attend the picnic
on Oct. 21. Jane and Bob Whitehead will
see that they get fed. Better come and meet
the boys.

Dr. Trump Bradley has assumed the du-‘

ties of president of the Connecticut State
Medical Society. He says he is having a hard
time keeping his head above water in an at-
tempt to carry on his practice as well.

Trump has been very busy with the
state General Assembly and his eyes have
been opened on what determines the nature
Of legislation. It takes courage, persistence
and energy to accomplish things that are
truly in the public interest. ‘

Despite his activities Trump says that the
latch string is always out for those journey-
ing through New Canaan.

But medicine and medical society duties
couldn’t get in the way of romance. On
June 16, Trump married Marilyn Whitlock
Ackerly. Best wishes to our newest bride
and groom.

 

Another of our physicians involved with
organized medical activities is Dr. W. Frank-
[in Keim, president—elect of the Academy
of Medicine of New Jersey.

I’ve had a postcard from Nairobi, Kenya
from Harry Schroeter. He and Erna appear
to be enjoying their safari although Harry
sounds a little squeamish about seeing all
those lions “close up.”

You will be saddened to learn of the
death of George Lockhart’s wife, Katha-
rine (“Kaka”) Lockhart on Sept. 9. Our
deepest sympathy is extended to George.

Dr. Samuel P. Harbison former chief of
the department of surgery and currently as-
sociate dean Of surgery at the University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine received the
American Cancer Society’s bronze medal
last spring. Sam was honored for his many
years of valuable service at the local, state
and national levels.

AMos EN0
3% Box 295
Princeton, NJ. 08540

CLASS COCKTAIL PARTY
At the Eno’s, Quaker Rd.
After the Penn Game, Oct. 28

 

 

The sad news has been received that
Millard West lost his wife last June 19. I am
sure the whole Class joins me in extending
our deepest sympathy to him.

Buck Remmel, with well-deserved pride,
and let us hope with equally well-deserved
expectations for the future, reports on the
magniﬁcent performance of ’32 in last year’s
Annual Giving Campaign. Here are the
highlights:

(1) Fifth largest A.G. amount of all
time. (2) First class in the ’30s to crack the
$100,000 barrier. (3) New class record in
dollars and participations. (4) New 35th
Major Reunion dollar record. (5) In total
Annual Giving, 1932 has passed the half-
million dollar mark, for a total of $507,165.

Great work and thanks to all who worked
and contributed. Leave us not rest on our
laurels.

ﬂ From John Macdonald come several

\ entries for the contest for Poet
Laureate of the Class. Here are two ex-
cerpts from his “Short Histories of Some
Historic Loves”

PARIS AND HELEN
After the horse,

HELOISE AND ABELARD
It wasn’t so hard

Of course, For Abelard,
No joy But holy gees!
In Troy. Poor Heloise.

Other poetic fragments, or complete works,
if of sufﬁcient rhythmical stature, will be
presented from time to time.

This will be the last time reference is made
to Neg Cooke as our “sterling druggist.” With
that safely behind us, we hasten to report
that Neg’s son Chris, having graduated from
Princeton last June, is now at Newport Naval
O.C.S., striking for Underwater Demolition.
Neg himself has somewhat higher ambition,
working for his pet charity the US. Ski
Team. We join him in a prayer for snow.

STEVEN K. Fox JR.
3 292 Ridgeview Road
Princeton, NJ.

The ﬁrst class luncheon of the new aca-
demic year in New York was attended by 19
regulars and one newcomer in the person
of Art Terrell who was in town after escort-
ing his son to Lawrenceville. Art promises
to return for our 35th which received a
good send-off with a Reunion Committee
meeting later in the afternoon at the
Princeton Club. Don’t forget on Oct. 18 W6

 




 

 

 

 

 

host Yale ’33 at the monthly Club lunch-

eon.

Robbie (Henry T.) Robertson now hangs
his hat in Boston with Edward T. Robertson
& Son. He has been one of the “lost” mem-
bers of the Class and writes “With the ex-
ception of a brief four-year residence in
Scottsdale, Ariz., directly after World War
II, this is the ﬁrst time I have lived in
the US. since graduation from Princeton,
the intervening 34 years having been spent
in Shanghai, China, Bombay and New Delhi,
India, and the past 11 years in Kobe, Japan.”
His daughter Carole married Philip Coviello
Jr. ’65 on Sept. 9 in Darien, Conn.

Andy Lyon reports Andy Jr. is in the Air
Force stationed in Germany; David, North
Carolina State ’66 is in the Navy based in
Norfolk; and Peter is a sophomore at Palm
Beach (Florida) Junior College.

Charlie Tutt received an honorary degree
of Doctor of Engineering this June from
Norwich University.

George Perera Associate Dean and Pro-
fessor of Medicine at Columbia University
College of Physicians and Surgeons reports
he is still a middle—of-the-road alumnus and
that his two children and four grandchil-
dren make him “Pa for the course.”

Chip Green reports he has gone to his last
graduation and hopes to return as a hard core
reunion stalwart. His son Jay has ﬁnished at
Cornell. He is a civil engineer and made Tau
Beta Pi his junior year. His oldest, Priscilla
(Penn State ’61. is a captain in the Army and
stationed in Germany where her principal
activities seem to involve skiing. Daughter
Betty Ann (Endicott Jr. ’63) lives in Cleve-
land and works for a securities ﬁrm there.

34}

CLASS BUSINESS. Two items: (1) Picnic
Chairman Jim Samuels has completed plans
for a class party before and after the Yale
game, Nov. 18. in the ROTC Gu'n Shed,
just west of Palmer Stadium, where we will
have a private room and hot buffet lunch
will be served. (2) Thirty-ﬁfth Reunion
Chairman Alex Keer has signed Norm
Kennedy as deputy chairman, with general
purview over the Metropolitan New York
area.

NOTES FROM EVERYWHERE. In Philadelphia
Henry (Gus) Thouron, of Wilmington,
Del., was elected to the board of the Phila-
delphia 1976 Bicentennial Corporation. Henry
.Is chairman and president of Hercules, Inc.
In Berkeley, Calif., Bill Wheaton, back from
three months in London, has become Dean
of the College Of Environmental Design at
the University of California which offers to
1.400 students courses in architecture, land-
scape architecture, city and regional planning
and design. In Eagle Lake, Texas, Dave
Wintermann retired as president of the Ameri-
_Can Rice Growers Association, after 16 years
In the post. He is still busy on his own rice
farm but Will now have more time for ﬁshing.
Another devoted ﬁsherman is Bill Gray, Albu-
querque, N.M., insurance man, who in-
dulges also in hunting, skiing, swimming,
Squash and tennis. Another devoted tennist
is Tom Trimble, Buﬁalo, N.Y., job counse-
lor and public relations man, who provided
the impetus last summer to start the Am-
herst Tennis Club which now has 26 mem-
bers. Tom also plays indoor tennis and bad-
minton and skis every winter weekend with
the Buffalo Ski Club.

In PalO Alto, Calif., Warren Peters, after
32 Years with Allied Chemical Corporation
(the last four in New Jersey), has become
director Of marketing for Macronetics, Inc.

RALPH K. RITCHIE
Box 46
Princeton, NJ. 08540

He lives in Menlo Park, eight minutes from
his office.

 

Class memorials appear in this issue.

353

On Sept. 11 the ﬁrst shot was ﬁred sig-
nalling the start of our Annual Giving cam-
paign. Our class was represented by our
Vice-president and chairman-designate of An-
nual Giving Jack Maloney, Class Agent
Ray Hess, Norm Ballantine and Faron.

The dinner meeting was held at the
Princeton Club in New York and in addition
to Maloney the speakers were Dr. Goheen,
Bob Hazlehurst ’40, Fred FOX ’39 and Jim
Oates ’21. Dr. Goheen, in sparking the
start of Annual Giving on Nov. 1, said that
without alumni support Princeton could not
be sustained, and expressed his admiration
for the remarkable job Class Agents per-
form.

The Bureau of Student Aid informs our
Class that for 1967-68, the recipients of
1935 scholarships are William S. Payne ’69
and Alvin Strelnick ’70. Later on we will
hear from these students regarding their acti—
vities, both academic and extracurricular.

Last May Charlie Schroeder and family
left suburbia and Madison Avenue for a new
life in Asheville, NO, as owners of the
Ever Green Motel. They are most enthusi—
astic about their new adventure and will
welcome any and all classmates. Oldest
daughter, Susan, graduated last spring from
Florida State University and expects to teach
physical education in Orlando, Fla., High
School this fall. Son Chuck graduated from
Gunnery School last June and is entering
the University of North Carolina now. Libby
completed her junior year at Madison, NJ.
High School after the Big Move south.

Jo Hazen has been granted a six months
leave of absence from his position as general
manager of the Time-Life books division of
Time, Inc. to become acting general man-
ager of the General Learning Corporation.
This is a joint venture of Time and General
Electric Corporation, to provide consulting
services to schools and colleges on manage—
ment, technology and budgeting. Joe will also
be in charge of the corporate planning oﬂice.

3%

NOW IT CAN BE TOLD who is behind those
self-contented ’36 Tiger birthday cards we re—

JOHN G. FARON
25 Oakley Avenue
Summit, NJ.

CARL W. PETERSON
310 Tuttle Parkway
Westﬁeld, NJ.

 

P RI N C E T O N
ALUMNI WEEKLY

Continuing the Alumni Princetonian,
founded 1894

<>

BOARD OF EDITORIAL DIRECTION
SANFORD C. REYNOLDS JR. ’51, Chairman
JOHN N. BROOKS JR. ’42
PHILIP C. HORTON ’33
EDMUND L. KEELEY ’48

JOHN A. MCPHEE ’53

<>

JOHN D. DAVIES ’41, Editor
MARTHA L. LAMAR, Class Notes Editor 1
JOSEPH DALLE PAZZE, Business Manager

PUBLISHED BY

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS
41 William Street, Princeton, NJ.
Telephone 609-452-4886

Q

Member, Ivy League Alumni Magazines, 22
Washington Square North, New York City 11;
phone GRamercy 5-2039

 

 

VALENTINE'S INC.

DELAWARE VALLEY
CENTRAL JERSEY SHORE
Ofﬁce Machines, Furniture & Equipmenl

658 Whitehead Rood - EXport 4-812]
Trenton 8, NJ.

 

 

We will mail anywhere in the USA.
your order for any book published.
THE
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY STORE
INC.

PRINCETON, NJ.

 

 

R E A L E S T A T E
RESIDENTIAL - RESEARCH - INDUSTRIAL
CHAS. H. DRAINE Company

Real Estate—Insurance

166 NASSAU STREET WALNUT 4-4350
Charles J. Draine ’46

 

 

 

 

  

  
 
 

BUILDERS:

STANLEY |. PILSHAW
and LEWIS S. KRAFT

PRINCETON’S
MOST

BEAUTIFUL

SETTING

 
    
 
   
  
     

   
   

TELEPHONE:
921-2288

  

OCTOBER 10,1967 0 27

 




 

 

 

 

 

ceived on our natal anniversaries during the
past year. It’s genial Beach Hazen, who vol-
unteered the idea and assignment last fall,
compiled the list of our birthdays and
mailed the cards. Moreover, he’s willing to
carry on for at least another year. Thanks a
lot, Beach, for helping make our birthdays
brighter with a greeting from our class-
mates.

YALE-GAME PARTY at Menands! Again gra-
cious Howie and Lucy are inviting the Class
and families and friends attending the Yale
Game on Nov. 18 to a party after the game
at their home on Hodge Road. So be sure
to include a drink at the Menands’ in your
plans for the day. There’s no better way to
gather in fellowship with the Class and cele-
brate a victory.

TO THE LADIES! A pair of our ’36 wives
were the subjects of feature articles this
summer in two of the nation’s leading jour-
nals. The New York Times carried a mouth-
watering story of Audrey Mennen’s talents
as galley queen aboard Bill’s and her 55-
foot Chris-Craft. From the account and Au-
drey’s recipes cited (e.g., Chicken Liver-
more and chicken liver—champagne paté)
we gather the Mennens and their guests live
very well at sea. They were on hand, of
course for the America’s Cup races off New-
port in September.

Lindsay MacMillan, Hugh’s charming
wife, is a pet portrait painter of consider-
able ability, according to the Denver
“Rocky Mountain News.” Her favorites are
dogs (particularly German shepherds and
Labradors) and horses, for which she has
had many commissions throughout the coun-
try. She works in pastels, and developed her
talent over the years without formal instruc-
tion. The article was illustrated with several
of Lindsay’s excellent portraits.

E. GARFIELD GIFFORD JR.
3? Folding Carton Division
Continental Can Company
633 Third Ave., New York, N.Y. 10017

COLGATE GAME and CLAss PICNIC
October 21
Key & Seal Club

 

There will be no Fifth Season, (the four
divisions of the year plus the “slack” season)
says 1937’s Bob Bendheim, president of M.
Lowenstein & Sons, Inc., the largest pro-
ducer of printed fabrics in the nation. The
textile industry, which was recently suffer-
ing from heavy inventories and ﬂuttering
prices is emerging from its own private re-
cession. Bob reports that customers are buy-
ing more heavily into the future and are not
looking for further price reductions. With
15 mills and two ﬁnishing plants in the South
to keep busy, this is good news. The two ﬁn-
ishing plants are the country’s largest print-
ers of fabrics, storing 6,000 print fabric de—
signs on copper rolls. At the New York head-
quarters Bob has a staff of 200 artists who
work constantly on new designs and 40 ar-
tists doing the same thing in Paris. There is
no truth to the rumor that the artists take
LSD to get inspiration for the weird dress
designs currently seen on the New York City
Lexington Avenue Subway. The New York
Times ran an article on Bob complete with
picture.

Hither and yon. The boating world: Ben
Chew, “Ran into Tom Young in Newport
at the America Cup trials. He was a crew
member on the eliminated Constellation. It
makes me feel old to see someone in good
enough shape to compete with those young
fellows.” Bill Soverel, “Real sorry to have
missed Reunions—Someday! This year I am
bringing out a new ocean racing sailboat, the

28 0 OCTOBER 10,1967

Soverel 33, in an effort to achieve ocean rac-
ing recognition. US. Navy Lt. Peter Soverel
u in Vietnam.” _
onthatzlie Dana, “Am currently board chalr—
man of the United States Hydrafoﬂ Corpo-
ration which operates and sells more Coast
Guard approved Hydrafoils than any other
company in the USA.” Abroad: Bronson
Tweedy, “Stu Don gave me a blow by blow
description of the 30th. I’ve been here near-
ly a year at the London Embassy. Daughter
Anne goes to Bennett College in Millbrook,
N.Y., while son Lawrence is training to be a
Navy Jet Pilot in Mississippi.” '

WILLIAM P. TAMs
3. 5610 Kirkwood Highway
Wilmington, Del. 19808

In celebration of our '30th Reunion, a
committee headed by John Burke and Bill
Galey has been formed to help Class
Agent Dunstan McNichol make a spemal
effort to raise a substantially larger amount
for Annual Giving than usually attained.
Last year we reached $31,416 with 60% of
the class roll participating, an improvement
over past years but not outstanding com-
pared to classes of the same youth. How-
ever, 1937, which has been at about our
level of giving, tripled its previous year in
honor of its 20th. If they can, so can we!

Dunstan will be contacting you soon. In
the meantime, please give serious thought to
making a major effort for Princeton this
year through a substantial increase in your
Annual Giving. And if you’re among the
40% who did not participate last year, please
consider this opportunity to join your class-
mates who are helping provide that “living
endowment” which is needed to keep Old
Nassau in the forefront of those universi-
ties whose ﬁrst concern is excellence.

Lt. Col. Norman Cawse-Morgan (ret.)
has news for Newton, Taeusch, and Chap-
man, to wit, that retirement is a misnomer,
and he is ﬁghting harder than ever before.
His organization has grown to two Snelling
& Snelling ofﬁces in San Antonio and one
in Corpus Christi, from four to 55 em-
ployees in two years. Norm would love to
hear from any classmates planning to pass
through San Antonio.

Dick Cowdery has left Cleveland and mi-
grated to Los Angeles where he can do ho-
tel work in sunshine.

FREDERIC Fox
3@ 28 Vandeventer Avenue

Princeton, NJ. Tel. 609-924—9316

 

Three years ago, in our own ’39 Reun-
ion Tent, we saw and heard the premiere
performance of the now—famous “Untouch—
ables,” a rock-combo led by Karl Pettit’s
two younger daughters, Dodie and Kathy
(left & middle above in bare feet). Since
then, they have risen steadily in TV ratings
and become the special hometown favorites
of the Clubs along Prospect St. However,
they continue to practice in Karl’s cellar and
we wish him well too.

When Dick F unkhouser, our man in Paris,

was in Princeton last month with his son
Bruce ’70, he suggested the Class might take
some credit for bringing LBJ and Kosygi'n
together in Glassboro this summer. You
will remember Kosygin’s son-1n-law, Gher_
man Gvishiani, was guest at our ’39 Lunch
before the Harvard Game. He probably went
back home full of praise for New Jersey and
the best old place of all.

Nine members of the Class Executive
Committee met on Sept. 15 at the Princeton
Club in New York: Hurdman, Adams,
Hager, Kireker, Redpath, Cornwall, Reppert,
Havens & F 0x. Earlier in the week, three of
them plus Walter Lord met at the same
Club for Ollie Havens’ Annual Giving Ban-
quet. Afterwards, Walter went home to pack
for his sentimental journey to England
with the Whistle Hornblowers. They wanted
to ride the QUEEN MARY across the Atlantic
for the last time.

Lee and Barbara Gould report from Cali-
fornia on a party given by the Hunter Dela-
tours for Bill and Jeannie Armstrong, at-
tended also by Ram and Eleanor Under-
wood, said party apparently being a pre—
conditioning affair for Bill, who was headed
for a convention in Las Vegas, as well as
pre-planning for attendance at our Thirtieth.

ROBERT A. J. BORDLEY
é}© 5000 Rockwood Pkwy., N.W.
Washington, DC. 20016

 

Some time back Gil Gilroy sent the above
shot taken during the ceremonies of his 1n-
duction as Commodore of the Lauderdale
Yacht Club. Shown are daughter Trish, Wife
Riddie and Gil. In his letter Gil said that
his oldest daughter, Lyn, had recently mar-
ried a Georgia Tech engineer and .his
youngest Trish has had a national champion-
ship rating in tennis for the past two years.
He sees Pops Yow, Al Ferguson and Bob
Hector occasionally as he continues “archi-
tecting” through the Southland.

A late press release from Colby College
announced the appointment of Mac Mache-
mer as acting chairman of the department
of chemistry. At the rate we are going the
Class could probably staff a rather decent—
sized college, possibly even the proposed
or contemplated, coeducational extenswn of
the University.

An Annual Giving announcement notes
that the kick-off dinner in New York for
the 1967-68 campaign was attended by ChlZ
Anderson, Harry Dixon, Bob Goheen and
Bob Hazlehurst.

Ivy DeFriez has deﬁnitely ﬁrmed up the
Ramada Inn for the Class party after the
Harvard game. The charges will be $1.50 for
adults and $.75 for children with drinks on
a cash basis. ($.95 for booze and $.60 for
beer). Cartographer DeFriez sent along an
original, hand-drawn map which is too large
to reproduce here and which shows all, ex-
cept the street on which the Ramada Inn 1S
located. We could, however, see that from
Soldiers Field you go in the opposite direc—
tion from Boston and pass a Howard John—
son and WBZ before you get there.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

J. P. CLIPPER CLEAVER
1 Palmer Square
Princeton, NJ. 08540

41-1]

ﬂ On Sept. 16, Malcolm Forbes cele-

" ’ I brated the Fiftieth Anniversary of
FORBES magazine by giving a party which
the New York Times described as “one of
the country’s largest single assemblies of
Working tycoons.” Malcolm, his beautiful
wife Bertie, and Hubert Humphrey received
740 guests amid rapid-ﬁre repartee.

Malcolm was described by Hubert as
“the Jim Farley of the GOP. and the Bob
Hope of business publications.” Hubert, who
said, “Gee, I may be the only vice-president
here,” identiﬁed quickly with the president of
Avis saying, “I’m number two, too!”

The setting, which was Malcolm’s home,
“Timberﬁelds” in Far Hills, N.J., was
transformed into a Scottish castle which
excited all the moguls of American industry
including your president, John Brundage.

The 50th Anniversary edition of FORBES
is well worth reading for it traces the 50
year histories of each of our major indus-
tries in America. Malcolm, despite his mod-
esty (I’m here tonight through sheer abil-
ity—and 51 per cent due to inheritance,”)
has done a tremendous job with FORBES
magazine which now ranks at the top of the
ﬁnancial publications.

ARTHUR J. HORTON
4].? Box 1942, Princeton, NJ. 08540
609-WA 4-1942

 

The picture above contains Bad Rehm’s
three children plus June.

From 1. to r. they are: Bob (high
school, with interests in football, wrestling,
pole vaulting); Vicki (a junior at UCLA,
hopes to be airline stewardess); a young lady
friend of son Rush; Rush (who is actually
Maurice P., Jr. and looks it); and June. It
was taken in Westwood, where daughter
Vicki lives, just before everyone took off for
a solid week of skiing.

WEDDING BELLS have been tinkling for
daughters of ’42. Barbara Rose (Bud Rose’s
daughter) to 2nd Lt. Nixon Waln Ware,
USMC, in Princeton on July 1. Robin Reath
(Henry Reath’s) to S. Crozer Fox in Chest-
nut Hill back on April 22. And Elizabeth
Converse Hunter (Army Hunter’s) to Philip
Michael Moriarty in Cambridge, Mass, on
June 16. The husbands, respectively, attended
Colorado College, Penn and (still) Harvard.
Not a tiger in the lot.

Smokey Williams has just been appointed
director of research and development for the
Tenneco Plastics Division of Tenneco Chem-
icals, Inc. As such he will have full responsi-
Pility for all research, development, process
investigation, quality control, customer serv—
1ce laboratory functions, and heavens knows
What else.

Warren Fuller, who has been director of
the Peace Corps in Brazil and is one of our
{most hoppin’ around classmates, is now back
1n Washington, DC. Still with the Peace
Corps, however.

ROBERT S. CREADICK
900 Smith’s Bridge Road
Wilmington, Del. 19807

 

YALE GAME PARTY
Nov. 18
Details Will Follow

 

The Reverend Herbert Stevens, Canon
Precentor of the Cathedral Church of St.
Paul was Secretary of the Diocesan Con-
vention held earlier this year in the vicinity
of Boston, Mass.

As advertised earlier in this column, Dr.
Stuart N. Hampshire, Chairman of the De-
partment of Philosophy at Princeton and
Class of 1943 Professor of Philosophy,
shared with a noted British jurist, Viscount
Radcliife, the distinction of opening the
sesquicentennial celebration commemorating
the founding of the Harvard Law School
on Sept. 22. Both participants addressed
themselves to the subject of “Law and Phi-
losophy.” '

Private memo to Rem T witchell: 25th
Reunion accommodations for the family will
be made available for a modest fee at the
Hun School in Princeton. You will receive
a mailing within the next few months describ-
ing the facilities and enabling you to make
reservations. We will also include information
concerning other hotel, motel or tourist
home accommodations in the Princeton
area for those who wish to make their own
arrangements. Bob Hoﬂman please copy.

In a series of changes in the top manage-
ment of J. Walter Thompson Company,
Stever Aubrey has been elected executive
vice president and member of the board of
directors. He will also serve as manager of
the New York ofﬁce.

And Bob Lounsbury, after making a pass
at Governor Rockefeller’s chair in Albany,
has been appointed vice president and gen-
eral counsel for Eltra Corporation. Eltra is
the product of a 1963 merger of Electric
Auto-Lite Co. and the Mergenthaler Lino-
type Co. (Our classmate George Mergen-
thaler was descended from the founder of
the latter ﬁrm.)

JOHN P. WARE
élé]. 9 Ridgecrest West
Scarsdale, N.Y.

ANNUAL FALL PARTY
Oct. 28—After the Pennsylvania Game

 

 

As of May 1964, our class records dis-
closed that 1944 had one grandchild on its
roster. Since that time millions of grand-
children have appeared on the scene but
what we don’t know is which are OURS. To
help update the record book, Carl Barton
informs us that his ﬁrst grandchild, William
C. Barton Jr. was born on Dec. 2, 1966, the
son of William C. Barton a member of
Trinity’s Class of 1968. Carl writes, “I
cannot help wondering how many other
grandfathers are in our Class besides my-
self.” All right, Carl, now that we have read
the question, would all 1944 grandfathers
proudly step forward to be counted!

Ed Chapin may have the right to claim a
new ﬁrst for the Class. His second son,
Garnet, has entered Princeton Class of 1971
joining his brother, Edward Chapin IV, now
a senior. The question Ed poses is “how
many in our class now have two sons in
Princeton?”

Stretch Gardiner, chairman of the National
Assoc. of Securities Dealers, is now tempo-
rary president of the association until a suc-
cessor is found to replace Robert W. Haack.
Mr. Haack left to succeed G. Keith Funston

as president of the New York Stock Ex-
change on Sept. 10.

Henry Patterson, serving his third term as
mayor of Princeton Borough, has won new
laurels by recent election to the Board of
Directors of the First National Bank of
Princeton.

Jay Madeira has been promoted to man-
ager, group department at Monarch Life
Insurance Co. in Springﬁeld, Mass. for ﬁve
years, Jay has served as president of the
Princeton Alumni Assoc. of Western Massa-
chusetts.

RCA recently appointed Jack Wagenseller
as Manager, Electronic Components and De-
vices International Market Research. In his
new position, Jack will be responsible for
the evaluation of market potentials and op-
portunities in the international market for
current and new products of RCA Electronic
Components and Devices.

Final details on our annual fall party will
be revealed in next week’s column. Ticket
reservations close Oct. 12. Be there!

LAURENCE L. LITTELL
415 1 Beth Lane
Malvern, Pa. 19355

The Friends of the Princeton University
Library is devoted to preserving our lit—
erary heritage, helping the library grow in
stature and enjoying the pleasures of books
and book collecting. Details on the advantages
and satisfactions of membership may be ob-
tained from Dick Huber, Chairman of the
Membership Committee. Active in the
Friends are Tom Baird, Ed Gaylord, Tom
Hartmann, John Kauﬁ‘mann, Charlie Reeves,
Bill Spears, Bob Towers and Pete Warren.

Speaking of books, our 1961 “Oscar”
winner Daard Slattery has turned author.
Classmates will recall that Slats produced a
short ﬁlm entitled “Day of the Painter”
which earned this coveted Hollywood award.
He recently adapted it to a children’s book,
which is really sophisticated adult satire, un-
der the same title. The book is being pub-
lished by the Lion Press and distribution in
the United States, Canada and Europe is cur-
rently underway. On the jacket is a blurb
identifying the book as “the newest chil-
dren’s craze and the darling of all adults.”
Illustrations are by Sanford McGrail. Slats
is presently working on a novel and a couple
of stories for children.

A potential reader of this book is Amelia
Jamieson Haley, daughter of Will, born this
past March. Mother is Margie Jamieson
who became Will’s wife on December 4,
1965. This belated but happy news recently
arrived on this desk from Washington, DC.
where the family resides. Will is legal coun-
sel for United States Senator Cooper, Re-
publican, Kentucky.

Andy Wiley has left the Philadelphia-
Wilmington area and is now engaged in the
practice of surgery in Boone, NC. Boone
is in the mountain area of the western part
of the state. Bayley Buchanan, Pittsburgh
surgeon, spent his winter vacation at the
Albert Schweitzer Hospital in Haiti where
he engaged in volunteer surgery for the
month of January. From Prof. Paul Taylor
we learn that Hank Alexander is now Chair-
man of the Department of Philosophy at the
University of Oregon.

A. C. REEVES HICKS
é].@ 6—8 Charlton Street
Princeton, NJ. 08540
I was very pleased to receive a call from
Johnny Hansel the other day. John and
Fran live in Riverside, Conn. and John
drives to Waldwick, N.J., to his plant every
morning. John, Jr. is at the University of
Pennsylvania.
Treasurer Bruce Hall has saved my col-

OCTOBER 10,1967 0 29

 

 




 

umn-writing life by sending me the ﬁrst dues
envelopes. Bruce was glad to see that most
of the checks were for the full $15.00 and
others included the $25.00 for the reunion
fund.

Bob O’Brien advised us that he is still
with Brown-Forman Distillers in Pasadena.
A few of his friends were betting that he
would return to New Orleans after a few
months on the West Coast! Fred Hermann
reports from St. Louis that he had a ﬁfth
child, Mary Catlin Hermann, last January.
John Rhodes reports that he has moved
from Zurich to Dusseldorf, Germany. He is
still with Booz, Allen & Hamilton Inter-
national.

Finally heard from Tom Needles that he
is “working—have good health” and has
moved from New Jersey to Hartford, Conn.
Doc Bob Crecca has moved from Corona
del Mar to NeWport Beach, Calif. Presum—
ably in the same line of work!

I received one answer to my plea for sum-
mer news from Harold Erdman who trav—
eled west in July with Judy and a few chil-
dren to ride the Super Chief over the
Rockies from Denver to the West Coast. Hal
was concerned that this scenic mode of trav-
el may soon be discontinued. Hal reports
that it was a wonderful trip including a brief
stay on the West Coast where he saw Dr.
Herb F roeb.

Speaking of doctors, Dr. Joseph Lander
of Scarsdale, N.Y., very kindly sent me a
book review from the Journal of the Ameri-
can Medical Association in which was re—
viewed “Postoperative Complications in Neu-
rosurgical Practice: Recognition, Prevention
and Management” written by our own Dr.
Norman Horwitz and Hugo Rizzoli. The re-
view concludes by saying that every neuro-

surgical resident should have immediate ac-
cess to a book that the reviewer con51ders
an outstanding addition to the spe01alty.

4.1.77

Promotions: John Gregson, vice president
of Alexander & Alexander the international
insurance brokerage ﬁrm has been named
manager of the New York Production De-
partment.

Another Reuner, Frank Hayba has joined
Magic—Chef as Manager of Product Engi-
neering. Dave Clark was elected a V—P of J.
Walter Thompson Co. two weeks after he
attended reunion. Chuck Parmelee’s pic-
ture was in the Times last month to an-
nounce his receipt of Penn Mutual’s Royal
Blue award for selling over $2,000,000 of
insurance last year.

Lou Dennig, V—P of the Mercantile Trust
Co. of St. Louis has been made head of the
bank’s Trust Department.

More On Vacations: J. C. Taylor, start-
ing from Liv Parsons’ in Albuquerque
toured the Southwest in a camper. J. C.’s
best reunion story is about going back to the
motel Sunday afternoon for his 10 year old
daughter’s stuffed pink snake and saying to
the clerk, “I know you won’t believe this,
but I left a pink snake in our room.”

Matt Atkinson, writes he’s sorry to have
missed our 20th, but he’s looking forward
to the 25th. The Atkinsons spent a delight-
ful summer in Maine, except for the fog. He
gets an award for being the ﬁrst classmate
to write to me. Temporarily, it is also for
being the last to write.

ROBERT BOYLE III
152 Market St.
Paterson, NJ. 07505

 

 

§\\ U,- fit;

 

 

Fun’s the name of the game at Ride-n-Rock Ranch.
There’s riding, of course, and golf and tennis and
swimming . . . just about anything you can think of
that’s fun! “Ranglin?” Why, saddle up your own hoss

if the urge strikes you . .

. or just sit and rock and

watch our wranglers do it for you. Fun’s the name of
the game!

 

m

30 0 OCTOBER 10, 1967

Reunion Recollections: Bob Paisley lead-
ing the impromptu singing at the class din-
ner and again at the class picture on Blair
Steps. The joker at the picture who yelled,
“Hey Ma, I’m the one in the ‘orange
shirt’ ”; the photographer’s impressive equip-
ment mounted on a scaffold—he took the
picture on the ground with a small camera.

Mark Bollman, Dan Haerther and Tony
Miller are new appointees to the Class Exec-
utive Committee.

Hugh Hanson is moving to Riverside,
Conn. and as payment to Martha Ann for
storing ’47’s records for ﬁve years let me say
their lovely ﬁve bedroom contemporary
house in Gladwyne is for sale. Hugh, thanks
from all of us for a great job.

41-!

Fife and drum corps? Massed balloons?
While decisions like these dance in the
heads of our 20th Reunion Committee, Class
Treasurer Pete Rosenbaum faces the Money
Question—and frankly, the Class of 1948
doesn’t show up too well in that department.

A recent Alumni Council survey of class
dues paying showed that last year, only two
of the youngest twenty—ﬁve classes (’47 and
’59) had a lower percentage of members
supporting class activities with their dues
than did our own ’48. Only 38.8 per cent of
the 804 ANZACS on the rolls paid their dues,
compared with the 25—class average of 49.8
per cent and the high in dues participation,
set by the Class of ’42, of 73.8 per cent.

The bulk of the class’s dues income goes
to pay for its share of the cost of the
ALUMNI WEEKLY, so those readers who
don’t pay dues are free-loading on those
who do. But this year, Pete points out, the
dues request Will be augmented to help
cover the cost of the approaching major re-
union, and that’s another reason to give his
little reminders sympathetic attention.

In spite of these problems, Pete has
nickel-nursed us to a reasonably healthy
cash position, with some $4,680 in net class
assets as the 20th year begins.

David D. Gray of Greenwich, Conn. (not
to be confused with Dr. David H. Gray of
Shelburne, Vt.) has been promoted to the
post of manager of the Continental Insur-
ance Companies’ Eastern Department in
New York City. Dave has been with Con-
tinental since 1948, becoming assistant secre—
tary in 1954, secretary in 1957, and a vice
president (a title he still holds) in 1959.

Sally and Charles Burkman of Princeton
welcomed their second daughter, Elisabeth
Mix Burkman, on Aug. 18.

419

Some while back genial Joe O’Connor
passed along to us an article he ran across
in Dun’s Review and Modern Industry, en-
titled “The Open-Window Theory of Exec-
utive Conferences,” written by none other
than our own Herb Spencer, president of
the Erie Enameling Co., Erie, Pa. In this
learned treatise Herb humorously expounds
on the theory that the viability of executive
meetings varies in direct proportion to the
heat of the argument and the temperature
in the room. Here are brief excerpts from
the article to give you some of the ﬂavor:

“After 20 years of participating in com-
pany meetings of one kind or another, and
ﬁnding myself once again in the waning
moments of one such tete-a-téte torture,
it occurred to a fellow sufferer and myself
to formulate the Hinchman-Spencer Law of
Company Conferences.

DONALD J. STERLING JR.
1718 S.W. Myrtle Street
Portland, Ore. 97201

ALVIN R. KRACHT
J. M. Mathes, Inc.
260 Madison Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10016

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

“Like all basic truths,
Spencer Law can be reduced to a mathe-
matical formula. To see how this works, let
us consider a conference called for the pup
ose of considering an appropriation of
$10,000. In our equation,

the Hinchman-

10M
K2 + (N-Z)2 + (T-l)3

D represents the scope of the decision
reached (expressed in that useful standard
of measurement, Parkinson Units, after
Professor C. Northcote Parkinson, more re-
cently holder of the Rafﬂes Chair of His-
tory at the University of Malaya); M is
the money involved in thousands of dollars;
K is the difference in degrees Fahrenheit,
between the temperature of the meeting
room and 72 degrees Fahrenheit; N is the
number of people present; and T is the
time elapsed in whole hours.

“If appropriate values are given to Booz-
Allen’s Third Rule (The man from the
nearest ofﬁce arrives last) and Sullivan &
Cromwell’s ﬁrst law (The higher the rank,
the fewer the syllables), the equation will be
afforded even greater validity.”

Those of you who also suffer from acute
tedium conferencus may wish to write Herb
for a copy of his entire article which devel-
ops the formula at length, and obtain any
new wrinkles he may have added. I concur
with Joe O’Connor’s evaluation that there is
“no question that the Hinchman-Spencer
law will go down in history alongside those
of Einstein and Parkinson, not to mention
O’Connor’s ﬁrst law, postulated thusly: “If
you fool around with something long
enough, you’re sure to foul it up!”

50

Notes from all over. Keene Brown is
breeding black Angus on the Buffalo River
Ranch in Amherst, Va. in the beautiful
foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains.
(Organ music down). He is also writing
articles for the Amherst New Era Progress
and Nelson County Paper. (Roll of stirring
drum.) Daughter Wendy is now three
years old, son Donny, one year old. (Small
tinkle of symbol.) Daddy is getting bald.
(One lonely note on the tuba.)

Don Taylor is moving from Seattle to
Amsterdam with his bride of four months,
to represent Fairchild Hillger in Europe.
New address—Fairchild Hillger, c/o Royal
Neth. Aircraft Factories Fokker, Schipitol,
Amsterdam the Netherlands.

Two new presidents. Bill Stevenson has
been elected president of the Monticello Na-
tional Bank, Charlottesville, Va. (they pay
5% on Certiﬁcates of Deposit), and Art
Leidheiser has just been elected president
(local PTA). For that matter your own cor-
respondent is president of the Princeton
2;); School PTA (no deposits therefore no

0 .

Jim Scobz‘e was married last June to In-
grid Ellen Winther in Bloomington, Ind. On
paper at least it looks like a good match.
Ingrid has an AB from Pembroke, an MA
from the University of Rochester, and is
currently working on her Ph.D. in History
at the University of Wisconsin. Jim is cur-
rently chairman of the Latin American
Studies Program and professor of History
at Indiana University and is setting up plans
to be in Argentina in the 68/69 school year
on a Guggenheim Fellowship.

Shep Bryan writes from the far West
that he is with Fidelity Funds out of Bos-
ton for the southern California area. He
Is a regional vice-president and has been
working with the Alumni School Committee

 

STUART DUNCAN
Lea & Perrins, Inc.
Pollitt Drive, Fair Lawn, NJ.

1n the Los Angeles area for the last two
years. A bumper crop of 20 from the area
Just entered Princeton as freshmen. He,
Wlfe Judy, Julie age 9, and Shep, Jr. age 7
are hale, hearty and happy. He also called
on any classmates who get out to Los An-
geles to give them a call. He says the activ-
ity of the Princeton group there is second
to none.

Class prexy, Jack Wilson, attended the An-
nual Giving kick-off dinner meeting last
week. The campaign doesn’t begin ofﬁcially
until the ﬁrst of November, but you might
be thinking about it. Last year 529 in the
Class gave almost $24,000, and unhappily
we ranked far down the ladder.

Si]

The Vietnam War seems to be replacing
sex, politics and religion as an argumenta-
tive topic of conversation at many social
gatherings. The war’s continuing genius for
pitting American against American was illus-
trated recently—and Chip Munro was in the
middle. Chip is deputy chief of the Agency
Liaison Branch of the US. mission to South
Vietnam. As such, he deals with a number
of American volunteer social work agencies
there. Not surprisingly, many who staff these
agencies are paciﬁsts and bluntly antiwar
and they have accused the mission of trying
to keep them from expressing their opin-
ions in public in Vietnam and from writing
letters home for publication. Chip denies that
his ofﬁce is leaning on the social workers
and says that their opinions are their own
business. Nevertheless, four leaders of one
of the major volunteer agencies subse-
quently resigned.

On a less controversial note (unless you
don’t dig G. B. Shaw): Cal Rand is one of
the founders, and is now president, of the
Bernard Shaw Festival Theatre in Niagara-
on-the-Lake, Ont. All this in addition to
teaching in the English and Philosophy de-
partments of the State University of New
York in Buffalo. The theatre (second only,
he says, to Stratford, Ont. in the profes-
sional festival theatre ﬁeld) has had a par-
ticularly successful season this summer,
ﬁnishing with performances of “Major
Barbara” at Expo ’67 last month. Cal is
also a trustee of the Studio Arena Theatre
and the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buf-
falo.

Nick Wilson has written about what’s hap-
pening in Binghamton, N.Y. The printable
sections follow: “Tom Lewis has seized con-
trol of the local Alumni Association, which
he will run while making . . . trips to Europe
(on businessl), trustee meetings at church
and other good works as a highly regarded
operative at . . . IBM Federal Systems in
Owego. Marc Bodine heads up the
Geology Department at Harpur College of
the State University and runs the local opera
company. My wife Ruth was able to pay my
way to Florida after she ﬁnished as treasurer
of the Junior League and she is now busy
revitalizing the local zoo. This is one way
to get a fur coat. Tom Lewis has been kind
enough to let me stay on as Schools and
Scholarships chairman . . .”

Make a note: our biennial party with
Yale ’51 will be poured after the game, in
the Armory, on Nov. 18. Details later.

52

If some of us have gone to pot (weight
not seed), we announce one who has held

RICHARD K. PAYNTER
Doremus & Company
120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10005

GEORGE GILLESPIE JR.
Rabbitt Run
Wallingford, Pa. 19086

 

 

PABLO PICASSO NEVER WORKED HERE

But he could have in the magnificent
modern studio living wing of this fasci-
nating, modern, one floor ”working
home.” Handsome gallery entrance,
large dining room, new master bedroom
with loads of closets and roomy bath,
enormous skylighted studio or studio
living room with balcony for quiet read-
ing nook and storage. Three more bed—
rooms and two more baths along with
family living room and kitchen com-
plete this contemporary picture at

$52,500.
>l<

Jane B. Schoch
(Mrs. Delos ”Dutch”), w/'37
Ridgely W. Cook ’53
Theodore S. Peyton ’60

 

BLPY

OOK

& COM PAN Y

EE924-0322

190 NASSAU ST. PRINCETON NJ.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

F--------------_--------------------------------------_-----

 

STEWARDSON—
DOUGHERTY

Real Estate Associates

8 Stockton St.,
Princeton, N .J .

PHONE: 609-921-7784

 

INVESTOR
SPECULATOR
COUNTRY SQUIRE

We have 20 high acres of tree bordered
meadow just a minute or two from
Princeton Township’s western line in
Hopewell Township. Zoned for residen-
tial use with enough road frontage to
allow immediate subdivision into three
large building lots. Adjoins site of
Western Electric’s proposed new re-
search campus, recently purchased for
more than twice our asking price of
$2,000 per acre. Owner will consider fi-
nancing at full price, but would ac-
cept a lower figure for a cash sale. A
real opportunity at $40,000.

BILL STEWARDSON ’58
BOB DOUGHERTY '50

 

 

 

 

 

 

«Sc-roam 10,1967 5 31

 

 

 




 

the 1952 line, Peter Van Dyke Gulick, down
to a mere 265 pounds. Residing in Bellevue,
Wash., Pete is practicing law in Seattle
while going to the dogs in Bellevue. Pete’s
hobby interests have included a couple of
blue ribbon Springer Spaniel hounds. Our
canine judging friends know this takes a lot
of skill, practice, and training. Don’t ask by
which one. Pete is joined by wife Kathy and
two children.

Another practicing lawyer is R. H. Talbott
II. All this group does is practice and on us
poor folk. Dick graduated from West Vir-
ginia Law School and jokes that he’s the
greatest out-of—state trafﬁc ticket ﬁxer (at
double the cost), if you can ﬁnd Elkins. The
Talbotts—Dick, wife Jo Ann, and three
children—have migrated a full eight blocks
to their present residence, still in the sweet
hills.

From Plainﬁeld, N.J.: Al Pittis wel-
comed the arrival of Melina Katherine, his
second child and second daughter. The
other three members of the Pittis family were
also reported doing well.

Hal Collins is located on the hill at G.E.’s
Valley Forge Space Center program. Hal, a
project manager of Broadcast Satellites, has
enough variety in his work to insure that
it will not become routine. His department
is the next stage past research and develop-
ment—advanced engineering. He travels to
different NASA installations and government
meetings, assisting contract selling and gen-
eral support promotion on direct satellite
broadcasting, both for national and inter—
national hookups. One satellite could be
used to broadcast to an entire continent, a
particular advantage in underdeveloped na-
tions where you would need to build only
one satellite transmitter instead of the many
ground stations, i.e., India vs. USA. Hal’s
work covers national and international poli-
tics involved in control of satellite program-
ming, which he reports can be both in-
teresting and frustrating.

’52 is where the action is! Bad Gillette
has returned home after a year in the “re-
mote highlands of Vietnam” where he com-
manded a Special Forces “B” detachment
with eight “A” teams scattered from the sea
coast to the Cambodian border. His new
assignment is with the faculty of the Com-
mand and General Staff College at Ft.
Leavenworth. And also from Vietnam, Bob
Oakley completed a 19-month tour in the
political section of the American Embassy
in Saigon. He reports that “substantial
political progress has been made by the
Vietnamese during the past year but the next
six months should be critical. Were it pos-
sible for my family to be here, I would be
begging to stay on, even though Paris will
be our next post.”

Our great white father, Joe Bolster, was
appointed Director of Annual Giving by
President Goheen. Joe will be glad to hear
from all givers.

533

Dr. Paul Zimskind has been promoted to
the Nathan Lewis Hatﬁeld Professorship of
urology and head of that department at the
Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia. He
also has become attending-urologist-in-chief at
Jefferson Hospital. Paul’s promotions makes
him one of the youngest men to reach the
executive faculty at Jefferson in this century.
He and Gay and their two children live in
Bala Cynwyd. '

Tony Marshall has been appointed a vice
president in the Trust and Investment Divi-
sion of First National City Bank of New

JOHN A. CORRY
2 Dusenberry Road
Bronxville, N.Y.

32. 0 OCTOBER 10,1967

York. In his new position he is responsible
for the management of personal trusts and
foreign insurers’ trusts in the personal
trust department of the division. Tony, who
has been with the bank since 1955, lives in
Manhattan with wife Patricia and their
three children.

On Aug. 12, Stedy Hinckley was married
to Ingrid Mjornell of Savedalen, Sweden
in the Savedalen Church. Earlier in the sum-
mer Stedy appeared in the New York press
when Overseas National Airways, which he
heads, gave a number of underprivileged
New York children the opportunity to ﬂy in
a modern jet passenger plane.

On May 24, 1966, John Cochran’s ﬁrst
child Caroline made her ﬁrst appearance,
and the next month T om and Maureen
Davis adopted daughter Mary Kathleen as
their ﬁrst child. Belated congratulations to
both young ladies.

Bob Davis writes that since the 10th Re-
union Book was published, he and Joanne
have added Scott Shelley (May, 1963) and
Nancy Barrett (Jan. 27, 1967). He adds,
“This completes(?) our family now that we
have manifested our social irresponsibility by
exceeding the two offspring standard.”

 

A class memorial appears in this issue.

54!-

GARLAND C. BOOTHE JR.
633 Arlington Avenue
Westﬁeld, NJ. 07090

 

PLAN AHEAD

CLASS PARTY AFTER THE YALE GAME
Nov. 18 The Armory

Order Tickets. Form in July 4 PAW.

 

News ﬂash! Tony Maruca has been pro-
moted overseer of all non—academic per-
sonnel at the University. His new title is
Executive ‘Director for Administrative and
Personnel Services, and in addition to the
personnel function he will also be respon-
sible for certain internal business operations
in Princeton. He formerly was assistant
treasurer, and he is also a trustee of the U-
store. Tony and his wife Sally live in
Princeton and have ﬁve children.

Tony, Bob Goodkind and yours truly at-
tended the 1967—1968 Annual Giving kick-
off dinner in New York in September. Bob
is taking over for Logie Burke on AG, with
the campaign beginning on Nov. 1. Last
year we had 499 contributors, and a total
raised of $21,333.

Dick Steinmetz is entering academic cir-
cles, joining the faculty of Texas Christian
University in Fort Worth this fall as an as-
sistant professor of geology. Dick had been
senior research scientist for Pan American
Petroleum Corp. in Tulsa, and'is the author
of several research reports in scholarly
journals. He earned his Master’s at Penn
State and his Ph.D. at Northwestern.

Back in the world of business, Gordie
Mills has been promoted to assistant vice
president in the securities investment depart—
ment of Mutual of New York, from
which post he will recommend common
stocks for investment purposes of his com-
pany; at the present time MONY’s portfolio
totals in excess of $1.5 billion.

, 'WH-o’s DOING WHAT: Hugh Hardy, prac-
ticing architect in New York, was mentioned
in a N.Y. Times article last May which dis-
cussed a trend in design circles to unclothe,
unwrap, and expose the naked light bulb.
After discussing the proposition that archi-
tects favor exposed bulbs and wiring in lim-
ited. applications, Hugh is quoted as follows:
whenever asked why he left the wire

dangling between the illuminated boxes con-
taining art objects on a wall in his home,
he says: “That’s what makes the boxes light
up—why not show it?” John Slater, living
in Washington, DC, has his ﬁrst gallery,
Mari on Larchmont Ave. in Larchmont, and
in Woodstock. .

In Northampton, Mass, parishioners of
the First Church of Christ, Congregational,
last June gave an overwhelming vote of con-
ﬁdence to their pastor, Rev. Dave Wells,
according to another Times article. The con-
gregation, in an open meeting, protested
action by the church deacons which had
criticized Dave’s activity in organizing a
weekly vigil against the Vietnam war. Ac-
cordingly, said the deacons, his statements
erroneously reﬂected the views of the church,
and therefore, his usefulness to it had come
to an end. Not so said the members of the
parish; in a written resolution they proclaimed
it was the right and responsibility of any pas-
tor to formulate and communicate views to
the church and the community. Dave went to
the Massachusetts community from Chicago
in 1963.

Bill Hannum and family have temporarily
abandoned the high and dry air of the desert
Southwest for the southern seacoast of
Dorset, England; Bill is on an 18-month
assignment from the Atomic Energy Com-
mission to its British counterpart to work
on the latter’s fast reactor program under
terms of an information exchange treaty.

Pres Kavanaugh is assistant to the board
chairman of Chicago’s Commonwealth Edi-
son Co., and supervising a corporate move to
new quarters.

The early fall would not be complete
without a secretary’s appeal for news. It is
brief: Send News!
5g 22 Western Way

Princeton, NJ. 08540

Egg Wedding bells rang out for Ben
J i ‘ Piazza, author, playwright, and actor,
on Aug. 7 when he married actress Dolores
Dom-Heft in the Roman Catholic Church
of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart in Tappan,
N.Y. On Oct. 5, the comedy, “Song of the
Grasshopper” opened at the ANTA Thea—
ter with Ben and Alfred Drake in the lead-
ing roles. The play by Alfonso Paso, Spanish
author of 112 plays, has been described as
“a pleasant fable of the easy life.”

Good things come in Fives. Over the
summer we learned of a quintet of class
children who have arrived newly on the
scene, and the fathers of three are named
David. To Mary Ann and David Amory was
born a son, Alexander Forbes, on Feb. 15.
Kudos also to Norma and Dave Taylor on
the arrival of Aaron Todd (11 lb. 7 02.!) on
July 3. In Cherry Hill, N.J., the great event
took place on May 26 for the David
Brandts with the arrival of Allison Rachel.

Patty and Paul Perreten “thought pink
and turned up Number Six on April 23,
Elizabeth Kilgo.” Paul formed a law part-
nership with his dad early in the year un-
der the ﬁrm name of Perreten and Perreten
in Hastings—on-Hudson, N .Y., his hometown.

Wendy and Ron Sherman welcomed their
ﬁrst child, Derek Scott, born in Manhattan,
on Aug. 18. Until recently, Wendy had been
an editorial assistant with Time, working on
“Milestones”——now she has another of her
own. Ron continues as senior account man
at J. Walter Thompson Co. in New York.

The call of duty has taken another class-
mate to Vietnam. Capt. Barry Schenk has
been a doctor with the 377th USAF Dis-
pensary and Evacuation Unit in Saigon since
last December. Barry has managed leaves

SCOTT MCVAY

 

 

 




 

 

 

to Japan and Hong Kong, and after com—
pleting his year’s tour of duty, he will re-
sume his practice of internal medicine in
Scotch Plains, N. J.

THoMAs E. QUAY
§@ 305 Bryn Mawr Ave.
Bala—Cynwyd, Pa. 19004

Attending his ﬁrst Class Executive Com-
mittee meeting, Bill Von 0ehsen paid up ten
years’ class dues in one fat lump. (President
Royce Flippin hotly denies that his selecting
Bill for the Committee was a plot to induce
that payment!) Lawyer Bill lives and prac-
tices in Princeton (Mason, Grifﬁn &
Moore). He has been riding a bicycle lately
between home and ofﬁce. Bill reports that
Al Mather, in Chicago visiting family and
friends, is back from Bologna, Italy where
he is product manager for the Italian sub-
sidiary of General Foods Corp.

General Foods (in White Plains, New
York) also features Larry Hicks in its law
dept. Larry earns the commiseration of all
’56 barristers by planning to face the NY.
bar exams in December.

Dr. Fraser Lewis, fresh out of Army
khakis, has begun an obstetrics practice with
the Princeton Medical Group, an associa-
tion of physicians of various specialties.
Fraser and his wife, Maxine, now live in
Princeton.

John Detjens has been made secretary and
general counsel of The Warner Bros. Co.
as of last April 10. John, Stephanie and
their three girls are in their new home in Eas—
ton, Conn. In March, John visited Vienna,
Hamburg and Zurich on business.

PLEASE send me $10.25 for the Tenth Re-
union Book!

BERDINE GROEL
57 34 Meadowbrook Rd.
Short Hills, NJ.

Bachelors from the Class of ’57 became a
slightly rarer breed on Saturday, Sept. 16
when our illustrious football captain Mike
Bowman married Joan Cowen Hoitsma at
the Holy Family Church in New York City.

In attendance at the wedding and recep-
tion were Lang Stevenson, Ned Massengill,
George White, Rudy Wachsman, Bob 0’-
Grady, Lou Atoskowitz, Barry Caskey, Nate
Bachman, John Thomas, Kent Simons, and
your secretary. Dr. Jim Shea, who is cur-
rently on the staff at the Kings County Hos-
pital in Brooklyn, served as best man.

After a wedding trip to Paris, Madrid and
Lisbon, the Bowmans will live in Short Hills,

NJ. Mike is in the institutional sales depart-

ment of the investment banking ﬁrm of
White, Weld & Co., 20 Broad Street, New
York. Joan is a graduate of Smith and the
daughter of Edwin A. Cowen, Princeton
Class of 1913.

Had a pleasant visit the other day with
Henry Bose who was passing through New
York on the way to a business assignment
in Madrid. Henry is on the legal staff of
General Electric in San Jose, Calif. and
does a considerable amount of travel in this
country and abroad. We were joined by Whit
Wales, who is with the Bankers Trust Com-
pany in New York, and Polly and Dr. Dick
Weil. Dick is on the staff at the Columbia-
Presbyterian Medical Center in New York.

Andy Spanogle also wrote. “Second daugh—
ter, Sharon Elizabeth, was born on May 27,
1966. On Nov. 1, 1966, I, too, gave birth——
to a book. The gestation period was; two
Years and the product was twins (i.e. two

volumes) on the Maine Uniform Commer-

cial Code. I am now a full professor at the
University of Maine School of Law.”, .

_ Jay Lehr’s Wife, Claire, won a Phi-DJ 111
family and child development at Ohio State

in March, with two daughters looking on.
It was the remarkable culmination of ten
years’ effort by Claire, who quit school to
marry Jay, then went on to win her BA,
MS. and then Ph.D. Jay is teaching in OSU’s
geology department and coaching the la-
crosse team. He is also “running in search
of a, ﬁve minute mile, which is still eluding
me.

Hank Bowers, another doctor, will com—
plete his residency. in pathology this year at
Yale New Haven Hospital, where another
classmate is Phil Felig, chief resident in
medlcine. Joe Glass, wife Bobbie and chil-
dren Leslie and Russell are living in Be-
thesda, Md., while he is associated with the
National Cancer Institute as an ofﬁcer in
the US. Public Health Service. Dick Stillwell
1s assistant professor of chemistry at Baylor
University College of Medicine.

And to complete the Dr. Kildare scene
for today, Ron Hurd is instructor in surgery
at Washington University School of Medi-
cine after ﬁnishing his surgery residency at
City Hospital in St. Louis.

Randy Motland also wants, and should
get, a plug from here that everyone send in
his $12.50 for that record—breaking work of
yearbook art. So do it.

Mike Stewart ﬁnishes ﬁrst year medical
residency at Mass. General this year, then
sees a degree in public health at Harvard

. followed by a career in international health

with particular interest in tropical infectious
diseases. Down where they may exist (or
probably don’t, considering my general
knowledge of geography and the world),
Jim Meyer is still holding forth as assistant
cultural attaché in Buenos Aires, Argentina,
where he has been for 13 months.

DUNCAN W. VAN DUSEN
E. Baltimore City Hospitals
Baltimore, Md. 21224

Since Andy Robell received a Ph.D. in
Chemical Engineering from Berkeley he has
been working at Lockheed Missiles and
Space Co. in Palo Alto. Andy is currently
managing two research programs in the area
of surface chemistry (gas-solid interactions).
Some of Andy’s research has been applied
to spacecraft life support systems, particu-
larly trace contaminant removal. Andy,
Mary, Christopher (age 2) and Jennifer
(age 1) are all happily settled in the boom—
ing Palo Alto region.

The Mac Moultons have moved to Ten-
nessee where Mac is working in the Reactor
Chemistry Division of the Oak Ridge Na-
tional Laboratory. Pete Murphy is trying
to put the ﬁnishing touches on his Ph.D.
dissertation and come June Cynthia, Tom (4
yrs.), Kathleen (2 yrs.) and Patricia (born
July 1966) hope to have completed the long
tour as a graduate student family at the
University of Maryland.

Connie Georgescu is still working as a
Language Instructor in the Training Center
of Esso Libya at Marsa Brega-Libya. A sec-
ond baby girl, Lygia Elizabeth, was born to
the Georgescus on Aug. 31, 1966 (weight 6
lbs. 5 02.). Bob Nilson continues to market
chemicals for the Union Carbide, but he is
also making time to serve as a member of
the Schools Committee for the Princeton
Club of Chicago.

Dave and Marlyne Feldman, Weiner
(married November, 1965) live in Moline,
111. where Dave is in the automobile business
and some real estate ventures. Dave being
his usual thoughtful self writes “Any ‘pas-
sers thru’ welcome day or night.”

Fred Pettit writes from Amsterdam “1
ﬁnd doing business in Europe quite inter-
esting and also enjoy the experience of living
here. . . . First National City Bank has a
pin in the map in just about any country
that'comes to mind; in the free world.”

 

 

 

GRANT A. PEACOCK GRANT A. PEACOCK JR. l
1916 1946

GRANT A. PEACOCK, Inc.
jeweler

to those who discriminate
Engagement rings a specialty

Suite 707
One East 57th Street
New York 22, N.Y.

PLaza 3-4640

 

 

 

 

 

  

DESKS inc.
A Complete Source for Everything

in Fine Ofﬁce Furniture

71 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK, N.Y. 10003
TEL. 212-255-5454

PRUDENTIAL MALL, NEWARK, NJ. 07101
TEL. 201-642-3360

Edgar M. Gibby ’99 Robert B. Gibby ’36

 

 

 

 

COME BACK TO PRINCETON

to this little grey house by the road.
Happily located on a wee private lane,
it is still only half a block from Nassau
Street, and within easy walking dis—
tance of town and gown. Perfect for
a young family (three bedrooms, one
and a half baths) or for the retiree
who wants to dwindle to a small house
with large rooms. Details include mel-
low panelling in the living and dining
rooms, wide floor boards, private study
with bookshelves enough for a profes-
sor, country kitchen with breakfast and
laundry areas. And a gem of a patio
sheltered by a grape arbor and sur-
rounded by green thumb, no main—
tenance planting. For the buyer to
whom location is of prime importance,
this house is a real find. Ours alone
at $51,500.

h
0..
3

Q0

Karl M. Light '47, Broker
Sales: assorted Tiger wives & daughters!
245 Nassau St. 924-3822

 

 

OCTOBER 10, 1967 0 3‘3

 

 

 




 

Dr. Al Hershdorfer is married to a lady
from Istanbul, Selma Abigadolf (March
1962), and is presently working as an archi-
tect with Campbell, Aldrich and Nutley in
Boston. Al received a Ph.D. in City and Re-
gional Planning at M.I.T. in June 1965 and
since then he has been an Assistant Professor
in the Department of Civil Engineering at
M.I.T. Al visited Europe for two weeks this
summer in order to present a seminar series
at the Technical University of Berlin under
a Ford Foundation Exchange Program.

Dr. Fred Sillman and his charming wife
Jane are living at Fort Dix where Fred is on
the Surgery Staff of Walson Army Hospital.

Reports of Medical Personnel: Dr. Hewes
Agnew and Dr. Crile Crisler have returned
to the Hopkins—living on McElderry St. Dr.
Charles Singleton has been at Tripler and is
now with the US. Army in the Paciﬁc. Dr.
Ed Marsh now lives in Brookline, Mass. Dr.
Marty Rosenblatt lives in Wichita Falls,
Texas. Capt. Larry Jelsma is now stationed
with the 24th Evacuation Hospital. Dr.
Charles Chestnut is settled in Seattle, Wash.

Professor George Wilson is active in Rus-
sian Studies within the Department of His-
tory at the University of Indiana.

Captain John Heckscher is at Harvard this
fall working for a Ph.D. in Electrical Engi—
neering—Physics. John has been a research
scientist with the Air Force—stationed at
L. G. Hanscom Field in Bedford, Mass.

Physicist Bill Murphey has moved to
Boonsboro, Md. Bill is still associated with
the National Bureau of Standards but the por-
tion with which he has been associated has
moved to Gaithersburg, Md. Bill and Leigh
have purchased an old farmhouse which they
are rehabilitating—all this in addition to his
academic duties in the Department of Phys-
ics at the University of Maryland.

59

Off residence changes and on to name
changes, Miss Katherine Aline Truesdell be-
came Mrs. Jon Schumacher on April 22, in
Binghamton, N.Y. (that is slightly north of
an Eastern part of God’s country). Bert
Crofton was an usher. Bert turned around
and married Joyce Llewellyn in Rochester
on May 6, and Dave Humphrey ushered,
and sent the Croftons off to Bermuda. Jon
and wife are living in Rochester, where he is
another one of us lawyers with Nixon, Har—
grave, Devans, and Doyle. And he says that
Jim Ely has decided to retire from law
practice (why oh why?), and go for a Doc-
torate in American History (now know why)
at UVa.

And, somewhere from a submerged sub-
marine, Hank McKinney reports the birth of
his ﬁrst child, a boy, Class of ’89, named
William Clayton, 6 lbs. 8 oz. on Feb. 18.
Somewhere during the event, Mary McKin-
ney could be seen, and I don’t believe either
she or the boy were in the submarine. Dad
got to see son on March 24, when dad sur-
faced, and dad expects to grab Lt.Cdr. in
November. His vessel is the USS Shark, and
he is the operations ofﬁcer and navigator.
This is nuclear sub, fellas, so look out for the
Hank.

Harvey London ﬁnally moved from be—
ing covered in Newsweek to the local New
York press, as he was there hitched to Jane
Rosen, Vassar ’64, on June 11, with Larry
Aurbach and Al Lavetter doing honors.
Then back to New London as Asst. Prof. in
the Psychology Dept. Larry, meanwhile, is
still getting into interesting things, now as
Research Director of an OEO ﬁnanced study
by the American Arbitration Association
of landlord-tenant disputes in poverty areas
(you should hear what goes on around this

JAMES H. BENNETT
275 Claremont Avenue
Montclair, NJ.

34 0 OCTOBER 10,1967

place, Lar). He’s also legislative consultant
to the Ohio Roadside Council.

Two school switches. Dick Osgood is in
the Dept. of Geology and Geography at the
College of Wooster, Ohio, and Art Jaﬁe is
with the Math Dept. at Stanford. Wonder
what Dick is doing, since he was last with
Shell Oil in Houston (exploration). Maybe
we have a teacher (you have to be a sleuth
in this business). Art goes from Physics,
Princeton, same question. -

J. KEVIN MADDEN
333 East 69th St., Apt. 8c

@@ New York, N.Y. 10021

Bob King is in New York with Ellen
Lehman Associates (interior design) and
among Bob’s clients are Regency Hotel, Le
Banque and Gracie Mansion. Bob was in San
Francisco about a year ago and while there
saw J. J. Rousseau who is with Merrill
Lynch, Russell Fudge, H. G. Barnard III
(studying at Berkeley), George Peyton (with
an Oakland Law ﬁrm) and Mel See.

Vint Lawrence married Maria Elisabeth
Satzger in Austria on July 22. After a wed-
ding trip in Europe, the Lawrences returned
to this country where Vint will study at the
Woodrow Wilson School in Princeton.

Clark Gesner’s “Charley Brown” show
continues to make the news. A road com-
pany opens in Boston in December and one
is also planned for London.

@‘3

A letter from Nick Newens’ wife Janis re-
ports that the Navy has collared yet another
doctor. Lt. Newens is at Philadelphia Naval
Hospital, taking an anesthesiology residency.
Jay Newens, born last Nov. 15 (at a polite
4 lbs. 14 oz.) makes three. The happy par-
ents met in Rocky Mountain State Park, and
were married three years later (in ’65) in
Omaha. Nick interned in Denver, and en-
tered the service at Camp Lejeune, N.C.

Meanwhile, back in Boston, the civilian
medical corps includes: Stan Baldwin, a
surgical resident at Peter Bent Brigham Hos-
pital; Harris Funkenstein, an intern at the
same store; and Ed DuBrow, a medical resi-
dent at Boston City. Sick sixty—oners in LA.
can call Dave Gordon, a medical intern at
the Los Angeles County Hospital.

Ed F arkas is a professor of engineering at
McGill in Montreal, and the proud father of
a new daughter, Jennifer. The Farkases also
have a son, Keith. Jim Klein, who has been
associated with the Public Service Electric
and Gas Company of Newark since gradua-
tion, has been promoted to a senior engi-
neer with the ﬁrm.

@2

Six years after graduation, most of the
Med Schoolers in the Class have reached
the point where they are now residents in va-
rious ﬁelds of medicine. Frank Browne (inter-
nal medicine) is at University Hospitals in
Cleveland. Manhattan’s Mt. Sinai has Frank
Pindyck (surgery) and Richard Rosner
(psychiatry) .

Paul Mendelson is a medical resident at
Kings County Hospital in Brooklyn. King
County Hospital, several thousand miles
away in Seattle, has Peter Galss (surgery)
and Heatly Sebring (pediatrics). In his last
vacation prior to interning, Heatly went to
India where he was a medical assistant at
a mlssmnary.

Bill MacLean, also in pediatrics, is at

FRANK DEFORD
Hill Rd.
Greenwich, Conn.

MARTIN LAPIDUS
155 E. 91st St.
New York, N.Y. 10021

Johns Hopkins in Baltimore. I don’t know if
pediatricians just like to travel, but Bill
spent last summer doing research on malnu-
trition in Peru. Bill married the former Eliz-
abeth Kimball, Connecticut ’64, back in ’64.

Al Wein (urology) reports from Phila-
delphia that he and Dave M ishalove (cardi-
ology) are both at the Hospital of the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania. Mike Goodfriend
(medicine) is building a family in Roches-
ter, N.Y.; he has a young daughter to go
with his son.

Not everyone is attached to a hospital.
John Constantine medics for the Navy out of
Norfolk, Va. Bill Carr has a somewhat less
attractive APO—Danang via San Francisco.
The Public Health Service has Rich Dallow
in Washington.

Not everyone has made it to the resi-
dent’s stage as yet. Bill Icenhower, after
teaching and doing sundry other tasks for a
while, is now in his second year at Colum-
bia’s medical school.

@3

A Sunday edition of the Boston Globe in
July ran a very impressive pictorial spread
entitled “Must Design Be Formal?”, ques-
tioning the rigidity of the chosen design
for the Public Library’s appendix. The
author implies a negative response by citing
the imaginative proposal of Harvard stu-
dent Ed Carfagno of the Graduate School
of Design. It is a high-rise structure built
to blend with the new Prudential Building,
its neighbor and Boston’s ﬁrst real sky-
scraper. The article states, “Even more than
Carfagno’s particular building design sug-
gests, its concept encourages a response to
the whole neighboring environment and to
the use and qualities of the internal environ-
ment.” A compliment to a design student
worthy of a reputed architect.

While praising famous men let us not for-
get the teacher. The Taft School in Water-
town, Conn., has what it calls the Farwell
Fellowship, which sounds like a bad pun but
is named after its benefactor; it provides
funds annually for one of the school’s fac-
ulty to travel abroad. This summer the dis-
tinguished recipient was Rick Davis, a Taft
alum and a member of their history depart-
ment. Rick took a seven-week sojourn to the
50th Anniversary festivities behind the Iron
Curtain in Russia and seven other coun—
tries. He will now incorporate all that he has
picked up into his course in Russian History
as well as a number of feature speaking per-
formances. He will still teach a course in
American history, and I think the HUAC
might take special interest.

Gene Preaus is practicing law in New Or-
leans with Phil Claverie’s dad, and he and
Charlie O’Neil are the town’s most eligible
bachelors; Jimmy Coleman is also one of
its more fashionable lawyers. King Stubbs
has opened up an internship in Virginia
Where his wife, coincidentally, is expecting.
The above dirt is courtesy of my former
roommate Ed F elsenthal who included it as
cover material; he really wanted to tell me
how cute his son Edward was at his ﬁrst
birthday party. To prevent more of the
same, send legitimate news.

Last fall we ﬂooded the market with law-
yers, and the various state Bars seemed to
survive, so we hope the AMA looks with
favor upon our recent gifts to the medical
profession. Reid Pitts, a class secretary’s de-
hght, sent out a meaty missive on the re-
cently doctored Harvard group. He and Tom
Stossel will intern at Massachusetts General,
Reid in surgery and Tom in internal medi-
cine. Teun Schoolworth made plans to com-

SELDEN S. EDWARDS
Cate School
Carpinteria, Calif.

 

 




 

 

 

mit himself ﬁrst to the Boston City Hos-
pital and then to lovely Miss Judy Emery.
Tad Ballantine, already amply endowed in
the latter commitment, will join Teun in the
former. Lloyd Axelrod will be in internal
medicine at Boston’s Peter Bent Brigham
as will fellow-Tiger Harrison Funkenstein
’61. Larry Kadish and Jeﬂ Newhouse, both
surgeon apprentices, ﬁgure that four years
of codﬁsh cakes and brownbread were
enough, so they leave fair New England for
New York City; Larry takes his wife and
new daughter off to the Bronx Municipal
Hospital, and Jeff will be at the Roosevelt
Hospital.

CLASS BOY: In preparation for our Fifth
Reunion consider opened the search for our
Class Boy, who is simply the oldest son of
’63, born of a marriage consummated after
the date of our graduation, June 18, 1963.
If you know the whereabouts of this little
fellow, please let me know at your earliest
convenience. If no response within 30 days,
we will dress McWhirter in a loincloth and
let him throw the ﬁrst pitch.

Those of you who are already planning
your wardrobe for our Fifth Reunion will
surely want to write your intentions, sugges—
tions, gripes to Tony Cox because he is re-
sponsible for the whole thing. His address is
100 Canoe Brook Parkway, Summit, NJ.

@41-

The training of teachers has recently
been recognized by Princeton’s administra-
tion as a task Of very high priority. First Lt.
Lew Dale has once more exempliﬁed the
Tiger spirit. The Paciﬁc Stars and Stripes dis—
closes that Lew directs a school at Danang
for non-commissioned Ofﬁcers in the arts of
civic action. leadership, map-reading, patrol—
ling and ambushing. Lew’s Seventh Marine
Regiment started the school tO prepare youth-
ful new Corporals for their battleﬁeld re—
sponsibilities.

For a perspicacious analysis of the above
news I turn to my correspondent-colleague
for the week, the ever alert Jim Panos. Jim
writes: “The Story Behind the Headlines:
Same old Lew Dale, making it big atop a
very uninspiring sandpile which the Marines
have imaginatively dubbed Hill 55. The
place is about 25 miles from Danang, where
unnamed sources have periodically Ob—
served the same young Lieutenant enjoying
an off-limits brew in certain dubious caba-
retsf’

Besides running a Princeton surveillance
network in Vietnam, Jim is continuing his
career as a “Counterinsurgent Third Class”
for the Department of State, Agency for In-
ternational Development. He notes: “My
beat is Quang Nam province, the third
northernmost in the country, which Offers less
on the security side than, say, Palmer Square,
but which should hold my interest for the
13 more months I’m to be here.”

Our man in Quang Nam, rendering one
ﬁnal pearly paragraph of news, reports:
“Sneaking down to Saigon for a few days
of shameless abandon last month, my sore
eyes came to rest upon the familiar ﬁgure of
John Porter, surely the only person alive who
can look Ivy in fatigues. He was about to
abandon them, along with a red beret Of un-
clariﬁed signiﬁcance, in favor of a canary
silk sport coat which he picked up in Thai—
land along with yellow jaundice. At this
writing (early September) he should be
potted somewhere in San Francisco, celebrat-
ing his separation from Vietnam and the Air
Force.”

Short Hills appears to be a breeding
ground for Princeton brides. Ned Randolph
married the former Sandra Irene Poorman of
Short Hills there last May. Robin Eabanks

MARTIN E. ROBINS
800 Forest Ave. Apt. 9-B
Westﬁeld, NJ. 07090

and Rick Price were on hand. Ned was
wedded soon after his graduation from Tu-
lane Law School. Robin, according to Pike
Thomas’ letter, will serve as a judicial clerk
to a Federal District Court Judge in south-
western Louisiana.

Shelly Smith, now a Lieutenant in the
Army’s Adjutant General Corps, received
his training at Fort Benjamin Harrison in
Indiana. Currently Shelly is stationed at ma-
teriel command headquarters in Washington,
DC. where he does research in cost analy—
sis systems. He and his wife Kari reside in
Alexandria, Va.

Short notes: Denny Wedemeyer is studying
law at Washington University in his home-
town of St. Louis. The Air Force sent Vance
Mall to an N.Y.U. program in computing
science. First Lieutenant Vance expected a
Master’s degree in June. Also he’s engaged
to Mary Hilton. Ex—gob John Smathers has
taken up the study of law at the University

of Florida.
18 Peabody Terrace, Apt. 12

©5 Cambridge, Mass. 02138

With the football season now in full tilt,
here’s a thought I’ll wager hasn’t creased
your brain in a while—football tickets and
the undergraduate procurement thereof:
those nighttime queues in Dillon basement,
the smoke-ﬁlled room, the semi-hourly read—
ing of The List, lest someone get an un—
deserved place in line—all for a seat in
Section One. That’s What we were doing six
years ago on Thursday nights.

Considerable water has gone under the
bridge since then, one drop of which is that
Gus Maﬂry is now in the last round of a
three year course at the Institut d’Etudes
Politiques in Paris.

From the bundle of weddings to report
comes word of that of Geoﬂ Feiss to the
former Lynn Miles on June 11, 1966 with a
footnote that Geoff is working for his Ph.D.
in Geology here among the Cantabs.

An undated letter I ﬁnd from Don. Koch
and it reads as follows: “A few weekends
ago I was an usher at the wedding of Thor
Mills to the former Sue Zeller, a recent U.
of Michigan graduate, at Three Rivers,
Mich. Thor expects to graduate from the
Law School of that institution next winter.
Clif F enton was best man at Thor’s wedding
and is getting to be quite an experienced one
since he performed similar duties at my
own wedding to the former Cindy Schultz
of Cincinnati back in December. Education—
wise, I am two-thirds of the way through
an MBA. at the U. of Cincinnati Evening
College and expect to graduate in June.”

Other bundles include a Wendy, born to
Dick and Prill Page in early July and an
unknown gender born to Pete and Gail Ochs
of Plainsboro, NJ. (This is not the report of
some scientiﬁc oddity, as I’m sure the
parents know the gender and have, no
doubt, named the progeny; it’s just that the
grapevine does not carry such details.)

Tim Eliassen and Paul Weeks were in
Pittsburgh—“a thriving seaport”——attending
reactor engineering school for the Navy and
have returned to Washington and Admiral
Rickover.

Tom Curto is back at the books after three
months in Europe with Pizzarello and Shults
and six months in the Marine Corps; like
Mike Cliﬁ‘ord, he’s now at Stanford Busi-
ness School. Also at Stanford, Tom Holzer
and Pierce Carson (betrothed to the former
Mariann Jellachich in Miami last September)
in Ph.D. program in geology. Tom says
Pierce is in economic geology and that he
himself is somewhere between structural
geology and the coed dorm. Inevitable. And
John Diekman, whose reliable efforts were
responsible for Mal’s memorial, is at Stan—
ford’s Chemistry Department.

THOMAS B. COBURN

Brad Crawford is in the teaching racket,
too, and he is handling a fourth grade class
in Roxbury. Brad has not only broken into
the ranks of working people, thus forsaking
the sanctiﬁed world of academia, he has also
joined the blissful multitude of young mar-
rieds. His bride was the former Jane Ross,
a 1964 graduate of Oberlin College. His
former Putnam Ave. roomies—John Clarke
and Jim Stockard ’64—were in attendance.
Prior to all this, Brad did an M.A.T. at
Harvard (or was it an Ed.M.?) and taught
in the Head Start Program at Brandeis U. in

the summer.
922 West University Parkway

@© Baltimore, Md. 21210

Marvin Gray has returned to his second
year at Harvard Law School. He is one of
two Princeton graduates presently on the
Law Review.

Kenneth E. Krosin was married in the
Princeton University Chapel on July 2 to the
former Ruth Henn. Ken will be attending
George Washington University Law School
this fall and the Krosin’s will be living in Sil—
ver Spring, Md.

Rumor has it that Nelson Hendler is about
to announce his engagement to Mara Kur-
land of Baltimore. Perhaps Nelson’s African
safari will have to be delayed somewhat.

Ricky Back, after completing a post grad—
uate year at Johns Hopkins University, has
entered his ﬁrst year in medical school at
Rochester.

Charles C. Emmons Jr. was married to
Margaret Howe on Sept. 9 in the Chocorua
Island Chapel in New Hampshire. David
Stewart and Jeﬁ‘ Reichel aided at the cere-
mony which was performed by Carl D.
Reimers. Congratulations Charlie! Dave
Stewart, by the way, has just returned from
a year of teaching at Athens College, and is
entering his ﬁrst year at Yale Law.

Once again I ask that if you have any
news of either yourselves or friends, don’t
hesitate to jot it down and send them to me.

The Hotchkiss School

@7 Lakeville, Conn. 06039

This is pretty stale, but so is the bread
I’m eating these days, and if I can survive on
that, you should be able to munch on this
awhile. Way back in August I trucked back
to Princeton to gather up my last few belong—
ings and ran into a host of classmates who
were up to various mischievousnesses.

Rob Brown and Russ Swanson treated me
to a wine and cheese lunch on the grass in
front Of Nassau Hall, which was mildly icon—
oclastic. Rob had just returned from an ex-
pedition to California. He had driven out
West with his cousin in some car that even-
tually fell apart, as I recall, and he had been
forced to hitchhike home. He was arrested a
few times, but even though he was dressed
and looked like a bum, he managed to es-
cape unscathed thanks to his Princeton pol-
ish. Back in Princeton he and Russ were
both working for their advisor—on what I’m
nor sure, they seemed to be playing games
people play more than anything else. If every
thing is according to schedule, Rob is now in
Europe, where he plans to spend the
winter.

That same day I also saw George Hayum
in the distance. I didn’t get a chance to talk
to him so I’m not sure what he was up to,
but it certainly looked official. I also saw
Stefan Leigh tearing madly down Nassau
Street on a bicycle but have no idea where
he was headed. Wheeler Thackstone was
also around and had been teaching some ex-
otic language in the summer program. I
know there were others lurking in the shad-
ows, but I missed them, so it will have to be
next time, guys, next time.

CHARLES C. EMMONS JR.

JOHN ARMSTRON G

 




 

Is this all
you think of
when you
think of
Avon?

 

Think again.We are this. And much mor‘e.We are (35,000 people
changing the way you live: an unusually broad range of commercial,

defense and space capabilities now identiﬁed by this new symbol.

 

AVCO

AEROSTRUCTURES
DIVISION

(Structures for aircraft and space vehicles)

AVCO

BAY STATE

ABRASIVES

DIVISION

(Grinding wheels and other abrasives)

AVCO
BROADCASTING
CORPORATION

(Radio and television stations)

AVCO

DELTA
CORPORATION
[Financial services)

AVCO

ELECTRONICS

DIVISION

[Communications systems instrumentation)

AVCO
EVERETT
RESEARCH

LABORATORY
[High temperature gas dynamics.

biomedical engineering. superconductive devices)

AVCO

LYCOMING

DIVISION

[Engines for utility aircraft and helicopters)

AVCO

MISSILE SYSTEMS
DIVISION

[Missile reentry systems. penetration aids)

AVCO

NEW IDEA

FARM EQUIPMENT
DIVISION

(Specialized farm machinery)

AVCO

ORDNANCE
DIVISION

(Ammunition. fuzing devices)

AVCO

SPACE SYSTEMS
DIVISION

{Unmanned planetary exploration systems.
scientific satellites)

AVCO

SPENCER

DIVISION

[Heating boilers and sewage systems)

You’ll be hearing more about us.

AVCO CORPORATION, 750 THIRD AVENUE. NEW YORK. NEW YORK 10017

 

 

Wﬂﬁwlﬁkm'lv e2;

 




 




 




PASSAGES

 

 

NORTHWEST ORIENT'S INFLIGHT MAGAZINE - VOLUME 3 0 NUMBER 4 - APRIL’IS72

CONTENTS
Anne Sanders 4 Curiouser Ways Of Leisure
9 Sesame Street
Scott M cVay ’IO Leviathan’s Last Song?
Creative Competition
Lucille Goodyear Et Tu Washington . . . .

Robert Boyles Lord Stanley’s Annual Spring Frolics

William Cliﬁord ac Pagkain Of The Philippines

27 Passage Points

PASSAGES is published monthly
and is distributed in the seat pockets
aboard every Northwest Orient
Airlines ﬂight - 150,000 copies printed
for an available audience of over 800, 000
monthly passengers A publication of
AIR PUBLICATIONS, INC., 1,20 Lexington Avenue
New York, New York 10017 Telephone (212) 685- 7222
Yearly subscription: $6.00; per issue: 60¢
- Produced for Northwest Orient
Airlines Public Relations Department,
Roy K. Erickson, Vice President,
International Airport, St. Paul, Minnesota 551 1 1.
- Copyright © 1972 by Air Publications, Inc.

Editor Richard Stewart
Publisher John B. Caldwell
Associate Editors Ken Zeserson, Diana Jones
Art Director Len J ossel
Associate Art Director Alice Degenhardt
Advertising Manager John B. Caldwell, Jr.

Production Manager John Homs

 




 

ONE MAN’S OPINION

The Cartel Before the Horse

By Martin B. Deutsch

car-tel . . . 1. an international syndicate, combine, or trust
generally formed to regulate prices and output in some
field of business.~.2. a written agreement between bel—
ligerents, esp. for the exchange of prisoners. 3. (in French
or Belgian politics) a group acting as a unit toward a
common goal. 4. a written challenge to a duel ......

hat’s a partial definition of ”cartel” from The Random
T House Dictionary of the English Language, copy-
righted by Random House as late as 1969, obviously
the last word, and possibly Bennett Cerf’s final and weigh-
tiest legacy. Several of those definitions above are relevant,
but maybe not the way you think, to the recent AGM or
annual general meeting of the International Air Transport
Association, lATA to you, in Honolulu last November.
There’s no doubt that lATA negotiates air fares (definition
1.), subject to government OK, and this particular AGM
labored diligently to preserve the tradition. Normally a big
social bash, with an opportunity for an informal exchange
of views among the leaders of the world’s airline communi—
ty, the AGM at Honolulu’s llikai Hotel became a tense,
tiring and finally triumphant fare conference. North Atlantic
airline executives, faced with the unthinkable, an open-rate,
labored day and night in pairs, in small groups, in full
sessions involving all 24 North Atlantic members to bring
a maverick Lufthansa into line. Or was it a courageous and
farsighted Lufthansa carrying its reluctant colleagues into a
truly competitive marketing posture for the Seventies?
At 7 o’clock in the evening, Thursday, Nov. 18, the last
day of the four-day meeting and just minutes before the
closing black—tie reception and dinner, lATA"s public rela-
tions people convened a quick press conference to tell us
that the crisis was over, fares to London, Paris and, most
significantly, Frankfurt, had been tentatively decided, and a
regular fare'conference would convene in Geneva Dec. 2
to hammer out the details, plus fixing tariffs to such other
cities as Rome, Athens-and Tel Aviv. The group had indeed
acted as a unit seeking a common goal (definition 3.).

Thus, although it took the better part of half a year, the
lATA rate-making machinery was again vindicated. One
relieved chief executive described the compromise as a
”tremendous achievement” and then said that lATA was a
far more workable body than the United Nations. l was
tempted to ask what isn’t and what else is new? But I held
my tongue like a good journalist and took a few more
notes. The last time that lATA came this close to the brink
of disaster was late in 1962, after a fare conference in
Chandler, Arizona, broke up minus a North Atlantic accord.
Things looked pretty glum at that time, threats were ex-
changed between the U.S. and England over landing rights,
but cooler heads eventually got into the act and the Chand—
ler pact was implemented.

Things were so bad at that time, a noted aviation writer
in London started off an article with the sentence: ”lATA
is dead.” The funeral oration was premature, as it was this
time around. A number 'of journals had predicted that
lATA’s inability to pull Lufthansa into line was indeed the
end for the association’s clout in the fare arena.

And locally in Honolulu, some genius wrote an article
for one of the daily newspapers digging up the cliches

Guest Editorial For Northwest Orient Airlines,
reprinted from TravelScene, January, 1972.

about lATA being a cartel in restraint of trade, collusive,
and all the other tired arguments that crop up in print at
least a hundred times a year.

What the investigative giant in the Honolulu newspaper,
and his well-meaning colleagues around the world fail to
understand, is that lATA has many vital functions besides
rate making. There’s a clearing house in London which
makes international ticket transactions possible on a tre-
mendous, effective and low-cost scale; lATA polices frauds
and other illegal ticketing activities around the world, al-
though not too successfully; its director general, Knut Ham-
marskjold, has been highly effective behind the scenes,
negotiating with Cuba, Algeria and probably other countries
in delicate. sky piracy situations.

I could go on, but I think I’ve made the point: that lATA
is more than just a cartel which rigidly dictates rates.
Further, despite lATA’s obvious shortcomings in setting and
controlling fares, has anyone ever come up with a better
way of maintaining stability in international air commerce,
for the movement of people and cargo? During the fluctu-
ations of the dollar on foreign currency markets last year,
the lATA mechanism was able to make the complex ad-
justments quietly, almost instantly, and to the satisfaction
of the participating carriers and countries. It’s quite an
achievement, considering lATA has more than 100 airline
members.

And no matter what definitions of cartel you apply, lATA
IS ardly the profit-primed, venal international business
octopus that an LG. Farben once was. In a way, you can
compare lATA to marriage in the second half of the 20th
century. People often say that marriage, at least in the
western world, is on the way out. It’s unworkable, thanks
to many factors, such as the liberated woman and her pill.
Maybeso, but no one, including the Chinese, Russians or
Israelis, has ever been able to devise another system under
which to bring up children. Same way with lATA; unless
you’re willing to consider a permanent open-fare market
worldwide, and all its implications for chaos, lATA may be
the least painful and most workable vehicle.

By coming to terms at Honolulu, at least tentatively, the
airlines also avoided the possibility of direct government
intervention. The US. had been making noises about
denouncing its bilateral treaty with Germany and renego—
tiating from scratch. Thus, we avoided a long, difficult exer-
cise at governmental level (see definition 2. for cartel). This
may be a somewhat farfetched application of that particular
definition, although not when you consider what the bel-
ligerent-s may have agreed to exchange—no, not prisoners,
but the Germans might have relented on the fare levels
Lufthansa wanted for a restriction on US. charter operations
into Germany.

Finally, by deciding to reconvene the fare experts in
Geneva, the international air executives complied, in a
general sense with definition 4. for tariff talks are indeed
nothing but a civilized duel. Someone always gets hurt, a
position is abandoned, a point of view compromised. But,
under-the lATA machinery, call it a cartel or what you like,
the wounds always heal, and the all-important business of
air commerce goes on its way.

©C°Pyright 1971 by Reuben H. Donnelley Corp.

 

 




_____________________._l

Northwest Orient Airlines,

Tour Dept. (600)

Minneapolis/St. Paul lnternational Airport
St. Paul. Minn. 55111

Please send folder on your $7.47-per-day
Hawaii vacation.

 

Name

 

Address

 

City

 

State Zip

 

My travel agent is NWP-4

__________.__..._______'

____..______.J

l'
I
|
I
I
I
|
l
I
I
|
I

 

 

 

Aweek in HAWAII at just ‘

 

' per day?

Yes! (when you fly Northwest)

Costs you less than staying at
home! So why not take off with us
for a week in Waikiki? Look at all
your $7.47 per day includes:
Traditional flower lei greeting upon
arrival. 7 days, 6 nights at the
superior Holiday isle Hotel — with
continental breakfast each morning.
Transportation to and from the
Honolulu airport. An unforgettable
cruise of historic Pearl Harbor.

  
 

   
   

, w '5;
r} ,

i .-
i‘rf

Take awtrip our Fly Now

  
  

— Pay Later credit plan.
Call your travel agent or Northwest Orient for details.

And you fly our magnificent 747!
Relax in luxurious comfort as we
add to your holiday mood with Royal
Aloha Service: Hot, scented Oshibori
towels. Superb food. Complimentary
wine, even in Coach.

For a free folder containing full
details, send in the coupon, or call
your travel agent or Northwest Orient.

*Air fare additional.

  

ENT

 




“Good morning, Mr. Phelps. You
are now on a Northwest Orient ﬂight
to a strange city. You will be aboard
this aircraft for approximately one
hour. On arrival at your destination,
you will ﬁnd a rental car waiting in
your name at the airport. Once in
possession of the keys, you will drive
for approximately one hour to a re-
mote branch oﬁice of your company.
There you will meet with other exec-
utives at both regular and irregular
intervals throughout the day. Be-
tween these meetings you will have

 

several hours to kill. In the evening
you will be left alone in your hotel
room. Your job, should you accept
this assignment, is to do something
useful and enlightening in all this
spare time.”

Mission Improbable? Not really.
Businessmen very often ﬁnd them-
selves in this sort of situation —-— a
few hours here and there with noth-
ing to do. There is a limit to the num—
ber of times the same old newspapers
and magazines can be reread. There
is too much time to do nothing at all,
and too little time to get really in-
volved in a book or a hobby. There
are also hours of spare time in which
relaxation just may not be feasible
considering the levels of tensionand
[ alertness required of the average

businessman throughout his working
1' " day. In fact this spare time can be,
' oppressive to active, high~powered 7

 

CURIOUSER WAYS DI: LEISURE

 

 

executives who like to be on the go
—— constantly learning, doing and
increasing productivity. Making use
of the versatility of the audio cas-
sette medium, many firms are
providing entertainment and infor-
mation to ﬁll up these otherwise non-
productive hours.

It is to this end that The Executive
Voice, “the ﬁrst authentic audio
magazine,” is addressed. This series
of monthly tapes, available by sub-
scription only, is produced by Time-
Life Audio, a subdivision of the book
division, in association with Fortune
magazine. Each one-hour tape, with
its lively magazine format, contains
advice to businessmen, discusses
their problems, proﬁles companies
and deals with personnel problems.

Actual interviews, not dramatiza-
tions, are used on the tapes. The
purpose of this series, according to
Seymour Robinson, manager, is to
beneﬁt businessmen with the experi-
ence of others who have been in sim-
ilar situations.

The Executive Voice is designed
to be used at meetings, in training
programs, in the home, at the ofﬁce
or while driving a car. The topics
covered are varied and interesting.
They include: “Proﬁts From Pollu-
tion Control”; “The Problems COn-
fronting Small Businessmen”;
“Changing Jobs in Mid Career”;
“How We Increased Our Proﬁts 230
Percent.” Each issue consists of

' timely and informative discussions

and interviews exclusive to The
Executive Voice, which in no way
duplicate the conventional business
magazmes.

According to Robinson, this at-
tempt to help the executive has “put
to use What otherwise would be
wasted or unproductive time.” It has

“been. so successful that Time-Life
Audio has several other projects in
f the works -—- some for businessmen

Continued.

 

by Anne Sanders

ASSETTES: NEWS ON THE MOVES

     
     

 
 
  

 

    
  

‘1.—

 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

  

 




 

 

.1r ‘L_,.---ﬁ

IL. .

 

DOLLAR A DAY

VbOVESV
NORTHWEST

 

    

Compacts $1 + Vega $5 + Nova $6 + Camaro or Chevelle $8

 

 
 

+ Impala $9. All rates

plus mileage*. Free gas for all cars. Free air conditioning on standard cars. All major
credit cards honored. Insurance included.

to change without notice.

*50 mi. daily minimum on compacts only. Price may vary in some locations. Rates subject

 

AIRPORT LOCATIONS
ARIZONA
Phoenix .............. 275—7588
Tucson ............... 294-1471
CALIFORNIA
Hollywood—Burbank ....846—4471
LA International ...... 645—9333
Long Beach .......... 421-8841
Ontario .............. 986—4541
Orange County ....... 545-7702
San Diego ........... 234—3388
San Francisco ........ 697-5780
Van Nuys ............ 785-8500
COLORADO
Denver ............... 399-2568
FLORIDA
Fort Lauderdale ....... 525-3601
Jacksonville .......... 757-0614
Miami ............... 871-3363
Orlando .............. 851-3280
Tampa ............... 872-1802
West Palm Beach ..... 686-3300
GEORGIA
Atlanta ............... 762-9552
ILLINOIS
Chicago (O'Hare) ..... 825-7700
MICHIGAN
Detroit ............... 946—5150
MINNESOTA
Minneapolis/St. Paul ..861-2232
MISSOURI
St. Louis ............. 426-6613

 

NEW YORK
Albany ............... 785-5541
Endicott ............. 754—5006
Rochester ............ 235-0772
NORTH CAROLINA
Greensboro ........... 668-2746
OHIO
Cleveland ............ 267-3133
Columbus ............ 236-8282
Cuyahoga Airport ..... 261—5909
OKLAHOMA
Oklahoma City ........ 681-0711
OREGON
Portland ............. 255-6370
PENNSYLVANIA
Pittsburgh ............ 262—1300
TENNESSEE
Memphis ............. 362-9220
TEXAS
Dallas/Ft. Worth ...... 357—8422
El Paso ........ : ..... 778-9501
Houston ............. 449-0161
San Antonio .......... 341—1424
WASHINGTON
Seattle-Tacoma ....... 246-5400
WASHINGTON, D.C.
Arlington, Va. ......... 979—4200

CITYWIDE LOCATIONS
CALIFORNIA
Ambassador Hotel

Wilshire Center ..... 380-5353
Anaheim-at-Disneyland 635-7702
Beverly Hills .......... 652-2600

Canoga Park ......... 883-7700

Colton/San Bernardino 825—4242

 

 

Fresno ............... 485—8821
Hollywood ........... 461-3291
Long Beach .......... 436-5271
North Hollywood ...... 980-9400
San Francisco ........ 673-2137
Sherman Oaks ........ 986-6608
FLORIDA
Boca Raton .......... 391—2040
ILLINOIS
Chicago-

Pick Congress Hotel .922-1070
MASSACHUSETTS
Framingham .......... 879-2406
MARYLAND
Baltimore ............ 385—0400
MINNESOTA
Minneapolis .......... 332-3591
OHIO
Cleveland ............ 781—3300
OREGON
Portland ............. 228—0146
PENNSYLVANIA
Pittsburgh ........... 731-3200
TEXAS
Dallas ............... 742—3841
Houston ............. 521-0231
UTAH
Salt Lake City ........ 521-2590
WASHINGTON
Seattle .............. 682—1316
CANADA
Vancouver ............ 687-5604
Victoria .............. 386-3488

 

 

 

You do
things for people
you luv.

Bring this magazine with you. The coupon
on this page is good for two dollars off

for every day you rent a car* from any
coast-to-coast Dollar A Day location.

*Camaros, Chevelles, Impalas or larger
cars only.

 

FOR NATIONWIDE RESERVATION
SERVICE CALL TOLL FREE:

800-421-2068

When in California call collect (213) 645—
9333 for both out-of-state and California
locations. For direct airport and citywide
service, consult locations listed below.

DOLLAR

A DAY®
RENT-A-CAR SYSTEMS

 

 

Exclusive franchises still
available in some major I
cities. For information

write: ExeCutive Offices,
5307 West Century .
Boulevard, Los Angeles,
California 90045
Telephone (213) 776-8100

1m

   
   

I t

. ‘

v s
’l'“\\‘

 

 




 

Curiouser Ways of Leisure continued

and some for the general public.
They will vary from one-shot deals
to multi-volume series. Available
now is a reference work entitled
Venture Capital. It is a four-cassette
study taken from a seminar held at
the University of Toronto School of
Business. It is not a restaging, but a
well-organized edition of the actual
conference dealing with questions
for the entrep‘reneur,banker, and
small businessman who may need
money. Planned for the general pub-
lic are A Parents Guide to Drug
Abuse and a series on popular enter-
tainment topics that will operate like
a book club.

“We are not experts in anybody’s
ﬁeld. But we take highly technical
material and convert it to audio
form. That is our expertise,” says
Jack Haskell of Tape Productions,
Inc., a complete business service in
audio communications. In a recent
interview, Mr. Haskell stated his
company’s belief in the potential of
the audio cassette as a powerful busi-
ness tool. Cassettes have many ad-
vantages over the printed word. For
example, the salesman spends a lot
of non-productive time driving. If he
can play a cassette, it saves him time
later on, catching up with communi-
cations from the home ofﬁce. TPI
programs for the salesman consist of
all the material he would ordinarily
receive in printed form —- much of
which he may not even bother to
read: information on his market, pep
talks, sales goals and advice. These
tapes can even be individualizeda la
Mission Impossible ! Cassettes do not
compete with entertainment or
hobby time, or time spent with fam-
ilies. They can be played in those odd
hours mentioned earlier, leaving the
businessman free to relax and enjoy
his leisure time.

TPI produces custom-made pro-
grams for private clients. They take
everything in printed form, condense
it and put it all on cassettes in an
entertaining and informative fash-
ion. Following the successful for-
mat of old radio shows, they use
changes of voice, music and sound
effects, actors, narrators and drama-
tizations of relevant situations. They
have found that a recorded lecture
by a sales manager, no matter how
well-spoken, is not only boring, but
does not take creative advantage of

the medium. TPI’s typical product is
a highly professional method of com-
munication, using entertainment
techniques in order to make business
information attractive.

For the most part, TPI’s programs
are created for sales and manage-
ment level training and retraining,
and for salesmen. Another advan-
tage of the audio cassette is its rela-
tively low cost. TPI is in charge of
all aspects of production, and the
marketing or distribution is left up
to the client. Their projects include
monthly reports for Hoffman-La
Roche and Allied Chemical, programs
for American Express and Time,
Inc.; a tour of Washington, D. C.,
for Texaco, training programs for
the American Institute of Certiﬁed
Public Accountants and language
programs for shipping companies.
Some of the programs, such as those
for Allied Chemical and Hoffman-La
Roche, have replaced much print-
ed material for salesmen.

Other companies have taken the
audio cassette plunge in more spe-
cialized ways. “The Sony Superscope
Library of the Spoken Word: The
Tapeway to Self-Enrichment” offers
125 volumes concerning self-
improvement, language instruction,
entertainment, history, contempo-
rary life, historyland astrology. Con-
tributorsrange from Paul Ehrlich
to R. D. Laing; topics vary from how
to develop your powers of concentra-
tion to a self-portrait of John F.
Kennedy. .

First National City Bank offers a
twelve part cassette series entitled
The Sound of the Economy. Sub-
scribers receive monthly tapes (and
written transcriptions) of discus-
sions between prominent economists,
moderated by John Daly. Each cas-
sette plays a forty-minute briefing
on a few of the most crucial economic
problems besetting national and in-
ternational business. One interesting
feature of this service is that each-
cassette arrives with a “question the
session form.” Subscribers can sug-
gest possible discussion topics by
ﬁlling out the form.

Business Week supplies a confer-
ence-on-tape concerned with the
problems of public disclosure. Ap-
propriately called Public Disclosure,
this twelve-cassette series briefs
corporate personnel on the oomph-

cated problems inherent in dissemi_
nating corporate information.

Several airlines provide tours on
tape as well as language instruction.
Some are for use on the planes and
others are to be used in cars and are
provided by agreement with rental
car agencies.

In addition, certain companies pro-
duce cassettes (and other educa-
tional tools) aimed at specific
professions. For example, new de-
velopments in the medical ﬁeld are
so numerous a physician, nurse or
paramedic has to read voluminously
in order to stay abreast of current
techniques. Medcom, a company 3139.
cializing in medical educational pack-
ages, develops cassettes concerning
medical subjects. Audio learning
takes some of the pressure off hos-
pital personnel.

For many years, cassettes have
been produced commercially in order
to duplicate material available on
long playing records. Robert Brown-
ing, Richard Burton, Socrates and
The Sensuous Woman are just a few
of their offerings. Basic language in-
struction and humor are also found
on cassettes. (See Passages, July-
August, 1971)

In fact, the Bureau of Business
Practice provides a cassette, The Art
of Humorous Speech, which teaches
the listener how to improve his or
her joke-telling technique. This cas-
sette is part of a package, issued
monthly, entitled The Executive’s
Shortcut Course to Speech Improve-
ment. Many top people, though ef-
fective in other areas, simply do not
express themselves well. This course
upgrades the subscriber’s vocabu-
lary, diction and delivery, in thirty
minute sessions. This company also
furnishes tapes which beneﬁt sales-
men and people in supervisory capac—
ities. Cold Call Selling is a monthly
cassette course which helps salesmen
improve their selling skills, and
Sounds of Supervision is a similar
educational package, aimed at super-
visory personnel.

Audio cassettes have a great fu-
ture, whether for entertainment or
for the stimulation of the proﬁt m0-
tive. The car can become a classroom
or a library with the mere DUSh 0f.a
button. And in this case the tape W111
not self-destruct in ﬁfteen seconds.
Good luck, Mr. Phelps . .. D

 

 




 

 

HUMOROUS
SPEECH”

A (BO-Minute Cassette Tape That
Actually Tells You How to Use Humor
to Win Your Audience at Once!

 
  
 
 
   
 

 

 

“The EXECUTIVE’S
TREASURY of
HUMOR for
EVERY
OCCASION” . . .

A Vast, Completely
Indexed Volume of Jokes,
Stories and Anecdotes!

 

 

Both one game FREE -- just to introduce you to “THE EXECUTIVE’S SHORTCUT
COURSE TO SPEECH lMPROVEMENT”—the easy way to give your everyday words a
dynamic, more forceful, new dimension!

Tape Brings Humor Home in Easy-

to-Understand Demonstrations!

“THE ART OF HUMOROUS SPEECH” is
a remarkably effective cassette tape that tunes
you in to real-life situations. It graphically
demonstrates humor. You don’t have to
guess where to put emphasis. You’ll hear it!

YOu’ll listen to learn why jokes go wrong in
their telling. It tells you how to overcome
common errors. You’ll learn how to deliver a
joke easily and naturally—whether there are
2, 10 or a thousand listeners!

The tape tells you exactly when to allow
your audience time to grasp your idea,
teaches you how to time your pause for
ultimate effect. You’ll learn how to get a
good-humored response that’s a hundred
times stronger than if you told the joke
without knowing these simple keys to
subtlety, wit, and repartee!

“TREASURY” VASTLY ENRICHES
YOUR REPERTOIRE OF JOKES!
“THE EXECUTIVE’S TREASURY OF
HUMOR FOR EVERY OCCASION” gives
you more than 200 pages packed with
hundreds of the most amusing, laugh pro-
voking anecdotes, epigrams, deﬁnitions, and
funny stories ever collected under‘ one
cover! This hardcover volume gives you a
lifetime supply of humor. It’s compiled and

indexed in 350 different classiﬁcations!

BOTH TOOLS ARE YOURS FREE!

This extraordinary combination is yours
FREE simply for returning the coupon be-
low. It introduces you to “THE EXECU-
TIVE’S SHORTCUT COURSE TO SPEECH
IMPROVEMENT,” a monthly series of cas-
sette tapes and looseleaf folios to help you
train and develop your natural speaking skills.

This Course is a long overdue breakthrough
for every executive who expects to be called
upon for a speech, a presentation—or even
to place his ideas for consideration in front
of others.

UPGRADES EVERYDAY SPEECH!

You’ll learn how to use intonations to give
subtle meanings to common words. You’ll
learn where to punctuate your speech with a
pause that has the explosive power of an
exclamation!

Tapes easily convey the tips and tricks only
the “insiders” know. These are the invaluable
skills that give you all the gifts of expe-

rienced speakers in simple, 30-minute listen-
ing sessions!

You’ll. learn how to condense excess ver-
biage into short, sharp sentences . . . put
new life into your voice for presentations,
meetings, conferences, face-to-face Inter-
views with fellow executives!

And, with the foolproof playback of cas-
settes, you can test the persuasive power of
your speech. You’ll know exactly when to
raise your voice level, when to give power to
key words, when to weed out the weaknesses

  
 
  
 
  

D Bill Annually Until Cancelled

that are never revealed—or even suspected—
in ordinary, untested speech improvement
courses.
MONTHLY FOLIOS GIVE EXTRA
PUNCH!

Every month the Course gives you a folio
packed with simple, step-by-step ways to
improve diction, enrich your vocabulary,
speak more ﬂuently, upgrade your everyday
speaking skills. PLUS: It gives you an
addenda each month of latest, topical humor
prepared by experts.

Why not try the
course Free for 15 days
and receive your Free Gifts?

~JUST RETURN THE COUPON BELOW!

The BUREAU of BUSINESS PRACTICE .Waterford, Conn. 06385

Please send me “THE EXECUTIVE’S SHORTCUT COURSE TO SPEECH IMPROVEMENT”
—monthly cassette tapes and folios—and include my FREE cassette tape,
HUMOROUS SPEECH,” and my FREE hardcover edition of “THE EXECUTIVE’S
TREASURY OF HUMOR FOR EVERY OCCASION.”

I understand I may take up to 15 days to decide whether or not to continue the Course. If
not, I will return the Course to you and not owe or pay a cent. Otherwise, keep it coming
regularly at the low rate of only $6. 95 a month, plus a few cents for postage and handling——
and, no matter what I decide, the FREE tape and book are mine to keep!

E] Bill Quarterly Until Cancelled

“THE ART OF

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name Title

Firm

Address

City State Zip
G/ETI-Off~1 A-6675-02 Dept. 6315-82

 




 

   

 
 
 

   
   
  
 
   
   
  
 
   
  
  

 

12" height and more than 2,100

Save 15% when you buy I
all three carry-aboard ﬂight bags.

Duffle $29.95

cubic inches capacity. Includes
two outside pockets.

Stowaway $23.95
12” height and more than
1,600 cubic inches capacity.

 

FLIGHT GIFTS, INC. 420 Lexington Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10017
Gentlemen: P-4-72
Please send me _______Swinger Flight Bags @ $14.95 each
___.__Stowaway Flight Bags @ $23.95 each
______Duffle Flight Bags @ $29.95 each
Set of all three bags at money saving
$58.50 per set (15% or $10.35)
New York residents add 7% sales tax
Enclosed is my check or' money order for all costs including post-
age and handling, made payable to Flight Gifts, Inc.
or [:1 American Express I] Diners Club E] Carte Blanche
[I BankAmericard C] Master Charge
My account No. is

Name
(please print)

Address
City State Zip
Signature '

 

 

 

 

 

please allow 30 days delivery

 
    
    
  
  

 

Swinger $14.95
12” height and more than
800 cubic inches capacity.

Practical. Good looking. These carry-on ﬂight bags are just the ticket for light lugging. Whether you buy

the set of three at a money saving price or just one or two you’ll be happy with these. Carry—on luggage
for under seat stowing is the way to go the fastest.

' Ideal for those three day weekends or short busi-
ness trips.

' Tough. natural leather—finished Skai vinyl.
Greater scuff resistance than leather.

.° Generous carrying capacity but lightweight. Not
cumbersome.

' His or hers look that ﬁts in anywhere from the
best hotel to beach house.

0 Save. Money saving prices: Buy all three at
$58.50 and save $10.35 or 15%.

© 1971. FLIGHT GIFTS, INC.

   

 
       
  
 
  
 
  

    
 
   

 

  

 




 

 

Reprinted with permission from Children’s Television Workshop. © 1972 CTW.

SESAME STREET

 

 

Find 10 things
that are wrong.

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘mu Um,“
I», sum—«Mae 13315»

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sesame Street M agazine,from which these puzzles are taken, supplements the curriculum of the TV series, Sesame Street.
Subscriptions: $3.00 for 10 issues; Sesame Street Magazine, North Road, Poughkeepsie, N.Y. 12601

 




 

 

 




    

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dissect him how I may, then, I but go skin deep; I know
him not, and never will. But if I know not even the tail of

this whale, how understand his head? much more, how com-
prehend his face, when face he has none? Thou shalt see my
back parts, my tail, he seems to say, but my face shall not be
seen. But I cannot completely make out his back parts; and
hint what he will about his face, I say again he has no face.

LEVIATHAN’S
by Scott McVay

It was the evening of the Great
Bonﬁre in Kyoto, August 16,1970.We
were seated on tatami mats outside
one of the restaurants along the
river, awaiting darkness and the
blazing ritual about to occur on the
mountain above Kyoto, an annual af-
ﬁrmation of the great design, sym-
bolizing the departure of the spirits
after three days among us. Sakyo
Komatsu, one of Japan’s most gifted
writers — who has glimpsed the
worlds of heaven and hell toward
which we are moving — put head-
phones on his ears and began to lis-
ten to Songs of Humpback Whales.
In stereo. His romantic, restless na-
ture was stilled for a moment, as he
listened intently. Then his eyes
flashed with understanding; he
murmured, “incredible,” again and
again, and sputtered with joy as an-
other world began to open for him.
Komatsu generously passed the
headset to others, including a geisha,
peppered me with questions, and
then, after others had heard the
whale’s voice, he listened anew with
profound attention. The recording is
called, “The Whale Trip.”

Two months later Sakyo Komatsu
wrote, “We have been profoundly
impressed by the songs of those huge
and jolly creatures resounding
through the vast space of the under-
sea world. What an exciting experi-
ence it was, to hear the ballads and
arias composed by whales and sung

—Herman Melville

LAST SONG?

by themselves! You have made us
open our eyes and minds to another
new frontier for the human soul . . .”

In the summer of 1970, it was not
common knowledge in Japan that
the great whales were in trouble. J a-
pan had become one of the two pri-
mary whaling nations,after England,
the Netherlands and Norway had
dropped out of the hunt because of
the scarcity of big whales. More than
2,000,000 whales had been killed dur-
ing the past half century. The people
of Japan depend upon the continuing
bounty of the sea. The whale’s role in
the ocean’s habitat was rapidly di-
minish-ing. A few men in Japan con-
tinued to reap enormous personal
profit at the expense of ravaged
whale populations.

Yet the whale problem was virtu-
ally unknown in Japan.

Fortunately, a small group of sci-
entists led by Seiji Kaya, a physicist
and former president of Tokyo Uni-
versity, took up the wh-ale’s cause.
Forming the “Kujira O Mamoru
Kai” (Committee for the Protection
of Whales), six scientists took the
problem to the people via the large
circulation daily newspapers, radio,
and television. Dr. Kaya met with
Premier Sato in December, 1970 and
obtained concurrence on speciﬁc sug-
gestions for the International Whal-
ing Commission. With grace and
determination, Dr. Kaya recited the
dismal facts of the carnage and

WHALE COVER AND PHOTO BY JOHN DOMINIS/LIFE MAGAZINE

'l’l




 

ﬁrmly urged that the whaling indus-
try be brought under rational man-
agement. He concluded one article by
observing, “The song of the dimin-
ishing Humpback whale, when lis-
tened to with these facts in mind,
becomes a song ﬁlled with sadness.
Now that mankind has for the ﬁrst
time come to know the whale’s song
it is not by chance that perhaps
Providence tries to appeal for the
last chance at conservation of the
whales from overly brutal human
beings.”

The knobby—headed, long—ﬂippered
Humpback whale may have sung its
song for millenia before we had the
capacity to hear it, but the tragic
irony is that it reaches us at a time
when whaling, while still big busi-
ness for a few, is dying. Whaling is
in its death throes despite the fact
that more than 40,000 whales con-
tinue to be killed annually under the
sanctions of the International Whal-
ing Commission. Under unrelenting
pressure,the whales become smaller
and smaller and harder to ﬁnd.

A century ago, whaling was an
exciting proposition for a young man
who, like Ishmael, might have de-
sired to “sail about a little and see
the watery part of the world.” But
today, after decades of mechanized
slaughter, the whaling business has
become a pitiful race between dis-
aster for the remnant whale popula-
tions and an eleventh-hour reversal
of whaling malpractice, which has
operated without concern for to-
morrow. A halt to whaling can be
brought about only by the focused
passion of informed opinion carried
to the highest levels of government
in Japan and the Soviet Union, be-
cause those two countries are di-
rectly responsible for seven out of
every eight whales killed today.

A growing recognition of the fra-
gility and interconnection of the thin
web of life that clings to the surface
of earth has helped the whale’s cause.
For some, the vanishing leviathan
has become a symbol of our plunder-
ing ways in other sectors. In the past
two years, the United States has
ﬁnally become disengaged from all
aspects of commercial whaling ex-

cept its regulation. Speciﬁcally, this
country has taken three important
steps.

First of all, the Department of
Interior has placed eight species of
great whales on the" endangered spe-
cies list, ﬁve of which are “protected”
by regulation of the International
Whaling Commission: the Bowhead
or Great Polar whale, which in past
days was “the monarch of the seas”
in the Arctic ocean; the Right whale,
so-called by old-time Whalers because
it was the “right” one to kill as a
slow swimmer that ﬂoated on the
surface after being harpooned; the
Gray whale, observed by some
350,000 Californians every Decem-
ber and January on its southward
migration to the lagoons of the Baja
peninsula in Mexico; the Blue whale,
the largest creature ever to inhabit
the earth, whose voice was a deep
monotonous refrain in the ﬁrst and
only instance when it was recorded
in May, 1970, Off the coast of Chile;
and the melodious Humpback, never
very abundant, now celebrated by
science and symphony, whose num-
bers world-wide have been reduced
to a few thousand.

Only three major species are still
hunted commercially: the Fin whale,
the second largest and formerly the
most abundant baleen whale extant,
whose stocks have been reduced to
twenty. percent of their former num-
bers; the Sei whale, long-ignored as
too small but pursued as hotly as the
rest in the past dozen years along
with its close relative, Bryde’s
whale; and finally the renowned
Sperm whale, the only toothed specie
among the great whales — still taken
without any quota whatsoever in
Antarctica.

In 13111313ng Eight great whales on
the endangered species list in De-
cember, 1970, the Department of In-
terior closed off the United States —
which has represented twenty per
cent of the world market —— from
importation of all whale products.
Stringent monitoring techniques
have been adopted to prevent illegal
entry of these products into the
country. For example, the trans-
mission oil in Japanese cars is being

  

 

  

VOQV“

m. “mare-l- «a.

 
 

Sperm whale—60 feet

 

Gray whale—.70 feet

 

 

 

Humpback whale—50 feet

 

 




 

  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   

 

 

Right whale—~60 feet

 

 

    

M mice whale—25 feet

 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
  

 

 
   

 
 

 

COURTESY N.Y. PUBLIC LIBRARY

tested, when imported, to be sure
that it does not contain Sperm oil as
in the past.

The second step was taken by the
Department of Commerce in April,
1971. All whaling by U. S. ﬁshermen
of species 011 the endangered list was
prohibited by the end of 1971. It
should be noted that the last whaling
station, located in Richmond, Cali-
fornia, survived until recently only
because it was allowed to take im-
mature Sperm whales and Gray
whales, both of which are “pro-
tected” according to the Inter-
national Whaling Commission, by
special permit. Not enough Fin and
Sei whales were left in the waters
up to 200 miles off the coast of Cali-
fornia, the maximum range of the
boats, to have made whaling worth
the expense.

The third step, taken by Congress
in 1971, was the unanimous passage
of a resolution, sponsored by Senator
Hugh Scott and Congressmen Bing-
ham, Broomﬁeld, and Halpern, urg-
ing an “International Moratorium of
Ten Years on the Killing of All
Species of Whales.” The proposed
whaling moratorium will not have
an immediate effect on the Japanese
and Soviet Whalers, but it does make
plain the prevailing view in this
country that we can no longer tinker
with the regulation of whaling in
the light of decades of plundering
one whale stock after another. The
harpoons must be put away for a
time. Studies of whales, not involved
with their killing, must be begun on
an international basis, and then ——
only then —— after a period of
restraint and rebuilding can the
prospect of resuming the kill be
considered. At the present time,
substitutes are available for every
purpose to which whale products are
put —- from lipsticks to lubricants,
from cosmetics to cat food.

The Federal Food and Drug Ad-
ministration impounded 1.8 million
pounds of contaminated Sperm whale
meat from a leading pet food com-
pany in December, 1971. The six
samples taken by the FDA inspector
indicated the presence of mercury at
a level above the upper legal limit

of 0.5 parts per million, whether the
food is to be consumed by people or
animals. Indeed the mercury present
in the samples ranged from .88 to 1.1
parts per million. The implications
of this ﬁnding are not encouraging
for the countries whose people con-
sume whale meat, although it should
be noted that in Japan, where ten
percent of the animal protein in the
diet has come from whales, there is
a marked preference for baleen meat
over sperm whale meat. At the pres-
ent time, Japanese scientists are
testing the levels of metallic con-
tamination in whale meat, but their
results are not yet available.

The whale problem is getting
attention in diverse places. Mexico,
which commendably has not been
involved recently in commercial
whaling, has recently taken a sig-
niﬁcant step to ensure that whales
which take refuge in the lagoons
along Baja California, Mexico, will
be forever unmolested. By presi-
dential decree on January 14, 1972,
Ojo de Liebre (or Scammon’s La-
goon) was declared a natural sanc-
tuary for whales, effective thirty
days thereafter. The decree applies
particularly to the Gray whale which
is known to mate and calve in those
warm waters during January, Feb-
ruary, and March after returning
from the long annual migration to
the Arctic. Although the Gray whale
is currently “protected” by the Inter-
national Whaling Commission, it was
far-sighted of Mexican President
Luis Echeverria Alvarez to seek this
protection for the whales down the
rocky road of the future.

The guidelines implementing the
presidential decree will, we trust,
reﬂect President Echeverria’s de-
termination that this area be kept
as a natural refuge for all forms of
wildlife since their life patterns
interconnect. It is no longer enough
to try and spare a single endangered
species. Entire habitats must be set
aside, safe from the inroads of com-
mercial development. Thus, we may
hope that other parts of Baja Cali-
fornia are also declared wildlife
sanctuaries by Mexico and that any
tourist facilities to be built will,

    

 

’I3

  




 

14

from the beginning, take into
account the uniqueness and rare
beauty of this little-known peninsula.
We may hope, further, that other
nations will follow the lead taken by
Mexico and declare certain watery
areas and their environs, where
whales and porpoises naturally con-
gregate at speciﬁc times of the year,
as wildlife sanctuaries. Whales are
for celebration, not annihilation.

So much for the current situation.
What is on the agenda? What must
be done?

The International Whaling Com-
mission will be meeting again this
June in London. In the past, the
Commission has been sluggish
in responding to scientiﬁc recom-
mendations. The dominant whaling
nations, Japan and the Soviet Union,
have consistently sought high catch
quotas for baleen whales in the Ant-
arctic and North Paciﬁc and have
not been concerned, for example,
about the recovery of the Fin whale
which has been over-exploited for
twenty-ﬁve years.

At top of the June agenda will be
the question of placing observers on
vessels and at shore stations. The
International Observer Plan has
been discussed, year after year, since
1955 by the Commissioners -—
aﬁirmed in principle, but never im-
plemented. At the June, 1971,meet-
ing in Washington, after two weeks’
discussion, theNCommission agreed to
a set of regional observer schemes.
Then in September, 1971, in Tokyo,
the Japanese, Norwegian, and Soviet
Commissioners met again to work
out ﬁnal details for the forthcoming
Antarctic season. However, the enor-
mous Soviet whaling vessels (two of
which, at 750 feet in length, are ﬁf-
teen times as long as a mature male
Sperm whale!) set out for the Ant-
arctic before the agreement could
be ratiﬁed. The Soviets have thus
stretched the credulity, almost to the
breaking point, of those who hoped
that they were serious about an ex-
change of observers to insure that
the regulations of the IWC are
honored on the high seas. Their
actions with respect to the North
Paciﬁc plan will also be followed with
interest, as will be the actions of
other countries that whale in the
North and South Atlantic from
shore stations.

Due to the “technicality” of not

being on the agenda, the elimination
of the “blue whale unit” as a method
of counting dead whales was put off
from the 1971 meeting to 1972. One
blue-whale-unit equals two Fin
whales or six Sei whales. One obvi-
ous disadvantage of such a system is
that it disregards the fact that the
Fin whale is more decimated than
the Sei.Until the whale quotas are
species speciﬁc, the whalers will con-
tinue to kill the whales ﬁrst and
rationalize the count later.

In recent years a wide divergence
of opinion has existed among mem-
bers of the Scientiﬁc Committee of
the IWC about the size of the Fin
whale population and the number of
whales that could be killed Without
further reducing the population.

There is a controversy. Many
scientists have routinely and con-
sistently estimated the number of
Fin whales that could be taken in the
Antarctic at nearly double the esti-
mates of other authorities. As a
consequence, the Environmental De-
fense Fund has undertaken a study
of the Fin and Sei whale populations
in the Antarctic. EDF has asked bio-
metricians from abroad to take a
fresh look at the data and offer their
own interpretations. Perhaps their
estimates will be helpful to the Sci-
entiﬁc Committee.

For the past few seasons, Norwe-
gian whalers have traveled to the
Antarctic primarily to take the com-
paratively small Minke whale. At
maturity this baleen whale is about
twenty-ﬁve feet. It was urged, at a
conference of whale biologists con-
vened in June, 1971, at Skyland,
Virginia, that conservative quotas be
set for the Minke whale in the Ant-
arctic before its numbers are deci-
mated like the Blue, Humpback, and
Fin whales. The International Whal-
ing Commission not only failed to set
conservative quotas for the Minke
whale —-— it failed to set any quota
whatsoever.

As of March, 197 2,the whale prob-
lem is not on the agenda of the
United Nations’ conference on the
environment to be held in Stockholm
in June. As an example problem,
which is non-political in character,
the conservation of whales would be
an excellent subjectfor discussion
because it illuminates the brutish
side of our nature, which may be
subject to greater sanctions in the

future. Also, if the UN. conference ‘

took up this subject, Japan and the
Soviet Union might be spurred to
participate in the growing awareness
that whales belong not to the few
able to command harpoon guns in
the farthest recesses of the world’s
oceans, but to the many who would
like to know that the oceans will one
day teem again with an abundance
and variety of whales.

All of this leads to how we think
about whales and birds and tigers
and elephants . . . and ourselves. We
began by touching on Sakyo Komat-
su’s ecstatic reaction to the whale’s
song. The same sounds were also
heard in August, 1970, by a gentle-
man who heads one of Japan’s three
whaling ﬁrms. He, too, was pleas-
antly surprised by the range and
variety of the whale’s song. Indeed,
he said that he would play the whale
record at the next meeting of the
executives of the whaling industry.

And yet, this gentleman, who has
been a chief interpreter of the in-
terests of the Japanese whaling in-
dustry to the Japanese government
for more than a decade, continues to
puzzle me. He is known as the rank-
ing bird conservationist in the
Orient, and he helped to draft the
treaty between Japan and the United
States governing the protection of
150 bird species that migrate be-
tween our two countries. I asked him
how he squared being such a strong
advocate for bird protection with
his role in Japanese whaling.

He separates the two pursuits, yet
we may hope that other whaling na-
tions join the United States and
Mexico to protect Leviathan— and
prolong its song. El

 

 

 

Biographical note: Scott McVay, a
resident of Princeton, N .J ., is Chair-
man of the Committee on Whales 0f
the Environmental Defense Fund.
The opinions expressed herein are
not necessarily the same as those
held by Air Publications, Inc. or
Northwest Airlines.




PASSAGES’ CREATIVE COMPETITION NO. 5

Contestants are invited to submit one-sentence
summaries of books whose titles are well-known

idioms, phrases, adages, or other book titles,
which contain at least one homonym.

For example:

Rites of Spring — The collected
works of Samson Spring.

Ides of March—~Dr. F. F. March’s
invaluable compendium of binary
compounds, sulfides, bromides,
chlorides, etc.

A Child’s Christmas in Wales —
The tragic saga of a young boy

, J

"WV

“ A, A I 5, -¢.“ ' . v“ ‘1,’:,';' I ' ‘py'j‘ ;. ‘— g 5
eaten by a school of whales on aggggomgexgﬁmimw;a;;;;,;777//////,,7ﬂ,.a.,;,,,,,;,v.;,o.,w- 44.54% Kala/g},

December 25.

Writers of the three best entries will receive as
a prize the 1972 edition of TheEncyclopaedia
Britannica Book Of The Year. Five runners—up
will receive a free year’s subscription to Pas-
sages.

 
  

 
 
 
 
  
       
      

\ \ \ \ ‘ \ \ \ \
m \ \\\ ,,_,,.,;,;;:.;;:; -~.. .. .
\ / '1’""""""”"I;’I;’""1“ 3.:393.” , 'n' v,“ ‘ \
' I 1 "' " ’ I ‘ -"~‘.\ \ ‘2‘,“ 1 'v
.. ty‘ls‘ﬂbu i: ‘ ‘~' *“t‘f .
\ ‘ &.6‘ ....~;.~‘;,./ ~:miwﬂé’glggégfgoﬁ§§g
{£0101 /

A "/1, y"
>\\\«'« -‘~w. .. W°’%%.\\W'.

‘‘‘‘‘ _4

Send entries to:

Contest Editor

Passages Magazine

420 Lexington Avenue

New York, New York 10017

 

RESULTS OF CREATIVE COMPETITION NO. 3

Readers submitted ideas for children’s play-
grounds in Creative Competition No. 3. The
ﬁrst prize was The Young Children’s Encyclo-
paedia, published by Encyclopaedia Britannica,
Inc. Runners-up were awarded a free year’s
subscription to Passages. Picking a winner was
difﬁcult, but we opted for a group of entries
from a group of playground experts—the young
students of the Advancement School in New
Orleans. Something tells us that most of them
were drawing more than playgrounds— they
were coloring dreams . . .

First Prize Winners:

Andy Arceneaux, Steven Barrosse, Eric Baxter,
Jim Le Blanc, Robert Caffarel, Cathryn Clark,
Wade Evans, Nicky Galiarro, Robert Gautier, Don-
ald Hoffman, David Janssen, Nina La Rocco, Tom
Malby, Diane McCartey, Timothy Meliet, Dorothy
Mills, Cindy Paternostro, Don Rappald, Julie Rob-
inson, Robert Ropacz, Andre Royes, Wesley Ryn-
iker, Steven Sibille, Susan Springer, Jille Tarzetti,
Brenda Toups, Valerie Vincent, David Walters,
Kirby Wasson.

Runners-up:

James B. Keller, Westﬁeld Center, Ohio; Stephen
Knapp, Parma, Ohio; David Linstrum, Chicago,
Illinois.

Special Mention:

Lolo and Genya Kihlberg, two young travelers,
for the following poetic conception:

Earth, plants and nice clean sand with many
shells in. . . .We will be so glad if there is

a stream running through because we need water
for many games.

Also a place for ﬁre, close to the bench

for old people. They will teach us what ﬁre
is, how to handle it. They will tell us

things and listen to us when we are so

sorry. May we ask for more?

. . . big trees to sit under, where we can

build tree houses with scrap wood for our
playground. We will talk to the birds

in the trees.

Give it to us . . . please!

’15

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

t almost happened! The monu—
ment to George Washington in
our nation’s capital was originally in-
tended to depict him as a victorious
Caesar, astride a chariot with a
laurel leaf wreath crowning his
noble brow. ‘

Quite a picture —— Washington in
a Roman toga !

Compare that picture with the
existing Washington Monument and
its digniﬁed simplicity. Yet, even it
was once looked upon as an eyesore.

Despite the fact that the idea of
raising a monument to our ﬁrst pres—
ident was one of the resolutions set
forth by the Continental Congress in
1783,it took thirty-six years for the
idea to be realized.

Members of that incipient Con-
gress envisioned an imposing bronze
statue of Washington riding a horse
—- “in Roman dress, holding a fasces
in his right hand and his head en-
circled with a laurel wreath.”

Perhaps they were somewhat in-
ﬂuenced by Pierre L’Engant’s orig-
inal plans for the city of Washington,
in which he had designated a spot
between the Capitol building and the
Executive Mansion as the location
for “the equestrian ﬁgure of George
Washington.”

The project was abandoned. Per-

by Lucille Goodyear ET TU

 

   
  
   

haps it was difﬁcult for Congress to
accept the rather outlandish image
of Washington, the Emperor --—~ per-
haps the proposal was junked be—
cause of a lack of funds.

At the time of Washington’s death
in 1799, sorrow and patriotic feel-
ings prompted Congress to pass an
act for the construction of a ﬁtting
memorial mausoleum. However,
since funds were unavailable and the
statesmen could not agree on a suit—
able design, the resolution again bit
the dust.

Finally a group of dedicated citi-
zens, completely exasperated by Con—
gressional indecision, formed the
Washington National Monument So-
ciety and began to solicit private
funds for a million-dollar monument.

This was in 1833, thirty~four
years after Washington’s death I

The Society invited American
artists to submit suitable designs for
the proposed memorial. The winning
entry was classical and elaborate —-—
a decorated six—hundred foot obelisk

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A contest was held in 1833 to deter-
mine a suitable monument design.
The winning entry was distinctly
classical. Note our ﬁrst president, in
a chariot, spear in hand, holding the
reins of his ﬁerce steeds.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
    

WASHINGTON...?

 




 

emerging from a great;
' ‘ colonnaded building, topp‘

‘ chariot driving feur ﬁerCeshor
1 Poor 1Washington. !1 It looked.

«our 1.1g‘reat leader 1was1d00m1edi

W 3:1memorialized as a Roman WWc‘on'q
Again, it is not certain W
d1ssens10n or expense Was the ca

"“011'011'13‘1'111 ~ .ss. :f 1 {:1 1 1 ‘ .

 

' 13.3th this plan, too, was modlﬁed. It 1W 333'3‘WWWWW: '“W3
should be noted that this was the'WV

{introduction of the basic obelisk '

W V deSign.

The monument location originally” W ‘

W WdeSngnated by L’Engant Was a sod-‘1‘~1W“1‘W‘W

‘den marsh so the Society Obtaiﬁe‘d 3:.
W‘CO‘ngressional authorization fjor‘gau

thirty-acre site nearby. Despite the ~
‘ Society’s enthusiasm and good inten- 11
‘ tions, the subscription drive 'pro— V
3 gressed slowly, but enough-1 funds»
were ﬁnally collected to permit the
laying of a cornerstone on July 4, g
”1848. One of the attendants at the .11.
ceremony was Abraham Lincoln, in

his capacity as a member of the

1 House of Representatives. Little did j 1 1

he know that years later his memo-
rial would be located nearby. . W

The trowel employed for this oc-

casion was the same One George
Washington had used to lay the
cornerstone of the Capitol building
nearly ﬁfty— ﬁve years before. WW

In the next six years, subscription
funds totaled $300,000, and the men- ?
ument reached a height of 156 feet.“
Memorial stones for the monument ‘

‘ continued to arrive from all over the:

country and from distant parts of ‘ -3
the world. A block of Italianmarble 1 V
sent by Pope Pius IX was allegedly 1
stolen and destroyed by the “Know-V 3
Nothing” Party (an ultra-patriotic:
1 ﬂ organization dedicated to isolation-31 .,
ism). The indignation and contro- 1
versy sparked by this incident. caused V V
the ﬂow of funds to fall .off eVen V

more, and the enthusiasm of the

Monument Society began to dimin- j

1 ish. The building program eventually
came to a cemplete standstill.
In its unﬁnished state,
called the“ill-3-fated monument”;

it was

W W W '1 1 many people wagered that it would

many, this idea
VfaVor of an unadornedtobelisk

Foreseeing another round of de-

lays, the government took over the
monument prOJect in 1880 and the W
. construction was assumed to the W
‘. United States ArmyWWEngineers W
3V On December 6,1884 the tremen-.
V13_dous capstone (weighing 3,300
pounds) was set in place The Wash-“
WWingtOn Monument -—-— ﬁnally a ﬁtting“
33 tribute to the great statesman and
.Wmilitary leader -—- Was oﬂimally dedi-11
‘cated on February 21,1885
' Today, the monument is looked -
" upOn as an engineering success Built»
to the prOportions of the ancient .
"EgyptianObelisks, the shaft which ,
' rises roughly 555 feet, is appI‘OX1-3V3

 

mately ten times the area of the baSe

‘ (55 feet) and the walls at the bOttoIWn .

are ﬁfteen feet thick.

The shaft is topped by a marble ‘
pyramid, an aluminum cap and 144 V
1 «platinum-tipped lightnlng conduc-V

1301's.

. The foundation coirers an area of”
16 000 SQuare feet. Although the “
entire ediﬁce contains 90,854 tons of
V marble, granite and concrete, it has
settled less than two inches and its” ..
sway is less than one-eighth of an 3 3 3
' ‘ 11 and dominating Washington, D. C.
.. George Washington, a ROman con-W1
’ queror 3 33 V .1 V3
1..shudders~—-—-in relief! W W W [I]

inch in gale Winds

When Work was resumed on the. 1.
structure, the new Maryland marble,»

with which the remainder of the

mpletion To those 1an 3
‘ ‘ belisk be-33g .. W i V I11 .W 1.

: monument is faced was secured from33 W:W

3thIS stone came from a differen
‘ tratum and had weathered to113a 1f

ring” on the shaft 3 V V V
For the energetic, there is an 3

1 The Speedy elevator makes the ach
* 1:;i3n seventy seconds Gomg 1UP or do}

[VWVVVV‘Washington s most pro
~hmark,ga'nd1tine? mostpo ‘
attraction
foramic View of the c1ty

it offers the ’

There are eight observation Win

doWs, two on each Slde, located at th 3 ..
"500 foot level From these openings ‘ 'W 11191? WW
"one can see other major landmarks
inlétach direction1:1:1'1Tjo'ltheniorth,33.g 11 1:31.12}?
acress: the Ellipse is the White
W House across the Tidal ”BaSin to; 333.333

Memorial; the Mall and the Capitol I

,11can be viewed to the east 1. 3 3 V3
west are the stately Lincoln Memo-V W3 W W
1 rial and Arlington Cemetery ’1'

Appropriately enough, the monu-i

ment is surrounded by ﬁfty Ameri- 1W 3
Can ﬂags,represent1ng each state. ' ' ”3'3”
- These haVe had a permanent place-W ‘
ment SinCe WaShmgton s Birthday 3.
Win 1959. Prior to that date they were. 71 1 *~ 1 1'

displayed only on the Fourth of July ‘

W (for the annual ceremonies) and on 11
W'February 22 (Washington s Birth-1.11 '
“'day)

As the eye traWVels up to the top of»

the: White marble shaft, one is struck 11. 1‘
15byjthemajesty of this s1ymbolic1me1-V1.11V '
‘ morial. It istruly: a ﬁtting monument

toagreat man’sachievements. V
‘W It looms proudly. piercing the skiff

in Roman dress? One

 

and to the-*1 ,




  

’IB

. Eight years ago this month, Bobby
Baun, a rugged defenseman for the
Toronto Maple Leaf hockey team,
was carried from the ice on a
stretcher. Most athletes would have
accepted the fact that a broken ankle
was enough to suspend even the
lightest of physical activities, much-
less ice hockey. But, for Bobby Baun,
this was no ordinary game; it was a
Stanley Cup playoff. Requesting only
a shot of novocain to deaden the pain,
he gallantly returned to the action.
By the time he reappeared, the con-
test was deadlocked in a tense,
sudden-death overtime period. One
goal for either side would mean vic—
tory. There was Baun, playing his
usual spot on the Toronto rearguard.
Midway through the overtime ses-
sion, the puck slid out to him at the
blue line. He slapped his stick. Goal !
Despite the pain of a cracked bone,
Baun had not only played, but had
scored the Winning goal.

An injury also thrust former New
York Ranger coach, Lester Patrick,
into a most unusual situation.
Patrick’s Rangers were facing the
old Montreal Maroons in the 1928
playoffs, when the New York goalie,
Lorne Chabot, was hit so severely in
the eye that he was rendered uncon-
scious. Reserve goalies were a luxury
in those days, so Patrick was forced
to ask permission to recruit a spec-
tator, Alex Connell, of the Ottawa
Senators from the stands. When the
Montreal management refused to al-
low Connell to play, Patrick returned
to the gloomy Ranger dressing room
to inform his team of their plight.
To his surprise, Captain Frank
Boucher suggested that Patrick, al-
though long ago retired as a player,
ﬁll in as netminder. The venerable
coach protested vehemently, but he
had no other choice. So with their
white-haired coach tenuously guard-
ing their cage, the Rangers met the
Maroons. The New Yorkers, fearful
for Patrick, protected him as if he
were Humpty Dumpty and ﬁnally de-
feated Montreal, 2-1, on Boucher’s
overtime goal. The weary coach had
to be carried from the ice, but his in-
spirational play turned the tide for
New York as the Rangers went on
to capture the Stanley Cup from
Montreal.

The Stanley Cup Playoffs, the
National Hockey League’s contribu-
tion to the celebration of spring,
have delighted hockey fans with
some of the most exciting and bi-

zarre action in sports history. Each
April, the eight qualifying teams
battle each other in best-of—seven
series until a champion earns the
pleasure of drinking champagne
from the hallowed Cup of Lord Stan-
ley, who bought the heavy silver
trophy for ten pounds ($56) in 1899.
More often than not, the playoffs
have produced unusual achievements
by the likes of a Bobby Baun or
Lester Patrick, but it is also the fans,
sparked by ﬁerce team loyalty, who
exhibit extraordinary performances.

To understand the joy of hockey is
to understand the ﬁerce dedication
of hockey fans. Not only do they
boisterously support their favorite
squad, but they truly despise the
other teams. The National Hockey
League derives much of its ﬂavor
from such lovable madmen. When an
arena is packed with a crowd that
loves the good guys and hates the
bad, it is small wonder that such
spectacles as took place in New
York’s Madison Square Garden in
last year’s Stanley Cup playoffs are
not more numerous.

Late in a New York Ranger-
Toronto Maple Leaf game, the two
teams became embroiled in a brawl
that spread from player to player. In
the interest of teammate. preserva-
tion, both team benches emptied and
soon forty players were grappling
with an intensity rivaling only bar-
gain hunters at a January white sale.
Normally, goaltenders, who wear
molded plastic face masks, are under-
standably possessive about their ex-
pensive protective gear. But in the
melee, the Rangers’ Vic Hadfield
wrested the mask from the Toronto
goalie, Bernie Parent, and ﬂung it
into the stands. The fans, always in
quest of souvenirs, ﬂatly refused to
give it back. Parent is no fool; he
knows how fast the puck is shot at
the goal. Preferring the safety of the
bench to braving slap shots unpro-
tected, he more than encouraged
Jacques Plante to replace him as the
Maple Leaf netminder. It can be as-
sumed that Parent’s plastic mask
still adorns a fan’s mantlepiece,
somewhere in New York.

But for fan and player alike, the
most prized trophy of all is the Cup.
In most sports, the teams strive for
excellence in the regular season. Vic-
tory in subsequent playoffs (the ﬁrst
four ﬁnishers in each division enter
Cup playoffs) is just the whipped
cream that tops the dessert that was

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

earned during the season. A team
that loses the baseball World Series
can still look back with pride to win-
ning the league pennant. But in
hockey circles, the Stanley Cup is
regarded as the total bonanza. Last
year, the Boston Bruins tore through
the regular season with one of the
greatest teams ever assembled. They
shattered a bushelful of team and
individual records, but even Boston-
ians would admit that the Bruin ef-
fort was soured when the Montreal
Canadiens upset them in the opening
playoff series. In the aftermath, the
Boston scoring records lost much of
their sheen’when compared to
the Stanley Cup triumph of the
Canadiens.

This year, the Bruins again have to
be considered one of the favorites to
capture the Cup. Beyond having a
quality team, they have one of the
best advantages of all: perhaps the
most blustery home audience in the
league. The Bruins, who play a bash--
ing, hard-rock style of hockey, seem
to perform in direct proportion to
the decibel count in Boston Garden.
More than one Bruin opponent has
termed the Beantown arena “the
zoo.”

New York’s Rangers have waited
thirty-two frustrating years to
bring home hockey’s Holy Grail.
There is a good chance they will suc-
ceed this year and ﬁnally reward

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

USTRATION B BOB HANDVILLE

 

 

 

a. , 7 . .. .[, .,




 

fans who have been obsessively loyal
during the long wait. Despite having
one of the most talented squads for
the last six years, the Rangers have
fallen just short of their goal in a
manner similar to the way the Dallas
Cowboys ﬂirted with football’s cham-
pionship. Since this was the Cow-
boys’ year, perhaps it is the
Rangers’ turn to satisfy their quix-
otic fans.

When one thinks of h-ockey’s best,
the Montreal Canadiens must be in-
cluded. They always reach a frenzied
peak at playoff time, as they proved
last year when they rallied from
what had been, by Montreal stand-
ards, a mediocre third-place regular
season ﬁnish. They sprung rookie
goalie Ken Dryden, and, behind this
Cornell and McGill University law
student, the Flying Frenchmen
surged to their seventeenth Stanley
Cup last year. Again, Montreal must
be labeled one of the favorites.

Or how about the Chicago Black
Hawks? Few teams can boast of such
superstars as Bobby and Dennis
Hull, Stan Mikita, and Tony Espo-
sito. They also are a brutal force
that must be respected.

Jimmy the Creek, the Las Vegas
handicapper, would probably direct
the smart money to be wagered on
Boston, New York, Montreal, or Chi-
cago in this year’s Stanley Cup ﬁnals.
But history discourages any odds
making. Fourth-place teams from
either East or West Division have
the same chances as ﬁrst-place clubs.
The steady Toronto Maple Leafs or
the rebuilt Detroit Red Wings may
break through and fashion an upset.
Or maybe the ﬂedgling Minnesota
North Stars might beat the pack in
the West division playoffs and be-
come the ﬁrst expansion team to win
the Cup in the ﬁnals.

When the North Stars were cre-
ated, the Minnesota fans were a

hockey oddity — they applauded the
good plays of the opposition as well
as the home team’s heroics. This
cheering technique, though certainly
polite, was more suited to tennis
than hockey. Now, the crowds at
Minnesota’s Met Center are as ob-
sessively loyal and intimidating as
those at Boston Garden. And for
good reason. Spearheaded by a
stingy defense and two excellent
goalies, Cesare Maniag'o and the
grizzled veteran, Gump Worsley, the
North Stars have played winning,
hard-nosed hockey this year, to
the delight of their vociferous
supporters.

Whatever the outcome, the 1972
Stanley Cup playoffs are sure to ex-
cite even the most casual observer.
Pay close attention, whether you’re
a hockey buff or not. But be careful;
you may get as involved with the
excitement as the loyal Montreal
fan who once attended a playoff
game in Chicago.

While the Canadiens battled the
Black Hawks, the Cup itself was on
display in the Chicago stadium lob-
by. When Chicago pulled ahead, it
became apparent to the Canadien fan
that it was just a matter of time be-
fore his team was to be eliminated.
Although Montreal- was losing the
Cup on the ice, he took matters into
his own hands. He stalked out to the
lobby and broke into the showcase.
Struggling under the weight of the
150-pound chunk of silver, he was
all the way to the door before he was
halted by stadium guards. Naturally
they asked him where in blazes he
thought he was going with silver-
ware that belonged to the Chicago
Black Hawks.

He replied, “I am taking it back to
Montreal . . . where it belongs!”

Stanley Cup time is here; any-
thing can happen. But one thing is
certain — it won’t be dull. El

 

Lord
Stanley’s
Annual
Spring
Frolics

by Robert Boyles

 

 

 

  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 




 

 

 




%%%ém*%
Z% ﬂ/e/me a; nexus... eggemx

Americans arriving in the Philip-
pines immediately feel more at home
than anywhere else in Asia. Many of
the people speak English; they
belong to Christian churches (four-
ﬁfths Roman Catholic). They gener-
ally seem rather westernized, and
they eat hamburgers, hot dogs, ice
cream, and drink Coke.

But it doesn’t take long to discover
that the American presence has been
only the latest of several inﬂuences
in Philippine history, and in most
ways it has not been the strongest.
For example, the foundations of Fili-
pino cooking were laid by the Malays,
the Chinese, and the Spaniards. Fili-
pinos are Malays, related ethnically
to the people of Malaysia and Indo—
nesia just as their 7,000 islands
(about 400 permanently inhabited)
are related geographically. Their
spicing, their use of rice, coconut,
tropical fruits and vegetables, and
many of their cooking methods are
similar.

All Southeast Asian countries lean
heavily on two seasonings, garlic and
salty ﬁsh sauces. Garlic happens to
be the best bactericide in the human
diet, and in tropical lands with little
refrigeration it serves a healthy pur-
pose as well as an appetizing one.
Fish sauce comes in two forms: a
clear liquid, called patis in the Phil-

 

The savory delicacies pictured on the
plate were prepared at Philippine
Garden Restaurant in New York
City. The fortunate photographer is
about to consume (from top to bot-
tom) ukoy ( shrimp and beansprout
pattie in garlic sauce), tadyang
(Philippine spareribs), lumpia (egg
roll), and relyeno hipon (stuﬁ‘ed
shrimp).

PHOTO BY LEN JOSSEL

ippines, and a paste, bagoong, which
is made of either fermented shrimps
or ﬁsh. Bagoong is nearly 100 per-
cent protein. Both patis and bagoong
ﬁgure in the preparation of many
dishes, or they are added as season-
ings at the end, or used on the table
like salt.

The Chinese never came to the
Philippines in large numbers, but
they traded there for centuries be-
fore the Europeans arrived, and the
inﬂuence of their ancient cuisine is
obvious. They are responsible for the
Filipinos’ extensive use of soy sauce
(toyo), bean curd (tokua), bean
sprouts (togue), bitter melon (am-
palaya), noodles (pancit) and egg
rolls (lumpia). The Filipinos also
learned steam cooking from the
Chinese.

In 1542 the Spaniards named the
country Las Felipinas, after the In-
fante who became Felipe II. They
shipped in pigs, olives (and a conse-
quent taste for cooking in lard and
olive oil), sausages, chocolate (from
Mexico), and fancy pastries. They
also brought the habit of four meals
a day, including the late afternoon
Spanish “high tea” called the meri-
enda, followed by a very late dinner.
And most importantly, they intro-
duced the Christian religion that al-
lowed the Filipinos to eat pork, a
meat forbidden to the neighboring
Malays and Indonesians who are
mainly Moslems.

All of the Philippine Islands lie in
the tropics, where it is hot and humid
the year round. Various highland re-
gions offer a more bracing climate,
but they are sparsely populated.
Leading crops are rice, corn, coco-
nuts and sugar. The International

Food

 

 




 

Rice Research Institute at Los
Baﬁos, forty miles from Manila, is
the world’s leading center of research
on this vital cereal, which nourishes
more than half of mankind. New
strains of rice from the Philippines
are helping to make possible the
“Green Revolution” now sweeping
across South and Southeast Asia.

Chief among animals raised for
food are chickens, pigs, goats, and
cattle, both cows and water buffalo.
With cockﬁghts held in every large
village, there’s always a supply of
defeated rooster for the stew pot.
Innumerable varieties of ﬁsh and
shellﬁsh are brought up from the sur-
rounding waters, together with some
of the world’s choicest pearls — from
the Sulu Archipelago in the south —
and mother-of—pearl. Citrus and
tropical fruits abound. So does every
vegetable, whether Asian, European,
or American Indian by origin.

In addition to their strong afﬁnity
for the tastes of garlic, ﬁsh sauce,
and coconut milk, Filipinos are in—
clined to add a sour taste to many of
their dishes. They often do this with
vinegar, tamarind, papaya, or other
green fruits, a special sour cucum-
berlike fruit called kamias, and par-
ticularly with their small lime, the
kalamansz'. They squeeze fresh kala-
mansi juice on almost every meat
and vegetable the way the Italians
use fresh lemon.

Another distinguishing character-
istic is the propensity to combine two
major ingredients such as two meats
or meat and ﬁsh in one dish. It’s as
though» the Filipinos wish to blend
foods as they seem to have blended
cultures and races. This shows up in
the popular Adobong M anok at Baboy
(or simply Adobo) , which is a lead-
ing contender for the national dish.
It brings together chicken (manok)
and pork (baboy), ﬁrst marinated in
vinegar and garlic, then simmered
and browned in fat. The meats are
ﬁnally returned to their simmering
sauce, which may have other ingredi-

ents such as coconut milk, tomatoes,
and pineapple. Turmeric (dilao) is
used to create a yellow color, and
annatto (achnete) a red. (Filipinos
use annatto seeds and oil exactly as
Puerto Ricans do.) Adobo can also
be made with squid (pnsit) , shrimps,
pork alone, or chicken alone. But the
chicken-and-pork combination is the
most popular. Adobo is a dish for
traveling, inasmuch at it keeps well
and seems to taste even better re-
heated. It 'is nearly always served
with plain rice.

Another contender for national
dish honors, but one that you don’t
ﬁnd so readily as Adobo because res-
taurants consider it too common to
serve, is Kari-Kari. This is an oxtail
or beef and vegetable soup thickened
and ﬂavored with powdered toasted
rice and peanuts. The vegetables may
include sitaw ( a variety of cowpea)
or string beans, eggplant, radishes,
banana heart, as well as onions,
shallots, scallions, and garlic.

A third favorite is Pochero, the
Sunday-dinner stew of chicken, beef,
pork, sausage (any or all), and every
vegetable the family happens to have
or to like, including cooking bananas
and chickpeas. It is often accompa-
nied by a relish of mashed broiled
eggplant seasoned with garlic.

One more candidate is certainly
Sinigang, a soup of so many parts
that the name has come to stand for
any sort of mixture or mess. Essen-
tial ingredients besides meat or ﬁsh
and vegetables are sour fruits such
as kamias, tamarind, green mango
and guava.

A leader among the many addi-
tional showpiece dishes is Litsong
Baboy, which is roast suckling pig
stuffed with tamarind leaves and
served with a pork liver sauce. Other
popular creations are Rellenong
Manolo, boned roast chicken stuffed
with ground pork, sausage, and hard-
boiled eggs, and Maroon, a rolled
beefsteak with somewhat similar
stufﬁng. The taste for organ meats

is satisﬁed not only by liver sauce,
but with many a stew of innards,
particularly tripe (goto).

As elsewhere in the tropics the
variety of vegetables in the Philip-
pines is overwhelming. In addition,
green fruits are often cooked as
vegetables, as are edible ﬂowers such
as squash and banana blossoms, and
the pith of banana and coconut palms
(nbod). Baked or boiled sweet po-
tatoes are a popular poor man’s food,
while Camote Frito are crisp sweet
potato chips dusted with powdered
sugar.

When you want a snack away from
home you may stop at a pancitem’a
or noodle shop. Wheat egg noodles
are called pancz’t; rice noodles are
sotanghon. Snacks, both salty and
sweet, are supposedly the substance
of the late-afternoon merienda. How-
ever, when there are guests, this meal
sometimes becomes such a feast that
you may be served almost anything
except the plain boiled rice that de-
notes dinner. Among the sweets,
there will probably be glutinous rice
with coconut milk, and a favorite of
Spain, Flan or Leche Plan. I have
one recipe for 8 servings of this rich
egg custard made with 8 egg yolks,
another with 12 yolks, and a third
with 25! But in the last case it is
given the Spanish name, Tocino del
Cielo or heavenly lard. Meals are
sometimes ended more simply with a
white cheese (quesong puti) made
from the milk of the cambao,or
water buffalo.

When you need a refreshing cold
drink, try the slightly milky water
from a green coconut. Or the Philip-
pines’ sweet milk shake, Halo-Halo,
a nutritious liquid based on coconut
milk enriched according to fancy
with soft young coconut meat, pine-
apple cream, beans, and other bits of
fruit and vegetables. For drier pal-
ates there’s fermented palm sap
(tuba), or the Philippines’ superla-
tive San Miguel beer, one of the lead-
ing brews of the world. E]

 

 




 

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
   

Simply mail the
coupon below and we will
send you a fabulous 30-minute
cassette tape that will show you
how to turn cold prospects into hot
accounts with just one call!

By listening to “COLD CALL SELLING”
you’ll immediately learn the 5 strategies
that will help you close like a charm . . .
a powerful selling idea that will put you
in the driver’s seat on every cold call
you make . . a bold new approach for
planning a sales “attack”—in short, it
will give you tactics for sending your
sales income sky high!

THIS EXTRAORDINARY, FORTUNE-
BUILDING TAPE IS YOURS TO EX-
AMINE . . . FREE . . . FOR 15 DAYS.
IT WILL FIT ALL MAKES OF CAS-
SETTE PLAYERS . . . IN THE HOME,
CAR, OR OFFICE!

We want you to see and hear for yourself
how this initial tape of the SOUNDS OF
SELLING Series will add extra dollars to
your income. “COLD CALL SELLING”
tells you how to do it. And it doesn’t
beat around the bush. It shows you how
to plan the cold call attack . . how
to probe the prospect’s weak spot . . .
how to win the order! Try it without
charge. Then you’ll know how important
SOUNDS OF SELLING can be to you.

Just consider the benefits you receive
when you subscribe to the monthly
SOUNDS OF SELLING Series:

0 Every month you receive a 30-
minute tape packed with highly
effective sales-building ideas.
You’ll learn the secret for getting

the jump on competition . . . how
to sell in tough times . . . how to
overcome objections . . . how to

deal with secretaries and recep-
tionists . . . how to plan a sales
presentation . . . and many more
vital selling techniques!

0 Each tape is accompanied by a
helpful Manual. It tells you how
to get extra mileage from each
tape . . . how to use it for more

For Every Salesman Who Wants to Add
Thousands of Dollars to His Income!

Sounds of Sellin

Dramatic 30-Minute Cassette Tapes that Give You the

Equivalent of Years of Intensive Exposure to Every

“be it FREE

effective impact and top sales
results!

I The tapes fit all makes of cassette

players . . . they can be used in
the office, home or car . . . they
turn your travel time between

calls into productive learning ses-
sions!

Each Tape Covers More Ground Than
Months of Lectures!

Each of the 30-minute tapes is packed with
3-to-5 , minute segments that cover more
ground than months of lectures. Top sales-
men translate the latest discoveries by sales
psychologists . . . real-life enactments will
absorb your interest . . . show you what it
takes to become a really great salesman!

The “Problem-Solving Ser‘ies”——A New
Psychological Selling Tool!

Every month, you receive SALES MOTIVA-
TION . . . the fascinating handbook featur-
ing a unique system developed by the
behavioral scientists. Using the role-playing
approach, you are placed in situations that
challenge your selling abilities. Each problem.
has its own personalities and different charac—
ters that bring the sales to a critical point.
By using these handbooks, you’ll surely learn
how to handle all types of resistance!

Facet of Selling . . . PLUS a Revolutionary New
Monthly Series of Salesman’s Handbooks!
Try the First Tape—“COLD CALL SELLING”—

It Will Show. You How to Turn Cold Prospects
Into Veritable Goldmines . . .

...banl5T)ago

 

The cost for this incredible fortune-
building Series? Only $6.95 a month—
a small price, considering the vast in-
crease in earnings it will bring you!

But why not listen to a tape first—at no
obligation. Take up to 15 days to ex-
amine and use the ideas presented in
COLD CALL SELLING. Then decide
whether you want to continue the
Series. Simply mail the coupon today.

 

NATIONAL SALES DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE, Dept. A-6675-DZ
24 Rope Ferry Road, Waterford, Conn. 06385

Please send me the COLD CALL SELLING tape and begin my introductory subscrip-
tion to SOUNDS OF SELLING. I understand that if not satisﬁed, I may cancel my
order within 15 days simply by returning the initial tape. Otherwise, keep the program
coming each month at the low price of only $6.95 per month, plus a few cents for

postage and handling.
[:1 bill annually until cancelled

[3 bill quarterly until cancelled

 

 

 

 

 

Name Firm
Address E 33:32
City State Zip

(5041-034-ATV—0ﬁ-3)

 




 

  
  
 
    

  
 

"l|‘l

I
I
I

I
I ,
TAIPEI '.
I ,
I
I

 
   

/.
I. ‘

I

MANILA

 

, Routes Operated

.. .. ._ ._ __ Chinese Mainland Routes
Suspended ‘

 

. SEOUL
SHANGHAI

  

WTOKYO ~~ ..

J

.7. ' I
, .. OKINAWA

  
 
 

Q

 

 

 

FLIGHT NOTES

 

 

Hello. We're happy to have you flying
with us on Northwest Orient. There are
a few things we’d like you to know, par-
ticularly if you’re new to jet travel. The
bumping sounds you hear shortly after
takeoff and as you’re descending for a
landing are the wheels being raised and
lowered and the brakes being released.
While the plane is climbing to cruising
altitude, your ears may become tempo-
rarily stopped up because of the change
of air pressure. Swallowing or forcing a
yawn will relieve this. Don’t worry about
the weather. From the sophisticated in-
struments on the aircraft, your captain
knows what's ahead. He skirts unpleas-
ant weather.

Travelers Should Plan to Arrive at the
airport boarding gate at least 20 minutes
before the scheduled departure of a
domestic flight and at least 40 minutes
before the departure of an international
flight. Under normal conditions North-

 

west Orient flights stay on schedule. A
last-minute passenger may be refused
passage if boarding will delay the flight
schedule.

Remember to Protect your return or
continuing reservation by calling the res-
ervations office at the boarding point
and confirming your ticket. For your own
convenience we suggest that you call
our reservation office and leave a
telephone number where you may be
reached.

Small Baggage may be carried on board
and placed under your seat. We recom-
mend this for fragile items. One garment
bag containing no more than two gar-
ments may be carried on board.

Enjoy a Cigarette? Go ahead, except
when the "No Smoking” sign is lighted
by the captain. But please, no cigars or
pipes. Do not use a "see-thru" cigarette
lighter in flight as it sometimes flares up
when lighted.

Enjoy a Drink? A variety of highballs
and cocktails is served by the stewardess
on most flights. Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration regulations provide that no
person may drink alcoholic beverages
aboard an airline flight unless they have
been served by the airline.

Mothers, we’re happy to have your chil-

 

dren aboard. We have standard baby
foods and other items for baby’s comfort.
Ask the stewardess. Thirsty tots may
have a choice of soft drinks.

Pets enjoy special handling. They may be
safely shipped in the cargo compartment.
They must be confined in approved con-
tainers, which may be purchased through
the Airlines. Arrangement should be
made in advance of your trip.

Some Electronic Devices, such as a
transistor radio, may interfere with the
navigation and communications equrp-
ment on the aircraft. Therefore, used
such devices is prohibited. This restric-
tion does not apply to portable vorce
recorders, hearing aids, heart pace-
makers, or electric shavers. Dictatlng
machines and tape recorders may be
used. '

Tickets-By-Mail service is available in
many of Northwest Orient Airlines” cuties.
Ask for this service when making your
reservations.

Local Transporation. In all cities sewed.
Northwest Orient has arranged with .m-
dependent operators for transportation
at reasonable rates between downtown
areas and the airports. At New York—
Newark, San Francisco-Oakland, LOS
Angeles and Washington, D.C., regularly

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

sr.rerensaunez\
' TAMPA
‘ . CLEABWATER

 

  

roar LAUDERDALE
MIAMI

  

 

 

 

 

scheduled helicopter/STOL airlines
make possible fast transportation be-
tween airports and downtown and sub-
urban areas. Connecting reservations
may be made at any NWA office. Air
tax: and commuter air carrier services
are'also available from members of the
National Air Transportation Conferences,
who operate between many major air-
ports and off-line destinations.

United States Customs regulations gov-
ern passengers entering the U. S. A. If
You are a U. S. citizen or alien whose
resrdence is in the U. 8., you are allowed
an exemption of $100 at retail value. To
qualify for this exemption you must have
been outside the US. at least 48 hours
and have not claimed such an exemption
wrthrn 30 days.

_ Non-residents can qualify for the $100
gift exemption if they remain in the U. S.
more than 72 hours and have not claimed
an exemption within six months.

Returning U. S. citizens and residents
may purchase and import into the U. S.
limited quantities of Chinese or Chinese-
type goods which 1) are carried as bag-
9396;.2) the total value does not exceed
$100 In any calendar month; 3) the pur-
chases are for personal use or gifts only.
not for resale; 4) payment is made in

 

foreign currency (U. S. currency) or by

travelers checks. The foregoing does not

laJpply to purchases mailed back to the
8

Anything manufactured in North Korea
may not be brought into the U. S.

Be certain to declare everything ac-

quired abroad, including personal effects
which have been worn or used. Families
traveling together may pool their exemp-
tions to apply on total value of all articles
declared.
Travel Bargains. All travel dreams are
possible. thanks to bargain fares. North-
west Orient has reduced jet fares, when-
ever a seat is available, for all young
people 12 through 21. The YOUTH FARE
PLAN is good in the continental U. S.
and applies all year around. To qualify,
young people must have a Youth Fare
identification card which they can pur-
chase from Northwest Orient for $3.

First Class and Tourist Family Plan
discounts are available from most North-
west Orient cities in the continental U. S.
and Canada. This bargain rate applies to
the spouse and children accompanying
a full-fare passenger. Discounts do.not
apply during periods 2 PM. to midnight
Friday or Sunday.

The budget Excursion Plan is for tour-

 

ist service only. The same travel periods
as on the Family Discount Plan apply
here. Also, you cannot return before
seven days (not including date of de-
parture), but you must return to your
point of origin within thirty days.

For details of the above travel bar-
gains, consult a Northwest Orient office.
Credit Plans: For the purchase of trans-
portation, Northwest honors 23 credit
cards including Northwest Air Credit
Card. Universal Air Travel Card, plus
American Express. BankAmericard,
Carte Blanche. Diner’s Club. Interbank
and Master Charge Cards.

Northwest's Air Credit Card is free,
and is good for travel anywhere in the
U. S., to Alaska, Hawaii and to the Orient.
Skyshop: If you do not find a copy of
the Northwest Orient Skyshop catalogue
in the seat back before you. please ask
the stewardess for a copy. Skyshop is
designed to provide our passengers with
an easy in-flight shopping program. The
catalogue contains an envelope ad-
dressed to the Skyshop and an order
form which presents quality merchandise
at competitive prices.

Please Take This Copy of Passages with
you...with our compliments. Have a
good trip.

 

 

 

 




 

Cassettes are the newest and most ad-
vanced way to dictate letters, make notes,
prepare speeches, learn a foreign language
or listen to your favorite music. They’re
compact, self contained and easy to use.
No fumbling, threading or winding. Simply
snap in an instant loading tape cartridge
and you’re ready for up to two hours of
recording and listening for business or
pleasure.

It’s no longer necessary to spend hun-
dreds of dollars for effective portable dic-
tating equipment. This Soundesign unit will
provide the same results at less than half
the price. And, it operates on batteries or
electrical current so you can use it almost
anywhere. It includes every important ac-
cessory for business, school, pleasure and
family use.

Why not order one or more today . . . for
yourself, your secretary and other members
of your company’s executive, sales and ad-
ministrative staff.

ONLY

including postage and handling

Test its superb performance and
outstanding versatility . . .
FREE for 15 days!

FLIGHT GIFTS, INC.
420 Lexington Ave.
New York, New York 10017

Gentlemen:

Please send me_____.__.__(quantity) Soundesign
Cassette Recorders. I understand I must be com-
pletely satisfied with their appearance and opera-'
tion or I may return the units, within 15 days of
receipt, for cancellation of all charges or refund
of my cash purchase.

I enclose $____________.($49.95 each Recorder)
Check or Money Order payable to Flight Gifts, Inc.

Professional features for perfect results

700 MW Power Output Separate VOLUME And
TONE Controls Precision Jack System
Battery/ Electric Operation Solid State

Circuitry 8 OHM 2%” Dynamic Speaker

Special Monitoring Jack Safety

Interlock Recording Button

Battery Condition Meter and
Recording Level Indicator

Full Keyboard

Cassette Controls ‘

th4op

Cassette

Loading And

Removal

Unlimited Uses . . .

Dictate anywhere, anytime,
even while traveling. Take on-the-spot notes;
practice speeches or sales presentations; record
verbal agreements, conferences or meetings.
Permanently capture both sides of telephone
conversations without background noise. Listen
to hundreds of “business” cassettes covering a
wide variety of educational and topical sub-
jects. Buy two, your secretary can be transcrib-
ing from one unit using the private earphone
while you continue to use the other for further
business applications.

Your children can use the
Soundesign Recorder at school for taking class-
room notes, practicing speeches, obtaining inter-
vrews or field reports; as well as corresponding
with you by cassette while they’re away.

. . At parties, banquets or other
festive occasuons . . . record it all on tape, then
play back later for enjoyment by family and

friends. Also enjoy your choice of professionally
recorded musrc cassettes.

— "51-7—21
Charge My: DAmerican Express El Diners Club

El Carte Blanche D Master Charge El BankAmericard

Account Number'
Name
Address

 

City ‘ State
Signature

 

(Charge purchases must be signed)

New York Residents Add Appropriate Sales Tax
Please allow three weeks for delivery

m“ .7... "“ mw*~m-.w~...m..,..,

Professional Type Carrying Case With 6
Built-in Accessory Compartment

AC Adapter For Power Conversron
To Ordinary Electrical Current

(SC-Minute Demonstration
And Practice Cassette

Radio Patch Cord

Private Listening Earphone
Telephone Pick-up

 




 

We“

u ”V
5%

, V ._',1'.;cus1n
‘sgs'Omething for e erybody
’drlda ‘ In fact, Mothers Day 1s

“Served“ at Jacksonville Beach with

x .Jx! }
1-21;

Z 351%“.

[A

'1
3;}. w

WWI"

, “wk

 

 




tion staged by the residents of the
Tampa/St. Petersburg area. Cele-
brants enjoy a parade, a band con-
cert, ﬁsh fries, athletic events and
booths offering many handcrafted
wares. Call 813-855-1226 for details.

Oh, to be in Los Angeles
Now that April’s there . . .

One of the reasons Henry VIII was
so fat was his predilection for Eng-
lish faire food. The porcine king,
were he alive today, would literally
quiver with delight at the prospect of
the 10th annual Renaissance Pleas-
ure Faire and Springtime Market,
which is scheduled for every weekend
in May in the Los Angeles area.
The annual pageant is an authen-
tic re—creation of English faires dur-
ing the reign of the Tudors. Los
Angeles craftsmen market olde Eng-
lish wares; traditional foods, saucy
and piquant enough to sate the appe-
tite of a Henry, are served. Fair
damsels hold court in kissing booths
as young gallants ﬁght to win their
favors. The works of Elizabethan

  

playwrights are performed by vari-
ous troupes. Strolling minstrels and
lutists abound, and a mad spirit of
revelry spices the proceedings.
Faire-goers are urged to attend
dressed in 16th century garb, and
costumed spectators who come to the

faire on horseback are admitted free-

Ye can ill afford to miss these
revels, so call 213-656-FAIR for di-
rections, costume information and
details.

On the move . . .

You are a problem. In fact, we all
become problems when society is
faced with the task of transporting
us eﬂ‘iciently and economically. There
have been some astounding theoreti-
cal as well as practical advances
in mass transportation during the
last decade. Many of them will be
subject to public scrutiny in the huge
exposition, Transpo 72, to be staged
at Dulles International Airport,
Washington, DC. from May 27
through June 4.

Authorized by Congress, sup-

 

 
  

bac
the

Rent a Chevy Vega, Buick Opel or
similar economy car. Pay only $5 a
day, 10¢ a mile, plus gas! Save up to
30% on full-size Chevy lmpalas and
other fine cars, too. Budget $5 cars
are available in most,but not a||,loca-
tions. Reservations are accepted on
minis, but not guaranteed. Prices may
vary and are subject to change with-
outnoﬁce.

For out-ot-town reservations and rates, almost anywhere in the U.S., Canada, British Isles,
Europe, Mexico, the Caribbean and South Africa, call our toll-tree reservation number:

Some areas require dialing 1-800-228-9650/in Nebraska, call 1-800-642-9910

When renting locally, see the Yellow Pages.

Bud ct brings

  
    

Budget

Rent a “all The Car Rental Servicepf
T ransamerica Corporatzon

Chevy Vega

© Budget Rent a Car Corp. of America 1971

  

 

ported by the president, and
produced by the Department of
Transportation, Transpo 72 will be
the largest international showcase
for transportation products, systems
and technology ever developed. Ex-
hibits, demonstrations, and displays
detailing advances in all modes of
transportation—land, sea, air and
space — are scheduled. Entertain-
ment will be provided daily by such
crack aerobatic teams as the Navy
Blue Angels, the Air Force Thunder-
birds, and the Army Golden
Knights; a truck rodeo is also
featured.

While visitors View the exhibits
and the daredevils, a number of
professional and technical symposia
will be staged in conjunction with
Transpo 72. Experts will discuss
such subjects as air and surface
transportation, electronics, meteorol-
ogy and air cargo.

Exposition planners expect over
one million people to attend Transpo
72, and ample food, parking, sanita-
tion, and medical facilities will be
provided.

So if you’re in Washington, DC.
around Memorial Day, drop into
Transpo 72. Find out how society is
solving the problem of moving you.

Furniture mart goes public

The public is about to get a long-
awaited look at the latest develop-
ments in the home furnishings ﬁeld.
Chicago’s American Furniture Mart,
which houses thousands of furniture
showrooms previously reserved for
retailers and industry buyers, has
opened its doors to the layman.

The Mart has scheduled consumer
education tours, with the cooperation
of hundreds of participating exhibi-
tors. Each tour comprises in-depth
visits to 6 showrooms, and 12 tours
are available each week.

The furniture in the Mart has
been arranged by some of the most
creative interior designers in the
business. Tourists are expected to
leave the Mart literally seething with
new ideas for their own homes.

The tours are scheduled on Mon-
day, Wednesday and Friday; admis-
sion is $1.00. More information may
be obtained from the Chicago Con-
vention and Tourism Bureau, 332 S.
Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois
60604. El

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

_..‘

 

 

AWhat a good time for all the good things of a Kent.

w Mild, smooth taste. King size or Deluxe 100’s.
And the exclusive Micronite filter

Kings: 17 mg.“tari'
1.0 mg. nicotine;

100's: 19 mg."tarf'
1.2 mg. nicotine

av. per cigarette,
FTC Report

- Aug.'71.

 




The problem with
most rent a car rates is
they’ re made for
rent a car companies.

Pe0ple rent cars for different reasons,
for different lengths of time, and to travel
different distances.

Most rent a car companies don’t take
this into account. They have a few standard
rates they try to ﬁt everyone into.

Having a few rates makes life simple
for them. But it can make life very expensive
for the people who rent from them.

At Hertz, we believe that the only fair
way to rent cars is to rent them at rates that
relate to how people actually use cars.

And we do just that.

Our regular daily rate.

Our daily rate can vary from place
to place. But it always includes gas. In fact,
many times we cost no more than the so-
called bargain places.

>"Our weekend and holiday rates.

For $11.47 a day and 7¢ a mile, we’ll
rent you a car from Friday noon to
Monday noon, or certain holidays (2-day
minimum).

* Our weekly rates.

The $11. 47 rate applies here as well.

It’s good for 7 or more consecutive days.

>"Our new pay-nothing-per-mile rates.
If you’re driving a long distance for
4 days or more these rates can save you
money over our regular rates. You can drive
all the miles you want without paying a
mileage charge. For 4 days, it’s $75; for
more days, it’s more.

© HERTZ SYSTEM, INC., 1972

If you rent a Pinto you can get this deal
for a minimum of one week for only $79.

All we ask with these rates is that you
return the car where you rented it.

*Our $7.47 Pinto rate.

Our Pinto rate is our least expensive
day rate. For only $7.47 a day plus 11¢ a mile,
you can rent one any day of the week for as
many days as you want.

*Our special situation rates.
We have special commuter rates.
We have a special airport rate that lets you
pick up the car in the suburbs and drop it at
the airport. We even have a rate for a car if
your own car is stolen.

*Our special rates are not available at
all Hertz ofﬁces. They apply to good clean
Ford Galaxies, Torinos or similar sedans
(except the Pinto rates, which apply to
Pintos). Gas is not included.

Should you like more details, call your
travel agent. Or call us. Our Hertz girls will

be perfectly happy to take the time
to ﬁgure out the lowest rate for you.
After all, we don’t expect

that every time you rent a car
you’ll know which rate is ~
best for you. But we d

expect that when

you get 0E this

plane you’ll

know which rent

a car company is.

 




00'. 8‘, (971

 

 

 

The anatomy of social progress.
whether reforming the scandalous
meat ~1p1cl<i n., 1 industry (“The Jungle”
by Upton Sinclair) at, the turn of the
century or the production of ever
nore powerful automobiles (“Unsafe
at Any Speed” by Ralph Na o‘er) or
the reoulation of pesticide use
(“Silent Spring” by Ylacliel Carson)
in our time, usually requires a. strong
external push to the industry. In this
respect the. practices of commercial
Whalers are not too different from un’
.anitarv m 1.11—p..cl\1n,, the manufac—
ture of unsafe cars or the unchet .lﬁitl
use of deadly pesticides. .1.iost..1..1al
reform, unfortunately, seldom occurs
spontaneously within an industry. A
presistent external prod seems neces-
sary.

The whitcw ashed version of the re-
cent history oft he International Whal—
int; (‘0 ommis; ion reported in theie
pCfIC‘h t" 'V‘vlJﬁl ‘31“.th it, ‘1 Lxuxutii‘h ')' 1” JL
month requires a reply ‘.‘.’e do not yet

now whether the few remainin2,r
whale species tl. ' it are still hunted will
have. the same deninyz is the rare blue,
humpback, box-.head and righ t. whales.
We do know that. the tragic pattern of

the past. 1; var. small he; in thn2 the in»
dustry will bee-1.1.11. chricl hed.’ the fact
that the International ‘2"halin5; Con:—
mission is fin;1 .llv taking some of its

 

 

regulatory duties seriously may be at-
tributed in part to the concern amen
scientists, writers and government of-

ficials in the U.S., Canada, Maxim,
~Europe, Jana. and the Soviet. Union.
And we hope tha recent. actions are
not, .10 y ars too late.

Let’s take a long View of what has
happened: Mechanized wiceran gir
predation is not recent. '1 he nioderii
phenomenon began in 1905 in the
Antarctic when the first harpoon was
fired into the first whale and has since
taken a toll of more than 2.01’)0,t)17(1
great whales. In the 192051., ’305 and

‘lec time-scale o
stoclzs of 1,1 we
produce your:

every two or three

understood.
{Jennies

heard. In the
scgentgsts with the commission tor

 

§ .

 

K205, concernetil critic-5’ voices weren’t
"a 1te IQSOs, however, two

omn

)omte
mismo pledged
“dull"; after

gave a de-
. r commen~

1+.

('31

n
(‘1‘:

I ”@245

 

dations. It was if; ioretl by the com: nis-
sion. In 1954, the scicntnrs I gain pro-
(3.7 11ted *mtlmbs and firm recon. nie nda—
tions. The commission bat lied. ‘.'lr
Rutxl, chai man of the (Oilﬁllle'l
scientific co: .mit .‘(2c. thr. atencd to re-
Sign if the commission failed to tel. It
was, however, business as usual for a
while longer and Bond resig, net)“

The v.1haling commission was on ii .13
verge of collapse. For two successive
vca rs itl 13d ignored the scientific rec-
otn111e1.1.....on~ it. had pledged to ac-
cept. As the commission foundeied,
the killing went on with customary
efﬁciency.

Remington Kellogg; r611. ired, and his
successor as commissioner was J. L.
3‘.‘tc.1~11.vr1 the thor of last 11' .onth’s

rticle. Anotner year parsed \1L....,,
helped to orga: .ize :1 st LCl.1l 11. <eting
of the commission in \tay.19t35, to set
quotas Quotas were finally set that
we re-<luring a thrte~veai period—~40
be reduced to levels that work. end
the era of fintarctic hill quotas. The
blue and humpback whales, ravaged
by 50 years’ exploitmion. were finallv
listed as “protected” species. .

The timescale of destruction of the

By Scott" McVay

 

 

 

 

stocks of these marine mammals, who
produce young only one at a time ev-
ery two or three'years, must be under—
stood. They are not fish that can pro;
duce thousands of eggs and who have
the capacity to regenerate their num~
bers during a comparatively short
span of years. One must think of dec~
ades. the California ., ‘oy whale has
“come back ’from its deplete 1d st: 120 in
the 111111- «)2 through full protection
and now numbers 10,000 to 12,000.
However, the Korean graywtha-t
made the . annual 1,00th mile passage
130 the Arctic along the ot ther side. of
the I’aciiic-—-h as not come bacl

The “re-corn. accomplishments” of
the co ninission are very recent. indeed
and still short of the mark. The pres-
111i; quotas for the fin whole in the
Antarctic and North Pacific, for ex
ample, are not calculated to restore

that species, which has borne the

brunt ol tit—z. hunt 111cc ‘Et'dirl Var II
along with the sperm ‘21'2‘::1l2j2,l:112 to
keep it. depressed at: low levels. .l‘hese
stock's could produce a “1.1.1ximum
sustainable yield, ” if need.- ' bv a bun
gry world, of .15, 000 annually if the

whale-1's had been less rapacious and

 

shown some respect for the future. To-
day nothing short of a total ban of fin
whaling is sufficient, and even then it
will 'at .ke 30 to 40 years to allow the
fin whale stocks to grow to a pepula-
tion that: is one-half of the unexploited
state.

“Slowly but. surely the commission
dealt. with eacn problem in the Ant—
arctic . .” Very slowly indeed. The
“blue whale unit”—-~—an accounting
device whereby whales were slaugh—
tered irrespective of species and
counted up later (eg, one blue whale
unit equals two fin whales or six sei
whalesiw—survived until this year al-
though it. was viewed for more than a
decade by masoui‘ to men as an rm-
(‘ICh/‘()nt'£".'(.‘ hoax that ran count3r to
any rational regulation of quota by
species. Even in 1971, the Whalers
wiggled out: of abolishing the blue
whale unit by saying that the topic
was not on the agenda 90 days in ad—
#1112212.

Mr. Mc.Iugh writes, “Quickly, the
North Pacific whaling nations moved
to apply the experience gained in the
Antarctic.” He says that they
“avoided the blue whale by setting

 

which' n erovi'let'
now~and~ add- th m-'
the blue what e unit.
The exchange or observer
ingvvessels represents the
com ilisnment of the commi;
(late. 1 mhis action dr- serves re
even though it. vast omenssc ..
years ts ince 13.15211 .‘v’loscow ,1 and ap-
proved since 1963 without being
implemented. For without; observers
we cannot. know it protected species
are indeed protected or if other regu-
lotions are observe-cl.
l‘.f<'“11;1't1’s record of actiw 01> {30
tion 0 plncin gthe sea: 1\E.11sp(ci{
on the meningerc red list, thereby bar:
ring the unpora ation of whale products
into the U..,S is wet. known. He also
testified in J'uly. 1971 before a con~
.551” :lf‘tﬂ’ll Gill. 1..«".lu1s. 22"22 2.17:“. ‘2‘11‘22‘5 0p-
posed to the. 10 '. car" tnorrnorium on
wh 1aling which was subsequently ap-
proved unanimously b3. both 6138.211-
ate and the Home of fl: ,Jreontlotive
and became the policy of the US
’I‘l e U.S. view prevailed at: the

x
‘
I
At.

 

.a
. .301” A

Drawing by General Whale

'holm conference on the environ-
'Ihe first po.;itive result from

h iolm was, notably, the resolu—
ion 53 not ions calling for a 10 year
bin on whaling remembering the
havoc of half a century. During the 10-
yearo 1 period, the v. bales would be left
alone. except for behavior and pop~
ulation s.udies of the living whole.
The killing would stop.

.toc

IP16
'GC

1.
k
by

The whale has become a symbol of
our neglected earth, and today the.
protection of whales is too important
to be left to the few who prorit from
the hunt. The protection of whales has
become a planetary concern which
may prompt: the I..panese and Bush
stuns, who take five out of every six
win-ties, to put up their whaling irons
in a year or two and let them rust,
We must allow 11111 .e for healing, and
then the remaining whales, unmolest~
ed, may slowly replenish their num‘
bers over many gt'ttct‘ntlotw. 2:]

Mr. McVay, a. member of the
L" .S. a’gele atz'on to the unaling
commission, .eads tne Environ»

ontal Defence Fund’s effort to
conserve whales.

 

 

 

 




 

 

lCaIl

Scientist

E3
E
<

 

January-February 1973

Volume 61
Number 1

   
 

American Scientist Volume 61 Number 1 ’ jaluary-February 1973




Scott McVay

The bowhead whale (Balaena mysti-
cetus), as we tracked it through the
literature in preparation for our
expedition to the Arctic in May 1971,
became for us an elusive, almost
mythical creature. Basic data were
hard to come by. The bowhead’s
numbers were brought precariously
low long before the photograph re-
placed the lithograph. Also, living
whales have generally proved difﬁcult
subjects for the naturalist, marine
photographer, and bioacoustician;
and in the case of the bowhead the
inhospitable climate of the Arctic
presents added problems. The bow-
head, so named because of the great
bow of its head, is the only great whale
that resides year—around in the polar
seas, and it is found only in the Arctic.

Formerly with Princeton University, Scott McVay is
currently Executive Director of the Robert Sterling
Clark Foundation. He has led the Environmental
Defense Fund’s eﬁort to conserve whales and
served on the United States delegation to the Inter-
national Whaling Commission. Co-author of
“Songs ofHumpback Whales” (Science, Vol. 773,
7977), he has also published articles in Scientific
American, Natural History, Bulletin of
Atomic Scientists, National Parks, and
Audubon.

Mr. McVay organized an Arctic expedition to
study the bowhead whale in 7977 which included
Floyd E. Durham, a biologist who has worked on
the bowhead for a dozen years; M asakazu Konishi,
behaviorist, bioacoustician, and associate professor
of biology at Princeton; and Hugh Johnston,
ﬁlm-maker and photographer. Biologist Jack W.
Lentfer, a polar bear specialist, took many of the
whale slides when Johnston was ﬁlming, including
the cover photograph. The author gratefully ac—
knowledges the assistance of many Eskimo, including
Raymond T. Aguvluk, Sr., Homer Bodﬁsh, Alva
Nashoalook, Kenny Toovak, Walter Akpik, and
Peter Sovalik; the Naval Arctic Research Lab-
oratory at Pt. Barrow, Alaska, and its director,
John F. Schindler; and Edward Mitchell and
W. E. Schevill, who kindly commented on the
manuscript. Address: 4566 Province Line Road,
Princeton, NJ 08540.

Reprinted from AMERICAN SCIENTIST, Vol. 61, No.
Copyrlght © 1973 by The Society of the Sigma Xi

Stalking the Arctic Whale

The whaler’s target for more than three centuries, the bowhead
whale is today a rare and endangered species

{Eh akehi Peninsula

Figure 1. The route of the bowhead whales’
annual spring migration along the northwest
coast of Alaska between Pt. Hope and Pt.
Barrow. The whales proceed near the shore-
fast ice at a leisurely pace, in three runs, from
mid—April through the ﬁrst week in June.
Their migratory path after rounding Pt.
Barrow and heading eastward is not known.

In the absence of photographs of the
living whale, we began to piece to-
gether its appearance from diverse
descriptions. Charles Scammon wrote
in 1874, “The striking feature of the
animal is its ponderous head, forming,
as far as our observations— go, more
than one-third of the whole creature,
which is short, bulky, and bloated in
appearance” (p. 52). Indeed, the huge
triangular head held fascination as a
possible source of sounds somewhat
akin to the haunting repertoire of the
also beleaguered right whale (Eubalaena

A rt 1 it (jiiri'le

you
”w
mm“--"'"”‘

Seward Peninsula

In September and October. the whales re-
appear at Pt. Barrow and proceed southwest,
usually ahead of the sheet of ice advancing
across the Arctic ()cean somewhat
farther from shore than in the spring. Pre-
cisely where the whales go in the Chukchi
and Siberian Seas is yet to be mapped.

and

glacialis and E. (lustre/is), its closest
relative in the order Cetacea (Cum-
mings et al. 1972). \Ye were also not
unmindful of the better-known sounds
of the humpback whale (illegdptgm
noz'aeang/iae). another baleen whale of
about the same size. 45 to 50 feet:

Figure 2. The whale inhales a large draft Of
air after spouting. its ponderous head mostly
submerged. with ' only the blowholes (and
the oval top of its back» exposed. (Photo by
Jack \\'. Lentfer. \

1, Jan-Feb. 1973. pp. 24—37

 




'
Wu»

. 3,“

.. ' unf‘a’i I V

 




 

 

 

 

Figure 3. The origin of the common name
“bow” head does not derive from the double
are seen here at the surface, but rather from
the huge bow of the head, which is suggested
by the exposed crown and the submerged
iridescent outline of the front of the head on
the left. (Photo by Hugh Johnston.)

26 American Scientist, Volume 61

which have been found to fall into
long, predictable patterns or songs
(Payne and McVay 1971). The voice
of the bowhead has not yet been
recorded, although Aldrich (1889) left
a vivid description:

With bowhead-whales the cry is something
like the hoo-oo-oo of the. hoot-owl,
although longer drawn out, and more of a
humming sound than a hoot. Beginning on
F, the tone may rise to G, A, B, and
sometimes to C, before slanting back to F
again.

The bowhead, or Greenland or great
polar, whale was once so common

that it was known simply as The
Whale. It was pursued for over 300
years in Arctic waters with an in-
tensity that slackened periodically
only when its numbers were brought
too low to support a commercial
whale ﬁshery.'A1most all the major
European powers participated in a
slaughter which began in 1611, took
its largest catches in the seventeenth
century, and was abandoned ﬁnally in
1914 in the western Arctic. The peak
catch was in 1701, when 2,616
whales were taken by Dutch and
German Whalers (Scoresby 1820).

 

Today a rare and endangered species,
the bowhead is hunted only by the
Siberian Eskimo in April and October
and by the Alaskan Eskimo at Pt.
Hope, Wainwright, and Barrow in
April and May and at Barrow in
September and October. Under a
clause in the International Whaling
Convention, the Eskimo are per-
mitted to take what they can. In May
1970, the Eskimo at Barrow took
ﬁfteen bowheads using fairly modern
equipment, but, tragically, they have
often fatally wounded and lost per-
haps ﬁve times as many whales as
they actually capture. Maintaining

 

the harpoon-and-bomb equipment in
good order is a somewhat casual
affair, and their “buckshot” apprOaCh
to whaling is slowing the recovCW
of this long-besieged species.

The scientiﬁc objective. of our expedi—
tion was to make still photographs and
motion pictures of the bowhead whale
and to record its voice in the month
of May during its slow procession
along the northwest coast of Alaska.
On the day we arrived in BarroW,
330 miles within the Arctic Circle:
Via the 510-mile daily ﬂight from

 




 

 

 

 

Fairbanks, the sun did not set. It was
the ﬁrst full day of the midnight sun,
May 10, 1971, and we were able to
work around the clock as weather per-
mitted.

Captain Scoresby’s legacy

The creature we hoped to encounter
in order to initiate a study of its
behavior and communication is
shrouded by myth, hearsay, and
history. In seeking to pierce the cur-
tain between fact and fancy, one can
do no better than to read the extraor-
dinary two-volume work, An Account

known and described, that when any
species, not very familiar, comes under the
eye of the naturalist, he is often at a loss to
ﬁnd its place in any system of Cetology.
Besides, the drawings hitherto given of
many of the whale tribe are so unlike, and
so preposterous, that they tend rather to
mislead than to assist the practical zoolo-
gist. The mysticetus, or common whale,
for instance, is ﬁgured by our most respect-
able naturalists with the most extravagant
inconsistency [Vol. 1, pp. 446—47].

Of the bowhead Captain Scoresby said :

This valuable and interesting animal,
generally called The Whale by way of
eminence, is the object of our most im-

 

 

 

 

 

of the Arctic Regions, with a History and
Description of the Northern Whale-Fishery,
by William Scoresby, Jr., published in
Edinburgh in 1820. This work is a
clear-eyed and detailed account of the
bowhead whale and the ﬁshery it
sustained, and Captain Scoresby may
be expected to remain for a while the
reigning authority on Balaena mysticetus.

Scoresby’s words on the difﬁculty of
describing the whale family still apply
to the young science of cetology:

Indeed, the distinguishing characters of
many of the Cetacea are so imperfectly

portant commerce to the Polar Seas,——is
productive of more oil than any other of
the Cetacea, and, being less active, slower
in its motion, and more timid than any
other of the kind, of similar or nearly
similar magnitude, is more easily captured
[V0]. 1, p. 449-50].

With respect to size, Scoresby wrote:

Large as the size of the whale certainly is,
it has been much over-rated. . . . Of 322
individuals, in the capture of which I have
been personally concerned, no one, I
believe, exceeded 60 feet in length; and
the largest I ever measured was 58 feet,
from one extremity to the other, being one

Figure 4. Two views of the bowhead by
nineteenth-century whalers. Above, a drawing
of the skeleton from Charles Scammon’s
1874 book clearly shows the huge head. Below,
William Scoreby’s 1820 lithograph, which
includes a bowhead cub and a narwhal
whale.

1973 J anuary-February 27

 




  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
     

 

 

of the longest, to appearance, which I ever
saw [Vol. 1, p. 450—52].

While our interests were trained
strictly on the behavior of the living
whale, we had nonetheless to build on
and learn from those who have en-
countered this whale in both the re-
cent and deep past. Almost all trans-
actions to date between man and whale
have been by whalers, and for one
purpose only: to kill the whale. Until
large-scale efforts are mounted to
study the leviathan in his element for
weeks at a time and we have extensive
feedback from such studies, we will

Figure 5. This photograph was taken a
moment before the one on the cover. In
a brief sequence captured on ﬁlm, the two
vertical whales, almost belly-to-belly, rotated
counterclockwise in the water, following the
arc of the helicopter overhead. A distinguish-
ing feature of the mature bowhead is the
white “vest” on the front part of the lower
jaw, which can be seen on the cover photo-
graph at the beginning of the great curve of
the mouth. The “string of black beads”
visible on the whale to the left in the cover
photograph is a feature that varies from
whale to whale. Note that the white marking
characteristic of the ventral portion of the
rostrum also touches the dorsal aspect of
both whales in that photograph. (Photo by
Jack W. Lentfer.)

need to continue to draw on the knowl-
edge of those who have touched the
whale’s world, even in this one way.
Of all the whalers since Scoresby and
Melville, one listens especially closely
and gratefully to the Eskimo. They
are generous and candid about what
they know.

      

28 American Scientist, Volume 61

How do the Eskimo think of the
bowhead? To begin with, they have a
dozen names for it depending upon
size, sex, circumstance, and whom you
ask. Eskimo whaler Pete Sovalik said
that the names of the male whale,
from the young calf progressively to the
big male, are: minguachz'ak, kairalz’qrak,
kaimlik, kairalik rook, 03inguak nguvak.
For the female the progression is
ingutuk (a year or two old, the “best
food”), agvalz'k (female with calf),
ingutuvak (big female with “a trough
down her back where the water runs
both ways, forward and backward”);
A last kind of whale is the biggest

whale of all, the apsavak, which may be
either male or female. Pete told us
that it had “tough meat, little oil, and
was too hard to catch.”

Perhaps the most signiﬁcant remnant
of the Eskimo’s life as a hunter, who
for centuries drew his sustenance from
caribou, seal, polar bear, beluga
whale, musk ox, and ﬁsh, is the annual
hunt for the bowhead whale. Through-
out the long, dark, cold winter, every
able-bodied man thinks about ap-
proaching spring, when the frozen sea
cracks, opens here and there, and
leads and ponds appear, and the
whales begin to run. The ﬁrst of
three runs appears at Pt. Hope in
April as the whales head northeast
along the northwest coast of Alaska,
past Cape Lisburne, Pt. Lay, Icy
Cape, Wainwright, Pt. Franklin, Pt.
Barrow, and thence eastward, tra-
versing a path that is yet to be mapped
(see Fig. 1). They reappear at Pt.

Barrow in September at about the
same time as the pack ice that is
moving southward.

The Eskimo markedly prefer small
whales over large because their muk-tuk
(one inch of outer black-skin which
covers the blubber, see Fig. 9) and
meat are more tender and taste better.
Another reason is that it is hard to
haul the big ones up on the ice. The
highly prized muk—tuk’s local price is
from $1.25 to $2.00 a pound, by far
the choicest part of the Eskimo’s diet.
Whaling is an extremely serious busi-
ness. The captain of a whaling crew
has a considerable investment of be-
tween $1,500 and $2,000 in his
equipment—snowmobiles, umz'ak
(boat covered with the skins of six
to eight bearded seals, see Fig. 7),
weaponry, and tents, as well as food
for the crew. One whale would be
worth about $15,000, but most of the
meat is not sold. Besides economic
considerations, a large psychic return
is involved for the crew lucky enough
to land a whale. Taking a whale is
still the preeminent way to be a man.

While the largest whale that William
Scoresby captured was 58 feet, one of
the largest taken in recent years,
about which we were able to get a
ﬁrsthand description, was a 63-foot
whale taken by the Wainwright
whaling crew of Raymond T.
Aguvluk, Sr. He told us:

Homer [Bodﬁsh] was there with me the
day we shot that whale about a mile away
from our camp, up north alongside the ice.
Then we started chasing it. We had a ﬂoat
already attached to the whale, and when
we shot it again, the whale went down and
took the whole ﬂoat with him. We didn’t
know where he went. About twenty
minutes later, he came up. He went south
this time. We used seven bombs, and with
the last bomb we got him. The ﬂoat got
stuck underneath the ice so he couldn’t go
any place after that. We used three boats
with kickers [to drag the whale back], and
then we went and got all the people to help
us. We cut it up in four days. It took the
whole village—about three hundred
people. We started pulling him up by the
ﬁukes. We cut the head off because it was
too heavy for our block and tackle. You
know that a 63-ton whale is pretty hCaVY
[they ﬁgure a ton for every foot of whale]-
The whale was about nine feet from 6Y6 to
eye.

Another enormous whale, alleged
to have been 67 feet, was taken KW
Simeon Patkotak’s whaling crew in
the spring of 1970 at Barrow. Photo-

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

   

 

graphs and moving pictures exist
which tend to support the claim of its
size but are not deﬁnitive.

The whale’s features

The ﬁrst thing one wants to know
about an unfamiliar creature is what
it looks like. The ﬁne photographs
taken during our stay by ﬁlm-maker
Hugh Johnston and biologist Jack
Lentfer are, to the best of our knowl-
edge, the ﬁrst taken of this whale alive.
Reproductions of the earlier litho-
graphs that graced Scoresby’s and
Scammon’s books also help to give an
idea of the bowhead’s appearance
(see Fig. 4). With regard to many of
the speciﬁc features of the “corpus
delicti,” Scoresby’s comprehensive de-
scriptions (Vol. 1, p. 455 ff.) surpass
any of the sketchy notes of those before
and after him:

When the mouth is open, it presents a
cavity as large as a room, and capable of
containing a merchant-ship’s jollyboat,
full of men, being 6 or 8 feet wide, 10 or 12
feet high (in front), and 15 or 16 feet
long. . . . The tail, comprising, in a single
surface, 80 or 100 square feet, is a formid-
able instrument of motion and defence. Its
length is only 5 or 6 feet; but its width is 18
to 24 or 26 feet. Its position is horizontal.
In its form it is ﬂat and semi-lunar;
indented in the middle; the two lobes
somewhat pointed, and turned a little
backward. Its motions are rapid and uni-
versal; its strength immense.

The eyes are situated in the sides of the
head, about a foot obliquely above and
behind the angle of the mouth. They are
remarkably small in proportion to the bulk
of the animal’s body, being little larger
than those of an ox. The whale has no
external ear; nor can any oriﬁce for the
admission of sound be discovered until the
skin is removed. On the most elevated part
of the head, about 16 feet from the anterior
extremity of the jaw, are situated the blow-
holes, or spiracles; consisting of two
longitudinal apertures 6 or 8 inches in
length. These are the proper nostrils of the
whale. . . . A slight beard, consisting of a
few short scattered white hairs, surmounts
the anterior extremity of both jaws.

The male organ is a large ﬂexible member,
and is concealed in a longitudinal groove,
the external opening of which is 2 or 3 feet
in length. This member, in the dead
animal, is 8 or 10 feet in length, and about
6 inches in diameter at the root. It tapers to
a point, and is perforated throughout its
length by the urethra. . . . The skin of the
bOdy is slightly furrowed, like the water-
lines in coarse laid paper. . . . [The
blubber’s] thickness all round the body, is 8
0r 10 to 20 inches, varying in different

parts as well as in different individuals. . . .
A stout whale of sixty feet in length, is of
the enormous weight of seventy tons.

The experience of most interlopers
into the Eskimo’s whaling activity is
epitomized in a chapter titled “Wait-
ing for Whales” in Claire Fejes’s
(1966) book on the Eskimo at Pt.
Hope. Few of even the most curious
outsiders have the fortitude to with-
stand the long, long wait for whales. I
calculated while we waited at Walter
Akpikis whaling camp near Pt. Barrow
that, based‘on the statistics of the past
ten years, the odds of a whale’s being

 

struck and captured on any given day
during the six-week season by any
of the 50 whaling crews along the
entire coast was about 1 in 200. If you
consider a slightly expanded territory,
including not only the camp that is
putting up with your presence but also
the camp just to the north and the one
to the south, and the weather is good,
and the lead is open but not too wide,
the odds may dr0p to 1 in 50. But few
interlopers are willing to wait it out,
and heretofore the only photographs of
bowhead whales have been of dead
ones.

New techniques, for use away from
the whaling camps, are called for, and
we hope to implement them. The
difﬁculty is that although the whales
pass predictably close to the Pt. Hope
and Pt. Barrow land masses, which jut
far into the sea, very few other places
exist between these two extremities
along the coastline‘ where one may

    

quietly pursue the study of whales
away from the hunt. We now know of
a place where the whales gather in
April and, blocked by ice from moving
further north, cavort and disport
themselves. At remote Icy Cape we
would record for other eyes and ears
the things that until now live only in
legend. This place calls to mind a
passage from The Arctic Y ear (Freuchen
and Salomonsen 1958) :

Here [in Melville Bay] the ice is still
unbroken, so the [huge Greenland] Whales
have to halt their migration; but seemingly
they enjoy staying there, for they can be
seen playing with each other. It certainly is

Figure 6. The end of an unhurried “blow” of
a whale loaﬁng at the surface in a partly open
lead. (Photo by Jack W. Lentfer.)

a sight to see such an immense whale—
sixty or seventy tons or more—jumping
entirely out of the water, and what a
splash he makes when he comes down! The
same thing is true to the west in the Paciﬁc
[p. 179].

Eskimo perspective

After Hugh Johnston had obtained
some excellent motion-picture footage
from a helicopter of three separate
sightings of bowhead whales in; the
Barrow vicinity (to be described
later), the four members of our
expedition chartered a plane to travel
to Pt. Hope, 315 miles away. We were
not destined to visit Pt. Hope, how-

,ever. The blizzard which had begun

that morning, May 13, gathered in
intensity as we ﬂew south, and we did

1973 J anuary-February 29

l

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 




Figure 7. An

Johnston. )

 

Figure 9. An

 

addition to powerful psychologica

 

Eskimo crew sets out in an
umiak in pursuit of a whale. (Photo by Hugh

Eskimo slicing off a piece of
muk-tuk, considered a great delicacy. In

1 induce-

Figure 8. Good deﬁnition of the front of
the head of a bowhead whale. The jawline is
plainly visible in the white outline of the
front portion of the lower jaw. (Photo by
Jack W. Lentfer.)

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

macaw ....;.:»’/'t~:‘m‘:5“:<'5"~" ’1 , x“

ments, their taste for muk-tuk brings out
50 Eskimo whale crews every spring for the
6-week season. (Photo by Hugh Johnston.)

    
 
 
 
 
  
   
      
         
   
  

not spot any whales as we tried to
follow the edge of the ice. We put
down in Wainwright—9O miles south-
west of Barrowﬂbecause the winds
had reached 50 miles an hour and
weather reports indicated that con-
ditions were even worse around Cape
Lisburne and Pt. Hope. We could not
return to Barrow until the storm sub-
sided 24 hours later.

Our disappointment at that moment
could not have anticipated that we
would have the privilege of getting
to know a few of the friendly people
of Wainwright. It so happened that
our unexpected visit coincided with
the end of Dick Nelson’s stay there.
At this village he had gathered some
years earlier much of the material for
his book, Hunters 0f the N art/zem Ice, and
he had come back to Wainwright
expressly for the whale hunt. While the
snow swirled around our hut and
huskies occasionally yelped at pas-
sersby, Whalers Raymond T. Aguvluk,
Sr., and Homer Bodﬁsh shared some of
their experiences with us. Homer is
the grandson of Hartson Bodﬁsh, the
Yankee whaling captain who whaled
for thirty-one years in the Arctic and
in his dotage reminisced for a book,
Chasing the Bowhead.

In response to a question about
whether the whales are recovering
from their precarious situation of
ﬁfty years ago, when the last whal-
ing vessel to steam to the. Arctic
returned home “clean,” Raymond
replied, “Well, my grandfather and
my dad used to tell me that a long
time ago there were less whales than
now. The schools [of whales] that used
to come up [along the coast], they
almost killed them all off, those old-
time whalers. The whale is coming
back, I think, getting a little thicker.”

Raymond’s estimate of the current
population of bowhead whales in the
western Arctic is not far from that of
Durham’s. He ﬁgured that they now
number between a thousand and tWO
thousand whales but cautioned that
his estimate is rough and unsubstan-
tiated. The situation in the Canadian
Arctic, which may represent a discrete
population, is not known, but the
paucity of sightings suggests that the
Prognosis is bleaker and that the
marginal population there has failed
to recover during more than half a
century of no commercial whaling
(Mitchell, forthcoming).

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

  

Shades of Moby Dick were invoked
when Nelson told us that during a
prolonged period on the ice, where
they had been hunting whales without
success, they saw a “creamy-colored”
whale. It was seen through binoculars
about three—quarters of a mile away
near the end of the ﬁrst run of many
whales. Every time the whale rolled
to the surface to blow, Raymond’s
whaling crew saw that it had no
black pigment on its back or sides. It
was the only albino bowhead that the
men had seen, and the knowledge of
its existence provides an added incen-
tive for us to return to the Arctic.

 

Figure 10. Upon the approach of the heli-
copter, a grouping (6 + 8 + 3) of beluga,
or white, whales in a half-open lead forms a
momentary mosaic. Each small white whale
presents a diﬂ‘erent posture, turning on the
side or belly-up or diving shallowly, before
all retreat under the thin ice, where the out-
line of each was plainly visible from the air.
(Photo by Jack W. Lentfer.)

The whale’s voice

My primary impulse in mounting this
trip was to try to record the voice of
the bowhead whale. Heretofore only

one researcher claimed to have accom-
plished the feat and kindly left three
or four tapes behind at the Naval
Arctic Research Laboratory. With
the hindsight provided by Ray, Wat-
kins, and Burns’s 1969 paper, “The
Underwater Song of Erz'gnat/zus
(Bearded Seal),” we now know that
the sounds ascribed to the bowhead by
T. C. Poulter are none other than those
of the ubiquitous male Paciﬁc bearded
seal, whose slowly descending warbles
in springtime follow a predictable
sequence.

On our ﬁrst day of recording on the

shore—fast ice about four or ﬁve miles
due west of Pt. Barrow, Mark Konishi
and I obtained some ﬁne recordings
of this annual phenomenon. We had
dropped our hydrophone through a
crack in the ice to a depth of 80 feet,
and we picked up one very loud
bearded seal in the foreground and
others at varying distances. Also, we
picked up the sounds of every footstep
in the vicinity, described by a circle
with a radius of at least 100 yards,
through 6 or 7 feet of ice. The “crunch,
crunch, crunch” of anyone walking
was plainly audible through the

    
 
 

   

hydrophone, and it is not unreasonable
to assume that a marine mammal in
those waters, with highly sensitive
hearing, could hear such steps as well.

Raymond Aguvluk recalled, “Our
father used to tell us not to hit a sled
or anything else out there when the
whales were near. I’ve noted many
times that when the whales start
coming up that if somebody hits
something, the whales sink rapidly
from sight.”

Unsupported by contemporary physics
electronics,

and Scoresby wrote:

“The whale seems dull of hearing. A
noise in the air, such as that produced
by a person shouting, is not noticed by
it, though at the distance only of a

ship’s length; but a very slight
splashing in the water, in calm
weather, excites its attention, and

alarms it.” Scoresby could not have
known that the air-water interface is
nearly opaque to sound—less than one
one-hundredth of a signal passes
through—and his latter observation
would tend to support the hypothesis
that the bowhead, like other whales,
is keen of hearing. What Scoresby

    

1973 January-February 3 1

 




   
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
     
       
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
  
  
     
   

then ascribes to an acute sense of and spouts right in front of you, you
seeing may eventually be attributed to may see another spout further south .
an effective signaling system: “Whales at the same time that the ﬁrst whale
are observed to discover one another appeared.” He felt that this happened
in clear water, when under the surface, too often to be a mere coincidence.

at an amazing distance.” . _
- Homer said that most of the time one

Scoresby said that the whales “have does not see the whale’s ﬂukes. But
no voice.” Raymond recalled the when the pack ice is in and there is
time, however, when at least ten little open water, he has on occaSion
whales were playing, and he and his seen a whale ﬂip its ﬂukes back and ‘
companions heard the voice of one: forth as though waving other distant l
“It was just like a guitar playing whales on. About an hour or so later,
inside the water. It was so nice to he might see another whale come up , l,
hear it, just like a guitarist playing in the same place. (If signaling occurs
something. I don’t know how they do over distances between whales, our

 

. pd .\ ‘ I”
t
J- wt“ ,'.
“win" .
.‘W- J . -,

au-
ﬁgure 11' EWO thtltll: 1t7hl36llclgas iithigurf? it.” When asked if he had put his ear present information suggests that the
are seen enea C 1n 1 C as CY sur- t0 the ice or had ‘ . . . .' . -

face for air in small breathing holes. . listened through a link is acoustic and not usual in air.)

wooden paddle in the water, Raymond

' CC

3 ,Sald’ W? could hear th? sounds Of the whales’ ﬂukes, Scoresby wrote:
. Just standing there; they vibrated a
long ways. I have heard it only one Sometimes the whales throw themselves
time.” into a perpendicular posture, with their l

heads downward, and, rearing their tails on
Homer Bodﬁsh said that he has heard high in the air) beat the water With anUI 'i
whales making sort of a “whistling Violence. . . . The sea is thrown into foam, i‘
sound” and recalled: “When the ice is and the a” ﬁlled Wlth vapours; the Home, l

l

 

Close and the lead is narrow the in calm weather, is heard to a great
- ’ distance ' ' waves r0-
Whales W111 be two or three miles , and the concentric P

. . duced by the concussions on the water, are i
apart. If you are looking With the communicated abroad to a considerable ,

binoculars, when a whale comes up extent. Sometimes the whale shakes its 42‘

 

 

 

 

 

32 American Scientist, Volume 61




 

 

tremendous tail in the air, which, cracking
like a whip, resounds to the distance of two
or three miles [Vol. 1, p. 467—68].

Once when Johnston and I were on
the shore—fast ice ﬁve or six miles west
of Pt. Barrow, a whale spouted less
than 50 yards from the edge of the ice.
Then, not ten seconds later, the giant
ﬂukes were shimmering in the air.
We gasped, reached for our cameras,
and the whale was gone.

Behavioral notes

Raymond and Homer mentioned that
they regularly timed the intervals be-

tween the blows of a whale. In this
way they could predict when a whale
would reappear at the surface. The
capacity of a whale to hold its breath
depends upon its size. The time be-
neath the surface generally varies from
ten to twenty minutes, but excep-
tionally large whales appear at the
surface at half-hour intervals or longer.
The intervals between blows vary less
than a minute. Thus, Raymond and
Homer asserted, if a whale comes up
tWenty minutes after its. ﬁrst blow, the
Spacmg for successive blows will b6
twenty minutes.

 

 

Figure 12. A mother polar bear and two
large cubs. As Scoresby wrote, “This for-
midable animal is, among quadrupeds, the
sovereign of the arctic countries” (Vol. 1, p.
517). (Photo by,Hugh Johnston.)

    

 

 

 

 

On another occasion one of the
Naval Arctic Research Laboratory
pilots told us that the latter phase of
the bowhead’s southward migration
in September and October past the
Plover Islands and around Pt. Barrow,
as seen from the air, may be punctu-
ated by holes in the thickening ice
every 300 or 400 yards. The larger
whales seem to head south last,
lingering apparently as long as they
dare in the northern feeding grounds.
As Raymond put it, “When the ice is
in the way, the whale comes right up
and lets the young ice fall backwards.”

    

 

Figure 13. With the sun reﬂecting brightly off
thin ice, an intriguing transparent pattern
outlines the places where the belugas, hours
earlier, had apparently rested or dozed for
some time while a thin layer of ice formed
over their bodies. (Photo by Jack W. Lent-

fer.)

1973 January-February 33

  

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Floyd Durham said that the bowhead
is built as an ice-breaker. The cartilage
in the front of the head can withstand
the pressure of ramming the underside

of the ice. Also, the whale has no "

dorsal ﬁn to scrape against the ice. It
would be interesting to know to what
extent the last whales follow one
another in the waterholes that they
create during their southward mi—
gration.

It is generally assumed, perhaps not
correctly, that whales follow the leads
northward as they open up in the
spring (see Fig. 10). But an observation
by Walter Brunner, an assistant of
Jack Lentfer’s, on May 11, 1971,
would tend to conﬁrm old whalers’
impressions that the whales range
fairly freely under the ice between the
open water rather than just following
the leads the way a man follows a
highway. Brunner observed from a
helicopter a single whale under the ice
crossing a narrow lead of perhaps 25 to
30 feet. The ﬁrst third of the whale was
not seen as it was already under the
ice across the lead when spotted. The
helicopter was almost directly over-
head at an elevation of 200 to 300 feet.
The whale appeared deep brown in
color, and the water had a greenish
cast with a brown tinge. The brownish
appearance of the whale is not ex-
plained. The observation may have
lasted ﬁve seconds at most and was not
corroborated by others in the heli-
copter.

Barrow Whaler Pete Sovalik told us
about a strange bit of whale behavior
that he had witnessed twice, the ﬁrst
time in 1950 near Wainwright and
again in 1959 near Barrow. He said
that on both occasions he saw two big
bowhead whales—about eight feet
apart—lift another mature whale out
of the water and hold it crosswise in
air for ten to ﬁfteen minutes. In each
instance the whale on top lay as
though lifeless although very much
alive. When the whales are playing in
this way, Pete pointed out, they are
unwary and easy to approach be-
cause they are not paying much atten-
tion to the larger environment. No
courtship or mating behavior was ob-
served by Sovalik, as T. J. Walker
(1971) has suggested in a photograph
of three gray whales under somewhat
similar circumstances.

One of Raymond’s observations con-
cerns how a whale may travel

through the water, “I don’t know if

34 American Scientist, Volume 61

you’ll believe this, or you may know
it already, but the whale travels
bottom side up inside the water. He’ll
travel any place bottom side up.
When he starts coming up, just before
he hits the surface, he’ll turn right
over again, perhaps because whales
can look better from upside down
than they can from right side up.”

The bowhead has the longest baleen
in its mouth of any of the baleen
whales, and Scoresby has a good
account of feeding behavior:

When the whale feeds, it swims with
considerable velocity below the surface of
the sea, with its jaws widely extended. A
stream of water consequently enters its
capacious mouth, and along with it, large
quantities of water insects; the water
escapes again at the sides; but the food is
entangled and sifted, as it were, by the
whalebone, which, from its compact
arrangement, and the thick internal
covering of hair, does not allow a particle
the size of the smallest grain to escape [Vol.
1, p. 469].

Other Arctic whales

A seventy-two-year-old, former
whaling captain, Alva Nashoalook,
of Wainwright, had recollections of
whales and whaling dating from when
he was a young lad at Icy Cape. On
many occasions, he said, he had
seen a bowhead whale accompanied
by a large number of beluga whales
(Delphinapterus leucas). These small,
white, toothed whales found in Arctic
and subarctic waters range in size
from ten to twenty feet. The nature of
their association with the bowhead is
not clear.

On one of our helicopter ﬂights a
school of seventeen belugas was sighted
in a narrow lead (see Fig. 10), and as
the craft ﬂew closer all of them swam
under thin ice on one side of the lead
and stayed there. The belugas, clearly
visible through the ice, acted as
though they could not be seen. Then
a few of them put their heads out
through breathing holes, looking like
white-hooded choir boys. It was a
spectacular sight! (See Fig. 11.)

The entire area suggested that they
had spent some time there recently,
since the thin ice was dotted with the
double-domed outlines of where
many had apparently hung at the
surface for extended periods and ice
had formed in the shape of their
bodies (see Fig. 13). In examining

motion pictures of the scene later, we
seem to detect the presence of one
bowhead whale nearby at the be-
ginning of the sequence, a ﬁnding
which would suggest that Alva’s
recollections of one bowhead in the
company of many belugas may not be
apocryphal.

Raymond had told us that he has seen
belugas under thin ice, perhaps three
inches thick, come up to push the ice
just enough to breathe, without
breaking it, and then let the ice back
down. Thus, they would breathe in
the small space created between the
water and the ice. They, too, lack
dorsal ﬁns. Raymond said that occa-
sionally the whales break the ice.
Indeed, as previously indicated, bow-
head whales have been seen to come
crashing up through ice over a foot
thick to breathe.

Although whales other than the bow-
head and beluga are seen in Arctic
waters (the gray whale in summer, for
example), only one other species of the
whale family is found in those waters
the year around—the narwhal (Mon-
oa’on monoceros). While it was not our
good fortune to observe any of these
“unicorn whales,” which would have
been unusual in the Alaskan Arctic, I
recall one small narwhal that was in
captivity at the New York Aquarium
in 1969 for a few weeks before it died.
Since current research efforts on this
little toothed whale, which is 13 to 16
feet long at maturity, are of an inter-
mittent, occasional sort, we turn again
to the nineteenth-century Whalers for
basic information about this creature,
which is seen in the waters of northern
Canada in schools sometimes num-
bering up to 200 individuals.

Scammon wrote (p. 108), lifting the
last two sentences from Scoresby
(Vol. 1, p. 490) without attribution:

The remarkable peculiarity of the Narwhal
is its long, spiral, ivory tusk, which grows
from the left side of the inferior portion of
the upper-jaw, sometimes to a length of ten
feet or more. This tusk is generally covered
with a dark, greasy incrustation above,
while below and at the point it is kept
white by use. In addition to this external
“15k, peculiar to the male, there is another
on the right side of the head, about nine
inches long, imbedded in the skull. In
females, as well as young males, in which
the tooth does not appear externally, the
rudiments of two tusks are generally found
in the upper jaw. [See Fig. 4f]

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

While, the tusk may have something to
do with poking up food or males joust-
ing with one another, Melville’s com-

ment holds today, “What precise
purpose this ivory horn or lance an-
swers, it would be hard to say.”

One other member of the whale tribe
cannot go without mention because it
ﬁgures prominently in Eskimo legend
and experience. The killer whale
(Orcz'nus area) is found in the waters
along the northwest coast of Alaska
during part of the year. The male grows
to 30 feet in length and is readily dis-
cernible by a dorsal ﬁn that sticks up 4
or 5 feet vertically, in contrast to the
1- or 2- foot dorsal of the 15- to 18-foot
female. Both are known for their spec-
tacular white markings on the sides,
back, belly, and ﬂukes and the fact that
their diet includes seals and por-
poises of a size not dissimilar to man.

Raymond told us that he had never
taken a killer whale, or araluk in
Eskimo, “Our granddad told us not
to bother them at any time, because if
you bother them, they go after you
and turn your boat over. We just let
them go. we never hunt them.”
Thus, while the Eskimo have been
oriented for centuries to hunt for
every land and sea creature, the
killer whale. is not among the hunted.
Homer explained:

We are very superstitious about killer
whales up here. We know from our an-
cestors from way back that they once tried
to kill a whale like that, a killer whale, and
they hardly wounded it. It is known that
the whale capsized the boat and chewed up
both human beings who were in the boat.
It is said that these whales have a good
memory and even after many number of
years pass, they always know which human
being had been shooting at them.

While this kind of account recurs in
Eskimo legend, it is not otherwise
corroborated in the literature.

Twelve sightings

Let us now turn to our direct ob-
servations of the bowhead whale. The
most telling result of our efforts was
the ﬁlm footage that Hugh Johnston
took from a jet helicopter on May 10
and 11. Jack Lentfer said that in four
years near Barrow working on polar
bears from planes over the shore-fast
ice and drifting pack ice, he had
Sighted the rare bowhead whale only
tW0 or three times each season. For
that reason we feel fortunate to have

 

had a dozen sightings during the
course of our stay.

The ﬁrst sighting, at 11 :30 A.M. on
May 10, perhaps 5 miles west of
Barrow, was of three bowhead whales.
The helicopter circled the whales
slowly in a descending corkscrew
pattern down to an altitude of 100
feet. (The plane generates considerable
noise, but the sheer physical presence
of the mechanical bird drawing closer
and the powerful down draft of the
rotor blades are probably offensive to
the whales as well.) One whale was
“large” and two were of “medium”

 

 

Figure 14. The largest grouping of bowheads
observed was ﬁve whales. The three shown
here (one is submerged, another off-camera)
present an interesting study of form in
motion, milling brieﬂy at the surface before
diving. (Photo by Jack W. Lentfer.)

size. The large whale’s head was ex-
posed in air, and the yellow white
ventral markings were visible. It
seemed to lift its head out of the water
to look at the plane, and the glint of
its eye was distinctly seen. The angle
of the head to the water was esti-
mated at 45 to 60 degrees. The large
whale then slid back in the water,
smoothly, seeming not to use its tail
or ﬂippers, and left the area. It was
in the lead and to the right of the other
two whales. The submerged whales
were last seen moving in the direction
of nearby ice. The sighting was re-

corded with motion pictures and still.

photography.

    

 

Within half an hour of this sighting,
another whale was observed in a
“pond” in the shore-fast ice. It was
observed only brieﬂy before it dis-
appeared and was not photographed.
Some polar bears were seen that day,
and we learned that 91 percent of
those that are taken in Alaska are
killed by trophy hunters using air-
craft. Only 9 percent of the. 300
reported taken in 1970 were shot by
Alaskan natives. The trophy hunting
by itinerant “sportsmen” from air-
craft for these magniﬁcent creatures
(see Fig. 12), whose habitat spans
hundreds of miles of the Arctic sea in

 

 

Alaska and Canada, is usually done
by chasing the bear until it is ex-
hausted. This kind of killing, just for
the hide of the animal, was ﬁnally
outlawed in December 1972 in the
United States, in contrast to the Soviet
Union, where a ban on the killing of
polar bears was instituted in 1956 in
view of their declining numbers. '

On May 11, at midafternoon, one
whale was observed in a small spot of
open water, and another was seen in a
neighboring pond. On ﬂying closer
we saw that there were four whales,
ﬁve, as our ﬁlms later actually in-
dicated (see Fig. 14). Two were small,
two of medium size, and one large.
Initially just the crown of the large
whale was visible, which from a dis-
tance appeared not dissimilar to a
bearded seal; then the deﬁnitive double
hump came into View. Two of the
whales were seen to blow simul-

1973 J anuary-February 35

  

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 




 

 

taneously, and the exhaled air was
quickly blown away by the wind. The
helicopter circled three or four times
descending to about 100 feet. Two of
the whales, almost belly-to-belly, up-
right in the water, turned slowly
counterclockwise with the turning of
the helicopter, maintaining their posi-
tion in relation to one another (see
cover and Fig. 5).

The whales remained at the surface a
little longer, their huge mouths shut,
and then ﬁnally went down quietly.
The largest whale then stuck its head
out of water, exposing perhaps an
eighth of its body. A deﬁnite pattern
of black dots was seen on the lower
jaw, like a string of beads on a yellowish
white “vest.” One of the smaller
whales had a fairly uneven lighter
color, somewhat gray, on the throat.
The whales went down a second time,
but they were not out of sight because
the iridescent white vests shimmered
up through the water and the outline
of their bodies could be made out.
They did not dive deeply or go under
the ice but seemed to be meandering in
this pond before moving northward.
We came to expect a leisurely pace in
the movements of the bowhead whale.

The plane returned to the ﬁrst whale
and circled once or twice. The whale
broke the surface and then dis-
appeared. It went down without effort
and without exposing its flukes. We
returned to the ﬁve whales a quarter
mile away. They were still to be seen
but were swimming somewhat deeper.
At ﬁrst milling behavior was ob-
served, and then they moved off in
unison, their bodies parallel to one
another less than a body width apart.
Brunner’s observation, noted earlier,
occurred later in the day.

On our aborted flight to Pt. Hope on
May 13, our plane followed the edge of
the shore-fast ice, and we saw no
whales. Visibility was not good. On
our return to Barrow from Wain-
wright on May 14, we flew over the
open lead at an altitude of 400 feet at
150 miles per hour, and on four
occasions, beginning at 3:30 P.M.,
whales were sighted at 3- to 5-minute
intervals, between 20 and 50 miles
southwest of Barrow. The ﬁrst three
sightings were of two whales each,
the last was a solitary whale. In three
of the instances we circled back (a
very long circle compared to the tight
turns of a helicopter), slowing the

36 American Scientist, Volume 61

craft to 100 mph, but we were not
successful in picking up any of the
whales a second time.

All sightings except one found the
whales close to the shore ice, and the
exception was no more than 200 to
300 feet from the edge of the lead.
(Kenny Toovak on another occasion:
“Perhaps the whales ﬁnd the open
water dull compared to the edge of
the shore ice.”) Our observations were
restricted, it should be mentioned, to
the edge of the shore ice owing to the
speed and elevation of the plane and
our predetermined pattern of ﬂight.
The open lead appeared ﬁve miles
wide.

Upon returning to Barrow, we im-
mediately chartered a helicopter to
try to ﬁnd these whales and to put
down on the ice nearby in order to
record any sounds they might be
emitting. At 5:30 P.M. we ﬁnally
sighted two whales 25 miles southwest
of Barrow and from one to two miles
off the shore ice. They were not at the
surface, and visibility was only fair.
They were hard to photograph. The
whales were separated by perhaps
300 yards of water with the larger in
the lead. We put down on the nearest
ice but were not able to get a record-
mg.

On May 15, Durham, Johnston, and
I travelled out to the shore ice by
snow machine and sled and stayed
near Walter Akpik’s whaling camp
from 12:30 to 6:30 PM. Two solitary
whales had been seen in the morning.
We saw a large whale at 2:10 P.M.
about 250 yards off shore heading
northeast and slightly away from the
shore ice.’ I observed two blows. It
had a large crown (according to Alva
Nashoalook, the males have a big
crown and the females are more
level-headed) and large, rounded
back. It was observed during a 10- to
20—second period. Walter put out his
umiak and paddled toward the whale
with his crew, but he did not have a
chance to ﬁre a harpoon.

Another whale was sighted at 5:40
P.M., after it had passed camp,
travelling northeast—the last of our
twelve sightings. The current was
quite strong to the north throughout
the day. The whale was not seen for
long before it dove, presenting its
massive flukes to full view. Apparently
fluking-up is not often seen in the
course of the bowhead’s migration,

 

although it is not an uncommon sight
when their migration is blocked by
pack ice and they stay in an area.

How a whale dies

As we approach the end of this brief
note on our encounters with the bow-
head, once The Whale or “the
common whale,” but today one of
nature’s less celebrated, almost for-
gotten works, we would be remiss not
to recall an example of the strength of
its maternal affection, which was de-
scribed by Scoresby:

The maternal affection of the whale,
which, in other respects, is apparently a
stupid animal, is striking and interesting.
The cub, being insensible to danger, is
easily harpooned; when the tender attach-
ment of the mother is so manifested as not
unfrequently to bring it within the reach
of the Whalers. Hence, though a cub is of
little value, seldom producing above a ton
of oil, and often less, yet it is sometimes
struck as a snare for its mother. In this
case, she joins it at the surface of the water,
whenever it has occasion to rise for respira-
tion; encourages it to swim off; assists its
flight, by taking it under her ﬁn; and
seldom deserts it while life remains.

She is then dangerous to approach; but
affords frequent opportunities for attack.
She loses all regard for her own safety, in
anxiety for the preservation of her young ;—-
dashes through the midst of her enemies ;-—-
despises the danger that threatens her;—
and even voluntarily remains with her
offspring, after various attacks on herself
from the harpoons of the ﬁshers. In June
1811, one of my harpooners struck a
sucker, with the hope of its leading to the
capture of the mother. Presently she arose
close by the “fastboat”; and seizing the
young one, dragged about a hundred
fathoms of line out of the boat with re-
markable force and velocity. Again she
arose to the surface; darted furiously to
and fro; frequently stopped short, or
suddenly changed her direction, and gave
every possible intimation of extreme
agony.

For a length of time, she continued thus to
act, though closely pursued by the boats;
and, inspired with courage and resolution
by her concern for her offspring, seemed
regardless of the danger which surroundﬁd
her. At length, one of the boats approached
so near, that a harpoon was hove at her-
It hit, but did not attach itself. A second
harpoon was struck; this also failed to
penetrate: but a third was more effectual:
and held. Still she did not attempt to
escape; but allowed other boats to ap-
proach; 80 that, in a few minutes, three
more harpoons were fastened; and, in the

course of an hour afterwards, she was
killed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




U1

 

 

 

 

 

There is something extremely painful in
the destruction of a whale, when thus
evincing a degree of affectionate regard for
its offspring, that would do honour to the
superior intelligence of human beings; yet
the object of the adventure, the value of the
prize, the joy of the capture, cannot be
sacriﬁced to feelings of compassion [Vol. 1,
p. 471—72].

Because the death of the whale has
been the result of most of man’s en—
counters in the past and still is today in
many oceans of the world, we must
again look at this tragedy, knowing
that the romantic notions of whaling
are painfully out—of-date. The nine-
teenth-century Whalers could not have
envisioned the mechanized and en-
compassing slaughter of whales in this
century, and the death of a whale was
more plausible then than today. Yet
we need to be reminded, and Scoresby
tells us how a whale dies:

The average stay under water, of a
wounded whale, which steadily descends
after being struck, according to the most
usual conduct of the animal, is about 30
minutes. The longest stay I ever observed
was 56 minutes; but in shallow water, I
have been informed, it has sometimes been
known to remain an hour and a half at the
bottom after being struck, and yet has
returned to the surface alive. The greater
the velocity, the more considerable the
distance to which it descends, and the
longer the time it remains under water, so
much greater in proportion is the extent
of its exhaustion. and the consequent
facility of accomplishing its capture.

Immediately that it re-appears, the assist-
ing boats make for the place with their
utmost speed, and as they reach it, each
harpooner plunges his harpoon into its
back, to the amount of three, four, or more,
according to the size. of the whale, and the
nature of the situation. Most frequently,
however, it descends for a few minutes
after receiving the second harpoon, and
obliges the other boats to await its return to
the surface, before any further attack can
be made. It is afterwards actively plied
with lances, which are. thrust into its body,
aiming at its Vitals.

At length, when exhausted by numerous
wounds and the loss of blood. which ﬂows
from the huge animal in copious streams,
It indicates the approach of its dissolution,
by discharging from its ‘blow-holes,’ a
mlxture of blood along with the air and
tnucus which it usually expires, and ﬁnally
jets Of blood alone. The sea. to a great
eXtﬁnt around, is dyed with its blood, and
the ice, boats, and men are sometimes
Clrtinched with the same. Its track is
hkejVViSCE marked by a broad pellicle of oil.
Whlch exudes from its wounds. and appears
0n th€ surface of the sea. Its ﬁnal capture is

sometimes preceded by a convulsive and
energetic struggle, in which its tail, reared,
whirled, and Violently jerked in the air,
resounds to the distance of miles. In dying,
it turns on its back or on its side; which
joyful circumstance is announced by the
capturers with the striking of their ﬂags,
accompanied with three lively huzzas!
[Vol. 2, pp. 247—49].

Despite the long history of hunting the
bowhead whale, the study of its natural
history is still in its infancy. For
example, Scammon asserts in 1874:

We are convinced that there are two
varieties of Bowheads, which are found on
the same ground. The variation from the
animal above described is a bunch, or
sort of hump, present on the top of the
‘small,’ which is situated about six feet
forward of the ﬂukes, extending along the
top of the- back two to three feet, and in
some individuals rises in the highest place
about six inches. ‘Bunchbacks’

yielded a very large amount of bone in
proportion to yield of oil [pp. 60—61].

In a 1926 paper, Bailey and Hendee
reported a 16—month study of mam-
mals in northwestern Alaska in 1921
and 1922. With reference to the
question of two species of large Arctic
balaenids, they wrote: “There is a
small form of whale in Arctic waters
which has long been recognized by
Whalers and Eskimos alike but which,
zoologically speaking, appears to be
unknown. The Eskimos call this
animal ‘inito’ and insist there is no
mistaking it for the bowhead, or
‘ahkalook’.” Following a long de—
scription, they conclude: “The ‘inito’
then is a small, Arctic whale, which
somewhat resembles the bowhead. It
has a ﬂat head without the character-
istic ‘bow’ of the large whale; its jaw
bones and ribs are very hard; and the
whalebone is thin and light, gray in
color, and two and one-half feet, or
less in length.”

Durham is unconvinced that there are
two species. His ﬁndings suggest that a
considerable degree of individual vari-
ation occurs within the species. More
work must be done.

We did not return with the voice of
the bowhead on tape, although the
ﬁlm footage is part of a visual-sound
poem that we are assembling to
celebrate whales and thereby perhaps
assure them of longer life. We have
been brought a little nearer this
neglected whale than we could be
from even so eminent a book as
Scoresby’s, removed as it is in time,

place, and perspective; and our
chances next time of discovering what
sorts of sounds may emanate from
its preposterous head have been en-
hanced. We may yet hear the postu—
lated voice at a remote cape, away
from the whaling sites, and record its
repertoire. One of the challenges of the
Arctic in the spring, to get to know
the voice of the bowhead, if voice
there be, remains—only the urgency
of that challenge is sharpened by our
ﬁrst Visual encounters. We will return.

References

Aldrich, Herbert L. 1889. Arctic Alaska and
Siberia. Chicago: Rand, McNally, pp.
32—35.

Bailey, Alfred M., and Russell W. Hendee.
1926. Notes on the mammals of north-

western Alaska. Journal of Mammology 7(1):
26.

Bodﬁsh, Hartson. 1936. Chasing the Bowheaa'.
Cambridge: Harvard University Press.

Cummings, William C., James F. Fish, and
Paul 0. Thompson. 1972. Sound produc-
tion and other behavior of southern right
whales, Euhalena glacialis. Transactions of the
San Diego Society of Natural History 1/(1):
1—14.

Fejes, Claire. 1966. People of Noata/t. New
York: Alfred A. Knopf, Chap. 22

Freuchen, Peter, and Finn Salomonsen.
1958. The Arctic Year. New York: G. P.
Putnam’s Sons, p. 179.

Melville, Herman. 1851. Moby-Dick; or, The
Whale. New York: Harper & Brothers.

Mitchell, Edward. Forthcoming. Present
status of northwest Atlantic ﬁn and other
whale stocks. The Shenandoah Con-
ference. Cambridge: Harvard University
Press.

Nelson, Richard K. 1969. Hunters of the
Northern Ice. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.

Payne, Roger S., and Scott McVay. 1971.
Songs of humpback whales. Science 173:
585—97.

Ray, Carlton, William Watkins, and John
Burns. 1969. The underwater song of
Erignathus (bearded seal). Zoologica 54(2):
79—83.

Scammon, Charles M. 1874. The Marine
Mammals of the Northwestern Coast of North
America. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons.

Scoresby, William, Jr. 1820. An Account of
the Arctic Regions, with a History and Descrip-
tion of the Northern Whale-Fishery. Edin-
burgh: Archibald Constable.

Walker, Theodore J. 1971. The California
gray whale comes back. National Geographic
139(3):394ff.

1973 J anuary-February 37

 

 




 

 

K
Q
.i

TheGreer PorpOieeMassaa-eg +-

By SCOTT McVAY
PRINCETON, N. J.—Many of the
bounties of the sea have been tainted
by man’s profligate ways: mercury .in
swordfish, hepatitis virus in clams and
shrimp. Our tables have long been

graced with unblemished tuna, one of -

our children’s favorites. Now we learn

that our tuna is contaminated by the '

death of thousands of porpoises. How
come? Since the late 1950’s American
tuna fishermen have been capturing
tuna by setting their purse-seine nets
On schools of porpoises. . , ' '.

- ,Five major canneries and a number
of independent companies operate 132
vessels from southern California in
the tropical waters of the eastern
Pacific—twelve more vessels are under
construction. The fishermen first spot
a cluster of birds winging in and .out
of an area of great activity. Drawing
nearer, they sight the familiar porpoise
or dolphin fins, usually of the spotted
porpoise (Stelella graffmani) or the
“spinner porpoise” (Stenella longiros-
tris) which is known for its spectacu-
lar aerial gyrations. Upon closing in,
the tuna can be seen as a great dark
mass below the porpoises, where they
are also feeding on the smaller fish.
In high-powered skiffs the fishermen
round up the porpoises, which may
number up to 1,500, and attempt to
drive them into a tight circling school.
Then the half-mile long purse-seine is
set around the porpoises and the tuna
below. The circle is constricted as the
net is draWn together. Many- of the
porpoises panic, hit the net and drown.

In the early 1960’s nearly all the
porpoises entrapped .with the tuna in
the net died and were simply discarded
to. the sharks. The annual mortality
is estimated to have run to many
hundreds of thousands. For the last
few years, a technique called backing
down is permitting some three-quarters
of the porpoises to escape, but the
number that perish uselessly is still
' between two and three hundred thou-
sand annually.

Three papers -on this problem, writ-
ten in 1968, 1969 and 1970 by William
F. Perrin, a fishery biologist, caused
a minor stir, but it was not until the
. , , . ‘I M ‘.

c d I J- ”.9

. ., 5,; i...

.1 (4,.

 

‘ THE NEW YORK mass. soups}: MARCH 19:19”

n v' ,' )3 - l
i“. ”v: are“
.,. .. . .

(Jennifer Permit

. .11..

 

Despite the tuna fishermenisi—J-f ‘_
advanced methads", 200,000 to 1 1»
300,000 porpoises must .
perish "uselessin every year. 1

 

public ' Congressional hearings last!

July on the proposed International
Moratorium of Ten Years on the Kill-
ing of All Species of Whales that the
problem began to reach a sizable seg-
ment of the public domain.

Porpoises are small members of the
whale tribe. Thus, a revision in the
bill’s wording which now calls for a
ban on the intentional killing of whales
means that the passage of the legisla-
tion would exempt the American tuna
fishery on the basis that the killing
of porpoises in connection with catch-
ing tuna is accidental. -

_ Also, one of the most troublesome
problems facing the authors of the
legislation now before Congress to
ban the killing of all marine mammals
is how to deal with the tuna fishery.
Two of Mr. Perrin’s conclusions illu-
minate the gravity of the problem:.(l)
the ‘number of porpoises killed cur-
rently may exceed their reproductive
capacity. How will fishermen catch
tuna “if and when the porpoise dis-
appear?” (2) the structure of the catch
(number of males, females, juveniles)
resembles the catch of the Soviet por-
poise fishery in the Black Sea in 1963
and 1964—just before it collapsed.
Although various solutions ,_ have
been proposed: using gates for-releas-
ing porpoises from the net, or using a
small-mesh net that can supposedly be
dropped to greater effect, these pro-
posals have yet to be satisfactorily

'tested. Much still remains to be

learned about the behavior of por-
poises and tuna. Furthermore, the tuna
industry—which grosses hundreds of
million ‘of dollars annually—has re-
sponded sluggishly to Federal efforts
to reduce or eliminate

- e: - -.. .‘ _ ,_ ., _,. ‘E ., -a.e.ai'3

the porpoise

’ .
----.i "f ‘ ‘ [Vivi-h 5'
J

 

mortality. Most of the tuna Operators
have; answered requests for observers-
on their vesselsgrudgingly or bycom-
plete refusal. , . , g .. ..

one thing seems clear: efforts at '
research on, and regulation of, the
tuna industry are moving very slowly.
Aroused and informed public opinion
and Congressional reaction will not
permit the wanton slaughter of por-
poises and dolphins in the future as
in the past. If the tuna industry is'
interested in retaining a prime place
in the American home, it will have
to pursue with openness, due speed,-
and determination the resolution of a
problem that will require genuine co-
operation between fishermen and
scientists. Solutions must be found
in a matter of months, not years.

Scott McVay, an administrator at
Princeton University, leads the En-
vironmental Defense Fund’s effort to
conserve whales.

 

 

 




the steaming warmth. Everyone
present seemed related to, or at
least well acquainted with, everyone
else, so gossip flourished. Paul
could not follow the conversation,
but he strongly suspects that many
a chuckle was directed at his own
mannerisms and antics. They must
have furnished his hosts with an
ample fund of material for then
and future merriment around the
bubbling pot. His pronunciation of
Eskimo words seemed to amuse
them endlessly. But he soon found
that this also held for the slight de-
viations from “accepted speech” pe-
culiar to other communities, some
no farther away than Coral Harbor.
So there was no reason for him to
doubt his linguistic talents, which
are considerable.

Good fellowship comes readily in

that often desolate land. Indeed, it
is impossible to avoid it: you could
not survive. What modest shelter
you put up against the elements
throws you together in a physical
intimacy that renders claims to
privacy and barriers of language
meaningless. On this level, even on
a brief visit, you are drawn closer
into the community of all men.
When the trappings are gone, as
they are when life is lived that sim-
ply, your needs and joys are seen to
be much the same. You are part of
a family, part of the chance circle
men form against the danger and
cold outside.

As you ride back under the moon
toward lgloolik and ﬁrst see its
lights on the drifting snow that
moves over the arctic lands and
seas and islands, like a thin shroud

spun on the wind that blows for-
ever, you realize you are coming in
from far. And are not much closer
to home yet. The moon is a planet,
and you are riding another. The
earth? lgloolik might be a space
station. In spite of cosmonauts and
telecommunication, the earth seems
very big, Paul says.

I think I can see what he means.
It may be farther from Montreal to
Manila than from Montreal to lg-
loolik. I have not been to either, but
I feel sure that compared to trav-
eling to Igloolik—then on with
Tomasik Nutarareak to the flow
edge of Aukanerjuak—jetting to
Manila is a mere turn round a cor-
ner of our global village. A day’s
ride behind the fan hitch can take
us farther than any propulsion en-
gine. On earth, at any rate.

. NAmML “(WW
3799/. (€71

 




  can
lWlﬂlllﬂll
lune
tenure
  so wme

A these?

I]! seen McVﬂY

from the ocean uenlnsa
harmonious sinner reminds
his relentless eursuers .
lllﬂl the tales 0| name and
men are slraneew
interconnected

36

A hundred years ago, Herman
Melville asked “whether Leviathan
can long endure so wide a chase,
and so remorseless a havoc?” To-

ay, in more prosaic words, the
question remains: What would be
lost if the whales were gone from
the sea? Of what possible use are
Whales to men? Esthetics aside,
who cares if the whale goes the way
of the dinosaur?

These words sound terrible and
ominous to me; yet they represent
the thinking of many people, in-
cluding some of the men who set
the whale-kill quotas every June.
Few of these men have ever seen a
whale. Few of them had ever heard
a whale until biologist Roger
Payne, of the New York Zoological
Society and Rockefeller University,
played a recording at the close of
the ﬁnal session of the International
Whaling Commission meeting on
June 26, 1970, in London.

It was 2:00 P.M., and the com-
missioners were hungry. The chair-
man, Mr. I. Fujita, noting at the
outset of the ﬁnal plenary session
that business would have to be com-
pleted before lunch, pointed out
brightly that “hunger will expedite
our deliberations.” But some dele-
gates, notably the Japanese and So-
viets, lingered to listen to sounds
recorded at a depth of 250 fathoms
———the song of the humpback whale.
Spanning six octaves, it ﬁlled the
conference room at River Walk
House overlooking the Thames.

Henceforth,
annual deliberations will take on a
new dimension. These sounds have
already made a profound impres-
sion on the thousands of Americans
who recently heard them in New
York’s Philharmonic Hall, on tele-
vision, and on radio. The unex-
pected fact revealed by this record-
ing and many others, according to
the analysis by Dr. Payne and me,
is that the sounds often fall into
true song forms that are predictable
in broad outline.

the commissioners’

The humpback songs have cap-
tured the imagination of composers
and musicians. In a musical ballad
Pete Seeger wrote:

If we can save

Our singers in the sea

Perhaps there’s a chance

To save you and me.1
This thought, these words out right
to the heart of the matter.

The decimation of the antarctic
whale ﬁshery is a grizzly story. It
has been catalogued since 1920,
when the Bureau of International
Whaling Statistics in Sandefjord,
Norway, began recording every re-
ported whale kill by species, length,
sex, date, and place of death. Dur-
ing the 1960’s, the yield in barrels
of whale oil dropped ﬁvefold, from
more than 2 million barrels to less
than 400,000 in the 1969—70 sea-
son. The whalers might have taken
more than a million barrels year af-
ter year, indeﬁnitely. But their in-
satiability in the past two decades
has so ravished the stocks and so
decimated the large species that the
sustainable yield today is but a
shadow of what it could be if the
stocks had a chance to rebuild.

Last year, most of the world’s
Whale catch was taken by two na-
tions, the Soviet Union (43 per-

1“The Song of the World’s Last Whale,” by
Pete Seeger. © by Stormking Music, Inc., all
rights reserved, used by permission.

 

The humpback whale, wrote

Melville, “is the most gamesome

and light-hearted of all the
whales, making more gay foam
and white water generally

than any other of them.” Here
and on the following two pages,
the humpback breaches in the
Atlantic Ocean off Bermuda.

 




 

 




 




cent) and Japan (42 percent). The
remainder was taken by Peru (5.3
percent), South Africa (2.8 per-
cent), Norway (2.5 percent), Can-
ada (1.7 percent), Australia (1.4
percent), Spain (0.8 percent), and
the United States (0.5 percent).

The grim ﬁgures for the past sea-
son (1969—70) reflect the catch of
smaller and smaller whales in the
warm waters of lower and lower
latitudes. Twelve years ago, 65 per-
cent of the catch was taken in
antarctic waters south of 600 south
latitude. Last season, 89 percent of
the catch was taken between 400
and 600 south latitude. In the heart
of the antarctic ﬁshery, once the
most bountiful whaling ground on
earth and a seemingly endless re-
source, the harvest has dropped in
a dozen years from two-thirds of
the total catch to one-tenth.

In the age of sail more than a
century ago, when the whale hunt
was directed principally at two spe-
cies, the sperm and right whales,
and the old-time methods were no
match for the elusive and fast-swim-
ming blue and ﬁn whales, Melville
could assert with dreamy elo-
quence: “The whale-bone whales
can at last resort to their Polar cita-
dels, and diving under the ultimate
glassy barriers and walls there,
come up among icy ﬁelds and
Hoes; and in a charmed circle of
everlasting December, bid deﬁance
to all pursuit from man.”

Melville could not have envi-
sioned the rapacious efﬁciency of
modern whaling, which has all but
eliminated the rich antarctic ﬁsh-
ery. Today whales are hunted at
both ends of their migratory cycle
and, in the case of the sperm whale,
on the way to the southern grounds.

Victor Scheffer deﬂates any no-
tion of romance in the contempo-
rary whale chase:

“In man’s attempts to catch more
whales more cheaply, he has tried
to poison them with strychnine and
cyanide and curare. He has tried to
electrocute them. Spotters in air-
planes and helicopters now search
them out and report the position of
the herds to whaling vessels below.
The ships hunt them down by
ASDIC, the system that can feel the
whales in total darkness. A ‘whale-

4o

scaring machine’ frightens the
beasts into flight with ultrasound
and tires them so the hunter can
overtake them. What will be next?
Will the hunter cut a phonograph
record of the mating call of the
whale, or the cry of the calf for its
mother, and play back the sounds
beneath the bow of his ship? Will
the orbiting satellite speak through

space to tell the hunter where to
ﬁnd the last whale?”

n the past twenty-ﬁve years, 62,-
022 blue whales, at 85 feet and
more the largest mammals on earth,
and 15,025 humpbacks, perhaps the
most playful of the great whales,
have been taken in the Antarctic.
Never very abundant, both species
have been pushed to the edge of
life, but are now nominally pro-
tected. The ﬁnback is the next can-
didate for “commercial extinction,”
that is, when its numbers will have
been so reduced that it will no
longer be proﬁtable to send ex-
peditions to hunt them. The ﬁn-
back, a smaller cousin of the blue
whale, was second only to the
sperm whale in abundance. During
the past quarter-century, 444,262
ﬁnbacks were taken in the
Antarctic, more than half of them
from 1954 to 1962 when more than
27,000 ﬁnbacks were taken each
year. Their population is now esti-
mated at 67,000 to 75,000, one-
fourth of its original size. If the ex-
ploiters had shown restraint—if
they had learned the lesson of the
blue and humpback, had remem-
bered the slaughter of the rights
and bowhead in the last century—~
then the Antarctic could have
yielded 10,000 to 12,000 ﬁnbacks a
year down the long hungry road of
the future. Today the sustainable
yield is estimated at less than 3,000
ﬁnbacks.

These numbers, combined with
catch data, indicate the extreme
pressure on the ﬁnbacks and are an
indictment of the stewardship of the

International Whaling Commission.
The ravaged state of the whale
stocks presents an essentially non-
political problem that could be
eased enormously if the catch effort
was radically reduced to allow all
whale populations to rebuild. The
most desirable goal of all, a ten-
year moratorium—for tagging,
study, and population counts—-
seems beyond the capacities for co-
operation and restraint of the
nations present at the Interna-
tonal Whaling Convention meeting:
Argentina, Australia, Canada, En-
gland, France, Iceland, Japan, Nor-
way, Panama, South Africa, the So-
viet Union, and the United States.

With the stage set, we can better
appreciate what happened at the
22nd meeting of the International
Whaling Commission in London at
River Walk House, overlooking the
Thames, last June. The actions and
inactions of the commission can be
gauged by four items: (1) the
whale quotas set, (2) the sperm
whale, (3) the International Ob-
server Scheme, and (4) the action
by the U. S. Department of the In-
terior listing all great whale species
as endangered. ‘

As an observer to the meetings, I
would like to point out that while
the United States is involved in
whaling only marginally (it oper-
ates one small land station in Cali-
fornia) , the constructive inﬂuence of
the United States on the commis-
sion has been considerable. Dr. J.
Laurence McHugh, the United
States commissioner and vice-chair-
man of the commission, and Dr.
Douglas G. Chapman of the Center
for Quantitative Science at the Uni-

Conti‘nued on page 68

 

The tail of a humpback rises
above the ocean off Bermuda.
Scientists know these migratory
whales are near when they hear
whale songs on hydrophones
three miles off the island.

 




“Wk; Ly» q ‘

:Ah hﬂhlk _

A“ :N

ﬁﬁ‘im "

», ”WWW" «m

 




ﬂ

DINERS OF UNLIMITED

Animals that eat without mouths,
use chemistry and physics

to eliminate hauling food and
silken threads for silverware
ingenious methods of dining

not observable at the local cafeteria
or, for that matter, at the Waldorf

by Jean Craighead George

About five years ago I accepted
an invitation to the annual banquet
of the New York Zoological Society.
The dinner was to be held in the
Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf As-
toria, and I am one who likes the
pomp and circumstance that sur-
rounds man’s formal eating habits.
I arrived early on that snowy night,
eased my way through bedecked
guests” and took my seat beside an
elderly zoologist. We were the only
ones as yet at the table, so 1 com-
mented on the impressive stage set-
ting for the feast, the variety of
glasses, the silverware and china. 1
was promptly told the entire proce-

 




Ban leviathan long Endure 80 Wide 21 Chase? continued homage 40

 

versity of Washington, have in re-
cent years chaired the commission’s
two principal committees, the Tech-
nical (McHugh) and the Scientiﬁc
(Chapman).

In addition, the United States is
a major importer of whale oil and
whale products, making up roughly
one-ﬁfth of the world market.
Hopefully this market may be
closed if the whales can be kept on
the endangered species list pub-
lished by the Department of the In-
terior. Whatever the use of whale
products, whether for lipsticks or
lubricants, a satisfactory substitute
is available in every instance.

1. On the matter of quotas, the
Scientiﬁc Committee annually rec-
ommends that the blue-whale unit
be eliminated. Under this curious
and anachronistic arrangement one
blue-whale unit is equal to one blue
whale or two ﬁnbacks or two and a
half humpbacks or six sei whales.
Because it did not specify which
whales may be taken, the blue-
whale unit contributed to the col-
lapse of the antarctic ﬁshery. Again
this year the commission stuck by
the invidious blue-whale unit in the
Antarctic; in fact, the commission-
ers did not even raise the subject.
The Scientiﬁc Committee (with the
exception of the Japanese scien-
tists) generally concurred that the
sustainable yield for next season
was 2,600 ﬁnbacks and 5,000 sei
whales. The commission set a quota
of 2,700 blue-whale units, which
works out to be 27 percent more
than that recommended by the Sci-
entiﬁc Committee. Even recognizing
that Norway will probably not take
the 200 units assigned to her, the
quota does not allow any margin
for the stocks to recover and prob-
ably will cause further depletion.

1n the North Paciﬁc, the Scien-
tiﬁc Committee’s studies revealed
that the sustainable yield is 1,300
ﬁnbacks and 3,100 sei whales. The
commission set quotas of 1,308 for
the ﬁnbacks and 4,710 for the seis.
Worst of all, a fudge factor of 10
percent—reminiscent of the blue-
whale unit—was built into these
numbers, so that whatever the whal-
ers fail to catch of one species they
can take in the other.

2. Regarding the sperm whale,

68

the collapse of the antarctic ﬁshery
and the strain on the baleen whales
in the North Paciﬁc has meant
that the damage inﬂicted on sperm-
whale stocks—so far without any
quota whatsoever from the commis-

sion—has been intensiﬁed each
year. For more than twenty years
the number of sperm bulls caught
in the Antarctic has ranged between
2,500 and 7,000 annually, with
higher numbers killed earlier and

 

rough estimates.

The following great whales are ranked by their degree of rarity.
The ﬁrst group is protected. The second group is still hunted,
but the herds are rapidly being depleted. Population ﬁgures are

 

Bowhead

Right Whales

Humpback

Double spout, great curved jaw, bonnet; Eskimo
still take a few every May; its numbers
estimated at no more than a couple of dozen.

(2 species), so called because they were the
“right” ones to kill in the nineteenth century; slow
swimmers that ﬂoated after being harpooned;
double spout, curved jaw, bonnet, barnacles;

its numbers may be measured in dozens in a

few remote areas.

Largest animal on earth, splotchy exterior,
weighs as much as 1,500 men; its numbers have
dropped from perhaps 100,000 ﬁfty years ago

to fewer than 1,000.

Most boisterous, breaches frequently, long
flippers, unexplained knobs on head, great
singer; less abundant originally than the blue,
its numbers today are down to a few thousand.

Small rorqual, Korean stock not seen in years;
following 30 years protection, the California
stock has slowly recovered and now numbers

10,000- 1 2,000.

 

F inback

150,000.

 

Second largest of the baleen whales, fast
swimmer, asymmetrical white marking on
underside that overlaps right side of jaw;
its numbers are estimated at about 100,000
today against about 400,000 formerly.

Third largest baleen whale, six times smaller
than blue in terms of oil yield, its smaller,
less numerous cousin Bryde’s whale is also
pursued; its members are at least one-half of
what they were, 75,000 compared with perhaps

Only great toothed whale, square headed,
corrugated body, harem groupings, diagonal
spout, squid-eater, deep diver, found in all

the oceans; most abundant species but its
numbers are down to perhaps 250,000 from an
estimated 600,000.

 

 

 




MUSEUM
COURSES
50% fee re-
duction.
Saturday
workshops

for the young.

Lectures and
field trips for
the adults.

PARKING
COUPONS

A book of
parking cou-
pons for the
parking area
by day and
on lecture
nights. Regu-

lar rate: $1.75.

 

 

Help yourself

to as much as you need of
The American Museum of Natural History

NATURAL
HISTORY
the leading
magazine of
ecology—
spectacular
color! By
subscription
$7 a year
(10 issues).

NATURAL
HISTORY
the leading
magazine of
ecology—
spectacular
color! By
subscription
$7 a year
(10 issues).

 

PARKING
COUPONS

A book of
parking cou-
pons for the
parking area
by day and
on lecture
nights. Regu-
lar rate:$1.75.

 

NATURAL
HISTORY
the leading
magazine of
ecology—
spectacular
color! By
subscription
$7 a year
(10 issues).

Family Membership $20

TWO GIFT
BOOKS

(one in the
spring and
one in the
fall) chosen
for outstand-
ing writing In
the natural
sciences.

TWO GIFT
BOOKS

(one in the
spring and
one in the
fall) chosen
for outstand-
ing writing In
the natural
sciences.

 

SHOP
DISCOUNTS
10% on gifts
and replicas
by mail or
personal
shopping.
15% on
books (10%
on texts and
university

press books).
“I

DISCOUNTS
10% on gifts
and replicas
by mail or
personal
shopping.
15% on
books (10%
on texts and
university
press books).

i

 

FREE SKY
SHOWS

At the Hayden

Planetarium:
Three a year
for you, wife
and children
under 18 or
You and
friend.

At the Hayden
Planetarium:
Three a year
for you, wife
and children
under 18 or
you and
friend.

Donor Membership $50

TWO GIFT
BOOKS

(one in the
spring and
one in the
fall) chosen
for outstand-
ing writing in
the natural
sciences.

SHOP
DISCOUNTS
10% on gifts
and replicas
by mail or
personal
shopping.
150/0 on
books (10%
on texts and
university

press books).
h,

 

FREE SKY
SHOWS

At the Hayden
Planetarium:
Three a year
for you, wife
and children
under 18 or
you and
friend.

 

 

 

CHILDREN'S
HOURS
Saturdays:
Films and live
programs for
you, wife and
real or bor—
rowed chil-
dren. (No
admission
without a
child.)

Supporting Membership $30

CHILDREN'S
HOURS
Saturdays:
Films and live
programs for
you, wife and
real or bor-
rowed chil—
dren. (No
admission
without a
child.)

CHILDREN’S
HOURS 1
Saturdays:
Films and live
programs for
you, wife and
real or bor-
rowed chil—
dren. (No
admission
without a
child.)

 

 

EVENING
PROGRAMS
Thursday
evenings at
8:15. Experts
from diversi-
fied fields
give first-
hand reports.
Your card
admits you

and a guest. -

r

EVENING
PROGRAMS
Thursday
evenings at
8:15. Experts
from diversi-
fied fields
give first-
hand reports.
Your card
admits you
and a guest.

PREVIEW
PARTIES
Admission to
VIP preview
parties,
“behind the
scenes” tour,
two free tick-
ets to any
invitational
event

—--———-——------------—----—--—-------.

IF A PLACE TO PARK FREE in Midtown is all you’re looking for,
please don’t join our Museum. Our memberships are for people,
not cars . . . all sorts of pe0ple, who want to experience our 16-
million mammals, minerals, meteorites, jewels, insects, arachnids,
birds, fish, reptiles, amphibians, fossils, artifacts and rotifers . . .
Was there ever another such repository? Your membership extends
the Museum’s courtesies to the whole family—all the benefits
shown in each category above, with red carpet treatment whenever
you present the Membership card you’ll receive, including free
admission to special exhibits for you and your family or you and a
guest. A bi-monthly calendar to keep you posted on activities, ex-
hibitions, events. Closed only on Christmas and Thanksgiving. Sign
up now. The Sky Show begins in an hour! The gift shop is open!
A talk’s just beginning!

BILL ME LATER FOR MEMBERSHIP in the category checked
below.

[1] FAMILY MEMBERSHIP $20
Cl SUPPORTING MEMBERSHIP $30
DDONOR MEMBERSHIP $50

MR.
MRS.
MISS

ADDRESS

 

 

CITY STATE ZIP

TO SAVE THE BOTHER AND EXPENSE of billing, I enclose
my check now, made out to

The American Museum of Natural History.

Mail to: The American Museum of Natural History, '
Central Park West at 79th Street, New York. New York 10024.

69

 

.------------‘

 




14110914ltltltltiitIt)?*Ihtﬂﬂtihhtlﬂrlﬂriitiﬂdﬂhhhhhﬁr

ssssssssssssssssssss

‘k**************************

LEARN ASTRONOMY
AT HOME!

Two complete home-study
courses are now available for
Amateur Astronomers ——

o VISUAL ASTRONOMY
FOR BEGINNERS in IO lessons

0 TELESCOPIC ASTRONOMY
FOR ADVANCED STUDENTS

in I8 lessons

These courses are the first of their
kind offered anywhere. Clearly writ-
ten, professionally illustrated and
well organized for the busy sky-
watcher who wants to be taken by

the hand and taught individually by
a Professional Astronomer.

(Hoard Navigation ﬁrhnnl

SCHOOL OF ASTRONOMY
Dept. 6757 4I8 E. Canon Perdio
Santa Barbara, California 93IOI

Please send me School Brochure on
your Home Study Courses.

Name ........................... .
Address ......................... .
City .......................... . . .
State ................... Zip .....

Accredited by the
National Home Study Council

*************************

s*sss*sssssss*sssssssssssassssssssss»ssssssssssss*********

 

 

 

SPECIALIZED TOURS
— WORLDWIDE —

 

WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES—
NATIONAL PARKS
HIMALAYAN TOURS AND TREKS
TRIBAL LIFE AND
TRADITIONAL CULTURE
ART AND ARCHAEOLOGY TOURS

North and Central Russia, Georgia, Armenia

Soviet Central Asia, Siberia and Mongolia
India, Ceylon, Nepal and Sikkim

Australia, Indonesia, Malaysia and Burma
Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan
South West Africa
Mainland China Registration

DETAILED PROGRAMS FROM
TREASURE TOURS
Direct or through your Travel Agent.

TREASURE TOURS
INTERNATIONAL INC.
Est. 1924
Office of Academic Liaison
1010, St. Catherine W.,
Montreal 110, Canada

 

 

 

lower numbers recently. For ex-
ample, the peak was ﬁfteen years
ago when 6,974 sperm whales were
reported taken, a catch that pro-
duced 342,000 barrels of sperm oil.
During the 1969—70 season, 3,090
sperms were taken in the Antarctic
for a production of 125,000 barrels
of oil. The striking fact about these
ﬁgures is that they reﬂect a steady
decline in the yield in barrels of oil
per whale over the past ﬁfteen
years. The oil yield in the Antarctic
has dropped alarmingly, from 49
barrels per sperm whale to 40 bar-
rels. In a mere ﬁfteen years the
sperm whales are 18 percent
smaller. The pattern of predation
seems intractable.

The ecology for male and female
sperm whales differs markedly.
While the males attain lengths of 50
to 55 feet and more, the females are
mature at 35 to 40 feet; indeed, fe-
males shorter than 38 feet in length
are “protected” from pelagic whal-
ing, while those less than 35 feet
are protected from land station
Whaling. The catch data piles up
at these minimum legal lengths
lending credence to the general
belief that the infractions are many
and blatant.

An analysis and estimate of the
sustainable or potential yield of the
sperm whale in the North Paciﬁc
has been made by three Japanese
scientists. They estimate the present
sustainable yield of male sperm
whales in the North Paciﬁc at 4,-
290. The catch the past two years
has been 12,740 and 11,329. The
Japanese scientists say that “this
male sperm whale stock has . . .
little or no further surplus.” The
population has been driven to a
level of about one-half of its unex-
ploited state. Privately, the North
Paciﬁc commissioners agreed to a
catch 10 percent below last year’s.
This catch limit—set provisionally
behind closed doors outside of the
formal business of the commis-
sion—is 240 percent of the sustain-
able yield estimated by the Japa-
nese scientists. The pattern of
predation is familiar—as is the ca-
pacity of the International Whaling
Commission to look the other way
when the chips are down.

3. The most important single
item on the agenda, the Inter-
national Observer Scheme (105),

was discussed at length. It was ap-

 

 

 

 

Wholesale prices on fishing
tackle, and hunting equipment,
archery, skis, and camping
equipment.

FINNYSPORTS
2071-J SPORTS BUILDING
L TOLEDO, OHIO 43614

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Magazine
Table a“

HOLDS
OVER 100
MAGA-

Zl NES

Space
Solver
Extro-
dinaire!
Our new
end table
holds 100
maga-
zines ﬂat,
wrinkle-

ree,
readable!

ever a-
gain a
torn, rag-earred issue. Doubles
as end-table, server, display ,/
or plant stand. Storage wonder
in home, ofﬁce, or reception
room. 23" H 16" W 21” D. Rich-grained pine,
hand rubbed and aged patina. In honey or maple,
antique or walnut ﬁnish. $21.95 COMPLETE KIT:
Readiy NI) assemble and ﬁnish. $16.95 de. at 75¢

. o- 188.
BEAUTIFUL NEW FREE CATALOG—1000 PIECES
Finished and Kit Furniture in Friendly Pine

Include Zip No. YIELD "()USE
Not Sold In Stores Dept. N1-1B.
North Conway, N.H. 03860

Money Back Guarantee
GEODES!

Lovely natural crystal-filled hemispheres from
world-wide sources. No written description or pho-
tograph really does them justice, so we offer un-
conditional money—back guarantee. $2.00 brings
you a sample or $5.00 brings you a glittering
assortment and subscription to our periodic rare/
collector's list. Barry & Shirley Rothman, RD #2,
Hill House, Downingtown, Pa. 19335.

 

 

 

 

 

 

<, u

WILDERNESS TRIP CAMP
Grand Lake Stream, Maine 04637

For 75 boys, ages 12 to 17. Six Age
groups. Full Season only—7 weeks.
Series of lake and White water river
trips: St. John, Allagash, St. Croix,
and Machias Rivers. SURVIVAL
AND ECOLOGY TRAINING.
Quaker Leadership.

Special Northern Quebec Wilderness
trip for advanced campers.

ACA Accredited Camp
Write: George N. Darrow

780 Millhrook Lane
Haverford, Pennsylvania 19041

Phone: (215) Ml 2-8216

 




Crowded Out?

Own your own Private
Recreation Land Now!

LAND! Easy terms, less than bank rates!
Northwest Timbered Acreages as low as
$950. Total Price. 5-10-20-40 acres. For
people who love the land—a tract of
Recreation Land for your own! In North-
ern Idaho, Northeastern Washington and
Western Montana. In the heart of lakes
and big game country. All covered with
growing timber. Access, Title insurance
with each tract. This is select land with
natural beauty, recreational and invest-
ment values. We have tracts of many
types and sizes from which to choose,
including beautiful Northwest Water-
front property. Your inspection wel-
comed. Write us for free list, maps and
complete information.

Write to Dept. G

REFORESTATION
' Inc.

P.O. Box 106. Opportunity Station
Spokane, Washington 99214

 

4-WAY
“HUMMER” FEEDER

Hummingbirds, those jewel-like rascals, love to
play and sip 4-at-a-time at the one and only
original “Hummy-Bird Bar”® (See actuaI
photo). Other birds or bees can’t reach the
sugarwater. Dripless, rustless, so easy to clean!
A grand gift for yourself, family, friends (and,
of course, Hummingbirds!) for all occasions.
Moneyback guarantee. Full instructions. $2.95
plus 30¢ handling. In Cal. add 16¢ tax. Sorry
no COD’s. HUMMINGBIRD HEAVEN, 6818-N
Apperson St., Tujunga, CA 91042. Our 16th
Year! MADE IN U.S.A.

 

Get Your Hands Dirty!

Participate in scientiﬁc ﬁeld expeditions led by
prominent scientists to Africa. Central and South
America. Field expeditions in archaeology, an-
thropology. astronomy, geology and volcanology
run from 9 to 21 days. Applications now being
accepted for 25 participants for each expedition
for summer 1971. No qualiﬁcations necessary.
All—inclusive prices including airfare from $985.

EDUCATIONAL EXPEDITIONS INTERNATIONAL
PO Box 127 Belmont, Massachusetts

 

proved in principle seven years ago
and has been piously reafﬁrmed an-
nually. But no effective steps have
been taken to implement it.

At the meeting, Dr. McHugh
stated that the commission’s in-
ability to implement an observer
scheme weakens it as a conservation
organization because it seems to
lack the ability to enforce its regu-
lations and quotas. The Japanese
commissioner, Mr. Fujita, said
that his country would support the
implementation of the observer
scheme for the next antarctic season
and felt that the plan should extend
to land stations as well.

The Soviet commissioner, Mr. M.
N. Sukhoruchenko, said that the
IDS could be used at present with
some small changes. He urged that
two persistent problems he settled:
every country has an obligation to
send observers as well as receive
them; the 10S will be effective only
if implemented both for land sta-
tions and pelagic operations. He
recommended that the commission-
ers meet on and settle this matter
prior to the 23rd meeting in June,
1971. in Washington.

Mr. Fujita said that there was no
basic disagreement on implementa-
tion. but that the commission did
not have time to pursue the matter
further.

All these words sound reassuring,
but the IDS is still not imple-
mented. A possibility exists that the
United States and Japan may work
out some modest form of exchange
for their land stations that could
serve as a model for other countries
next year.

A beginning may yet be made. It
is crucial to know when a protected
species is taken and labeled some-
thing else; as, for example, when
an immature blue whale, unmistak-
able because of its splotchy ex-
terior, is harpooned and listed in
the day’s log as a ﬁnback.

Another example of the most
egregious sort of violation of the
regulations took place in the 1962-63
season when a factory ship and its
catchers swept in on a small colony
of “protected” right whales near
the island of Tristan da Cunha in
the South Atlantic. The few dozen
rights, the largest grouping that
had been seen in any ocean in
years, was completely wiped out.
This well-known incident has never

 

 

Call or write

YOU LIVE in the
SPACE AGE . . .

You should know
more about it!

A rewarding and fascinating ad-
venture for adults, young people,
the family 0 Introductory and ad-
vanced day and evening courses in

ASTRONOMY and NAVIGATION

 

The America

HAYDEN PLAN ETARIUM

n Museum —

 

Tel.: Tr 3-1300; Ext.

 

NEW YORK, N. Y. 10024
815t STREET and CENTRAL PARK WEST

206

 

 

 

enucowmmu

We
sele

ART

offer an extensive
ction of ceremonial

figurines and vessels

ate

xtremely reasonable

prices. All guaranteed

authentic.

Send 18¢

stamps for illustrated
brochure/price list.

the lands beyond

1218 Lexington Avenue

New York 10028 -

MEN! WOMEN!

COUPLES! mm“

. Mail COUDO
TodaYl
spenOTT‘g Yo u assoclaﬁlll
“worlulll “it“; mung

WHATEVER YOUR AGE...
YOU CAN QUALIFY NOW!

Mature men If women (or couples),
looking toward retirement to good in-
come, fresh air, fun—20 years ahead
of time: ,Be “Resident Manager” in
your own area or vacation resort. 0r,
work toward owning your own motel.

Young men a
women, looking
for great career in
booming field with
big future: 10005
find positions now
with expanding
motels & hotels in
cities, towns, re-
sorts in America
a. overseas. {if-v :--:., ...
nosnmm " ALL 3 FREE ,
n . ' _
CARETor Chart ‘, ‘HMOTEL'HOTEL .
CAREER K T;

(212) 249-6275

at?“ PREPARE NOW
“I

At Home For A

MOTEL
HOTEL

UOI‘OOI‘...where
your life can be
_ like a year ’round

BIG DEMAND FOR TRAINEO
PEOPLE...We Show You How!

10005 great career opportunities with
leading “chains" & top local motels
in cities, towns, resorts in America
and overseas vacation paradises “go
begging" daily due to lack of trained
people to fill them. Easy home-study
plan trains you quickly to step into
one of these wonderful big paying
positions. Your training is up-to-
date, thorough.. . nothing is left to
chance. During training you “run
your own motel". ..using forms &

. procedures you'll encounter later in.

your Motel-Hotel Career. Our ex-
clusive “Quick-Learn" Method has-
helped 10005 reach success through.
home study. Why not you?

Rush Coupon for FREE

. "MOTEL-HOTEL CAREER KIT"

" ; . . . including 20-page book, “Your Future

in Motel Management, Hospitality Career
§elector Chart and revealing report “Own.
mg Your Own Motel." Everything sent
FREE & POSTPAID without obligation. No

salesman will call.

YOUR OWN

, MOTEL

Name

____________________ ...
NORTH AMERICAN SCHOOL OF MOTEL-HOTEL MANAGEMENT I
4500 Campus Drive, Dept.l]54l, Newport, Calif. 92660 :
RUSH big “Motel-Hotel Career Kit"—-ALL FREE! II

I understand this puts me under no obligation, now or]
ever, and that no salesman will call.

 

A ccrediled
Member,

Address

 

I Nari onal Home

 

S! d Council Ci
L u y t)!

 




been aired at the International
Whaling Commission meetings nor
has it appeared in print, but it is a
tragic example of what happens in
the absence of an International Ob-
server Scheme. And there are many
other unreported tragedies. Just
talk to the Whalers.

4. The meeting of the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission barely
touched on the US. Department of
the Interior’s bold action in placing
all the great whale species on the
endangered species list of June 2,
1970, implementing the Endangered
Species Conservation Act of 1969.
According to the provisions of the
act, no species that is demonstrated
to be threatened with extinction
may be imported, alive or dead,
whole or in part, into this country.
By placing baleen whales, as well
as the sperm whale, on the list the
Department of the Interior Went be-
yond the mere protection of species
already struggling for survival.
With the threat of economic boy-
cott, perhaps the member nations of
the International Whaling Commis-
sion will be spurred to take their
task more seriously.

Until last November, a big ques-
tion remained as to the chances of
all these species remaining on the
list. The sperm whale was especially
vulnerable. Interior Secretary Wal-
ter J. Hickel was under great pres-
sure from whale oil importers, from
other departments Within the gov-
ernment, and from overseas to drOp
the sperm whale from the list. On
November 24, 1970, after six
month’s intensive review, Secretary
Hickel aﬂirmed that all eight threat-
ened species of great whales will be
kept on the list and banned from
importation to “prevent conditions
that lead to extinction.”

Explaining Why the department
kept the ﬁn, sei, and sperm whales
on the list, Hickel said it is “clear
that if the present rate of com-
mercial exploitation continues un-
checked, these three species will be-
come as rare as the other ﬁve.” He
also called for a conference, jointly
sponsored by the Department of the
Interior and the Smithsonian In-
stitution, to be held early this year
to review what can be done to re-
store whale populations in the
oceans of the world.

The Secretary omitted mention of
one aspect crucial to any effort to

72

save whales: funding. Scientiﬁc pro-
grams to monitor the size of the
whale herds and the United States
share of an observer scheme both
need ﬁnancial support.

This break for the threatened
whales was accompanied by some
good news from Japan. Last August
I went there on behalf of the Envi-
ronmental Defense Fund and the
New York Zoological Society, to
discuss with Japanese scientists the
initiation of a campaign to save
whales. The scientists have formed
a Committee for the Protection of
Whales, chaired by Dr. Seiji Kaya.
Along with writers Kenzaburo 0e
and Sakyo Komatsu, they have
taken the whale problem to the pub-
lic for the ﬁrst time. They are urg-
ing the Japanese government to
curb the whaling industry and to
strengthen the powers of the Inter-
national Whaling Commission.

'he big question remaining is
the Soviet Union, but we have
prospects of positive deveIOpments
there, too. The problem of the sur-
vival and continuity of the great
whales would be eased if the So-
viets extended to large whales the

attitude they take toward the
smaller dolphins and porpoises. In
March, 1966, the Soviet govern-
ment banned the catching and kill-
ing of dolphins. This decision was
taken, according to Alexander Ish-
kov, Soviet Minister of Fisheries,
because research has shown that
dolphins have brains “strikingly
close to our own.” Dr. Ishkov,
therefore, regards the dolphin as
the “marine brother of man,” not-
ing, “I think that it will be possible
to preserve dolphins for the sake of
science. Their catch should be dis-
continued in all seas and oceans of
the world.”

May the song of the humpback
Whale soon sound in the Bolshoi
Opera House.

We know about

very little

Whales. Until a few months ago, for .

instance, we did not know that
some whales sing, and that these

0""

«a
songs make a profound impressio
on the human listener.

What we have seen closely of
whales to date—and watched with
strange fascination—are “death
ﬂurries,” the tragic scene that has
played to an inert, bloated con-
clusion 60,000 times a year for
eight years (1958 to 1965) and
now is down to 40,000 times a year.
Today, a whale is harpooned every
12 minutes on the average. The
“life ﬂurries” remain essentially un-
known because no man has stayed
with a whale pod hour after hour,
day and night, week after week.

Melville concluded:

“Dissect him how I may, then, I
but go skin deep; I know him not,
and never will. But if I know not
even the tail of this whale, how un-
derstand his head? much more,
how comprehend his face, when
face he has none? Thou shalt see
my back parts, my tail, he seems to
say, but my face shall not be seen.
But I cannot completely make out
his back parts; and hint what he
will about his face, I say again he
has no face.”

As a species, man is at a point in
his own evolution where he cannot
yet create a flea but is wholly ca-
pable of destroying the whale. The
job is three-quarters completed
when measured by the great Whale
species that are threatened with ex-
tinction.

Our survival is curiously inter-
twined with that of the Whale. Just
as all human life is interconnected
(in the Monkey-Rope situation in
Moby Dick, Ishmael declares, “I
saw that this situation of mine was
the precise situation of every mor-
tal that breathes; only, in most
cases, he, one way or other, has this
Siamese connexion with a plurality
of other mortals. . . .”), so have
we ﬁnally begun to perceive the con-
nections between all living things.
The form of our survival, indeed
our survival itself, is affected as the
variety and abundance of life is di-
minished. To leave the oceans,
which girdle seven-tenths of the
World, barren of whales is as un-
thinkable as taking all music away
and everything associated with mu-
sic—composers and their works,
musicians and their instruments—
leaving man to stumble on with
only the dryness of his own mutter-
ings to mark his way. I

 




We are fortunate that Jason Robards, star of "A Moon for the Misbegotten",

will come to the meeting to talk about the gray whales he loves to watch

swimming past his home in California.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
\VASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the twenty-second
annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute at The Atrium
in the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
Washington, D.C., at three o'clock, Tuesday afternoon, the
eighteenth of December.

The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Scott McVay
in recognition of his vigorous nine-year-long campaign to
stop the cruel killing of the endangered whales. Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental
Quality, brilliant and influential student of the plight
of the whales and of other persecuted animals, will make
the presentation.

Famous star of the stage and films, Jason Robards, who
loves whales, will be guest speaker.

_ The medallist is the Chairman of the Committee on Whales
of the Environmental Defense Fund, and he played an important
part in major developments protecting whales and dolphins
in the past three years. First, the listing of the great
whales on the endangered Species list by the Department of
Interior in December, 1970, thereby closing the United States
to the importation of whale products (one-fourth of the world
market at that time). Second, the closing of the last U.S.
commercial whaling operation, December 1971, by the Depart-
ment of Cmmmerce. Third, unanimous passage by the Senate
and House of Representatives of resolutions calling for a
ten-year moratorium on the commercial killing of whales which
subsequently became U.S. policy at Stockholm in June, 1972
and at the International Whaling Commission meetings in London
in 1972 and 1973. Mr. MdVay has been active in seeking a
solution to the drowning of dolphins in tuna purse seines.
He is a strong proponent of the boycott of Japanese and Russian
good which the AWI together with other humane and conservation
organizations are pressing to bring about agreement on the
ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of whales.

A reception will follow the ceremony, and you are encouraged
to bring a friend with you who is interested in the protection

of animals.

Christine Stevens
President

 




EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
722 JACKSON PLACE. N. W.

WASHINGTON. 0. c. 20006
December 20, 1973

Ms. Christine Stevens
1686 34th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.

Dear Christine:

This is to express my appreciation to you for the
honor of inviting me to make the presentation of the
Schweitzer Award to Scott McVay, and further to say
thanks so much for your overly kind and generous
remarks about me in your introduction.

You organized a very fine meeting, as always. It
was a most impressive turnout under any conditions,
but all the more so considering the adverse weather
at that time.

I think the idea of such an award, with the recipients
chosen judicially as you choose them, is a most effective
one. People need recognition regardless of what basic
motivation they have. Scott is particularly deserving
of such a recognition. He has worked untiringly and
totally voluntarily for Whales for a number of years.
Even people who have not agreed with him off and on

have told me how appropriate and deserved they thought
that award was.

Of course as I told you there the one who really deserves
an award is yourself.

With my gratitude, again, and with very best wishes for
the Holiday Season.

Sincergﬁy,

Krill 4 ’4 _.
Lee M. Talbot
psenior Scientist

 




‘PIIR

January, February, March, 1974

AF L-CIO VOTES TO SAVE WHALES

The American Federation of Labor and Congress of
Industrial Organizations passed a Resolution at its last

annual convention to Save the Whales. The full text of the
Resolution follows:

Preservation of World Whale Stocks

WHEREAS, With the passage of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act in 1972, the United States committed itself
to a major campaign to reduce the senseless and wasteful
killing of marine mammals. Many of these animals,
including seals, porpoises and whales, were considered to be
endangered and had been hunted to the point where stocks
were seriously depleted and in some instances exhausted,
and

WHEREAS, Since the passage of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act, signiﬁcant steps by the US, both
unilaterally and multilaterally, have succeeded in setting up
reasonable programs to preserve ocean mammlas, and

WHEREAS, However, one species of mammal, the
whale, continues to be hunted by several foreign nations,
and the future survival of this ocean creature is in jeopardy.
The major hunters of whales are the Japanese, and to a
lesser degree, the Soviet Union. Together, the two nations
account for over 90 percent of the whales killed throughout
the world, and

WHEREAS, The continuing desire of these two nations
to maximize their whale harvest runs contrary to the views
of the majority of the nations, including the United States,
represented on the International Whaling Commission, the
body which regulates the worldwide hunt for whales, and

WHEREAS, At a recent conference of the Commission
in London, Japan and Russia voted to continue to take
whales in the face of worldwide sentiment that all whale
killings should be halted, U.S. representatives pointed out
that forecasts of whale populations are unreliable and that
even with quotas, there is a grave risk of stock depletion.
They urged that all nations follow the US. lead in declaring
whales “endangered species” and prohibit either the
hunting or importation of whales or whale products, and

WHEREAS, Thus it is vital that if effective management
of this ocean resource is to take place, then the wholesale
killing of whales must be prohibited until there is sufficient
knowledge about the size and habits of whale stocks. This is
particularly true in light of the many other less depleted
ﬁsh stocks available to the Russians and Japanese that
could replace the whale’s limited role as food for humans
and animals; therefore, be it

RESOLVED: That the AFL-CIO calls upon Japan and
Russia to abide by world opinion expressed at the recent
London meeting of the International Whaling Commission,
and cease the hunting of whales in order that this important
sea mammal can be preserved and allowed to grow in
numbers, and also urges the Administration to bring
pressure on these nations to comply with world sentiment
that whales are endangered and must be preserved.

#___.

 

INTERIOR PROPOSES MAJOR
RESTRICTIONS ON WILDLIFE IMPORTS

In Proposed Regulations published Deoember 20, 1973
in The Federal Register, the US. Department of the
Interior. under the authorization of the Lacey. Act (18
U.S.C. 42) would ban importation of most Wildhfe for

purely commercial purposes. The dangers of introducing
exotic species are well-known, and the proposed regulhations
are published under the title, “Injurious Wildlife .T1 118123
courageous step in the public interest, opposed so e y '13]
those with a vested interest in buying and selling w1

creatures made captive against their will and subjectﬁdt ti
suffering in transit to market which is so severe t a 1

frequently ends in death.

 

ANIMAL WELEAEE INSTITUTE

P.O. Box 3650, Washington, D. C. 20007

Vol. 23 No. 1

TALBOT PRESENTS MEDAL TO McVAY

The 1973 Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal
Welfare Institute was awarded to Scott McVay for his
distinguished service to the cause of the whales, tens of
thousands of whose dwindling numbers are being painfully
killed by explosive harpoons to satisfy commercial avarice.
The presentation was made by Dr. Lee M. Talbot, an
intensive fellow fighter for the whales in his capacity as
Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental Quality.

Jason Robards, star of A Moon for the Misbegotten, and
of countless other plays and films, spoke movingly at the
ceremony of his love for the gray whales he watches on
their annual migration as they pass his home on the coast of
California. Robards called for decisive action by Secretary
of State Henry Kissinger to halt the slaughter by Japan and
the Soviet Union.

Texts of the presentation and acceptance speeches
follow:

Remarks of Dr. Lee M. Talbot, Senior Scientist of the
Council on Environmental Quality, at the presentation of
the Albert Schweitzer Medal to Mr. Scott McVay. Kennedy
Center, Washington, DC. December 18, 1973

It is a great pleasure and honor to have been invited by
the Animal Welfare Institute to make the 1973 Schweitzer
Medal presentation to Mr. Scott McVay.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal is presented annually by
the Animal Welfare Institute to individuals who have made
an outstanding contribution to animal welfare. It is
particularly significant that both last year’s and this year’s
medals have been given to individuals involved with the
conservation of whales.

In its early days, the Schweitzer Medal was awarded to
individuals who had contributed to animal welfare through
work involving humane handling of experimental animals.

The fourth Medalist. then Senator Hubert Humphrey,
authored the first humane slaughter bill introduced to
Congress. Subsequently, the basis for the award broadened
as our awareness of the ecological facts of life has increased.

We have gradually become aware that animals do not
exist in isolation, but that they must be considered to exist
at the center of a web of interrelationships — and that the
welfare of the animal depends upon the welfare of that
web.

More recently, yet, there has been broad recognition
that this factor applies as much to man as to any other
living thing with which we share the earth. We have come to
realize that our own welfare, indeed our own survival,
depends upon maintaining intact and healthy the
ecosystems on which we rely; and the survival of any of the
species which are components of these ecosystems is a part
of this. There has also been a growing international
component to this new environmentalism. This was
epitomized by the Stockholm Conference on Human
Environment where 113 nations to a large degree laid aside
their political differences to concentrate their efforts on the
world’s environmental problems.

The results of the Stockholm Conference included
agreement on over 100 specific actions, on United Nations
environmental institutions and a declaration of
environmental principles; yet the issue which became the
symbol of the Conference was the whale. There is probably
no living thing today that has come to be as representative
and symbolic of our environmental awareness as the whales.

Whales have become a focal point for international
conservation concern. They have represented a true tragedy
of the commons. They have been all-too exemplary of the
over-exploitation and abuse of the environment and its
resources by shortsighted human action. In the past they
represented a significant natural resource. With successful
conservation, they may again in the future. More than that,
they represent what is widely believed to be a high order of
intelligent being. The public responds to whales because of
their unique size, their social structure, their songs, and

 




 

from what many believe to be their kinship to us as
intelligent mammals, and their continuing plight and
endangerment at the hands of a handful of greedy
industries and peoples. Beyond all this, whales no longer
represent a truly significant economic or food resource. If
we prove unable to manage whales, it does not augur well
for our ability to manage any of the other species for which
there is so much greater incentive of exploitation. In other
words, if we cannot find a way to manage whales
successfully, it is unlikely we will be able to do so
successfully with any other component of our living
environment.

As a scientist, I cannot say it is more important to
conserve the whales than it is to conserve any other group
of living things; but as one concerned with conservation in
general and with the politics and policies of international
environmental concern, I can say that there is probably no
one group animal which has the significance of whales to
world conservation.

Scott McVay is at once a most unlikely protagonist of
the whale issue and a most appropriate one. He is unlikely
because there is little in his background to suggest whales.
In Princeton he majored in English and wrote his senior
thesis on George Bernard Shaw. When he graduated, he
listed sculpture among his special interests and indicated he
planned an architectural career. He subsequently became,
among other things, recording secretary, assistant treasurer,
and assistant to the President of Princeton. He is currently
Executive Director of the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation
in New York. This I submit is a most unlikely background
for a champion of the whales.

Yet, at the same time, it is a highly appropriate
background. As I have described earlier, the whales have
become a symbol to a great many people in a great many
countries. Indeed they are doubtless more important to the
general public than they are to the scientific specialists.

Scott says that his interest in whales was first aroused by
Melville’s Moby Dick. In any event following his work at
Princeton he went to the Communication Research
Institute at Coconut Grove, Florida, to work on a study of
the life and language of the bottle-nose dolphin, and by
1965, he wrote in his college year book that his intent was
to contribute to man’s understanding of the life and
language of the whales.

Since that time, he has made truly signiﬁcant
contributions to the public understanding and awareness of
the problem of conservation of the whales. In 1966 his
article in Scientific American “The Last of the Great
Whales” provided one of the first definitive views the public
had received of the tragic results of modern whaling. His
subsequent articles, for example, in Natural History
Magazine, the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, National Parks,
Audubon, the American Scientist, and two op-ed pieces in
The New York Times have all contributed to a growing
public awareness of the problem and concern with it.

In his role as spokesman for the public concern with
whales, he has served as the lead witness invited from
outside government at the congressional hearing in 1971
which led to the congressional resolution calling for
a moratorium on whaling; he was an invited speaker
representing the conservation viewpoint at the 1971
International Conference on Whale Biology, and further in
his role as a citizen spokesman, he was Observer to the
International Whaling Commission meeting in 1970, and a
full member of the US. delegation to the IWC in 1971 and
1972.

He made a significant contribution to the decision of the
Mexican Government to declare Scammon’s Lagoon in Baja,
California, as a permanent whale sanctuary.

In 1970, he traveled to Japan to encourage six leading
scientists to form a committee for preservation of whales
under the chairmanship of Dr. Seiji Kaya, former President
of the Tokyo University.

Following his work on dolphin communications in
Florida, he expanded his interests to larger whales and has
organized two expeditions to the Arctic to study the
bowhead whale along the northwest coast of Alaska, one in

1971 and another this year. In conjunction with the
bowhead work he traveled with us to the Soviet Union in
January of this year as a member of the first working group
to be convened under the US-USSR Environment
Agreement. He is also co-author of “Songs of the Hump-

back Whale” which appeared in Science in 1971.

From this I believe it is clear that he had indeed
accomplished his aim of contributing to man’s

‘
§

'5

' 1».
understanding of the life and language of whales, but — and
this is somewhat heretical coming from a scientist — in my
opinion far more important is his contribution to public
understanding and awareness of the plight of the whales
and as a citizen spokesman, his contribution to Government
actions on behalf of the whales.

Last year’s Schweitzer Award went to Russell Train

because of his key role personally in our Government’s
efforts to conserve whales, but he also symbolized the
efforts of our Government.

But in this as in other endeavors the Government and
the public represents an essential partnership. This year’s
Schweitzer Award is being presented to Scott McVay both
because of his personal key role in and contributions to
whale conservation and also because he is symbolic of the
citizen role in this endeavor which is so important to animal
welfare and welfare of our environment.

It therefore gives me very great pleasure to present to
you, Scott, the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal
Welfare Institute.

 

a

w

Schweitzer Medalist Scott Mc Vay speaking on whales.

Remarks of Scott McVay Chairman, Committee on Whales,
Environmental Defense Fund

“WHAT ON EARTH WAS A WHALE?
THE CHILD ASKED US
IN AN INNOCENT VOICE”*

This occasion gives me a chance to mention several
persons who have made substantial contributions to whale
conservation and acknowledge many more besides who may
be unrecognized, many whose contributions in the weeks
ahead will tell whether some species of whales will survive.
The crisis today is sharply deﬁned, carrying the unanimous
conviction of the United Nations conferences in Stockholm
and Geneva — and the principal conservation groups around
the world - the Killing of Whales Must Stop.

The scale of the whale tragedy may be sensed by the fact
that no one is working full-time. on the conservation of the
whale, although two countries participate year around in
the continuing destruction of the whale, repudiating
recently even the moderate accords reached at the
International Whaling Commission meeting last June in
London. The time is ripe for sterner measures that may be
more keenly felt than the reason of science or a planetary
ethic that transcends terrible pockets of wastefulness,
aggression, and greed, or an obligation that reaches down
the centuries to leave as much of the natural world whole
and intact as we can.

To understand where we are going, we recall where we
have been. Conservation of the whale has had the
intermittent attention of a remarkable set of men and
women. At the top of the roster is the late Remington
Kellogg of the Smithsonian who worked toward
international regulation of whaling in the 1930’s and caused
the International Whaling Convention to meet in
Washington in December, 1946. With Johan Ruud of
Norway, Dr. Kellogg led efforts within the International
Whaling Commission in the 1950’s to curb unrestrained
whaling by ﬁve nations for an annual quota of 16,000 blue
whale units which was no quota at all. Through the efforts
of Ruud and Kellogg, a Committee of Three Scientists was
appointed in 1960 to review the data and make
recommendations. In violation of the Commission’s pledge
to comply, the recommendations of the scientists were
deferred and deferred again in 1963 and .1964.

I first met Dr. Kellogg in 1959 or 1960. On my third

*from The Day the Whale Becomes Extinct, by Kenzaburo Oe.

 

 

 

 

 




 

<\.--\
a m- ._._w‘r‘<4<A _ .

 

I)

visit to his ofﬁce at the Smithsonian within the next year or
two, I pressed this fine old gentleman, who had high black
shoes propped up on his desk, why so little progress was
being made to conserve whales. His heavy mailbag as US.
Commissioner to the IWC suggested wideSpread concern.
He countered by saying the whale had no lobby, and only
one person came back three times. He said he was tired of
pounding his head against a stone wall and that others
would have to take up the cause.

As each of us in the conservation community and the
Federal bureaucracy has learned, things which matter most
with us must be acted upon. You can not assume that
someone else is carrying the ball. With Dr. Kellogg’s
encouragement, “The Last of the Great Whales” was
written in 1964 and eventually appeared in Scientiﬁc
American in 1966.

A member of the Committee of Three Scientists who
saw beyond the data the true scale of the whale tragedy was
Sidney Holt, a biologist for 16 years with FAO, who
showed leadership, vision and good sense at the
International Conference on Whale Biology in June, 1971,
making a major contribution to the basic recommendations
of the conference. ‘

In Japan, Dr. Teizo Ogawa, who is completing a history
of Japanese medicine, is an authority on the anatomy of
the whale and in particular its brain. His work over four
decades testifies to the significance of the cetacean brain
and its importance in understanding the human brain. In
one paper he wrote,

The present author has often told his students a fable
of his own, imagining two high peaks in the realm of
Mammalia, namely, Mt. HOMO and Mt. CETACEA,
the latter boasting of a much greater height than the
former.

Dr. Ogawa is a member of our committee for the
preservation of whales in Japan, and he is especially upset
by the unchecked slaughter of dolphins and porpoises by
the Japanese.

Another staunch advocate for the whale is Rod
Cameron, Executive Director of the Environmental Defense
Fund, who approached me in 1969 to head up the EDF
whale effort. Among his contributions was testimony in
1970 in Washington at an Interior hearing to consider the
placement of the Sperm whale on the endangered list and
later in San Francisco at a Department of Commerce
hearing to consider closing down whaling operations in
California. If the whales have an attorney, it is Rod
Cameron.

One biologist exemplifies a new approach to the study
of the whale, Roger Payne. For ﬁve years he observed and
recorded the Humpback whale off Bermuda, working on
the assumption that you must spend extended periods of
time with whales in their ocean habitat to understand them.
Our joint discovery of the Song of the Humpback Whale
and its detailed analysis was published in Science in 1971,
and through Roger’s efforts a record was made which has
sold 100,000 copies. (The whale is still more eloquent than
any of his surrogates!) It was Roger’s idea to recommend
the great whales for Interior’s endangered species list. Payne
is now nearing the end of more than 18 months’ study of
the Southern Right whale off the Patagonian coast of
Argentina. When he returns, his films and reports will
contribute substantively to our future View of whales.

The first of a progression of events which have led to a
consolidated U.S. position on the whale problem, with a
close working relationship between the environmental
community and Federal agencies, was the designation by
Secretary of Interior Walter Hickel of eight whale species as
endangered in the Federal Register of December 2, 1970,
following six months’ debate. “Buff” Bohlen ably sustained
this decision against heavy pressures within government and
from the importers of Sperm whale oil. Indeed, his role
cannot be overestimated.

The Secretary of Commerce followed in due course with
the closing of whaling operations in California in December,
1971.

Perhaps we should pause to acknowledge the leadership
of the next Secretary of Commerce, Peter/Peterson?"
took steps to deal with the large-scale slaughter of porpoises
by the tuna fishery working out [of southern California.
(This is usually referred to as “t " incidentail slaughter
porpoises.” The slaughter is no in ' ntal. It is and
parcel of the purse-seine technique since t e po 6 and line
were put aside.)

 

A quarter million porpoises have been lost every year for
many years. How big a number is that? It is the number of
peOple in this room plus one thousand like gatherings. In
the early 1960’s as many as one million porpoises perished
every year. Secretary Peterson gave this problem hlgh
priority, and substantial funds and personnel have been
committed to its resolution. Robert White, the
Administrator of NCAA (National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration), shares this commitment and
is seeing to its implementation. The tragedy is of staggering
proportions. Six to eight times as many porporises were lost
in tuna nets in the first three months of this year as there
were whales taken on the high seas last year (upwards of
300,000 against..37,QOO). This remains a National Tragedy,
and-"When an extension is sought for the two-year

   

.exemption to the Marine . mal Protection Act, the
.’ appear warrents close 3, tiny. (The Env1ronmental

tly-vfr a letter prior to the December

CD

 

10, ”1973 ’deadline for comment at this juncture.)

Perhaps we should pause to recognize another dimension
of the whale saga, the aesthetic one. Not only have
symphonies been composed using the song of the
Humpback whale, but the whale’s sounds and motions have
inspired performances of considerable diversity among
prOfessional and college groups across the country.

An artist has emerged who has done a series of whale
works, major drawings and illuminated sculpture. He will be
regarded one day as an artist of the first rank. William
Scoresby noted in 1820, “. . .the drawings hitherto given of
many of the whale tribe are so unlike, and so preposterous,
that they tend rather to mislead than to assist the practical
zoologist.” The comment still obtains today, but we are
fortunate that Larry Foster of Oakland, California is
contributing to an improved understanding of the shape,
markings, and motion of the whale. He is known for the
beauty and precision of his work, and to see his originals is
almost as exciting as seeing a great whale. . .

Philippe Cousteau’s underwater ﬁlm of the Humpback
whale showed a fantastic underwater ballet of a mother
swimming on her back with outstretched ﬂippers cradling,
but not touching, an infant breathing frequently at the
surface. . .

The image of the great Arctic whale, the Bowhead, is a
living one now — after our expeditions of 1971 and 1973 ~
an image of a whale that breaches in Spring, a great whale
that may on occasion be surrounded by a “halo” of smaller
belugas, a whale that can rise before you in those frozen
seas like the fabled Atlantis, again and again as it Spouts
nearer. (A one-hour ﬁlm documentary of this year’s
expedition will be completed in April.) . .

Permit me to read a rough translation ofa passage from
a recent book, The Day the Whale Becomes Extinct, by
Kenzaburo Oe, the leading writer in Japan today.

One desolate twilight evening

on a high tower overlooking a valley

deep in the woods where I grew up,

together with several adults

I stood looking toward the West.

The dream was unlike other dreams,

because I was no longer a child

but was now one of those adults,

and yet in the sense that

I had been included in the group

as the one who least understood what was going on
this dream was after all like all the others,

it became like one of those daily nightmares,

as the western sky took on a dark red hue
without a sign of light,

and we all sunk into the darkness and

were buffeted by profuse winds which blew up.
One old man, bursting the silent atmosphere of
expectation, said: “Ah, ﬁnally, the last whale died.”
We pushed each other for the ﬁrst position,
pounding down the hill as if trying to crush
pebbles beneath our sandals with our feet,

we went down to the valley,

but as we were about to say,

“finally the last whale. . . ”

to the child who was standing

on the cobbled path in the dark valley,

“What on earth was a Whale?”

the child asked us in an innocent voice.

I tried to explain to him about whales,

but since I didn’t remember a thing about whales
myself, I clammed up.

And then I realized with a sense of fathomless
annihilation that the old man of just now

9

 




 

 

 

 

 

was the “me” of the past
and the child none other

than the “me” of the future.

The face of the child,

looking up silently at me,

distinct in the evening light,

was crumbling away.

Besides major literary contributions in Japan by
Kenzaburo Oe and Sakyo Komatsu, and others, six
distinguished scientists led by Dr. Seiji Kaya, former
president of Tokyo University, have been working for the
preservation of the whale through articles, appearances on
television, and meetings with top government ofﬁcials.

Also, the actions of our neighbors to the South and to
the North are encouraging. In response to a proposal we
submitted in June, 1971, to Eduardo Jimenez Gonzales of
the Mexican Embassy, President Luis Echeverrfa declared
Scammon’s Lagoon a permanent whale sanctuary. In
December, 1972, the Canadian Commissioner of Fisheries,
Jack Davies, closed their three remaining whale stations
(two in Newfoundland and one in Nova Scotia).

A year ago Russell Train’s formidable contribution was
recognized in this ceremony. Thanks to his interest and
leadership in June, 1972 the first resolution reported out of
the Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment
called for a ban on the killing of whales by a vote of 53 to
zero. (It is worth noting parenthetically that someone on
the periphery suggested a second somewhat similar
resolution be submitted substituting the words “human
being” for “whale”. Thus, a ban on the killing of human
beings for ten years was brieﬂy considered but quickly
abandoned since it would be such a departure from past
and current practices. . . And yet if we do achieve a
moratorium on the killing of whales, it may prove a useful
precedent.)

Chairman Train led the U. S. delegation to the
International Whaling Commission two weeks later,
providing inspired leadership, and he was ably followed by
Robert White, the new U. S. Commissioner, in June 1973.
(By the way tomorrow evening you may watch Dr. White
on the Dick Cavett show and sense the depth of
commitment within government to the whale problem; he
will speak about the follow—up to Secretary of State
Kissinger’s tough cables recently to Tokyo and Moscow and
perhaps of the leverage in soybeans and wheat.)

Six months ago, the moratorium was approved by 8 of
the 14 delegations to the IWC, a majority but not the
necessary three-fourths vote required for adoption. As a
compromise three modest accords were reached. Fin
whaling was to be phased out in three years. A quota for
Minke whales of 5,000 was set, as was a by-area quota for
Sperm whales in the Antarctic. The Japanese have (now
repudiated these three agreements, and the Russians the
last two. (The Russians have given up on the Fin Whale.)
The blatant disregard of the Commission means that we
have essentially an outlaw situation, and the imminent
collapse of the International Whaling Commission puts
other international negotiations, which also must proceed
on good faith, in jeopardy. We’ll come back to this shortly.

First, we should acknowledge four major books over a
five-year span written on this continent that have
contributed to the growing awareness about the plight of
the whale and our interconnected destiny. We will sample a
couple lines from each.

The Year of the Whale by Victor B. Scheffer (1969)
“Will the orbiting satellite speak through space to tell the
hunter where to find the last whale?”

The Blue Whale by George L. Small (1971)“The tragedy of
the blue whale is the reﬂection of an even greater one, that
of man himself. What is the nature of a species that
knowingly and without good reason exterminates another?
How long will man persist in the belief that he is the master
of the Earth rather than one of its guests?”

A Whale for the Killing by Farley Mowat (1972) “(It
was) identified as a Fin whale, the second largest animal
ever to live on earth. We could see the marks of
bullets—holes and slashes—across the back from the
blowhole to the fin. It was just beyond me to even begin to
understand the mentality of men who would amuse
themselves filling such a majestic creature full of bullets.
Why try to kill it?”

Lord of the Fish by Faith McNulty (1973) “Leaders of
the conservation ﬁght in this country talk of a United
States boycott of Japanese goods and an appeal to the
Common Market to close off Europe as a market for whale
products. . .such tactics, which reduce the issue to dollars,
rubles, and yen, are the only ones likely to work where
appeals to humanity, ethics and pure reason have failed.”

One American scientist who has kept a low profile
(that’s how things get done) deserves our special thanks
today. He drafted U. S. policy for the 1971 IWC meeting in
Washington. He drafted the U. S. resolution at Stockholm
calling for a ten-year moratorium on the killing of whales.
He has been accessible to conservationists except when
behind the wheel of his sports car. Reminding all hands of
the shaky data base, he has contributed to the formulation
of U. S. policy for the past two IWC meetings in London
and has been a skillful negotiator in the hour-by-hour
deliberations with the Russians and Japanese. Last January
in Russia, he showed a gift for working with the Russians
on the development of joint studies of endangered species.
Lee Talbot, we are in your debt.

One of the perquisites of the pilgrimage for whales is
the people you meet along the way. Some join for a time
and are most welcome. Others are in for the duration. Such
is Christine Stevens, who if I could put her into one word,
and could pronounce it, it would be “indefatigable”. She
has stuck to the central issue — to stop the killing of
whales. Sin glehandedly, she pushed the moratorium
resolution through the Senate in 1971, and in due course,
following public hearings, it was adopted by the House of
Representatives. This step made possible the next step at
Stockholm where the consolidated U. S. View found the
support of 52 other countries. Mrs. Stevens has,
furthermore, been a prime mover behind the broadly
supported boycott of Japanese and Soviet goods in the
United States which will persist until the whaling irons rust
in the racks. This gentle woman’s reverence for life and
tenacity for its preservation must become more widely
shared if we are going to make it.

Others making lasting contributions from the private
sector are known to you, the gentleman-from-Wyoming
Tom Garrett, journalist Michael Frome, biologist Steve
Seater, Lewis Regenstein of the Fund for Animals, and the
anonymous heroes of the editorial pages of The New York
Times and Washington Post. Joan Maclntyre is leading the
children’s crusade. Tom Kimball’s strong unequivocal stand
on the boycott commands respect, as he speaks for
three-and-one-half million members of the National Wildlife
Federation.

Tomorrow morning Senator Magnuson, a previous
Schweitzer medalist, and Senator Pell will introduce a
resolution expressing the concern of the United States
about the exploitation of certain marine resources, which
encompasses not only a condemnation of Japanese and
Soviet whaling malpractice but also deals with the depleted
salmon and halibut resource.

Finally, I wish to acknowledge my magniﬁcent wife,
Hella, who has made my participation in the whale effort
possible and much more besides.

Henry David Thoreau once wrote,

Can he who has discovered only some of the values of
whalebone and whale oil be said to have discovered
the true use of the whale? Can he who slays the
elephant for his ivory be said to have ‘seen the
elephant’? These are petty and accidental uses; just as
if a stronger race were to kill us in order to make
buttons and ﬂageolets of our bones...

We wonder, is our obituary scrawled in the fate of the
whale? Maybe. But we have made a beginning at
restitution. We are dimly sensing the outlines of whales,
when spouting, breaching, courting, loving, nursing. We
know the True Use of the Whale transcends the marginal
uses of blubber, beef and bone. We sense that our own
humanity is inextricably wedded to the destiny of the
whale. We know that time is short, and the next few weeks
will Spell the outcome of the struggle. Reluctantly, because
of other problems for the Japanese, we must carry the call
for the boycott of goods to the corners of the land and
beyond. These may be uncertain times, but of one thing we
may be certain. If the last whales die, something in us will
die, too. When the children ask later, “What on earth is a
whale?” — I hope we may answer, “THAR SHE BLOWS!”

 

0

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

, x
LORENZ, VON FRISCH
AND TINBERGEN AWARDED NOBEL PRIZE

“The Nobel prize for Physiology or Medicine has been
awarded jointly to three zoologists,” an article in Science, 2
November, 1973 announced. The authors, P. Marler and D.
R. Griffin of Rockefeller University provided extremely
interesting background on what they termed “a new
departure for the Nobel Committee of the Karolinska
Institute, acknowledging for the ﬁrst time major advances
in our understanding of sociology, especially in the area of
behavioral science known as ethology.”

The prize was awarded to Karl von F risch, 86 years old,
of the University of Munich, Konrad Lorenz, 69 years old,
of the Max Planck Institute for Behavioral Physiology at
Seewiesen, near Munich; and Nikolass Tinbergen, 66 years
old, of the Department of Zoology at Oxford University,
for their discoveries concerning organization and elicitation
of individual and social behavior patterns.

“At a time when studies of learning in animals were
generally conducted in the laboratory, thereby posing
problems largely irrelevant to their natural biology, these
three men discovered in the natural behavior of animals
both learned and innate patterns, exquisitely adapted to
their particular phylogenetically determined ways of life,”
Marler and Grifﬁn wrote. “At one stroke they explained
some of the most remarkable examples of the ﬁne control
of elaborate patterns of behavior by external stimuli known
to science, sometimes learned, sometimes not, while leaving
in no doubt the crucial importance of genetic difference in
understanding the development of behavior.

Karl von Frisch, inSpired pioneer of comparative
physiology, has opened our eyes to several unsuspected
‘sensory windows’ through which animals view the world,
and to complex and versatile communication behavior
controlled by insect nervous systems formerly thought
capable only of rigid mechanical responses. . . in 1944 he
found the real “Rosetta Stone” to decipher the language of
bees: Round dances mean a food source nearby, waggle
dances one at some distance. More important, the direction
of the straight portion of the waggle dance points the way
to the food, and its duration signals the distance. On a
horizontal surface the dancing bee points directly toward
the food, but ordinarily the dances take place inside a dark
hive on a vertical surface. Here straight up corresponds to
the direction of the sun, which serves as a directional
reference point. . .

“Konrad Lorenz, acknowledged founder of the science
of ethology, derived his insights into the causation and
organization of behavior from studying ﬁsh and birds. At
Altenburg in Austria, the house of his father, a Viennese
orthopedist, was always full of animals and birds. A
precocious naturalist, Lorenz developed early what became
a lifelong passion for raising both wild and domestic
animals by hand, and for living with them in the closest
quarters, and so gaining insights into the relation between
genome and experience in ontogeny. . .

“Some of his viewpoints as expressed in the popular
book On Aggression, which suggests an endogenous
motivation to seek out opportunities for fighting in ﬁsh,
and perhaps in man as well, proved highly controversial.
However one senses deeper roots to the outrage with which
some react to analogies between animal and human
behavior. In the introduction to the 1970 translations of his
work, Lorenz reflects wryly, ‘The fact that the behaviour
not only of animals, but of human beings as well, is to a
large extent determined by nervous mechanisms evolved in
the phylogeny of the species, in other words, by “instinct”,
was certainly no surprise to any biologically-thinking
scientist. It was treated as a matter of course, which, in
fact, it is. On the other hand, by emphasizing it and by
drawing the sociological and political inferences I seem to
have incurred the fanatical hostility of all those doctrinaires
whose ideology has tabooed the recognition of this fact.
The idealistic and vitalistic philosophers to whom the belief
in the absolute freedom of the human will makes the
assumption of human instincts intolerable, as well as the
behaviouristic psychologists who assert that all human
behaviour is learned, all seem to be blaming me for holding
opinions which in fact have been public property of
biological science since The Origin of Species was written.”

“The young Niko Tinbergen, an avid naturalist from his
boyhood in the sand dunes and pine forests of Hulshorst in
Holland, saw the intricacies of insect behavior, speciﬁcally
that of digger wasps hunting other insects and provisioning

nest burrows with the corpses, as a testing ground for
hypotheses about the sensory control of behavior. An
opportunity while a graduate student in zoology at the
University of Leiden to participate in 1931-32 in an Arctic
expedition added snow buntings, phalaropes and Eskimo
sled dogs to a growing list of animals into whose behavior
Tinbergen was to cast profound evolutionary insights. .
With von Frisch and Lorenz, Tinbergen has expressed the
view that ethological demonstrations of the extraordinarily
intricate interdependence of the structure and behavior of
organisms are relevant to understanding the psychology of
our own species. Indeed this award might be taken not only
as fitting recognition of the outstanding research
accomplishments of these three zoologists, but also as an
appreciation of the need to review the pictures that we
often seem to have of human behavior as something quite
outside nature, hardly subject to the principles that mold
the biology, adaptability, and survival of other organisms.”

 

ORLANS IN THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

A front-page article in The Wall Street Journal, January
25, 1974 reported at length on the work of F. Barbara
Orlans, Ph. D., a long-standing member of the AWI
Scientiﬁc Committee of Advisors, well known to readers of
the Information Report for her untiring efforts to prevent
cruel experiments on animals by untrained youths.

Dr Orlans’ carefully documented analyses of science fairs
showing the high proportion of projects causing pain and /or
death to vertebrate animals have appeared in Information
Reports Vol.21, No. 4, Vol.21, No. 3, Vol. 19, No. 2, Vol.
19, No. 1, and Vol.17, No. 2. She played an important role
working with the Special Study Committee on the Use of
Animals in Biomedical Research and Testing, of the Humane
Society of the United States, in developing Guiding
Principles for Use of Animals in Elementary and Secondary
Schools. These Principles clearly designate procedures
which must not be undertaken by high school students.
They state in Part: “No procedures shall be performed on
any warm-blooded animal that might cause it pain,
suffering, or discomfort or otherwise interfere with its
normal health. Warm-blooded animals include man, other
mammals such as gerbils, guinea pigs, mice, rabbits,
hamsters and rats. It also includes birds, such as hens, quail,
and pigeons. This means that a student shall do unto other
warm-blooded animals only what he can do to himself
without pain or hazard to health. No surgery shall be
performed on any living vertebrate animal (mammal,bird,
reptile or amphibian)”.

It was highly encouraging to read in The Pharmacologist,
Vol.15, No.2, Fall, 1973, the following report: “Guiding
Principles for Use of Animals in Elementary and Secondary
Schools submitted by Dr. Barbara Orlans were brought to
the attention of the Council. They have already been
approved by the Humane Society of the United States, the
Veterinary Advisory Committee, and the Special Study
Committee on the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research.
After reviewing these principles, Council voted to endorse
them.”

The Council referred to is the Council of the American
Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics,
a member organization of the Federation of American
Societies for Experimental Biology.

 

U.S. PETITIONED TO BAN
SALES OF BABY TURTLES

A total ban on the sale of baby turtles has been called
for in petitions to the Food and Drug Administration, the
Center for Communicable Disease Control in Atlanta, and
the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The legal
documents submitted by Consumers Union and the
Humane Society of the United States are fully documented
showing the complete failure of current regulations to
control the turtle mongers who sell diseased animals by the
millions to the public. The result: serious illness and
hospitalization of children; suffering and slow death to
infant turtles.

Humane organizations have protested in vain for years
over the cruelty inextricably involved in the turtle trade,
for the overwhelming majority of these small creatures
slowly starve to death. The serious public health
considerations most justifiably raised by Consumers Union
should help to put an end to this nefarious trade once and
for all. (See A.W.1. Information Report, Vol. 22, No. 4).

 




 

AWI INFORMATION REPORT
ARTICLE INSPIRES BOOK

Author Elizabeth Yates McGreal wrote to the Animal
Welfare Institute February 4, 1974, telling how her popular
book about an unusual dog had come to be written.

“The story of Skeezer,” Mrs. McGreal wrote, “was
published by Harvey House last spring, but I have been
intending to send you notice of it for a very particular
reason.

“There never would have been a story at all had I not
read in the late winter of 1970 an article in your Bulletin
about this very dog. I was intrigued by the fact that Skeezer
was serving the cause of medicine with her life, not by
forfeiting it in a laboratory.

“A sequence of events resulted in my spending some
time at Children’s Psychiatric Hospital, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, to see Skeezer in action, then the
book was written, checked with authorities for accuracy,
and published last spring.

“It is soon to be released in a paperback which pleases
me as it will be able to reach many more people with a
lower price.”

The Animal Welfare Institute salutes Mrs. McGreal for
her tribute to this mongrel dog.

Skeezer’s photograph appears as the frontispiece of the
book, Skeezer, Dog With a Mission'. It is reproduced below
with the accompanying description.

Courtesy Ira Rosenberg - Detrozt

“This is Skeezer, who helps to heal emotionally
disturbed children. She lives and works at the Children’s
Psychiatric Hospital at the University of Michigan Medical
Center at Ann Arbor. Skeezer’s job is to reach troubled
children who have retreated within themselves and become
resistant to human help. Carefully trained, but responsive in
her own way, Skeezer makes her comforting presence felt
by a child starved for affection, by one who wants just to
be listened to, and by those in need of a playmate.

“Now in her seventh year of residency at CPH, Skeezer is
the trusted and beloved member of a medical team,
carrying out her mission as ‘canine co-therapist.’ ”

The original article about Skeezer (Ann Arbor News,
July 16, 1970) noted: “Unlike her professional associates,
Skeezer never goes off duty. Her home is beside Miss
Williams’ desk at the nursing station. But she has learned to
take free run of the hospital, through a combination of
great patience and uncanny knowledge of where she is and
where she wants to go.

“To commute through the six-story building with its
many closed or locked doors, Skeezer prefers the elevator.
When ready to travel she takes up a position at the elevator
door and simply waits for a human to enter or leave the
cage. Then she darts in and rides patiently up and down
until the door opens on the ﬂoor‘ she wants to visit.”

FOUR-FOLD INCREASE IN
A.P.H.I.S. INSPECTION LOAD

persons licensed or registered under

increases. ' . . .
dealers; registered 904 research facrllties, and llcensed or

registered 913 animal exhibitors. Lists of these, current as
of November 1, 1973, are available. Inspectors now cover
about 7,500 premises — a more than four-fold 1ncrease over
1971. At current budget levels, inspectlons are limited to
two per year. Complaints, however, contlnue to get first

inspection priority.

7’ 4

ns become heavier as the number of
the Animal Welfare Act

On February 1, USDA had licensed 4,385 animal

Inspection burde

Charges were filed December 3, 1973 against a New
Jersey animal dealer for shipping cats 1n substandard crates
and keeping imprOper records. Henry Chrlst of Farmmgdale
will appear before an administrative law Judge to hear the
charges. He also will have to appear in US. Distrlct Court at
Newark on charges filed October 23 that he vrolated a 1970
USDA cease-and-desist order. (See A.W.l. Information
Report, Vol. 22, No. 4)

As a result of legal action on unrelated alleged violations,
K.G. Farms, Inc., Parsippany, N.J., and Edward
Radzilowski, Memphis, Mich., have signed separate
cease-and-desist orders. Mr. Radzilowski also received a
14-day license suspension.

USDA‘s dealer licensing requirement was upheld in
court, when Gary Te Stroete, a Sioux Center, Iowa, dog
dealer, was fined a total of $450 on six counts of violating
the Animal Welfare Act. He had been charged on December
11 with failure to obtain a license and shipping dogs across
state lines without proper identification.

RECENT CONGRESSIONAL ACTION
ON PROTECTION OF ANIMALS

The new strengthened Endangered Species Act became
law December 21, 1973. Following this action, the US.
Government deposited at Morges, Switzerland its
ratiﬁcation of the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.Our country is
the first to take such action. Nine other countries must do
the same before the treaty goes into effect.

A Joint Resolution, to protect whales, SJ. Res. 184, was
introduced by Senator Warren Magnuson (D., Wash),
December 21, 1973, and a companion Resolution, H.J. Res.
866, was introduced by Congressman Alphonzo’Bell (R.,
Calif.). The Resolution paves the way for economic
sanctions by the United States to halt Japanese and Soviet
commercial whaiing.

A report on Problems in Air Shipment of Domestic
Animals was issued, December 21, 1973, by the Special
Studies Subcommittee of the House Committee on
Government Operations. It recommended an interagency
committee of the US. Department of Agriculture, Civil
Aeronautics Board, and Federal Aviation Administration to
try to meld jurisdictions (USDA has no authority over
common carriers on the way they tranSport animals). “Only
CAB has the authority to compel airline compliance”, the
Report underlined. The Report also emphasized the
extreme understaffing of USDA: “One witness, a Kansas
breeder, pointed out that each of seven USDA inspectors in
Kansas is supposed to inspect 193 kennels per month or 9%
kennels per day. As the witness put it, ‘In a place like
Kansas, that is a lot of driving.’ ”

Oversight hearings on the Marine Mammal Protection
Act were held January 16, 1974 by Congressman John
Dingell (D., Mich.)

Hearings were held by Senator Claiborne Pell (D., R.I.)
January 23, 1974 on S. 2774 which would create a
National Zoological and Aquarium Board. Senator Mark
Hatfield (R., Ore.) is the author of the bill.

On February 7, 1974, the House of Representatives
passed H.R. 11873, Congressman John Melcher’s (D.,

Enforcement of Animal Welfare Act Penalizes Dealers Mont) bill to PYOVide funds for Veterinary research

The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
issued a summary of current animal care enforcement work

including research on animal birth control, a provision
added at the request of the Society for Animal Protective

Legislation. The bill now goes to the Senate where hearings
have already been held.

. ... ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
. Sczentzftc Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. Paul Kiernan, M,D, Samuel Peacock, M.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D. F_ Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. John \VaISh, M.D.
Lee R. Dice, Ph.D. . .
. . Internatzonal Committee
T.G. Anttkatzrdes, D.V.M. — Greece David Ricardo —— Canada
Major C.W. Hume, O.B.E., B.Sc., M.I. Biol. — United Kingdom

on February 11, 1974, four paragraphs of which follow.

N. E. Wernberg — Denmark

P. Rousselet-Blanc D.V. — F .
Ofﬁcers , rance

Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Christine Stevens, President

- Barbara Gould Adm' ' ' ' .
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President ’ lmstratrve Assrstant

Marilyn Chamberlain, Publications Secretary

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3630
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

Fbr more information
call 202-337-2332

FOR IMEDIATE WSE:

SCOTT McVAY TO RECEIVE ANNUAL SCI-MEITZER AWARD
FOR OUTSTANDING CONTRIBUTION TO ANIMAL WELFARE.

Scott mevay, Chairman, Cemmittee on Whales, Environmental Defense Fund, will receive
the 1973 Animal welfare Institute Schweitzer Award on Tuesday, December 18, at

3 p.m. at the John F. Kennedy'center for the Performing Arts, Washington, D.C. The
award will be presented by Lee Talbot, Senior Scientist, council on Environmental
Quality. Also participating in the ceremonies will be Jason Robards, who is currently
starring in Eugene O'Neill's "A.Mbon for the Misbegotten". The award consists of the
Albert Schweitzer Medal and $500. '

Two expeditions to the Arctic to study the Bowhead whale were led by ucvay. The
National Film Board of Canada is nOW'making an hour-long documentary based on the
second expedition. He has written many articles; presented papers; made films and
speeches on behalf of the great whales; and, with Dr. Roger Payne, has brought the
fascinating recorded I’Songs of The Hhmpback Whale" to an appreciative public.

Movay's efforts through the Environmental Defense Fund (an American private conser-
vation group that has been working for the past several years to influence world
opinion to spare the whales) contributed to: the listing of the great whales on the
endangered species list; closing down of the last U.S. whaling operations; and,
passing of the moratorium.resolution on the killing of whales.

He has, especially, tried to influence Japan and Russia - the two most blatant
offenders - to stop killing whales, traveling to both countries. In this connection,
the Animal WElfare Institute, Friends of the Ehrth, thd for Animals, National .
Wildlife Federation, and other conservationists, have called for a National boycott
of Japanese and Soviet goods and products as a deterrent based on economic pressure.

The first recipient of the Animal Wblfare Institute's Medal was Dr. Albert Schweitzer,
in 195n. Other winners include Hubert H. Humphrey, Rachel Carson, and, last year,
Russell Train, now head of the Environmental Protection Agency.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

For more information
call 202—337-2332

FOR IMMEDIATE WSE:

SCOTT McVAY TO RECEIVE ANNUAL SCHWEITZER AWARD

FOR OUTSTANDING CONTRIBUTION TO ANIMAL WELFARE.

Scott McVay, Chairman, Committee on Whales, Environmental Defense Fund, will receive
the 1973 Animal Welfare Institute Schweitzer Award on Tuesday, December 18, at

3 p.m. at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, thhington, D.C. The
award will be presented by Lee Talbot, Senior Scientist, Cbuncil on Environmental
Quality. Also participating in the ceremonies will be Jason Robards, who is currently
starring in Eugene O'Neill's "A Mbon for the Misbegotten". The award consists of the
Albert Schweitzer Medal and $500.

Two expeditions to the Arctic to study the Bowhead whale were led by Movay. The
National Film Board of Canada is now making an houralong documentary based on the
second expedition. He has written many articles; presented papers; made films and
speeches on behalf of the great whales; and, with Dr. Roger Payne, has brought the
fascinating recorded ”Songs of The Humpback Whale" to an appreciative public.

McVay's efforts through the Environmental Defense Fund (an American private conser-
vation group that has been working for the past several years to influence world
opinion to spare the whales) contributed to: the listing of the great whales on the
endangered species list; closing down of the last U.S. whaling operations; and,
passing of the moratorium resolution on the killing of whales.

He has, especially, tried to influence Japan and Russia - the two most blatant
offenders - to stop killing whales, traveling to both countries. In this connection,
the Animal Welfare Institute, Friends of the Earth, Fund for Animals, National
Wildlife Federation, and other conservationists, have called for a National boycott
of Japanese and Soviet goods and products as a deterrent based on economic pressure.

The first recipient of the Animal Wblfare Institute's Medal was Dr. Albert Schweitzer,
in 195#. Other winners include Hubert H. Humphrey, Rachel Carson, and, last year,
Russell Train, now head of the Environmental Protection Agency.

 




 

 

 

 

‘ ,. .

‘ . A y .. u . . c .. . . .. sh; £4...) .1

, u l. . . .t a . Iva:
. ‘ . a. , ‘ . . , .. ,. ‘ ,z .r V « .. ‘ s . . 1.73.: ...I. . ...I . £. Jr

. r

U Y
K G. m B
....M F

, \

SCOTTMcVAY ' 4‘

, I“
. . ,
v , x
. . ..
. , .'
‘M
1 (
'.’

 

1%me ..

‘15

u . in}. m
quhle a

 




MARGUERITE
FLOWER
BY

SCOTT McVAY

 




 

On reading that Sperm Whales have “Interesting Habits”
The Norwegian Wba/z'ﬂg Gazette, October, 1962, p. 39 5

Puzzling to oriental and occidental mind

Is the behavior of the great sperm whale

After the harpoon —— driven by gun powder ——
Extinguishes piercingly the life of his leader.

Killer man, not from self—defense
But for puny commercial reasons,
Eliminates the rest of the herd easily
After smoting the leader.

All on a blue bright quiet day

When the whales rolled and played
~ lazily in the sun

Not realizing that Sure Death

Was gliding toward them

With pronged creatures

as her blunt instrument.

 




 

“The weather was fine, with a gentle breeze”.
The whales were seen “standing on their tails”.
Oh, those giant comedians!
Ah, those large brained clowns!
Big enough to fear nothing from the deep
Secure after hundreds of thousands of years
on an evolutionary road
Which had rendered them supreme and safe
in their element.
And then in the last instant of this sweeping history
The vertical aliens of the dry areas
formerly friendly salts
For reasons not fully known to themselves
Pursued and Attacked
The gentle whale ungeared for ﬁghting
sharp metal shafts that cut
deeply
fatally in his
ﬂesh
enraging him once as he had not been enraged

———for milennia.




As their chief thrashed and looked death
in her monstrous stained eye
The ranks closed in a taut spoked
wheel without a rim
Vibrating as one being.
Using the delicate image of N ishiWaki,
a marguerite ﬂower emerged.
Life around a dying center
and this ﬂower went through
spring summer and fall
As the harpoon gun picked off
the loyal petals
which tried together to protect
the one who had led them through
all the oceans
told them tales of a grand past

and of their forebears.

 




 

    

Yet one asks — why this radial gathering?
a blind thing evoked from the dim past,
senseless, pathetically beautiful?
a oneness of community?
a desire to protect a wounded chief
burying an awareness that ﬁnal
disposition awaits those who linger?

a loyalty which would bridge death?

And now I feel deep within
That this fresh knowledge to kill
The Big One first, then the rest are sitting ducks3
Will further add to human consumption
of whale oil and

whale meat,

A fragile ﬂower of formerly affable sperm whales.
Let us not now try to prove

Empirically the one observation correct.

Let the great whale peoples freely roam
The oceans unmolested

Until we may know them better.




 

 

One hundred copies of this book
have been set by hand in Caslon Old Face

by Scott McVay and printed on

hand made Fabriano by Carol Stoddard
at the Graphic Arts Printing Shop
Princeton University

November I 9 ()3

This is number

 




 

 

 

4566 Provine Line Road
Princeton, N.J. 08540

November 28, 1973

Mrs. Christine Stevens
President

Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Christine:

Thank you. I am touched. I am pleased to accept the
award with the understanding that there will be an opportunity
to sketch the evolution of U. S. policy regarding the conserva—
tion of whales and acknowledge 12 to 15 persons, with special
mention of Roger Payne, who have played critical roles in the
effort to stOp the killing of whales —— including yourself on
two major counts! Also, it is important to recognize how far
we still have to go, and the critical nature of the current
impasse which necessitates the boycott.

 

As requested, enclosed herewith is a biographical sketch
related to whales and offprints of some papers and articles
that are handy, as well as a couple of poems that have apparently
been of interest to Japanese writers.

With gratitute and best wishes.
Sincerely,

ﬁat

Scott McVay
SM:nlt

 




 

welcome to the~tWenty-eecond annual meeting of the Animal

Welfare Institute. It is good to see ectiviste from many different
agencies here,_both from goverhment and private conservation and
V humane organizations. The urgency of the problems which face ue,
symbolized by the terribleplight of the khelee and dolphins of the
eorld, bring us together to fight for animals and the ecosystems

that support them.end us. Internecine battlee are lessening and
.willingneee to help orther  orgenizetione and share credit for such
‘ victories as are won is gorwing. This year, the ten-year moratorium
on commercial whaling is the target of targets. The Animal Welfare
'Inetitute will continueto exert evehy'meane open to-it to achive
that purpose,ahd it will not stop-until-the objective is achieved.

It is good to see here, Dr. Robert white, Administrator of the

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration: Curtis Bohlen, from

the Department of the Interior; Dr. hhlhern; Administrator of the
AEepartment of Agricultﬁre'eehimel and Plant Health Inepection Service.
. Dr, Case, Chiefveterinery edvieor to the veterans Administretﬁpn; Dr.
Buohheister, President-Emeritus of the_Netional Audubon Society: Tam
”Garrett, Wildlife Dirctor of the Friends of the Earth; Lewis Regen-
Vetein, Executive Director of the Fund for Animals; and many other
leedere and workere from,theee and other agencies.

You will hear from the medallist, Scott thay, a veteran fighter,
and a diplomet, too, in the whale campaigns, about the Work that has
been done by many of those here today, and by some far away, at the

ends of the earth.

 




New I.w111 briefly summarize the work of the Animel Weifere‘
-Inetitute during the year. Each of you has S copy of the  SnnuS1
report, and you'll note the United States won S mSJority vote thiS _
A year for the whaling moretorium St the International Whaling Com-11-
mies1on meeting in London.- That was important, even etertl1ng progress,
th t 1twaen't enough. T Dr. Talbot w11l, I hope, give h1S expert _
op1n1on of where we are now.
i In another f1eld in which w11d creatures are being killed by
'meSnS SS hideously cruel as the explosive herpoonS thSt ere hurled
at the whales, the AWI has Sought to focus attention hhrough publiee-
tion of Dr. F. Jean V1nter'e "FSotS About Furs,” Copies of which are on
displayeﬁere. Dr. Vinter wrote the first ed1t10n fifteen years ago
‘for the Univer81t1ee Federation for Animal Welfare in England, where,
owing  to Winston Churchill's intervention, the leg-hold trep 13 no
ilonger permitted. I But in the United States, t houeende of animals Still
gnaw off their own  1egS in order to escape from the intolerable pain ‘ w
' and feer inflict ed by this savage device which has been compared to
orueifixion 1n the torment it produces on the captive.

_ Other Septives which deeperetely need the help of all humanitariensi
are the permanently caged laboratory dogs which some scientific ‘
institutions stubbornly refuse to release for so Such as half an hour  
S day. Indeed, they have mounted S well-organiZSS campaign, incredible
.though it may seem, to prevent the humane veterinarians of the Depart—
ment of Agriculture from publiehing S modest proposal in The Federal
J.Reg1Ster to require such release. One of the SW1 publications thiev
year was S reprint from College Management, in which roomy pens and

runways were recommended by such leading institutions SS Johns Hopkins

and the ESdioel College'of‘V1rg1niS. But SpOkesmen from.the'University

 




-3-

"of T8888 have tola the prass they plan a three million d81188>8nimal

88888888.building in 8h18h the suppressed regulationswilleggkbe .
88888888! Quiy.88888g ﬁubliédamand will and thécampletolyunnacessary ,
cruelty 8f perpetual 88g1ng for research dog8 in th888 188t1tut1888

that refuae'tc recogn1ze 8888 minimum.animal righta.

I will nOt attempt to refer to the full publication and distri-
888188 pr8gram of the WI, but in connection w1ﬁh the 888k of Barbara
081888 to stop cruel experimmnts by school children, 1888818 note that
m8ny of our publications ara deisnged for teachers t8 888188 tn this
fight. Two~mmjor articles by Dr. Orlans detailed 888 inr118818888£
.pain and death on 8818888 fair 8818818. A highly encouraging 8138
18 this long fight was passage by the State of California of 8 188*", ’
prehibiting p81nful experiments on animals by h1gh 888881 8r grade
88h881 students. In Maine, an attempt to repaal 8 Similar existing
» 188, failed.“ ‘ _

Last—year's Schweitzer m8681118t, Russell Train, nGW Chainman
8f the Env1ronm8ntal Protection Agency, fought for whales and other
’endangered wildlife. He was chief 8f the U.S. delegat18n which spent
three extremely active weeks in February and march 8f this year seeking
the Strengaﬂt p8881b18 treaty far the protection 8f endangered speciesg“
Dr. L88 Talbot, Senior 881888188 of the 0888811 on Environmental Qn8lity,
‘_was in tha farefrcnt of this stguggle and deserves 88888888 credit
Vfor-the prOV1310n3 it contains. The traaty, which includes important
18mmanerequirsdmmnt8 in 88818188 to itS basic conservation p888181888,
888 ratified by the U.S. Senate 18 August and will be deposited in
Mbrges, 88188881888 88.8888 88 the implament1ng legislation has beenv
888888. Both 588888 of Congrasé blue acted on it, but at th8 8888888
time,.58natar Stevens Bf Alaska‘has put a hold on ths 18318188188 18

 




-h- ‘

this week, same states will be put behind a wholeyear 1n ﬁhéir
implementatioh‘ofttha law. Other natibns watching the Un1téd States
lead, aniwe a g the leading naticn 1n the effcrt to save endangered
species, will hang back and lat the pabachers centinua their nefarioua‘
trade. Let us hope tha confsfees will agree On an effaetive bill
and that it will becama law in 1973. 1 1

Lee Talbot admits to being an ecolegist, a geographer and a
conservaticnist, but he is more than that. He has a d1361p11nid,
sci ent1f1c mind, but he does not suffer fram the lack of narve which
13 likely to be an occupational concemitant. It is a pleaaure to
be abla to introdﬁce to you a scientist whg ﬁnes his analytical brain,
‘h1a knowledge andhis experience.» youthful-though he 13 - t0 pratect
the natural world against the destruction which carrent fada,11nked '1
ts ancient instincts, seam set on puttiné 1n mmtién. Only the other
.day while be1ng subjected to the tacit assumption that ”3c1entists
and experts" cantmlve all our problamé, allowing the rest of us to
relax,quiet1y, I was:moved to point out that if all scientists ware
_11ke Lee Talbot er Rachal Carson, We wculdn‘t have to-warry, but
unluckily, very few are. With.mnre than 140 ac1ent1fio or technical
publicaticns ta hia name,‘he 1s a solidly established mamber of the
scientific cgmmmn1ty. It will  be good for tha aarth and its 1nhab1tants
' 1f he develops a 391bd fallawing in that community.‘ Lee Talbot.

 




It is a'pleaaure ta introduce A fellow whale-lover~who needs

no introduction - Jason Robarda.. _

b If you have follawed hia career you may kndw that h18 genius
A8 an actor AAA first rec0gnizad when he playad a supporting gale
1n "Th9 Ieeman Camethm” 3e thwn played ”A Lang Day's Journey Inta .
Night, " "Hughia, " "Stalag 17,“ and "The Chase" fallawed, and after
Shakespearean roles at Stratford, Ontario, he played mare leading A
roles in "Big Fish, Little Fish," "Toys in the Att1c," "A Thousand
Clowns," ané many others.

A'In “A Anon for th e Miabégotten" ha 13 v1s1t1ng thAZKennedy
Center fer the second time. Manh.or'yom.doubti§ss saw “The Country
any" in 1971. ' ‘ _ 7 i

To list just A few at the f1lmsin'wh1Chyhg‘has Appeared:
"The Journgy," “By Love Paaseséed,” ”Tender 18 the‘ﬁight,""AThouaand
Clowns," "A 813 Band for a Little Lady;"_"Any“wednesday,“ "The War
Between Men and Aqmgn," "Nurdars_1n the Rue M0r3ue,"and "Death of
a Stranger". HA has Just f1n13had filming "Pat Garrett and Billy the A
Kid,” and "RovarvBlood”. ' 1

But, quite ApArt fram.h13 pre-aminenee as an aster - A trAa
‘atar in these almost ttarless timws, JAIAn 15 a close dbsarver and
an intanae aAmirer.of the gray whales who pass 1n‘migrat10n along.
the California ceast each year. In fact, I bel1eve they are on their

way again now. ‘Wan‘t yen pléaae tell us abaut thssa whales?

 




.6.»
4/;

”a

4: :um

 




Potomac Prospect

he year’s end brought provisional success to environmental-
T ists in four aspects of the long struggle to make the P”
tomac a model of river basin planning for America and the
world.

The C810 Canal National Historical Park had been estab-
lished by law.

Funds were being provided to construct a permanent intake
and pumping plant to tap the fresh-water estuary of the
Potomac at Washington for supplemental municipal water-
supply purposes.

Two Army-type dams. Sixes Bridge on the Monocacy and
Verona on the Shenandoah. had been defeated.

Funds for the Bloomington Dam on the North Branch had
been impounded.

It seemed possible that the big reservoir approach to river
basin management, in its application to the Potomac. was
entering its ﬁnal stage of curtailment. termination. recision.

Freed from the compulsions of defense. environmentalists
can look toward a creative future.

The criterion of pollution prevention at source must be
fundamental to a life-serving plan for the Potomac. The Water
Pollution Control Act requires prevention as against dilution:
it must be enforced. if not by the administrative agencies. then
in court.

This policy means tertiary treatment by municipalities and
industry; it means cooling towers; the prospective aluminum
plant on the Monacacy will have to comply; likewise the food
processing polluters.

The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) now has the
pollution-prevention responsibility. The Office of Manage-
ment and Budget (OMB). and the Council on Environmental
Quality (CEQ) have review and enforcement authority and
must exercise it.

Water supplies will be guaranteed to the Metropolis by
the estuarial intake; to the Upper Basin by local reserVoirs
where needed. and basically. in abundant quantities. by the
prevention of pollution, which makes repeated re-use feasible.
Big reservoirs never could have met the need.

Flood management will be accomplished by keeping the
flood plains clear. A Federal-State system of flood plain man-
agement for this purpose should be established if necessary.
Local protective works can be added where needed.

Watershed management will complement flood plain man-
agement. Programs for groups of flood-detention basins like
that on the Mooreﬁeld River should be revived. Soil con-
servation and reforestation should be vigorously pushed. The
need for large numbers of impoundments on the feeder streams
may well have been exaggerated. The protection of natural
conditions on the headwaters and tributaries should be a basic
managerial criterion.

A reformulation of forestry policy will be essential: the
governing criterion must be ecological management. not maxi-
mum timber production. Clear-cutting like that which has
occurred in the Monongahela National Forest must be stopped.
lnd1v1dual tree selection. O‘roup selection. or shelterwood must
replace it. Environmentalists will be pressing for such changes
In the management of both public and private timberlands
‘ throughout the Nation.

Re-orientations of watershed programs will also be essential.
The tendency has been to imitate the Army Engineers. build-
mg for every conceivable purpose. The policy of the Water
Pollution Control Act requires a halt in storage for dilution:
lake building for speculators should also be terminated.

The existing leeral-State system will be adequate for out-
door recreation. The States develop plans which are approved
and funded by the Federal Government. The big reservoirs
are out. and the motorboat uproar with them. The natural
streams and small stream valley parks should be the focus of
recreation in the rural and mountain country.

The protection of the environment for the people who live
in the Basin will be fundamental. This means public acquisi-
tion of perpetual covenants to keep the land in farm. forest.
or limited residential use. It means related easements for en-
forcement. and for limited public access at places. These
principles must be central to any plan for a l’otomac Scenic
River; there is a growing resistance to the ruthless exercise
of the power of eminent domain in settled country.

The question of administration is important. Chains of
Army-type dams for the rigorous regulation of the flow of the
river would have required a tight operating coordination;
with big dams out. strict coordination is unnecessary.

l’ollution prevention means vigorous enforcement by EPA
everywhere. not coordination. (Lood headwaters management
calls for careful local husbandry of resources everywhere;
coordination is unimportant. (Lood outdoor recreation must
be. based on the protection of nature: protective policies must
be applied everywhere by all concerned: coordination is
largely irrelevant.

l‘lnvironmental protection. in the sense of defense against
subdivision. urbanization. over-industrialization. and land spec-
ulation. is of cardinal importance for the quality of human
life in the Basin. l’erpetual covenants with supporting ease-
ments provide the key: a workable Federal-State system
should not be difficult to devise: perhaps it should center in
EPA.

Incidentally. it should not be supposed that the Blooming-
ton Dam will necessarily be built. despite authorization and
initial funding. The purpose of the structure is the dilution
of pollution which should and can be stopped at source; the
project violates the policies of the Water Pollution Control
Act. l‘tecision of the authorization might be thought rational
in the light of those policies.

Surprisingly the situation reveals no great need for inter-
state or Basin-wide coordination. Existing Federal-State syS-
tems handling the major environmental problems would seem
to be adequate. Consultative mechanisms can easily be estab-
lished by EPA to facilitate effective cooperation. Most en-
vironmentalists will be inclined to slum both an Interstate
Compact and an Interstate (Iommission under the Water
Policy Council.

For the continuing advancement of good programs and .the
protection of the people of the Basin and the Nation against
bad ones. reliance must be placed on effective private citizen
organizations. No agency. no commission. no compact. will turn
the Potomac into a model river. nor protect it for th8 people
unless the people organize themselves on a private. non-proﬁt»
public-service basis.

The prospect is for a river of pure water and green shores
from the mountain passes to the confluence with the Chesa-
peake: a wild river. not merely a scenic river. largely free.
unimpeded by major dams. unharnessed: a region of coplOUS
water supplies. green fields. verdant forests. great open spaces.
not merely for occasional recreation. but for settled liVlng;
' It to human

of stable communities as population stabilizes. bui
dimensions. focused on farming and forestI‘Y- “n cultura-
educational. and recreational pursuits. and on the govern-
mental work of a region comprising the capital ”f a great

Nation. #14. W. S.

 




   

 

NATIONAL PARKS Max:212:

The Environmental Journal February‘lQTI

 

    

VOLUME 45 0 NUMBER 2

 

2 POTOMAC PROSPECT

4 THE CHISOS MOUNTAINS: AN ECOLOGICAL ISLAND
V lean Gillette

9 THE GREAT DISMAL SWAMP
Mildred Payne

l4 WHALES: A SKIRMISH WON, BUT WHAT ABOUT THE
WAR?
Scott McVay

20 PROFILE FOR POSTERITY: SAVING THE SKYLINES OF
VERMONT
Francis A. Young

25 STEELWORKERS CONSERVATION PROGRAM
1. W. Abel

29 CONSERVATIONISTS URGE ALASKA LAND FREEZE
31 NPCA AT WORK

32 CONSERVATION NEWS

35 CONSERVATION DOCKET

 

COVER Whale Eye by Scott McVay

The Open eye Of a dead sperm whale ﬂoating in Ayukawa Bay just
before it was butchered in August 1970. The eyes Of the 26 corpses
taken that day—the entire school—save one, were closed. That eye,
however, remained Open as the whale paSsed from life tO death, and
the last image of the assailant might have remained, faintly, on the
retina. But the shutter never closed. The open eye gazes back at us,
and We wonder what we have done. (See page 14.)

 

 

   

 

National Parks & Conservation Association, established in 1919 by Stephen Mather, the ﬁrst Director of the
National Park Service, is an independent, private, nonproﬁt, public-service organization, educational and
scientiﬁc in character. Its responsibilities relate primarily to protecting the national parks and monuments
of America, in which it endeavors to cooperate with the National Park Service while functioning as a con-
structive critic, and to protecting and restoring the whole environment. Life memberships are 3500. Annual
membership dues, including subscription to National Parks & Conservation Magazine, are: $100 sustaining, $50
supporting, $15 contributing, and $10 associate. Student memberships are 38. Single copies are $1. Contri~
butions and bequests are needed to. carry on our work. Dues in excess Of $10 and contributions are dedtictible
from federal taxable income, and gifts and bequests are deductible for federal gift and estate tax purposes. Mail
membership dues, correspondence concerning subscriptions or changes of address. and postmaster notices or un-
deliverable copies to Association headquarters in Washington. When changing address, please allow six weeks’
advance notice and include old address (send address label from latest issue) along with new address.
Advertising rates and circulation data are available on request from the Advertising Manager in Washington.

SOCIATION I 1701 EIGHTEENTH STREET, NW I WASHINGTON, D.C. 20009

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     




 

 

,%

/

At the eastern end of the south rim of the Chisos Mountains, hikers on the South Rim

, whose western face looms

istant view of the Sierra (lel Carmen

Trail may pause for a d
vaguely through the haze. The plant pro

 

is an agave.

 

e from the right

 

ictur

      

hep

jecting into t

Photographs for this article were taken by the author




 

 

AN ECOLOGICAL ISLAND

JEAN GILLETTE

IF THE CHIsos MOUNTAINS landscape of West Texas is
weird and its geology turbulent, the biology of the Big Bend
National Park peaks is remarkable and perplexing. Thus, a
species of bird nests there and apparently noWhere else.
The Chisos have their own species of agave and birch.
Parthenogenic lizards scamper over rocks on their lower
slopes. Rare, tiny whitetail deer cavort in the Chisos Basin.
Temperate-climate conifers mingle with droopy tropical
kinds. As one visiting biologist once remarked to me, “You
just never know what you’re going to ﬁnd in the Chisos.”

Late each spring ornithologists and amateur birdwatchers
make the Colima warbler the target of a special bird census
trek throngh the Chisos. Although they don’t ignore other
birds, the birders eagerly seek this warbler, which nests
exclusively in the Chisos. During the 1969 census they
tallied 166 Vermivora crissalis, according to Roland Wauer,
park naturalist.

Colima warblers winter in rugged south-central Mexican
mountains. Each May they ﬂy north to build their cuplike
nests among dead leaves and grasses in the high Chisos. A
similar species is Virginia’s warbler, which ranges through-
out the Great Basin farther west and north and alsowinters
in Mexico. Both warblers are small, but the Colima is a
distinctly larger gray bird with a pale breast. In common

 

BIG BEND NATIONAL PARK, TEXAS

  

 

ask

  
 

BIG BEND
NAT'L PARK

 
 

\ i’l Boot Spring

'Glen Springs

  

 

Map by Fade/a/ Graph/cs

 

 

 

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL FEBRUARY 1971

with Virginia’s warbler, a reddish-brown spot caps its
crown, and yellow splashes the rump and underside of the
tail coverts. More yellow washes the Virginia warbler’s
breast. Laboratory tests of the blood ﬂuids and chromo-
somal patterns of the two birds show that they are distinct
species—all of which raises some thorny questions. Why
are there so few Colima warblers? Why do they nest only
in the Chisos Mountains? Are they a new species just get-
ting a toehold or are they a species nearing extinction?

Like many other plant and animal puzzles in the Chisos
Mountains, answers to these questions are not going to
come easily. Indeed, Charles Darwin could well have started
thinking about the problems of speciation and evolution
had he visited the Big Bend instead of the Galapagos Is-
lands. Ecologically, the Chisos might be likened to an island
in the sea of the Chihuahuan desert. Their isolation by geo-
logical forces of volcanism, mountain-building, and erosion
left them separated from other mountain ranges.

FOR THE LAST 20,000 years, the climate throughout the Big
Bend has grown drier, shifting plant and animal commu-
nities on the burning, arid lowlands and moister, cooler
highlands. Some oldtime Big Benders claim that the climate
is noticeably drier now than it was 60 to 80 years ago.
Theycite the disappearance of a substantial ponderosa pine
forest that allegedly reached well down the Chisos slopes
and canyons. Now only a few large ponderosa pine and
Douglas ﬁr, both typical of moister temperate climates,
cling about the highest elevations. Yet a large number of
ponderosa stumps dot lower mountain slopes. Where did the
forests go? Those acquainted with the history of the near-
by Terlingua—Study Butte Mercury district knowthe an-
swer——to ﬁre the retorts used in reducing quicksilver from
Cinnabar. And it was overgrazing and abuse of'the sensi-
tive desert ecosystems that left spots of barren desolation
still remaining after 25 years of national park protection.

The woodcutters, however, only hastened a natural .proc-
ess. The more heat-and-drought-tolerant pinyon pines and
junipers steadily replace. the majestic northern pines and
ﬁrs. Survival of. ponderosa pine in the Chisos seems un-
likely unless the climate turns damper. Although Douglas
ﬁr still reproduces vigorously, botanists ﬁnd few seedlings
or young ponderosa trees.

Junipers, which are often wrongly called cedars, ﬁnd the
Chisos most congenial. Although both one-seeded and alli-
gator junipers are widespread in the Big Bend and south
of the Rio ‘Grande, the Chisos are the only United States
habitat of the Mexican drooping juniper. Park rangers tell
with relish stories about tourists who breathlessly report

 




  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

A colony of showy white Chisos
prickly poppies, of a species found
only in this mountain range, sways
in a warm south Texas breeze. The
crisp, spiny leaves and hairy stems
of this plant guard it well from
the careless and curious alike.

 

 

The juniper at left, seen along the Basin
Road in the Chisos, may convince some
visitors that it is being aﬂected by the
heat. This is, however, the natural growth
habit of the Mexican dr00ping juniper.
Atop the page opposite a maguey-type
agave blooms after 15 to 20 years of
growth. The plant itself will die after
blooming, though it may set additional
plants around its base. At right, below,
one of the few male whiptail checkered
lizards ever found is photographed in a
Texas A&M University terrarium.

 

NATIONAL PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

 

 

 




 

 

 

that the heat is killing all the trees. Quickly they reassure
Visitors that the weepy growth habit of Iuniperus flaccida
is perfectly natural.

Not limited to the Chisos is the distinctive Texas ma-
drofia. A member of the heath or rhododendron family, it
goes by such nicknames as “lady’s legs” and “naked In-
dian.” Arbutus texana’s thin gray outer bark peels away to
reveal a smooth reddish-pink to'reddish-brown bark. A
beautiful small tree or shrub that some consider endan-
gered, it has shiny dark green leaves, tiny white ﬂowers,
and red berries. To the amateur naturalist, it and the
drooping juniper'probably are the Chisos’ most distinctive
trees.

According to Dr. Barton H. Wernock, the Chisos hop
hornbeam, Ostrya chisosensis, is a new species in the birch
family known to occur only as a tree 30 to 40 feet tall on
Mount Emory’s north slopes.

The longspur columbine, another Chisos rarity, grows at
Cattail Falls on Ward Mountain’s western flank. Although
Fort Davis, Texas, rancher Dude Sproul claims to have
found a few columbine with 6-inch-long spurs on his Davis
Mountains property, the Sul Ross State College botanist
said that herbarium specimens limited Aquilegia longissima
to the Chisos.

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL FEBRUARY 1971

 




  

 

 

Jean Gillette holds a degree in geology and is editor

of the Texas Academy of Science Newsletter. As
science writer for the San Angelo, Texas, Standard-
Times she won in 1967 the American Association for
the Advancement of Science—Westinghouse $1,000
prize for newspapers under 100,000 circulation. After
being ineligible in 1968, she received honorable
mention in 1969 in the same category. This article
supplementsthe one about the geological history of
the Chisos Mountains printed in last month’s issue.

 

On Warnock’s list of new species found solely in the
mountain range is the Chisos prickly poppy, Argemone
Chisosensis. These spiny plants grow from 2 to 4 feet tall
and have showy white to pink flowers. Backing into a
prickly poppy ranks beside colliding with cactus as one of
the possible unpleasant consequences of careless hiking.

Two of three types of agave that often are lumped with
yucca and erroneously called century plants festoon lower
Chisos slopes and canyons. Known only from several thou-
sand specimens, the third type is another exclusive of the
mountain range. Some botanists argue that Agave Chiso-
sensis is a hybrid of the century plant type and lechuguilla.

The conspicuous maguey type with its great golden
floral stalks belongs either to Agave scabra or Agave ha-
vardi, both close relatives of the more widely distributed
Agave americana, from which sisal ropes are made. Large,
basal rosettes of thick, spiny, gray-green leaves characterize
all these amaryllis-familv specimens, but only a botanist
can distinguish them.

Much smaller and readily identiﬁable is lechuguilla,
Agave lechuguilla. Together with several species of prickly
pear cactus, creosote bush, and Chino grama, a perennial
bunch grass, it forms the dominant plant portion of the
Chihuahuan life zone. Although most people fear cactus
punctures, the yellow-green lechuguilla makes climbing
steep rocky slopes in the Big Bend an exercise in agility.
The plant’s 3-inch terminal spines reach just above most
hiking boot tops. Because the plant produces a potent corti-
costeroid, sensitive persons may sustain extremely painful
swellings as a result of a puncture.

Rocky, lechuguilla-infested hillsides are the favorite
abode of whiptail lizards. Unlike most other lizard genera,
several whiptail species manage to reproduce without any
male lizards in their own species. In short, they are par-
thenogenetic. Hundreds of thousands of female checkered
whiptails, Cnemidophorous tesselatus, roam the Big Bend,
but less than half a dozen males ever have been found.
None of them has yet been proved to be a father.

Although checkered whiptails are not the only partheno-
genetic vertebrates, nor indeed the sole female-only species
in the Southwest, their existence raises even tougher ques-
tions than the Colima warbler or the origin of the Chisos
agave. Apparently these lizards evolved a means of initiat-
ing cell division in unfertilized eggs. Their chromosOmal
characteristics attest to this. Her'petologists speculate that
the mechanism developed as an adaptation to extremely hot
climates Where high temperatures may prevent males from
producing enough living sperm to fertilize females. Stimu-
lated by the mating act, some checkered female long ago
started an unfertilized egg to dividing. Exclusively female
offspring perpetuated the character when it proved" a suc-

cessful adaptation to the environment. Some partheno-
genetic forms do mate with males of closely related species
and are known as sexual parasites, but repeated studies of
genetic material show that the male is not a parent. As
Dr. Paul Maslin of the University of Colorado observed:
“It completely confuses our concept of what is a species.”

Dainty Carmen whitetail deer furnish additional confu-
sion among the 50 subspecies or geographic races of this
most widely distributed American deer species. In the
mornings and evenings these little deer pleasantly entertain
Chisos visitors; but they are second in rarity only to the
even tinier Key deer of Florida. Although male deer roam
the intervening desert areas, the friendly Whitetails make
their home in the Sierra del Carmen as well as in the
Chisos, but not elsewhere.

Disjunct populations of animals perhaps are more easily
understood than those of plants. After all, animals can
travel. They could make it from one suitable habitat to an-
other. In the case of birds, this is obvious. For example,
the Mexican jay is the only blue jay found in the Chisos.
Although this jay is not found elsewhere in the United
States, it is abundant in Mexican mountains. '

When David and Patricia Easterla captured a rare
spotted bat in the Big Bend in l968, they added to the
park’s biological puzzles. Previously the few specimens of
Euderma maculata were netted in the Great Basin at least
4100 miles northwest of the Chisos. So little is known about
spotted bats that no one is even sure whether they are tree-
roosting or crevice-roosting bats or whether they are an
endangered species. After this Big Bend capture no zoolo-
gist can even pinpoint their range.

Until Dr. P. V. Wells of the Kansas University botany
department studied wood (pack) rat trash piles. most be-
lieved that moister climates during glacial ages enabled
such species of trees as ponderosa pine to spread across
intervening lowlands. Wells found that in the Chihuahuan
desert such mountain vegetation never extended below
4,000 feet. Even drought-tolerant pinyon pines and juniper
extended only 2,500 feet lower than they do today. Al-
though animals—especially seed-eating birds ~might occa-
sionally carry pine and other conifer seeds across inhospit-
able lowlands, the wind whistling from mountaintop to
mountaintop probably did more to spread montane species.

Both wind and animal transport are a hazardous and
undependable means for a plant to increase its range. Yet
some remarkable distributions have been recorded among
mountain ranges in both the Chihuahuan and more westerly
Sonoran deserts. Warnock cites the low-growing, maroon-
flowered orchid, Malaxis ehrenbergia. ﬁrst discovered in
1966 near Boot Springs in the Chisos. Arizona mountains
in the Sonoran desert are its only other known habitat.

Tina ISOLATION THAT GAVE the Galapagos Islands their
unlque ﬂora and fauna is the same factor that tends to
produce an exclusive ecological mix on each of the tem-
perate mountain islands in southwestern deserts. This eX-
clusiveness of plants and animals combines with varying
landscapes to afford the Chisos Mountains their special
fasclnation. Scarcely are they the Creator’s rejects, as one
Indlan legend claims. In them one can imagine creation in
progress and ecosystems changing only less rapidly than
the play of light, shadow, and color. -

NATIONAL PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

 
  
     
       
       
     
     
   
       
     
   
       
         
   
       
     
     
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
       
       
     
   
     

. i"

 

  

p...
It ,.

   
     
  

"is 1‘ > pi:
/ , , 4 . w_ _ 4

,. .tr: . ' 33- (‘7
: pi "-‘ _ '1 ' .rg .Ir .4.

I
J
"[

   
     
   

VIRGINIA STATE LIBRARY

1
l




 

r..., v ......s Mix! 3.. .
. . A .r ..U\ .. rl 3 i.
I , it! 2.. , ,.. ; ....
. , &\$§ug . W1}.
. . 2.. .1; lﬂlf...:l ,. t
(.31)... ‘ . . . 1 ~ 09.... .

p I: {III 214:6...99". “I.
. , w... 1.1... . A.” . , . c‘ 3

)hi

’
A
r.

,. . , s V. .

if: 1..-! . u . . .
. ..2.. .. _ 311.1,. Hus... .
. .V ‘5 f . |\

‘ .. :Aix um. .V ..
inf” . i. n .2, 1.x.
$W.M§AWO.W EU.

.53 .€~l.tl at! .0

STATE LIBRARY

VIRGINIA

 




 

 

 

[he Everglades have received staunch defense from
across the nation. Georgia’s Okefenokee Swamp is pro-
tected as a wildlife refuge and has many partisans. Estua-
rine wetlands up and down the Atlantic Coast, though
under heavy assault, are the subjects of spirited efforts at
protection. But for some reason the Great Dismal Swamp,
among the most interesting of the nation’s biological com-
munities, until very recently was sliding toward destruc-
tion with hardly a conservationist’s ﬁnger being raised to
stop it. Even now government interest is almost nonexis-
tent, though conservationists ﬁnally are rallying to the cause.

Just 20 miles southwest of Norfolk, Virginia, the Great
Dismal Swamp is a paradox: on high ground rather than
low, free of malaria and miasma, a gently ﬂowing foun-
tain rather than a catch-basin of stagnance and scum. It
harbors black bears, some of the biggest snakes anywhere,
and a fantastic array of plants. lts soil burns, and its water
is the color and clarity of brandy. It is 750 square miles in
area, larger than Okefenokee, wilder than the Everglades.
Many naturalists consider it our most valuable outdoor
laboratory.

Indians believed the swamp was haunted. One legend
described a fearsome fire bird whose abandoned nest became
Lake Drummond, in the swamp’s center. Early settlers
drawn to the swamp’s fringes by fertile soil and abundant
game told harrowing stories of panthers, snakes, quick-
sand, and bears that herded pigs into the forest by slapping
them on their rumps with huge paws. Colonial mothers
issued dire warnings about ghosts to their adventurous off-
spring. Even today the local guides who ferry sportsmen
into the Dismal Swamp speak more or less reverently of
two tragic Indian lovers who roam the forest, he as a
hunter, she as a snow-white doe with a crimson spot on
her forehead. Ofter seen and followed, they vanish as sud-
denly as they appear.

The Dismal is no respecter of reputations. North Caro-
lina’s ﬁrst governor, William Drummond, plunged into the
swamp in 1676, discovered and named the lake in its center,
and stumbled out weeks later, lone survivor in his party.

Virginia’s aristocratic Colonel William Byrd 11 (who is
generally credited with naming Dismal Swamp) nearly died
surveying the Virginia—North Carolina line in 1728. His
party ran out of food. lost its bearings, and fought through

dense undergrowth, covering less than 1 mile a day, nearly.

eaten alive by vicious yellow flies. (It is alleged that a
swarm of them can kill a mule.) Colonel Byrd emerged
cursing that “vast body of dirt and nastiness” and added
alligators to its growing list of horrors, although no one
else has ever seen them.

George Washington owned the swamp for years, and in
1765 formed the “Adventurers for Draining the Great Dis-
mal Swamp,” dug two drainage ditches—which are still in
use today—and embarked on a series of disastrous agri-
cultural projects. He grew 20-foot berryless blackberry
Vines, 10-foot cotton with blue and yellow bolls, and no rice
at all, despite extensive and expensive attempts. He gave up
in disgust and sold the swamp to Lighthorse Harry Lee.
But Lee could not keep up the payments, and the land re-
verted to Washington, who ignored it thereafter.

In later years the Dismal attracted less illustrious devel-
opers. Halfway House, a spooky hostelry built in 1800

10

smack across the state line, drew shady characters of every
description. One advertisement rhapsodized, “The Half-
way House . . . is a stand fully applicable to all purposes
of life, as eating, drinking, sleeping, marrying and duel-
ling.”

By the 1850’s the Dismal was a haven for runaway
slaves. Most owners abandoned the wretched fugitives to
its snakes and mires, but a few utilized hounds to track
them down. North Carolina’s legislature legalized shooting
of runaways, paying owners two-thirds of the dead slaves’
value. Many Negroes who escaped the dogs and the guns
formed robber bands and wreaked grisly vengeance on
canal and coach road travelers.

The desperadoes are gone now, but the Dismal Swamp
remains a refuge. Most visitors enter the swamp on one of
its brandy-colored canals, cruising between luxuriant for-
ests. Frogs croak and birds ﬂit, and it is hard to believe
that Norfolk, the southern tip of. the Atlantic Coast meg-
alopolis, lies merely 20 miles away.

Because the Dismal Swamp straddles the temperate and
subtropic climate zones, an astounding variety of plants
thrive there, offering a unique opportunity to botanists.
“Juniper” (actually white cedarl, cypress, and magnolia
ﬂourish beside red maple, oak, lilac, and cherry trees.
Honeysuckle. yellow jasmine, Virginia creeper, and musca-
dine grapes create a colorful tangle that makes walking
practically impossible and sends out a cloud of perfume
in spring that can be detected miles away. Spanish moss
festoons the trees.

Altogether, some 35 species of trees as well as uncounted
varieties of ﬂowers grow in the Dismal—and thanks to a
52-inch annual rainfall, temperate climate, and fantastically
fertile soil, they grow faster there than anywhere else in
the continental United States. Writer William Stansbury,
who Visited Lake Drummond in the late 1920’s, described
Virgin cypress trees 120 feet tall, with ﬂying buttress roots
large enough for him to paddle his canoe under them.

The Dismal can be divided into several distinct zones.
The two ditches dug by Washington lowered. the water
level several feet in the late 1700’s. Consequently, the outer
swamp is really dry forest, composed of gum, pine, mul-
berry, and red maple. At the southern end of the swamp
is the Green Sea: a huge tract of cane plants 15 feet tall.
The interior is true swamp—dominated by black gum,
juniper, and cypress, carpeted with luxuriant marsh grasses
and shrubs, tangled with vines.

Men still can be overpowered by this wild inner swamp.
William Haywood and his son found out that carelessness
in the Dismal can be costly.

Several years ago the two men and their small dog
entered the swamp to hunt squirrels. They had scarcely left
the highway when their excited dog bolted. The swamp
has swallowed hundreds of dogs. They plunged after him,
calling and whistling, then stopping to listen for a telltale

‘JT
Mildred Payne is a free-lance writer now living in
California. Part of this material ﬁrst appeared in.

PO‘Om‘w magazine» Copyright © 1969 The Wash-
lngton Post Company,

g

NATIONAL PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. ﬂap -w

‘t-‘Ts




 

_,‘._,_ #3, -

 

A

rustle, a beckoning bark. Engrossed in their search, they
neglected to mark their trail as they moved deeper into the
swamp. By the time they found their pet, they were hope-
lessly lost.

At nightfall the call went out: men lost in the Dismal.
Four hundred men—Virginia state police, National Guards-
men, Marines, and two. experienced Indian guides——
tramped the search area, shouting, ﬁring shots, listening
for a reply. Two helicopters crisscrossed shadowy water-
ways and forests. I i ‘

Finally, late on the third day, a tired searcher literally
stumbled over the men, and William Haywood described
their ordeal.

“We heard you fellows long ago! We called and called,
but nobody answered.” The dense vegetation—even in
December—had formed a one-way sound trap so effective
that men passing within a long stone’s throw had not heard
their shouts.

Of all the Dismal Swamp’s alleged terrors, the most
vividly described are the snakes. The majority of the
stories are exaggerated, but inasmuch as reptiles grow
until they die, some giants inhabit this ideal environment.
Most snakes in the Dismal are nonpoisonous, but four
poisonous varieties are represented: banded and diamond-
back rattlers, copperheads, and cottonmouth moccasins (at
the northernmost limit of their range) . Yet it is not unusual
for regular Visitors to go for long periods without seeing
a snake. One game warden, after working in the Dismal for
5 years without seeing a single reptile of any size, per-
suaded his Wife to Visit his beautiful wilderness. Five min-
utes into the forest they nearly stepped on a gigantic
diamondback rattler. The lady. never has returned to the
Dismal Swamp.

The muck of

the Great

Dismal Swamp
bubbles methane.
Peat

is forming
beneath the

acid brown water.
Glowing methane
became ghosts

in the minds 0 f
travelers
struggling,
frightened,
through the bog.

VIRGINIA COMMISSION OF CAME AND INLAND FISHERIES

 

Only a few of the thousands of people who pass through
the swamp each year see Lake Drummond, and that is a
pity. The strange elevated lake is the most unforgettable of
the Dismal’s wonders. Approximately 3 miles in diameter
and the source of the Dismal’s water, it is the highest point
in the swamp.

You reach it by boat, traveling up one of the canals until
you burst out onto a tea-colored circle of water. Cypress
trees march into the water along the shOre. Only a few
stilted ﬁshing lodges remind you that others have been to
this wild place. Suddenly an auto horn sounds directly
behind you; your guide assures you that the highway is
miles away, and his voice echoes clearly from the forest
walls around you.

The lake’s elevation explains its unusual acoustics. Its
shallowness accounts for the large, choppy waves that whip
up suddenly, out of proportion to the strength of the breeze.
The lake floor is covered by ﬁne wood pulp, easily stirred
up, and summer storms lash the water into copper foam.

Seven streams flow out of the lake. They are fed by
numerous springs on the lake floor. The Water has been
described as brandy-, tea-, or wine-colored, sediment-free
and pleasant-tasting. Its high acidity prevents bacterial
growth, and eighteenth and nineteenth century ships put
into Norfolk, Virginia, for the miraculous brown liquid
that would not stagnate on long voyages. Recent tests have
Shown that Lake Drummond’s Water is clinically sterile.

The secret of the water lies in the geological history of
the swamp. The area was once ocean ﬂoor, as a thick layer
of marine fossils reaching inland to the fall line at Rich-
mond attests. This ﬂoor was laid when tidewater Virginia
was flooded by the rising ocean and submerged for 2 mil-
lion years.

 




  

      

. _ __ y .. ,3, .
The Dismal is a fantastic tangle, even in drier
parts like this. The thicket is so dense

that it will not let even sound travel more than a few yards.

The water receded from the area of the swamp about
6,000 years ago. To the west an escarpment formed a dam;
to the east stretched a barrier of sand dunes; underneath
lay a nonabsorbent sedimentary sea bottom. Water col-
lected in the resulting bowl. Trees and swamp plants grew,
died, and fell into the water. Acid from the bark and sap
of juniper and cypress trees blended with the water, pre-
venting bacterial growth; in the absence of bacteria to
decompose it, debris accumulated, and peat began to form.
The Dismal Swamp is the only place in America where peat
is forming today.

The celebrated ghosts of the Dismal Swamp are probably
“fox ﬁre”—ignited methane gas, a byproduct of peat for-
mation—or smoking peat. Lightning ﬁres often smolder
for months in the peaty soil, eating deep holes. Vines
quickly cover them, creating traps for men and animals
alike. During droughts ﬁres may assume monstrous pro-
portions. The worst ﬁre in memory began in 1923 and
burned for 3 years, destroying over 150 square miles of

12

Wilderness. Ashes and lye from this ﬁre made Lake Drum-
mond unsuitable for pike and bass, its prevailing predators,
and today the ﬁsh pOpulation is unbalanced in favor of
forage ﬁsh. The lake is teeming with catﬁsh and crappie
stunted by overpopulation. The state has reintroduced bass
in an attempt to restore balance.

Ninety percent of the Dismal is owned by lumber com-
panies and real estate developers, and neither North Caro-
lina nor Virginia, whose jointborder it straddles, has taken
effective action to save it. Ben H. Bolen, Commissioner of
Parks for Virginia’s Department of Conservation and Eco-
nomic Development, says simply, “We’ve had a hard time
ﬁguring out what to do with Dismal. For actual public rec-
reation, it isn’t worth too much.”

Bolen headed the 1964 study commission that recom-
mended acquiring 51,000 acres for $114 million, to he set
aside as a state parkor wildlife management area. On
April 5, 1968, Virginia’s General Assembly ﬁnally appro-
priated $50,000—4 percent of the recommended amount—
to preserve the Dismal.

Yet conservationists who worked so hard for this pittance
continue to be frustrated. Although surveying, appraisal,
and negotiation have been undertaken, the state has not
yet acquired an acre of the Dismal. As things stand, con-
demnation would be required, and the state is not willing
to go to court for the small parcel it could afford with the
money in hand. Further appropriations seem unlikely.

Tidewater Virginia presently gets its water from a few
surface trickles and deep wells. Withdrawals from the deep

wells are allowing salt water from the nearby ocean to seep.

into the groundwater; unless dependence on these wells
is reduced, they will become useless. Local governments are
proposing to pipe water some 80 miles from the Appomat-
tox River. Obviously, fresh water from the Dismal Swamp
is vastly easier to come by, yet some of these same local
governments eagerly are backing developers who want to
destroy the swamp and build subdivisions. The same sub-
divisions that would eliminate the swamp as a water supply
also would create large new demands for water, as well as
other municipal services that these governments are having
a hard time providing for their present citizens. Thus the
wisdom is questionable of trying to increase the communi-
ties’ tax bases by building subdivisions on a dead Dismal
Swamp.

Slicing through the middle of the swamp is the 22-mile
Dismal Swamp Canal. The canal used to be an important
part of the Inland Waterway, which the Army Corps 0f
Engineers operates. As the canal is above sea level, it must
have locks at both ends. Each use of the locks, which were
designed for commercial trafﬁc, requires about 4 million
gallons of water. This water is drawn via a feeder ditch
from the swamp’s central lake, Lake Drummond. The
Corps owns the canal, the feeder ditch, strips of land along
either side of both, and the water rights in Lake Drum-
mond. Water withdrawals for operation of the canal in
the past have severely lowered the level of Lake Drum-
mond and have created a ﬁre hazard by drying out parts
of the surrounding swamp.

NATIONAL PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
     

 

 

 

 




 

___..____.—_L_rq_4_ L L _ .3 . 1,. 1 ,_1 4

as

 

43___

The Dismal Swamp Canal is only 7% feet deep. This and
the necessity of two “lOcking-through” operations per
passage resulted in the construction of the Albemarle and
Chesapeake Canal on a route around the swamp. This canal
requires only one locking- through and is 12 feet deep, more
suited for today 3 deep- drafted commercial vessels. Though
the Dismal Swamp Canal has remained open commercial
trafﬁc now uses the A&C Canal exclusively.

Recently the Government Accounting Ofﬁce created a,

mild uproar by telling the Corps to cease operating the
Dismal Swamp Canal and to get out of the swamp. GAO
felt that the Corps could not justify spending the taxpayers’
money operating a canal solely for a few pleasure boats,

especially when there is an alternate route of approximately '

the same distance. The Corps has not yet acted on the GAO
mstructlons.

According to Robert T. Dennis, executive director. of the
Potomac Basin Center, there is one way the Corps might
retain its Dismal Swamp holdings while satisfying GAO,
helping to meet the water shortage in tidewater Virginia,
and preserving the SWamp in a wilderness or semi- wilder-
ness‘ state. Dennis has outlined his suggestion in a letter to
the Corps. He says that studies Should be made to deter-
mine its feasibility before the government relinquishes its
rights 1n the swamp.

Dennis suggests that the Corps continue to operate the
Dismal Swamp Canal, but on a limited basis. Prime em-
phasis of the Corps’ management would be on water supply.
Lake Drummond would be allowed to build to its former
level. Raising the lake would flood parts of the swamp that
have long been dried out and would return them to use-
fulness for water storage. (Swamps are efﬁcient water-
storage devices, holding water as a sponge does and avoid-
ing much of the evaporation loss suffered by reservoirs. l
Owners of these parts of the swamp presumably would be
compensated for the ﬂooding of their land, which for
Water-storage purposes alone Would have to be kept in its
natural state.

Except under extraordinary circumstances, the Corps’
current practice is to open the lock any time a boat wants
to pass through; if you‘want to take your 18- foot outboard
cruiser through the canal, it will cost the swamp 4 million
gallons of water at each end. In December 1970 the Corps
was restricting lock openings to four a day because exces-
sive locking-through earlier in the year and some months
of low rainfall had combined to reduce the level of Lake
Drummond drastically. Dennis suggests that even more
limited operation of the locks be made a permanent prac-
tice. Pleasure boats in a hurry could take the main A&C
route. The water saved in this way could be piped to the
communities. Some of it might have to go to North Caro-
lina; the Corps may be obliged under an old agreement
with the state to continue to release a certain amount of
fresh water from the swamp into the Pasquotank River at
the southern end of the canal.

Dennis notes that the Corps needs a few environmental
plus marks, and he points out that if the plan he suggests
proves workable, it would be a cheap and uncomplicated way
for the Army Corps of Engineers to take the part of wilder-
ness preserver. A

Two other federal agencies have shown an interest in

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL FEBRUARY 1971

the swamp, albeit a minimal one. The National Park Ser-
vice is considering giving the Dismal Swamp national land-
mark status. Even though this designation‘would provide
no direct protection, it would give the Corps and surround-
ing owners additional incentive for preservation in a wild
state beyond the simple water supply argument. The Bu-
reau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife has considered the
swamp for a wildlife refuge, but not very actively. ,

In View of the lack of interest of both North Carolina
and Virginia, Dennis says, the Corps is the swamp’s best
chance. This is doubly so as the Corps now controls the
canal, the ditch, and the water level‘in Lake Drummond,
and so can act quickly. Haste is needed, as even now large
tracts of the swamp are being clear-cut. Swamp vegetation
will not regenerate from such treatment without careful
manipulation; as a practical matter clear-cutting means the
end of swamp, so action cannot be delayed while agencies
maneuver to get control of the Dismal. The Corps already
is there.

The Corps, says Dennis, also might act to make an I ,800-
acre stretch of old- growth swamp in the so- -called Jarvis
and Edge Tract its ﬁrst wilderness area, albeit a mini-
wilderness. Another suggestion is to give the junipers a
hand at regenerating around Lake Drummond. The tower-
ing junipers that once ringed the lake are all gone, logged
out. It would take a century for today’s juniper sprouts
to reach those dimensions, which is all the more reason for
getting going now on planting.

Some of the lumber companies. holding title to land in
the swamp have followed sensible conservation and re-
foresting procedures. Union Camp Corporation has built
a series of canals and locks to maintain water level in its
portion of the swamp. But leaving a public trust in private
hands is a precarious method of preservation. Proﬁt-making
organizations seek the largest possible return on their in-
vestments. As the Dismal Swamp becomes increasingly
valuable for its development possibilities, the relative value
of its timber will drOp, and its owners will sell. Even re-
foresting is being carried out with the aim of converting
the slowly growing swamp vegetation into rapidly growing
commercial timber species. Clear- cut land is being dried
out and replanted in pine.

In the summer of 1969 two Norfolk developers presented
a plan to the Norfolk Port and Industrial Authority for an
airport to be built in the swamp north of Lake Drummond
on land presently Owned by Union Camp. Lumber com-
pany spokesmen were noncommittal, but the developers
claimed that they could get an option on the 10,, 000- acre
tract if the Port Authority'agreed to build on it immedi-
ately. The Authority eventually'found the site unsuitable
and voted to expand Norfolk Municipal Airport. But dis-
ruption of the sWamp’s ecosystem by noise and pollution
was not the deciding factor in their ruling. Had it been the
only negative aspect of development, the Dismal almost cer-
tainly would have been sacriﬁced.

What lies ahead for‘the Dismal? The deer, the foxes, the
bears, and the Wildcats are retreating into the depths of the
swamp, but its wonderful brown water still flows. There
may be time to save one of the few small parcels of wilder-

ness left In the East. But speed IS essential; the swamp is '

vulnerable, and the trees still are falling. I

13

 




0N JULY 9, 1970, the President of the United States de-
clared that the global oceans, which constitute nearly three-
fourths of the surface of our planet, are today the least
understood and the least protected part of our earth. In the
opinion of many people the great whales are the least
understood and the least protected part of the global
oceans. Therein lies the signiﬁcance of the Department of
the Interior’s action on November 24, 1970, of banning the
importation of whales and whale products by placing all
the great whales on the endangered species list.

For years—indeed for centuries——the behemoth of the
seas has been pursued unchecked and unmonitored. In
fact, romantic notions about whaling persist strongly into
our own time from the days when whaling vessels sailed
the seven seas on voyages lasting up to 5 years When taking
one whale a month was the norm. Today, however, and for
the past 50 years, the pursuit of the whale has been highly
mechanized; and a typical catcher boat (of a retinue that
accompanies each vast factory ship Where whales are
butchered in 15 minutes and their remains melted down)
will harpoon one whale a day. More than 40,000 Whales
were killed in 1969.

The old quare-rigged notions about whaling linger like
a gauzy pink haze and abound in contemporary writina.
For example, R. J. Harrison wrote recently, “The history
of the technology of whaling provides an opportunity to
study a closely knit, international fraternity of brave, ad-

14

 

venturous men who were out on the high seas for great
rewards.” The adventure has begun to pall, for the whale
has no more chance than a bull in the ring as it is scouted
by helicopter, scanned by sonar, and run down by mecha-
nized ships designed to travel 3 knots faster than a ﬁnback’s
top speed.

Three European countries that were actively engaged in
whaling in the Antarctic 10 years ago—England, the Neth-
erlands, and Norway—had to drop out of the hunt becauSe
it no longer paid them to send winter expeditions. Now
only two major whaling powers—~Japan and the SoViet
Union—continue to plunder the remnants of the whale
herds of yesteryear.

When 1 was in Japan last August, I learned from execu-
tives of two ﬁshery companies that proﬁts from whaling
had declined in the 1960’s from 30 percent of their busi-
ness to 15 percent. Their effort has been stepped Up, but
the number and size of whales, and indeed the number of
species, has diminished. One does not need to be a statisti-
cian to see that in a few years there will be neither whales
nor whaling. 1n the Antarctic 2 million barrels of whale
oil were produced in 1960, and last year less than 400,000
barrels—a ﬁvefold drOpl

The slaughter has gone essentially unimpeded, with the
bowhead and the right whales decimated in the last century
and the blue, humpback, and gray whales brought 10W in
our time. Only the ﬁnback, sei, and sperm whales remain

NATIONAL PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

 

 

 

,.

4.3%?ng .V.__.w4ﬁ ‘ .

  

 




  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

 

.-_ hwﬁ‘

 

 

“,5;

 

 

PHOTOGRAPH BY THE AUTHOR

targets of the industry, and their numbers are declining
rapidly.

But, one may ask, isn’t there some form of international
control? Isn’t there some restraining mechanism based on
transnational considerations? Yes, there is the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission, which was created following
the Second World War and was an outgrowth of attempts at
international regulation of whaling in the 1930’s.

One could contend that the International Whaling Com-
mission had presided over the decimation of the blue whale,
the mightiest creature the world has known, weighing more
than 1,000 men, and of the humpback, the most playful of
the great whales and performer of songs spanning six
octaves that have enchanted the people of the Americas,
Europe, and Japan in recent months. One could also con-
tend that the “protection” accorded the whales whose num-
bers are too few to be of commercial interest means little
in the absence of enforcement. Without observers on every
factory ship and at every land station the regulations of the
IWC may be honored only in the breach. One could further
contend that the absence of quotas for each species of
baleen whales—even today—in the Antarctic has meant ex-
tremely loose management. By still using the unfortunate
blue whale unit for counting dead whales, Whalers may take
what is there and add it up later. Only two of the four
species hunted 10 years ago are commercially viable—the
ﬁnback and sei. Even this past June, the IWC set a blue

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL FEBRUARY 1971

  

 

whale unit quota in the Antarctic 27 percent higher than
that recommended by its Scientiﬁc Committee if the quotas
were species speciﬁc, which they are not. One then is led
to ask to what extent has the IWC simply been a rubber
stamp of the industry, serving to legitimize an almost un-
impeded march of whales and whaling into oblivion.

The whale has no lobby. However, many individuals
have worked hard within the Commission to try to bring
this threatened resource under rational management, in-
cluding the late Johan Ruud (Norway) ; the late Remington
Kellogg (U.S.); Sidney Holt (then of the FAO, now with
UNESCO); Douglas G. Chapman (U.S., Chairman of the
IWC’s Scientiﬁc Committee); W. M. Sprules (Canadian
Commissioner); K. Radway Allen (formerly of New Zea-
land, now of Canada); and J. Laurence McHugh (U.S.
Commissioner).

No one associated with the International Whaling Com-
mission gives more than 10 percent of his time to the whale
problem, and the Commission operates on a paltry $16,000
budget. Nevertheless, it must be stressed that the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission remains the best hope for gain-
ing control of the whaling industry so that the long-term
yield of this resource for protein (and inspiration!) will
reach the optimum level. The total yield today is one-third
to one-half of what .it could be if whale populations were
given a chance to recover, if the hunt were called off for
a period of tagging and study.

In the past the world has little noted nor long remem-
bered the actions and inactions of the IWC. Now, really for
the ﬁrst time, since the campaign by the Environmental
Defense Fund and the New York Zoological Society was
initiated to save whales, a widening circle of the scientiﬁc
community as well as an increasingly alerted public in Ja-
pan, the United States, and Europe will be watching for
the results of the twenty-third meeting of the International
Whaling Commission to be held in June 1971. More than
anything else, they will be watching to see if the Commis-
sion ﬁnally implements the International Observer Plan,
which is essential if we are to assure that the rules already
on the books are respected, such as protection of certain
species and of immature whales. At present whaling cap-
tains are instructed to get whales; and on the high seas
they have not been known for their adherence to the ﬁne
print of the IWC regulations when their bosses are well
aware of the absence of international observers, penalties,
and adverse publicity.

The public will seek an accounting on such questions as:
Has the blue whale unit ﬁnally been eliminated in the
Antarctic? To what use were the three Japanese factory
ships put that were released by an amendment in the sched-
ule last year? What quotas have been assigned to the catch
of male sperm whales in the Antarctic and North Paciﬁc
and to female sperm whales in the North Paciﬁc? (Hereto-
fore the Commission has assigned no quota whatsoever to
the sperm whale.) The public may also ask why meetings
of the IWC are closed sessions when whales are creatures
that no individual or country owns; indeed, it may be
anachronistic to View them only in terms of their long-term
protein yield or as the “property” of a small band of entre-
preneurs. In any event the whales have a larger claim on

Continued on page 19

15

 

 




 

I .
l.
, .

       
   

ALTHOR

E

ALI. PHOTOGRAPHS BY T

A catcher boat, above, is shot from the ramp leading to the

ﬂensing deck, across a sea of 26 sperm whale corpses. The

harpoon mounted on the prow of the ship is visible at right. 'i
It was explained to me that all the whales in the school were I
taken. Many of them were under the legal limit of 35 feet for 1

land stations. Below, the vast hanger where the whale is ren- A D I

dered and tried is seen from the deck of the catcher boat.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Whaling

 

IN AUGUST 1970 my wife and I traveled
to Japan to initiate a whale conservation
effort there. Subsequently, a group of i
eminent scientists formed the Committee ‘
for the Protection of Whales, chaired by
Dr. Seiji Kaya, former president of Tokyo
University. They seek to inﬂuence the
Japanese government to restrain the whal-
ing industry and assist with efforts at
international control. i
We met with executives of the whaling l
industry. who kindly arranged a 2-day (k
visit to a whaling station at Ayukawa, " *
which is located 31/2 hours northeast of
Sendai by car at the tip of a peninsula. ‘
The ﬁrst thing you notice about Ayukawao i
or any whaling station, is the sickly l
stench that hangs in the air from the
cooking of Whale bones and blubber.
Only 152 whales had been taken by this

NATIONAL PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

  

 




   

The blue-pink guts
of the 26 tethered
whales were as if on
diSplay from bellies
slashed open and in-
ﬂated with air to

ﬂoat.

 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
 

 
 

Right, a whale
is winched up
i the ramp by the
3 tail. Below another
shot shows the
, unusual S-shaped
9 blowhole of the
‘ sperm whale on
. the left side of
its head.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

station since the season opened on May
1, 1970. That day in August a typhoon
was blowing up, the seas were choppy,
and not a word had been heard from the
three catchers of a ﬂeet of 13 that were
over 150 miles out.

Within a couple of hours of our arrival.
word was radioed that a large school of
ill“ sperm whales had been encountered. Later

J it was learned that 48 whales were taken
l by three different companies, and that
“our” company had claimed 26 of that
number, by far the largest catch of the
J year. The whalers'told us that we had
brought them good luck and urged us to
stay on. '

We were told that the whales would
be towed in by dawn of the next day. The
photographs shown here were taken in
that ﬁrst hour of a hazy day.

   

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL FEBRUARY 1971 17

 




Finally, an iced truckload of
sperm whale meat is secured
for a 2-hour ride to a freezing
plant The Japanese no longer
ﬁnd sperm whale meat very palat-
able; baleen meat is preferred
but also is losing favor.

k

T 0 shots of the rapid rending of a carcass with knives large and small.
Note that only the lower jaw of the sperm whale contains teeth.

 

 




 

our attention than do the selﬁsh short-term interests of a
few Whalers that have been dictating the beat of the slaugh-
t’er for a long time.

The question of which whale species are threatened with
worldwide extinction, which tested the Department of In-
terior for 6 months before it made its decision, must be
viewed in the light of. a'seemingly intractable pattern of
predation that has brought one species after another down
to “commercial extinction.” Consequently, despite extreme
pressure from the importers of sperm oil, from whaling
countries, and especially from our own Department of
State, the Secretary of the Interior acted on the scientiﬁc
evidence gathered by Interior’s Ofﬁce of Endangered Spe-
cies. Therefore the endangered species list is clearly more
than a necrology or a commemorative list of species that
are already gone.

In announcing the listing of eight whale species as en-
dangered, Secretary Walter J. Hickel said, “The decision
will be controversial because certain interests have urged
that we hold off listing the ﬁn, sei, and sperm Whales until
it is actually proven that they are on the verge of extinc-
tion.”

“But,” he pointed out, “it is the clear intent of the En-
dangered Species Conservation Act, which took effect June
3, 1970, that we prevent conditions that lead to extinction.
It is also clear that if the present rate of commercial ex-
ploitation continues unchecked, these three species will be-
come as rare as the other ﬁve.”

“We are not going to wait until all these species are on
the brink of extinction before we take positive action,”
Secretary Hickel declared.

In taking a “ﬁrst step” to protect the whales, Secretary
Hickel stressed that the United States is “a member and
strong supporter of the International Whaling Commission”
and that the IWC will be called upon to develop more effec-
tive means of protecting the ﬁnback, sei, and sperm whales.

t remains the contention of many people close to the prob-
lem that the action by the Department of Interior, which
was published in the Federal Register on December 2,
1970, will catalyze the IWC to take its task more seriously.

On December 1, 1970, the Acting Secretary of the In-
terior Fred J. Russell wrote to Mr. I. Fujita, Chairman of
the International Whaling Commission, about Interior’s
action. Secretary Russell wrote, in part, “We do not view
a prohibition on importation and commercial use of wild
animals as a desirable substitute for sound conservation
programs and management of resources on a sustainable
yield basis .

“The Department of Interior will initiate a conference
(with the Smithsonian Institution) of leading scientists on
whale biology and stock assessment to meet in Washington
this winter to examine the status of these species, what is
known of their life requirements, and what actions they
believe are necessary to assure their survival. The Depart-
ment Will keep whales, along with other species of wild-
life and ﬁsh, under constant surveillance.

“Whether the ﬁnback, sei, and sperm whales remain on
the list will depend upon what restrictions are imposed and
enforced on the whaling nations by the International Whal-
ing Commission. Many of our leading scientists believe that
if present rates of exploitation are continued, the stocks
will be depleted beyond hope of rescue within a few years.

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL FEBRUARY 1971

  

Scott McVay is an administrator at Princeton Univer-
sity and Chairman of the Committee on Whales for the
Environmental Defense Fund. He has been interested
in whales and whale conservation for 10 years. He wrote
one of the ﬁrst accounts about the beleaguered whale,
which was published in Scientiﬁc American in August
1966. In June 1970 he attended the meeting of the In-
ternational Whaling Commission in London, and in
August 1970 he initiated a whale campaign in Japan.

 

“We believe that the people of all nations are looking for
responsiblesteWardship of the world’s Whale populations.
Moreover, we are convinced that they expect a more real-
istic system of quotas and limits than has prevailed in the
past and a system of international observers to supervise or
monitor the catch.

“The Department of the Interior is determined to give
full protection to endangered species and to prevent other
species from becoming threatened with extinction. We be-
lieve that the stocks of whales that are presently depleted
should be restored to optimum levels for maximum sustain-
able yields.

“We hope that the International Whaling Commission
will formulate and implement regulations which will assure
the perpetuation of the world’s whale stocks for man’s
future beneﬁt . . . .” ’ ‘

With renewed hope and expectation many of us will look
to the International Whaling Commission next June when
it meets in Washington for the ﬁrst time since it was
founded in 1946. For it will have a larger mandate than
that presented by the action of the Department of Interior.
Hundreds of people from East and West, from Japan and
the Soviet Union as well as from North America and
Europe will expect that this “ﬁrst step” by Interior will be
followed by longer strides, involving a concerted effort by
all who are part of the problem. and part of the solution,
to manage the whale stocks rationally.

There may be differences of opinion regarding the degree
to which each whale species is endangered, but there can
be little doubt that in the struggle to control the forces that
are ravaging the natural environment the June meeting of
the IWC is critical. At present only the IWC has the au-
thority to restore the whales through concerted interna-
tional cooperation. For the ﬁrst time the Commission’s
stewardship of the “least understood and least protected”
of the ocean’s treasures, the gentle leviathans, is under the
wider scrutiny of a World court of public opinion. We hope
that the Commission will act before the whales and whaling
utter their last gasp. ‘ . I

Readers concerned about the whale problem could
write President Nixon to commend his administration
for placing eight whales on the endangered species list.
Further, they could urge him to see that the manage-
ment of the whaling industry be more rationally regu-
lated, that the Department of Interior, NOAA (the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration), and
the Smithsonian Institution allocate adequate funds for
whale research, that observers are funded for the I nter-
national Observer Plan, and that more money is allo-
cated to fund the International Whaling Commission.

19

   
   
  
 
    
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
   
    
   

— .

._.‘— _A—._. 71.”..- V

       
      
 
      
       
       
      
    
   
   
    
  
        




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ATURE’S ARCTIC OUTPOSTS dip far to the south on
the North American continent. In the eastern
United States they reach halfway to the Equator

~3,000 miles from the Pole. Here they are found on the

higher peaks of New England, especially Mount Washing-
ton in New Hampshire, Mount Katahdin in Maine, and

Mount Mansﬁeld in Vermont.

Each of these summits has a distinct ecological charac-
ter. Mount Washington, for example, is buffeted by the
continent’s worst weather; on Mount Katahdin the eastern
woodland caribou made their last stand in New England;
and Mount Mansﬁeld early became a mecca for botanists
searching for rare alpine plants. But all three summits are
alike in one critical respect: as arctic outposts set deep in
the temperate zone, their delicately balanced ecosystems
are highly vulnerable to outside disturbances. All bear the
marks and scars of intrusion by man.

Recent research has shown that this vulnerability extends
a considerable distance downslope from the mountaintops.
The work of Vogelmann and others demonstrates convinc-

20

    

   

 

ingly that mountain environments in New England become
increasingly harsh and repressive from the 2,500-foot ele-
vation up. At this point, the balance of nature becomes
more precarious, the growing season shorter, the number
of plant species fewer, and the recovery of damaged plant
communities slower. Not only does the air become steadily
colder as altitude increases (approximately one degree

Fahrenheit for each BOO-foot rise), but winds blow harder,
and rain or snow is more frequent and heavier. (In parts
of Vermont an inch of precipitation is added annually for
every 150 feet of altitude.) Signiﬁcant topographical changes
also occur. Slopes steepen and become more liable to ero-
sion, soils become thinner and more acid, and the sparse
vegetation may give way entirely to bare rock, talus slopes,
and precipices where destructive rock slides and avalanches
sometimes start.

Because of its high susceptibility to injury and its slow
rate of recovery, the land above 2,500 feet is a zone of
great ecological concern in Vermont. At the same time, this
zone’s contribution to the state’s water reserves, its multiple

NATIONAL PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

economic and recreational uses, and its scenic beauty make
it an enormously valuable resource, even though it com-
prises only 3 percent of the state’s area. Visible almost
everywhere, the familiar mountain proﬁles are enjoyed by
practically all Vermonters, as well as by the thousands of
Visitors drawn to the state by its beauty. Vermonters are
beginning to see that preserving this priceless asset from
unwise development is an obligation that they, and all
Americans who share this resource, owe to themselves and
to the nation.

The problem of protection is complicated in Vermont,
as elsewhere, by knotty conﬂicts of interest. The most seri-
ous, perhaps, is caused by the ever-rising pressure of
population in the Northeast. The rush to escape the crowded
cities for recreation, renewal, and living space reﬂects
legitimate social needs; but it has spurred the construction
of houses, mobile homes, and camps on lower and middle
mountain levels throughout Vermont, and of ski trails and
related developments on the upper slopes, including the
summit areas of Killington and Mansﬁeld, the state’s high-

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL FEBRUARY 1971

 

  

est two peaks. Ironically, the communications network,
which has done so much to make the world into Spaceship
Earth, is anchored in Vermont by steel towers on moun-
taintops. Furthermore, a high-consumption economy presses
hard upon Vermont’s forest and mineral resources. The all-
pervasive problem is how to meet human needs Without
reducing the quality of the environment and encroaching
on the few remaining areas in which nature has not been
degraded by man. In Vermont these unspoiled areas are
largely mountain lands Whose higher elevations offer the
state its last best hope of resisting the rising pressures from
outside.

Public concern in Vermont for the protection of its
mountain lands centers at present on preserving Camels
Hump in Duxbury, the state’s fourth highest mountain and
now the highest land inVermont without a ski run. In
response to the popular slogan that “Vermont had made a
promise to a mountain,” in 1969 the legislature took a
major step to redeem this pledge by making the upper
slopes of Camels Hump, where the state owned 12,000

21

JERRY LEIMENSTOLL

    
 

E
r
k
l




   

The tops of Mount Mansﬁeld and other high peaks in
Vermont and New Hampshire are alpine in character. Climate
is too rigorous for trees, and vegetation is reduced to an
alpine heath, highly vulnerable to intrusion and slow to recover
if damaged. '

Vermont’s mountains are its principal watersheds. Their.
ability to wring water from the clouds increases with altitude,

enhancing the value of ridges above 2,500 feet.
.A ., a, _

 

 

CLYDE H. SMITH

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

HUBERT VOGELMANN

JERRY LEIMENSTOLL

 

 

   

   

«W/R,M~w...,mwm , . ‘Ymkoﬂ'W-W‘"4"’7":'57I"" ‘ " '

    

:/ . as I:- -
The toll road up Mount Equinox near Manchester, Vermont,
ends at 3,800 feet in this bare expanse of asphalt. Mountain-
top parking areas, if we must have. them, can be designed and
landscaped for minimal damage to ecological and scenic
values.

        

acres, a state park. At the same time the legislature pro-
vided that all lands in the Camels Hump area be desig-
nated as the Camels Hump Forest Reserve and that its
development be guided by a specially appointed Forest
Reserve Commission. The park area itself extended along
the Long Trail and over the “Hump” from Appalachian
Gap north to the Winooski River, an area visited by thou-
sands of hikers every year. Important as it was to give the
ridgeline park status, Forest and Parks Commissioner
Robert Williams noted that 15,000 more acres of state-
controlled land on Camels Hump would be needed to make
the mountain secure.

Fortunately, circumstances recently have made it possible
to take a second giant step toward preserving the mountain.
In late 1970, Laird Associates Inc., a New York develop-
ment ﬁrm with extensive land holdings in Vermont, agreed
to sell to the state through the Nature Conservancy two
magniﬁcent tracts of forest land totaling nearly 6,500 acres
for approximately $750,000, the cost to be borne equally
by state and federal agencies. The larger tract of nearly 7
square miles will expand the Camels Hump State Park sys-
tem, and the smaller tract will add almost 1,900 acres to
the Mt. Mansﬁeld State Forest in Stowe. Under covenants
governing the land transfer, special limitations will be
placed on the use of the lands at elevations over 2,500 feet.

In a development that may be of much greater signif-
icance in the long run, public concern for environmental
protection in Vermont led the state legislature in its 1970
spring session to enact basic legislation protecting and con-
serving the “lands and environment of the state” and en-
suring “that these lands and environment are devoted to

NATIONAL PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

 
 
     

  

 




 

Neither height, distance, nor beauty protects mountain summits .
from the blight of an all-pervasive technology. Only an ;
aroused public conscience and strict regulation will spare f
other mountains the shame of Mount Equinox. i‘

     
    
  

    

MARY T. SCOTT

 

Conspicuous consumption: Mount Belvedere, once one of the
loveliest peaks in the Green Mountains, is gradually being
consumed by an asbestos mine, except for the inevitable pile
of mine tailings.

 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 

 

uses which are not detrimental to the public welfare and
interests.” Drafted by the Governor’s Commission on En-
vironmental Control, the legislation established a State
Environmental Board with power to draw up statewide,
“capacity,” “development,” and “land-use’7 plans. (A “ca-
pacity” plan refers to the capability of the land to sustain
speciﬁed uses without serioUs environmental degradation.)
The law also established nine district environmental com-
missions with authority to issue or deny developmental
permits in accordance with the plans and guidelines worked

VERMONT DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

01H by the central State Environmental Board. Mount Mansﬁeld, the state’s highest mountain, exempliﬁes
The Vermont law is a landmark in state environmental the Green Mountain Proﬁle in its original serene and unspoiled

protection. It envisions a balanced use of land “for urbaniza- beauty when viewed from the west. But viewed from the east

tion, trade. industry, habitation, recreation, agriculture, it is scarred by Ski trails, a road, “Nd 0th” commercial

forestry and other uses as will tend to create conditions developments.

favorable to transportation, health, safety, civic activities,
and educational and cultural opportunities.” Other objec-
tives are to “reduce the wastes of ﬁnancial and human re-
sources which result from either excessive congestion or
excessive scattering of pOpulation” and to promote “an
efﬁcient and economic utilization of drainage, sanitary and
other facilities and resources, and the conservation and
production 0f the supply of food, water and minerals.”

ln issuing permits for land use, the district commissions
are required to test applications against ten speciﬁc “de-
velopment” criteria. Of these, the ﬁrst and eighth are of
greatest interest to conservationists. The ﬁrst requires that
a development “will not result in undue water or air pollu-
tion.” In making this determination, the state board or
district commission shall consider: “the elevation of land
above sea level and in relation to the ﬂood plains; the

Ski runs criss-cross to scar the upper slopes of Jay Peak.
Under Vermont state law, developments over 2,500 feet now
will require special permits.

 

EDWARD SALVAs

   

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL FEBRUARY 1971

 

 




 

 

Camels Hump from the west. Vermont made a promise to this mountain—fourth highest in the state—to

 

     

“r

preserve it unSpoiled as a state park and forest reserve. The summit area was declared a state park by act
of the Vermont legislature in 1969. Efforts now are being made by purchases, land easements, and other means

to preserve the lower slopes against exploitation.

nature of the soils and subsoils and their ability to ade-
quately support waste disposal; the slope of the land and
its effect upon effluents; the availability of streams for the
disposal of effluents; and the applicable health and water
resources department regulations.” The eighth criterion is
stated more simply. Developments “will not have an undue
adverse effect on the scenic or natural beauty of the area,
aesthetics, historic sites or rare and irreplaceable natural
areasf’

Although embracing all lands Within the state, the legis-
lation gives special recognition to elevations over 2,500
feet. Section 2 speciﬁcally deﬁnes “development“ as mean-
ing, among other things, “the construction of improve-
ments for commercial, industrial, or residential uses above
the elevation of 2,500 feet.” The emphasis in other sections
on “unreasonable soil erosion,” “scenic or natural beauty,”
and “rare and irreplaceable natural areas” is particularly
applicable to the higher mountains of the state.

Ground-breaking as this action of the Vermont legisla-
ture was, much more remains to be done. The State En-
vironmental Board will need technical advice in devising
wise and farsighted land-use plans. It will need strong
public support in raising funds for the purchase of addi-
tional park lands and in giving adequate protection to en-
dangered higher elevations. To spur these efforts, a group
of Vermont citizens led by Professor Hubert W. Vogelmann,
Professor of Botany at the University of Vermont, early
in 1970 organized themselves into the Green Mountain
Proﬁle Committee, with headquarters in Burlington.

24

With the slogan “Proﬁle for Posterity,” the Committee
seeks the support of conservationists in Vermont and else-
where for its program to emphasize the great value of the
mountains of Vermont as a natural resource and to ensure
that they remain unspoiled for future generations. The
Committee is also an action group. It played a major role
in the negotiations leading to the recent purchase of park.
lands from Laird Associates. lt exerted a strong influence
on the state’s basic environmental protection law. It is now
working on a program of conservation education centered
on mountains for use in the schools.

The Committee works in a ﬁne tradition. Vermont was
one of the ﬁrst states to ban billboards from its highways
so that the traveler would see unobscured the landscape
beyond. If the recently established environmental board
and district commissions, backed by the Green Mountain
Proﬁle Committee and other conservation groups, succeed
in their work, then the Vermont mountain landscape, espe-
cially the higher elevations, will remain forever beautiful
and much of it forever wild. I

 

Francis A. Young, a Trustee of the National Parks and
Conservation Association, divides his time between
Washington, D.C., and Craftsbury, VermOnt. Dr. Young
knows the Green Mountains intimately from a lifetime
of hiking and living among them. He helped to orga-
nize the Green Mountain Proﬁle Committee and serves
on the Committee’s Advisory Board.

NATIONAL PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

VERMONT DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

 




 

 

 

STEELWORKERS
CONSERVATION
PROGRAM

 

I. W. Abel is President of theiUnited Steelworkers of America
and a member of President Nixon’s Task Force on Air
Pollution.

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL FEBRUARY 1971

I. W. ABEL

ON THE MORNING of March 25, 1969, a large group of
Steelworkers gathered in a Washington, DC, hotel to
discuss an issue of increasing concern to them, their fam-
ilies, and communities. Many who watched these men of
the mills walking through the hotel lobby to the meeting
hall probably. asSumed they were acting on some collective
bargaining problem or goal. But the assumption was wrong.
What brought some 250 Steelworkers from 20 states to this
particular meeting was unrelated to wages, hours, griev-
ances, incentives, or similar bargaining topics. It was air
pollution. *

The 250 delegates from local unions of our Union were
attending the'ﬁrst national air pollution conference held
by a union. It was officially called the United Steelworkers
of America (USWA) National Conference on Air Pollu-
tion. The Steelworkers attending the 2-day conference were
well aware of air pollution, because they not only work
in mills that pour ferth pollutants into the atmosphere, but
live in the shadows of the smokestacks. Our Union has a
long history of interest in the conservation of our natural
resources, and it also maintains that steel-producing areas
do not have to be dirty places in which to work or live.

Similarly, anyone who noticed a small group of Steel-
workers walking in the Calaveras State Park in California
a few years ago might have thought they were lost or on
a sightseeing trip. But again the assumption would have
been wrong. The Steelworkers were there to dedicate the
South Grove of the park, where some of the largest and
oldest Sequoia trees live, saved from the woodsman’s axe
by contributions from groups that include the United Steel-
workers of America.

25

 

 




26

NATIONAL PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

 

 

S

 

teelw

orkers n,

at on

[y work in mi

lls th

 

 

 

 

at pour for

t

h pollutants but live in th

6 sh

adow

soft

h

 

e smok

estacks

 

"BIRMINC HA M’ ALABAMA NEWS

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

In 1951, the then vice president of our Union, the late
James G. Thimmes, learned of the plight of this grove of
trees and the efforts of the Calaveras Grove Association to
purchase the land from a lumber ﬁrm and create a protec-
tive public sanctuary for the giant trees. Mr. Thimmes was
an ardent naturalist who loved the Sequoias, and he en-
visioned the Union’s part in the save-the-redwood effort as
a memorial to Philip Murray-—the Union’s founder and
ﬁrst president—and to the United Steelworkers of America.

The Union solicited contributions from its affiliated local
unions. These funds, together with the contributions of
other individuals and groups, matched the money provided
by the state of California for the acquisition of the South
Grove of redwoods at Calaveras State Park. The dedication
in September 1967 formally marked the establishment of
the 2,500-acre grove. A special 40 acres was set aside as
the Philip Murray Memorial Grove. Joseph Germano, Di-
rector of District 31 of the USWA, representing the Union
at the dedication, said: “Conservation of our human re-
sources was a lifetime ideal of Philip Murray. He believed
that our Union not only should concern ourselves about
immediate needs of members but also should help preserve
the blessings of our land for future generations to come.”

Delegates representing our Union’s 1.2 million members
in the United States and Canada passed the following reso-
lution on Air and Water Pollution and Conservation at our
15th Constitutional Convention in 1970:

“Americans and Canadians are entering the 1970’s with
the widening recognition that our industrial accomplish-
ments carry with them a terrible price—the deterioration
of our physical environment.

“The silent threats of air and water pollution are the
greatest danger. Each year 142 million tons of chemicals
and particles are deposited into the air from various
sources. The streams, rivers, and lakes of our two nations
are threatened by pollution. More than 2,600 American
communities still discharge raw sewage into our waters.

“Even though the Clean Water Restoration Act of 1966
and the Air Quality Act of 1967 provided the beginning of
a national attack on these twin dangers in America, we
are continuing to lose the battle against air and water pollu-
tion. The major problem is the tremendous investment
costs of the physical facilities and devices required to treat
water wastes and control air pollution. But without strong
standards ﬁrmly enforced, money alone will not change
the situation for the better.”

The resolution called for an all-out effort to ﬁght for
strong public programs at the federal levels of our two na-
tions that would set out distinct federal standards, and time-
tables setting the effective dates for these standards. In
addition, it called for participation in state or provincial
programs and insistence on strict enforcement of standards
by state or provincial and local control agencies. The res-
olution called on our governments to broaden and expand
existing environmental programs designed to clean up
waterways and reduce the contamination of the air and, in
particular, to appropriate sufficient funds for these pro-
grams to insure that they will not merely slow down the
Spread of pollution but will in time eliminate it. Finally, it

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL FEBRUARY 1971

called for more stringent’programs for the protection of
the forests and wildlife of our nations, which are in great
danger from needless waste and destruction.

Similar resolutions, of course, expressing the Union’s
concern over the conservation of natural resources and the
dangers of pollution had been adopted at previous Con-
ventions of the USWA.

So, the holding of our National Conference on Air Pollu-
tion and our efforts to save redwood trees not only were
consistent with a long-standing policy of our Union, but
underscored our Union’s role as a force for good in our
communities and nation. The Conference later served as a
springboard for a number of similar Union gatherings
regionally and to encourage our members to take part in
various public hearings on the subject.

Although I was pleased by the Conference and the re-
action of our members, 1 was not surprised; as workers
we are, of course, personally involved because in many
cases our various plants are the greatest cause of air and
water pollution in our communities. We are also consumers
of air; the health of our families and our friends depends
on the quality of that air. There is no longer any doubt that
air pollution is a hazard to health and a frightening threat
to the survival of life on this planet.

John Middleton, Director of the National Air Pollution
Control Administration, in testimony before a congres-
sional committee, indicated that 20 of 65 major metropoli-
tan areas were having the “most severe air pollution prob-
lems.” The ﬁve areas with the most severe problems were
Chicago, Cleveland, Los Angeles—Long Beach, New York,
and Philadelphia. The ﬁve areas whose problems rank
second in severity were Boston, Detroit, Newark, Pitts-
burgh, and St. Louis. The areas that ranked third in
severity include Baltimore, Gary—Hammond—East Chicago,
and Milwaukee. The names of most of these problem areas
are synonymous with steelmaking and Steelworkers. All
these areas are suffering from high concentrations of either
particulates, sulfur oxides, hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide,
or photo-chemical smog. In many cases it is a combina-
tion of these pollutants.

The statistics of air pollution are appalling:

0 172 million tons of toxic chemicals and partiCles and
165 million tons of solid waste are spewed into the air over
our country every year.

0 Economic damage to buildings, furnishings, and plant
life is estimated to cost more than $12 billion a year.

0 The steel mills along the southern shores of Lake Mich-
igan dump 36,000 tons of soot on Gary, Indiana, each year.

0 Our atmosphere is so befouled that airline pilots claim
every American city wears a shroud of pollution.

But now a disturbed public is demanding action. There
are those in Congress, such as Senators Gaylord Nelson and
Edmund S. Muskie, who are translating that demand into
effective legislation. But, of course, we are still far from our
objectives of clean water and clean air.

At our Washington Conference on Air Pollution we em-
phasized the importance of individual pressure on behalf
of truly effective anti-pollution standards. We emphasized
it because we know that those who are the cause of the

27

 

 

 




   

 
  

 

Smog shrouds the
Washington Monument.

pollution will also participate in the formulation of the
standards—those who tend to look more at the cost of pre-
venting pollution than at the beneﬁts and necessity of pre-
venting pollution. As a union, we are well aware that any
collective bargaining contract has a price tag, but that does
not deter us from negotiating one. So also we must not be
deterred from negotiating a clean air contract.

Let me carry this analogy of collective bargaining one
step further. Union contracts are never negotiated for the
purpose of driving a company out of business, even though
there are times at which management claims that that
possibility is imminent. Neither will the enforcement of
emission standards cause economic ruin or relocation, be-
cause they will be based upon economic and technological
feasibility. Even though there is a price tag to them, the
standards will be achievable because they will be within
the technology available. I wish to emphasize that point.
Just as management should not run for cover when emis-
sion standards for the control of pollution sources are man-
dated, so also the citizens and workers should not give up
the ﬁght because it may be said that to have industry and
jobs means we must have pollution.

Pollution can be controlled. It is not an academic or
idealistic goal. It is a practical obtainable objective well
within the realms of reasonable technology and economic
cost. There‘need be no practical conﬂict between action to
insure the protection of public health and welfare and the
economic growth of a particular industry or plant. The fed-
eral presence in the form of the Air Quality Act of 1967
assures that the state and local governments will not be
overwhelmed—as they were in the past—~by this false
dilemma. This was the main reason we called our National

Conference on Air Pollution; we refuse to be the buffer

28

THE WASHINGTON POST

between positive pollution control activity by the commu-
nity and resistance by industry.

At the present time the labor movement is urging Con-
gress to adopt amendments to the 1967 Clean Air Act
directing the Secretary of HEW to adopt national emission
standards on all forms of air pollutants without delay. Last
year, some states blocked citizen participation in establish-
ing air quality standards by inadequate notice, last-minute
changes in the standards, and obscure language. We are
urging the National Air Pollution Control Administration
of HEW to issue rules that will require each state to provide
adequate public notice, in understandable terms, before
conducting hearings on proposed air quality standards. Or-
ganized labor is also urging amendment of the 1967 Clean
Air Act to reduce the time limits for compliance and to
direct the Department of HEW to undertake an expanded
research and development program to produce pollution-
free alternatives to internal combustion vehicles.

There is one more important aspect of environmental
preservation. Our Union membersﬂand labor as a whole
—have an increasing amount of leisure time to enjoy the
recreational and natural resources of the country. And
there is no doubt that the trend is toward even more leisure
time for workers in the future. It is my ﬁrm belief that by
1974 we will see the negotiation of a 4-day work week in
more and more labor agreements. This trend toward in-
creasing leisure time underscores the need not only to con-
serve what we have, not only to clean our streams and our
air, but to improve our recreational areas for the increas-
ing importance they will play in the future years.

The United Steelworkers of America will continue in the

forefront of the struggle to preserve and improve our en-
vironment. I

NATIONAL_PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

 

 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  

 

 

  

 

 




 

 

 

 

Conservationists have been continuing
their eﬂort to get a thoroughgoing and
impartial review of the environmental
implications of the proposed trans-
Alaska pipeline before construction is
permitted. For this purpose they have
recommended ample public hearings
under the auspices of the Council on
Environmental Quality.

We reprint herewith the full text of
a letter addressed to President Nixon by
the Environmental Coalition for North
America, urging retention of federal con-
trol over the project and an extension

of the land freeze, which prevents selec-
tion of federal land along the proposed
pipeline route by Alaska, until the en-
vironmental issues can be considered
adequately by scientists and the general
public. *

The Environmental Coalition letter was
delivered to the President on December
2. An order extending the land freeze
was issued by Acting Interior Secretary
Russell on December 8. As this note is
written, the injunction against issuance
of a construction permit, obtained by the
Environmental Defense Fund, the Wil-

derness Society, and the Friends of the
Earth, is still in eﬂect.

The freeze is expected to ensure reten-
tion of right-of-way lands under federal
control for the present. It should also
make certain that the construction permit
can be withheld until full public hearings
have shown whether the project is safe.
The order relies mainly on the need for
time to permit a fair settlement of the
claims of the Alaska natives, a matter
still pending before Congress. It contains
qualiﬁcations that will make careful
monitoring essential. I

Conservationists

Urge

Alaska Land Freeze

December 2, 1970
The Honorable Richard M. Nixon
President of the United States
The White House
Washington. DC. 20500
Dear Mr. President:

It was a privilege to transmit a letter
to you on May 6. 1970. signed by many
leaders of national and Alaskan conserva-
tion organizations recommending that you
ask the Council on Environmental Qual-
ity to hold full-scale public hearings on
the question of the proposed trans-Alas-
ka pipeline and on other Alaskan en-
vironmental problems.

We are well aware of the many grave
issues which command your attention at
present. not only in the domestic field,
but in foreign policy as well. We have

not been dismayed, therefore, at not hav-

ing had an answer to our letter. We were
happy to enter into correspondence with
Interior Secretary Hickel as a result of
our having sent him a copy of our letter
t0 YOU. in View of the major concern

which his Department has with Alaskan

matters.

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL

But as we pointed out in our letter
to you, the environmental problems of
Alaska and even the narrow problem of
the proposed trans-Alaska pipeline, in-
volve the responsibilities of a number of
Federal departments, Interior, Agricul-
ture, Transportation, State, and Defense.
Only an agency at the inter-departmental
level can undertake the necessary public
hearings which will provide a well-
rounded approach to the major conserva-
tion issues which have risen in recent
years in Alaska.

Of major signiﬁcance at this moment
is the impending termination, at midnight
on December 31, 1970, of the existing
freeze on the selection of Federal lands
by the State of Alaska. We have been
informed that the State of Alaska has
already indicated its intention to select
the transportation corridor when the land
freeze expires. Grave dangers to the en-
vironment of Alaska, the Arctic, and all
of North America could arise.

Transportation Secretary Volpe has
called attention to the danger that mas-

FEBRUARY 19 71

sive oil spills in the Arctic might result
in the absorption of enough heat from
the sun to initiate a melting of the polar
ice-cap . .
of the issues which have not yet been
thought through; full-scale public hear-
ings would bring the problems and pos-
sible solutions out into the open.

Under these circumstances it seems to
us to be quite imperative that the Fed-
eral Government retain control over the
decision whether the proposed trans-
Alaska pipeline is to be built. Regardless
of whether our suggestion of public hear-
ings is accepted, your Administration, we
respectfully suggest, has an obligation to
the American people and indeed to the
people of the world to see that this proj-
ect does not proceed unless it is quite
clear, and clear to scientists and the gen-
eral public, that no significant risks are

. . This is but one example

involved.

We suggest that a thorough legal
analysis be undertaken by the Attorney
General at this time, if such analysis has
not already been made, with respect to

29

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

the authorities available to the Federal
Government in this connection. The De-
partment of Transportation, for example,
has powerful controls over the construc-
tion of any highways in Alaska by virtue
of its discretion to grant or withhold
highway funds. and not necessarily funds
related only to the pipeline project. The
authority of the Coast Guard to regulate
or prohibit navigation through the Arctic
Ocean supporting the premature develop-
ment of the oil ﬁelds, or navigation as an
alternative to the pipeline, should also be
explored. The Departments of Defense
and State. and indeed the President of
the United States himself, as Commander-
in-Chief. in all probability have authority
under the Constitution and laws of the
United States to participate in the pro-
tection of the people of this Nation and
the world against reckless construction
which may invite catastrophe.

We would respectfully urge upon you.
not only that you give renewed considera-
tion to the possibility of Presidential-level
hearings on Alaskan environmental prob-
lems. but that you reassure the Nation
before the end of the year that Federal
authority will be retained over the deci-
sion on the pipeline until all significant
doubt has been eliminated that serious
environmental damage can be prevented.

There is one simple clear-cut. way in
which this whole problem of the trans-
Alaska pipeline can be resolved for the
present: by an extension of the freeze on
selection of lands along any proposed
pipeline routes until the controversy has
been resolved in the daylight of full pub-
lic information. This the President of the
United States can do by Executive Order
or by instructions to the Acting Secretary
of the Interior before the end of the year.
We urge you to take that course.

The persons who have signed this letter
have done so as individuals. They may or
may not be members of the Environmental
Coalition. which will be concerning itself
with a broad range of environmental prob-
lems in many places. Titles and organiza-
tions are given for personal identiﬁcation
only.

With assurances of our high esteem.

Faithfully yours.

ANTHONY WAYNE SMITH

Chairman

Environmental Coalition

President

National Parks 81 Conservation
Association

30

W. LLOYD TUPLING

Vice-Chairman, Environmental Coalition
Washington Representative

Sierra Club

JOHN N. ADAMS
Executive Director and Counsel
Natural Resources Defense Council

DR. WALTER S. BOARDMAN
Conservation Consultant

Defenders of Wildlife
NPCA

LARRY BOCART
Executive Director
Anti-Pollution League

WALTER .I. BURKE
International Secretary-Treasurer
United Steelworkers of America

RODERICK A. CAMERON
Executive Director
Environmental Defense Fund

CLARENCE COTTAM
Director

Welder Wildlife Foundation

FREDERICK C. DEAN
President
Alaska Conservation Society

FRED G. EVENDEN
Executive Director

Wildlife Society

MARK GANOPOLE
Secretary-Director

Alaska Wilderness Council

JOHN L. GEORGE

President

Rachel Carson Trust for the Living
Environment

ELIZABETH K. GREELEY
Conservation Chairman

The Garden Club of America

MARY HAZELL HARRIS
Executive Director and Editor

Defenders of Wildlife

NATIONAL PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

EDMUN D H. HARVEY
President

Delaware Wild Lands, Inc.

MR. JOHN HOYT
Humane Society of the United States

CELIA M. HUNTER
Secretary
Alaska Conservation Society

JAMES N. LAYNE
President
American Society of Mammalogists

SAM LOVE
Editor

Environmental Action

OLCA M. MADAR
Vice-President
United Automobile W'orkers of America

MRS. HAL MACARCLE

Vice President, Conservation

Audubon Naturalist Society of the
Central Atlantic States. Inc.

RICHARD H. POUCH
President
Natural Area Council

THOMAS W. RICHARDS
President
Nature Conservancy

JOHN W. SCOTT
Master
The National Grange

NED C. SMITH
Executive Director
Open Space Institute

GARY A. SOUCIE
Executive Director
Friends of the Earth

GINNY HILL WOOD

Editor

Alaska Conservation Review
Alaska Conservation Society

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

l npca at work

 

ASSOCIATION RECEIVES GRANT
The Charles E. Culpepper Foundation.
Inc.. has granted the National Parks and
Conservation Association $20,000 to
carry on studies of four methods of eco-
logical forestry. The methods to be
studied are individual tree selection.
small-patch clear-cutting. diameter limits,
and shelterwood.

In his proposal to the foundation.
NPCA President Anthony Wayne Smith
said the purpose of the studies “would
not be the production of a specialized
and intensive study of logging methods;
we would hope rather to demonstrate
that methods which conserve the soil.
waters, wildlife. and scenery, and the
forest itself, are feasible; to describe
them so that the educated layman can
understand; and to contrast them with
prevailing methods of large-block clear-
cutting, which leave the area devastated
for years. if not permanently.”

Three major disciplines——silvicu1ture,
economics, and government—will be ap-
plied in the studies, Mr. Smith said. A
professional forester will analyze silvicul-
tural and production aspects of each
metliod on test plots of forest. Forest
economists will weigh the economic im-
plications of the various methods. and
a lawyer or public administration spe-
cialist will examine Ways to promote and
foster each method. The Association will
publish the completed studies.

To take advantage of the assembly of
the study team, Mr. Smith said, the As-
sociation will ﬁnance a study of the
same four methods as applied to the
coast redwoods in California. This paral-
lel study will be paid for out of the
NPCA Sequoia Fund.

“The approach to forestry we would
like to foster,” Mr. Smith noted, “is
really a return to the forestry of Gifford
Pinchot.” Mr. Smith believes that such
a renaissance of ecological forestry
methods would be well received by those
now entering the forestry profession, but
that the techniques and principles of
ecological forestry have been forgotten
in our infatuation with big machinery
and clear-cutting.

ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
ENFORCEMENT LACKING
Testifying on invitation before the House
subcommittee on Fisheries and Wildlife
Conservation, NPCA President Smith
said there has been a “serious failure”
on the part of the Army Corps of Engi-
neers to comply with the provisions of
the National Environmental Policy Act.
He faulted Congress itself for not enforc-
ing the act, and said that by passing the
1970 Omnibus Rivers and Harbors Act
in the absence of the Corps’ compliance
with NEPA, Congress in effect repealed
NEPA for the session just past.

The subcommittee is chaired by Rep-

 

tional prominence in his profession.

and monuments.

 

JOSHUA EVANS

Early in 1925, a new name was added to the list of trustees that appeared on
the masthead of National Parks Bulletin, first official publication of the Na-
tional Parks Association. The name was that of Joshua Evans, Jr-a native Of
Maryland and a District of Columbia banker who had even then attained na-

Mr. Evans had joined. on that Board of Trustees, a distinguished company
of conservationist-Americans—A. Lawrence Lowell, George Bird Grinnell,
John H. Finley, Robert S. Brookings. William E. Colby, to name a few~big
ﬁgures all in a movement that was busily engaged in laying a solid foundation
under the concept of a great and closely protected system' of national parks

For nearly half a century Mr. Evans served the Association—~later to become
the National Parks and Conservation Associatione—as a councillor who brought
to its Board of Trustees a rare and valuable combination of business acumen
and Conservation interest; and during these many years of service he helped
the Association to expand mightily in both membership and views. He was a
businessman with a keenly developed sense of social obligation, uncommon
fOYtY-ﬁve years ago and not plentiful today.

In the death of Joshua Evans, Jr., which occurred October 31, 1970, the
National Parks and Conservation Association, in particular, and the conserva-
tion world generally, have lost a good and understanding friend.

 

 

New Official NPCA

JEWELRY

MENS AND
WOMENS

   
   
   
 

 

 

Floating
Emblem
Tie Clip &
Cuﬁlink Set

Association emblem appears to “float” with-
in bright gold finish oval. The clip is 3” long
for the latest wide tie fashions.

$6.00 set

LADIES’
BOWKNOT
PIN

A long time favorite.
Emblem is bright gold
finish with dark green
vitreous enamel color.

$2.75 each

PATCHES

First quality
with ravel-
proof edge
and underlay
stitching.
Guaranteed
washable.
3V2 inches in

diameter. $1
EA.

DELUXE LIFETIME

Library quality
NPCA green
cover on a
durable binder.
Gold lettering.
Holds 12 issues.

 

 

CUSTOM ‘

MADE FOR $ 90

YOUR Plus 35¢
MAGAZINE Post, Handling

Send check or money order to NPCA.
No charges or CODs please.

 

 

 

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL

FEBRUARY 19 71

31

 

 

 




 

  

32

 

   

gram. Jet
Francisco around the world to
‘ New York, $2880.

 

EAST
AFRICA

Two tours, each

limited to I9 persons.

Mar. 8-Mar. 30
Mar. l5-Apr. 6

Including round trip
iet fare from New York: $1585.

KENYA, UGANDA, TANZANIA This
superb tour lets you see—at close

range—the world’s most exotic ani-

mals in their natural habitat. You’ll
tour IO of East Africa’s national
parks and game reserves against a
background of breathtaking scenery.
You’ll see tribal herdsmen and cul-
tivators and the ”new Africa” in
modern cities. Throughout you’ll
have experienced, knowledgeable
leadership, plus ample opportunity
for interpretive discussion with local
conservation authorities. First class
accommodations.

2‘5-==:s=.:]ow.ng opportunlly to see hOW

 

break the only long lourneys. Un-
hurried stops in each country al-

 

people live on the land as welll
as in tandem cities. Tl‘IIS tour Wlll

 

Board Member and consultant
on Population Problems, and Mrs.
Cook, who also has had wide
experience in world travel.

OTHER NPBA ECOLOGICAL FIELD TRIPS

ALASKA

Two tours, each
limited to 20 persons.

July IB-Aug. I
Aug. 22-Sept. 5

All expense tours
including round trip
iet fare from Seattle: $1195.

Environment, human rights and wild-
life will be discussed along the way
with people involved in conserva-
tion eﬁorts. You’ll visit Sitka and
Juneau, cruise Glacier Bay, visit
Skagway, ride the narrow-gauge
railway to Whitehorse in the Yukon,
visit Fairbanks, then fly over the
Brooks range to the Arctic Ocean..
You’ll see Eskimos and the Polar
ice cap and visit Mt. McKinley Na-
tional Park, Anchorage and Mata-
nuska Valley. You’ll stay in the best
available hotels and have knowl-
edgeable and experienced leader-
ship all the way.

WRITE TRAVEL DESK

NATIONAL PARKS anaf Conservation Association

1701 Eighteenth St, NW, Washington, DC. 20009
Or Telephone (202) 667-3352

resentative John D. Dingell of Michi-
gan. one of the authors of NEPA. The
hearings, which have extended into this
Congress, are to determine the degree of
federal agencies’ compliance with NEPA,
and to set up procedures for the prepara-
tion and submission of environmental
impact statements. Before'the hearings
began, Mr. Dingell said he was dissatis-
ﬁed with compliance to date, and the
thrust of much of the testimony has been
that the operating agencies are not doing
their duty under the act.

In his testimony, Mr. Smith said the
Corps submitted the statements late, so
that the public had no chance to com-
ment on them. “Essential elements . . .
were omitted entirely. The state-
ments, in our judgment, have been quite
inadequate in many other respects, in-
deed incompetent.”

In the case of two Potomac dams, he
said, even though alternatives have been
urged strongly, the Corps listed only
“no development” as the alternative to
the dams. (The dams later were deleted
from the bill in conference.)

THREE PARK UNITS VOTED

Three new units for the national park sys-
tem were passed by the 91st Congress in
its closing days, and the bills have been
signed by President Nixon. They are the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National His-
toric Park in Maryland, the Voyageurs
National Park in Minnesota, and the Gulf
Islands National Seashore stretching'from
Florida to Louisiana. NCPA long has
favored proposals for a C&O Canal park
and regards this bill and that for'the
Gulf Islands park as much-needed legis-
lation. However. the Association had seri-
ous reservations about the Voyageurs park
as originally proposed. On invitation from
Senator Alan S. Bible. chairman of the
Subcommittee on Parks and Recreation,
NPCA President Anthony Wayne Smith
sent a letter outlining these reservations.

“We commend the Subcommittee . . .
for recognizing the remarkable recrea-
tional value of the Voyageurs area. . . . As
presently proposed. however [the bill] is
inconsistent with the traditional policies
and philosophy for national parks. . . .”
The letter urged the subcommittee either
to amend the bill to bring it in line with

'national park standards or to designate

the area a national recreation area. The
latter course was suggested in View of the
fact that Minnesotans have pushed for
provision in the bill for hunting, mining.
snowmobiling, motorboating, and exten-
sive road development. As ﬁnally passed.
the bill forbade hunting, mining, and
other exploitation of natural resources.
Roads and snowmobiling were left to the
discretion of the National Park Service.

NATIONAL PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

conservation
news

 

 

 

 

PRESIDENT URGED TO VETO
RIVERS AND HARBORS BILL
NPCA President Anthony Wayne Smith,
acting as an individual in his capacity as
chairman of the Environmental Coalition
'of North America. urged the Presi-
dent to veto this year’s Rivers and Har-
bors authorization bill that had contained
authorization for two of the collection of
dams the Army Corps of Engineers wants
to build in the Potomac Basin. The letter
to Mr. Nixon was signed jointly with the
Sierra Club’s W. Lloyd Tupling. Vice-
Chairman of the Coalition.

“A Presidential veto . . . would have
the strong and effective support of a
great preponderance of the conservation
movement throughout America. including
major farm and labor organizations,” the
letter says. “This hill carries a biennial
authorization for the expenditure of
nearly $500 million as passed by the
Senate and nearly $600 million by the
House [after conference, $1.4 billion];
the money is for outmoded and destructive
dams and comparable facilities on rivers
all over the country.”

The letter says the authorizations in
the bill will waste the taxpayers’ money
for “unecological. uneconomic. and in-
human purposes” and will be highly in-
ﬂationary. It notes that the Corps, in
presenting the projects in the bill to
Congress, failed to comply adequately
with the Environmental Policy Act and
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
Most conservationists. the letter says,
“would not only support a veto but would
back you up in impounding funds for
practically any of the Army Engineers
dam projects already authorized.” Despite
the plea, the bill was signed.

BILLBOARD RESTRICTION
STANDS

One of former Interior Secretary Hickel’s
last acts before his Thanksgiving firing
was to ban billboards on Interior-man-
aged public lands, which is to say nearly

Evenin “‘Is

neighborhood
crime is on ’
the increase.

 

The exploitation of the Grand Canyon and the disruption of
its delicate ecosystem are crimes on a truly enormous scale. But
they are perpetrated for the most part by well-meaning people,
and often in small ways.

A new book, THE WILDERNESS WORLD OF THE GRAND
CANYON: “Leave It As It Is” by naturalists Ann and Myron Sutton,
offers a thorough and illuminating view of the abuse the canyon
suffers, and the danger it faces — not merely obvious threats, like
the infamous dam project, but also the more subtle problems of
increased tourism'and misguided attempts at conservation.

The Suttons show that the canyon is subject to the influ-
ences of man in surprising ways: The potential for a catastrophic
fire now exists because rangers have prevented the natural inci-
dence of fire from thinning underbrush; fluctuations in power con-
sumption at the Glen Canyon Dam create a sharp drop in the
Colorado River’s water-level on weekends; and the reference to
crime above is not a mere figure of speech — crime and other
urban problems are now indigenous to the canyon’s tourist areas.

But the book would be incomplete if it explained
only what we must save the canyon FROM and not what
we must save it FOR.

Here the Suttons reveal their remarkable skill at illuminating
the beauty of nature and the joys of wilderness. More than half of
THE WILDERNESS WORLD OF THE GRAND CANYON is devoted
to hiking the canyon’s many trails, and the special problems pre-
sented by the harsh canyon environment. Breathtaking photographs
by Philip Hyde illustrate the Suttons’ descriptions of spectacular

hikes.

The geologic history of the canyon and the history of man in
the canyon are thoroughly explored. The succession of Indian tribes
that have lived in the canyon, Powell’s historic boat trip, and the
ecological crisis of 1924—25 are part of the total story the Suttons

v to tell.
ha e THE WILDERNESS WORLD OF THE GRAND CANYON offers
a variety of new ideas on the preservation of the Grand Canyon and
an inspiring guide to its fuller appreciation. Order your c0py today,
with the money-back guarantee.

 

 

 

 

a third of the nation.

After Hickel was ﬁred, reports circu-
lated that the billboard order would be
reversed by Acting Interior Secretary
Fred J. Russell. The order, however, ap-

THE WILDERNESS WORLD l—_ —" — — — — -— —-
. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY Np_271

OF THE GRAND CANYON JEast Washington Square .
“Leave It As It Is" I Philadelphia, Pa. 19105 I

Please send, postage paid, a copy of THE WIL-
by An" and Myron Sutton DERNESS WORLD or THE GRAND CANYON. I re-

serve the right to return the book within 10 I

  
   

days of delivery for a full refund. I enclose $8.95
[:I check [:1 money order

 

 

 

 

 

 

parently will stand. Final adoption of (In Ark., Col., N.C., N.J., N.Y., Pa., and Term.
- . . add state and local sales tax.)

new regulatlons governmg billboards was N Mr I

announced December 7 to become eﬂec- Photo raphs by A

ﬁve upon publication in the Federal PhilipT-Iyde ._ . ADDRESL I

Register. As adopted, the regulations - 4 “g; 'c'TY

fQI‘bld billboard permits to be issued for ' ~ STATF 7”: I

dISplayS Visible frOm any interstate de_ — — — — — — _

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL FEBRUARY 1971

 

 




 

 

(Holds 1/2T0N) Scouter’s

 

 

 

 

So small it fits in
your hand!

Made of durable nonrotting, lightweight
Nylon. Used in Amazon jungle by para-
troopers of Ecuador, mountain climbers
(swing over rocky cliffs), rescue teams.
naturalists, and explorers. Weighs only
eight ounces, and imagine it's so small.
fits right in your hand. Perfect for back-
packing.

Order one now and put it in your pocket
on your next hike or boating excursion.
Great for traveling, camping, hunting.
scouting, fishing or any other adventure.
Comes complete with tie lines, rip-stop.
and nylon sack. Send $16 U.S., $17 For-
eign (cash, check or money order).

Dept. N. LOVECE, P.O. Box‘ 84, Kensington
Station. Brooklyn. N.Y. 11218

 

 

 

 

Nature Lat/em

 
      

WHY
NOT
TAKE AN
IMAGINARY TRIP
THROUGH CALIFORNIA
' .IN SOUND

Listen to the sounds of nature
Wthh have been captured on this
stereo record. Close lyour eyes and
imagine Yosemite Fa ls leaping and
bounding on the rocks below...
hear the return of the swallows to
San Juan Capistrano. . .and the de-
11, htful sounds of San Francisco’s
able Cars. . .listen to the sounds of
seal ,rock and the ulls at Fisher-
man s. Wharf. . .the ells at Mission
Detoris and dozens of beautiful bird
ca 5.
All these and many more sounds
have been recorded on this unique
12‘” LP re'cord.

- —— — — —— —-- —' — _ —- —

 

    
   
      

ONLY

$5.50

INCLUDES
POSTAGE
AN
HANDLING

SOUVENIRS EN SOUND
P.O. Box 669

1050 W. Hwy 66
Flagstaff, Ariz. 86001

  

 

Name-
Address:
City:____..._ State:
No. of Records Wanted:

 

 

Zip:—

Amount Enclosed:

 

 

 

fense or primary highway. The only ad-
vertising allowed is that within 50 feet
of the business premises advertised.
Existing permits will not be renewed un-
less they meet the new requirements.
Billboards and other displays illegal
under the new regulations must be re-
moved within 30 days at the owner’s
expense. Regardless of any exceptions,
displays will not be permitted that are
“inconsistent with national programs for
the preservation of beauty.”
Now onward to strict enforcement.

SANGUINE STUDY HIT BY
WISCONSIN’S SEN. NELSON

The Navy’s Project Sanguine, a plan to
install a checkerboard grid of wires
under 10,000 square miles of land in
northern Wisconsin, has aroused strenu-
ous opposition from conservationists and
almost everybody else in the affected
area. It is feared that the low-frequency
radio waves sent out by the grid for
communication with deep-running nu-

clear missile submarines will adversely

affect wildlife and vegetation.

Recently Wisconsin’s Senator Gaylord
Nelson, commenting on a Hazelton Lab-
oratories study holding Sanguine harm-
less, said that in fact the study has iden-
tiﬁed several areas where “more careful
reSearch is necessary” before the Navy
can go ahead with the project. These
areas are aquatic fertility, canine physi-
ology, insect mutations, seed germina-
tion, perception of electrical ﬁelds by
aquatic animals, and Sanguine’s effect
on soil organisms. Preliminary studies by
Hazelton found that the ﬁeld generated
by the grid retarded the development of
sunflower seeds; that ﬁsh, turtles, and
other aquatic animals tended to move
parallel to the electric currents; that the

ﬁeld produced some mutations in fruit-
ﬂies; and that dogs exposed to the cur-
rents showed blood pressure and body
temperature increases.

“Interestingly,” Nelson said, “the lab-
oratories did not consider the 60 percent
reduction in the number of living orga-
nisms in the soil at the Clam Lake, Wis-
consin, test site to be signiﬁcant enough
to warrant further study.” The senator
said he will insist that no such system as
Sanguine that is in any way harmful to
people or the plant and animal life of
Wisconsin be permitted, and he indicated
he would continue to keep Sanguine
under question. Those aware of how dis-
astrous can be just a little tampering
with life’s more basic mechanisms should
welcome the senator’s caution.

TWO MEETINGS

The Association of Interpretive Natural-
ists will hold its 1971 annual meeting and
workshop from March 31 through April 3
at the Kentucky Dam Village State ResOrt
Park in Gilbertsville, Kentucky.

The association’s goals are “the ad-
vancement of education and the develop-
ment of skills in the art of interpreting the
natural environment.” For further infor-
mation, contact Mr. John Paulk at the
Gilbertsville park.

A symposium on the ecology. behavior,
and conservation of the world’s cats will
be held March 15—17 at Lion Country
Safari in California. This organization and
the World Wildlife Fund are sponsoring
the meeting, which is the first gathering
of the newly formed Cat Specialist Group
of the International Union for the Con-
servation of Nature. NPCA Trustee Dr.
Durward Allen will attend. For informa-
tion write R. L. Eaton. Purdue University.
Lafayette, Indiana.

 

stantial extent.

he may keep contact in this manner.

istrative programs and policies.

 

A CITIZEN’S VOICE IN GOVERNMENT

OrganiZations like the National Parks Association, which enjoy special privi-
leges of tax exemption, may not advocate or oppose legislation to any sub-

Individual citizens of a democracy, however, enjoy the right and share the
responsibility, of participating in the legislative process. One of the ways
citizens of a democracy can take part in their government at state and federal
levels is by keeping in touch with their representatives in the legislature; by
writing, telegraphing, or telephoning their views; by visiting and talking with
their representatives in the national capital or in the home town between
sessions. Every American has two senators and one congressman with whom

The best source of information for such purposes is the ofﬁcial Congres-
sional Directory, which can be bought through the Government Printing Ofﬁce,
Washington, DC. 20402, at the price of $4.25. It tells you who your senators
and congressmen are and lists the membership of the various Congressional
committees. It also gives full information on the personnel of the various
executive bureaus of the government whom one may contact about admin-

 

34

 

NATIONAL PARKS & CONSERVATION MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

conservation
docket

 

 

 

Following is a list of areas currently
being studied by the National Park Ser-
vice for wilderness or master plans.
The former will determine the areas to
be given legal protection as wilderness.
Master plans set the course of future
management. Readers may write to the
addresses given to express their views or
to get on the mailing list to be informed
when public meetings are scheduled.

Arkansas Post National Memorial. Ark.
Gillett, Ark. 72055

Coulee Dam National Recreation Area,
Wash.
Box 37, Coulee Dam, Wash. 99116

Edison National Historic Site, N.J.
Box 126, Orange, NJ. 07051

Fire Island National Seashore, N.Y.
Conklin Bldg., 8 W. Main St.,
Patchogue, N.Y. 11772

Fort Donelson National Military Park,
Tenn.

Box F, Dover. Tenn. 37058

Glacier Bay National Monument, Alaska
Box 1089, Juneau. Alaska 99801

Katmai National Monument, Alaska
c/o Mt. McKinley National Park.
Box 2252, Anchorage, Alaska 99501

Morristown National Historical Park,

NJ.
Box 759, Morristown, NJ. 07960

Muir Woods National Monument. Calif.
Mill Valley. Calif. 94941

Pipe Springs National Monument, Ariz.
c/o Zion National Park. Springdale,
Utah 84767

 

”IT’S A DILLEY”
SEE-THRU YEAR-ROUND
WEATHER
SQUIRREL-PROOF

restige 9888- O-Ikamas

are landmarks for hungry
birds—happy folks coast to
coast.

 

. Daily pleasing many readers of this maga-
zme. Not in stores. Like our new free Natural
Color literature? Write to:

The Dilley Mfg. Co., 1659 Dean Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44112
* A Fine Business or Personal Gift. Arrives

Gift-packed postpaid. We will personalize it or
Include your or our Gift Card. No extra cost.

 

 

 

THE ENVIRONMENTAL JOURNAL

classified ads

 

 

 

25¢ per word—minimum $3. Payment must
be enclosed with order. Use ZIP code.

 

Buy quality WILDWOOD TENTS direct
from manufacturer for packing and canoe
trips or family camping. Finest materials and
workmanship. Complete camping supplies.
Free catalog. LAACKE & JOYS, 1444 N.
Water, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53202.

 

PENNGIFT CROWNVETCH: Nature’s own
groundcover for 1) healing raw scars, 2) con-
trolling erosion, 3) smothering litter, 4) chok-
ing weeds and 5) beautiﬁcation. Seed and
crowns (bare root plants). Write for prices
and literature to the Pioneer of the Crownvetch
Industry. GRASSLYN, INC., Box 8, College
Park, Maryland 20740.

 

LOS PINOS RANCH. Cowles, New Mexico,
northeast of Santa Fe, Pecos Wilderness
Area. Accommodates 14 in a relaxed atmos-
phere. June to November. No poisonous in-
sects, snakes or mosquitoes. Magniﬁcent rid-
ing, pack trips, excellent food. Winter address
(until May 15) 31 De Hart Street, Morristown,
New Jersey 07960.

 

SKI TOUR GRAND TETON NATIONAL
PARK, equipment and guide service included.
Also summer mountaineering expeditions.
Rick Horn, WILDERNESS EXPEDITIONS,
Box 471, Jackson, Wyoming 83001.

 

BLACK WALNUT TREES. 5 acres of North-
east Iowa land with 5,000 black walnut trees
planted. Total price $2600.00. R. W. Dauben-
diek, 504 Center Ave., Decorah, Iowa 52101.

 

Ed Shepherd has lithographed notepaper of
a Raccoon Family that comes 12 notes and
envelopes in an illustrated portfolio. Send
$2.00 to: Birchrunville Papers, Birchrunville,
Pennsylvania 19421. Penna. residents please
add 6% tax. You will be pleased!

 

DISCOVER WILDERNESS along the C010-
rado River. Write Grand Canyon/Canyon-
lands Expeditions, Box 21021, Salt Lake City,
Utah 84121.

ADVENTURE! ASSOCIATES. Quality year-
around wilderness experiences for novice
campers or seasoned outdoorsmen. Everglades,
Big Bend, Rocky Mountain, Canyonlands Na-
tional Parks, and other areas. Complete equip-
ment and food provided. Write BILL MOUN-
SEY, ADVENTURE! ASSOCIATES, Route
2, Box 437P, Evergreen, Colorado 80439.

SKI CROSS COUNTRY—touring, racing,
mountain skis, boots, poles, bindings, books,
wax, clothing. Snowshoes. Backpacking Gear,
Whitewater Canoes and Kayaks; catalog.
MOOR & MOUNTAIN, 40 Main Street, Con-
cord, Mass. 01742.

ALASKA WILDERNESS VACATIONS,
McKINLEY NATIONAL PARK. CAMP
DENALI—featuring nature lore, hiking, wild-
life photography, ﬁshing, relaxing. Sweeplng
mountain view. American Plan & Housekeep-
ing. WILDERNESS WORKSHOP—-ten day
tundra ecology interpretive program. TUN-
DRA TREKS——guided hiking and backpack-
ing trips in McKinley Park area. 20th year.
For brochures: CAMP DENALI, Box D, Col-
lege, Alaska 99701.

 

 

 

FEBRUARY 19 71

JOHN PHILIP NATURE TOURS. Small
groups explore the natural history of the
Western States, Western Canada, Scotland and
Australia. Birds, wildﬂowers, photography,
geology, scenery and seashore life. Write: John
Philip, Suite 508, 990 Lagoon Drive, Van-
couver 5, British Columbia, Canada.

 

WILDERNESS ENCOUNTERS! Now book-
ing spring white water raft trips through
America’s deepest gorge—HELLS CANYON.
Eat gourmet meals, ﬁsh, pan for gold, geolo-
gize, rockhound, and explore this spectacular
wilderness waterway. Also canoe and back-
pack trips available throughout the coming
summer. Complete outﬁtters. Come to know
“the wilderness experience.” Write for bro-
chure, Wilderness Encounters, PO. Box 274N,
Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401.

Custom club, truck decals, patches, bumper
strips. Free folder. ART CRAFT MFG., Box
1296, Webster, Mass. 01570.

 

 

Mountaineering expeditions: Teton, Gros
Ventre, Wind River Ranges; Ski Touring in
Grand Teton National Park; Rick Horn,
WILDERNESS EXPEDITIONS, Box 4471,
Jackson, Wyoming 83001.

VACATION ON SAPPHIRE BEACH—~ST.
THOMAS, V.I. Ideal family/ 2 couples, week/
month. Sapphire P.O. Box 84, Kensington
Station, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11218. Call 212/871-
8796.

EXPLORE THE SCENIC WRANGELL
MOUNTAINS, ALASKA, by saddle horse
pack trips. Excellent opportunity for photog-
raphy, bird watching, ﬁshing, or just enjoying
a supreme wilderness experience. TANADA
LAKE LODGE, Box 5644, College, Alaska
99701.

GRAND TETON CANYON. A quiet spot
along the Gros Ventre River bordering Grand
Teton National Park. Dude Ranch. American
Plan. Riding, ﬁshing, hiking. Birds, beaver,
wildﬂowers. Secluded! Flying V Ranch, Box
72, Kelly P.O., JACKSON HOLE, Wyoming
83011.

NATURAL HISTORY SLIDES OF THE
SOUTHWEST. Send for free catalogue. In-
ternational Expedition Photography, PO. Box
24A26, Village Station, West Los Angeles,
California 90024.

Authentic AMERICAN INDIAN MUSIC
AND CHANTS on HI-FIDELITY phonograph
records. Free catalog. Dept. P, CANYON
RECORDS, 6050 N. 3rd Street, Phoenix, Ari-
zona 85012.

ORGANIC GARDENING “UN-FADDED.”
Learn how to grow tastier, more nutritious
foods organically—without poison sprays and
artiﬁcial fertilizers. Subscribe to ORGANIC
GARDENING AND FARMING MAGAZINE.
10 introductory issues: $3. Emmaus, Pa.
18049.

CLEAN UP YOUR ENVIRONMENT. Find
out how from ENVIRONMENT ACTION
BULLETIN. It crams action ideas for ﬁght-
ing pollution into a crisp, candid weekly
newsletter. 26 introductory issues: $4. EN-
VIRONMENT ACTION BULLETIN, Em-
maus, Pa. 18049.

35MM COLOR SLIDES: 10,671 individually
sold, described. Encyclopedia-Catalog 10¢.
Wolfe Worldwide, Dept. 38-21, Los Angeles,
California 90025.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

35

 




 

 

. . . the work in which we are

engaged is of basic importance

to human survival

and the

perpetuation of life on earth”

As an NPCA member you have an important share
in this work.

For, thanks to you, the NPCA is a completely in-
dependent organization, free to state its views on
any question. The NPCA receives no large operat-
ing grants from foundations. It depends almost
entirely for its financial support on the annual dues
of its members and whatever extra contributions
they make.

This is why an increasing membership is a necessity
if the NPCA is to continue to grow in strength and
effectiveness.

The NPCA now has more than 50,000 members.
We want to double that number.

And we ask your help.

From among the people you know: friends, neigh-
bors, business associates, will you enroll one new
member?

Will you help us alert others to the dangers the
human race faces—and what the NPCA is doing
about them?

Will you tell your friends that the NPCA has the
broadest environmental improvement program in
existence today?

—ANTHONY WAYNE SMITH
President & General Counsel
National Parks & Conservation Association

Will you tell them that the NPCA has more than a
half century of service behind it and that its officers,
trustees, and consultants include the most respected
names in conservation: men who have devoted their
professional lifetimes to saving the natural environ-
ment; men who not only know what needs to be
done, but know how to get it done?

Will you urge your friends to ioin you in supporting
NPCA programs?

Will you ask today? Your new member may use the
application blank below.

 

SCHEDULE OF MEMBERSHIPS

Life .................... $500.00
Sustaining ............ , $100.00
Supporting .............. $ 50.00
Contributing ............. $ 15.00
Associate . . ............. $ 10.00
Student ................. $ 8.00

(4 years only)

I— National Parks & Conservation Association
1701 Eighteenth St., NW.
Washington, DC. 20009

I I’m with you in your efforts to preserve our natural environment. I' enclose a check for $ for a
( )Life ( )Sustaining ( )Supporting ( )Contributing ( )Associate( )Student membership. I under-
I stand that all dues in excess of $10 per year are tax deductible.

NAME

 

 

I ADDRESS
CITY STATE

ZIP

 

L THANK YOU

 

 




VET. Patt5r5en ,
City Euyliaating

D555 55. Patt5r505,5

Please run 500 invitations 55 per 555515 55515555,
using the 5555 type and 5155 of 55rd. -

W5 would 55 grateful he 5555ive the env5l5p55 55
quickly 55 55551515, in arder that 55 555 5665555
them.now. ,,

’Ybur coﬁtinu5d cocperatien 15 warmly 5ppr5515t55.
Do 5555 5555 of yaur551f. ,

Sincerely,

(Hrs. Charias 5. 055355)
¥Secret55y t5 555. 8555555

PS 4.. This 5555:- should be 511155 t5 am as it
appears an this letterhaad f we 555 a tax exempt
crganizatian. '

 




TEE Dﬁreétors of tha Animal welfara Inatitute
, vaguest thﬂ homer cf year prasenée-
gt the preSantatian by “
‘Lae Talbot V

Senior Scientist m Council on Environmental Quality

of‘the
Schﬂeitzer Award for 1973
, to . _ ,
VScott Mcvay
Chairman, Committee on Whales, Environmental Dafensa Fund
.oanuesday, the eighteenth of December_
at three o’clock '
'The Atrium/
The Kennedy Centér
R.S.V.F. ’ Reception folldwing

Hrs. Roger Stevens the earemony

337-2332 *

 




\

1'15
M4!

x

1.»
.1
m.

‘J. 5,4,.

F'.) V,-

,1,

 




MEDALLIC ART COM PANY

708 THIRD AVENUE - NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 - (212) 687-3060

CHARLES J. DERCANC
DIRECTOR EASTERN SALES November 2 8, 1973

Ms. Christine Stevens, President

Animal Welfare Institute

P. O. Box 3650

Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens:

Thank you for your return card. We very much appreciate your
comments that you will telephone us to place your reorder in the

near future and will follow through with a written order.

I travel to Washington regularly and if I can be of assistance to
you in any way, please call upon me.

With appreciation.

Sinc er ely your 3 ,

CJDzmc

P. 8. You may be interested in perusing our "Bicentennial

Brochure” and hope you keep it in your promotional
file.

C. J. D.

CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS: OLD RIDCEBURY ROAD, DANBURY, CONN. 06810 12033 792-3000

 




Buceaber 6, 1973

Miss Lee

Lea Lettar'Sarvica
hS East 213% Streat
N557 York, E12; 10010

Dear Miss Lea, . .

Endloaed 15 the lettar 9f invitatian which is ta‘ba
ﬁuplicatiﬂg and sent to the Mhmbership list. I wrate ywu
last wegk ragarding stanciling ear aluelopos far this mailing.

' ﬁeld the lattar inward fer a #10 envelape and mail
the invitatiana just as seen as passibla, via first 31838 mail.

THESE: 3mm» (30 cm no LATER m mu THE 10th.

Thank yam 30 much for yvur_helpf

Sincerély;

Baﬁbara Gould
Administrativa Assistant

 




mas Lara .
Lee Let-tar Service
. 1&8 East 2151: Street.
New York, NY 10016

Dear was Lee,

I an: saw that I naglaated to mantim while; we were an the»
phme this mom, that we mule! like to have the Membership
1191: (“H") mm m. ’10 mvalopes of the; Animal thwart; Institute.

Flags held the envelopes there and we will be sending you
the letter 01' Invitation totthe Annual Meeting. for duplication.
Mr. Wed 19 dang the Annual Report which will ha encloaed
in the mailing.

Mrs. S'bwans said she will write the letter aver the mkmnd
so we M11 have it up to you early next. week; Tue Annual Meeting
will be held here in Washington an member 18th.

Sincerely,

Barbara Gould
Administrative Assistant

 




We are fortunate that Jason Robards, star of "A Moon for the Misbegotten",

will come to the meeting to talk about the gray whales he loves to watch

swimming past his home in California.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
\VASHINGTON, D. c. 20007

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the twenty-second
annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute at The Atrium
in the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
Washington, D.C., at three o'clock, Tuesday afternoon, the
eighteenth of December.

The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Scott McVay
in recognition of his vigorous nine-year-long campaign to
stop the cruel killing of the endangered whales. Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental
Quality, brilliant and influential student of the plight
of the whales and of other persecuted animals, will make
the presentation.

Famous star of the stage and films, Jason Robards, who
loves whales, will be guest speaker.

_The medallist is the Chairman of the Committee on Whales
of the Environmental Defense Fund, and he played an important
part in major deve10pments protecting whales and dolphins
in the past three years. First, the listing of the great
whales on the endangered Species list by the Department of
Interior in December, 1970, thereby closing the United States
to the importation of whale products (one-fourth of the world
market at that time). Second, the closing of the last U.S.
commercial whaling operation, December 1971, by the Depart-
ment of Commerce. Third, unanimous passage by the Senate
and House of Representatives of resolutions calling for a
ten-year moratorium on the commercial killing of whales which
subsequently became U.S. policy at Stockholm in June, 1972
and at the International Whaling Commission meetings in London
in 1972 and 1973. Mr. McVay has been active in seeking a
solution to the drowning of dolphins in tuna purse seines.
He is a strong proponent of the boycott of Japanese and Russian
good Which the AWI together with other humane and conservation
organizations are pressing to bring about agreement on the
ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of whales.

A reception will follow the ceremony, and you are encouraged
to bring a friend with you who is interested in the protection

of animals.

Sincerely, ’
(meal gm

Christine Stevens
President

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
‘VASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the twenty-second
annual meeting of the Animal'Welfare Institute at The Atrium
in the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
Washington, D.C., at three o'clock, Tuesday afternoon, the
eighteenth of December.

The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Scott McVay
in recognition of his vigorous nine-year-long campaign to
stop the cruel killing of the endangered whales. Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental
Quality, brilliant and influential student of the plight
of the whales and of other persecuted animals, will make
the presentation.

Famous star of the stage and films, Jason Robards, who
loves whales, will be guest speaker.

, The medallist is the Chairman of the Committee on Whales
of the Environmental Defense Fund, and he played an important

part in major developments protecting whales and dolphins

in the past three years. First, the listing of the great
whales on the endangered species list by the Department of
Interior in December, 1970, thereby closing the United States
to the importation of whale products (one-fourth of the world
market at that time). Second, the closing of the last U.S.
commercial whaling operation, December 1971, by the Depart-
ment of Commerce. Third, unanimous passage by the Senate

and House of Representatives of resolutions calling for a
ten-year moratorium on the commercial killing of whales which
subsequently became U.S. policy at Stockholm in June, 1972

and at the International Whaling Commission meetings in London
in 1972 and 1973. Mr. McVay has been active in seeking a
solution to the drowning of dolphins in tuna purse seines.

He is a strong proponent of the boycott of Japanese and Russian
good which the AWI together with other humane and conservation
organizations are pressing to bring about agreement on the
ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of whales.

A reception will follow the ceremony, and you are encouraged
to bring a friend with you who is interested in the protection

of animals.
Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
\VASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the twenty-second
annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute at The Atrium
in the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
Washington, D.C., at three o'clock, Tuesday afternoon, the
eighteenth of December.

The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Scott McVay
in recognition of his vigorous nine-year-long campaign to
stop the cruel killing of the endangered Whales. Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental
Quality, brilliant and influential student of the plight
of the whales and of other persecuted animals, will make
the presentation.

Famous star of the stage and films, Jason Robards, who
loves whales, will be guest speaker.

,_The medallist is the Chairman of the Committee on Whales
of the Environmental Defense Fund, and he played an important
part in major developments protecting whales and dolphins
in the past three years. First, the listing of the great
whales on the endangered Species list by the Department of
Interior in December, 1970, thereby closing the United States
to the importation of whale products (one-fourth of the world
market at that time). Second, the closing of the last U.S.
commercial whaling operation, December 1971, by the Depart-
ment of Commerce. Third, unanimous passage by the Senate
and House of Representatives of resolutions calling for a
ten-year moratorium on the commercial killing of whales which
subsequently became U.S. policy at Stockholm.in June, 1972
and at the International Whaling Commission meetings in London
in 1972 and 1973. Mr. McVay has been active in seeking a
solution to the drowning of dolphins in tuna purse seines.
He is a strong proponent of the boycott of Japanese and Russian
good which the AWI together with other humans and conservation
organizations are pressing to bring about agreement on the
ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of whales.

A reception will follow the ceremony, and you are encouraged
to bring a friend with you who is interested in the protection

of animals.
Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
‘VASHINGTON. D. C. 2000?

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the twenty-second
annual meeting of the Animal'Welfare Institute at The Atrium
in the John F. Kennedy Center for the Perfonming Arts,
Washington, D.C., at three o'clock, Tuesday afternoon, the
eighteenth of December.

The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Scott McVay
in recognition of his vigorous nine-year-long campaign to
stop the cruel killing of the endangered whales. Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental
Quality, brilliant and influential student of the plight
of the whales and of other persecuted animals, will make
the presentation.

Famous star of the stage and films, Jason Robards, who
loves whales, will be guest speaker.

, The medallist is the Chairman of the Committee on Whales
of the Environmental Defense Fund, and he played an important
part in major developments protecting whales and dolphins
in the past three years. First, the listing of the great
whales on the endangered Species list by the Department of
Interior in December, 1970, thereby closing the United States
to the importation of whale products (one-fourth of the world
market at that time). Second, the closing of the last U.S.
commercial whaling operation, December 1971, by the Depart-
ment of Commerce. Third, unanimous passage by the Senate
and House of Representatives of resolutions calling for a
ten-year moratorium on the commercial killing of whales which
subsequently became U.S. policy at Stockholm in June, 1972
and at the International Whaling Commission meetings in London
in 1972 and 1973. Mr. MCVay has been active in seeking a
solution to the drowning of dolphins in tuna purse seines.
He is a strong proponent of the boycott of Japanese and Russian
good.which the AWI together with other humane and conservation
organizations are pressing to bring about agreement on the
ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of whales.

A reception will follow the ceremony, and you are encouraged
to bring a friend with you who is interested in the protection

of animals.
Sincerely, :

Christine Stevens
President

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
‘VASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the twenty-second
annual meeting of the Animal'Welfare Institute at The Atrium
in the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
Washington, D.C., at three o'clock, Tuesday afternoon, the
eighteenth of December.

The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Scott McVay
in recognition of his vigorous nine-year-long campaign to
stop the cruel killing of the endangered whales. Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental
Quality, brilliant and influential student of the plight
of the whales and of other persecuted animals, will make
the presentation.

Famous star of the stage and films, Jason Robards, who
loves whales, will be guest speaker.

.-The medallist is the Chairman of the Committee on Whales
of the Environmental Defense Fund, and he played an important
part in major developments protecting whales and dolphins
in the past three years. First, the listing of the great
whales on the endangered species list by the Department of
Interior in December, 1970, thereby closing the United States
to the importation of whale products (one-fourth of the world'
market at that time). Second, the closing of the last U.S.
commercial whaling operation, December 1971, by the Depart-
ment of Commerce. Third, unanimous passage by the Senate
and House of Representatives of resolutions calling for a
ten-year moratorium on the commercial killing of whales which
subsequently became U.S. policy at Stockholm.in June, 1972
and at the International'Whaling Commission meetings in London
in 1972 and 1973. Mr. McVay has been active in seeking a
solution to the drowning of dolphins in tuna purse seines.
He is a strong proponent of the boycott of Japanese and Russian
good which the AWI together with other humane and conservation
organizations are pressing to bring about agreement on the
ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of whales.

A reception will follow the ceremony, and you are encouraged
to bring a friend with you who is interested in the protection

of animals.

Christine Stevens
President

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
‘VASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the twenty-second
annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute at The Atrium
in the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
Washington, D.C., at three o'clock, Tuesday afternoon, the
eighteenth of December.

The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Scott McVay
in recognition of his vigorous nine-year-long campaign to
stop the cruel killing of the endangered whales. Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental
Quality, brilliant and influential student of the plight
of the whales and of other persecuted animals, will make
the presentation.

Famous star of the stage and films, Jason Robards, who
loves whales, will be guest speaker.

.-The medallist is the Chairman of the Committee on Whales
of the Environmental Defense Fund, and he played an important
part in major developments protecting whales and dolphins
in the past three years. First, the listing of the great
whales on the endangered species list by the Department of
Interior in December, 1970, thereby closing the United States
to the importation of whale products (one-fourth of the world
market at that time). Second, the closing of the last U.S.
commercial whaling operation, December 1971, by the Depart-
ment of Commerce. Third, unanimous passage by the Senate
and House of Representatives of resolutions calling for a
ten-year moratorium on the commercial killing of whales which
subsequently became U.S. policy at Stockholm.in June, 1972
and at the International Whaling Commission meetings in London
in 1972 and 1973. Mr. McVay has been active in seeking a
solution to the drowning of dolphins in tuna purse seines.
He is a strong proponent of the boycott of Japanese and Russian
good.which the AWI together with other humane and conservation
organizations are pressing to bring about agreement on the
ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of whales.

A reception will follow the ceremony, and you are encouraged
to bring a friend with you who is interested in the protection

of animals.
Sincerely, :

Christine Stevens
President

 




INFORMATION

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE__

 

«Wm Milt»

L‘.\A\L95n Sun-r! Me;

UN

Copyright © |97| Chicago Sun-Times. reproduced by courtesy of
Wil-Jo Associates. Inc. and Bill Mauldin.

MORATORIUM ON WHALING
From The Congressional Record
HON. JOHN D. DINGELL
of Michigan
In The House of Representatives
Tuesday, December 14, 1971

Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, Secretary of Interior
Rogers C. B. Morton, in a statement released by his
office on December 12, 1971, called for a moratorium
on whaling.

So that my colleagues will have an opportunity to
be aware of the Secretary’s views on this matter, I
insert the text of the statement at this point in the
Congressional Record:

Secretary Morton Calls for Moratorium
on Whaling
“We must accelerate the worldwide fight-to pre-
serve the great whales,” Secretary of the Interior
Rogers C. B. Morton said today while commenting on
the fact that after 200 years the United States has
now stOpped all commercial exploitation of whales.

The Department of the Interior’s ban on the im-
portation of whale products, including oil, meat, teeth
and ambergris, went into final effect last week. Even
the import of foreign cars containing whale oil additive
in their transmissions will be affected. In line with In-
terior’s stand, the Department of Commerce will issue
no licenses after December 31 to US. commercial fish-
ermen to take whales on the Endangered Species list.

“The whales are an international resource belonging
to the many and must not be exterminated for the

few,” he said. “This Administration, acting on prin-
ciple and despite the unfortunate economic hardship it

has brought to some firms, has set an example that
hopefully other nations will follow.”

“\Ve have done everything we can unilaterally. We
must'now concentrate our efforts on getting the Inter-
national W’haling Commission to enforce their own
regulations and to set realistic catch quotas by indi-
vidual species and area in order to allow a maximum
rebuilding of all whale populations.”

At its annual meeting last June, the Commission had
agreed unanimously that all member nations should
implement the international observer scheme for the
1971-72 whaling season. “I was keenly disappointed
that the Soviet and Japanese whaling fleets sailed for

P.O. Box 3650, Washington, D. C. 20007

the Antarctic in October with no international observers
on board,” Morton said. “It is clear that time is run—
ning out for the Whales.”

“If the. Commission cannot move quickly and surely
to meet its international obligations, a moratorium on
all whaling is the only solution. Both houses of Con-
gress have passed a resolution calling for a 10-year
moratorium and we support it,” Morton said.

“As long as man views these magnificent creatures
as solely an economic product, we are in grave danger
of destroying the complex web of life of which man is
an inextricable part.”

“In this environmental decade, it would be barbarous
to stand idly by while the last of earth’s largest and—-
next to man—most intelligent creatures are reduced to
pet food, face creams and lubricating oils,” said Morton.
“All Whale products have synthetic substitutes and are
no longer essential to man’s well-being. Yet the rate
of killing in recent years has already driven some spe-
c1es to the brink of extinction and now threatens those
few remaining species whose populations are still large
enough to be commercially exploitable.”

It was in an effort to halt this slaughter that Interior
last December placed all eight species of great whales
on its list of endangered foreign wildlife. This move
cut off a US. market which had consumed more than
20 percent of the world’s whale products.

However, a “hardship clause” in the Endangered
Species Conservation Act of 1969 allowed 12 months
in which firms that import and use such products could
fulfill existing contracts. All special permits issued for
this purpose during the past year by Interior’s Fish
and Wildlife Service expired on midnight of December
1, 1971. The last import permits for whale oil was is-
sued in August and the last for meat products in De-
cember 1970. ' —

In September this year the Fish and Wildlife Service
denied a request by a major importer for an additional
3,000 long tons of sperm whale oil. Officials said they
felt that granting such a request, well above the firm’s
previous importation levels, could only result in more
endangered whales being killed.

“Another valid reason to stop whaling,” Morton said,
“is the recent discovery by the Food and Drug Ad—
ministration of excess mercury in whale meat.” More
than a million pounds of contaminated meat destined
for pet food have been seized.

Morton concluded, “Now that the US. no longer
has any commercial interest in whales, either as har-
vester or as consumer, we are in a position to provide
leadership in the worldwide drive to preserve the whale
as a vital part of the marine ecosystem.”

Jan.-Feb.-March, 1971

AWI URGES MORATORIUM ON
KILLING OF WHALES

A Moratorium on the killing of whales has been pro-

posed by the Animal Welfare Institute, the Interna-
tional Society for the Protection of Animals, and the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation. A rest period
of at least ten years is needed to save the great
whales. Whaling ships are catchng more small whales
now because of the scarcity of the large ones; how-
ever, when large ones can be had, they, too, are killed,
even in some instances members of species which are
theoretically protected by agreement of the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission.
. This June the International Whaling Commission
is.scheduled to meet in Washington, DC. The Com-
mission was formed in 1937 and sets quotas on the
kllling of whales each year; however, the scientific
committee’s recommendations are regularly exceeded
when the members of the Commission vote behind
closed doors. The result is the steady decline of the
whales, with disastrous losses in the population of
many speCIes.

 




Two major whale-protective actions have been taken
by the United States government in recent months:
first, the inclusion of the sperm and baleen whales on
the Endangered Species List by then Secretary of
the Interior, 'Walter Hickel; second, an order by Sec~
retary of Commerce, Maurice Stans which effectively
ends whaling by United States concerns. The Stans
order carried out the intent of the Hickel listing. In
issuing the order Secretary Stans said, “In the past,
thoughtlessness and irresponsibility have removed no
fewer than 120 different species of wild life from our
planet.” The United States is now in the strongest
possible position to urge the needed moratorium on

the killing of whales, since it has done its utmost with-
in the past year to provide the protection which is
essential if all species of whales are to survive.
Studies of these highly intelligent and remarkably
gentle animals should be instituted during the mora-
torium. There are vast differences between the dif-
ferent species. For example, while the Humpback
Whale produces music which sounds like that of a
gifted modern composer, there are other whales whose
communication is carried on in a series of clicks, so
far not decoded by human observers. Funds are need-
ed to record the sounds of the Bowhead Whale. The
audience created by the recording of the Humpback
Whales’ extraordinary songs—songs sung without vocal
cords—awaits the next scientifically recorded mes-
sage from the deep. , ,
Species listed in the Survival Service Commission
Red Data Book of the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature include: Fin Whale, Balae-
noptera physalus (Linnaeus, 1758) ;‘: Southern Right
Whale, Eubalaena australia (Desmoulins, 1822);
Humpback Whale, . Megaptera novaeangliae (Boro-
wski, 1781); North Pacific Right Whale, Eubalaena
sieboldii (Gray, 1864); Pigmy Blue Whale, Balae-
noptera musculus brevicauda (Zemsky- & Boronin,
1964); Greenland Right Whale, Balaena mysticetus
(Linnaeus, 1758); Blue Whale, Balaenoptera muscu—‘
lus musculus (Linnaeus, 1758). Secretary Hickel ex-
plained clearly why he placed on the Endangered Spe—
cies List, whales which do. not appear in the Red Data
Book. In an article in Sports Illustrated, December
14, 1970, he said, “. . . in view of the existing evi-
dence on the status of whales, I made this decision
for the following reasons. First, it appeared that the
whaling nations still viewed whale resources on a

short-term basis. Many scientists have told me that . I

if present trends continue, all large whales will be
driven to the point of possible extinction within a. few
years . . . during the peak year of 1930-31 Whalers
took almost 30,000 blue whales—the mightiest cre-
ature ever to live on the face of the earth. Today some
estimates of the number surviving are as low as 600,
the highest 3,000. They have been protected since
1965. but the question is: Are there enough animals
left for males to find females across the great oceans?
The numbers are so low that the death rate from
natural causes and from occasional ‘accidental’ har—
pooning may be much greater than the birth rate. It
would be a crime beyond belief if in the same decade
that we walked on the moon we also destroyed the
largest animal that ever was. The humpback whale,
a playful monster renowned for its unearthly songs
and foam—spattering leaps, has also been reduced to
the point of possible extinction. The bowhead and
two right whale species, almost exterminated by early

hunters, have never really recovered. Only the Cali-
fornia gray whale, after decades of complete protec-
tion, has made a partial recovery.

“Now the 80-foot finback is being pursued down
the same path. From a peak Antarctic harvest of over
30,000 in the early 60’s these waters now yield only
some 2,500 whales a year. Just a few years ago an
annual harvest of 10,000 fins could have been carried

_ out indefinitely, but the ‘pattern of predation,"as Scott

McVay, Chairman of the Environmental Defense
Fund, calls it, continues. With the fins on the way
out, the Whalers are now concentrating on the smaller
sei and sperm whales. As they go down the line,
they must kill more whales, and even porpoises, to
make the business barely pay. In 1930-31 some 43,000
whales yielded 3.5 million barrels of oil. In 1966-67,
52,000 whales yielded a mere 1.5 million barrels.
“But consider that the International Whaling Com-

}.mision’s present kill quotas for baleen whales in the

Antarctic are 20% higher than those recommended
by its own scientific committee and that the male
sperm-whale catch in the North Pacific is a shocking
2% times the sustainable yield estimated by Japanese
scientists. The IWC agreed to reduce its sperm whale
quota by a meager‘ 10%, but the whaling nations still
refuse to allow international observers to supervise
the regulations on quotas, size and species. On this
basis cetologists contend that these species will be
commercially extinct within 10 years.

“The second reason I took this action was that all
whale products, with the exception of the meat, can
be produced by other means. After we killed off the
buffalo we found replacements for its meat and hide.
Must we kill off the great whales before we use the
replacements for its products? Soap, margarine, beauty
cream, machine oil and pet food are hardly a justi-
ﬁable reason to destroy the world’s mightiest creature.
Substitutes can be used for all of these products——

‘even the sperm oil so prized in industry. . . .

“Melville would be surprised to learn whaling
reached its height in the last decade. The lookouts
have been replaced with radar and helicopters, the
longboats with 20-knot whale catchers. A factory ship
can dispose of an 80—ton carcass in 30 minutes. No

”animal can endure such a massive technological on-

slaught.”

Jan.—Feb.-March, 1972

WHALE OIL SUBSTITUTE

Senator Hugh Scott (R., Penna.) author of the
Resolution requesting The Secretary of State to call
for a ten-year international moratorium on the killing
of all species of whales and dolphins, spoke on the
floor of the Senate, March eighth on the invention of a
whale oil substitute by a young chemist, Alex D. Rec-
chuite at Sun Oil Company’s Research Center.

“I cite this incident,” Senator Scott said, “as an ex-
ample of what industry can accomplish when presented
with challenges of all kinds, be they environmental,
consumeristic, or other. This is how one company met
its responsibility to the environment and to its cus—

tomers.”

(Continued on page 3)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NO. OF WHALES KIM-ED

I930 1940
......J .

WORLD CATCH

 

OF BALAENOPTERA WHALES

 




In an article from The Sun Oil magazine entitled,
“Giving the Whale a Fighting Chance,” Bud Davis
describes what happened. “At the time the ban on
whale imports was announced, sulfurized natural sperm
oil was the only known substance which could give
these oils the required resistance to high temperatures
and pressures. Without it, a sizeable amount of ma-
chinery in the US. might literally grind to a halt.

“In anticipation of the ban, many researchers began
looking for a sulfurized sperm oil substitute. One such
scientist was Alex D. Recchuite, a young chemist at
Sun Oil Company’s research center in Marcus Hook,
Pennsylvania.

“Late in September 1970, Mr. Recchuite discovered
how to make a synthetic sulfurized sperm oil. ‘Sun
sells more than 50 products containing sulfurized sperm
oil —— mainly industrial lubricants —- and we knew an
embargo could be instituted at any time,’ he explained.
‘80 our gear oil lubricants group started looking for
a substitute early in 1970.’

“ ‘I got involved in the project in a roundabout way.
The gear oil group was testing everything on the mar-
ket —— unsulfurized'. as well as sulfurized sperm oil
substitutes. I was in the research center’s metal work-
ing group at the time, but the men in gear oils asked
us to help out because we had more experience with
sulfurization.’

“At first, all Mr. Recchuite did was sulfurize the
straight sperm oil substitutes that were brought to him.
But each time, he became more involved in the pro-
ject. ‘A few of the substitutes seemed to have the right
properties,’ he noted, ‘but they were very costly. Others
were easily sulfurized, but would not dissolve in the

base oil. Still others were very difficult to sulfurize at
all.’

“Then one day Mr. Recchuite came up with what
he calls a ‘harebrained idea’ for a synthetic product
that would be inexpensive, easily sulfurized, and sol-
uble in a variety of base oils. With the help of his co-
worker, Edward Jolly, he made some of the product
and took it to the gear oils laboratory for testing. ‘To
our surprise it worked just fine.’ He recalled as though
he was still surprised. ‘So we applied for a patent.’

“The process was licensed to Mayco Oil and Chemi-
cal Company of Bristol, Pennsylvania, a firm with ex-
tensive experience in sulfurization and the ability to
get the discovery into commercial production quickly.

“It is now being marketed by Sun and many other
firms ,under the trade name Maysperm.”

April-May-June, 1972

STOCKHOLM CONFERENCE VOTES 53-0
FOR 10-YEAR MORATORIUM
ON WHALING

A special report to The Washington Post with a
date—line Stockholm, June 9, begins: “The U.S. dele-
gation to the 112-nation environment conference here
won a victory today for their proposed 10-year world-
wide moratorium on commercial whaling.

“The American proposal—considered by many skep-
tics as a test of whether anything ‘could really be ac-
complished at this international meeting was approved
by a vote of 53 to 0, with only Japan, Brazil and South
Africa, abstaining.

An article by -Wa1ter Sullivan in The New York
Times the day before reported on a rally held June 8:
“The crusade for a resolution drew an oddly assorted
group of environmental protectors out into the Swedish
countryside last night to hear the lugubrious cry of
whales across the pine-studded landscape.

“The group included United States Government rep-
resentatives, and their host was the Hog Farm Com-
mune from New Mexico.

“The common objective is approval of a proposal,
placed before the United Nations Conference on the
Human Environment on American initiative to ap-
peal for a 10-year moratorium on commercial whaling.

“If the resolution is passed, the International Whal—
ing Commission, which meets in London late this
month, will find it hard to ignore.

“The commission is composed of 14 nations that have
been active in whaling. Because of the decline in whale
populations, only Japan and the Soviet Union now con-
duct large-scale hunting.

“The whale cries were generated, both from tape
recordings and by human imitation, at a demonstration
last night that brought cOnference officials and dele-
gates to the Hog Farm Commune’s encampment on
the city’s outskirts. The Hog Farm is a traveling group
of American youths who live in buses.

“Maurice F. Strong, the dapper Canadian who is
secretary general of the United Nations conference,
mounted the rough—hewn platform and made his way
through garishly clad youths to a microphone that
moaned in the brisk wind.

“The plight of the whale, faced with extinction, an-
ticipates that of man himself, Mr. Strong said. .The
long—range purpose of the conference, he added, 18 to
enable man to avoid such a fate, and he urged the
youths to continue goading the conscience of the world’s
governments. .

“Mr. Strong’s remarks reached across the. generation
gap and his audience rich in beards, long hair and blue-
jeans, gave him an ovation. After the reading of a poem,
part of which was ostensibly written by a whale, w1th

Hm: m,“

A bus decorated to look like a whale led a group of about 2,000 persons in a
demonstration supporting the lO-yea-r whaling moratorium.

 




  

prolonged moans and groans, Walter J. Hickel, former
United States Secretary of the Interior, climbed onto
the ﬂoodlit platform.

“He was introduced by Stuart Brand, wearing a
plumed top hat. Mr. Brand was author of “The Last
Whole Earth Catalogue,” which won a National Book
Award this year. Mr. Hickel said it would be ‘a crime
beyond belief if 'in the same decade that man walked
on the moon he also destroyed the largest creature on
earth.’

“Today one of the Hog Farm buses, draped in black
plastic of the refuse-bag variety to resemble a whale,
led a parade through Stockholm, followed by youths
carrying flowers and either making whale noises or
crying ‘Val! Val!’ the Swedish word for whale and
the ancient cry of Norwegian Whalers.

“While the Soviet Union has boycotted the confer-
ence in protest at East Germany’s exclusion as a vot-
ing participant, Japan is here and fighting the ban.
A Japanese amendment to the recommendation would
limit the prohibition to ‘endangered whale stocks.’

“This, in the American view, would open a loophole
large enough to make the resolution valueless.”

Fortunately, the Japanese failed to influence the Con-
ference. According to The Washington Post the cause
of thewhales “has won enormous and extremely emo-
tional international support, and this expression of so
firm an opinion by so nearly global a body has come
only a few days before the International Whaling Com—
mission is to meet in London.”

 

July, August, September, 1972

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL
WHALING COMMISSION MEETING
by Tom Garrett
Wildlife Conservation Director of
Friends of the Earth

On June 26, only two weeks after the passage of the
U.S. resolution at Stockholm calling for a ten year
moratorium on all forms of commercial whaling, the
International Whaling Commission convened its 24th
annual meeting in London. I attended the conference
as an “advisor” to the U.S. delegation, and was able
to observe, and in an extremely minor way participate
in, the conference.

The delegates, for the most part the same men who
have attended IWC meetings for years and compiled
the shameful, tragic record of the IWC, shrugged off
the results of Stockholm and conducted business as
usual. Two long-delayed reforms, the replacement of
the Blue Whale Units by species quotas, and an “in-
ternational observer” scheme were put into effect. Un—
der the constant prodding of U.S. Chairman Russell
Train, some small reductions in some quotas were
agreed upon. But of the fourteen nations attending,
only the U.S., Mexico, Argentina and the United King-
dom supported a moratorium on whaling. Australia
and Norway, whose governments voted for the whaling
resolution at Stockholm, opposed it in London.

The first act of the Commission in its opening plen-
ary session, after the delegates had run the gauntlet of
Friends of the Earth (FOE) pickets, led by Angela
King of FOE Ltd’s London office, was to eject the
press. A U.S. resolution to re-admit newsmen failed
to receive a second. Dr. J. M. McI-Iugh of the U.S. the
chairman'of the IWC, then dutifully warned delegates
and observers not to divulge the proceedings to the
press or public. '

The proceedings, within technical committee ses—
sions and later plenary sessions, then fell into a pat-
tern. The Japanese delegation, consisting of the owners
of the major Japanese whaling companies and led by
former IWC chairman and President of the Japan
\Vhalers Association, I. Fujita, vehemently opposed

, any attempt to reduce quotas. He was supported closely
by the Soviet Union, by the delegate from Panama who
showed startling enthusiasm for the Japanese cause,
and by South Africa, Australia, Norway and generally
Iceland. The Canadian delegate, Dr. Sprules, who had
been expected to support the U.S. position on the basis

of his government’s expressed policy, sat with an
owner of a Canadian shore whaling station on his
right, wavering nervously, and often, in effect, sup-
porting the Japanese. Only in the case of Finback
whales. was Chairman Train able to lever down the
low Japanese-Russian offer, from a kill of 700 in the
North Pacific to 650. from a kill of 3000 in the Antarc-
tic to 1950. Both I‘iOplllﬂilOllS of whales are now tragic—

 

  

ally close to complete disappearance. Last year the
Russians and Japanese were not able to find and kill
enough fin whales in the North Pacific to fill a quota
of 1000, and wound up with a “take” of 813. In the
Antarctic, the “sustainable yield” is estimated at around
2000. For a decade, between 1952 and 1962, as the
industry (under the aegis of the IWC) turned on the
Finback in the Antarctic following the destruction of
the Blue Whale, over 20,000 Finbacks were killed an-
nually. In 1960—61, over 27,000 were killed.

The quota of Sei, Sperm and Bryde whales remains

at the “low offer” of the Japanese and Russians, set
at maximum sustainable yield estimates made on the
basis of Japanese and Russian sightings and catch
data. Quotas were imposed on Sperm whale kills south
of 40°N. for the first time. A quota on Minke whales,
which are now beginning to be massively exploited
following the destruction of the large whales, was set
in the Antarctic at 5000. The Canadian Atlantic shore
stations, which it is now admitted, “mistakenly” deci-
mated the North Atlantic Finback population remains
without IWC quota or supervision.

The American delegation left the conference frus--
trated and disappointed at the intransigence of the
Japanese and the Russians, and at the weakness and
vacillation of delegations which, it had been hoped,
might take a stand for the whales. But there was some
encouragement over the limited reforms secured, and
over the shattering of pernicious traditions of the Com-
mission. Veteran delegates, who were used to. operat-
ing the Commission as a closed, private club were dis-
mayed when Chairman Train held a. news conference
mid-way through the Commission proceedings, and di-
vulged the votes of the commissioners on the U.S. pro-
posal for a moratorium. As a result several commis-
sioners, notably those of Norway and Canada were
strongly censured by their home governments. Public
interest representatives on the U.S. delegation were
also pleased at the prospect of a strong governmental
friend of whales succeeding Dr. J. M. McHugh, who
resigned at the close of the meeting, as U.S. commis-
sioner, and at the militantly protectionist attitude dem—
onstrated by Mexico, Argentina, and to some extent
the U.K. There was optimism that the U.S. by care-
fully preparing the groundwork, particularly by in-
ducing some of the non—whaling countries who voted
for the moratorium at Stockholm to join the Com-
mission and thus provide the votes to override Japanese
and Soviet intractability, and through fielding a less
mediocre panel of scientists, who are less willing to
extrapolate from Japanese and Russian data and who
have no record of collaboration with previous policies
of the IWC. There is considerable optimism that the
strong tide of worldwide public opinion may, by next
year, have affected the policies of more member gov-
ernments.

In the meantime the appalling massacre continues.
Quotas have been established for the killing of over
35,000 whales next year. There are fewer whales be-
ing killed primarily because there are fewer whales to
be killed. The men controlling the Japanese and Rus—
sian fleets do not seem to have retreated at all from
their determination to extract the maximum possible
profit from the now aging factory ships, even if it
means the extirpation, or “commercial extinction” of
the great whales. There will never be any shortage of
arithmetical juggler‘s to talk of “surplus” and “sustain-
able yield,” and thus obscure the tragedy in a sickly
patina of “scientific” justification.

What happens now may be to a great extent de-
pendent on the actions of conservationists. Last sum-
mer FOE joined with the Society for Animal Pro-
tective Legislation to force the ten year whaling mora—
torium resolution through Congress, in the face of hos-
tile government witnesses, scornful whaling scientists
who said the resolution would make the U.S. “look
silly,” and a stoney silence on the part of most estab-
lished conservation organizations. Now the seeking of
a moratorium is public U.S. policy, and the policy of
numerous other governments, who endorsed the reso-
lution at Stockholm. The United Kingdom, under the
prodding of FOE Ltd., is expected to announce a ban
on the importation of whale products.

We will sit down, in the near future with other
strong conservation groups to work out an effective
common strategy to keep up the pressure on whaling
this coming year. An economic boycott has been sug-
gested, and we certainly do not rule out this tactic.

In an eloquent and scathing denunciation of the IWC,
Mexico’s commissioner told the London meeting that

Mexico does not accept the view that “in order to have
a meaningful voice” in determining the future of
whales. we must kill “what are probably the most
amazingr of nature's creatures. and kill them for profit."

Neither i’lr-es FOE?

 

  




January, February, March, 197 3

Chairman Train with his daughter Alexandra after re-
ceiving the medal. .

ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL
PRESENTED TO RUSSELL TRAIN

Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality,
Russell Train,96 was the Schweitzer Medallist at a
ceremony held in the Smithsonian Institution’s Hall of
Life in the Sea November 21, 1972. Secretary of the
Smithsonian, Dillon Ripley, made the presentation.

Chairman Train played a leading role in obtaining
the 53-0 vote at the Stockholm Conference in favor of
a ten-year international moratorium on commercial
killing of whales. At the International \Vhaling Com-
mission meeting which followed soon after in London,
he proposed that the press be admitted to the hitherto
secret sessions, but no country seconded his motion,
so. after the voting, Mr. Train called a press confer-
ence at the American Embassy and reported on how
the representatives of the different countries voted on
the US. proposal for a moratorium.

Before turning his efforts to whales Russell Train
brought help to the land animals in Africa through the
African \Vildlife Leadership Foundation. Later, as
Chairman of CEQ, he and his associates played a major
part in bringing about that most humane Executive
Order. the barring of poison for predator control on
the public lands. His achievements in the ﬁght against
ocean dumping and in the development of the \Vorld
Heritage Trust convention, will make it possible for
countless creatures to have a place where they can
survive.

*Now Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agéncy.

 

WHALE TEETH SMUGGLER FINED
Reprinted from “The Province” Vancouver, Canada
January 12, 1973
Special to The Province

SEATTLE —— Donald Gordon Cochrane, 27, of Van-
couver was ﬁned $500 and ordered out of the United
States Friday after he pleaded guilty in US. District
Court to illegally transporting 168 pounds of whale
teeth into the US.

Cochrane was arrested Dec. 21 after US. customs
agents found two bags of the teeth, one under the seat
and one under the hood of Cochrane’s car, said Douglas
Graham, assistant US. attorney.

The teeth were from a sperm whale, which the US.
has declared an endangered species. This makes killing
the whales and transportation of any parts of such
whales illegal.

Graham said the teeth had not been declared to.

customs by Cochrane.

District Court Judge William J. Beeks at ﬁrst sen-
tenced Cochrane to be deported, but later modiﬁed it
to an order to leave the country, said Graham.

Maximum penalty under the law which Cochrane was
charged under is one year in prison and a $10,000
ﬁne. It is a misdemeanor rather than the more serious
classiﬁcation of felony. Aliens convicted of felonies are
barred from future entry into the U.S., said Graham.

Cochrane. unable to raise bail set ﬁrst at $5,000 and
then reduced to $1,500, had been held in custody in
Seattle since shortly after the incident.

Graham said court was told Cochrane had been ap-
proached by a person in Vancouver to take the teeth
to Elaine and at first had refused. He later agreed to
make the trip to Blaine where he was to have met a
man, turn over the teeth and receive $200, Graham
said.

April, May, June, 1973

 

NEWS IN BRIEF
ON MARINE MAMMALS
A partial ban on imports of whale products to the
United Kingdom went into effect March 15th when The
Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food announced that,
with the exception of sperm oil, spermaceti wax, ambergris
and products incorporated abroad into manufactured goods,
no whale parts or derivatives would be permitted entry.
Friends of the Earth, Ltd. is working for a total ban.
3!: 3|: *

Canada’s Minister of the Environment, Jack Davis, an-
nounced the closing of Canadian whaling stations beginning
December 21, 1972. On March 16, he announced that no
permits would be issued for sport hunting of beluga whales.

3|! 3k 3!:

Shortly before the hearing scheduled in Washington on
the request by Bergner International Corporation for an
economic hardship exemption under the Marine Mammal
Protection Act to import approximately 10,000 sealskins
Bergner voluntarily withdrew its application. Blueback seals
the young of the rare hood seal which is normally defended
by both parents, were among those named in the application.

=l= 3|: 3|:

Australia has banned importation of whale products
from countries who do not belong to the International
Whaling Commission.

July, August, September, 1973

 

JAPANESE FIRM SELLING
CANNED WHALE MEAT

IN UNITED STATES

Not only is Japan continuing boldly in the face of
world opinion to kill thousands of the whales that have
been listed by the United States Department of the Interior
as endangered with extinction, but a Japanese Company,
the Diamary Trading Company, is reportedly the source of
the whale meat which was recently being offered for sale
illegally in New York.

Diamary sold smoked whale meat to an American outﬁt
known as “Reese Finer Foods,” a subsidiary of the com-
pany that produces Pet Milk. Macy’s Gourmet Foods Shop
was selling the illegal canned whale meat which has now
been conﬁscated by the Attorney General of New York
State, Louis J. Lefkowitz. Whale products may not be sold
or offered for sale in New York under the State’s law pro-
tecting endangered species of animals. Attorney General
Lefkowitz announced August 10, 1973 that his ofﬁce had
conﬁscated 17 cases of the Diamary Trading Company’s
whale meat. As the result of the investigation by Assistant
Attorney General Joel H. Sachs of the Environmental Pro-
tection Bureau, a large supply of the illegal whale meat was
located at the warehouse of Reese Finer Foods, Inc. at
1325 Morris Park Avenue in the Bronx.

Under the terms of an assurance of discontinuance
signed by Reese Finer Foods, the company admitted its
violation of law and agreed to forfeit its existing supplies
of whale meat to the State and to refrain from selling any
products in New York State made from any species of en-
dangered wild life. In addition, Reese paid $800 in costs
to the State. Any evidence of further violation by Reese
will constitute prima facie proof of a violation of the laws
and will subject it to additional penalties.

The violation of New York State law points to possible
violation of at least one federal law. Federal investigation
is on the way.

Readers of the Information Report are urged to keep a
sharp lookout for any whale products on the shelves of
grocery stores or supermarkets and to report immediately
any such products they may ﬁnd. A sample of any product
suspected of being illegal should be purchased at once as
evidence. Please send the information to the Animal Wel-
fare Institute at the address on the masthead.

 




 

. I:

- 1”” Eryn/1111!! ’3
. ,Peuﬂ Ham:

4
ON

CONSERVATION ISTS CALL F OR
WHALIN G MORATORIUM

Boycott of Japan proposed

Dear Prime Minister Tanaka,
Don’t let the greedy whaling industry ruin Japan’s inter-
national reputation. Lead your country to join the over-
whelming majority of world opinion for a ten-year mora-
torium on commercial killing of whales.
Defenders of Wildlife The Fund for Animals

Friends of the Earth

~ Humane Society of the United States
Society for Animal Protective Legislation

These words on a six-foot-long sign were part of a demon-
stration held on the occasion of the Japanese Prime Minis-
ter’s State Visit, July 31, 1973. Gathered in Lafayette Park
opposite the White House, where the Prime Minister had
just been driven, was a crowd of whale protectors carrying a
variety of Save-The-Whale signs and accompanied by the
recorded songs of the humpback whale.

Cleveland Amory, President of The Fund for Animals,
addressed the gathering forcefully calling for a boycott of
Japanese goods till Japanese whaling stOps. “We mean busi-
ness,” he said, “not Japanese business.”

Information on how to help the boycott is obtainable
from the Animal Welfare Institute. Free leaﬂets and re-
prints for distribution are available on request.

an

I- i .
Photos by R. Norman Matheny, staff photographer

Reprinted by permission from The Christian Science Monitor @1973,
The Christian Science Publishing Society. All rights reserved.

FIGHT TO SAVE WHALES
INTENSIFYING

The voice of the Japanese whaling industry was heard
loudly and persistently at the 1973 meeting of the Inter-
national Whaling Commission held in London June 25-29.
The IWC’s Scientiﬁc Committee, the super-secret arm of an
organization which denies the press entry even to its plen-
ary sessions, is a center of disagreement about the state of
whale populations. It is supposed to present “the best scien-
tiﬁc evidence” to the commissioners to help them in mak-
ing decisions, but as Sir Peter Scott pointed out, there are
differences of Opinion up to 300% among the scientists
concerning the condition of whale stocks. Most serious are

the indications that expediency, not science, dictates cer-
tain statements expressed behind the closed doors by Japan-
ese scientists. A vote of 13 to 1 against Japan in the plenary
session when Japan sought to raise the Minke whale kill for
the ’73-’74 season, gave hope to conservationists that the
most blatant demands of the Japanese whaling industry,
under the leadership of Commissioner Fujita, erstwhile
vice-president of the commercial ﬁsheries association in
Japan, are ﬁnally under ﬁre, even by the other nations
that still kill whales.

The attempted increase in the kill of the small Minke
whales represented an effort to ﬁll oil barrels and meat
lockers left empty by reduction in the killing of the big
ﬁn whales whose stocks, in turn, began to be massively de-
pleted after the blue whale, biggest of all the world’s ani-
mals, had been decimated by the Whalers. When the blue
whale population fell from an estimated 200,000 to only
about 1,000 it was no longer of serious commercial interest
and it was at that point, and that point only, that the Inter-
national Whaling Commission listed it as a species not to be
killed by member nations.*

In an all-out effort to protect all species of cetaceans, the
United States proposed in 1972 and again this June, a ten-
year international moratorium on commercial whaling. Last
year the proposed moratorium was defeated by a vote of
4-6 with 4 abstentions. This year it won a majority; 8-5
with one abstention, but a 3A majority under IWC rules is
required for a resolution to pass, thus it failed to be adOpted.

The two major whaling countries, Japan and Russia, who
between them, kill some 85% of whales taken each year,
both threatened to disregard the majority decision even if
it had reached %. They continue to threaten to give up. the
International Observer Scheme in the Antarctic which be-
gan only a year ago after having been unsuccessfully pro-
posed for 14 straight years. This scheme is designed to pre-
vent cheating by placing an observer from another country
on whaling ships and shore stations to check infractions.

The only voluntary concession by a major whaling coun-
try was the pledge of the Soviet Union to “phase out” kill-
ing of ﬁn whales in the Antarctic by the 1975-76 season.
It was this offer by the USSR. Which made it possible
to pass, by a vote of 7-2 with 5 abstentions,a reduced quota
of 1,450 ﬁn whales in the Antarctic for the 1973 season,
with a complete phase-out within three years. The byzan-
tine relationships within the IWC are such that although
the USSR. volunteered the phase-out on ﬁn whales, it
voted “no” when the same proposal was made by the US.
stating that Soviet approval applied only when attached to
a previous Norwegian proposal!

Dr. Robert White, U.S. Commissioner, argued forcefully
for the moratorium. He cited the vote in Geneva the week
before, pointing out that it was the follow-up of the Stock-
holm Conference and that the governing council of 58 na-
tions considered the moratorium proposal and directed the
Executive Director again to urge the International Whaling
Commission to adopt a 10-year moratorium on commercial
whaling. Dr. White noted that Japan alone expressed reser-
vations; no other government among the remaining 57,
which includes the Soviet Union, expressed a reservation.

Dr. White, a scientist himself, spoke frankly about the
limitations of the scientiﬁc data available, characterizing
it as “highly uncertain and in many cases questionable.”
He pointed out that the views of the United States on the
moratorium were not capricious or hastily arrived at. He
asked unanswerable questions, for example, why have sei
whales off South Africa virtually disappeared? Is it because
the quotas are too high? Or is it because of what we do in
the Antarctic? Can the social structure of these animals
sustain catches based on maximum sustainable yield? Are
we justiﬁed in using the maximum sustainable yield concept
which has evolved from studies of ﬁsh?

F ujita speaks up for Whaling Industry

“What little scientiﬁc knowledge we have,” he warned,
“is cause for caution.” But Mr. Fujita complained that Dr.
White’s speech in defense of ﬁn whales “increases inter-
national tension,” and that he was exhausted by what he
called “dramatic, intense scenes.” He urged that “the indus-
try and their interests should also be taken into considera-
tion, or I should say, their interests should- not be disre-
garded” a suitable quotation for The New Yorker’s Depart-
ment of Understatement. The International Whaling Com-

*Non-member whaling nations such as Brazil and Peru whose whal-
ing industries are closely integrated with Japan’s, can still kill blue
whales if they can ﬁnd any to blast with explosive harpoons sup-
plied along with catcher boats from Japan.

 




mission, after it had rejected the moratorium, approved in
vote after vote on different species in different parts of the
ocean, a kill of 37,500 individual whales in the coming
season.

At the conclusion of the International Whaling Commis-
sion meeting, representatives of observer organizations who
had attended the plenary sessions agreed that a boycott

of Japanese goods was essential if the continued decimation

of whale populations were to be prevented.

“Of all our fellow mammals, the most remote and the
most difﬁcult to understand is the great whale,” wrote
Faith McNulty in a New Yorker proﬁle on whales, August
6, 1973.*

But whales are constantly commanding more attention
and more sympathy with their plight. As Time magazine
(July 16, 1973) put it, “The great gentle creatures need it.
Of an estimated original population of some 4.4 million
whales, no more than a few hundred thousand are left.”
The Japanese last year killed 14,477 whales. “Once every
17 minutes,” Time wrote, “a great whale is killed, its back
blown open by a grenade-tipped harpoon, its blood spewing
into the ocean. The chief purpose: the manufacture of cos-
metics, margarine, transmission oil and pet food.”

Canada Urges Moratorium

The opening speech of the Canadian Commissionerwas
personally composed by the Canadian Minister of the En-
vironment, Jack Davis. The statement follows in full.

“Since the meeting of the Commission a year ago, Canada
has stopped its commercial whaling operations in the North
Atlantic. Two small land stations at Dildo and Williams-
port in Newfoundland have been closed as has another sta-
tion at Blandford in Nova Scotia. As a result, Canada’s pro-
duction of ﬁn and sei whales has ceased. The total ban,
which became effective before the whaling season opened
in 1973, will extend for an indeﬁnite period.

“Whaling on Canada’s West Coast ceased in 1967. So,
the latest deve10pments on Canada’s East Coast takes
Canada out of commercial whaling altogether. With the
exception of a few whales which are killed by our Eskimo
and Indian people for their own use, there is no whaling
anywhere in Canada at the present time. Nor, is there any
intention of starting up whaling operations again in the
foreseeable future.

“Canada’s decision to stop the taking of ﬁn and sei
whales off Nova Scotia and Newfoundland followed a close
analysis of whale pOpulation data and catch per unit of
effort information prepared by our scientists. The total
stock of ﬁn and sei whales had been reduced sharply as a
result of operations from the mid-1960’s onward. While
the industry, to remain ﬁnancially viable, required a catch
of the same order as that achieved in recent years, it was
estimated that the remaining stocks were only sufﬁcient
to support an operation of about one third that size.

“Had the Canadian industry been permitted in 1973 to
take the estimated sustainable yield of 143 ﬁn whales and
70 sei whales, the remaining stocks might have remained
at or about their present low level. However, uncertainty
as to the true size of the remaining stocks together with
information from the companies which indicated they were
already losing money led to a decision to close Canada’s
East Coast whaling Operations altogether.

“Looking back over the past decade, it would appear
that the level of cropping of ﬁn and sei whales was too
high. It was much higher than the optimum sustainable
yield of whales of these types off Nova Scotia and New-
foundland. We have, therefore, decided to rebuild these
stocks to a point where there can be no doubt of their
survival now and in the long run.

“There has been some discussion, recently, of the kill-
ing of white or beluga whales for sport in Hudson’s Bay.

Our Minister of Fisheries, together with our Minister of
Indian and Northern Affairs, however, intervened and a
ban was instituted to ensure that a hunt of this kind
would not get under way in Canada.

“In closing, Mr. Chairman, I would like to say that the
Canadian Delegation hopes it will be able to make an effec-

*Due for publication in book form by Doubleday this fall.

tiVC contribution to the deliberations of this Commission.
While Canada is no longer engaged actively in commercial
whaling, it continues to be interested in whales. Our whale
research program will continue and we will maintain our
membership in the International Whaling Commission in
the belief that its future deliberations will help to rebuild
those whale stocks found off the coasts of Canada and oth-
ers found throughout the world’s oceans.”

 

October, November, December, 1973

U. S. GOVERNMENT,
CONSERVATION ORGANIZATIONS SCORE
JAPANESE AND RUSSIAN REPUDIATION
OF WHALE PROTECTION

The Government of the United States has responded vig-
orously to the Diplomatic Note from the Government of
Japan which objected to conservation decisions taken at the
International Whaling Commission meeting in June and
stated that it would not adhere to them. A cable signed by
Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger, made a detailed re-
sponse and concluded with the following strongly-worded
paragraph: “Such wholesale disregard for views of all other
member nations with few exceptions leads to several ques-
tions. Why should there be a Commission if its decisions
can simply be ignored? Why should scientific committee
prepare recommendations? And why should twelve of four-
teen member nations push for improvements in Interna-
tional Whaling Commission if progress made can be destroy-
ed by one or two nations? United States Government is
extremely disappointed with backward step occasioned by
Japanese objections and is hopeful that Japanese Govern-
ment will reconsider its decisions in the next ninety days
and make its plans regarding strengthened Secretariat
known and thereby indicate its intention to make IWC a
viable conservation organization.”

Not long after the Japanese rejection of three whale-pro-
tective measures, the Soviet Union joined in rejecting two
of them with the result that more whales can be expected
to be blasted with the explosive harpoon this year than in
1972 despite the overwhelming international support for a
moratorium on commercial whaling (See Information Re-
port, Vol. 22, No. 3) _

Joining the AW] in the boycott of Japanese and Russian
goods are Friends of the Earth, Defenders of Wildlife, En-
vironmental Policy Center, Fund for Animals, Animal Pro-
tection Institute, Let Live, Inc., Society for Animal Pro-
tective Legislation, and the National Wildlife Federation
whose three and one-half million members makes it the big-
gest private conservation organization in the world.

An editorial in The New York Times, November 26,
1973, stated in part:

“Japan would have the world believe that it must elim-
inate the whales of this planet to satisfy the protein needs
of its people. There is every reason for the world to believe,-
instead, that Japan’s declared refusal to abide by the quotas
set by the International Whaling Commission last June has
much more to do with greed than with need.

“The ﬁn whale, the killing of which the commission voted
to phase out, is reported to have declined from 380,000 at
the end of World War II to some 77,000 today. Japan,
which belongs to the commission, objected to the phase-out
and has now served notice that it will not comply. . .

“If the singing humpback whale and the magniﬁcent blue
are not to be followed to the brink of extermination by
other whale species, Japan and Russia will have to be effec-
tively impressed with the fact that world opinion is against
them. It was not enough for them, apparently, that the
United Nations Conference on the Human Environment
went on record by an overwhelming vote of 53 to 0 for a
ten-year moratorium on the killing of all whales.

 

 




January, February, March, 1974

AFL-CIO VOTES TO SAVE WHALES

The American Federation of Labor and Congress of
Industrial Organizations passed a Resolution at its last
annual convention to Save the Whales. The full text of the
Resolution follows:

Preservation of World Whale Stocks

WHEREAS, With the passage of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act in 1972, the United States committed itself
to a major campaign to reduce the senseless and wasteful
killing of marine mammals. Many of these animals,
including seals, porpoises and whales, were considered to be
endangered and had been hunted to the point where stocks
were seriously depleted and in some instances exhausted,
and

WHEREAS, Since the passage of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act, signiﬁcant steps by the U.S., both
unilaterally and multilaterally, have succeeded in setting up
reasonable programs to preserve ocean mammlas, and

WHEREAS, However, one species of mammal, the
whale, continues to be hunted by several foreign nations,
and the future survival of this ocean creature is in jeopardy.
The major hunters of whales are the Japanese, and to a
lesser degree, the Soviet Union. Together, the two nations
account for over 90 percent of the whales killed throughout
the world, and

WHEREAS, The continuing desire of these two nations
to maximize their whale harvest runs contrary to the views
of the majority of the nations, including the United States,
represented on the International Whaling Commission, the
body which regulates the worldwide hunt for whales, and

WHEREAS, At a recent conference of the Commission
in London, Japan and Russia voted to continue to take
whales in the face of worldwide sentiment that all whale
killings should be halted, U.S. representatives pointed out
that forecasts of whale populations are unreliable and that
even with quotas, there is a grave risk of stock depletion.
They urged that all nations followthe U.S. lead in declaring
whales “endangered species” and prohibit either the
hunting or importation of whales or whale products, and

WHEREAS, Thus it is vital that if effective management
of this ocean resource is to take place, then the wholesale
killing of whales must be prohibited until there is sufficient
knowledge about the size and habits of whale stocks. This is
particularly true in light of the many other less depleted
ﬁsh stocks available to the Russians and Japanese that
could replace the whale’s limited role as food for humans
and animals; therefore, be it

RESOLVED: That the AFL—CIO calls upon Japan and
Russia to abide by world opinion expressed at the recent
London meeting of the International Whaling Commission,
and cease the hunting of whales in order that this important
sea mammal can be preserved and allowed to grow in
numbers, and also urges the Administration to bring
pressure on these nations to comply with world sentiment
that whales are endangered and must be preserved.

 

TALBOT PRESENTS MEDAL TO McVAY

The 1973 Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal
Welfare Institute was awarded to Scott McVay for his
distinguished service to the cause of the whales, tens of
thousands of whose dwindling numbers are being painfully
killed by explosive harpoons to satisfy commercial avarice.
The presentation was made by Dr. Lee M. Talbot, an
intensive fellow ﬁghter for the whales in his capacity as
Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental Quality.

Jason Robards, star of A Moon for the Misbegotten, and
of countless other plays and ﬁlms, spoke movingly at the
ceremony of his love for the gray whales he watches on
their annual migration as they pass his home on the coast of
California. Robards called for decisive action by Secretary
of State Henry Kissinger to halt the slaughter by Japan and
the Soviet Union.

Texts of the presentation and acceptance speeches
follow:

Remarks of Dr. Lee M. Talbot, Senior Scientist of the
Council on Environmental Quality, at the presentation of
the Albert Schweitzer Medal to Mr. Scott McVay. Kennedy
Center, Washington, DC. December 18, 1973

It is a great pleasure and honor to have been invited by
the Animal Welfare Institute to make the 1973 Schweitzer
Medal presentation to Mr. Scott McVay.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal is presented annually by
the Animal Welfare Institute to individuals who have made
an outstanding contribution to animal welfare. It is
particularly significant that both last year’s and this year’s
medals have been given to individuals involved with the
conservation of whales.

In its early days, the Schweitzer Medal was awarded to
individuals who had contributed to animal welfare through
work involving humane handling of experimental animals.
The fourth Medalist, then Senator Hubert Humphrey,
authored the first humane slaughter bill introduced to
Congress. Subsequently, the basis for the award broadened
as our awareness of the ecological facts of life has increased.

We have gradually become aware that animals do not
exist in isolation, but that they must be considered to exist
at the center of a web of interrelationships — and that the
welfare of the animal depends upon the welfare of that
web.

More recently, yet, there has been broad recognition
that this factor applies as much to man as to any other
living thing with which we share the earth. We have come to
realize that our own welfare, indeed our own survival,
depends upon maintaining intact and healthy the
ecosystems on which we rely; and the survival of any of the
species which are components of these ecosystems is a part
of this. There has also been a growing international
component to this new environmentalism. This was
epitomized by the Stockholm Conference on Human
Environment where 113 nations to a large degree laid aside
their political differences to concentrate their efforts on the
world’s environmental problems.

The results of the Stockholm Conference included
agreement on over 100 specific actions, on United Nations
environmental institutions and a declaration of
environmental principles; yet the issue which became the
symbol of the Conference was the whale. There is probably
no living thing today that has come to be as representative
and symbolic of our environmental awareness as the whales.

Whales have become a focal point for international
conservation concern. They have represented a true tragedy
of the commons. They have been all-too exemplary of the
over-exploitation and abuse of the environment and its
resources by shortsighted human action. In the past they
represented a significant natural resource. With successful
conservation, they may again in the future. More than that,
they represent what is widely believed to be a high order of
intelligent being. The public responds to whales because of
their unique size, their social structure, their songs, and
from what many believe to be their kinship to us as
intelligent mammals, and their continuing plight and
endangerment at the hands of a handful of greedy
industries and peOples. Beyond all this, whales no longer
represent a truly significant economic or food resource. If
we prove unable to manage whales, it does not augur well
for our ability to manage any of the other species for which
there is so much greater incentive of exploitation. In other
words, if we cannot find a way to manage whales
successfully, it is unlikely we will be able to do so
successfully with any other component of our living
environment.

As a scientist, I cannot say it is more important to
conserve the whales than it is to conserve any other group
of living things; but as one concerned with conservation in
general and with the politics and policies of international
environmental concern, I can say that there is probably no
one group animal which has the significance of whales to
world conservation.

Scott McVay is at once a most unlikely protagonist of
the whale issue and a most appropriate one. He is unlikely
because there is little in his background to suggest whales.
In Princeton he majored in English and wrote his senior
thesis on George Bernard Shaw. When he graduated, he
listed sculpture among his special interests and indicated he
planned an architectural career. He subsequently became,
among other things, recording secretary, assistant, treasurer,
and assistant to the President of Princeton. He is currently
Executive Director of the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation
in New York. This I submit is a most unlikely background
for a champion of the whales.

Yet, at the same time, it is a highly appropriate
background. As I have described earlier, the whales have
become a symbol to a great many people in a great many
countries. Indeed they are doubtless more important to the
general public than they are to the scientific specialists.

 




Scott says that his interest in whales was ﬁrst aroused by
Melville’s Moby Dick. In any event following his work at
Princeton he went to the Communication Research
Institute at Coconut Grove, Florida, to work on a study of
the life and language of the bottle-nose dolphin, and by
1965, he wrote in his college year book that his intent was
to contribute to man’s understanding of the life and
language of the whales.

Since that time, he has made truly signiﬁcant
contributions to the public understanding and awareness of
the problem of conservation of the whales. In 1966 his
article in Scientific American “The Last of the Great
Whales” provided one of the first definitive views the public
had received of the tragic results of modern whaling. His
subsequent articles, for example, in Natural History
Magazine, the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, National Parks,
Audubon, the American Scientist, and two op-ed pieces in
The New York Times have all contributed to a growing
public awareness of the problem and concern with it.

In his role as spokesman for the public concern with
whales, he has served as the lead witness invited from
outside government at the congressional hearing in 1971
which led to the congressional resolution calling for
a moratorium on whaling; he was an invited speaker
representing the conservation vieWpoint at the 1971
International Conference on Whale Biology, and further in
his role as a citizen spokesman, he was Observer to the
International Whaling Commission meeting in 1970, and a
full member of the US. delegation to the IWC in 1971 and
1972.

He made a significant contribution to the decision of the
Mexican Government to declare Scammon’s Lagoon in Baja,
California, as a permanent whale sanctuary.

In 1970, he traveled 110 Japan to encourage six leading
scientists to form a committee for preservation of whales
under the chairmanship of Dr. Seiji Kaya, former President
of the Tokyo University.

Following his work on dolphin communications in
Florida, he expanded his interests to larger whales and has
organized two expeditions to the Arctic to study the
bowhead whale along the northwest coast of Alaska, one in
1971 and another this year. In conjunction with the
bowhead work he traveled with us to the Soviet Union in
January of this year as a member of the first working group
to be convened under the US-USSR Environment
Agreement. He is also co-author of “Songs of the Hump-

back Whale” which appeared in Science in 1971.

From this I believe it is clear that he had indeed
accomplished his aim of contributing to man’s
understanding of the life and language of whales, but — and
this is somewhat heretical coming from a scientist — in my
opinion far more important is his contribution to public
understanding and awareness of the plight of the whales
and as a citizen spokesman, his contribution to Government
actions on behalf of the whales.

Last year’s Schweitzer Award went to Russell Train
because of his key role personally in our Government’s
efforts to conserve whales, but he also symbolized the
efforts of our Government.

But in this as in other endeavors the Government and
the public represents an essential partnership. This year’s
Schweitzer Award is being presented to Scott McVay both
because of his personal key role in and contributions to
whale conservation and also because he is symbolic of the
citizen role in this endeavor which is so important to animal
welfare and welfare of our environment.

It therefore gives me very great pleasure to present to
you, Scott, the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal
Welfare Institute.

La.

Schweitzer Medalist Scott Me Vay speaking on whales.

Remarks of Scott McVay Chairman, Committee on Whales,
Environmental Defense Fund

“WHAT ON EARTH WAS A WHALE?
THE CHILD ASKED US
IN AN INNOCENT VOICE”*

This occasion gives me a chance to mention several
persons who have made substantial contributions to whale
conservation and acknowledge many more besides who may
be unrecognized, many whose contributions in the weeks
ahead will tell whether some species of whales will survive.
The crisis today is sharply deﬁned, carrying the unanimous
conviction of the United Nations conferences in Stockholm
and Geneva — and the principal conservation groups around
the world — the Killing of Whales Must Stop.

The scale of the whale tragedy may be sensed by the fact
that no one is working full-time on the conservation of the
whale, although two countries participate year around in
the continuing destruction of the whale, repudiating
recently even the moderate accords reached at the
International Whaling Commission meeting last June in
London. The time is ripe for sterner measures that may be
more keenly felt than the reason of science or a planetary
ethic that transcends terrible pockets of wastefulness,
aggression, and greed, or an obligation that reaches down
the centuries to leave as much of the natural world whole
and intact as we can.

To understand where we are going, we recall where we
have been. Conservation of the whale has had the
intermittent attention of a remarkable set of men and
women. At the top of the roster is the late Remington
Kellogg of the Smithsonian who worked toward
international regulation of whaling in the 1930’s and caused
the International Whaling Convention to meet in
Washington in December, 1946. With Johan Ruud of
Norway, Dr. Kellogg led efforts within the International
Whaling Commission in the 1950’s to curb unrestrained
whaling by ﬁve nations for an annual quota of 16,000 blue
whale units which was no quota at all. Through the efforts
of Ruud and Kellogg, a Committee of Three Scientists was
appointed in 1960 to review the data and make
recommendations. In violation of the Commission’s pledge
to comply, the recommendations of the scientists were
deferred and deferred again in 1963 and 1964.

I first met Dr. Kellogg in 1959 or 1960. On my third
visit to his ofﬁce at the Smithsonian within the next year or

two, I pressed this ﬁne old gentleman, who had high black
shoes propped up on his desk, why so little progress was
being made to conserve whales. His heavy mailbag as US.
Commissioner to the IWC suggested widespread concern.
He countered by saying the whale had no lobby, and only
orie person came back three times. He said he was tired of
pounding his head against a stone wall and that others
would have to take up the cause.

As each of us in the conservation community and the
Federal bureaucracy has learned, things which matter most
with us must be acted upon. You can not assume that
someone else is carrying the ball. With Dr. Kellogg’s
encouragement, “The Last of the Great Whales” was
written in 1964 and eventually appeared in Scientific
American in 1966.

A member of the Committee of Three Scientists who
saw beyond the data the true scale of the whale tragedy was
Sidney Holt, a biologist for 16 years with FAO, who
showed leadership, vision and good sense at the
International Conference on Whale Biology in June, 1971,
making a major contribution to the basic recommendations
of the conference.

In Japan, Dr. Teizo Ogawa, who is completing a history
of Japanese medicine, is an authority on the anatomy of
the whale and in particular its brain. His work over four
decades testiﬁes to the signiﬁcance of the cetacean brain
and its importance in understanding the human brain. In
one paper he wrote,

The present author has often told his students a fable
of his own, imagining two high peaks in the realm of
Mammalia, namely, Mt. HOMO and Mt. CETACEA,
the latter boasting of a much greater height than the
former.

Dr. Ogawa is a member of our committee for the
preservation of whales in Japan, and he is especially upset
by the unchecked slaughter of dolphins and porpoises by
the Japanese.

*from The Day the Whale Becomes Extinct, by Kenzaburo Oe.

 




Another staunch advocate for the whale is Rod
Cameron, Executive Director of the Environmental Defense
Fund, who approached me in 1969 to head up the EDF
whale effort. Among his contributions was testimony in
1970 in Washington at an Interior hearing to consider the
placement of the Sperm whale on the endangered list and
later in San Francisco at a Department of Commerce
hearing to consider closing down whaling operations in
California. If the whales have an attorney, it is Rod
Cameron.

One biologist exempliﬁes a new approach to the study
of the whale, Roger Payne. For ﬁve years he observed and
recorded the Humpback whale off Bermuda, working on
the assumption that you must spend extended periods of
time with whales in their ocean habitat to understand them.
Our joint discovery of the Song of the Humpback Whale
and its detailed analysis was published in Science in 1971,
and through Roger’s efforts a record was made which has
sold 100,000 copies. (The whale is still more eloquent than
any of his surrogates!) It was Roger’s idea to recommend
the great whales for Interior’s endangered species list. Payne
is now nearing the end of more than 18 months’ study of
the Southern Right whale off the Patagonian coast of
Argentina. When he returns, his ﬁlms and reports will
contribute substantively to our future view of whales.

The first of a progression of events which have led to a
consolidated U.S. position on the whale problem, with a
close working relationship between the environmental
community and Federal agencies, was the designation by
Secretary of Interior Walter Hickel of eight whale species as
endangered in the Federal Register of December 2, 1970,
following six months’ debate. “Buff” Bohlen ably sustained
this decision against heavy pressures within government and
from the importers of Sperm whale oil. Indeed, his role
cannot be overestimated.

The Secretary of Commerce followed in due course with
the closing of whaling operations in California in December,
1971.

Perhaps we should pause to acknowledge the leadership
of the next Secretary of Commerce, Peter Peterson, who
took steps to deal with the large-scale slaughter of porpoises
by the tuna fishery working out of southern California.
(This is usually referred to as “the incidentail slaughter of
porpoises.” The slaughter is not incidental. It is part and
parcel of the purse-seine technique since the pole and line
were put aside.)

A quarter million porpoises have been lost every year for
many years. How big a number is that? It is the number of
people in this room plus one thousand like gatherings. In
the early 1960’s as many as one million porpoises perished
every year. Secretary Peterson gave this problem high
priority, and substantial funds and personnel have been
committed to its resolution. Robert White, the
Administrator of NOAA (National Oceanic and
AtmOSpheric Administration), shares this commitment and
is seeing 'to its implementation. The tragedy is of staggering
proportions. Six to eight times as many porporises were lost
in tuna nets in the first three months of this year as there
were whales taken on the high seas last year (upwards of
300,000 against 37,000). This remains a National Tragedy,
and when an extension is sought for the two-year
exemption to the Marine Mammal Protection Act, the
appear warrents close scrutiny. (The Environmental
Defense Fund recently ﬁled a letter prior to the December
10, 1973 deadline for comment at this juncture.)

Perhaps we should pause to recognize another dimension
of the whale saga, the aesthetic one. Not only have
symphonies been composed using the song of the
Humpback whale, but the whale’s sounds and motions have
inspired performances of considerable diversity among
professional and college groups across the country.

An artist has emerged who has done a series of whale
works, major drawings and illuminated sculpture. He will be
regarded one day as an artist of the ﬁrst rank. William
Scoresby noted in 1820, “. . .the drawings hitherto given of
many of the whale tribe are so unlike, and so preposterous,
that they tend rather to mislead than to assist the practical
zoologist.” The comment still obtains today, but we are
fortunate that Larry Foster of Oakland, California is
contributing to an improved understanding of the shape,
markings, and motion of the whale. He is known for the
beauty and precision of his work, and to see his originals is
almost as exciting as seeing a great whale. . .

Philippe Cousteau’s underwater ﬁlm of the Humpback
whale showed a fantastic underwater ballet of a mother
swimming on her back with outstretched ﬂippers cradling,
but not touching, an infant breathing frequently at the

surface. . .

The image of the great Arctic whale, the Bowhead, is a
living one now — after our expeditions of 1971 and 1973 —
an image of a whale that breaches in Spring, a great whale
that may on occasion be surrounded by a “halo” of smaller
belugas, a whale that can rise before you in those frozen
seas like the fabled Atlantis, again and again as it spouts
nearer. (A one-hour ﬁlm documentary of this year’s
expedition will be completed in April). . .

Permit me to read a rough translation of a passage from
a recent book, The Day the Whale Becomes Extinct, by
Kenzaburo Oe, the leading writer in Japan today.

One desolate twilight evening

on a high tower overlooking a valley

deep in the woods where I grew up,

together with several adults

I stood looking toward the West.

The dream was unlike other dreams,

because I was no longer a child

but was now one of those adults,

and yet in the sense that

I had been included in the group

as the one who least understood what was going on,
this dream was after all like all the others,

it became like one of those daily nightmares,

as the western sky took on a dark red hue
without a sign of light,

and we all sunk into the darkness and

were buffeted by profuse winds which blew up.
One old man, bursting the silent atmosphere of
expectation, said: “Ah, ﬁnally, the last whale died.”
We pushed each other for the ﬁrst position,
pounding down the hill as if trying to crush
pebbles beneath our sandals with our feet,

we went down to the valley,

but as we were about to say,

“finally the last whale. . . ”

to the child who was standing

on the cobbled path in the dark valley,

“What on earth was a Whale?”

the child asked us in an innocent voice.

I tried to explain to him about whales,

but since I didn’t remember a thing about whales
myself, I clammed up.

And then I realized with a sense of fathomless
annihilation that the old man of just now

was the “me” of the past

and the child none other

than the “me” of the future.

The face of the child,

looking up silently at me,

distinct in the evening light,

was crumbling away.

Besides major literary contributions in Japan by
Kenzaburo Oe and Sakyo Komatsu, and others, six
distinguished scientists led by Dr. Seiji Kaya, former
president of Tokyo University, have been working for the
preservation of the whale through articles, appearances on
television, and meetings with top government ofﬁcials.

Also, the actions of our neighbors to the South and to
the North are encouraging. In response to a proposal we
submitted in June, 1971, to Eduardo Jimenez G’onzales of
the Mexican Embassy, President Luis Echeverria declared
Scammon’s Lagoon a permanent whale sanctuary. In
December, 1972, the Canadian Commissioner of Fisheries,
Jack Davies, closed their three remaining whale stations
(two in Newfoundland and one in Nova Scotia).

A year ago Russell Train’s formidable contribution was
recognized in this ceremony. Thanks to his interest and
leadership in June, 1972 the first resolution reported out of
the Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment
called for a ban on the killing of whales by a vote of 53 to
zero. (It is worth noting parenthetically that someone on
the periphery suggested a second somewhat similar
resolution be submitted substituting the words “human
being” for “whale”. Thus, a ban on the killing of human
beings for ten' years was brieﬂy considered but quickly
abandoned since it would be such a departure from past
and current practices. . . And yet if we do achieve a
moratorium on the killing of whales, it may prove a useful
precedent.)

Chairman Train led the U. S. delegation to the
International Whaling Commission two weeks later,
providing inspired leadership, and he was ably followed by
Robert White, the new U. S. Commissioner, in June 1973.
(By the way tomorrow evening you may watch Dr. White
on the Dick Cavett show and sense the depth of
commitment within government to the whale problem; he
will speak about the follow-up to Secretary of State
Kissinger’s tough cables recently to Tokyo and Moscow and

perhaps of the leverage in soybeans and wheat.)

 




 

    

Six months ago, the moratorium was approved by 8 of
the 14 delegations to the IWC, a majority but not the
necessary three-fourths vote required for adoption. As a
compromise three modest accords were reached. Fin
whaling was to be phased out in three years. A quota for
Minke whales of 5,000 was set, as was a by-area quota for
Sperm whales in the Antarctic. The Japanese have now
repudiated these three agreements, and the Russians the
last two. (The Russians have given up on the Fin Whale.)
The blatant disregard of the Commission means that we
have essentially an outlaw situation, and the imminent
collapse of the International Whaling Commission puts
other international negotiations, which also must proceed
on good faith, in jeopardy. We’ll come back to this shortly.

First, we should acknowledge four major books over a
five-year span written on this continent that have
contributed to the growing awareness about the plight of

the whale and our interconnected destiny. We will sample a
couple lines from each.

The Year of the Whale by Victor B. Scheffer (1969)
“Will the orbiting satellite speak through space to tell the
hunter where to find the last whale?”

   
 
 

The Blue Whale by George L. Small (1971)“The tragedy of
the blue whale is the reﬂection of an even greater one, that
of man himself. What is the nature of a species that
knowingly and without good reason exterminates another?
How long will man persist in the belief that he is the master
of the Earth rather than one of its guests?”

A Whale for the Killing by Farley Mowat (1972) “(It
was) identified as a Fin whale, the second largest animal
ever to live on earth. We could see the marks of
bullets—holes and slashes—across the back from the
blowhole to the fin. It was just beyond me to even begin to
understand the mentality of men who would amuse
themselves ﬁlling such a majestic creature full of bullets.
Why try to kill it?”

Lord of the Fish by Faith McNulty (1973) “Leaders of
the conservation ﬁght in this country talk of a United
States boycott of Japanese goods and an appeal to the
Common Market to close off Europe as a market for whale
products. . .such tactics, which reduce the issue to dollars,
rubles, and .yen, are the only ones likely to work where
appeals to humanity, ethics and pure reason have failed.”

One American scientist who has kept a low profile
(that’s how things get done) deserves our special thanks
today. He drafted U. S. policy for the 1971 IWC meeting in
Washington. He drafted the U. S. resolution at Stockholm
calling for a ten-year moratorium on the killing of whales.
He has been accessible to conservationists except when
behind the wheel of his sports car. Reminding all hands of
the shaky data base, he has contributed to the formulation
of U. S. policy for the past two IWC meetings in London
and has been a skillful negotiator in the hour-by-hour
deliberations with the Russians and Japanese. Last January
in Russia, he showed a gift for working with the Russians
on the development of joint studies of endangered species.
Lee Talbot, we are in your debt.

One of the perquisites of the pilgrimage for whales is
the peOple you meet along the way. Some join for a time
and are most welcome. Others are in for the duration. Such
is Christine Stevens, who if I could put her into one word,
and could pronounce it, it would be “indefatigable”. She
has stuck to the central issue — to stop the killing of
whales. Singlehandedly, she pushed the moratorium
resolution through the Senate in 1971, and in due course,
following public hearings, it was adopted by the House of
Representatives. This step made possible the next step at
Stockholm where the consolidated U. S. view found the
support of 52 other countries. Mrs. Stevens has,
furthermore, been a prime mover behind the broadly
supported boycott of Japanese and Soviet goods in the
United States which will persist until the whaling irons rust
in the racks. This gentle woman’s reverence for life and
tenacity for its preservation must become more widely
shared if we are going to make it.

Others making lasting contributions from the private
sector are known to you, the gentleman-from-Wyoming
Tom Garrett, journalist Michael Frome, biologist Steve
Seater, Lewis Regenstein of the Fund for Animals, and the
anonymous heroes of the’editorial pages of The New York

  

Times and Washington Post. Joan Maclntyre is leadlng the
children’s crusade. Tom Kimball’s strong unequivocal stand
on the boycott commands respect, as he speaks for
three-and-one-half million members of the National W1ldllfe

Federation.

Tomorrow morning Senator Magnuson, a previous
Schweitzer medalist, and Senator Pell will introduce a
resolution expressing the concern of the United States
about the exploitation of certain marine resources, which
encompasses not only a condemnation of Japanese and
Soviet whaling malpractice but also deals with the depleted
salmon and halibut resource.

Finally, I wish to acknowledge my magniﬁcent wife,
Hella, who has made my participation in the whale effort
possible and much more besides.

Henry David Thoreau once wrote,

Can he who has discovered only some of the values of
whalebone and whale oil be said to have discovered
the true use of the whale? Can he who slays the
elephant for his ivory be said to have ‘seen the
elephant’? These are petty and accidental uses; just as
if a stronger race were to kill us in order to make
buttons and ﬁageolets of our bones...

   

We wonder, is our obituary scrawled in the fate of the
whale? Maybe. But we have made a beginning at
restitution. We are dimly sensing the outlines of whales,
when spouting, breaching, courting, loving, nursing. We
know the True Use of the Whale transcends the marginal
uses of blubber, beef and bone. We sense that our own
humanity is inextricably wedded to the destiny of the
whale. We know that time is short, and the next few weeks
will spell the outcome of the struggle. Reluctantly, because
of other problems for the Japanese, we must carry the call
for the boycott of goods to the corners of the land and
beyond. These may be uncertain times, but of one thing we
may be certain. If the last whales die, something in us will
die, too. When the children ask later, “What on earth is a
whale?” — I hope we may answer, “THAR SHE BLOWS!”

    
 

 

l .
'1. l/l, ;
'I/

i
. / \

_ \ "3r ', ' ,
-\ 5w. hi, «7,;

l

k‘
“:C“ ,
wow—saw \

.. -. , \'/

\ A" ‘I-o/‘Q

In \ .
‘\ .nl‘
./ ' ‘
. ’4. '
\

 

This picture, courtesy of Friends of the Earth, Ltd., shows
the cruel war on whales still carried out by Japan and the
U.S.S.R. with helicopters, airplanes, ships, radar, ASDIC, and
bombs that detonate inside the whale.

 




Li“ ~ I“ I

#4566 Province Line Road
Princeton, N.J. 08540

December 8, 1973

Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee
c/o Mrs. Mary Margaret Jamieson
Executive Secretary
Room 10422 ‘

U. S. Postal Service
L'Enfant Plaza West, S.W.
Washington, D.C. 20260

From: .Scott McVay, Environmental Defense Fund"

Subject: The Great Whales

It is a pleasure to suggest the great whales as a theme
for a set of commemorative stamps. They are the largest 7 g
creatures to have lived on the planet. Five species of great
whales are considered today rare and endangered, owing to
overexploitation in centuries past and in our own time.

The United States has led the effort to protect the
great whales. The U. S. called together the International
Whaling Convention in 1946 in Washington at the initiative
of Dr. Remington Kellogg of the Smithsonian Institution who
was the first U. S. Commissioner to the International Whaling
Commission. In 1960, in part because of Dr. Kellogg's concern
that whales were being taken indiscriminately, a committee of
three scientists was appointed to study the problem and make
recommendations.

In 1964 the Commission was on the verge of collapse after
failing to act on the recommendations of the scientists which
called for complete protection of the endangered Blue and
Humpback whales and reduced quotas. The then U. S. Commissioner,
Dr. J. Laurence McHugh,arranged a special meeting of the
commission in 1965 at which some restraints were accepted.

Substantial progress on an effort to ban the-killing of
great whales has been made recognizing that their numbers are
severely reduced, that many years will be needed for partial
recovery, and that an adequate substitute exists for every
whale product. In 1970, the Secretary of Interior placed
eight Species of whales on the endangered species list,
thereby blocking the importation of whale products into the
United States. In 1971, the Secretary of Commerce closed

 




Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee
December 8, 1973
Page 2 ~

down the last commercial whaling operations in California.
Also in 1971, both the Senate and the House of Representatives
unanimously approved a resolution calling for a ten~year
moratorium on the killing of whales.

In_June, 1972, a U. S. resolution at the United Nations
Conference on the Human Environment in Stockholm, calling for‘
a ten~year moratorium on the killing of whales, was unanimously
adopted by a vote of 53 to zero with Japan abstaining. At the
International Whaling_Commission meeting two weeks later, the
moratorium was seriously discussed and.catch quotas reduced
in response to the leadership of Russell Train, then Chairman
of the Council on Environmental Quality and now head of the
Environmental Protection Agency. At the IWC meeting in June,
1973, the U. S. delegation led by Dr. Robert M. White, ' '
Administrator of NCAA (National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration), again proposed the moratorium. It was approved
by a majority of the l4~member Commission but not by the necessary
three—fourths required for adoption. ,Private conserVation groups
in the United States have contributed to the evolution of U. S.
policy on whales. *

This brief summary is provided to indicate the leadership
role played by the United States in attempting to conserve the
great whales, an effort that continues since 37,000 whales are
still taken every year. It is conceivable that by 1975 a world—
wide ban on whaling will be in effect, although pressures within
the two principal whaling countries work against that prospect.

A block of five stamps is proposed representing the five
species of whales considered to be rare and endangered. Each
of these species has a very distinctive configuration. They
are all baleen whales quite different in appearance from the
well—known toothed whale, the Sperm whale, which was featured
on a handsome commemorative envelope ("Moby Dick”) a few years
ago. Each of these five species has in the past frequented
waters close to the coastline of the United States, and today
remnants of their formerly abundant stocks may still be seen
by a lucky seafarer.

The whale has become a symbol of many beleaguered and
endangered species and a focal point of concern by conservation
groups in this country. The proposed set of stamps would be in
the recent tradition which featured the attractive Wildlife
Conservation set containing the polar bear, alligator,
California condor, and trout.

A set of stamps such as the one prOposed would go a long
way to correct the mistaken impressions of the shape of whales.
As Captain William Scoresby, Jr. noted in 1820, "...the drawings

 




Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee
December 8, 1973
Page 3

hitherto given of many of the whale tribe are so unlike, and
so preposterous, that they tend rather to mislead than to
assist the practical zoologist.” The comment obtains today.

. Attached hereto is a proposed group of commemorative'

stamps centering on the Blue whale, the largest creature_ever

to have lived on Earth. The set was designed by Larry Foster

of Oakland, California, who is reCOgnized as a leading illustrator
of whales by cetolOgists (whale scientists). Mr. Foster is often
asked to do the drawings which accompany scientific publications.
He works from available phOtogra.phs of whales, preferably those
taken under water, and is known for the precision and beauty

of his work. »

The Humpback whale has become widely appreciated in the
past few years through recordings of its remarkable song which
spans six octaves and usually repeats after 10 to 12 minutes.
Over one hundred thousand records of the Songs of the Humpback
Whale have been sold. This whale may be seen off Puerto Rico'
in Spring and later along the New England coast. It is also
sighted in th Anear
Monterey. The Singular appearance of the Humpback derives
from extremely long flippers, which can be 15 feet long, the
knobby protrusions on its head, and the ragged edge of its
flukes. ‘ ~

The Bowhead or Greenland Right whale was hunted commercially
for over 300 years, from 1611 to 1914. One migratory pathway of
the Bowhead whale is along the northwest coast of Alaska every
April and May as the frozen Arctic sea begins to open up. The
Eskimo in the villages of Point Hope, Wainwright, and Barrow
are permitted to continue to hunt this whale and take between
10 and 20 every year. Among the distinguishing physical
Features are an enormous curved head, comprising one~third
of its body length and large white "vest" on the lower jaw
carrying a curious pattern of black dots. (On two expeditions
which I organized in 1971 and 1973, we obtained the first
motion pictures of this rare whale, and they are excellent.)

The Right whale was once the target of the 19th century
whaling industry because it was the "right" whale to capture as
a slow swimmer that floated_after being harpooned. VToday the
Right whale is so rare that it is encountered only once in
10,000 miles of travel at sea in the North Pacific. A small
pod of these whales is occasionally seen in May near Cape Cod.
Among its distinctive features are the "bonnet" on its head
and the barnacles often attached to its body.

 




Citizens' Stamp AdviSory Committee
December 8,1973
.Page 4

The Gray whale' s annual 10, 000— mile migration from the
Arctic through the Bering Strait along the western coast of
the continent enroute to winter destinations at Baja California
is now observed by an estimated 3 million persons in California
in December, January and February.

All five of the endangered great wha.le species will be
drawn to scale since the Blue whale, approaching 100 feet in
length, is roughly twi ce as long as the others. They would
fit in a group of five on a sheet holding 12 on one side and
six on another and would, therefore, in this instance hold
60 stamps, costing $4.80 at present rates, as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

{fruit 17- 97:1!

 

 

Thank you for your thoughtful consideration of this
proposal. We will be pleased to furnish whatever additional
information you may need.

 




 

THE BUWH Em WHALE

<1 3 ."‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

’ITED STATES 88

 

 

 

 

UNITED sums

THEE FURARNIAGY WHALE

 

 

 

 

 

 




Novémbar'29, 1973

Ms. Frances K. Treea
MEDﬁLLIC ART COMPANY

Old Ridgabury ioad
'Danbury, Cannecticut 06810

Dear Ms. Trees,'

V' Please engrave-the SchwaitZer Medal as f6110W33 r

Scott vaay
-1973

The maﬂal, as was agreed to in our telephona con~
varsatien, will be delivered an December lhth to:

IMP. Ebger L. Stevens_
50 East 77th Street
NEW Ybrk, New Yark 10021

_ Also,~please consider this an arder to strike
three additional medala (this will make our inventory
a tctal of four madals) te-be bald by you for the ‘
Animal Welfare Institute. -
'Ybur aoaperatian is graatly appraciatad.

Sincerely,

(Hrs. Charles W. Cooke)
Secretary to Mrs, Stsvans

 




The Directors 0; tile Animaa Weggare institute

request tile Lonor 0; your Presence
at the Presentation by
Lee TaELot

Senior Scientist, Council on Environmental Quality

of the
Schweitzer Award {or 1973

to

Scott McVay
Chairman, Committee on Wllales, Environmental Defense Fund

on Tuesday, the eighteenth of December
at tllree o’clock

Tlle Atrium
T116 Kennedy Center

R.S.V.P.

Mrs. Roger Stevens Reception {onowing
337-2332 the ceremony

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

For more information
call 202-337—2332

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:

SCOTT McVAY TO RECEIVE ANNUAL SCHWEITZER AWARD

FOR OUTSTANDING CONTRIBUTION TO ANIMAL WELFARE.

Scott ncvay, Chairman, committee on Whales, Environmental Defense Fund, will receive
the 1973 Animal welfare Institute Schweitzer Award on Tuesday, December 18, at

3 p.m. at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Washington, D.C. The
award will be presented by Lee Talbot, Senior Scientist, Cbuncil on Environmental
Quality. Also participating in the ceremonies will be Jason Robards, who is currently
starring in Eugene O'Neill‘s "A Moon for the Misbegotten". The award consists of the
Albert Schweitzer Medal and $500.

Tho expeditions to the Arctic to study the Bowhead whale were led by nevay. The
National Film Board of canada is now making an hour-long documentary based on the
second expedition. He has written many articles; presented.papers; made films and
speeches on behalf of the great whales; and, with Dr. Roger Payne, has brought the
fascinating recorded ”songs of The Humpback Whale" to an appreciative public.

MCVRY's efforts through the Environmental Defense Fund (an American private conser-
vation group that has been working for the past several years to influence world
opinion to spare the whales) contributed to: the listing of the great whales on the'
endangered species list; closing down of the last 0.3. whaling operations; and,
passing of the moratorium resolution on the killing of whales.

He has, especially, tried to influence Japan and Russia - the two most blatant
offenders - to stop killing whales, traveling to both countries. In this connection,
the Animal Wblfare Institute, Friends of the Earth, Fund for Animals, National
Wildlife Federation, and other conservationists, have called for a National boycott
of Japanese and Soviet goods and products as a deterrent based on economic pressure.

The first recipient of the Animal Welfare Institute's Medal was Dr. Albert Schweitzer,
in 1954. Other winners include Hubert H. Humphrey, Rachel Carson, and, last year,
Russell Train, now head of the Environmental Protection Agency.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

For more information
call 202-337—2332

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:

SCOTT McVAY TO RECEIVE ANNUAL SCHWEITZER AWARD

FOR OUTSTANDING CONTRIBUTION TO ANIMAL WELFARE.

Scott McVay, Chairman, Committee on Whales, Environmental Defense Fund, will receive
the 1973 Animal welfare Institute Schweitzer Award on Tuesday, December 18, at

3 p.m. at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Washington, D.C. The
award will be presented by Lee Talbot, Sonior Scientist, council on Environmental
Quality. Also participating in the ceremonies will be Jason Robards, who is currently
starring in Eugene O'Neill's "A Moon for the Misbegotten". The award consists of the
Albert Schweitzer Medal and $500.

Tho expeditions to the Arctic to study the Bowhead whale were led by Mthy. The
National Film Board of Canada is now making an hour-long documentary based on the
second expedition. He has written many articles; presented papers; made films and
speeches on behalf of the great whales; and, with Dr. Roger Payne, has brought the
fascinating recorded ”songs of The Humpback Whale" to an appreciative public.

Movay's efforts through the Environmental Defense Fund (an American private conser-
vation group that has been working for the past several years to influence world
opinion to spare the whales) contributed to: the listing of the great whales on the
endangered species list; closing down of the last U.S. whaling operations; and,
passing of the moratorium resolution on the killing of whales.

He has, especially, tried to influence Japan and Russia - the two most blatant
offenders - to stop killing whales, traveling to both countries. In this connection,
the Animal Welfare Institute, Friends of the Earth, Fund fer Animals, National
Wildlife Federation, and other conservationists, have called for a National boycott
of Japanese and Soviet goods and products as a deterrent based on economic pressure.

The first recipient of the Animal Wblfare Institute's Medal was Dr. Albert Schweitzer,
in 195“. Other winners include Hubert H. Humphrey, Rachel Carson, and, last year,
Russell Train, now head of the Environmental Protection Agency.

 




  

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650

 
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

For more information
call 202—337-2332

FOR.IMMEDIATE RELEASE:

SCOTT MCVAY T0 RECEIVE’ANNUAL SCHWEITZER.AWARD
FOR OUTSTANDING CONTRIBUTION TO ANIMAL WELFARE.

Scott ncvay, Chairman, committee on Whales, Environmental Defense Fund, will receive
the 1973 Animal welfare Institute Schweitzer Award on Tuesday, December 18, at

3 p.m. at the John F. Kennedy'Cbnter for the Performing Arts, thhington, D.C. The
award will be Presented by Lee Talbot, Sonior Scientist, council on Ehvironmental
Quality. Also participating in the ceremonies will be Jason Robards, who is currently
starring in Eugene O'Neill‘s "A Mbon for the Misbegotten”. The award consists of the
Albert Schweitzer Medal and $500.

Two expeditions to the Arctic to study the Bowhead whale were led by mcvay. The
National Film Board of Canada is now making an hour-long documentary based on the
second expedition. He has written many articles; presented papers; made films and
speeches on behalf of the great whales; and, with Dr. Roger Payne, has brought the
fascinating recorded “Songs of The Humpback Whale" to an appreciative public.

mcvay's efforts through the Environmental Defense Fund (an American private conser-
vation group that has been working for the past several years to influence world
opinion to spare the whales) contributed to; the listing of the great whales on the
endangered species list; closing down of the last 0.3. whaling operations; and,
passing of the moratorium resolution on the killing of whales.

He has, especially, tried to influence Japan and Russia - the two most blatant
offenders — to stop killing whales, traveling to both countries. In this connection,
the Animal Wblfare Institute, Friends of the Earth, Fund fer Animals, National
Wildlife Federation, and other conservationists, have called for a National boycott
of Japanese and Soviet goods and products as a deterrent based on economic pressure.

    
   
   
   
 

The first recipient of the Animal Wblfare Institute's Medal was Dr. Albert Schweitzer,
in 195“. Other winners include Hubert H. Humphrey, Rachel Carson, and, last year,
Russell Train, now head of the Environmental Protection Agency.

      




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 8650
‘WASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the twenty-second
annual meeting of the Animal‘Welfare Institute at The Atrium
in the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
Washington, D.C., at three o'clock, Tuesday afternoon, the
eighteenth of December.

The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Scott McVay
in recognition of his vigorous nine-year-long campaign to
stop the cruel killing of the endangered whales. Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental
Quality, brilliant and influential student of the plight
of the whales and of other persecuted animals, will make
the presentation.

Famous star of the stage and films, Jason Robards, who
loves whales, will be guest Speaker.

- The medallist is the Chairman of the Committee on Whales
of the Environmental Defense Fund, and he played an important
part in major developments protecting whales and dolphins
in the past three years. First, the listing of the great
whales on the endangered species list by the Department of
Interior in December, 1970, thereby closing the United States
to the importation of whale products (one-fourth of the world
market at that time). Second, the closing of the last U.S.
commercial whaling operation, December 1971, by the Depart-
ment of Commerce. Third, unanimous passage by the Senate
and House of Representatives of resolutions calling for a
ten~year moratorium on the commercial killing of whales which
subsequently became U.S. policy at Stockholm.in June, 1972
and at the International Whaling Commission meetings in London
in 1972 and 1973. Mr. McVay has been active in seeking a
solution to the drowning of dolphins in tuna purse seines.
He is a strong proponent of the boycott of Japanese and Russian
good.which the AWI together with other humane and conservation
organizations are pressing to bring about agreement on the
ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of whales.

A reception will follow the ceremony, and you are encouraged
to bring a friend with you who is interested in the protection

of animals.

Christine Stevens
President

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650
‘VASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the twenty-second
annual meeting of the Animal'Welfare Institute at The Atrium
in the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
Washington, D.C., at three o'clock, Tuesday afternoon, the
eighteenth of December.

The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Scott McVay
in recognition of his vigorous nine-year-long campaign to
stop the cruel killing of the endangered whales. 'Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental
Quality, brilliant and influential student of the plight
of the whales and of other persecuted animals, will make
the presentation.

Famous star of the stage and films, Jason Robards, who
loves whales, will be guest Speaker.

_ The medallist is the Chairman of the Committee on Whales
of the Environmental Defense Fund, and he played an important
part in major developments protecting whales and dolphins
in the past three years. First, the listing of the great
whales on the endangered species list by the Department of
Interior in December, 1970, thereby closing the United States
to the importation of whale products (one-fourth of the world
market at that time). Second, the closing of the last U.S.
commercial whaling operation, December 1971, by the Depart-
ment of Commerce. Third, unanimous passage by the Senate
and House of Representatives of resolutions calling for a
ten-year moratorium on the commercial killing of whales which
subsequently became U.S. policy at Stockholm.in June, 1972
and at the International Whaling Commission meetings in London
in 1972 and 1973. Mr. McVay has been active in seeking a
solution to the drowning of dolphins in tuna purse seines.
He is a strong proponent of the boycott of Japanese and Russian
good which the AWI together with other humane and conservation
organizations are pressing to bring about agreement on the
ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of whales.

A reception will follow the ceremony, and you are encouraged
to bring a friend with you who is interested in the protection

of animals.
Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
‘VASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the twenty-second
annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute at The Atrium
in the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
Washington, D.C., at three o'clock, Tuesday afternoon, the
eighteenth of December.

The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Scott McVay
in recognition of his vigorous ninewyear-long campaign to
stop the cruel killing of the endangered whales. Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental
Quality, brilliant and influential student of the plight
of the whales and of other persecuted animals, will make
the presentation.

Famous star of the stage and films, Jason Robards, who
loves whales, will be guest speaker.

,The medallist is the Chairman of the Committee on Whales
of the Environmental Defense Fund, and he played an important
part in major developments protecting whales and dolphins
in the past three years. First, the listing of the great
whales on the endangered species list by the Department of
Interior in December, 1970, thereby closing the United States
to the importation of whale products (one-fourth of the world
market at that time). Second, the closing of the last U.S.
commercial whaling operation, December 1971, by the Depart»
ment of Commerce. Third, unanimous passage by the Senate
and House of Representatives of resolutions calling for a
ten-year moratorium on the commercial killing of whales which
subsequently became U.S. policy at Stockholm in June, 1972
and at the International Whaling Commission meetings in London
in 1972 and 1973. Mr. McVay has been active in seeking a
solution to the drowning of dolphins in tuna purse seines.
He is a strong proponent of the boycott of Japanese and Russian
good.which the AWI together with other humans and conservation
organizations are pressing to bring about agreement on the
ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of whales.

A reception will follow the ceremony, and you are encouraged
to bring a friend with you who is interested in the protection

of animals.

Christine Stevens
President

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

For more information
call 202—337-2332

FOR.IMMEDIATE RELEASE:

SCOTT MCVAY TO RECEIVE ANNUAL SCHWEITZER.AWARD

FOR OUTSTANDING CONTRIBUTION TO ANIMAL WELFARE.

Scott Mcvay, Chairman, committee on Whales, Environmental Defense Fund, will receive
the 1973 Animal welfare Institute Schweitzer Award on Tuesday, December 18, at

3 p.m. at the John F. Kennedy center for the Performing Arts, washington, D.C. The
award will be Presented by Lee Talbot, Senior Scientist, Cbuncil on Environmental
Quality. Also participating in the ceremonies will be Jason Robards, who is currently
starring in Eugene O'Neill‘s "A Moon for the Misbegotten". The award consists of the
Albert Schweitzer Medal and $500.

Two expeditions to the Arctic to study the Bowhead whale were led by ncvay. The
National Film Board of Canada is now making an houralong documentary based on the
second expedition. He has written many articles; presented papers; made films and
speeches on behalf of the great whales; and, with Dr. Roger Payne, has brought the
fascinating recorded “Songs of The Humpback Whale" to an appreciative public.

Movay's efforts through the Environmental Defense Fund (an American private conser-
vation group that has been working for the past several years to influence world
opinion to spare the whales) contributed to: the listing of the great whales on the
endangered species list; closing down of the last U.S. whaling operations; and,
passing of the moratorium resolution on the killing of whales.

He has, especially, tried to influence Japan and Russia - the two most blatant
offenders - to stop killing whales, traveling to both countries. In this connection,
the Animal Welfare Institute, Friends of the Earth, Fund fer Animals, National
Wildlife Federation, and other conservationists, have called for a National boycott
of Japanese and Soviet goods and products as a deterrent based on economic pressure.

The first recipient of the Animal Wblfare Institute's medal was Dr. Albert Schweitzer,
in 1954. Other winners include Hubert H. Humphrey, Rachel Carson, and, last year,
Russell Train, now head of the Environmental Protection Agency.

 




