Leaﬂet No. 63.

HUMANE EDUCATION
AN ADDRESS To TEACHERS

BY EDWARD HYATT,
SUPERTNTENDENT PUBLIC INSTRUCTION

STATE OF CALIFORNIA

I cannot bring you anything new and strange about Humane Edu»
cation, for I am not possessed of anything but what you yourselves
do know. I can only try to remind you, and at the same time remind
myself, of certain elemental facts that we almost forget, almost lose
track of, ’mid the ten thousand troubles and worries that continually
infest the school—master’s day—~ and that pursue him into the stilly
watches of the night ! '

The State of California has ofﬁcially recognized the value and _
the necessity of this branch of education. By formal statute, regu—
larly enacted, it has been ranked with the list of subjects prescribed
for the schools of the State. So far as legislative recognition is
concerned, humane education stands alongside readin’, writin’ and
’rithmetic—and the other time—honored subjects of the standard
curriculum.

I wish it were as easy to engrave upon the hearts and the souls of
the young people as upon the statute books. But that would be too
good to be true. Moreover, it would leave uS like the Moor of
Venice, our occupation gone; and nothing in the world to do but
just to walk around.

In carrying these messages of humane civilization from the statute
books to the children, translating them on the way so that those who
run may read, we are entirely dependent upon the twelve thousand
public school teachers who are now working for our commonwealth.
It is only as we can interest them, kindle life and light and enthusi-
asm into them, that we can hope to see these things reappear in the
children. And this is easier said than done. Twelve thousand
teachers are quite as varied in their capacities, aptitudes, sensibilities,
as twelve thousand human beings in any other walk of life; and we'
must expect to get inﬁnite variety from them in response to our
stimuli for humane education. Some do magniﬁcently. Some do

I

 




 

only what they can’t avoid doing. Some do little. Some do noth—
ing. It even comes to pass that some do less than nothing. For
that is the way of the world.

But, my friends, it is really the duty of every one of us to take
hold of this matter of humane education and each in his fashion ﬁnd
some way to pass it on to the children whose future welfares we are
to serve. It is our duty to do this even when we do not know much
about it and perhaps do not care much about it. For, it is the law
of the land. More than that, we may be sure that it is a good and
useful thing, else it would not have had the strength and vitality to
push its way so far and so long. Humane education should be taken
up by us, not so much for the beneﬁt of the animal life that we seek
to protect, but for the sake of the human life to which our profession
is specially dedicated. We do not check our children from pulling
the legs off of ﬂies for the beneﬁt of the ﬂies. Not at all. It is for
the beneﬁt of the children, and those who must dwell with them in
future years. ‘

It is directed at good citizenship and therein it surely deserves
our best attention. - ,

For look you, kindness is necessary for him who would live suc-
cessfully and happily with others; and it is necessary for the young
people we are training to live with their fellows—that is Civiliza—
tion, that is the state we are training them for. The law of the
tooth and the claw, the brutal and unfeeling spirit, peculiarly unﬁts
them for living in harmony with a civilized environment. That is,
it unﬁts them for the life that they must lead.

And look you, a humane man is a better citizen than the one who.
is not. He is more useful and the people about him are more
fhappy. He is a more successful citizen. 4

A great and splendid man, whose name is known around the
world, started to drive with a casual visitor, who reminded him that
he had no whip. “ I need no whip,” came the earnest response.
“ I talk to my horses. I do not beat them.”

Now, this is a very simple little story; but does it not singularly
give a view of a good citizen, of one in whom we should have conﬁ—
dence; one who would be valuable to his neighborhood, useful to his
state? Would he not really be the type and example toward which we
school—masters are working? It illustrates a point that we do not
always see — that brutality is losing its cash value as civilization is

2




advancing. It is no longer a part of the citizen who is best ﬁtted
for life in the world.

Now here, as it seems to me, is a truth that looms larger the
longer we look at it; it is possible for those who deal with young
children to utter words that they will never forget; to paint ideas
that remain with them and affect them through life. ' Many a
man and many a woman has carried some such simple story freshly
in mind for three scoreyears, and has shaped his course by it a
thousand times.

I would have this truth sink deeply into the heart of every sincere
teacher, not only as regards humane education, but everything tend— ,
ing to make the world a brighter and better home for humanity.

It is possible for the teacher to say things that her children will
never forget.

I would not urge a one of you to hunt for a formal text book upon
humane education ; nor to use it if one be urged upon you; nor to
set a certain hour and day for a stiff and unnatural lesson. I would
not prescribe the keeping of note books about it nor the giving of
examinations. I would not try to saw it up to ﬁt our educational
bedstead at all.

Rather, I would beg all the teachers of the state to get some con—
ception of this movement into their own souls, to grasp it, to know
what it is for, what it is driving at, to feel it. I would have them
absorb a fund of sentiment to have on tap, honest sentiment enriched
by incident and song and story. I would have them ready for the
word ﬁtly spoken in season. Then the rest of it will take care of
itself. The stream cannot rise above its source but if it has a chance
it will rise nearly to its source. 4

I would carefully counsel you, too, in a work of sentiment like
this, to always temper your enthusiasm by the cold drops of common
sense. When you are teaching in Butchertown, don’t undertake a
campaign against the eating of meat. I know of nothing more
shocking to the beholders, more brutalizing to the participants than
a rabbit drive. It is a chamber of horrors, an incredible bvarbarity.
Yet, while a whole infested neighborhood is working one up and
everyone enthusiastically taking part in it, to inveigh against it there
is not “ a word ﬁtly spoken in season.” When the town is destroy--
ing its English sparrows or the country losing its fruit crop, that is
a poOr time for perfunctory talks about loving the little birds.

3

 

 




Enthusiasm is everything. I would not chill it. W ithout it we
‘ shall get nowhere, with this or any other thing. Yet it must be
attended by common sense as a handmaiden. ’Twill from many a

folly free us.

To my mind, the most effective agent in creating those feelings of
kindness and sympathy toward his dependents so desirable in a good
citizen is the story. Who of us here has not been affected by Old
Dog Tray? Or ”the hound who died by his master’s hand while
trying to warn him of danger? Or the faithful steed of strength
and speed who fell in the effort to save his master from ﬁre or
flood? These things, when dropped into our hearts at the psycho—
logical moment, never leave us quite the same. They are reagents,
and they seem to change the chemical make—up of our souls. And,
literature is rich in stories, for him who will hunt them and make
them his own.

Again, the teacher has an opportunity to put into the hearts of ,
the coming generations an appreciation of the cruelty and barbarity
of thoughtless Fashion. The enormous extent of the plume industry
and its effect upon bird life; the atrocities upon animal life caused
by my lady’s love of furs; the cruel folly of caging wild birds and
animals; the destructive barbarities practiced upon our nation’s
‘ splendid living trees ~—~ all these and other things besides will readily
lend themselves to the teacher. And they naturally lead up to our
relations with our fellow human beings, to the appreciation of the
fact that we are our brother’s keeper. Our treatment of the poor
grows out of it, our limiting the hours of labor, our protection of
women and children, our obligation to enforce the rights of sunshine,
pure air and wholesome living, against the rapacity of landlord and
employer, centuries old.

And, it is all in the right direction. It all looks toward better
citizenship; toward more harmonious adaptation of humanity to its
surroundings; toward a happier and more useful civilization. As
such, it is worthy the thought and effort of those to whom the state
has entrusted its citizens of to—morrow. Moreover. the state has
especially placed it in our hands. It is our duty. How shall we
acquit ourselves of it? What shall we say we have done for human—
ity at the end 'of the year?

 

[NOTE— Copies of this address, and other humane literature, may be
obtained from The American Humane Association, Albany, N. Y.]

4

 




