KIND KILLING

This booklet is intended to help those
who may have to destroy animals
when there are no experts available.

Compiled by
F. JEAN VINTER, M.D.

Fifth Edition (2nd Impression), 1963
Price 6d.

Published by

(The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare)
7a Lamb’s Conduit Passage, London, W.C.I.

i

 




 

I.

II.
III.
IV.

VI.
VII.
VIII.

IX.
X. .
XI.
XII.
)(III.
XIV.
XV.
XVI.
XVII.
XVIII.

CONTENTS

 

It is best to select the method most suited to one’s tem-

perament and to practise it on dead animals until it can

be performed skilfully.

As far as possible killing should be kept out of the hands
of young people ; if it must be taught to them they should

be instructed in the less Violent methods.

Docs AND CATS Page
1. Pentobarbitone sodium 1
2. Phenobarbitone as a preliminary to
euthanasia . 4
3. Shooting 6
4. Chloroform .. 8
5. ' Carbon monoxide in coal-gas 12
6. Emergency stunning l3
7. Electrocution of dogs 13
8. New-born kittens and puppies 14
MONKEYS 15
KIDS 15
EMERGENCY KILLING or FARM STOCK 16
SQUIRRELS IN CAGE TRAPS 20
MINK 21
GREY SEALS, DOLPHINS AND PORPOISES 21
CAPTIVE RABBITS, GUINEA-PIGS, HAMSTERS, RATS
AND MICE 23
POULTRY 26
OTHER BIRDS 3O
TORToISES AND OTHER REPTILES 30
F ROGS AND TOADS 31
FISH 32
INSECTS 32
CRABS 34
VARIOUS MARINE ANIMALS (for dissection) 34
SLUGS AND SNAILS 35
EARTHWORMS 35

 

 




I. DOGS AND CATS

(1) PENTOBARBITONE SODIUM (Euthatal, eta).

Dog—owners and cat—owners who have to have pets destroyed
can ask their veterinary surgeon or an ofﬁcer of an animal—
protection society to give the animal Euthatal. The injection of
Euthatal, or other preparation of pentobarbitone sodium, is an
excellent method of producing unconsciousness ; if necessary a
further lethal agent can be given when the animal is unconscious,
but strychnine should not be used. Injection is best made into a vein
or into the heart; this is a most humane method of destroying dogs
and cats but it can only be satisfactorily employed by persons with
sufﬁcient experience to ensure competence in giving the injection
correctly. Failing this the drug can be injected into the lungs or
abdominal cavity, or it can. be given as an enema or by the mouth.
It has a very bitter taste and is best given orally in capsule form
except to very young animals.

Pentobarbitone sodium is a scheduled poison and is therefore
not available for use by the layman except under the direction of a
veterinary surgeon. Persons called upon to destroy animals over—
seas where professional assistance is not available may ﬁnd it useful
to have the following information:

Pentobarbitone sodium is marketed in various preparations
including:

I. Capsules of Nembutal or Sagatal containing 1%,— grains

(approx. 100 mg).
Nembutal is also put up in $~grain and I-grain capsules.

2. Pentobarbitone sodium powder, for making into a solution.

3. Nembutal or Sagatal solution ready-made for anaesthesia
or euthanasia containing I grain (64 mg.) in I c.c.

4. Euthatal, Euthesate, Trinaven solutions for euthanasia
only, ready-made, containing 3 grains (approx. 200 mg.) in I c.c.

5. Anaesleep-forte solution for euthanasia only, ready—made,
containing 3.6 grains (230 mg.) in I c.c.

ADMINISTRATION OF CAPSULES BY THE MOUTH.

In dogs Nembutal capsules given by mouth are uncertain in
effect. Narcosis may take two or more hours to develop and may be
incomplete. Failing a more satisfactory method it can be tried.
Capsules should be given on an empty stomach, a hungry dog will
gulp them down in a ball of minced, raw meat. Suitable doses are:

Large dog 20 capsules.
Medium-sized or small dog IO capsules.
To a pregnant bitch give double the dose.

In new-born or very young puppies and kittens administration
by the mouth is very satisfactory. Open the kitten’s mouth and

I

 




 

 

push I capsule of Nembutal over the tongue and down the throat.
Alternatively open the capsule and squeeze the contents into the
mouth. Stroke the neck in a downward direction to help the animal
to swallow. The kitten will dribble and slowly go to sleep. When
it is asleep complete the killing by putting the animal head—down~
wards in a bucket of water ; leave it so for an hour to be sure that
it is dead. Never dispose of a body until it is cold and stiff.

In cats proceed in the same way but give 3 or more capsules
according to the size of the cat. To avoid being bitten hold the
scruff of the neck in the left hand and push the capsules one at a
time over the back of the tongue with the smooth end of a pencil or
with forceps.

INJECTION OF SOLUTION.

If the operator is not able to inject into the vein, the most
humane route, the best policy, in the dog, is to aim at injecting
the solution of pentobarbitone sodium straight into the heart. If
the heart is missed, as is possible, the injection will go into the
lungs; it will then work as well as if it had gone into the heart,
though more slowly. In the eat it is easier to inject into the
abdominal cavity or to give an enema.

Dosage.

A beginner should give too much pentobarbitone sodium rather
than too little. Start by giving these doses:

Small dog I gramme (15 grains)
Medium-sized dog 1% grammes
Large dog 2 grammes
Cat .. 31,- gramme

I gramme of pentobarbitone sodium is contained in:
5 c.c. of Euthatal solution ;
or 10 Nembutal or Sagatal capsules.

I gramme of pentobarbitone sodium powder measures 2—512- c.c.

(45 minims) if it is measured dry in a dry measure and shaken down
well.

To make the solution with Nembutal capsules.

Open the required number of capsules (IQ for a small dog, 20
for a large one) and squeeze the powder out into an egg-cup or
similar container. Add 5 to 10 c.c. of boiled or distilled water to
dissolve the powder, the water used may be warm. The powder
does not dissolve so easily in tap water. The solution is now ready
for use but will not keep for more than a day or two.

To make the solution with pentobarbitone sodium powder.

If a balance is available weigh up the number of grammes
required and add boiled or distilled water in the proportion of 5 c.c.

2

 




for every gramme (the strength of Euthatal). The solution will not
keep for more than a day or two.

If a balance is not available the powder can be measured
roughly by volume instead of by weight. Measure out the required
volume of powder (2% c.c. for a small dog, 5 c.c. for a large one) in
the barrel of a dry IO c.c. syringe, or other dry measure, shaking the
powder down well and pressing out any lumps. Add about 5 c.c. of
boiled or distilled water for every 2% cc of powder, i.e. twice as
much water as powder. Do not add more than IO cc of water
altogether. The solution will not keep for more than a day or two.

Apparatus.

A IO c.c. syringe is required. Every needle used should have
a perfect point. For the dog, for injection into the heart, the needle
should be 8 cm. (3 inches) long, and a suitable gauge is S.W.G. 16.
In the cat, for injection into the abdomen, use a ﬁne needle % to I
inch long; for administration of an enema it is convenient to use a
bulb-ended intravenous canula of S.W.G. 16 which can be obtained
in a Record ﬁtting for attachment to a Record syringe.

Method.
Injection into the heart of a dog.
Draw up the solution into the syringe.
Arrange for the (10:; to be restrained on its right side or back,

quite straight but not stretched taut ; the left fore limb must be held
forward out of the way.

 

/'.,1'.

1,1 .1 .1;
, , ,, -

A ,, ' I

\'
‘

    

\

 
 

,4
\«‘
~.
\

\
- «a we» .

\

‘ .
. \\ Hind end of
l ‘ breastobone

\
l
|

l

‘\\\w ..
‘ m: “\r_ ‘

     
  

 
 

  

:~-~

   

3rd space

2nd lst ﬂ; '

space space

 

7
I
I

Drawing by ('. T. Murphy, M.I\’.C.V.S.
(Rib spaces are shaded dark).

Feel for the hind end of the breast-bone. Ignore all the ribs
behind this point, as these are not joined to the breast-bone. From
the hind end of the breast-bone feel forward on the dog’s left side
for the ribs and rib-spaces and ﬁnd the third space, counting
forward. Steady the skin and insert the needle in this space as near

’3
D

 




 

 

as possible to the breast—bone. The direction in which the needle
is inserted is very important, it must be pushed towards the back-
bone (not across the dog from side to side). Push the needle in
deep. If it beats with the heart it is near the heart but not in it, so
push further. When blood spurts out the heart has-been reached.
Attach the syringe to the needle and inject the. solution. The dog
will die immediately. (The heart of a cat can be reached in the
same way by using a ﬁner needle, but a cat is much more difﬁcult
to hold.)

If the heart is missed the solution should be injected neverthe—
less; it will go into the lungs. The covering of the lungs, the
pleura, is sensitive and the injection may cause whimpering and
struggling. There may then be drunken movements for 5 minutes
or so until unconsciousness supervenes but these movements do not
indicate suffering.

When the animal is quite narcotised the jaws and tongue will
be completely relaxed. The animal will probably (lie quickly from
the ﬁrst injection; should death be delayed a seeond injection can
be given, or the animal can be put head-dowmvards in a bucket of
water. The animal should not be left until breathing has stopped
and the heart has ceased to beat. Additional signs of death are a
faintly granular appearance of the surface of the eve, eye insensitive

to touch, and pupil widely dilated. NEVER dispose of a body
until it is cold and stiff.

Injection into the abdomen of a cat.

Select a spot somewhere near the middle of the abdomen as
regards both length and width. Attach the needle to the ﬁlled
syringe and push it straight in at right angles to the surface of the
skin. The cat will be narcotized in 5 to IO minutes. Kill with
chloroform or put the head in water.

Administration of an enema to a cat.
Before injecting the solution up the back passage (rectum)
grease the canula well with vaseline. The injection should take

effect in about 20 minutes even if the cat is constipated. When the
animal is sound asleep kill with chloroform or put the head in water.

Sedative dose.

While awaiting skilled help the suffering of an injured animal
may be relieved by giving to a cat by mouth é— or 1 Nembutal
capsule, depending on the size of the cat, and to a dog by mouth
I capsule per 8le. (3.6 kg.) of body weight. After half an hour a

second dose. may be given, but it should be about a quarter of the
initial dose.

(2) PHENOBARBITONE (Gardenal, Luminal) used as a

preliminary to euthanasia.

Phenobarbitone is practically tasteless and can be given to dogs
and cats by mouth disguised in food. It is best given at nightfall.

4

 

 




 

 

Narcosis should be produced in 4 or 5 hours. Some dogs are
unaffected by the drug, in others trembling is produced; in most
animals a period of restlessness and weaving occurs about an hour
after the drug is taken and lasts for % an hour. During this time
the animal should preferably be placed where it cannot damage
itself. The results are not consistently reliable, nevertheless the
drug may be very useful in rabies areas where stray dogs and cats
are difﬁcult or dangerous to handle.

Phenobarbitone is not available for use by the layman except
under the direction of a veterinary surgeon.

When the animal is unconscious a further lethal agent (not
strychnine) must be given.

Useful preparations.

I. Phenobarbitone powder B.P.* This is measured as
follows:—

I level teaspoonful equals about 2 grammes.

I heaped teaspoonful equals about 3-4-1; grammes.
I level dessertspoonful equals about 4 grammes.
I level tablespoonful equals about 8 grammes.

2. Phenobarbitone tablets, B.P.* containing I grain.
I5 tablets equal I gramme of phenobarbitone.
30 tablets equal 2 grammes of phenobarbitone.

Suggested dosage.

Very big dog 3 grammes
Medium-sized dog 2 grammes (good average dose)
Small dog I gramme
Cat I gramme

It is better to give too much than too little in case some of the
drug is not eaten. A heaped teaspoonful of powder should narcotise
any dog.

Administration.

I. Mix the powder, or hide the tablets, in a ball of raw,
minced meat and feed to the animal when it is hungry ; or

2. Put the powder into a medicine bottle, add milk, shake,
pour it into the dog’s mouth. A cat may drink the milk from a
saucer.

 

* BP. 2 British Pharmacopoeia.

 




 

(3) SHOOTING.

General Information.

A humane killer should be used if it is available ; to obtain
one a police permit is required. The instrument is ﬁred with the
muzzle placed ﬁrmly against the animal’s head in the required
position. Humane killers are of two types, those which ﬁre a free
bullet and those in which a blank cartridge propels a captive bolt ;
the latter type is the safer to operate but is much the heavier.
Particulars of these instruments and directions for their use are
obtainable from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, 105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.I ; Scottish S.P.C.A.,
Ig, Melville Street, Edinburgh 3 ; Ulster S.P.C.A., 65, May Street,
Belfast, I; and from animal—protection societies throughout the
world.

In Britain information. about humane killers can also be
obtained from gunsmiths or from Messrs. Accles and Shelvoke Ltd.,
Aston, Birmingham (makers of Cash pistols), from The Temple Cox
Development Co., Ltd., High Street (Walter’s Yard), Bromley,
Kent (Temple Cox pistols), from Messrs. W. W. Greener Ltd., St.
Mary’s Row, Birmingham (makers of the original Greener Humane
Killer for all animals), and from Messrs. Webley & Scott, Ltd.,
Weaman Street, Birmingham, 4 (makers of the Webley .32 Humane
Killer). Cash and Temple Cox pistols ﬁre a captive bolt; Greener
and Webley pistols ﬁre a free bullet.

A reliable captive—bolt killer, ” Le Matador,” may be obtained
from Termet Pere et Fils, I3, Impasse Belloeuf, Lyon 3e, France.
It can be used for dogs.

Particulars of a Swedish-type humane killer, “ The Formator,”
ﬁring a free bullet, are obtainable from Maskinﬁrma G. Lindell,
Norr Malarstrand 58, Stockholm. It is not, however, suitable for
cats and dogs.

In Italy particulars of the “ Spal ” killer and cartridges may be
obtained from Signor Giacinti, Piazza della Magione '6, Lucca.

(‘

In Germany Schermer ” humane killers are made by Messrs.
Karl Schermer, Karlsruhe (Baden), Nebeniusstrasse 35.

Animals must be adequately restrained to avoid inaccurate
ﬁring. It is essential that the shot should penetrate the brain,
which is of comparatively small size and is situated in the upper
part of the skull.

To Shoot a Dog.

Take the dog out of doors to soft ground if a free bullet is to
be used, speak to it kindly and then either 1——

6

 

 




I. Give it a plate of its favourite food when it is a little hungry
and shoot it as it eats ;0 or

2. Before shooting, fasten the dog’s lead to a solid object ; or

3. Hold the animal securely with a dog-grasper as supplied
by the R.S.P.C.A.; this is an excellent method for difﬁcult dogs.

To muzzle a dog make a single loop in the centre of a strong
piece of bandage or soft cord. Holding the ends, slide the loop
over the middle of the nose and draw up gently but ﬁrmly on top.
New knot twice under the chin again ﬁrmly, and ﬁnish by tying
the ends together behind the neck.

Have the humane killer or other instrument ready charged.
Clear everyone out of the line of ﬁre. The dog shouldbe either
sitting or standing, not lying down. Stand on the dog’s right side
and a little in front of him ; the skin of the neck can be held with the
left hand if a captive-bolt pistol is used, but the hand should be
kept at least 4 inches away from the muzzle of the humane killer.

If the animal is restless wait patiently for a quiet interval.

To ﬁnd the point at which to apply the humane killer draw
imaginary lines from the root of each ear to the outer corner of the
opposite eye. Shoot % inch above the point at which these lines
cross, and a little to the side to miss the ridge of hard bone which
can be felt running doxxn the middle of the forehead The target
area is half way between the level of the eyes and the top of the
skull, the top of the skull being the point of bone nearest the neck.
Aim down the ltngth of the neck but slightly ac1oss the dog.

 

 

Diagram reproduced by kind permission of the R. S. P. C. A.
Target area—é inch above the point where the lines cross and a

little to one side.

\I

 




 

 

If, immediately after shooting, the eye is fixed, dull, wide-
open, and insensitive to touch, then, in spite of convulsive move—
ments of the limbs, the animal is unconscious and has been
effectually stunned. Turn the animal left side up and feel for the
heart beat which may continue for some minutes after shooting.
If it continues long,-or if breathing re—starts, shoot again or insert
a metal meat skewer through the shot-hole deep into the brain, or
hold the head in a bucket of water.

To Shoot a Dog with a Shot-gun.

A big dog can be shot with a 12-bore or 20-bore shot-guh,
preferably used with No. 5 shot. As the animal feeds shoot 1t
behind the ear with the muzzle of the gun about 3 feet away and
pointing towards the opposite eye.

To Shoot a Cat.

Cats can be destroyed by shooting with a humane killer or
shot-gun, but this method is not recommended for use by the
inexpert. It is best not to attempt to shoot savage cats ; put the
basket or cage containing the cat into a lethal chamber.

If shooting with a shot-gun give the cat some milk on soft
ground and get quite close, nearer than 3 feet.

A method of shooting with a humane killer, which is suitable
for use by experts only and is not generally recommended because
accidents can happen, is as follows : ——

With the left hand, gloved if necessary, hold the cat by the
scruff of the neck with its head extended on soft ground. Additional
restraint my be obtained by having the cat in a bag with only the
head out. Apply the humane killer to the centre of the top 0*
the head, midway between the ears. Shoot straight down. It is
best to place the animal’s body in a large receptacle, such as a dust-
bin, immediately after shooting, as violent convulsive movements
and considerable bleeding will follow for about half a minute.

although the animal is unconscious. After a minute examine the
bodV.

(4) CHLOROFORM.

.The chloroforming of an animal is a slow process requiring
patlence. Dogs should not be chloroformed unless there is no other
way of destroying them as they take chloroform badly. Chloroform
bags have been abandoned by the R.S.P.C.A. as unsatisfactory.
They might possibly be useful to travellers, and are obtainable from
the Scottish Waterproof Company, Ltd., 37, Cockburn Street,
Edinburgh, I, price 105. 6d. .

8

 

 

 




  

Length ... ... 16 inches
Width ... ... I r inches
Depth ... ... I 1% inches

PRICE ABOUT £5 10$.
(Packing and carriage extra)

Particulars from the Royal
Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 105,
Jermyn Street, London,
S.VV.I. If metal chambers
are unobtainable a simpler
design, which can be copied
in wood, can be supplied by
the R.S.P.C.A.

 




 

 

Two types of chloroform chamber are issued by the
R.S.P.C.A. Somewhat similar chambers are obtainable from
veterinary suppliers, e.g. from Messrs. A. Fleming and Co., Ltd.,
51/ 53, Mortimer Street, London, W.I. The following description
refers to one of the R.S.P.C.A. chambers, the Automatic Cat
Chamber, and is reprinted by kind permission of the Society.

Instructions for the Use of the Automatic Cat Chamber.

Only *B.P. chloroform may be used in this chamber. Suitable
pads for soaking with chloroform can be made from 3 or 4
thicknesses of white lint or ﬂannel. Cotton wool is too dense and
gauze not dense enough.

(I) When practicable, the cat should be placed in the chamber
by its owner or attendant. If on arrival it is nervous,
leave it alone or speak gently to it until quiet.

(2) When the cat is ready for placing in the chamber, soak the
pad in T4 drachms of chloroform, and whilst it is soaking
lift the cat quietly, place it in the chamber, close the lid,
but leave the perforated portion uncovered.

(3) Place the soaked. pad on the round ﬁlter and close the top
cover, taking care to leave the air holes wide open.

(4) The cat needs no further handling and will gradually

become unconscious and fall over on its side in about 3
minutes.

(5) When the cat is down, close the airholes, watch the cat
until respiration is hardly perceptible, then place the
chloroform pad loosely over the cat’s nose. It the cat
shows any signs of restless movement, re—open the air-

holes until such movements have entirely ceased, then
re-close them.

(6) If the Chamber is quickly required for further use, the cat
can be removed in 10 to 15 minutes, but only if no signs
ofobreathing or heart-beating are perceptible ; if removed,
it is essential that the cat’s head be completely immersed
ln'water for 15 minutes, watching the cat for the ﬁrst ﬁve
minutes to prevent risk of revival before death.

(7) No cat to be removed from the premises until quite stiff
(rigor mortis).

(8) While the lethal chamber is not in use the lid should be
left open.

 

* B.P. =British Pharmacopoeia.

’r Alternatively equal parts of chloroform and carbon tetrachloride may
be used; the latter is toxic if spilt on the skin. 4 drachms = 1
tablespoonful.

IO

 




\//

a
A ﬁs¢~q .‘ _. .W .__ ‘_‘_-‘V

 

(9) The chamber must be kept scrupulously clean and dry,
and should never be allowed to stand on wet ground.

(to) It is advisable to keep the temperature of the room in
which animals are chloroformed as high as 70°F. (21°C.).

N .B.——The same chamber can also be used for a very small
dog and any other small animal. Never have more than
one animal at a time in the chamber.

ACCIDENTS
To Chloroform an Injured Dog or Cat without Delay.
(Reprinted by kind permission of the Scottish S.P.C.A.)

Get at once from the nearest animal shelter or chemist, two
ounces ('4 tablespoonfuls) of chloroform.

Never attempt to move or handle an injured animal without
ﬁrst covering it entirely with a thick coat or rug, as the slightest
pressure or movement may cause the animal intense pain and make
it try to bite savagely. No useful purpose is served by running risks
that can be avoided.

The best plan is to spread a thick coat or rug entirely pver the
animal as it lies on the ground. A coat is best, it is easiest to
handle, and will fall in close folds round the body. It must touch
the ground all round.

Sick and injured animals often crawl away into dark corners to
hide from the light, so being covered over will not frighten the
creature.

Pour one ounce of the chloroform on a handkerchief or any
handy cloth or rag of about that size. Gently push it under the
coat.

Do not place it near the animal’s face.

The animal may move about and disturb the covering. If it
does so, replace the covering as needed.

After the ﬁrst handkerchief or cloth has been under the
covering for about three minutes, pour the other ounce of
chloroform on a second handkerchief or rag, and push it beside
the ﬁrst one.

(If you have not a second rag or handkerchief handy, pour
the second ounce on the coat and cover that over with another
coat or rug.)

The animal will slaver while the chloroform fumes are work-
ing. After a few minutes, when it has become quite quiet, lift the
edge of the covering and look at the head. If the animal has
ceased to slaver and is quite limp it is now unconscious. Wrap
the two handkerchiefs tightly round the nose, and cover again
carefully, tucking the covering closely all round.

Leave it like this for about IO to 15 minutes, when breathing
and the beating of the heart will have stopped.

II

 




 

 

 

If you can, take the body to a shelter, or shut it up in a
lethal box, if one is to be procured. If you cannot do either
you must make sure that the animal is dead. Lift up the body
and place it with the head in a pail of water. The water must
cover the head up to the neck. Keep it so for 15 minutes for
safety’s sake.

(5) CARBON MONOXIDE IN COAL-GAS. (Ex/must Gas, [7-27)-

Carbon monoxide in the pure form is dangerous to human life
and odourless. It is a constituent of coal-gas, and, when the gas
contains a sufﬁcient percentage of carbon monoxide and is mixed
with sufﬁcient air to prevent suffocation, it is a useful lethal agent
if nothing better is available. Since coal-gas may contain as little
as 5% of carbon monoxide its use is discouraged by the R.S.P.C.A.
It is safe to the operator if reasonable precautions are taken. ; this
means NO SMOKING. When coal—gas is used a separate meter
capable of supplying 200 cu. ft. of gas per hour should be provided.

A chloroform box may be adapted for use with coal—gas by
introducing the gas by means of a rubber tube passing in through
a hole drilled near the bottom of the box. An air—hole must be
left open to let the air out until the animal is deeply unconscious
and the chamber full of gas. The chamber should then be com—
pletely shut up and the gas-tap turned off. The chamber
must be used away from naked lights, and smoking strictly
prohibited ; the issuing gas must not be inhaled by human beings.
The chamber should be used near an open window or in the open
air. The animal should collapse in a minute or less and die a few
minutes later ; it should be left in the closed-up chamber for at
least 5 minutes. Dogs should not howl or show obvious distress
before they collapse. There may be semi-conscious howling after
collapse. -

If a lethal chamber for use with coal-gas is being specially
made, the size should be for cats 3 or 4 cubic feet, for large dogs
IO to 15 cubic feet. When a small animal is put into a large chamber
the wasted space should be ﬁlled up with a removable block. The
chamber should be placed in the open air away from windows of
houses. The inlet pipe should be % inch in diameter and should run
all round the bottom of the chamber and be pierced with a number
of holes from which the gas is to issue. A board of wicker-work
0r perforated wood should be laid upon it for the animal’s comfort
and for cleanliness. The outlet pipe should be wide and its Uppﬁ‘r
end should be as high as possible. The whole top or side of the
chamber should form the door, and an inspection window,
protected inside with wire netting, should be provided.

Never have more than one animal at a time in a gas chamber.

. Calor gas and Buta gas should not be used for destroying
animals.

12

 




(6) EMERGENCY STUNNING (to be used only in very

exceptional circumstances).

If the animal is in serious pain stun it by striking it very hard
on the top and towards the back of the head with a heavy object.
To make sure of death after using this or any other method hold
the head in a bucket of water for I 5 minutes.

(7) ELECTROCUTION OF DOGS.

Since consciousness can persist after the heart stops beating.
no electrocution apparatus is satisfactory unless it produces
immediate unconsciousness as well as cessation of the heart-beat.
In order to produce with certainty immediate unconsciousness
and painless death the Electrothanator, which provides for electric
currents to pass both across the brain and through the heart, has
been produced, in co-operation with UF AW, by Electrothanators,
Ltd., I, Broad Street Place, London, E.C.2, from whom all par-
ticulars can be obtained.

The Electrothanator can be either ﬁtted to an existing cabinet
or built into a new one. The apparatus consists of :—

I. A transformer which transforms up mains alternating

current.

2. Efﬁcient wiring between the mains switch and the trans-

former, and between the transformer and the electrodes.

3. Two ear electrodes and a hind electrode. These are placed

in such a way that a stunning current passes across the

brain from ear to ear for one second and produces instant
unconsciousness; immediately afterwards a similar current

passes for two seconds from each car through the heart to a

hind electrode to kill. When the second current has passed

the heart has ceased to beat and the animal is dead.

4. For greater convenience, and to obviate any risk to the

operator, the dog is enclosed in a cabinet.

5. Every machine is ﬁtted with a control panel carrying

meters as follows:—

(1) Before the stunning current is switched on a meter
indicates whether conditions are right for the produc-
tion of true and immediate unconsciousness. This is
a continuity test and shows whether the circuit is
intact and the electrodes correctly applied.

(2) During the ﬂow of the stunning and killing currents,
meters indicate their strength.

The cabinet is a scientiﬁc instrument and every operator must
be carefully trained in its use. It can be used anywhere in the
world where mains alternating current is available. Where there
is no electric current it is possible to use an Electrothanator con-
structed to work by means of a battery ; a model has been developed
which works off a Iz-volt car battery and is therefore suitable for
carrying in an ambulance van.

I3

 




 

 

 

 

The Electrothanator complies with the stringent requirements
laid down by the British Veterinary Association, on the advice of
its Euthanasia Committee, in November, 1954, and with British
Standard No. 2909: 1957. It has been adopted by the R.S.P.C.A.
and by the Dog’s Home, Battersea.

No electrocution cabinet has yet been designed which is
humane for cats. Dangerous dogs are probably best shot (see
page 7)-

Note on Decompression.

It has been suggested that decompression, i.e., lowering of the
air pressure in a closed chamber, is a humane way of producing
unconsciousness and death. Airmen ﬁnd decompression painless
because they have learnt to equalize the pressure inside and outside
their ear-drums. Animals, however, especially if catarrhal, may
not clear their ears by deliberate swallowing, and so may suffer
great pain in the ears and have bursting of the ear drums.

This method cannot be recommended.

(8) NEW-BORN KITTENS OR PUPPIES.

Unwanted kittens or puppies should be taken from their mother
as young as poss1ble, certainly within the ﬁrst three days and
preferably the ﬁrst time the mother leaves them. She should not

see or hear them being taken away, and she should be allowed to
keep one.

(I) One Nembutal capsule (1% grains) given by mouth is
very effective for new-born kittens and puppies (see Dogs and Cats
(I) Pentobarbitone Sodium, page ).

(2) Put the animals into a shallow box or basket softly lined
and transfer this to a lethal chamber. This is humane if the

animals are not more than three days old ; older kittens are difﬁcult
to chloroform.

(3) Use the method described for captive mice and young
rats (1), p. 25.

_ (4) Persons with strong nerves can produce instant uncon-
sc1ousness by grasping the animal’s body, belly uppermost, and
striking the back of the head and neck very hard against a hard,
ﬂat surface of stone, brick, earthenware or wood, e.g. against a
pavement or ﬂoor, or on the edge of a sink or table. The animal
should then be put head down in a bucket of water till dead (15
minutes for safety). The concussion will cause bleeding from the
nose, so the hard surface should be washable.

N.B.—Drowning is not recommended. If it must be resorted
to use water at blood-heat. Hold each animal under water; or
place a ﬂower-pot over each animal, seeing that the water covers the
pot, and keep the pot down with a big stone. Drowning is slow and
causes fear. Adult animals should never be drowned.

I4

 




II . MONKEYS

Monkeys may be humanely killed by injecting IO c.c, of
Nembutal into the chest cavity. They must be adequately
restrained for the injection.

III. KIDS
BY MISS K. MORANT, M.R.C.V.S.
(Reprinted by kind permission of the British Goat Society)

(I) The method of destroying kids that I prefer for the
layman is by the use of chloroform.

Requirements : Chloroform (obtainable from a chemist).
Cotton wool. 2-lb. wide-mouthed jam jar.

Method : Place a pad of cotton wool in the bottom of the jar
and pour on to it 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) of chloroform. Put the
kid on a table or on your lap on a sack and place the jar over its
face, taking care that it is not jammed on tightly. Hold the jar
with one hand and the back of the kid’s head with the other. If
the chloroform is administered slowly and with plenty of air there
will be very little struggling.

The kid will be anasthetized within a few minutes ; this state
can be recognised because the body goes limp, and when the eye is
touched lightly with the ﬁnger—tip there is no blinking of the lids ;
when this occurs the jar may be pushed right on to the head so that
the kid is breathing only chloroform and no air with it. It should
be left in this position for about half—an—hour.

(2) An alternative method is by the use of a captive—bolt

istol.
p Requirements : captive-bolt pistol and cartridges for same.
To obtain such a pistol a permit from the police is necessary. The
price of the pistol is now about £114 ; the weight is up to 6 lbs.

Method : To shoot a kid stand directly behind it steadying its
head by holding its left ear ﬁrmly in the left hand. With the pistol

  
 

DIRECTION

K OF SHOT

   
 

HOLD HUI-1L3
0F PI‘TOL HERE

in the right hand place the muzzle on top of the head just half-way
along an imaginary line drawn between the lower edges of the ears
(see sketch above). Roughly half an inch in front of this point

I5

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there is a prominence which can easily be felt with the ﬁnger. The
target area is between the half-way point and the prominence. The
pistol should be held at such an angle as to direct the bolt towards
the mouth.

Additional note—Drowning should on no account be used; it
is slow and causes extreme fear. Dr. P. G. Croft, M.R.C.V.S.,
recommends shooting from in front, as for a calf.

IV. EMERGENCY KILLING OF FARM STOCK

(I) THE USE OF A HUMANE KILLER (CAPTIVE-BOLT OR
BULLET). For addresses of manufacturers see page 6.

(Instructions reprinted by kind permission of the Scottish
S.P.C.A. from The Scottish Slaughterman’s Manual of the Humane
Slaughter of Animals, a small leaﬂet issued gratis by the S.S.P.C.A.,
19, Melville Street, Edinburgh, 3.)

These directions and suggestions are based upon long observa-
tion and study at ﬁrst hand, and have been approved by the most
experienced demonstrators of humane methods, many of whom are,
or have been, practical butchers. The diagrams illustrate how each
class of animal should be shot so as to produce complete and
immediate unconsciousness.

The black spots show where the instrument should be placea.
and in all cases the arrows show the direction in which it should be
ﬁred. It is important that the muzzle of the instrument be held
ﬁrmly but gently against the animal’s head.

Cattle.
Using Bolt or Bullet.

 

Place the muzzle square on the forehead.

N.B._—The muzzle should be placed é— inch to right or left of
spot when shooting bulls and old or hard-headed beasts to avoid

the strong ridge of bone going down the middle line of the forehead.

16

 




 

Calves.
Using Bolt or Bullet.

 

Place the muzzle square on the middle line of the forehead
slightly lower than for cattle.

Ordinary Homless Sheep and Rams.
Using Bolt.

 

Place the muzzle of the instrument on top of the head, as shown
above, and aim towards the gullet.

Using Bullet. 4

§£Wi 25"”

\a ..............
~o -/-—\ . ,,
x C) , '

   

\\
Place the muzzle where thehorn would grow and aim towards

the opposite shoulder.

I7

 




 

 

 

 

 

Horned Sheep and Rams.
Using Bolt or Bullet.

 

Place the muzzle just behind the middle of the ridge which runs
between the horns and aim towards the mouth.

When shooting rams or very heavy sheep, always use the
strongest sheep cartridges.

Pigs.
Using Bolt or Bullet.
Since July Ist, 1954, when the Slaughter of Animals (Pigs)
Act came into force, it.has been illegal to slaughter any pig over

the age of 12 weeks without producing immediate insensibility by
means of a mechanically operated instrument.

 

Place the muzzle square on the middle line of the forehead
and about a ﬁnger-breadth above the level of the eyes, and pointed
slightly up. Note the low position of the pig’s brain.

A leaﬂet Electric Stunning of Pigs, the conditions requisite for

ensnring humaneness, by Dr. Phyllis Croft, M.R.C.V.S., is issued
- gratis by UF AW.

Theaneesthetiza'tion of pigs in slaughterhouses by means of
carbon d10x1de is humane and is new legal.

18

A\/ H-




c§ ﬁr

Goats.
Using Bolt or Bullet.

 

Place the muzzle just behind the middle of the ridge which runs
between the horns and aim towards the mouth.

Horses, Mules and Donkeys.

 

When shooting a horse a head piece should be attached so
that an assistant can hold it. If the horse is very restless, it should
be blindfolded. It is essential to shoot above the level of the eyes.

A horse’s brain is in the upper part of the head, and failures
have occurred through shooting in the middle of the forehead.
Particular care must therefore be taken to place the instrument
high up, as shown by the above illustration, ﬁring the bullet where
the arrow points (half way across the forehead). If the muzzle of
the instrument is sloped, place the muzzle ﬂat on the forehead,
which will direct the bullet a little upwards. But if the muzzle 15

I9

 

 




 

 

 

not sloped give the instrument a very slight tilt by lowering the
cartridge chamber end and the bullet will travel as required.
Donkeys should be shot in the same way as horses.

Camels.

/’ / / /
"I
lrlt //’ ,

Diagram for use overseas kindly supplied by the Society for
Protection of Animals in North Africa, 15, Buckingham Gate,
London, S.W.I.

(2) EMERGENCY SHOOTING WHEN A HUMANE KILLER
IS NOT AVAILABLE.

To kill a sheep, goat or larger animal, use a 12-bore or 20-bore
shot-gun with shot not smaller than No. 5. Either shoot as described
under Use of a Humane Killer IV (I) but hold the muzzle of the
shot-gun 3 to 6 feet from the animal’s head ; or feed the animal
and shoot it behind the ear with a shot—gun held 3 to 6 feet away
and directed forwards.

To kill a farm animal with a riﬂe or revolver, shoot as described
under Use of a Humane Killer IV (I) but hold the muzzle of the
gun one inch from the animal’s head.

If the carcase is to go to the butcher it must be bled ; suspend
it bly the hind legs and cut through the large blood vessels of the
nec .

Do not attempt to kill any animal with an air-gun.

V. SQUIRRELS IN CAGE TRAPS

Cage traps are now recommended by the Forestry Commission
for the capture of squirrels. The following description of the best
way to kill a squirrel caught in a cage trap has been contributed
by Mr. F. A. Courtier, of the Forestry Commission :

Place the cage containing the squirrel in the mouth of a light
sack. Before opening the cage be careful to ensure that any loose

20

 




 

 

sacking is taken in and held ﬁrmly until the squirrel is safely run
out into the sack. Once the squirrel is in the sack it usually climbs
up to the place where the mouth of the sack is being held. When
it reaches this point its head can be distinguished quite plainly
beneath the sacking, and a single, sharp blow on the back of the
head with a short, stout stick will dispatch it immediately. If the
squirrel refuses to climb up inside the sack, lay the sack containing
it on a ﬂat piece of ground, drive the squirrel into one corner, and
kill it as described above. The grey squirrel is an extremely tough
little animal and is difﬁcult to kill humanely except by this method.

VI. MINK

UFAW cannot recommend the electrical method now com-
monly used for killing mink, and a truly humane electrical method
would be extremely difﬁcult to devise. Recommended killing agents
are motor-car exhaust gas (see page 27) or nitrogen. The nitrogen
method is fully described in a separate leaﬂet obtainable from
UFAW ; it is very satisfactory and has been worked out with the
co-operation of Mr. A. F. Bell, Chairman of the Fur Breeders’
Association of the United Kingdom.

VII. GREY SEALS, STRANDED DOLPHINS
AND PORPOISES

Grey Seals.
Adults.

Shoot with a .303 riﬂe at fairly close range using split-nosed
ammunition. Aim at the front of the head or, from behind, at
the neck or back of the head.

Pups.

Pups may be shot either with a' shot-gun at point-blank range
or with a .32 Webley & Scott humane killer (see page 6) using a
.32 / 98 cartridge (Kynoch) , of either weak or medium strength, as
used for sheep and young cattle, and solid or dum-dum-nosed lead
bullets. The marksman should not ﬁre until the revolver is against
the head or as near to it as possible.

In the case of an aggressive animal shoot at the hind aspect of
the head, as in the diagram, or at the junction of the head and neck,
and subsequently at the front aspect in case the hind-brain only
has been damaged. From the front aim at a point about I inch
behind the point of intersection of imaginary lines taken diagonally
from each external ear to the opposite eye. An assistant can help
by attracting the animal’s attention.

21’

 

 




 

 

Second shot.
Stranded Dolphins and Porpoises.

Shoot 2 or 3 inches behind the nostrils, which are far back on
top of the head, using a Webley .32 humane killer and the strongest
cartridges, as used for cattle and horses, with solid—nosed lead
bullets.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

VIII. CAPTIVE RABBITS, GUINEA-PIGS,

HAMSTERS, RATS AND MICE

Captive Rabbits.

(1) Sit the rabbit on a table ; lift it by the ears till its forepaws
are just clear of the table and hit it very hard behind the ears with
a poultry stunner (see Poultry IX (I) page 26) or heavy stick.

(2) Hold by the hind legs in the left hand, as in the illus-
tration. Strike the back of the neck Violently downwards with a
stick about I inch thick and I5 inches long or with a poultry
stunner (see Poultry IX (I) ). A man or really strong woman can
use the “ heel ” of the hand, i.e., the back edge of the hand with
the ﬁngers extended and rigid, but a 'Very hard blow is required.

(3) Hold by the hind legs in the left hand, seize the head
with the right hand, bend sharply back and wrench downwards

 

KILLING A RABBIT BY METHOD (3)
Reproduced from Plate VII, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and
Food Bulletin No. 50, Modern Rabbit Keeping, by permissxon ot
the Controller of H.M. Stationery Ofﬁce.

23

 

 




 

sunnltaneously. Do not be alarmed at post-mortem convulsive
nu :\ eineuts.
(.1) When the rabbit is tangled in a net, seize the head in one
hand and the shoulders in the other, and force the hands together.
N .B.—These methods, especially (3) and (4) should ﬁrst be

practised on a dead animal.

(5) In the case. of rabbits not required for food give intra—
peritoneal liuthatal (see page 1) allowing I c.c. per kg. (zlbs.) of
l)()(l_\' weight ; an average dose is 3.5 c.c. Alternatively use chloro-
torin in a lethal chamber, but this is not particularly quick or
humane for rabbits.

to) To kill a rabbit infected with myxomatosis without
handling the affected parts either shoot it, stun it, or break its neck.
'l‘o stun, steady the body with the foot and hit hard at the back
of the head. To break the neck, put a walking stick across the
neek and, while standing on it, get someone to pull on the rabbit’s
legs with a very hard jerk.

Guinea-pigs.

(1) Hold the animal across the knee with its head down and
(lislot‘ate the neck by a sharp, glancing, downward blow on the
neek ; a poultry stunner may be used for this purpose (See Poultry
1X (1)). then cut the throat.

( ) Kill by concussion thus:—
(a) Hold the guinea-pig ﬁrmly in one hand by the body,
belly uppermost, or
(b) Take the guinea—pig by the hind legs, in the case of a

big, fat animal using both hands,
and strike the back of the head and neck very hard against a hard,
horizontal surface, e.g., a sink or a table. There will be bleeding
from the nose, so the hard surface should be washable. Make
absolutely certain that the blow really produces. unconsolousness,
it ought to produce instant death. If the animal 15 stunned but not
dead, kill it by putting its head in a bucket of water or by cutting
the throat with a sharp knife.

N .B.—These methods should ﬁrst be practised on a dead
animal. .

(3) Use a lethal chamber with chloroform. Only one an1ma1
should be chloroformed at a time. (See Dogs and Cats (4)).

(4) Use a lethal chamber with coal-gas (See Dogs and Cats
(5) ), or nitrogen (See Mink, page 21). .

(3) Give intraperitoneally 56 mg. or more of pentobarbitone

sodium per kg. of body weight.

Hamsters. ‘
l'se a lethal chamber with chloroform or coal-gas (See Dogs

and t‘ats (4) and (5'), or nitrogen (See Mink, page 21).

24

 




 

 

Captive Rats.

(I) If the rat can be handled place it on a duster and wrap
the cluster ﬁrmly round the body, including both front legs; kill
by concussion thus : —.

(a) hold head downwards and strike very hard behind the
ears with a stout wooden stick ; or

(b) hold ﬁrmly, belly upwards, and strike the back of the
head very hard against a hard, horizontal surface. (See Guinea-
pigs (2) )-

(2) Use chloroform in a lethal chamber with the same care as
in the case of cats (See Dogs and Cats (4) ).

(3) Use a lethal chamber with coal-gas (See Dogs and Cats
(5)), or nitrogen (See Mink, page 21).

(4) See Captive Mice and Young Rats (2).
(5) In an emergency release to a good ratting terrier.

(6) For the decapitation of rats in a laboratory it is helpful
to use the Wilkinson Sword Company’s long-handled pruner
(W421) which has very good leverage. Decapitation by this means
requires less physical strength than decapitation with scissors.

N .B.—Drowning causes much suffering and should not be
resorted to if any better method can be used. If this method
cannot be avoided, submerge entirely the cage containing the rat
and weigh it down.

Captive Mice and Young Rats.

(I) Put the animal into a strong paper bag and close the
mouth of the bag. Lay it on a ﬂat surface, such as an asphalt path.
Smash the whole by a violent but careful blow with a ﬂat-iron,
brick or shovel. For safety’s sake add a few more blows.

(2) In the case of a mouse which can be handled, put it under
a funnel which is attached by rubber tubing to a gas jet. Hold the
funnel down, allowing a small air exit, and turn on the gas gently.

(3) If one takes a mouse by the tail and puts it on a surface
that gives it a good foot-hold, it nearly always places itself in the
best possible position for killing, which is done by laying a
pen-holder or pencil across its neck and dislocating it by a sharp
pull on the tail. If, as sometimes happens, the mouse struggles
violently and does not put itself in the proper position when held
by the tail, lift it by the tail and strike its head hard on the edge of
the table ; this stuns it, and dislocation of the neck as described
above is then quite easy.

(4) Use chloroform by one of the following methods:
(3) Use a lethal chamber (See Dogs and Cats (4)).

25

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(b) Place in a desiccator over a piece of cotton wool
soaked in chloroform. This arrangement keeps the
anaesthetic from touching the animal’s skin.

(c) Put the mouse on a duster, spread ﬂat, and cover it
with a glass ﬁlter-funnel ; damp the duster with a
little chloroform, and move the funnel over the
damped patch.

(5) Use nitrogen (See Mink, page 21).
IX. POULTRY

Stunning and decapitation are the safest methods to use.

(I) Hold the bird up with the left hand by the legs, the tail,
and the long feathers of the wings, and give a very sharp rap at the
back of the head (for fowls just behind the comb) with the edge of
a ﬂat piece of heavy wood about 15 inches long. After stunning
cut the throat as near to the head as possible and diagonally. If
the bird is very heavy hang it downwards from a staple in the wall
with the legs tied together, and then stun. Steel-bound stunners
are sold by the R.S.P.C.A., 105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.I.
and by the Council of Justice to Animals and Humane slaughter
Association, 42, Old Bond Street, London, W.I, for about 5/,“-
An effective stunner can be made thus: A piece of wood is required
16in. long x ziin. wide and §in. deep ; of this sin. is shaPed into
a handle; a metal bar IIin. long x —,};in. wide x an, deep is nailed
to each edge of the remaining min. of wood.

(2) Cut off the bird’s head with a rather heavy and very sharp
chopper. An assistant should hold the bird by its legs, wings and
breast, placing the head and neck sideways on a block, with the
bird’s eyes away from the operator. It may be helpful to put round
the. head a noose with a cord attached to it and give this to an
assmtant to hold well away from the chopper. This is probably the
best method for turkeys and geese which have tough necks and
present special difﬁculties. Do not be alarmed at the convulswe
movements which follow decapitation and be prepared for a Spray
of 'blood.

Both methods are fully described in R.S.P.C.A. Pamphlet,
New Series, No. 82 by the late R. O. P. Paddison. The Council of
Justice describes method (I) in an illustrated leaﬂet.

(3) The Jestimah poultry killer, made by Youngs of Horley.
Surrey, price 7 / -, is suitable for amateurs who only occasmnally
have to klll a chicken; professionals can do better with their hands.

(4) The Quick-Easy turkey killer should be useful on turkey
farms and for geese and turkeys in markets. Particulars are
obtainable from Mr. and Mrs. G. Ward, Beighterton Farm,
Weston-under-Lizard, Shifnal, Salop.

26

 




 

(5) 1f bleeding and braining have to be used the bird should
ﬁrst be stunned. After stunning it can conveniently be inverted
in a cone and killed with the Konevale pliers made by Messrs. Cope
& Cope, Ltd., 57, Vastern Road, Reading.

Although electricity is used commercially for the attempted
stunning of poultry it is as yet unsatisfactory. No reliably, humane
method of stunning poultry electrically has yet been found.

Chicks.

(Prepared with the help of the Staff of H oughton Poultry Research
Station)

At the end of a hatch, before discarding unhatched eggs, make
sure that there are no live chicks in them.

To kill any live unemerged chicks which may get into hatchery
dust bins place a layer of crumpled hessian one—inch thick in the bin
over the hatch residue. Pour carbon tetrachloride onto this hessian
in the proportion of 4 tablespoonfuls for a container of 5% cu. ft.
capacity. Put on the lid and label the bin. Leave the bin closed
for 12 hours and open it out of doors.

After sexing and before destruction, chicks should be
comfortably housed in chick boxes. They should at no time be
more than one layer deep.

(1) Individual chicks up to 14 days: Hold the body in one
hand and the head in the other. Break the neck by pressing it on
a sharp table edge with the thumb.

(2) In small or moderate numbers, day-old chicks may be
chloroformed in a lethal chamber (see Dogs and Cats (4) ). A large
R.S.P.C.A. chamber, not of the automatic type, holds nine 25—Sire
chick boxes; if the interior ring of each box is removed eachowﬂl
hold 50 chicks, so that 450 chicks can be destroyed at one time.
Four tablespoonfuls, 2 02s., of chloroform should be poured
on to a piece of hessian spread on top of the boxes, the chamber
should then be sealed and left for at least ten minutes.

(3) Motor-car exhaust gas.

Large numbers of chicks may be destroyed by means of
carbon monoxide, which is contained in coal-gas (see page 12).a.nd
in the exhaust gas from a petrol or diesel engine. The composition
of the exhaust gas depends on the air : fuel ratio combusted 1n the
engine. When the choke is used the ratio is about 8 : I and the
carbon monoxide content of the exhaust gas is about 14%. When
an engine is run normally there is a negligible amount of carbon
monoxide in the exhaust gas.

If the motor—car exhaust gas is run into a small lethal chamber
death occurs so quickly from oxygen lack that there 18 no time for

27

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

carbon—monoxide poisoning to develop. In this case the mucous
membranes are blue-grey after death. On the other hand, if the
choke is used to increase the carbon-monoxide content of the gas,
and if the exhaust gas is conducted into a large chamber, par-
ticularly if provision is made for air to be run in at the same time
as the gas, then death does not occur from oxygen lack but, after
3 or 4 minutes, from carbon-monoxide poisoning. In this case the
mucous membranes are cherry—red after death.

Death from carbon monoxide is slower but less distressing than

death from oxygen lack. However, death from motor-car exhaust
gas is reasonably humane in either case.

_ The gas emerging from a car is hot and smoky and it is essential
for it to be cooled and cleaned before it reaches the birds. The best
way to do this is to bubble the gas through a large volume of water,

and to catch in a ﬁlter any carbon particles which get through the
water.

REQUISITES

I. A car or diesel engine. Two-stroke engines are unsuitable
because there IS much oil smoke in the exhaust gas. A 4—cy11nder
water-cooled engine of 8 or more H.P. is necessary.

2. Hose to connect the exhaust-pipe to the cooler.

3. Cooler. This can conveniently consist of a second—hepd
household hot-water tank, or a metal cylinder, half-ﬁlled Wl'ih
water. Important points to remember are :

(a) The top of the water in the cooler must be lower than

the exhaust pipe of the engine, otherwise water will ﬂow back
into the engine.

(b) There must be sufﬁcient air-space above the water in
the cooler to allow for the surge of water caused by the inrush

of exhaust gas, otherwise water will be blown into the killing
chamber.

(C) The cooler must be air-tight, with the inlet at the
lowest pOSSIble point and the outlet at the highest.

. (d) The cooler must be emptied of water and sludge and
reﬁlled With clean water as often as possible, e.g. after bemg

used a dozen timCS, otherwise smoke will get through into the
killing chamber.

4. Hose to connect the cooler to the killing chamber. This
should .be as long as possible in order to reduce the pufﬁng 0f the
gas as it enters the killing chamber.

.5. A killing chamber. This can easily be made from an
ordinary close-jointed packing-case, ﬁtted with a removable 11d
contalning as much glass window as possible and a closable outlet
hole. Alternatively a chamber can be built big enough to take

28

 

 




 

a trolley containing trays of chick boxes, this also should have an
inspection window. In either case the inlet should be placed low
and the outlet high.

6. A large metal—gauze ﬁlter, with a cloth screen inside it,
should be ﬁtted over the entry-pipe in the killing chamber to catch
carbon particles. It must be renewed at intervals.

7. A maximum—and-minimum thermometer should be placed
in the killing chamber near the entry pipe. If the outdoor tempera-
ture is 5oOF . the maximum temperature in the chamber should not
exceed 56°F. if cooling is adequate.

METHOD

This method must be used in the open air. A preliminary
trial should be made with no chicks in the killing chamber so as to
test the efﬁciency of the cooler.

Put the chicks into the chamber and start up the car, prefer—
ably using the choke. When the chamber is full of gas the engine
is stopped and the chamber outlet closed. If gas is passed for 2
minutes and the chicks are left in the closed chamber for a further
period of 3 minutes they should all be dead.

All apparatus can be obtained at low prices from F. V. Pond
(Spares and Supplies), Wharf Road, Newbury, Berks.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exhaust pipe.

Hose.

Cooler (3ft. long, gin. diameter) half-ﬁlled with water.
Coiled hose.

Killing chamber.

6. Metal-gauze and cloth ﬁlter.

Maximum-and-minimum thermometer.

0. Supporting block.

U-Lx'JJNH

“\J

20

I

 

 

 




 

 

X. OTHER BIRDS

Small Birds.

(1) Use a paper bag as for captive mice and young rats (1),
page 25.

(2) Holding with the left hand, take the neck between the
thumb and foreﬁnger-knuckle of the left hand. Apply the thumb
and foreﬁnger-knuckle of the right hand to the neck, close to those
of. the left hand. Grip hard with both hands simultaneously, and
pull them apart with a twist. The head should come off immediately.

(3) Hold the body in the hand and with a swinging motion
strike the head smartly on a hard object. Add a second blow for
safety’s sake. This is suitable for birds up to the size of a pheasant.

(4) Use a chloroform lethal chamber ; death is rapid.

(5) Budgerigars die almost immediately if »§- to I cc. of

Euthatal is injected into the soft part of the abdomen with a ﬁne.
needle ;:-inch long.

Large Birds, e.g., Oiled Sea Birds.

(1) Shoot, using a shot-gun with bore not less than 0.410.

(2) Catch the bird by getting between it and the sea and
driving it up the beach; make a gradual approach, do not rush.
Take the bird’s body in the hand and hit the head very hard on a

solid object such as a rock. Do not use chloroform, as diving birds
can hold their breath for a long time.

XI. TORTOISES AND OTHER REPTILES

Tortoises.

(I) Place the tortoise with its head towards you. There is a
soft spot between the head and fore-leg on each side. At this point
inject 3 cc of Euthatal rapidly using a very long but fairly thin
needle (2 to 3 inches long, standard wire gauge 18). Push the
needle in hard towards the tail so that it penetrates the thorax.
There should be no response to stimulus after IO minutes but watch
the animal for 15 minutes. Subsequently decapitate.

(2) It is almost impossible to kill tortoises in a chloroform
Clhamber, but 30 drops of chloroform may be injected under loose
5 1n.

. (3) In an emergency draw out the head of a tortoise and cut
it off, preferably with bone forceps.
Note on British Snakes and Lizards.

Do not kill them, leave them alone. If they are injured when

found they should be killed by hitting them very hard on the head
With a strong stick. i

Lizards and Snakes in Vivaria.

To kill a lizard throw it as forcibly as possible on to a concrete
ﬂoor; this sounds brutal but it is in fact humane as it kills

30

 




 

immediately. Alternatively, use the method described under
Captive Mice and Young Rats (1), page 25 ; or place in the mouth
a drop of pure nicotine (obtainable only by means of a signed
prescription).

To kill a snake hold it about 6 inches behind the head and
decapitate it on a heavy block with a sharp axe; alternatively,
place a drop of pure nicotine in the mouth.

XII. FROGS AND TOADS

Frogs and toads migrate in spring from their hibernating quarters to
their breeding quarters. The migration only lasts a few days and the
animals do no harm.

If really necessary, use the method described under Captive
Mice and Young Rats (I), page 25.

For Dissection, etc.

(1) These animals can be satisfactorily anaesthetized before
killing thus:—

Into a beaker put 1% or 2% urethane solution to a depth of
about 1 inch (to make a 1% solution add I dessertspoonful of
urethane to 1 pint of warm water). Put the frog into the solution
and see that its head is just above the surface. Cover the beaker,
as the solution is volatile, and leave it so for about 5 minutes.

Alternatively place the frog in a desiccator over a piece of
cotton wool soaked in ether or chloroform. This arrangement keeps
the liquid anaesthetic from touching the animal.

(2) Decapitation is humane if done with an instrument as
sharp as a razor, preferably an extremely sharp pair of scissors.

(3) Pithing.

(a) Wrap a duster round the frog, leaving only the head
exposed, and hold the animal in the left hand. Take a strong,
sharp pair of scissors and place the lower blade across the mouth,
over the tongue, as far back as possible. With a rapid stroke cut
the head off behind the eyes, leaving the lower jaw intact; this
removes the fore-brain. It will be found that the cranial cavity
is then easily visible. Immediately destroy the posterior brain by
thrusting a straight seeker into the cavity and stirring it round. . If
necessary the spinal cord can subsequently be destroyed by pushing
the seeker on down through the middle of the spinal column.

(b) This technique is more difﬁcult than (a) and should be
learnt from an experienced operator. Wrap a dusterround the frog,
leaving only the head exposed, and hold the animal 1n the left hand.
Bend the neck forward by putting the first ﬁnger of the left hand
over the nose. With a semi-sharp seeker, or with a No. 14 or No.
16 steel knitting needle which has been sharpened with emery paper,
feel for the gap at the back of the skull where it 101ns thevertebral
column. Make a quick, sharp, downward Jab at thls pomt 1n the
mid-line through the skin, and immediately turn the needle forward
to stir up the brain and destroy it completely. If the cord 15 to be

31

 




 

destroyed, remove the animal from the duster and pass the seeker
through the same hole backwards down inside the spinal column.

(c) To pith the South African clawed frog (Xenopus laevzs)
the head of which cannot be bent forward, thrust a blunt, straight
seeker into the cranium through one of the nostrils. Destroy the
brain and drive the seeker through the foramen magnum down to
the urostyle.

XIII. FISH
(l) Trout under 32- lb.
Hold the ﬁsh in the left hand. Place the right thumb in the

mouth and the right foreﬁnger at the junction of the head and neck.
Bend the head sharply, when a crack will be felt.

(2) Large Trout and Medium Coarse Fish.

Hold the body in the hand and strike a stone with the back
of the head.

(3) Pike and Large Coarse Fish.
Strike on the back of the head with a strong stick.

(4) Common Eels.

Eels should be killed as soon as they are caught. Hold the eel
with a cloth or big handkerchief, as it is too slippery to hold in the
bare hands, and strike the back of its head on a stone ; or else hold
the wrapped eel in one hand, or put a foot on its body, and strike the
back of the head with a heavy stick. It is important to strike the
back of the. head and not the nose ; this also applies to trout,
salmon and coarse ﬁsh. It is wise to cut off the eel’s head with a
sharp knife after the blow, as the creature may be only stunned
and not dead. If an axe is available, e.g., in a ﬁsh market, eels
and other ﬁsh can be decapitated by striking with a sharp axe
between the neck and the head.

(5) Fish in Aquaria.
Use the method described under Captive Mice and Young

Rats (I), page 25 ; or throw the ﬁsh as forcibly as possible on to a
concrete ﬂoor, this kills instantly.

XIV. INSECTS

Ants.
In the open spray with parafﬁn oil or petrol, this kills instantly ;
or pour on boiling water. Ants will not cross creosote.
Wasps.

Pour on boiling water, this kills instantly ; with cold water
death is unnecessarily slow.

 




 

It may be possible to pour chloroform through an iron tube
into inaccessible nests in roof spaces.

In the open put a teaspoonful of Cymag powder into the
entrance to the nest after dusk, and cover. Cymag (sodium cyanide
and magnesium sulphate), by reaction with moisture in the air
releases hydrocyanic acid gas. This is highly dangerous to man and
must not be inhaled. Cymag must never be used oat-of—doors in the
rain, as the gas is then formed very rapidly, and it must never be
used indoors. Cymag is much used for gassing wild rabbits, and
particulars can be obtained from the County Agricultural Executive
Committees. The instructions of the makers, Plant Protection Ltd.,
Yalding, Kent, must be carefully followed.

A hive of diseased bees may be destroyed in the same way by
pushing a teaspoonful of powder inside the entrance to the hive.
Care must be taken not to inhale the gas on opening the hive.

Cockroaches, Locusts, etc., for Dissection.

Place in a desiccator over a piece of cotton wool soaked in
chloroform and seal ﬁrmly.

Butterﬂies, Moths and Beetles.

Collection should be discouraged in favour of studying the
living insects, rearing larvae, etc. Chloroform is an effective killing
agent but it leaves insects too stiff to set. Chemists will supply
cyanide made up with plaster of Paris in a killing bottle to the
parent of a child ; this lays the responsibility for its proper use on
the parent. Children should be warned that insects may appear to
be dead before they really are, and that unless they are left for at
least 24 hours in the killing bottle they may revive on being taken
into the air, sometimes even after being pinned.

Laurel leaves give off hydrocyanic acid gas too slowly to be
satisfactory unless they are prepared in the following manner :—
Pick the laurel leaves in spring or early summer. Chop them into
ﬁne strips and at once pack them tightly into a killing bottle to a
depth of an inch or so. Fit a perforated disc of cardboard over the
laurel leaves. Put loose tissue paper into the rest of the bottle.
Cork tightly with a cork from the underside of which a little hole has
been scooped out and packed tightly with cotton wool. Before
collection damp the cotton wool with ethyl acetate. The cyanide
fumes must not be inhaled by the collector.

For beetles use a bottle ﬁlled with sawdust damped, not wetted,
with ethyl acetate.

33

 




 

 

 

 

XV. CRABS, LOBSTERS AND CRAYFISH

Crabs.

Dr. John R. Baker has shown that the only humane way
to kill crabs for food is to stick them correctly before boiling
them. (“ Experiments on the Humane Killing of Crabs,” ]. Mar.
Biol. Ass, U.K. (1955), Vol. 34, No. 1, pages 15-24.) This sticking
consists of piercing the fore and hind nerve centres with a special
awl. Correct sticking can be learnt by demonstration or by the

very careful study of the illustrations and descriptions which appear

in UFAW’s free leaﬂet The Humane Killing of Crabs and Lobsters,

1963. This method is not applicable to lobsters because their

nervous system is far less concentrated than that of crabs.

Crabs not required for food can be chloroformed (see Crayﬁsh).

Lobsters.

Unfortunately no completely humane method of killing lobsters
has yet been found. The best method so far is to plunge the lobster
into boiling water. Make sure:

(I) That there is a gallon or more of boiling water per lobster;

(2) that there is a very hot ﬂame under the pot;

(3) that the water into which the lobster is to be plunged is boiling
very fast;

(4.) that the lobster is completely immersed. Hold it under the
boiling water with tongs or wooden spoons for two minutes.
With these precautions the lobster should die within I 5 seconds.

If the precautions are not taken the creature’s sufferings will be

prolonged because the water will go off the boil when the cold

lobster is put into it.
Crabs and Crayﬁsh for Dissection.

Chloroforming of crabs and crayﬁsh is likely to be slow unless
the water has drained out of the branchial chambers. The animal
should therefore be left out of water for % hour or so and shaken
free of water before being chloroformed. Place it in a desmcator
over a piece of cotton wool soaked in chloroform and seal the
dcsicator ﬁrmly.

XVI. VARIOUS MARINE ANIMALS
REQUIRED FOR DISSECTION.

HISTOLOGICAL WORK, ETC.
(Contributed by Dr. H. G. I’evers)
Prior to ﬁxation or preservation :—
I. Place in 7% magnesium chloride, leave overnight :——-
molluscs
Actinia sp.
hydroids
bryozo-ans
Amphioxus
34

 

 




 

2. Place in sea-water and sprinkle the surface of the water
with menthol crystals, leave overnight:—
most sea anemones (except Actinia)
marine worms
holothurians
ascidians
3. Place in fresh water for 5—10 minutes:—
starﬁshes
crinoids

XVII. SLUGS AND SNAILS

In small numbers, kill slugs and snails by crushing completely.
In large numbers, collect them in an earthenware container and
pour on fast-boiling water. Water keeps its heat better in glaged
earthenware than in a bucket, so that there is less danger of scalding
without killing if earthenware is used. It is not humane to put these
creatures into salt water.

Drowning for Dissection.

The less the oxygen in the water, and the higher the
temperature, the quicker the drowning, thereforez—use bOiled
water, warm, but not hot enough to spoil the specimens; use the
minimum amount of water necessary for the required number of
animals; and exclude all air, either by using a corked tube com—
pletely ﬁlled with water, or by covering the surface of the water With
oil.

Additional aids:

Slugs. Add to the boiled water a squirt from a syphon of soda-
water. This works well for slugs but not for snails.

Snails. Let a cigarette soak in the warm, boiled water for 5
minutes before adding the snails. . . '

A method of killing snails for dissection by immersion in
Nembutal solution for 17% to 11.1; hours followed by the addition (of
menthol to the water was described in Nature 181. 575, F61). 22D ,
1958, by Bruce M. McCraw, Division of Biology, Ontario Veterinary
College, Guelph, Canada.

XVIII . EARTHWORMS

Leave them alone if possible, otherwise kill them by crushing
Completely or by dropping them into fast—b0111ng water when ey
die immediately.

For Dissection. .
Place in a desiccator over a piece of cottonowool soakeg. in
chloroform. This arrangement keeps the anaesthetic from touc ing
the epidermis. " 35

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This pamphlet is largely based on the chapter ” Euthanasia” by
Major C. W. Hume in Vol. 2 of the Animal Year Book, 1933, which is now
out Of print. The compiler gratefully acknowledges also the help given by
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ; the Scottish
Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ; The Anglo—Italian Society
for the Protection Of Animals ; Dr. K. M. Backhouse ; Dr. John R. Baker,
F.R.S.; Dr. H. F. Barnes ; Miss J. Barrett ; N. M. Barrie, Esq.,
M.R.C.V.S.; F. Barry, Esq.; A. F. Bell, Esq.; Mrs. Frances Bellerby ; Dr.
G. C. L. Bertram; Miss Phyllis Bond; The British Goat Society; R. J.
Bromﬁeld, Esq.; G. S. Cansdale, Esq.; The Council of Justice to Animals
and Humane Slaughter Association ; F. A. Courtier, Esq., of the Forestry
Commission; Dr. Phyllis Croft, M.R.C.V.S.; E. B. Dand, Esq.; W. Eyton
Davies, Esq.; S. W. Douglas, Esq., M.R.C.V.S.; Dr. E. F. Edson; Mrs.
J. W. .Evatt; W. J. Garnett, Esq.; Dr. R. F. Gordon, M.R.C.V.S.; F. H.
Grove, Esq.; Professor H. R. Hewer; G. C. Holliday, Esq.; Houghton
Poultry Research Station; S. Jennings, Esq., M.R.C.V.S.; Miss J. 0.
Joshua, F.R.C.V.S.; R. J. Ladd, Esq., M.R.C.V.S.; Miss F. Macleod
Carey; Professor Sir Bryan Matthews, F.R.S.; R. H. A. Merlen, Esq.,
M.R.C.V.S.; Miss K. Morant, M.R.C.V.S.; C. T. Murphy, Esq.,
M.R.C.V.S.; Dr. R. W. Murray; D. C. Ostler, Esq. M.R.C.V.S.; J. E.
Peachey, Esq.; F. V. Pond, Esq.; Dr. W. M. S. Russell ; C. Schwartz, Esq.,
M.R.C.V.S.; Dr. P. P. Scott; D. J. Short, Esq.; Society for Protection
of Animals in North Africa ; Professor E. T. C. Spooner ; Mrs. C. Stevens,
PICSIdent of the Animal Welfare Institute, New York ; P. D. Turner, Esq.;
Professor G. C. Varley ; Dr. H. G. Vevers ; J‘. P. Volrath, Esq., M.R.C.V.S.;
Dr. T. A. G. Wells; M. H. Williamson, Esq.; Professor J. G. Wright,
M.V.Sc., F.R.C.V.S.; all manufacturers referred to in the leaﬂet; and
members of the Scientiﬁc Advisory Committee and Staff of UFAW.

 

Some UFAW Publications

1961

THE UFAW HANDBOOK ON THE CARE AND MANAGEMENT OF LABORATORY
ANIMALS. Second edition, published 1958, reprinted 1959, greatly en-
larged and almost entirely rewritten. Joint Editors: A. N. Worden and
W. Lane-Petter. 950 pages, 311 illustrations. Price 705. (Distributed by
E. & S. LIVIngstone Ltd., 15-17 Teviot Place, Edinburgh 1.)

THE AERINCIPLES 9F HUMANE EXPERIMENTAL TECHNIQUE by W. M. S. Russell,
:A., D.PhIl., and R. L. Burch. 238 pp, with diagrams, tables, &c.
Price 305. (Published by Methuen & Co., Ltd.)

INTRODUCTION To THE ANAESTHESIA OF L .
ABORATORY ANIMALS b Ph 1115 G.
Croft, Ph.D., M.R.C.V.S. 32 pp. 35. 6d. y y

ANIIgALs IN SCHOOLS: 'THE UFAW GUIDE TO THEIR CARE AND MANAGEMENT
N31, J. P. Yolrath, with a foreword by R. H. Dyball, Chairman Of the Science
asters Assoc1atIon. 2nd edition, 1956. Price 123. 6d.

THE CAT-OWNERs’ GUIDE by John Volrath, M.R.C.V.S. Details of Cat
management In conuse form. 52 pp., 21 plates, 6 diagrams. 55-

THE DOG-OWNERs’ GUIDE b t
7 diagram. 73. 6d. y John Volrath, M.R.C.V.S. 82 pp., 27 pla es,

FACTngESUT FURS by F' 1' Vinter (information on the methods of fur procure-
42 pp., THE WHITE LIST of untrapped furs, 4 pp. gratis.

3f)

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE UNIVERSITIES FEDERATION FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

7a LAMB’S CONDUIT PASSAGE, LONDON, W.C.I

President: EDWARD HINDLE, M.A., Sc.D., Ph.D., F.R.S.

Chazrman: KENNETH BIRD, C.B.E., B.Sc. (Fougasse)

Hon. Treasurer: SIR STEPHEN HOLMES, K.C.M.G., M.C., M.A.
Secretary-General: MAJOR c. w. HUME, o.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., MlBiol-
Laboratories Liaison Ofﬁcer: T. HUGHES ELLIS, F.R.C.V.S.

Buszness Secretary: IWrs. C. BROCKHURST

Conference Secretary: IVIiss FELICITY J. CHARIG

Branch Organizer: Miss NORMA G. ARMSTRONG, B.Sc.

THE AIM OF UFAW

. The aim of UFAW is to promote humane behaviour towards
WlId and domestic animals in Britain and abroad so as to reduce
the sum total of pain and fear inﬂicted on animals by man.

Among the “ Objects for which the Federation is established ”

according to the Memorandum of Association is the following 1—-
. 3(0) To seek the aid of biological research workers and others
In fostering in laboratories in the United Kingdom and abroad
consideration for the physical and mental comfort of experimental
anlmals, avoidance of procedures which involve serious sufferlng,
and the development of techniques calculated to reduce discomfort
t9 3 minimum, but so that the Federation shall not engage on either
5146 in public controversies relating to the legitimacy of making
SCIentiﬁc experiments on animals. .

MEMBERSHIP
ORDINARY MEMBERS must be graduates, undergraduates or
members of the teaching or administrative staffs of a UniverSIty or
hold such professional qualifications as may be approved. . .
ASSOCIATE MEMBERSHIP is open to any person who Is In
SYmpathy with the aim of UFAW.

ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTIONS

Undergraduates . minimum 2/6
Other ordinary members ,, 5/-
Associate members .. 10/‘

SUbscribers of smaller or larger sums are welcomed and will be kept
Informed of UFAW’S activities.

._.__—

 




Primed 2'11 Cred! B/‘z'fai/z by
Lafimer Tram! 2’?” C 0 Liz! W’bz'ijlab/e

 

 




 

, - The Red Fox is ahandsome animal
. ’ ' with its reddish coat, sooty legs
The young 0‘ "‘9 Red and feet, and darker tail tipped

. 532:5: lrgzlinAMliatizl: with white. An adult weighs from
usually consists of‘ i ” ' , pounds.
4 to 6 pups.

 

 

RED Fox
CW%UONG)

 

The Gray Fox is a pepper-and-

salt color above, blending to ' - with 3 to
buffy orange. The tai ’ ‘ .- ' » u __ .l A ,- - . ‘5 pups
is darker above and ‘ ‘ j a I , ' l~ , . " _ - common.

 

 

The Fox has a definite
role in the balance of
Nature. He is neither
all good nor all bad.

Sketches above courtesy of
INTELOPER “Wildlife In North Carolina”

A red fox stopped on a patch of stones His lifted nose questioned the wind,

Where barley brushed his chin, His ears the shifting air.
The sun was rose on his thrusting fur; His wary eyes ranged over the field
His shadow was still and thin. And measured the silence there.

A pebble rolled beneath my foot;
A full-grown fox is wise.
Barley waved above empty stones,

And the sun was red in my eyes.
Nora E.

 




THE RED FOX

The red fox is one of the "wild dog
family. He belongs to the same animal
family as Collies, coyotes and wolves.
we have all heard the expression "sly as
a fox" - - this animal’s very existence
depends upon his slyness and ability to
outwit his enemies. He is cunning and
enjoys matching his wits with his
pursuers. He plays games when being H M»,R
hunted, back tracking, criss-crossing, ” ‘*wenewx,
circling, passing up many good hiding places in order to throw the pursuers off course.

He learns fast when it comes to traps or baited food. His ability to escape from captivity
is phenomenal. He learns from experience and is not easily fooled.

“Heynard” as he is commonly called by many, has a beautiful bushy tail, tipped in white,
Which he is proud of and careful to keep from dragging. His tail affords him a shield when
fighting another fox. He also uses it as a blanket to wrap himself in when he sleeps. To
keep his nose and pads from frost-bite he curls up in a ball and wraps the tail around
himself. His coat is a beautiful golden red and in the sunshine it glimmers with exquisite
tints of orange and reddish brown. His feet and legs are black and he looks as if he is
wearing black boots. His ears are black and the underparts are white. Weight is usually
8 to 12 lbs, about 16 inches in height and length 3 to 3—;- feet.

The red fox is found in almost all of the United States except the Pacific coast
region, southern Atlantic coastal region, desert areas and the swamps of the lower Miss-
issippi Valley. These animals prefer the forest fringes near cultivated fields or
pastures, farmlands, or the brushy areas bordering marshes, and light wooded areas. Their
diet is varied depending on the types of food available to them in or near their habitat.
This can vary from mice, rabbits, game birds, eggs, moles, shrews, weasels, fruits, berries,
tadpoles, frogs, earthworms, etc. They hide or cache some of the food they do not eat,
going back to unearth it from beneath the leaves or tufts of grass where it has been
carefully tucked away for later use.

The red fox is an alert and aggressive hunter listening for the slightest sound of a
rodent scurrying from his path. Reynard has gained a bad reputation for raiding poultry
houses and killing game nesting birds. However, it is felt he is more beneficial to the
farmer then detrimental because of his assistance in controlling the mice and rat popul-
ations which plagues many farmers.

The fox often burrows or digs into the ground making tunnels and dens in the loose
sandy soil. Sometimes dens are dug under rock ledges or near the top of a ridge or clay
bank with the entrances concealed by grass, brush and leaves. He may take over an old
woodchuck or porcupine burrow which he enlarges and remodels, or find the former home of
another fox family in a dense thicket or wooded area.

In-March or April the pups are born with an average of A to 6 pups to a family. Papa
Reynard is the one who brings home the bacon to the family. He is busy feeding them until
the late summer when the youngsters are taught to hunt. The young pups are fluffy short-
legged alert and sharp-eyed youngsters. They are playful and active, but ever on guard
listening and noticing any movement nearby.

The female,or vixen, has a yapping voice more like a scream than a bark. The male
gives a deep yelp more like a gargling sound. They can also screech which makes you want
to stuff your ears with cotton.

The enemies of the red fox are coyotes, wolves, bobcats, lynx, eagles and the hunter
with his pack of hounds.

There are four distinct color phases besides the normal red-coated fox. One may be
silver, which is really black densely furred all over with a Sprinkling of grayish white
guard hairs that are long and lustrous. Another may be completely black with a white tail
tip or it can be brownish yellow with a black undercoat, black down the back and across
the shoulders and is called the "cross“ fox. In the Eastern U.S. the red fox is usually
red. In the western states the "cross" foxes are more common, while the "black" and
"silver" foxes are found in Alaska.

 




  

THE GRAY'FOX

The gray fox is about the size of a small dog. His total
length including the tail is about ho inches, and he weighs between
8 and 11 pounds when full grown. The gray fox differs from the red
by having a black tipped tail instead of a white tipped one. In
general appearance the gray looks like a common red fox wearing a
grizzly gray overcoat and cap. Few more beautiful animal faces
exist than the American gray fox. The friend of animals will find him
respect. The up-pricked ears, the magnificient tail,
seldom found in other animals.

The gray fox is adept at climbing, and may go up a tree like a bear or jump from limb
to limb using his nails in the manner of a cat. He is at home in wooded areas, swamps and
pine woods. Gray foxes unlike the red who inhabits the fields, are not often seen in Open
areas. He also likes the warm climates and is more abundant in the South, Southwestern
and Southern Pacific States. He is known from New England to South America.

The young are born about March or April and the litter can number from.l to 10.

3 to 5 pups in a litter are more common. The female has only one litter a year. The
young are born blind and helpless but with a very high I.Q. They are playful little
fellows, rolling, biting each other and chasing their tails. The mother and father are
good parents and care for their young very devotedly. The male remains with the female
during the breeding season and helps feed the young until they are able to travel with
their mother. The litter disbands around August after the young are able to find
hunting grounds of their own. ’

The gray fox is more shy and retiring than his red cousin. He is a meat eater and
vegetarian. He preys upon rabbits, cotton and wood rats, ground squirrels, meadow mice,
birds, turtles, eggs, snakes, lizzards and insects. He eats a lot of vegetable matter
such as grapes, persimmons, wild cherries, corn,apples and peanuts. Normally wild fruits
berries and farm vegetables which make up part of his diet are scarce during the winter.
Then the gray fox must live on mice, and other rodents, birds, rabbits and carrion such
as dead squirrels or other small mammals. He does not store food because he lives
mostly in warmer climates where some kind of food is available for him.

The gray fox dens up in a variety of places such as hollow ledges, rock piles, tree
cavities, hollow logs, or holes in the side of hills or beneath overhanging tree roots.

The enemies are the same as the red fox, such as the coyote, bobcat, lynx, eagle,

just right in every
intelligent eyes, such beauty is

etc.

You may hear foxes called many names because he raids a chicken house once in awhile.
we believe the fox performs a valuable service in the roll of a predator because of his
appetite for field mice and other rodents. Be is simply another animal who eats when he
can, goes hungry when he can't, and has problems of survival and the pursuit of happiness
like all other animals. He is no threat to mankind which makes it all the more of a
mYStery as to why he is persistently hunted and destroyed.

Anyone will admit, he is a handsome, witty little creature with "personality plus".
Like another member of his family, the coyote, he is a "living mousetrap", and one of
our most colorful and beautiful wild animals.

The fox keeps his wet nose warm with his fail.

, ‘J mix

,, f?” “ | .

/ ,7; / 5,. . - ‘ . um.
///: ’71, 41/, 1..., ‘ _ \ V: 'x. .
ré’ﬁ/M/r. ’I/ w \ m ‘
{/1’. . ‘- "1' r’ " "\ V“ '

,///-/ ‘v V". .I I _" ,, ’ ,_ - ‘\ .
r,/ \i , ., ‘\.I"""‘
\Y It: : “ it ‘1'- |‘ x ‘ d

\

\"\\\‘

\_\ ' /

  
  
  
  
   

  
   




THE KIT FOX

The kit fox is known as the "swift" or
"desert" fox, and is found in the great plains
region from New Mexico north to Saskatchewan,
Canada. He ranges as far east as Colorado, Kansas
and Texas.

The kit fox is smaller than the gray or red
fox and is called "kit" because of his small size.
His ability to run fast also tagged him with the
name "swift". He is a small, slender animal with
large ears, long bushy black tipped tail and is
grayish with buff Colored undersides. He weighs
about h to 5 lbs and is about 12 inches high.

The kit fox is not as sly or cunning as the
gray or red fox and has been caught in traps and
poisoned with chemically treated bait to such an
extent that he has vanished in many parts of his
natural range in the U.S.

The little fox dens up in burrows in the
loose sandy soil along banks of gullies, in sand
dunes, or he may take over and remodel a badgers
burrow to suit his own needs. He usually has two
or three exits to give him chance for escape or a
quick exits from his enemies. He can also seek
refuge more readily when danger approaches.

(Photo by Robert L. Leatherman)

The kit fox lives in the sandy plains because he eats mostly rodents which are
plentiful in these areas. He usually hunts by night and dens up in the daylight hours.
The kangaroo rat is a favorite food. He also eats pocket mice, ground squirrels, rabbits,
snakes, lizards, beetles, grasshoppers and many other insects. In the state of Texas
the kit fox has been almost completely exterminated by poison bait and now the kangaroo
rat and other rodents are doing extensive range damage. In killing or poisoning these
little animals ranchers are only cutting off their nose to spite their face.

In the southern U. S. the young are born around February. In the more northern
climes the litter is born later, and can number from 2 to 7. They are reared in much the
same fashion as the gray and red fox youngsters, with both parents taking part in caring
for and feeding them.

The kit fox is one of the rarest of our North American mammals. He is a very
valuable predator and should not be killed for any reason. As a destroyer of hordes of
rodents and insects he is invaluable as a part of the checks and balances of nature.

Defender: of Wildlife

809 DUPONT CIRCLE BUILDING
WAﬁﬂNGTON d D.C.

 




 

 

THE EXCEPTIONALLY FINE DRAWINGS of

moose seen on these pages were done

by research biologist VAL GEIST in
. Wells Gray Park. He is studying

the private lives of moose and has

spent many hours in his vantage
points, from dawn to dusk, watching,
writing, sketching.

MOOSE are the largest deer in the
world. They live in summer near
forest edges where they are close

to lakes, rivers, meadows, or bogs.
. In winter they often find tasty
STORY by R. Y. EDWARDS food among the fresh growths that

appear in the wake of forest fires.

DRAWINGS by VAL GEIST

LIKE ALL LIVING THINGS, moose are designed for successful living. Long legs
give speed and the ability to move in deep water and deep snow. Ears and eyes
are large to identify friend and foe. The muzZle is long and muscular for
grasping twigs--the major food in winter. The function of the "bell" (the skin
hanging from the throat) is unknown.

 

(please turn page)

Note: Reprinted from Wildlife Review, April 1961 issue.
A few additional facts were added to the legend
for the benefit of students.

 

 

 

 




 

f.

' , I
/ 7%772'4‘ ’
' / ‘ V.) ' a I; 1/4/4";

I f... D.- '

; I "’1 n‘ / H

II, I.” . . I
. ‘ ‘ft’l’fv g:

.l
. . '3'... ,
6 .‘.I‘ / I

I(\

. M
r\.. M N
' //////’(;///// w“ W/

  

 
 
 
  

.N‘", wwyvt “A1
"ii/f ﬁfﬂ/W, . ”/4 /////£\

  
  

,Wz/ K7!
«'3- (“AMA

 

   
    
 

     

(gf/r;

THE WINTER IS GONE. Moose are growing new coats and are shedding their
winter hair. A new crop of moose calves has been born. Here a cow and
her calf have an unexpected meeting with a black bear while both are
searching for the first succulent growths of spring in the marshy valley.

The animals will withdraw to a respectful distance and continue their
feeding.

.
_... \_ —
{“i‘.
\\

j
{,9

5' .4
, W 5'
I mega?

\
\

‘\\
‘\

I
4

I ’ '

 

IN SPRING AND SUMMER the antlers of the bulls grow rapidly. The bulls
are well fed, for nutritious food is abundant. They feed and grow fat
in preparation for the fall breeding season and the hazards of winter.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

7i

DURING THE SUMMER the growing
antlers have been protected by

a soft substance known as velvet.
Through it and beneath it they
have become well hardened. As
the breeding season approaches
the'bulls test their antlers on
young saplings; the drying

velvet falls away and young,
strong weapons are revealed.

.' ‘
I ¥¥¥

Moose have the largest antlers
of any of the mammals ever known.

The males have large flattened antlers.
The females have none.

 

‘A .‘C
.. i

.' 1 ',

.1 -
lo, I 4, _ .

,', , I .

‘v1 | '
,. . . ..
. I . -

.
,‘ . .
h l ' I" l
I I ’
.
I,
7 , V,
' I 1/,
. ;
.
, I
‘ . I
41'
‘
J ‘4
‘.\ \ i
'\

"\ ,f ’/ I 'i /// /
- (“WV/£1 ’n/(“( (if; I, :6 '1
awe“ /

    

\

LII/32;? )6
BY LATE SEPTEMBER the breeding
season is in full swing. Bulls
roam the forest seeking cows and
move aggressively toward other
males. Usually there is no
fight when bulls meet, one or
other giving way after a short
41.; 4 .i “,3 . a 3, pushing match. Sometimes, well-
' M ?.. g, . matched bulls will engage in
”H“ _ I 1 ”“ vigorous battles while, on rare
occasions, the antlers of fight-
ing bulls will become locked.
This spells the doom of one or
, both animals, for the antlers
“ I V 'j can rarely become separated
migiwbwfm MM,“ thk while they live. After terrific
wam;%W/,,tM,q Tag effort, they die of exhaustion
”d or starvation-—victims of their
own irresistible mating urge.

 

 

     
 
  

    

“i. «'r‘VIIHHMI/ .ut‘l‘ﬂ‘m ‘1“, W”! “i

'31- “‘u..&‘\u‘ltuuvh w h muukakﬂ'“

MOOSE are browsers, that is, they
feed mainly on shrubs and trees.
In'winter they eat the twigs from
the end of branches, for these
are tender and more nutritious
than large stems. ‘Here a bull
reaChes for twigs from a willow-
They are out of reach, but he
breaks the main stem as he has
already done to the other stems
around him. When they are frozen
and brittle, he is able to break
large stems in this way-

 

 

 

 

 




 

SOME BUIlS keep their antlers well
into the winter but most have shed
them by late December. The breed-
ing season is over and here a for-
est monarch rests in the snow.
Ahead is the long winter with its
deep snow and its ever-growing
shortage of food.

 

These animals reach a height of 6

to 7 ft at the shoulders and can
weigh from 1000 to 1800 lbs. The
male is much larger than the female.
Their body is covered with heavy

dark brown coats about 1 inch thiCk.
Despite their ability to disappear
aquiCKly and travel great distances

on their long legs, the moose usually
spend their life in a relatively small
area. In winter they band together
'under a cover of thick foliage, >wnuw'"“
usually conifers which protects them
from the snow and wind. They browse
and feed on the nearby ridges and
bordering timber.

‘
\\\\\\“ ‘ _ \ .
\-" ' ‘ ““.‘::\ .
V

‘ _ .\
\\x\
\\\t

\\

i ‘15, \
\\ x \h“\‘ h
‘ .
X \ \§\
*5 . Es“
. 3 \ ‘
. \“
\\\

\

\

They sometimes fall prey to cougars
or wolves in the wintertime when food
is scarce and they are weakened by
starvation and cold. They also are
’victims of malnutrition, ticks, or
other diseases when the winter is
unusually long and severe.

Moose have an excellent sense of

smell and their hearing is phenomenal.
Their ears are in constant motion and
they can detect the approach of another
animal or person long before the human
ear senses a sound. They are good
swimmers and will linger near lakes or
streams during the summer in order to
nibble the water plants and grasses

and to wade in and swim around to avoid
mosquitoes and other biting insects.
They also indulge in mud'baths wallowing
about to coat themselves sufficiently to
discourage biting pests.

Moose suffered the fate of so many other wild animals when America was settled. Now small
numbers of them can be found in New Hampshire, Vermont and Massachusetts. They also range
from Novia Scotia and the Adirondack Mountains west through Northern Minnesota, Michigan,

Central Saskatchewan, Canada, and in the Mackenzie River Delta to Bristol Bay (Canada) and

Kenai Peninsula of Alaska. In the Western states they can be found in Washington, Wyoming,
and Idaho.

 

 

 

 




Photo -— Courtesy of the Texas Game and Fish Commission

The ringtail is found in southwestern Oregon, California, western Colorado, and
eastern Texas in the United States and from Texas on south into South America.

The ringtail is much more elusive in character than the raccoon, more retiring and
shy, but has the same nocturnal and eating habits as his cousin. They are a small f0x-
like animal with small pointed ears, long bushy ringed tail (which is not a complete
ring — rings do not meet on the undersides as they do on the raccoon and coati) and coat
of rich orange brown color. The undersides are white, eyes surrounded with whitish cir-
cles with black patches on the side of the nose and at the base of the ears. The tail
is dark brown with seven white bands, white tipped and about 15 inches long, or as long

as the headlandqbody combined. The body length is’about 2 to 2-1/2 ft. long, 6 inches
high at the shoulder and weight 2 to 2—1/2 pounds.

The ringtail goes by many names. In Mexico they are called "Civet Cat", "Miners
Cat", "Coon Cat", "Band-tailed Cat" and "Ringtail". The scientific name "Bassaricus
astutus" means "clever little fox" which seems more appropriate for this inquisitive and
sly little animal. "Miners Cat" comes from the animals habit of taking up residence in
abandoned mine shafts, prospectors cabins or hunting lodges because of the abundance of
rats, mice and other rodents. The ringtail also nests in holes or crevices among the
rocks or in trees.

The young are born during May and June, usually 1 to 5 in a litter, and are about
the size of a new born kitten. At two months of age they are out with the mother foraging
and hunting for food. At 4 months they are able to make their own way in the world.
They are great meat eaters, like fruit and vegetables, and also love sweets.

If caught young, they make delightful and congenial pets. They are very beneficial
in the checks and balance scheme of Mother Nature because they help control rodents and
insects.

 




CACOMIXTLE

Raccoons

 

Coati or Coatimundi

 

The coatis are really natives of Central and South America. In the United States
they are found in.Arizona, New Mexico, and a few in Texas. They prefer the tropical
climates. There are several different species, and some are smaller than those found
in the United States. In.Arizona they are called "Chollas".

They travel in tribes of all ages and are often seen in troops of 15 or 20. The
band usually consists of the female and her offsprings, since the male is antisocial
and doesn't care for company except during mating season.

The coati is more slender than the raccoon, has a longer tail and their nose is
long and upturned. They are either a gray or tannish brown in color depending on their
habitat, fur is short and coarse, and they have long sharp claws. They are strange
looking and many people seeing them.for the first time do not recognize them. Their
habits are much the same as the raccoon. They eat most everything, hunt both night and
day, and sleep both aloft or on the ground. They are adept at leaping about through
the trees and frequently dine on fruits and nuts. Lizards are one of their favorite
meals which they go in search of among the trees. Coatis are able to pivot on their

hind legs and do an about face with comparative ease which aides them in their arboreal
hunts.

The coati measures from 4 to 4-1/2 ft. in length, about lO inches high at the
shoulder and weighs from 10 to 20 lbs. The females weigh much less. Usually four
to five young are born at one time. ' '

They are beneficial because of their ability to capture mice, rats and other
rodents which over run us at times.

Defendem 0f Wildlzfe

809 DUPONT CIRCLE BUILDING
WASHINGTON 6, D. C.

 




/ ”A,
n . ff; ‘
-,.;.-.‘,,/’_///

The den of the rac-
coon can be found in
hollow trees or aban-
doned squirrel nests,
musk/rat houses, slough
grass, hag/stacks and
abandoned burrows.
Dens located in maple,
elm, oak, and sycamore
trees.

WALKING

THE RACCOON FAMILY

 

FRONT

vu ,.
|\||Iu

O.

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

HIN D

The hind foot is about I, to 7 inches in length

' Ch

Sketches reprinted through courtesy ofLouisiana Wildlife

 




THE RACCOON FAMILY

The raccoon is one of three animals of the United States with a black ringed tail. The
other two are the "Coati or Coatimundi" and the "Ringtail" or "Cacomixtle".

The raccoon is more familiar to all of us, because it is found in all parts of the U. S.
as well as in Southern Canada and as far south as South America. It is a small stocky bushy
haired animal with a foxlike masked face. They are grayish brown in color with a black mask
across the cheeks and eyes and have a streak of black up the nose and forehead. Their ears
are short, toes long and sensitive, and they have a short full tail ringed in black and white.
Total length of this animal is about three feet long, height at shoulder about 12 inches and
one can weigh up to 45 lbs. Average weight however is about 15 lbs.

Many southerners call these little animals "coons" and rarely are they called raccoons
by the country folk. Raccoons are often referred to as the little brother of the bear be—
cause in winter he goes into a state of semi-hibernation, only coming out of the den on the
warmest nights. Both the bear and the raccoon are omnivorous.

Raccoons are expert swimmers and good/climbers. They are one of our most versatile wild
animals. Not only do they live in all parts of the United States, their diet is as varied as
their habitat. They like living near water or swampy moist areas. They build their nests in
hollow trees, old logs, or deep in the crevices of a rocky ledge inaccessible to their ene—
mies. They will also den up in old buildings, beaver lodges or take over the nests of mag-
pies or hawks. Br'er Coon can adapt himself to civilization also, and is often found in or
near cities, nesting in chimneys, old farmyard equipment and under houses.

Raccoons eat almost everything. They like minnows, crayfish, frogs, water insects, mus-
sels, snails, birds, bird and turtle eggs, acorns, vegetables, mice, melons, ducks, chickens,
berries, fruits, and sweet corn in the milk stage. They love sweets also. They are nocturnal
in habit, moving about after dark to hunt food. Their long fingers are helpful in catching
fish and holding on to the wiggling creatures of the water.

The young are born around February or March in the South and about April or May in the
North. Usually A or 5 are born at one time. Young coons serve a rugged training period.
Mother coon boxes them.about to discipline them.which they often.misunderstand, thinking she
is inviting them to play. They are difficult to teach in the beginning but she makes them
behave and starts teaching them early to take care of themselves. At 2 months of age the
baby raccoons are out with the mother learning to forage for themselves, fishing and grubbing
for the many things they like to eat. Just before daybreak they take shelter in their den or
in a nearby treetop or hollow log. The mother keeps the young with her through the first
winter. After that they are on their own. Mother Coon defends her young and often leads the
enemy the other way, dashing up a distant tree and later returning to the cubs after she has
managed a successful exit from her pursuers. Raccoons are fierce little fighters and will
fight fUriously when attacked by dogs or is cornered.

Raccoons make good.pets if they are captured when they are cubs. They are easily tamed
and will keep you busy picking up after them because they love to clutter and mess things up.
They can be quite noisey, growling in a deep voice, or screaming wildly when angry.

Raccoons are noted for washing their food, however this has been greatly exaggerated.
Much of their food comes from.the water and the washing habit probably started by washing
sand and mud from the creatures caught along the shore. It is not true that they wash all
their food.because they are not always near water, especially if they are raiding a berry
or cornpatch.

Raccoons are colorful little fellows and a natural and important part of the animal
world around us. They are beneficial to man and nature because they eat many rodents and
insects.

 




O

(/3ng WOHZCH

O

809 Dupont Circle Building
1346 Connecticut Ave., N. W.

CHAMPION IUMPERS

by I. DYER KUENSTLER

Suppose someone asked you to name the champion jumper
of the animal world, what would you say?

“Frogs jump, and so do grasshoppers,” you might reply.

"It is true, these two creatures are great jumpers, but a frog
is an amphibian, and a grasshopper is an insect. Today we
will consider fur-covered animals who jump or hop along on
their powerful hind legs, instead of racing about on all fours.

The Kangaroo of Australia is perhaps the best-known
jumper. Th Great Grey Kangaroo measures from 7 to 8 feet in
height, and often weighs more than 200 pounds. It seems
strange that such a big, heavy animal should travel about over
the ground in leaps of 10 to 15 feet. When he really feels like
traveling he can leap twice that distance. His heavy tail
balances him as he shoots through the air.

Smaller Kangaroos do not leap quite so far. However,
some have been known to leap 3 or 4 times their own length
at one bound.

Even Mother Kangaroo, with Junior in her pocket, covers
the ground at a great rate. (Drawing on page 2 Col. 1.)

The lively Kangaroo Rat hops along on his strong hind legs,
like a big Kangaroo. When leaping, he holds his little hands
up close to his chest and stretches out his long tufted tail,

”to preserve his balance.

Kangaroo Rats live in under-ground homes in our South-
western deserts. At night, when they venture forth in search
of food, their large black eyes shine red in the darkness.

There are several kinds of Kangaroo Rats. The largest
measures about 12 to 15 inches from nose to tip of tail. His
body is 6 or 7 inches in height, and his usual jump equals
6 inches. But when he is chased by a coyote, or some other
enemy, Mr. Rat leaps 18 to 24 inches, or about three times
the length of his body. (Drawing on page 2, Col. 2.)

If the enemy gets too close, Mr. Rat zigzags with each
jump. This bothers the enemy, for he cannot zigzag! As soon
as possible the rat darts into some temporary underground
hole that he has dug for the purpose. Here he waits out of
sight until the enemy has gone on his way.

Then Mr. Rat peeks cautiously out. If no more enemies
are near, he will dart out and search for seeds, many of
which he may carry back to his underground storeroom in
his outside fur-lined cheek-pockets.

The Gerbilles of India, and the Jerboas found in the
deserts of Egypt and Northern Africa, are similar jumping

JUNIOR

S
U
M
Washington 6, D. C. M

- . fr‘wg’ﬁﬁwl’. E quvrq

FE

E
R
1
9
6
3

' «rodentsw' One: tribe of "Jerboas-7 .po’s‘ses'ses-srriIIchbigger-cars».

and a longer tuft at the end of the tail than our Kangaroo
Rats. These Jerboas are pretty lively little creatures, clothed
in buff fur coats with white chests and feet.

South Africa is the home of the odd-looking Jumping Hare.
This fur-covered animal appears to have been given a rabbit’s
head, the powerful hind legs of a kangaroo, and a Squirrel’s
long ﬂuffy tail. (Drawing on page 2, col. 2.)

Mr. Jumping Hare leaps very swiftly over the ground. The
swiftest dog would have a hard time catching up with him,
for Mr. Hare zigzags to the right and left when pursued by
an enemy. Sometimes he will leap backwards, right over his
pursuer, and dash off in the opposite direction.

Dainty little Jumping Mice are found in Canada and Alaska,
and also in many parts of the United States. They are often
seen as far south as New Mexico and North Carolina.

Mrs. Woodland Jumping Mouse likes to make her home
near water. So, hunt for her among the tall weeds or grasses
that grow by some woodland stream.

Mrs. Grassland Jumping Mouse possesses a blackish tip to
her long thin tail. She prefers to live in meadows among
tall weeds or thickets. Occasionally, she makes her home on
sage-brush ﬂats.

This clever little mouse frequently uses her jumping ability
to save time and labor. If she wishes to eat seeds that grow at
the top of certain weeds or grasses, she does nOt climb up the
long stem. She simply jumps to the top with one bound.

At other times when the ground is rough and full of stones
and fallen branches Mrs. Mouse ﬁnds it quicker to jump over
the obstacles than to race around them.

The average Jumping Mouse weighs a little less than one
ounce, but when necessary it can jump from 7 to 10 feet at
one leap. Without its long thin tail it could not keep its
balance when it jumps. The mouse usually jumps two or
three short jumps and then “freezes.” Her yellow-brown fur
is practically the same color as her surroundings, and as long
as she remains still an enemy would not notice her. (Drawing
on page 2, col. 2.)

Now, when you have done a little ﬁguring, you will probably
decide that the Jumping Mouse is the Champion Jumper of
the animals. When scared, she may jump more than 43 times
the length of her tiny body.

(Reproduced through the courtesy of American Childhood
and the author)

 

 

 

 

 




 

HOW TO MAKE PLASTER CASTS OF
WILD ANIMAL FOOTPRINTS

Along beaches, muddy borders of streams, muddy banks in
parks or even in a wet corner of your school yard, the tracks
or footprints of a variety of animals and birds are often
found. By means of plaster of Paris these tracks can be
permanently recorded and make an interesting exhibit for
your school science room. Materials needed:

.plaster of Paris (inexpensive at hardware and artist
supply stores)
. water, talcum powder, grease
. small can or cup for mixing
..narrow strips of cardboard

. . . paper clips

Wild animal tracks sharply outlined and sunken about
one-half inch in mud make the best casts. Find a good foot-
print and sprinkle lightly with ‘ talcum powder. Using the
cardboard strips, make a low fence around it, joining the
ends with paper clips; the enclosure may be round, square or
whatever shape desired. The fence is not essential but it does
make a neater cast. Mix plaster With water (of suﬂicient
amount to ﬁll track to top of fence) to about the density of
pancake batter, stirring briskly to make it smooth. Pour gently
into the track. When the cast is hard (15 to 20 minutes later)
lift it carefully and allow to dry thoroughly before scrubbing
off the mud and dirt.

It is fun to use these negative casts to make footprints in
a box of wet sand or mud. These casts can also be used to
make permanent footprints in wet cement. A short cement
walk on your nature trail or leading to your nature museum
can be made very interesting if stamped, when wet, with foot-
prints of wild animals. Collect casts and try it.

A positive cast is made by covering the surface of the
negative cast with grease (any kind—lard, vaseline, other),
placing a cardboard collar around it, and pouring plaster of
Paris into it.

Junior gets a ride.

Junior Defenders of Wildlife should remember to LOOK
BUT DON’T TOUCH. Leave all wild creatures where they
belong.

 

SEEING AMERICA’S WILDLIFE IN OUR NATIONAL
PARKS AND REFUGES—written by Devereaux Butcher.
If you are studying wildlife and need information on our
national parks and refuges this is a wonderful handbook for
both teachers and students. It should be in every school and
home library. It makes a wonderful gift for both children
and adults. For copies, write to Defenders of Wildlife, 80-9
Dupont Circle Bldg., Washington 6, D. C. Paperback $2.50.

    

    

The Kangaroo Rat's fail helps to preserve his balance when iumping.

STUDY AIDS AVAILABLE

We have wild animal pamphlets available for your studies.
If you would like any of these pamphlets, write us a card
with your name and address and we will send you these free
study aids.

 

 

 

Thd Jumping Mouse has yellow-brown fur, and an
extra-long thin tail.




MORE CHAMPION JUMPERS

The bullfrog is our largest frog.
It has a large broad, flat head,
and the ear is much larger
than the eye.

      

The leopard frog is
slender, smooth skinned,
with folds from

behind the eyes to the
base of the legs.

 

 

 

   

Bullfrogs remain in

the tadpole stages
from i to 2 years,
while the leopard

frog completes these
stages in 70 to 80 days.

The eggs of the bullfrog are contained
in a large surface ﬁlm with no mem-
brane chambering the individual
eggs. The eggs of the leopard

frog are submerged beneath

the surface, attached to

plants. Each egg is con-

tained in an individual
membrane.

 

Frogs feed upon insects
and other small pond-life.

 

Courtesy of WILDLIFE IN NORTH CAROLINA

 




WILDLIFE
BABIES

[1541/15 THEM IN
THE III/0005!

gig
'712/4
,

J

Drawings courtesy of “WILDLIFE IN NORTH CAROLINA”

OFFICERS

DELOS E. CULVER
President

VICTOR H. CAHALANE
Vice President

JOHN L. BOWLES
Treasurer

MARY HAZELL HARRIS
Executive Secretary

&\t\ “

I‘

 

 

I will not kill or hurt any
living creature needlessly.
nor destroy any beautiful
thing, but will strive to save
and comfort all gentle life,
and guard all natural beauty
upon the earth.

—JOHN RUSKIN

 

JM 722wa

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

JOHN L. BOWLES
STEWART M. BRANDBORG
VICTOR H. CAHALANE
DR. C. H. D. CLARKE
DELOS E. CULVER

MISS EDITH J. GOODE
DR. E. RAYMOND HALL

FRED M. PACKARD

MRS. DOROTHY RICHARDS

DR. ROBERT RIENOW

MRS. MARGUERITE A. SMELSER
LLOYD SYMINGTON

DR. HENRY M. WEBER
BURDETTE E. WHITE, A.P.S.A.

MISS ALICE MORGAN WRIGHT

 

 




CAMPING TIPS

 

A CLEAN CAMP

 

 

 

 

 

IS A HAPPY

ONE!

RIDGE POLE
OF TENT LENGTH OF SAPLING
7” BY 2“ FOR

NAILS TAKE COAT AND HAT HANGER

THE PLACE
OF HOOKS

3/16” IRON ROD LAID ACROSS
TWO LARGE STONES MAKES
A HANDY COOKING GRATE

 

IF THERE ARE NO STONES
DIG A SHALLOW TRENCH

THIS WAY
YOUR SOAP IS
ALWAYS THERE

WASH STAND
MADE FROM
SAPLINGS

CRANES AND POT-HOOKS
COME IN VERY HANDY .

TENT PEGS
MADE FROM
MATERIALS

THIS HANDY ITEM WILL SAVE
A FEW SINGED FINGERS

AT HAND

A FIRST AID KIT IS
A MUST IN CAMP

SALT AND PEPPER CONTAINER
MADE FROM PIECE OF BAMBOO

(Courtesy of WILDLIFE IN NORTH CAROLINA)

 

 

Some ﬁre makings: cones do not light quickly, but once
ﬂame has a hold they’ll burn briskly. Dried grass, bunched
and knotted, will smolder and burn much lOnger than paper
or dried leaves. Shavings, of any wood, make ﬁne tinder.
An old woodsman’s standby is the “prayer stick” several of
which are almost certain to get a ﬁre started. Cut up milk
cartons are handy. Matches should be waterproofed by dip-
ping in nail polish or melted parafﬁn. Flint and steel will
set a spark to dry shavings. Candles are a must. A' magnifying
‘glass will soon set any combustible material aﬂame on a
sunny day. Make sure your dad’s lighter is ﬁlled and taped
shut.

Before starting scrape away all burnable material, litter,
leaf mold, etc. six to ten feet in diameter. Build the ﬁre away
from overhanging trees. Make sure no exposed roots are by
the ﬁre. Flames will travel along a root and come to the
surface days or weeks later.

Once you have suitable tinder and dry kindling gathered
the secret to starting the ﬁre is to keep the weight of the
kindling from crushing the tinder to the ground. Tinder
needs air to burn and if crushed, it dies for lack of air. To
avoid this, lay a dry stick in the ﬁreplace. Place the tinder
next to it. Lay a dozen or so kindling sticks crisscross against
the large stick. Kindling should not be over. 1/2” thick. Start
the ﬁre gradually, and build it up to your needs. Keep it
small. A small ﬁre with a bed of coals gives as much heat
as a large one and there’s less work hunting wood to keep it
going. When you have ﬁnished with your ﬁre, put it out
completely. A pail of water will not put it out. Water should
be poured on it until the ashes ﬂoat. Stir with a stick, making
sure no glowing coals remain. Keep at it until it is cool enough
to put your hand on. If there is no water handy, stir moist
dirt or sand into the coals until they are dead out.

(Courtesy Virginia Wildlife)

 

BEFORE LEAVING A CAMP BE SURE YOUR FIRE IS DEAD OUT!

 

 




CAMPING TIPS

Before You Leave . . .

Leave all items you can do without at home. Most occa-
sional campers take so much gear they actually defeat the
basic purpose of camping, simple living in the outdoors.

Enclose the camp cook kit in a cloth bag to avoid soiling
other gear.

For easy packing and location, make drawstring bags for
foodstuffs, clothing, etc., and label each with a magic marker
or crayon.

Your Outdoor Home

Pitch your tent with its back to the prevailing wind,
preferably on a small knoll, for term camping. Ditching, in
spite of many recommendations is seldom, if ever necessary.

If it looks like rain, loosen tent rops a little. Wet canvas
draws tight and may pull out grommets or rip seams. Careless-
ness here can mean a lot of repair work.

If your tent springs a small leak, rub the spot with candle
wax. For a quick patch on an accidental puncture or tear,
slap on pieces of adhesive tape on both sides of the canvas.

The Campﬁre

Build your ﬁre in ﬁre ring or ﬁreplace if these are provided.
If they are not, get clear of overhanging branches. Clear
away dry grass and other duff and dig a shallow pit to contain
your ﬁre down wind from your tent.

A sure ﬁre-building trick is a tepee ﬁre. Stand your fuel
on end like a cone. Use plenty of tinder and small twigs in
the center.

Split wood burns better than solid chunks. When chopping,
lay the log to be split in a crotched log. It won’t roll.

Never leave a camp ﬁre unattended, even for a minute.

Miscellany About Camp

Cube sugar is better than granular for camp. You can pick
it up.

A cooking grill is a handy item. An old, heavy weight
refrigerator shelf works ﬁne. Lay it on stones or across two
logs.

Dig a shallow hole of proper size and line it with a piece
of plastic. Presto, a mixing bowl, dish pan, or a bathtub.

Your Camp Bed

Always use a ground cloth under your sleeping bag if you
are not using an air mattress. Plastic sheeting and oilcloth
work ﬁne.

Air mattresses should never be overinﬂated. Put in just
enough air so that the ground can be felt when you sh1ft
weight.

Sleeping bags are recommended. If you improvise a camp
bed, take good woolen blankets or dacron-ﬁlled comforters.
Cotton-ﬁlled materials absorb moisture and become cold and
clammy.

Remove all your clothes and put on clean, dry pajamas
or underclothing before going to bed. You’ll sleep warmer.

For extra warmth, put on a hooded sweat shirt, climb into
bed, and pull the bottom of the sweat shirt down over the
outside of sleeping bag or blankets. This seals off the top
opening and is especially useful for youngsters and active
sleepers.

Air all bedding and sleeping bags thoroughly every day it’s
ﬁt. Sun and air are great fresheners and sterilizers.

The Cleanup

Glass bottles and jars are hazards. Throw them in trash
barrels. Never break them on rocks or throw this dangerous
refuse in lakes or streams.

Burn all trash; smash cans ﬂat and throw them in trash
containers.

In remote areas, what you carry in you can also carry
out. This includes glass bottles, empty cans, plastic bags and
aluminum foil that doesn’t disintegrate by weathering. If you
bury any refuse, bury it deep and pile stones over the spot
so animals or rain won’t ﬂush it out.

(Courtesy Outdoor Magazine)

 

TEN COMMANDMENTS FOR
THE WOODS
DO——
Break matches in two
See that cigars and cigarettes are extinguished

Ask everyone in your group to use the automobile
ashtray while traveling

Douse campﬁres thoroughly
Protect camping areas
Carry refuse bags
7. Ask the driver to proceed slowly in the woods
DON’T—
]. Disturb bird nests
2. Litter highways, trails or camp sites

3. Pick Wildﬂowers or disturb wild animals

 

 

 

LEAVE WILDLIFE IN THE WOODS

 




 

— ~ I‘; . r d
, ~ l/llllll- it
~" ’ “‘M — . ‘5’ ,
w] m‘v-«--’/mt ’, <

N”

\\ \ ~ \
\“~\
Vsuy‘y
; I "’
2.... ' \ _
m..." “I!-

-‘

L
I
dh‘ll”

\
'.‘..}!\‘I-‘
. "_‘---

e ‘ =—‘
a- ‘

\

Em \\.
‘NNN
\ \\\\\\\
Q
:
u

as
\

—.\
V.“

 

The bug/[nu offhe bull elk is one of

"aft/refs wl/a’esf sounds. Much bug/ing,

challenging and f/qh-Hno occurs during Sep-fember

as “fhde bulls gal/her“ 7‘helr harems “For 1‘he annual mall‘ng
perio .

 

 

Head and neck deep brown 1‘0 black
will: a conspicuous neck mane, body ‘
brownish - gray in winf-er; gel/owish — gray

' in summer. large fawnq— gel/ow rurnp
, ,/ porch. Bulls grow an-Hers whichsprouf
" '- , Q“ Aw in April and are shed 7‘he fol/owing
’ ’f/ ’l " F ebruart/ and March. They like foresfed
53% Amman coun-l-ru will—r mounfain meadows nearby.
" . ' Elk fol/ow 7‘he snow banks up 7‘0 l’he
\‘,": 2 . ‘ ,_ : , .\ . - A high coun-frqin summer anal
"j 1X1 ‘7' .. _ 'ﬂ R _- a 'move down on-l‘o +he lower
”’i‘. 7 . _ , : ‘~ 1‘ 7 ’33:“. 5/0pes as w/nfer approaches.
. . ' - ,. ' - ‘ Main food cons/51‘s ofqrasses
wilh some *wiqs and buds of .
frees and shrubs.

a

r

V:
‘9"
ﬂ 7

a

m.
w ~

/ - ,

\\\\\\
\\
\ \\ \\‘ I

\ \\\\\\
. L \+\

Calves are born in May and June and are keil‘ hidden
1‘ er

\\

for a "lime, lal'er joining in 1‘0 herds WI'l-h D cows
and calves. Bq NovemberJ +he calf is weaned and
musl- depend on plan-r food +0 live.

 

The elk develops apair'
01" ivory fee-in In fhe
upper jaw known as
”fusks" or canines.
ln fhe ad_u/+ bu/l 'l'hese'
grow larqe affaining
\ w“; a polished brown

-'I

"' appearance and are

_ . - - /
I, ' ‘ r . . / 2v ‘
, a5; W» h/qh/qpr/zedas \ - , j/ -
‘ A I. _
%‘ ‘ W”, ‘ g {-rophies by hunfers.

77HLVt‘ﬁﬁ ‘734<‘\
‘ 14:“?ka WW 7 \\ I) \ nov‘ have numerous enemies.
\V'«‘ A“: I! My” .' An occasional ca/fnraq be
*1} / 1 , "I faker: by a cot/ore, bob cal; or
\Z / 1/ fl: I», "’\ bear. Deep snows and
a /\ x 1' » slarva-hon- are lhe worsf'
,. //:__ - % “I~ .\
~_ __‘\ //L\—‘

enemies ofa//.
I . 3%..) (/9 \\\

1/ ll’l’"

/ ’f/ XIII/”174
l i ’l M” II'!‘

p ‘ﬁ/l I

| I;;;:., l‘tll

\

 

 

 

 

 

Courtesy:

Oregon State Game

. . . ‘ t f th~
Commissmn Bulletm ROCKY MOUNTAIN ELK are numerous 1n par 3 o e

Kootenay district. Those found on Vancouver
Island belong to a sub-species known as Roosevelt Elk.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

NOTES ON THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN ELK

 

THE ELK IS A SULTAN, gathering himself five,
ten, twenty and sometimes as many as fifty
mates. A fully grown elk is as large as a
saddle horse and his great branched antlers
rise slantingly four feet or more above his
head. .
THE ADULT MALE is extremely courageous when.
dealing with other animals. Large bulls
have been known to drive buffalo from their
own feeding grounds while cow elk have no
hesitation in charging coyotes to keep them
away from their young.

CALVES ARE BORN IN JUNE with many births
taking place in grasslands so bare that the
calf has no concealment at all. The light,
tawny-coloured calf is conspicuous when
standing but not when lying. With its neck
and head curled along its body and the
white spots on back and flanks breaking the
outline, the calf resembles a small, sun-
flecked stump. In a few days it is strong
enough to leave its birthplace and, in
short journeys, follows its mother to the
summer ranges high in the mountains.

FOR FIVE OR SIX WEEKS the young elk are
nourished on their mother's milk and then
begin to nibble at grass and leaves. They
continue to nurse until fall but most of
the spots are gone by August when, tempo-
rarily, the hair is quite shaggy. The long
hair is not shed until September when the
first trim, neat adult lines are revealed.

A CHARACTERISTIC of the elk is its annual
migration from winter to summer range.
They summer high up in the mountains and
spend the winters on the lower slopes and
in the valleys and foothills below.

ELK HAVE BEEN DRIVEN from vast areas where
they formerly ranged in North America but
have been re-stocked in recent years in
regions where once they were numerous.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GENERAL DESCRIPTION, The Rocky Mountain Elk are large deerlike animals with thick manes,
standing 5 ft high at the shoulder and weighing from 600 to 1000 lbs. Females are usually 25
percent smaller. Their coat is a deep brown, with brownish black neck and a large yellowish
or buff patch on the rump. They are larger than the other members of the deer family except
the moose. They subsist on grass, herbage, and other browse foods such as the foliage of
coniferous plants, tree limbs and twigs. The name elk was given to these animals by the
early English settlers, but the Shawnee Indians called them "Wapiti".

RANGE Elk once ranged over much of the northern portion of the United States from the
Appalachians to the Pacific coast and from the southern border of New Mexico to northern
Alberta, Canada. During the settling of the west, the elk were slaughtered in vast numbers,
with the sizeable herds remaining in areas of Canada. Elk have been restocked in many
localities where there are mountainous wildlands tO'WhiCh they can adapt themselves easily,
such as Northern Michigan, the Bladk Hills, parts of Arizona and Nevada.

. Courtesy of Wildlife Review, April, 1961

 

 

 




PHOTOGRAPHS DISPLAYED AT INTERNATIONAL SCIENCE FORT WORTH, TEXAS, MAY 6-9, 1969
BY TEENAGED PRIZE WINNERS OF SCIENCE FAIRS

IMPLANTATION OPERATION RAT WIRED TO STIMULATOR CRINGING DOG USED BY FLORIDA HIGH
SCHOOL YOUTH FOR SHOCK EXPERIMENTS

BRAIN SURGERY BY HIGH SCHOOL BOY IN VIRGINIA

 




Volume 2, Number 20

 

This issue is devoted to reprints of editorials on
the pesticides problem that have appeared in two of
America’s leading newspapers, and to a statement by
Miss Rachel Carson, the noted author of The Sea
Around Us and other best-selling books on natural
history. The National Audubon Society and its local
units have undertaken an educational campaign to
awaken the public to the dangers involved in the
unwise use of such poisons. These statements are po-
tentially highly useful tools in our campaign. Ways
to use them: Reprint in your own publications; dis-
tribute to garden clubs, sportsmen’s clubs, other civic
groups; offer to local newspapers for reprinting. We
can supply extra copies for $2.50 per hundred.

 

 

 

Editorial in THE NEW YORK TIMES of July 3], 1961:
CONTROLLING THE PESTICIDES

Efforts to modify Government pest-spraying programs
so as to safeguard public health and minimize damage to
wildlife, are making some progress. But the recklessness of
ofﬁcial pest-control agencies is only part of the problem.

Government uses but a small fraction of the estimated
three to four billion pounds of the so-called “economic
poisons” that are being spread annually, and in increasing
volume, across the American landscape. Most of the new,
potent chemicals are sprayed or broadcast privately by
farmers or householders with little thought given to the
effects upon wildlife, to the consequences of a build-up of
poisons in the soil, or the dankers of runoff into streams.

Drenching trees and the soil beneath them with DDT
has been highly destructive of bird life in many communi-
ties, while failing to halt the spread of Dutch elm disease.
There is evidence that some insect problems have grown
worse with the use of. chemicals . . .

Federal and state studies of stream pollution show a
growing number of instances where ﬁsh have been killed
by agricultural poisons. In one example cited by the U. S.
Public Health Service, ﬁsh kills occurred in ﬁfteen differ-
ent tributaries in the Tennessee River Valley following the
application of an insecticide to cotton ﬁelds in eight
Alabama counties.

To meet this difficult and growing problem two things
are necessary. The ﬁrst is more intensive research into
safe control methods and more speciﬁc poisons, i.e., mate-
rials that will kill the pest Without damaging a variety of
other living forms. The second need is for adequate infor-
mation to the public about the dangers.

At present no agency of the Federal Government, and
probably none in most states, has been given authority or
direction to instruct the public in safe methods of applying
pesticides and in the hazards of misuse. If the industry
fails to assume its own responsibility, Government may
have to step in with controls.

October 15, 1961

Editorial in N. l HERALD TRIBUNE, Jane 11, 1961:

THE SEASON OF THE GHASTLY DEW

This is the season when the ghastly dew of DDT rains
down again on the land. The indiscriminate use of insecti-
cide sprays for short-sighted economic ends is something
no one seems able to do anything about. Law suits brought
by people who object to‘ having their property sprayed
with poison have gotten nowhere. Yet there has been
almost no attempt to ﬁnd out what these chemicals do to
the whole range of natural life, ourselves included.

But even if. we were to suppose that the advantages of
blanket spraying outweigh the damage, the insecticides
may be defeating themselves. If all insects of a given area
or region are virtually wiped out, it merely makes it easier
for the target pest to develop resistance and to increase its
numbers in the vacuum created by the destruction of life
which formerly competed with it.

While we await the conﬁrmation of this dismal possi-
bility, the sprays are affecting the pests’ natural enemies.
Birds have been driven away from sprayed trees and or-
chards. Insect predators must perish with their prey. And
who knows what effect continued DDT dosage of ponds
and streams will have on the creatures that control the
aquatic larvae of the mosquito?

Finally, there is the innocent-bystander kind of harm,
which could turn out to be the worst of all. For example,
DDT sprayings around New York have decreased the toad
population. This has resulted in a corresponding increase
in the number of ticks, which toads eat, but which are not
affected by the insecticidal fall-out. Here is a pertinent
topic of conversation for a picnic this summer.

 

THREE COURSES OF ACTION

In a review of the pesticides problem one year
ago, the National Audubon Society reached a con-
clusion that is still valid and pertinent, namely, that
the problem can be met in three ways and that all
three courses of action are necessary:

1. Research must be stepped up sharply . . . to
show what new chemicals will or will not do before
they are placed on the market or fogged onto the
land. . . . Research also to discover selective Chem-
icals and safe, biological and cultural controls.

2. New laws are needed to regulate the distribu-
tion and sale of chemical pesticides, to regulate their
use by government agencies, and to license and
regulate persons engaged in contract spraying.

3. Educational efforts can alert the public to the
dangers involved in the unwise, excessive or careless
use of such poisons.

 

 

 

 




LETTER BY RACHEL CARSON TO BOOTHBAY HARBOR (MAINE) REGISTER

( Written in response to an article by Miss Sidney Baldwin,
a local columnist, in which Miss Baldwin commented on
the possibility that birds were endangered by insecticide-
spraying programs.)

To the Editor:

The recent article by Sidney Baldwin is a timely re-
minder of the value of trees and of the need to protect
them from the destruction wrought my man, insects, and
disease. It touches upon a problem that is unquestionably
one of the most important ever to affect our wildlife, our
forests, and, I would add, man himself. The problem is
whether the diseases and insect damage that affect our
forests and shade trees in varying degree can be controlled
by chemical spraying — and whether, even if they could,
the price is one we care to pay. On the basis of several
years’ intensive study of these problems, I should like to
offer a few thoughts in ampliﬁcation of Miss Baldwin’s
column.

Facts Belie Assumption

Because of the wideipublicity given to chemical methods
of insect control, the public naturally assumes that spray-
ing is a panacea that will cure any unhealthy conditions
in our trees. Where the matter has been looked into with
care, the facts are usually found to be very different.

An excellent example is the spraying of elm trees for
the control of Dutch Elm disease -— a fungus disease
spread by a beetle. In the Middle West, where the disease
has developed only within the past decade, immense num-
bers of elms have been sprayed year after year. This is
an expensive procedure, yet most communities have blindly
continued spraying without stopping to discover whether
they are getting their money’s worth. A clear look at the
facts, however, has disclosed two things: (1) the spraying
is largely futile; and (2) the cost in destruction of bird
life is appalling.

Connecticut Town is Example

A clear example of the very shaky security won by spray-
ing is provided by Greenwich, Connecticut, which sprayed
its elms regularly (and at great expense) for ten years.
Then came a hot, dry summer, providing ideal conditions
for the beetle that carries the disease, and suddenly the
percentage of diseased elms'shot up 1,000 per cent.

In Toledo, Ohio, the city forester has recently declared
that he will no do more spraying- Aftercarryingon the
conventional spraying practices for seven years, he awoke
to the fact that, within the area sprayed, Dutch Elm disease
was completely out of control, whereas in the surrounding
country, where no spraying had been done, the trees were
in far better shape.

The best present answer to the Dutch Elm disease prob-
lem is rigorous sanitation, i.e., the prompt removal and
burning of all infected trees. Buffalo, N. Y., has relied
exclusively on this method. Buffalo has 185,000 magniﬁ-
cent elms, and has been able to maintain them, without a

spray program, with a minimal annual loss of only four-
tenths of one per cent!

Spraying Kills Birds

The tragedy is that the spraying, which is failing to
preserve the trees, is also bringing enormous destruction

of, bird life. This statement is not based on rumor or-

hearsay, but on the responsible objective studies of various
scientists in several universities and research centers that
happen to be located in areas subjected to heavy spraying.
Among the facts these scientists have established are the
following:

Heavy mortality has occurred among at least 80 species
of birds, including those most familiar to suburbanites and
amateur naturalists.

Eighty per cent of the robins have been killed. The few
that remain show signs of sterility. Nests often contain no
eggs, or eggs that fail to hatch.

The population of nesting birds in general have de-
clined as much as 90 per cent in some of the sprayed
towns.

Sprayed areas act as a death trap into which .birds
migrate, only to be killed. This is because DDT and re-
lated chemicals leave long-lasting residues on foliage, bark
and soil. This poses a lethal threat .to birds that glean in-
sects from leafy folliage (e.g., kinglets and warblers); to
those that search for insects in crevices in bark (Chicka-
dees, nuthatches, woodpeckers); to those that eat earth-
worms (robins, woodcock, and many others) which in turn
have stored up the poisonous chemicals in their bodies

after feeding on sprayed leaves; and groundfeeders like
thrushes and sparrows.

Salmon Threatened

There are many more examples than can even be named
in limited space. Among them is the Canadian attempt to
control the spruce budworm by spraying millions of acres
of forest. The budworm is not yielding to the spray and
many areas have had to be re-sprayed several times. Mean-
while, the famed salmon runs of such Canadian rivers as
the Miramichi are dwindling — threatened with destruc-
tion because the DDT is killing the aquatic food organisms
the young salmon depend on.

In a British Columbia river an entire run of commer-
cially valuable salmon was wiped out by forest Spraying.
The Canadians are now making an effort to substitute
other methods of control. The United States is so far
lagging far behind in the field of developing alternatives
to spraying. '

However, many alternatives to drenching the landscape
with highly lethal sprays are already known and others
can be developed. Insect pathogens ( a kind of bacterial
warfare which affects only certain kinds of insects) have
been tried experimentally and give great promise. Insect
predators and parasites, which in nature are a potent agent
of control, must be used more extensively instead of being
destroyed by spraying, as is now happening. Many other

safe and effective methods, are in the testing stage and A
could be developed into practical control methods with the

expenditure of a fraction of the money and effort now
being poured into chemical control.

New Methods Sought

Our choice is not, then, the stark and simple one: “Shall
we have birds or shall we have trees?” If we continue our
present methods we shall probably end with neither. If, on
the other hand, an informed and aroused public demands
it, we can turn our resources and talents to the develop-
ment of methods that accomplish control without raining
death and destruction on all living things.

—RACHEL CARSON
A WORTH WHILE PAPER '

“Some effects of Sprays on reps and Livestock,” a
carefully documented paper presented by Dr. Clarence

Cottam at the 1961 annual meeting of the Soil Conserva-

tion Society of America, is well worth having for study
and reference by Audubon leaders. A copy can be secured
by writing to Dr. Cottom. Address him as'Director of the
Welder Wildlife Foundation, Sinton, Texas.

 




been obtained from the use of bacteria in screening tests for
potential mutagens.

Even carefully controlled testing of new drugs on humans
may become possible through the use of incredibly sensitive
analytical techniques already well on the way to being devel-
oped. These can follow the metabolism of the substance in
the body at levels far lower than an active dose, thus giving
the possibility of detecting adverse reactions before any harm
is done. This would lead to the introduction of safer drugs as
well as helping to reduce the need for animals in drug testing.

Finally, in fundamental studies, novel tissue culture systems
offer ways of replacing animals. One example in neurology is
a recent development in which nerve tissue is cultured and
undergoes structural and functional developments which are
similar to those which occur in viva.

An alternative approach in the study of cancer and other ill-
nesses is the investigation of the occurrence of disease in
relation to environmental factors, an area of research that,
according to a sub-committee report delivered to the National
Cancer Advisory Board in March, is being sadly neglected.
Recent ﬁndings on intestinal cancer in man in relation to
eating habits exemplify this sort of approach, the usefulness
of which should not be underestimated. Concentration on
epidemiological research could well help to reduce the need for
less relevant animal studies.

Tissue cultures, although having many advantages in terms
of standardized tissue and ease with which differing experi-
mental conditions may be applied, are not the only possible
alternative model. Considerable advances have been made in
the development of mathematical as opposed to biological
models, especially in such areas as heart, lung and blood circ-
ulation research. Models such as these can be derived from
basic theory alone or from a knowledge from past experimental
ﬁndings (or a combination of both) and, may be used to
predict events which occur in response to applied ‘stresses’.
As with tissue cultures it is a comparatively simple procedure
to run a set of experiments with a variety of different experi-
mental ‘conditions’ which are, in this case, described in
mathematical terms.

Computer modelling has also been extensively applied to
the study of drug uptake in humans and this has already been
adopted in some medical and pharmacology schools at Uni-
versities, especially in America, as a means of teaching students
about drug responses without using animals. Computerized
‘dummies’ together with other modelling systems offer wide
scope for application but at present the substantial advantages
that this approach to teaching can offer may be being wasted
because of a lack of training of students in systems analysis

and computer science, thus denying both the students and
potential research workers the early use of this powerful
teaching and investigation tool.

This brief collection of examples where alternatives are
already taking over is by no means exhaustive and is meant
solely to show just how widely they can be applied. Maybe
today alternatives do not exist in many ﬁelds, but who knows
whether this will still be true tomorrow. Certainly there is
tremendous potential for replacing many millions of animals
used annually in routine methods for antibody, serum, hor-
mone and vaccine production, in bioassays and in screening
programmes for various types of chemical. Support for this
work and the spread of information on it is essential if rapid
advances are to be made.

The moral question of the need for animal experimentation
has not been covered at all in this short article. In the UK,
where ﬁgures on animal use are available, of 5 million animals
used each year less than half are involved in genuine medical
research. The greater proportion are used in areas such as the
testing of cosmetics, new tobacco substitutes (a recent case
provoking much publicity about the use of beagles), and
other non-essentials. Do animals have to die in the testing of
substances that we do not really need and in some cases we
would be better without?

Perhaps every researcher should check with his conscience
two or three times before starting any experiment — do I
really need to do it? And if the honest answer were given,
perhaps we would see a real reduction in animal experiments.

Reprinted by kind permission of the Editor of “Parenthese”.

more

About
‘nltennutiues’

Published by FRAME

(Fund for the Replacement of Animals
in Medical Experiments)

312a Worple Road,

Wimbledon SW20 80U.

Tel. 01-946 1450

 




The following article written by Dr T. W. Hegarty, Scientiﬁc
Adviser to FRAME, was published in the American magazine
PAREN THESE ( Summer I 9 75).

mm
WW

Man has invented innumerable ways of using and misusing
animals in the name of medicine or biology. From the
spectacular American ape or Russian dog left to expire in
space to the inert rabbit, bird or frog served up for dissection
by students, and from the nightmare two-headed dogs created
on the operating table to the millions or is it billions of
anonymous rats and mice used endlessly to test the dubious
safety of yet another chemical introduced by man into his
environment, there is always some essential reason to justify
the use of the animal. ‘Alternatives’ are OK in theory, but
they could never be used in my ﬁeld.

Before looking at ‘alternatives’ themselves, it will help if we
categorize brieﬂy the many ways in which animals are used.
Some are required for teaching and demonstration purposes
and some for veterinary research, but the vast majority are
used. in basic research, for routine functions, or in research
relatlng in some way to the human system. ‘Basic research’ is
uncharitably described as any work for which one cannot, at
present, think of a use, and includes many biochemical or
physiological studies at the whole-animal, tissue, cell or sub-
cellular level, as well as some thoroughly unpleasant work on
animal behaviour — all carried out to further our knowledge.
Routine functions include such areas as serum, hormone,
vaccine or antibody production, the bioassay of the concen-
tration or activity of biologically active substances, and the
maintenance and testing of disease organisms. Finally, in
research relating to the human system, the animal is being used
in some way as a model for man, whether it be in the testing
of drugs or toxic chemicals, or in the investigation of human
diseases and disorders.

‘Alternatives’ conjure up the idea of complete replacement
of animals by some method not involving animals at all.
Unfortunately, ‘alternatives’ rarely meet this criterion and a
method may be preferred because fewer animals are used, or
because they are used indirectly rather than directly. An
example should serve to explain this. Polio vaccine was orig-

inally produced from virus grown directly in monkeys, but
the introduction of a culture method using monkey kidney
tissue replaced their direct involvement with an indirect
involvement as the source of kidneys. Many animals were still
required and the losses in the trapping and shipping of the
monkeys were enormous. Within the last few years, however,
general acceptance has been given to the production of polio
vaccine from virus grown in human cells cultured in such a way
as to produce vast amounts of standardized tissue without the
continuous need to provide fresh starting material. The need
for monkeys in polio vaccine production has been drastically
reduced whilst the potential safety of the vaccine has, as a
result of the new method, been equally dramatically improved.
Even now, however, complete replacement of animals has not
been achieved because, as with most tissue cultures, it is nec-
essary to provide animal serum to stimulate cell growth.
Despite the fact that animal involvement has not been com-
pletely eliminated, most people would probably agree that the
changes represent a considerable advance over the original
method.

Some ‘alternatives’ may seem obvious and trivial, yet are
often overlooked. Many researchers prefer to ignore the fact
that they may be able to carry out their work in the study of
basic cell function using plant or bacterial, rather than animal
material. If animal tissue is considered necessary many
researchers will choose to kill laboratory animals instead of
collecting material from a local slaughterhouse, and in studies
on blood cells human blood may be just as acceptable as blood
from laboratory animals. If these points were remembered
many animal lives could be saved.

In the detection or production of particular substances
there is no inherent merit in the use of live animals and these
are replaced as new methods become available, but the pace
of developing and introducing such replacements could be
greatly increased. Well-established alternatives include the use
of micro-organisms instead of animals in nutritional tests. The
development of tissue cultures of human material for vaccine
production has been a real breakthrough and there is an in-
creasing number of disease organisms that can be detected in
cultures instead of animals —— tuberculosis is a recent example
where a new culture test is more sensitive than the guinea pig
assay that it replaces. Radio-immunoassays, tests for partic-
ular substances using antibodies, are also replacing older,
animal-using tests, but once again animals must still be used
indirectly for producing the antibodies. Really useful ad-
vances would come from the development of tissue culture
media winch were chemically defined and no longer needed
animal serum, in vitro systems capable of producing antibodies
for immunological work of many kinds, and cell or organ
tissue cultures capable of producing hormones and other

biologically active substances. The advantages of ‘alternatives’
in this field are that they are often more convenient, easier to
standardize, more exact and may well be safer than the tests
or systems that they replace.

In toxicology, in work on fundamental aspects of human
function, and in much of the work on human diseases,
animals are used as models of the human system. This must
be unsatisfactory because other species never exactly resemble
humans in the particular aspect being studied. The move to-
ward carrying out more and more research on primates
because of their close resemblance to humans must be Viewed
with equal concern in the light of recent ﬁndings in America
which suggest that the primate intellect may be far closer to
that of a human than we have cared to accept in the past.
Someone soon is going to ask the question why we think we
have the right to experiment on a chimp and not on a sub-
normal human. For many reasons we need to ﬁnd alternatives.

It would be naive to suggest that ‘alternatives’ are generally
available for human modelling, but some have already been
adopted and there is considerable potential in a number of
ﬁelds. Tissue culture is one fo the main possibilities. This
involves the growing or maintenance in test-tube conditions
of small pieces of tissue or dispersed cells. Advances are con-
tinually being made which allow cell growth to proceed at
densities closer and closer to that of the tissue from which the
cells were removed, and in some cases cells may be persuaded
to re-aggregate into tissue like material. Some cell types may
be cultured in their original state, retaining their original
properties; they may become cell strains and replicate over
many generations in a relatively normal state; or they may
become transformed into cell lines and lose their genetic norm-
ality. In either of the latter cases vast amounts of standardized
tissue may be produced and the scope for experimentation in
controlled conditions is enormous. In the study of human
diseases and disorders normal and abnormal human tissues can
be studied and subjected to experiment in the ‘test tube’.
Human tumours can, in many cases, be maintained in culture
and offer material for study which has many advantages over
tumours induced artiﬁcially in highly abnormal strains of
mouse.

In toxicology there is an urgent need to ﬁnd alternatives
to animal tests, not simply because of the large numbers of
animals used, but also because of the real doubt that these
tests are relevant to man. There can be reasonable optimism
that, with real effort spent in their development, non-animal
using methods will result in tests that are safer to man than
those which are used at present. Already successful attempts
have been made to develop cultured cell systems for the
detection of potential carcinogens, and promising results have

 




 

 




 

UPPOSE an enormous lion suddenly appeared right
S in front of you, what would you do?

Well, there probably wouldn’t be much you could

do, except sit tight and hope that he. was a good kind lion.

 

And that’s pretty well what all smaller creatures have
to do when 3211 suddenly appear in front of them —— they all
just hope that yo: are a good kind lion too.

Birds with nests, frogs and toads, butterﬂies and cater-
pillars and even the pollywogs in the pond—when you’re
about, they’re all one large hope that you’re going to be a
good kind lion.

And so this is just to ask you —— will you please always
be a good kind lion? Will you please always remember how
y—ou’d feel yourself, and try to see the other one’s point of
View (especially when he, or it, is smaller and more defenceless
than you are)?

Will you please be a good kind lion to caged birds,
and caged rats and mice, and rabbits in hutohes, that
have to depend on you for everything—and in fact, all
pets that share your home: will you be a good kind lion
to them, and keep them from pain and distress, and always
remember to see they have fresh food and water?

Will you please always remember that cats, like dogs,
can’t be left to ﬁnd their own food? (They don’t eat rats,
and they can’t live on mice, and they don’t work better— when
they’re hungry, any more than you do.)—

 

 

 

Most important, if you go away from home, will you
please remember that your cats can’t fend for themselves till
you get back — and that it’s verﬁry cruel to expect them
to try?




Then, will you please be a specially good kind lion to
frogs and toads, who are so very defenceless, and just as
easily hurt as you are?

And will you be a good kind lion to butterﬂies and all
insects — anddon’t catch them just because they’re so pretty
or so ugly Or so easily caught? ’

Finally, if you catch pollywogs Will you please be a
good kind lion and don’t leave them in a jam jar? Keep
them in a large basin, and give them plenty of green water-
weed, or they’ll juSt slowly and miserably die of suffocation.
And please never take home live ﬁsh caught in a running
stream—:be—C-ause they would die anyway, whatever you did.

* >l< *

Well, those are just a few of the things that a good kind
lion can do —- you’ll ﬁnd plenty more for yourself, for there
are always lots of comparatively defenceless creatures about,
and they all have a great deal to cope with. And so, when-
ever you meet them, and have the choice of whether to help
or hurt, always remember how you’d feel yourself

and
do
please
be
a
GOOD
KIND
LION

 

Published by UFAW (The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare), 230, High
Street, Potters Bar, Herts.

Printed in England by Courier Printing and Publishing Co., Ltd., Tunbridge Wells

 




 




Attitudes Toward Animals

CHRISTINE STEVENS, President, Animal Welfare Institute

Teachers of biology in secondary schools are often
asked to help students perform surgical or other
painful experiments on animals. Such requests usual-
ly stem from press reports of organ transplants,
space journeys, and similarly dramatic occurrences
in science that have struck a young, impressionable
mind with a wish to imitate. There are more tangible
inducements, too. Cash prizes, free trips, and other
emoluments are offered for science-fair projects that
have received little or no scrutiny from the humane
point of view. The current situation has become so
serious that the National Society for Medical Re-
search (NSMR) recently issued a revised set of
guiding principles drafted by representatives of nine
national scientiﬁc societies. The principles are based
on a reconsideration of the 1959 and 1968 versions,
neither of which had succeeded in preventing grue-
some abuse of animals by untrained youths.

“Guideline" Weaknesses

The Animal Welfare Institute (headquarters:
New York City) welcomes the tightening of the
guiding principles as a step in the right direction
but cannot endorse them. The view of one of the
organizations that took part in writing the new
draft is worth quoting. An editorial by D. A. Price
in the October 1, 1969, issue of The Journal of the
American Veterinary Medical Association states in
part:

Will the revised “Guiding Principles” discourage
unacceptable experimental use of animals by secon-
dary school children? Hopefully, they will, but much
depends on the “qualiﬁed adult supervisor” and the
“biomedical scientist” whose judgment and attitudes
are the only effective deterrent, under the “Guiding

Principles,” to venturesome students who would re-
move organs or disﬁgure mice, rabbits, or even dogs,
and expect the animals to survive. The NSMR pro-
vides a highly useful framework for group action by
scientiﬁc organizations interested in the experimental
use of animals. Especially commendable has been
NSMR’s expressed intention to review the “Guiding
Principles” periodically and revise them when neces-
sary.

Dr. Price also points out that “without restrictive
guidelines and informed supervision, some students
would attempt survival surgery on the most readily
available species, little realizing or caring how i11-
equipped they are to perform such procedures with-
out training in anatomy, surgical technique, pharma-
cology, microbiology, and other disciplines which
contribute to the sum total of a surgeon’s compe-
tence.” In fact, students from age 12 onwards have
attempted such surgery, and they have won prizes
for it and received publicity, money, certiﬁcates, and
praise.

Too often, the genuinely sound scientiﬁc work by
young people has been passed over by science-fair
judges who are impressed by theatricality more
than by intellectual achievement.

It is unfortunate, too, that a medical degree does
not necessarily qualify a person as an educator.
Not even parenthood can guarantee his good judg-
ment of character development in the child. A start-
ling example recently publicized in an Animal Wel-
fare Institute Information Report involved a little
sixth-grade girl whose physician father helped her
to win a “Certiﬁcate of Merit” by doing brain
surgery on rats and watching them die-while she
recorded in a large, childish hand their ﬁnal

moments.

Reprinted from THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER, Vol. 32, No. 2, February, 1970

 




 

Rachel Carson, who gave profound thought to
this subject, wrote:

To the extent that it is ever necessary to put cer-
tain questions to nature by placing unnatural re-
straints upon living creatures or by subjecting them
to unnatural conditions or to changes in their bodily
structure, this is a task for the mature scientist. It is
essential that the beginning student should ﬁrst be-
come acquainted with the true meaning of his sub-
ject through observing the lives of creatures in their
relation to each other and to their environment. To
begin by asking him to observe artiﬁcial conditions
is to create in his mind distorted conceptions and to
thwart the development of his natural emotional re-
sponse to the mysteries of the life stream of which
he is a part.

Primaryﬁonsiderations

What are the primary considerations of the high
school biology teacher? And how do they relate to
youthful demands to conduct animal experiments
for which neither the student nor the teacher is
qualiﬁed?

1. High school students should grasp the mean-
ing of the scientiﬁc method, with its rejection of
prejudice and of information which can be demon-
strated to be wrong. This essential concept is more
likely to be confused than advanced by premature
attempts at destroying the perfection of the whole
animal.

2. High school students should understand the
importance of advanced studies in the different
sCientiﬁc disciplines. They should not be encouraged
to suppose that hit-or-miss methods constitute sound
scientiﬁc inquiry or that brief survival of an animal
following amateur surgery is an achievement.

3. In learning to think in biological terms and
to appreciate the complexity of life functions, the
feelings of living animals should be stressed. The
biologist who has no empathy with the subjects of
his studies is impoverished by his insensitiveness.
The average student who is not continuing into a
biological career is hardened and made less humane
if his early studies hurt or terrorize animals.

4. The side effects of biological instruction re-
quire careful consideration. They may have 3 dan-
gerous relevance to contemporary violence, which
is becoming more sadistic in character as gratuitous
beatings, torturings, and killings of people and ani-
mals become more common in lower and lower age-
groups. Such youthful tendencies must cause all
educators, regardless of their particular subject,
the gravest concern; but they relate most closely to
studies in which a choice must be made as to wheth-
er pain, fear, and death may be inflicted on a captive
animal for no purpose greater than the presumed
education of the student. The quality of mercy is
no less admirable now than it was in Shakespeare’s
time, and it is more desperately needed in a world
of crowded populations and intense technological
power. Thus the biology teacher has a special duty

78 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER, FEBRUARY, 1970

and responsibility to teach kindness, gentleness, and
modesty as he teaches ways of studying living forms.

To break down and analyze is only one form of
study. Careful observation, accurate description,
precise measurement, overall grasp of the problem,
and, most importantly, the ability to imagine and
form concepts—all these are vital objectives for
students.

Cruelty by Imitation—with Help

Mere slavish imitation of adult scientists in the
news cheapens the objectives and the means of
scientiﬁc inquiry. Furthermore, if the student ob-
tains the extensive aid that immediate supervision
by a trained biological scientist often confers, he
obtains an unfair advantage over other students
competing for prizes in the fair, and the question
of who has actually done the project—a question
which plagues many thoughtful biology teachers
and science fair judges-clouds whatever success
the project attains.

In a recent case, a girl won a free trip to Washing-
ton and $250 for a project in which she starved
blinded sparrows to death. She begged off, when
criticized for cruelty, by claiming that her whole
project was nothing but a description of work she
had seen done while on a National Science Founda-
tion grant at the University of Texas. The question
of whether she was guilty of cruelty, plagiarism, or
deliberate misrepresentation in order to win a prize
remains unresolved.

The Scientiﬁc Committee of the Animal Welfare
Institute in a recent communication to biologists
stated:

Experiments involving pain to animals have no
place outside legitimate programs for acquisition of
new information or in bona ﬁde research institutions
and places of higher learning. It is indefensible to
hurt or kill animals in the name of scientiﬁc inquiry
when no knowledge or skill contributing to human
or animal welfare or safety is gained thereby. Ele-
mentary and secondary school “experimentation”
does not meet these criteria. Furthermore, this type
of exercise can damage the young student’s emotional
development by teaching him to rationalize and con-
done the unjustiﬁed inﬂicting of pain; it can blunt
his intellectual development by giving a false im-
pression of the meaning of scientiﬁc research.

Two Clear and Simple Rules

Two rules, whose brevity and simplicity leave no
room for doubt and confusion in the mind of student
or teacher, have been widely accepted by teachers
seeking clear guidelines or their students. At meet-
ings of the National Association of Biology Teachers,
the National Science Teachers Association, the
American Animal Hospital Association, and the
American Veterinary Medical Association, the Ani-
mal Welfare Institute has presented booth exhibits
at which manuals free to teachers were distributed,
together with these rules. The great majority of
teachers and veterinarians who discussed them




agreed with the concept they express: the avoidance
of any noxious procedure, rather than attempts at
limiting such procedures through clauses requiring
more or less close, more or less well-qualiﬁed super-
vision.

The supervision clauses in guidelines has not
stopped cruel projects by teenagers in the past.
Though we welcome any move to limit the amount
and degree of pain infliction, nevertheless, we be-
lieve high school biology teachers would be better
advised to set the following two rules for their
students:

1. Animals being observed by students must al-
ways be maintained in the maximum possible con-
dition of health, comfort, and well-being.

2. N o vertebrate animal used in primary or secon-
dary school teaching may be subjected to any ex-
periment or procedure which interferes with its
normal health or causes it pain or distress.

If these rules are followed in classroom teaching
and announced for use in science fairs, cruelty can
be eliminated from high school classes and projects
without in any way reducing scientific thinking or
the development of the best in young potential
biologists.

Examples of a Double Standard

Contrast the projects of two science-fair winners,
both of whose projects reached the stage of exhibi-
tion at an international fair:

1. A 17-year-old did extensive tissue—culture stu-
dies in order to determine “Viral Effects on Speciﬁc
Bovine Fetus Cells in Vitro.” His paper demonstrat-
ed the thorough manner in which he had studied
tissue-culture methods, with careful and accurate
measurements clearly stated, and his ability to draw
conclusions from his work.

2. An 18-year-old had been doing brain surgery
on squirrel monkeys for four years and hoped to
do one of his operations before television cameras
at the science fair. (This was prevented by invoking
a state law requiring that animal experimentation
be COnducted only in licensed institutions.) During
the fair, one of the animals that had previously
been subjected to his amateur surgical efforts died
of infection caused by the surgery, and the necropsy
carried out at Michigan State Veterinary College
showed the neglect and bungled efforts to implant
electrodes in holes the youth had bored in the
animal’s skull. This was the 25th squirrel monkey

to go under his scalpel. He had had advice and
“supervision” by doctors at the University of Miss-
issippi medical school.

The ﬁrst project conformed to the Animal Wel-
fare Institute rules. The second met the standards
of the guiding principles in effect at the fair.
Whether such projects will continue under the June
1969 guiding principles remains to be seen.

Humane Alternatives in Biology

The teaching of biology has become more and
more important as advancing technology changes
radically the conditions under which people live.
It is essential that high school graduates have a
sound grasp of biological principles, including suf-
ﬁcient schooling in ecology and an understanding

‘of the earth as a closed system that must live or

die with the waste products of existing human
societies. As conservation and the struggle against
massive pollution come rapidly to the forefront of
human concerns, a humane attitude toward biology
teaching becomes increasingly necessary. The wise
biology teacher will help his students to appreciate
to the fullest extent the variety of life forms, their
unique qualities, their beauty and appropriateness
to the environment in which they thrive. Many
animals and plants are threatened as never before;
and for future biologists the disappearence of species
is a form of robbery. Every serious teacher of
biology has a stake in the preservation of species,
for if the biological sciences are to advance broadly
the magniﬁcent abundance and the superb quality
of living things must be maintained.

Biology should be true to its own principles.
Ancient prejudices against animals have no place
in biology teaching. To mistreat them or to permit
them to be mistreated because they are “only ani-
mals” suggests that the most elementary biological
facts have not been mastered.

Anthropomorphism has led to some comic errors
in past centuries, but 20th-century thought has
been more often plagued with extreme forms of
anti—anthropomorphism. This attitude has stultiﬁed
animal psychology—making it self-conscious and
rigid in phraseology and experimental design. New
knowledge was nearly impossible to obtain until
ethologists entered the ﬁeld, with their observations
obtained far from the little cages with electriﬁed
grids that were expected to explain why animals

behave as they do.

 

 




