Human Vivisection.

A Reproach to Civilisation.

 

BY A. E. PARKER.

 

NOYEr- These extraets are taken from the laborious Investigations of DI. He1beIt Snow— ormelty SenIOr
Surgeon Cancer Hospital (Surgeon 29 years), and of DI. Walter Had-wen, ].P., Dr. Geo.
Searle, Se.D., F.R.S., and others.

”(a y .
WWW-3°” ‘ Maj HE “Nineteenth Century and After” for lanuarv, 1925, contains an

 

article by Dr. Snow in which he says “Vivisection isa revolting word

 

 

and denotes many diverse practices, associated in the main with
unspeakable cruelties. It may be succinctly deﬁned as the exploitation

of animals, whether sub-human or human, in the supposed interests

of science, whether forthe advancement of knowledge or for tests,
chemical, physiological or psychological In the great majority of

cases the sub-human creatures are involved ; but it is by no means

“mt: restricted to these ........ ' ...... Experimentation has been extensively
> resorted to 011 children, women and men, very largely in Germany,
America, France and Italy, and to a smaller extent in this country.”

The following statements are taken from a pamphlet written by Dr. SNOW in 1921, but never published 2»—

«$11.

“ Bi rect expernncnt 1511 111111118 at we wart ”~-—~Dr Preqmn KIWI; ﬁff‘ar‘wa‘r‘lq J3I9Vm. 9f. Bath 1“ 9:19 [IWJLNDQQK‘EEQW

8th,1905.

“ It is‘the greatest asset which. a' nation can have, to have among itself, a number of men endowed with this mere curiosity
—men who will put everything second to the advancement of knowledge.”—-Professor Starling, of University College, in his
evidence before the last Royal Commission on Vivisection, 1906—1912.

“ It is a serious thing to experiment upon the lives of our fellow men, but I believe the time has now come when it may
be tried.”-~Lord Lister, P.R.S., at the Berlin Congress, late Professor, King’s College, London. See British Medical journal,
August 16th, 1890*

“ A human life is nothing compared with a new fact in science. . . . The aim of science is the advancement of
human knowledge at any sacriﬁce of human life. . . . We do not know of any higher use we can put a man to.”—«l?roiessor
Slosson in the New York Independent, December 12th, 1895.

Commenting on these quotations Dix-SNOW writes: “ It need hardly, be pointed out that once admit the principle
expressed with significance above—that men should ‘ put everything second to the advancement of knowledge ’«at once the door
is set open for the perpetration of almost any conceivable wickedness and atrocity. . . . It is only medical practitioners who
have it in their power to carry out this maxim at the cost of fellow human-beings. Their unrestricted freedom to experimentalise
is at once seen to constitute a terribly insidious danger to modern seciety. . . . Merely an inﬁnitesimal percentage of doctors
are directly concerned in Viyisection, yet the majority lay down the law in itsfavour. We now see on all sides an overwhelming
popular craze for ‘ Research,’ alias the Vivisection of the sub-human animals ; for ‘ Experiment,’ in place of clinical and patholo~
gical observation. . Hence, there is grave reason to fear ever—increasing experimentation. on the lower animal creation and on the

weaker and more helpless sections of the human species.

An object lesson always impresses more than a lecture ; a few concrete facts will necessarily carry, to the man in the
street who has no time to study scientific principles, inﬁnitely more weight than a lengthy argument. I‘here quote only a small
percentage of the cases on record. It is impossible to credit the Laboratory er the Schools with an increased spirit of humanity
since these things were done. Only of necessity there is more secrecy.”

 

* Recalling this statement the Abolitionisi, October, 1921, says: At the present time it seems likely to be c Ll‘tled
out on a fairly large scale, for the Lister Institute has been appealing for funds to add hospital wards to its animal 11boralories,
in order to to t its theories upon human material. The patients, the experimenters think, will be willing.

 




 

(1) THE STORY OF NEISSER, The Medical Press, March 29th, 1899, records‘the inoculation with syphilis of 8
healthy children without the consent of their parents, by Professor Neisser. Symptoms of the disease were developed in 3. . . A
fourth was seen 3 years after the inoculation with a cerebral tumour, its direct result. The Times, January 15th, 1901, reports
that the Disciplinary Court of Breslau had ﬁned Neisser 300 marks for publishing his 7 account of the experiments, not for the
experiments themselves. In March, 1906, Neisser attempted to lecture at Stettin, but was‘hooted off the stage. On June 27th,
1911, the West London Medico-Chirurgical Society held its annual Conversazione at Kensington Town Hall. Before them Professor
Neisser delivered the Cavendish lecture and was presented with the Cavendish Gold Medal for his researches and experiments.
Not a syllable of protest against these proceedings appears to have been uttered by any association, or by the current medical
lournals.

(2) Mr. LANDIU S, speaking in the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, April 29th, 1913, refers to 146 children
recently inoculated with syphilitic virus “ through the courtesy of the various hospitals in that city.” He also mentions 8
children experimented on by spinal puncture—ell died—~and 15 children in St. Vincent’s House, Philadelphia, whose eyes were
tested with Tuberculin, and states that some had been totally blinded.

(3) Dr. EMMETT HOLT, PROFESSOR OF CHILDREN’S DISEASES, Columbia University, New York, read a paper at the
Twentieth Annual Meeting of the American Pediatric Society, (May 26th, 1908) giving details of 1,000 Tuberculin tests he had
made on young children in hospital; 615 tests were on the eyes of babies, whose hands were tied during the ﬁrst 12 hours to

prevent any rubbing of the eye. Dying children were similarly tested.

(4) Dr RODERMUND OF MILWAU KEE, in the Medical Brief, April, 1906, reports experiments on 17 youthful persons.
“ I sprayed the poison of diphtheria, smallpox, etc. into the nose and throat. “ Of course, I could not let the} patients know what

I was doing. I was supposed to be treating them for catarrh of the nose and throat.”

(5) DIABETES. The Archiv- —fu7r Klinische M edicin vol. 62, gives details of experiments conducted by Dr. Stiibell, of
the University of Jena, upon patients suffering from Diabetes, the principal symptom of which is agonising thirst. They were
deprived of water and results observed. A patient, locked up in an attic with “ strong iron bars” across the windows
“ ingeniously ” obtained water from the gutters during a rainstorm.” Finally, the patient tore the iron grating of the window and

(l i,

got on the roof, and, “fortunately,” the doctor says, he was caught just as he got to the water tap in a nurse’s room. " A triple

row of iron bars was then placed on the window.”

 

Dr. Snow also quoted examples of experiments on human beings in an ENGLISH hospital by the late
Dr. Sydney Ringer that took place some years ago, for which there is not space on this leaflet.

 

Experiments in Hospitals.

Everyone knows that the hospitals do an immense amount of good, but they need careful watching lest their power
is abused. It is very disturbing for instance, to read that our leadingmedical journal, the Lancet, June 26th, 1896, considers that
“ The greatest use of hospitals is to promote the advance of medical science.”

The same Journal for April 18th, 1925, reports seven cases of tuberculosis treated with sanocrysin at the London Hospital
—two died (one of them only two hours after the second injection). Three cases were treated at St. Mary’s Hospital and ” one
patient died, apparently in consequence of the treatment.” The Daily Express of April 23rd, referring to these cases had a para-
graph headed “ A Fatal Experiment,” and, after quoting the hospital reports, the writer says : “ I suppose, however, the’experiments
will continue.” ‘

In a catalogue of Bacterial Vaccines, issued by Messrs. Parke, Davies & Co., it is stated that they. “ alone have the con—

((

cession to Sell the vaccines prepared at the St. Mary’s Hospital Laboratory,” which have been submitted to a clinical test upon a
certain number of patients.” “ The proper dosage of the vaccine must have been elicited both by clinical tests and also, where the
necessary methods are available, by blood tests before and after the inoculation of patients ” so that the patients appear to take

the place of guinea pigs at this hospital ! It is not stated whether the patients are aware of this ! (A bolitionist, December, 1920.)

In 1924 the New York Anti-Vivisection Society was introducing a Bill “ forbidding the use of children in hospitals and
other institutions for medical experimentation of any kind.”

The Oakland Examiner of February lst, 1924., published the report of a meeting of the Health Committee at which
serious allegations were presented concerning the treatment of patients at San Francisco Hospital, one of which was as follows :
“ Thomas C. McCaulay, 1549, Page Street, a tubercular patient up to a month ago, told the Board he was driven from a ward in
the hospital by the doctor in charge because he refused to submit to injections of leprosy serums as an experiment.

“ McCaulay declared that while he was there the woman doctor in charge injected one patient with leprosy serum while
he was in a dying condition. . ‘ We called the patient “ T.B.,” ' said McCaulay. ‘ I don’t know his name, but he died a day after
he was subjected to the injection.’ ” (A bolitionist, June, 1924.)




Experiments upon Children and Lunatics. .
Dr. WALTER HADVVEN, J.P., of Gloucester, in the Abolitionist for January, 1914, draws attention to the “ fact that

))

experimentation upon the lower animals must of necessity lead to experiments upon the human species, and gives examples
upon children ; and in thecsame journal for March, 1916, writes of the “ atrocious work carried on in the United States,” quoting
from the journal of Experimental Medicine for February, 1916, which is published by the notorious Rockefeller Institute. It
contains a gruesome article by Dr. Udo J. Wile, from the University of Michigan. Dr. Hadwen describes that he ” bored holes
in the skulls of no less than 6 helpless lunatics, who were conﬁned in the Pontiac State Hospital, using apparently only a local
anaesthetic for the incisions into the scalp ” (many of us know how useless local anaesthetics are for deadening pain in most cases).
“ Then a long nozzled syringe was inserted through the trephine hole into the brain of each, and a syringe full of brain contents
was severally extracted.” This was used for injecting into “ the two most sensitive organs ” of several rabbits, and “ the poor
tortured ” creatures died in the course of several weeks. Dr. Hadwen adds : “ This is Vivisection and Science ! And a great
country like America—whose Stars and Stripes are supposed to represent all that is noble, and all that is pure in its ideals of
civilisation and humanity, allows this sort of thing to go on boldly in its midst, while the author of these outrages publicly ‘ expresses
his appreciation ’ of‘ many laboratory courtesies extended to him’ by fellow Vivisectors, and specially thanks Dr. Edmund
Christian ” (who should change his name) “ under whose hospital care the poor lunatics were placed, ‘ for the facilities he placed
at his disposal ! ’ ” ' ' i i
In connection with this it is well for us to remember that the American Vivisectors are welcomed over here by our own

medical men, and that the Rockefeller Foundation, in 1920, gave the “ enormous sum of £1,205,000 to University College
Medical School and the College ”—and Vivisection is carried on there ! A boll/[0111117, July, 1920.

\ The Lancet, June 27th, 1925, refers to an “ experiment in prophylaxis against tuberculosis in infants ”—-—in 1922 and 1924
by Dr. Calmette, of the Pasteur Institute, who experimented on over 1,000 young children, and it throws serious doubts upon the
supposed proof and results. Coming from the headquarters of orthodox medicine this is very welcome to anti-Vivisectionists.

Toxin Antitoxin Forbidden.

The Observer, November 2nd, 1924, relates that the Arbeiter-Zeitnng states that “ an experiment with a new kind of
serum was attempted on 36 children at a babies’ home near Vienna with this fatal result : Six of them died of diphtheria toxin
poisoning—and demands a strict examination into the case.” 1 '

” A Vienna cable to the Christian Science Monitor, June 30th, 11925, contains the announcement that the Minister of
Social ‘Nelfare has issued a decree forbidding the use of toxin antitoxin as an inoculation against diphtheria. The decree is an
inner departmental one, based on a report of Professor Pirquet, and was sent to the Serotherapeutic Institute of Vienna. It is
a strange anomaly that while one Government forbids a treatment of this kind on account of its danger, other Governments do
all they can tovencourage its use. (See also Bri/ish Medical Journal, September Zéth, 1925.

Our own Ministry of Health is much to be feared in this direction, but we are glad to note that the L.C.C. has decided
against the use of the test for London School children.” Abolitionist, August, 1925.

The Liverpool Daily Post, April 7th, 1923, describes that : “ Experiments carried out at the University of Pennsylvania
Hospital were successful in obtaining several photographs of the brain of a ten months old baby. The photographs were procured
by making a Small opening in the skull and inserting a photographic cystoscope, to the end of which two tiny lights were afﬁxed ”
(Abolitionist, May, 1923). How many experiments “ were not successful ”——one wonders !

Dr. GEO. SEARLE, SC.D., F.R.S., writes in the Cambridge Chronicle, July 28th, 1920: “ Most people nowadays know
or suspect that experiments are done upon human beings as well as upon animals. The following instance is given in Forchheimer’s
large treatise, Vol. II, p. 176: ‘Certainly the secretion from the mouth and nose contains the infections germ. This View is
proven with fair certainty by the experiment of Stickler, who injected hypodermically 10 children with mucus from the mouth
and pharynx. All these developed severe attacks of scarlet fever.’ I wonder what the mothers were told.” (Dr. Geo. Searle is
a Cambridge University Lecturer in Experimental Physics.)

In another edition of the Cambridge Chronicle Dr. Searle writes—after quoting experiments on dogs : “ I now come to the
bedside of Mary Cain at the Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh, and refer to a paper by Dr McNeil, Edinburgh Medical ]0urnal,
April, 1914. Mary, aged 2% ,Vvas admitted lulv 21st,1913 ..... She was seiofuh‘is and 111 poor condition. Human tuberculin and
b0V111e tuberculin were injected at two points, just above and below the bend of her left arm. In a few days there were deep ulcers
at the sites of the tuberculin injections, and then: VV as an intense reaction of the skin. In the later of the two photographs 111(1th of
\”Iary 5 face 18 hidden by a cloth.” . " ,. - 1

The Editor of the A bolilionisl, September, 1925, writes : “ We were rather shocked to read in the F aslern Daily Press
that at the recent conference of osteopaths at the SaVoy Hotel, D1 Pocock, of Toronto, stated: \Ve can produce sugar diabetes
by forcible injury (in the middle of the back) and we can correct it by adjusting the structure We have with us Dr. Fred Ashton
of Manchester, who has made this discovery on the human frame. Previously we had proved it On animals.”’

 




Experiments upon Criminals.

Dr. ROBERT DUN STAN drew attention, and protested in the Daily Herald, November 3rd, 1923, to experiments upon
6 criminals in Ceylon “ lying under sentence of death. ” The experiments consisted in administering carbon tetrachloride to the
men and strong purges of Epsom salts, causing dizziness vomiting, etc.

'Mr. GRINDELL MATTHEW, of “ Death Ray ” fame, expresses himself in favour of “ The abolition of the death penalty
in order that the living bodies of convicted murderers might be used for'amatomical experiments and scientiﬁc research.” (john
Bull, May 3rd, 1924.)

A writer in the Catholic Times, January 31st, 1925, attacks the position of a professor of agriculture, and a doctor of
medicine, who had recently, in Canada, revived the idea of using criminals for ” the experimental researches of the Vivisectionists.”

Dr. A. T. BRAND, in a review of his recent book on Cancer (1922) is quoted as follows : “ It. is most important that much
should be done in experimental inoculation, and it is even more necessary that such experiments should be made on the ‘ gem/ls
homo.’ No doubt there would be a great outcry from the shrieking sisterhood of both sexes ; but they should, of course, be simply
ignored, for science must be permitted to pursue the calm and even tenor of her way, undisturbed and undeterred by the vapourings
of irresponsible cranks.” One wonders if he would be the ﬁrst to submit to inoculation with this terrible disease ?

Lord HARBERTON, Trustee and Treasurer British Union Anti—Vivisection Society, who is now abroad, writes in the
Abolitiom'st for September, 1925, asking the ofﬁcial view of our Society regarding experiments on criminals. He states that :
“ A writer in the journal (French) holds that criminals of the baser order are far better subjects for various experiments than an
honest dog that has never injured anyone. His View was that, given a criminal with a long sentence, there was no harm in offering
him his liberty, provided he submitted himself to an interesting operation, around the heart, performed by a skilful surgeon, and
that, considering most of these operations are fatal, the State would be relieved of the cost of keeping him alive at considerable
expense.”

The Editor replies as follows : “ The British Union qua the British Union has ofﬁcially delivered no judgment on the
above subject. Its policy is that of the Abolition of Vivisection, and if such abolition applies primarily to experimentation on
lower animals, it would apply, we conceive, with even greater force to experimentation upon human beings. In any circumstances,
however, we consider it would be a very dangerous procedure to place such power in the hands of the vivisector. We are quite
sure, moreover, that the sentiment of the English people would be against such a proposal.”~——(ED., Abolitiomst.) l

 

 

“NOTE—That all Vivisectional experiments, whether on man or the sub-human animals, are
absolutely useless; and never advance knowledge a single jot or tittle. The last Royal Commission ‘on
Vivisection sat for nearly 6 years and reported in 1912. They were unable to indicate a single example of

knowledge gained by means of Vivisection, whether useful or otherwise; although most of the members
I were biased in its favour, and would have been glad to do so.” (Dr. H SNow, Oct. 22nd, 1925.)

 

 

RATEPAYERS. TAXPAYERS. ELEchRs

44/7,;
"/2
Thousands of Pounds of PUBLIC MONEY are annually expended.o up/onfcruel and misleading

experiments upon defenceless animals. a .«,\\ 1’ ’

2
lhese practices lead to expeiiments upon men, women and ch11dren.’$’c}7\7111 YOU help 16 abolish
these things? If so

I r. 1‘ A t z i,
F/ . , .

i J I ..’ l )
41((4. r“ ,1, , “\ 1/ ”17:1.“

15,, J0
Join the “British Union for the Abolition of Viviié’ git/ion”

Local Branch :—LE|GH, WOODBERRY GROVE, NORTH FINGHLEY. Hon. Sec.—-—MISS PARKER.

 

T. Sellens, Printer (T.U.), North Finchley. Oct. 193:

 




