Help Pass
THE PROTECTION
OF BIRDS BILL.

This Bill, which has passed all stages in the
House of Lords, will help to release British Wild
Birds from the misery of imprisonment in cages.

QOQ

The following is Lord Buckmaster’s speech in
the House of Lords, when moving the Second
Reading of this Bill on 14th February, 1933 :—

My Lords, before I ask your attention to the terms
of this measure it would, I think, be well to state in general
language what the law is at the present moment with regard
to wild birds. The governing Act is an Act passed in 1880,
53 years ago, and it provided that certain named birds set
out in the Schedule should be protected between March 1
and August 1 in any year, and that anybody who exposed or
offered for sale, or used any net, to take any bird between
those dates should upon conviction suffer the penalties stated
in the Act. It also enabled an extension of the time during
which birds might be protected, on a representation made by
the justices assembled in Quarter Sessions.

 




 

The Act appears to have had as many leaks as an
old kettle, for it has been amended no fewer than
seven or eight times since it was passed. One amendment
permitted the inclusion by the Secretary of State of a bird

that was not originally mentioned in the Schedule. Another '

enabled the Secretary of State, for special reasons, to extend
the period during which birds were protected. Then came
Acts to prevent people from afﬁxing traps, gins and snares
for taking birds. In 1908 there was an Act that provided
that any attempt to take a wild bird by means of a hook
should be the subject of punishment; while in 1925 the
capture of a bird by decoy or bird lime was prevented. At
the same time there was a provision that any person who
kept or conﬁned a bird in any cage or other receptacle which
was not of sufﬁcient dimensions in height, breadth, etc., to
enable the bird to stretch its wings, should be guilty of an
offence ; but it was provided specially that that should have
no application while a bird was being shown for the purpose
of public exhibition or competition, though the bird was not
for that purpose to be shut up for more than 72 hours.

Having heard this summary of the provisions of these
Acts of Parliament, it must be plain to your Lordships that
during the whole period of the year that is not covered, from
August to March, there is almost unlimited opportunity, in
areas that have not been protected by orders made by the
Secretary of State, to capture wild birds practically to any
extent. That this opportunity has been used and is being
used to-day to a degree that I think people do not fully
realise, can be seen by anyone who goes to a place in London
that is known as Club Row. I have not been there myself,
but I do not think that anyone of your Lordships would dispute
that the evidence of a man like the editor of the Field would
be very valuable, to tell you what it is that goes on there.
I know of no paper more honest, more manly and straight-
forward than the Field, and I believe that everyone of your
Lordships will agree with that verdict. You do not go to
the Field to ﬁnd people being needlessly sentimental over
the suffering of wild creatures. Cruelty they hate, but they
have never interfered with sport.

This is what he saw. He found a barrow with wooden
cages containing linnets, goldﬁnches, and a variety of other
birds, and as buying was brisk he described exactly what

2

 

 

 

 




 

 

l
l

 

 

took place. The woman in charge of the birds took linnet
after linnet from a tiny cage. She held it up by its tail and
legs, dipped its beak into a little glass of dirty water, poked
it head ﬁrst into a cardboard box, closed the box and pocketed
a shilling. She took and dipped a goldﬁnch and sold that.
The writer goes on :

“ Then I caught sight of a song thrush, in a wire
cage, crouching against the bars. Others watched it
besides myself. ‘ New to it ; don’t know where he are,
in that cage,’ I heard behind me.” -

He asked how much it was and was told Gs. He bought it
and the thrush with open beak was placed in a cardboard
box. He then bought some linnets and went away with them.

As soon as he got out of London he opened the box and
the linnets ﬂew away. The thrush could not move. After a
little it ﬂuttered along the ground to creep into a corner of
dead bracken packed over a myrtle bush. He put water
near the bird and left it in the sun and Wind. In two hours’
time it ﬂuttered out and sat up, so he knew that its leg was
not, as he feared, dislocated. Ten minutes later it found its
Wings. The article continued 2——

“ Wild birds are sold in this way . . . . Can we not
alter the law? . . . . Cannot the British Government,
even in these hard days, spare an hour to save these wild
singing birds from paper bags? ”

Now, my Lords, I want to show you the extent to which
this trade is carried on. Bird competitions are established all
over England and are conducted in almost every place you
can think of, from the Crystal Palace to a public house, and
men are encouraged to take and keep these wild birds in the
hope of getting some of the high prices they set upon their
heads and the prizes that are provided at these shows for
anybody who has managed to induce some wretched little
creature to prolong its life in captivity, because of the birds
taken it is estimated that there are not more than IO per cent.
that live.

 




 

 

They die probably of great wretchedness, through being
conﬁned, but these shows explain that it is a good thing to
take these wild birds and rear them. In one of the opening
sentences in their catalogues they ask: “Does it pay?”
Yes, I have no doubt it pays very well. Here are some of
the lists of birds in the recent exhibition given at the Crystal
Palace. I take one class alone:

“ Hedge, house and tree sparrows ; long-tailed, great,
coal, marsh, blue and crested tits; bearded reedling;
common, golden—crested and ﬁre—crested wrens ; pied and
spotted ﬂy-catchers; tree—creeper, wry-neck and nut-
hatch.”

The next list contains names familiar to many of your
Lordships—the nightingale, the blackcap, the willow, wood and
garden warblers, the chiffchaff, the whitethroat and lesser
white-throat, the whinchat, stonechat, redstart and black
redstart. I could go on with any number—practically every
bird you know ; all the wagtails, the wood- and the shore—
larks, the meadow- and tree-pipits, the dipper. The idea of
there being a class for a water ousel is certainly a startling
thing.

Let me tell you, my Lords, What the editor of the Field,
who went to see this, thought about it. This is What he says :

“ One of the tree-creepers ran unceasingly from one
side of his cage to the other, upside down along the roof ;
the ceiling cloth was worn to tatters. Another un-
ceasingly crept backwards and forwards over the back of
its cage. The nuthatch never stopped jumping from one
side of its cage to the other. The wren went ceaselessly
from a perch into a hole in a box, out of the hole on to
the ﬂoor, up from the ﬂoor to the perch.”

Then he makes a comment, which. I think is not unfair:
“ How many people in England realise What it is that is
going on?” It is not merely birds such as those that I
mentioned. Among other birds that I have seen mentioned
as successfully caged were the kingﬁsher and the swallow-—
the kingﬁsher, with the ﬂight of an arrow and the ﬂame of
blue, shut for ever in a cage, where it will never again be
able to show the glory and the wonder of its wings; and
the swallow—a bird which under the impulse of some power

4

 

 




greater than any that we can measure, is driven every autumn
across the ocean and across the desert to seek the sun ;
_ fancy that bird shut up in a cage and exhibited as a curiosity
at a Show!

Surely we do owe something to these creatures. Those
of us who take pleasure in enjoying the sight of them must
feel that we owe them something, and that something, I
suggest, will ﬁnd expression in an attempt to redeem them
from the condition in which they are placed. Take, for
example, the lark. They not only imprison the lark, and
shut within a narrow cage the wings that were made for
the sky, but you will find a full account of the best way to
treat a lark in order to make it sing. I cannot possibly
guarantee the accuracy of statements that are made in
periodicals or papers, but I can give you the paper and the
date. On April 21, 1928, in the Surrey Comet, a paper that
I have always known as a thoroughly reputable paper, there
is this statement :

“ Recent prosecutions in the police court at Kingston
have focussed attention on particularly abhorrent forms
of cruelty practised by bird catchers. Statements were
made of a bird having been deliberately blinded . . . .
................ the birds being absolutely
smothered with that vile glue-like composition known as
bird lime . . .”

Nor is this the only form of blinding. There is a book
quoted by the editor of the Field. It is called “ How to
make a Skylark sing.” It describes how for many of these
competitions you have to shut the bird up in absolute darkness
up to a period of four days, and I imagine that if that does
not succeed you can try more. You feed it on meal-worms
soaked in old whisky, and then, at the end of four days, you
bring this bird forward and hope that the excitement of the
light will make it sing. And this is the lark, a bird that at
the very ﬁrst ﬂush of the morning rises to greet the sun;
this is what our law permits to be done to the creature that
I regard as the only true optimist left in this machine- and
trouble-ridden world.

I want to have the whole of this ended, and with your
Lordships’ help, I believe it possible. The Bill applies only
to the English birds, and for this reason. Canaries have been

5

 




 

 

bred so long in captivity that it may be hoped they
will have forgotten the liberty of the air, just as man, in the
long course of his evolutionary development, has forgotten
the freedom of the forests. They no longer know what it is
to want to ﬂy. They are happy in their cages. They will
sing, they can be delightful companions, and there is an
excuse for anybody who says, “ What I want to do is to keep
a bird ” ; there is no reason why he should not keep a canary,
and my Bill does not propose to affect that right.

It is not merely the question of the punishment that .

this Bill provides. If we can only get this Bill through I
feel quite certain that you will ﬁnd that public opinion will
gather behind the law, just as the gulls gather behind the
plough. Your Lordships in 1928 passed a Bill (Protection of
Lapwings Act 1928) after three years’ attack upon the
stubborn apathy of the Government, and I do not believe it
would have got through then but for the aid given to it by
the noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury. But that Bill became
law, and I feel quite satisﬁed that any one of your Lordships
must have felt some satisfaction on seeing the increasing
number of the ﬂocks of those birds whenever your
good fortune has taken you to the spots where the winds
sweep and the plover cry. I want you to extend your treat-
ment to these other and smaller birds ; and, just as you saved

the plover from something that was threatening its extinction,-

so I ask you now to redeem these birds from a cruel and
shameful captivity.

y.
.X.
.N‘

N0te.-—The Wild Birds Protection Act 1880 prescribes that
all birds shall be protected, between lst March and
lst August, from people not owning land, but allows
Owners and Occupiers of land to give permission for
the killing of birds between these dates on their own
land. But it provides a schedule of birds which
even Owners and Occupiers of land must not kill or
interfere with in any way, between the prescribed dates.

6

 

 

 

 




 

Will you please help the Bill in one or more Of the
following ways 1——

(1) By writing to the R.S.P.C.A. and offering to give
out handbills.

(2) By asking your Member of Parliament to support
the Bill.

(3) By getting Resolutions in favour of the Bill, passed
at meetings of various organisations, and sent to the
R.S.P.C.A.

(4) By organising meetings to which the Society can
send an ofﬁcial speaker, tO give an address on this
subject.

(5) By getting R.S.P.C.A. Petition Forms ﬁlled in.

You will thus be assisting to free our lovely wild birds
from the risk Of being caged and losing all that makes life
sweet—freedom, mating, nesting, and the endless joys Of the
open life amidst the beauties of the changing year.

 

 

 

Issued by the
ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS,
105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1.

7

 




M. 51. C. 2M/6/33.

 




