 

gTbréepenée-‘li

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE HUNTING OF
THE STAG

By
EDITH WARD

THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION
OF CRUEL SPORTS
4 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.1

1935

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE

HUNTING 0F THE STAG

HREE species of deer are known in Britain—the Red Deer

(Camus elaphus), the largest and most handsome of our
wild fauna, which is hunted in Devon and Somerset and stalked
in Scotland; the Roe Deer (Capreolus caprwa), once very common
in all parts of the country and now rare; and the Fallow Deer
(Camus dwma), which is. doubtfully a native though well estab-
lished for a long period. This last is the deer most often seen
in private parks and wild in the New Forest. It is hunted to
kill in Hampshire, but elsewhere chieﬂy as the “ carted stag ”
of newspaper notoriety.

THE CARTED DEER.

A semi-domesticated animal, often deprived of its antlers and
occasionally de-sexed, it is conveyed in a van to some appointed
place and there released and given a certain amount of “law,”
in the language of sport, otherwise—a start, before buckhounds
are laid upon its trail and it is expected to show good form
and afford a brisk run to the very miscellaneous ﬁeld of followers
before it takes refuge in a pond, or stream, or some outbuilding
from whence it can be. secured and returned to its van to run
again another day. '

This simple statement describes what is often claimed to be
a very mild form of sport far removed from cruelty, and not
infrequently held in contempt by fox-hunters, or hunters of
the Red Deer. As a matter of fact cruelty of a serious kind
is often associated with it. N 0 animal can be expected to enjoy
pursuit at speed over unknown ground in what is, generally,
cultivated country, intersected by roads, canals, railways, and
often almost suburban in character, wherein it may encounter
motors, dogs, and people and have to surmount difﬁcult obstacles, ,
turning this way and that as it tries to avoid the terrifying
objects it sees. Such tame deer have been hunted out to sea.1

1 A recent case formed the subject of a prosecution by the R.S.P.C.A.,
which failed on the ground that the animal, a hind in this case, was not
domesticated although known by and knowing her name; and some few
years earlier such a driven deer swimming out to sea was rescued by some
French ﬁshermen and ended its life peacefully after some time of further
domestication.

3 A2

 




 

They have been impaled on spiked railings, and in other ways
so seriously injured that they have had to be destroyed. But
even if no accident of this kind occurs there is distress and
suffering from over driving. In the Home Counties one may
chance to see a small animal, looking not unlike a calf, labouring
along with scant breath and heaving ﬂanks pursued at no great
distance by hounds, a motley crowd of mounted men, women and
children, others on bicycles, or on foot, not to mention motor-
cars with occupants trying to see all they can of this “ glorious ”
sport whenever the line of pursuit follows on or near a highway.

It has long been the view of thoughtful and humane people
that such happenings are not true sport and are comparable
only to the coursing of bagged rabbits and the shooting of
trapped pigeons. For more than forty years it has been the
policy of the R.S.P.C.A. to endeavour to procure such an altera-
tion of the law as would make such sport illegal, and the
“ Spurious Sports Bill” has been introduced into Parliament
after Parliament by members of all three political parties, but
has not yet come within hailing distance of the Royal assent.
This in spite of the fact that King Edward VII abolished the
Royal Buckhounds soon after his accession, largely as a result
of the activities of the Humanitarian League.

It was thought that the Protection of Animals Act of 1911
might be invoked under the “ terrifying ” clause to protect these
semi—domesticated deer, but hitherto no successful prosecution
has taken place; not even when the joint master of Lord
Ribblesdale’s Buckhounds was summoned for permitting a lame
hind to be pursued and mauled with the object of “ blooding ”
young hounds. So the position remains highly unsatisfactory.

THE - NEW FOREST .

It has been mentioned that in the New Forest the Fallow
Deer are hunted to kill and not to capture. It is claimed—
indeed proclaimed with great vigour in some cases~—that the
New Forest deer are simply run down by hounds and brought
to bay, and then instantly killed by the huntsman’s knife.
Nothing, it would appear, could be more gratifying than the
behaviour of the hounds who never dream of touching their
prey till the huntsman arrives with his knife to perform the
authorised rite. One says “ rite ” advisedly, because there is a
traditional way of doing these things, and tradition is as power-
ful in some hunting fraternities where the shedding of blood

4

 

 

 

 




 

is concerned as it is among orthodox Jews under their rules of
'Shechita. There is, however, a very pretty divergence of view,
between certain protagonists of deer-hunting, on this point of
“ bay and mort ” in the New Forest; a member of the House of
Lords, having asserted in print that the New Forest buck is
pulled down and killed by the bounds themselves, has been
vigorously contradicted by an ardent defender of the New Forest
Hunt. The unprejudiced outsider will draw the conclusion that
things don’t happen “just so,” or according to rule, when a lot
of lusty and excited hounds at last come up with the object of
an hour’s hot pursuit and the mounted men are disentangling
themselves from brushwood and holly before they can reach the
spot where . . . ! But here we draw the veil and the reader
may draw his own inference. It is rather a curious commentary
on this assertion about the self-control of the New Forest Buck-
hounds who hunt Fallow Deer, that a well-known hunting
authority (Capt. King-King) has pointed out the undesirability
of buckhounds exceeding twenty-two inches in height in the case
of carted deer “because at that height they could not, bar
accidents, kill their quarry.” Big hounds, such as those used in
hunting the Red Deer, can knock the Fallow Deer off his legs,
but both sizes will be able to kill him if he gets down in a ditch.
It is expecting too much of hound nature to assume that no New
Forest deer are ever pulled down and killed by hounds, as Lord
Latymer afﬁrmed that they were.

WEST COUNTRY STAGGING.

We now turn to the West Country which for the last few
years has occupied the centre of the stage of controversy about
the “ to be or not to be ” of deer-hunting with hounds. Here, in
the wilds of Exmoor and the Doone Country of romance, is the
last English stronghold of the Red Deer.. Here, it was claimed
by the late Lord Fortescue, by Sir E. Chichester and others,
the oldest Sport of Kings is carried out according to rite and
rule, as it has been done through nine centuries of English
history since the days of Norman William.

We will not refer to this claim as a terminological inexacti-
tude, but it certainly must be called a picturesque exaggeration.
While it is quite true that the hunting of deer was always
reserved for kings, nobles and their retainers, accompanied by
dogs, under a system of Forest Laws whose savagery can only
now be related with horror, the method of pursuit has varied,
and if one or two old Norman-French terms are still used it

5

 




 

seems to be entirely forgotten that both hunters and huntresses
brought down bucks and does with that lethal weapon which
wrought such deadly havoc at Agincourt; and though the modern
sportsmen of the West protest that it is impossible to shoot deer
with a riﬂe, their ancestors could, and did, do effective execution
with the English long-bow and the less known cross-bow and
quarrel.2

It is strange that those poaching rascals, Robin Hood and his
merry men, could do with primitive weapons, among the then
dense thickets of Sherwood, what cannot be done with weapons
of precision in the more open stretches of Exmoor. Likewise
it seems to be forgotten that another method of dealing with
deer was by the drive, often carried out on quite the regal scale
which Indian potentates still maintain. We may read the
description of Henry the Eighth’s entertainment of his foreign
guests, by a deer drive on a big scale, in the biography of
Frederick, Palsgrave of the Rhine, written by Halbertus Thomas,
his secretary; but the modern hunting man pooh-poohs any
suggestion that deer could be humanely shot by experts, having
ﬁrst been driven into one of the many combes where marksmen
await their arrival carefully concealed in butts.

On the continent the Red Deer through centuries have been
driven up to guns, bows, and spears on the grand scale, and it
must be within the recollection of all of us that William Hohen-
zollern the Second of Germany delighted in this traditional
method of slaughter in the days before the late war. It has been
graphically described in the 17th century: “ The Princes Hunte
Redd Deare and Harts seldome, and only at sett tymes of the
yeare, and then they rather murther than hunte them. For the
clownes drive whole heardes of them into the Toyles, Compassing
a great Circuite of grounde, wherein they shoote at them with
gonnes and crossbowes, and when they are fallen, kill them with
shorte swordes by hundreths at a tyme.” 3

SHOOTING OF DEER.

Now it is not to be supposed that those who see in the
hunting of deer by the West Country packs a great and grievous
cruelty would have it replaced by “murther” on a wholesale scale
such as just described; this account has been quoted merely to

2It surely cannot be forgotten that King William Rufus was engaged
in this pursuit when he met his death from the arrow of Sir W. Tyrrel,
one of his followers.

3 Quoted from Gentlemen Errant, by Mrs. Henry Cust.
6

 

ﬁw—v- —~—’—-———/——4v—ﬂ——/-

 

 




 

Z

P/Joto by C. Re

 

RED DEER,

 




-=—‘—-.y-—-—-- ' " A» ' ‘—
' ;

 

 

 

 




 

show that deer have been, and can be, driven up to guns, and
that selective driving could be accomplished for the purpose of
occasional thinning of stock with no greater difﬁculty than
harbouring is done to-day. Done, of course, under carefully
organised and supervised conditions by properly qualiﬁed persons.
It is claimed by the hunts that some two hundred deer are killed
each year by the packs engaged; presumably this is the amount
of “ thinning ” which the conditions of the case require. The
hunting goes on from August to April, ﬁrst the stags till October,
then hinds till February at earliest, then a few more stags to
ﬁnish the sporting calendar. This means many days and months
of pursuit with all the concommitant suffering, whereas, with
planned and carefully organised drives, the same number of
animals could be quickly and humanely dispatched in a few
days of driving and shooting.

Since the above paragraph was ﬁrst written it has been re-
ported in the press that the Devon and Somerset Hunt arranged
a drive and shoot which seems to have been carried out on the
lines that humanitarians have long advocated, for which they
have been—more or less politely—told that they were ignorant
townsfolk and knew nothing about it and that such a thing
could not be done on Exmoor. We now know that the bottom
has been knocked out of the British Field Sports Society’s
arguments. The Hunt has actually performed the task which
they, and their defenders in the press, have hitherto declared
to be impossible.

OTHER METHODS .

Some readers may be unaware of this exploit, or the activities
of the well-known Harbourer—Fred Gosse—who, by some
fashion of his own, that has remained an impenetrable mystery,
succeeded, during the Great War when no hunting was possible,
in reducing the numbers of the deer. For this he was publicly
thanked and praised by Lord Fortescue on his retirement. Why
Mr. Gosse’s method should remain a secret must be left to
conjecture, but since the defenders of hunting have protested
so much that any method except hunting would be cruel, or
impossible, we must at least assume that Gosse’s success was not
achieved by those nets, or snares, or traps, or poisons which the
hunting folk accuse the vengeful farmer of employing. To
anyone who has followed the ding-dong of debate carried on
for so many years in The Spectator, Manchester Guardian, and

7 A 3

\

 




 

 

 

some sporting and West Country papers, the above facts carry
a forecast of ultimate success when re-introduction of the Bill 4
for suppression of all deer-hunting with hounds becomes possible.
The great majority of people, outside the Devon and Somerset
area, are horriﬁed by the descriptions that, from time to time,
ﬁnd their way into the public press, of the ﬁnal scenes of a
successful hunt; they call for suppression, but, knowing little or
nothing from personal experience, they have in many cases been
misled into accepting the re-iterated assertions, above referred to,
of those who are determined to maintain the status quo (asser-
tions which are usually combined with plentiful reference to the
supposed ignorance of humanitarians); and thus they have come
to regard the question with too apathetic resignation to the will
of the “gods of things as they are.” This attitude has for a long
tale of years been familiar to those who have fought the parlia-
mentary battle for humane slaughter. In face of the fuller
information now available, will not those kindly, but too easily
satisﬁed, citizens come over and join the ranks of those who
work for the “ gods of things as they may be ” and demand the
abolition of all deer hunting with hounds?

It is not proposed to extend the scope of this essay by recital
of the numerous instances of deer being dashed to pieces in
leaping from cliffs, due, it is suggested by a medical witness,
to the blindness of extreme exhaustion, or being driven out to
sea and pursued and dragged back by boat for slaughter on the
beach, or of the horrors of the “ bay ” and the “ mort ” by which
the waters of Devon streams are so often stained with blood,
and picturesque village streets disﬁgured with entrails and
degraded into an amateur shambles. But many such accounts
have been published on incontrovertible testimony; such “acci-
dents ” or “incidents ” like the gross over-riding of horses and
injury to horses and hounds are inseparable from the chase of
the wild deer. Examples will be» found in the Appendix and
further instances are given in some of the works listed in the
Bibliography.

There are many straws drifting about in the general press
which indicate that the days of the Stag-hunt are numbered.
Formerly but few voices were heard in protest; it was almost
dangerous to hold a protest meeting in Minehead; the ducking
which befell a press correspondent at the hands of some hunt
followers had far reaching repercussions. To-day we are told

4 Introduced by J. Lovat—Fraser, this Bill passed its ﬁrst reading in
March 1930.

8

 

 




 

 

by Mr. James Douglas in the Daily Express “ many visitors have
been driven away by the spor ” . . . . “ Public Opinion compels
sportsmen to avoid killing stags near Lynton and Minehead.”
“ I was told by the wife of a well-known peer that the sport is
far too expensive for the residents ” . . . . “It is kept up for
a small number of hunting men and women, 300 subscribers at
most, and it is probable the natives lose as much as they gain
by the pastime.” More recently at a Minehead Publicity Associ-
ation Meeting it was stated by the Chairman that “ hunting
people had left Minehead with the glorious legacy of the freedom
of the hills [sic] which he urged should now be utilised to
attract other types of visitors to the district ” . . . . “In former
days the town had been the hunting people’s annual resort but
now the only relic of those days was the many empty horse
stables.”

SOME SOPHISTRIES.

Speaking at the Annual Meeting of the British Field Sports
Society, Lord Bayford, the Chairman, after devoting time to
describing what were referred to as “ Anti-Sport Activities,”
concluded by saying: “ It is of vital importance that members
and non-members alike should not underestimate the strength
of their opponents, and that strength lies unseen among the vast
population of the town.” This “ vast population ” according to
the noble Lord, is readily “ gulled by anti-sport cranks,” but
is not, we may remark, so gullible as to be taken in by the
sophistries put forward by the defenders of sport, some of which
have been referred to in this essay and many of which came
to light in the extensive press debates that have taken place of
late years.

Possibly one of the most extraordinary excuses for chasing
the Red Deer has been that put forward by Lord Bayford him-
self, namely, the bad moral character of the runnable stag!
That the deer will eat and destroy the farmer’s crops if they get
the chance we all know (and that is a very. good reason for
restraining their increase and arranging for a proper “ reserve ”)
but that he is a selﬁsh polygamist with greedy proclivitiesand
quarrelsome habits and has. no consideration for younger rivals
when anxious to escape pursuit are, indeed, strange reasons for
-—-not exterminating at once, but—preserving him for punish-
ment by the special barbarities of the chase.

The exact words used by Lord Bayford were: “ It is always

9

 




 

 

the custom to describe a stag as ‘the noble. animal!’ As a great
admirer, I regret to say that his nobility is conﬁned to appear-
ance, and does not extend to character. If the truth be told,
he is a selﬁsh old fellow, much addicted to the pleasures of the
table and'the harem. He is a dreadful bully to the hinds and
young deer; and though well armed by nature, is a poor ﬁghter
save at the season when the lust of the ﬂesh is upon him.” With
these views the members of the Devon and Somerset Hunt Com-
mittee appear wholeheartedly to associate themselves, since
they circulate them “ With their Compliments ” as a leaﬂet
designed to enlighten the public in view of the ignorance dis-
played in press. correspondence on Stag-hunting. Curiously
enough, the British Field Sports Society, of which Lord Bayford
is chairman, also circulates a “ Case for Stag-Hunting,” which
contains this assertion: “ The general public do not and cannot
know anything of wild creatures. Few of them see any but
domesticated animals, and it is only natural, therefore, that they
should endow the whole animal creation with sentiments, if not
human, at least to some extent educated.” Apparently then
Lord Bayford may, when it suits his purpose, perpetrate the same
unscientiﬁc error as the ignorant populace in endowing the wild
animal with human sentiments, for it has seemed to us that we
have heard of the unamiable characteristics of the stag in con-
nection with a much higher race! Promiscuity in sex relations,
the maintenance of a “ second establishment,” if not a harem,
greediness and selﬁsh disregard of weaker brethren in the pursuit
of safety, or even of gain, are not visited with organised pursuit
and violent death upon the sinners who should certainly know
better than male deer.

It should certainly not escape the notice of the public to
whom Lord Bayford’s argument was addressed, that hinds, which
have a most enviable reputation as careful and devoted mothers,
are, equally with the naughty stag, the object of pursuit and
slaughter. But having no antlers, with which to endanger
hounds or huntsman, their end is more speedy on land, though
when they take to the rivers it is often their fate to have their
heads held down in the water till they drown.

There is surely need for some study of animal psychology
and» comparative ethics in the education of stag-hunters,
especially if they are going to present themselves before the
keen-witted frequenters of town debating societies as the British
Field Sports Society is now doing.

Another curious argument is advanced 1n an article from the

IO

 

 

 

 




 

N rational Review, namely, that all wild animals [the deer in this
case] regarding man as an enemy are only anxious to avoid his
presence, but they do require that he should not deprive them of
their birthright—a sudden death . . . . “ What we should call a
violent death is part of nature’s routine and it is a positive
cruelty to eliminate it! ” [italics mine]. On this one can only
express the Opinion that if being pursued to the point ’of
exhaustion and possibly standing at “ bay ” for a long time
waiting to be “ stuck ” in a fashion that may, and sometimes
does, involve four minutes before unconsciousness supervenes,
is to be subjected to “ sudden death ” then the stag may well
pray to be saved from his friends and prefer the lesser cruelty
of elimination of his “ birthright ”!

From the same source other samples of huntsmen’s defence
logic may be extracted, e.g., “ the killing of a large animal is
necessarily an unpleasant sight, but it is one which can be
witnessed in the purlieus of any butcher’s shop. The fact that
the Exmoor stag is killed in the open air and before the eyes of
a crowd of people, does not mean that its death is any less
humane than that of a bullock or a sheep.” But the bullock,
and most sheep and pigs are now killed instantaneously and
were never hunted from ten to twenty-ﬁve miles and worried by
hounds beforehand. The writer admits that the killing of a
stag is “ a distasteful process” and “ always a source of some
anxiety to the hunt sta ,” and, while asserting that the killing
“is effected as speedily and humanely as is possible under the
circumstances,” he also allows that “ the system is not infallible”
and that “ on one occasion a deer became entangled in some wire
and was knocked over and eventually drowned ” [italics mine].

THE END IN VIEW.

In view of the cases on record in the writer’s possession,
drawn from sportsmen’s own publications, not to mention those
that have become notorious in the press, it will be agreed that
the above is, to say the least, an understatement which cannot
be accepted as adding to the reputability of the Sportsman’s case
for defence. Better to Own up and take what is coming—the
total prohibition of deer hunting with hounds—for the British
public, tolerant as it is and stolid as it may be, cannot be much
longer fobbed off with excuses which hardly deserve the name
of argument.

II

 




L’ENVOI.
SOB STUFF !

[Lines in earnest and admiring extension of the following
sentiments, extracted from a defence of stag hunting published
in the Catalogue of a West Country Agricultural Show: “ The
abolition of hunting would mean the end of light-horse breeding,
the end of horse shows, and practically the end of agricultural
shows . . . . It would mean the end of point-to-point meetings
and puppy shows; in fact all the pleasant social gatherings that
lead to so many lasting friendships among the rural community.
It is well to face facts before it is too late . . .”]

Come, brothers, let us face the facts
Before our ignorance re-acts
On morals, faith and social pacts.

Beware, then—cease to hunt the stag,
And many civic virtues ﬂag;
The social system hits a snag.

Among good things that go below,
First comes a truly rural woe—-
Bang goes the agricultural show.

Aye, none will show the Large Black Pig,
The marrow vast, the beetroot big,
The Mangold-wurzel, peach, or ﬁg.

Why should men trot these trophies out
When none may chase, with valiant shout,
The ﬁerce, malignant stag about?

Then other functions droop and drop;
The point-to-point, of course must st0p,
And all the puppy shows go ﬂop.

What then remains of rural worth,
The country joys of mother earth,
“ Provencal song and sunburnt mirth ” “3

Why, friendship withers like a weed;
The kindly word, the friendly deed
Are poisoned from their very seed;

IZ

 

 

 




 

 

And o’er our land, once meek and mild,
But now grown savage and deﬁled,
Great, huge, rejoicing stags run Wild . . .

Shall such things be in this fair clime?
Nay, let’s avert this reign of crime
By hunting till the end of time!

LUCIo . . .

These amusing and appropriate verses are reproduced by
kind permission of “ Lucio ” from The Manchester Guardian.

 

 




M, . .3... -——-———,—_—.;:__.._——;_.——~_ -_z;;.;_...;.;. ';;:&;.«..:_—:-_ r..:._._.._- _. M. _,.. -__..- ,.,_._., _. --,.. n ,

APPENDIX.
Sportsmen’s Evidence.

The following extracts are taken from C. P. Collyns’s hunting
classic, Notes on the Chase of the Wild Red Deer. This was
ﬁrst published in 1862; but the Editor of the 1907 edition
remarks: “ The system of hunting observed in the ﬁeld is
practically the same . . . . As to the nature of the statements
made, it can scarcely be asserted that in the interval of forty
years any serious ﬂaws, physiological or technical, have been
brought to light.”

p. 190-191. “ It is more than probable that, at times, when the deer
have sprung from cliffs, they have done so under delusion as to the depths
of the fall, caused by partial blindness, the effect of severe exertion. In
most cases, however, the animal has, no doubt, taken the fatal leap while
under the inﬂuence of uncontrollable fear. On one occasion a stag met
his end by leaping from a height on to the rocks, under circumstances
which almost justify the belief that he deliberately committed suicide. . .
On reaching the shore beneath the cliff the stag was found, a disﬁgured
object, mashed to a jelly, the horns broken to ﬂinders and scattered on the
rocks.”

p. 196. After long pursuit a hind running with the pack close at her
haunches made a stupendous leap “not more than ten minutes before she
sank before them. What makes it more extraordinary is, that on being
paunche-d, a calf was taken from her, almost able to stand. The fence was
a stone wall, with a rail on the top of it not to be broken . . . and it was
up a steep bank that she approached it.” (Italics ours.)

p. 229. “ We found a very large stag in Horner; he was so fat that
he could not run; we killed him in half an hour.”

p. 261. “ This deer ran himself blind.”

p. 266. “A stag fell over the cliffs and killed himself . . . Last year
at this very spot two leading hounds went over this rock after a deer and
were killed.”

p. 275. A stag having swum down to the mouth of the river Parret,
was secured “by throwing a rope over his horns, and was thus towed”
for a mile and a half.

p. 279. “where she was killed, much to the gratiﬁcation of the ﬁeld
as well as the Master of the hounds.” (Italics ours.)

p. 285. “ Here the pack bayed him as he stood on a rock for safety,
but in a few minutes obliged him to seek other quarters. He now leapt
down about four feet on to the ledge of another rock, where it was im-
possible for the hounds to get at him; no doubt thinking himself safe, he
lay down exhausted ; . . Eventually, by throwing stones at him, he was

I4

 

 

 




 

 

 

n

 

ED DEER FOR HUNTING

RELEASING THE CART

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 




 

 

driven off, and made a bound for the beach, a distance of 60 feet; he so
injured himself that he could not go to sea, and was easily captured.
The chase lasted 3;} hours, the hounds got blood as they deserved.”

p. 293. “On opening the deer, his inside was ﬁlled with blood, denot-
ing that a blood vessel had been ruptured. Just before his capture he
was seen to try and leap a high ﬂood gate and fall back. Little doubt
can remain but that at this time the rupture took place.”

p. 295. “. . . but refuge even here was denied; the pack fresh found
her, and after a turn through the covert, she leapt from the cliff and
killed herself; one of the hounds, ‘ 'Warrior,’ was so close on her that he
went over with her and shared her fate; the distance down to the beach
is over 360 feet. This was the best and fastest run of the season, and was
accomplished in two hours and twenty—nine minutes with scarcely a check

. such was the pace, that four horses never returned to their stables,

and at least a dozen more were rendered useless for the remainder of the
season.”

Extracts from Staghu-nting with the Devon and Somerset
(1902) by P. Evered:

p. 292. “ Stag venison carries more fat than that of hind or male
deer, but is not so delicate, and yet at its prime in September forms the
best roast of all three, especially when well hunted and brought to the
board within three or four nights of its capture. After that the hunted
ﬂavour [sicI] goes off . . .”

p. 341. “ The history of stag hunting contains many instances of
individual landowners exhibiting animosity to the chase which brings
health to some and aﬂluence to other of their neighbours, but public opinion
and the welfare of the many have sufﬁcient inﬂuence and weight in modern
England to ensure the ultimate victory of the will of the many over the
prejudices of the few. The time for arbitrary exercise of even the most
ordinary rights and privileges is passing fast into the limbo of other long-
forgotten feudal habits, but old—world ways and customs linger still among
the hills and fogs of Exmoor . . .”

Major Harding Cox on “ Why Sport must be cruel” in The
Daily Graphic, 24 / 9 / 1927 :

. . . “ Hunting the wild stag on his native Exmoor. That is sport,
indeed !—Wait !

“ That same stag is ‘ pig-fat,’ and carries the weight of his ‘ head
honours.’ He is hunted until the last effort of endeavour gives out. He
takes to the stream or sea. In any case, he is incontinently hauled out
and his throat is slit? What about it? ” '

The late Lord Willoughby de Broke, in The Observer:

“ It has been argued that the killing of animals for the sake of sport
is wrong . . . We will not take up too much space by examining this
proposition; but it is as well to look into our own frame of mind with

IS

 




 

regard to the humanitarians, and decide What is the truest answer we
'can give them and the truth is that all ﬁeld sports involve a certain amount
of animal suffering.”

Lord Walsingham, in The Somerset County Gazette,
8/10/1927:

“ What I rather doubt in the case of deer is whether we are justiﬁed
in putting them to all the misery of being hunted when they could be
secured much more kindly by the riﬂe.”

Lord Latymer, in Blackwood’s M agaztne, May, 1929 :

“. . . There is, to my mind, one reproach, and only one, which can

fairly be brought against stag-hunting in the West. Would it not be
possible to shorten the ﬁnal stage ?—-—perhaps I should write would it not
be advisable? Because, of course, it is quite possible. It is part of the
creed of stag-hunting that a stag at bay must be given the coup—de-grdce
with a knife. It is easy to see how this belief has become crystallised——
stag—hunting is so ancient a form of sport that it was old when ﬁre-arms
were as yet unknown. The good sportsman is nothing if not conservative,
and the argument that such and such a thing has been done for a thousand
years is a very potent one. Personally, I detest most kinds of change,
particularly in matters of sport; but I will confess that I have been more
than once rather distressed by the last scene of all.

“ When the stag is at bay, and it is quite certain that he is doomed,
I should like to see him killed quickly and mercifully. It sometimes takes
a dreadfully long time before he can be thrown and knifed.

“. . . Whatever the remedy, I think something should be done. The
horrid idea has sometimes haunted my reluctant mind that the old methods
are preserved because a certain percentage of the ﬁeld rather enjoy a pro-
longation of the last scene. For some natures it has, perhaps, a lurid
glamour not unlike that evoked by a Corrida de Toros‘; a hateful fascina—
tion, which must be experienced before it can be realised or understood. . . .

“A New Forest fallow buck is pulled down and killed by the hounds
themselves ; but the tall red stag must die by the hand of the huntsman.”

Other Evidence.

Wild Red Deer Hunted in Town.

“A stag which was chased through Minehead yesterday by the Quan-
tock Hunt leapt into brickﬁelds at Alcombe and was held by men‘until the
hunt arrived and killed it.

The closing stages of the chase were seen by a large crowd, and there
were shouts of ‘ Cruelty ’ at the ﬁnal scene.”

The News Chronicle, 27/10/32.

Stag-hunt in Streets. Caught in an Orchard.

Minehead.—“ People watched a stag being chased through the streets
here last night. The deer, which had been hunted by the Quantock Stag-

16

 




 

 

hounds from a meet at Slowley, a few miles away, was chased for a long
time over the moors before it broke out of Callins Wood and ran through
the streets. . . . .
Crowds of people left their houses to watch the pursuit. The stag was
eventually caught and killed in an orchard near Staunton Road.”
The Manchester Guardian, 26/9/34.

The Stag’s Chances of Escape.

“ I have taken part recently in seven stag—hunts in Somerset. '. . .
The stag has every chance to escape. In only two of the seven hunts
referred to did a kill take place.”

From a letter by W. Wilhelm in The Daily Telegraph, 12/10/1934.

134 Deer Killed in 100 Days.

“. . . Reporting on the hunting of deer during the past season Colonel

W. Wiggin, who was reappointed Master of the Hunt, said that on the 100
days on which the hounds were taken out 134 deer had been killed. It
had, he said, been the best hunting season he had known during the time
he had been Master.” Devon and Somerset Stag-hounds Hunt
Master’s report in The Manchester Guardian, 22/5/34.

Stag-hunt in a Town.

“ The report . . . of a hunted deer in the streets of Norwich should
arouse all lovers of animals to an indignant protest against this form of
so—called sport.

I witnessed one day the hunting of a stag through a southern town;
and when closely followed by the hounds, the frightened creature jumped
over my garden wall, dashed through the window of the next house, and
fell, panting and bleeding upon the ﬂoor. The hunters came in and
dragged it away to be ‘ boxed ’ and doctored until ﬁt to be hunted again.
. . . Stags in this neighbourhood have been caught on the spikes of iron
railings and lacerated ; have been mangled by dogs in attempting to cross
the river 3 have dashed from bridges to certain death below.”

Tim REV. E. J. T. BAGNALL (Reading) in The Daily News, 13/ 1/ 1920.

Death from Exhaustion.

“ It was but the other day that a hunted deer ran all the way from
Holmbury to Dorking, where it was seen by some humane man and was
offered sanctuary in a stable. It was a ‘splendid’ run said those of the
ﬁeld who had succeeded in following to the old Surrey town, but While they
were congratulating themselves the poor hunted creature died of exhaus-
tion in the stable.”

From “A Blot on British Sport” in John Bull, August, 1926.

Impaled on Railings at Reading.

“On April 18th a deer was chased by the Berks and Bucks staghounds
from Wargrave ; after a run of many miles, in the course of which the
Thames was crossed, it attempted to leap the spiked iron fence of the
recreation ground, and getting impaled upon it, hung in this position for

I7

 




 

about half an hour, until one of the ‘sportsmen’ ordered an end to it
with the knife.” SIR GEORGE GREENWOOD, 7/8/1926.

Similar “accidents” have happened at the same place on other occa—
sions.

Dash into a Cottage.

“A stag which was being pursued by the Berks and Bucks stag hounds
near Princes Risborough, Bucks, entered the open door of a cottage,
making for the living room. The hunt secretary had a difﬁculty in roping
in so conﬁned a space and furniture was scattered in the process.”

The Times, January, 1932.

Comparison of Staghunting with Bearbaiting.

When in March, 1825, Richard Martin moved the second reading of his
Bill to prohibit bear-baiting, he was opposed, among others, by Mr. Peel
who said: “Compare bear-baiting with stag-hunting, and the former
animal had a considerable advantage, because he was allowed the use of
his natural powers, and was only attacked by one or two dogs-whereas
the stag was deprived of his horns, which were his only defence, against
twenty or thirty couple of dogs by which he was pursued . . . Why were
they to interpose for the protection of a privileged class of animal? ”

But they did eventually and the stag continues to suffer to this day!

Such extracts and admissions might be multiplied almost
indeﬁnitely; but, whatever slight alterations in ritual and pro-
cedure may have occurred during the last few years (e.g., the
substitution of pistol for knife at the slaughter in some cases), the
above passages, selected at random, are sufﬁciently representative
for the unbiased reader.

 




 

BIBLIQGRAPHY

KILLING FOR SPORT. Edited by H. S. Salt with a Preface by G. B. Shaw.
1914

THE HUNTING OF CAPTIVE ANIMALS. (R.S.P.C.A. pamphlet No. 16a).
N

.D.)
THE QUEEN’S HOUNDS, AND STAGHUNTING RECOLLEOTIONS. By Lord Ribbles—
dale. . 1897

THE DECLINE AND FALL OF THE ROYAL BUCKHOUNDS. By the Rev. J.
Stratton. (Humanitarian League pamphlet). 190

NOTES ON THE CHASE OF THE WILD RED DEER. By C. P. Collyns. (New
edition 1907). 186

THE STORY OF A RED DEER. By J. W. Fortescue. 1897
THE RED DEER. (“ Fur, Feather and Fin Series ”). (Natural History
by H. A. Macpherson; Staghunting by Lord Ebrington). 1902

STAGHUNTING WITH THE DEVON AND SOMERSET 1887—1901. By Philip
Evered. 1902

THE RED DEER OF EXMOOR AND THOSE WHO HUNTED THEM FROM 1070-1906.
By A. H. Hamilton. 1907

THE CHASE OF THE WILD RED DEER IN DEVON AND SOMERSET. (A manifesto
issued and circulated by the Committee of the Devon and Somerset

Staghounds.) 1930
THE CASE FOR STAGHUNTING. (British Field Sports Society palnphleN)D
STAGHUNTING ON EXMOOR. (R.S.P.C.A. pamphlet No. 97.) (N.D.g
THE BAY AND THE MORT. (R.S.P.C.A. leaﬂet.) (N.D.)
HAVENS OF REFUGE. (R.S.P.C.A. leaﬂet.) (N.D.)
CRUELTIES INCIDENTAL TO DEER—HUNTING. (R.S.P.C.A. leaﬂet) (N.D.)
THE BEASTS THAT PERISH: A WEST COUNTRY SKETCH. By Arthur L.

Salmon. (N.S.A.C.S. pamhlet: 3rd edition.) 1934
IN ENGLAND NOW (Stag—hunting). By Edith Ward. (N.S.A.C.S. leafig’gg

London: Stranaeways, Printers.

 




 




 

 

~ Publications
of the
N at1onal Society for the Abolition

_ of Cruel Sports

 

THE COST OF A FOX. By Charles Oldham,F.L.S. Id.
WHO ARE THE KILL-jOYSP 'By Henry 5. Salt. f Id.
CRUELTY IN SPORT. By W. A. Sibly. *’ 1d. _
DRAG HUNTING. By Basil’Tozer. 7' 3d. post free.

THE MORALITY OF FIELD SPORTS. By Prof. E. A.
Freeman 34’. post free.
THE BEASTS THAT PERISH AWest-Country Sketch.
By A. L. Salmon. Third Edition. 24’. post free. '7
GENTLEMEN VERSUS FOX. By A. P. Herbert. 1d.
. WHAT SHALL IT PROFIT? The Economics of Huntmg.
By H. G. Chancellor ' 2d. '

A- HUNTING WE WILL GO. Three poems. By Henry
S. Salt. Id.

IN ENGLAND—NOW. - (Stag-hunting.) 121. I.
IN AT THE DEATH. Freeman on Cruelty in Sport. I'd.

ETON COLLEGE HARE— HUNT: A Protest and a
Memorial. Gratis.

‘Junior Series’ Leaflets: ,
» (1) What do Young People think about hunting .
Animals? ‘ ,

(2) Hunting the Fox to Death.

(3) The Gentle Deer and the Gentle Men.

(4) The-2 Coursing of ﬂares and Rabbits.
, (5) Is Otter-hunting Fair Sport? '

Price 10’. each .01”, 25 copies for 13.

 

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS,
4 Tavistoc’kSquare,‘ London, W.C. I.

InfOrmation from the Secretary.

 

 

 

Publication No. 20"] 7 V

 




5,4,5; ‘14 ,- « “'

 

.1" '- > , M. ,--._ “W”. _._.(:.A.; _ 2.3% ‘ “m _ L.

 




