 

 

 

 

 

ﬁlly, 1942

THE

ANIMALS
F

Tbe Aline! Tbrm/J.

HE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
32, QUEEN’S AVENUE, MUSWELL HILL, LONDON, N.IO.
Subsmption for One Y ear, pail free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 
 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is pablisbea’ inonlbly by tbe National Council for Aniinalr’ Welfare
at Queen’s Lodge, 32, Qneen’r Anenne, Mum/ell Hill, London, N .IO, and all eoininnnieaz‘ionr

 

.AV—ﬁ»,4 —-—

regarding z‘be magazine rbonla’ be aala'remea' i‘o z‘be Editors.

Ea’ifors: YVONNE A. M. STOTT and J. LEONARD CATHER.

 

V01. XLVIII. ' July, 1942. No. 7,

 

C O N T E N T S.
Page Page

CONFESSIONS OF AN ANIMAL—LOVER. NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION

Geoffrey H. Boa/Aer -. . . . 136 OF CRUEL SPORTS . . . . 144
THE LAW, THE POLICE AND CRUELTY TO PROBLEM OF DOMESTICATION, THE

ANIMALS . - - 137 J. L. Cal/oer . . . . . I45
MORAL FUNCTION OF WAR THE ' ° 158 NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WEL—
FEATHERED AND FURRED FRIENDS OF FARE 147

THE FARMER. B. Melville Niebolar . 139 B O A G S T

ISH P ND THE

FROM ONLOOKER’S NOTE BOOK. Onloo/éer I41 REY EAL’ HE ' ‘ I48
SONGS OF THE THRUSH FAMILY. C. M. ALL ANIMALS LOVE ME. Clear/er A.

Clark . . ' . I42 Werlaeoz‘z‘ . . '. . . . I49
SOCIETY FOR UNITED PRAYER FOR THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS 145 OF VIVISECTION . . . . . 150

 

Tbe opinion; exprerrezl by oonlribnz‘orr to lbir magazine are lbeir own, and not neeerrarily bela’ by #76 Ediz‘orr.

 

 

 

The Animals” Friend Sustentation Fund

Will subscribers to this fund please accept the Editor’s grateful thanks for their continued
help, which is of great value in the maintenance of the magazine? The following donations
have been received between February 15th and June 25th last.

Mrs. R. \Williams, £1 65.

Mrs. E. M. Porritt and Mr. \‘C'. V. Reeve, £1 IS. each.

Mr. and Mrs. J. Reid, 165. 6d.

Mrs. J. G. Vibart, 15$.

Miss E. Manders and Mr. E. G. \Williams, 138. each.

Mr. and Mrs. Assingdon, Mrs. J. M. Carter and Miss M. F. N. Palairet, GS. 6d. each.

Miss L. M. Cowderoy, gs.

Miss M. Sandeman, 4s.

Mr. W. E. Plumpton and Mrs. M. Spencer, gs. 6d. each.

Miss L. M. Bear, Miss D. V. Durell, Miss M. E. Edge, Mrs. S. E. Feaver and Mr. R.
Morley, gs. each. . Mr. G. Irvine, Miss C. Machin and Mr. C. A. \Vestacott, as. 6d. each.

Miss M. L. Aldred, Miss S. C. Banks, Miss G. Button, Mrs. A. Davey, Miss P. Gibbs, Mr. A.
Hackett, Miss J. A. Hesse, Miss A. \W. Montgomery, Mrs. N. Munnings, Miss C. Perceval'
Miss M. M. Pitt, Mr. S. E. Rist and Mrs. M. \Varcl, IS. 6d. each. '-

Mrs. Gwillim, IS.
Miss Clemens and Miss K. Guy, 6d. each.

134

 

 

 

 

 

    
   




 

l

 

 

AA A ‘A

fww—rw

 

My, 1942

. Notes and Comments

In Memoriam.

We have just learnt with regret of the death of Miss '

E. M. Beeby, well known to many people in the Animal
Welfare Movement for her many years’ work for the
helpless—both people and animals. She was a con-
tributor to THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND during Mr. Bell’s
and Mr. Spurrier’s Editorship and has never ceased to
take an interest in the Magazine. Another com-
passionate soul has gone to join that band of people
who, we feel, are still working with us from a place
where effort must have far greater potency because.
freed from the limitations of earthly life.

Cat and Dog Life.

We have received a photograph of a lion cub and a
dog who are inseparable companions, another instance
of the strange afﬁnity between dogs and members of
the greater Cat tribe. Is it another perversion due to
domestication that the average domestic cat is instinct-
.ively afraid of the average domestic dog?

Animal Intuition.

A correspondent writing to the {Western Daily Herald
says his cat went out and stayed out apparently to avoid
the visit of the “ vet,” who was due to call and doctor
him. This brings to our mind the memory of a cat
we took to the country for the week—end who dis-
appeared when everything was packed up ready for
the return journey. Repeated calls failed to bring him
though he had never wandered very far before. As
no homeward move could be made till he returned we
sat down to a quiet game of chess. After two hours,
just when it was getting dark and we had apparently
given up all ideas of going home, the cat emerged from
a nearby bush and was promptly seiZed and put into
his basket!

Children and Slaughterhouses.

At the annual meeting of the Camborne branch of
the R.S.P.C.A. complaints were made of the habit
Children of the town had of watching the animals being
slaughtered. This town is not the exception, and
surely this is another reason for the proper supervision
of slaughter houses. Civic abattoirs so arranged that
the animals meet as merciful an end as possible and
completely closed to all but the butchers would prevent
the temptation to the children. The horrible and
macabre has a certain attraction for all of us which is
very strong in childhood, Forbidding children to look
at killings which are so public that anyone may see,
only renders them more attractive, and though there
have been instances of children refusing to eat meat
when they have realised that it came through the death
of an animal or bird, the sight of blood and killing
allowed as a normal part of their lives can only make
them grow up callous and indifferent to death and
suffering.

New Book.

Messrs. Arthur Stockwell, Ltd., have shown enter-
prise in publishing a new book about animals. Dogr,
Homer and Ot‘bem~ ” is by A. B. Digby. The “ Others ”
are donkeys and it is a pleasant tale of a dOnkey in

THE ANIMALS’: FRIEND

Ireland and several of his friends. It is quite suitable

.as a priZe or present for children from about the age

of ten and it has many amusing and interesting anecdotes
and several illustrations.

World Day for Animals.

We have received the report of the first fourteen years
of World Day for Animals. This is a historical survey
of the celebrations all over the World; it is impossible
to enumerate all the places mentioned here but there
seems to be very few places where the Day has not been
celebrated at some time or another. Truly this is a
comforting example of World Co—operation £103 a great
ideal which comes at a time when most of the World is
bent on destruction and the propagation of all that is
worst in human nature.

Schools and Rabbit-keeping.

Schools are being urged to begin “ Rabbit clubs.”
Not to teach children how to care and love their pets
but to provide food. It is deplorable enough that
children are asked to keep wild creatures .in Small
hutches, depriving them of their natural life, but to do
this in order that they shall later be killed and eaten is a
complete negation of any humane teaching they may
have received or of theChristian teaching which is part
of their curriculum. On the one hand we complain of
the cruelty of evacuees to birds and animals, on the
other exhort our children to keep rabbits for food, to
join in rat and sparrow and mole hunts I “ What fools
these mortals be! ”

 

 

 

u; L‘ ‘3‘
u ‘-

r I ' ~ ' , ﬁ‘ .\‘:.‘
/_' -‘»~'~ 'x ‘ﬂ__ “
' :7 - . .w-ijzgéh
’ 2:" ‘ ‘“‘§-‘-‘u ‘
«a; 3mm

3:7,. ,_ mt"
. " '2
on
‘ . ' L.
.‘ ._. M.
I
I A

 

 

 

 

 

135

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

ﬁlly, 1942

Confessions of An Animal-Lover

By GEOFFREY H. BOWKER.

Caravanning Against Cruelty.

( ;IVEN a thousand guesses, I probably

could not have conjectured the contents
of the letter lying on my breakfast table
that chilly January morning of 1926.

Actually, its purport was a totally un-
expectéf; proposition from the National Anti-
Vivisection Society to the effect that I should
take a motor caravan out for them during the
summer months on a crusade against the
cruelty of animal experimentation.

Almost immediately, and despite some
personal contra—indications, I decided to accept
the offer. By so doing I changed the whole
course of my life. Yet see how nearly I missed
that particular route!

Some time previously I had told my friend,
Mr. C. R. Johns, Secretary of the Canine
Defence League, that I very much desired to
devote the remainder of my working life to
the animal welfare cause, but that if I was to
make a full—time job of it, then a salary
sufﬁcient at least to keep body and soul
together was indispensable.

It appeared that shortly after this, Miss
Florence White, at that time Hon. Secretary
of the National Anti—Vivisection Society, had
called upon Mr. Johns to enquire whether he
could suggest anyone qualiﬁed to conduct a
propaganda van her people were putting on
the road. He considered and shook his head.
Then just as she was rising to depart (so he
has told me) he exclaimed, “ Why, of course ;
I’d forgotten. Bowker—the very man!”

>14 * 3i:

In April I received notice that my, new
mobile home was ready, and I travelled down
to Guildford, where it had been built, to take
possession.

I did so with the sense that I was embarking
on no merely secular adventure, but on a truly
sacred crusade to which it behoved me to
dedicate all my doubtless inadequate powers
of mind and heart and body.

The caravan, when I ﬁrst beheld it in the
dusty garage, with its bright primrose—
coloured paint and bold lettering, looked
effective enough for its purpose. Unluckily,
it had been designed by a firm with no previous
experience of this type of work, and its interior
was inconvenient and uncomfortable in various

ways—notably, as regards provision for ade—
quate ventilation. However, I was not
grumbling, for a missionary does not want to
create the impression that he is touring the
country under 516 [axe conditions. A few extra
ﬁttings were absolutely necessary; in par—
ticular, lockers and pigeon—holes for storing
my anti-vivisection literature.

A few days’ delay and everything was com—
plete, and booted and spurred, so to speak, I
stood watching the bulky vehicle being driven
out on to the highway preparatory to my
mounting to the steering wheel.

My ﬁrst objective was the noble—and
recently tragic—city of Bath, where the
Society was getting up a public meeting. No
sooner had I arrived than I found myself up
against one of those not—to—be—foreseen
problems which I was later to know as a
constantly recurring feature of caravan
crusading. The fact was, the General Strike
of 1926 chose to synchronise with my appear—

.ance in Bath, when, for the few days it lasted,

the British public might legitimately claim
that it was too much worried and incon—
venienced to bother about painful animal
experimentation.

Standing at the gate of the ﬁeld, three miles
outside the city, where I had been able to
secure camping space, I thought hard as to
what could proﬁtably be done in such a
situation. The upshot was that I afﬁxed a
notice to the gate announcing that the van
would run to and from the town at various
hours, and could give those requiring to
travel a free lift.

Each day of the strike I had a series of loads
of thoroughly grateful passengers. Mentioning
that of course I was not plying for hire, I
pointed out to them that there was nothing to
prevent their putting a triﬂe in the money-box
and taking—and carefully reading—one of the
Society’s leaﬂets.

* a: :k

During the ﬁrst few years of my touring
I arrived at the conclusion that this caravan
work was, for the amount of money expended,
about the best form of anti—vivisection propa—
ganda possible to devise. With picture posters
and additional lettering I soon made the van a

136

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ﬁlly, I942

spectacle that fairly hit the public in the eye.
( I once overheard two boys on the pavement
deciding that I was the advance agent of
Sanger’s Circus 1)

It is the literal truth to aﬂirm that millions of
people saw us as, some time between April
and November, we passed down the crowded
town streets, thrOugh England’s villages, and
along the broad highway. True, too, it is
that a very considerable proportion of those
who came near the van when it was stationary
received one of the leaﬂets we distributed at
every opportunity. And then, quite apart
from “ talks ” from my let-down platform at
the side of the van, passers—by with whom I was
able to speak individually on the iniquities of
the laboratories certainly ran into several
thousands.

(Next month : More Caravan Memories.)

 

 

 

Below we reprint a new leaﬂet, issued by
The National Equine (and Smaller Animals)
Defence League, copies of which can be
obtained gratis from the head office of the
League—Blackwell, Carlisle.

YOU, the LAW, the POLICE and
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

Writing in The National Wee/€01 of June 16th, 1917,
the late Francis A. COX, the Founder of this League,
in an article relating to “ The Law, The Police and
Cruelty to Animals,” said the following, which is as
necessary to-day as when it was written :——

“ Let it be plainly understood that Cruelty
to Animals is a breach of the law just as much
as the ill—treatment of children, coining, illicit
distilling, .or pocket picking; and as it is
legally incumbent on every citizen to prevent
those infractions of the law, so it is incumbent
to prevent the inﬂiction of cruelty upon
animals. Every one of us therefore is

an Inspector of Cruelty to Animals.”

137

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

“ Not until the public recognise their
responsibilities in this respect can there ever
be ‘ prevention of cruelty to animals ’ for no
society, however powerfully supported, could
maintain a thousandth part of the number of
inspectors requisite for the purpose. Besides,

the Inspectors are here already,
maintained by the nation to enforce the
nation’s laws—the Police.” ‘

Every district throughout the land, town
and country, is under the control of the Police.
That means there are many thousands of Police
Constables always actually on duty—whose
duty it is to act, and act promptly, if they
witness cruelty to animals, that is, the breaking
of The Protection of Animals Acts.

. The Police Authorities do not expect the
public to provide Inspectors and Societies to
deal with burglars and murderers—they ad—
minister the law efﬁciently and will do the
same with regard to Animal Protection if it is
specifically ruled that

no Society’s Officials and Inspectors shall
do the work the police are there to do.

Therefore—it is a matter for personal action.
Every citizen’s duty is to enforce the laws of
his country—not least of which are the acts
for the protection of those who cannot speak
for themselves—the animals.

The Police will not fail in this duty once the
position is made clear. At present—it appears
many people and officials have ‘ hold of the
wrong end of the stick ’———viz., if an act of
cruelty is reported to them, they send for an
oﬂicial of an animal protection society. This
is quite wrong—the reverse is the correct
procedure. Animal Protection Society
Ofﬁcials ought to send their cases to the Police.
The Police have no power to relegate their
cases to any Society or League.

Members of the public should report all
breaches of the Protection of Animals Acts
to the Police.

It is quite wrong to go through the usual
delays of waiting until a “ Cruelty Inspector ”
can be summoned. It is the duty of Police
Constables to investigate, and then report to
their superior officers. This is the correct
position and is sound legally, morally and as
regards speed and efficiency in dealing with
offenders.

No animal should be denied the protection
the laws of our Country provide for it.

ALFRED BRISCO,
Organising Sammy.

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

filly, 1942

“The Moral Function of War.”

By AN OBSERVER.

N a book published recently that is called

Conditions" of Peace, Professor E. H. Carr has
. a paragraph with the above heading. War,
he suggests, is the most powerful. inﬂuence in
effecting social transformation, and it may
serve “ as an introduction to our enquiry to
consider the precise nature of the moral
function which war to—day performs in our
society.” Professor Carr says that to—day “it
is legitimate to denounce war as cruel and
brutal. But it is thoroughly misleading to
denounce it as senseless or purposeless. War
is at the present time the most purposeful of
our social institutions; and we shall make no
progress towards its elimination until we
recognise, and provide for, the essential social
function which it performs. If we are to ﬁnd
a substitute for war, we must be clear about
the function of war in our time.” He says,
further, “ we cannot escape from war until we
have found some other moral purpose powerful
enough to generate self—sacriﬁce on the scale
requisite to enable civilisation to survive.”

Professor Carr proceeds to enlarge upon
some eight conditions which must be fulﬁlled
in order to provide the sense of a purpose——a
common purpose—essential to the survival of
civilisation. These eight conditions deal with
international affairs, President Roosevelt’s
“ four freedoms,” economic and social ques—
tions, the service motive in society, and
leadership and liberty, and so on.

Perhaps the main point is to be found in the
words: “ Hence war has become the most
powerful known instrument of social
solidarity.”

This line of thought is not conﬁned to
Professor Carr. In a leader on December 5th,
1940, The Times said : “ To formulate a social
‘end, other than war, which will inspire . . .
sacriﬁces is the cardinal problem of our time.”
$ome time ago the New Statesman and Nation
saw a causal connection between'the misery
of the world of “ Love on the Dole” and the
violence of a world at war.

From a humanitarian, or an animal welfare
standpoint, one may well lift an eyebrow when
reading remarks such as those above quoted.
If we decide that war has a moral function

138

and that it can be an instrument of social
solidarity—and I would not deny that that is
the case—we have travelled some distance
from the days when everything was regarded
as somehow due to chance or some fortuitous
chain of events. If we are now going to
believe in something like causal connections,
law and purpose, in our moral and social life,
and bring in war as an instrument of social
solidarity as well, it is time to ask whether we
must strictly conﬁne the function and purpose
of war to human activities when these are
related only to human beings, and never
when these same activities have to do with
sub—human beings? Or are we justiﬁed in
chopping off some human activities as outside
the scope of war’s function and purpose, and
include only those involving men and women
in society, z'.e., human society? Similarly, we
must ask if the “ social solidarity ” that has
war as its “ most powerful known instrument ”
abruptly ends with human beings, and has
nothing at all to do with sub-human creatures
who‘ share a world where purpose and moral
function play an important part? If so, what
are we to think of such a purpose or of such
a moral function in our lives?

Either we mean something deﬁnite when
we use such words as “purpose ” in connec—
tion with these important issues, or we may
mean very little that is worth while. We
cannot pick and choose as to where purpose
may apply and where moral function in things
like war manifests itself. If we do that, we
simply make the purpose and function of war
appear what we would wish it to be. We
may be quite sure that if war in our world has
a purpose, not only is the entire world of
human relations involved .in it, but an entire
world of sub—hu man relations as well. If war
is an instrument in bringing about ‘ social
solidarity,” may it not also have a purpose in
bringing about a wider sense of solidarity
where the sentient creatures are concerned?
Certainly, if we include the world of sub—
human creatures, we shall ﬁnd room enough
and motive enough to “ generate self—sacriﬁce
on the scale requisite to enable civilisation to
survive.”

C

 

 

 

 




 

 

. ”ge-

 

 

 

 

ﬁlly, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Feathered and F urred Friends of the Farmer

By B. MELVILLE NICHOLAS.

(lee fallen/tag article is reprinted, by); Iétﬂd permission from “ Tbe Estate Magazine”)

faces the wireworm menace when

ploughing up old pasture is the rook,
for although rooks frequently occasion damage
to crops, they are, without equal, the allies of
the farmer when a war on wireworms is
being waged.

Rooks nest early in the year. It is not
unusual to ﬁnd nests of eggs in March and
when we remember that a rookery frequently
consists of over a hundred nests and that each
pair ‘of rooks have from six to eight young
which have to be reared largely upon worms
and other pests destructive to crops, the value
of their aid is conspicuously apparent. Where
new ploughing has to be done there ought to
be no talk of shooting young rooks, ‘

Gulls, too, especially the herring—gull, help
in the ﬁghting of the wireworm menace.
I have often seen hundreds of gulls following
the plough; in the course of a day they must
consume thousands of crop-destroying grubs.
A few weeks ago, on a Cornish farm, I saw the
largest ﬂock of gulls I have ever seen, like
falling snowﬂakes, keeping close to the
ploughman’s heels, ravenously consuming the
turned—up pests as each new furrow exposed
them to view.

But the farmer’s greatest friend is, un—
doubtedly, the 'lapwing, or green plover.
These birds are easily recognised by their
crests, for no other British bird possesses any
similar head—plumes; and their plumage is
also distinctive, for their olive—green backs,
white breasts, with dark neck—bands, are not
found in any other of our British birds. They
nest in April, the hen laying four pear—shaped
eggs in a slight hollow or depression in the
ground, which is scantily lined with grasses.
In colour the eggs are greenish-brown blotched
with black and grey. They blend perfectly
with their surroundings and, even when fully
exposed in their shallow nest, are, because of
their excellent protective coloration, diﬁicult
to ﬁnd. The birds are almost exclusively
insectivorous, and consume thousands of
worms, snails, slugs, insects, and so forth,
both in the course of satisfying their own
appetites and when rearing their young.

ONE of the farmer’s best friends as he

Happy indeed should be the farmer whose
ﬁelds are nesting sites of the lapwing.

Many of our smaller birds live almost
exclusively on insects, and should. be protected
and encouraged. For example, the swallows,
ﬂycatchers and the wagtails play their part in
waging a continuous war on the insect throng
and should on no account be molested. Both
wagtails and ﬂycatchers feed their young on an
insectivorous diet, and many people encourage
them to nest in their gardens by providing
nesting-boxes for them. In this way many a
garden has been cleared of greenﬂy, caterpillars
and daddy-longlegs, or crane—ﬂies. If they
did nothing else but help to keep down these
latter pests, whose grubs are the nefarious
“ leather—jackets,” they would deserve special
protection and laudation.

The acrobatic tits also have an enormous
value in cultivated areas, and I have a record
of a pair of blue—tits, which occupied a nest—box
within sight of my study window, feeding their
young on an average of forty-three times an
hour from dawn till sunset. Each time the fo'od
consisted of aphides. ’

Even in winter the tits carry on their good
work so far as opportunities permit, by their
ceaseless search for hibernating weevils, scale—
insects, aphides and insects’ eggs.

The enemies of food production, however,
are not conﬁned to the insect tribe. The
farmer, more than the gardener, has to contend
with voles and ﬁeld—mice which, although
diminutive creatures———seldom seen except by
his experienced eye—can work havoc to
growing crops.

Vole plagues have occurred in the British
Isles on various occasions, one of the most
serious being in 1891—3. when tremendous
damage was done to crops, pastureland and
young trees. Lesser outbreaks of vole plagues
have occurred several times since, and I
remember seeing, some years ago, a ﬁeld from
which almost every blade of corn had been

- destroyed by these rodents. Even the hedge

rows had been robbed of their herbage as far

up as the voles could reach. The entire ﬁeld

had a frightening appearance of desolation.
These plagues have occurred from very

139.

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

ancient times, not only in this country but also
on the Continent, where thousands of acres are
sometimes affected. It is said that wet autumns
and mild winters are conducive to the rapid
multiplication of voles, but no doubt a great
amount of mischief is done by the thoughtless
and ruthless persecution of birds of prey——
especially the kestrel.

The kestrel is the arch—enemy of voles and
may be recognised by its habit of hovering in
mid-air. To watch a kestrel poised on
quivering wings, at a height of from thirty to
ﬁfty feet and then suddenly, upon seeing a vole
on the ground, closing its wings and dropping
with certainty upon its victim is to witness one
of the most graceful of avian feats. The victim
is seized by the bird’s talons and usually taken
. to some familiar place to be eaten. Having
discovered the “ dining—tables ” of certain
'kestrels I have, on many occasions, erected
“ hides ” from which to keep observation and
to secure facts concerning the birds’ dietary.
Voles ﬁgure chieﬂy in their menu, but cock-
chafers, ﬁeld—mice and young rats are also
included, and a few small birds. I have a
record of a pair of kestrels bringing twenty—one
voles to their young in one day. Truly a
wonderful record!

Sparrow—hawks and the owls, especially the
barn-owl, and the tawny, or wood-owl, are
great destroyers of mice, voles and rats.
Indeed, I think the barn-owl the ﬁnest rat—
catcher in the world, as his menu consists

almost entirely of rats, mice and voles, and the.

usefulness of this species to the agriculturist
cannot be over-estimated.

I once had a pet barn—owl—“ Snowy ”—
and a store of dead rats and mice was always
to be found in his sleeping quarters, for
although domesticated, Snowy had his freedom
and not only hunted to satisfy his present
appetite, but was very fond of having a full
larder. I was living on a Cornish farm at the
time and in a few weeks after Snowy’s arrival
the rats and mice, although abundantly
numerous before, had disappeared altogether.

Owls swallow their food whole and after-
wards eject in the form of pellets (known to
naturalists as “ castings ”) indigestible portions
of food, such as bones and fur. An examina—
tion of these pellets discloses what those
particular birds have fed on. From the many
hundreds of castings of these two owls which
I have examined during the last twenty years
of my study of wild life, well over 80 per cent.
of the remains have been mammalian; which

ﬁlly, 1942

goes to prove that they are not such great
enemies of bird life as is often stated.

But the farmer’s allies on the home front do
not all belong to the feathered fraternity. The
hedgehog does good work, for its dietary is
chieﬂy insectivorous, although mice are in-
cluded in its menu; and weasels and stoats are
also thoroughly reliable friends of the farmer.
These ﬁerce little bandits of the hedgerow not
only kill multitudes of mice, rats and voles, but
they are the dreaded enemy of the rabbit, the
worst menace to food production existing in
our country to—day. They are amazingly pro—
liﬁc animals and, although the age'at which
they start to breed seems to vary, I have known
litters born to females only three months. old.

The real high—tide of family affairs in the
rabbit warren is reached in May and June,
when the ﬁelds and hedgerows literally teem

with baby rabbits, and it is at this time of year _

that they occasion such havoc to corn crops.

Yet, even in their burrows they are not
Secure from the bloodthirsty weasel and stoat,
for once these ﬁerce little hunters have decided
upon their quarry it is pursued slowly but

. surely to death. For the victim the chase must,

from the ﬁrst, be a worrying affair, and few
sights of our countryside are more sad to watch,
from a humanitarian point of view, than the
bloodthirsty onslaughts of stoats and weasels.
Yet there should be a moment’s pause before
passing harsh judgments upon these furred
marauders for, even though their habits may
appear cruel and vicious, they play a vital role
in Nature’s economy and in food production.
In this way they are helping to win the war.

 

Zbe fol/owing [effer appeared in “ T/ye Times ” :—

 

Rooks 011 the Farm
To flee Editor of “ Tee Times.”

SIR,——A few weeks ago I was looking at some
of my grassland that had been compulsorily
ploughed. There were hundreds of rooks on
it after grubs, etc. It has since been sown and
the crops are about 5 in. high. I never see a
wok near it.

I am, Sir, yours, etc.,
LEONARD NOBLE,
Lieut.—Colonel.
Harpsden Court,
Henley-on—Thames.
May 11th, 1942.

140

aw
.. .1

 




 

l
1
l
l

l
l

 

 

filly, [942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

From Onlooker’s Note Book

Tbe curfew tolls tbe knell of parting day,

Tbe lowing berd winds slowly o’er tbe lea,

Tbe plongbrnan boinewardplods bis weary way,
And leaves tbe world to darkness and to rne.

Now fades tbe glimmering landscape on tbe sngt,
And all tbe air a solemn stillness bolds,
Sane wbere tbe beetle wbeels bis droning fligbt,
And drowsy tin/elings lnll tbe distant folds.
THOMAS GRAY (1716—71).

BOVE are the opening lines of the
“ Elegy ” inspired by the village church—

yard of Stoke Poges; the seven years’
labour spent on it justiﬁed by the perfection
and ﬁnality of its language.

Thomas Gray, died July 30th, 1771.

English poet, born London, 1716. He
declined the laureateship. His poems include
“ Ode to a Distant Prospect of Eton College ”
and “ Pindaric Odes ” and the famous
“ Elegy ” quoted from above. Noted letter
writer and a sound scholar. No one who
published so little holds so high a place in
literature.

Longtooth.

Here is a description of the mammoth taken
from Wben Main/notbs Roained tbe Frozen
Eartb, by Heinrich Schutz :—

“ The powerful form stood out clearly against the
bare plain with its fringe of green trees.

“ For a long time he stood thus breathing in the
fragrance of the damp woods and snorting gently.
His grey winter coat of wool pierced through the
bristly red fur and hung in thick tufts over his sides
and belly. His tusks gleamed white, their wide
projecting ends turned high up. His coarse hair
straggled over his angular skull and gave to his head
a wild, threatening aspect. But the little brown
eyes looked wisely out at the world and the great
ears ﬂapped gently back and forth.

“ Longtooth was contented and expressed the fact
in his own fashion.”

Excerpt from “ The Nottingham Daily
Guardian,” April Isth,'1909.

An obituary article on Dr. CHARLES BELL
TAYLOR (1829—1909) contained. the following :

“ He was an implacable opponent of vivisection,
a subject upon which he many times aired his views
both in pamphlet form and upon the public platform,
never hesitating to avow his firm conviction in the
uselessness of experiments upon animals . . . and
he was always ready to break a lance in the medical
papers with supporters of vivisection.”

141

My Friend the Horse.
“ Tbin/é, wben we talk of borses.”
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE.
Henry V, Prologue.

Extract from “ The Countryman,” July,
1941.

“ The Gazelle Britain Once Had,” by the
Duke of Bedford.

“ Fossil remains indicate that at one period the
curious central Asian gaZelle, the saiga antelope, was
an inhabitant of these islands. It was perhaps a
contemporary of the reindeer and the musk-ox. . .

“ The saiga is about as large as a medium sized
gazelle, i.e., rather smaller than a fallow deer. Its
chief peculiarity is its extraordinary long nose, which
somewhat resembles that of a tapir. In summer the
coat is short and light brown; in winter whitish
with a blue—grey or fawn tint. The ears are curiously
short and broad at the tip and in winter are nearly
hidden by the long, rough hair at the sides of the

* head and face which almost assumes the proportions
of the whiskers. The eye is the full, dark eye of the
gazelle. The bucks alone carry upright horns about
twelve inches long, inclining inwards at the tips and
ringed on the basal half.

“ When feeding, the saiga wrinkles up its long nose
and does not twist it to one side as has sometimes
been suggested. When alarmed and starting to run,
the animal has a curious habit of flinging itself into
the air, the forequarters being at a higher elevation
than the hind throughout the leap. The action is
not due to high spirits, for even a sick animal will
perform it.”

Art and the Animals.

HARRY QUILTER, M.A., in his work on
Angiolotto Bondone, called Giotto, writing of
a fresco by the artist in the Arena Chapel at
Padua, and recalling Giotto’s early years as a
shepherd—boy, says :—

“ Nothing can be more marked than the evident
delight of the painter in depicting any form of this
shepherd life. Throughout his works every oppor-
tunity of introducing animal nature, especially
sheep nature, is eagerly seized and made the most of,
and, as in this fresco, the animals have invariably a
character of their own.. . . Look, for instance, at

' the varied action of the sheep in this composition,
and the eager welcome that Joachim’s dog is giving
to his master.”

Thought for the Month.

Wilt tbon draw near tbe nature of tbe gods?
Draw near tbe/n tben in being ineroifnl :
Sweet inert] is nobility’s trne badge.
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE.
Titus Androniens, I, 2.
ONLOOKER.

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

My, 1942

Songs of the Thrush Family.

By C. M. CLARK.

 

UITE a number of people are puzzled

by the similarity between the songs of

blackbird, missel—thrush and throstle :
some consider the throstle to be the ﬁﬂf st of all
songsters, not excepting even the nightingale.
This, of course, is an expression of individual
taste for equally I have heard many who claim
ﬁrst place for the blackbird.

The song of the missel—thrush is louder and
more challenging but much less varied and
appealing than that of either backbird or
throstle. It is sung early in the year, in fair
weather and rough, and often from the top of
a tall tree; its ringing notes carry farther than
those of the throstle, although the last named,
under favOurable conditions can be heard
distinctly from a distance of more than a
quarter of a mile.~ The missel—thrush has little
variety in his song ; yet sings for long periods,
repeating over again his few short phrases
which make up for a certain monotony by their
ﬂute—like clarity of tone. ‘

The missel—thrush, matching his song, is a
bolder bird than the throstle, and has a more
upright carriage: he is less inclined to seek
cover at the first hint of danger. A more
robust looking bird, he ﬂies at a greater
altitude and has lighter colouring; the oval
spots on his breast are larger and more marked
and a certain amount of white in the outer tail
feathers are a distinguishing mark.

The throstle’s song is notable for its variety
and for repetition which is, perhaps its most
recognisable feature—truly

“ He sings ear/9 mug twice over,
Lest you would z‘bz’mé lee never could recapture,
-def first fz'ue cure/er: rapture.”

For three successive summers we had a
remarkably fine songster in our garden; we
soon learned to know him by certain distinctive
notes. Several times I counted how many
different phrases he produced—at least thirty
I should say, eve-n allowing for having
mistakenly counted a few of them twice. We
christened him “ Burbee. ” for this call was the
prelude to his morning and evening hymn of
praise and recurred at intervals throughout.
Alas ! his all too short life is ended and none
of his progeny seem to have inherited his gift
with quite the same degree of vehemence and
splendour. ‘

 

By contrast, the blackbird warbles a sWeet
ﬂute-like song, lower in pitch than either of
the two thrushes described above. He does
not often repeat himself but seems to im—
provise masterly phrases with ease and
abandon. His song ﬂows; he pauses rather
than breaks off and the following notes area
continuation of the original theme, and not so
much the expression of a new idea as suggested
by the thrush.

The ring-ouzel—blackbird of the uplands,
distinguished by the white crescent on his
breast—has an undeveloped song by com-
parison. It carries far, however, but is distin-
guished by a good deal of repetition of not
very interesting notes. At times it is fuller
and has sudden arresting phrases, rather un-
expected. The call note is clear and brings to
mind the blackbird; the first time I heard it
was at the entrance to a Lake District slate
mine : it sounded to me like the ringing clink
of two pieces of slate falling one after the other
from a height.

142'.

 




 

 

ﬁlly, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Society for United Prayer for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals

(Especially with regard to Vivisection)

HIS Society has for its object the pro-
I motion of prayer on behalf of all suffering
and victimised animals. Its members
believe in the efﬁcacy of sincere and faithful
prayer as a‘ means to making God’s will prevail
upon earth, and they hold that our charity,
and consequently our prayers, should extend
to the sub-human creatures who have the
same divine Maker as ourselves. The Society
. is open to all who are willing to pray for its
object in the name of Christ.

'We invite Christian people, irrespective of
denomination, to join the Prayer Society, and
thus increase the volume of souls who petition
Almighty God on this matter. And we would
respectfully appeal to the clergy to bring our
cause and organisation before their con re—
gations; to have prayers for animals in their
churches; and to endeavour to secure for us
fresh members.

It must be realised that cruelty to animals is
not merely an offence against the helpless
creatures who suffer from it. It involves
degradation and sin in those who perpetrate
or condone it, and in that respect, if in no
other, is an offence against God. Accordingly,
the Society prays not merely for the animals,
but that the hearts of the callous and cruel
may be turned to mercy and compassion.

The Society in its title emphasises the
importance of prayer against painful scientiﬁc
experiments on animals. It does so because
there is overwhelming evidence that vivi—
section is one of the gravest forms of cruelty,
and further because the plea of the vivisector
that “ the end justiﬁes the means ” is an
immoral and unchristian doctrine.

Even those who do not entirely agree with
us on this special point may be willing to
include in their prayers one for light and
guidance and an open mind on this question,
so that the will of God may be discovered.
Everyone must surely deplore that animals
should suffer in scientiﬁc laboratories, and wish
that such suffering should cease—even if they
do not see their way to condemn the whole

143

practice of vivisection as useless and wrong.

The Society for United Prayer publishes
periodically a leaﬂet suggesting petitions
against special forms of cruelty or in support
of particular ameliorative measures as circum—
stances arise, and members are invited to send
in suitable subjects for petition.

No one will claim to be too poor'to become
a member, since the minimum annual sub—
scription is only Sixpence. '

Many other organisations are engaged in
practical protective work: the S.U.P.P.C.A.
specialises on PRAYER for animals. We hope
and believe there are many who would care
to join if they knew about the Society. Enrol—
ment may be made to, or further information
obtained from, the Secretary, MRS. YVONNE
A. M. STOTT, 32, Queen’s Avenue, London,
N.Io.

 

For those also, 0 Lord, the humble beasts,
who with us bear the burden and heat of the
day, and offer their guileless lives for the
well—being of their countries, we supplicate
Thy great tenderness of heart, for Thou hast
promised to save both man and beast, and
great is Thy loving kindness, 0 Master,
Saviour of the World. Lord have mercy.

(From 51 Liam} used during wartime.)

 

Photo by] [C. M. Clark

Riﬂg—ouzel— Blackbird of we Up/andr.

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

ﬁlly, 1942

National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

H072. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD, c/o 253., Cowley Road, Oxford.

Sensibility in Animals.
N article under the above heading, by
AA. W. Duncan, appeared in The Field
(March 28th, 1942). The author’s
main contention is summed up in the following
paragraph :

“ Some people seem to think that a shot
animal or bird, not killed outright, must suffer
agonies. This is not so. There is a period of
numbness—varying from ﬁve to ﬁfteen
minutes—and, during this period, wounded
creatures are either killed by another shot or
are caught and knocked on the head. There
is little or no suffering. This is not guesswork
on my part. Then, animals, like humans, can
only stand a certain limited amount of pain
before passing to a state of insensibility.”
This knowledge (strangely “ revealed ” to
the writer) is surely ludicrously inadequate.

It is indeed comforting to know (if only
on “ guesswork ” authority) that animals,
like humans, can endure consciously only a
certain degree of pain. However, if such
conscious suffering varies as much in animals
as it does in man we prefer to give the latter
the beneﬁt of the doubt, and entirely refrain
from unnecessary practices which may! involve
the inﬂiction of even a “limited amount of
pain.”

Stoats and Weasels.

The following extracts from an article,
“ Allies of Home Food Production,” by B. M.
Nicholas, in The Field (April 4th, 1942)
suggest a change of thought, if not of heart,
on the part of sportsmen with regard to the
vexed question of “ vermin.” In peace-time
the latter term covered any species which might
be inimical to the preservation of birds reared
solely for sport; now we ﬁnd the deﬁnition
narrowed to include only those species of
birds and mammals which are likely to en-
danger our food supply.

“ While it is true that some of the worst
enemies of home food production come from
the wild creatures of the countryside so from
the same fraternity come some of our best
allies. Foremost among these are stoats and
weasels whose totalitarian warfare on rats,
mice, rabbits and voles will save millions of

pounds worth of crops from destruction by
these rodents. Both these little hedgerow
bandits deserve every protection, for they are
the nation’s allies and render to our home food
production a service comparable to that of
hundreds of farm labourers. . . . And so in
war and peace, millions of furred and feathered
allies will help forward food production.

Hounds or Guns?
In the course of the recent lively correspon~

dence on fox—hunting in the Daib/ Telegraph,
initiated by a letter from the Rev. Leslie
Weatherhead, the following contribution
(April 2nd, 1942) from Sir Jocelyn Lucas,
M.P., is of particular interest :—

“ Sir,—-Most people seem to imagine that
fox—shoots over hounds are entirely a war—time
measure. This is not the case.

“ A year or so before the outbreak of war
a three—day fox drive was organised With the
assistance of several packs of hounds and
farmers armed with guns. I43 foxes were
accounted for. This was on the Welsh
borders, and without hounds this could never
have been done. I know of other places where
organised fox drives were held annually with
hounds brought especially for the occasion.”

This appears to be a frank admission that
when the hunt is out to rid the countryside of
a pest, and not merely for a day’s sport, it is
necessary to employ guns as well as hounds.

Moreover, at recent Annual Meetings of the
Mendip Farmers Hunt and the Crawley and
Horsham Hunt it was stated that in the past
season the former killed 41 foxes on 53 hunting
days, while the latter accounted for only 40
on 56 days. i This means that the entire
paraphernalia of the hunt could not dispose of
even 'one fox a day! On the other hand, on
May 20th members of the Home Guard and
A.R.P. wardens in the Sanderstead district
went out with sporting guns and secured three
fox cubs with only ﬁve shots in all. We also
learn that in South Cumberland a shooting
party, with the support of the local foxhounds,
accounted for a fox and two cubs in one night,
while in the district of Meltham six foxes
were shot in about three hours.

144

 

 

 




 

 

 

jufy, I942

The Problem of

By J. L.

T is often desirable and sometimes abso—
Ilutely necessary that we should approach

our problems from their origins, after
having stripped away all our preconceived
notions, our prejudices, our acquired ideas of
right and wrong, our likes and dislikes, or any
other of our emotions. These problems, so
‘many of them, are rooted in the far distant
past, and our ancestors and we have so lived
and grown up in the acceptance of them, that
we scarcely recognise their existence—much
less appreciate what they involve.

lt is so with the domestication of animals, a
process which began long before the beginning
of recorded history. For ages, animals had
roamed the world, the highest expressions of
embodied life, slowly evolving. Man, a com—
parative newcomer, with his dawning powers
of thought, realised that it might be more to
his convenience to breed animals than to hunt

them and, in the slow course of thousands of ’

years, discovered that he could within limits
modify the processes of Nature in directions
still more convenient to himself.

The method of Nature is perhaps made
clearer if we take as an analogous illustration
the human fashioning and use of a musical
instrument. Consider for example the violin,
which has gradually been developed from the
twanging of a single string to its present state
of apparently limitless perfection. Stage by
stage, since some evolving musician discovered
the possibility of altering the pitch of its note
by altering the weight, the length, or the
tension of the string, and the increase in
resonance and volume given by its combination
with a sounding—board and the use of a bow,
the form of the instrument and the technique
of the player have been improved. At each
stage, the player improves his technique until
he has exhausted the possibilities of his-
instrument, then demands a better, and
produces it.

So Life, expressing itself through animal
forms, utilises those forms to the limits of their
capacity, develops the potential intelligence
within them, and gradually. improves the
responsive vehicle, the form itself. The
parallel is a close one, though. the operations of
Nature are in both directions more slowly and
more continuously effective than the efforts of
the musician. Braving the wrath of the

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

“ Domestication ”

CATHER.

agnostic scientist, we may indeed go a step
further, and suggest that, just as behind the
performer and his instrument there may be a
composer always demanding a more complete
means for the interpretation of his imaginings,
there may be behind Nature and its methods a
purposive Something ever pressing towards a
fuller manifestation of itself.

We may not go to the length of admitting
a Divine Purpose. We must, however, unless
we shut both "our eyes and our minds—as
adherence to almost any “ school of thought ”
religious or secular tends to make us do——-
acknowledge the existence in the world about
us of certain Natural Modes of Operation—we
confuse the issues when we call them Natural
Laws—which can to a considerable extent be
traced. And, when traced, they exhibit
phenomena analogous to those of the musical
example suggested.

Life then, consciously or unconsciously, is
continuously pressing for outward expression
through form. The form, the organism which
it uses, ﬁnds in its environment a field of
experiences with which it comes into contact
through its search for food, air, light, warmth,
or any other of its vital needs. By its responses
to those experiences, those contacts, are gradu—
ally developed the faculties, sensory, nervous,
muscular, intelligent, which mark its ascent
from unconscious protoplasm, through the
conscious animal, into self—conscious man.
And by the differences of environment imposed
by terrene conditions, the experiences them—
selves are differentiated, the responses varied,
and the multitudinous genera and species of
this world brought into being.

Our researches into the past show that each
type of form has a limit of perfectibility, and
having reached it, dies. What the limit may
be, and how and when it will be reached, we
do not know—though a member of the Brains
Trust recently went so far as to declare that
there was no further possibility of progress for
animals. What we may venture to believe is,
that the process requires the utmost freedom
which the nature of the environment allows,
and that conscious obstruction by us of such
freedom is an interference with natural process
whose results we can neither predict nor
define. A world war———to prevent the denial of
such freedom to man—may be a minor inci—

145

‘.._.‘ A :7 '_‘_.___.._.— 2.3:." i:m_~.': 2m :7". » .

 

 




Frer-.nﬁz—~w~— -w»~ 7
Q .
j k
.1 I

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

dent compared with the effects of saying
“ Pooh! ” to the Universe. '

“ Pooh to the Universe! ” and “ Domesti—
cation of Animals,” are virtually inter-
changeable terms. For this act of man, the
ﬁrst thinking animal—as we sometimes describe
himwslashes across the whole process of
creative activity, and institutes a new era in
which natural progress, if not brought to a
halt, is at least dammed and turned into new
channels. The thrust of emergent Life, up—
welling into the sentient forms of animals, is
deliberately diverted from the betterment of
those animals to the supposed betterment of
human beings.

Our ﬂocks and herds are deliberately
screened from experiences—“ protected ” is
the Nazi term—and reduced to a vegetative
rumination upon the fodder with which we
supply them: and in place of those natural
experiences we provide our own experiments,
mechanising so far as we can the cow’s udder,
the sheep’s ﬂeece, the fowl’s ovifactory, and
using each of these creatures as a source of food
or of other products which we desire. And
these are only representatives: we must add
to them our beasts of burden, our racing
machines, our performing animals, the inmates
of our menageries (memgerz'e: a place in wink/J
wild animals are kept.———Dz’cz‘.), our preserved
game—birds, our caged song—birds, and the
countless creatures whom we subject to
torment in order to procure for ourselves that
simulacrum of well-being which we call
Health.

And how many more : and how much more !

But pets? Surely these gain from their
contact with man? We house them, feed
them, protect them, educate them in some
degree, lavish our affection upon them. Does
not this help forward their budding intelli-
gence, pour into the pool of animal instinct.
and animal mind an addition of human thought
and experience, raise them in the scale of
Creation? ‘

Perhaps. But do we know? Are not these
conjectures, which we put forward to excuse
the gratiﬁcation of our own pleasure? How
often does our affection overﬂow into pamper—
ing, or degenerate into neglect? How many
of us delight in the possession of a puppy or a
kitten, only to be bored with them after they
grow up? How many of their brothers and
sisters have been destroyed, so that we may
have the pick of the litter? How many of
these pets themselves will later become strays,

ﬁlly, 1942

to be collected at last,.starved and diseased,
and “put to sleep ” by some organisation
intended for their preservation from cruelty
and abuse?

Consider the prize dog of recent years, with
its enlarged muzzle and diminished brainpan;
bred by human ingenuity into an amiable.
canine idiocy : or at the opposite extreme, the
chained mongrel coerced into savagery: or
the more intelligent, whom we are asked to-
lend to the Army to be trained—for what?
To carry messages through shell and mortar
ﬁre; or to learn to dive with explosive charges
under tanks as, our Press approvingly tells us,
the dogs of Russia do?

Our training of the animal intelligence is.
put forward as being of beneﬁt to them. Has
any human being ever trained an animal to be
a better animal? Yes, there is one shining
example—and how many of us know of it ?
There is the “ Flying School” ofthe R.S.P.C.A.
Caged Bird Poster Fund, a school that teaches
birds which have been rescued from cages
how to be ﬁt to be free; and even the Flying
School tries only to remedy human ill-usage as
far as it can? There may be other efforts of
this kind: but the teaching of animals in
general is directed either towards the restriction
of their natural powers and activities, or
towards turning them to the proﬁt or enjoy-
ment of human beings.

Examined dispassionately, the facts drive
some of us to the conclusions that our inﬂuence
upon the progress or the happiness of animals
is to their beneﬁt only in an inﬁnitely small
proportion of cases, that we seldom help
forward the design and pattern of Nature,
and that our hopes and beliefs that we do so are
will—o’-the—wisps, dancing over the morasses
of animal exploitation in which we are lighted

. to destruction.

 

146

 

 

 

 




,-.._..._.‘_-.,'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

My, 1942

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

National Council for Animals’ = Welfare

.HOIZ. Seerefaiy : J.

Animals’ Welfare Weeks.

RUGBY.—-Animals’ Welfare Week was ob-
served in many elementary, private, and other
schools in the borough last week. In one
Sunday School the superintendent gave a talk
to senior girls ; in another a special lesson was
given by the teachers on “ being merciful,”
and this was supplemented by a talk from the
superintendent on “ God’s tender mercies are
over all His works.” Helpful leaflets as to the
feeding and care of domestic animals were
distributed to many adults and children, horse
owners and drivers, at women’s meetings, and
other organisations, and posters were dis-
played on the principal hoardings. Miss J. L.
Buchanan (local hon. secretary) was respon-
sible for all the arrangements, and the helpers
were Sister Denise, Mrs. Foxon, and Mr.
Radford. Nearly all the literature was given
by “ Our Dumb Friends’ League ” and “ The
National Equine Defence League.”

SOUTHAMPTON.—Thls town, one which has
received a good deal of attention from raiders,
was one of the few to hold a civic Week this
year. The Mayor once again very kindly
agreed to be President but was unable to
attend the inaugural meeting owing to the
extra work caused by the raid on the previous
evening. A tour of the schools had been
arranged by Mr. Freeman, the Director of
Education, and Mrs. Stott was the speaker.
Nineteen schools were visited, three of which
had received damage but were still “ carrying
on ”i and had not forgotten the animals.
Beyond these, ministers of churches, Sunday
schools, adult schools and youth clubs had
been approached, but the work amongst the
children was the centre of all effort. Films
were also shown in some of the schools. The
Secretary for the Southampton Animal Welfare
Committee, Mr. Edward Windebank, who
happily combines that with the Secretaryship
of the R.S.P.C.A. Branch, is to be congratu—
lated on a most successful Week. He is very

ably helped by Mr. Windebank, Senior.

Animals’ Fain—It is hoped that an
Animals’ Fair will be held this year on the

LEONARD CATHER.

same lines as last year’s which was so successful.
No deﬁnite arrangements have been made
yet but it is not too early to ask our friends
and helpers to begin their good work of
getting together any saleable articles for the
stalls. Secondhand articles and books will be
very welcome and perhaps we can have a
“Jumble ” stall. Practical presents are most
acceptable nowadays and many things can be
made from odd pieces of cloth, wool, etc., for
which no coupons would be needed. We can
receive parcels at any time if sent to the
N.C.A.W., 32, Queen’s Avenue, London,
N .10. When making your bottled fruits, dried
herbs, or taking up your winter vegetables,
please think of our Fair and put a small
amount away for it. A little from everyone
would make a big amount.

.National Lecturer’s Tour.—Miss Barrs
ﬁnished her work in the North on June 4th
with another 20 schools, regretfully having to
leave several until next time, for she was
wanted in the South. Three lectures in
Brighton and Worthing and then on to
Welshpool where, with the permission and co—
operation of the Director of Education for
Montgomeryshire, she was able to speak to
16 schools in that town and surrounding
district. She was also asked to give talks to
the Women’s Institute and a Woman’s Pleasant
Hour.

Our Late Chairman.

Letters are still being received from people
who have only just heard or read of the death
of Mr. Spurrier and the Executive Committee
wish to express their great appreciation of the
messages of sympathy these contain. We have
also heard from the Ulster Society for Preven—
tion of Cruelty to Animals and the Anti—
Vivisection League of Canada, who sent the
following verse :—

Eeen for ﬁve “ dead ” I will not bind

.My Soul to <grief ; deaf/9 eamzei‘ divide

For ii if not flie Rose llmz‘ elimlied

M )1 Garden Wall and bloomed lbe allier ride?
ALICE CARY.

147

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

ﬁlly, 1942

The Bishop and the Grey Seal

St. David’s, Pembrokeshire, which only

became public shortly before his tragic
end, almost recalls the legends of early
Christian saints and hermits and their friendly
relations with animals. Details of Ferrar’s
life and eventful death may be found in
Froude’s Hz'sz‘oig/ of Eng/am] and in Edward
Laws’s valuable but forgotten book, Little
Eng/and Beg/071d Wales (1888) from the latter of
which I have taken my facts regarding the
Bishop.

Ferrar, a Yorkshireman by birth, became
Bishop of St. David’s in 1548. According to
Laws he seems to have been “ a kindhearted
gentleman endued with common—sense to a
considerable degree, but not remarkable either
for learning or eloquence. As an honest,
straightforward man he considered that the
temporalities as well as the spiritualities of his
See were a sacred trust. . . .” But he was an
adherent of the Reformed Faith (Protestant),
wherefore “ his religious enemies (the Catho—
lics) combined against him with the result
that one of the most extraordinary charges
ever trumped up against an innocent man was
framed against him. Robert Ferrar was
indicted, infer 4/221, of Folly.” Counts in his
indictment declared that he neglected books
and preaching and that he said that he would
go to attend Parliament on foot, and answered
to his friends who were fain to dissuade him
alleging that that was not meet for one in his
place: “ I care not for that: it is no sin.”
Further, “ He daily useth whistling to his
(young) child, and saith he understood his
whistles when he was but three years old. . . .
In his visitation he surveyed Milford Haven,
where he espied a Seal—fish tumbling, and he
crept down to the rocks by the water’s edge,
and continued there whistling by the space of
an hour, persuading the company (t/mz‘ [dug/Jed
farz‘ at him) that he made the fish to tarry
there. . . .”

The “ seal—ﬁsh ” was certainly a Grey Seal,
that being the only species known along the
rocky coasts of Cornwall and Wales, where it
is quite common even now. The smaller
Common Seal is well known on the shoals and
sandbanks of our East coast and right up to
the Shetlands; but round Ireland and the
West coast and Isles of Scotland, its place is

5 STORY of Robert Ferrar, Bishop of

taken by the Grey Seal, which is virtually the
only British mammal enjoying legal protection
———and even that only for a short close time in
the winter months during its breeding—season.
(In Ireland where it is quite unprotected its
slaughter is even encouraged.)

Those of us who have listened to the wild
crying of these splendid animals in their
native haunts or have known the delight of
watching them stretched out basking in the
sun on low water-surrounded rocks, or diving
for food, or playing with unsurpassed ease and
vigour in the boiling surf at the foot of the
steep cliffs, will feel a pleasant sympathy with
the old bishop’s harmless, hobby which so out-
raged his entourage. So too, nowadays, it is
good to think, will many who have never seen
them at home, but have at least read of them.
It may even be that they have read some of the
vivid descriptions of Grey Seals in the North—
ern Scottish isles, and particularly of the
doings of mother seals with their soft—haired
young, by that prince of seal—watchers, Dr.
Fraser Darling, whose photographs of Grey
Seals are the ﬁnest in existence. It is interest-
ing to note that Dr. Darling, studying seals on
Eilean a’ Chleirach echoes the method of the
good Bishop of St. David’s four centuries
earlier, for he makes special mention of
“ whistling in the way that interests Seals.”

Sportsmen, needless to say, frequently.

attempt to practice their hobby of amateur
butchery on the Grey Seal, which is economi—
cally “ non—injurious ” to man, their main
excuse would no doubt be that the seals “ eat
fish ” and that they are, generally speaking,
diHicult to shoot. I have had the displeasure
of talking with an Irish Solicitor—Sportsman,
who boasted that he had just succeeded in
shooting his 50th grey seal, though he could
not recover the body.

To return to the idiotic counts in the indict—
ment against Bishop Ferrar. The Govern-
ment feeling being opposed to Ferrar’s views
on religion, he was called upon to make his
defence, though it seems incredible that much
of the rubbish alleged by the prosecution
should have been seriously discussed. In his
reply he stated, inter alia, that he admitted the
crime of whistling to the child, “ thinking it
better to bring up his son with loving enter—
tainment, to encourage him to receive after—

148

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

[115), I942

wards more serious lessons.” He also con—
fessed that he had whistled to the seal, adding
that “ such as meant folly might turn it to their
purpose.”

After much browbeating by the notorious
Bishop of \Vinchester, Stephen ’Gardiner,
Ferrar, charged with having violated his
monastic vow of chastity, was adjudged to be
burned alive; and this penalty he duly
suffered in the market—place of Carmarthen
in 1555, resolutely refusing to abjure the
“ reformed faith.” 'A tablet to his memory
was erected in 1845 in St. Peter’s Church,
Carmarthen.

The burnt offering of this admirable if
eccentric ecclesiastic—a sacrifice made by rival
priests of the Church in the name of
Christianity—affords yet another example,
though none is needed, of the mordant truth
of Lucretius’s “ Tania”: re/zgz'o pomz'z‘ madam
malomm.” That famous verse, “ To such curs’d
deeds religion could impel! ” (in the transla—
tion of Henry 8. Salt)* was written even before
the advent of Christianity, which Lucretius
was spared.

HE
* Treamrey of Lycra/fizzy, London, 1912.

 

All Animals Love Me

By CHARLES A. WESTACOTT.

“ .E.” are the initials of a brilliant
Lmusician and a genuine animals’ friend
who once remarked to me : “ All
animals love me. They are more faithful than
men and women. May I tell you how I
became a real vegetarian? ”

“ Please do,” I responded with alacrity.

“It was owing to an incident,” “ L. E.”
began, “ which left a lasting impression upon
my mind. Looking out of the window I saw
a bull going over the bridge near my house,
thoroughly done up, tired out, hardly able to
walk. To hurry him on the drover kept
prodding the poor animal’s stomach. The
thought of the horrible killing in the terrible
slaughterhouse must have been passing through
my mind, for I cried out to my sister, who was
also a witness of the incident, ‘ I will never eat
meat again, never, never! ’ That was seven—
teen years ago. . .' . I have been a vegetarian
from that day.”

Here is an instance of an animal’s love for
the subject of this brief article._ “Opposite her
home there lived a neighbour supposedly fond
of cats, for she had many. It was “ L. E.’s ”

THE AN IMALS’ FRIEND

habit to feed one of these, which appeared
sadly neglected“ A day came with no visit from
Graymalkin. “ Then one day,” commented
this friend of animals, “ I saw a lot of people.
in the road watching the truant coming
towards me with a kitten in her mouth which
she laid at my feet; crossing and re—crossing
the road until ﬁnally her family of five had
been deposited around me; then a look and a
mew as much as to say, ‘ It was you who fed
me and gave me milk.’ ”

Every day it is customary for “L. E.” to
feed the birds and two horses in particular, the
care of old horses being her special activity
for animal welfare. Concerning one of these
horses the following episode occurred, which
is best told in the benefactor’s own words.
“ The other day our coalman lost his horse
and cart—full of coal. The poor- man was
almost in a fit and got two men flying all over
the place looking for the lost horse and cart.
Eventually they found the coal—cart turned.
round with the horse loOking over my gate,
his big eyes on me whilst I fed him with
carrots as was my wont. It was wonderful.
how the horse found the road and then my
gate, for it was three roads away. The coal—
man’s comment was, ‘ Well, Miss! I have
never seen anything like this before! ’ Neither
had he, but then——all animals love me.”

 

This war, like the one of 1914, has resulted
in a big demand for moleskins. The un—
fortunate little beast has received the full blast
of a blitz in which he had no paw in the
making. His little home is ravaged by man
the invader, and no quarter is given him.
A trade journal, 1796 Maker—Up, states it takes
500 moleskins to make a coat. We condemn,
and justly too, Nazi atrocities. \We condemn,
and equally justly, the female who bedecks
herself in the skins torn from the bodies of
goo defenceless creatures. Such a moron has
no place in post-war society.

3: :§= :2:

Much sobstuff is spilt in the press over the
“ people in many parts of the country who
have found themselves ﬂeeced after buying
day—old chicks at pet stores and markets . .
unscrupulous tradesmen have mixed up the
chicks so that nearly all have been cockerels.”
But of the sufferings of vast numbers of day—
old chicks bought by people with no facilities
for rearing baby chicks not one word!

YAHOO.

14-9

 

A - stun-RV}. {-63}-
h .3: ”it
_ ﬂ».

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

july, 1942

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection

Hon. Secretary :

MISS IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

Oﬂices: EDINBURGH—IO, QUEENSFERRY STREET. GLASGOW—147, BATH STREET.

Annual Meeting. -
T the . thirtieth annual meeting of the
AScottish Society for the Prevention of
Vivisection, which was held in Edin—
burgh it was reported that the income for the
year ended December 31$t, 1941, was ,£2,556
and that the expenditure was £1,715». The
balance at the same date was stated to be
£16,945.

Apologies for absence were read from the
Duchess of Portland, the Marchioness of Ailsa,
the Earl of Buchan, Rosalie Countess of
Buchan, the Countess of Cromartie, the
Countess of Tankerville, the Countess of
Plymouth, and Sir Daniel M. Stevenson, Bt.

The Earl and Countess of Haddington, Miss
N. Ivory, Mrs. Carlyle—Deas, Miss Watson,
ex—Provost O. Hilson, Miss Bell, Miss Ford,
and Lady M’Kechnie were re—elected to the
committee.

Councillor Mrs. Alice Ross and the Rev.
Percival Prescott also took part in the meeting.

The Chairman, Mrs. More—Nisbett, of
Cairnhill, expressed the hope that the end of
the war would not open anOther door for
vivisectors to try to cure war—mutilated bodies
by further experiments on animals. Mrs.
More—Nisbett remarked on the amount of
support which the Society, in spite of wartime
difficulties, had received during the year, as
shown in the fact that the income had amounted
to nearly £5,000.

Resolution.

A resolution demanding the abolition of
vivisection was - moved by Mrs. More—Nisbett
and seconded by Mrs. Linton. '

As “ Religion, morality, science, logic and tbe
results of vivisection experiments tbernselves, one
and all, exclairn against tbe practice, anal exbibit
as clearb/ as possible tbe fallacy of attempting to
investigate nature by unnatural inetboa’s, involving
pain to. tbe victim, and a moral degradation to tbe
investigator,” tbis Meeting calls upon tbe public to
demand its abolition by law.

“ There are no incurable diseases, only
incurable patients,” stated Mr. James C.
Thomson, Principal of Edinburgh School of
Natural Therapeutics.

Disease was a personal experience, Mr.
Thomson explained, and it mattered not how
many people seemingly suffered from the same
disease. Each one was slightly different.
How very different, therefore, were those
experiences in humans and animals; Un—
cleanliness in the human tissues was the root
of all disease. Mr. Thomson cited G. B.
Shaw’s play, “Too True to be Good,” as
substantiating his own views on the subject
of germs.

The body was self healing, and the quickest
and best way to cure a wound was merely to
keep it damp and refrain from eating. An
injured dog licked its wounds and only ate
when forced.

 

150

 

 

 




 

filly, 1942 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 82,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
. thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.
Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog-welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.
Seeks" to prohibit the viviseetion of dogs.

A Membership 53. 0d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE. S.W.I

 

 

 

 

 

 

If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join

. OLD VICTOR’ .
The Cats Protection

A Short Story (about a prize pit horse).

By B. L. COOMBES A :1; “ Tb P
Hana’: ”). 2E1. Zboos: gee. we 0W League
c PRAYER TO GO TO PARADISE The one society devoted solely to theweliare
WITH THE DONKEYS , of cats and kittens.
Poem translated from the French of Francis MEMBERSHIP 5 / - PER ANNUM,

Jammes by Vernon Watkins and reprinted

from The Listener. “ This beautiful prayer.”——— including the Society’s OfﬁCial organ,

 

The Anthea/5’ Friend. Four copies 2d. post free. “ THE CAT ”

of)”, leaflet; on pg; pong“. Associate Membership Subscription 35. 6d. pa.
The Pit Ponies’ Protection Society,
69, CARLTON HILL, LONDON, N-W-8 Write for Free Literature toz—The Secretary, 29,

Church Street, Slough, Bucks.

 

 

The LEAGUE AGAINST CRUEL SPORTS

Temporary Anthem: 2 39 HURS T ROAD, SIDCUP, KENT.
President: HAMILTON FYFE Chairman: AIR-COMMODORE L. E. O. CHARLTON, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.

Secretary: J. C. SHARP Hon. Treararer: ARCHDEACON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.

This Society is devoted solely to the protection of Animals against Cruel Sports. The
League is doing for Wild animals what other societies are doing for domestic animals.

Membership 2s. 6d.iupwards.

 

 

National Society for Abolition Of Cruel Sports

c/o 253 COWLEY ROAD, OXFORD

Chairmani H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Treasurer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD
Latest Publication DEER HUNTING AND SHOOTING ON
EXMOOR 2d.

By M. Chapman

 

All sahyerzptiony and communications for the Magazine .rhoa/d he aa’dremea’ “ The Editor;, ANIMALS’ FRIEND,
32, Queen’: Anenae, .an/e/l Hi/l, London, N .10.”

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND ﬁlly, 1942

THE DOG’S BAZAAR

for 1942 will he held on 27th OCTOBER in the
FREEMASONS’ HALL, 96, George Street, EDINBURGHZ

 

 

PLEASE NOTE

Miss N. Ivory will be grateful to all who send in their Contributions
as early in the year as possible, addressed to:

MISS N. IVORY, Hon. Secretary,
(to whom all cheques should be made payable)

at 10, QUEENSFERRY STREET, EDINBURGH;

Please carefully note alteration in month to October
this year, and not November as in the past.

 

THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION

Miss N. IVORY, Hon. Secretary, 10, Queensferry Street, Edinburgh

(to whom all communications should be addressed)

Form of Request

To those who may be inclined to become benefactors by Will to the Society,
the following form is respectfully suggested 2——

“I bequeath to THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION,
whose offices are now or formerly were at N O. 10, QUEENSFERRY STREET,
EDINBURGH, the sum of ,5

(free of duty) to be applicable for the general purposes of such Society, and I
declare that the receipt of the Treasurer or other proper officer for the time being
of such Society shall be sufficient discharge for the same.”

CAUTION

It is of great importance to describe very accurately the Title of this Society, namely :—
“ THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF VIVISECTIQN,” otherwise the benevolent
intentions of the Donor may be frustrated. All wills and codicils must be in writing, signed
by the Testator in the presence of, and attested by, two witnesses, or must be in the handwriting
of, and signed by the Donor.

 

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill, Surrey,
for the National Council for Animals’ Welfare, 32, Queen’s Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N.10.

 




