Price 3/. per 100

 

 

 

‘4.

ON KEEPING
. H 0 RS ES

 

 

 

WHEN loading, one should take into account the worst
part of the hills the horse will have to climb, the length

of his journey, the state of the roads, and his own strength.
He should be allowed to ascend a steep hill gently, and if the hill
be very long, he should have rest half way up, with a big stone
behind the wheel. A horse, when hard at work, may be thirsty ; he
should have frequent opportunities to drink. The horse should
have one day’s rest every week. The horse needs a comfortable
stable, one that is neither dark, damp, nor draughty (but plenty
of fresh air is essential to health), and he should have a good bed
tr lie on. He should never be left standing with a heavy load
unsupported by shaft-props, or standing uncovered in winter,
or with the sun glaring in his face in summer, or with the rain
driving into his face. He should not be shouted at, frightened,
or bullied. It is useless to goad on a nervous horse. Kindness

. is a better weapon than a whip or harsh words. It should be

remembered that nervousness is an afﬂiction, and that a horse,
like a child, is capable of experiencing mental torture, which is
often worse than bodily suffering. If a horse objects to passing
some strange object he should be driven slowly, or led towards
it, and stopped, so that he may look at it, when his fears will

:be dispelled.

Grooming. Grooming is not solely for the purpose of pro-

ducing a fine, glossy appearance and keeping the
coat clean; it also has a beneﬁcial effect on the system. If
grooming is performed with vigour it stimulates the action of
the skin and opens the pores, thus hastening the removal of
waste material from the body. The greater the amount of
work performed by a horse the more waste material is liberated
in the system, and to maintain a healthy state this must be
removed by various channels. One of the chief of these
channels is the skin, and thus it is imperative that this should
be kept active. '

 




 

ON KEEPING
HORSES

 

 

When a horse returns to the stable his feet should be
carefully picked out, and should then be cleaned with a brush.
It is often safer not to wash the legs of horses. Some are
predisposed to “mud fever,” and washing excites it ; and cracked
heels may follow washing unless great care is taken. If there
is mud on the legs it should be left to dry, and should then be
brushed off. A practice which cannot be condemned too
strongly is that of stopping the feet with cow-dung “ to keep
them cool.” This is a senseless and pernicious practice, and a
little thought should convince one that its effect is the very
opposite of that alleged. It is sometimes said that this practice
has the advantage of softening the sole of the foot ; but what
man with the slightest knowledge of the anatomy of a horse’s
foot would suggest that a soft sole is desirable? The hard,
horny sole is provided by Nature for the protection of the
delicate and sensitive under-structures, and it cannot be too
hard for everyday work.

The Stable and Bedding. A horse should be comfortable

‘ . in his Stable. A dark or damp
stable ls not beneﬁcial for a horse. A loose box is always
preferable to a stall, and the floor of either should be as level
as possible. A horse is never comfortable upon a sloping
ﬂoor. The question of bedding is one to be carefully con—

SIdered,.an.d must be regarded from two aspects—comfort
and sanitation. '

For comfort, ample bedding must be provided; for
health, It must be renewed periodically and kept clean. Unless
a horse has a good bed he cannot gain that rest which is so
necessary for a hard—worked animal. A good soft bed, tOO,
protects the various parts of the body from bruising and injury.
Again, if a horse lies on a bare floor the warmth of the body is
absorbed by the ﬂoor, and chills may follow; so that the

necessity for warmth must not be lost sight of, especially during
the wmter months. ‘ i

It is a common practice to remove the bedding from under

a horse during the day, but he would be far better standing on
straw or other bedding, for the bedding induces a horse to lie
down during the day, and such rest is good for hard-worked
horses. The usual materials used are straw and peat-moss litter,
and asf the latter has a greater absorptive power than the former,
c615. r0121 a sanitary point of View, preferable, though it, of
“me, “ks the nice. Clean appearance of straw. ‘ But any

2

 

 

 




ON KEEPING
HORSES

 

 

 

 

 

 

“'0'“

material that will absorb the ammoniacal gas resulting from the
decomposition of urine is calculated. to keepthe atmosphere
pure and free from evil smells ; and that moss litter has a better
effect in this direction than straw can be easily veriﬁed by a
comparison of stables littered separately with these. In damp
stalls, too, the atmosphere is kept drier where moss litter is
used. Sawdust as a litter is not objectionable, but is not to
be preferred to straw or moss litter.

Horses Troubled by Flies. During hot weather many

horses are badly worried by
ﬂies, and in consequence suffer considerably. - If the following
preparation is spread over the part on which the ﬂies generally
settle it will ward off the attack ; Oil of White Birch one and
half ounces, Oil of Tar (rectiﬁed) one ounce, Olive Oil
ten ounces (or half pint), mix. -

Clothing. Clothing for the horse is primarily intended for

warmth, but it also protects the coat from dust and
keeps it short. In summer time, too, light clothing is used as
a protection against ﬂies. It is desirable that the natural summer
coat of working horses should establish itself early, and clothing
assists this. The amount of clothing and the material used
depend upon the season of the year. After clipping, a horse
requires extra clothing. Over—clothing is objectionable, but
many grooms are guilty of the practice, the object being to
keep the coat extra short, so that a ﬁne gloss may be obtained
with little labour.

Exercise. Good condition is obtained by a judicious com-

bination of exercise and feeding. The more
exercise given a horse, within reasonable limits, the more
capable he becomes of performing hard and prolonged work.
Spasmodic exercise never gives good results.

Harness. It is essential for the comfort of a horse that his
harness should fit, and attention should be paid to

this point, particularly with regard to the collar. The harness

should notbe heavier than necessary. Blinkers areacertainly

not essential, and a horse does very well without them. .

A horse should always be able to move freely in his harness.
All harness must be kept scrupulously clean, in common with
everything else in the stable. The collar and all those parts
which touch the skin must be kept free from the results .of
perspiration and grease, which if left to accumulate cause sores.

3

 




 

0N KEEPING
HORSES

 

1n the choice of bits common sense is the best guide. It should
be borne in mind that a horse’s mouth is not the callous, in-
sensitive part that some people seem to imagine it to be, but is
delicate and keenly susceptible to pain. A bit that is too narrow
and pinches the mouth should be avoided. A bit that is too
wide is also objectionable.

Clipping. Most horses—certainly those used for pleasure——

should have the winter coat removed by clipping.
A horse that is used at any pace faster than a walking pace
labours under a disadvantage if the coat is retained. The horse
sweats freely and is generally handicapped in its work, and is
unable to perform the same amount as one shorn of its coat.
Again, the coat cannot be properly dried after sweating, and this
exposes the horse to chills. The coat, too, cannot be kept
thoroughly clean, and in the circumstances a clean skin is a
matter of great difﬁculty.

After clipping, precaution in clothing must be observed.
This is important, as otherwise the horse may contract a chill.
Before a horse is clipped the coat should be “ set,” and although
the time for clipping varies in different animals, approximately
it should take place in the early part of November. If it is
necessary to clip a horse twice during the winter, as is often
the case, the clipping should not be too late, or the spring coilt
Will be spoilt. In such a case the end of the year is late enough-

The g¥owth of hair after clipping depends upon the treat-
ment of the animal. If the stable is warm and the horse is
well fed and clothed, the hair will grow less rapidly than is the
(33:56 Wlth a poorly-fed and clothed animal in a cold stable.
Singeing is adopted to shorten the coat, and sometimes takes
the place of clipping, but only in short—haired horses. It must

be repeated, and the operation must be performed early in the
autumn.

Feeding. The feeding of a horse is of primary importance,

- . with regard both to quality and quantity, if the
animal is to be kept in the pink of condition. Naturally, what
may be the pink of condition in one class of horse will not be
so in another. For instance, with heavy draught horses weight
is a conSideration, whereas with riding. horses a ﬁne condition
implies the minimum of fat with the maximum of muscle-
For all horses oats form the most suitable food, either bruised
or whole, mixed with long hay or chaff. For the young horse,
on account of teething, and for the old, on account of irregular

4




ON KEEPING
HORSES

 

__ ,v_, Hn__.____. _h n—~_.__.__..__._~h_—__\_“ Nn—‘V _ “—-

teeth, it is often well to have the oats bruised or crushed, so
that they will be the more easily digested. The proper quantity
of food is of great importance; for it is not so much the amount
of food taken into the stomach that matters, as the amount
which is digested and assimilated, and so made use of by the
system. Food given in too liberal quantities does not mean
extra nourishment, but rather the reverse, for then the digestion
is overtaxed. The quantity of food required can best be
regulated by the amount of work performed, and by the size
of the horse. Work entails a waste of tissue, and this must be
replaced by food. It should always be remembered that this
waste is not confined to the visible muscles or tissues, but that
the vital organs also waste, so that they cannot properly perform
their duties ; the heart’s action becomes weak and the vitality
of the body lessened. It is false economy to deprive a horse
of his proper amount of food. The allowance of oats per day
may be reckoned at from 12 to 16 lb. for heavy horses, and
from 10 to 12 lb. for lighter animals. Ponies and cobs should
naturally have a little less, according to size. These quantities
are right if the oats weigh 40 lb. to the bushel. A horse that
works needs grain three times a day. Oats are nourishment
in a concentrated form, but they should never be given alone.
Bulk is necessary in the shape of chaff or hay ; even were oats
given in unlimited quantities, hay or chaff would still be
necessary. The quantity of hay or chaff must, however, bear
some relation to the amount of grain allowed, and, though a
hard and fast rule cannot be laid down, the amount of hay
allowed should be from 10 to 15 lb. a day ; old hay is preferable
to new and should always be given when possible. {All chaff
should be freed from dust, and, for this purPOSC, 1n many
stables a special apparatus is used. A bran mash may be given
once a week to overcome the action of the dry food and to
relax the bowels. If the bowels be obstinate, from 4 to 6 oz.
of linseed oil should be added to the mash. In summer or
spring green food should take the place of mashes. A piece
of rock salt should always be kept in the manger. The horse
enjoys it, it does good and promotes appetite. Care should be
taken, also, that the manger is kept scrupulously clean. . Horses
are extremely clean feeders, and a dirty manger lS distasteful
to them; they will not clear up their food if there is dust 1n
the remaining portion of it.

Watering. A plentiful supply of good clean water is an

absolute necessity for the. health of the horse, and
he should be allowed to have as much as he requires. T o

5

 




 

ON KEEPING
HORSES

 

withhold water conduces to a want or condition, for water is
necessary in order that the blood may be kept in a pure state.

esides being a privation, the lack of water is a common cause
of constipation with all its attendant evils. A horse should be
offered water three or four times a day, and more often if he
will take it. The usual method of watering is to give water
in pails at intervals, but a better method is to have water always
beside the horse. Some mangers are provided with water
troughs, but these are open to objection on the score of cleanli-
ness ; for often the water remaining is not removed, but more
is added from time to time until the whole eventually becomes
dirty and polluted.

If a metal pail is fixed at the side of the manger and is
made easily removable, negligence will be less likely to occur,
and this will be found more satisfactory in many ways than a
ﬁxed trough. Such a pail should be emptied and reﬁlled at
least three times a day. Common sense suggests that a horse
should not have a full supply of water immediately before
starting on a journey. The above method of watering removes
the necessity for precaution on this score, for the animal, never
being absolutely thirsty, does not overload his stomach, but
takes small quantities at intervals. Great prejudice exists in
respect of allowing water to horses on journeys. For hours,
even in hot weather, horses are scarcely allowed to moisten
their mouths. To bring water to a horse, and, after having
allowed him to drink a few drops, to take it away again, is a
reﬁnement of cruelty. During a journey every opportunity
should be taken of allowing a horse to drink, for the more
often he is watered the less he will take at a time. By drinking
small quantities frequently in this way a horse is kept fresh,
and works in comfort.

Another prevalent idea is that cold water should never be
given to a heated horse. This is a fallacy. Even when he is
petspiring it will do him no harm, but, on the contrary, will
much refresh him. There is no necessity for allowing a horse
to cool down after coming back to the stable heated with work.
He may be watered at once ; and it should be remembered that
a horse cannot enjoy his food if he is thirsty. Of course,
common sense must be used, and a hot and very thirsty animal
should not be allowed to drink his ﬁll as fast as he likes. If
it is found that he is drinking very fast the pail should be
removed for a few moments, and this plan should be repeated
until he has slowly quenched his thirst. The shivering that
often follows upon the method of giving cold water after the

6

 

 

 




 

 

 

ON KEEPING
HORSES

 

process of cooling down is entirely obviated when the water
is allowed in this way immediately after the animal’s return,
whether perspiring or not. a

The above remarks relate to horses which are hot as the
result of ordinary work, and not to those which are overheated
by racing or by a long run. In these cases a short interval
should elapse before water is given. Many grooms warm the
water. This is only necessary in very cold weather, and then
it should only be brought to the ordinary temperature of cold
water. If there is one thing more than another to which
horses object it is warm water, and even thirsty horses will
refuse it.

The Teeth. If a horse does not clear up his food as usual,

or if there is increased salivation or a falling off
in condition, the horse’s teeth should be examined. Young
horses suffer sometimes from teething troubles; the teeth of
older horses become sharp and lacerate the tongue and the inside
of the cheeks. In the former case soft food, such as scalded
oats, steamed hay, or mashes should be given, and a physic
ball. The teeth of older horses must be rasped to remove
the sharp and irregular points. If there is a diseased tooth it
must be extracted, but this is a matter for the veterinary surgeon.

Shoeing. On modern roads horses cannot worl: without

shoes, and usually a horse requires shoeing once a
month. Some horses wear out their shoes in a shorter time;
others carry them for a longer period, though this should not
be allowed without temporary removal of the shoes. It is
often supposed that a horse should be re-shod only when the
shoes are worn out, and, in practice, this. is no doubt true.in
many cases. But the growth of the foot is an important pomt
to be considered, and, in consequence of this, re-shoeing, or.a
re—adjustment of the shoe, becomes imperative after a certain
time. If the shoe is retained too long the foot becomes ill-
shaped owing to the growth of the horn. Young horses may
require shoeing more frequently than once a month, as in their
case the horn grows more quickly. Neglect in shoeingmay,
and frequently does, cause lameness. It may also give rise to
corns. Then, too, if the walls of the hoof are allowed to grow
to an unusual length, the horse is liable to stumble. The sole
and the frog ﬂake off from time to time, but the walls continue
t0 grow, and must be reduced by wear or by the shoeing-
smith’s knife. In .rboeing a barre it mart be [mm m 722sz Ma! II):

7

 




ON KEEPING
HORSES

 

51709 i: to fit #1:: foot, and not tbaz‘ fl): foot is to fit t1]: .rboe. Rec/elem
paring and raping are great evils. The portion of the foot which
can be seen when the foot is on the ground should never be
rasped. The stronger ﬁbres of the hoof are on or near the
outside surface, and protect the under softer tissues. If these
strong ﬁbres are removed by rasping the hoof is weakened
and is predisposed to sand—crack.

A gain, #36 frog must not be cut away, or its function z'r abolirhd.
Nature intended the frog to act as a cushion ; it can only be of
service in this direction when it touches the ground, and so is
able to minimise concussion. The bars must likewise be left
intact; they are a reﬂexion of the wall, and, doubtless, Nature
provided them as a means of strengthening the hoof and
keeping the heel from contracting unduly. Farriers are wont
to attempt to improve on Nature by “ opening up the heels,”
which process involves a removal of part of the bars. This
does, it is true, give the appearance of an open heel for a time,
but ultimately it defeats its own object, and the heels, losing
their suppleness, fall in, thus spoiling the shape of the foot.
A horse should never be shod with heavier shoes than are
necessary to meet the requirements of the work for which he
is intended.

DECREPIT AND LAME HORSES.

Any person compelling diseased, worn out, decrepit and
lame horses to travel on the high road to Fairs and Knackers’
yard commits an offence against the law, which subjects a driver
and his employer to heavy money penalties or to imprisonment
without the option of paying a ﬁne. As this is a practice that
causes much unnecessary suffering and tends to spread disease,
the R.S.P.C.A. hereby gives notice that its ofﬁcers have
been instructed to enforce the law against offenders. The
co—operation of the public is invited. Information may be given
at any police station or to any ofﬁcer of the Society.

Issued by the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1.
2.5u/1/37. M & C

 




