CRUELTY AND SENTIMENT

(Reprinted by peg/mission from a leading article in “ The Times”)

.__...—..__.——.—

EVERY now and then the newspapers announce the, punishment
of some man, or of some woman, for an act of such revolting
cruelty to an animal that the reader for a moment “ sees red,”
and feels that gladly, with his own hands, would he inﬂict
torture on the offender. No punishment seems at such
moments too severe for such a crime. That feeling, like all
Vengeful feelings, is to be distrusted. Certainly not all in—
formed and considered opinion maintains that severe punish-
ment will help to teach the required lesson, which in this
case is the lesson of gentleness and of sensibility to suffering.
It is the more to be distrusted because a greater number
of people than would care to admit it ﬁnd themselves, in
cooler moments, quite prepared to defend on the ground of
sport or traditional custom, practices which others of a ﬁner
sensibility will condemn. Opinion on what should be man’s
attitude towards animals in general, as opposed to certain
familiar and domesticated animals, is full of inconsistencies ;
and so it comes about that even kindly persons, who are
ready enough to show mercy to many creatures and yet
withhold it from others, are inclined to profess amusement
at the labours of those who concern themselves actively
with the prevention of cruelty to animals. Are there no
human beings, they ask illogically, to be protected against
cruelty? Pre-occupation with the woes of animals they
believe erroneously to preclude any great care for the woes
of human beings; they call persons so pre—occupied, senti—
mentalists, misusing a name which can only be applied to
those whose sensitiveness leads to nothing but an indulgence
of the imagination. But the truth is that sentimentalism
has nothing to do with the active ministry of those who
work for the friends called by our patronage “ dumb ” because
their ways of speech are not our own. The champions of ill-
used animals know that in serving the brute creation they
are at the same time serving man.

The lower the form of life, we are apt to think, the less
responsibility we have towards it; and, unless we would
ﬁnd ourselves tangled in an Oriental subtlety with regard
to all life, we may accept the rough gradation. We cannot
so readily blame a child for prodding sea—anemones as for
teasing kittens. And yet the more we learn about animals

[P.T.o.

 




from those with a genius for understanding themw-the more
intelligence and wealth of possibility shall we see in the
animal creation ; and the more clearly shall we discern the
likelihood of an unsuspected capacity for suffering in the
lower forms of life. But our responsibility is not to the
animals only: it is much greater to ourselves. Any act of
cruelty, even any act of negligence, committed on an animal
is as injurious to the doer as an act of cruelty or of negligence
to a human being ; and the injury is all the more dangerous
because he does not suspect that he is incurring it. The
effect of it is to dull and deaden the sympathies, to begin
or to increase an indifference which is certain to coarsen the
ﬁbre both of emotion and of spirit, and therefore infallibly
to induce in the cruel person some measure of hardness or
brutality in his dealings, also, with his fellow—men. Once
we realise that cruelty is as bad for the cruel as for the victim,
it becomes clear that those who work for the protection of
animals against man are working also for the protection of
man against himself. And since far more cruel things are
done through ignorance and insensibility than through a
morbid love of inﬂicting pain, the champions of animals
may be discerned as doing for man a very valuable work of
education. When cruelty to animals has disappeared from
earth, cruelty to man will have disappeared with it.

THE GRUEL SPORTS SERIES.

Leaﬂets, 4 pages, gt. each, 30 for 15., post free.
Chase of the Wild Stag. By LORD COLERIDGE.
Blood Sports condemn-ed. By EMINENT AUTHORITIES.
Morality of Field Sports. By THE LATE PROFESSOR FREEMAN.
Killing for Sport. By G. BERNARD SHAW.
The Much Maligned Rook. By T. S. HAWKINS.
Cub-Hunting. By H. B. AMOS.
Our Sportive Butchers. By H. W. NEVINSON.
Sport and the Otter. By J. COLLINSON.
The Eton Hare-Hunt. By H. S. SALT.

Leaﬂets, 2 pages, ad. each, 50 for r/—, post free.
cruelty in Sport. A letter by DONALD MACLEOD, Member of British
Olympic Council.
Another Bad Fox. Reprinted by permission from Punch.
The Drag Hunt and its Advantages. By H. B. A.
Is Hunting Sport? By A. G. G. (A. G. GARDINER).
cruelty and Sentimeut. Reprinted from The Times.
Donkey Derbys.

LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS,
YORK HOUSE, PORTUGAL STREET, LONDON, W.C.2.

 

 

YI762 The Botolph Printing Works, Gate Street, Ktngsway, WC .2

 




