A LETTER TO CHILDREN

MY DEAR Boys AND GIRLS:

I want to ask you some questions and make you think for a.
few minutes. Did you ever have a pain, or get hurt? Yes, and
you wished the pain would stop pretty soon, didn’t you, because-
it made you suffer. Now I want you to take notice that it is be-
cause you can feel that you have suffered, and to remember that
everything can feel, horses, and cows, and cats, and rabbits, and
birds, and insects,—every creature that is alive can suffer.

You all know that it is bad to be hurt, and that it is hard if
some one goes on hurting you just for fun. It is no fun at all for
you. That is the way it is when you hurt animals, or birds, or
insects. Just think. They cannot speak and tell you how much

 




 

you hurt them, and that makes it still more wrong for you to do it.
When you feel like throwing a stone at some creature, “just for
fun,” stop a moment and think, “How would I like it myself?
How would I like some big, strong person to throw stones at me?”
You know you would not like it. Do you know what a coward is?
One kind of a coward is a boy or girl, or anybody who hurts any—
thing for fun. It is not real fun, it is a very ugly thing indeed,——-
CRUELTY.

There are ever so many kinds of cruelty. Sometimes boys
have to drive horses with heavy loads, and the horses want to go
slowly as they should, for a heavy load cannot be drawn fast with—
out hurting the horse; yet the boys do not think, but beat the horses
and jerk the lines. Boys, that is cruelty. If any of you want to
do it, stop, and say, “How would I like it myself?” Think how it
would seem if you were the horse, pulling a heavy load; straining
hard to do it; perhaps thirsty and not able to say anything about
it; and with somebody behind you constantly beating your tired
back with a whip, and jerking a hard bit in your mouth. Boys,
will you not try to think when you drive? Learn to use the whip
as little as possible; encourage your horse with kind words,~—they
are what you would like if you were a horse,——and never jerk
the line and never have a tight checkrein.

It is cruel to drive cows fast. Cows were not made to run as
fast as boys, and when you hurt the cow by making her run you
spoil her milk too, and it is likely to make people ill when they drink
it. It is cruel to do anything that you would not like yourself if
you were in- the dumb creature’s place.

A lady once told me of two pictures which she saw. One was
a very large frog sitting on the edge of a pond and throwing stones
at a very small boy, and asking him how he liked it. The other
picture was a large ﬂy hurting a little boy and paying no attention
to anything but the fun he was having. How dreadfully cruel
such a frog and such a ﬂy would seem. But, boys, you know it
is really the other way, and it is boys who are cruel to the poor
creatures who cannot speak or protect themselves.

Sometimes boys think it is fun to frighten animals. There are
boys who think it no end of fun to say, “Scat!” whenever they see
a cat, and I have actually heard of boys who throw stones at cats!
How would the boys like it themselves?

Suppose that whenever they dared to show themselves in day-
light somebody a great deal bigger than they should make a great
noise and chase them and frighten them dreadfully and throw stones
at them; wouldn’t they be very unhappy boys?

In hot weather, when dogs have gone a long distance or are
very thirsty they sometimes grow feverish and ill, just as human
beings do. Often when they have ﬁts people who do not under-
stand are afraid and perhaps chase them. Then the poor things




grow still more ill, just as you would if you were so cruelly treated.
Any anlmal that is ill should be very kindly treated and given some
water and allowed to rest quietly in a shady place.

Another way of being cruel is by neglect. If you have a pet
of any kind do not neglect to give' it food and water. If you have
cats or dogs always keep a pan of clean fresh water where they
can get it when they are thirsty. Once I knew a little girl who,
because she had company in the house, forgot to feed and give
water to her bird, and when she thought of it it was too late and
the bird was dead. Think of that, children. Starved to death.
Think how uncomfortable you are when even for a little while you
need food or water and do not have it, and then think of doing with—
out it until you died. Now do you not see how very wicked such
thoughtlessness is? God made all the dumb creatures and he
made the dear little birds, and he did“ not mean them to be put
into cages, but if we do it we must take care of them.

And now I want to speak of the birds that are not in cages,
but in the woods and ﬁelds. How beautiful they are and how
sweetly they sing, and how cruel it is to kill them or to take away
their eggs or their young ones. Once I read of a boy who stole a
nest of young birds, and he did not care, though the old ones shrieked
and cried in their grief at losing their children, and the little ones
cried for food and their mother’s care and her warm wings; and
his little sister cried for pity, and said: ”Ah, the poor birds!” But
after he had taken the nest he fell asleep and dreamed that some
one, cross and ugly, came and took him away from his home and
his mother and all his friends and put him in a cold, dreary place,
and that it was because of what he had done to the birds; and he
was so sorry that he took the bird’s nest right back within half an
hour to the tree where he had found it, and the old ones came to
it, and he never again touched a bird’s nest.

Women who wear birds in their hats or bonnets are doing a
cruel thing, for the men who catch them often kill them in a manner
far worse even than shooting, and leave their young ones behind to
. slowly starve to death. Girls should never wear birds in their hats,
nor birds’ wings; they are helping to encourage very. cruel work
if they do. The dear birds were made to sing and ﬂy about and
be happy and make us happy with their beauty, not to be cruelly
killed and put in hats and bonnets. And it is wrong for another
reason. When the birds are killed there are too many insects,
because birds use a great many insects and their eggs for food.
Insects eat up the farmers’ crops and do much harm in other ways.
It is said that one tenth of what is grown is eaten every year by
insects. You may often see birds hunting in the bark of trees for
insects’ eggs.

Dear boys and girls, it is dangerous to yourselves to be cruel,
because you are likely to grow worse and worse. Cruel people
often end by going to prison. They do not believe it in time, but

 




 

cruelty grows like other sins if it is not checked. Dear children,
learn to be kind to everybody and everything. Sometimes because
there are so many insects they have to be killed; but, if so, be sure
and do it as quickly and mercifully as you can. It is a good thing
to belong to a Band of Mercy, as that teaches you so many ways of
kindness. If there is not one where you live, send a two—cent stamp
to the American Humane Education Society, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Mass., and get directions for forming one.

With much love to you all, your friend,
MARY F. LOVELL.

 

THINGS TO REMEMBER

Let us learn to love and protect the birds and their nests.
‘Birds are man’s helpers.

Let us protect the cats and dogs from ill treatment, give them
food and water and a warm place to sleep in. They like a gentle
touch and kind words.

Please do not let your dog run under a cart or after a bicycle.
He will soon become exhausted. Many dogs are killed, many lost,
many are made very ill by following bicycles and electric cars.

Please make your horse comfortable. Do not use the over—
head check or any tight checkreins. Never jerk, kick, whip, over-
load or overwork him.

Please be gentle with your cattle, never frighten them or give
them pain by dogging them, or other cruel usage.

Please do not ﬁsh or hunt for sport or use steel or other cruel
traps.

Try never to cause, needless pain to any living creature.

Do nothing to hurt the feelings of anyone.

Do all you can to make others happy.

When you see any creature abused please earnestly but kindly
protest against such abuse.

Remember the Golden Rule.

Try to treat every living creature as you would like to be
treated if you were that creature.

Be above using profane or vulgar language.
Be clean in body and mind.
These are the ways to be happy and loved.

Published by the AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Avenue.
Boston, Mass. Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson, Secretary.

Price, 5 cents per dozen, or 40 cents per hundred, nostpaid.

 




