liUlLAN

VIVISECTION]

(CONTINUED.)

 

 

The following correspondence subsequently took
place :—

(FROM THE “DAILY CHRONICLE,” MAY 17TH.)

SIR,‘——The community at large is deeply indebted to you for
your bold and outspoken protest against the Vivisection of
human beings, especially in connection with hOSpitals for
women. These things have been exposed and protested
against by the Older school of practitioners for many years
past. There was an article in the Zlfedical Press for July 9th,
1884, by Dr. Jackson, Lecturer on Surgery to the Shefﬁeld
School Of Medicine, wherein the writer exclaimed, “What a
terrible tale would abdominal sections tell were they all
recorded accurately! As Mr. Erichsen puts it, ‘Will the
surgery of our time record surgical triumphs or operative
audacities ? ’ ” May I substitute the word “atrocities ” ‘2 In
the British Medical Journal of May 28th, 1887 (p. 1,178),
Dr. C. H. Stratz is quoted with reference to his severe
strictures on “The Operative Madness” (Furor Operations).
“It is astounding,” he says, “ to read on what slight excuse a

difﬁcult and dangerous operation was performed.” In the ,‘ - - -
_ same journal, January 5th, 1878, p. 15, there is a report of a . and WOUId’ no doubt, throw a very lurid hght on certaln

_, discussion on a vgryrterrible operation, which. seems to have , .

caused the death Of several patients. A great physician present
asked, “Why was it done? The course of ﬁbroids was not
usually fatal, and abdominal section should not be undertaken
for their removal unless life was endangered.” And another
great authority said—“ Unless there were danger the operation
was not justiﬁable.” Brave Dr. Louis Parkes has only
proclaimed from the housetop what medical men have for
many years been saying in the medical papers. In my own
practice I have had two cases of women who were about to be
subjected to operations of the gravest character, and who
both speedily recovered their health by changing their minds
and leaving the hospital where the operations were to have
been performed without submitting to any treatment what-
ever. They are now perfectly well, so that the evisceration
to which they would have been subjected, had they taken the
advice of the hospital people, could never have been
necessary. The fact is, Sir, the rage for mangling animals in
the cause of physiological science has developed this operative
madness against which your correspondent protests. It is the
young vivisecting school which is at the bottom Of the
mischief, and it must be checked by some such means as
those you suggest, or our hOSpitals will, as you say, be turned
into butchers’ shops.

' I am, Sir, yours, &c.,

EDWARD BERDOE, M.R.C.S., &c.
London, May 15th.

.—...___

SIR,—I have read your article in to-day’s issue entitled
“Human Vivisection ” with the greatest satisfaction, and I
consider that there is a great deal more Vivisection practised
on the genus man than on any other species in the animal
kingdom. It so happens that I have had the experience as
house surgeon at a hospital in our largest northern provincial
town, where so-called “operations of expediency” were

 

 

 

performed in a large number of instances with disastrous
results to the patients, and so far as I could judge with no
good to any. I well remember the case of a celebrated culprit
of ovariotomy—who used to perform this operation on any-
body and everybody he could lay his hands on—being
threatened with murder by the disconsolate husbands, and in
fact in certain instances the husbands stationed themselves
outside this “ specialist’s ” residence, making him a prisoner.
The only remedy is that all these so-called “special hospitals”
should be abolished; or, if it is absolutely necessary that we
should have them, that their numbers should be reduced, and
that they should be licensed. They are at the same time a
curse to the profession, inasmuch as they are patronised by
people who can well afford to pay their regular medical
practitioner, while at the same time the work they do can be
done in the special department of our great hospitals. Why,
you, Sir, as editor of the Daily Chronicle, can establish a
special hospital if you wish to do so—there is no law to
prevent you. The suggestion that coroners should hold
inquests in every case where death occurs after operations is
a very valuable one and should be acted on in every case,

operations. Specialists have to run their specialism now to
makeitp‘ay. ' w ,, ~~~~W-~~“~—m~~. ,_ ,_ , - -.........

I am, &c.,

A LONDON DISTRICT MEDICAL
OFFICER.
May 16th. .

..-—————-—=

(FROM THE “DAILY CHRONICLE,” MAY 25TH.)

SIR, Ihave been glad to see your article and the subsequent ‘
letters on this subject, as there can be no doubt in the mind
of anyone who reads the medical papers that the custom of
using patients for experimentation is on the increase in the
hospitals. When the Lancet (June 26th,1885) tells us that
“the greatest use of hospitals is to promote the advancement
of medical science and to afford an improved method of
recognising and of treating disease,” and the British Medical
Journal (April 23rd, 1884) maintains that “ﬁrstly, a hospital
should be a place for medical education, secondly for the
relief of suffering,” it is obvious that the professional view of
hospitals is somewhat different from the view held by the
public. I could, with your permission, ﬁll a column with
instances of what most people, outside the profession, would
consider unjustiﬁable treatment of patients. My Object,
however, at present, is only to draw attention to the intimate
connection between human and animal Vivisection. The
immediate application to patients throughout Europe Of
Koch’s so-called discovery, which was the outcome of
investigations on thousands of animals, was nothing but
a vast unjustiﬁable experiment on conﬁding patients, result-
ing in death or permanent injury in scores of cases.
Pasteur’s treatment, which, on account of failures, he has
changed several times since he ﬁrst tried it on human
beings, has in like manner been a most reckless and
heartless instance of wholesale experimentation with one of
the most terrible of diseases, and is admitted on all sides
to have resulted in deaths which would not otherwise have

 




occurred. The horrible inoculations of women with cancerous
matter, which came to light recently in Germany and were
hushed up, as such things usually are, were another case in
point. Those experiments with nitrate of sodium at a London
hospital a few years ago, which produced most serious and
dangerous symptoms in eighteen patients, were the work
of two licensed vivisectors, and followed on immediately
after similar experiments on animals. Dr. Cyon, of the
French school, who has appeared in England as an
advocate of vivisection, wrote: “ Many a surgical operation
is performed less for the beneﬁt of the patient than for
the Service of science, and the utility of the knowledge
aimed at thereby is often much more triﬂing than that
attained by vivisection of an animal.” Again, when the
most prominent English vivisector of to-day says that “ the
saving of human life ” is a secondary object to “the
furtherance of science,” he only expresses the opinion of his
fellow-vivisectors, one of whom (licensed regularly every
year), in speaking of some experiments on human beings,
said “ we, who have derived valuable knowledge from them,
must not be too ready to ﬁnd fault” with the persons who
made them.

There is only too much evidence that the vivisection of
animals leads directly to that of human patients, as indeed
anyone might naturally expect. The feelings and objects
which prompt to the former are equally present in the latter,
but in an intensiﬁed degree, as the human body is the
ultimate goal. All the arguments, too, which are used to
justify the one apply equally to the other. The ﬁrst step
towards the prevention of cruelty to hospital patients must
be the abolition of scientiﬁc cruelty to animals.

I am, Sir, yours faithfully,
"* ERNEST BELL.

Hendon, May 21st.

——————

SIR,—The truth of the contention that a great deal of un-
necessary and highly mischievous operating is carried on by
surgeons, both in hospital and private practice, is strikingly
conﬁrmed by a series of articles by Dr. C. H. F. Routh, con-
tributed to and just concluded in the Medical Press and
Circular. In these articles Dr. Routh contends, in reference
to a certain operation, that it has been frequently performed
where there was absolutely no justiﬁcation for it, and, urges
the “signal advantages of conservative surgery in these
casesﬁ’ '

Some Paris surgeons spoke out plainly to this effect last
year, as reported in the Journal de Médecine de Paris of March
19th. 1893. M. Berger said: “Every time that a new Operation
is proposed there is an explosion of enthusiasm, and every-
one wants to try his hand.” M. Reclus said: “ We Operate
too much; and we should prove our good sense if we some-
times listened to the complaints of the subjects of our
operations.” And he added by way of illustration the
following little confession: “I once treated medically three
patients, for each of whom I was convinced that nothing but
an operation would give relief, and that delay given up to
medical treatment would be sheer waste of time; but the
patients insisted on trying medicine ﬁrst—and they were

 

rewarded for it by being Completely curedi”—that is, of
course, without operation.
I am, Sir, yours obediently,
JOHN H. CLARKE, MD.

30, Clarges-street, W., May 20th.

(FROM THE “DAILY CHRONICLE,” MAY 31ST).

SIR,——I hope before you close this discussion you will allow
me a little space in which to reply to your correspondent “ A
Country Surgeon.” As I have held almost all the resident
appointments in one of our largest London hOSpitalS, and now
have an extensive practice in a thickly populated London
district, I may claim to know something of “the working of
the profession.” In the ﬁrst place I will assure “A Country
Surgeon ” that I am a lover of my profession, which is a noble
one, but which can be and is made also an ignoble one. I am,
too, a lover of our great hospitals, where, as a rule I know
that patients receive all the care and attention it is possible
to bestow upon them. I can also agree with your cor-
respondent in regretting much that has been written about
the working of hospitals, evidently by those who have never
been inside one, which is calculated to cripple institutions
which do an enormous amount of good amongst our poor.

Having pointed out this much I should like to point out a
real danger in the working Of our hospitals upon the present
educational basis—the danger of our regarding hospital
patients rather as diseases than as individuals. I will give
you an example which will make clear my meaning. A young
man was admitted into the medical ward of the hospital at
which I was studying, suffering from inﬂammation of both
lungs, late one night. He was put to bed, examined by the
house-physician, and given medicine. The next day this
patient was examined successively by the ward-clerk, the
house-physician, the medical-registrar, who had him stripped
to the waist for some time whilst he demonstrated the case to
a class of students, and, lastly, by the visiting physician, who,
not knowing what the man had already gone through, again
had him stripped and allOwed him to be examined by a number
of students. The patient died in the night, and no one will
deny that his chances of recovery were made less by the
number of examinations he had to undergo. Now none of
these gentlemen were vivisectionists of the cruel “ glassy
eyes” type. They were kind-hearted medical men, who by
their education had lost sight of the individualand regarded
only his disease. I think “ A Country Surgeon ” will own with
me that there is, in our hospitals, thisdanger of a patient
becoming No. ——., without relatives or friends, and with no
individuality except that bestowed upon him by his disease;
and he may, or may not, agree with me in my conviction that
this danger is increased by the practice Of vivisection in our
medical schools. Vivisection trains us to ignore individual
suffering and spend our sympathies upon suffering in general
—an abstract idea.

In conclusion, I would like to say that the cases of unjustiﬁ-
able interference in the way of operations in our general
hospitals are few, and are outnumbered many times by the
cases of gross and almost criminal neglect of surgical Inter-
ference in cases under the care of medical men outside.

I am, Sir, yours, &c.,

London, S.W., May 27th. M.D. (Lond.)

 

 

UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OE ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION,
694.

ASSOCIATION FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION or VIVISECTION, 20, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W.

 




