CHAPTER I
THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS
IN THE UNITED STATES

by Emily Stewart Leavitt and Diane Halverson

America has the distinction of being the first country

to acknowledge the rights of animals by enacting statutory
legislation to protect them from cruel treatment. In 1641
the Puritans of the Massachusetts Bay Colony voted to have
printed their first legal code, "The Body of Liberties."l
There are 100 "liberties" which the Puritans expect "to be
respectfully impartiallie and inviolably enjoyed and observed
throughout our Jurisdiction for ever." At a time when others
considered animals as mere property, to be used or abused at
the whim of man, the Table of Contents lists: Liberty 92.

Cruelty to animals forbidden. On turning to Liberty 92, we

find:

OFF THE BRUITE CREATURE

92. No man shall exercise any Tirranny or
Crueltie towards any bruite Creature which are
usuallie kept for man's use.

93. If any man shall have occasion to leade
or drive Cattel from place to place that is far of,
so that they be weary, or hungry, or fall sick, or
lambe, It shall be lawful to rest or refresh them,
for a competent time, in any open place that is not
Corne, meadow, or inclosed for some peculiar use.

Thus we have, in addition to the first anti-cruelty law,

the first law to protect animals in transit.

 




The Puritans take special care to proclaim these
"liberties" laws:

96. Howsoever these above specified rites,
freedomes, Immunities, Authorities and priveledges,
both Civill and Ecclesiastical are expressed onely
under the name and title of Liberties, and not in the
exact form of Laws or Statutes, yet we do with one
consent fullie Authorise, and earnestly intreate all
that are and shall be in Authoritie to consider them
as laws, and not to faile to inflict condigne and
proportionable punishments upon every man impartiallie,
that shall infringe or violate any of them.

To strengthen further the legality of Liberty 92, we
draw on the research of the noted historian, Samuel Eliot
Morison. In his book, Builders of. the Bar Colour (page 232),
he says, "Although animals then had no protection in Common
Law, 'The Bruite Creature' has a section of his own in the
Body of Liberties." And, in a footnote, Mr. Morison refers
to an "interesting case of condemnation for cruelty to an ox,
in Records of Quarterly Courts of Essex County
[Massachusetts] III, 305." It seems clear that Liberty 92
not only was an anti—cruelty law but also was used
successfully for prosecution.

This law is far ahead of its time——so far ahead that
humanitarians throughout the world, not aware of its
existence, have been assuming that the British M.P., Richard
Martin, who fought so fiercely for enactment of the first

anti-cruelty legislation in England (1822), was the primary

author of all the laws that have followed. It seems now that

"Humanity" Martin must give up first place to the Puritan

minister, Nathaniel Ward, who compiled the Body of Liberties

of 1641.

 




 

C- -..- »'

Nathaniel Ward (c. 1578-1652) was born in Haverhill,
England. He was a graduate of Emmanuel College, Cambridge,
studied law and became a barrister. Driven out of England
for heresy by Bishop Laud, he came to New England in 1634 and
settled in Ipswich, Massachusetts, where be compiled "The
Body of Liberties," adopted by the General Court of
Massachusetts in December 1641. Beginning in 1635, there had
been a growing concern among the Deputies of the towns of the
Massachusetts Bay Colony for a draft of laws; committees had
been appointed time and again, but they all failed to produce
results. Finally, in June 1641, the guiding powers enlisted
the service of "a learned lawyer" whose legal abilities they
felt to be superior--the Rev. Nathaniel Ward, who had already
served on some of the committees. In his autobiographical
sketch, "The Simple Cobler of Aggawam," Mr. Ward says, "I
have read almost all the Common Law of England": this and his
own experiences were the sources from which he drafted his
statute book. He enriched the code with his own practical
good sense and his understanding of the communal love of
liberty, making "The Body of Liberties" in entirety a work
far in advance of the time.2

Aside from these Puritan laws, "there was little early
specific legislation but it was possible to prosecute
'cruelists' under common law as committing 'nuisances.'" For
instance:

A cartman in Philadelphia has been indicted
and found guilty of cruelly beating his horse and

sentenced to pay a fine of $30 with costs of
prosecution and to give bond for his good behavior

 

 




7/

for one year.

This information is given by William Shultz in the
introduction to his book, The ﬂumane,ﬂgyement in the ﬂnited
States, 1919—1922, page 12. Note that the cartman had "to
give bond for his good behavior for one year," in addition to
the $30f and costs. It would seem that some of our modern

penalties for cruelty fall far short of the wisdom of this

one.

As further evidence that cruel treatment of animals was
punishable under Common Law, we have this statement from the

Wefﬂewlﬂorkﬁtatutesandm:

Animals III. Treatment—-Preservation——Destruction
of Animals.

28. Cruelty. That wanton cruelty to an animal--
e.g. excessive beating of his horse by a cartman,--is
punishable at common law as a misdemeanor. Gen. Sess.,
1822, People v. Stakes, l Wheel.,Cr. Cas., 111. And see

M
Ross' Case, 3 City H. Rec. 191.
As far as can be determined, the first anti—cruelty law

among the United States was enacted in 1828 by the New York

State Legislature. This law reads:
Sec. 26. Every person who shall maliciously
kill, maim, or wound any horse, ox, or other cattle,
or sheep, belonging to another, or shall maliciously
and cruelly beat or torture any such animal, whether
belonging to himself or another, shall, upon 6"
conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.
Although this law limits the protected animals to owned
horses, cattle, or sheep, it does give these animals the

right to be protected from their owners' cruel treatment,

thus taking them out of the class of mere property and giving

 




them the legal right to be well treated for the first time in
an established State of the Union.

Who is responsible for this law? Efforts (searching
back to the Colonial Laws of 1664) to trace the origin to an
earlier date than 1828 have so far proved fruitless;
therefore, we must look to the 1827-28 Revisors of the
Statutes for responsibility. The two Revisors are B. F.
Butler and John C. Spencer. According to these gentlemen, in
their report to the Legislature of the State of New York,
dated October 15, 1828, they had been charged with the duty
of presenting an entirely new arrangement and organization of
the criminal laws. Saying that the Common Law had long
ceased to be a satisfactory guide in assigning punishments,
they cite the following guides for their work:

(1) The codes of penal law and of procedure
in criminal cases, prepared by Mr. Livingston for
the state of Louisiana . . . But the different state
of society for which our labors are intended, and
prevailing sentiments respecting punishments varying
essentially from those entertained by the enlightened
author of those codes, have prevented the adoption of
many provisions suggested by him . . .

\

(2) Anthony Hammond, Esq., aodistinguished
jurist of the Inner Temple (in England) where recent
and great efforts have been made to simplify their
criminal laws. This gentleman transmitted to us his
able and voluminous reports and consolidations,
prepared under the employment of the government for
the British Parliament. They contain complete digests
of the British statutes respecting crimes, with copious
annotations from the reports. They have been of
essential service to us . . . it is but just to remark
that they were not so generally applicable to this
state, as to relieve us from the labor of newly
digesting and arranging so much gfgthe law as relates

to crimes and their punishments.

From these explanations, it would seem that credit may

 




é

be given to Mr. Butler and Mr. Spencer for phrasing the first
anti—cruelty state law and for assigning its violation the
punishment of a misdemeanor.

The next state to pass anti-cruelty legislation was
Massachusetts in 1835. The wording was similar to that of
the New York law, but the punishment was designated "by
imprisonment in the county jail, not more than one year, or
by fine not exceeding one hundred dollarg."

In 1838 Connecticuteqand Wisconsino added an
anti-cruelty law to their statutes. Connecticut's penalty
was imprisonment not exceeding one month or fine not
exceeding twenty-five dollars; Wisconsin set imprisonment at
not more than thirty days and fine from five to fifty
dollars.

The following chronological outline shows the year in

which each state enacted its first anti-cruelty law.

520 ‘1

Penalties were similar to those already quoted, until Texas
set a fine as up to $250. Pennsylvaniata“imposed a more
severe penalty: a fine up to two hundred dollars,
imprisonment up to one year, or both, at the discretion of
the court; and Idaho set its punishment as "A fine of not
more than five hundred dollars, or imprisonment . . . not
fexceeding six months, or both such fine and impxiﬁgnmsnt."
Idaho “made another step forward by introducing and passing
a companion law (Sec. 142) to impose a similar penalty on any

person "who shall willfully administer any poison to any

cattle or domestic animal or maliciously expose any poisonous

 




7

substance, with the intent that the same shall be taken or

swallowed by cattle or domestic animal . . ." So far as is
known, this is the first law in the United States to protect

domestic animals from poisoning.

UNITED STATES ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS
Qhronologisalﬂnactment

1641 Massachusetts Bay Colony "The Body of Liberties"

1828
1835
1838
1838
1842
1845
1848
1851
1851

1'1852

1854
1856
1857
1858
1859
1859
1860
1861
1864
1864
1867
1868
1868
1869

New York
Massachusetts
Connecticut
Wisconsin

New Hampshire
Missouri
Virginia

Iowa
Minnesota A,/
Kentucky*/
Vermont

Texas

Rhode Island
Tennessee
Kansas
Washington (H
Pennsylvaniawy”
Nevada

Idaho

Oregon

New Jersey
California

West Virginia
Illinois

/,

District of Columbia

Michigan

‘ ”1"”,
m. .,,..-f"

,1

1871
1872
1873
1873
1873
1875
1879
1879
1880
1880
1881
1881
1883
1883
1884
1887
1887
1889
1890
1891
1893
1895
1898
1913
1913
1921

Montana
Colorado
Delaware
Indiana
Nebraska
Georgia
Arkansas
Louisiana
Mississippi
Ohio

North Carolina
South Carolina
Alabama

Maine

Hawaii

New Mexico
South Dakota
Florida
Maryland

North Dakota
Oklahoma
Wyoming

Utah

Alaska

Arizona

Virgin Islands

‘*Revisedwlaﬂﬁwmg%xf

By 1866 when Henry Bergh secured legislative consent for
the incorporation of the American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, twenty states had enacted anti—cruelty
six were in reality still territories

laws; of these states,

 




X”

when they passed their law: Wisconsin, Minnesota,
Washington, Kansas, Nevada, and Idaho.

In spite of laws to prevent cruelty to animals, Henry
Bergh, even with his newly incorporated society, found it

difficult to get convictions. His 1957 biographer, A. F.

Harlow, in Henry Bergh, Founder gf_the,A§£§A, says that
although there had been an anti-cruelty law passed in New
York State in 1829 [sic], no one could remember that it had
ever been used to prosecute; it seemed better to draft a new
law than to try to revive an old one. Nevertheless, Henry
Bergh's first law, passed April 19, 1866, is similar to the
1828 law, though an added section aims to protect disabled
horses and mules from abandonment.

StatutesatLarsenftheStateofNeonrkpassed
in the years 1863, 1864, 1865, 1866. Chapter 682. AN
ACT better to prevent cruelty to animals. Passed
April 19, 1866.

The People of the State of New York, represented
in Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows:

Sec. 1. The twenty—sixth section of title six,
chapter first, part four of the Revised Statutes, is
hereby amended so as to read as follows:

- Sec. 26. Every person who shall by his act or
neglect, maliciously kill, maim, wound, injure, torture
or cruelly beat any horse, mule, ox, cattle, sheep or
other animal belonging to himself or another, shall,
upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Sec. 2. Every owner, driver or possessor of an
old, maimed, or diseased horse or mule, turned loose
or left disabled in any street, lane or place of any
city in this state, who shall allow such horse or mule
to lie in any street, lane or public place for more
than three hours after knowledge of such disability,
shall, on conviction, be adjudged guilty of a
misdemeanor.

This 1866 law undoubtedly served the purpose of

 




6)

re—establishing anti—cruelty legislation as a matter of
public conscience, demanding respectful attention by judges
of prosecutions which Henry Bergh had often found heretofore
dismissed facetiously with no conviction.

Sensitive as he was to the many cruelties being
inflicted on animals, however, and cognizant of the newly
aroused public sentiment, Henry Bergh did not stop with the
somewhat meager 1866 legislation. His real masterpiece of
legal draftsmanship came in 1867 when "An Act for the more
effectual prevention of cruelty to animals" was passed on
April 12. This Act has ten sections and has since served as
the example for the drafting of many succeeding anti-cruelty
laws (forty—one states and the District of Columbia have
present laws based on this Act). For this reason it seems
worthy of quotation in entirety here.

STATUTES AT LARGE
OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK

Passed in the Years 1867, 1868, 1869, 1870
John W. Edmonds, Ed., Vol. VII, 1870

CHAP. 375

AN ACT for the more effectual prevention of
cruelty to animals.

Passed April 12, 1867; three—fifths being present

The People of the State of New York, represented
in Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows:

Section 1. If any person shall over-drive,
over—load, torture, torment, deprive of necessary
sustenance, or unnecessarily or cruelly beat, or
needlessly mutilate or kill, or cause or procure to
be over-driven, over-loaded, tortured, tormented or
deprived of necessary sustenance, or to be unnecessarily

 




/(>

or cruelly beaten, or needlessly mutilated or killed,
as aforesaid, any living creature, every such offender
shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a
misdemeanor.

Section 2. Any person who shall keep or use,
or in any way be connected with, or interested in the
management of, or shall receive money for the admission
of any person to any place kept or used for the purpose
of fighting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cock or
other creature, and every person who shall encourage,
aid or assist therein, or who shall permit or suffer
any place to be so kept or used, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 3. Any person who shall impound, or
cause to be impounded in any pound, any creature,
shall supply to the same, during such confinement, a
sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and
water, and in default thereof, shall upon conviction,
be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 4. In case any creature shall be at any
time impounded as aforesaid, and shall continue to be
without necessary food and water for more than twelve
successive hours, it shall be lawful for any person,
from time to time, and as often as it shall be
necessary, to enter into and upon any pound in which

any such creature shall be so confined, and to supply
it with necessary food and water so long as it shall
remain so confined. Such person shall not be liable
to any action for such entry, and the reasonable cost
of such food and water may be collected by him of the
owner of such creature, and the said creature shall
not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued
upon judgment therefor.

Section 5. If any person shall carry, or cause
to be carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise,
any creature, in a cruel or inhuman manner, he shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor; and whenever he shall be
taken into custody therefor by any officer, such officer
may take charge of such vehicle and its contents, and
deposit the same in some safe place of custody; and
any necessary expenses which may be incurred for taking
charge of and keeping and sustaining the same, shall
be a lien thereon, to be paid before the same can be
lawfully recovered. Or the said expenses or any part
thereof remaining unpaid, may be recovered by the
person incurring the same, of the owner of said
creature, in any action therefor.

Section 6. Every person who shall hereafter
use any dog or dogs for the purpose of drawing or

 




//

helping to draw any cart, carriage, truck, barrow

or other vehicle, in any city or incorporated village,
for business purposes, shall be required to take out

a license for that purpose, from the mayor or president
thereof, respectively, and shall have the number of
said license and the residence of the owner distinctly
painted thereon; and for each violation of this section
shall forfeit and pay a fine of one dollar for the
first offense, and a fine of ten dollars for each
subsequent offense.

Section 7. If any maimed, sick, infirm or
disabled creature shall be abandoned to die, by any
person, in any public place, such person shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor; and it shall be lawful for
any magistrate or captain of police in this state
to appoint suitable persons to destroy such creature
if unfit for further use.

Section 8. Any agent of the American society
for the prevention of cruelty to animals, upon being
designated thereto by the sheriff of any county in
this state, may, within such county, make arrest,
and bring before any court or magistrate thereof
having jurisdiction, offenders found violating the
provisions of this act; and all fines imposed and
collected in any such county, under the provisions
of this act, shall inure to said society, in the
aid of the benevolent objects for which it was
incorporated.

Section 9. This act shall take effect on the
first day of May next. And the said American society
for the prevention of cruelty to animals shall cause
the same to be published once each week for three
weeks, in four daily papers published in New York
City, or in default thereof shall forfeit the right
to receive the penalties and fines as provided.

Section 10. Nothing in this act contained shall
be construed to prohibit or interfere with any
properly conducted scientific experiments or
investigations, which experiments shall be performed
only under the authority of the faculty of some
regularly incorporated medical college or university
of the state of New York.

A careful scrutiny of the 1867 law will show the great
advance made in establishing protection and legal rights for

animals. In Section 1, notice the detailed, specific

cruelties, and that they are now applied to "any living

 




/0:7/

creature." Section 2, a new addition, prohibits animal
fights and baiting. Sections 3 and 4 protect impounded
animals from hunger and thirst. Section 5 aims to stop
cruelty in transporting animals. Section 10 shows the early
impact of animal experimentation upon the cruelty laws; even

in 1867 it is exempt from cruelty charges.

 




/5

ANALYSIS OF PRESENT ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS

An analysis of the current anti—cruelty laws in the
fifty states, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam,
the Canal Zone, the Virgin Islands and the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico shows that the public conscience generally agrees
that all animals have the right to (l) protection from cruel
treatment, such as is described in detail in Section 1 of
Henry Bergh's 1867 law; (2) protection from abandonment; (3)
protection from poisoning; and (4) the provision of food,

water and shelter.

Protection from Cruel Wt

Nearly half the states, American Samoa, and Guam have
laws which stipulate that cruel treatment must have been
committed willfully, maliciously, or cruelly. State statutes
with qualifiers such as "intentionally," "negligently,"
"maliciously," or "knowingly" define the mental state of the
person charged. Statutes without qualifiers make offenders
strictly liable for an offense without regard to mental
state. Please note that terms such as "cruelly" and
"unnecessarily" which characterize the circumstances of the
offense committed must be distinguished from the qualifiers
"intentionally," "negligently," "maliciously," or "knowingly"
which describe a culpable mental state.a2’aln court it is
often difficult to prove willfulness or malice, and so, in

practice, the use of such qualifiers can lead to the

acquittal of offenders who might justly have been convicted

 




/%

of committing cruelty to animals under the laws of other
jurisdictions drafted without qualifiers. Moreover,
provisions with qualifiers can be interpreted as a license to
inflict any degree of suffering on any number of animals
provided that the motives of the person inflicting the pain
are not sadistic. It is this interpretation that is applied
to scientific research and to scientific demonstrations in
schools.

In 22 states and the District of Columbia, experimental
animals used in scientific institutions are specifically
excluded from the protective coverage of the anti-cruelty
laws. These states are: Alaska, California, Delaware,
Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine,
Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, South
Dakota, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington and
Wisconsin. In most of these states, the exemptions are
constructed in language similar to Missouri's law in which it

is written that the protective provisions of the animal

welfare statute "shall not be construed to prevent or r
J?

,interfere with any scientific experiments or investigation
(Section 578.055» In Utah, the statute explicitly permits
both painful research and painful animal husbandry practices:

It is a defense to the prosecution under this

section that the conduct of the actor towards the
ZZIS

animal was an accepted veterinary practice or directly
related to a bong ﬁids experimentation for scientific
research provided that if the animal is to be destroyed,
the manner employed will not be unnecessarily cruel
unless directly necessary to the veterinary purpose or
scientific research involved [Section 76—9—3011.

 




/5

As drafted, exemptions for scientific research in Alaska
and Vermont call for the "humane" treatment of animals. The
Vermont statute states that nothing within the anti—cruelty
law "shall be construed to prohibit or interfere with the use
of animals for scientific research by competent research men
if done in a humane manner with a minimum of suffering to the
animals [Section 13—4031."

Although Pennsylvania's anti-cruelty law does not
contain such exemptions, it does permit the issuance of
search warrants to the police or humane society agents to
enter places where they believe cruelty to animals is being
committed, but adds the following prohibition:

Provided, that no search warrant shall be issued
under the provisions of this section which shall
authorize any policeman, or agent or other person to
enter upon to search premises where scientific research
is being conducted by, or under the supervision of,
graduates of duly accredited scientific schools or where
biological products are being produced for the care or

prevention of disease. [Section 18-5511, Act of June 3,
1911, as amended.]

Brgyisign Qﬁ EQQQL WQLQL and ShﬁltﬁL
Nearly 20 states, the District of Columbia and Guam

prohibit both depriving an animal of "necessary sustenance"
and failing to provide "food and water" or "food, water and
shelter." Several require the provision of "necessary
sustenance" without further reference to food, water or
shelter. The application of the phrase "necessary
sustenance" varies from state to state but minimally refers
to the provision of food and water or, in some states, to a

guffjcjgnt amount of wholesome food, or to such additional

 




/Q

provisions as shelter, adequate exercise, sanitary living
conditions, adequate space for confined animals and necessary
veterinary care.

In New York, for example, Section 353 of the
anti—cruelty code states in part: "A person who . . .
deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food or drink,
or neglects or refuses to furnish it such sustenance or
drink . . . or in any way furthers any act of cruelty to any
animal, or any act ending to produce such cruelty, is guilty
of a misdemeanor . . ." (emphasis added). In the case of
239213 14 QLBQHLKQ, 369 N.Y.S. 2d 335 (1975), motion denied,
83 Misc. 2d 51, 371 N.Y.S. 2d 603, the defendants were
charged with violating Section 353 for allowing a limping
horse to continue to work without providing it with necessary
veterinary care. The court noted the definition of
"sustenance" in Websterls Ihird New International Dictionarx
(1966): "the act of supplying or being supplied with the
necessaries Q£.life." The court also cited the definition of
"torture" or "cruelty": "Every act, omission or neglect
whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is
caused or permitted" and determined that failing to provide

the horse with necessary medical attention constituted

neglect under Section 353. I (Italics ours.)

Failure to provide food and water (sustenance) is a
violation of law in most states, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone and Guam.

A list of anti-cruelty statutes enabling any private

 




/7

citizen to relieve a neglected animal impounded on the
property of another person by entering into the place of
confinement to supply the animal with food and water, or by
removing the animal to feed and water it, is given in the
Appendix.

Approximately half the state statutes require shelter
without qualifying phrases, but most states require that
failure to provide shelter be proven intentional or cruel.
Although anti-cruelty statutes in Hawaii, Mississippi, New
Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee, and West Virginia
do not specifically require shelter, they prohibit depriving
an animal of necessary sustenance. Courts in these states
have ruled that necessary sustenance includes shelter (as
well as food and water). In Oregon, Hawaii, and Mississippi,
the courts have not yet ruled on the issue. Lest one think
that protection from the cold is needed only in such states
as Alaska, remember also the need for shelter from driving
rain and wind, and from the hot, beating sun in such states
as Mississippi and Louisiana, where shelter is not

specifically called for. Every jurisdiction should require

shelter in its anti—cruelty code.

PrJisiono" QﬁﬁpﬁgﬁJ—Wm
V .1 t' 31313.! I" C (“.0

Provisions for adequate exercise, space, light,
ventilation and clean living conditions for confined animals
are important but infrequent requirements of state

anti—cruelty laws. Those statutes that do include these

 




//a7

provisions make only brief references to them. Statutes in
Florida, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota, New York, Ohio,
Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico require fresh air.
California, Florida, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesota,
North Dakota, Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico
codes make reference to exercise or adequate space. Light is
required in Washington and Puerto Rico. Maine and Wisconsin

statutes require clean living conditions.

Protection from W60

Abandonment of animals is defined in the Colorado code
(Section 18—9—201) as "the leaving of an animal by its owner
or other person responsible for its care or custody without
making effective provisions for its proper care." Most
states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the
Canal Zone, prohibit abandonment. In several states, the
prohibition is restricted to willfnl, Qxﬂgl or intentional
abandonment; to abandoning animals to die; to abandoning
disabled animals or to abandoning dnmestig animals (leaving

in question the protection of wild animals in captivity).

Kindﬁ,9£ Animal§.BLQL§§L§d
With respect to which animals are to be protected from
cruel treatment, about half the state laws protect any non—
human living creature or "any animal," defining animals as

all living creatures except human beings. The rest use the

I

.as . . . .
{’ phrase "animal," "domestic animals," "captive animals," or

"warm—blooded creatures."

 




/ 7

MP 0' Ergmllciscning

A person who intentionally injures or kills an animal
belonging to another commits a criminal act. The
anti—cruelty laws of half the states specifically prohibit
the use of poison to inflict injury or death. Under the
Connecticut anti—cruelty code, "any person who . . .
unjustifiably administers any poisonous or noxious drug or
substance to any domestic animal or unjustifiably exposes any
such drug or substance, with intent that the same shall be
taken by an animal, or causes it to be done . . . shall be
fined not more than $250 or imprisoned not more than one year
or both."

Among the states which prohibit administering and/or
exposing toxic substances to domestic animals in the anti—
cruelty code, variations exist as to which animals are
protected§\some concern any animal, dogs only, or livestock
only, and some distinguish between animals that are the
property of the poisoner and those that belong to someone
else. Penalties for poisoning or attempting to poison may
vary according to the monetary value of the animal, the
species of animal, and whether the animal belongs to the
poisoner or to another, with the longest term of imprisonment
and highest fine usually imposed when the poison is
administered to or exposed to livestock. In Nevada, for
example:

. . . a person who unjustifiably administers
any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to a horse,

mule or domestic cattle, or unjustifiably exposes any
such drug or substance with intent that it be taken by

 




a horse, mule or domestic cattle whether the horse,
mule or domestic cattle are the property of himself

or another, shall be punished by imprisonment in the
state prison for not less than one year nor more than
10 years, or by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by
both fine and imprisonment. A person who unjustifiably
administers any poisonous or noxious drug or substance
to any animal other than a horse, mule or domestic
cattle, or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or
substance with intent that the same shall be taken by an
animal other than a horse, mule or domestic cattle,
whether such animal is the property of himself or

another, is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.ﬁ£ﬁ:This

section does not prohibit the destruction of noxious

animals. [Section 574.150]

In states without such anti—cruelty statutes, poisoning
prohibitions may exist under another title of the state law
code, or poisoners who injure or kill any animal belonging to
another may be charged with committing a crime against
property. Within the anti-cruelty code, a poisoner may be
prosecuted for injuring, killing or inflicting pain upon an
animal. Colorado imposes the highest fine for causing pain,
injury or death: a minimum of six months' imprisonment
and/or a fine of $500 to a maximum of twenty-four months'
imprisonment and/or a $5000 fine. The law states that "a
person commits cruelty to animals if, except as authorized by
law, he . . . tortures, torments . . . needlessly kills . . .
any animal."

Poisoners are hard to catch in the act, but announcement

of a substantial reward for information leading to the arrest

and conviction of a person trying to poison domestic animals

has proved Egry effective in bringing a quick stop to such

/’

activities.

 




m/

ﬂumaneﬂansmgfﬂnimals

The anti-cruelty laws of most states, the District of
Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico require that
transport of animals be conducted in a humane manner.
Minnesota's law protects "any live animals" (defining
"animal" as "every living creature") and specifies the acts
that constitute a cruel manner of transport.
Minnesota statute 343.24 states:

Every person who shall carry, or cause to be
carried, any live animals upon any vehicle or
otherwise, without providing suitable racks,
cars, crates, or cages in which such animals can
both stand and lie down during transportation,
and while awaiting slaughter; every person who
shall carry, or cause to be carried, upon a
vehicle or otherwise, any live animal having
feet or legs tied together, or in any other
cruel or inhumane manner, and every person or
corporation engaged in transporting livestock
who shall detain the same in cars or compartments
for more than 28 consecutive hours without unloading
the same in a humane manner into properly equipped
pens for rest, water, and feeding for a period of
at least five consecutive hours, unless requested
to do so as hereinafter provided, or unless prevented
by storm or unavoidable causes which cannot be
anticipated or avoided by the exercise of due
diligence and foresight, or shall permit the same
to be crowded together without sufficient space to
stand, or so as to overlie, crush, wound, or kill
each other, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor;
provided, that upon the written request of the
owner or person in custody of that particular
shipment, which written request shall be separate
and apart from any printed bill of lading, or
other railroad form, the time and confinement may
be extended to 36 consecutive hours.

The majority of state laws requiring humane transport
are much briefer than Minnesota's, however, and are often
written in the manner of the following Mississippi statute:

"If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by hand or

 




.5727"?

upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a cruel
or inhumane manner, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor"
[Section 97—41-51.

California, Idaho, Washington and West Virginia protect
"domestic animals" from cruel transport. The District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the 30
remaining states with transportation provisions protect,
variously, "any creature" or "any animal" ("an animal")-—with
individual definitions of "animal."

Anti—cruelty statutes prohibiting inhumane transport are
given in the Appendix, along with the penalties for

violating these statutes.

Cruelty, as defined in the anti-cruelty codes, usually

@531")

consists of "every act, omission or neglect whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or
permitted." Therefore, when a law does not specifically
require shelter, a judge may determine that failure to
provide it is "an omission" or "neglect" causing
"unjustifiable physical pain" and, therefore, an act of
cruelty punishable by law. It is far better, however, if
illegal acts are specifically prohibited by statute. This
need was demonstrated in a 1976 opinion by Kansas Attorney
General Curt Schneider on whether abandonment constituted a
violation of the state's anti-cruelty code. The statute then
read as follows: "Cruelty to animals is subjecting any

animal to cruel mistreatment or having custody of any animal

 




 

53:3

and subjecting such animal to cruel neglect."

The Attorney General noted the definition of cruelty—-as
quoted above--in jurisdictions outside of Kansas (the Kansas
code gave no definition) and determined that "the mere act of
abandoning does not per se cause unjustifiable physical pain,
suffering or death and thus does not constitute cruel
mistreatment." He concluded that the portion of the Kansas
law which stated "cruelty to animals is . . . having custody
of any animal and subjecting such animal to cruel neglect"
does not apply to abandonment since the law refers to those
persons "having custody" of an animal and "an abandoned
animal would not be in custody of the original owner."

Fortunately, in 1977 Kansas enacted stronger legislation

x with more specific prohibitions and requirements“ as—neted’Iﬁ'

the—ehart67j However, very generalized laws remain in other
jurisdictions, notably in Arkansas, Delaware, Georgia,
Louisiana, American Samoa and the Virgin Islands. In
Georgia, for example, the portion of the law prohibiting acts
of cruelty, enacted in 1968, now reads in its entirety: "A
person is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act, omission, or
neglect causes unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or
death to any living animal."

Clearly, humane citizens concerned about the welfare of
animals should work to: (l) preserve strong laws; (2)
promote better state and federal legislation; (3) be alert to

prOposed changes in present laws; (4) support competent

humane officers; (5) enlarge the number of good and efficient

 




animal protective societies; (6) report all cases of cruelty
to those in authority, including the local police or sheriff,
state police or state veterinarian; (7) plan practical ways
to monitor the treatment of animals in commerce; and (8)

promote humane education.

 




025’

ALABAMA

13A-ll—l4. Cruelty to animals.

(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if
except as otherwise authorized by law he ' - '
recklessly: I intentionally or

(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or
(2) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or

(3) Kills or injures without good cause any animal
belonging to another.

[Penalty: Up to 6 months imprisonment and/or up to $1,000
fine (SS 13—A—5-7, l3-A—5—12).]

ALASKA

11.61.140. Cruelty to animals.
(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if
the person

(I) intentionally inflicts severe and prolonged
physical pain or suffering on an animal;

(2) recklessly neglects an animal and, as a result
of that neglect, causes the death of the animal or causes
severe pain or suffering to the animal . . .

(c) In this section, 'animal' means a vertebrate living
creature not human being, but does not include fish.

[Penalty: Up to $5,000 fine and/or up to 1 year
imprisonment (SS 12.55.035, 12.55.135).]

ARIZONA

13-2910. Cruelty to animals or poultry; classification
A. A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as
otherwise authorized by law, such person recklessly:
1. Subjects any animals or poultry under human
custody or control to cruel mistreatment; or
2. Subjects any animal or poultry under his
custody or control to cruel neglect or abandonment; or
3. Kills any animal or poultry under the custody
or control of another without either legal privilege or
consent of the owner . . .
C. Cruelty to animals or poultry is a class 2
misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Up to 4 months imprisonment and/or up to $750
fine (SS 13-707, 13—802).]

ARKANSAS

 




¢;>é;

5—62—101. Cruelty to animals.
(a) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals
if, except as authorized by law, he knowingly:
(l) Abandons any animal;
(2) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment;
(3) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or
(4) Kills or injures any animal belonging to
another without legal privilege or consent of the owner.
(b) Cruelty to animals is a Class A misdemeanor.

5-62—110. Definitions.
.(a) As used in this act, unless the context otherwise

requires:

(1) 'Animal' or 'dumb animal' includes every living
creature;

(2) 'Torture,‘ 'torment,‘ or 'cruelty' include
every act, omission, or neglect whereby unjustifiable
physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted . .

[Penalty: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 1 year
imprisonment (SS 5-4—201, 5-4—401).]

CALIFORNIA

597. Cruelty to animals.

(a) Except as provided in subdivision (c) of this
section or Section 599C, every person who maliciously and
intentionally maims, mutilates, tortures, or wounds a living
animal, or maliciously and intentionally kills an animal, is
guilty of an offense punishable by imprisonment in the state
prison, or by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars
($20,000), or by both the fine and imprisonment, or,
alternatively, by imprisonment in the county jail for not
more than one year, or by a fine of not more than twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both the fine and
imprisonment.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (a) or
(c), every person who overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beats,
mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures
any animal to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of
necessary sustenance, drink, shelter, or to be cruelly
beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed; and whoever, having the
charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or
otherwise, subjects any animal to needless suffering, or
inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the animal, or in any
manner abuses any animal, or fails to provide the animal with
proper food, drink, or shelter or protection from the
weather, or who drives, rides, or otherwise uses the animal

 




    
 
      
    
       
        
       

.97

when unfit for labor, is, for every such offense, guilty of a
crime punishable as a misdemeanor or as a felony or

alternatively punishable as a misdemeanor or a felony and by
a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) . .

599.b. . . . 'animal' includes every dumb creature; the
words 'torment,‘ 'torture,‘ and 'cruelty' include every act:
omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable
physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted . . .

   
   
    

COLORADO

         
        
 
       
     
     
         
     
   
      
     
      
    
     
    
    
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
   

18—9—201. Definitions. As used in section 18—9—202, unless
the context otherwise requires:

(1) 'Abandon' includes the leaving of an animal by its
owner or other person responsible for its care or custody
without making effective provisions for its proper care.

(2) 'Animal' means any living dumb creature.

(3) 'Mistreatment' includes every act or omission which
causes, or unreasonably permits the continuation of,
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering.

(4) 'Neglect' includes failure to provide food, water,
protection from the elements, opportunity for exercise, or
other care normal, usual, and proper for an animal's health
and well-being.

   

18—9-202.
offenses.

(l) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as
authorized by law, he knowingly or with criminal negligence
overdrives, overloads, overworks, tortures, torments,
deprives of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly
beats, needlessly mutilates, needlessly kills, carries in or
upon any vehicles in a cruel manner, or otherwise mistreats
or neglects any animal, or causes or procures it to be done,
or, having the charge and custody of any animal, fails to
provide it with prOper food, drink, or protection from the
weather, or abandons it.

(2) (a) Cruelty to animals is a class 1 misdemeanor.

(b) In the case of any person incurring a second or
subsequent conviction under the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this subsection (2), a sentence of imprisonment within the
minimum and maximum terms shall be mandatory and shall not be
subject to suspension, nor shall such person be eligible for
probation or parole for any part of such period . . .

Cruelty to animals - neglect of animals —

35-42-112. Cruelty to animals — penalty. Every person who
overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks,

tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance,

unnecessarily or cruelly beats, needlessly mutilates or.
kills, or carries in or upon any vehicles or otherW1se in a

cruel or inhumane manner any animal or causes or procures it




to be done or who, having charge and custody of any animal,
unnecessarily fails to provide it with proper food, drink, or
protection from the weather or cruelly abandons it commits a
class 1 misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
section 18—1-106, C.R.S.

[Penalty: Minimum sentence is six months imprisonment or
$500 fine, or both; maximum sentence is 24 months
imprisonment or $5,000 fine, or both (SS 18—1-106).]

CONNECTICUT

53-247. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who overdrives, drives when overloaded,
overworks, tortures, deprives of necessary sustenance,
mutilates or cruelly beats or kills or unjustifiably injures
any animal, or who, having impounded or confined any animal,
fails to give such animal prOper care or neglects to cage or
restrain any such animal from doing injury to itself or to
another animal or fails to supply any such animal with
wholesome air, food and water, or unjustifiably administers
any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any domestic
animal or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance,
with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal, or
causes it to be done, or, having charge or custody of any
animal, inflicts cruelty upon it or fails to provide it with
proper food, drink or protection from the weather or abandons
it or carries it or causes it to be carried in a cruel
manner, or sets on foot, instigates, promotes or carries on
or performs any act as assistant, umpire or principal in, or
is a witness of, or in any way aids in or engages in the
furtherance of, any fight between cocks or other birds, dogs
or other animals, premeditated by any person owning, or
having custody of, such birds or animals, or fights with or
baits, harasses or worries any animal for the purpose of
making it perform for amusement, diversion or exhibition,
shall be fined not more than seven hundred and fifty dollars
or imprisoned not more than one year or both.

DELAWARE

1325. Cruelty to animals; class A misdemeanor.

(a) For the purpose of this section, the following words
and phrases shall include, but not be limited to, the
meanings respectively ascribed to them as follows:

(1) 'Cruel' includes every act or omission to act
whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering is caused or permitted.

(2) 'Cruel mistreatment' includes any treatment
whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering is caused or permitted.

(3) 'Cruel neglect' includes neglect of an animal,

 




96/

which is under the care and control of the neglector, whereby
pain or suffering is caused to the animal or abandonment of
any domesticated animal by its owner or custodian.

(4) 'Cruelty to animals' includes mistreatment of
any animal or neglect of any animal under the care and
control of the neglector, whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused. By waY
of example this includes: Unjustifiable beating of an
animal; overworking an animal; tormenting an animal;
abandonment of an animal; failure to feed properly or give
proper shelter or veterinary care to an animal.

(5) 'Person' includes any individual, partnership,
corporation or association living and/or doing business in
the State.

(6) 'Abandonment' includes completely forsaking or
deserting an animal originally under one's custody without
making reasonable arrangements for custody of that animal to
be assumed by another person.

(7) 'Custody' includes the responsibility for the
welfare of an animal subject to one's care and control
whether he owns it or not.

(8) 'Proper feed' includes providing each animal
with daily food and water of sufficient quality and quantity
to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering by the animal.

(9) 'PrOper shelter' includes providing each animal
with adequate shelter from the weather elements as required
to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering by the animal.

(10) 'Proper veterinary care' includes providing
each animal with veterinary care sufficient to prevent
unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering by
the animal.

(11) 'Animal' shall not include fish, crustacea or
molluska.

(b) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals when he
intentionally or recklessly:

(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or

(2) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or

(3) Kills or injures any animal belonging to
another person without legal privilege or consent of the
owner; or

(4) Cruelly or unnecessarily kills or injures any
animal whether belonging to himself or another. This section
does not apply to the killing of any animal normally or
commonly raised as food for human consumption, provided that
such killing is not cruel. A person acts unnecessarily if
the act is not required to terminate an animal's suffering,
to protect the life or property of the actor or another
person or if other means of disposing of an animal exist

which would not impair the health or well—being of that
animal.

 




[Penalty: Class A misdemeanor: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up
to 2 years imprisonment (SS 11—4206, 11-4207).]

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

22—801. Definitions and penalty:

Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded,
overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly kills, or
causes or procures to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven
when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or cruelly
killed any animal, and whoever, having the charge or custody
of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, inflicts
unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or unnecessarily fails to
provide the same with proper food, drink, shelter, or
protection from the weather, shall for every such offense be
punished by imprisonment in jail not exceeding one year, or
by fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.

22-802. Other cruelties to animals:

Every owner, possessor, or person having the charge or
custody of any animal, who cruelly drives or works the same
when unfit for labor, or cruelly abandons the same, or who
carries the same, or causes the same to be carried, in or
upon any vehicle, or otherwise, in an unnecessarily cruel or
inhumane manner, or knowingly and wilfully authorizes or
permits the same to be subjected to unnecessary torture,
suffering, or cruelty of any kind shall be punished for every
such offense in the manner provided in Section 22-801.

22-807. Impounded animals to be supplied with food and
water:

Any person who shall impound, or cause to be impounded
in any pound, any creature, shall supply the same, during
such confinement, with a sufficient quantity of good and
wholesome food and water; and in default thereof shall, upon
conviction, be punished for every such offense in the same
manner provided in section 22—801.

22-812. Abandonment of maimed or diseased animals . . .

A person being the owner or possessor or having charge
or custody of a maimed, diseased, disabled, or infirm animal
who abandons such animal, or leaves it to lie in the street
or road, or public place, more than three hours after he
receives notice that it is left disabled, is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than ten dollars
nor more than two hundred and fifty dollars, or by
imprisonment in jail not more than one year, or both. Any
agent or officer of the Washington Humane Society may
lawfully destroy, or cause to be destroyed, any animal found
abandoned and not properly cared for, appearing, in the

 




3/

judgment of two reputable citizens called by him to view the
same in his presence, to be glandered, injured, or diseased
past recovery for any useful purpose. When any person
arrested is, at the time of such arrest, in charge of any
animal, or of any vehicle drawn by any animal, or containing
any animal, any agent of said society may take charge of such
animal and such vehicle and its contents and deposit the same
in a place of safe custody or deliver the same into the
possession of the police authorities, who shall assume the
custody thereof; and all necessary expenses incurred in
taking charge of such property shall be a lien thereon . . .

22-813. Definitions:

In section 22-801 to 22-809, inclusive, and section 22-
811, the word 'animals' or 'animal' shall be held to include
all living and sentient creatures (human beings excepted) . .

FLORIDA
828.12. Cruelty to Animals

Whoever unnecessarily overloads, overdrives, tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary sustenance or shelter, or
unnecessarily or cruelly beats, mutilates, or kills any
animal, or causes the same to be done, or carries in or upon
any vehicle, or otherwise, any animal in a cruel or inhuman
manner, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree,
punishable as provided in s. 775.082 or by a fine of not more
than $5,000, or both.

[Penaltyz Imprisonment not exceeding 1 year (SS 775.082).]

GEORGIA
16-12-4. Cruelty to animals.

(a) A person is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act,
omission, or neglect causes unjustifiable physical pain,
suffering, or death to any living animal.

(b) This Code section does not apply to the killing of
animals raised for the purpose of providing food nor does it
apply to any person who hunts wild animals in compliance with
the game and fish laws of this state. The killing or
injuring of an animal for humane purposes or in the
furtherance of medical or scientific research is justifiable.

lPenalty: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 12 months
1mprisonment (SS 17—10-3).]

HAWAII

 




5.32

711—1100. Definitions of terms in this chapter . . .

(5) 'Animal' includes every living creature;

(6) 'Cruelty,‘ 'torture' or 'torment' includes every
act, omission, or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical
pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

711-1109. Cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals
if he knowingly or recklessly:

(a) Overdrives, overloads, tortures, torments,
deprives of necessary sustenance, or cruelly beats or
needlessly mutilates or kills, or causes or procures to be
overdriven, overloaded, tortured, tormented or deprived of
necessary sustenance, or to be cruelly beaten, or needlessly
mutilated or killed, any living creature;

(b) Keeps or uses; or in any way is connected with
or interested in the management of, or receives money for the
admission of any person to, any place kept or used for the
purpose of fighting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cock or
other creature, and every person who encourages, aids or
assists therein, or who permits or suffers any place to be so
kept or used;

(c) Carries or causes to be carried, in or upon any
vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a cruel or

inhumane manner;
(d) Sets on foot, or instigates in or does any act

towards the furtherance of any act of cruelty to animals.

(2) Subsections (1)(a), (c), (d) and the following
subsection (3) are not applicable to accepted veterinary
practices and to activities carried on for scientific
research governed by standards of accepted educational or
medical practices.

(3) Whenever any domestic animal is so severely injured
that there is no reasonable probability that its life or
usefulness can be saved, the animal may be immediately
destroyed.

(4) Cruelty to animals is a misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 1 year imprisonment
(SS 37-706-640, 37-706-663).]

IDAHO

18-2102. Killing and otherwise mistreating animals.

(1) Every person who maliciously kills, maims, or wounds
an animal, the property of another, or who overdrives,
overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink or shelter,
cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal, or
causes or procures any animal to be so overdriven,
overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured,
tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, drink or
shelter, or to be cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly

 




~.

c: (“r-v

killed; and whoever, having the charge or custody of any
animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to
needless suffering or inflicts any unnecessary cruelty upon
the same, or in any manner abuses any animal, or fails to
provide the same with proper food, drink, shelter or
protection from the weather, or who cruelly drives, rides, or
otherwise uses the same when unfit for labor, is, for every
such offense, guilty of a misdemeanor.

(2) Any person convicted for violation of this section
shall be punished by a jail sentence of not more than six (6)
months or by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000), or by both such fine and imprisonment.

18—2108. Impounding without food or water.

Any person who impounds, or causes to be impounded in
any pound, any domestic animal, must supply the same during
such confinement with a sufficient quantity of good and
wholesome food and water, and in default thereof, is guilty
of a misdemeanor. In case any domestic animal is at any time
impounded as aforesaid and continues to be without necessary
food and water for more than twelve (12) hours, it is lawful
for any person, from time to time, as may be deemed
necessary, to enter into and upon any pound in which such
animal is confined, and supply it with necessary food and
water so long as it remains so confined. Such person is not
liable to any action for such entry, and the reasonable cost
of such food and water may be collected by him of the owner
of such animal, and such animal is not exempt from levy and
sale upon execution issued upon a judgment therefor . . .

18-2109. Permitting animals to go without care — Abandoned
animals to be killed.

Every owner, driver or possessor of any animal, who
shall permit the same to be in any building, inclosure, lane,
street, square or lot of any city, county or precinct,
without proper care and attention, shall, on conviction, be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. And it shall be the duty of
any peace officer, or officer of any incorporated association
qualified as provided by law, to take possession of the
animal so abandoned or neglected, and care for the same until
it is redeemed by the owner or claimant, and the cost of
caring for such animal shall be a lien on the same until the
charges are paid. Every sick, disabled, infirm, or crippled
animal which shall be abandoned in any city, county or
precinct, may if after due search no owner can be found
therefor, be killed by such officer; and it shall be the duty
of all peace officers, or by an officer of said incorporated
association, to cause the same to be killed on information of
such abandonment. Such officer may likewise take charge of
any animal that by reason of lameness, sickness, feebleness
or neglect, is unfit for the labor it is performing, or that
in any other manner is being cruelly treated; and, if such
animal is not then in custody of its owner, such officer
shall give notice thereof to such owner, if known, and may

 




3%

provide suitable care for such animal until it is deemed to
be in a suitable condition to be delivered to such owner, and
any necessary expenses which may be incurred for taking care
of and keeping the same shall be a lien thereon, to be paid
before the same can be lawfully recovered.

18-2112. Terms defined.

In this chapter the word 'animal' includes every dumb
creature; the words 'torment,' 'torture' and 'cruelty'
include every act, omission or neglect whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or
permitted . . .

ILLINOIS

703.01. Cruel treatment.

SS 3.01. No person or owner may beat, cruelly treat,
torment, starve, overwork or otherwise abuse any animal.

No owner may abandon any animal where it may become a
public charge or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure . . .

[Penaltyz First offense, class C misdemeanor; second
offense, class B misdemeanor; third or subsequent conviction,
class A misdemeanor.]

INDIANA

35-46-3-3. 'Animal' defined.
As used in this chapter, 'animal' does not include a
human being . . .

35-46—3—7. Abandonment or neglect of vertebrate animal. A
person having a vertebrate animal in the person's custody who
recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally abandons or neglects
the animal commits cruelty to an animal, a Class B
misdemeanor.

35—46—3—12. Torturing or killing vertebrate animal.
(a) A person who knowingly or intentionally:
(l) Tortures, beats, or mutilates a vertebrate
animal resulting in serious injury or death to the animal; or
(2) Kills a Vertebrate animal without the authority
of the owner of the animal;
commits cruelty to an animal, a Class A misdemeanor.
(b) It is a defense that the accused person reasonably
believes the conduct was necessary to:
(l) Prevent injury to the accused person or another
person;
(2) Protect the property of the accused person from
destruction or substantial damage; or
(3) Prevent a seriously injured vertebrate animal
from prolonged suffering.

 




      
   
     
 
   
    
     
       
   
       
       
     
   
   
   
   
        
       
     
   
       
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
   

   

[Penalty: Class A misdemeanor: Up to 1 year imprisonment in
addition to a fine of up to $5,000 (SS 35—50-3-2); Class B
misdemeanor: Up to 180 days imprisonment in addition to a
fine of up to $1,000 (SS 35-50-3-3).]

IOWA

717.2. Cruelty to animals.

A person who impounds or confines, in any place, a
domestic animal or fowl, or an animal or fowl subject to
section 109.60, or dog or cat, and fails to supply the animal
during confinement with a sufficient quantity of food, and
water, or who fails to provide a dog or cat with adequate
shelter, or who tortures, torments, deprives of necessary
sustenance, mutilates, overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, beats, or kills an animal by any means which
cause unjustified pain, distress, or suffering, whether
intentionally or negligently, commits the offense of cruelty
to animals.

A person who commits the offense of cruelty to animals
is guilty of a simple misdemeanor. A person who
intentionally commits the offense of cruelty to animals which
results in serious injury to or the death of an animal is
guilty of a serious misdemeanor.

717.4. Abandonment of cats and dogs - penalty.

A person who has ownership or custody of a cat or dog
shall not abandon the cat or dog, except the person may
deliver the cat or dog to another person who will accept
ownership and custody or the person may deliver the cat or
dog to an animal shelter or pound as defined in section
162.2. A person who violates this section is guilty of a
simple misdemeanor.

KANSAS

21-4310. Cruelty to Animals
(1) Cruelty to animals is:

(a) Intentionally killing, injuring, maiming,
torturing or mutilating any animal;

(b) abandoning or leaving any animal in any place
without making provisions for its proper care; or

(0) having physical custody of any animal and
failing to provide such food, potable water, protection from
the elements, opportunity for exercise and other care as is
needed for the health or well-being of such kind of animal .

(3) Cruelty to animals is a class B misdemeanor.

21—4313. Animals, Definitions . . .

(1) 'Animal' means every living vertebrate except a
human being . . .




5Q

[Penalty: Up to 6 months imprisonment and/or up to $1,000
fine (SS 21:4502, 21:4503).]

KENTUCKY

525.130 Cruelty to animals in the second degree.

(1) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the
second degree when except as authorized by law he
intentionally or wantonly:

(a) Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or
injurious mistreatment through abandonment, participates
other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in causing it to fight
for pleasure or profit, (including, but not limited to being
a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation,
beating, torturing, tormenting, failing to provide adequate
food, drink, space or health care, or by any other means; or

(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or

(c) Kills any animal;

(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing
of animals:

(a) Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;

(b) Incident to the processing as food or for other
commercial purposes;

(c) For humane purposes.

(d) For any other purpose authorized by law.

(3) Cruelty to animals in the second degree is a Class A

misdemeanor.

[Penaltyz A fine of up to $500 and/or imprisonment up to 12
months (SS 534.040, 534.090).]

 




  
 
  

:97 ANT/ #5

 
 
 
   
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
    
    
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 

LOU IS IANA

14:102. Definitions; cruelty to animals . . .

(l) 'Cruel' means every act or failure to act whereby
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or
permitted.

(2) 'Abandons' means to completely forsake and desert an
animal previously under the custody or possession of a person
without making reasonable arrangements for its proper care,
sustenance, and shelter.

(3) 'Proper food' means providing each animal with daily
food of sufficient quality and quantity to prevent
unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering by the animal.

(4) 'Proper water' means providing each animal with
daily water of sufficient quality and quantity to prevent
unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering by the animal.

(5) 'Proper shelter' means providing each animal with
adequate shelter from the elements as required to prevent
unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering by the animal.

(6) 'Proper veterinary care' means providing each animal
with veterinary care sufficient to prevent unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering by the animal.

14:102.l. Cruelty to animals.

A. Any person who intentionally or with criminal
negligence commits any of the following shall be guilty of
Cruelty to animals:

(1) Overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded,
or overworks a living animal.

(2) Tortures, torments, cruelly beats or
unjustifiably injures, maims, mutilates, or kills any living
animal, whether belonging to himself or another.

(3) Having charge, custody, or possession of any
animal, either as owner or otherwise, unjustifiably fails to
provide it with proper food, proper drink, proper shelter, or
proper veterinary care.

(4) Abandons any animal.

(5) Impounds or confines or causes to be impounded
or confined in a pound or other place, a living animal and
fails to supply it during such confinement with proper food,
proper drink, and proper shelter.

(6) Carries, or causes to be carried, a living
animal in or upon a vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel or
inhumane manner.

(7) Unjustifiably administers any poisonous or
noxious drug or substance to any domestic animal or
unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance, with intent
that the same shall be taken or swallowed by any domestic
animal.

(8) Kills or injures any animal belonging to
another person without legal privilege or consent of the
owner.

 
     
 

(9) Mistreats any living animal by any act or
omission whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain,

    




.523

suffering, or death is caused to or permitted upon the
animal.
(10) Causes or procures to be done by any person
any act enumerated in this Section.
B. Whoever commits the crime of cruelty to animals
shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars, or
imprisoned for not more than six months, or both . . .

14:102.4. Confined animals; necessary food and water.

When a living animal is impounded or confined, and
continues without necessary food and water for more than
twenty—four consecutive hours, any law enforcement officer
may, as often as is necessary, enter any place in which the
animal is impounded or confined and supply it with necessary
food and water so long as it shall remain impounded or
confined.

MAINE

7:3907. Definitions

As used in this Part, and in every law relating to or
affecting animals, unless the context indicates otherwise,
the following terms have the following meanings . . .

2. Animal. 'Animal' means every living, sentient
creature not a human being . . .

26. Torment, torture and cruelty. 'Torment, torture
and cruelty' means every act, omission or neglect, whether by
the owner or any other person, where unjustifiable physical
pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted . . .

29. Well cared for. 'Well cared for' means that the
animal is receiving necessary sustenance, necessary medical
attention, proper shelter, protection from the weather and
humanely clean conditions and that the animal has not been
nor is being injured, overworked, tormented, tortured,
abandoned, poisoned, beaten, mutilated or exposed to a poison
with the intent that it be taken by the animal . . .

7:4011. Cruelty to Animals.
1. Cruelty to animals. A person is cruel to animals if he:

A. Kills any animal belonging to another person without
legal privilege or the consent of the owner, or kills or
attempts to kill any animal with the owner's consent, by
means which will cause undue suffering. The owner or
occupant of property is privileged to use reasonable force to
eject a trespassing animal;

B. Injures, overworks, tortures, torments, abandons,
gives poison to, cruelly beats or mutilates any animal or
exposes a poison with the intent that it be taken by an
animal;

C. Deprives any animal which he owns or possesses of
necessary sustenance, necessary medical attention, proper
Shelter, protection from the weather or humanely clean
conditions; or

 




 

  

 

 

  

D. Keeps or leaves a domestic animal on an uninhabited
or barren island lying off the coast of Maine during the
months of December, January, February or March without
providing necessary sustenance and proper shelter . . .

 

 

 

 

7:4013. Necessary sustenance.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may fail to supply the animal with a
sufficient supply of food and water as prescribed in this
section.

1. Food. The food shall be of sufficient quantity and
quality to maintain all animals in good health.

2. Water. If potable water is not accessible to the
animal at all times, it shall be provided daily and in
sufficient quantity for the health of the animal.

7:4014. Necessary medical attention.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may fail to supply the animal with
necessary medical attention when the animal is or has been
suffering from illness, injury, disease, excessive parasitism
or malformed or overgrown hoof.

7:4015. Proper shelter, protection from the weather and
humanely clean conditions.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may fail to provide the animal with
proper shelter, protection from the weather or humanely clean
conditions as prescribed in this section. In the case of
farm animals, nothing in this section may be construed as
imposing shelter requirements or standards more stringent
than normally accepted husbandry practice in the particular
county where the animal or shelter is located. For purposes
of this section, horses shall not be considered farm animals.

1. Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter
shall be as follows.

A. The ambient temperature shall be compatible with the
health of the animal.

B. Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately
ventilated by natural or mechanical means to provide for the
health of the animal at all times.

2. Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter
shall be as follows.

A. When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaustion of
an animal tied or caged outside, sufficient shade by natural
or artificial means shall be provided to protect the animal
from direct sunlight. As used in this paragraph, 'caged'
does not include farm fencing used to confine farm animals.

B. Shelter from inclement weather shall be as follows.

(1) An artificial shelter with a minimum of 3 sides
and a waterproof roof appropriate to the local climatic
conditions for the species concerned shall be provided as

 

 
    

  




as“

necessary for the health of the animal.

(2) If a dog is tied or confined unattended
outdoors under weather conditions which adversely affect the
health of the dog, a shelter of suitable size with a floor
above ground and waterproof roof shall be provided to
accommodate the dog and protect it from the weather and, in
particular, from severe cold. Inadequate shelter may be
indicated by the shivering of the dog due to cold weather for
a continuous period of 30 minutes.

C. No animal may be confined in a building, enclosure,
car, boat, vehicle or vessel of any kind when extreme heat or
extreme cold will be harmful to its health.

3. Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both
indoor and outdoor enclosures shall include the following.

A. The housing facilities shall be structurally sound
and maintained in good repair to protect the animal from
injury and to contain the animal.

B. Enclosures shall be constructed and maintained to
provide sufficient space to allow each animal adequate
freedom of movement. Inadequate space may be indicated by
evidence of overcrowding, debility, stress or abnormal
behavior patterns.

4. Humanely clean conditions. Minimum standards of
sanitation necessary to provide humanely clean conditions for
both indoor and outdoor enclosures shall include periodic
cleanings to remove excretions and other waste materials,
dirt and trash to minimize health hazards.

7:4016. Violation.

Any person who violates this chapter commits a civil
violation for which a forfeiture of $500 for each offense may
be adjudged and such other relief as may be necessary to
restore the animal to good health or to ameliorate the
effects of cruelty and to ensure that the animal is well
cared for.

MARYLAND

27:59. Cruelty to animals a misdemeanor.

Any person who (1) overdrives, overloads, deprives of
necessary sustenance, tortures, torments, cruelly beats,
mutilates or cruelly kills; or (2) causes, procures or
authorizes these acts; or (3) having the charge or custody of
an animal, either as owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary
suffering or pain upon the animal, or unnecessarily fails to
provide the animal with nutritious food in sufficient
quantity, necessary veterinary care, proper drink, air,
Space, shelter or protection from the weather; or (4) uses or
permits to be used any bird, fowl, or cock for the purpose of
fighting with any other animal, which is commonly known as
cockfighting, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine

 




”)7

not exceeding $1,000 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90
days, or both . . .

27:60. Abandoning domestic animal.

Any person, partnership or corporation being the owner,
possessor, or custodian of a dog, cat, or other domestic
animal, who abandons such animal or drops or leaves such
animal on a street, road, highway, or in a public place or on
private property, with intent to abandon it, shall be deemed

guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $100.00 . . .

27:62. Definitions.

The words 'torture,' 'torment,‘ and 'cruelty' mean every
act, omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or
permitted, and the word 'animal' means every living creature
except man.

MASSACHUSETTS

272:77. Cruelty to animals.

Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded,
overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or kills an animal, or
causes or procures an animal to be overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented,
deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated
or killed; and whoever uses in a cruel or inhuman manner in a
race, game, or contest, or in training therefor, as lure or
bait a live animal, except an animal if used as lure or bait
in fishing; and whoever, having the charge or custody of an
animal, either as owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary
cruelty upon it, or unnecessarily fails to provide it with
proper food, drink, shelter, sanitary environment, or
protection from the weather, and whoever, as owner,
possessor, or person having the charge or custody of an
animal, cruelly drives or works it when unfit for labor, or
willfully abandons it, or carries it or causes it to be
carried in or upon a vehicle, or otherwise, in an
unnecessarily cruel or inhuman manner or in a way and manner
which might endanger the animal carried thereon, or knowingly
and willfully authorizes or permits it to be subjected to
unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty of any kind shalli£
be punished by a fine of not more than five~handred—dellars [,ékid
or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.

In addition to any other penalty provided by law, upon
conviction for any violation of this section . . . the
defendant may, after an appropriate hearing to determine the
defendant's fitness for continued custody of the abused
animal, be ordered to surrender or forfeit to the custody of
any society, incorporated under the laws of the commonwealth

for the prevention of cruelty to animals or for the care and

 




42»

protection of homeless or suffering animals, the animal whose
treatment was the basis of such conviction.

MICHIGAN

752.21. Cruelty to animals; penalty . . .

Sec. 1. Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly
kills, or causes or procures to be so overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented,
deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated,
or cruelly killed, any animal, and whoever having the charge
or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise,
inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or wilfully fails
to provide the same with proper food, drink, shelter, or
protection from the weather, is guilty of a misdemeanor and

shall be imprisoned for not more than 3 months, or fined not
more than $500.00, or by both . . .

MINNESOTA

343.20. Definitions . . .

Subd. 2. Animal. 'Animal' means every living creature
except members of the human race.

Subd. 3. Torture; cruelty. 'Torture' or 'cruelty'
means every act, omission, or neglect which causes or permits
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, or death . . .

343.21. Overworking or mistreating animals; penalty.
Subdivision 1. Torture. No person shall overdrive,
overload, torture, cruelly beat, neglect, or unjustifiably
injure, maim, mutilate, or kill any animal, or cruelly work
any animal when it is unfit for labor, whether it belongs to

that person or to another person.
Subd. 2. Nourishment; shelter. No person shall deprive

any animal over which the person has charge or control of
necessary food, water, or shelter.

Subd. 3. Enclosure. No person shall keep any cow or
other animal in any enclosure without providing wholesome
exercise and change of air.

Subd. 4. Low feed. No person shall feed any cow on
food which produces impure or unwholesome milk.

Subd. 5. Abandonment. No person shall abandon any
animal.

Subd. 6. Temporary abandonment. No person shall allow
any maimed, sick, infirm, or disabled animal to lie in any
street, road, or other public place for more than three hours
after receiving notice of the animal's condition.

Subd. 7. Cruelty. No person shall wilfully instigate
or in any way further any act of cruelty to any animal or
animals, or any act tending to produce cruelty to animals.

 




4/3

Subd. 8. Caging. No person shall cage any animal for
public display purposes unless the display cage is
constructed of solid material on three sides to protect the
caged animal from the elements and unless the horizontal
dimension of each side of the cage is at least four times the
length of the caged animal. The provisions of this
subdivision do not apply to the Minnesota state agricultural
society, the Minnesota state fair, or to the county
agricultural societies, county fairs, to any agricultural
display of caged animals by any political subdivision of the
state of Minnesota, or to district, regional or national
educational livestock or poultry exhibitions. The provisions
of this subdivision do not apply to captive wildlife, the
exhibition of which is regulated by section 97A.04l.

Subd. 9. Penalty. A person who fails to comply with
any provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.

[Penaltyz Up to 90 days imprisonment and/or up to $700 fine
(SS 609.03).]

MISSISSIPPI

97—41—1. Living creatures not to be cruelly treated.

If any person shall override, overdrive, overload,
torture, torment, unjustifiably injure, deprive of necessary
sustenance, food, or drink; or cruelly beat or needlessly
mutilate; or cause or procure to be overridden, overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, unjustifiably injured, tormented, or
deprived of necessary sustenance, food or drink; or to be
cruelly beaten or needlessly mutilated or killed, any living
creature, every such offender shall, for every offense, be
guilty of a misdemeanor.

97—41—5. Carrying creature in a cruel manner.

If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by
hand or in or upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any
creature in a cruel or inhuman manner, he shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.

97-41—7. Confining creatures without food or water.

If any person shall confine, or cause to be confined, in
any stable, lot, or other place, any living creature, without
supplying the same during such confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good and wholesome food and water, he shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.

97-41—9. Failure of owner or custodian to provide
sustenance.
If any person be the owner or have the custody of any

living creature and unjustifiably neglect or refuse to

furnish it necessary sustenance, food, or drink, he shall be
9Uilty of a misdemeanor.

 




/%%

MISSOURI

578.012. Animal abuse.
1. A person is guilty of animal abuse when a person:
(1) Intentionally or purposely kills an animal in
any manner not allowed by or expressly exempted from the
provisions of sections 578.005 to 578.023;
(2) Purposely, intentionally or recklessly causes
injury, suffering, or pain to an animal;
(3) Abandons an animal in any place without making
provisions for its adequate care;
(4) Overworks or overloads an animal, or drives or
works an animal unfit to work; or
(5) Having ownership or custody of an animal
willfully fails to provide adequate care or adequate control.
2. Animal abuse is a class A misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Up to 1 year imprisonment and/or a fine of Up to
$1,000 (SS 558.011, 560.016).]

MONTANA

45—8-211. Cruelty to animals.

(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals
if without justification he knowingly or negligently subjects
an animal to mistreatment or neglect by:

(a) overworking, beating, tormenting, injuring, or
killing any animal;

(b) carrying any animal in a cruel manner;

(c) failing to provide an animal in his custody
with proper food, drink, or shelter;

(d) abandoning any helpless animal or abandoning
any animal on any highway, railroad, or in any other place
where it may suffer injury, hunger, or exposure or become a
public charge; or

(e) promoting, sponsoring, conducting, or
participating in a horse race of more than 2 miles.

(2) A person convicted of the offense of cruelty to
animals shall be fined not to exceed $500 or be imprisoned in
the county jail for a term not to exceed 6 months, or both.
If such person is the owner, he may be required to forfeit to
the county in which he is convicted any animal affected.

This provision does not affect the interest of any secured
party or other person who has not participated in the
offense.

(3) In addition to the sentence provided in subsection
(2), the court may require the defendant to pay all
reasonable costs incurred in providing necessary veterinary
attention and treatment for any animal affected.

NEBRASKA

 




$15

28—1001. Animal, cruel mistreatment, cruel neglect, and
abandon; defined. As used in section 28-1002, unless the
context otherwise requires:

(1) Animal shall mean a domesticated living creature and
a wild living creature previously captured. Animal does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a wild creature whose
Sgpture was accomplished by conduct at issue under section

-1002;

(2) Cruel mistreatment shall mean every act or omission
which causes, or unreasonably permits the continuation of,
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering;

(3) Cruel neglect shall mean failure to provide food,
water, protection from the elements, opportunity to exercise,
or other care normal, usual, and proper for an animal's
health and well—being; and

(4) Abandon shall mean the leaving of anranimal by its
owner or other person responsible for its care or custody
without making effective provisions for its proper care.

28—1002. Cruelty to animals; penalty; authorized or
permitted conduct.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as
otherwise authorized by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(a) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or
(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or
(c) Abandons any animal; or
(d) Kills or injures any animal belonging to
another.
(2) Cruelty to animals is a Class II misdemeanor . . .

[Penalty: Maximum 6 months imprisonment or $1,000 fine or
both (SS 28—106).]

NEVADA

574.050. Definitions . . .
As used in NRS 574.050 to 574.200, inclusive:
1. 'Animal' does not include the human race, but
includes every other living creature.
2. 'Torture' or 'cruelty' includes every act,
omission or neglect, whereby unjustifiable physical pain,
suffering or death is caused or permitted.

574.100. Overdriving, torturing, injuring or abandoning
animals; failure to provide proper sustenance; penalty.
A person who:

1. Overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly
beats or unjustifiably injures, maims, mutilates or kills any
animal, whether belonging to himself or to another;

2. Deprives any animal of necessary sustenance,
food or drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it such
sustenance or drink;

 




%é

3. Causes, procures or permits any animal to be
overdriven, overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten, or
unjustifiably injured, maimed, mutilated or killed, or to be
deprived of necessary food or drink;

4. Willfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in,
or in any way furthers an act of cruelty to any animal, or
any act tending to produce such cruelty; or

5. Abandons an animal in circumstances other than
those prohibited in NRS 574.110, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

574.110. Abandonment of disabled animal unlawful; penalty.

1. A person being the owner or possessor, or having
charge or custody, of a maimed, diseased, disabled or infirm
animal, who abandons such animal or leaves it to die in a
public street, road or public place, or who allows it to lie
in a public street, road or public place more than 3 hours
after he receives notice that it is left disabled, is guilty
of a misdemeanor . . .

574.120. Failure to provide proper food and water to
impounded animal; penalty.

1. A person who, having impounded or confined any
animal, refuses or neglects to supply to such animal during
its confinement a sufficient supply of good and wholesome
air, food, shelter and water is guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

[Penaltyz Up to 6 months imprisonment and/or a fine of up to

 




%7 ﬂA/f/ . :3“

NEW HAMPSHIRE

644:8. Cruelty to animals.

I. In this section, 'cruelty' shall include, but not be
limited to, acts or omissions injurious or detrimental to the
health, safety or welfare of any animal, including the
abandoning of any animal without proper provision for its
care, sustenance, protection or shelter.

II. In this section, 'animal' means a domestic animal:
a household pet or a wild animal in captivity.

III. A person is guilty of a misdemeanor if he:

(a) Without lawful authority negligently deprives
or causes to be deprived any animal in his possession or
custody necessary care, sustenance or shelter;

(b) Negligently beats, cruelly whips, tortures,
mutilates or in any other manner mistreats or causes to be
mistreated any animal;

(c) Negligently overdrives, overworks, drives when
overloaded, or otherwise abuses or misuses any animal
intended for or used for labor;

(d) Negligently transports any animal in his
possession or custody in a manner injurious to the health,
safety or physical well—being of such animal;

(e) Negligently abandons any animal previously in
his possession or custody by causing such animal to be left
without supervision or adequate provision for its care,
sustenance or shelter; or

(f) Otherwise negligently permits or causes any
animal in his possession or custody to be subjected to
cruelty, inhumane treatment or unnecessary suffering of any
kind.

IV. In addition to being guilty of a misdemeanor as
provided in paragraph III, any person charged with cruelty to
animals may have his animal confiscated by the arresting
officer and, upon said person's conviction of cruelty to
animals, the court may dispose of said animal in any manner
it decides. The costs, if any, incurred in boarding and
treating the animal, pending disposition of the case, and in
disposing of the animal, upon a conviction of said person for
cruelty to animals, shall be borne by the person so convicted

[Penalty: Up to 1 year imprisonment and/or a fine of up to
$1,000 (SS 651:2).1

NEW JERSEY
4:22-15. Definitions

As used in this article:
'Animal' or 'creature' includes the whole brute creation

4:22-18. Carrying animal in cruel manner; misdemeanor.

 




%59

A person who shall carry, or cause to be carried, a
living animal or creature in or upon a vehicle or otherwise,
in a cruel or inhuman manner, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished as provided in section 4:22-26 of
this title.

4:22—19. Failure to care for impounded animals; misdemeanor.

A person who shall impound or confine, or cause to be
impounded or confined, in a pound or other place, a living
animal or creature, and shall fail to supply it during such
confinement with a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome
food and water, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished
as provided in section 4:22-26 of this title.

4:22-20. Abandoning disabled animal to die in public place;
misdemeanor.

A person who shall abandon a maimed, sick, infirm or
disabled animal or creature to die in a public place, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in
section 4:22-26 of this title.

4:22-26. Acts constituting cruelty in general; penalty.
A person who shall:

a. Overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded,
overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance,
or cruelly beat or otherwise abuse or needlessly mutilate or
kill a living animal or creature;

b. Cause or procure to be done by his agent,
servant, employee or otherwise an act enumerated in
subsection 'a' of this section;

c. Inflict unnecessary cruelty upon a living
animal or creature of which he has charge or custody either
as owner or otherwise, or unnecessarily fail to provide it
with proper food, drink, shelter or protection from the
weather;

d. Receive or offer for sale a horse which by
reason of disability, disease or lameness, or any other
cause, could not be worked without violating the provisions
of this article;

e. Keep, use, be connected with or interested in
the management of, or receive money or other consideration
for the admission of a person to, a place kept or used for
the purpose of fighting or baiting a living animal or
creature;

f. Be present and witness, encourage, aid or
assist in an activity enumerated in subsection 'e' of this
section;

g. Permit or suffer a place owned or controlled by
him to be used as provided in subsection 'e' of this section;

h. Carry, or cause to be carried, a living animal
or creature in or upon a vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel or
inhuman manner;

i. Use a dog or dogs for the purpose of drawing or

helping to draw a vehicle for business purposes;

 




 

7/?

j. Impound or confine or cause to be confined in a
pound or other place a living animal or creature, and shall
fail to supply it during such confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good and wholesome food and water;

k. Abandon a maimed, sick, infirm or disabled
animal or creature to die in a public place;

1. Wilfully sell, or offer to sell, use, expose,
or cause or permit to be sold or offered for sale, used or
exposed, a horse or other animal having the disease known as
glanders or farcy, or other contagious or infectious disease
dangerous to the health or life of human beings or animals,
or who shall, when any such disease is beyond recovery,
refuse, upon demand, to deprive the animal of life;

m. Own, operate, manage or conduct a roadside
stand or market for the sale of merchandise along a public
street or highway; or a shopping mall, or a part of the
premises thereof; and keep a living animal or creature
confined, or allowed to roam in an area whether or not the
area is enclosed, on these premises as an exhibit; except
that this subsection shall not be applicable to: a pet shop
licensed pursuant to P.L. 1941, c. 151 (C. 4:19-15.l et
seq.); a person who keeps an animal, in a humane manner, for
the purpose of the protection of the premises; or a
recognized breeders' association, a 4-H club, an educational
agricultural program, an equestrian team, a humane society or
other similar charitable or nonprofit organization conducting
an exhibition, show or performance.

n. Keep or exhibit a wild animal at a roadside
stand or market located along a public street or highway of
this State; a gasoline station; or a shopping mall, or a part
of the premises thereof;

0. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away or
display live baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits,
turtles or chameleons which have been dyed or artificially
colored or otherwise treated so as to impart to them an
artificial color;

p. Use any animal, reptile, or fowl for the
purpose of soliciting any alms, collections, contributions,
subscriptions, donations, or payment of money except in
connection with exhibitions, shows or performances conducted
in a bona fide manner by recognized breeders' associations,
4-H clubs or other similar bona fide organizations;

q. Sell or offer for sale, barter, or give away
living rabbits, turtles, baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl
under 2 months of age, for use as household or domestic pets;

r. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away
living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl, or rabbits,
turtles or chameleons under 2 months of age for any purpose
not prohibited by subsection q. of this section and who shall
fail to provide proper facilities for the care of such
animals;

s. Artificially mark sheep or cattle, or cause
them to be marked, by cropping or cutting off both ears,
cropping or cutting either ear more than 1 inch from the tip

 




52)

end thereof, or half cropping or cutting both ears or either
ear more than 1 inch from the tip end thereof, or who shall
have or keep in his possession sheep or cattle, which he
claims to own, marked contrary to this subsection unless they
were bought in market or of a stranger;

t. Abandon a dog or cat—-

Shall forfeit and pay a sum not to exceed $250.00 to be
sued for and recovered, with costs, in a civil action by any
person in the name of the New Jersey Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

NEW MEXICO

30—18—1. Cruelty to animals.
Cruelty to animals consists of:

A. torturing, tormenting, depriving of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beating, mutilating, cruelly killing or
overdriving any animal;

B. unnecessarily failing to provide any animal
with proper food or drink; or

C. cruelly driving or working any animal when such
animal is unfit for labor.

Whoever commits cruelty to animals is guilty of a petty
misdemeanor.

[Penaltyz Imprisonment not to exceed 6 months or a fine of
not more than $500.00, or both (SS 31-19—1).]

NEW YORK

350. Definitions.

1. 'Animal,‘ as used in this article, includes every
living creature except a human being;

2. 'Torture' or 'cruelty' includes every act, omission,
or neglect, whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death is caused or permitted.

353. Overdriving, torturing and injuring animals; failure to
provide proper sustenance.

A person who overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly
beats of unjustifiably injures, maims, mutilates or kills any
animal, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging to
himself or to another, or deprives any animal of necessary
sustenance, food or drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish
it such sustenance or drink, or causes, procures or permits
any animal to be overdriven, overloaded, tortured, cruelly
beaten, or unjustifiably injured, maimed, mutilated or
killed, or to be deprived of necessary food or drink, or who
wilfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way
furthers any act of cruelty to any animal, or any act tending
to produce such cruelty, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by

 




{5/

a fine of not more than one thousand dollars, or by both . .

355. Abandonment of animals.

A person being the owner or possessor, or having Charge
or custody of an animal, who abandons such animal, or leaves
it to die in a street, road or public place, or who allows
such animal, if it become disabled, to lie in a public
street, road or public place more than three hours after he
receives notice that it is left disabled, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not more than one

year, or by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars, or
by both.

356. Failure to provide proper food and drink to impounded
animal.

A person who, having impounded or confined any animal,
refuses or neglects to supply to such animal during its
confinement a sufficient supply of good and wholesome air,
food, shelter and water, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by
a fine of not more than one thousand dollars, or by both. In
case any animal shall be at any time impounded as aforesaid,
and shall continue to be without necessary food and water for
more than twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for any
person, from time to time, and as often as it shall be
necessary, to enter into and upon any pound in which any such
animal shall be so confined, and to supply it with necessary
food and water, so long as it shall remain so confined; such
person shall not be liable to any action for such entry, and
the reasonable cost of such food and water may be collected
by him of the owner of such animal, and the said animal shall
not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued upon a
judgment therefor.

NORTH CAROLINA

14—360. Cruelty to animals; construction of section.

If any person shall willfully overdrive, overload,
wound, injure, torture, torment, deprive of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill or
cause or procure to be overdriven, overloaded, wounded,
injured, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beaten, needlessly mutilated or killed as
aforesaid, any useful beast, fowl or animal, every such
offender shall for every such offense be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up to one year. In
this section, and in every law which may be enacted relating
to animals, the words 'animal' and 'dumb animal' shall be
held to include every living creature; the words 'torture,’
'torment' or 'cruelty' shall be held to include every act,
omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain,

 




572

suffering or death is caused or permitted. Such terms shall
not be construed to prohibit the lawful taking of animals
under the jurisdiction and regulation of the Wildlife
Resources Commission.

14-361. Instigating or promoting cruelty to animals.

If any person shall willfully set on foot, or instigate,
or move to, carry on, or promote, or engage in, or do any act
towards the furtherance of any act of cruelty to any animal,
he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up
to one year.

l4—36l.l. Abandonment of animals.

Any person being the owner or possessor, or having
charge or custody of an animal, who willfully and without
justifiable excuse abandons the animal is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and imprisonment for up to six months.

NORTH DAKOTA

36—21.l-Ol. Definitions. In this chapter, unless the
context or subject matter otherwise requires:

1. 'Animal' includes every living animal except the
human race.

2. 'Board' means the state livestock sanitary board.

3. 'Cruelty' or 'torture' includes every act, omission,
or neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable pain,
suffering, or death is caused or permitted . . .

36—21.l—02. Overworking or mistreating animals.

1. No person may overdrive, overload, torture, cruelly
beat, neglect, or unjustifiably injure, maim, mutilate, or
kill any animal, or cruelly work any animal when unfit for
labor.

2. No person may deprive any animal over which he has
charge or control of necessary food, water, or shelter.

3. No person may keep any animal in any enclosure
without exercise and wholesome change of air.

4. No person may abandon any animal.

5. No person may allow any maimed, sick, infirm, or
disabled animal of which he is the owner, or of which he has
custody, to lie in any street, road, or other public place
for more than three hours after notice.

6. No person may willfully instigate, or in any way
further, any act of cruelty to any animal or animals, or any
act tending to produce such cruelty.

7. No person may cage any animal for public display
purposes unless the display cage is constructed of solid
material on three sides to protect the caged animal from the
elements, and unless the horizontal dimension of each side of

the cage is at least four times the length of the caged

 




 

animal. The provisions of this subsection do not apply to
the North Dakota state fair association, to agricultural fair
associations, to any agricultural display of caged animals by
any political subdivision, or to district, regional, or
national educational livestock or poultry exhibitions. Zoos
which have been approved by the health district or the
governing body of the political subdivision which has
jurisdiction over the zoos are exempt from the provisions of
this subsection . . .

[Penalty: Maximum one year imprisonment, a fine of $1,000,
or both.]

OHIO

959.01. Abandoning animals.
No owner or keeper of a dog, cat, or other domestic
animal, shall abandon such animal.

[Penalty for violation of Section 959.01: Minor misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not more than $100.]

959.02. Injuring animals.

No person shall maliciously, or willfully, and without
the consent of the owner, kill or injure a horse, mare, foal,
filly, jack, mule, sheep, goat, cow, steer, bull, heifer,
ass, ox, swine, dog, cat, or other domestic animal that is
the property of another. This section does not apply to a
licensed veterinarian acting in an official capacity.

[Penalty for violation of Section 959.02: If the value of
the animal killed or the injury done amounts to less than
$300, misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable by not
more than 90 days imprisonment and/or a fine of not more than
$750. If the value of the animal killed or the injury done
amounts to $300 or more, misdemeanor of the first degree,
punishable by not more than six months imprisonment and/or a
fine of not more than $1,000.]

959.13. Cruelty to animals.
(A) No person shall:

(1) Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary
sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly
mutilate or kill, or impound or confine an animal without
supplying it during such confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;

(2) Impound or confine an animal without affording
it, during such confinement, access to shelter from wind,
rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably
be expected that the animals would otherwise become sick or
in some other way suffer. Division (A)(2) of this section
does not apply to animals impounded or confined prior to
slaughter. For the purpose of this section, shelter means a

 




5%

man-made enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural windbreak
or sunshade that is developed from the earth's contour, tree
development, or vegetation;

(3) Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or
inhuman(e) manner;

(4) Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or
fowl, swine, sheep, or goats in an enclosure without
wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed cows on food
that produces impure or unwholesome milk . . .

[Penaltyz Misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable by
not more than 90 days imprisonment and/or a fine of not more
than $750.]

(C) All fines collected for violations of this section
shall be paid to the society or association for the
prevention of cruelty to animals, if there be such in the
county, township, or municipal corporation where such
violation occurred.

OKLAHOMA

21:1685. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who shall willfully or maliciously overdrive,
overload, torture, destroy or kill, or cruelly beat or
injure, maim or mutilate, any animal in subjugation or
captivity, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging to

himself or to another, or deprive any such animal of
necessary food, drink or shelter; or who shall cause,

procure or permit any such animal to be so overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, destroyed or killed, or cruelly beaten
or injured, maimed or mutilated, or deprived of necessary
food, drink or shelter; or who shall willfully set on foot,
instigate, engage in, or in any way further any act of
cruelty to any animal, or any act tending to produce such
cruelty, shall be punished by imprisonment in the
penitentiary not exceeding five (5) years, or by imprisonment
in the county jail not exceeding one (1) year, or by fine not
exceeding Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00); and any officer
finding an animal so maltreated or abused shall cause the
same to be taken care of, and the charges therefor shall be a
lien upon such animal, to be collected thereon as upon a
pledge or a lien.

21:1686. Abandoned animals——Destroyed how.

A. Any person owning or having charge or custody of a
maimed, diseased, disabled, or infirm animal who abandons
said animal or who allows said animal to lie in a public
street, road, or public place one (1) hour after said person
receives notice by a duly constituted authority that the
animal is disabled or dead, upon conviction, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor . . .

D. For the purpose of the provisions of this section

 




.55

and Section 1691 of this title, the term abandon means the
voluntary relinquishment of an animal with no intention to
retain possession and shall include but shall not be limited
to vacating a premises and leaving the animal in or at the
premises, or failing to feed the animal or allowing it to
stray or wander onto private or public property with the
intention of surrendering ownership or custody over said
animal.

21:1691. Abandoning of domestic animals along streets or
highways or in any public place prohibited.

Any person who deposits any live dog, cat, or other
domestic animal along any private or public roadway, or in
any other private or public place with the intention of
abandoning the domestic animal upon conviction, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.

21:1692. Penalty.

Any person found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of Sections 1686 . . . 1691 of this title shall be
punished by a fine in an amount not less than One Hundred
Dollars ($100.00) nor more than Five Hundred Dollars
($500.00), or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more
than one (1) year, or by both said fine and imprisonment.

OREGON

167.850. Definition and classification of the crime of
cruelty to animals.

(1) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if,
except as otherwise authorized by law, he intentionally or
recklessly:

(a) Subjects any animal under human custody or
control to cruel mistreatment; or

(b) Subjects any animal under his custody or
control to cruel neglect; or

(c) Kills without legal privilege any animal under
the custody or control of another.

(2) As used in this section, 'animal' includes birds.

(3) Cruelty to animals is a Class B misdemeanor.

167.860. Specific acts defined as cruelty to animals;
defense; exceptions.

(1) As used in this section, 'animal' means any mammal,
bird, reptile or amphibian.

(2) Any person who overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly
kills, or causes or procures such cruel treatment of any
animal, or who, having the charge of or custody of any animal
as owner, or otherwise, inflicts cruelty upon the animal,
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.

(3) Every owner or person having the charge or custody

 




é‘é

of any animal, who cruelly drives or works the animal when
unfit for labor, or cruelly abandons the animal, or carries
or causes the animal to be carried in or upon any vehicle or
otherwise, in a cruel, inhuman manner, or knowingly or
wilfully authorizes or permits the animal to be subjected to
torture, suffering, or cruelty of any kind, shall be punished
for each and every offense in the manner provided in
subsection (2) of this section.

(4) Except in the case of an emergency, every owner or
person having the charge or custody of any animal, who
deprives such animal of necessary and adequate food and drink
for more than 36 hours, shall be punished for each and every
offense in the manner provided in subsection (2) of this
section . . .

 




:37 AM’% 4/

PENNSYLVANIA

18:5511. Cruelty to animals . . .
(3) As used in this subsection, the following terms
shall have the meanings given to them in this paragraph:
'Domestic animal.’ Any dog, cat, equine animal,
bovine animal, sheep, goat or porcine animal . . .

(c) Cruelty to animals.-—A person commits a summary
offense if he wantonly or cruelly illtreats, overloads, beats
or otherwise abuses any animal, whether belonging to himself
or otherwise, or abandons any animal, or deprives any animal
of necessary sustenance, drink, shelter or veterinary care. .

[Penaltyz Summary Offense: Fine not exceeding $300.]

RHODE ISLAND

4’1'1. Definitions 0 o c
(l) The words 'animal' and 'animals' shall be held
to include every living creature except a human being . . .

4-1-2. Overwork, mistreatment, or failure to feed animals——
'Shelter' defined.

Whoever shall overdrive, overload, drive when
overloaded, overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate or cruelly kill, or cause
or procure to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly
killed, any animal, and whoever, having the charge or custody
of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, shall inflict
cruelty upon that animal, or shall willfully fail to provide
that animal with proper food, drink, shelter or protection
from the weather, shall, for every such offense, be
imprisoned not exceeding eleven (11) months, or be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500), or be both imprisoned and fined as aforesaid.

'Shelters,‘ as used in this chapter, shall mean a
structure used to house any animal, and which will provide
sufficient protection from inclement elements for the health
and well-being of the animal.

4-1-3. Unnecessary cruelty.

Every owner, possessor or person having the charge or
custody of any animal, who shall cruelly drive or work that
animal when unfit for labor, or cruelly abandon that animal,
or who shall carry that animal, or cause that animal to be
Carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise in a cruel or
inhuman manner, or wilfully authorize or permit that animal
to be subjected to unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty
of any kind, or who shall place or cause to have placed on

any animal any substance that may produce irritation or pain,

 




55

or that shall be declared a hazardous substance by the U. S.
Food and Drug Administration or by the Rhode Island
Department of Health, shall be punished for every such
offense in the manner provided in 4-1-2; provided however,
that this section shall not be deemed to include any drug
having curative and therapeutic effect for disease in animals
and which is prepared and intended for veterinary use.

4-1-4. Abandonment of infirm animals.

If any maimed, sick, infirm or disabled animals shall be
abandoned to die, by any owner or person having charge of
that animal, that person shall, for every such offense, be
punished in the manner provided in 4—1-2 . . .

SOUTH CAROLINA

47—1-10. 'Animal' and 'animals' defined.
In this chapter the words 'animal' or 'animals' shall be
held to include all brute creatures.

47—1—40. Ill-treatment of animals generally.

(A) Whoever overloads, overdrives, overworks, ill-
treats, deprives of necessary sustenance, shelter, or
inflicts unnecessary pain or suffering upon any animal or
causes these things to be done, whether the person is the
owner of the animal or has charge or custody of it, for every
offense, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
must be punished by imprisonment not exceeding thirty days or
by a fine of not less than fifty dollars nor more than two
hundred dollars for a first offense; by imprisonment not
exceeding sixty days or by a fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars, or both, for a second offense; or by imprisonment
not exceeding one year or by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars, or both, for a third or subsequent offense.

(B) Whoever tortures, torments, needlessly mutilates,
cruelly kills, or inflicts excessive or repeated unnecessary
pain or suffering upon any animal or causes the acts to be
done for any of the offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, must be punished by imprisonment not to
exceed sixty days or by a fine not to exceed five hundred
dollars, or both.

(C) The provisions of this section do not apply to fowl,
accepted animal husbandry practices of farm operations, the
training of animals, or the practice of veterinary medicine.

47-1—70. Abandonment of infirm animal in public place.

A person, being the owner or possessor or having charge
or custody of a maimed, diseased, disabled or infirm animal
in any town or city of this State, who abandons such animal
or leaves it to die in a street, road, highway or other
public place more than three hours after he receives notice
that it is left disabled is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars or

 




57

imprisonment not exceeding thirty days.

47—lu50. Cruel work, abandonment, carriage in vehicles, and
unnecessary torture.

Every owner, possessor or person having the charge or
custody of any animal who:

(1) Cruelly drives or works it when unfit for labor;

(2) Cruelly abandons it;

(3) Carries it, or causes it to be carried, in or upon
any vehicle or otherwise in an unnecessarily cruel or inhuman
manner; or

(4) Knowingly or wilfully authorizes or permits it to be
:ubgected to unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty of any

in ;

Shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished for every such offense in
the manner prescribed in 47-1-40.

SOUTH DAKOTA

40-1-1. Definition of terms . . .
(1) 'Animal' shall include every living dumb creature;
(2) 'Torture,‘ 'torment,‘ and 'cruelty' shall include
every act, omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or
permitted . . .

40-1—2. Overwork, torture, starving or cruelty to animal
prohibited.

No person shall overdrive, overload, drive when
overloaded, overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary
sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beat, mutilate, or
cruelly kill any animal.

40—1-2.l. Abandoning animal prohibited. No person may
abandon any animal.

40-1-6. Impounding or leaving of animal without prOper
attention prohibited.

No person shall impound, or permit any animal to be in
any building, enclosure, lane, street, square, or lot without
proper care and attention for more than twelve consecutive
hours.

40—1-15. Violation of chapter as misdemeanor. A violation
of any provision in this chapter, which is not otherwise
classified, is a Class 2 misdemeanor.

40—1-22. Killing or injuring animal other than livestock as
misdemeanor.

Every person who maliciously kills or injures any
animal, other than those specified in 40-1-21 [livestock],

belonging to another, or any animal whatever belonging to

 




  

M

 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
    
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
  

himself, is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Class 1 misdemeanor: one year imprisonment in
county jail and/or $1,000 fine; Class 2 misdemeanor: 30
days imprisonment in county jail and/or $100 fine.]

TENNESSEE

39—3-101. Definitions.

In this part, and in every law relating to or affecting
animals, the words animal or dumb animal shall be held to
include every living creature; the words torture, torment, or
cruelty shall be held to include every act, omission, or
neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or
death is caused or permitted; but nothing herein shall be
construed as prohibiting the shooting of birds or game for
the purpose of human food, or the use of animate targets by
incorporated gun clubs.

39—3-104. Cruelty to animals.

If any person shall overdrive, overload, torture,
torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or cruelly beat, or
needlessly mutilate, or kill, or cause or procure same to be
done, as aforesaid, any living creature, or use, buy, sell,
or exchange any horse or mule, when unfit for labor, every
such offender shall, for every offense, be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prohibit the purchase of
animals by humane societies, incorporated under the laws of
this state, for the purpose of humanely killing the same.

39-3—106. Failure to feed and water impounded animals.

Any person who shall impound, or cause to be impounded
in any pound or other place, any creature, shall supply to
the same during such confinement a sufficient quantity of
good and wholesome food and water, and in default thereof
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

39—3—110. Aiding and promoting cruelty to animals.

Every person who shall willfully instigate, or promote,
or engage in, or do any act toward the furtherance of any act
of cruelty to any animal, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

 

39—3—121. Abandonment of dogs and cats.

It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor to abandon or
otherwise willfully leave any animal of the canine or feline
species on public lands or rights of way. Any person
convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall
be fined not less than two dollars ($2.00) nor more than
fifty dollars ($50.00) or imprisoned in the county jail or
workhouse not to exceed thirty (30) days, or both such fine
and imprisonment.

 
   
 

39-1—202.

   

Penalty for misdemeanor.

  




 

//

Every person who is convicted of a misdemeanor, the
punishment for which is not otherwise prescribed by a statute
of this state, shall be punished by imprisonment in the
county jail or workhouse not more than one year, or by fine
not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both, in
the discretion of the court.

TEXAS

42.11. Cruelty to Animals.
(a) A person commits an offense if he intentionally or
knowingly:

(l) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;

(2) fails unreasonably to provide necessary food,
care, or shelter for an animal in his custody;

(3) abandons unreasonably an animal in his custody;

(4) transports or confines an animal in a cruel
manner;

(5) kills, injures, or administers poison to an
animal, other than cattle, horses, sheep, swine, or goats,
belonging to another without legal authority or the owner's
effective consent;

(6) causes one animal to fight with another; or

(7) uses a live animal as a lure in dog race
training or in dog coursing on a racetrack . . .

(c) For purposes of this section, 'animal' means a
domesticated living creature and wild living creature
previously captured. 'Animal' does not include an uncaptured
wild creature or a wild creature whose capture was
accomplished by conduct at issue under this section.

, ; P A i _ ‘ _ﬂ‘ ,7
V/ [yéng/Zg: (V453 /9/chﬂvmezﬂdf‘ fvné /M%*m~@xﬁgad1.45€€c

‘ ’7 ‘ / ”2 "‘ x70 ‘7!” '2 é? (’ fc/f/ (”u-”)6; (1 5/31”?
a/Ké@/'/V)fvvgwn/7rrh‘ UTAH Ki: ‘/ 'j

76-9—301. Cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if he

intentionally or knowingly:

(a) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;

(b) fails to provide necessary food, care, or
shelter for an animal in his custody;

(c) abandons an animal in his custody;

(d) transports or confines an animal in a cruel
manner;

(e) kills, injures, or administers poison to an
animal without legal privilege; or

(f) causes any animal, not including a dog, to
fight with another animal or creature of like kind for
amusement or gain; or causes any animal, including a dog, to
fight with a different kind of animal or creature for
amusement or gain . . .

(Penalty: Class B misdemeanor.)

 




VERMONT

401. Animal defined.
For the purposes of this chapter, the word 'animal' or
'animals' shall include and extend to all brute creatures.

403. Cruelty to animals generally.

(a) A person who overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly
kills any animal, or causes or procures it to be done, or
having the charge or custody of an animal, inflicts
unnecessary cruelty upon it, or unnecessarily fails to
provide it with proper food, drink, shelter or protection
from the weather, shall be imprisoned not more than one year
or fined not more than $200.00, or both.

(b) An owner, possessor or person having the charge or
custody of an animal, who cruelly drives or works the same
when unfit for labor, or cruelly abandons the same, or who
carries or causes such animal to be carried upon a vehicle or
otherwise in an unsafe or cruel manner, or knowingly or
wilfully authorizes or permits the same to be subjected to
unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty, shall be punished
as provided in subsection (a) of this section.

404. Abandonment of infirm animals.

If any maimed, sick, infirm, or disabled animals shall
be abandoned by any owner or person having charge of same,
such person shall for every offense, be punished in the
manner provided in section 403(a) of this title.

VIRGINIA

3.1—796.66 Definitions. The following words as used in this
chapter shall have the following meanings:

'Adequate feed' means the provision, at suitable
intervals, at least once daily, of quantities of wholesome
foodstuff suitable for the species and age, sufficient to
maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal.

'Adequate water' means a constant access to a supply of
clean, fresh, potable water provided in a sanitary manner or
provided at suitable intervals and in a suitable manner for
the species at least once daily at any interval.

'Adequate shelter' means shelter that may reasonably be
expected to protect the animal from physical suffering or
impairment of health due to exposure to the elements or
adverse weather . . .

'Animal' means domestic animals, including both
agricultural and companion animals, if not specified
otherwise . . .

3.1—796.68. Duties of owner. Each owner shall have the duty
to provide for each of his companion animals, pursuant to

 




A3

regulations adopted by the Board:

1. Adequate feed and adequate water;

2. Adequate shelter;

3. Adequate space in the primary enclosure for the
particular type of animal depending upon its age, size and
weight;

4. Veterinary care when needed and to prevent
suffering; and

5. Humane care and treatment.

The provisions of this section shall also apply to every
animal shelter with respect to animals contained therein.

3.1—796.73. Abandonment of animals; penalty.

No person shall abandon any animal. Abandonment for the
purposes of this section is defined as deserting, forsaking,
or intending to absolutely give up an animal without securing
another owner or without providing the necessities set out in
SS 3.1—796.68. Violation of this section shall be punishable
as a Class 3 misdemeanor.

3.1-796.122. Cruelty to animals; penalty.

Any person who (i) overrides, overdrives, overloads,
tortures, ill-treats, abandons, willfully inflicts inhumane
injury or pain not connected with bona fide scientific or
medical experimentation, or cruelly or unnecessarily beats,
maims, mutilates, or kills any animal, whether belonging to
himself or another; or (ii) deprives any animal of necessary
sustenance, food, drink or shelter; or (iii) willfully sets
on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers any
act of cruelty to any animal; or (iv) carries or causes to be
carried in or upon any vehicle, vessel or otherwise any
animal in a cruel, brutal, or inhumane manner, so as to
produce torture or unnecessary suffering; or (v) causes any
of the above things, or being the owner of such animal
permits such acts to be done by another, shall be guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor.

Any person who abandons any dog, cat or other
domesticated animal in any public place including the right—
of-way of any public highway, road or street or on the
property of another shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit
the dehorning of cattle.

For the purposes of this section . . . the word animal
shall be construed to include birds and fowl.

[Penalties: Class 1 misdemeanor: Imprisonment for not more

than 12 months and/or a fine of not more than $1,000; Class 3
misdemeanor: A fine of not more than $500.]

WASHINGTON

16.52.070. Certain acts as cruelty--Penalty.
Except as provided in RCW 9A.48.080, every person who

 




5/71

cruelly overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded,
overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills, or
causes, procures, authorizes, requests or encourages so to be
overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded,;overworked,
tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance,
cruelly beaten or mutilated or cruelly killed, any animal;
and whoever having the charge or custody of any animal,
either as owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary suffering
or pain upon the same, or unnecessarily fails to provide the
same with the proper food, drink, air, light, space, shelter
or protection from the weather, or who wilfully and
unreasonably drives the same when unfit for labor or with
yoke or harness that chafes or galls it, or check rein or any
part of its harness too tight for its comfort, or at night
when it has been six consecutive hours without a full meal,
or who cruelly abandons any animal, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. For the purposes of this section, necessary
sustenance or proper food means the provision at suitable
intervals, not to exceed twenty—four hours, of wholesome
foodstuff suitable for the species and age of the animal and
sufficient to provide a reasonable level of nutrition for the
animal.

WEST VIRGINIA

61-8—19a. Cruelty to dogs and cats prohibited; putting such
animals in fights against each other prohibited; penalties.
If any person shall cruelly, or needlessly beat,
torture, torment, mutilate, kill or willfully deprive
necessary sustenance, to any dog or cat, irrespective of
whether any such dog or cat be his or her own or that of
another person, or if any such person shall impound or
confine any such dog or cat in any place unprotected from the
elements or fail to supply the same with a sufficient
quantity of food and water, or shall abandon to die any
maimed, sick, or diseased dog or cat or shall be engaged in
or employed at dogfighting, or putting one dog or cat to
fight against another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to
any dog or cat, or shall receive money for the admission of
any person, or shall use, train or possess a dog or cat for
the purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any other
dog or cat, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and,
upon conviction, shall be fined not less than one hundred nor
more than one thousand dollars, and in addition thereto, in
the discretion of the court or magistrate, may be imprisoned
in the county jail not exceeding thirty days, and the county
humane officer may remove the dog or cat involved and place
said animal in the county pound, and said dog or cat shall
not be returned to owner (or perpetrator of act of cruelty)
but shall be put up for adoption to desirable home or given
over into the care of a humane society, or upon the
recommendation of a licensed veterinarian shall be humanely

 




destroyed.

61-8—19. Cruelty to animals . . . penalties.

(a) If any person shall cruelly, unnecessarily or
needlessly beat, torture, torment, mutilate, kill, or
overload, overdrive, or willfully deprive of necessary
sustenance, any horse or other domestic animal, whether such
horse or other animal be his own or that of another person,
or shall impound or confine any such animal in any place and
fail to supply the same with a sufficient quantity of good,
wholesome food and water, or shall carry in or upon any
vehicle, or otherwise, any such animal in a cruel or inhuman
manner, or knowingly feed a cow on food that produces impure
or unwholesome milk, or shall abandon to die any maimed,
sick, infirm or diseased animal . . . he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than five nor more than one hundred dollars, and in the
discretion of the court or magistrate, may be imprisoned in
the county jail not exceeding six months.

 




Z44»

WISCONS IN

951.01. Definitions.
In this chapter:
(1) 'Animal' includes every living:
(a) Warm-blooded creature, except a human being;
(b) Reptile; or
(c) Amphibian.
(2) 'Cruel' means causing unnecessary and excessive pain
or suffering or unjustifiable injury or death . . .

951.02. Mistreating animals.
No person may treat any animal, whether belonging to
himself or another, in a cruel manner . . .

951.13. Providing proper food and drink to confined animals.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may refuse or neglect to supply the
animal with a sufficient supply of food and water as
prescribed in this section.

(1) Food. The food shall be sufficient to maintain all
animals in good health.

(2) Water. If potable water is not accessible to the
animals at all times, it shall be provided daily and in
sufficient quantity for the health of the animal.

951.14. Providing proper shelter.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may fail to provide the animal with
proper shelter as prescribed in this section. In the case of
farm animals, nothing in this section shall be construed as
imposing shelter requirements or standards more stringent
than normally accepted husbandry practices in the particular
county where the animal or shelter is located.

(1) Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of
shelter shall include:

(a) Ambient temperatures. The ambient temperature
shall be compatible with the health of the animal.

(b) Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities shall
be adequately ventilated by natural or mechanical means to
provide for the health of the animals at all times.

(2) Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of
shelter shall include: .

(a) Shelter from sunlight. When sunlight is
likely to cause heat exhaustion of an animal tied or caged
outside, sufficient shade by natural or artificial means
shall be provided to protect the animal from direct sunlight.
As used in this paragraph, 'caged' does not include farm
fencing used to confine farm animals.

(b) Shelter from inclement weather.

1. 'Animals generally.‘ Natural or
artificial shelter appropriate to the local climatic
conditions for the species concerned shall be provided as

necessary for the health of the animal.

 




67

2. 'Dogs.‘ If a dog is tied or confined
unattended outdoors under weather conditions which adversely
affect the health of the dog, a shelter of suitable size to
accommodate the dog shall be provided.

(3) Space standards. Minimum space requirements for
both indoor and outdoor enclosures shall include:

(a) Structural strength. The housing facilities
shall be structurally sound and maintained in good repair to
protect the animals from injury and to contain the animals.

(b) Space requirements. Enclosures shall be
constructed and maintained so as to provide sufficient space
to allow each animal adequate freedom of movement.
Inadequate space may be indicated by evidence of debility,
stress or abnormal behavior patterns.

(4) Sanitation standards. Minimum standards of
sanitation for both indoor and outdoor enclosures shall
include periodic cleaning to remove excreta and other waste
materials, dirt and trash so as to minimize health hazards.

951.15. Animals; neglected or abandoned . . .
(1) No person may abandon any animal . . .

[Note: In 1986, Wisconsin upgraded the penalty for
deliberate acts of cruelty to a felony offense.]

WYOM ING

11—34-101. Definitions.
(1) 'Animal' shall be held to include every living
dumb creature . . .

11-34-102. Cruelty to animals generally.

‘ Every person who overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks or willfully and maliciously tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or
cruelly beats, or willfully and maliciously and needlessly
mutilates or kills, or carries in or upon any vehicle, or
otherwise in a cruel or inhuman manner any animal, or causes
or procures it to be done; or who, having the charge and
custody of any animal, unnecessarily fails to provide it with
the proper food, drink or protection from the weather, or
cruelly abandons it shall upon conviction, be punished by
imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one (1) year or
by fine not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) or by both such fine and
imprisonment.

, Vol. 1, Province Period, Appendix
Complete text. 1904.

Qld.5outh eaflets, Vol. VII, Boston, 1896, p. 18—20.

 




My

3. New York. State Courts. Digggg 9: New York Statutgs and
3§99£;§, from earliest period to the year 1860. Vol. 1, page

124.

4. Beyjsed Statutes, 1827-28, Fourth Part, Chapter I, Title
VI.

5. Qggeeel e: the Assembly 9: the State 9f ﬂew York, Slst
Seesien, Seegnd Meeting. Albany: Croswell, 1828, pages 45—

Beyised Statutes, Part IV, Chapter 130, Section 22.

Statetee_eﬁ Connecticut, Title XXI, p. 184.
Statutee e: the Territory eﬁ misconein, page 365, Sec.

Act of 28 August, 1856, Art. 2345 (714).

10. 1860 Lews eﬁ the Qegerel Assembly, Title IV, Sec. 46, p.
395.

115.3 1864 Lens of the Territory of. Idaho, XII: Sec. 143: p-
32 .

12. We are indebted to Professor David S. Favre and
attorney-veterinarian Dr. Murray Loring for their valuable
insights on this topic. Their noteworthy publication Animal
Law discusses a variety of topics, including the problems of
cruelty statutes, and provides a clear explanation, with case
support, of the legal principles involved.

13. "Accepted veterinary practice" includes performing,
without anesthesia, such procedures as dehorning of cattle at

any age, docking the tails of pigs and sheep, and castration.

14. Illinois requires "veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering"; Maine, "necessary medical attention";
Maryland, "necessary veterinary care"; Pennsylvania,
"veterinary care;" Puerto Rico, "medical or veterinary
treatment if needed."

15. The penalty for a gross misdemeanor in Nevada is up to
one year's imprisonment and/or a fine of up to $1,000.

16. On a national level, the American Humane Association
(AHA) offers to match up to $500 for "information leading to
the arrest and conviction of any person or persons willfully
poisoning any animal." Reward posters are available from
AHA's office at 9725 E. Hampden Avenue, Denver, CO, 80231.

17. In some states, every "willful act," etc.

 




at; m
H __ »;/507~//aa

ITEMS NEEDED TO COMPLETE ANTI-CRUELTY CHAPTER

1. Delaware: Need penalty for Class A misdemeanor.

lemD.wC.:wwNeed«antiseruelty~1aw," 2 1
“2%?“ézéyVHO "/kzﬂbflhﬁsé?dﬂ¥Q§Z£k/)ﬁtirgléicﬂL/L,1%?adiﬂ

3. Iowa: Need penalty for simple misdemeanor.

4. Mississippi: Need penalty for misdemeanor checked (Not
less than $10 nor more than $100 and/or imprisonment not less
than 10 days nor more than 100 days).

5. New Jersey: Was section 4:22-17 repealed, replaced, or
neither, by 4:22-26? If repealed, what are the penalties
now?

6. Oregon: Need penalty for Class B misdemeanor.
7. Texas: Need penalty for Class A misdemeanor.
8. Washington: Need penalty for misdemeanor.

9. Wisconsin: Needﬂ enalties for Class D forfeiture and ,
Class A misdemeanor./lﬁ4€2¢.gyﬁggzizﬁpfcifzkc/g¢&;xﬂﬂzzr “424$?
,/jﬁeg.:z1L. Icp~v;(<u; ‘1 ..i;4;/; Lgi, 4C€Lég,—)Li , ,

10. Need foo note #17 doublechecked: "On a national level,
the American Humane Association (AHA) offers to match up to
$500 for 'information leading to the arrest and conviction of
any person or persons willfully poisoning any animal.’

Reward posters are available from AHA's office at 9725 E.
Hampden Avenue, Denver, CO, 80231." Is this still correct

information (reward and availability of posters). “

59/711? ‘

'/ WISCONSIN upgraded the penalty , II I INOlS’S anti-cruelty law now stipu-
Jfberate acts of animal cruelty to a i ' late: tougher penalties for consecunve v10-
offense (see related story this pager] 9 lations of that measure. A ﬁrst offense is a
dmon. the legislature banned the use c ' class C misdemeanor, a second offense 1s a
GQmDression chambers with; em class B, and a third or subsequent eonv1c-

. of shelter anunals. , ﬁon is a class A misdemeanor.

 




CHAPTER I

THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS

IN THE UNITED STATES

by Emily Stewart Leavitt and Diane Halverson

America has the distinction of being the first country
to acknowledge the rights of animals by enacting statutory
legislation to protect them from cruel treatment. In 1641
the Puritans of the Massachusetts Bay Colony voted to have
printed their first legal code, "The Body of Liberties."l
There are 100 "liberties" which the Puritans expect "to be
respectfully impartiallie and inviolably enjoyed and observed
throughout our Jurisdiction for ever." At a time when others
considered animals as mere property, to be used or abused at
the whim of man, the Table of Contents lists: Liberty 92.
Cruelty to animals forbidden. On turning to Liberty 92, we

find:

OFF THE BRUITE CREATURE

92. No man shall exercise any Tirranny or
Crueltie towards any bruite Creature which are
usuallie kept for man's use.

93. If any man shall have occasion to leade
or drive Cattel from place to place that is far of,
so that they be weary, or hungry, or fall sick, or
lambe, It shall be lawful to rest or refresh them,
for a competent time, in any open place that is not
Corne, meadow, or inclosed for some peculiar use.

Thus we have, in addition to the first anti-cruelty law,

the first law to protect animals in transit.

 




The Puritans take special care to proclaim these
"liberties" laws:

96. Howsoever these above specified rites,
freedomes, Immunities, Authorities and priveledges,
both Civill and Ecclesiastical are expressed onely
under the name and title of Liberties, and not in the
exact form of Laws or Statutes, yet we do with one
consent fullie Authorise, and earnestly intreate all
that are and shall be in Authoritie to consider them
as laws, and not to faile to inflict condigne and
proportionable punishments upon every man impartiallie,
that shall infringe or violate any of them.

To strengthen further the legality of Liberty 92, we
draw on the research of the noted historian, Samuel Eliot
Morison. In his book, Builders of the Bay Colony (page 232),
he says, "Although animals then had no protection in Common
Law, 'The Bruite Creature' has a section of his own in the
Body of Liberties." And, in a footnote, Mr. Morison refers
to an "interesting case of condemnation for cruelty to an ox,
in Records of Quarterly Courts of Essex County
[Massachusetts] III, 305." It seems clear that Liberty 92
not only was an anti-cruelty law but also was used
successfully for prosecution.

This law is far ahead of its time-~50 far ahead that
humanitarians throughout the world, not aware of its
existence, have been assuming that the British M.P., Richard
Martin, who fought so fiercely for enactment of the first

anti-cruelty legislation in England (1822), was the primary

author of all the laws that have followed. It seems now that

"Humanity" Martin must give up first place to the Puritan

minister, Nathaniel Ward, who compiled the Body of Liberties

Of 1641.

 




Nathaniel Ward (c. 1578-1652) was born in Haverhill,
England. He was a graduate of Emmanuel College, Cambridge:
studied law and became a barrister. Driven out of England
for heresy by BishOp Laud, he came to New England in 1634 and
settled in Ipswich, Massachusetts, where he compiled "The
Body of Liberties," adopted by the General Court of
Massachusetts in December 1641. Beginning in 1635, there had
been a growing concern among the Deputies of the towns of the
Massachusetts Bay Colony for a draft of laws; committees had
been appointed time and again, but they all failed to produce
results. Finally, in June 1641, the guiding powers enlisted
the service of "a learned lawyer" whose legal abilities they
felt to be superior--the Rev. Nathaniel Ward, who had already
served on some of the committees. In his autobiographical
sketch, "The Simple Cobler of Aggawam," Mr. Ward says, "I
have read almost all the Common Law of England"; this and his
own experiences were the sources from which he drafted his
statute book. He enriched the code with his own practical

good sense and his understanding of the communal love of

liberty, making "The Body of Liberties" in entirety a work
2

far in advance of the time.

Aside from these Puritan laws, "there was little early
specific legislation but it was possible to prosecute
'cruelists' under common law as committing 'nuisances.'" For
instance:

A cartman in Philadelphia has been indicted
and found guilty of cruelly beating his horse and

sentenced to pay a fine of $30 with costs of
prosecution and to give bond for his good behavior

 




j/

for one year.

This information is given by William Shultz in the
introduction to his book, Ihe Humane Movement in the united
SiaiﬁﬁL lﬂlﬂ:1222, page 12. Note that the cartman had "to

give bond for his good behavior for one year," in addition to
the $30, and costs. It would seem that some of our modern
penalties for cruelty fall far short of the wisdom of this

one.

As further evidence that cruel treatment of animals was
punishable under Common Law, we have this statement from the

DissatofllewloszStatutesahdﬂeports:

Animals III. Treatment—-Preservation—-Destruction
of Animals.

28. Cruelty. That wanton cruelty to an animal--
e.g. excessive beating of his horse by a cartman,—-is
punishable at common law as a misdemeanor. Gen. Sess.,
1822, People v. Stakes, 1 Wheel. Cr. Cas., 111. And see
4

Ross' Case, 3 City H. Rec. 191.
As far as can be determined, the first anti-cruelty law
among the United States was enacted in 1828 by the New York

State Legislature. This law reads:

Sec. 26. Every person who shall maliciously
kill, maim, or wound any horse, ox, or other cattle,
or sheep, belonging to another, or shall maliciously
and cruelly beat or torture any such animal, whether
belonging to himself or another, shall, upon

5
conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.
Although this law limits the protected animals to owned

horses, cattle, or sheep, it does give these animals the

right to be protected from their owners' cruel treatment,

thus taking them out of the class of mere property and giving

 




/

:5

u-
'1’

them the legal right to be well treated for the first time in
an established State of the Union.

Who is responsible for this law? Efforts (searching
back to the Colonial Laws of 1664) to trace the origin to an
earlier date than 1828 have so far proved fruitless;
therefore, we must look to the 1827—28 Revisors of the
Statutes for responsibility. The two Revisors are B. F.
Butler and John C. Spencer. According to these gentlemen, in
their report to the Legislature of the State of New York,
dated October 15, 1828, they had been charged with the duty
of presenting an entirely new arrangement and organization of
the criminal laws. Saying that the Common Law had long
ceased to be a satisfactory guide in assigning punishments,
they cite the following guides for their work:

(1) The codes of penal law and of procedure
in criminal cases, prepared by Mr. Livingston for
the state of Louisiana . . . But the different state
of society for which our labors are intended, and
prevailing sentiments respecting punishments varying
essentially from those entertained by the enlightened
author of those codes, have prevented the adoption of
many provisions suggested by him . . .

(2) Anthony Hammond, Esg., a distinguished
jurist of the Inner Temple (in England) where recent
and great efforts have been made to simplify their
criminal laws. This gentleman transmitted to us his
able and voluminous reports and consolidations,
prepared under the employment of the government for
the British Parliament. They contain complete digests
of the British statutes respecting crimes, with copious
annotations from the reports. They have been of
essential service to us . . . it is but just to remark
that they were not so generally applicable to this
state, as to relieve us from the labor of newly
digesting and arranging so much of the law as relates

6

to crimes and their punishments.

From these explanations, it would seem that credit may

 




be given to Mr. Butler and Mr. Spencer for phrasing the first
anti—cruelty state law and for assigning its violation the
punishment of a misdemeanor.

The next state to pass anti-cruelty legislation was
Massachusetts in 1835.7 The wording was similar to that of
the New York law, but the punishment was designated "by
imprisonment in the county jail, not more than one year, or
by fine not exceeding one hundred dollars."

In 1838 Connecticut8 and Wisconsin9 added an
anti—cruelty law to their statutes. Connecticut's penalty
was imprisonment not exceeding one month or fine not
exceeding twenty-five dollars; Wisconsin set imprisonment at
not more than thirty days and fine from five to fifty
dollars.

The following chronological outline shows the year in
which each state enacted its first anti—cruelty law.

10
Penalties were similar to those already quoted, until Texas

set a fine as up to $250. Pennsylvaniall imposed a more
severe penalty: a fine up to two hundred dollars,
imprisonment up to one year, or both, at the discretion of
the court; and Idaho set its punishment as "A fine of not
more than five hundred dollars, or imprisonment . . . not
exceeding six months, or both ﬁggh fine and imQLisonment."

12
Idaho made another step forward by introducing and passing

a companion law (Sec. 142) to impose a similar penalty on any

person "who shall willfully administer any poison to any

cattle or domestic animal or maliciously expose any poisonous

 




substance, with the intent that the same shall be taken or
swallowed by cattle or domestic animal . . ." So far as is
known, this is the first law in the United States to protect

domestic animals from poisoning.
UNITED STATES ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS
Chronologicalﬂnactment
1641 Massachusetts Bay Colony "The Body of Liberties"

1828
1835
1838
1838
1842
1845
1848
1851
1851
1852
1854
1856
1857
1858
1859
1859
1860
1861
1864
1864
1867
1868
1868
1869
1871

New York
Massachusetts
Connecticut
Wisconsin

New Hampshire
Missouri
Virginia

Iowa
Minnesota ;,/”
Kentucky*/
Vermont

Texas

Rhode Island
Tennessee
Kansas
Washington
PennsylvaniaYV“
Nevada

Idaho

Oregon

New Jersey
California
West Virginia
Illinois

District of Columbia

Michigan

x:/

/

1871
1872
1873
1873
1873
1875
1879
1879
1880
1880
1881
1881
1883
1883
1884
1887
1887
1889
1890
1891
1893
1895
1898
1913
1913
1921

Montana
Colorado
Delaware
Indiana
Nebraska
Georgia
Arkansas
Louisiana
Mississippi
Ohio

North Carolina
South Carolina
Alabama

Maine

Hawaii

New Mexico
South Dakota
Florida
Maryland

North Dakota
Oklahoma
Wyoming

Utah

Alaska

Arizona

Virgin Islands

"'**vRev:irsed“1“96'5-~w J

By 1866 when Henry Bergh secured legislative consent for

the incorporation of the American Society for the Prevention

of Cruelty to Animals, twenty states had enacted anti-cruelty

laws; of these states, six were in reality still territories

 




. \
I l
(K

.a

when they passed their law: Wisconsin, Minnesota,
Washington, Kansas, Nevada, and Idaho.

In spite of laws to prevent cruelty to animals, Henry
Bergh, even with his newly incorporated society, found it

difficult to get convictions. His 1957 biographer, A. F.
Harlow, in Henry Bergh, Founder of the ASBQA, says that
although there had been an anti—cruelty law passed in New
York State in 1829 [sic], no one could remember that it had
ever been used to prosecute; it seemed better to draft a new
law than to try to revive an old one. Nevertheless, Henry
Bergh's first law, passed April 19, 1866, is similar to the
1828 law, though an added section aims to protect disabled

horses and mules from abandonment.

StatutesatLargecftheStateofNewlﬂorkpassed
in the years 1863, 1864, 1865, 1866. Chapter 682. AN
ACT better to prevent cruelty to animals. Passed
April 19, 1866.

The People of the State of New York, represented
in Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows:

Sec. 1. The twenty—sixth section of title six,
chapter first, part four of the Revised Statutes, is
hereby amended so as to read as follows:

Sec. 26. Every person who shall by his act or
neglect, maliciously kill, maim, wound, injure, torture
or cruelly beat any horse, mule, ox, cattle, sheep or
other animal belonging to himself or another, shall,
upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

. Sec. 2. Every owner, driver or possessor of an
old, maimed, or diseased horse or mule, turned loose
or left disabled in any street, lane or place of any
city in this state, who shall allow such horse or mule
to lie in any street, lane or public place for more
than three hours after knowledge of such disability,
shall, on conviction, be adjudged guilty of a
misdemeanor.

This 1866 law undoubtedly served the purpose of

 




f
>2
w

re-establishing anti-cruelty legislation as a matter of
public conscience, demanding respectful attention by judges
of prosecutions which Henry Bergh had often found heretofore
dismissed facetiously with no conviction.

Sensitive as he was to the many cruelties being
inflicted on animals, however, and cognizant of the newly
aroused public sentiment, Henry Bergh did not stop with the
somewhat meager 1866 legislation. His real masterpiece of
legal draftsmanship came in 1867 when "An Act for the more
effectual prevention of cruelty to animals" was passed on
April 12. This Act has ten sections and has since served as
the example for the drafting of many succeeding anti—cruelty
laws (forty-one states and the District of Columbia have
present laws based on this Act). For this reason it seems

worthy of quotation in entirety here.

STATUTES AT LARGE
OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK

Passed in the Years 1867, 1868, 1869, 1870
John W. Edmonds, Ed., Vol. VII, 1870

CHAP. 375

AN ACT for the more effectual prevention of
cruelty to animals.

Passed April 12, 1867; three—fifths being present

The People of the State of New York, represented
in Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows:

Section 1. If any person shall over—drive,
over-load, torture, torment, deprive of necessary
sustenance, or unnecessarily or cruelly beat, or
needlessly mutilate or kill, or cause or procure to
be over—driven, over-loaded, tortured, tormented or
deprived of necessary sustenance, or to be unnecessarily

 




or cruelly beaten, or needlessly mutilated or killed,
as aforesaid, any living creature, every such offender
shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a
misdemeanor.

Section 2. Any person who shall keep or use,
or in any way be connected with, or interested in the
management of, or shall receive money for the admission
of any person to any place kept or used for the purpose
of fighting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cock or
other creature, and every person who shall encourage,
aid or assist therein, or who shall permit or suffer
any place to be so kept or used, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 3. Any person who shall impound, or
cause to be impounded in any pound, any creature,
shall supply to the same, during such confinement, a
sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and
water, and in default thereof, shall upon conviction,
be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 4. In case any creature shall be at any
time impounded as aforesaid, and shall continue to be
without necessary food and water for more than twelve
successive hours, it shall be lawful for any person,
from time to time, and as often as it shall be
necessary, to enter into and upon any pound in which
any such creature shall be so confined, and to supply

it with necessary food and water so long as it shall
remain so confined. Such person shall not be liable
to any action for such entry, and the reasonable cost
of such food and water may be collected by him of the
owner of such creature, and the said creature shall
not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued
upon judgment therefor.

Section 5. If any person shall carry, or cause
to be carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise,
any creature, in a cruel or inhuman manner, he shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor; and whenever he shall be
taken into custody therefor by any officer, such officer
may take charge of such vehicle and its contents, and
deposit the same in some safe place of custody; and
any necessary expenses which may be incurred for taking
charge of and keeping and sustaining the same, shall
be a lien thereon, to be paid before the same can be
lawfully recovered. Or the said expenses or any part
thereof remaining unpaid, may be recovered by the
person incurring the same, of the owner of said
creature, in any action therefor.

Section 6. Every person who shall hereafter
use any dog or dogs for the purpose of drawing or

 




helping to draw any cart, carriage, truck, barrow

or other vehicle, in any city or incorporated village:
for business purposes, shall be required to take out

a license for that purpose, from the mayor or president
thereof, respectively, and shall have the number of
said license and the residence of the owner distinctly
painted thereon; and for each violation of this section
shall forfeit and pay a fine of one dollar for the
first offense, and a fine of ten dollars for each
subsequent offense.

Section 7. If any maimed, sick, infirm or
disabled creature shall be abandoned to die, by any
person, in any public place, such person shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor; and it shall be lawful for
any magistrate or captain of police in this state
to appoint suitable persons to destroy such creature
if unfit for further use.

Section 8. Any agent of the American society
for the prevention of cruelty to animals, upon being
designated thereto by the sheriff of any county in
this state, may, within such county, make arrest,
and bring before any court or magistrate thereof
having jurisdiction, offenders found violating the
provisions of this act; and all fines imposed and
collected in any such county, under the provisions
of this act, shall inure to said society, in the
aid of the benevolent objects for which it was
incorporated.

Section 9. This act shall take effect on the
first day of May next. And the said American society
for the prevention of cruelty to animals shall cause
the same to be published once each week for three
weeks, in four daily papers published in New York
City, or in default thereof shall forfeit the right
to receive the penalties and fines as provided.

Section 10. Nothing in this act contained shall
be construed to prohibit or interfere with any
properly conducted scientific experiments or
investigations, which experiments shall be performed
only under the authority of the faculty of some
regularly incorporated medical college or university

of the state of New York.

A careful scrutiny of the 1867 law will show the great

advance made in establishing protection and legal rights for

animals. In Section 1, notice the detailed, specific

cruelties, and that they are now applied to "any living

 




creature." Section 2, a new addition, prohibits animal
fights and baiting. Sections 3 and 4 protect impounded
animals from hunger and thirst. Section 5 aims to stop
cruelty in transporting animals. Section 10 shows the early
impact of animal experimentation upon the cruelty laws; even

in 1867 it is exempt from cruelty charges.

 




/ ,/

ANALYSIS OF PRESENT ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS

An analysis of the current anti-cruelty laws in the
fifty states, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam,
the Canal Zone, the Virgin Islands and the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico shows that the public conscience generally agrees
that all animals have the right to (l) protection from cruel
treatment, such as is described in detail in Section 1 of
Henry Bergh's 1867 law; (2) protection from abandonment; (3)
protection from poisoning; and (4) the provision of food,

water and shelter.

Protection from Cruel Ersatmem;

Nearly half the states, American Samoa, and Guam have
laws which stipulate that cruel treatment must have been
committed willfully, maliciously, or cruelly. State statutes
with qualifiers such as "intentionally," "negligently,"
"maliciously," or "knowingly" define the mental state of the
person charged. Statutes without qualifiers make offenders
strictly liable for an offense without regard to mental
state. Please note that terms such as "cruelly" and
"unnecessarily" which characterize the circumstances of the
offense committed must be distinguished from the qualifiers
"intentionally," "negligently," "maliciously," or "knowingly"
which describe a culpable mental state.13 In court it is
often difficult to prove willfulness or malice, and so, in

practice, the use of such qualifiers can lead to the

acquittal of offenders who might justly have been convicted

 




/' ' ._
f,
/ j

of committing cruelty to animals under the laws of other
jurisdictions drafted without qualifiers. Moreover,
provisions with qualifiers can be interpreted as a license to
inflict any degree of suffering on any number of animals
provided that the motives of the person inflicting the pain
are not sadistic. It is this interpretation that is applied
to scientific research and to scientific demonstrations in
schools.

In 22 states and the District of Columbia, experimental
animals used in scientific institutions are specifically
excluded from the protective coverage of the anti-cruelty
laws. These states are: Alaska, California, Delaware,
Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine,
Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, South
Dakota, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington and
Wisconsin. In most of these states, the exemptions are
constructed in language similar to Missouri's law in which it
is written that the protective provisions of the animal
welfare statute "shall not be construed to prevent or
interfere with any scientific experiments or investigations."
(Section 578.055) In Utah, the statute explicitly permits
both painful research and painful animal husbandry practices:

It is a defense to the prosecution under this

section that the conduct of the actor towards the

14
animal was an accepted veterinary practice or directly
related to a Dona iiﬁe experimentation for scientific
research provided that if the animal is to be destroyed,
the manner employed will not be unnecessarily cruel
unless directly necessary to the veterinary purpose or
scientific research involved [Section 76—9-3011.

 




   

     
 

As drafted, exemptions for scientific research in Alaska

   
 

and Vermont call for the "humane" treatment of animals. The

Vermont statute states that nothing within the anti—cruelty

  
   
 

law "shall be construed to prohibit or interfere with the use

of animals for scientific research by competent research men

  
   
   
 

if done in a humane manner with a minimum of suffering to the

animals [Section 13—4031."

  
  

Although Pennsylvania's anti—cruelty law does not

    
 

contain such exemptions, it does permit the issuance of

search warrants to the police or humane society agents to

   
   
   
   
     
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
 

enter places where they believe cruelty to animals is being
committed, but adds the following prohibition:

Provided, that no search warrant shall be issued
under the provisions of this section which shall
authorize any policeman, or agent or other person to
enter upon to search premises where scientific research
is being conducted by, or under the supervision of,
graduates of duly accredited scientific schools or where
biological products are being produced for the care or

prevention of disease. [Section 18-5511, Act of June 3,
1911, as amended.]

Eroyision Qﬁ EQle WQLEL and Shﬁltﬁn
Nearly 20 states, the District of Columbia and Guam

prohibit both depriving an animal of "necessary sustenance"
and failing to provide "food and water" or "food, water and
shelter." Several require the provision of "necessary
sustenance" without further reference to food, water or
shelter. The application of the phrase "necessary
sustenance" varies from state to state but minimally refers
to the provision of food and water or, in some states, to a

sufficient amount of wholesome food, or to such additional

  




/é

provisions as shelter, adequate exercise, sanitary living
conditions, adequate space for confined animals and necessary
veterinary care.

In New York, for example, Section 353 of the
anti-cruelty code states in part: "A person who . . .
deprives any animal of negessary sustenanse, food or drink,
or neglects or refuses to furnish it eueh sustenenee or
drink . . . or in any way furthers any act of cruelty to any
animal, or any act ending to produce such cruelty, is guilty
of a misdemeanor . . ." (emphasis added). In the case of
239213 it QLBQHLKe, 369 N.Y.S. 2d 335 (1975), motion denied,
83 Misc. 2d 51, 371 N.Y.S. 2d 603, the defendants were
charged with violating Section 353 for allowing a limping
horse to continue to work without providing it with necessary
veterinary care. The court noted the definition of
"sustenance" in Kebsterls lhird New International Dittienarx
(1966): "the act of supplying or being supplied with the
netessaries Qﬁ life." The court also cited the definition of

"torture" or "cruelty": "Every act, omission or negleet

whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is

caused or permitted" and determined that failing to provide
the horse with necessary medical attention constituted
neglect under Section 353.15 (Italics ours.)

Failure to provide food and water (sustenance) is a
violation of law in most states, the District of Columbia,

Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone and Guam.

A list of anti-cruelty statutes enabling any private

 




/7

citizen to relieve a neglected animal impounded on the
property of another person by entering into the place of
confinement to supply the animal with food and water, or by
removing the animal to feed and water it, is given in the
Appendix.

Approximately half the state statutes require shelter
without qualifying phrases, but most states require that
failure to provide shelter be proven intentional or cruel.
Although anti-cruelty statutes in Hawaii, Mississippi, New
Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee, and West Virginia
do not specifically require shelter, they prohibit depriving
an animal of necessary sustenance. Courts in these states
have ruled that necessary sustenance includes shelter (as
well as food and water). In Oregon, Hawaii, and Mississippi,
the courts have not yet ruled on the issue. Lest one think
that protection from the cold is needed only in such states
as Alaska, remember also the need for shelter from driving
rain and wind, and from the hot, beating sun in such states
as Mississippi and Louisiana, where shelter is not
specifically called for. Every jurisdiction should require
shelter in its anti-cruelty code.

Warmmmm
H I.] !' and S 'l I' . 3 3'!'
Provisions for adequate exercise, space, light,

ventilation and clean living conditions for confined animals

are important but infrequent requirements of state

anti-cruelty laws. Those statutes that do include these

 




/ l

provisions make only brief references to them. Statutes in
Florida, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota, New York, Ohio,
Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico require fresh air.
California, Florida, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesota,
North Dakota, Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico
codes make reference to exercise or adequate space. Light is
required in Washington and Puerto Rico. Maine and Wisconsin

statutes require clean living conditions.

W0 ' ermAbandanient

Abandonment of animals is defined in the Colorado code
(Section 18-9-201) as "the leaving of an animal by its owner
or other person responsible for its care or custody without
making effective provisions for its proper care." Most
states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the
Canal Zone, prohibit abandonment. In several states, the
prohibition is restricted to nillfnl, gnnel or intentional
abandonment; to abandoning animals to die; to abandoning
disabled_animals or to abandoning domestig animals (leaving

in question the protection of wild animals in captivity).

Kinda 9f.Animal§ Bxgiﬁgiﬁd
With respect to which animals are to be protected from
cruel treatment, about half the state laws protect any non-
human living creature or "any animal," defining animals as
all living creatures except human beings. The rest use the

phrase "animal," "domestic animals," "captive animals," or

"warm-blooded creatures."

 




/]67

A person who intentionally injures or kills an animal
belonging to another commits a criminal act. The
anti-cruelty laws of half the states specifically prohibit
the use of poison to inflict injury or death. Under the
Connecticut anti-cruelty code, "any person who . . .
unjustifiably administers any poisonous or noxious drug or
substance to any domestic animal or unjustifiably exposes any
such drug or substance, with intent that the same shall be
taken by an animal, or causes it to be done . . . shall be
fined not more than $250 or imprisoned not more than one year
or both."

Among the states which prohibit administering and/or
exposing toxic substances to domestic animals in the anti—
cruelty code, variations exist as to which animals are
protected: some concern any animal, dogs only, or livestock
only, and some distinguish between animals that are the
property of the poisoner and those that belong to someone
else. Penalties for poisoning or attempting to poison may
vary according to the monetary value of the animal, the
species of animal, and whether the animal belongs to the
poisoner or to another, with the longest term of imprisonment
and highest fine usually imposed when the poison is
administered to or exposed to livestock. In Nevada, for

example:

. . . a person who unjustifiably administers
any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to a horse,
mule or domestic cattle, or unjustifiably exposes any
such drug or substance with intent that it be taken by

 




a horse, mule or domestic cattle whether the horse,
mule or domestic cattle are the property of himself
or another, shall be punished by imprisonment in the
state prison for not less than one year nor more than
10 years, or by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by
both fine and imprisonment. A person who unjustifiably
administers any poisonous or noxious drug or substance
to any animal other than a horse, mule or domestic
cattle, or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or
substance with intent that the same shall be taken by an
animal other than a horse, mule or domestic cattle,
whether such animal is the property of himself or

16
another, is guilty of a gross misdemeanor. This
section does not prohibit the destruction of noxious
animals. [Section 574.150]

In states without such anti-cruelty statutes, poisoning
prohibitions may exist under another title of the state law
code, or poisoners who injure or kill any animal belonging to
another may be charged with committing a crime against
property. Within the anti—cruelty code, a poisoner may be
prosecuted for injuring, killing or inflicting pain upon an
animal. Colorado imposes the highest fine for causing pain,
injury or death: a minimum of six months' imprisonment
and/or a fine of $500 to a maximum of twenty-four months'
imprisonment and/or a $5000 fine. The law states that "a
person commits cruelty to animals if, except as authorized by
law, he . . . tortures, torments . . . needlessly kills . . .
any animal."

Poisoners are hard to catch in the act, but announcement
of a substantial reward for information leading to the arrest

and conviction of a person trying to poison domestic animals

has proved very effective in bringing a quick stop to such
17
activities.

 




9/

Humanemmgfmimals

The anti-cruelty laws of most states, the District of
Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico require that
transport of animals be conducted in a humane manner.
Minnesota's law protects "any live animals" (defining
"animal" as "every living creature") and specifies the acts
that constitute a cruel manner of transport.
Minnesota statute 343.24 states:

Every person who shall carry, or cause to be
carried, any live animals upon any vehicle or
otherwise, without providing suitable racks,
cars, crates, or cages in which such animals can
both stand and lie down during transportation,
and while awaiting slaughter; every person who
shall carry, or cause to be carried, upon a
vehicle or otherwise, any live animal having
feet or legs tied together, or in any other
cruel or inhumane manner, and every person or
corporation engaged in transporting livestock
who shall detain the same in cars or compartments
for more than 28 consecutive hours without unloading
the same in a humane manner into properly equipped
pens for rest, water, and feeding for a period of
at least five consecutive hours, unless requested
to do so as hereinafter provided, or unless prevented
by storm or unavoidable causes which cannot be
anticipated or avoided by the exercise of due
diligence and foresight, or shall permit the same
to be crowded together without sufficient space to
stand, or so as to overlie, crush, wound, or kill
each other, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor;
provided, that upon the written request of the
owner or person in custody of that particular
shipment, which written request shall be separate
and apart from any printed bill of lading, or
other railroad form, the time and confinement may
be extended to 36 consecutive hours.

The majority of state laws requiring humane transport
are much briefer than Minnesota's, however, and are often

written in the manner of the following Mississippi statute:

"If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by hand or

 




upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a cruel

or inhumane manner, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor"
[Section 97-41-51.

California, Idaho, Washington and West Virginia protect
"domestic animals" from cruel transport. The District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the 30
remaining states with transportation provisions protect,
variously, "any creature" or "any animal" ("an animal")-—with
individual definitions of "animal."

Anti—cruelty statutes prohibiting inhumane transport are
given in the Appendix, along with the penalties for

violating these statutes.

Ihﬂ Maluﬁ Qﬁ SEEQifiC Languagﬁ

Cruelty, as defined in the anti—cruelty codes, usually
consists of "every act, omission or neglect18 whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or
permitted." Therefore, when a law does not specifically
require shelter, a judge may determine that failure to
provide it is "an omission" or "neglect" causing
"unjustifiable physical pain" and, therefore, an act of
cruelty punishable by law. It is far better, however, if
illegal acts are specifically prohibited by statute. This
need was demonstrated in a 1976 opinion by Kansas Attorney
General Curt Schneider on whether abandonment constituted a
violation of the state's anti-cruelty code. The statute then

read as follows: "Cruelty to animals is subjecting any

animal to cruel mistreatment or having custody of any animal

 




and subjecting such animal to cruel neglect."

The Attorney General noted the definition of cruelty--as
quoted above--in jurisdictions outside of Kansas (the Kansas
code gave no definition) and determined that "the mere act of
abandoning does not per se cause unjustifiable physical pain,
suffering or death and thus does not constitute cruel
mistreatment." He concluded that the portion of the Kansas

law which stated "cruelty to animals is . . . having custody

of any animal and subjecting such animal to cruel neglect"

does not apply to abandonment since the law refers to those
persons "having custody" of an animal and "an abandoned
animal would not be in custody of the original owner."

Fortunately, in 1977 Kansas enacted stronger legislation
with more specific prohibitions and requirements, as noted in
the charts. However, very generalized laws remain in other
jurisdictions, notably in Arkansas, Delaware, Georgia,
Louisiana, American Samoa and the Virgin Islands. In
Georgia, for example, the portion of the law prohibiting acts
of cruelty, enacted in 1968, now reads in its entirety: "A
person is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act, omission, or
neglect causes unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or
death to any living animal."

Clearly, humane citizens concerned about the welfare of
animals should work to: (l) preserve strong laws; (2)
promote better state and federal legislation; (3) be alert to
proposed changes in present laws; (4) support competent

humane officers; (5) enlarge the number of good and efficient

 




 

(«7

animal protective societies; (6) report all cases of cruelty
to those in authority, including the local police or sheriff,
state police or state veterinarian; (7) plan practical ways

to monitor the treatment of animals in commerce; and (8)

promote humane education.

 




,\

’2 J / . a. w—r «w
[I A.” '/m. I \/ // //
57k" / , / /’ , v)

Vila

ALABAMA

13A—ll-l4. Cruelty to animals.

(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if:
except as otherwise authorized by law, he intentionally or
recklessly:

(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or

(2) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or

(3) Kills or injures without good cause any animal
belonging to another.

[Penalty: Up to 6 months imprisonment and/or up to $1,000
fine (SS l3—A-5—7, l3—A-5—12).]

ALASKA

11.61.140. Cruelty to animals.
(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if
the person
(1) intentionally inflicts severe and prolonged
physical pain or suffering on an animal;

' (2) recklessly neglects an animal and, as a result
of that neglect, causes the death of the animal or causes
severe pain or suffering to the animal . . .

(c) In this section, 'animal' means a vertebrate living
creature not human being, but does not include fish.

[Penalty: Up to $5,000 fine and/or up to 1 year
imprisonment (SS 12.55.035, 12.55.135).]

ARIZONA

13-2910. Cruelty to animals or poultry; classification
A. A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as
otherwise authorized by law, such person recklessly:
1. Subjects any animals or poultry under human
custody or control to cruel mistreatment; or
2. Subjects any animal or poultry under his
custody or control to cruel neglect or abandonment; or
3. Kills any animal or poultry under the custody
or control of another without either legal privilege or
consent of the owner . . .
C. Cruelty to animals or poultry is a class 2
misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Up to 4 months imprisonment and/or up to $750
fine (SS 13-707, 13—802).)

ARKANSAS

 




5-62.101. Cruelty to animals.
(a) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals

if, except as authorized by law, he knowingly:

(l) Abandons any animal;

(2) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment;

(3) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or

(4) Kills or injures any animal belonging to
another without legal privilege or consent of the owner.

(Penalty: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 1 year
imprisonment (SS 5-4-201, 5-4-401).]

CALIFORNIA

597. Cruelty to animals.

(a) Except as provided in subdivision (c) of this
section or Section 599C, every person who maliciously and
intentionally maims, mutilates, tortures, or wounds a living
animal, or maliciously and intentionally kills an animal, is
guilty of an offense punishable by imprisonment in the state
prison, or by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars
($20,000), or by both the fine and imprisonment, or,
alternatively, by imprisonment in the county jail for not
more than one year, or by a fine of not more than twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both the fine and
imprisonment.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (a) or
(c), every person who overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beats,
mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures
any animal to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of
necessary sustenance, drink, shelter, or to be cruelly
beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed; and whoever, having the
charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or
otherwise, subjects any animal to needless suffering, or
inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the animal, or in any
manner abuses any animal, or fails to provide the animal with
proper food, drink, or shelter or protection from the
weather, or who drives, rides, or otherwise uses the animal
when unfit for labor, is, for every such offense, guilty of a
crime punishable as a misdemeanor or as a felony or
alternatively punishable as a misdemeanor or a felony and by
a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) . .

599.b. . . . 'animal' includes every dumb creature; the
words 'torment,‘ 'torture,’ and 'cruelty' include every act,
omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable
Physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted . . .

 




COLORADO

18-9-201. Definitions.

(1) 'Abandon' includes the leaving of an animal by its
owner or other person responsible for its care or custody
without making effective provisions for its proper care.

(2) 'Animal' means any living dumb creature.

(3) 'Mistreatment' includes every act or omission which
causes, or unreasonably permits the continuation of,
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering.

(4) 'Neglect' includes failure to provide food, water,
protection from the elements, opportunity for exercise, or
other care normal, usual, and proper for an animal's health
and well-being.

18—9-202. Cruelty to animals — neglect of animals —
offenses.

(l) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as
authorized by law, he knowingly or with criminal negligence
overdrives, overloads, overworks, tortures, torments,
deprives of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly
beats, needlessly mutilates, needlessly kills, carries in or
upon any vehicles in a cruel manner, or otherwise mistreats
or neglects any animal, or causes or procures it to be done,
or, having the charge and custody of any animal, fails tO'
provide it with prOper food, drink, or protection from the
weather, or abandons it.

(2) (a) Cruelty to animals is a class 1 misdemeanor.

(b) In the case of any person incurring a second or
subsequent conviction under the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this subsection (2), a sentence of imprisonment within the
minimum and maximum terms shall be mandatory and shall not be
subject to suspension, nor shall such person be eligible for
probation or parole for any part of such period . . .

35-42-112. Cruelty to animals - penalty. Every person who
overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks,
tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beats, needlessly mutilates or
kills, or carries in or upon any vehicles or otherwise in a
cruel or inhumane manner any animal or causes or procures it
to be done or who, having charge and custody of any animal,
unnecessarily fails to provide it with proper food, drink, or
protection from the weather or cruelly abandons it commits a
class 1 misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
section 18-1-106, C.R.S.

[Penalty: Minimum sentence is six months imprisonment or
$500 fine, or both; maximum sentence is 24 months
imprisonment or $5,000 fine, or both (SS 18-1—106).]

CONNECTICUT

 




53-247. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who overdrives, drives when overloaded,
overworks, tortures, deprives of necessary sustenance,
mutilates or cruelly beats or kills or unjustifiably injures
any animal, or who, having impounded or confined any animal,
fails to give such animal prOper care or neglects to cage or
restrain any such animal from doing injury to itself or to
another animal or fails to supply any such animal with
wholesome air, food and water, or unjustifiably administers
any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any domestic
animal or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance,
with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal, or
causes it to be done, or, having charge or custody of any
animal, inflicts cruelty upon it or fails to provide it with
proper food, drink or protection from the weather or abandons
it or carries it or causes it to be carried in a cruel
manner . . . or worries any animal for the purpose of making
it perform for amusement, diversion or exhibition, shall be
fined not more than seven hundred and fifty dollars or
imprisoned not more than one year or both.

DELAWARE

1325. Cruelty to animals; class A misdemeanor.

(a) For the purpose of this section, the following words
and phrases shall include, but not be limited to, the
meanings respectively ascribed to them as follows:

(1) 'Cruel' includes every act or omission to act
whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering is caused or permitted.

(2) 'Cruel mistreatment' includes any treatment
whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or

suffering is caused or permitted.
(3) 'Cruel neglect' includes neglect of an animal,

which is under the care and control of the neglector, whereby
pain or suffering is caused to the animal or abandonment of
any domesticated animal by its owner or custodian.

(4) 'Cruelty to animals' includes mistreatment of
any animal or neglect of any animal under the care and
control of the neglector, whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused. By way
of example this includes: Unjustifiable beating of an
animal; overworking of an animal; tormenting an animal;
abandonment of an animal; failure to feed properly or give
proper shelter or veterinary care to an animal.

(5) 'Person' includes any individual, partnership,
corporation or association living and/or doing business in
the State.

(6) 'Abandonment' includes completely forsaking or
deserting an animal originally under one's custody without
making reasonable arrangements for custody of that animal to

be assumed by another person. . '
(7) 'Custody' includes the responsibllity for the

 




ﬁg?
>5,

welfare of an animal subject to one's care and control
whether he owns it or not.

(8) 'Proper feed' includes providing each animal
with daily food and water of sufficient quality and quantity
to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering by the animal.

(9) 'Proper shelter' includes providing each animal
with adequate shelter from the weather elements as required
to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering by the animal.

(10) 'Proper veterinary care' includes providing
each animal with veterinary care sufficient to prevent
unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering by
the animal.

(11) 'Animal' shall not include fish, crustacea or
molluska.

(b) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals when he
intentionally or recklessly:

(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or

(2) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or

(3) Kills or injures any animal belonging to
another person without legal privilege or consent of the
owner; or

(4) Cruelly or unnecessarily kills or injures any
animal whether belonging to himself or another. This section
does not apply to the killing of any animal normally or
commonly raised as food for human consumption, provided that
such killing is not cruel. A person acts unnecessarily if
the act is not required to terminate an animal's suffering,
to protect the life or property of the actor or another

2;: person or if other means of disposing of an animal exist
, which would not impair the health or well—being of that

animal.

FLORIDA

828.12. Cruelty to Animals

Whoever unnecessarily overloads, overdrives, tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary sustenance or shelter, or
unnecessarily or cruelly beats, mutilates, or kills any
animal, or causes the same to be done, or carries in or upon
any vehicle, or otherwise, any animal in a cruel or inhuman
manner, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree,
punishable as provided in s. 775.082 or by a fine of not more
than $5,000, or both.

[Penalty: Imprisonment not exceeding 1 year (SS 775.082).]

GEORGIA

 




16-12-—4. Cruelty to animals.

(a) A person is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act,
omission, or neglect causes unjustifiable physical pain,
suffering, or death to any living animal.

(b) This Code section does not apply to the killing of
animals raised for the purpose of providing food nor does it
apply to any person who hunts wild animals in compliance with
the game and fish laws of this state. The killing or
injuring of an animal for humane purposes or in the
furtherance of medical or scientific research is justifiable.
(Code 1933, SS 26-2802, enacted by Ga. L. 1968, p. 1249,

SS 1.)

(Penalty: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 12 months
imprisonment (SS l7—lO-3).]

HAWAII

711—1100. Definitions of terms in this chapter . . .

(5) 'Animal' includes every living creature;

(6) 'Cruelty,‘ 'torture' or 'torment' includes every
act, omission, or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical
pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

711—1109. Cruelty to animals.

(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals
if he knowingly or recklessly:

(a) Overdrives, overloads, tortures, torments,
deprives of necessary sustenance, or cruelly beats or
needlessly mutilates or kills, or causes or procures to be
overdriven, overloaded, tortured, tormented or deprived of
necessary sustenance, or to be cruelly beaten, or needlessly
mutilated or killed, any living creature . . .

(b) Keeps or uses; or in any way is connected with
or interested in the management of, or receives money for the
admission of any person to, any place kept or used for the
purpose of fighting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cock or
other creature, and every person who encourages, aids or
assists therein, or who permits or suffers any place to be so
kept or used;

(c) Carries or causes to be carried, in or upon any
vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a cruel or
inhumane manner.

(d) Sets on foot, or instigates in or does any act
towards the furtherance of any act of cruelty to animals.

(2) Subsections (l)(a), (c), (d) and the following
subsection (3) are not applicable to accepted veterinary
practices and to activities carried on for scientific
research governed by standards of accepted educational or
medical practices.

(3) Whenever any domestic animal is so severely injured
that there is no reasonable probability that its life or

 




usefulness can be saved, the animal may be immediately
destroyed.
(4) Cruelty to animals is a misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Up to $1,00 fine and/or up to 1 year imprisonment
(SS 37-706-640, 37—706-663).]

IDAHO

18.2102. Killing and otherwise mistreating animals.

(1) Every person who maliciously kills, maims, or wounds
an animal, the property of another, or who overdrives,
overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink or shelter,
cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal, or
causes or procures any animal to be so overdriven,
overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured,
tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, drink or
shelter, or to be cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly
killed; and whoever, having the charge or custody of any
animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to
needless suffering or inflicts any unnecessary cruelty upon
the same, or in any manner abuses any animal, or fails to
provide the same with proper food, drink, shelter or
protection from the weather, or who cruelly drives, rides, or
otherwise uses the same when unfit for labor, is, for every
such offense, guilty of a misdemeanor.

(2) Any person convicted for violation of this section
shall be punished by a jail sentence of not more than six (6)
months or by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000), or by both such fine and imprisonment. [I.C., SS
18-2102, as added by 1972, ch. 336, SS 1, p. 844; am. 1979,
ch. 183, SS 1, p. 537.] . . .

18.2108. Impounding without food or water.

Any person who impounds, or causes to be impounded in
any pound, any domestic animal, must supply the same during
such confinement with a sufficient quantity of good and
wholesome food and water, and in default thereof, is guilty
of a misdemeanor. In case any domestic animal is at any time
impounded as aforesaid and continues to be without necessary
food and water for more than twelve (12) hours, it is lawful
for any person, from time to time, as may be deemed
necessary, to enter into and upon any pound in which such
animal is confined, and supply it with necessary food and
water so long as it remains so confined. Such person is not
liable to any action for such entry, and the reasonable cost
of such food and water may be collected by him of the owner
of such animal, and such animal is not exempt from levy and
sale upon execution issued upon a judgment thereof . . .

18-2109. Permitting animals to go without care - Abandoned
animals to be killed.

 




Every owner, driver or possessor of any animal, who
shall permit the same to be in any building, inclosure, lane:
street, square or lot of any city, county or precinct,
without proper care and attention, shall, on conviction, be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

18.2112. Terms defined.

In this chapter the word 'animal' includes every dumb
creature; the words 'torment,‘ 'torture' and 'cruelty'
include every act, omission or neglect whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or
permitted . . .

ILLINOIS

703.01. Cruel treatment.

SS 301. No person or owner may beat, cruelly treat,
torment, starve, overwork or otherwise abuse any animal.

No owner may abandon any animal where it may become a
public charge or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure . . .

[Penalty: Up to 3 days imprisonment and/or a fine of $500
(SS 38:1005—8—3, 38:1005—9-1).1

INDIANA

35.=—46-3-3. 'Animal' defined.
As used in this chapter, 'animal' does not include a
human being . . .

35—46—3—7. Abandonment or neglect of vertebrate animal. A
person having a vertebrate animal in the person's custody who
recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally abandons or neglects
the animal commits cruelty to an animal, a Class B
misdemeanor. [P.L. 193-1987, SS 10.] . . .

35-46-3-12. Torturing or killing vertebrate animal.
(a) A person who knowingly or intentionally:
(l) Tortures, beats, or mutilates a vertebrate
animal resulting in serious injury or death to the animal; or
(2) Kills a vertebrate animal without the authority
of the owner of the animal;
commits cruelty to an animal, a Class A misdemeanor.
(b) It is a defense that the accused person reasonably
believes the conduct was necessary to:
(l) Prevent injury to the accused person or another

person;

(2) Protect the property of the accused person from

destruction or substantial damage; or
(3) Prevent a seriously injured vertebrate animal

from prolonged suffering. [P.L. 193-1987, SS 15.] . . .

 




[Penalty: Class A misdemeanor: Up to 1 year imprisonment in
addition to a fine of up to $5,000 (SS 35—50—3-2); Class B
misdemeanor: Up to 180 days imprisonment in addition to a
fine of up to $1,000 (SS 35-50-3-3).]

IOWA

717.2. Cruelty to animals.

A person who impounds or confines, in any place, a
domestic animal or fowl, or an animal or fowl subject to
section 109.60, or dog or cat, and fails to supply the animal
during confinement with a sufficient quantity of food, and
water, or who fails to provide a dog or cat with adequate
shelter, or who tortures, torments, deprives of necessary
sustenance, mutilates, overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, beats, or kills an animal by any means which
cause unjustified pain, distress, or suffering, whether
intentionally or negligently, commits the offense of cruelty
to animals. '

A person who commits the offense of cruelty to animals
is guilty of a simple misdemeanor. A person who
intentionally commits the offense of cruelty to animals which
results in serious injury to or the death of an animal is
guilty of a serious misdemeanor . . .

717.4. Abandonment of cats and dogs - penalty.

A person who has ownership or custody of a cat or dog
shall not abandon the cat or dog, except the person may
deliver the cat or dog to another person who will accept
ownership and custody or the person may deliver the cat or
dog to an animal shelter or pound as defined in section
162.2. A person who violates this section is guilty of a
simple misdemeanor.

(Penalty: Simple misdemeanor: SS
° Serious misdemeanor: Up to 1 year and/or a fine of up to

I

$1,000 (SS 903.1).1

KANSAS

21—4310. Cruelty to Animals
(1) Cruelty to animals is:
(a) Intentionally killing, injuring, maiming,
torturing or mutilating any animal;
(b) abandoning or leaving any animal in any place
without making provisions for its proper care; or
(c) having physical custody of any animal and
failing to provide such food, potable water, protection from
the elements, opportunity for exercise and other care as is
needed for the health or well-being of such kind of animal.
(2) The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
(b) bona fide experiments carried on by

 




 

commonly recognized research facilities . . .

21-4313. Animals, Definitions.
(1) 'Animal' means every living vertebrate except a

human being . . .

[Penalty: Up to 6 months imprisonment and/or up to $1,000 (SS
21:4502, 21:4503).]

KENTUCKY

525.130 Cruelty to animals in the second degree.

(1) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the
second degree when except as authorized by law he
intentionally or wantonly:

(a) Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or
injurious mistreatment through abandonment, participates
other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in causing it to fight
for pleasure or profit, (including, but not limited to being
a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation,
beating, torturing, tormenting, failing to provide adequate
food, drink, space or health care, or by any other means; or

(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or

(c) Kills any animal.

(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing
of animals:

(a) Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;

(b) Incident to the processing as food or for other
commercial purposes;

(c) For humane purposes.

(d) For any other purpose authorized by law.

(3) Cruelty to animals in the second degree is a Class A

misdemeanor.

[Penalty: A fine of up to $500 and/or imprisonment up to 12
months (88534.040, 534.090).]

 




LOUISIANA

14:102. Definitions; cruelty to animals . . .

(1) 'Cruel' means every act or failure to act whereby
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or
permitted.

(2) 'Abandons' means to completely forsake and desert an
animal previously under the custody or possession of a person
without making reasonable arrangements for its prOper care,
sustenance, and shelter.

(3) 'Proper food' means providing each animal with daily
food of sufficient quality and quantity to prevent
unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering by the animal.

(4) 'Proper water' means providing each animal with
daily water of sufficient quality and quantity to prevent
unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering by the animal.

(5) 'Proper shelter' means providing each animal with
adequate shelter from the elements as required to prevent
unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering by the animal.

(6) 'Proper veterinary care' means providing each animal
with veterinary care sufficient to prevent unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering by the animal.

14:102.l. Cruelty to animals . . .

(B) Whoever commits the crime of cruelty to animals
shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars, or
imprisoned for not more than six months, or both.

14:102.4. Confined animals; necessary food and water.

When a living animal is impounded or_confined, and
continues without necessary food and water for more than
twenty—four consecutive hours, any law enforcement officer
may, as often as is necessary, enter any place in which the
animal is impounded or confined and supply it with necessary
food and water so long as it shall remain impounded or
confined.

MAINE'

7:3907. Definitions .
As used in this Part, and in every law relating to or

affecting animals, unless the context indicates otherwise,
the following terms have the following meanings . . .

2. Animal. 'Animal' means every living, sentient
creature not a human being . . .

26. Torment, torture and cruelty. 'Torment, torture
and cruelty' means every act of omission or neglect, whether
by the owner or any other person, where unjustifiable
physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted . .

29. Well cared for. 'Well cared for' means that the
animal is receiving necessary sustenance, necessary medical
attention, proper shelter, protection from the weather and

 




humanely clean conditions and that the animal has not been
nor is being injured, overworked, tormented, tortured,
abandoned, poisoned, beaten, mutilated or exposed to a poison
with the intent that it be taken by the animal . . .

7:4011. Cruelty to Animals.

1. Cruelty to animals. A person is cruel to animals if he:

A. Kills any animal belonging to another person without
legal privilege or the consent of the owner, or kills or
attempts to kill any animal with the owner's consent, by
means which will cause undue suffering. The owner or
occupant of property is privileged to use reasonable force to
eject a trespassing animal;

B. Injures, overworks, tortures, torments, abandons,
gives poison to, cruelly beats or mutilates any animal or
exposes a poison with the intent that it be taken by an
animal;

C. Deprives any animal which he owns or possesses of
necessary sustenance, necessary medical attention, proper
shelter, protection from the weather or humanely clean
conditions; or

D. Keeps or leaves a domestic animal on an uninhabited
or barren island lying off the coast of Maine during the
months of December, January, February or March without
providing necessary sustenance and proper shelter.

7:4013. Necessary sustenance.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may fail to supply the animal with a
sufficient supply of food and water as prescribed in this
section.

1. Food. The food shall be of sufficient quantity and
quality to maintain all animals in good health.

2. Water. If potable water is not accessible to the
animal at all times, it shall be provided daily and in
sufficient quantity for the health of the animal.

7:4014. Necessary medical attention.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may fail to supply the animal with
necessary medical attention when the animal is or has been
suffering from illness, injury, disease, excessive parasitism
or malformed or overgrown hoof.

7:4015. Proper shelter, protection from the weather and
humanely clean conditions.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may fail to provide the animal with
Proper shelter, protection from the weather or humanely clean
conditions as prescribed in this section. In the case of
farm animals, nothing in this section may be construed as
imposing shelter requirements or standards more stringent
than normally accepted husbandry practice in the particular

 




county where the animal or shelter is located. For purposes
of this section, horses shall not be considered farm animals.

1. Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter
shall be as follows:

A. The ambient temperature shall be compatible with the
health of the animal.

B. Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately
ventilated by natural or mechanical means to provide for the
health of the animal at all times.

2. Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter
shall be as follows:

A. When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaustion of
an animal tied or caged outside, sufficient shade by natural
or artificial means shall be provided to protect the animal
from direct sunlight. As used in this paragraph, 'caged'
does not include farm fencing used to confine farm animals.

B. Shelter from inclement weather shall be as follows:

(1) An artificial shelter with a minimum of 3 sides
and a waterproof roof appropriate to the local climatic
conditions for the species concerned shall be provided as
necessary for the health of the animal.

(2) If a dog is tied or confined unattended
outdoors under weather conditions which adversely affect the
health of the dog, a shelter of suitable size with a floor
above ground and waterproof roof shall be provided to
accommodate the dog and protect it from the weather and, in
particular, from sever cold. Inadequate shelter may be
indicated by the shivering of the dog due to cold weather for
a continuous period of 30 minutes.

C. No animal may be confined in a building, enclosure,
car, boat, vehicle or vessel of any kind when extreme heat or
extreme cold will be harmful to its health.

3. Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both
indoor and outdoor enclosures shall include the following:

A. The housing facilities shall be structurally sound
and maintained in good repair to protect the animal from
injury and to contain the animal.

B. Enclosures shall be constructed and maintained to
provide sufficient space to allow each animal adequate
freedom of movement. Inadequate space may be indicated by
evidence of overcrowding, debility, stress or abnormal

behavior patterns.

4. Humanely clean conditions. Minimum standards of
sanitation necessary to provide humanely clean conditions for
both indoor and outdoor enclosures shall include periodic
cleanings to remove excretions and other waste materials,
dirt and trash to minimize health hazards.

7:4016. Violation. . . _
Any person who violates this chapter commits a ClVll

 




‘- 1

5.5

violation for which a forfeiture of $500 for each offense may
be adjudged and such other relief as may be necessary to
restore the animal to good health or to ameliorate the
effects of cruelty and to ensure that the animal is well
cared for.

MARYLAND

27:59. Cruelty to animals a misdemeanor.

Any person who (1) overdrives, overloads, deprives of
necessary sustenance, tortures, torments, cruelly beats,
mutilates or cruelly kills; or (2) causes, procures or
authorizes these acts; or (3) having the charge or custody of
an animal, either as owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary
suffering or pain upon the animal, or unnecessarily fails to
provide the animal with nutritious food in sufficient
quantity, necessary veterinary care, proper drink, air,
space, shelter or protection from the weather, or (4) uses or
permits to be used any bird, fowl, or cock for the purpose of
fighting with any other animal, which is commonly known as
cockfighting, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine
not exceeding $1,000 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90
days, or both . . .

27:60. Abandoning domestic animal.

Any person, partnership or corporation being the owner,
possessor, or custodian of a dog, cat, or other domestic
animal, who abandons such animal or drops or leaves such
animal on a street, road, highway, or in a public place or on
private property, with intent to abandon it, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $100.00 . . .

27:62. Definitions.

The words 'torture,' 'torment,' and 'cruelty' mean every
act, omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or
permitted, and the word 'animal' means every living creature
except man.

MASSACHUSETTS

272:77. Cruelty to animals.

Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded,
overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or kills an animal, or
causes or procures an animal to be overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented,
deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated
or killed; and whoever uses in a cruel or inhuman manner in a
race, game, or contest, or in training therefor, as lure or
bait a live animal, except an animal if used as lure or bait

 




in fishing; and whoever, having the charge or custody of an
animal, either as owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary
cruelty upon it, or unnecessarily fails to provide it with
proper food, drink, shelter, sanitary environment, or
protection from the weather, and whoever, as owner,
possessor, or person having the charge or custody of an
animal, cruelly drives or works it when unfit for labor, or
willfully abandons it, or carries it or causes it to be
carried in a way and manner which might endanger the animal
carried thereon, or knowingly and willfully authorizes or
permits it to be subjected to unnecessary torture, suffering
or cruelty of any kind shall be punished by a fine of not
more than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment for not
more than one year, or both.

In addition to any other penalty provided by law, upon
conviction for any violation of this section . . . the
defendant may, after an appropriate hearing to determine the
defendant's fitness for continued custody of the abused
animal, be ordered to surrender or forfeit to the custody of
any society, incorporated under the laws of the commonwealth
for the prevention of cruelty to animals or for the care and
protection of homeless or suffering animals, the animal whose
treatment was the basis of such conviction.

MICHIGAN

752.21. Cruelty to animals; penalty . . .

Sec. 1. Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly
kills, or causes or procures to be so overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented,
deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated,
or cruelly killed, any animal, and whoever having the charge
or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise,
inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or wilfully fails
to provide the same with proper food, drink, shelter, or
protection from the weather, is guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be imprisoned for not more than 3 months, or fined not

more than $500.00, or by both . . .

MINNESOTA

343.20. Definitions . . .
Subd. 2. Animal. 'Animal' means every living creature

except members of the human race.

Subd. 3. Torture; cruelty. 'Torture' or 'cruelty'
means every act, omission, or neglect which causes or permits
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, or death . . .

343.21. Overworking or mistreating animals; penalty..
Subdivision 1. Torture. No person shall overdrive,

 




 

*/ a

overload, torture, cruelly beat, neglect, or unjustifiably
injure, maim, mutilate, or kill any animal, or cruelly work
any animal when it is unfit for labor, whether it belongs to
that person or to another person.

Subd. 2. Nourishment; shelter. No person shall deprive
any animal over which the person has charge or control of
necessary food, water, or shelter.

Subd. 3. Enclosure. No person shall keep any cow or
other animal in any enclosure without providing wholesome
exercise and change of air.

Subd. 4. Low feed. No person shall feed any cow on
food which produces impure or unwholesome milk.

Subd. 5. Abandonment. No person shall abandon any
animal.

Subd. 6. Temporary abandonment. No person shall allow
any maimed, sick, inform, or disabled animal to lie in any
street, road, or other public place for more than three hours
after receiving notice of the animal's condition.

Subd. 7. Cruelty. No person shall wilfully instigate
or in any way further any act of cruelty to any animal or
animals, or any act tending to produce cruelty to animals.

Subd. 8. Caging. No person shall cage any animal for
public display purposes unless the display cage is
constructed of solid material on three sides to protect the
caged animal from the elements and unless the horizontal
dimension of each side of the cage is at least four times the
length of the caged animal. The provisions of this
subdivision do not apply to the Minnesota state agricultural
society, the Minnesota state fair, or to the county
agricultural societies, county fairs, to any agricultural
display of caged animals by any political subdivision of the
state of Minnesota, or to district, regional or national
educational livestock or poultry exhibitions. The provisions
of this subdivision do not apply to captive wildlife, the
exhibition of which is regulated by section 97A.04l.

Subd. 9. Penalty. A person who fails to comply with
any provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.

(Penalty: Up to 90 days imprisonment and/or up to $700 fine
(SS 609.03).]

MISSISSIPPI

97-41—1. Living creatures not to be cruelly treated.

If any person shall override, overdrive, overload,
torture, torment, unjustifiably injure, deprive of necessary
sustenance, food, or drink; or cruelly beat or needlessly
mutilate; or cause or procure to be overridden, overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, unjustifiably injured, tormented, or
deprived of necessary sustenance, food or drink; or to be
cruelly beaten or needlessly mutilated or killed, any living
creature, every such offender shall, for every offense, be
guilty of a misdemeanor.

 




7‘ /

94-41-5. Carrying creature in a cruel manner.

If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by
hand or in or upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any
creature in a cruel or inhuman manner, he shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.

94—41-7. Confining creatures without food or water.

If any person shall confine, or cause to be confined, in
any stable, lot, or other place, any living creature, without
supplying the same during such confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good and wholesome food and water, he shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.

97—41-9. Failure of owner or custodian to provide
sustenance.

If any person be the owner or have the custody of any
living creature and unjustifiably neglect or refuse to
furnish it necessary sustenance, food, or drink, he shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.

5;[Penalty: Fine of not less than $10.00 nor more than $100.00,
or imprisonment in the county jail for not less than 10 days
nor more than 100 days, or both.]

MISSOURI

578.012. Animal abuse.
1. A person is guilty of animal abuse when a person:
(1) Intentionally or purposely kills an animal in
any manner not allowed by or expressly exempted from the
provisions of sections 578.005 to 578.023;
(2) Purposely, intentionally or recklessly causes
injury, suffering, or pain to an animal;
(3) Abandons an animal in any place without making
provisions for its adequate care;
(4) Overworks or overloads an animal, or drives or
works an animal unfit to work;
(5) Having ownership or custody of an animal
willfully fails to provide adequate care or adequate control.
2. Animal abuse is a class A misdemeanor.

(Penalty: Up to 1 year imprisonment and/or a fine of up to
$1,000 (SS 558.011, 560.016).]

MONTANA

45-8-211. Cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals

if without justification he knowingly or negligently subjects
an animal to mistreatment or neglect by: . '
(a) overworking, beating, tormenting, injuring, or

killing any animal;

 




/ I, I)
17 .,.é/'

(b) carrying any animal in a cruel manner;

(c) failing to provide an animal in his custody
with proper food, drink, or shelter;

(d) abandoning any helpless animal or abandoning
any animal on any highway, railroad, or in any other place
where it may suffer injury, hunger, or exposure or become a
public charge; or

(e) promoting, sponsoring, conducting, or
participating in a horse race of more than 2 miles;

(2) A person convicted of the offense of cruelty to
animals shall be fined not to exceed $500 or be imprisoned in
the county jail for a term not to exceed 6 months, or both.
If such person is the owner, he may be required to forfeit to
the county in which he is convicted any animal affected.
This provision does not affect the interest of any secured
party or other person who has not participated in the
offense.

(3) In addition to the sentence provided in subsection
(2), the court may require the defendant to pay all
reasonable costs incurred in providing necessary veterinary
attention and treatment for any animal affected.

NEBRASKA

28-1001. Animal, cruel mistreatment, cruel neglect, and
abandon; defined. As used in section 28-1002, unless the
context otherwise requires:

(1) Animal shall mean a domesticated living creature and
a wild living creature previously captured. Animal does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a wild creature whose
capture was accomplished by conduct at issue under section
28—1002;

(2) Cruel mistreatment shall mean every act or omission
which causes, or unreasonably permits the continuation of,
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering;

(3) Cruel neglect shall mean failure to provide food,
water, protection from the elements, opportunity to exercise,
or other care normal, usual, and proper for an animal's
health and well—being; and

(4) Abandon shall mean the leaving of an animal by its
owner or other person reSponsible for its care or custody
without making effective provisions for its proper care.

28-1002. Cruelty to animals; penalty; authorized or
permitted conduct.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as

otherwise authorized by law, he intentionally or recklessly:

(a) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or

(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel
neglect; or

(c) Abandons any animal; or

(d) Kills or injures any animal belonging to
another.

 




7.9"

(2) Cruelty to animals is a Class II misdemeanor.

(Penalty: Maximum 6 months imprisonment or $1,000 fine or
both (SS 28—106).)

NEVADA

574.050. Definitions.
As used in NRS 574.050 to 574.200, inclusive:
1. 'Animal' does not include the human race, but
includes every other living creature.
2. 'Torture' or 'cruelty' includes every act,
omission or neglect, whereby unjustifiable physical pain,
suffering or death is caused or permitted.

574.100. Overdriving, torturing, injuring or abandoning
animals; failure to provide proper sustenance; penalty.
A person who:

1. Overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly
beats or unjustifiably injures, maims, mutilates or kills any
animal, whether belonging to himself or to another;

2. Deprives any animal of necessary sustenance,
food or drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it such
sustenance or drink;

3. Causes, procures or permits any animal to be
overdriven, overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten, or
unjustifiably injured, maimed, mutilated or killed, or to be
deprived of necessary food or drink;

4. Willfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in,
or in any way furthers an act of cruelty to any animal, or

any act tending to produce such cruelty; or
5. Abandons an animal in circumstances other than

those prohibited in NRS 574.110, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

574.110. Abandonment of disabled animal unlawful; penalty.
1. A person being the owner or possessor, or having
charge or custody, of a maimed, diseased, disabled or inform
animal, who abandons such animal or leaves it to die in a
public street, road or public place, or who allows it to lie
in a public street, road or public place more than 3 hours
after he receives notice that it is left disabled, is guilty

of a misdemeanor . . .

574.120. Failure to provide proper food and water to
impounded animal; penalty. _

l. A person who, having impounded or confined any
animal, refuses or neglects to supply to such animal during
its confinement a sufficient supply of good and wholesome
air, food, shelter and water is guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

(Penalty: Up to 6 months imprisonment and/or a fine of up to
$1,000, or both (55 193.150).]

 




{77* yﬁffv’

NEW HAMPSHIRE

644:8. Cruelty to animals.

I. In this section, 'cruelty' shall include, but not be
limited to, acts or omissions injurious or detrimental to the
health, safety or welfare of any animal, including the
abandoning of any animal without proper provision for its
care, sustenance, protection or shelter.

II. In this section, 'animal' means a domestic animal,
a household pet or a wild animal in captivity.

III. A person is guilty of a misdemeanor if he:

(a) Without lawful authority negligently deprives
or causes to be deprived any animal in his possession or
custody necessary care, sustenance or shelter;

(b) Negligently beats, cruelly whips, tortures,
mutilates or in any other manner mistreats or causes to be
mistreated any animal;

(c) Negligently overdrives, overworks, drives when
overloaded, or otherwise abuses or misuses any animal
intended for or used for labor;

(d) Negligently transports any animal in his
possession or custody in a manner injurious to the health,
safety or physical well—being of such animal;

(e) Negligently abandons any animal previously in
his possession or custody by causing such animal to be left
without supervision or adequate provision for its care,
sustenance or shelter; or

(f) Otherwise negligently permits or causes any
animal in his possession or custody to be subjected to
cruelty, inhumane treatment or unnecessary suffering of any
kind.

[Penalty: Up to 1 year imprisonment and/or a fine of up to
$1,000 (SS 651:2).]

NEW JERSEY

4:22-15. Definitions

As used in this article: .
'Animal' or 'creature' includes the whole brute creation

4:22-17. Cruelty in general; misdemeanor.
A person who shall:

a. Overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded,
overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance,
w unnecessarily or cruelly beat or otherwise abuse, or
,“needlessly mutilate or kill, a living animal or creature;

' b. Cause or procure any of such acts to be done;
or

c. Inflict unnecessary cruelty upon a living
animal or creature of which he has charge either as owner or
otherwise, or unnecessarily fail to provide it with proper

 




food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather—-

Shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and for every such
offense shall be fined not more than two hundred and fifty
dollars, or be imprisoned in the county jail not more than
six months, or both, in the discretion of the court.

4:22-18. Carrying animal in cruel manner; misdemeanor.

A person who shall carry, or cause to be carried, a
living animal or creature in or upon a vehicle or otherwise,
in a cruel or inhuman manner, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished as provided in section 4:22-17 of
this title.

4:22-19. Failure to care for impounded animals; misdemeanor.

A person who shall impound or confine, or cause to be
impounded or confined, in a pound or other place, a living
animal or creature, and shall fail to supply it during such
confinement with a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome
food and water, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished
as provided in section r:22-l7 of this title.

4:22-20. Abandoning disabled animal to die in public place;
misdemeanor.

A person who shall abandon a maimed, sick, infirm or
disabled animal or creature to die in a public place, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in
section 4:22—17 of this title.

4:22-26. Acts constituting cruelty in general; penalty.
A person who shall:

a. Overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded,
overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance,
or cruelly beat or otherwise abuse or needlessly mutilate or
kill a living animal or creature;

b. Cause or procure to be done by his agent,
servant, employee or otherwise an act enumerated in
subsection 'a' of this section;

c. Inflict unnecessary cruelty upon a living
animal or creature of which he has charge or custody either
as owner or otherwise, or unnecessarily fail to provide it
with proper food, drink, shelter or protection from the
weather;

d. Receive or offer for sale a horse which by
reason of disability, disease or lameness, or any other
cause, could not be worked without violating the provisions

of this article; .
e. Keep, use, be connected with or interested in

the management of, or receive money or other consideration
for the admission of a person to, a place kept or used for
the purpose of fighting or baiting a living animal or
creature;

f. Be present and witness, encourage, aid or
assist in an activity enumerated in subsection 'e' of this

section;

 




 

g. Permit or suffer a place owned or controlled by
him to be used as provided in subsection 'e' of this section;

h. Carry, or cause to be carried, a living animal
or creature in or upon a vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel 0r
inhuman manner;

i. Use a dog or dogs for the purpose of drawing or
helping to draw a vehicle for business purposes;

j. Impound or confine or cause to be confined in a
pound or other place a living animal or creature, and shall
fail to supply it during such confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good and wholesome food and water;

k. Abandon a maimed, sick, infirm or disable
animal or creature to die in a public place;

1. Wilfully sell, or offer to sell, use, expose,
or cause or permit to be sold or offered for sale, used or
exposed, a horse or other animal having the disease known as
glanders or farcy, or other contagious or infectious disease
dangerous to the health or life of human beings or animals,
or who shall, when any such disease is beyond recover,
refuse, upon demand, to deprive the animal of life;

m. Own, operate, manage or conduct a roadside
stand or market for the sale of merchandise along a public
street or highway; or a shopping mall, or a part of the
premises thereof; and keep a living animal or creature
confined, or allowed to roam in an area whether or not the
area is enclosed, on these premises as an exhibit; except
that this subsection shall not be applicable to: a pet shop
licensed pursuant to P.L. 1941, c. 151 (C. 4:19-15.l et
seq.); a person who keeps an animal, in a humane manner, for
the purpose of the protection of the premises; or a
recognized breeders' association, a 4-H club, an educational
agricultural program, an equestrian team, a humane society or
other similar charitable or nonprofit organization conducting
an exhibition, show or performance.

n. Keep or exhibit a wild animal at a roadside
stand or market located along a public street or highway of
this State; a gasoline station; or a shopping mall, or a part
of the premises thereof;

0. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away or
display live baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits,
turtles or chameleons which have been dyed or artificially
colored or otherwise treated so as to impart to them an
artificial color;

p. Use any animal, reptile, or fowl for the
purpose of soliciting any alms, collections, contributions,
subscriptions, donations, or payment of money except in
connection with exhibitions, shows or performances conducted
in a bona fide manner by recognized breeders' associations,
4-H clubs or other similar bona fide organizations;

q. Sell or offer for sale, barter, or give away
living rabbits, turtles, baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl
under 2 months of age, for use as household or domestic pets;

r. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away
living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl, or rabbits,

 




, my
/

,l:,
77/

turtles or chameleons under 2 months of age for any purpose
not prohibited by subsection q. of this section and who shall
fail to provide proper facilities for the care of such
animals;

5. Artificially mark sheep or cattle, or cause
them to be marked, by cropping or cutting off both ears,
cropping or cutting either ear more than 1 inch from the tip
end thereof, or half cropping or cutting both ears or either
ear more than 1 inch from the tip end thereof, or who shall
have or keep in his possession sheep or cattle, which he
claims to own, marked contrary to this subsection unless they
were bought in market or of a stranger;

t. Abandon a dog or cat--

Shall forfeit and pay a sum not to exceed $250.00 to be
sued for and recovered, with costs, in a Civil action by any
person in the name of the New Jersey Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

NEW MEXICO

30—18—1. Cruelty to animals.
Cruelty to animals consists of:

A. torturing, tormenting, depriving of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beating, mutilating, cruelly killing or
overdriving any animal;

B. unnecessarily failing to provide any animal

with proper food or drink; or
C. cruelly driving or working any animal when such

animal is unfit for labor.
Whoever commits cruelty to animals is guilty of a petty

misdemeanor.

(Penalty: Imprisonment not to exceed 6 months or a fine of
not more than $500.00, or both.]

NEW YORK

350. Definitions.
1. 'Animal,‘ as used in this article, includes every

living creature except a human being;

2. 'Torture' or 'cruelty' includes every act, omission,
or neglect, whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death is caused or permitted.

353. Overdriving, torturing and injuring animals; failure to
provide proper sustenance.

A person who overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly
beats of unjustifiably injures, maims, mutilates or kills any
animal, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging to
himself or to another, or deprives any animal of necessary
sustenance, food or drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish
it such sustenance or drink, or causes, procures or permits

 




 

any animal to be overdriven, overloaded, tortured, cruelly
beaten, or unjustifiably injured, maimed, mutilated or
killed, or to be deprived of necessary food or drink, or who
wilfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way
furthers any act of cruelty to any animal, or any act tending
to produce such cruelty, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by
a fine of not more than one thousand dollars, or by both . .

355. Abandonment of animals.

A person being the owner or possessor, or having charge
or custody of an animal, who abandons such animal, or leaves
it to die in a street, road or public place, or who allows
such animal, if it become disabled, to lie in a public
street, road or public place more than three hours after he
receives notice that it is left disabled, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not more than one
year, or by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars, or
by both.

356. Failure to provide proper food and drink to impounded
animals.

A person who, having impounded or confined any animal,
refuses or neglects to supply to such animal during its
confinement a sufficient supply of good and wholesome air,
food, shelter and water, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by
a fine of not more than one thousand dollars, or by both. In
case any animal shall be at any time impounded as aforesaid,
and shall continue to be without necessary food and water for
more than twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for any
person, from time to time, and as often as it shall be
necessary, to enter into and upon any pound in which any such
animal shall be so confined, and to supply it with necessary
food and water, so long as it shall remain so confined; such
person shall not be liable to any action for such entry, and
the reasonable cost of such food and water may be collected
by him of the owner of such animal, and the said animal shall
not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued upon a
judgment therefor.

NORTH CAROLINA

14-360. Cruelty to animals; construction of section.

If any person shall willfully overdrive, overload,
wound, injure, torture, torment, deprive of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill or
cause or procure to be overdriven, overloaded, wounded,
injured, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beaten, needlessly mutilated or killed as
aforesaid, any useful beast, fowl or animal, every such
offender shall for every such offense be guilty of a

 




misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up to one year. In
this section, and in every law which may be enacted relating
to animals, the words 'animal' and 'dumb animal' shall be
held to include every living creature; the words 'torture,‘
'torment' or 'cruelty' shall be held to include every act:
omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain,
suffering or death is caused or permitted. Such terms shall
not be construed to prohibit the lawful taking of animals
under the jurisdiction and regulation of the Wildlife
Resources Commission.

14—361. Instigating or promoting cruelty to animals.

If any person shall willfully set on foot, or instigate,
or move to, carry on, or promote, or engage in, or do any act
towards the furtherance of any act of cruelty to any animal,
he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up
to one year.

l4-36l.l. Abandonment of animals.

Any person being the owner or possessor, or having
charge or custody of an animal, who willfully and without
justifiable excuse abandons the animal is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and imprisonment for up to six months.

NORTH DAKOTA

36-21.l-Ol. Definitions. In this chapter, unless the
context or subject matter otherwise requires:

1. 'Animal' includes every living animal except the
human race.

2. 'Board' means the state livestock sanitary board.

3. 'Cruelty' or 'torture' includes every act, omission,
or neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable pain,
suffering, or death is caused or permitted . . .

36-21.l-02. Overworking or mistreating animals.

1. No person may overdrive, overload, torture, cruelly
beat, neglect, or unjustifiably injure, maim, mutilate, or
kill any animal, or cruelly work any animal when unfit for
labor.

2. No person may deprive any animal over which he has
Charge or control of necessary food, water, or shelter.

3. No person may keep any animal in any enclosure
without exercise and wholesome change of air.

4. No person may abandon any animal.. _ .
5 No person may allow any maimed, Sick, infirm, or

disabled animal of which he is the owner, or of which he has
custody, to lie in any street, road, or other public place
for more than three hours after notice. .

6. No person may willfully instigate, or in any way

 




further, any act of cruelty to any animal or animals, or any
act tending to produce such cruelty.

7. No person may cage any animal for public display
purposes unless the display cage is constructed of solid
material on three sides to protect the caged animal from the
elements, and unless the horizontal dimension of each side of
the cage is at least four times the length of the caged
animal. The provisions of this subsection do not apply to
the North Dakota state fair association, to agricultural fair
associations, to any agricultural display of caged animals by
any political subdivision, or to district, regional, or
national educational livestock or poultry exhibitions. Zoos
which have been approved by the health district or the
governing body of the political subdivision which has
jurisdiction over the zoos are exempt from the provisions of
this subsection.

(Penalty: Maximum one year imprisonment, a fine of $1,000,
or both.)

OHIO

959.01. Abandoning animals.
No owner or keeper of a dog, cat, or other domestic
animal, shall abandon such animal.

[Penalty for violation of Section 959.01: Minor misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not more than $100.]

959.02. Injuring animals.

No person shall maliciously, or willfully, and without
the consent of the owner, kill or injure a horse, mare, foal,
filly, jack, mule, sheep, goat, cow, steer, bull, heifer,
ass, ox, swine, dog, cat, or other domestic animal that is
the property of another. This section does not apply to a
licensed veterinarian acting in an official capacity.

[Penalty for violation of Section 959.02: If the value of
the animal killed or the injury done amounts to less than
$300, misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable by not
more than 90 days' imprisonment and/or a fine of not more
than $750. If the value of the animal killed or the injury
done amounts to $300 or more, misdemeanor of the first
degree, punishable by not more than six months' imprisonment
and/or a fine of not more than $1,000.]

959.13. Cruelty to animals.
(A) No person shall:

(1) Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary
sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly
mutilate or kill, or impound or confine an animal without
SUpplying it during such confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;

 




(2) Impound or confine an animal without affording
it, during such confinement, access to shelter from wind:
rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably
be expected that the animals would otherwise become sick or
in some other way suffer. Division (A)(2) of this section
does not apply to animals impounded or confined prior to
slaughter. For the purpose of this section, shelter means a
man—made enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural windbreak
or sunshade that is developed from the earth's contour, tree
development, or vegetation;

(3) Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or
inhuman(e) manner;

(4) Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or
fowl, swine, sheep, or goats in an enclosure without
wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed cows on food
that produces impure or unwholesome milk . . .

[Penalty: Misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable by
not more than 90 days' imprisonment and/or a fine of not more
than $750.]

(C) All fines collected for violations of this section
shall be paid to the society or association for the
prevention of cruelty to animals, if there be such in the
county, township, or municipal corporation where such
violation occurred.

OK LAHOMA

1685. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who shall willfully or maliciously overdrive,
overload, torture, destroy or kill, or cruelly beat or
injure, maim or mutilate, any animal in subjugation or
captivity, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging to
himself or to another, or deprive any such animal of
necessary food, drink or shelter, or who shall cause,
procure or permit any such animal to be so overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, destroyed or killed, or cruelly beaten
or injured, maimed or mutilated, or deprived of necessary
food, drink or shelter; or who shall willfully set on foot,
instigate, engage in, or in any way further any act of
cruelty to any animal, or any act tending to produce such
cruelty, shall be punished by imprisonment in the
penitentiary not exceeding five (5) years, or by imprisonment
in the county jail not exceeding one (1) year, or by fine not
exceeding Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00); and any officer
finding an animal so maltreated or abused shall cause the
same to be taken care of, and the charges therefor shall be a
lien upon such animal, to be collected thereon as upon a
pledge or a lien.

1686. Abandoned animals—~Destroyed how.
A. Any Person owning or having charge or custody of a

 




maimed, diseased, disabled, or infirm animal who abandons
said animal or who allows said animal to lie in a public
street, road, or public place one (1) hour after said person
receives notice by a duly constituted authority that the
animal is disabled or dead, upon conviction, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor . . .

D. For the purpose of the provisions of this section
and Section 1691 of this title, the term abandon means the
voluntary relinquishment of an animal with no intention to
retain possession and shall include but shall not be limited
to vacating a premises and leaving the animal in or at the
premises, or failing to feed the animal or allowing it to
stray or wander onto private or public property with the
intention of surrendering ownership or custody over said
animal.

1691. Abandoning of domestic animals along streets or
highways or in any public place prohibited.

Any person who deposits any live dog, cat, or other
domestic animal along any private or public roadway, or in
any other private or public place with the intention of
abandoning the domestic animal upon conviction, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.

1692. Penalty.

Any person found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of Sections 1686 . . . 1691 of this title shall be
punished by a fine in an amount not less than One Hundred
Dollars ($100.00) nor more than Five Hundred Dollars
($500.00), or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more
than one (1) year, or by both said fine and imprisonment.

OREGON

167.860. Specific acts defined as cruelty to animals;
defense; exceptions.

(1) As used in this section, 'animal' means any mammal,
bird, reptile or amphibian.

(2) Any person who overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly
kills, or causes or procures such cruel treatment of any
animal, or who, having the charge of or custody of any animal
as owner, or otherwise, inflicts cruelty upon the animal,
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.

(3) Every owner or person having the charge or custody
of any animal, who cruelly drives or works the animal when
unfit for labor, or cruelly abandons the animal, or carries
or causes the animal to be carried in or upon any vehicle or
otherwise, in a cruel, inhuman manner, or knowingly or
wilfully authorizes or permits the animal to be subjected to
torture, suffering, or cruelty of any kind, shall be punished
for each and every offense in the manner provided in

 




subsection (2) of this section.

(4) Except in the case of an emergency, every owner or
person having the charge or custody of any animal, who
deprives such animal of necessary and adequate food and drink
for more than 36 hours, shall be punished for each and every
offense in the manner provided in subsection (2) of this
section . . .

[Penaltyz

 




7" 2“ N77? é

PENNSYLVANIA

5511. Cruelty to animals . . .
(3) As used in this subsection, the following terms
shall have the meanings given to them in this paragraph:
'Domestic animal.‘ Any dog, cat, equine animal,
bovine animal, sheep, goat or porcine animal . . .

(c) Cruelty to animals.—-A person commits a summary
offense if he wantonly or cruelly illtreats, overloads, beats
or otherwise abuses any animal, whether belonging to himself
or otherwise, or abandons any animal, or deprives any animal
of necessary sustenance, drink, shelter or veterinary care. .

(Penalty: Summary Offense: Fine not exceeding $300.]

RHODE ISLAND

4-1—1. Definitions 0 o o
(l) The words 'animal' and 'animals' shall be held
to include every living creature except a human being . . .

4-1-2. Overwork, mistreatment, or failure to feed animals--
'Shelter' defined.

Whoever shall overdrive, overload, drive when
overloaded, overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate or cruelly kill, or cause
or procure to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly
killed, any animal, and whoever, having the charge or custody
of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, shall inflict
cruelty upon that animal, or shall willfully fail to provide
that animal with proper food, drink, shelter or protection
from the weather, shall, for every such offense, be
imprisoned not exceeding eleven (11) months, or be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500), or be both imprisoned and fined as aforesaid.

'Shelters,’ as used in this chapter, shall mean a
structure used to house any animal, and which will provide
sufficient protection from inclement elements for the health
and well—being of the animal.

4-1-3. Unnecessary cruelty.

Every owner, possessor or person having the charge or
custody of any animal, who shall cruelly drive or work that
animal when unfit for labor, or cruelly abandon that animal,
or who shall carry that animal, or cause that animal to be
carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise in a cruel or
inhuman manner, or wilfully authorize or permit that animal
to be subjected to unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty
0f any kind, or who shall place or cause to have placed on
any animal any substance that may produce irritation or pain,

 




or that shall be declared a hazardous substance by the U. S-
Food and Drug Administration or by the Rhode Island
Department of Health, shall be punished for every such
offense in the manner provided in 4-1—2; provided however:
that this section shall not be deemed to include any drug
having curative and therapeutic effect for disease in animals
and which is prepared and intended for veterinary use.

4-1-4. Abandonment of infirm animals.

If any maimed, sick, infirm or disabled animals shall be
abandoned to die, by any owner or person having charge of
that animal, that person shall, for every such offense, be
punished in the manner provided in 4-1-2 . . .

4-1—26. Abandonment of animals from motor vehicles.

If the owner of any animal shall abandon that animal
from a motor vehicle without providing for the care of that
animal, he shall be punished in the manner provided in 4-1—2
for each such offense.

SOUTH CAROLINA

47—1-10. 'Animal' and 'animals' defined.
In this chapter the words 'animal' or 'animals' shall be
held to include all brute creatures.

47—1-40. Ill-treatment of animals generally.

(A) Whoever overloads, overdrives, overworks, ill-
treats, deprives of necessary sustenance, shelter, or
inflicts unnecessary pain or suffering upon any animal or
causes these things to be done, whether the person is the
owner of the animal or has charge or custody of it, for every
offense, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
must be punished by imprisonment not exceeding thirty days or
by a fine of not less than fifty dollars nor more than two
hundred dollars for a first offense; by imprisonment not
exceeding sixty days or by a fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars, or both, for a second offense; or by imprisonment
not exceeding one year or by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars, or both, for a third or subsequent offense.

(B) Whoever tortures, torments, needlessly mutilates,
cruelly kills, or inflicts excessive or repeated unnecessary
pain or suffering upon any animal or causes the acts to be
done for any of the offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, must be punished by imprisonment not to
exceed sixty days or by a fine not to exceed five hundred
dollars, or both.

(C) The provisions of this section do not apply to fowl,
accepted animal husbandry practices of farm operations, the
training of animals, or the practice of veterinary medicine.

47-1-70. Abandonment of infirm animal in public place.
A person, being the owner or possessor or having charge

 




~:6;

or custody of a maimed, diseased, disabled or infirm animal
in any town or city of this State, who abandons such animal
or leaves it to die in a street, road, highway or other
public place more than three hours after he receives notice
that it is left disabled is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars or
imprisonment not exceeding thirty days.

47—1-50. Cruel work, abandonment, carriage in vehicles, and
unnecessary torture.

Every owner, possessor or person having the charge or
custody of any animal who:

(1) Cruelly drives or works it when unfit for labor;

(2) Cruelly abandons it;

(3) Carries it, or causes it to be carried, in or upon
any vehicle or otherwise in an unnecessarily cruel or inhuman
manner; or

(4) Knowingly or wilfully authorizes or permits it to be
subjected to unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty of any
king;

Shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished for every such offense in
the manner prescribed in 47-1—40.

SOUTH DAKOTA

40-1-1. Definition of terms . . .
(1) 'Animal' shall include every living dumb creature;
(2) 'Torture,‘ 'torment,I and 'cruelty' shall include
every act, omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or
permitted . . .

40-1-2. Overwork, torture, starving or cruelty to animal
prohibited.

No person shall overdrive, overload, drive when
overloaded, overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary
sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beat, mutilate, or
cruelly kill any animal.

40-1-2.l. Abandoning animal prohibited. No person may
abandon any animal.

40-1—6. Impounding or leaving of animal without proper
attention prohibited.

No person shall impound, or permit any animal to be in
any building, enclosure, lane, street, square, or lot without
proper care and attention for more than twelve consecutive
hours.

40-1-22. Killing or injuring animal other than livestock as

misdemeanor. _
Every person who ma11c1ously kills or injures any

 




animal, other than those specified in 40-1-21 [livestock],
belonging to another, or any animal whatever belonging to
himself, is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.

(Penalty: Class 1 misdemeanor: one year imprisonment in
county jail and/or $1,000 fine; Class 2 misdemeanor: 30
days' imprisonment in county jail and/or $100 fine.)

TENNESSEE

39—3—101. Definitions.

In this part, and in every law relating to or affecting
animals, the words animal or dumb animal shall be held to
include every living creature; the words torture, torment, or
cruelty shall be held to include every act, omission, or
neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or
death is caused or permitted; but nothing herein shall be
construed as prohibiting the shooting of birds or game for
the purpose of human food, or the use of animate targets by
incorporated gun clubs.

39-3-104. Cruelty to animals.

If any person shall overdrive, overload, torture,
torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or cruelly beat, or
needlessly mutilate, or kill, or cause or procure same to be
done, as aforesaid, any living creature, or use, buy, sell,
or exchange any horse or mule, when unfit for labor, every
such offender shall, for every offense, be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prohibit the purchase of
animals by humane societies, incorporated under the laws of
this state, for the purpose of humanely killing the same.

39—3-106. Failure to feed and water impounded animals.

Any person who shall impound, or cause to be impounded
in any pound or other place, any creature, shall supply to
the same during such confinement a sufficient quantity of
good and wholesome food and water, and in default thereof
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

39—3-110. Aiding and promoting cruelty to animals.

Every person who shall willfully instigate, or promote,
or engage in, or do any act toward the furtherance of any act
of cruelty to any animal, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

39—3-121. Abandonment of dogs and cats.
It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor to abandon or

otherwise willfully leave any animal of the canine or feline
species on public lands or rights of way. Any person
convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall
be fined not less than two dollars ($2.00) nor more than
fifty dollars ($50.00) or imprisoned in the county jail or
workhouse not to exceed thirty (30) days, or both such fine
and imprisonment.

 




 

39-1—202. Penalty for misdemeanor.

Every person who is convicted of a misdemeanor, the
punishment for which is not otherwise prescribed by a statute
of this state, shall be punished by imprisonment in the
county jail or workhouse nor more than one year, or by fine
not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both, in
the discretion of the court.

TEXAS

42.11. Cruelty to Animals.
(a) A person commits an offense if he intentionally or
knowingly:

(l) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;

(2) fails unreasonably to provide necessary food,
care, or shelter for an animal in his custody;

(3) abandons unreasonably an animal in his custody;

(4) transports or confines an animal in a cruel
manner;

(5) kills, injures, or administers poison to an
animal, other than cattle, horses, sheep, swine, or goats,
belonging to another without legal authority or the owner's
effective consent;

(6) causes one animal to fight with another; or

(7) uses a live animal as a lure in dog race
training or in dog coursing on a racetrack . . .

(c) For purposes of this section, 'animal' means a
domesticated living creature and wild living creature
previously captured. 'Animal' does not include an uncaptured
‘ wild creature or a wild creature whose capture was
accomplished by conduct at issue under this section.

(Penalty: ]

UTAH

76-9—301. Cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if he

intentionally or knowingly:

(a) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;

(b) fails to provide necessary food, care, or
shelter for an animal in his custody;

(c) abandons an animal in his custody;

(d) transports or confines an animal in a cruel
manner;

(e) kills, injures, or administers poison to an
animal without legal privilege; or

(f) causes any animal, not including a dog, to
fight with another animal or creature of like kind for
amusement or gain; or causes any animal, including a dog, to
fight with a different kind of animal or creature for

 




amusement or gain . . .

[Penalty: Class B misdemeanor: Imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months; a fine of $299.]

VERMONT

401. Animal defined. .
For the purposes of this chapter, the word 'animal' or
'animals' shall include and extend to all brute creatures.

403. Cruelty to animals generally.

(a) A person who overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly
kills any animal, or causes or procures it to be done, or
having the charge or custody of an animal, inflicts
unnecessary cruelty upon it, or unnecessarily fails to
provide it with proper food, drink, shelter or protection
from the weather, shall be imprisoned not more than one year
or fined not more than $200.00, or both.

(b) An owner, possessor or person having the charge or
custody of an animal, who cruelly drives or works the same
when unfit for labor, or cruelly abandons the same, or who
carries or causes such animal to be carried upon a vehicle or
otherwise in an unsafe or cruel manner, or knowingly or
wilfully authorizes or permits the same to be subjected to
unnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty, shall be punished
as provided in subsection (a) of this section.

404. Abandonment of infirm animals.

If any maimed, sick, infirm, or disabled animals shall
be abandoned by any owner or person having charge of same,
such person shall for every offense, be punished in the
manner provided in section 403(a) of this title.

VIRGINIA

3.1-799.66 Definitions. The following words as used in this
chapter shall have the following meanings:

'Adequate feed' means the provision, at suitable
intervals, at least once daily, of quantities of wholesome
foodstuff suitable for the species and age, sufficient to
maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal.

'Adeguate water' means a constant access to a supply of
clean, fresh, potable water provided in a sanitary manner or
provided at suitable intervals and in a suitable manner for
the species at least once daily at any interval.

'Adequate shelter' means shelter that may reasonably be
expected to protect the animal from physical suffering or
impairment of health due to exposure to the elements or
adverse weather . . .

 




éZ

'Animal' means domestic animals, including both
agricultural and companion animals, if not specified
otherwise . . .

3.1—796.68. Duties of owner. Each owner shall have the duty
to provide for each of his companion animals, pursuant to
regulations adopted by the Board:

1. Adequate feed and adequate water;.

2. Adequate shelter;

3. Adequate space in the primary enclosure for the
particular type of animal depending upon its age, size and
weight.

4. Veterinary care when needed and to prevent
suffering; and

5. Humane care and treatment.

The provisions of this section also apply to every
animal shelter with respect to animals contained therein.

3.1—796.73. Abandonment of animals; penalty.

No person shall abandon any animal. Abandonment for the
purposes of this section is defined as deserting, forsaking,
or intending to absolutely give up an animal without securing
another owner or without providing the necessities set out in
SSB.1—796.68. Violation of this section shall be punishable
as a Class 3 misdemeanor.

3.1-796.122. Cruelty to animals; penalty.

Any person who (i) overrides, overdrives, overloads,
tortures, ill-treats, abandons, willfully inflicts inhumane
injury or pain not connected with bona fide scientific or
medical experimentation, or cruelly or unnecessarily beats,
maims, mutilates, or kills any animal, whether belonging to
himself or another; or (ii) deprives any animal of necessary
sustenance, food, drink or shelter; or (iii) willfully sets
on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers any
act of cruelty to any animal; or (iv) carries or causes to be
carried in or upon any vehicle, vessel or otherwise any
animal in a cruel, brutal, or inhumane manner, so as to
produce torture or unnecessary suffering; or (v) causes any
of the above things, or being the owner of such animal
permits such acts to be done by another, shall be guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor.

Any person who abandons any dog, cat or other
domesticated animal in any public place including the right-
of—way of any public highway, road or street or on the
property of another shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit
the dehorning of cattle.

For the purposes of this section . . . the word animal
shall be construed to include birds and fowl.

[Penalties: Class 1 misdemeanor: Imprisonment for not more
than 12 months and/or a fine of not more than $1,000; Class 3
misdemeanor: A fine of not more than $500.]

 




WASHINGTON

16.52.070.
Except as provided in RCE

Certain acts as cruelty-~Penalty.

9A.48.080, every person who

cruelly overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded,

overworks, tortures, torments,

deprives of necessary

sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills, or
causes, procures, authorizes, requests or encourages so to be

overdriven,

overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked,

tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance,

cruelly beaten or mutilated or

cruelly killed, any animal;

and whoever having the charge or custody of any animal,
either as owner or otherwise, inflicts unnecessary suffering
or pain upon the same, or unnecessarily fails to provide the
same with the proper food, drink, air, light, space, shelter
or protection from the weather, or who wilfully and
unreasonably drives the same when unfit for labor or with

yoke or harness that chafes or

galls it, or check rein or any

part of its harness too tight for its comfort, or at night
when it has been six consecutive hours without a full meal,
or who cruelly abandons any animal, shall be guilty of a

misdemeanor. For the purposes

of this section, necessary

sustenance or proper food means the provision at suitable
intervals, not to exceed twenty-four hours, of wholesome
foodstuff suitable for the species and age of the animal and
sufficient to provide a reasonable level of nutrition for the

animal.

[Penalty:

WEST VIRGINIA

61-8-19a. Cruelty to dogs and
animals in fights against each

whether any such dog or cat be
another person, or if any such
confine any such dog or cat in
elements or fail to supply the
quantity of food and water, or
maimed,
or employed at dogfighting, or

cats prohibited; putting such
other prohibited; penalties.
If any person shall cruelly, or needlessly beat,
torture, torment, mutilate, kill or willfully deprive
necessary sustenance, to any dog or cat, irrespective of

his or her own or that of
person shall impound or

any place unprotected from the
same with a sufficient

shall abandon to die any

sick, or diseased dog or cat or shall be engaged in

putting one dog or cat to

fight against another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to
any dog or cat, or shall receive money for the admission of
any person, or shall use, train or possess a dog or cat for
the purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any other
dog or cat, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and,

upon conviction,

more than one thousand dollars,

the discretion of the court or

shall be fined not less than one hundred nor

and in addition thereto, in
magistrate, may be imprisoned

in the county jail not exceeding thirty days, and the county

 




 

( ’3’
”,5 /

humane officer may remove the dog or cat involved and place
said animal in the county pound, and said dog or cat shall
not be returned to owner (or perpetrator of act of cruelty)
but shall be put up for adoption to desirable home or given
over into the care of a humane society, or upon the
recommendation of a licensed veterinarian shall be humanely
destroyed.

61-8—19. Cruelty to animals . . . penalties.

(a) If any person shall cruelly, unnecessarily or
needlessly beat, torture, torment, mutilate, kill, or
overload, overdrive, or willfully deprive of necessary
sustenance, any horse or other domestic animal, whether such
horse or other animal be his own or that of another person,
or shall impound or confine any such animal in any place and
fail to supply the same with a sufficient quantity of good,
wholesome food and water, or shall carry in or upon any
vehicle, or otherwise, any such animal in a cruel or inhuman
manner, or knowingly feed a cow on food that produces impure
or unwholesome milk, or shall abandon to die any maimed,
sick, infirm or diseased animal . . . he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than five nor more than one hundred dollars, and in the
discretion of the court of magistrate, may be imprisoned in
the county jail not exceeding six months.

 




, --—\
z"? ,~:7J

I
(a'

WISCONSIN

951.01. Definitions.
In this chapter:
(1) 'Animal' includes every living:
(a) Warm-blooded creature, except a human being;
(b) Reptile; or
(c) Amphibian.
(2) 'Cruel' means causing unnecessary and excessive pain
or suffering or unjustifiable injury or death . . .

951.02. Mistreating animals.
No person may treat any animal, whether belonging to
himself or another, in a cruel manner . . .

951.13. Providing proper food and drink to confined animals.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may refuse or neglect to supply the
animal with a sufficient supply of food and water as
prescribed in this section.

(1) Food. The food shall be sufficient to maintain all
animals in good health.

(2) Water. If potable water is not accessible to the
animals at all times, it shall be provided daily and in
sufficient quantity for the health of the animal.

951.14. Providing proper shelter.

No person owning or responsible for confining or
impounding any animal may fail to provide the animal with
proper shelter as prescribed in this section. In the case of
farm animals, nothing in this section shall be construed as
imposing shelter requirements or standards more stringent
than normally accepted husbandry practices in the particular
county where the animal or shelter is located.

(1) Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of
shelter shall include:

(a) Ambient temperatures. The ambient temperature
shall be compatible with the health of the animal.

(b) Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities shall
be adequately ventilated by natural or mechanical means to
provide for the health of the animals at all times.

(2) Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of
shelter shall include:

(a) Shelter from sunlight. When sunlight is
likely to cause heat exhaustion of an animal tied or caged
outside, sufficient shade by natural or artificial means
shall be provided to protect the animal from direct sunlight.
As used in this paragraph, 'caged' does not include farm
fencing used to confine farm animals.

(b) Shelter from inclement weather.

1. 'Animals generally.‘ Natural or
artificial shelter appropriate to the local climatic
conditions for the species concerned shall be provided as
necessary for the health of the animal.

 




 

5%

2. 'Dogs.‘ If a dog is tied or confined
unattended outdoors under weather conditions which adversely
affect the health of the dog, a shelter of suitable size to
accommodate the dog shall be provided.

(3) Space standards. Minimum space requirements for
both indoor and outdoor enclosures shall include:

(a) Structural strength. The housing facilities
shall be structurally sound and maintained in good repair to
protect the animals from injury and to contain the animals.

(b) Space requirements. Enclosures shall be
constructed and maintained so as to provide sufficient space
to allow each animal adequate freedom of movement.
Inadequate space may be indicated by evidence of debility,
stress or abnormal behavior patterns.

(4) Sanitation standards. Minimum standards of
sanitation for both indoor and outdoor enclosures shall
include periodic cleaning to remove excreta and other waste
materials, dirt and trash so as to minimize health hazards.

951.15. Animals; neglected or abandoned . . .
(1) No person may abandon any animal . . .

[Penalties: ]

WYOMING

11-34-101. Definitions.
(1) 'Animal' shall be held to include every living
creature . . .

11-34—102. Cruelty to animals generally.

Every person who overdrives, overloads, drives when
overloaded, overworks or willfully and maliciously tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or
cruelly beats, or willfully and maliciously needlessly
mutilates or kills, or carries in or upon any vehicle, or
otherwise in a cruel or inhuman manner any animal, or causes
or procures it to be done; or who, having the charge and
custody of any animal, unnecessarily fails to provide it with
the proper food, drink or protection from the weather, or
cruelly abandons it shall upon conviction, be punished by
imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one (1) year or
by fine not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) or by both such fine and
imprisonment.

1. Laws of New ﬁampshire, Vol. 1, Province Period, Appendix
D. Complete text. 1904.

2. Qlﬁ SQth Leaflets, Vol. VII, Boston, 1896, p. l8-20.

 




(fig

3. federal Bﬁpnhliﬂ (Baltimore ) Dec. 30, 1816.

4. New York. State Courts. Digest of New Kerk Statutes and.
Reports, from earliest period to the year 1860. Vol. 1, page
12 .

5. Eﬁyiﬁﬁd Statutes, 1827-28, Fourth Part, Chapter I, Title
VI.

6. geurnal ef the Assembly ef the.State ef Hen Kathy-515:
Sessien. Seeend Meeting. Albany: Croswell, 1828, pages 45-

. Beyised Statutes, Part IV, Chapter 130, Section 22.
. Statutes at Cenneetieut. Title XXI, Po 134-

5 Statutes ef the Territery ef ﬂiseensin, page 365, Sec.

10. Act of 28 August, 1856, Art. 2345 (714).

11. 1860 Laws ef.the General Assembly. Title IV. Sec. 46. p-
395.

12. 1864 Laws of the Territory of Idaho, XII, Sec. 143, p.
329.

13. We are indebted to Professor David S. Favre and
attorney-veterinarian Dr. Murray Loring for their valuable
insights on this topic. Their noteworthy publication Animal
Law discusses a variety of topics, including the problems of
cruelty statutes, and provides a clear explanation, with case
support, of the legal principles involved.

14. "Accepted veterinary practice" includes performing,
without anesthesia, such procedures as dehorning of cattle at
any age, docking the tails of pigs and sheep, and castration.

15. Illinois requires "veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering"; Maine, "necessary medical attention";
Maryland, "necessary veterinary care"; Pennsylvania,
"veterinary care"; Puerto Rico, "medical or veterinary
treatment if needed."

16. The penalty for a gross misdemeanor in Nevada is up to
one year's imprisonment and/or a fine of up to $1,000.

17. On a national level, the American Humane Association
(AHA) offers to match up to $500 for "information leading to
the arrest and conviction of any person or persons willfully
poisoning any animal." Reward posters are available from
AHA's office at 9725 E. Hampden Avenue, Denver, CO, 80231.

18. In some states, every "willful act," etc.

 




ANTI.1: 2/16/90

Chapter I

THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS
IN THE UNITED STATES

by Emily Stewart Leavitt and Diane Halverson

America has the distinction of being the first country to acknowledge the
rights of animals by enacting statutory legislation to protect them from cruel
treatment. In 1641 the Puritans of the Massachusetts Bay Colony voted to have
printed their first legal code, ”The Body of Liberties.”1 There are 100 ”liberties”
which the Puritans expect "to be respectfully impartiallie and inviolably
enjoyed and observed throughout our Jurisdiction for ever.” At a time when
others considered animals as mere property, to be used or abused at the whim
of man, the Table of Contents lists: Liberty 92. Cruelty to animals forbidden. On
turning to Liberty 92, we find: ‘

OFF THE BRUITE CREATURE

92. No man shall exercise any Tirranny or Crueltie towards any
bruite Creature which are usuallie kept for man’s use.

93. If any man shall have occasion to leade or drive Cattel from
place to place that is far of, so that they be weary, or hungry, or fall sick,
or lambe, It shall be lawful to rest or refresh them, for a competent
time, in any open place that is not Corne, meadow, or inclosed for
some peculiar use.

Thus we have, in addition to the first anti-cruelty law, the first law to protect
animals in transit.

The Puritans take special care to proclaim these ”liberties” laws:

96. Howsoever these above specified rites, freedomes, Immun-
ities, Authorities and priveledges, both Civill and Ecclesiastical are
expressed onely under the name and title of Liberties, and not in the
exact form of Laws or Statutes, yet we do with one consent fullie
Authorise, and earnestly intreate all that are and shall be in Authoritie
to consider them as laws, and not to faile to inﬂict condigne and pro-
portionable punishments upon every man impartiallie, that shall
infringe or violate any of them.

To strengthen further the legality of Liberty 92, we draw on the research of
the noted historian, Samuel Eliot Morison. In his book, Builders of the Bay Colony
(page 232), he says, "Although animals then had no protection in Common
Law, 'The Bruite Creature’ has a section of his own in the Body of Liberties.”
And, in a footnote, Mr. Morison refers to an "interesting case of condemnation
for cruelty to an ox, in Records of Quarterly Courts of Essex County [Massachu-
setts] III, 305." It seems clear that Liberty 92 not only was an anti-cruelty law but
also was used successfully for prosecution.

This law is far ahead of its time—so far ahead that humanitarians through-
out the world, not aware of its existence, have been assuming that the British
M.P., Richard Martin, who fought so fiercely for enactment of the first anti-cru-
elty legislation in England (1822), was the primary author of all the laws that
have followed. It seems now that ”Humanity" Martin must give up first place to
the Puritan minister, Nathaniel Ward, who compiled the Body of Liberties of
1641.

Nathaniel Ward (c. 1578-1652) was born in Haverhill, England. He was a
graduate of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, studied law and became a barrister.
Driven out of England for heresy by Bish0p Laud, he came to New England in
1634 and settled in Ipswich, Massachusetts, where he compiled "The Body of
Liberties,” adopted by the General Court of Massachusetts in December 1641.
Beginning in 1635, there had been a growing concern among the Deputies of
the towns 0f the Massachusetts Bay Colony for a draft of laws; committees had
been appointed time and again, but they all failed to produce results. Finally, in
June 1641, the guiding powers enlisted the service of "a learned lawyer” whose
legal abilities they felt to be superior—the Rev. Nathaniel Ward, who had
already served on some of the committees. In his autobiographical sketch, ”The
Simple Cobler 0f Aggawam,” Mr. Ward says, "I have read almost all the Com-
mon Law of England." This and his own experiences were the sources from
which he drafted his statute book. He enriched the code with his own practical

 




good sense and his understanding "of the communal love of liberty, making
"The Body of Liberties” in entirety work far in advance of the time.2

Aside from these Puritan laws, ”there was little early specific legislation but
it was possible to prosecute ’cruelists’ under common law as committing ’nui-
sances.”' For instance:

A cartman in Philadelphia has been indicted and found guilty of
cruelly beating his horse and sentenced to pay a fine of $30 with costs
of prosecution and to give bond forjhis good behavior for one year.

This information is given by William Shultz in the introduction to his book,
The Humane Movement in the United States, 1910—1922, page 12. Note that the
cartman had ”to give bond for his good behavior for one year,” in addition to
the $30 and costs. It would seem that some of our modern penalties for cruelty
fall far short of the wisdom of this one.

As further evidence that cruel treatment of animals was punishable under
Common Law, we have this statement from the Digest of New York Statutes and
Reports:

Animals III. Treatment—Preservation—Destruction of Animals.

28. Cruelty. That wanton cruelty to an animal—eg. excessive
beating of his horse by a cartman,—is punishable at common law as a
misdemeanor. Gen. Sess., 1822, People v. Stakes, 1 Wheel. Cr. Cas.,
111. And see Ross’ Case, 3 City H. Rec. 191.3

As far as can be determined, the first anti-cruelty law among the United
States was enacted in 1828 by the New York State Legislature. This law reads:

Sec. 26. Every person who shall maliciously kill, maim, or wound
any horse, ox, or other cattle, or sheep, belonging to another, or shall
maliciously and cruelly beat or torture any such animal, whether
belonging to himself or another, shall, upon conviction, be adjudged
guilty of a misdemeanor.4

f“ ' Although this law limits the protected animals to owned horses, cattle, or
sheep, it does give these animals the right to be protected from their owners’
cruel treatment, thus taking them out of the class of mere property and giving
them the legal right to be well treated for the first time in an established State of
the Union.

Who is responsible for this law? Efforts (searching back to the Colonial
Laws of 1664) to trace the origin to an earlier date than 1828 have so far proved
fruitless; therefore, we must look to the 1827-28 Revisors of the Statutes for
reSponsibility. The two Revisors are B. F. Butler and John C. Spencer. According
to these gentlemen, in their report to the Legislature of the State of New York,
dated October 15, 1828, they had been charged with the duty of presenting an
entirely new arrangement and organization of the criminal laws. Saying that the
Common Law had long ceased to be a satisfactory guide in assigning punish-
ments, they cite the following guides for their work:

(1) The codes of penal law and of procedure in criminal cases,
prepared by Mr. Livingston for the state of Louisiana . . . But the differ-
ent state of society for which our labors are intended, and prevailing
sentiments respecting punishments varying essentially from those
entertained by the enlightened author of those codes, have prevented
the adoption of many provisions suggested by him . . .

(2) Anthony Hammond, Esq., a distinguished jurist of the Inner
Temple (in England) where recent and great efforts have been made to
sirnplify their criminal laws. This gentleman transmitted to us his able
and voluminous reports and consolidations, prepared under the
employment of the government for the British Parliament. They con-
tain complete digests of the British statutes respecting crimes, with
copious annotations from the reports. They have been of essential
service to us . . . it is but just to remark that they were not so generally
applicable to this state, as to relieve us from the labor of newly digest-
ing and arranging so much of the law as relates to crimes and their
punishments.5

From these explanations, it would seem that credit may be given to Mr.
Butler and Mr. Spencer for phrasing the first anti-cruelty state law and for
a551gn1ng its violation the punishment of a misdemeanor.

The next state to pass anti-cruelty legislation was Massachusetts in 1835.6
The wording was similar to that of the New York law, but the punishment was
designated “by imprisonment in the county jail, not more than one year, or by
fine not exceeding one hundred dollars.”

In 1838 Connecticut’ and Wisconsin8 added an anti-cruelty law to their stat-
utes. Connecticut’s penalty was imprisonment not exceeding one month or fine

 




not exceeding twenty—five dollars; Wisconsin set imprisonment at not more
than thirty days and fine from five to ﬁfty dollars.

The following chronological outline shows the year in which each state
enacted its first anti-cruelty law. Penalties were similar to those already quoted,
until Texas9 set a fine as up to $250. Pennsylvania10 imposed a more severe pen-
alty: a fine up to two hundred dollars, imprisonment up to one year, or both, at
the discretion of the court; and Idaho set its punishment as ”A fine of not more
than five hundred dollars, or imprisonment. . . not exceeding six months, or both

such fine and imprisonment?" Idaho: made anothsssiép forward) by introducing

 

and passing a companion mSec. 1142) to impose “a 'si'rnilar penalty on any per-
son ”who shall willfully administer any poison to any cattle or domestic animal
or maliciously expose any poisonous substance, with the intent that the same
shall be taken or swallowed by cattle or domestic animal. . .” So far as is known,
this is the first law in the United States to protect domestic animals from poison-

mg.
UNITED STATES ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS

Chronological Enactment

‘ 1‘ or”
13641 Massachusetts Bay Colony "The Body of Liberties” .
3.1828" ” New York ' 1871 Montana
‘ 1835 Massachusetts 1872 Colorado
: 1838 Connecticut 1873 Delaware
1838 Wisconsin 1873 Indiana
‘ 1842 New Hampshire 1873 Nebraska
‘ 1845 Missouri 1875 Georgia
‘ 1848 Virginia 1879 Arkansas
7 1851 Iowa 187 9 Louisiana
1851 Minnesota 1880 Mississippi
1852 Kentucky 1880 Ohio
1854 Vermont 1881 North Carolina
1856 Texas ' 1881 South Carolina
91857 Rhode Island 1883 Alabama
f 1858 Tennessee 1883 Maine
1859 Kansas 1884 Hawaii
31859 'Washington 1887 New Mexico
9 1860 Pennsylvania 1887 South Dakota
3 1861 Nevada 1889 Florida
{ 1864 Idaho 1890 Maryland
; 1864 Oregon 1891 North Dakota
f 1867 New Jersey 1893 Oklahoma
1868 California 1895 Wyoming
g 1868 West Virginia 1898 Utah
3‘ 1869 Illinois 1913 Alaska
@1871 District of Columbia 1913 Arizona
”31871 Michigan 1921 Virgin Islands

By 1866 when Henry Bergh secured legislative consent for the incorpora-
tion of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, twenty
states had enacted anti-cruelty laws; of these states, six were in reality still
territories when they passed their law: Wisconsin, Minnesota, Washington,
Kansas, Nevada, and Idaho.

In spite of laws to prevent cruelty to animals, Henry Bergh, even with his
newly incorporated society, found it difficult to get convictions. His 1957 biog-
rapher, A. F. Harlow, in Henry Bergh, Founder of the ASPCA, says that although
there had been an anti-cruelty law passed in New York State in 1829 [sic], no
one could remember that it had ever been used to prosecute; it seemed better to
draft a new law than to try to revive an old one. Nevertheless, Henry Bergh’s
first law, passed April 19, 1866, is similar to the 1828 law, though an added sec-
tion aims to protect disabled horses and mules from abandonment.

Statutes at Large of the State of New York passed in the years 1863,
1864, 1865, 1866. Chapter 682. AN ACT better to prevent cruelty to
animals. Passed April 19, 1866.

The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and
Assembly, do enact as follows:

Sec. 1. The twenty-sixth section of title six, chapter first, part four
of the Revised Statutes, is hereby amended so as to read as follows:

Sec. 26. Every person who shall by his act or neglect, maliciously
kill, maim, wound, injure, torture or Cruelly beat any horse, mule, ox,
cattle, sheep or other animal belonging to himself or another, shall,
upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

HF"; V

 

7/) ,

 




Sec. 2. Every owner, driver or possessor of an old, maimed, or dis-
eased horse or mule, turned loose or left disabled in any street, lane or
place of any city in this state, who shall allow such horse or mule to lie
in any street, lane or public place for more than three hours after
knowledge of such disability, shall, on conviction, be adjudged guilty
of a misdemeanor.

This 1866 law undoubtedly served the purpose of re-establishing anti-cru-
elty legislation as a matter of public conscience, demanding respectful attention
by judges of prosecutions which Henry Bergh had often found heretofore dis-
missed facetiously with no conviction.

Sensitive as he was to the many cruelties being inﬂicted on animals, how-
ever, and cognizant of the newly aroused public sentiment, Henry Bergh did
not stop with the somewhat meager 1866 legislation. His real masterpiece of
legal draftsmanship came in 1867 when ”An Act for the more effectual preven-
tion of cruelty to animals” was passed on April 12. This Act has ten sections and
has since served as the example for the drafting of many succeeding anti-cruelty
laws (forty-one states and the District of Columbia have present laws based on
this Act). For this reason it seems worthy of quotation in entirety here.

STATUTES AT LARGE OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK

Passed in the Years 1867, 1868, 1869, 1870
John W. Edmonds, Ed., Vol. V11, 1870

CHAP. 375
AN ACT for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals.
Passed April 12, 1867; three-fifths being present

The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and
Assembly, do enact as follows:

Section 1. If any person shall over-drive, over-load, torture, tor-
ment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or unnecessarily or cruelly
beat, or needlessly mutilate or kill, or cause or procure to be over-
driven, over-loaded, tortured, tormented or deprived of necessary sus-
tenance, or to be unnecessarily or cruelly beaten, or needlessly muti-
lated or killed, as aforesaid, any living creature, every such offender
shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 2. Any person who shall keep or use, or in any way be
connected with, or interested in the management of, or shall receive
money for the admission of any person to any place kept or used for
the purpose of fighting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cock or other
creature, and every person who shall encourage, aid or assist therein,
or who shall permit or suffer any place to be so kept or used, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 3. Any person who shall impound, or cause to be
impounded in any pound, any creature, shall supply to the same, dur-
ing such confinement, a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome
food and water, and in default thereof, shall upon conviction, be
adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

Section 4. In case any creature shall be at any time impounded as
aforesaid, and shall continue to be without necessary food and water
for more than twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for any per-
son, from time to time, and as often as it shall be necessary, to enter
into and upon any pound in which any such creature shall be so con-
fined, and to supply it with necessary food and water so long as it shall
remain so confined. Such person shall not be liable to any action for
such entry, and the reasonable cost of such food and water may be col-
lected by him of the owner of such creature, and the said creature shall
not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued upon judg-
ment therefor.

Section 5. If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried, in or
upon any vehicle or otherwise, any creature, in a cruel or inhuman
manner, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and whenever he shall
be taken into custody therefor by any officer, such officer may take
charge of such vehicle and its contents, and deposit the same in some
safe place of custody; and any necessary expenses which may be
incurred for taking charge of and keeping and sustaining the same,
shall be a lien thereon, to be paid before the same can be lawfully
recovered. Or the said expenses or any part thereof remaining unpaid,

 




 

may be recovered by the person incurring the same, of the owner of ~
said creature, in any action therefor.

Section 6. Every person who shall hereafter use any dog or dogs
for the purpose of drawing or helping to draw any cart, carriage, truck,
barrow or other vehicle, in any city or incorporated village, for busi-
ness purposes, shall be required to take out a license for that purpose,
from the mayor or president thereof, respectively, and shall have the
number of said license and the residence of the owner distinctly
painted thereon; and for each violation of this section shall forfeit and
pay a fine of one dollar for the first offense, and a fine of ten dollars for
each subsequent offense.

Section 7. If any maimed, sick, infirm or disabled creature shall be
abandoned to die, by any person, in any public place, such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and it shall be lawful for any magis-
trate or captain of police in this state to appoint suitable persons to
destroy such creature if unfit for further use.

Section 8. Any agent of the American society for the prevention of
cruelty to animals, upon being designated thereto by the sheriff of any
county in this state, may, within such county, make arrest, and bring
before any court or magistrate thereof having jurisdiction, offenders
found violating the provisions of this act; and all fines imposed and
collected in any such county, under the provisions of this act, shall
inure to said society, in the aid of the benevolent objects for which it
was incorporated.

Section 9. This act shall take effect on the first day of May next.
And the said American society for the prevention of cruelty to animals
shall cause the same to be published once each week for three weeks,
in four daily papers published in New York City, or in default thereof
shall forfeit the right to receive the penalties and ﬁnes as provided.

Section 10. Nothing in this act contained shall be construed to
prohibit or interfere with any properly conducted scientific experi-
ments or investigations, which experiments shall be performed only
under the authority of the faculty of some regularly incorporated med-
ical college or university of the state of New York.

A careful scrutiny of the 1867 law will show the great advance made in
establishing protection and legal rights for animals. In Section 1, notice the
detailed, specific cruelties, and that they are now applied to “any living crea-
ture.” Section 2, a new addition, prohibits animal fights and baiting. Sections 3
and 4 protect impounded animals from hunger and thirst. Section 5 aims to stop
cruelty in transporting animals. Section 10 shows the early impact of animal
experimentation upon the cruelty laws; even in 1867 it is exempt from cruelty
charges.

,/

(:3)

 




ANT|.2: 2/16/90

ANALYSIS OF PRESENT ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS

An analysis of the current anti—cruelty laws in the fifty states, the District of
Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Canal Zone, the Virgin Islands and the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico shows that the public conscience generally
agrees that all animals have the right to (1) protection from cruel treatment,
such as is described in detail in Section 1 of Henry Bergh’s 1867 law; (2) protec-
tion from abandonment; (3) protection from poisoning; and (4) the provision of
food, water and shelter.

Protection from Cruel Treatment

Nearly half the states, American Samoa, and Guam have laws which stipu-
late that cruel treatment must have been committed willfully, maliciously, or
cruelly. State statutes with qualiﬁers such as ”intentionally,” “negligently,”
”maliciously,” or "knowingly” define the mental state of the person charged.
Statutes without qualifiers make offenders strictly liable for an offense without
regard to mental state. Please note that terms such as ”cruelly” and
”unnecessarily” which characterize the circumstances of the offense committed
must be distinguished from the qualifiers ”intentionally,” “negligently,” ”mali-
ciously,” or ”knowingly” which describe a culpable mental state. In court it is
often difficult to prove willfulness or malice, and so, in practice, the use of such
qualifiers can lead to the acquittal of offenders who might justly have been con-
victed of committing cruelty to animals under the laws of other jurisdictions
drafted without qualifiers. Moreover, provisions with qualifiers can be inter-
preted as a license to inﬂict any degree of suffering on any number of animals
provided that the motives of the person inﬂicting the pain are not sadistic. It is
this interpretation that is applied to scientific research and to scientiﬁc demon-
strations in schools.

In 22 states and the District of Columbia, experimental animals used in sci-
entific institutions are specifically excluded from the protective coverage of the
anti-cruelty laws. These states are: Alaska, California, Delaware, Florida, Geor-
gia, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey,
New York, North Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia,
Washington and Wisconsin. In most of these states, the exemptions are con-
structed in language similar to Missouri’s law in which it is written that the pro-
tective provisions of the animal welfare statute ”shall not be construed to pre-
vent or interfere with any scientific experiments or investigations” (Section
578.055). In Utah, the statute explicitly permits both painful research and pain-
ful animal husbandry practices:

It is a defense to the prosecution under this section that the con-
duct ofthe actor towards the animal was an accepted veterinary prac-
tice13 or directly related to a bona fide experimentation for scientific
research provided that if the animal is to be destroyed, the manner
employed will not be unnecessarily cruel unless directly necessary to
the veterinary purpose or scientific research involved [Section 76-9-
301].

As drafted, exemptions for scientific research in Alaska and Vermont call
for the “humane” treatment of animals. The Vermont statute states that nothing
within the anti-cruelty law "shall be construed to prohibit or interfere with the
use of animals for scientific research by competent research men if done in a
humane manner with a minimum of suffering to the animals [Section 13-403].”

Although Pennsylvania’s anti-cruelty law does not contain such exemp-
tions, it does permit the issuance of search warrants to the police or humane
society agents to enter places where they believe cruelty to animals is being
committed, but adds the following prohibition:

Provided, that no search warrant shall be issued under the provi-
sions of this section which shall authorize any policeman, or agent 01‘
other person to enter upon to search premises where scientific
research is being conducted by, or under the supervision of, graduates
of duly accredited scientific schools or where biological products are
being produced for the care or prevention of disease. [Section 18-
5511, Act of June 3, 1911, as amended]

Provision of Food, Water and Shelter

Nearly 20 states, the District of Columbia and Guam prohibit both depriv-
ing an animal of ”necessary sustenance” and failing to provide ”food and water”
or ”food, water and shelter.” Several require the provision of "necessary suste-

 




nance” without further reference to food, water or shelter. The application of
the phrase ”necessary sustenance” varies from state to state but minimally refers
to the provision of food and water or, in some states, to a sufficient amount of
wholesome food, or to such additional provisions as shelter, adequate exercise,
sanitary living conditions, adequate space for confined animals and necessary
veterinary care.

In New York, for example, Section 353 of the anti-cruelty code states in
part: ”A person who . . . deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food or
drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it such sustenance or drink . . . or in any
way furthers any act of cruelty to any animal, or any act ending to produce such
cruelty, is guilty of a misdemeanor . . .” (emphasis added). In the case of People v.
O’Rourke, 369 N.Y.S. 2d 335 (1975), motion denied, 83 Misc. 2d 51, 371 N.Y.S. 2d
603, the defendants were charged with violating Section 353 for allowing a
limping horse to continue to work without providing it with necessary veteri-
nary care. The court noted the definition of "sustenance” in Webster’s Third New
International Dictionary (1966): ”the act of supplying or being supplied with the
necessaries of life. ” The court also cited the definition of “torture” or ”cruelty”:
”Every act, omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death is caused'or permitted” and determined that failing to provide the horse
with necessary medical attention constituted neglect under Section 353.14 (Ital-
ics ours.)

Failure to provide food and water (sustenance) is a violation of law in most
states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone and Guam.

A list of anti-cruelty statutes enabling any private citizen to relieve a neg-
lected animal impounded on the property of another person by entering into
the place of confinement to supply the animal with food and water, or by
removing the animal to feed and water it, is given in the Appendix.

Approximately half the state statutes require shelter without qualifying
phrases, but most states require that failure to provide shelter be proven inten-
tional or cruel. Although anti-cruelty statutes in Hawaii, Mississippi, New Mex-
ico, North Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee, and West Virginia do not specifically
require shelter, they prohibit depriving an animal of necessary sustenance.
Courts in these states have ruled that necessary sustenance includes shelter (as
well as food and water). In Oregon, Hawaii, and Mississippi, the courts have not
yet ruled on the issue. Lest one think that protection from the cold is needed .
only in such states as Alaska, remember also the need for shelter from driving
rain and wind, and from the hot, beating 'sun in such states as Mississippi and
Louisiana, where shelter is not specifically called for. Every jurisdiction should
require shelter in its anti-cruelty code.

Provision of Exercise, Space, Light,
Ventilation and Sanitary Living Conditions

Provisions for adequate exercise, space, light, ventilation and clean living
conditions for confined animals are important but infrequent requirements of
state anti-cruelty laws. Those statutes that do include these provisions make
only brief references to them. Statutes in Florida, Maryland, Minnesota, North
Dakota, New York, Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico require fresh
air. California, Florida, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota,
Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico codes make reference to exer-
cise or adequate space. Light is required in Washington and Puerto Rico. Maine
and Wisconsin statutes require clean living conditions.

Protection from Abandonment

Abandonment of animals is defined in the Colorado code (Section 18-9-
201) as ”the leaving of an animal by its owner or other person responsible for its
care or custody without making effective provisions for its proper care.” Most & .
states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Canal Zoneagrggw jgﬂ/W ,
hibit abandonment. In several states, the prohibition is restricted to willful, cruel " ”l “We”
or intentional abandonment; to abandoning animals to die; to abandoning disa-
bled animals or to abandoning domestic animals (leaving in question the protec-
tion of wild animals in captivity).

 

Kinds of Animals Protected

With respect to which animals are to be protected from cruel treatment, . ..
about half the state laws protect any non7 human livingwg‘ijgatﬁurq9,11,:L'clniligllln "1/ J ;; Ml)! , .M v' 2‘" f .1}. . ,2
mal,” defining animals as all living creatmemﬁmhuwman beings. The rest use A..." 2 ’
the words ”animal,” ”domestic animals,” “captive animals,” or “warm—blooded

creatures.”

Protection From Poisoning

A person who intentionally injures or kills an animal belonging to another '7 “l

 




commits a criminal act. The anti-cruelty laws of half the states speciﬁcally pro-
hibit the use of poison to inﬂict injury or death. Under the Connecticut anti-cru-
elty code, ”any person who . . . unjustifiably administers any poisonous or nox-
ious drug or substance to any domestic animal or unjustifiably exposes any such
drug or substance, with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal, or
causes it to be done . . . shall be fined not more than {$205070r imprisoned not“
more than one year or both.” H

Among the states which prohibit administering and/or exposing toxic sub-
stances to domestic animals in the antieAcrueltyﬂcﬂgde, variations exist aswtgwhich
animals are protected: some concern aﬁyﬁhhnal, dogs only, Or livestock only,
and some distinguish between animals that are the property of the poisoner and
those that belong to someone else. Penalties for poisoning or attempting to
poison may vary according to the monetary value of the animal, the species of
animal, and whether the animal belongs to the poisoner or to another, with the
longest term of imprisonment and highest ﬁne usually imposed when the
poison is administered to or exposed to livestock. In Nevada, for example:

 

. . . a person who unjustifiably administers any poisonous or nox-
ious drug or substance to a horse, mule or domestic cattle, or
unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance with intent that it be
taken by a horse, mule or domestic cattle whether the horse, mule or
domestic cattle are the property of himself or another, shall be pun-
ished by imprisonment in the state prison for not less than one year
nor more than 10 years, or by a ﬁne of not more than $10,000 or by
both ﬁne and imprisonment. A person who unjustifiably administers
any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any animal other than a
horse, mule or domestic cattle, or unjustifiably exposes any such drug
or substance with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal
other than a horse, mule or domestic cattle, whether such animal is the
property of himself or another, is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.15 This
section does not prohibit the destruction of noxious animals. [Section
574.150]

In states without such anti-cruelty statutes, poisoning prohibitions may
exist under another title of the state law code, or poisoners who injure or kill
any animal belonging to another may be charged with committing a crime
against property. Within the anti-cruelty code, a poisoner may be prosecuted for
injuring, killing or inﬂicting pain upon an animal. Colorado imposes the highest
fine for causing pain, injury or death: a minimum of six months’ imprisonment
and/or a ﬁne of $500 to a maximum of twenty-four months’ imprisonment and/
or a $5,000 fine. The law states that ”a person commits cruelty to animals if,
except as authorized by law, he . . . tortures, torments . . . needlessly kills . . . any
animal.”

Poisoners are hard to catch in the act, but announcement of a substantial
reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of a person trying to
poison domestic animals has proved very effective in bringing a quick stop to
such activities.16

Humane Transport of Animals

The anti-cruelty laws of most states, the District of Columbia, and the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico require that transport of animals be conducted in a
humane manner. Minnesota’s law protects ”any live animals” (defining "ani-
mal" as ”every living creature") and specifies the acts that constitute a cruel
manner of transport. Minnesota statute 343.24 states:

Every person who shall carry, or cause to be carried, any live ani-
mals upon any vehicle or otherwise, without providing suitable racks,
cars, crates, or cages in which such animals can both stand and lie
down during transportation, and while awaiting slaughter; every per-
son who shall carry, or cause to be carried, upon a vehicle or other-
wise, any live animal having feet or legs tied together, or in any other
cruel or inhumane manner, and every person or corporation engaged
in transporting livestock who shall detain the same in cars or compart-
ments for more than 28 consecutive hours without unloading the same
in a humane manner into properly equipped pens for rest, water, and
feeding for a period of at least ﬁve consecutive hours, unless requested
to do so as hereinafter provided, or unless prevented by storm or una-
voidable causes which cannot be anticipated or avoided by the exer-
cise of due diligence and foresight, or shall permit the same to be
crowded together without sufﬁcient space to stand, or so as to overlie,
crush, wound, or kill each other, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; pro-
vided, that upon the written request of the owner or person in custody
of that particular shipment, which written request shall be separate
and apart from any printed bill of lading, or other railroad form, the
time and confinement may be extended to 36 consecutive hours.

 




 

The majority of state laws requiring humane transport are much briefer
than Minnesota’s, however, and are often written in the manner of the following
Mississippi statute: ”If any person shall‘carry, or cause to be carried by hand or
upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a cruel or inhumane
manner, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor” [Section 97-41-5].

California, Idaho, Washington and West Virginia protect "domestic ani-
mals” from cruel transport. The District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico and the 30 remaining states with transportation provisions protect,
variously, ”any creature” or ”any animal” ("an animal”) —with individual defini-
tions of “animal.”

Anti-cruelty statutes prohibiting inhumane transport are given in the
Appendix, along with the penalties for violating these statutes.

The Value of Specific Language

Cruelty, as defined in the anti-cruelty codes, usually consists of ”every act,
omission or neglect” whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is
caused or permitted.” Therefore, when a law does not specifically require shel-
ter, a judge may determine that failure to provide it is ”an omission” or ”neg—
lect” causing ”unjustifiable physical pain” and, therefore, an act of cruelty pun-
ishable by law. It is far better, however, if illegal acts are specifically prohibited
by statute. This need was demonstrated in a 1976 opinion by Kansas Attorney
General Curt Schneider on whether abandonment constituted a violation of the
state’s anti-cruelty code. The statute then read as follows: "Cruelty to animals is
subjecting any animal to cruel mistreatment or having custody of any animal
and subjecting such animal to cruel neglect.”

The Attorney General noted the definition of cruelty—as quoted above—in
jurisdictions outside of Kansas (the Kansas code gave no definition) and deter-
mined that ”the mere act of abandoning does not per se cau’se unjustifiable
physical pain, suffering or death and thus does not constitute . cruel mis-
treatment.” He concluded that the portion of the Kansas law which stated ”cru-
elty to animals is . . . having custody of any animal and subjecting such animal to
cruel neglect” does not apply to abandonment since the law refers to those per-
sons ”having custody” of an animal and ”an abandoned animal would not be in
custody of the original owner.”

Fortunately, in 1977 Kansas enacted stronger legislation with more specific
prohibitions and requirements. However, very generalized laws remain in other
jurisdictions, notably in Arkansas, Delaware, Georgia, Louisiana, American
Samoa and the Virgin Islands. In Georgia, for example, the portion of the law
prohibiting acts of cruelty, enacted in 1968, now reads in its entirety: ”A person
is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act, omission, or neglect causes unjus-
tifiable physical pain, suffering, or death to any living animal.”

Clearly, humane citizens concerned about the welfare of animals should
work to: (1) preserve strong laws; (2) promote better state and federal legisla-
tion; (3) be alert to proposed changes in present laws; (4) support competent . s ,1
humane officers; (5) enlarge the number of good and efficient animal protective ' "
societies; (6) report all cases of cruelty to those in authority, including the local
police or sheriff, state police or state veterinarian; (7) plan practical ways to
monitor the treatment of animals in commerce; and (8) promote humane edu— ,,
cation. j ., \j

/ 0// 2:39 m» .22 2y i, ' 2/

l

' f - . )
: .’ , ,/ > . p ,v ,. ‘. , 4/ . . ." "‘1. .. J ' a
.v‘ I .’ ‘ ' J j . f 1'
gal [I L1) // I! ~""‘ / I , _/ . ' ' ~lr'" I I V . x ‘ ‘ d
’17 _. >' '. .
’I .- 1* A”; 'I’ I * VI ' , ,’ V » VII, ,:’ _-' ,
‘ ' .‘U r 1 a“ ' ’1 J . ~
i. ,.- , .‘ .

 




ANTI.3: 2/16/90

ALABAMA

13A-11-14. Cruelty to animals.
(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise
authorized by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or
(2) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
(3) Kills or injures without good cause any animal belonging to
another.

[Penalty: Up to 6 months imprisonment and/or up to $1, 000 fine (§l3-A—5- -,7
13- A-5 12).] r

ALASKA

11. 61.140. Cruelty to animals.
(a) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if the person
(1) intentionally inflicts severe and prolonged physical pain or suffer-
ing on an animal,
(2) recklessly neglects an animal and, as a result of that neglect, causes
the death of the animal or causes severe pain or suffering to the animal . . .
(c) In this section, ’animal’ means a vertebrate living creature not human
being, but does not include fish.

[Penalty: Up to $5, 000 fine and/or up to 1 yearA imprisonment (§12. 55.035,
12. 55 1.35) .]

ARIZONA

13-2910. Cruelty to animals or poultry; classification
A. A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise authorized
by law, such person recklessly: '
1. Subjects any animals or poultry under human custody or control to
cruel mistreatment, or
2. Subjects any animal or poultry under his custody or control to cruel
neglect or ab;andonment or
3. Kills any animal or poultry under the custody or control of another
without either legal privilege or consent of the owner.
C. Cruelty to animals or poultry is a class 2 misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Up to 4 months imprisonment and/or up to $750 fine (§,,(13- -,707W13-‘_Jﬁ
802).]

ARKANSAS

5- 62- 101. Cruelty to animals.
(a) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if, except as author-
ized by law, he knowingly.
(1) Abandons any animal;
(2) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment,
(3) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect, or
(4) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another without legal priv-
ilege or consent of the owner.
(b) Cruelty to animals is a Class A misdemeanor.

5-62-110. Definitions.
(a) As used in this act, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) ’Animal’ or ’dumb animal’ includes every living creature,
(2) ‘Torture,’ ’torment,’ or 'cruelty’ include every act, omission, or neg-
lect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death 15 caused or permit-
ted.

[Penalty' UP to $1, 000 ﬁne and/or up to 1 year 1mpnsonment (§ 5- 4- 201, 5- 4-
401) 1W1”.-- . “PM—W W...

CALIFORNIA

597. Cruelty to animals.

(a) Except as provided in subdivision (c) of this section or Section 599C,
every person who maliciously and intentionally maims, mutilates, tortures, or
wounds a living animal, or maliciously and intentionally kills an animal, is guilty

 




 

of an offense punishable by imprisonment in the state prison, or by a fine of not 1:
more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both the ﬁne and imprison-
ment, or, alternatively, by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one a“
year, or by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), or by both
the fine and imprisonment.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (a) or (c), every person
who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, tor-
ments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beats, muti-
lates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures any animal to be so
overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tor-
mented, deprived of necessary sustenance, drink, shelter, or to be cruelly
beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed; and whoever, having the charge or custody
of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to needless suf-
fering, or inﬂicts unnecessary cruelty upon the animal, or in any manner abuses
any animal, or fails to provide the animal with proper food, drink, or shelter or
protection from the weather, or who drives, rides, or otherwise uses the animal
when unfit for labor, is, for every such offense, guilty of a crime punishable as a
misdemeanor or as a felony or alternatively punishable as a misdemeanor or a
felony and by a fine of not more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) . . .

599.b. . . . 'animal’ includes every dumb creature; the words 'torment,’ 'torture,’
and 'cruelty’ include every act, omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted . . .

COLORADO

18-9-201. Definitions. As used in section 18-9-202, unless the context otherwise
requires:

(1) ’Abandon’ includes the leaving of an animal by its owner or other per-
son responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions for
its proper care.

(2) ’Animal’ means any living dumb creature.

(3) ’Mistreatment’ includes every act or omission which causes, or
unreasonably permits the continuation of, unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or
suffering.

(4) ’Neglect’ includes failure to provide food, water, protection from the
elements, opportunity for exercise, or other care normal, usual, and proper for
an animal’s health and well-being. 7 p g5 W2”

18-9-202. Cruelty to animals jineglect of animalsN‘Qoffenses. A i 7 " 1* »:
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as authorized by law, he

knowingly or with criminal negligence overdrives, overloads, overworks, tor-

tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly

beats, needlessly mutilates, needlessly kills, carries in or upon any vehicles in a

cruel manner, or otherwise mistreats or neglects any animal, or causes or pro-

cures it to be done, or, having the charge and custody of any animal, fails to pro— /,

vide it with proper food, drink, or protection from the weather, or abandons it. I, _ g ‘ 1 ,1”
(2) (a) Cruelty to animals is a class 1 misdemeanor. ,_ ,2 1 :1} t” ‘ 1

l (b) Inptmhe casepf any personpincurring a secondor subsequent convic- Z, //71’.’, U f“ ' "’

tion under the pro—Visions of paragraph (a) of this subsection (2), a sentence of

imprisonment within the minimum and maximum terms shall be mandatory

and shall not be subject to suspension, nor shall such person be eligible for pro—

bation or parole for any part of such period . . . _ 1 1 ~ ~« ____ . 5 =1".

35-42-112. Cruelty to animals Fﬂjpenalty. LEA/ery person who gmdrives, ﬂ 2 1:; {+11

overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of

necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beats, needlessly mutilates or

kills, or carries in or upon any vehicles or otherwise in a cruel or inhumane

manner any animal or causes or procures it to be done or who, having charge

and custody of any animal, unnecessarily fails to provide it with proper food,

drink, or protection from the weather or cruelly abandons it commits a class 1

misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section 18-1—106, C.R.S. _ J ‘1.

4
,

 

[Penaltyz Minimum sentence is six monthséunprisgnmeﬁnt or $500 fine1-.9r bpvthk,
maximum sentence is 24 months imprisonment or $5,000 fine, or both (§ 8.11_
W-muw-Nmm-_ﬁww.mwwﬁ_ -—~...W._.M ..._.W

1 ‘51 k " \
(f) _
106)] 2 1 x 1.. ._

    

CONNECTICUT

53—247. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who overdrives, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures,
deprives 0f necessary sustenance, mutilates or cruelly beats or kills or
unjustifiably injures any animal, or who, having impounded or confined any
animal, fails to give such animal proper care or neglects to cage or restrain any
such animal from €10ng injury to itself or to another animal or fails to supply
any such animal with wholesome air, food and water, or unjustifiably adminis-

1’7““\

--/"

 




 

ters any poisonous or noxious drug or substance to any domestic animal or
unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance, with intent that the same shall
be taken by an animal, or causes it to be done, or, having charge or custody of
any animal, inﬂicts cruelty upon it or fails to provide it with proper food, drink
or protection from the weather or abandons it or carries it or causes it to be
carried in a cruel manner, or sets on foot, instigates, promotes or carries on or
performs any act as assistant, umpire or principal in, or is a witness of, or in any
way aids in or engages in the furtherance of, any fight between cocks or other
birds, dogs or other animals, premeditated by any person owning, or having
custody of, such birds or animals, or fights with or baits, harasses or worries any
animal for the purpose of making it perform for amusement, diversion or exhi-
bition, shall be fined not more than seven hundred and fifty dollars or impris-
oned not more than one year or both.

DELAWARE

1325. Cruelty to animals; class A misdemeanor.

(a) For the purpose of this section, the following words and phrases shall
include, but not be limited to, the meanings respectively ascribed to them as fol-
lows:

(1) ’Cruel’ includes every act or omission to act whereby unnecessary
or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted.

(2) ’Cruel mistreatment’ includes any treatment whereby unnecessary
or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted.

(3) ’Cruel neglect’ includes neglect of an animal, which is under the
care and control of the neglector, whereby pain or suffering is caused to the ani-
mal or abandonment of any domesticated animal by its owner or custodian.

(4) ’Cruelty to animals’ includes mistreatment of any animal or neglect
of any animal under the care and control of the neglector, whereby unnecessary
or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused. By way of example this
includes: Unjustifiable beating of an animal; overworking an animal; torment-
ing an animal; abandonment of an animal; failure to feed properly or give
proper shelter or veterinary care to an animal.

(5) ’Person’ includes any individual, partnership, corporation or asso-
ciation living and/or doing business in the State.

(6) ’Abandonment’ includes completely forsaking or deserting an ani-
mal originally under one’s custody without making reasonable arrangements
for custody of that animal to be assumed by another person.

(7) ’Custody’ includes the responsibility for the welfare of an animal
subject to one’s care and control whether he owns it or not.

(8) ’Proper feed’ includes providing each animal with daily food and
water of sufficient quality and quantity to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable
physical pain or suffering by the animal.

(9) ’Proper shelter’ includes providing each animal with adequate
shelter from the weather elements as required to prevent unnecessary or
unjustifiable physical pain or suffering by the animal.

(10) ’Proper veterinary care’ includes providing each animal with vet-
erinary care sufficient to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or
suffering by the animal.

(11) ’Animal’ shall not include fish, crustacea or molluska.

(b) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals when he intentionally or reck-
lessly:

mal in his custody to cruel neglect; or

(3) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another person without
legal privilege or consent of the owner; or

(4) Cruelly or unnecessarily kills or injures any animal whether
belonging to himself or another. This section does not apply to the killing of any
animal normally or commonly raised as food for human consumption, provided
that such killing is not cruel. A person acts unnecessarily if the act is not
required to terminate an animal’s suffering, to protect the life or property of the
actor or another person or if other means of disposing of an animal exist which
would not impair the health or well-being of that animal.

[Penaltyz Class A misdemeanor: Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 2 yearsﬂimpris3M.
onment ($113,961.242922;] e w

.r.

\mlwl‘msr'mabuun‘a‘ .wxn-r"

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

22-801. Definitions and penalty: .

Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates, or
cruelly kiHS, 01‘ causes or procures to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven
when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sus-

(1) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or '\(2) Subjects any ani-

 




 

 

tenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed any animal, and whoever,
having the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise,
inﬂicts unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or unnecessarily fails to provide the
same with proper food, drink, shelter, or protection from the weather, shall for
every such offense be punished by imprisonment in jail not exceeding one year,
or by ﬁne not exceeding two hundred and ﬁfty dollars, or by both such ﬁne and
imprisonment.

22-802. Other cruelties to animals:

Every owner, possessor, or person having the charge or custody of any ani-
mal, who cruelly drives or works the same when unfit for labor, or cruelly aban-
dons the same, or who carries the same, or causes the same to be carried, in or
upon any vehicle, or otherwise, in an unnecessarily cruel or inhumane manner,
or knowingly and wilfully authorizes or permits the same to be subjected to
unnecessary torture, suffering, or cruelty of any kind shall be punished for
every such offense in the manner provided in Section 22-801.

22-807. Impounded animals to be supplied with food and water:

Any person who shall impound, or cause to be impounded in any pound,
any creature, shall supply the same, during such confinement, with a sufficient
quantity of good and wholesome food and water; and in default thereof shall,
upon conviction, be punished for every such offense in the same manner pro-
vided in section 22-801.

22-812. Abandonment of maimed or diseased animals . . .

A person being the owner or possessor or having charge or custody of a
maimed, diseased, disabled, or infirm animal who abandons such animal, or
leaves it to lie in the street or road, or public place, more than three hours after
he receives notice that it is left disabled, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable
by a fine of not less than ten dollars nor more than two hundred and ﬁfty dol-
lars, or by imprisonment in jail not more than one year, or both. Any agent or
officer of the Washington Humane Society may lawfully destroy, or cause to be
destroyed, any animal found abandoned and not properly cared for, appearing,
in the judgment of two reputable citizens called by him to view the same in his
presence, to be glandered, injured, or diseased past recovery for any useful pur-
pose. When any person arrested is, at the time of such arrest, in charge of any
animal, or of any vehicle drawn by any animal, or containing any animal, any
agent of said society may take charge of such animal and such vehicle and its
contents and deposit the same in a place of safe custody or deliver the same into
the possession of the police authorities, who shall assume the custody thereof;
and all necessary expenses incurred in taking charge of such property shall be a
lien thereon . . .

22-813. Deﬁnitions: '

In section 22-801 to 22-809, inclusive, and section 22-811, the word ’ani—
mals’ or 'animal’ shall be held to include all living and sentient creatures
(human beings excepted) . . . '

FLORIDA

828.12. Cruelty to Animals

Whoever unnecessarily overloads, overdrives, tortures, torments, deprives
of necessary sustenance or shelter, or unnecessarily or cruelly beats, mutilates,
or kills any animal, or causes the same to be done, or carries in or upon any
vehicle, or otherwise, any animal in a cruel or inhuman manner, is guilty of a

misdemeanor of the first degree, punishable as provided in skagzg82“ or by a,” .. a A .3

fine of not more than $5,000, or both.
[Penaltyz Imprisonment not exceeding 1 year (§m£%)—]~~~

GEORGIA

16-12-4. Cruelty to animals.

(a) A person is guilty of a misdemeanor when his act, omission, or neglect
causes unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering, or death to any living animal.

(b) This Code section does not apply to the killing of animals raised for the
purpose of providing food nor does it apply to any person who hunts wild ani-
mals in compliance with the game and fish laws of this state. The killing or injur-

ing of an animal for humane purposes or in the furtherance of medical or scien-
tific research is justiﬁable.

~m:..4-Lb'~-«I “n“. A m
‘1‘ .- ﬂy...» 4:. x7 .‘

/r‘»" “I-

V/
[Penaltyz Up to $1,000 fine and/or up to 12 months imprisonment (§p17-10-3).]

 

      
   

HAWAII

711-1100. Deﬁnitions of terms in this chapter . . .

'v‘Rux‘» . .um.mmxw

,
.‘ Ij" I f v
. ,~ . .
, i 7 V '
, I’ r. ”I; 5 , ‘ l ‘
/ _,— . ,g
.

n 4‘ -
1/3 J ... VJ

 

l

 




(5). 'Animal' includes every living creature: [(6) 'Cruelty,’ ’torture’ or
‘torment' includes every act, omission, or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical
pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

711-1109. Cruelty to animals.

(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if he knowingly or
recklessly: . .
(a) Overdrives, overloads, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary
sustenance, or cruelly beats or needlessly mutilates or kills, or causes or pro-
cures to be overdriven, overloaded, tortured, tormented or deprived of neces-
- sary sustenance, or to be cruelly beaten, or needlessly mutilated or killed, any
living creature; ,

(b) Keeps or uses; or in any way is connected with or interested in the
management of, or receives money for the admission of any person to, any
place kept or used for the purpose of fighting or baiting any bull, bear, dog, cock
or other creature, and every person who encourages, aids or assists therein, or
who permits or suffers any place to be so kept or used;

(c) Carries or causes to be carried, in or upon any vehicle or other con—
veyance, any creature in a cruel or inhumane manner;

(d) Sets on foot, or instigates in or does any act towards the further-
ance of any act of cruelty to animals. / ' ' , '

(2) Subsections (l) (a), (c), (d) and the following subsection (3) are not
applicable to accepted veterinary practices and to activities carried on for scien-
tific research governed by standards of accepted educational or medical prac-
tices. '

(3) Whenever any domestic animal is so severely injured that there is no
reasonable probability that its life or usefulness can be saved, the animal may be
immediately destroyed.

(4) Cruelty to animals is a misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Up to $1,000 ﬁne and/or up to 1 yearrir/npr—i-s‘onment (gamma-640,
37-706-663).] .. -

3..., (mamli-ﬂl‘uwr

 

IDAHO

18-2102. Killing and otherwise mistreating animals.

(1) Every person who maliciously kills, mairns, or wounds an animal, the
property of another, or who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded,
overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink or shel-

ter, cruelly beats, mutilates, or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures any
animal to be- so overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked,
tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, drink or shelter, or to be
' cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly killed; and whoever, having the charge or
custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, subjects any animal to
needless suffering or inflicts any unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or in any
manner abuses any animal, or fails to provide the same with proper food, drink,
. shelter or protection from the weather, or who cruelly drives, rides, or other-
wise uses the same when unfit for labor, is, for every such offense, guilty of a
misdemeanor.

(2) Any person convicted for violation of this section shall be punished by
a jail sentence of not more than six (6) months or by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both such fine and imprisonment.

18-2108. Impounding without food or water. .

Any person who impounds, or causes to be impounded in any pound, any
domestic animal, must supply the same during such confinement with a sufﬁ-
cient quantity of good and wholesome food and water, and in default thereof, is
guilty of a misdemeanor. In case any domestic animal is at any time impounded
as aforesaid and continues to be without necessary food'and water for more
than twelve (12) hours, it is lawful for any person, from time to time, as may be
deemed necessary, to enter into and upon any pound in which such animal is
conﬁned, and supply it with necessary food and water so long as it remains so
confined. Such person is not liable to any action for such entry, and the reasona-
ble cost of such food and water may be collected by him of the owner of such
animal, and such animal is not exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued
upon a judgment therefor . . . '

l131-12109. Permitting animals to go without caref’QAbwanﬂdoned animals to be
. ed. .. .. m, ,, , .

Every owner, driver or possessor of any animal, who shall permit the same
*0 be in anybuilding, inclosure, lane, street, square or lot of any city, county or
precinct, without prOper care and attention, shall, on conviction, be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. And it shall be the duty of any peace ofﬁcer, or officer
of any incorporated association qualified as provided by law, {0 take P055955“)n
of the animal so abandoned or neglected, and " care for the same until it is
redeemed by the owner or claimant, and the cost of caring for such animal shall
be a lien on the same until the charges are paid. Every sick, disabled, inﬁrm, or

 

... Hmuim-‘ro-r'a Mani—am ~..... .1




crippled animal which shall be abandoned in any city, county or precinct, may if
after due search no owner can be found therefor, be killed by such officer; and it
shall be the duty of all peace officers, or by an officer of said incorporated associ-
ation, to cause the same to be killed on information of such abandonment. Such
officer may likewise take charge of any animal that by reason of lameness, sick-
ness, feebleness or neglect, is unfit for the labor it is performing, or that in any
other manner is being cruelly treated; and, if such animal is not then in custody
of its owner, such officer shall give notice thereof to such owner, if known, and
may provide suitable care for such animal until it is deemed to be in a suitable
condition to be delivered to such owner, and any necessary expenses which
may be incurred for taking care of and keeping the same shall be a lien thereon,
to be paid before the same can be lawfully recovered.

18-2112. Terms defined.

In this chapter the word ’animal’ includes every dumb creature; the words
'torment,’ ’torture’ and ’cruelty’ include every act, omission or neglect whereby
unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is caused or permitted . . .

ILLINOIS

703.01. ‘El‘lgwlw‘t‘rvggtm£g§;‘m-mnwwuwar-v ... “Hr"- M“w""““‘:"”‘ ’ ‘ ‘ " "“‘”“"'“" “ "' ’ " u ‘1' -'-='--- "x v. 2') ' wv w ._.»_. h J‘JJw ,. “menu :19» am ,,.,4 ‘ “'r ”My” ‘-
§" 3.01. No person or owner may beat, cruelly treat, torment, stamehpyerr--- ~ I,

work or otheri'risé abuse-any animal. No owner may, abandon any'animal where
it may become a public charge or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure . . .

[Penaltyz First offense, class C misdemeanor; second offense, class B mis-
demeanor; third or subsequent conviction, class A misdemeanor]

INDIANA

35-46-3-3. ‘Animal’ defined.
As used in this chapter, ’animal’ does not include a human being . . .

35-46-3-7. Abandonment or neglect of vertebrate animal. A person having a
vertebrate animal in the person’s custody who recklessly, knowingly, or inten-
tionally abandons or neglects the animal commits cruelty to an animal, a Class B
misdemeanor.

35-46-3-12. Torturing or killing vertebrate animal.
(a) A person who knowingly or intentionally:
(1) Tortures, beats, or mutilates a vertebrate animal resulting in serious
injury or death to the animal; or
(2) Kills a vertebrate animal without the authority of the owner of the
animal; commits cruelty to an animal, a Class A misdemeanor.
(b) It is a defense that the accused person reasonably believes the conduct
was necessary to:
(1) Prevent injury to the accused person or another person;
(2) Protect the property of the accused person from destruction or
substantial damage; or
(3) Prevent a seriously injured vertebrate animal from prolonged suffer-
mg.

“/

[Penaltyz Class A misdemeanor: Up to 1 year) imprisonment 1nadd1t10ntoaf1rLeﬁ - ~, .» ﬂ
of up to $5,000 (§,§§;§0;s;g),~ Class B misdemeanor? Up to 180 daysim‘pggsgygmww~w

""'~-—n~ «an»- a..." o

ment in addition to a fine of up wto '$"1,'OOO (§ 35-50-3-3)_] , ; J g § , j; ,

IOWA

717.2. Cruelty to animals. '

A person who impounds or confines, in any place, a domestic animal or
fowl, or an animal or fowl subject to section 109.60, or dog or cat, and fails to
supply the animal during confinement with a sufficient quantity of food, and
water, or who fails to provide a dog or cat with adequate shelter, or who tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, mutilates, overdrives,
overloads, drives when overloaded, beats, or kills an animal by any means
which cause unjustified pain, distress, or suffering, whether intentionally or
negligently, commits the offense of cruelty to animals.

A person who commits the offense of cruelty to animals is guilty of a simple
misdemeanor. A person who intentionally commits the offense of cruelty to ani-
mals which results in serious injury to or the death of an animal is guilty of a
serious misdemeanor.

717.4. Abandonment of cats and doggy-penalty. J

A person who has ownership or custody of a cat or dog shall not abandon
the cat 01‘ dog, except the person may deliver the cat or dog to another person
who will accept ownership and custody or the person may deliver the cat or dog

 




to an animal shelter or pound as defined in section 162.2. A person who violates
this section is guilty of a simple misdemeanor.

KANSAS

21-4310. Cruelty to Animals
(1) Cruelty to animals is:
(a) Intentionally killing, injuring, maiming, torturing or mutilating any
animal; .
(b) '2 abandoning or leaving any animal in any place without making
provisions for its proper care; or
(c) having physical custody of any animal and failing to provide such
food, potable water, protection from the elements, opportunity for exercise and
other care as is needed for the health or well-being of such kind of animal.
(3) Cruelty to animals is a class B misdemeanor.

21-4313. Animals, Definitions . . .
(1) ’Animal’ means every living vertebrate except a human being

[Penaltyz Up to 6 months‘ 1mprisonment and/or up to $1, 000 fine (§f_ 21: 4502 A
21: 4503).] H.

KENTUCKY

525 .130 Cruelty to animals in the second degree.
(1) A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:

(a) Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not limited to being a
spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal 15 caused to fight for
pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing, tormenting, failing to provide
adequate food, drink, space or health care, or by any other means; or

(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or

(c) Kills any animal, ‘)

(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals.

(a) Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;

(b) Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial pur-
poses;

(c) For humane purposes ;' ~ .

(d) For any other purpose authorlzed by law.

(3) Cruelty to animals in the second degree is a Class A misdemeanor

[Penaltyz A fine of up to $500 and/or imprisonment up to 12 months (§ 534. 040,. x ,

534.090) .]

 




ANT|.4: 2/16/90

LOUISIANA

14:102. Deﬁnitions; cruelty to animals . . .

(1) ’Cruel’ means every act or failure to act whereby unjustifiable physical
pain or suffering is caused or permitted.

(2) ‘Abandons’ means to completely forsake and desert an animal pre-
viously under the custody or possession of a person without making reasonable
arrangements for its proper care, sustenance, and shelter.

(3) ’Proper food’ means providing each animal with daily food of sufficient
quality and quantity to prevent unnecessary or unjustiﬁable suffering by the
animal.

(4) 'Proper water’ means providing each animal with daily water of sufﬁ-
cient quality and quantity to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering by
the animal.

(5) ’Proper shelter’ means providing each animal with adequate shelter
from the elements as required to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable suffering
by the animal.

(6) ’Proper veterinary care’ means providing each animal with veterinary
care sufﬁcient to prevent unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering
by the animal.

1421021. Cruelty to animals.
A. Any person who intentionally or with criminal negligence commits any
of the following shall be guilty of cruelty to animals:

(1) Overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, or overworks a
living animal.

(2) Tortures, torments, cruelly beats or unjustifiably injures, maims,
mutilates, or kills any living animal, whether belonging to himself or another.

(3).. Having charge, custody, or possession of any animal, either as
owner or otherwise, unjustifiably fails to provide it with proper food, proper
drink, proper shelter, or proper veterinary care.

(4) Abandons any animal.

(5) Impounds or confines or causes to be impounded or confined in a
pound or other place, a living animal and fails to supply it during such conﬁne-
ment with proper food, proper drink, and proper shelter.

(6) Carries, or causes to be carried, a living animal in or upon a vehicle
or otherwise, in a cruel or inhumane manner.

(7) Unjustifiably administers any poisonous or noxious drug or sub-
stance to any domestic animal or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or sub-
stance, with intent that the same shall be taken or swallowed by any domestic
animal.

(8) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another person without
legal privilege or consent of the owner.

(9) Mistreats any living animal by any act or omission whereby
unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused to or
permitted upon the animal.

(10) Causes or procures to be done by any person any act enumerated
in this Section.

B. Whoever commits the crime of cruelty to animals shall be fined not more
than five hundred dollars, or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both. . .

14:102.4. Conﬁned animals; necessary food and water.

When a living animal is impounded or confined, and continues without
necessary food and water for more than twenty-four consecutive hours, any law
enforcement ofﬁcer may, as often as is necessary, enter any place in which the
animal is impounded or conﬁned and supply it with necessary food and water
so long as it shall remain impounded or confined.

MAINE

7:3907. Deﬁnitions ”M....w-__w- M"... W

As used in this Part, and in every law relating to or affecting animals, unless
the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the following
meanmgs . . .

2. Animal. 'Animal’ means every living, sentient creature not a human
being . . .

26. Torment, torture and cruelty. 'Torment, torture and cruelty’ means
every act, omission or neglect, whether by the owner or any other person,
where unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted . . .

29. Well cared for. 'Well cared for’ means that the animal is receiving neces-
sary sustenance, necessary medical attention, proper shelter, protection from
the weather and humanely clean conditions and that the animal has not been

“NV. HM .0. ~.~.W

 

 




nor is being injured, overworked, tormented, tortured, abandoned, poisoned,
beaten, mutilated or exposed to a poison with the intent that it be taken by the
animal . . .

724011. Cruelty to Animals.
1. Cruelty to animals. A person is cruel to animals if he:

A. Kills any animal belonging to another person without legal privilege or
the consent of the owner, or kills or attempts to kill any animal with the owner’s
consent, by means which will cause undue suffering. The owner or occupant of
property is privileged to use reasonable force to eject a trespassing animal;

B. Injures, overworks, tortures, torments, abandons, gives poison to, cruelly
beats or mutilates any animal or exposes a poison with the intent that it be taken
by an animal;

C. Deprives any animal which he owns or possesses of necessary suste-
nance, necessary medical attention, proper shelter, protection from the weather
or humanely clean conditions; or

D. Keeps or leaves a domestic animal on an uninhabited or barren island
lying off the coast of Maine during the months of December, January, February
or March without providing necessary sustenance and proper shelter . . .

7:4013. Necessary sustenance.

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to supply the animal with a sufficient supply of food and water as pre-
scribed in this section. .

1. Food. The food shall be of sufficient quantity and quality to maintain all
animals in good health.

2. Water. If potable water is not accessible to the animal at all times, it shall
be provided daily and in sufﬁcient quantity for the health of the animal.

7:4014. Necessary medical attention. .

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to supply the animal with necessary-medical attention when the animal
is or has been suffering from illness, injury, disease, excessive parasitism or mal-
formed or overgrown hoof.

7:4015. Proper shelter, protection from the weather and humanely clean condi-
tions.

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to provide the animal with proper shelter, protection from the weather
or humanely clean conditions as prescribed in this section. In the case of farm
animals, nothing in this section may be construed as imposing shelter require-
ments or standards more stringent than normally accepted husbandry practice
in the particular county where the animal or shelter is located. For purposes of
this section, horses shall not be considered farm animals.

1. Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter shall be as follows.
A. The ambient temperature shall be compatible with the health of the ani-
mal.
B. Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately ventilated by natural or
mechanical means to provide for the health of the animal at all times.

2. Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter shall be as fol-
lows.

A. When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaustion of an animal tied or
caged outside, sufficient shade by natural or artificial means shall be provided to
protect the animal from direct sunlight. As used in this paragraph, 'caged’ does
not include farm fencing used to confine farm animals.

B. Shelter from inclement weather shall be as follows.

(1) [An artificial shelter with a minimum of 3 sides and a waterproof
roof appropriate to the local climatic conditions for the species concerned shall
be provided as necessary for the health of the animal.

__(2)/If a dog is tiedvuor confined unattended outdoors under weather condi-
tions which adversely affect the health of the dog, a shelter of suitable size with
a ﬂoor above ground and waterproof roof shall be provided to accommodate
the dog and protect it from the weather and, in particular, from severe cold.
Inadequate shelter may be indicated by the shivering of the dog due to cold
weather for a continuous period of 30 minutes.

C. No animal may be confined in a building, enclosure, car, boat, vehicle or
vessel of any kind when extreme heat or extreme cold will be harmful to its
health.

3. Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both indoor and outdoor
enclosures shall include the following.

A. The housing facilities shall be structurally sound and maintained in good
repair to protect the animal from injury and to contain the animal.

B. Enclosures shall be constructed and maintained to provide sufficient
space to allow each animal adequate freedom of movement. Inadequate space
may be indicated by evidence of overcrowding, debility, stress or abnormal
behavior patterns.

 




4. Humanely clean conditions. Minimum standards of sanitation necessary to
provide humanely clean conditions for both indoor and outdoor enclosures
shall include periodic cleanings to remove excretions and'other waste materials,
dirt and trash to minimize health hazards.

7:4016. Violation.

Any person who violates this chapter commits a civil violation for which a
forfeiture of $500 for each offense may be adjudged and such other relief as may
be necessary to restore the animal to good health or to ameliorate the effects of
cruelty and to ensure that the animal is well cared for.

MARYLAND

27:59. Cruelty to animals a misdemeanor.

Any person who (1) overdrives, overloads, deprives of necessary suste-
nance, tortures, torments, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills; or (2) causes,
procures or authorizes these acts; or (3) having the charge or custody of an ani-
mal, either as owner or otherwise, inﬂicts unnecessary suffering or pain upon
the animal, or unnecessarily fails to provide the animal with nutritious food in
sufficient quantity, necessary veterinary care, proper drink, air, space, shelter or
protection from the weather; or (4) uses or permits to be used any bird, fowl, or
cock for the purpose of ﬁghting with any other animal, which is commonly
known as cockfighting, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not
exceeding $1,000 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both . . .

27:60. Abandoning domestic animal.

Any person, partnership or corporation being the owner, possessor, or cus-
todian of a dog, cat, or other domestic animal, who abandons such animal or
drops or leaves such animal on a street, road, highway, or in a public place or on
private property, with intent to abandon it, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $100.00 . . . '

27:62. Definitions.

The wordsﬂorﬂture,’g’torment,’ and 'cruelty’ mean every act, omission, or},
neglect whereby unnecessaryor unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is
caused or permitted, and the word ’animal’ means every living creature except
man. '

MASSACHUSETTS

272:77. Cruelty to animals.

Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tor-
tures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or
kills an animal, or causes or procures an animal to be overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of neces-
sary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or killed; and whoever uses in a cruel
or inhuman manner in a race, game, or contest, or in training therefor, as lure or
bait a live animal, except an animal if used as lure or bait in fishing; and who-
ever, having the charge or custody of an animal, either as owner or otherwise,
inﬂicts unnecessary cruelty upon it, or unnecessarily fails to provide it with
proper food, drink, shelter, sanitary environment, or protection from the
weather, and whoever, as owner, possessor, or person having the charge or cus-
tody of an animal, cruelly drives or works it when unfit for labor, or willfully
abandons it, or carries it or causes it to be carried in or upon a vehicle, or other-
wise, in an unnecessarily cruel or inhuman manner or in a way and manner
which might endanger the animal carried thereon, or knowingly and willfully
authorizes or permits it to be subjected to unnecessary torture, sufferinggr cru-
elty of any kind shall be punished by a fine of not more than'\f_'_‘__7_ .. ‘
lars or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.

In addition to any other penalty provided by law, upon conviction for any
violation of this section . . . the defendant may, after an appropriate hearing to
determine the defendant’s fitness for continued custody of the abused animal,
be ordered to surrender or forfeit to the custody of any society, incorporated
under the laws of the commonwealth for the prevention of cruelty to animals or
for the care and protection of homeless or suffering animals, the animal whose
treatment was the basis of such conviction.

MICHIGAN

752.21. Cruelty to animals; penalty . . .

Sec. 1. Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, muti-
lates, 01‘ cruelly kills, orcauses or procures to be so overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of neces-

 




sary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed, any animal, and r-
whoever having the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or other-

wise, inﬂicts unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or wilfully fails to provide the ..
same with proper food, drink, shelter, or protection from the weather, is guilty

of a misdemeanor and shall be imprisoned for not more than 3 months, or fined

not more than $500.00, or by both . . .

MINNESOTA

343.20. Definitions . . .

Subd. 2. Animal. ’Animal’ means every living creature except members of
the human race. 1

Subd. 3. Torture; cruelty. 'Torture’ or ’cruelty’ means every act, omission, or
neglect which causes or permits unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, or
death . . . 4

343.21. Overworking or mistreating animals; penalty. - .

Subdivision 1. Torture. No person shall overdrive, overload, torture, cru-
elly beat, neglect, or unjustifiably injure, maim, mutilate, or kill any animal, or
cruelly work any animal when it is unfit for labor, whether it belongs to that per-
son or to another person. I »

Subd. 2. Nourishment; shelter. No person shall deprive any animal over
which the person has charge or control of necessary food, water, or shelter.

Subd. 3. Enclosure. No person shall keep any cow or other animal in any
enclosure without providing wholesome exercise and change of air.

Subd. 4. Low feed. No person shall feedany cow on food which produces
impure or unwholesome milk. '

Subd. 5. Abandonment. No person shall abandon any animal.

Subd. 6. Temporary abandonment. No person shall allow any maimed,
sick, infirm, or disabled animal to lie in any'street, road, or other public place for
more than three hours after receiving notice of the animal’s condition.

Subd. 7. Cruelty. No person shall wilfully instigate or in any way further
any act of cruelty to any animal or animals, or any act tending to produce cruelty
to animals.

Subd. 8. Caging. No person shall cage‘any animal for public display pur-
poses unless the display cage is constructed of solid material on three sides to
protect the caged animal from the elements and unless the horizontal dimen-
sion of each side of the cage is at least four times the length of the caged animal.
The provisions of this subdivision do not apply to the Minnesota state agricul-
tural society, the Minnesota state fair, or to the county agricultural societies,
county fairs,.,to any agricultural display of caged animals by any political subdi-
vision of the state of Minnesota, or to district, regional or national educational
livestock or poultry exhibitions. The provisions of this subdivision do not apply
to captive wildlife, the exhibition of which is regulated by section 97A.041.

Subd. 9. Penalty. A person who fails to comply with any provision of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor. / . .)

[Penaltyz Up to 90 days/imprisonment and/or up to $700 fine (§$::‘609-03)-l I ‘ d? 3% if

MISSISSIPPI

97-41-1. Living creatures not to be cruelly treated. .

If any person shall override, overdrive, overload, torture, torment,
unjustifiably injure, deprive of necessary sustenance, food, or drink; or cruelly
beat or needlessly mutilate; or cause or procure to be overridden, overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, unjustifiably injured, tormented, or deprived of necessary
sustenance, food or drink; or to be cruelly beaten or needlessly mutilated or
killed, any living creature, every such offender shall, for every offense, be guilty
of a misdemeanor.

 

97-41-5. Carrying creature in a cruel manner.

If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by hand or in or upon any
vehicle or other conveyance, any creature in a cruel or inhuman manner, he
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

97-41-7. Confining creatures without food or water.

If any person shall confine, or cause to be confined, in any stable, lot, or
other place, any living creature, without supplying the same during such con-
finement with a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and water, he
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

97-41-9. Failure of owner or custodian to provide sustenance.

If any person be the owner or have the custody of any living creature and
unjustiﬁably neglect or refuse to furnish it necessary sustenance, food, or drink,
he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

 




MISSOURI

578.012. Animal abuse.
1. A person is guilty of animal abuse when a person:

(1) Intentionally or purposely kills an animal in any manner not
allowed by or expressly exempted from the provisions of sections 578.005 to
578.023;

(2) Purposely, intentionally or recklessly causes injury, suffering, or
pain to an animal;

(3) Abandons an animal in any place without making provisions for its
adequate care;

(4) Overworks or overloads an animal, or drives or works an animal
unfit to work; or

(5) Having ownership or custody of an animal 'willfully fails to provide
adequate care or adequate control.

2. Animal abuse is a class A misdemeanor.

. “mi'suﬁ‘i meténwérwdu - -
“*W’w‘vnlvﬁwmmwn . " “Wm w r-

[Penaltyz Up to 1 year‘ﬁpmﬁnavf and/or a £1323 up to $1,000 (€558.01?
560.016) .] .. W ,

MONTANA

45-8-211. Cruelty to animals.

(1) A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if without justifica-
tion he knowingly or negligently subjects an animal to mistreatment or neglect
by:

(a) overworking, beating, tormenting, injuring, or killing any animal;

(b) carrying any animal in a cruel manner;

(c) failing to provide an animal in his custody with proper food, drink,
or shelter;

((1) abandoning any helpless animal or abandoning any animal on any
highway, railroad, or in any other place where it may suffer injury, hunger, or
exposure or become a public charge; or

(e) promoting, sponsoring, conducting, or" participating in a horse race
of more than 2 miles.

(2) A person convicted of the offense of cruelty to animals shall be fined
not to exceed $500 or be imprisoned in the county jail for a term not to exceed 6
months, or both. If such person is the owner, he may be required to forfeit to the
county in which he is convicted any animal affected. This provision does not
affect the interest of any secured party or other person who has not participated
in the offense.

(3) In addition to the sentence provided in subsection (2), the court may
require the defendant to pay all reasonable costs incurred in providing neces-
sary veterinary attention and treatment for any animal affected.

NEBRASKA

28-1001. Animal, cruel mistreatment, cruel neglect, and abandon; defined. As
used in section 28-1002, unless the context otherwise requires:

( 1) Animal shall mean a domesticated living creature and a wild living crea-
ture previously captured. Animal does not include an uncaptured Wild creature
or a wild creature whose capture was accomplished by conduct at issue under
section 28-1002;

(2) Cruel mistreatment shall mean every act or omission WhiCh causes, or
unreasonably permits the continuation of, unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or
suffering;

(3) Cruel neglect shall mean failure to provide food, water, protection from
the elements, Opportunity to exercise, or other care normal, usual, and proper
for an animal’s health and well-being; and

(4) Abandon shall mean the leaving of an animal by its owner or other per-
son responsible for its care or custody without making effective provisions for
its proper care.

28-1002. Cruelty to animals; penalty; authorized or permitted conduct.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise authorized
by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(a) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or
(b) Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
(c) Abandons any animal; or
(d) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another.
(2) Cruelty to animals is a Class II misdemeanor . . . j ..
[Penalty: Maximum 6 monthswﬁprisonment or $1,000 fine or both (§r38-106)'] f )4"? .“J '. ﬂ

:. j .,

NEVADA

 




574.050. Definitions.
As used in NRS 574. 050 to 574.200, inclusive:
1. ‘Animal’ does not include the human race, but includes every other
living creature.
2. ’Torture’ or 'cruelty’ includes every act, omission or neglect,
whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

574.100. Overdriving, torturing, injuring or abandoning animals; failure to pro-
vide proper sustenance; penalty.
A person who:

1. Overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly beats or unjustifiably
injures, mairns, mutilates or kills any animal, whether belonging to himself or to
another,

2. Deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food or drink, or neg-
lects or refuses to furnish it such sustenance or drink,

3. Causes, procures or permits any animal to be overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten, or unjustifiably injured, maimed, muti-
lated or killed, or to be deprived of necessary food or drink,

4. Willfully sets on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers
an act of cruelty to any animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty; or

5. Abandons an animal' 1n circumstances other than those prohibited 1n
NRS 574.110, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

574.110. Abandonment of disabled animal unlawful; penalty.

1. A person being the owner or possessor, or having charge or custody, of a
maimed, diseased, disabled or infirm animal, who abandons such animal or
leaves it to die in a public street, road or public place, or who allows it to lie in a
public street, road or public place more than 3 hours after he receives notice
that it is left disabled, is guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

574.120. Failure to provide proper food and water to impounded animal; pen-
alty.

1. A person who, having impounded or confined any animal, refuses or
neglects to supply to such animal during its confinement a sufficient supply of
good and wholesome air, food, shelter and water is guilty of a misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Up to 6 months imprisonment and/or a fine of up to $1,000, or both"”'" i '

(§193.150).]

 




ANTI.5: 2/16/90

NEW HAMPSHIRE

644:8. Cruelty to animals.

I. In this section, ’cruelty’ shall include, but not be limited to, acts or omis-
sions injurious or detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of any animal,
including the abandoning of any animal without proper provision for its care,
sustenance, protection or shelter.

II. In this section, 'animal' means a domestic animal, a household pet or a
wild animal in captivity.

III. A person is guilty of a misdemeanor if he:

(a) Without lawful authority negligently deprives or causes to be
deprived any animal in his possession or custody necessary care, sustenance or
shelter;

(b) N egligently beats, cruelly whips, tortures, mutilates or in any other
manner mistreats or causes to be mistreated any animal;

(c) Negligently overdrives, overworks, drives when overloaded, or
otherwise abuses or misuses any animal intended for or used for labor;

(d) Negligently transports any animalpin his possession or custody in a
manner injurious to the health, safety or physical well-being of such animal;

(e) Negligently abandons any animal previously in his possession or
custody by causing such animal to be left without supervision or adequate pro-
vision for its care, sustenance or shelter; or

(f) Otherwise negligently permits or causes any animal in his posses-
sion or custody to be subjected to cruelty, inhumane treatment or unnecessary
suffering of any kind.

IV. In addition to being guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in paragraph

111, any person charged with cruelty to animals may have his animal confiscated
by the arresting officer and, upon said person’s conviction of cruelty to animals,
the court may dispose of said animal in any manner it decides. The costs, if any,
incurred in boarding and treating the animal, pending disposition of the case,
and in disposing of the animal, upon a conviction of said person for cruelty to
animals, shall be borne by the person so convicted . . . '

[Penaltyz Up to 1 yearI imprisonment ahd7orafine ofvnup 601,000 @8512”

 

' a.

\—

NEW JERSEY

4:22-15. Definitions _,__..--....,-..
As used in this article:
’Animal’ or ’creature’ includes the whole brute creation . . .

J.....-.-a...~.‘._.. .... . 4..- ._., ,

4:22-18. Carrying animal in cruel manner; misdemeanor.

A person who shall carry, or cause to be carried, a living animal or creature
in or upon a vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel or inhuman manner, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in section 4:22-26 of this title.

4:22-19. Failure to care for impounded animals; misdemeanor. 5 A person who p; ' 3 .4.
shall impound or confine, or cause to be impounded or confined, in a pound or ’ ' ’
other place, a living animal or creature, and shall fail to supply it during such

confinement with a sufﬁcient quantity of good and wholesome food and water,

shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in section 4:22-26 of

this title.

4:22-20. Abandoning disabled animal to die in public place; misdemeanor.

A person who shall abandon a maimed, sick, infirm or disabled animal or
creature to die in a public place, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished
as provided in section 4:22-26 of this title.

4:22-26. Acts constituting cruelty in general; penalty-W f"; 595;}

a. Overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork, torture, tor-
ment, deprive of necessary sustenance, or cruelly beat or otherwise abuse or
needlessly mutilate or kill a living animal or creature;

b. Cause or procure to be done by his agent, servant, employee or oth-
erwise an act enumerated in subsection ’a' of this section;

c. Inﬂict unnecessary cruelty upon a living animal or creature of which
he has charge or custody either as owner or otherwise, or unnecessarily fail to
provide it With proper food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather;

d. Receive or offer for sale a horse which by reason of disability, dis-
ease 01‘ lameness, Or any other cause, could not be worked without violating the
provisions of this article;

e. Keep, use, be connected with or interested in the management of, or
receive money or other consideration for the admission of a person to, a place
kept or used for the purpose of fighting or baiting a living animal or creature;

.r“ ,

I. “
- t "3,..-
" i

IV

 




f. Be present and witness, encourage, aid or assist in an activity enu-
merated in subsection ’e’ of this section;

g. Permit or suffer a place owned or controlled by him to be used as
provided in subsection ’e’ of this section;

h. Carry, or cause to be carried, a living animal or creature in or upon a
vehicle or otherwise, in a cruel or inhuman manner;

i. Use a dog or dogs for the purpose of drawing or helping to draw a
vehicle for business purposes;

j. Impound or confine or cause to be confined in a pound or other
place a living animal or creature, and shall fail to supply it during such conﬁne-
ment with a sufﬁcient quantity of good and wholesome food and water;

k. Abandon a maimed, sick, infirm or disabled animal or creature to die
in a public place;

1. Wilfully sell, or offer to sell, use, expose, or cause or permit to be sold
or offered for sale, used or exposed, a horse or other animal having the disease
known as glanders or farcy, or other contagious or infectious disease dangerous
to the health or life of human beings or animals, or who shall, when any such
disease is beyond recovery, refuse, upon demand, to deprive the animal of life;

m. Own, operate, manage or conduct a roadside stand or market for
the sale of merchandise along a public street or highway; or a shopping mall, or
a part of the premises thereof; and keep a living animal or creature confined, or
allowed to roam in an area whether or not the area is enclosed, on these prem—
ises as an exhibit; except that this subsection shall not be applicable to: a pet . 75””) ”x7 K ,6
shop licensed pursuant to BL. 1941, c. 151 (C. 4:19-15.1 et seg.); a person who 4 I 7*“ '5’ ‘0
keeps an animal, in a humane manner, for the purpose of the protection of the
premises; or a recognized breeders’ association, a 4-H club, an educational agri-
cultural program, an equestrian team, a humane society or other similar charita-
ble or nonproﬁt organization conducting an exhibition, show or performance.

n. Keep or exhibit a wild animal at a roadside stand or market located
along a public street or highway of this State; a gasoline station; or a shopping
mall, or a part of the premises thereof;

0. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away or display live baby chicks,
ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, turtles or chameleons which have been dyed
or artificially colored or otherwise treated so as to impart to them an artiﬁcial
color;

p. Use any animal, reptile, or fowl for the purpose of soliciting any
alms, collections, contributions, subscriptions, donations, or payment of money
except in connection with exhibitions, shows or performances conducted in a
bona fide manner by recognized breeders’ associations, 4-H clubs or other simi-
lar bona ﬁde organizations;

q. Sell or offer for sale, barter, or give away living rabbits, turtles, baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl under 2 months of age, for use as household or
domestic pets;

r. Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away living baby chicks, ducklings
or other fowl, or rabbits, turtles or chameleons under 2 months of age for any
purpose not prohibited by subsection q. of this section and who shall fail to pro-
vide proper facilities for the care of such animals;

5. Artiﬁcially mark sheep or cattle, or cause them to be marked, by
cropping or cutting off both ears, cropping or cutting either ear more than 1
inch from the tip end thereof, or half cropping or cutting both ears or either ear
more than 1 inch from the tip end thereof, or who shall have or keep in his pos-
session sheep or cattle, which he claims to own, marked contrary to this
subsection unless they were bought in market or of a stranger; ,

t. Abandon a dog or cat—fShall forfeit and pay a “13.39: to exceed W75 . ) g 3
$250.00 to be sued for and recoverefﬁifh’c’ostsj‘in a""“‘civil"'a"“ét’i’on by ahy'pérsaii“ "
in the name of the New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

f"?
” i
I

NEW MEXICO

30-18-1. Cruelty to animals.
Cruelty to animals consists of:

A. torturing, tormenting, depriving of necessary sustenance, cruelly
beating, mutilating, cruelly killing or overdriving any animal;

B. unnecessarily failing to provide any animal with proper food or
drink; or ,
C. cruelly driving or working any animal when such animal is unfit for
labor. Whoever commits cruelty to animals is guilty of a petty misdemeanor.

[Penalty: Imprisonment not to exceed 6 months or a fine of not more than
$500.00, or both (§31-19-1).]

350. Definitions.

 




1. ’Animal,’ as used in this article, includes every living creature except a
human being;

2. ’Torture’ or 'cruelty’ includes every act, omission, or neglect, whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.

353. Overdriving, torturing and injuring animals; failure to provide proper sus-

tenance. ""“\
A person who overdrives, overloads, tortures or cruelly beats Pf») <5 C5 5
unjustifiably injures, maims, mutilates or kills any animal, whether wild or tame‘,’ "
and whether belonging to himself or to another, or deprives any animal of nec-

essary sustenance, food or drink, or neglects or refuses to furnish it such suste-

nance or drink, or causes, procures or permits any animal to be overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, cruelly beaten, or unjustifiably injured, maimed, muti-

lated or killed, or to be deprived of necessary food or drink, or who wilfully sets '

on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers any act of cruelty to any

animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by a fine of not

more than one thousand dollars, or by both . . .

355. Abandonment of animals.

A person being the owner or possessor, or having charge or custody of an
animal, whogabandons such animal, or leaves it to die in a street, road or public
place, or who allows such animal, if it become disabled, to lie in a public street,
road or public place more than three hours after he receives notice that it is left
disabled, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not more
than one year, or by a ﬁne of not more than one thousand dollars, or by both.

356. Failure to provide proper food and drink to impounded animal.

A person who, having impounded or confined any animal, refuses or neg-
lects to supply to such animal during its confinement a sufficient supply of good
and wholesome air, food, shelter and water, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punish-
able by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by a fine of not more than
one thousand dollars, or by both. In case any animal shall be at any time
impounded as aforesaid, and shall continue to be without necessary food and
water for more than twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for any person,
from time to time, and as often as it shall be necessary, to enter into and upon
any pound in which any such animal shall be so confined, and to supply it with
necessary food and water, so long as it shall remain so confined; such person
shall not be liable to any action for such entry, and the reasonable cost of such
food and water may be collected by him of the owner of such animal, and the
said animal shall not be exempt from levy and sale upon execution issued upon
a judgment therefor.

NORTH CAROLINA

14-360. Cruelty to animals; construction of section.

If any person shall willfully overdrive, overload, wound, injure, torture, tor-
ment, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill
or cause or procure to be overdriven, overloaded, wounded, injured, tortured,
tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, needlessly muti-
lated or killed as aforesaid, any useful beast, fowl or animal, every such offender
shall for every such offense be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up to one year. In
this section, and in every law which may be enacted relating to animals, the
words ’animal’ and 'dumb animal’ shall be held to include every living creature;
the words ’torture,’ ’torment’ or ’cruelty’ shall be held to include every act, omis-
sion or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused
or permitted. Such terms shall not be construed to prohibit the lawful taking of
animals under the jurisdiction and regulation of the Wildlife Resources Com-
missmn.

14-361. Instigating or promoting cruelty to animals.

If any person shall willfully set on foot, or instigate, or move to, carry on, or
promote, or engage in, or do any act towards the furtherance of any act of cru-
elty to any animal, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) and imprisonment for up to one year.

14-3611. Abandonment of animals.

Any person being the owner or possessor, or having charge or custody of
an animal, who willfully and without justifiable excuse abandons the animal is
311ny Of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to five hundred dollars
($50000) and imprisonment for up to six months.

NORTH DAKOTA

36-21.l-01. Definitions. In this chapter, unless the context or subject matter oth-
erwise requires:

 




1. 'Animal’ includes every living animal except the human race.

2. ’Board’ means the state livestock sanitary board.

3. ’Cruelty’ or ’torture’ includes every act, omission, Or neglect whereby
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted . . .

36-21.1-02. Overworking or mistreating animals. .
1. No person may overdrive, overload, torture, cruelly beat, neglect, or
unjustiﬁably injure, maim, mutilate, or kill any animal, or cruelly work any ani-

‘ mal when unfit for labor.

2. No person may deprive any animal over which he has charge. or control
of necessary food, water, or shelter. ‘

3. No person may keep any animal in any enclosure without exercise and
wholesome change of air.

4. No person may abandon any animal.

5. No person may allow any maimed, sick, inﬁrm, or disabled animal of
which he is the owner, or of which he has custody, to lie in any street, road, or
other public place for more than three hours after notice.

6. No person may willfully instigate, or in any way further, any act of cru-
elty to any animal or animals, or any act tending to produce such cruelty.

7. No person may cage any animal for public display purposes unless the
display cage is constructed of solid material on three sides to protect the caged
animal from the elements, and unless the horizontal dimension of each side of
the cage is at least four times the length of the caged animal. The provisions of
this subsection do not apply to the North Dakota state fair association, to agri-
cultural fair associations, to any agricultural display‘of caged animals by any
political subdivision, or to district, regional, or national educational livestock or
poultry exhibitions. Zoos which have been approved by the health district or
the governing body of the political subdivision which has jurisdiction over the
zoos are exempt from the provisions of this subsection . . .

v .w—wsr—wm -'Yvn‘v¥!!1w«v , «

[Penalty: Maximum one year/imprisonment, a ﬁne of $1,000,0rbothjnw

OHIO

959.01. Abandoning animals.
No owner or keeper of a dog, cat, or other domestic animal, shall abandon

such animal.

[Penalty for violation of Section 959.01: Minor misdemeanor, punishable by a
ﬁne of not more than $100.] '

959.02. Injuring animals.

No person shall maliciously, or willfully, and without the consent of the
owner, kill or injure a horse, mare, foal, ﬁlly, jack, mule, sheep, goat, cow, steer,
bull, heifer, ass, ox, swine, dog, cat, or other domestic animal that is the property
of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian acting in an
ofﬁcial capacity. '

[Penalty for violation of Section 959.02: If the value of the animal killed or the
injury done amounts to less than $300,_Imisdemeanor of the second degree,
punishable by not more than 90 days' imprisonment and/or 'amﬁnélofnot more '
than $750. If the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300
or more, misdemeanor of the ﬁrst degree, punishable by not more'than six
monthsﬁﬁpﬁsonment and/or a fine'of not more ”thah”$1,0100.] 7’ l . _.

959.13. Cruelty to animals.
(A) No person shall:

(1) Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance, unne-
cessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or confine an
animal without supplying it during such conﬁnement with a sufficient quantity
of good wholesome food and water;

(2) Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during such
conﬁnement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sun-
light if it can reasonably be expected that the animals would otherwise become
sick or in some other way suffer. Division (A) (2) of this section does not apply
to animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, shelter means a man-made enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, tree
development, or vegetation;

(3) Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman(e) manner;

(4) Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk . . .

[Penalt : Misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable by not more than 90 I .1
daysvirﬁméﬁt and/or a fine of not more than $1750.]

(C) All fines collected for violations of this section shall be paid to the soci-
ety or association for the prevention of cruelty to animals, if there be such in the

 




county, township, or municipal corporation where such violation occurred.

OKLAHOMA

21:1685. Cruelty to animals.

Any person who shall wintu or maliciously overdrive, overload, torture,
destroy or kill, or cruelly beat or injure, maim or mutilate, any animal in subju-
gation or captivity, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging to himself or
to another, or deprive any such animal of necessary food, drink or shelter; or
who shall cause, procure or permit any such animal to be so overdriven,
overloaded, tortured, destroyed or killed, or cruelly beaten or injured, maimed
or mutilated, or deprived of necessary food, drink or shelter; or who shall
willfully set on foot, instigate, engage in, or in any way further any act of cruelty
to any animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty, shall be punished by
imprisonment in the penitentiary not exceeding five (5) years, or by imprison-
ment in the county jail not exceeding one (1) year, or by fine not exceeding Five
Hundred Dollars ($500.00); and any officer finding an animal so maltreated or
abused shall cause the same to be taken care of, and the charges therefor shall
be a lien upon such animal, to be collected thereon as upon a pledge or a lien.

2121686. Abandoned animals—Destroyed how.

A. Any person owning or having charge or custody of a maimed, diseased,
disabled, or infirm animal who abandons said animal or who allows said animal
to lie in a public street, road, or public place one- (1) hour after said person
receives notice by a duly constituted authority that the animal is disabled or
dead, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor . . .

D. For the purpose of the provisions of this section and Section 1691 of this
title, the term abandon means the voluntary relinquishment of an animal with
no intention to retain possession and shall include but shall not be limited to
vacating a premises and leaving the animal in or at the premises, or failing to
feed the animal or allowing it to stray or wander onto private or public property
with the intention of surrendering ownership or custody over said animal.

21:1691. Abandoning of domestic animals along streets or highways or in any
public place prohibited.

Any person who deposits any live dog, cat, or other domestic animal along
any private or public roadway, or in any other private or public place with the
intention of abandoning the domestic animal upon conviction, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. ,.

2121692. Penalty.

Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of Sections 1686
. . . 1691 of this title shall be punished by a fine in an amount not less than One
Hundred Dollars ($100.00) nor more than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00), or
by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one (1) year, or by both
said fine and imprisonment.

OREGON

167.850. Definition and classification of the crime of cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits the crime of cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise
authorized by law, he intentionally or recklessly:
(a) Subjects any animal under human custody or control to cruel
mistreatment; or
(b) Subjects any animal under his custody or control to cruel neglect;
or
(c) Kills without legal privilege any animal under the custody or con-
trol of another.
(2) As used in this section, ’animal’ includes birds.
(3) Cruelty to animals is a Class B misdemeanor.

167.860. Specific acts defined as cruelty to animals; defense; exceptions.

(1) As used in this section, ’animal’ means any mammal, bird, reptile or
amphibian.

(2) Any person who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, muti-
lates or cruelly kills, or causes or procures such .cruel treatment of any animal, or
W110, having the charge of or custody of any animal as owner, or otherwise,
inﬂicts cruelty upon the animal, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor.

(3) Every owner or person having the charge or custody of any animal,
who cruelly drives or works the animal when unﬁt for labor, or cruelly aban-
dons the animal, or carries or causes the animal to be carried in or upon an
vehicle 01' OtherWiSE, in a cruel, inhuman manner, or knowingly or wilfully
authorizes or permits the animal to be subjected to torture, suffering, or cruelty
of any kind, Shall be punished for each and every offense in the manner pro-

 




vided in subsection (2) of this section.

(4) Except in the case of an emergency, every owner or person having the
charge or custody of any animal, who deprives such animal of necessary and
adequate food and drink for more than 36 hours, shall be punished for each and
every offense in the manner provided in subsection (2) of this section . . .

 




ANTI.6: 2/16/90

PENNSYLVANIA

18:5511. Cruelty to animals . . .

(3) As used in this subsection, the following terms shall have the
meanings given to them in this paragraph:

'Domestic animal.’ Any dog, cat, equine animal, bovine animal, sheep,
goat or porcine animal . . .

(c) Cruelty to animals—A person commits a summary offense if he wan-
tonly or cruelly illtreats, overloads, beats or otherwise abuses any animal,
whether belonging to himself or otherwise, or abandons any animal, or deprives
any animal of necessary sustenance, drink, shelter or veterinary care. . .

[Penaltyz Summary Offense: Fine not exceeding $300.]

RHODE ISLAND

4-1-1. Definitions . . .
(1) The words 'animal’ and 'animals’ shall be held to include every liv-
ing creature except a human being . . .

4-1-2. Overwork, mistreatment, or failure to feed animals— 'Shelter’ defined.

Whoever shall overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork,
torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate or cru-
elly kill, or cause or procure to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary suste-
nance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly killed, any animal, and whoever, hav-
ing the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, shall
inﬂict cruelty upon that animal, or shall willfully fail to provide that animal with
proper food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather, shall, for every such
offense, be imprisoned not exceeding eleven (11) months, or be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor exceeding five hundred dollars ($500), or be both
imprisoned and fined as aforesaid.

'Shelters,’ as used in this chapter, shall mean a structure used to house any
animal, and which will provide sufficient protection'from inclement elements
for the health and well-being of the animal.

4-1-3. Unnecessary cruelty.

Every owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody of any ani-
mal, who shall cruelly drive or work that animal when unfit for labor, or cruelly
abandon that animal, or who shall carry that animal, or cause that animal to be
carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise in a cruel or inhuman manner, or
wilfully authorize or permit that animal to be subjected to unnecessary torture,
suffering or cruelty of any kind, or who shall place or cause to have placed on
any animal any substance that may produce irritation or pain, or that shall be
declared a hazardous substance by the U.‘ S. Food and Drug Administration or
by the Rhode Island Department of Health, shall be punished for every such
offense in the manner provided in 4-1-2; provided however, that this section
shall not be deemed to include any drug having curative and therapeutic effect
for disease in animals and which is prepared and intended for veterinary use.

4-1-4. Abandonment of infirm animals.

If any maimed, sick, infirm or disabled animals shall be abandoned to die,
by any owner or person having charge of that animal, that person shall, for
every such offense, be punished in the manner provided in 4-1-2 . . .

SOUTH CAROLINA

47-1-10. 'Animal’ and ’animals’ defined.
In this chapter the words ’animal’ or ’animals’ shall be held to include all
brute creatures.

47-1-40. Ill-treatment of animals generally.

(A) Whoever overloads, overdrives, overworks, ill-treats, deprives of nec-
essary sustenance, shelter, or inﬂicts unnecessary pain or suffering upon any
animal or causes these things to be done, whether the person is the owner of the
animal or has charge or custody of it, for every offense, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, must be punished by imprisonment not
exceeding thirty days or by a fine of not less than ﬁfty dollars nor more than two
hundred dollars for a first offense; by imprisonment not exceeding sixty days or
by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, or both, for a second offense; or by
imprisonment not exceeding one year or by a fine not exceeding one thousand
dollars, or both, for a third or subsequent offense.

(B) Whoever tortures, torments, needlessly mutilates, cruelly kills, or

 




 

    

 
 

inﬂicts excessive or repeated unnecessary pain or suffering upon any animal or
causes the acts to be done for any of the offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, must be punished by imprisonment not to exceed sixty days
or by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars, or both.

(C) The provisions of this section do not apply to fowl, accepted animal
husbandry practices of farm operations, the training of animals, or the practice
of veterinary medicine.

 

47-1-70. Abandonment of infirm animal in public place.

A person, being the owner or possessor or having charge or custody of a
maimed, diseased, disabled or infirm animal in any town or city of this State,
who abandons such animal or leaves it to die in a street, road, highway or other
public place more than three hours after he receives notice that it is left disabled
is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one
hundred dollars or imprisonment not exceeding thirty days. .

{4741-50. Cruel work, abandonment, carriage in vehicles, and unnecessary tor- '

“WW—v...» .w

I ‘ . .
gtureleery owner, possessor or person havmg the charge or custody of any am-

8.
2
:r
o

(1) Cruelly drives or works it when unfit for labor;
(2) Cruelly abandons it;
. (3) Carries it, or causes it to be carried, in or upon any vehicle or otherwise
,in an unnecessarily cruel or inhuman manner; or
.. (4) Knowingly or wilfully authorizes or permits it to be subjected to
junnecessary torture, suffering or cruelty of any kind;
Shall, for every such offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be pun-
' ished for every such offense in the manner prescribed in 47-1-40.

1,.an ..

     

SOUTH DAKOTA

40-1-1. Definition of terms . . .

(1) 'Animal’ shall include every living 'dumb creature;

(2) 'Torture,’ ’torment,’ and 'cruelty’ shall include every act, omission, or
neglect whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable physical pain or suffering is
caused or permitted . . .

40-1-2. Overwork, torture, starving or cruelty to animal prohibited.

No person shall overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork,
torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, drink, or shelter, cruelly beat,
mutilate, or cruelly kill any animal.

““3

am,
mtl".un~-.-~ . , .. I,” ".m- m . "mum—mm .

r"‘

iii";

40-1-2.1. Abandoning animal prohibited.[No perso‘pm‘rnnaybabandon any animal. _. 5‘ ,

40-1-6. Impounding or leaving of animal without proper attention prohibited.

No person shall impound, or permit any animal to be in any building,
enclosure, lane, street, square, or lot without proper care and attention for more
than twelve consecutive hours.

:pjf)

40-1-15. Violation of chapter as misdemeanor} A violation of 391.259.2519391--- f2, 59;, )

this chapter, which is not otherwise classified, is a Class 2 misdemeanor.

40-1-22. Killing or injuring animal other than livestock as misdemeanor.

Every person who maliciously kills or injures any animal, other than those
speciﬁed in 40-1-21 [livestock], belonging to another, or any animal whatever
belonging to himself, is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.

h‘wr‘w‘.‘ .1 .«mmh

' 3...“;MM ' “WNW”, “WM.8“ngdemmmw,‘My: ,......c. -. - )
[Penaltyz Class 1 misdemeanor: one yearrimprlsonment in county jall and/or

$1,000 fine; Class 2 misdemeanor: 30 daysFu—Ylp—risméﬁt“iﬁ“c“6ﬁﬁty”jailand/or ;

$100 fine.]

TENNESSEE

39-3-101. Definitions.

In this part, and in every law relating to or affecting animals, the words ani-
mal or dumb animal shall be held to include every living creature; the words
torture, torment, or cruelty shall be held to include every act, omission, or neg-
lect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permit-
ted; but nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting the shooting of birds
or game for the purpose of human food, or the use of animate targets by incor-
porated gun clubs.

39-3-104. Cruelty to animals.

If any person shall overdrive, overload, torture, torment, deprive of neces-
sary sustenance, or cruelly beat, or needlessly mutilate, or kill, or cause or pro-
cure same to be done, as aforesaid, any living creature, or use, buy, sell, or
exchange any horse or mule, when unfit for labor, every such offender shall, for
every offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prohibit the
purchase of animals by humane societies, incorporated under the laws of this
state, for the purpose of humanely killing the same.

. /’/




39-3-106. Failure to feed and water impounded animals.

Any person who shall impound, or cause to be impounded in any pound or
other place, any creature, shall supply to the same during such confinement a
sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and water, and in default
thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. '

39-3-110. Aiding and promoting cruelty to animals.

Every person who shall willfully instigate, or promote, or engage in, or do
any act toward the furtherance of any act of cruelty to any animal, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.

39-3—121. Abandonment of dogs and cats.

It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor to abandon or otherwise
willfully leave any animal of the canine or feline species on public lands or
rights of way. Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than two dollars ($2.00) nor more than fifty dollars
($50.00) or imprisoned in the county jail or workhouse not to exceed thirty (30)
days, or both such fine and imprisonment.

39-1-202. Penalty for misdemeanor.

Every person who is convicted of a misdemeanor, the punishment for
which is not otherwise prescribed by a statute of this state, shall be punished by
imprisonment in the county jail or workhouse not more than one year, or by
fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both, in the discretion
of the court. ‘

TEXAS

42.11. Cruelty to Animals.
(a) A person commits an offense if he intentionally or knowingly:
(1) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;
(2) fails unreasonably to provide necessary food, care, or shelter for an
animal in his custody;
(3) abandons unreasonably an animal in his custody;
(4) transports or confines an animal in a cruel manner;
(5) kills, injures, or administers poison to an animal, other than cattle,
horses, sheep, swine, or goats, belonging to another without legal authority or
the owner’s effective consent; » we.
(6) causes one animal to fight with another; orl\(7) uses alive animal as“ {x {1,1,}
a lure in dog race training or in dog coursing on a racetrack . . .
(c) For purposes of this section, ’animal’ means a domesticated living crea-
ture and wild living creature previously captured. 'Animal’ does not include an
uncaptured wild creature or a wild creature whoSe capture was accomplished
by conduct at issue under this section.

, ‘ “4K
'1‘ §
. .

[Penaltyz Class A misdemeanor: Fine not to exceed $2,000 and/or imprison-
ment not to exceed one year.]

UTAH

76-9-301. Cruelty to animals.
(1) A person commits cruelty to animals if he intentionally or knowingly:

(a) tortures or seriously overworks an animal;
(b) fails to provide necessary food, care, or shelter for an animal in his
custody; ~

(c) abandons an animal in his custody;

(d) transports or conﬁnes an animal in a cruel manner;

(e) kills, injures, or administers poison to an animal without legal priv-
ilege; or

(f) causes any animal, not including a dog, to fight with another animal
or creature of like kind for amusement or gain; or causes any animal, including a
dog, to fight with a different kind of animal or creature for amusement or gain . . .

[Penaltyz Class B misdemeanor]

VERMONT

A§9L,A}l~lmalg§£1¥!§_dam ., ,. i .i

For the purposes of this chapter, the word ’animal’ or ’animals’ shall include
and extend to all brute creatures.

403- C££¢JIYIQ.énimal§...g_ewnerally. .. .. - . .
(a) A person who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works, tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, muti-
lates or cruelly kills any animal, or causes or procures it to be done, or having
the charge or custody of an animal, inﬂicts unnecessary cruelty upon it, or

 




unnecessarily fails to provide it with pr0per food, drink, shelter or protection
from the weather, shall be imprisoned not more than one year or fined not more
than $200.00, or both. i ' '

(b) An owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody of an ani-
mal, who cruelly drives or works the same when unfit for labor, or cruelly aban-
dons the same, or who carries or causes such animal to be carried upon a vehi-
Cle or otherwise in an unsafe or cruel manner, or knowingly or wilfully author-
izes or permits the same to be subjected to unnecessary torture, suffering or
cruelty, shall be punished as provided in subsection (a) of this section.

A 404. Abandonment of infirmhanirnuals. M-.. .. m .

m‘_.«m~_ ~.

If any'iiiaimed,’ Sick, inﬁrm, or disabled, ammalsshaﬂ be abandonedbyany
owner or person having charge of same, such person shall for every offense, be
punished in the manner provided in section 403 (a) of this title.

VIRGINIA ,

3.1-796.66 Deﬁnitions. The following words as used in this chapter shall have
the following meanings: .

’Adequate feed’ means the provision, at suitable intervals, at least once
daily, of quantities of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age, suf-
ficient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal.

’Adequate water’ means a constant access to a supply of clean, fresh, pota-
ble water provided in a sanitary manner or provided at suitable intervals and in
a suitable manner for the species at least once daily at any interval.

’Adequate shelter’ means shelter that may reasonably be expected to pro-.
tect the animal from physical suffering or impairment of health due to exposure
to the elements or adverse weather . . .

’Animal’ means domestic animals, including both agricultural and compan-
ion animals, if not specified otherwise . . .

3.1-796.68. Duties of owner. Each owner shall have the duty to provide for each
of his companion animals, pursuant to regulations adopted by the Board:

1. Adequate feed and adequate water;

2. Adequate shelter;

3. Adequate space in the primary enclosure for the particular type of animal
depending upon its age, size and weight;

4. Veterinary care when needed and to prevent suffering; and

5. Humane care and treatment.

The provisions of this section shall also apply to every animal shelter with
respect to animals contained therein. _ '

31-79673. Abandonment of animals; penalty.

No person shall abandon any animal. Abandonment for the purposes of
this section is defined as deserting, forsaking, or intending to absolutely give up
an animal without securing another owner or without providing the necessities
set out in §3.1—796.68. Violation of this section shall be punishable as a Class 3
misdemeanor. .

3.1—796.122. Cruelty to animals; penalty.

Any person who (i) overrides, overdrives, overloads, tortures, ill-treats,
abandons, willfully inﬂicts inhumane injury or pain not connected with bona
fide scientific or medical experimentation, or cruelly or unnecessarily beats,
maims, mutilates, or kills any animal, whether belonging to himself or another;
or (ii) deprives any animal of necessary sustenance, food, drink or shelter; or
(iii) willfully, sets on foot, instigates, engages in, or in any way furthers any act of
cruelty to any animal; or (iv) carries or causes to be carried in or upon any vehi-
cle, vessel or otherwise any animal in a cruel, brutal, or inhumane manner, so as
to produce torture or unnecessary suffering; or (v) causes any of the above
things, or being the owner of such animal permits such acts to be done by
another, shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. ‘

Any person who abandons any dog, cat or other domesticated animal in
any public place including the right-of-way of any public highway, road or
street or on the property of another shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the dehorning of cat-
tle. ‘ V I

For the purposes of this section . . . the word animal shall be construed to
include birds and fowl.

[Penaltiesz Class 1 misdemeanor: Imprisonment for not more than 12 months
and/or a fine of not more than $1,000; Class 3 misdemeanor: A fine of not more
than $500.]

WASHINGTON

16.52.070. Certain ads. as cruelty—Penalty.
Except as provided in RCW 9A.48.080, every person who cruelly over-

 




drives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments,
deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates or cruelly kills, or
causes, procures, authorizes, requests or encourages so to be overdriven,
overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, de-
prived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten or mutilated or cruelly killed,
any animal; and whoever having the charge or custody of any animal, either as
owner or otherwise, inﬂicts unnecessary suffering or pain upon the same, or
unnecessarily fails to provide the same with the proper food, drink, air, light,
space, shelter or protection from the weather, or who wilfully and unreasonably
drives the same when unfit for labor or with yoke or harness that chafes or galls
it, or check rein or any part of its harness too tight for its comfort, or at night
when it has been six consecutive hours without a full meal, or who cruelly aban-
dons any animal, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. For the purposes of this sec-
tion, necessary sustenance or proper food means the provision at suitable inter-
vals, not to exceed twenty-four hours, of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the
species and age of the animal and sufﬁcient to provide a reasonable level of
nutrition for the animal.

WEST VIRGINIA

61-8-l9a. Cruelty to dogs and cats prohibited; putting such animals in fights
against each other prohibited; penalties.

If any person shall cruelly, or needlessly beat, torture, torment, mutilate,
kill or willfully deprive necessary sustenance, to any dog or cat, irrespective of
whether any such dog or cat be his or her own or that of another person, or if
any such person shall impound or confine any such dog or cat in any place
unprotected from the elements or fail to supply the same with a sufficient quan-
tity of food and water, or shall abandon to die any maimed, sick, or diseased dog
or cat or shall be engaged in or employed at dogfighting, or putting one dog or -
cat to fight against another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to any dog or cat, or
shall receive money for the admission of any person, or shall use, train or pos-
sess a dog or cat for the purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any other
dog or cat, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction,
shall be fined not less than one hundred nor more than one thousand dollars,
and in addition thereto, in the discretion of the court or magistrate, may be
imprisoned in the county jail not exceeding thirty days, and the county humane
ofﬁcer may remove the dog or cat involved and place said animal in the county
pound, and said dog or cat shall not be returned to owner (or perpetrator of act

of cruelty) but shall be put up for adoption to desirable home or given over into
the care of a humane society, or upon the recommendation of a licensed veteri-
narian shall be humanely destroyed. ‘

61-8-19. Cruelty to animals . . . penalties.

(a) If any person shall cruelly, unnecessarily or needlessly beat, torture, tor-
ment, mutilate, kill, or overload, overdrive, or willfully deprive of necessary sus-
tenance, any horse or other domestic animal, whether such horse or other ani-
mal be his own or that of another person, or shall impound or confine any such
animal in any place and fail to supply the same with a sufficient quantity of
good, wholesome food and water, or shall carry in or upon any vehicle, or oth-
erwise, any such animal in a cruel or inhuman manner, or knowingly feed a cow
on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk, or shall abandon to die
any maimed, sick, infirm or diseased animal . . . he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than five nor more
than one hundred dollars, and in the discretion of the court or magistrate, may
be imprisoned in the county jail not exceeding six months.

 




ANTI.7: 2/16/90

WISCONSIN

951.01. Definitions.
In this chapter:
(1) ’Aniinal’ includes every living:
(a) Warm-blooded creature, except a human being;
(b) Reptile; or
(c) Amphibian.
(2) ’Cruel’ means causing unnecessary and excessive pain or suffering or
unjustifiable injury or death.

951. 02. Mistreating animals.
No person may treat any animal, whether belonging to himself or another,

in a cruel manner.

951 1.3 Providing proper food and drink to confined animals.

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may refuse or neglect to supply the animal with a sufficient supply of food and
water as prescribed in this section.

(1) Food. The food shall be sufficient to maintain all animals 1n good health.

(2) Water. If potable water is not accessible to the animals at all times, it
shall be provided daily and in sufﬁcient quantity for the health of the animal.

951..14 Providing proper shelter. '

No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may fail to provide the animal with proper shelter as prescribed in this section.
In the case of farm animals, nothing 1n this section shall be construed as impos-
ing shelter requirements or standards more stringent than normally accepted
husbandry practices in the particular county where the animal or shelter is
located.

(1) Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter shall include:

(a) Ambient temperatures. The ambient temperature shall be compati-
ble with the health of the animal.

(b) Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately ventilated
by natural or mechanical means to provide for the ‘health of the animals at all
times.

(2) Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter shall
include: _

(a) Shelter from sunlight. When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaus-
tion of an animal tied or caged outside, sufficient shade by natural or artificial
means shall be provided to protect the animal from direct sunlight. As used in
this paragraph, ’caged’ does not include farm fencing used to confine farm ani-
mals.

(b) Shelter from inclement weather.

1. 'Animals generally.’ Natural or artificial shelter appropriate to
the local climatic conditions for the species concerned shall be provided as nec-
essary for the health of the animal.

2. ’Dogs.’ If a dog is tied or confined unattended outdoors under
weather conditions which adversely affect the health of the dog, a shelter of
suitable size to accommodate the dog shall be provided.

(3) Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both indoor and
outdoor enclosures shall include:

(a) Structural strength. The housing facilities shall be structurally
sound and maintained 1n good repair to protect the animals from injury and to
contain the animals.

(b) Space requirements. Enclosures shall be constructed and main-
tained so as to provide sufficient space to allow each animal adequate freedom
of movement. Inadequate space may be indicated by evidence of debility, stress
or abnormal behavior patterns.

(4) Sanitation standards. Minimum standards of sanitation for both indoor
and outdoor enclosures shall include periodic cleaning to remove excreta and
other waste materials, dirt and trash so as to minimize health hazards.

951.15. Animals; neglected or abandoned . . .
(1) No person may abandon any animal . . .

[Note: In 1986, Wisconsin upgraded the penalty for deliberate acts of cruelty to
a felony offense]

WYOMING

11-34-101. Definitions.
(1) ’Animal’ shall be held to include every living dumb creature . . .

 




11-34-102. Cruelty to animals generally.

Every person who overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, over-
works or willfully and maliciously tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sus-
tenance, unnecessarily or cruelly beats, or willfully and maliciously and need-
lessly mutilates or kills, or carries in or upon any vehicle, or otherwise in a cruel
or inhuman manner any animal, or causes or procures it to be done; or who,
having the charge and custody of any animal, unnecessarily fails to provide it
with the proper food, drink or protection from the weather, or cruelly abandons
it shall upon conviction, be punished by imprisonment in the county jail not
exceeding one (1) year or by fine not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or by both such fine and imprisonment.

 

. Laws of New Hampshire, Vol. 1, Province Period, Appendix D. Complete text. 1904.

. Old South Leaﬂets, Vol. VII, Boston, 1896, p. 18-20.

. New York. State Courts. Digest of New York Statutes and Reports, from earliest period to
the year 1860. Vol. 1, page 124.

. Revised Statutes, 1827-28, Fourth Part, Chapter I, Title VI.

. Iournal of the Assembly of the State of New York, 515i Session, Second Meeting. Albany:
Croswell, 1828, pages 45-6.

. Revised Statutes, Part IV, Chapter 130, Section 22.

. Statutes of Connecticut, Title XXI, p. 184.

. Statutes of the Territory of Wisconsin, page 365, Sec. 19.

. Act of 28 August, 1856, Art. 2345 (714).

. 1860 Laws of the General Assembly, Title IV, Sec. 46, p. 395.

. 1864 Laws of the Territory of Idaho, XII, Sec. 143, p. 329.

. We are indebted to Professor David S. Favre and attorney-veterinarian Dr. Murray
Loring for their valuable insights on this topic. Their noteworthy publication Animal
Law discusses a variety of topics, including the problems of cruelty statutes, and pro-
vides a clear explanation, with case support, of the legal principles involved.

. ”Accepted veterinary practice” includes performing, without anesthesia, such proce-
dures as dehorning of cattle at any age, docking the tails of pigs and sheep, and castra-
tion.

. Illinois requires ”veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering”; Maine, ”neces-
sary medical attention”; Maryland, ”necessary veterinary care”; Pennsylvania, ”veteri-
nary care;” Puerto Rico, ”medical or veterinary treatment if needed.”

. The penalty for a gross misdemeanor in Nevada is up to one year’s imprisonment
and/or a fine of up to $1,000.

. On a national level, the American Humane Association (AHA) offers to match up to
$500 for ”information leading to the arrest and conviction of any person or persons
willfully poisoning any animal.” Reward posters are available from AHA’s office at
9725 E. Hampden Avenue, Denver, CO, 80231.

. In some states, every ”willful act,” etc.

 




I ' l
. ‘ . p, ’ V (I 1 1‘ _ 1,,
,/ If J 4’ x L I. . x L ,"l :

f/(LI:’\J LL, <1 ’
//:/CC CC/L .

/~ >4”

’7’“,qu /}/ Q L4 C .4, LLC<17<,///<L:‘> Z3 7/3») .11.;
/ fly < (a "Z: / Z ' VO/DZJZC/CC (Z?
Z L / .524 3L}? 6/ Z ZLQL Z 74" ..
/ Z. éz’ K ,1 / 2L] 2 (Ct/L1? (/2, Z 34% ’_

0/

Z Lu Z, <1 L )c / yVL/UC/

I!"

.Zﬂ‘Cvi/LLEC‘ZL /”‘C C C M :7 /(

,r\ , «' l
' //"\ ,r 73 ’ ﬂ '3 4’ ' '
. ) e w < I L , ./ 1, 7.
f y «I

m

4 / ? ~ '
6/” ’CLZ‘L/ 7 {2fo /% L

Cd‘zﬁk 2C (7 ‘: CAKE/ﬂ C <1, ”Jig/(LL LZZitg (LC/-
C ”1’ ,Z/ Law, [2 '3 J/CKU (if 4:1

lift“
a f" //‘/3/ /\ ‘7 1‘
/

Clad/Zn, ,. WCK—J Z/LCLL CZ ”CCC/ <5:
ZMZC 2x: 3 <1

 




0°C
. PENINSULA HUMANE SOCIETY

LAW ALERT

Legislation for Animal Welfare

12 Airport Boulevard, San Mateo, California 94401

October, 1989

The state legislature is in recess until the beginning of
January, 1990. Our thanks to all of you who have written
letters. Because of you, we have succeeded in getting a few
bills signed into law. And, many bills were turned into
two—year bills (meaning that no further action will be taken
until early 1990), also a few bills died along the process.

This issue of LAW Alert includes the following information:
1. Listing of who and where to send letters.
. Bills signed into law.
. Bills that were defeated.
. Two-year State bills needing your attention.
. Federal legislation needing your attention.

WHO AND WHERE TO SEND LETTERS

Where to send letters: Unless otherwise noted send all your
letters to: State Capitol, Sacramento, CA 95814.

 

Who to send letters to: The names of who should receive
letters is included under each bill next to the "Action
needed" section. It's also helpful to send a copy of all
letters you write to the bill's author. The author of each
bill is listed by the bill's number.

 

How to find out who your State Senator and Assemblyperson
is: If you live in northern San Mateo County (SMC) your
State Senator is most likely Quentin Kopp and Assemblywoman
Jackie Speier. If you live in southern SMC it is State
Senator Becky Morgan and Assemblyman Ted Lembert. To
confirm who your legislators are call the County Registrar
of Voters or the League of Women Voters.

BILLS SIGNED INTO LAW

PETS IN MOBILE HOMES (AB 212 by Assemblyman Jack O'Connell):
Mandates that if the management of a mobile home park passes
a rule prohibiting companion animals, it Wlll BOt apply to
animals already living in the park, or to serVice d098-

 

 

 

 




M

.,
Ext
‘1

BAN ON EATING PETS (AB 1842 by Assemblywoman Jackie Speier):
Makes it a misdemeanor for anyone who possesses, imports
into California, sells, buys, gives away or accepts any
animal commonly kept as a companion with the sole intent of
killing the animal for food.

STEEL JAWED TRAPS (SB 756 by Senator Milton Marks): Requires

~ all trappers to check their steel-jawed traps daily. This
law covers all county and federal trappers who presently may
check their traps about once or twice a week. Whereas, we
would prefer a complete ban on the use of steel jaw traps,
the opposition was too great. This new law doesn't afford
much additional protection for animals. But, at least all
trappers must check their traps daily.

 

 

‘_ELEPHANTS (SB 892 by Senator Dan McCorquodale): Prohibits
: the disciplining of elephants by means of any beating that
.amy break the skin, electrical shocking, starving and the
use of martingales and block and tackle (devices for heavy
(restraint). This new law extends protection to all
1elephants owned by zoos, circuses and individuals.

BILLS THAT WERE DEFEATED

OLD GROWTH FORESTS (AB 390 by Assemblyman Byron Sher):
Would have prohibited clearcutting of old growth timber.

MOUNTAIN LIONS (AB 860 by Assemblyman Richard Katz): Would
have banned trophy hunting of mountain lions. Since this
bill has failed, we are urging people to work on the
Mountain Lion Initiative.

PUPPY MILLS (AB 2001 by Assemblyman Sam Farr): Would have
prohibited pet shops from selling puppies less than 12 weeks
old if they were born more than 150 miles away. It would
have also allowed customers who buy sick puppies to be
reimbursed for veterinary bills.

TWO YEAR BILLS THAT NEED YOUR ATTENTION (THOSE THAT HELP
PROTECT ANIMALS)

 

 

LDSO/DRAIZE BAN (AB 2461 by Assemblyman Jack O'Connell)
Would ban the Lethal Dose 50 Test, the Draize Eye Irritancy
Test and the Skin Irritancy Test in California for cosmetic
and household products. Alternatives to these painful and
lethal tests are desperately needed.

Status: Will be heard on the Assembly floor again in

January.
Action needed: Write your Assemblyperson.

 

 




PRODUCT LABELING (SB 60 by Senator Alan Robbins)
Would require cosmetic and household products sold in
California to be labeled if they are tested on animals after
January 1, 1990. Consumers have a right to know which
products have caused the suffering and death of animals in
tests.
Status: Will be heard on the Senate floor in January.
Action needed: Write to your own State Senator.

 

VEAL CALVES (SB 1110 by Senator Milton Marks)
Would ban the veal crate by requiring that veal calves be
able to at least lie down, turn around and move around
comfortably.
Status: Will be heard in Assembly Public Safety
Committee in January or later.
Action needed: Write to Assemblyman John Burton,
chairman of Assembly Public Safety Committee
and to your own Assemblyperson.

 

COCK FIGHTING PENALTY (SB 1587 by Senator David Roberti)
Would make cockfighting a possible felony and require that
court cases involving confiscated animals to be tried in 60
days. We definitely need stronger penalty for the cruel
sport of cock fighting.

Status: Will be heard in Assembly Ways and Means
Committee after January.

Action needed: Write to Assemblyman John Vasconcellos,
chairman of Assembly Ways and Means Committee
and to Assemblywoman Jackie Speier, member of
that committee.

 

BILLS THAT NEED YOUR ATTENTION THAT DO NOT HELP ANIMALS

VEAL CALF STUDY (AB 2524 by Assemblyman Rusty Areias)
would subject more calves to a miserable life by mandating a
$100,000 State study to determine if the use of a veal crate
"unreasonably affects the health and well being of the
calf." This bill requests that the University of California
pay up to $50,000 for the study, with private industry
providing another $50,000.

Status: Will be voted on in the Senate Floor in

January or later.
Action needed: Write to your own State Senator.

 

PET SHOP & BREEDERS (AB 786 by Assemblyman Richard Polanco)
Would require pet shops and breeders who sell more than 25
dogs per year refund money if a dog is sick when sold and to
reimburse the purchaser for veterinary fees, but only up to
the price of the animal and only if several stringent
conditions are met. This is just a pet shop industry bill
and really does nothing to protect animals. It was
introduced to sabotage Assemblyman Farr's puppy mill bill.

 




." 5,
$:

Status: Will be heard in Senate Judiciary Committee
sometime after January.

Action needed: Write to Senator Bill Lockyer, chairman
of Senate Judiciary Committee and to your own
State Senator

 

FEDERAL LEGISLATION: The Refuge Wildlife Protection Act,
HR 1693, needs your help. This bill would prohibit hunting
and trapping of wild animals for sport, recreational, or
commercial proposes on national wildlife refuges that are
supposed to protect animals. More than 400,000 wild animals
are killed and wounded each year by hunters and trappers in
70% of our 439 refuges. If you think Congress should put an
end to this, then write your legislator and express your
feelings.
Action needed: Write to Studds urging hearings be held
The Hon. Gerry Studds, chairman
Subcommittee on Fisheries & Wildlife
Conservation & Environment
House Office Building
Washington, DC 20515
Write your own Congressman urging him/her to co—sponsor
HR 1693.

 

Special thanks... to Rose Lernberg and Virginia Handley for
their alerts and excellent tracking of California
legislation.

 

Peninsula Humane Society . O . - Nonprofit Org.
12 Airport Blvd. ' U-S- P081899

_ . PAID
San Mateo, California 94401 Permit No_ 511

San Mateo, CA

 

 

 

Christine Stevens
PO Box 3719
Washington, DC 20007

 




 




 




LONDON WASHINGTON BRUSSELS

. 19911111111111 I 519

l 5% 5315161. WNW:

PARLIAMENTARY MONITORING SERVICES

29 Tufton Street Westminster London SW1P 3QL
Telephone 071 222 5024 Fax 071 222 0265

EXTRACT FROM

 

 

HAN SARD
HOUSE OF COMMONS

Column Reference

AnimaI Maltreeheent

. Mr. Hinehliife: I9”; 11529 th9 See etary CA State for the

Home Department iI he WIII I11tzo1j91eeIe9i11I11119111 119I11'1‘h

W111 strengthen b11115 (.111 1111’11931‘1I1Ip1g11111 1 111315911137 whe
I)

have 1'11aIt1‘eaIed dogs; and 11’. he VIIIe 111.91ch s111b9111s to
protect other animals.

 

I‘v’lriPeter LItryd: The power aI191111If9 ems-1'9. As 1:1 remit

. of SCCIIOH I 01' the Pmtee 1111.11 of 111111111111 (,A111e11d111e1111
Act 1988. where 21 person has been e1 1111111319391 1111911931 the
Protection oIAnImaIs Act I911 319111911Ie11<tte 01113191 CIij to
any ammal the court by Much 11-:- 1.5 com eted 11111, 01de1
him to be d1sq91alif1' ed Imm heaving. 91151 ody of am 1111111111I

 




STATE OF NEVADA

EXECUTIVE CHAMBER

Carson City, Nevada 89710
808 MILLER TELEPHONE
Acting Governor (702) 885-5670

May 30, 1989 _

Betty Follis
4476 Avondale Avenue
Las Vegas, Nevada 89121

Dear Ms. Follis:

By now you probably know the outcome of the proceedings
against rancher John Casey. Let me take this opportunity to fill
you in on some of the background.

When it was learned that cattle were starving to death
near Elko, Department of Agriculture personnel moved quickly.
They loaded the surviving cattle (n1 trucks and shipped them to
pasture land that had good grass. I dispatched the Health
Division to the scene to make sure the dead cattle were disposed
of properly and did not become a health hazard. All of this was
done at Mr. Casey's expense.

Legal action presented.aa trickier problem. The state
had no legal authority to seize the cattle. The local district
attorney, who has primary jurisdiction, could only charge the
person who owned the brand for those cattle. That was not
John Casey. He had sold his brand to someone else even though he
paid for the cattle. That person was charged and a fine was
levied.

The available legal remedies were not strong enough to
deter future problems and certainly were not strong enough to
protect livestock. Therefore Assemblyman Bob Gaston authored
Assembly Bill 245 whiCh I supported. This gives the state the
authority to seize agricultural animals that are being treated
cruelly. On May 3rd I signed this bill into law.

(O)-34|2

 




:Ms. Betty Follis
May 30, 1989
Page Two

While no one can prevent someone from mistreating
animals, we can act forcefully when it occurs. I believe this
law gives us the ability to do this.

Thank you for taking the time to write.
Sincerely,

BOB MILLER
Governor

 




    
 

" ’ )I‘ 1):. ,— ‘" ‘ / .\ “,3," h", , ,." / (I,
""'|O(riu¢

   

Q . . . . ”2

,/:/um§AL¢%LL &_-
COLLLATL Mafmél. W446 ,Op/L/i ,9;
JL/ZOLL’ZL COL » , 6" [fﬂz 957M
aéQWQKwM&H(W@W

. / XL 0%[0 :rL—i ”and ./
M U 71"" Z1" ?L ?M Adz? , V>7¢25 ”63L L.,
éﬂﬁ. )4 157'; ”Vila/L]. //3/>U x zﬂLmL 3:47“
ZL/"LL. /L/€ LCf/Q’@ .>/"7Z ~ - j%‘ />/)L./‘L./
ﬁ/L/ﬂ‘v /é L/l/Lc/C 3/ g/QﬂwL “Am/3

, _ x 0
54,1 CAK/ﬁ ,
A" ’

   
 
    

 

Q3

 

 




N; N;
V? .QQDQQQ m 0Q? \V\QQ\Q§\
my Nsx\fv KP \xQQ.\QQ M\\' N\\ins.

”$ch VQQQ \NQNQCQ QQ\Q QQQQSQQK

 




The Animals’ Advocate:
nvestigating Animal Abuse

nimal Legal Defense
Fund, Inc.

 








 

 

 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This manual represents the joint effort of the Animal Legal
Defense Fund, Washington, DC. and is co-authored by Holly
Hazard, Jean Feeney, Valerie Stanley and Roger W. Galvin.

The authors would like to acknowledge the able assistance
of:.

A Mary Walls, for typing the numerous drafts,
Al Matano, for checking citations,
Mary Rouse, for her expertise in contacting the press,
and
Betty Hazard and Kathy Sanborn for reviewing our draft.

Comments: Please help us to improve this booklet by writing
to the Animal Legal Defense Fund with your suggestions at:
PO. Box 4066
Rockville, MD 20850

Cover photograph courtesy of People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals

©Copyright 1987
Animal Legal Defense Fund

 




 




{'11

.G—t

 

 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

FOREWORD

AN INTRODUCTION TO LEGAL
MUMBO-JUMBO

FEDERAL STATUTES & REGULATIONS
STATE LAWS

1. General Anti-Cruelty Statutes

2. State Laws & Laboratories

3. State Humane Slaughter Laws

4. Transportation of Farm Animals

THE INVESTIGATION
INVESTIGATION OUTLINE

HOW TO USE THE FEDERAL FREEDOM
OF INFORMATION ACT

REACH OUT— HELP IS HERE

TIPS FOR TALKING TO LEGISLATORS,
ATTORNEYS & THE PRESS

CONCLUSION
SUGGESTED READING

23
23
24
24
26
28
33

43
46

48
52
52

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

A. FOREWORD

For some, non-human animals are considered merely
“things” to be used or exploited at the whim of fashion or
perceived need. Over sixteen million dogs, cats and other
companion animals are killed each year in animal pounds and
shelters. Over four billion cows, calves and steers, sheep and
lambs, pigs, chickens and turkeys are slaughtered in the
United States alone every year for food. It is estimated that
between sixty to one hundred million animals die in laborato-
ries and testing facilities every year in the United States. Many
wild species are approaching extinction because of habitat
destruction, so-called predator control programs, hunting,
trapping and ﬁshing.

More and more people around the world are coming to the
realization that this carnage, and the attitudes that seek to
justify it, are both parochial and archaic. It is a product of
speciesism: that is, an arbitrary and self-indulgent limiting of
moral and ethical concerns to members only of our own spe-
cies. This realization has led these people to the inevitable
conclusion that justice only for man is a perverse distortion of
that ideal.

There are relatively few legal restraints today concerning
man’s treatment of the non-human animals he uses or exploits.
The purpose of this pamphlet is to acquaint you with the
minimum standards of treatment for non-humans required by
today’s law. Tomorrow will bring justice for all animals. Today
we have a duty to alleviate as much pain and suffering as
possible.

This pamphlet is not meant to sit on a shelf: it is meant to be
used in your work on behalf of our animal brethren.

B. AN INTRODUCTION TO LEGAL
MUMBO-JUMBO

The law is not'meant to be the private preserve of lawyers.
Any citizen can fairly easily identify the particular statute,
court opinion or regulation that governs the use or abuse of
animals. You must not be intimidated by the law; it is just one
tool that we can use in our efforts on behalf of the animals.

There are two types of laws: statutes and case law. Statutes
are enacted by either the federal or state legislatures. Statutes
address all aspects of public life from agriculture to zoning.
Modern case law, or judge-made law, is created as a result of a
lawsuit, a controversy between two private parties or between
the government and a private party.

Statutes are usually arranged in titles or articles and sec-
tions. The title or article of a statute covers a very general
subject matter area. The titles or articles most frequently
discussed in this pamphlet are ‘Agriculture,’ ‘Animals’ and
‘Crimes’. Within each title or article are various sections, each
dealing with speciﬁc aspects of the general subject area. Stat-
utes are cited by title or article and section (instead of page

-1-

 

 

 




 

 

 

number). Thus, for example, Article 27, section 59 of the
Maryland Code is the general anti-cruelty statute. Article 27 is
devoted to crimes and section 59 is the speciﬁc section which
makes cruelty to animals a crime.

When a legislature enacts a law, it does so in a very general
fashion. It usually leaves the enforcement or execution of the
statute to the particular agency which is charged with that
responsibility. The agency in turn develops regulations to
implement the statute. The regulations contain detailed re-
quirements and an enforcement scheme. For example, the
United States Congress enacted the Humane Methods of
Slaughter Act. The Department of Agriculture was charged
with the responsibility of developing regulations which would
follow the directions of the statute in a manner speciﬁc enough
so that the persons who had to obey the law would know
exactly what was expected of them.

Another way that a statute is deﬁned is through a court case
involving two parties and two different interpretations of a
statute. A court decides a case and that decision may then be
used by other parties to determine the intent of a statute.

There are several types of courts which make case law.
There are the trial and appellate courts at both the state and and
the federal level. All states have trial courts and all have at least
one appellate court. Some states have intermediate appellate
courts. A party to a lawsuit before the trial court who is
disappointed with the decision of the trial court may appeal to
the appellate court. Appellate courts review the decisions of
the trial and have the power to reverse the decisions of the trial
courts.

Appeals are also signiﬁcant in administrative or agency
proceedings. For example, the federal Freedom of Information
Act, described in this pamphlet, provides that a requestor of
information who is denied access to records may appeal that
decision within the agency to another ofﬁcial. That ofﬁcial
will have the power of reviewing the initial decision and either
afﬁrming or reversing it. In addition, the Freedom of Informa—

tion Act provides that a person who has exhausted all of his or
her administrative appeals may bring suit to challenge the
agency’s action on the request for records before a United
States District Court.

 

-2-

 




 

C. FEDERAL STATUTES AND
REGULATIONS

The ﬁrst anti-cruelty laws were passed by the states, begin-
ning with Massachusetts in 1641. A federal law governing the
humane transportation of livestock was passed in 1873 , but the
ﬁrst federal humane slaughter legislation was not enacted until
1960 and the ﬁrst federal legislation concerning the treatment
of laboratory animals was enacted in 1966.

The following summaries of the major federal animal pro-
tection laws indicate what activites and entities are covered by
the law. Keep in mind that if these laws exclude or fail to
address the situation in which you are interested, there may be
a state anti—cruelty or humane slaughter law that is applicable.
Federal laws are contained in the United States Code, which
can be found in most public libraries. Regulations implement—
ing these laws are found in the Code of Federal Regulations,
which may be found in law libraries, main public libraries or
purchased from the Government Printing Ofﬁce at the follow-
ing address:

Superintendent of Documents
United States Government Printing Ofﬁce
Washington, D. C. 20402.

.
/fz ’
%

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Popular Name: Animal Welfare Act

Found at: Title 7, U.S. Code, Sections 2131-2156

Detailed Regulations and Enforcement: Title 9, Code of
Federal Regulations, Parts 1—4

COVERED ANIMALS: live or dead dog, cat, monkey
(nonhuman primate animal), guinea pig, hamster, rabbit, ma—
rine mammals and such other warm—blooded animal as the
Secretary of the Department of Agriculture (USDA) may de—
termine is used or intended for use for research, testing, ex-
perimentation or exhibition or as a pet. Birds, rats and mice are
excluded by USDA regulation.

EXCLUDED ANIMALS: horses not used for research and
other farm animals used or intended for use as food or ﬁber,
improving animal nutrition, breeding management or produc-
tion efﬁciency, or for improving the quality of food or ﬁber.

COVERED FACILITIES:

0 research facilities—schools (except elementary or sec-
ondary), organizations or persons that use or intend to use live
animals in research, tests or experiments and that purchase or
transport animals in commerce or receive a federal grant, loan
or contract;

° dealers—who for compensation or proﬁt deliver, trans-
port, buy or sell live or dead animals in commerce for re-
search, testing, exhibition or for use as a pet, except a carrier

 

Ringling Bros. & Barnum & Bailey
-4-

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

or retail pet store (unless it sells to a research facility, exhibitor
or dealer);

- exhibitors—persons exhibiting animals to the public for
compensation, including carnivals, circuses, animal acts and
zoos but excluding retail pet stores, state and county fairs,
livestock shows, rodeos, purebred dog and cat shows and other
exhibits intended to advance agricultural arts and sciences;

° animal ﬁghting ventures, where the animals were moved
in interstate commerce, are prohibited, except for ﬁghting
involving birds if that ﬁghting is not illegal in the state where
the cockﬁght occurs.

REQUIREMENTS: The Act sets forth standards for the
humane handling, care, treatment and transportation of ani—,
mals by dealers, research facilities and exhibitors. With re-
spect to research facilities, these standards must ensure that
animal pain and distress are minimized, including adequate
veterinary care with the appropriate use of anesthetic, anal-
gesic or tranquilizing drugs or euthanasia; that the principal
investigator consider alternatives to any procedure likely to
produce pain or distress in an eXperimental animal; that in any
experiment likely to cause pain, a doctor of veterinary medi—
cine be consulted; and that no animal be used in more than one
major operation except in special situations.

Under 1985 amendments to the Act, each research facility
must establish an Institutional Animal Care Committee of at
least three members, at least one of whom may not be afﬁliated
with the facility and who shall represent community interests
in the proper care and treatment of animals. The Committee’s
responsibilities are to make a semi-annual review of the ani-
mal study areas and practices involving pain to animals, to
ensure compliance with the Act, and to ﬁle an inspection
report that will be made available to the Department of Agri-
culture and any federal agency funding the facility.

The follOwing charts summarize the federal regulations
governing the care and use of animals covered by the Act. In
addition, there is a Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory
Animals published by the National Institutes of Health (NIH)
of the United States Department of Human Services (NIH
Pub. No. 85-23, 1985). which covers all warm-blooded verte—
brate animals used in research, testing and education.

-5-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 
 




 

. «a _-w_._‘¢;:;*_—*_P'v ‘

Species

Nonhuman
Primates

Space

Provide sufficient
space to allow each
nonhuman primate
to make normal
postural adjust-
ments with ade-
quate freedom of
movement.

Minimum floor
space equal to an
area of at least
three times the area
occupied by such
primate when
standing on four
feet.

The physical en-
vironment must be
adequate to pro-
mote their psycho-
logical well-being.

. 9‘4. .A:__~;

 

 

 

:V\¢_ ..—. :wa

Summary of Federal Animal Welfare Act Regulations

Temperature

Sufﬁciently heated
when necessary to
protect animals
from cold and to
provide for their
health and comfort.

Minimum ambient
temperature 50° F.

Light

Uniformly dis-
tributed and of suf-
ﬁcient intensity to
permit routine in—
spection and clean-
ing during working
period. but not ex-
cessive.

ature is

Ventilation

 

Fresh air by doors,
windows, vents or
air conditioning
plus auxiliary ven-
tilation by exhaust

'fans, vents or air

conditioning when
ambient temper-
85° or"
higher.

Indoor
Facilities

 

lmpervious to
moisture and able
to be sanitized
readily.

Suitable drainage.

Outdoor
Facilities

Shelter from sun,
rain. snow and cold
weather.

Suitable drainage.

Primary
Enclosures

Structurally
sound and
maintained in
good repair to
protect animals
from injury. to
contain them
and to keep pre-
dators out.

C o n s tr u c te d
and maintained
to keep animals
dry and clean.

Convenient ac-
cess to clean
food and water.

Floors con-
structed to pro-
tect animals
from injury.




 

-8-

Food and
Water

Fed at least once a day
“except as otherwise
might be required to
provide adequate veterin-
ary care.”

Food free of con-
tamination, palatable and
of sufﬁcient quantity and
nutritive value to meet
normal daily require-
ments for condition and
size of animal.

Food receptacles located
so as to minimize con-
tamination by excreta and
sanitized at least every
two weeks.

  

Sanitation

Excreta removed from
primary enclosure as
often as necessary to pre-
vent contamination of an—
imals and to reduce
disease hazards and
odors.

Previously-occupied en-
closure sanitized before
occupied by other non-
human-primates and at
least every 2 weeks by
washing with hot water
(180°) and soap or de-
tergent followed by disin-
fectant, or by live steam.

Emplovees

Sufﬁcient number utilized
to maintain prescribed
level of husbandry.

Supervised by animal
caretaker with back-
ground in animal hus-
bandry or care.

Separation

Nonhuman primates
housed in the same pri~
mary enclosure shall be
maintained in compatible
groups and shall not be
housed with animals other
than nonhuman primates.

 

 

Veterinary Care

 

Each animal observed
daily; sick, injured or
blind animals provided
with veterinary care or
humanely disposed of
“unless such action is in-
consistent with the re-
search purposes for which
such animal was obtained
and is being held.”

Veterinary care, disease
control and euthanasia
programs supervised by
veterinarians.

In research facilities, ap-
propriate anesthetic, an-
algesic or tranquilizing

drugs shall be used to-

minimize pain and dis-
comfort of animals while
under experimentation.

 

 

Trans ortation

 

Enclosure of sufficient
strength to withstand nor-
mal rigors of transporta-
tion.

Interior free of injurious
protrusions.

Openings easily accessi-
ble.

Ventilation openings on
two opposite walls of en-
closure.

Live nonhuman primates
transported with same
species in compatible
groups.

Animals who have not
reached puberty not to be
transported with adults
other than their dams.




       

Water offered at least
twice daily for minimum
of one hour except as oth-
erwise required.

If hosing or flushing is
used in a cage, animals
confined in such en-
closures shall not be wet-
ted involuntarily.

Females in season not to
be transported with
males.

Space to turn about freely;
not more than 10 live ani-
mals per enclosure.

Water within 4 hours
before shipping and
within 12 hours after
transportation begun.

Food every 24 hours for
adults (1 year); each 12
hours for younger
animals.

 

 

 

 

 




 

-10-

 

Smcies
Dogs & Cats

Space

General: Space
to turn about
freely & easily,
stand, sit and lie
in a comfortable
normal position.

D0882 space
equal to length
from nose. to tip
of tail plus 6”,
squared, divided
by 144 to get
number of
square feet.

Max. # per
Enclosure/

Cage
12 adult noncon-

ditioned* cats or
dogs

 

Minimum/Maxi-
mum Temp.

 

Minimum 50° F
unless acclimated
to lower temps.

Light

Uniformly dis-
tributed and of
sufficient inten-
sity to permit
routine inspec~
tion during
working period,
but not exces-
sive.

Ventilation

 

Fresh air by
doors, windows,
vents or air con-
ditioning, plus
auxiliary ventila-
tion by exhaust
fans, vents or air
conditioning
when ambient
temperature ex-
ceeds 80° F.

Minimize drafts.

Indoor
Facilities

 

lmpervious to
moisture and
able to be sani-
tized readily.

Suitable drain-
age.

 

 

Outdoor
Facilities

 

S h e l t e r f r o m
sun, rain, snow
& temperatures
below 50° F.

Suitable drain-
age.

 

Primary

Enclosures

Structurally
sound and main-
tained in good
repair to protect
animals from in-
jury, to contain
them and to keep
predators out.

Convenient ac-
cess to clean
food and water.

Floors con-
structed to pre-
vent injury to
feet and legs.

Clean litter for
cats.




I
p—s
b—d

I

If chains are
used for dogs,
must be 3 times
the length of dog
& allow conve-
nient access to
dog house; at-
tached to dog by
well-fitted col-
lar.

Cats: minimum
21/2 square feet
per adult.

Dogs must be
exercised as de-
termined by the
attending vet-
erinarian.

4 43--.; aﬁau

r.e4.A4-.:_—._.M 'A‘ "’1’

 

Solid resting sur-
face to hold all
occupants; to be
elevated if there
are 2 or more
cats in en-
closure.

Constructed and
maintained to
keep animals dry
and clean.

 

* Nonconditioned =

 

 

 

animals who have not been subjected to special care and treatment for sufﬁcient time to stabilize an
them more suitable for research purposes.

 

 

 

d, where necessary, to improve their health to make

 

 




 

_-12-

 

Food and
Water

 

Fed at least once a day
“except as otherwise
might be required to
provide adequate veterin-
ary care.”

Food free of con-
tamination, palatable and
of sufficient quantity &
nutritive value to meet
normal daily require-
ments for condition and
size of animal.

Food receptacles located
so as to minimize con-
tamination by excreta &
sanitized at least every
two weeks (or disposed of
after each feeding).

Sanitation

 

Excreta removed from
primary enclosure as
often as necessary to pre-
vent contamination of an-
imals and to reduce
disease hazards & odors.

Previously-occupied en-
closures sanitized before
occupied by non—con-
ditioned animals & at
least every 2 weeks by
washing with hot water
(180°) and soap or de-
tergent, followed by dis-
infectant, or by live
steam.

If hosing or flushing is
used in a cage, dogs must
be removed and in other
cases animal must be pro-

 

Employees

Sufﬁcient number utilized
to maintain prescribed
level of husbandry.

Supervised by animal
caretaker with back-
ground in animal
husbandry or care.

Separation

Females in season (estrus)
not housed with males ex-
cept for breeding pur-
poses. Kept with own
species.

Kittens and puppies not
kept with adults except in
permanent breeding colo-
nies.

Separate animals with
vicious disposition or
communicable disease.

Veterinﬂ Care

Each animal observed
daily; sick, injured or
blind animal provided
with veterinary care or
humanely disposed of
“unless such action is in-
consistent with the
research purposes for
which such animal was
obtained and is being
held.”

Veterinary care, disease
control and euthanasia
programs supervised by
DVM.

1n research facility, ap-
propriate anesthetic,
analgesic or tranquilizing
drugs shall be used to
minimize pain and dis-
comfort of animals while
under experimentation.

ﬂag“ r - 2-42"

mm

lEnclosure of sufficient
strength to withstand nor-
mal rigors of transporta-
tion.

Interior free of injurious
protrusions.

Openings easily acces-
sible.

Ventilation openings on
two opposite walls of en-
closure.

1 large puppy, dog or cat
per enclosure or 2 small
puppies or kittens except
litter mates less than 8
weeks old & their dam.

Water within 4 hours
before shipping and
within 12 hours after
transportation initiated.

 




-13-

Water offered at least
twice daily for minimum
of one hour except as oth-
erwise required.

 

 

tected from con-
tamination with water and
other wastes.

Pens using gravel, sand or
dirt—replace it as neces-
sary.

Premises free of ac-
cumulation of trash.

Effective control program
for insects, parasites &
avian & mammalian

pests.
Washrooms or basins to

maintain cleanliness
among animal caretakers.

Water receptacles kept
clean and sanitized every
2 weeks.

comIort or animals while
under experimentation.

transportation initiated.

Food every 24 hours for
adults (16 weeks), each 12

hours for puppies and
kittens.

 

 

 




 

-14- ,

Species
Rabbits

 

Space

Sufficient for ani-
mal to make nor-
mal postural ad-
justments with ade-
quate freedom of
movement.

Minimum floor
space in primary
enclosure, ex-
clusive of space
taken up by food
and water recepta-
cles, as follows:

Minimum/Maxi-
mum Temp.

Indoor facilities
need not be heated.

2211.1
Uniformly dis-
tributed and of suf-
ficient intensity to
permit routine in-
spection during
working period,
but not excessive.

Ventilation

 

Fresh air by doors,
windows, vents or
air conditioning
plus auxiliary ven-
tilation by exhaust
fans, vents and air
conditioning when
ambient temper-

ature exceeds 85° F.

 

Interior
Surfaces

Substantially im-
pervious to
moisture and able
to be sanitized
readily.

Outdoor
Facilities

 

Shelter from sun, ‘

rain, snow &
temperatures
below40°F.

Artificial cooling
by sprinkler or

other means when -

temp. exceeds 90°
F.

Fenced or other-
wise enclosed to
minimize entrance
of predators.

Suitable drainage.

 

Primary
Mm

Structurally
sound and
maintained in
good repair to
protect animals
from injury, to
contain them
and to keep pre-
dators out.

Convenient ac-
cess to clean
food and water.

Floors con-
structed to pre-
vent injury to
feet and legs. ~

Litter shall be
provided in all




 

-15..

c-suusﬁh _-,....,...._- .WA..4..>

Min. Space
Individual per rabbit

Weight glbs.) ; (square inches)

Groups
3-5 144
6-8 288
9 or more 432

Individual Adults

3 5 180
6-8 360
9 l

1

 

l 540
or more 720
N ursin Females

3 5 576
6-8 720
9 1

1

 

l 864
2 or more 1080

 

 

p r i m a r y e n -
closures having
solid ﬂoors.

C o n s t r u c t e d
and maintained
to keep animals
dry and clean.

Suitable nest
box with nest-
ing materials if
housing female
with a litter less
than one month
of age.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Food and
Water

 

Fed at least once a day
“except as otherwise
might be required to
provide adequate veterin-
ary care.”

Food free of contamina-
tion, palatable and of
sufficient quantity and
nutritive value to meet
normal daily re-
quirements for condition
and size of animal.

Food receptacles located
so as to minimize con-
tamination by excreta &
sanitized at least every
two weeks.

Sanitation

 

Primary enclosures kept
free of excreta. hair, cob-
webs and other debris by
periodic cleaning.

Prevent wetting rabbits if
washing process used.

If primary enclosure has
solid ﬂoors, replace litter
at least once a week.

For wire or mesh ﬂoors,
troughs or pans under en—
closures cleaned once a
week.

Any worm bins used shall
be maintained in sanitary
condition.

Employees

Sufﬁcient number utilized
to maintain prescribed
level of husbandry.

Supervised by animal
caretaker with back-
ground in animal hus-
bandry or care.

Separation

Rabbits not housed in
same primary enclosure
with any other species un-
less required for scientiﬁc
reasons.

Rabbits under quarantine
or treatment for commu-
nicable disease separated
from other rabbits and
other susceptible species.

 

Veterinary Care

 

Each animal observed
every 48 hours; sick, in-
jured or blind animal
provided with veterinary
care or humanely dispos-
ed of “unless such action
is inconsistent with the
research purposes for
which such animal was
obtained and is being
held.”

Veterinary care, disease
control and euthanasia
programs supervised by
veterinarians.

In research facility, ap-
propriate anesthetic, an-
algesic or tranquilizing
drugs shall be used to

 

 

Trans ortation

 

Enclosure of sufficient
strength to withstand nor-
mal rigors of transporta-
tion.

Interior free of injurious
protrusions.

Opening easily accessi-
ble.

Ventilation opening on
two opposite walls of en-
closure.

Rabbits maintained in
compatible groups and
not in same enclosure
with other species.




-17-

Sufficient potable water
provided daily and sani-
tized when dirty, at least
every two weeks.

Primary enclosures sani-
tized at least every 30
days and before occupa-
tion of previously-oc-
cupied empty enclosures
by washing with hot water
(180° F) and soap or de-
tergent followed by disin-
fectant, or by live steam or
ﬂame.

Premises kept clean and
in good repair and free of
trash.

Effective control program
for insects, ectoparasites
and avian and mammalian

pests.

 

minimize pain and dis-
comfort of animals while
under experimentation:

Sufﬁcient space for each
rabbit to turn about freely;
no more than 15 live rab-
bits per enclosure.

Adequate food and water
if transported for more
than 6 hours.

Observed every 4 hours
during transportation for
signs of physical distress.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

-18-




Popular Name: Twenty-Eight Hour Law

Found at: Title 45, US. Code, Sections 71—74

Detailed Regulations: Title 9, Code of Federal Regulationg
Part 89

COVERED ANIMALS: Cows, bulls, steers, sheep, pigs and
horses.

PROHIBITIONS: Railroads and ships carrying animals
across state lines may not conﬁne animals in railroad cars,
boats or vessels of any description for more than 28 con—
secutive hours without unloading them in a humane manner
into properly equipped pens for rest, water and feeding for a
period of at least ﬁve hours, unless prevented by storm or other
accidental or unavoidable causes. Regulations prescribe the
amount of feed per car or deck and the fact that animals are to
be protected if the temperature at the unloading point is mark-
edly different from the temperature at the shipping point. This
law was enacted before the use of trucks become com-
monplace. Whether the act covers transportation by truck is
unclear.

EXCEPTIONS:

° animals need not be unloaded if they have proper food,
water, space and opportunity to rest while on the railroad or
vessel;

- upon written request of the owner or person in custody of
the shipment, the period of conﬁnement may be extended to 36
hours; and

° sheep may be conﬁned for up to 36 hours if the 28-hour
period expires in the nighttime.

 

 

Popular Name: Humane Methods of Slaughter Act

Found at: Title 7, US Code, Sections 1901-1906

Detailed Regulations and Enforcement: Title 9, Code of
Federal Regulations, Part 313, Sections 313.1-313.90

COVERED ANIMALS: Cows, bulls, steers, calves, horses,
mules, sheep, goats, pigs and other farm animals.

REQUIREMENTS:

- Slaughterers must use a “humane” method, deﬁned as
either:

(1) rendering the animal insensible to pain by a single blow
or gunshot or an electrical, chemical or other means that is
rapid and effective, before the animal is shackled, hoisted,
thrown, cast or cut or

(2) slaughter in accordance with the ritual requirements of
any religious faith that prescribes a method of slaughter
whereby the animal loses consciousness caused by the simul—
taneous and instantaneous severance of the carotoid arteries
with a sharp instrument.

° USDA regulations prescribe standards for pens, drive-
ways, ramps and stunning areas so that they are free of sharp or
protruding objects, loose or splintered boards, and are slip
resistant; there are also requirements for water in holding pens,
feeding of animals held over 24 hours and room to lie down if
the animals are held overnight.

° Driving, prodding and stunning of animals must be done

-19-

 

 

 

 

 

 




so as to minimize their excitement and discomfort; 'diseased,
dying or disabled livestock must be given protection from
adverse weather while awaiting slaughter, and conscious but
non-ambulatory animals may not be dragged.

 

 

 

 

 

PE TA

A NOTE ABOUT KOSHER SLAUGHTER: Kosher slaugh-
ter requires that at the time of death an animal must be healthy
and uninjured. Under kosher slaughter, an animal is killed by
having his or her throat cut between the trachea and esophagus
with a quick forward or backward movement of a sharp knife.
Since “stunning” or rendering the animal unconscious prior
to death has been interpreted to constitute an “injury,” ani-
mals undergoing kosher slaughter must be fully conscious

‘ when slaughtered. This requirement, in conjunction with
USDA regulations stating that an animal may not lie in the
blood of a previously slaughtered animal, has resulted in a
common practice of suspending a fully—conscious animal up—
side down by one leg before cutting the animal’s throat. Hang—
ing an animal upside down by a single leg understandably
greatly disorients, stresses and frightens the animal before
slaughter and can seriously injure the animal’s leg.

-20-

 




Popular Name: Endangered Species Act

Found at: Title 16, US. Code, Sections 1531—1543

Detailed Regulations and Enforcement: Title 50, Code of
Federal Regulations2 Part 17, Sections 17.1-17.108

COVERED ANIMALS: the Secretaries of Interior and
Commerce issue lists of species that are endangered or threat-
ened and designate the critical habitats of such species.

PROHIBITIONS: importing, exporting, taking, possess—
ing, selling or transporting any endangered species or their
parts (such as bear claws, eagle feathers and whalebone) and
violating any regulation with regard to threatened species.
Federal agencies may not take action likely to jeopardize the
continued existence of any endangered or threatened species
or to result in the destruction or adverse modiﬁcation of their
critical habitat.

 

Popular Name: Wild Free-Roaming Horses and Burros Act
Found at: Title 16, US. Code, Sections 1331-1340

Detailed Regulations and Enforcement: Title 43, Code of
Federal Regulations, Sections 4700.0—4760.2

COVERED ANIMALS: all unbranded and unclaimed
horses and burros on public lands of the United States admin-
istered by the Bureau of Land Management of the Department
of the Interior or the Forest Service of the Department of
Agriculture.

REQUIREMENTS: The appropriate Secretary is to main-
tain an inventory of such animals, determine the appropriate
“management levels” for them and how to achieve these

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bureau of Land Management

-21-

 

 




 

 

 

 

levels, including removal or destruction of “excess animals,”
sterilization or natural controls. Excess animals are those
which have been removed from ' the land by the Secretary
pursuant to applicable law or to preserve and maintain a
thriving natural ecological balance and multiple-use rela-
tionship in that area. Old, sick or lame excess animals must be
destroyed; others may be adopted, with a limit of four animals
to one person per year unless the person proves he or she can
humanely care for more animals. Any remaining animals are
to be destroyed in the most humane and cost-efﬁcient manner.

PROHIBITION S: It is a crime to remove such animals from
public lands without authority from the Secretary, to convert
the animals to, private use without such authority, to mali-
ciously cause the death or harassment of him or her, to process
his or her remains into commercial products, to sell the animal
if he or she is maintained on private or leased land, or to violate
a regulation promulgated pursuant to the Act.

Employees of Interior or Agriculture may arrest anyone
without a warrant who commits a violation in their presence.

Rick Clayton

 

Other Federal Laws

 

The National Housing Act, Title 12, US. Code, Section

 

l701r-l, makes it unlawful for owners or managers of
federally-assisted rental housing for the elderly or handicap-
ped to prohibit tenants from keeping common household pets
or to discriminate against such persons in such housing be-
cause of the presence of pets. Reasonable rules for the keeping
of pets may be imposed, and pets determined to be a nuisance
or threat to health or safety may be removed. Regulations were
proposed in December 1984. When ﬁnal, they will be printed
in Title 24, Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 243 and 942.

The Lacey Act, Title 18, US. Code, Sections 41—47, makes

-22-

 




it a crime in some cases to willfully disturb or kill any bird, ﬁsh
or wild animal or to take or destroy the eggs or nest of any bird
or ﬁsh in any federal sanctuaries, refuges or breeding grounds
of such birds, ﬁsh or animals.

* * >l< * *

This is only a brief overview of applicable federal statutes
and regulations designed to acquaint you with the types of
animal protection provisions that exist. If you observe an
activity that appears questionable to you, contact one of the
resources listed in this brochure or refer to the Strategy section
for other possible courses of action.

D. STATE LAWS

Every state in the United States has a general statute which
makes cruelty to animals a crime and provides for a criminal
penalty. In addition to the general anti-cruelty provisions,
most states have also enacted statutes which prohibit certain
speciﬁc acts toward animals. The anti-cruelty statutes are easy
to ﬁnd. Just ask the librarian in your public library to show you
your state’s code.

The anti—cruelty statutes vary from state to state in what they
deﬁne as cruelty and in how they deﬁne “animal.” Very
generally, anti—cruelty statutes define cruelty as an action
(overloading, overdriving, torturing, injuring, maiming) or as
a failure to act (failing to provide adequate water, food, shelter
or abandoning), which results in the animal’s pain, suffering or
death. Quite commonly an animal is deﬁned as a “warm—
blooded, living creature,” “brute creature” or “any living
creature except man.”

A speciﬁc anti-cruelty statute might prohibit the docking of
horses’ tails, dog or cock ﬁghting, greased pig contests, the
sale of baby chicks, ducks or rabbits or the awarding of ani—
mals as prizes in contests. Even where a state has not expressly
prohibited the docking of horses’ tails, for example, such an
action may ﬁt within the particular state’s deﬁnition of cruelty
and may be prosecuted as such. This section will address state
anti-cruelty, humane slaughter and humane transportation
statutes.

1. GENERAL ANTI-CRUELTY STATUTES
a. Introduction

Anti-cruelty statutes generally have four parts:

1. They deﬁne what animals are intended to be protected
under the statute (for example, warm-blooded, domestic,
wild). If the word animal is not deﬁned in the statute, courts
should give the term its common meaning as “any living
creature except man.”

2. They deﬁne certain actions or failures to act as cruel.
(Some statutes may also exempt certain actions from the anti-
cruelty statute.)

3. They designate the state of mind which the perpetrator of
the act must be shown to have to support a conviction (for
example, “maliciously,” “knowingly and intentionally,”
“negligently”). These words have a speciﬁc legal meaning

-23-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




which may differ from common usage.
4. They set forth the ﬁne and/or length of imprisonment.
Florida has a rather straightforward anti-cruelty statute
which reads as follows:

 

 

Whoever unnecessarily overloads, overdrives, tortures,
torments, deprives of necessary sustenance or shelter,
or unnecessarily or cruelly beats, mutilates or kills any
animal, or causes the same to be done, or carries in or
upon any vehicle, or otherwise, any animal in a cruel or
inhumane manner is guilty of a misdemeanor in the ﬁrst
degree (punishable by a deﬁnite term of imprisonment
not exceeding one year) or by a ﬁne of not more than
$5000 or both. Florida Stat. Ann. Section 828.12

 

 

 

Several strongly worded anti-cruelty statutes are listed at
Appendix 1. You may obtain a copy of your state statute at your
library using the state statute reference listed at Appendix 1.

2. STATE LAW AND LABORATORIES

It is possible under some state statutes for the owner of and
workers in an experimental or testing laboratory to be charged
with cruelty to animals. Aside from the performance of a
painful experiment or test itself, if the laboratory does not
provide sufﬁcient water, food or shelter, there could be a
violation of the state anti-cruelty laws. Some anti—cruelty stat-
utes (Wisconsin, Texas and New York, for example) speciﬁ-
cally state that they do not prohibit “bona ﬁde” or “properly
conducted” scientific tests, experiments or investigations.
Even these statutes, however, would not exempt laboratories
from providing sufﬁcient water, food or shelter to their ani-
mals.

In addition to the standards set forth in the general anti-
cruelty provisions, laboratories must meet the standards set
forth in the federal Animal Welfare Act (AWA). And, re—
member, the federal AWA does not prohibit prosecution under
state anti-cruelty laws.

In 1983, Massachusetts took the lead in state control of the
use of animals in research by enacting legislation providing for
the licensing and regulation of research institutions. This law
subjects research institutions to a yearly review of standards,
facilities, practices, or activities to determine whether the
initial issue or renewal of a license is in the public interest. It
speciﬁcally designates employees of the Massachusetts So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (MSPCA) and
the Animal Rescue League of Boston as agents of the state for
the purposes of conducting these investigations. Most impor—
tantly, research institutions which experiment on “all animals
except man” are governed. (See the Massachusetts law set
forth at Appendix 1).

3. STATE HUMANE SLAUGHTER LAWS

There are currently 25 states which have enacted humane
slaughter laws. Most of these state statutes are patterned after
the federal Humane Slaughter Act of 1958. That statute
provides:

-24-

 




No method of slaughtering or handling in connection
with slaughtering shall be deemed to comply with the
public policy of the United States unless it is humane.
Either of the following two methods of slaughtering and
handling are hereby found to be humane:

(a) in the case of cattle, calves, horses, mules, sheep,
swine, and other livestock, all animals are rendered
insensible to pain by a single blow or gunshot or an
electrical, chemical or other means that is rapid
and effective, before being shackled, hoisted,
thrown, cast or cut; or

(b) by slaughtering in accordance with the ritual re-
quirements of the Jewish faith or any other religious
faith that prescribes a method of slaughter whereby
the animal suﬁers loss of consciousness by anemia
of the brain caused by the simultaneous and in—
stantaneous severance of the carotid arteries with a
sharp instrument and handling.

 

A good humane slaughter law will:

1. deﬁne humane slaughter

 

 

 

'4- " , , /:M
./

J.A. Keller

 

-25-

 

 




2. provide that animals are to be herded or brought to the
slaughter area with a minimum of confusion, excitement or
trauma and with minimal use of electric prods, whips, loud and
abusive language by workers;

3. deﬁne humane methods of slaughter. Some approved
methods are mechanical (captive bolt), electrical (the placing
of electrical current to the brain of the animal) or chemical (use
of carbon monoxide gas). A strong law will also prohibit the
use of a Sledgehammer as a method of stunning.

 

 

 

 

4. designate a state ofﬁcial who is in charge of implement-
ing the act and to whom violations of the act may be reported;

' 5. impose strong penalties for violations and clearly state
that failure to comply with the law for each animal slaughtered
constitutes a separate violation.

The following states have enacted humane slaughter provi-
sions:

Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida,
Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Mary-
land, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New
Hampshire, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania,
Rhode Island, Utah, Vermont, Washington, Wisconsin.

The references to these humane slaughter laws and some
sample statutes are listed in Appendix 2.

4. TRANSPORTATION OF FARM ANIMALS

While the federal 28 Hour Law may only govern transporta-
tion of animals by rail and water, state statutes generally do not
make such a distinction. Thus, individuals or companies
which transport livestock by truck, which is by far the most
common method of transporting farm animals, must comply
with the humane transport laws of those states in which they
travel.

An example of a simple humane transport statute is that of
Mississippi. It provides:

If any person shall carry, or cause to be carried by
hand or in or upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any
creature in a cruel or inhuman manner, he shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Mississippi. Code, Title 97,
Section 41-5 .

On the other hand, Minnesotahas a much more comprehen-
sive humane transportation statute. It provides:

343.24 Cruelty in transportation:

Subdivision 1. Penalty. Any person who does any of
the following is guilty of a misdemeanor: (a) Carries or
causes to be carried, any live animals upon any vehicle
or otherwise, without providing suitable racks, cars,
crates, or cages in which the animals can both stand
and lie down during transportation and while awaiting
slaughter; (b) carries or causes to be carried, upon a
vehicle or otherwise, any live animal having feet or legs
tied together, or in any other cruel or inhuman manner;
(6) Transports or detains livestock in cars or compart-

-26-

 




ments for more than 28 consecutive hours without un-
loading the livestock in a humane manner into properly
equipped pens for rest, water, and feeding for a period
of at least ﬁve consecutive hours, unless requested to do
so as provided in subdivision 2, or unless prevented by
storm or unavoidable causes which cannot be antici-
pated or avoided by the exercise of due diligence and
foresight; or (d) Permits livestock to be crowded to-
gether without suﬁicient space to stand, or so as to
overlie, crush, wound, or kill each other.

Subd. 2. Exception: A person or corporation en-
gaged in transporting livestock may conﬁne livestock
for 36 consecutive hours if the owner or person with
custody of that particular shipment of livestock requests
in writing that an extension be allowed. That written
request shall be separate from any printed bill of lading
or other railroad form.

Other humane transportation statutes are listed at Appendix 3.
* *i * *

If, during your work or investigation, you see animals being

 

 

 

 

Rick Clayton

- -27-

 

 




 

 

 

treated in a way that troubles you, the chances are that the
animals are being abused.

Merely because a law is on the books does not mean that it
will be enforced. On the other hand, merely because no statute
has speciﬁcally addressed humane slaughter or treatment of
laboratory animals does not mean that abusive practices in
these areas should continue unchecked. You should look at
your particular state’s code or contact an attorney to determine
whether there are speciﬁc applicable laws in your state. Legal
redress is not the only remedy, however. If no law exists in
your jurisdiction to cover the situation in question, contact
with the media, legislature or other sources may prove produc—
t1ve.

REFERENCES

Leavitt, Emily Stewart and Animal Welfare Institute, Animals
and Their Legal Rights, A Survey of American Laws from
1641 to 1978.

Moretti, Daniel S. , Animal Rights and the Law, Oceana Pub—
lications, Inc., 1984.

E. THE INVESTIGATION

Study a_ll the applicable federal, state and local laws 2&1
regulations that cover the form of animal exploitation that you
are committed to investigate. Line up and listen to “com-
mitted” experts to assist in the investigation and follow-up
activities; “committed” here means willing to testify, under
oath, in court if necessary.

You must resolve two questions before you begin your
investigation. The failure to clarify and realistically answer
them can doom your investigation from the start: ~

1. WHAT IS YOUR TARGET?

What is the nature of the exploitation that you want to
investigate? How accessible is the facility, operation or
program to you? What resources do you possess and
how do they match up with those of the target?

2. WHAT IS YOUR GOAL?
It can be one or more of these possibilities:
. Criminal prosecution for cruelty
. Civil litigation
. Termination of government funding
. Enhanced regulatory enforcement
. Voluntary compliance or action by the target
. Exposure of conditions and/or issues to public scru-
tiny.
g. Information gathering for legislative efforts and lob-
bying.

The stakes are high so expect organized, professional, busi—
ness or governmental opposition, well-funded defense and
media efforts, a high caliber of legal representation and gov-
ernmental inertia.

PHCDQOO‘SD

Get to work and good luck.

-28..




3. DEVELOP YOUR STRATEGY

Once you identify your target and your goal, you must
thoughtfully develop your strategy. Without careful consid-
eration of how best to achieve your goal, your efforts will
likely go to waste. Merely calling the press or the prosecutor or
confronting others with righteous indignation will not change
the situation and may damage future efforts. Authorities will
not sympathize with you unless you have speciﬁc facts and
complaints which are recognized as violations of state or
federal law, regulations or of operating procedures of the
facility in question.

Your most important and inﬂuential aids will be your diary
and your camera. Record WHEN, WHERE, WHY, WHAT
AND HOW. 1) WHEN, exactly did the animal abuse take
place? 2) WHERE, exactly did the problem occur? 3) WHY, in
your opinion, did it occur, and WHY did it occur according to
others? 4) WHAT, exactly occurred and to which animals? 5)
HOW did the problem occur (e. g. is this normal procedure,
was a new employee involved, etc.).

As you develop your case, document everything as soon
after it occurs as is possible. This lends tremendous credibility
to your case. Careful documentation of events as they occur
will limit variations in your interpretation of what occurred
and greatly strengthen your position. You must document the
facts and compare them to the law or the regulations applicable
to the facility and situation in question. Before you consider
any action, you must evaluate the possible consequences for
you, the animals and the institution. If you have any questions
as to the appropriateness of your action, consult an attorney or
an animal protection group for guidance. If you violate the
law, regardless of your knowledge or intentions, you will not
be able to justify your actions by comparing them to the
wrongs being committed against animals.

Review the investigative outline at the end of this section
and use the guidelines as they apply to your particular inves-
tigation. This outline should serve as a guide for your inves-
tigation. It is not meant to be used exclusively and you should
carefully review your own facts and hypotheses and use them
as an integral part of your investigation. It may not reﬂect all of
the problems that exist in an animal facility. Your diary of
problems. documented as they occur, will be helpful in de-
veloping additional information which is speciﬁc to your sit-
uation and vitally important to rectifying the situation.

Use your diary, use the chart and use your intuition. Re—
member to consult with professionals at any time you have
questions relating to your investigation BEFORE you act.

 

 

4. PROCEDURES FOR EVIDENCE GATHERING—
READ BEFORE CONDUCTING AN INVESTIGATION

A. General Considerations

1. “Chain of custody”: means that every person. who
handles or possesses evidence must be able to say that
the evidence is in substantially the same condition
when offered into evidence as when seized.

2. The fewer links in the chain of custody the better; the
fewer people who handle the evidence the better.

3. Generally, all “links” in the chain of custody must

-29-

 

 

 




testify inorder to lay a legal foundation for the admis-
sion of the evidence; any break in the chain of custody
can mean the exclusion of important evidence.

4. Photographic evidence must accurately portray what
it purports to represent at the time the photograph was
taken.

5. Staged or contrived evidence is not only inadmissible;
it seriously damages your credibility in the eyes of the
judge, jury or public. Don’t do it!

B. Interviews should be conducted in the following descend-
ing order of preference.

1. Videotape

2. Audiotape

3. Sworn written statement or afﬁdavit of interviewee.

4. Written statement.

5. Accurate notes of oral interview.

For all of the above:

a. Whatever form is used to record someone’s words, the
form itself should include the date, time, place and
persons present.

b. With writings, all should be signed by the interviewer
and interviewee; if corrections, deletions or additions
are made on the writing each should be initialed by
both the interviewer and interviewee.

 

 

 

 

 

 

C. Documents.

1. Public—need to be certiﬁed as true and accurate cop-
ies and must meet other requirements before they are
admissable in court.

2. Private——

a. The face of the documents must not be altered,
modiﬁed or changed in any way. (Photocopying a
document is not altering it.).

b. Attach to each document information relating to
speciﬁcally where and when it was seized, and by
whom.

D. Physical Evidence.

1. Inorganic Materials.

a. No alteration, modification nor change of any
kind.

b. Storage that will guarantee the physical integrity
of the item.

c. Information recorded as to speciﬁcally where and
when it was seized and by whom.

2. Organic Materials.

a. No alteration, modification nor change of any
kind.

b. Avoid collection of these kinds of materials in a
fashion that would contaminate them; for example,
do not collect fecal samples from different animals
with the same spatula or spoon.

c. Keep organic materials separate in individual col-

‘ lection containers.

I (1. Store in a manner to inhibit deterioration or con—

i tamination.

, e. If the sample is to be analyzed, get it to the lab
immediately—at the lab get a receipt and identify
the chain of custody within the lab.

 

-30-

 




f. Create an identiﬁcation system and inventory for!
each item indicating speciﬁcally where and when
each item was seized, and by whom.

 

 

Ark II & Leslie Fain

 

E. Photographs.

1. Test for admissibility: does it accurately portray what
it purports to represent at the time the photograph was
taken?

2. Generally, anyone who has direct, personal knowl-
edge of No. 1 can testify to it the actual pho-
tographer is not required to testify.

3. Information relating to the subject matter of the pho-
tograph, speciﬁcally when and where it was taken
should be recorded and reﬂected in the photograph
_i_t_se_lf; for example, a photograph of an animal in a
cage should include a sign that indicates who the
animal is, where he or she is, and the date and time the
photograph was taken.

4. The same rules of identiﬁcation and admissibility ap-
ply to motion pictures and videotape.

 

 

F. Animals as evidence.

1. All the techniques and rules of evidence gathering
apply to the animals themselves. Be sure to record the
physical and psychological condition of the animals.

2. Where are you going to conﬁne them? Is the alter-
native conﬁnement site appropriate and secure?

3. If the animals are seized and you are entrusted with
their husbandry, you must be perfect. Anything less
will seriously damage your credibility and minimize
the success of subsequent actions. Of course, the ani—
mals themselves deserve the best care.

4. If medical examinations are to be performed on the
animals after seizure, have them performed as soon as
possible, preferably on the site of seizure itself.

5. Committed veterinary care should be arranged in ad-
vance and provided at the alternate conﬁnement site—
this is absolutely essential.

6. If a necropsy is to be performed, the dead animal’s

 

-31..

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

body should not be frozen; freezing can interfere with
tissue analysis.

7. Committed non-veterinary expertise appropriate for
species at alternate confinement site must be
provided.

8. Legality of alternate confinement site must be
provided (for example, permits, licenses, zoning ordi-
nances, etc.).

NOTE: With few exceptions, our legal system does not recog—
nize a difference between taking an animal from his owner,
even for the animal’s beneﬁt, and taking a stereo. If you
remove an animal from the possession of his owner without
permission you are committing the criminal act of larceny.
Although the ANIMAL LEGAL DEFENSE FUND recognizes
the injustice of treating other animals as property, this organi—

' zation does not advocate removing animals as a legal alter-
native for dealing with animal abuse.

-32-

. r. ‘_ P




 

A. Physical Evidence
1. Structure
21. Floor plan drawn to scale

 

 

b. Heating and cooling system

i. kind

 

 

ii. control devices

 

iii. BTU rating

 

C. Ventilation system ‘turn over rate’

 

d. Water supply and delivery system

 

i. appropriate for species

 

ii. periodic samples for analysis

 

e. Sanitation systems

 

i. drainage

 

ii. waste removal

 

iii. cleaning equipment

 

iv. cleaning materials

 

v. training and supervision of maintenance staff

 

vi. evidence of rodent or insect infestation

 

l
{'13) * Photocopying of this outline is suggested.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

CHECKED NOTES

-34-

 

f. Facility deﬁciences (equipment, alleyway, pen or compartment) disrepair,
equipment breakdown [see 9.C.F.R. 313.50 (a)]

 

2. Lighting

 

a. Exposed wiring

 

b. Timing devices—Do they work? Are they appropriate for species?

 

3. Food storage

 

a. Rodent or insect infestation

 

b. Food not fed after expiration date

 

4. Pharmaceuticals

 

a. proper storage

 

b. expiration dates for potency

 

B. Conﬁnement systems

 

1. Cages or Runs

 

a. size

 

b. fabricating material

 

 

c. structural integrity

 

d. painted~sample for lead-based paint

e. food and water delivery system 1

 

 

 

f. sanitation

3




f. sanitation

—4 ‘ ,4

g. cages appropriate for the animal
2. Restraint devices
a. fabricating material
b. structural integrity
c. sanitation
d. device appropriate for the animal used
**Speciﬁc considerations for slaughtering
a. holding pens free ofjagged metal or wood
b. holding pens well lit
c. room for animals to lie down if held overnight
C. Animals
1. Medical records
2. Current information
a. gross observation
b. expert opinion

c. conﬁnement system appropriate for animals

** Applies to slaughterhouses

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

CHECKED NOTES

 

"O

. Indicia of stress
i. self-multilation

 

ii. stereotypic cage behavior (for example, pacing, swaying, scratching)

 

iii. abnormal agression or passivity

 

e. fecal samples

 

9.:

blood samples “

 

 

retrieve dead animals for necropsy (autopsy)

 

 

g.
h.

 

photographs ‘

 

**3.Disabled animals
a. separated from normal ambulatory animals \
\_

 

 

b. dragging of disabled animals while conscious is prohibited
\

 

**4. Awaiting slaughter
a. access to water in holding pens \

 

b. access to food if held over 24 hours
\

c. room for animals held overnight to lie down
\

 

D. People as potential evidence
1. Experts in pertinent research area
\—

2. Past employees of target facility

3. Current employees

 

 

 

4. Neighbors




4. Neighbors

 

 

5. Suppliers and delivery people

 

**6. Slaughterhouse workers
a. handling and moving of livestock. 9 C.F.R § 313.50(b)

 

b. improper stunning. 9 C.F.R § 313.50(c)

 

c. driving of animals from loading ramps to holding pens to stunning areas done
with a minimum of excitement and discomfort to animals. 9 C.F.R. § 313.2(a)

 

'0

.animals not forced to move faster than normal walking speed. 9
C.F.R. § 313.2(a)

 

e. minimal use of electric prods, canvas slappers; electric prods not to exceed 50
volts AC. 9 C.F.R. § 313.2(b)

 

(4—1

. no pipes, sharp objects used

 

E. Documents and public records.
1. Public sources (agencies. courthouse, etc.)

 

(\l

. Scientiﬁc literature

 

. Freedom of Information Act (see note at end of this section).

3
4. Files
a. Lawful
i. Can they be duplicated?

 

 

 

 

ii. Can they be removed to be duplicated?

 

iii. Can they be copied in longhand‘?

-37-

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

-38-

iv. At least identify the contents and record their exact location so as to lay the
foundation for a possible subsequent search warrant.

b. Unlawful: the following are crimes:
i. Larceny or theft

ii. Theft of trade secrets
iii. Burglary or storehouse breaking
iv. Fraud

c. Possible civil liability?

F. Methods of Slaughter
.1. Chemical—Carbon Dioxide. 9 C.F.R 313.5

a. authorized for sheep, calves, swine
b. animals must be exposed so anesthesia is accomplished quickly
c. driving of animals to chamber done with minimum of excitement

d. animals to remain in state of surgical anesthesia (but not overdosed or dead)
when exiting chamber and throughout shackling, sticking and bleeding

6. skilled, attentive operator
f. no holes, Spaces, openings where legs may be injured

“impellers” shall be constructed of ﬂexible or well padded rigid material

01).:

. equipment in good condition

i. suitable exhaust system

’3 K‘nnklln;f"ll' nonf;\rn knit O f‘ E D X ’1 I 1 I C

 

CHECKED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




4A _-,_V,A -7 ~Ju-vngl

 

2. Mechanical; captive bolt. 9 C.F.R. § 313.15

 

a. authorized for Sh66p. pigs. g03tS, calves, cows, steers, bulls, horses, mules and
other equmes

 

.D

 

. produces immediate unconsciousness

c. delivery of calm animals to stunning area

 

d. animals remain in unconscious condition throughout shackling, sticking and
bleeding

 

O)

. compressed air devices must have accurate, constantly operating air pressure
gauges

 

u;

stunning area designed and constructed to limit free movements of animals to
allow delivery of stunning blow with a high degree of accuracy

 

g. chutes, alleys, gates, restraining mechanisms, holding pens and stunning areas
to be free from pain-producing features such as exposed bolt ends, loose
boards, splintered or broken planking, protruding sharp metal

 

 

h. no holes, spaces, openings where legs may be injured

3. Mechanical; gunshot. 9 C.F.R. § 313.16
a. authorized for cows, calves, sheep, pigs, goats, horses, mules and other equines

 

b. should produce immediate unconsciousness by a single shot before the animal
is shackled, hoisted, thrown, cast or cut

 

c. animal should be rendered unconscious with a minimum of excitement and
discomfort

 

d. delivery of calm animals to the stunning area is essential since accurate
placement of the bullet is difﬁcult in case of nervous or injured animals

 

 

 

 

 




.52

—I

 

 

 

 

 

 

in driving animals to the shooting areas, electrical equipment should be used as
little as possible and with the lowest effective voltage

immediately after the projectile is delivered, the animal shall be in a state of
complete unconsciousness and remain in this condition throughout shackling,
sticking and bleeding

. ﬁrearms dispatch free projectiles or bullets of varying sizes and diameters

through the skull and into the brain. Caliber of the ﬁrearms shall be such that the
projectile produces immediate unconsciousness

. where small bore firearms are used: it is necessary to use frangible iron plastic

composition bullets or powdered iron missiles. When powdered iron missiles
are used, the ﬁrearms shall be in close prox1mity With the skull of the animal
when ﬁred. Firearms must be maintained in good repair

shooting operation requires a well-trained and experience operator, who must
be able to accurately direct the projectile to produce immediate uncon-
sciousness. He must use the correct caliber ﬁrearm, powder charge and type of
ammunition to produce the desired results

choice of ﬁrearms and ammunition with respect to caliber and choice of powder
charge required to produce immediate unconsciousness of the animal may vary
depending on age and sex of the animal

in case of bulls, rams and boars, small bore ﬁrearms may be used provided they
are able to produce immediate unconsciousness of the animals

small bore ﬁrearms are usually effective for stunning other cattle, sheep, swine,
goats, calves, horses and mules

4. Electrical: Stunning with electric current. 9 CPR. § 313.30

CHECKED

 

NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




evutu’ vw- -vu, Invlovo auu 11“.]le

4. Electrical: Stunning with electric current. 9 CFR. § 313.30

21.

b.

U

Q)

00

S

Ad-J

authorized for hogs. sheep. calves. cattle and goats

electric current shall be administered so as to produce surgical anesthesia in
animals before they are shackled, hoisted, thrown, cast or cut

. the animals shall be exposed to the electric current in a way that will accomplish

the anesthesia quickly and calmly, with a minimum of excitement and discom-
fort to the animals

. driving or conveying of animals to place where electrical current applied to be

done with a minimum of excitement and discomfort to the animals

. delivery of calm animals to place of application is essential to insure rapid and

effective insensibility

delivery of animals to place of application with as little use of electrical
equipment as possible and with lowest effective voltage

. quality and location ofelectrical shock shall produce immediate insensibility to

pain in animal

. stunned animal shall remain in a state of surgical anesthesia through shackling,

sticking and bleeding

animal shall die from loss of blood resulting from the sticking and bleeding,
and not from the electrical shock

operator of electric current shall be skilled, attentive, and aware of his respon-
sibility

. overdosages and death of animals brought about by carelessness of individual

pathways. compartments. current applicators. and all other equipment used
must be designed to accomodate properly the species of animal being anesthe—
tized

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




-42-

 

 

 

. pathways, compartments and current applicators shall be free from pain-

producing restraining devices

injury of animals must be prevented by the elimination of sharp projections, or
exposed wheels or gears

there shall be no unnecessary holes, spaces or openings where feet or legs of
animals may be injured

“impellers” or other devices designed to mechanically move or drive animals
or otherwise keep them in motion or compartmentalized shall be constructed of
ﬂexible or padded material

power activated gates for constant ﬂow of animals shall be so fabricated that
they will not cause injury

all electrical stunning and auxiliary control and other equipment shall be
maintained in good repair

all indicators, instruments and measuring devices shall be available for inspec-
tion by programing inspectors during stunning operations and at other times

each animal shall be given a'sufﬁcient application of electric current to insure
unCOHSCIOUSHCSS Immediately and through the bleeding operation

suitabletlmlng, Voltage and current control devices to be used to insure that
each animal receives the necessary electrical charge to produce immediate
unconsolousness

current shall be applied so as to avoid production of hemorrhages or other tissue
changes that would interfere with the inspection procedures of the Meat and
Poultry Inspection Program

 

 

CHECKED

NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Poultry lnspection Program

G. HOW TO USE THE FEDERAL
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION
ACT

The federal Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) can be
found in the United States Code (U.S.C.) or the United States
Code Annotated (U.S.C.A.); either or both should be avail-
able in any main public library serving as a federal repository.
The citation for FOIA is 5 U.S.C. § 552; this means Title 5,
Section 552 of the United States Code. The FOIA is not
lengthy or terribly complex. If you wish to use it to acquire
information from the federal government, read it ﬁrst.

The federal agencies that are intimately involved with the
exploitation of animals are the United States Department of
Agriculture and its Animal Plant Health Inspection Service
(USDA/APHIS), its Food Safety and Inspection Service
(USDA/FSIS), and the National Institute of Health (NIH).
FOIA requests to these agencies should be addressed as fol—
lows:

Animal Welfare Act:

USDA/APHIS

Coordinator

Freedom of Information Act

Room, 771A

6506 Belcrest Road .

Hyattsville, Maryland 20782

Animal Welfare Act and Grant Applications and Reports:
NIH Freedom of Information Ofﬁcer
Ofﬁce of Communications
National Institutes of Health
Building 31
Room 2B43
Bethesda, Maryland 20205

Humane Slaughter:
Freedom of Information Ofﬁcer
Room 335-E
Administration Building
USDA—Food Safety and Inspection Service
14th and Independence Avenue, SW.
Washington, DC. 20250

Samples of a FOIA request and an appeal from an agency’s
refusal to provide requested documents are presented here.
References for state Freedom of Information Acts may be
found in Appendix 4. We cannot emphasize enough that each
FOIA request must be particularized to ﬁt precise documents,
facilities and/or programs; if you are inaccurate or too general
in your request, the federal agency will bejustiﬁed in refusing
to produce the requested material!

 

 

 

 

USDA publishes an annual list of regulated facilities and
corresponding registration numbers.

 

 

 

43—

 




Sample FOIA Request

 

USDA/APHIS

Coordinator

Freedom of Information Act
Room 771A

6506 Belcrest Road
Hyattsville, Maryland 20782

Dear Sir or Madam:

 

This request for records is made under the federal Freedom of
Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552.

This request is directed at obtaining information on the past,
present and/or anticipated use and care of nonhuman animals
at the following USDA/APHIS registered facilities:

1. Registration Number 000

ABC Research Institute
123 Main Street
Chicago, Illinois 00000

2. Registration Number 9999
XYZ National Medical Center
789 lst Avenue
New York, New York 99999 7
With regard to these registered facilities, we request the
opportunity to inspect or receive copies of the following rec-
ords and documents:

 

 

 

 

1. Inspection of Animal Facilities, Sites or Premises, VS
Form 18-8, from , 19 , to the pres-
ent.

2. All other reports, correspondence, evaluations and com-
pliance memoranda pertaining to these registered facilities
from , 19 , to the present.

If any of the records or documents described above are
considered to be exempt from release, please segregate and
provide access to non-exempt portions and justify deletions by
reference to speciﬁc exemptions in the Freedom of Informa-
tion Act.

 

 

 

This request seeks inspection of records—the requester is
not asking that copies of all records and documents be sent to
the requester. Nevertheless, the requester is prepared to pay all
reasonable search and duplication fees up to an initial amount
of twenty—ﬁve dollars ($25.00).

However, the Freedom of Information Act provides that:
‘ ‘Documents shall be furnished without charge or at a reduced
charge where the agency determines that waiver or reduction
of the fee is in the public interest because furnishing the
information can be considered as primarily beneﬁting the
general public.” 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(4)(A). The requester be—
lieves that this request satisﬁes the criterion for fee waiver or
reduction”.

1. The use of animals in research, especially that Sponsored
or regulated by the Government, has historically been a matter
of legitimate public interest and concern.

2. The disclosure of the requested record would not be to the
primary beneﬁt of the requester, but would be to the primary

-44-

 




beneﬁt of the general public.

Therefore, the requester asks that any search or duplication
fees in this matter be waived or reduced. If the waiver or
reduction is denied, and fees exceed twenty—five dollars
($25.00), please notify the requester by telephone before the
request is processed so that the requester may decide whether
to pay the higher fee or to appeal the denial of the request for
waiver or reduction. The requester may be reached during
business hours at the following telephone number (__)

 

If you have any questions regarding any aspect of this
request, please contact the requester by telephone rather than
by mail in order to expedite timely disclosure.

Thank you for your assistance. We will look forward to
receiving your reply within ten business days.

Sincerely,

 

American Anti— Vivisection Society

 

Shortly before autopsy: dog with cirrhosis of liver induced

by use of powerful drugs.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sample FOIA Appe_al

Administrator

Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
US. Department of Agriculture
Washington, DC. 20250

Re: FOIA Appeal

Dear Sir or Madam:

This is an appeal under the Freedom of Information Act, 5

 

 

U.S.C. § 552. On , 19 ,Imade a
FOIA request to your agency for USDA/APHIS records per—
t a i n i n g to O n

, 19 , your agency responded by

 

providing some records but excluding others on the ground
that “this information is exempt from disclosure under 5
U.S.C. § 552(b)(7)(A), which allows an agency to withhold
investigative records compiled for law enforcement purposes
if their disclosure could interfere with enforcement proceed-
ings. ” Copies of this correspondence are enclosed.

Please be advised that I consider the requested information

releasable under the FOIA and consider your agency’s denial
to be arbitrary and capricious.

Neither VS Form 18-8 nor Annual Reports can be consid-

ered “investigative records compiled for law enforcement
purposes.’ ’ Both kinds of records are such that are required by
law to be generated and ﬁled with your agency in the normal
course of your agency’s regulatory mandate under the Animal
Welfare Act, 7 U.S.C. 2131 et. seq.

I expect to receive your decision within twenty business

days, as required by law. Thank you for your consideration in
this matter.

Sincerely,

 

Enclosures

-46-

H. REACH OUT—HELP IS HERE

If you have any questions as to your rights and liabilities,
you should contact a qualiﬁed attorney in your area. This
pamphlet cannot give you the speciﬁc advice which may be
necessary to govern your problem or situation.

Remember that the people and institutions you are dealing
with have very speciﬁc rights and duties. If you interfere with
them unlawfully you may be held legally responsible for your
actions.

The issues involved in the exploitation of non-human ani-
mals are complex and cannot effectively be discussed or chal-
lenged on an emotional level. Instead you must learn all you
can about the facts and issues involved in particular forms of
animal exploitation and be able to express that knowledge in a
calm and logical manner. We strongly recommend further




.4...

reading from the list at the end of this pamphlet to learn more
about certain forms of non-human animal exploitation and to
expand your awareness of these issues.

The ANIMAL LEGAL DEFENSE FUND cannot and does
not advocate illegal activity by anyone at any time. The pam-
phlet is meant to cover the subject of minimum legal require-
ments for animal care only in the most general fashion; each
situation of exploitation is unique. Therefore, we cannot rec—
ommend strongly enough that any individual seeking to inves-
tigate or expose any form of animal exploitation consult with
competent and sympathetic legal counsel.

The ANIMAL LEGAL DEFENSE FUND provides a refer-
ral service for lawyers throughout the United States and
Canada.

If you need additional help with a problem and do not have
contacts in vour area vou mav wish to call:

ANIMAL LEGAL DEFENSE FUND
1363 Lincoln Avenue
San Rafael, CA 94901

(415) 459*0885

202 East 42nd Street, Rm. 1716
New York, New York 10017
(212) 818-0130

ANIMAL LEGAL DEFENSE FUND—Washington, D.C.
P.O. Box 4066

Rockville, MD 20850

(202) 289-4854

ANIMAL LEGAL DEFENSE FUND—Boston
896 Beacon Street

Suite 303

Boston, MA 02215

(617) 267-4455

ANIMAL LEGAL DEFENSE FUND—Los Angeles
2755 West Broadway
Los Angeles, CA 90041

After you have thoroughly evaluated the treatment of the
animals you are concerned with, planned and investigated the
situation and analyzed the legal implications oftheir treatment
and your actions, you may wish to contact professionals to
carry out further action. Contacts to consider are your State’s
Attorney, District Attorney, Commonwealth’s Attorney or
Prosecutor, your local press or your legislator.

State laws are enforced by State’s Attorneys, District Attor-
neys or Commonwealth’s Attorneys. Look in your local tele-
phone directory under ‘ ‘Local Government” for these listings.
Federal laws are enforced primarily by United States Attor-
neys. There is at least one United States Attorney in each state
and the District of Columbia. Look in your local telephone
directory under “United States Government, United States
Attorney.”

You may contact your state or federal legislator to ask for
help either to gather more information or to conduct an inves-
tigation of the problem.

Remember, though, you are much more likely to generate
interest in your project if you have done the legwork and can

-47-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

present a persuasive and factual case to your representative.

Your state or federal legislator should all have local ofﬁces

in your area. If you do not know who your representatives are,
you may call your local League of Women Voters. Your Con—
gressional representative may also be reached by writing him
or her at:

U.S. House of Representatives
Washington, DC. 20515

You may also call the Capitol switchboard at (202) 225-3121

and simply ask for your Congressperson.

You may also wish to contact your local press through a
news release. Before you contact any professionals con—
cerning your problem, you should consider the following tips.
You may do more harm than good by soliciting help without
preparing your facts and evidence in advance and without a
professional attitude.

MPWN—

9‘

10.

ll.

12.

13.

14.

AS‘

TIPS FOR TALKING To
LEGISLATORS, ATTORNEYS &
THE PRESS

Tell the truth.

Don’t promise more than you can deliver.

Don’t be afraid to admit a mistake.

Don’t threaten.

Approach your contacts on the basis of a friend to a
friend.

Don’t get mad. If a story is inaccurate, call or write the
reporter anyway to thank him or her for the coverage. If
erroneous articles continue to appear under this per-
son’s name, contact the editor of that section of the
paper or magazine and discontinue sending information
to this reporter.

Never Speak off the record. There is no such thing.
Watch out for jokes. Others may not understand or they
may use them against you.

Don’t submit news releases or story ideas to publica-
tions that don’t cover the subject.
Don’t be dragged into a “yes” or “no” answer to a
complex question. Always give detail and background
necessary for understanding an issue.
Don’t be afraid to say “I don’t know, but I’ll get the
answer.” Then do it promptly.
Watch details such as returning calls promptly, main-
taining accurate media lists, avoiding “typos” on news
releases.

Use your imagination. Your message is competing with
hundreds of others.

Thank your contacts for their time and help. It never
hurts to write a Short note of appreciation.

‘

 




TARGETING THE NEWS RELEASE

Identify the audience the release is trying to reach.
Target the media; if necessary, write 3-4 different re—
leases according to the needs of various publications or
media outlets.

After the release has been sent out you can learn some-
thing about the release by seeing how the media used it.
Was it used at all? Was it printed in its entirety? Were the
facts reorganized? Is the article easier to read than the
release?

Look at who used the release and who didn’t. Did the
release go to the right person? Review the timing of the
release. Did it arrive too late for the morning papers?
Did editors have time to review it?

PREPARING NEWS RELEASES

Always refer to releases as “news releases” not “press
releases.” Same goes for “news conferences” not
“press conferences.”

Letterhead should be on front page along with words
“NEWS RELEASE.”

The date of release or the words “For Immediate Re-
lease” are printed ﬂush with the left-hand margin at the
top of the page.

Contact: (name + phone number) ﬂush with the right—
hand margin.

Headline for release is placed 3-4” down from the above
headings. This space is left for editor’s notes.

Double-space the release. Leave margin 1 V2” wide.
Indent 5 spaces for each paragraph.

The first paragraph lists the dateline: for example,
“WASHINGTON, DC. May 1, 1986”

At the end of the ﬁrst page, type the words “more”
centered.

At the top of the second page, type a 2-3 word identify—
ing caption ﬂush with the left-hand margin. This cap—
tion is usually obtained by taking the ﬁrst 2-4 words of
the headline.

Keep releases 1—2 pages, no longer unless absolutely
necessary.

Never issue a release printed on both sides ofthe paper.

At the end ofthe release, center the word “END,” type
the symbol # # # # # # or type -30-.

Never editorialize. Use quotes for this purpose. They
personalize.

Make sure to indicate the 5 w’s in the ﬁrst paragraph:
who, what, why, when, where & how. A news release is
not the place for creative writing or overly technical
jargon. Keep it simple and use relatively short
paragraphs.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-50-

15.

16.

17.

18.

Write the release in an “inverted pyramid” style, with
the most important information at the top and the sup—
porting information in descending order of importance.
Editors may print releases in their entirety or cut the last
paragraphs. Editors may also only read the ﬁrst 1 or 2
paragraphs.

The ﬁrst paragraph should contain the 5 w’s. The second
one is often begun with a quote that refers closely to the
information mentioned in the 1st paragraph.

If possible, put the release aside overnight and re-read it
to make sure the message is clearly conveyed. Eliminate
redundancies, use shorter words and phrases, simplify
complex ideas. Doublecheck facts stated in the release.
It is impossible to correct a release once it has gone out.

Management of your organization should stand behind
the release.

DISTRIBUTING THE NEWS RELEASE

Try to hand-deliver if possible, and if not urgent mail ﬁrst
class.

Don’ t blanket the press. Carefully target publications and
broadcast media.

Generally, telephone follow-up calls are not recom-
mended. If a release contains urgent information on a
story, send the release by messenger and call ahead to let
them know it’s coming. If you have a good relationship
with a reporter it’s possible to call them and let them
know the release is coming out, or call them afterward to
see if they received it. The press should be alerted ver-
bally if dramatic action has taken or will be taking place.
Then send out the news release.

Unless it’s really a fast-breaking story, distribute release
1 day ahead of the event. Schedule the news release to

_ arrive between 10 am. and 12 noon.

If releases continually get ignored, get feedback from
those in the media. Ignoring releases is one form of
feedback. Try to get additional information.

MEDIA DISTRIBUTION LIST
Compile list on computer, word processor or index cards.

Proﬁle each media outlet. Learn what media serve what
audiences. Pay close attention to by—lines. Keep a ﬁle on
writers covering matters in the ﬁeld.

For each media, list name, address, phone number, fre—
quency of publication, name of publisher, editor and
other key personnel, deadlines, circulation, ﬁeld or area
covered by the media, their classiﬁcation whether it’s
business, news, trade, press.

Editorial Page editors should be on the list. Letters to the
editor is one of the best read sections of the paper. This
can be a very effective forum for presenting viewpoints.

 




[Vt-F

Columnists should be on a distribution list.

Get to know the trade press very well. Feed them ex-
clusive stories from time to time.

Get media contacts on the mailing list for organization’s
newsletter.

Media names can be obtained from several publications:
a) Editor & Publisher International Yearbook

° lists every daily newspaper in the U.S. and Canada
and some in Europe and Latin America.
° lists editorial executives of each newspaper.

° includes a separate list of news syndicates, features
services, department editors and foreign language
dailies in the U.S.

b) Bacon’s Publicity Checker

° guide to all major magazines and newspapers pub-
lished in the U.S. and Canada classiﬁed by subject
interest

° cites circulation frequency of publication, names of
editors, addresses and phone numbers. Has a code
listing type of materials each publication wants to
rece1ve.

c) Ayer’s Director of Newspapers & Periodicals

° lists more newspapers and periodicals listed by city
of publication and advertising rate information.

(1) Membership List of America Society of Journalists &
Authors

° includes name and address of members, their areas
of interest and publications regularly served by these
people.

e) Radio & TV Directory

° includes information on major stations in U.S. and
Canada. Categorizes station by kinds of programing
they have. It lists supervisory and creative personnel
for each station.

0 Broadcasting Yearbook

° lists major TV and radio stations and supervisory
personnel and technical and historical data on station.

g) TV Factbook

° includes all TV stations and gives information on
technical facilities and production personnel.

h) America’s Educational Press

° deals with educational periodicals.

-5]-

 

 

 




 

The Animal’s Agenda/Melissa Barackman

J. CONCLUSION

This pamphlet is intended to give you access to the available
legal tools with which to recognize the minimum acceptable
standards of care required through our present legal system.
The law itself cannot ensure that animals will be cared for. You
must use the laws, as they apply to your situation, to demand
appropriate action by those who have the responsibility for
animals’care and protection. Without your participation, the
limited legal protections granted non—human animals will have
little impact behind the doors of the slaughterhouse, the labo-
ratory, the pound, the airport and the many other facilities in
which people interact with non-human animals.

 

 

 

 

K. SUGGESTED READING

ANIMALS AND THE LAW
Animals and Their Legal Rights. Washington, DC: The
Animal Welfare Institute, 1978.

Bean, Michael J. The Evolution of National Wildlife Law,
Revised and Expanded Edition. New York: Praeger,
1983.

Burr, Stephen. “Towards Legal Rights for Animals,”4
Environmental Affairs 205 (1975).

Dichter, Anita. “Legal Deﬁnitions of Cruelty and Animal
Rights,” 7 Boston College Environmental Affairs Law
Review 147 (1978).

Evans, E.P. The Criminal Prosecution and Capital Punish-
ment of Animals. London: William Heinmann, 1906.

Favre, David S. and Loring, Murray. Animal Law. West-
port, Conn.: Quorum Books, 1983.

 

 

-52-

 

 

 




 

——._.',-,

Galvin, Roger W. “What Rights for Animals? A Modest
Proposal,” 2 Pace Environmental Law Review 245
(1985).

Gruter, Margaret and Bohannan, Paul (eds.). Lawz Biology
& Culture: The Evolution of Law. Santa Barbara, Cal.:
Ross-Erikson, Inc. 1983.

LaRene, Sienna. Michigan Humane Society Handbook of
Animal Cruelty Law. Detroit: Harlo Press 1983.

Moretti, Daniel S., Animal Rights and the Law. Oceana
Publication, Inc. (1984).

Stone, Christopher D. “Should Trees Have Standing?”
Toward Legal Rights for Natural Objects. Los Altos,
Cal.: William Kaufmann, Inc., 1974.

Tischler, Joyce S. A. “Rights for Nonhuman Animals: A
Guardianship Model for Dogs and Cats,” 14 San Diego
Law Review 484 (1977).

ETHICS

Clark, Stephen R.L. The Moral Status of Animals. Oxford:
Clarendon Press, 1977.

Clark, Stephen R.L. The Nature of the Beast: Are Animals
Moral? New York: Oxford University Press, 1984.

Godlovitch, Stanley and Roslind and Harris, John, (eds.).
Animals, Men and Morals: An Inquiry Into the Mal-

treatment of Non-Humans. New York: Grove Press,
1974.

Midgley, Mary. Animals And Why They Matter. Athens,
Ga.. ' University of Georgia Press, 1983.

Morris, Richard Knowles and Fox, Michael W. (eds. ). On
The Fifth Day. Animal Rights and Human Ethics.
Washington, D. C.: Acropolis Books, Ltd., 1978.

Regan, Tom. The Case for Animal Rights. Berkley. Uni-
versity of California Press, 1983.

Regan, Tom and Singer, Peter (eds.). Animal Rights and
Human Obligations. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-
Hall, Inc., 1976.

Rollin, Bernard E. Animal Rights and Human Morality.
Buffalo, N .Y.: Prometheus Books, 1981.

Singer, Peter. Animal Liberation: A New Ethic For Our
Treatment of Animals. New York: Avon Books, 1975.

Singer, Peter (ed.). In Defence of Animals. New York:
Basil Blackwell, Inc., 1985.

 

Thomas, Keith. Man and the Natural World: A History of

the Modern Sensibility. New York: Pantheon Books,
1983.

 

COMPANION ANIMALS

Beck, Alan and Katcher, Aaron. Between Pets and People:
The Importance of Animal Companionship. New York:
Perigee Books, 1983.

-53-

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FACTORY FARM ANIMALS

Fox, Michael W. Farm Animals: Husbandry, Behavior, and
Veterinary Practice. Baltimore: University Park Press,
1984.

Mason, Jim and Singer, Peter. Animal Factories. New
York: Crown Publishers, 1980.

Moss, R. (ed.). The Laying Hen and Its Environment.
Boston: Martinus Nijhoff Publishers, 1980.

Schell, Orville. Modern Meat: Antibiotics, Hormones, and
the Pharmaceutical Farm. New York: Random House,
1984.

Sybesma, W. (ed.). The Welfare of Pigs. Boston: Martinus
Nijhoff Publishers, 1981. -

 

 

 

RESEARCH ANIMALS

Adams, Richard. The Plague Dog. New York: Alfred A.
Knopf, 1978.

Broad, William and Wade, Nicholas. Betrayers of the
Truth: Fraud and Deceit in the Halls of Science. New
York: Simon and Schuster, 1982.

Kotzwinkle, William. Doctor Rat. New York: Avon Books,
1976.

Pratt, Dallas. Alternatives to Pain In Experiments on Ani—
mals. New York: Argus Archives, 1980.

Rowan, Andrew N. Of Mice, Models, & Men: A Critical
Evaluation of Animal Research. Albany: State Univer-
sity of New York Press, 1984.

Ruesch, Hans. Slaughter of the Innocent. New York: Ban-
tam Books, 1978.

Ryder, Richard D. Victims of Science: The Use of Animals
in Research. London: National Anti-Vivisection So-
ciety Limited (London), 1983.

US. General Accounting Ofﬁce, Report to the Chairman,
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development and
Related Agencies, Committee On Appropriations,
United States Senate. The Department of Agriculture’s
Animal Welfare Program. GAO/RCED—85-8.

 

 

 

 

VEGETARIANISM

Akers, Keith. A Vegetarian Sourcebook: The Nutritgn,
Ecology, and Ethics of a Natural Foods Diet. Arlington,
Virginia: Vegetarian Press, 1987.

Giehl, Dudley. Vegetarianism: A Way of Life. New York:
Harper & Row, 1979.

Lappe, Frances Moore. Diet for a Small Planet. 10th Anni-
versary Edition. New York: Ballantine Books, 1982.

WILD ANIMALS

Amory, Cleveland. Man Kind? Our Incredible War On
Wildlife. New York: Dell Publishing Co., 1974.

-54-

 




 

Baker, Ron. The American Hunting Myth. New York:
Vantage Press, 1985.

Regenstein, Lewis. The Politics of Extinction. New York:
Macmillan Publishing Co. , 1975.

MISCELLANEOUS
Magel, Charles. A Bibliography on Animal Rights and

Related Matters. Washington, DC: University Press
of America, Inc., 1981.

 

-55-

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Aw
6

 

 

 




 

APPENDIX 1

STATE ANTI-CRUELTY STATUTES

Washington

Every person who cruelly overdrives, overloads,
drives when overloaded, overworks, tortures, torments,
deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, muti-
lates or cruelly kills, or causes, procures, authorizes,
requests or encourages so to be overdriven, overloaded,
driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tor-
mented, deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly
beaten or mutilated or cruelly killed, any animal; and
whoever having the charge or custody of any animal,
either as owner or otherwise, inﬂicts unnecessary suf-
fering or pain upon the same, or unnecessarily fails to
provide the same with proper food, drink, air, light,
space, shelter or protection from the weather, or who
willfully and unreasonably drives the same when unﬁt
for labor or with yoke or harness that chafes or galls it,
or check rein or any part of its harness too tight for its
comfort, or a night when it has been six consecutive
hours without a full meal, or who cruelly abandons any
animal, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Revised Code
of Washington, Title 16, Section 52.070.

Note: Statute requires responsible person to provide ‘ ‘food,
drink, air, light, space, shelter or protection from weather.”

 

Illinois

§ 4 No person or owner may beat, cruelly treat, tor-
ment, starve, overwork or otherwise abuse any animal.
No owner may abandon any animal where it may be
public charge or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure.
Illinois Annotated Statutes, Chapter 8, § 703.01

Note: Statute expressly prohibits abandoning an animal.

Colorado

18-9-202. Cruelty to animals — (1) A person commits
cruelty to animals if, except authorized by law, he
knowingly or with criminal negligence overdrives,
overloads, overworks, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance, unnecessarily or cruelly
beatsl%‘Y
or upon any vehicles in a cruel manner, or otherwise
mistreats or neglects any animal, or causes or procures
it to be done, or, having the charge and custody of any
animal, fails to provide it with proper food, drink, or
protection from the weather, or abandons it.

(2) (a) Cruelty to animals is a class 1 misdemeanor.
(b) In the case of any person incurring a second or
subsequent conviction under the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this subsection (2), a sentence of
imprisonment within the minimum and maximum

 

 




terms shall be mandatory and shall not be subject
to suspension, nor shall such person be eligible
for probation or parole for any part of such
period. A plea of nolo contendere accepted by the
court shall be considered a conviction for the
purposes of this section . . . .

M3: By specifying that a person commits cruelty to ani-
mals if he “knowingly or with criminal negligence,” acts, the
statute it easier to prosecute; it doesn’t require that the pros-
ecutor prove that the actor acted with an evil intent. The statute
speciﬁcally prohibits the transportation of an animal in a cruel
manner. The statute has a “repeat offender” provision, which
further strengthens the law.

Massachusetts— Regulation of Research Facilities

§ 174D. Research institutions; license to use dogs or
cats; rules and regulations

(a) No research institution shall employ dogs or cats in
scientiﬁc investigation, experiment or instruction or for
the testing of drugs or medicines without having ﬁrst
been issued a license therefor under this section by the
commissioner. A research institution desiring to obtain
a license shall make application to the commissioner.
On receipt of such application the commissioner shall
make or cause to be made such investigation as he may
deem necessary to determine whether the public inter-
est would be served by the issue of such license. The
commissioner shall issue such license unless, after
notice and hearing, he ﬁnds that the research institution,
by reason of its standards, facilities, practices or ac-
tivities, is not a ﬁt and proper institution to receive such
license, and that the issue thereof is not in the public
interest. Each research institution licensed under this
chapter shall before such license issues pay to the com-
missioner a license fee of ﬁfty dollars. Each license
shall expire on June thirtieth next following the date of
issue. The commissioner shall annually renew each
license upon the application of the licensee unless, after
notice and hearing, he ﬁnds that by reasons of the
standards, facilities,practices or activities of the li-
censee such renewal is not in the public interest. The
commissioner may, after notice and hearing, cancel,
suspend or revoke any license if he ﬁnds by reason of the
standards, facilities, practices or activities of the li-
censee the continuation of such license is not in the
public interest.

Whoever knowingly violates any of the provisions of
this section shall be liable for a civil penalty of not more
than one hundred dollars for each offense. The superior
court department of the trial court shall have authority
to enjoin any violation of this section or to take such
other actions as equity or justice may require.

(b) The commissioner may make such rules and regula-

tions, not inconsistent with this section, necessary to
carry out its purposes, and may alter, rescind or add to

 

 

 

-2-

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

any rules or regulations previously made. The commis-
sioner or an agent designated by him may, in connection
with the granting, continuance or renewal of a license,
visit and inspect the animal research and care facilities
of any licensee or of any research institution which has
applied for a license. The Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the Animal Res-
cue League of Boston may be designated as agents of
the commissioner. For purposes of this paragraph the
term ‘ ‘animal’ ’ shall refer to the dog and cat speciﬁcally
and all other sentient creatures except humans. Mass.
Gen. Laws, Ann. Chap. 140 § 174D.

 

STATE ANTI-CRUELTY STATUTES
(§ refers to section)

 

Alabama Alabama Code § 13A—11-14

Alaska Alaska Stat. Title 11—6l.140

Arizona Arizona Rev. Stat. § 13-2910

Arkansas Arkansas Stat. Ann. § 41-2918‘

California California Penal Code § 597

Colorado Colorado Rev. Stat. Ann.
18—9—202, 35-42-112

Connecticut Connecticut Gen. Stat. Ann. §
53-247

Delaware Delaware Code. Ann. Title 11 §

District of Columbia

1325
District of Columbia Code §
22-801

Florida Florida Stat. Ann. § 828.12

Georgia Vol. 2 Encyc. Ga. Law § 25

Hawaii Hawaii Rev. Stat. Title 37 §
711-1109

Idaho Idaho Code § 18-2102

Illinois Illinois Ann. Stat. 8—7030]

Indiana Annotated Indiana Code Title 35 §
46-3-2

Iowa Iowa Code Ann. § 717.1, 711.2

Kansas Kansas Stat. Ann. 21—4310

Kentucky Kentucky Rev. Stat. 525.125, .130

Louisiana Louisiana Rev. Stat. 14:102.l

Maine Maine Rev. Stat. Ann. Title 17A §
510

Maryland Anno. Code of Md. Article 27 §
59

Massachusetts Massachusetts Gen. Laws Ann.
Chap. 272 § 78

Michigan Michigan Compiled Laws Ann.
Chap. 750.49

Minnesota Minnesota Stat. Ann. § 343.20

Mississippi Mississippi Code Ann. Title 97 §
41-1

Missouri Vernon’s Ann. Missouri § 578.005
et seq.

Montana Montana Code Ann. Title 45 §

8-211

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Nebraska
Nevada

New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico

New York

North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma

Oregon
Pennsylvania

Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas

Utah

Vermont
Virginia
Washington

West Virginia
Wisconsin

Wyoming

Revised Statutes of Nebraska
Chap. 28 § 1001

Nevada Rev. Stat. § 574.050 et
seq.

New Hampshire Rev. Stat. Ann.
Chap. 644.8

New Jersey Stat. Ann. Title 4 §
22—15 et seq.

New Mexico Stat. Ann. Chap. 30
§ 18-1 et seq.

McKinneys Consol. Laws of New
York, Agriculture & Markets Law
§ 350 et seq.

North Carolina Gen. Stat. §
14—360 et seq.

North Dakota Century Code Ann.
Title 36 § 21.1-01 et seq.

Ohio Rev. Code Ann. Chap.
959.01 et seq.

Oklahoma Stats. Ann. Title 21 §
1685

Oregon Rev. Stat. 167 310 et seq.
Purdon’s Pennsylvania Consol.
Stat. Ann. Title 18 § 5511
General Laws of Rhode Island §
4-1—1 et seq.

Code of Laws South Carolina §
47-1-40

South Dakota Codiﬁed Laws §
40-1—1 et seq.

Tennessee Code Ann. § 39-3-101
et seq.

Texas Code Ann. Penal § 42.11
Utah Code Ann. § 76-9-301
Vermont Stat. Ann. Title 13 § 401
et seq.

Code of Virginia § 18. 2- 403. 1 et

seq. 29- 213. 91 et seq.

Rev. Code of Washington Ann.
Title 16.52 et seq.

West Virginia Code § 61—8-19
Wisconsin Stat. Ann. § 948.01 et
seq.

Wyoming Stat. Ann. § 11—29-101—
et seq.




APPENDIX 2
STATE HUMANE SLAUGHTER STATUTES

The New Hampshire humane slaughter statute is set forth
below as an example.

427:33 Terms Deﬁned. As used in this chapter the
following words and phrases shall be construed as fol-
lows:

 

I. The term “Slaughterer” means any person, part-
nership, corporation or association regularly engaged in
the slaughtering of livestock;

II. The term “livestock” means cattle, horses, swine,
sheep, goats and other species of animals susceptible of
use in the production of meat and meat products;

111. The term “humane method” means:

 

(a) any method of slaughtering livestockwhich nor-
mally causes animals to be rendered insensible to pain
by a single blow or shot of a mechanical instrument or
by electrical, chemical or other means that is rapid and
effective, before being shackled, hoisted, thrown, cast,
or cut; and

(b) the method of slaughtering required by the ritual

of the Jewish faith, whereby the animal suffers loss of

. consciousness by anemia of the brain caused by the

simultaneous and instantaneous severance of the car-

otid arteries with a Sharp instrument, provided that the

method used in bringing the animal into position for

slaughter causes no injury or pain which can be avoided

without interfering with the requirements of ritualistic

slaughter or without imposing unreasonable economic
hardship.

 

IV. The term “holding pens” means enclosures or
yards where animals are held or handled before Slaugh-
tering.

427:34 Prohibition. On and after June 30, 1960, no
Slaughterer may slaughter livestock except by a humane
method. No person may handle livestock in connection
with slaughter, or drive or transport them to holding
pens or to place of slaughter except with a minimum of
excitement and vehicles must be free from hazards
which could cause suffering or pain.

 

427:35 Prohibition. No person who has taken posses-
sion of a horse, ostensibly for Slaughter, shall use or
deliver possession of said animal for any other purpose.

 

427.36 Penalty. Any slaughterer who violates this
subdivision Shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

427.37 Administration and Enforcement. The com-
missioner of agriculture shall administer the provisions
of this subdivision, adopt such rules, pursuant to RSA
541-A, as may be necessary to carry this subdivision
into effect, and approve all methods of slaughter used
under the terms of this subdivision. He may, by admin-

 




istrative order, allow any person a single temporary
exemption from compliance with any provision of this
subdivision for such period of time as he shall deter-
mine reasonable, not to exceed one year. The commis-
sioner of agriculture shall cause to be prosecuted any
slaughterer who fails to comply with the provisions of
this subdivision. Any ofﬁcer or agent of any incorpo-
rated society for the prevention of cruelty of animals,
upon being designated, in writing, for that purpose by
the sheriff of any county in this state, may, within such
county, at any time inspect the premises and operations
of any slaughterer and, if he deems it adVisable, request
an investigation and appropriate action by the commis-
sioner of agriculture.

 

 

 

 

 

5319 Humane Slaughter Statute Cite

Arizona Arizona Rev. Stat. Ann. § 24-661

California California Food § Agric. Code §
19501

Colorado Colorado Rev. Stat. Ann. §
35-58-105

Connecticut Connecticut Gen. Stat. Ann. §
22—272a

Florida Florida Stat. Ann. § 828.24

Georgia Georgia Code Ann. § 26-2—110.1

Illinois Illinois Ann. Stat., Ch. 8 § 229.51

Indiana Indiana Code Ann., § 16-6-5—8

Iowa Iowa Code Ann. § 189A.18

Kansas Kansas Stat. Ann. § 47-1401

Maine Maine Rev. Stat. Ann. Title 22 §
2554

aryland Maryland Agric. Code Ann. §

4-123.1

Massachusetts Massachusetts Gen. Laws Ann.
Ch. 94, § 139D

Michigan Michigan Stat. Ann. § 12-484(1)

Minnesota Minnesota Stat. Ann. § 31.59

New Hampshire

New Hampshire Rev. Stat. Ann. §
427233

Ohio Ohio Rev. Code. Ann. § 945.01

Oklahoma Oklahoma Stat. Ann. Title 2 §
6—183

Oregon Oregon Rev. Stat. § 603.065

Pennsylvania Pennsylvania Stat. Ann. Title 3 §

Rhode Island

451.52
Rhode Island Gen. Laws § 4-17-1

Utah Utah Code Ann. § 4-32-3(31)
Vermont Vermont Stat. Ann. , Title 6, §
3 13 1
Washington Washington Rev. Code Ann. §

16.50.100
Wisconsin Wisconsin Stat. Ann. § 95.80

 

 

 




 

 

APPENDIX 3

STATE HUMANE TRANSPORTATION STATUTES

State
Alabama

Arkansas
California

Colorado
Connecticut
District of Columbia
Florida
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Louisiana
Maine
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Montana
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma

Oregon
Pennsylvania

Rhode Island

Humane Transportation Cite
Alabama Code 13-A—11-14,
2-15-110
Arkansas Stat. Ann. § 41—2955
California Penal Code § 597,
Agriculture Code § 16905-16908
Colorado Rev. Stat. Ann. §
18-9-202, § 35—42-1 12
Connecticut Gen. Stat. Ann. §
53-247, § 53-252
District of Columbia Code §
22-803
Florida Stat. Ann. § 828.12,
828.14 ~
Hawaii Rev. Stat. § 37-711-1109
Idaho Code § 18-2103
Illinois Ann. Stat., Ch. 8 § 707
Indiana Stat. Ann. § 35-46-3-2
Louisiana Stat. Ann., Title 14 §
102.1, Title 45 § 481
Maine Rev. Stat. Ann. Title 17A §
510, 17 § 1172
Massachusetts Gen. Laws Ann. ,
Ch. 272 § 77, Ch. 272 § 81
Michigan Compiled Laws Ann. §
750.50
Minnesota Stat. Ann. § 343.24
Montana Code Ann. § 45-8-211
Nevada Rev. Stat. § 574.100, §
705.090
New Hampshire Rev. Stat. Ann. §
644:8
New Jersey Stat. Ann. § 4.22—17
New Mexico Stat. Ann. § 77-9—63
New York Agric. & Mkt. Law §
359, 359a
North Carolina Gen. Stat. §
14-363
North Dakota Century Code Ann.
§ 36-21.1—03
Ohio Rev. Code Ann., Title
959.13
Oklahoma Stat. Ann., Title 21, §
1688
Oregon Rev. Stat. § 167.860
Pennsylvania Stat. Ann., Title
18-551 1(6)
Rhode Island Gen. Laws § 4-1-3,
§ 4-1-17

-1-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

South Carolina
Tennessee
Texas

Utah
Vermont

Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin

Wyoming

South Carolina Code § 47-1-50
Tennessee Code Ann. § 39-3-108
Texas Penal Code 42.11, Art.
39-3—108

Utah Code Ann. § 76-9-301
Vermont Stat. Ann. , Title 13-403,
Title 13—461-13-463

Virginia Code § 18.2-392, 393, §
18.1-796.43

Washington Rev. Code §
16.52.080 '

West Virginia Code Ann. §
61-8-19

Wisconsin Stat. Ann. § 948.02,
948.05

Wyoming Stat. § 6-3-203

 

 




 

 

APPENDIX 4

STATE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION LAWS AS OF

1986

Alabama

Alaska
Arizona

Arkansas

California

Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware

District of Columbia
Florida

Georgia

Hawaii
Idaho

Illinois
Indiana

Iowa
Kansas

Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
\

Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota

Mississippi
Missouri

Montana

Nebraska

Alabama Code § § 36-12-40 et
seq.

Alaska Stat. § § 09.25.110 et seq.
Arizona Rev. Stat. Ann. § §
39-121 et seq.

Arkansas Stat. Ann. § § 12—2801
et seq.

California Government Code § §
6250 et seq.

Colorado Rev. Stat. Ann. §
30—10-101

Connecticut Gen. Stat. Ann. § §
1-18a et seq.

Delaware Code Ann. , Title 29, § §
10001 et seq.

District of Columbia Code § §
1—1521 et seq.

Florida Stat. Ann. § § 119.01 et
seq.

Georgia Code Ann. § § 50-18-70
et seq.

Hawaii Rev. Stat. § § 92-50 et seq.
Idaho Code § § 9-301 et seq.,
59-1009 et seq.

Illinois Ann. Stat., Ch. 116, § §
43.4 et seq.

Indiana Stat. Ann. § § 5-14—3-1 et
seq.

Iowa Code Ann. § § 22.1 et seq.
Kansas Stat. Ann. § § 45-215 et
seq.

Kentucky Rev. Stat. § § 61.870 et
seq.

Louisiana Stat. Ann. Title 44, § §
1 et seq.

Maine Rev. Stat. Ann., Title 1, § §
401 et seq.

Maryland State Government Code
§§ 10-611 et seq.

Massachusetts Gen. Law Ann.,
Ch. 66, §§ 1 et seq.

Michigan Statutes Ann. 4. 1801(3)
et seq.

Minnesota Stat. Ann. § § 13.01 et
seq., 15.17

Mississippi Code § 25—61—1 et seq.
Missouri Stat. Ann. § § 109.180 et
seq.

Montana Code Ann. § § 2-6-101 et
seq.

Nebraska Rev. Stat. § § 84-712 et
seq.

 




 

Nevada

New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee

Texas
Utah

Vermont

Virginia
Washington

West Virginia
Wisconsin

Wyoming

Nevada Rev. Stat. § § 239.005 et
seq.

New Hampshire Rev. Stat. Ann. §
§ 91—A:4 et seq.

New Jersey Stat. Ann. § § 47:1A—1
et seq.

New Mexico Stat. Ann. § § 14-3-1
et seq.

New York Public Ofﬁcers Law § §
84 et seq.

North Carolina Gen. Stat. § §
132-1 et seq.

North Dakota Century Code Ann.
§ 44-04-18

Ohio Rev. Code Ann., Title 1, § §
149.43 et seq.

Oklahoma Stat. Ann., Title 51, §
24A.1 et. seq.

Oregon Rev. Stat. § § 192.410 et
seq.

Pennsylvania Stat. Ann., Title 65,
§ § 66.1 et seq.

Rhode Island Gen. Laws § §
38-2-1 et seq.

South Carolina Code § § 30-4-10
et seq.

South Dakota Codiﬁed Laws § §
1-27-1 et seq.

Tennessee Code Ann. § §
10-7-503 et seq.

Texas Art. 6252-17a

Utah Code Ann. § § 78-26-1 et
seq.

Vermont Stat. Ann., Title 1, § §
315 et seq.

Virginia Code § § 21-340 et seq.
Washington Rev. Code Ann. § §
42.17.250 et seq.

West Virginia Code Ann. § §
29B-1-1 et seq.

Wisconsin Stat. Ann. § § 19.31 et
seq.

Wyoming Stat. § § 16-4-201 et
seq.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 




QUESTIONS AND DISCREPANCIES RE: CHAPTER I,
"THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS IN THE UNITED STATES"

September 27, 1988

Page 17: "Failure to provide food and water (sustenance) is
a violation of law in forty-six states, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone and Guam."

The following states are listed on BOTH charts, A. Laws
without qualifying phrases; B. Laws with qualifying phrases.

.%0 District of Columbia (22-801)
Florida (828.12; 828.13)

//// Maryland (27—59)
Massachusetts (272—77)
Missouri (578.060)

New Jersey (4:22-17; 4:22-26)
New Mexico (30-18—1(A))

Rhode Island (4—1—2)

Vermont (13-403)

Washington (16.52.070)

West Virginia (61—8—19)
Wyoming (6-3-203)

The number "forty-six" on page 17 will have to be changed
once the charts are corrected.

Page 17: "Anti-cruelty statutes in twelve states and Guam
enable any private citizen to relieve a neglected animal
impounded on the property of another person by entering into
the place of confinement to supply the animal with food and
water, or by removing the animal to feed and water it. The
major provisions of these laws are noted on pages ."
Where does this information appear?

Page 17: "Twenty— —three state statutes require shelter
without qualifying phrases." Only 20 states, the stﬁsaaesef
.. "2 a, Canal Zone, Guam and Puerto Rico are listed in that
chart (page 34).

Page 18: "Twenty-three states require that failure to
provide shelter be proven intentional or cruel, etc." Only
21 states, the District of Columbia and Virgin Islands are
listed in that chart (page 35).

 




age 18: "Twelve anti-cruelty statutes do not specifically
require shelter; however, eight of these—-Hawaii,
Mississippi, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee
and West Virginia--prohibit depriving an animal of necessary
sustenance."

To begin with, only seven states are listed after saying
there are eight. Secondly, Oregon is the ONLY state listed
in chart V (page 37) as not requiring shelter. Hawaii is on
chart B (shelter with qualifying phrases); Mississippi is on
chart B; New Mexico is on chart A (shelter without qualifying
phrases); North Carolina is on chart B; Tennessee is on chart
A; and West Virginia is on chart B.

Page 19: "Colorado, along with 40 other states, the District
of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the Canal Zone, prohibits
abandonment." This number will have to be revised once the
charts are corrected, as many states appear on two or more
charts (pages 30-33).

A. Without qualifying phrase
. With qualifying phrase
. Maimed, disabled, infirm only

Domestic

Rhode Island is listed on charts A, B, and C.
Minnesota is listed on charts A and C
Nevada is listed on charts A and C

New York is listed on charts A and C

North Dakota is listed on charts A and C
Virginia is listed on charts A and D

D. C. is listed on charts B and C

South Carolina is listed on charts B and C
Vermont is listed on charts B and C

Maine is listed on charts B and D
Oklahoma is listed on charts C and D

Page 19: "twenty-nine states protect any non-human living
creature of 'any animal,‘ defining animals as all living
creatures except human beings." The chart (page 44) has 24
states, the Canal Zone and D. C. listed.

Page 20: "Twenty—six laws protect 'animal.‘ Only 22 states,
American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands are
listed in charts B and C (pages 45-46).

Page 20: "and six protect 'domestic animals,‘ 'captive
animals,‘ or 'warm—blooded animals.‘ Only 2 are listed in
chart D (page 47).

 




Pages 42—43: Chart C, "Abandonment of maimed, disabled,
infirm, diseased animals only prohibited, with qualifying
language as noted." Need qualifying phrases for:

Vermont

Canal Zone

Page 47 — chart - need section numbers for penalties for
violation of anti-cruelty laws for the following states:
Kansas
Maryland
Guam
American Samoa

Need penalty for violation and section number for: Oregon
(this may be new?).

Wisconsin: Intentional abuse is now a felony; need
provisions and section number(s).

 




QUESTIONS AND DISCREPANCIES RE: CHAPTER I,
"THE EVOLUTION OF ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS IN THE UNITED STATES"

f

“.5.
I

September 27, 1988

1 <1:
.1.
a: ‘ v:
‘4

Page 17: "Failure to provide food and water (sustenance) is
a violation of law in forty-six states, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Canal gone and Guam."
. "“ WM- a in} 1‘ r ”w" :J ‘- “ii
The following states age/fisted on BOTH bharts, A. Laws
without qualifying phrases; B. Laws with qualifying phrases.
831/"

1!

District of Columbia (22-801) ﬁff\‘;w

Florida (828.12; 828.13) _ "“”' g, ; EM-AA
//// Maryland (27-59) ' i”"-Fw

Massachusetts (272-77)

Missouri (578.060)

New Jersey (4:22-17; 4:22-26)

New Mexico (30-18-1(A))
~ Rhode Island (4-1-2) "
' - Vermont (13-403)
Washington (16.52.070)
West Virginia (61-8-19)
Wyoming (6-3-203)
The number "forty-six" on page 17 will have to be changed

once the charts are corrected.

enable any private citizen to relieve a neglected animal
impounded on the property of another person by entering into
the place of confinement to supply the animal with food and
water, or by removing the animal to feed and water it. The
major provisions of these laws are noted on pages ."
Where does this information appear? LA;,,,1.5_ . A1» «.';»

khxf’ Page 17: "Anti—cruelty statutes in twelve states and Guam

Page 17: "Twenty-three state $§§gg;@§,require shelter
.m without qualifying phrases?" On y 2Q}states, the Bissséoesoé
/}7.&niﬂﬁ§ih, Canal Zone, Guam and Puerﬁé Rico are listed in that
’ chart (page 34). f E

{,4
k.)

Page 18: "Twenty-three states require that failure to

PrQVide shelter be proven intentional or cruel, etc." Only .
:21 states, the District of Columbia and Virgin Islands are‘\‘:.
listedwin that chart (page 35).

 




“#2;
“1‘3
1i” 1Q L
is“? 11.“? k 51 ‘Y” ‘1 ‘ _, b» a he, =
z (‘5’: C \

ﬁgﬁ r
age 18. "Twelve anti- -cruelty statutes do not spec1f1cally

requ1remshelter, however, eight of these—~Hawaii, ‘V

Mississippi, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, Tennesseei ”ﬂ?!

pandeest V1rg1n1a--proh1b1t depriving an animal of necessary
sustenance." w ’J

To begin with, only seven states are listed after saying 1WW
there are eight/ Secondly, Oregon is the ONLY state listed ,
in chart V (page 37) as not requiring shelter. Hawaii is on'
chart B (shelter with qualifying phrases); Mississippi is on
chart B; New Mexico is on chart A (shelter without qualifying
phrases); North Carolina is on chart B; Tennessee is on chart
A; and West Virginia is on chart B. w

Page 19: "Colorado, along with 40 other states, the District
of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the Canal Zone, prohibits
abandonment." This number will have to be revised once the
charts are corrected, as many states appear on two or more
charts (pages 30-33).

A. Without qualifying phrase

B. With qualifying phrase

C. Maimed, disabled, infirm gnlyW
D. Domestic

Rhode Island is listed on charts A, B, and C.r
Minnesota is listed on charts A and C

Nevada is listed on charts A and C

New York is listed on charts A and C

North Dakota is listed on charts A and C
Virginia is listed on charts A and D

D. C. is listed on charts B and C

South Carolina is listed on charts B and C
Vermont is listed on charts B and C u.
Maine is listed on charts B and D 1W, g
Oklahoma is listed on charts C and D ,;3é

Page 19: "twenty-nine stéteswprotect any non-human livingmw:
creature of 'any animal,’ defining animals as all living
creatures except human beings." The chart (page 44) has 24

states, the Canal Zone and D. C. listed. }

Wmﬁf

Page 20: "Twenty-six laws protect 'animal.‘ Only 22 states,
American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands are
listed in charts B and C (pages 45—46).

Page 20: "and six protect 'domestic animals,‘ 'captive
animals,‘ or 'warm—blooded animals.‘ Only 2 are listed in
chart D (page 47).

 




Pages 42—43: Chart C, l'Abandonment of maimed, disabled,
infirm, diseased animals only prohibited, with qualifying
language as noted." Need qualifying phrases for:

Vermont

Canal Zone

Page 47 - chart - need section numbers for penalties for
violation of anti—cruelty laws for the following states:
Kansas
Maryland
Guam
American Samoa

Need penalty for violation and section number for: Oregon N
(this may be new?).

Wisconsin: Intentional abuse is now a felony; need
provisions and section number(s).

 




{1-3: {3- i

...u ...-

tha

‘tféaa

-' .- ...a --. ’u. -
ﬁrm7hﬁqwz . -w; ...‘ -A- ” trmmng

‘ ' -‘ '-
l

- ,.- 1.. . ' ._ . .‘ .' .. - .. ..z ' . .5 5...: 1 . ‘ ._ '3“: - ' ..- \ , -_, -4 ...: ..-. j...‘ -.. m. _. .. ...:
‘ Ex”..- - ? ' ‘ " . -' . . . . ..- at! {LJ 1 H '~.-' ... 1-1:“.-. .-. .3' 12:! i 3 l...‘ 'y' £21.": LJ 23L; 321:3: '1" t2"...

9..-

‘ ' ‘ . . . " .. . . . I'". .. . . ' .. .... J... .... .... .. ..’ ...... .. ....
'-;;;j:l3t_3::; r'g2333131_ 't: {31131 . _ _-:;. p a E "3‘ u r- ‘ . .- .23.; {1:31 urn: L"! 3.. has: r

Eidwweﬂ an: 3.. I: ma“: w Lfﬁ-nv a: .5 w:;* “ aBU§Eﬂ

I"

whim QT mam

.g‘e 3 1'3. .3 3 _' ' -' ; ;' .-' .. 334’": 'ts...5.r"r‘i i. ﬁg

.

EFF THE BRUITE CT§”"

;” . . . r3, 3 ’ .' .. ... .3 . ' ‘ ._..3 .. .... . . . .. ”“- .. .... ' ‘.
334:1 m.“ 1. .. . ~ ‘ -.. z“; 5 Patti-H 2}" :3!" f...-"'L.'.!:.‘ 3. 3.,

....

I”... ..._ ' .. ... 2""- ......“ .. ... , _..Hl .. . "'2 .' I .. . _ "'- 3: -_ “ " ..‘ .... . 3.
L3; 3311,32: . 3, . .. .3. .=. ‘. .. 2 331...! I" mam

551.
%wmm p
fxt_trﬁ 5: r‘ .’
3 ,
twaai: ar‘ Ff““
..1... . .. .. . . . _ ..-. . . ..- z .. .. _ .. _ . .
3.... {:2 L! 1-21 3.; .3. ‘2: : '- = f- , 1 = _. 3," ' .3 -- :_ - - ...-{...lf‘z'éifl'

!!’~"—‘..i'»3

 




EL LU" .... ”"33

. ...:

:2}. Li {:4 : H ”a

.... .... ..r

...4‘ E." M E:

 

5.1.11.3 {I}
J. {-3 £171 Li 'E'"!
h E: :21} Lxr}r:il

.2295": 7 L -..i

"" 'T

aﬁaqq WIWIHEJH

..:

. 5" .

“QImem

;;EL;;

u: uquag

....£ 4 E4

Ruiun:.E ma

:5: L; Cg. :3. n C: L4 E: 2‘";

DEEQE A?

...4 >- .i“. ..‘u. ...-

...:~ 2.... l'. 5

‘..J Li} EL! V"! L. , --_ LIZ

§Z'«§L:i_{_

Y‘“i{1..2-

1-‘.... ..

ggu;
25:! i '31:) L4 "

guy

:33: .4 25.2%

.'. 233 $7.3 F5

3...) .[ {5-71 :7. 3.:

.... ....

"; i f'1-35323"‘”§};L_=

.... ... ¥

4. '32- I L} T. LU

H

 




H '1: h a r": 3. €59 .

.-.‘ .I l' h I... 'A ~...
3 ~ .5 1.1L 5.7:} '5! {121‘ q

n. w.

in Haw England

..

Haﬁaachuﬁmttpq wh&v§ he cmmwi

°"'.

aptgd by th& ﬁﬁmwwal Laurt

wa

maachua&t*

ﬁﬁﬁﬂ apps .1?“ I a & aga

1.
-...’ U. f": if?

,..._
.. ... .... x. . .... .. ..
I i {12'} |"-. 5:33

5“. .1. . . . . .. .... . .. ' .. _. ,... 'r ... m "-1.” x ..- .... .. M, Mr. ‘
:;:-i.._-a ;. : . - .~. 2 swam-m l .. u L1 .1. inst-4? 3.5": 2 .

..

Tha $1

saratj t1 1 EB

almagT 3m. thg hammmm

f": i E:

.- .. M. .... ... . _. .. ... a... -.. ,.. m. , a. .
' . 5:3? 1 im. t?! '21- W 322‘ T ‘*::.:' L 3 i *:::.' ‘:'.::~ ‘-....”...1 5‘ ' 3.. {1'3 1::

He enriched tﬁa rﬂd@ with big :a' "ital

.. w...

~ ..- w ‘... .. . .. a. * '1 w ..... ....‘ j‘
his? l- uanLal 1:: J. J. L..i\-'*.:'.‘ a: r

hﬂﬁf‘ki

A M- ~....- ~..~._,‘« -‘W ...‘ _ ,

H .. V..- -_.-M,M.u.__ _
_-.‘._~.....-. N .v .m...‘-‘

’xtﬁd

aamtgnced

 

 




 

 

I: C? + ._1 .5:- {31 1111+ 1.11:1 .1151 3+. .111: 1' +~.+.-1=:q —+ CI p :1 CI Ei I I«I +31»! :.I-

.. ..-. .. .. "“- .. .... ...“ . .... ... »- .-~ r- - ““ ' -‘-" "‘ ‘ I“ ‘- 1" "‘3' I ”'5 "I ’m‘
I") [J gm; I”:I £1.31 (- I I: I“! "I‘ I”) I": I_-_-_" Ll 1...} I. .. {J VI {J ..+ !__.! 2:, "I :3} CI ...j ""I _I, I (“I 5“)! +, 3-. ~I- .. :_.'. I"! 1 3-. I“ ,. +, 17.. ....I

t...
I

 

.7111. ;::+ "+3: :;:+ 1.11:3 3.1. L1 11+ 11111111- -:-:+.+ +101! 11.3.1 I: +-.1 '1: :1, +1? .13 1."; ii. I I +1.-1+ 1‘1 ...1 :::+ .1. L! :3; I "I'm b 1:21.11 +1.11»

in

11:11-1»: 11+ 11+ 15;.

1..

i I. LI 3;} 5:; 7:1 v.13}. If: :"I 17.1 L'I {II 'I .353 I31};- “I" '[ [me4 Li I I”, IE ‘13} :I. ..I E: :0} ‘r'ﬁ

 

“ 11:+1"-:-:+ 11:1 2.1111153; II 1-1, 1:: 1" 1;. .1. I 1.111113 ::+ 7-51.11;- r-r. +1:- I +.-1r.:+111+.11!:t:+211 +4 3‘3 I3 UT"

 

&Imﬂgﬁmgd a; ﬁIQIEﬂQd $9M II Inc UDIIFIﬁ

I "+51: +:-:-1+ "" 1; :"I "g: 1+1 -1 I 1.1" :I. ‘111—11-+-I"+51*'1" 1.11131. 1.1115 (:11 3&3 L1 "1 111131.13- ?2‘3 1-311 '1? 11:3

:z1.1+:::+M I-“e- 14.11-11.11; L111; L11 :.+ "I: 11.311111" 1: "I I I: [10:3 1.11an. 1. 1: +1.: '1: 3‘1 +7.11! " :11 ..1+5+ q ‘1." '1;

’4.

~1.:1 +11..-*\+:::+{ T +: 1.1 ":“I 1111...: 1:+ ::'+ .111 I1 3.1,. "1 (.1 [3,111 I [11.1113 .113 .111: 13 L11". 2-1111; 1:1 11+; 51112;; 1.11115. 13:31.11 E;

I.

 

I E‘ II! I CI 3121-1 CI U f-r’ICI) ’::":-.- I LI LI ”I. I M +331 IJCII :1 £3 LI CI. I235} LI :5 I II L! E. (-133 H " III [II C} CI (53-3 "I I”! CI 1.335" CI. "3}.-

1

.3 I LI I353! .I I '65" +_-I CI 1:?) +...I {I :1 I |._I1'"=";+ Ii} C3 +..J I 1733-6331 iii--4 Iml 13:3 ":3: (3-3 LI “II. 511.4551?! "-::+-E: 3:} LJ IE.x I +..-I SJ +7.“; 3'1: +33 UMCL!

r"!
r
,
.I
u
....
l
,.
.1—
u"\
. .
. .
50
-3-
r
..
11
———)'

.111: "I" 1.1 "+3; 1.1 1;. +1? I‘ 1' “ :75; +21 1.- :13. .-. ..- .1 +111: I 1111+ :1 1'2: 111:. 53:11 +1111. :1. '1 1-11-21

+t-:~.+ :..; 3'51- 1+: +3111 :1. I1 I I3 +11; +1:- 1; 1:. .1: 1f +11 +11 1"r: +. ...I 1111 Fin-1+:- I I33 1:: Li -..«I "=15- I ":.:—'- +:::+ +:-:-:-:-: :::‘+ "g: :11: 1:11-151.

I35? '..I 1:53.73 III CI. I all LL? {'3 :.:"? I‘. 514‘. If" "I +.;- if! 1'." +2 7 -_-I {I} I: --+I13:}+ f6"- {.1533} I 1:! ""1 .-‘. 3.? "3.333 5.3;. ”I 535* "3333- '1' 1 I I 323.113.?"

"=21"???- :1 ‘4" UM C3? 1‘1 1331113. 13:. "-3 '1: :21 n d I": 1111+ 1.1 :1. 133:1.II'"""+.I++"+'1- ._.1 a; :::+ 2...; r1- -. 1:.:;I '1: r+-"I+_:+.-113ii "1.1-1.1 +1.-11 +1.-11+ 1:;

$4 F .... .... ~

I71»: LI :33:.,.J +3711 1 "' ’~' -”"~+.""-+:;: I 1.1 I I: 11 1" 9.15.1 I [53,3253 u T 1-1.-

~1 2:1 ...- -

JJ
1*?

Y

L.

+ I £9 Ci U} +333 ZINE-31W
.‘ \...

fu Idmmg IEJﬁUﬁﬂ EQI mq pagdapa L§RIi$HQIW +3 ﬂpﬂa

111+ +113 11:11.11- +:"+ 711+ 111+" 1.1 13.11:: LIM " =- -:;. :11. +:-:-:-. 1""; II “:+ +2: 1—2: 1:1. {71.3 "1;";1':r--"I-1.=:-s..::‘1j1_; +11: :1 515+ I :.+. 1:1:

11!

.2?in ' ‘
~... x..I I I
I ”1.. I .

 




Thiﬂ i [1 given ;y William Ehult: in tha

‘ - - w _ u .. 1.“ .' .. .. . . . . .. m. . . .. .. . .' .1- 1... -.. .. .' .1.. ....m3
1mtrmmuctlau to “.9 .-.a. :m Hummnm ywvzmxd. . an Uh; mu

 

 

Nxzta' 'ﬁ“: 2 E ‘1:x~ﬁa1ar1 fﬁacj

 

behﬁv’h‘ “2- n2: g;hrqs in additimr

1 ‘ .. .... . .. . ..... ,... .. ..- -" ..w . .. . '
W 1:3 U. .L I "'“ - . u ~- '2: unit? 5.; {...Ii}. 5‘“ mud 5::3 1‘5?

thw wiadmm m¥ thia

. ....
.. .. o.—

: .. ”...... ' ..
1.: wumun ' MN

.... unu' .... no. - . n
I
.. .
'. .... .‘ .... . -. ....
- {up {.33 - ~

r",
..... ..... 5... §. ~.
I :

.. .... _....
{...} 2.. ....2
MC. ~01. u...

'“ 3. Wu? 3. "" “*

&.qn EH .fa ¢_ “ﬁr

. . . . ...._ . . . (.... ...... "”‘x

.. . . . .. .... .. .... . .. .. .... . .
w .. ,m . . , . , __ . . . : ._ _ 1 m. ,. .
}...' Lt f ‘ J 1:3,!- 5 . f;- a... : ~_ , ‘ , . . ,- -. . . - . . .. ...: .. : .' . ' .1. “...! .3... .5. x;

Peepl%

é4ﬂ *wz' 4¢;*-.“ If {jefnarﬂnwwed5 . u. +1rw§t aunt
“I 1:!

' ~ .. .... .. .. .... ... .. .' ' 4 :z- '— .. ..
iafﬁiarﬁiﬁ “bfWEE LJ . . u. . ...':. 53 V4 1:; tillaﬁL- ..-, 1:2..LJ tgf

......

'acz ngiala...-w ..15 law Pead:

mac. .;m. E:¢“

wauwmj.an»*fnnr.~. AV_ {3‘

1'1arm31mg ‘hn armiﬁﬁerg ;:' ‘6. .I inﬂlii:iaLualy

tcwtmwa any ﬁnch animalg whether belmmqir‘

xhéru anal} upgn cmmvictimmv “@ adjudged
[22‘

-,.J

f3": ‘. '3 j ‘if-FETHEB {2311"} III! 3'" n

-“~ ' ’ ‘ ‘ . ‘ .. .... . ‘ .. J. .. .... .1.. . ... _ ‘ .... m " ... . . _ .... ...I
Hithﬁuqh . ;-. . limitm .q:; 21-14-. " dHthdﬁt A= uwnwu

’ 3
.,_ _, _. _*. -. ..
= . g *3} :2- !33 rm f i

u ....

.... ! .. . .. ....
5:11.541”! 93:3 f "2: I." :' '1..?.i:::.‘ 1

z: a: 5:: ,1“,

 




i31 L3w3

I 11
u ...:
.. ”$43.. ‘....‘

NE muaz

ﬁIﬁr't‘é

. ' -.1 -3
‘--§ Li .1 LJ ‘1'.

I. I... t... ”at

U. i 1...? t‘.‘ ‘::::-

33331 -gp 353
L i i I“: if; Clan 4;: Q r...

.3. 4.. -.. . " .. .' ... ._ .
:2} 1:31 1..- *:.::’ ' :7.- I.-.’ l... .1. 1:3 I-

1 5*} L it: 5:132:51: ... C. "a. I: " I 4.; ‘37: 'i t .1. ”3*: T I t: M
.... t... -.. 3. .- .... ‘ ... ..
:zml Hilltﬂ‘! L :7.:~ .3. f 3.3313"! t I"?

'3h33333 3uthaw h3V3

“t:i£3ra c3¥ rnsa::§£ f3

523 ﬁnthany Hammwnm. £33., 3 diﬂtlnf

in3 IHHEF T'm313 fiﬁ En313md§
3333 b33n m3j3 ta simplif
33mt13mun

3cr¢3rvﬁmewit -¥Qr*
{jiqewataa O3: tfm3 EH*' 5:3h
ﬂmpimu3

th3 ;-i iﬁh P3Pliam3nt.

annotatltxt vam th3 P3pmwt3.

L31 33 i 3 '- U3 . it 13 but
ﬁt -L3I33nvw*31 _
ﬁr“cun tfﬁﬁé .13H353r*

p x.
J..
L

-'m33 3nd

weal.

Lit“ i 4. "~.-"
.. J.

33t3d b

whenwanﬂecenf
3 their cwlmina
tr333m1tt33 :3 U3 hi3 able and
3nd quwsxlnj3313n3, ﬁrepawed under the 3mp
Etatutm3 t33p3: ti. 3P1m33.
“hwy h3v r3 beam 3%
3pplic3ble t3
3% m3wly di333:

... -. ..4
L}! 13:,

32h3m31335

“r-
T“ 3%

.’. ‘....L..
Hi”: 1L");

.. ...- .,.. .' "": ..
‘ ‘ ’1': k- 'u' .5. ! t 1:}
3mt3rtalf

'"TNwtr-m:" 'ti

‘225? 1'2" *. J Li.

~

.~; r": {3‘ :3 we: 3. ‘
éuwga. "Th
wrj l 1-1m: :“ muse 39cm"-

1Qym3nt 3% tha

mantain camp
with

r“ 3 m 3. r“ L:

5

 




nailing

.‘ n '1 ¢ - -.- u. n. - ~ I .o o . ..- ... a-- a...
‘EE‘I'? I"! E33}- 1 ct? 9. .L - . .s. : g- :.. ‘- .:::. Hhﬂst‘m‘

in inmrngi‘:zf a *I :T ;:I .iﬁ twat} fiLwﬁtjrwzci

-.-

,.
......uuu

.... .... .. . ..- . .. . . .‘ .' .... .. .... ... ... 5.. ‘
2-3 L}! 1211M”: . ._ . '» ...: s “3.- _ 1:: r .. b a“: h“...

CDUPt; 5‘1 :a ' ﬁx; ‘:3 pmmighmaﬁf

-@ than flva hundrﬁmi . 3' _ 0r imﬁrf

gaﬁding Jim Hmmthg, gm 2;, EHCH ¥ima a '.§r1ganmemt.
1”

x - ......~ ‘ .. -. ._ ~- ‘-. *3: -.... _. = -.. ..
me made fﬁmthmr mLMP +urward 3, lhtruuULng ans pmnw

 

- ....

.... .. .. .. .. ' .. ... . "‘- .. .... r“, '- . .... .2 .. .. ,...,-~ .. .. _.... ’ ‘ 'j . __, f... ‘t x -. .. .
!.JH"!{-J-::tf! 1*...11'1 a: ~. .. .- - ...3 - .. .3 .. I}. m l .L .73.?“ §-~' tin-.21 i 7.3.}: z_

Pﬁrwyzﬁ “whm

...! .... ..

5.1 LJ m I:

. .,
{:11 i 1 Hé-tzi

Unit”

..u .

.. ....._M. .. ..
’SH-‘L': it: .1 .1. ‘....

 




7

STMTEE

LHﬁIWTED

.
>0.-

Emlmmy

armwazr
Wam§&§

aﬂhimgtam

.mnﬁyl

Vﬁniﬁ%%

IZVQLM

m.

ggr§§y
”311%mwnia
EHngirﬁia
Iliiins
Eiaatrszt

Michigan

.. ‘.
..

- 3.1~{f11{3 i.

w 9*: 5-3 a“: HE: m r‘ E115 r" 3:3 in

*ation cf tha ﬁm§ri

ﬁnimala, twamty

*aagd th§ir lﬁwg Hi

and:

wadaqdlda:mn

Tawg ta 9

prev
1mc

newly

canvmctlmng.

{3% H T I ~- [3 F3? L} E L T "1”

”hwcnmlmgical

i.” #1 L3} 33}
Enaztmwmt

”Thﬁ Ewdy a? LibﬁPtia

?¢arylewwd
hfjrvth
Dklahama
Mymminﬂ
Ué; *
alga
EQHﬁ

gin Ialamdﬁ

Wakmtﬁ

a

U'

vlF

aecuwed gangent ¥DP

53” Pravmntumww

| .
.. .. -

1 “*il]. terw*itcn*ie2a

n

. ..
..— ..

“"*"_.-«~m. ' - . ","M , ; ~ruﬁ 'm.* .m.ﬁ
mluﬂulug mlﬂmﬁmmtm, ﬁmxhlugtuuw

c
.

"m w m Ld m“-,*1M wm‘v
:WLimPUMlby ﬂhlmmizm kanrg

mrpmrath {Qumd

H15 1?5? bimgraphaﬁg

 




FOmeﬂar

 

 

m3}.11:i
mast
meiungin

Lrtimng be

E3339
idg 111133111113135
igablam in
-_;:. 11-11 1“: w. ., M1 (:1 122.11.:
, lﬁﬂ
HIWfJVJ («Fin .
adjudged guf

0‘

1mg

53 Li L:

......

‘1 x v 0' I
'2'.) I

'7-

..

1"!
3’3

ﬂﬂ;.

1
air;
«liuQ

.551.

3mti~cr

11

Thm‘m’i

:timn

..- .... .
'...._ -,...z ;
.... ,.- ..

 

meerg
hDFEﬁ
aw.
horae
¥QP
aha

13me
ﬁUCh
placg

1111, 111

m i := :1 22311112511113 1"- .

111d0ubtadig’

antiwc

fiﬁ1+

zamﬁndimg

. .-z...,
1‘ '..'. {:11

14 .... ... ,.,._._ .~
s’ A?” H ‘-:'

ah

I

ma

tha

and cagn

C, |.".
mCH”~

camulg

Mﬁﬂy

ti

"ale ta

DH

'.". uo- f"

5.12' 1—3

f}

E1~ hi?

LFIHS~

.... 1.. ,n.’ m (..._
” mm”
gummw

DF‘FWMEEEEEﬂH‘
:-d

tHrHE

any city
lie

1WHP

“33.1rfimn.

01 in
in
t.1an

.... I" J- ..- ....
L} “3” 1.: {1'5 1

DH.

cr‘Lm31't

.L

L23m1:

10033

{-3 '_'... 4:2:

5'. f7
av 13
thiﬁ

a n “y

,.
3‘"! .7.

13-3 1‘“; 133113.. 1"“

t;

mawly

..F

 




awmugad * pemtimmntg Hﬁmry Sarah ;‘£ ' atap with

2 I . u. .u .' ~" '. .3 --.- m . .-1- u. 0. ~51 o
"533- Ziiii {Ti iii-3 w 5‘": 55.1 1.2? ' ; ' =:,: ;..:= .1. !:;-' f1? 1:: 1 -::l t .1. Mr 1 ..

5.51. m 53‘

trna Yéaarﬁ;

Edmmndg, Ed.a

. L. .”.---- .- ... _ 1x” .. ___ __ _ _ ...
wa‘%u? Tur'=sz umudw

amimalr

$iﬁ7§ {Bejmwg (3
’urwz '% -wa§a
.mwa:

3:: : x“ 1mm 1. 113mg," per“-:~3s::::n ~

~—

'1
_ nzary guy
ummﬁcatmgwily or [ﬁnally beat, GP needleagly mu

tauﬁe 0P prmmure ta be aver~drivem$

'I’ e in. ..

«0‘

ha
a

loath w -ere, fmnwnamt, {MﬂDPiVE?CD¥ “EL“

twrtuP@"q tarmemted OP dﬁPVlVEd G+ W§UE”“3VF
- .1 a . .0 vol- I— I a... --.o u.- ..-~
unneceﬁaarlly 0P CFUEliy bwmﬁmuq a NEW
gtgﬁ gr killgd, a5 afargaald, a‘y .v1mg

- " m. .. m m. .. ..- .« 1 1 j .. .... ., ,. -.. 1.. _. .~-; =..
:T- “F ‘3" '33? NJ it! 5' ' ‘:3h :1 l. .1. q i f.» i ‘ {7:3 ‘-.-‘ 12:3? 3.: :::- {A 3':

'ii3r7 :? i4? ‘”~u . L4f3c3 22%2&11

. <ha11
c3r‘ tiEEEEif‘ Lgszeail 1 q Lip>53ri

5!. m 1 E C} E}? m 13:? {St N Ci 3" a

 




Eectimm 3 ”“5 555555 whm :5: H 15; JHHd 55 C5H.55
b5 impmund5d 5 pound. 5mg 555. .~ _ 5h51: 5upwly t5

"+15 unwnt. 5 5;?5'5i5nt «nt:*

9... ..

ad '455w55, 5rnj

adjudq5d 351

'M .. u" ’0 . -—
3:35.42. -. .1. mi 1

..

mpuuHer 55 5%5

r5555 fits? :35 weyt5r*

b' 155%u1 :5“ :3y F595:

11 5h511 5; n55555555.
f3umm ;* LHLCh any 555“
35 5mpply i; with m55555:

P5m5im w? CIWPFMWﬁﬁ
115?) 5rﬂ:
m55 b5

th5 5515

2555, . 1 '9 at f“ :nhumam
'mj5mww :2- 5 :' 5.:75awv* 55
"I --~ 5 u ‘u q -
fur LU
515 5nd
CUﬁthV“
J .
nén E': r‘ﬂ
15m th5~5::m. a .- 35 ﬂ -zv;=5 .. 55m5
L“ th5 . 5535.55» 5 5'? :5rt

255555 P5m5f f ; unpaid. may u; .355‘5J 5 u 5 '“555
incurring ﬁh5 *5 f", ”f th5 ﬁwwm5*:z’ 5:i“ "35::. u, ' any
.artit3n tfm5r35fz

$5ctimn 5h iEV5Py'mewan whm 5551
5u13/ ﬂung 5r“ trw;5 F:Lt*pt3555 '-7 9%1riwziJ13
5uwy {:5r*tq .3:5;-l“; ‘ ‘tPLm:k, t3arw33w {35 cut.
ity :. 1 :-:: L wfllage, $05 bu5im5
1155HI: +55 that purpm5:
13:3; 5 .- - '- It 1 W3." 1:... ‘ :::.! 3d 2:..- . x... 1 1
5:5 ‘ 5nd .'- 9dwr; . .:: awn:
rt5tj tf15rw5cwiz 9. ; i1” :5 .' a_‘; ; i555?
55595Jt and gay 5 “fpm ‘- 5.5 5:.i55

5nd 5

. 1% any
5bmwwwu95d

_. ." .—- ...l .
”.55.!“ :22: 5-7.. .. ..

9' {I} f‘

 




taunt; in fhiﬁ Wtﬂtﬁ. maya
bring tme$mﬁﬁéem3y camumt
lung ff ﬁﬁdﬁﬁﬁ faumﬁ
“f l %irn&: :Mszxaecj
‘mviaimna of
aid Q? tha
.mﬁu
mat ﬁhﬂll pgxx .* act an the
ﬁﬁiﬁ ﬁm&"' A a: fit? §QP th¢
"Himala rm; L aum¢ Ehﬁ aﬂmm
iﬁ3r~‘thr%a§ agw$r.. 3: ”:uxr (jaj.ly
“H Citya ' i? ”"*;W.; th$r§m¥

PEHQlVﬁ ; L 7:75;3.;; amd +‘

Nathirq in

q:mruatrﬁaga L. =m‘-_,; .it '." irrterhé§rwe ni‘f :12? {7”Cmﬁgrtiy

.... .. ...... .J .... .. .' .. .. ... .... .... ' .. . .. .... 1.. ‘ . ... .. .1 .... .... ’ .
s.-. x...“ £01.31.“ =z.-.:‘r' .1 mm: Liz: m- . " ' - 3 a... .g. 1...}! i':_- 4 WE“;

a; bin E?!”‘i.fil:r‘ igi'z a a. - A. ' ”2 § :3:**n7£9{j

-a 1.53 f” 1 3; i r7:::c3:“*g3c;

1". ' C! r ‘ 3-2. ..

ﬂﬂimﬁlﬁ
::ﬁ¢ﬁ]ﬁtir'
Eectimn 35 t “a; a: ff‘:“‘ *u-£lnit§ ﬁﬁimi'
itimﬂ- jﬁﬂpﬁf h .- 5 p'rla.< impounded
umggr
ting animalan fa” ':' .ﬁ ahmws the
:?PiMEﬂtatiq: UPON thﬁ Cwm”’

ﬁrwsm {Irwiel t? zzhéu*g£2§n

1

 




. . -..
“4. 5:) .L

'1

4%Ern*yf Eﬁfﬁgfﬁ

Ln‘lz:

554F111.

-. 4.....—

4“ .. _.. .u .t.. 1_,. 1.-.. r'- 4.1..
1' 3:.1’czi. L- ”$4.17: 4 =

-.:\rxi

Each

... .... ..
z 1 g' z
.1 2-: :

2/

F3r*f;§:"'f1

1:11 ... .1" u... ...1
..‘ '321':H...J'I‘.q

CcnnmrnwumrEli

PLﬁ311C14:Hm-.::4E QEFHE‘Ell f

:h4rze Lght

"u .4—
2.“! f

n 4

a >00. nu

tlmﬁ

imq:

:ment 4 ‘

-,..
1 g- -- {:53 :3;

 

...._ ' _ I
n 2 L‘J
.... - .

irig
CPMEl t

iciQUElw

icimu

n.

..‘ {.3 .~ :1

 

/ ’1’

4/Lﬁv
ﬂaw/“4mm Jm’mi 2 47
(7ch

I
r' ..‘ . _.
‘ g ., {m2
. . .... .

ENE whis:m

... . .... .. .. ... .... ... 1 . . . .... H. .. m. . .. .l .o. .... .-.. ...
4mmht must hﬁvw UﬁEJ 4“: NLLwd

EUCH “irtmn+144w»ll

1 1i? i“ ”5.:

Ely,” GP ”kmmwiﬁgly” ﬁe+1nE thE

5&313J1J {TE-""3

2:445u*;anja

liable $0; a: m++En~m

PleaEE n - that tﬁpmﬁ

., .
407mm44t~ Eben

 

 




:3

*++@mdwwﬁ whm might jugt w paw; :3 . ﬁgmyigt

I

«PHQLWy cm animal; umdﬁr wthgw

. .1 . l... .. .... ... " ' :" ' .... .
. 1, ti :LJU L «.{Léct E. 3. '2" l 5::3

’IS.‘ -

ikim incrti*'u

£3 rﬁzraar _
I

Y
....

“etau.

 

 

 

...

..J ..... .- .. .... .. ._
Li tum“ i 1.3? 2 :21.- ?' ":5.

5Eq thw ﬁUﬂll‘lﬁPE

~ 1 an , :.'“ *.ﬁ£a 1-iinejﬁir‘233 a

.I. E... 1-. ...

the

g phr

 

....

'z .... .... . .
.~ Am: ‘ .' :.. l .
1"; mini -.... ‘y :

héliaﬁ th@ 3] 0% the hmmamﬁ

...

 




. .. .2 .. ' .... ..
.-' f 2 J. m ::. .1 ::- w‘f“: {:.:f :u
*-‘- 23:92.”: -:: . ' :' :1. I. . ‘ Tint} ‘59s? ?: ~r-‘2. __~, r:
atmwmt? n' ;#J ; lexﬂy $

.1
!

1“ 5 ) I33:
I '...'. 3...

:lrig ‘5; Aar;:t xs‘~ r 57mm? ‘1117ru4u

:Jﬁﬁt

.. _.... ..._ m ...5 _;
:.:} a L‘ .1.

'i 3'" £3 ‘3 (I) f" :7:

.SC;

'Cmiﬂﬁd

q

f

f

I
"" "I

. . 91...:

{::.-x

u-J

umm75 ﬁmpmrimmntp

.

P

5:
\5

(’i

7L
6/")

..... .., F. . -: 1 .x- .‘ .
3.... 5“ L1. 1;?! .i. L- x!
J

deb
(X,
(i.

1;": .._ ‘ : .... m I"; m, ' M ..
L.) 1.2;“ H} 4:". IN (:1; E}? 1" f 1 3...} F l {J -::*. 5

~71

ﬂ?

(

(K... "C“ C?
égﬂf/ fTEWF>
[fl

ﬁlﬁEQLuﬂLu

) ..
‘K.

.57“)

WK

1“} ... 7 1.. i...
(41:51-: L! %

Q
:3 '/'

p.

A

5 2.“. . .3-
1:: 77:372-): 1 7,

Map

Miﬁcaﬁa

(: /

....'_‘_,.3:..5%

_ a” ::w gﬁ: wan :7: g lanugaq&waf

l”?
7

,3

-\
K T)
/

-ur‘*._‘ :;; no.

. . .... _ -131}: . "1‘ 7"": +v 4.. _- _j_i_ " 7 ,, can ....
”'t-‘JYE‘F 1 4' -:;‘~.s 4:: ....- -::l. L- 3.}. ‘_- 5F i i & :‘ 3...} L- Li 3:.2‘

i. /€;”_,
/ Z” /
"(5: / c

/(/ r (I /

I
‘¥ (9-5:! ‘

Vii-5 (j
/7

L

r

le:
/<:
/

é»)

\
I
(’4' ,,

ﬂ/N/ >/’)(7

:7 r“: i m 1 h Ll.

(Mt-7’
//)

 




 

#5

“/7;
ppmgy ';. under,ih§ aactiam 1'32 3,: 33 ._3: 3 thﬁ actar

4:77

.... ,0. _.-—
2-“ ‘ 1:. ~...a ...._ ~ .
”1'2, ILL- ’.... .... -

. , .
.i. 1::x 57‘ .5 T;- l

I3:3 ("3. 9:: i i! "3 .

Hithiﬂ tha

u1twr+$rﬁ

i“ i"? 3?: F3 1:2" "C 5335.1 "=3

human: T a’ik a mimimum

ltﬁwit:

1 =_ m. ;“.. _ ‘ . . . . .' . . ..' ' .. . .. .. .... _- 3. .. ‘
iLnumﬁh 3- NF.“.H:m m aan m.y . 3&3» Huh ammtmzm

'nv- ’.... I I

~mwﬁptfg‘: L: f- - permit

(:3 P h U. m .33. r": :33:- :3. .:::: :'. ~33 t _-

an.

[/3

being K;,/”
/-‘f”‘"""'\,,/J

balﬁeve ﬂrueltv 4‘ amlms

I-

4"

.5 the fallmwiﬁﬁ PrmhibiJ'f“ tfPrmvid“
;h@ FHWFVi:
:CEmam,
ﬁrﬁﬁww‘gusaﬁter upcrz .3 3:392” gum“ iuwi whﬁra
1% being :gr:”a¢ﬂh .v, u- umdﬁr
graduaﬁﬁa .n MK.;:4ga'fmu.x=: acianti%ir

£23 Ii (2.“; 1 (3713 i (If. 5-." 7 . I; “2;: 2,. 7-5" s ' =~ ' ' 3 . ‘22» “133d 14;: .33.};

pr%v&ntimm 0% di§§a$af”*
i

amanﬂ@d¢}z

 




 

._ , “.14.. ...) H - * w ._ m. ‘ 1! 'l f" {... 1 , ”...; ‘12:“:
v in: =.- ‘1‘; , 1 f i 63*... z: - . .- . .. -.~. .. ! .. .._-. ...: ..- m-

.. ”.5
Atmu
c .... .... I. . ,.... _...;. ... ‘3... J... . : .... .... ’3‘ ..2 .' I“?
ékmsm zﬂgn pram “wmgﬂiﬂ:
.... i... -.. .... ..

a... : ; (3:31.24 F u

...: 2 f"

 

 

 

i.

" f" ‘3 m

¥Qmﬂ

‘M‘iml in; .; .X. _;

u 3.... ...: .1. .4
. u u” n!” ..1- N ' n“ I. u -
' " 13:5 L- l:.:‘ f ' 1 Fl :1 I‘ ' ";.-"

'1"

LR New

{an whau

I,

" . .
.; m1. size .1. t

~

ram :i. m 4:41 1 +3 m f“ {:1 sm‘ Cir-1m: ,, CE!"

 

ﬁUEtﬁﬂaHCE : drink.n,

 

-1maia

w

E U. (... = .

 

... ...} .. .... ' 3 "
mudwﬂ:

 

“we-i.»

mu:
@md&mt§ wari ﬂﬁrqad w;

NQPEH in :“tIa ta warp

 




ﬁm§imitiﬁm

~43“
Eictimmaﬁw £upp1y1mg

',

 

1: h 2.73 r': (-32-? 1: x333: z»: 1': 52:34.1 r- 1';
”1‘ __

ii i“-

L. n

' vary

ttlam m+
.ﬁraby
5!. U. T: 5 1"

1" i EE‘ {2: E3 '53 -

5;" V‘ 1:! ~ 1d

 

& wham ﬁﬁﬁﬂ$~

_.

{I13 m31£;-*§_... 11 u w
“ ~“r'** 1L211.i+taﬁti;;

, . . . ,,
"3’ "P' ’73 3" .5. im' ‘3 7 . f: H . . ~. - 2' .
' ‘ 3;; .. .m ., 1 .. _. . ' u ._ ..
1 {271% 1“,“:- j’ J. -::: . . -...i
. r\./
l

:1 CH“ we::

1 . m. ..: 1.
TI 1:.1'.‘ E... !;'.'.‘ 't:::- ':::- :7}.

a 1'2}. ~ .1
I} i on a
H

raqui rim:
0% thig

59m:

f“: :21 1:43 ‘5: s3: r

 

 

Euam enablg

Ed

watﬁrg

:najav

. 1.. .f. "H ..
3 ‘ ::.-;'ml..5 '7' .1.

”“- i: (:3. ("i inn {:3 :1 :3:

ﬂ away“ ﬁe. //vzac/?’ L [w 75:

ﬁnal Wr w1thout K/(L7

 

 

1

~::. ". *‘ it 1‘22? ..... -
‘ a: 3‘ 1.! .... .. “Lu”
"

....

'3 ,‘i:“_ 1:4 1...! .I 5. ‘1 E? {is

 




“46$ w; ' - w; ‘ Wmmwﬁ'" 'Wz-"Wwwf’m- “ '
//

fﬂﬁjﬂﬁﬂy« 7U  , j ‘f}ﬁ$W> 5

FM Paawma. ThMﬂﬁfwhmtarwae‘- :«H.Jzi d .2 .L. '+”

.1".

 

.. L

Ltéw b* an: imtwmtr

"#5 i r“ 573 i 8'": i 51M

amatﬁmamcm

w.“

,_ .. 4.. ,-.. P, "
3!!! 2:1. 2:3: .1

and

' .... I.“ c. In... ’0‘. I n
l 2... .... l
.- ~~c¢. run. n...- ~~1'

.3... .

i .--- '2 r" w "'1’" y 1 “i pg: -‘: .- - I Q . ": " M1 Iii-‘5’ _§
.:. i...” i 22-! -. ’72. '~-{ ...‘. .z. .... M: l .... L. . .. : .z. ....- . .. x .... .

Thrmughmut . $m11mwiﬂﬂ 3;*“ -T 1tww

thﬁt mmﬁz :"L- r§qmirr the . 'VZEIOH m+

itemg mzy duw u: ﬁapawarm

hum¥imed and nmnwcmm¥imad animal§n\{5§fhigi:1V€J€jA

@{ﬁﬁ13é,

Ell-A "JP '3 i: E} 5
amitﬂpy

 

‘ .2- “ _. 'x .. . -5 ' .. .-... ... 2. .: ,.... -. "x
2331 1 i. .‘L .L . f... uh ; 7-. f i art. an": J. 25m. .L

f"‘i?_'t"'—"-§ ’... 33‘ 5'4 '5."- - . -.~ 2

«ha anti”

2.: 1.. 2 J- 4.. _.-. .2 .. .‘ . .. ._.. .. l... .2 ....
“:2. L, :2}. i, U. £17." :2:- . -:::=. .- . ‘ 3 tr.’ '3: t1"

 




 

LdaEﬁ3irr bJ'—c“7n in .Emci Fuwertca Ritra FWEQLKiPE

k. _ .. .1 .. . .
H72: 1"37' .1 :23“: '.

«'0‘. ~ .1 c“ .1 In.-
-.-::1T 7 72-51 :r;- q

.ﬁﬁhiﬂg‘ 'ﬁiﬁ aﬂd

7:7:1 .1 7r“;

NxEEEr

 

 

 

”LamﬁmmmEﬁt med in th: Fﬁlmrada

ltﬁiiﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁ‘

pwrsqm

lww

and thE

thE

a :I' D‘- 1 a a.“ than o. >00- '-
7 -:i.¥“H_1L.3Hm!:.=$‘3“’_

an :Ed ta 7 ill+u1_ .3.” H“ 5.7Emtim
.7wdhnmeﬁt; 3, 7h.n7 tm diE; :, 77ndmn1nq

mg dmmEEtii 7m3imalEs (L;

EEblEd E'1=E1w : n abandmmlx

1d animaia in 277+111f“

+3ng qf ﬁnimEiw

my 7-“ "‘ £3.73; {3; has ram“,

3 .
..u ..

Hill“: 553?: i {“375 :7. I"; 71 ° ...-7 = -.
J77 ,7 ,77 (/7777 7.777 7 77

*Ef‘ﬁinﬁ V7FMC7 an} rvn"~1um7m

7.7g ghj

-777777 7] :3 E -F 133 333:3 51F!) 2: -. “ 731 1

 




 

010

ﬂow
living ﬁFﬁﬂtUPt* Twentyfgin 1&ua

M
w$alﬁmmw§tir anima‘

.... 3.. . ..

 

ﬁrmtact 'aﬂlma.

U

{1: -:5‘. 5331' I: .I. 53.? ii I"! .‘I. II"! :1 .3. '3?-

-%Wntﬁiﬁ7i

~ ... nu -

tamtﬁ¢MWall}' 3W Hi1..= an

ﬂmimal

:5mm1t*

anti“

III! . .... "-1.. u...
I =.-1.!::;‘I‘ “- L.)

.iﬁmm

tlmcrualty

I53 {:3 II. '53 £14”: (ELI L'- ilij Ci 5T! ’55? ‘2:- “ifl T.

w

.3mima1 uw an}

gubﬁtanca

“ 5

'imalq I”

. Cir . , . —' " I " “ 5 .
@950 of WWW/WC 0““

T:
m if: r“ .-: I: h m), (:1 n 5-: £3.55. I [if 7"
/ H; I ;

“‘ﬂ:h gtvmhiiait $Mhnimisatarﬁjﬁg Z7ﬁéﬁf)

ea ta damegti: ; Imalm in thﬁ

..«

ta Whig
ﬂame {Emmxers ;.ﬁg awihnal. ($335 mni3r
ﬁmmg diﬁtiﬁBHIL T-tweem "malm that avg th@

the pmiﬁmner and thﬂﬁﬁ .'.t belcn;

Emmaama

PﬁﬂaltiEE Imp puiammimw

.. .. . .-.‘ . m. _ .~~ .r -. ._ .
‘ ‘ . - I. ‘

.... . M. . I . .. , .1.” .. .3 ”I51 33
—-I ‘ "

accmwrlnq I: the mmﬂataﬁv

admimf ﬁmﬁmﬁﬁd tn Iivegtmckn

W
-. ﬂ-
. '.‘ .2: 'x x .. ‘“ "' ""
' .~. -:.-.:!ix~~ J. *r.’
l

a..ﬁ J~Paﬁn whw unjugtiIiany

2 ‘33“ A/ﬁ

\I;

a"

 




92/

. ... - .. ' . ...i . .. .. ..- . .. ... ‘ ' N- . ...
£32"? 3.?2 :31“:E3tqus L}?" ;: . E- .u- . :ﬂ -- 3. _: 2:!mtis wu‘t.:a:1a,.Ee . E3 r13:3r“-:u : 5L1 1 E9

-.. s... m!
I

mule

anathewg ah:

mewiﬁmmmﬁmi H PEFEQP

.. .. ..‘.-.. ..... ...2.- .
1.)?“ 3'1. 1 LA}. '7: L3 r1353;

..

mr dwmaw:

l
E: p r“ E: g::r E; r- E:

"MjQHHE&VM3Pn‘ﬁ
I I

a .u

andfaﬁvy? tg
E2-¥H76
mat Fwwﬂnibi

.tv 7:" i ﬁrmﬁg miﬁdemaammr " «avg;; '; m:? x3\K(:FKf,

m :3 :1 sq ,

’

heat ﬁnch m t; Etatut@§, Iwmnimg
LUNJEP Ewmjthew ‘4..'ﬁ a? ‘Uﬁa

whm injura av hi. 7.3 aﬁim.

qued witm cammittimg ; crime

m. _._ ,..3 -E

«a m. -.... ...: “a-“ .: .
1.12 {‘1 3:;7' at! 3 “L .i. ”‘ L. s U. . L. LJLJ 11::

nt- N . p A l1. .‘
4:18 I 3. l“z'i-zzti. .3. u

. ) . .
a minimum 6+ 31x mmmtna 1 :ummmgmt

)
a maximum 0+ Ewamtymfaur

 




XX

tuﬁprfzamﬁmamt swujfuw ea iﬁﬂﬂﬁﬁ'FinE.

c: ijTlkaii i: ES c: r“: 16: 1. ‘"'.*

1 1

ﬂat ﬂﬂﬁQUﬁﬂﬁmEﬁﬁ

"{ f“? !-"

. .3; .--, I"-
....- Le x I

H U. m 9:; {“2 E}? ' ' -:':':'i. 1'7 '32: {3‘ 3”? i”

u.

n?“
m

'Mcwuglty lﬁwa

the Cmmmamweaf
animala be cmmduc+2i 1 humﬂma m&mmavn
:5. w 3:: 2-“ 1:3 ‘t: 133C: “

:vary liv‘

whm shali
animalg upmm
pﬁmwiding suit“
Mm.; in which EUEh anﬂ
ﬂawW1xﬁurimg inmmwspmrtg.

paramn whm
upon a Vﬁhiﬂs. ;: :T ;‘£i:“1 any live
mr* 1&323 J‘sd. nugfti':w~l '1' irx arm;

inhumane manmﬁrq a“: ~va-u ”7 ﬁﬁﬂ‘aﬁ:

tha *1"*' x: Humane ﬁgamcig
~1— [23‘ "- "" ' .. ' ‘ " ,_. . .. .. ' .... .... 1 .. ... .. .'
51%.. ' ' ' 1 H +L..W"1T!<::l i- 1 u; 1 Ezzz‘cid ..

D T“ P E? V3.21??? EE- W

.

:1 6-31 I” ..-_

1
.L
a

VA " . , in. ’ I , J , ,
[4' LUV) 444/2 'Z/‘é’ (/ (\ c; (it,

I

tramgpmrtimg livegtmcn whm

.u

 




,./

1/

/
/

warimualy ”anv rnm H.P:” DP “any animal'

0P mmmpartmﬁn1a
wj.t1w3L11 urilstwani
~1-1:-~~1~1_J- ;; prjrj

J . water“ and
...... "3F 1 3.; ::::“.:L.1.tl WEE 2'1 1:31": 1
""1511: p wuv1gﬂﬁd5

1.

nwmidaalg Lan : wh‘ .
J b}; thm ;‘r::L$JJ and ~Hnww:d.ﬂ7
11k, E"ermiﬁ 1he par; 3: I“ :‘1;.:' IzgtJher withmut
":iciamt E?ﬁﬁ@ J: 21- 1 i“ x e: an $V&'.'E‘ cwugha
~Lgnﬁ1 an*§ ill ﬁﬁth , _
' MHV‘ Prawidﬁd. that UPUH i a a i:::= 1;.J;§s m%
:r pQPEDH i
1 1:211 14 1'21 1.: 1..
va

4:1. 1 “1

ita lawa w¢qu1r1mg

. I .u-

u"n»J-J:+.w§.htm4§wL-
/

....

mw'
01*1:a1u3e
aw ether canvayr“z:
inhumama mamﬁer,
m 1 1:1":1‘9 m £3 .53 2‘": Q r- .. 2-3139 1:: 1... 1 1...: n -~~I- 1 -.

m.

Qﬂli1ﬂﬁﬂii. IﬁJhs, N:“h3rq10m and

H

ﬂmmw1111 ﬁmim:-m' 190m EPUQI tramEPGPt.

253111ﬁ¢31535 111$} CTJHiPLuzLP“4 111n::+ FEAQt‘1aa Etta:-

.3

tag with awww kuriafan Tray prthctg

animal"m~with

7.15:}: ‘1 1t if. .1. 5*“;- CI! '1': H Ed": .1. ma 1 n

71 c~gat11¢-g anﬂq 1p11 " fr‘gxia:: 1-5fimnﬂﬁ1 {avg

... a.

m 1—???— *1 Mend

3§wn4 111

 

 

' ' .. ’ .. .. ... .... .. .. .. 1—;
I: 1:31“, E 1 3;. . ' .-.j - ' ' . ‘ 3 " ' . f“ '... ‘_' ’ :.. ;_ . "'41.... L ”5‘ W h {:‘T ‘ JL’LJ' -.-'

A

 




a?

i}?- ﬂ :3. i'"! a

z : i“ r". :W
53-4; its; !

 

whgthww abamdmmmém

—m«.|~..3

r; 1:; i W C: 1-“ u. an" IE. it C” rt: 1‘4 '

1 . . , .
g ~::::, 1 -:::: - ,i H“: gig” s" '3 5‘! ,3 n.-
... .. .1. t L .J ... , i 33 ...m “y

:atmamt DP having :uatmgy a? any animal
. 4.. ' ... m .. . ,. .. ‘ . _. .,... m. “ .. . .. ... m. .. //
Llhﬂ 22.. dEHJWﬂl -J wauel Hwﬁlwutn

The ﬁtter 4 'i motad
Qumtﬁd abxv ' juriﬁdicti'-: mmtgidw
«:anﬁéiéiwxe .'; ='}f*‘i .f_ , a {jeimﬁrwniriﬁ’
wamdmmimg doeg mat "‘" 2, cauga unjUﬁ’f'l ‘ :hygical
13p ﬁeath awnj thug :W13:.W"; congtit.5w {ZPUEI
He camcludaf ..wt £25 pgrpiﬁ
‘ﬁ.=uhaviﬂg
ﬁﬁd Eubjﬁitiﬁa mwuf ;*i%;. 1: Nuiel meglact” d
abamdanmﬁnt 14.“: In" ;‘;-_ 2- thmﬁa
”ﬁtmdy” 1' an animal . . ‘nn &bamdcm-

"tad? r? the qimal meeru

ﬁtFGﬁgﬁP .eg“

 




£35

with .Ciﬁﬁﬁ and requirﬁmgmfa,
i" g... .. ' ,. i 5
-., l l =:::.' ‘

:33 9.9 9'9 91-: :r .1 i .9: 99911

jLH‘iEﬂL

i“? 2133 if} 11" ff"

1&9 the partiam 0% tha law grahibith'

'1 1"": ' 1""! m .... .. .... .. .. .... ' z“ ' .. . . .. .. ... ' .... ... ._ ’.
17%m4 HUN rmﬂdm in -n mhLlP Cy

not

'1
13;:

 

‘27: U. l J 1.? “-5- 523 9‘ 5:3. 9T? 1 ‘53 C] 51-}? £335”? 755. f"! {If 5:“

”5 9 ' FEE-31:3! .1. EEC '12?

"Eii
'9eﬁimqa

humanﬁ

lawaq Euppawt campr

en] argue fﬁﬁe rwunﬁse" 93% iugcci dmL'

UT :Pueity

including 2;? :51 yulice :~ afar:

I
a.

gate plan praatiﬂal

:rmﬁtment a; £Himala in commerce’a “

ﬁxmmata

humﬁne educatimn.

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE Po Box 3650 Washington, no. 20007

January 17, 1989

Ms. Diane Halverson

C/O Erick Halverson

Route 1

Northfield, Minnesota 55057

Dear Diane:

Here's the Anti—Cruelty chapter for Animals and Their Legal
Rights.

I think the "Questions and Discrepancies" sheet is pretty
much self-explanatory. You'll note that I've attached slips
throughout indicating the number of states listed on each
chart. This is an attempt to make sure that the charts are
consistent with the text——which in many cases they are not.

The charts appear on the printout in a columnar fashion
because that's the way Jan needs them to typeset. If you
find it better to cut and paste (which would, of course, make
them more readable while working on them), please do so.

You will also notice that some states appear on BOTH charts.
For example, Missouri appears in Chart III on both A and B,
but with different section numbers. This is the case in the
last edition of LR, too, but we need to publish a note
explaining WHY some states appear on both charts. Do you
have a good suggestion for the wording of such an
explanation?

I really appreciate your help with this! If you have any
questions, please call me (703-941—5343).

I hope your father is feeling better. I'm sure it's a great
comfort to him to have you there!

Sincerely,
,J

A“ lﬁﬂgiy 1,. ,7.
ryl’j/e/f/Lf ikw’

Lynne C. Hutchison

Enclosures

P. S. Please also note the carbon of CS' letter to Beatrice
Shebel.

 




QNTI”CRUE

 

atatuf
ﬂﬁ
dapw

11_

aﬂtift

.m. .. .. .. 3..
5:3 f‘ 'F i i7; 5:.:‘¥ E 3..

 

i‘" _ ;
p l. .X '
-,’ , 3.: .n‘ 3..“ . .
513;.“ f 'x '13.“: I 1'"

O

SXWI 5:3. ‘33- r: -::'... I:

M i. {I 3"} 2.

Hinmﬁz“

"jt‘ »-- ,4
gumiﬁwi

Mgrlc.

 




QNTlmCRUELTY ﬁwﬁ WITHOUT QUQLIFYINE

 

wggcggxmg PRQHIE

'“¢3Pwmrkg§
ca, :ru&lly
“i: i 1"; E d

 

 

w... “- . , 1m -; ._
: " 1-" L (”KIT-“"5 4. {:3

Miﬁﬁﬁ¥2

3.6! 1 £5 '55.: 1.- .:-». ..

Navad;

- . .1 (12:3!

:1 if“?! {A} \‘f'. :3 2‘ —. L;

 




EUVEHHHENT

"mint

:1: 39m; 39:39“ :3-

C?E}2? - _. . -. ¢HL-. 23w3522932

. .‘ 1 .. -.g .. _ . . . ‘ 2 . g -, -.3 1.... ..
3:3 "v" 1:.2' 2 .2. I...) -::*. 5...: q - ' = 2.2- 2 n 2.2:. -.... 1:"
baﬂt. 2

2.”..-
l;::'.21'".

I. I III .1
r" i E .2. iE’E-zzt .2

g .3 :2::-

riﬁagwu"lrnh”

L9: :‘E

V I“ .l o...
-- . ..- .. . .. w '32; ' E 12"} u.- 313‘ E23 2'" ’5:- C‘? 2 23:19.;
- 2s 4 .. .~ .-. . .. _..- ,. -~. .- 2-
2. Ii. 2"} a W 2.2.1 .1... '2" .._:...:'... . s .2: .- .L L. ‘. 5 :..:- , x... E : -111295‘2-329. .i. m 2::-
“r -o-~o:;-c-:-oc- unnu-«aﬁoo- _
b 86". b L'xICRU 2'"! CE :2: 2; A If! " t 1.12" -.. " 1 «If. -- Ci"! 3. 5 -. ' “-
, . .1: f M I.

7".
in. :

 

3

"I
-- . ”L22“ manhumam living
_Wa mysl 'r‘ ‘52“ impriﬁmngﬂ. {Emph-

 

2 .--

.J n

 

_, L, 5"" E 3:! 2

W Wwwwhxwtuvmwwr 412-3 W73 2

;' g r.)
I -

... A...

 




JVERHMIHT

Tﬁrcquhcngt

‘mtiiyimg

..

Dppﬁcwc
9 t “a z' ‘ '.... ....I'

PH gamuuﬁi Cmﬂaa

I

a...“ .. '1 “.. .: ..
i.-. i‘ '23. £5 .!. .L 5 .L i 1.

tiﬁ‘ttﬂ”ﬁ§$

1.5%.} C] U. tkbA 1:5 P
” F”! £21

.0.
'uu
.- l

I!

4..

" :73 I“ 3": £3“, E? F} a;

3’ I, ﬁx 3" k 3!
. 57% l 3 '55 "5 '5 ~

ﬁdknﬂiaﬁa

a giiiﬁui and malicﬁ'z; u“3

";:?Imm

' g I z
. .mxf .= 2 Hamil: 1:5; ¥ = ..:;. w“. w Hr:

.. .. .'. ' .... '1 .... . .— . ' .. .. '.. ....
:5. i" t 1 :___ i 3;": -...f if} f t {-msLJ hz'

I l .-"‘.
3-...

.- k. {3 f": f. 3:2: ,. ....- .2. '~ .. If: ‘ '3: 1. ‘ :5”:

kill?

it}
'1
l

.1.

-3mm whm
mﬁima,

ivimg
{Emphaaia

manhumam

impriﬁam@d.

Etatutﬁ Han Quali§yimg Phraga
#6:};- ; i7 I.‘ 1,!

£5 i- ' : '
(”I/Mic. (

e"

g: 1. v,»
2

I . ‘3 I
,~ " r? 1
F; 5- I 4?“ ﬁ k' »‘

’ J“ x
“f . . ', 3 4 ""y 4““- - {’"I
“Ear?“"it”Tn?“wéwxvmm'rwn:{=‘=-i73“‘-W

t” ,
,W

W“ (I v

. .---, _.
lawlg~4

I
F2321"? .55! 1 :EI'7-?’ 1 1 _.. 1 1 ‘1:3’”?0!<

.. . ”1-
war“;- 1. _.. -. ..‘Q
g“! 3”} '....‘ '...‘ .1...

 




. l, Province Period, Appendix
Complete text. 1904.

gig south Leaflets, Vol. VII, Boston, 1896, p. 18-20.

Federal Beenhlie (Baltimore) Dec. 30, 1816.

New York. State Courts. _ige§t oi New York ﬁtatutes and
Beports, from earliest period to the year 1860. Vol. 1, page
124.

5. Beyised statutes, 1827-28, Fourth Part, Chapter I, Title
VI.

6. Jeurnel.e£ the Aeeemhly.e£.the.§;ete eﬁ Hem Xerhl 515:
Seseienl Secend Meeting. Albany: Croswell, 1828, pages
45—6 0

7. Beyiseﬁ ﬁtatutes, Part IV, Chapter 130, Section 22.

8. Statutes eﬁ Cenneetieut, Title XXI, p- 184-

9. 8tetutee.eﬁ.the Ierritery ei ﬂieeenein, page 365, Sec.
19.

10. Act of 28 August, 1856, Art. 2345 (714).

11. 1860 Lays oi the ﬁene;al.é§§§mbl¥, Title IV, Sec. 46,
p. 395.

12. 1864 Lane eﬁ the Ierritery eﬁ Idahe, XII, Sec. 143,
p. 329.

 




ébklcuqa §71?' v

.12..

Elwiﬁiﬁékf

F1: 37.: 1:" 1 N3; {1"}

-.- .8..- ‘..u‘ H

imagﬁsrﬁwfwﬁywﬁé/ ﬁjwagf J

u .

., ‘_ .,.. -‘
r3 "* "2:“ .-- ._-. U 3.

Vlvq

Naﬁhf
{A} ’3‘ 3:3 1:
1"} : 0 1T! ,3

Amﬁr

~-‘”'.. .. 33,... . _.‘* ‘ ..., -..-
wlhe «4 .2 .;.u11ma mdy
. f” m. 1 ' .' : 3 ‘. - ‘ '. .' ~- : ,w'“; “. ."j ' ~; ' 1 "u “' g“ "-
xwmx. u-.. -n.~ u.ur. Jute. u-
.IN‘WET3? tuga'

I - _' . ~ . .. . u‘ . _ . . '. .' 3 . '.. _ . . ..— '. u "a ..-.
m 1.3.3.? E33133} L E 3. . 3 . ...-. ’ .3 .J. '3- . 3.; ‘5" 3.... :'. .... . .. -' z. 3..! z... -....- : “‘5" .__. ' ~ ti 1::
57.3.3: 3" g"); ‘3'

. . -' ' . -. _... .;
. i .. . . .. r“ . .r:.i 2:; -

1 I [.3'. .. . .
- . . . . . . . ....
:«g -. ..

. {:5 m m 3. ‘3: ‘EEE

ﬂutkmﬂ‘iﬁyu :m

n.-

 

QVQPdP1¢-= muewim=.ﬁq 2 t':§§ when

73.3 D 1'“ 323.7 U. '3‘ E‘ .3

 

beatg.

 




u...

.1 ”i" "y" 3. Ni

:4vare and jﬂmlmmgﬁd phyaica. p&im QF

"4

... .... ....'. ‘ -... '1 .. .... '... .. ..... . . ... ' . .... ...... . ... . ....
raga ”*%”V H 2;“wv= n_~ .:.¢.um mr pumlﬁry Um
’JtﬁﬁﬂtﬁWNTt ar‘

CUEtL

maqlﬁ;'

...

{I {I

Packlaaﬁlv Eubjecta

éuﬁy= ﬁﬂilfﬁﬂ}.

. .... ... " .. .... ’ 5
FH£W.L@L-Y

A w h I {if i l ' 1.12:“... y... ...: .__I
f "x 33:,” W *
f= 'v ,
h.

i... .. _. _.._ - -.. ... 1
niyxnlLJﬂ.
“

”“.. -M' :v':— 'Oz "a“, --~. ~ -« ~. " - -~~ H
x3; “elm: um»:s::’-+-.wi:»:.x.w~--iv ~:.~

 

(ﬁr; 5:) p f“, 63:13 1 l '2} E??? t 1:; H

... J

killimga injuring. ms'mimg, tgwtuwimg 0P

amim&1”
...._'....... ..H
QY‘L¢mHtLﬂzly

E, a: g .
- i“.ulmal)$ mu3_ ﬂ ﬁ.;:"::ﬁﬁ@ﬂ%®w

l

h"

/ C/ (1/5 /"/};j 01f / v 5/,

.. “I

I H33: '31 i 3‘. “a“:

u a -. .. .
- .. ...
... ' . ~ . ... 3 ’00-. ‘.... 4,. H
. ’. . .... .L ’3... H... u

mieatvaau.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

3 U. :r‘-

: ."x

i rt; 1.“; {:3 {W "T‘ In" .- - .-
...». . ~. m nu ~

. .
.... .u.

35;; . m= H's” a M “—w'v
.i. 2.9.3“! 2 L: l . - ...'- a ' ,.-' . -. 3...! if.) 1 3 332:; .3 ‘.-'

L

 

“ L}. 1:3 -

.3 {3 RUEL. T ‘_. 2133133,: L4H I {:1 H

.173 3 DH '3' FW- "

3‘”
:
.... -..' L..-
K

L..-:?1§"~."3: w i 3‘: f3 Ll 3::

:'"“..... ..... . . ..
wumeHMEﬂt

 

.9
.7 r'-\.
E L. - :«n‘ Wrmt‘t‘éﬁZW‘Whﬁm MM!“
ﬁwﬂﬁ.n q uguuln
V’

 




.u. \ .,
~

‘ s:-

,mw1mhi_

 

“1t

w1thm

 

Lama

Eﬂwwmﬂwmemt

J
Qﬂgﬁﬁﬁﬁg

...‘. 'OI‘ ‘ 1 u“ u .
L3 3222’ fang. 9‘3 -::'.
{521.
(A .
7%mmmtmzm: -

u ,_ -._x

‘ ”Wivmwufﬁyu
”’5 ' 'H - 4'» n =..*.‘:_‘.._:

Fégtw+

 




J
l
1 ’ E
0?. E:- ”3:. ".3. r... _.

.‘ u "a .-...

.._:._~I.__j .. ._.__:x._,'

1 w {I} :55?

' l ..\1‘“.«223:":“2

D)" {-3} CHﬁf

F: M 1:3 :1 r3:
E3 1:! U. t 3":
"f. :33 U. “i: h
Temmaaagg

J a: r"- n": {:12 n t

. ntuu- 'wu w)

 




a... ~... .«a. .0... .-.— u... ..... ..m u... --n- ..... a... N... u... a... u...- w _.~ a... uuo.

*ﬁppliwﬁ hm can¥imad an

2! .... W‘
‘ ‘ ’u.-‘ X in-.l

.... \c... .0.

 

m.
. . .... I
'1‘ Z_ "n In
. '3‘. ~-

“3 ”'1 I' a :3! I

 

   

.: 2 .-. n . .u. . - .. .. u. I '~ . . .. "on u I .- -.. ' u I ..u . c. ' v n. n u ..4 I . J. ‘ I... "i I
E? u L- (:15. ‘v‘-.5 _,, It“; 1 U I CI LI. (:5. l 3. "1-" ';.-' .1. 3 .353 3" : -:... '2.::-=' :.‘- i : ~... ' .=. 'j -. 1. I .. -' . ‘2 ‘13:: u .I " "

 

u. .5- m .L. o... ..n . 35 5 .- .... ..... . . .. .. :‘ ... -..

1:2:- 5.. -:::5. F. -‘::.'.' .2 "i 33"}. E i...) 52:3 ‘7" '2?" 5‘ ' u x: a x t ‘2“ crié .' ~-

.- .. .‘ .,. - 1. .2 ' I“ .. .. - .. -.. .-. 2.. ,- . 4 "a - 1-- -
-ahinmuu; ml Iﬁﬁ' ﬂ: LAWiEV 73.2; w*

 

.-. . ,. .' .. _:“ .. .... ..4 _. .‘ .' .. H .....' .. ‘1 1..._ .... j .' ...H. .- . ..1 _‘ .‘ .. _ ._ ' .2 . - ‘!
yruwium ruuug drink . . . :mLmll aw ilﬂtd dnmxuz imprlxunud.‘

ibmph&ﬁiﬁ adﬁedni

 

 

 

'“' u... . - n... - u. ~u "-- .... .'. :m' u. .- - . .u. , L. an "I . .u 1 ..- ~ . . .‘ u. ""3 n. .. ... ..u ...
LLt.3n*hjt‘i35Ht:§1 t :3tﬂC. t 1 LIT} 24;; , hILici i J.“?‘y‘l 2:91 f~§ §?'ait ﬁt
.3.
(“‘3 1.?
‘2 ...\ . f
% umlmwadm
‘-., I»! , y i ‘. ' , l
I? a 6’“ I 6"’"i \ {‘ V
:0 ‘1" I
-‘ '-"" .' I... .'.. . .. ' .... . .. _. 5‘ “"- .. ... .. .3 ..
1.} ‘. '22- L- i’ ’ 1 I..- ‘....i T Li} 1 L.“ 4L5 .i. 43*.

 

I
”x
kn.
{‘1
LJ
_,.
f...
CL
Ill
3::
5‘ I
m
run-l;
l‘ o
x .,
.= x:

 

I {:3 1.4.} "7 I a? r? W““”“'””““"“" W“

Kentucky 535.136
2 I

o. I

/ '<

- , . . .. 1 .,. "¢r.—;M.‘§u'g ‘7 V ‘ '\ 1‘“ - -"- r; _. ml
,4 ... u... “,W,,.wa¢w yum...» «a» ma. w a. a Annuﬁhwnh V . .’ '1 . in. “ ""3".“Aﬂ‘lm
' I f ..L' kh"""’*"”l'-f»-v'-.72~.rwv. ~2va-gxu3':Le.-zm. ‘33!“ ’ ..'

'. ~sr .-

hérylamd E7w5?a¢g

" I 1 x .. .... I... .' .. .... .-' ['I. :1 u (T:
._ .. x... -—-, .«r r z - u. .... t.- .L. ;" ‘
5'4? "J. In} . 1 :* Higu- .2? l .L I’ L. 3...: . n .-.x

..n........_ . u '_ 3.. ..
if. r """J‘ff‘y' : a 3....4... 4. q x ' 4.- 4... .'....

\un.

"4 F%& irtw 3i¥~16~ﬂ,¥H}

 




. S 1:3,:

trn¥1mad &nimala

3

’! .... ..
'HHL;

:m.
3'1! i :75; 5'1“:

:qma.

a ".5 h T.”

ﬁﬁlma

ﬁrmvf

.wo-
‘X

admp"

wmamt

lama

Hemtucug

5} M," t“- . if“

vm%wwwwwmwww
O . . ....

.. .. ml
awn”; 2!

adﬂedn}

 

 

 

1:? P3 rat;
I

,. 17:2: v.3.
”f :7 . a"

2... 41.. 2..
«2:
~51.

I
*n

&

2.1 ,3

:m; A-~&¢¢I‘4‘.§v'gq‘..w‘ WM .
"‘ "‘ 3W.- ~.‘..

 




W o... ~... o... .... cot-- u...

‘I"i... .. 1 3. . . . .: .. . . . . . . . .3. 3.. _.. :z
'1‘ i 3 {5?} J. :21 ' " ',-. . 3' ' : -:."'..::~ 3:} 13- "“‘i 1-:3'4. i": i... t?!

1.”

.

H :«3. :33 gr: i:
%&?P7i@«

-- A“

%%meﬁm

 

c3r3 L4 i'ti3 arr35
” U. r3 m c: x: we -:

.-

H .. .... .. ....
UHHmLmM*

immwim;

,. i .' .... . .... .. .4- .
d {mam ‘ 1.1 2 33.. m a :3

3 3
\ in § .5. ! 2 IL ‘3‘: 1’3 §_ .' 3
Lw‘ Iv. EZ':.‘<‘V“5., “‘3 ‘1 akxfti i ‘ . ‘II 1"” '.

ihiwninu

L: a"! in! 3333‘ 1: if? ‘73 ::‘= {3-

H .. .. .... ._ .. ..
f If - f g 1.-.: g 3...: \-.
... i - I... .. .~-- ‘14 w

 




H

withmut jaw

 

'Uﬁﬂﬁ:

“W111

 

hmmwingly

i._.... ' -‘i..!
uth1nqiy‘

UHWEC‘

H”Mwmw
t 2 -
JHL ‘

ﬁ, .4" .....
..' ""3

n" f??£i§"3f§ E? t”

‘ .' r“ .-'~ 5‘
..~ .K I x.

- v.23" ﬂ? SHELTER
witﬁmmiﬁ

qua11+y1mg phraﬁag.

‘mvawwnnamt

Section No.
"'3 L! l 3; i"- :232 r" r“: 3'. 3.

=m M.-n“¢
nulufdﬂni

-‘"'- .... -. .. .. .... .L. ' .... . '
«Mmﬂhegzlgmf

'.l

Mﬁdahﬁ

 




I
/

(:3 'r“ m r“: 1 1'. 3:3 {in '1: 1 ”

‘ . '~ ~ .1 an I - an <u~a wow you
{mmwlngiy :Jgim usrmma

i.-.... ' ..
ﬁhUWlﬁq

. ,... ,... _...‘ .. ‘.... _.... .«— ..._ .
{.15 i E ! '.'.‘.'_’ L. :33 3:". -;;. .--: f

jiM%H$%¢kiRamnEM*

LQMS NHIQH aWQW‘ 1 THE Pﬂﬂﬁlﬁlﬁﬂ

wixthcngt QLualju¥ijﬁg ;D%n*ain2§.

... .... .1.
WHWHMwHL

 

 

... -. .. .. .... .L.
,HHHEL;

Zdahm

 




E? {L ‘13 U3 1"! { £313

uo‘m..__-.—~..~ ...... u...

””“ ~WL 3 LJL§5fiv T :'3 '***’t':-5‘ : LNﬁUiUEJELﬁiﬁg}

 

 

 

{Magma} -_-.; "Mimic

LJﬁLLQEﬁﬁwi 3L3; um: i :3H3@g»;3_

{EwIUE A T . 3,;3933 m4

 

{...-3:; {5'3 "“3: mid chi-'33“!

.3.

'"._*uJ*“iic3f" . *'. .L '.' = ,,Ls_4 {2*2L :;.3 nasé I aat4_1.+~

1"“ ..

Ewes u; 33,; ammnaq EIS'EMJQHQB ptnmm
p::3a333 am a; 3.":Ea3 MES 41 $1 qqﬁtyuma
30 MQU§ ‘UIEJ EJULM wm3+ 337
;: :xu madam "- “ T. I E L113; 35:: 5:- 3-:-
:WE qug Ayum EIEmIUE r._; g " irgxddgE

. a... 00". ...-u u»: a...

 

mam

A :3 g- 1

 

 




....

can%imad ﬁnimalﬁ Only. Jhic 54w“

aﬁwa1.1 . . . inwaauuwci Qr3

PM1+T- frmm wimda raima gnaw aw

*ﬁmmlf
4355 +(3. I.: €12 ‘Wﬂc: '3e§r*3£3rx

1 tr.

{-3. r": IL 31151. .7. . 'i.';f“;ut:3s...z1‘.'; :5. g.
dlrgc: Eumlight if i‘
would mthwrwizz becom? Eiﬂi an in game m:'

l"' __

m, . .... __M .m . L. ' . . . .. .
-::1 D 3" £1?! -:::5. :33‘.J.‘ 7 £11.} l _"-r' L} {1:} t- s": 3-3 if“? (I: t 4331:}

a r '3 3. m £4.
§u¥?%

The .gw ~é_=.-@ﬁ .Lgiﬁ: in; mz;a” withgut

‘ﬁéﬁﬂ‘ﬁﬁi

l .
..- . .. .... .i.

. .. . - ....

. : . i 1 E . i l

.. -. ... .... .. ...:

n . _ _.... .. . ..
.-- . ., ... a...” -.. m.
. . . _- .-. . LJ = 1': %:.'.... .._- m

cami‘
.th

""‘ .. .... 3.. ‘ ......
“xv-H 1. 5.3! z

 

 

 

.1 ...r .... ..
: ...- -. 7‘ C-
7 . x ' . ‘.
... .. .1.- ....

§2~301

 




 

 

arEPNNMWt 13mdii§

r- I... .' . ,. .. . .......... ,- .. _-.
Wmmuir;a-._ *¢.m;.ufu

.1-

wggt

’ - ‘l I.‘ I Q n,
H x,- L.) 3‘:

...... a

.. ‘... . . .... H
3‘“ . .'~'- ‘ ‘ . ' ‘ -”" E ' -’.,.,"‘ f" "‘ -- : . H ' -. ... .. ..
n“ w“ W , N M~.Jﬂﬂrw thhmut

i" 393' "§” 1333" f" E‘ i”: C

 

w“unmecaiii'

 




f—Wwwﬂ

(/fﬂfl: ,5

i/

m%‘ r7e-u +193 M

\paﬁJH .{ TIL . - 51" r
we )2 ./ Uh” »
' V “ I ‘fﬂ l/K/v I (I

‘ally, knmw1n¢ “D

17teﬁu5;
. * , , ‘
LU 7F”; 7“: 7" 7.14"- -:::: :2 m 'i } H . J / _./
... -... ....‘ .. .’ '.. : . ._. / W 7' 'l"" ‘L. '
‘i ‘ 1 H ' 'l/ ’A \ I h“ A S/ -- "‘ 4 "
‘ L; 1“": f“; 311:» r" -':.2-::.“._ .7“...‘::, r7. 7 a. - ~— 1' ‘ ' ,- ‘j/g /:/ﬁi ' r" , i ' “1/"? /" ‘
, t . “— -- l n” ‘ ‘i ‘L f (/4 [.1] (,1 ‘ 7 -\_/ «It I: .— 1/ ' p411, C v

1'

H. .' ' '2 'r , - 1 . H /"I‘ it ) 5 /\. / '
{OJ-.1 .1. .X. J. .4. L}. l ..‘ ': l ‘1’ 7 I ' '1 I”, /// q f.- ‘
. .- A: . ,/ x... .21... 9/” « 53,...

 

   

H 2-.2.;~-2;~.
UHJU:CL+1mbiw

u‘

’unm2c7

 

I. =.; 2.2... .2. 4.. ' ._- .' 7 ‘ ._.. ... .; ._. 2
9w .. {.1 ::-A!i a; 1 :1=:.?. 3.-% 1.:..:«:%7 2.7-3r: . n . ¥ {:2 :LC: r

-.J
r. J
k
"I
i ['
' 5 i
l "'
.....
.Tx
.
..,
..
...s..
._..z
I

..
,.....
7+
I
m.
J
’3‘!
”x
:
’r -
5...:
1
IT:
1
I,“
H:
l ..x

1mtentlgng,
m‘ {'3' :5.‘ ‘~ 33- 333% E? I"? 4-: .1. x

H

l
t
X
ind.
VJ

Uﬂﬂﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬂ”

.x..... 4.. ' a-.. ‘1. 1 I. , _. :. .- .. _. '. . ' '
Emmuluﬂdiij or amuW1mqu +3112 umraagmmAblw”

1mt:mt:imnalla av knmwimqiv”

.4. ".- 4’

'Htrrvf'maéaari3nq

"w LL¥LH.13” {223:3} ‘

/

"“xw‘

 

umr2c Egaarily”

H‘ ._..” :1. ...... .... ' .... -
1m an; W111 u; de dﬁllmm‘4fp mammEP . , . +2112 ﬁn ppmwijmn

_ . _.'\. {.91.- u ».-- --. :. ' 1.1 . .. ._."... I ,1. ':'"" i, x , ”._. .... L ‘ 3.... ~ .. ._. I I " -‘~.€ 7' , a.
.. Hhtl LH2L21. umma vHILH Du mar HEMUIREE ﬁw’

. 3.." u. i... .u. I - . IW' . ~u. . J‘“ ._. ‘N‘ n _ ..... v‘ ”I
. .. . me FwU¢1aluH u? bHEL1:R £w£.~. «w - ,«M
A 5; L. .7 . . ‘33 . f a; 5.5.7 ._ .7 i r~~.C r 0“ ' .- > ’
'7 3. ~ . ' a ‘ A ‘ K ‘ “2 I ' 1’ ‘ ’ Z " f ‘
1‘ ’7 l t it“ 5 i . . \ 1‘ ‘ :- ‘ r' i: :v . . J‘ , ‘1 ‘ \ )‘C -
,«1 i ~31"; {a ) "C :- i . f ': *3 .-7~ _- . ...
.v ' y * .. , Q: A x} [ f7 '4 '- $41-. (5, i ‘ ,, ' f Hm: P 1 s: 93'5”] 3:2; "([71:34
.. , r ’ a “ g . I

 

§!.' .....‘ .. ' "- '
=¢1r+41r2 liaaﬁrwﬂm

.... ....

 

:1," 7.13:1. w} ,m: .... .... .. ... .2 .. _‘ ‘ ‘ ‘4
"k '--3”1?-"»~’i' f-’ ’ -::‘x. f , .6 ' ” l3 PEEQCIF t

k ’ \
w: I 1‘ \\
a 'I ’ 1 I \
f“, "r C} 9 i: i “/15 in} ‘ ,; ‘3': \ } k \
r L x“ M m ‘ I! ﬁx "3
/‘r(‘ . \= ’ g r.
P
I
. .2 1‘
Jm- \‘ »
\-
..
.‘ 5%. E
\L'. W "

 




“2:”.
. 1'! 1

\J

.'.._ I.” ~-

QP :mfo

"tgiﬁ j Ltis‘t i

! . -. .. -.. _.. m. .
LU. ! 1 I it?! i... 5*" ..2.

..<.

”N" 3 1.3 h! I!
H .‘ .. ...-....._ .'
Lthi'

n .. m.
i H.223 f--§ .

I . .... .... ..
Li! H 13.12”“

.x.......4..‘..-...."-., , .. =.........'_-.‘... “..' *'
.wnuu..-u.§ Qt hHquﬂﬂiy +m11§ unwﬁaacmamlv”

..

“intamt a: 5 av knowingly”

”unmﬁjiawﬁ“i

“wil¥u1

”umanEn

n.

H

in any wiii?-1 and dalibawata manner

WHICH D0 NWT

....

a? HUMP Mi.
‘ \..(“:{."Z-’
. FL“ "" '

 




     
   
  
     

: - .I“”‘ '1' ,-
w’ I :1 MM 3 .L ' "

{1P {"3 ‘ 3....
I... N". 1 "ﬂ
_x _l 3 "'3 - T -....~ ~.... a“:

a. Lama

withuut q

       

 

@934 ﬁfst-5: ”H “wrtht wh:
£21223: .2» , 1.“ ._, -. - 4-
... ... E: 3' i 33‘ t! ...... ’ A n a 5:, 3"} 3" at n l lTl-zt 3
“HFh
4
bi‘ﬁfhmwﬁf
-. . r r ?- ‘ “W 3" J" '
4m 1:“; 1 :2

3,. ",4...“ .--;W~ng>‘-.v,

 

 

utharitv, hﬁ kmmwimg

/ ,1
3 A

\,f'

    

M

’¥7 Z
szé [ﬁnd C k ,4

M [Ca/away”
C J’ A. ,

6 5.7/4-2? 2:4

7- N/H/Z/DL/

A"! _

gmblt T§~§01
1gm;:v*
r5 ”1? W 3:: m
.11.. -._..i “7
“3 ".7 "It *7 ~
4.. 4;. a"
.1 3“ a} r",
-....5..:; u ~‘.'.
-4 4 .. .4
7! __341 __1 g 1_‘ a: _ .4 1 _m 1.?!
5:7“? 31 .a . ._ ,~
Mo: '.. a"? g: i E- .) In..}
.n. 3'7: r) _. “‘3 - r“ '“ r“.
%:4& x; J-:JE.~;Q
‘4'?»
'“r . -
3~wiam1
A .' _.. .. _ . .. --. .. ..
H3315 l L- n ' f'1::tl"!'.!:3 t ES 1... 1: £313? 2:3: . ‘.
@59.13
léyuﬂcﬂ
£3. -~ 1 *2
/55~x¥0j3
.3 - .w. »« .. ....
1-}...3“ .5: .... r! ’4"

buam iimﬁu7

V"! "‘ " 3 'I " "‘ . I r - ~ ~ -- ---— --- ' . .... . ' .. ! ' ..

L". n 1 :1 v3 ~: »*4 i , h 2.3 L' :1 1 l L F: g] P h 13:13-35 _ 1:1}; um 1 {'33: g; 3 a 3...; ,1 ,.; ..-.-_1; - 33*, 7.3; ;
.......... .. .... :"....'I .... u_~"- --. . ”-
'3-«1 -{ x... '--~. “-“I 2 ‘Lu - a -‘ r::t-TII"“32 "" " '“' r", '2 " "‘ ~23 "' “- ‘ “2- '- -' " ~ - .. ' -- -- ' .... ‘ “

r-.. d... .. M. .1. 1- -....« a H 3 mr .434!“ Calm}. 1...-.. 34314212133; .44! .3;33‘313ﬁ.:3_i,;_« 1-? a

1 .\
4] n n x

 

   

...J

r~ 3 | r"
.. .
...: ...-. .—

CL nanny Fund

1-. ‘u..
anixnai. aruj

”I

t
I ..
,.

z

l
:7
1“:
g“!
CL
x

U ("I f"! E" C :75} :3:- '5. St 3' '

3‘?
u}

a... -¢-. u...
-::\ i 1 LJ

$.45
9—4

L4"-

'-

 

  

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

VI. pH311 “—UEITy L333 WHICH . jHIhE THE PRGVIEIQH OF

{:QmFY EUET?H:R1V” IN QDDITLDH TD VQQDG NQTER ﬂﬁﬁ EHELTER

F'r'l

 

a" LﬁW§ WithQUt ﬁUﬁli$yiﬁf Phr33mm. Th3 y3rmmmt 13w3 13%

.~. ‘ “‘ "“ ' ' " ’ " '- ' 2': ~23: “' r- _“" 1"" 7:: <3: :2 -
:iaW «*~3~ .2: “3a Pﬁﬁrmaﬂi 3Hgm . n a ub3prxL3Lg3 er ,u33L._M-3ry
..- . 3”. ‘. 1 E .. :. ... a .- _.. _ . u" 3

,... '3... .. 3. ., ,. 3. ' 3. ' n ..a... ' . 3. ' . ' .... .... .. 3. ..
3121...! 2:2;- 13 {23? 1 mi!“ I f... l::.’ :1 n 11 223.5“? _‘;.-' 3.3”“; l (T132! .2. ‘::‘3{ $31.3. 3.1 :2 l {n}- f ‘ 1 ‘23 1...?!" 1&1‘5...’ 5.. ’ 3' ' "F 1319“ {j a, 1",} i‘“

$3333373m3333 ,. 533_t123m $49.

 

 

rm 3,“

.
ww~~
33 H
33,

3 mrnl

L “ J- J... .u. .-

....‘ ..., 5.: f...’
..... _. ..
J. .- 1... I
.3“ ".7. _....x .. ..
J .. 4;. :

 

Mithiq3m fgﬂgu;
Fi33i33ippi ‘ 7ym4131; :3 3413-
heyada $74ulﬁﬂ

N 1.. w J :3 PE my 3;; : 33 :3... 1 ; £11: ..;;'..;;f~*'-- xii-3
New H3miﬁm 3Gw1€w1

New erk ﬁgwicn 3 M3rk3t3 Crda 333

Shim @S?.13

« 33 13? 330
[JP33u3n 3...3“#

bLaJh I3} 3r a} .:; f
Vc‘r’m c n f” / 2/05

j 33 -."..*rr"»"3
.‘....'u.;2.. 3.1"?

bﬁirgirii3

“ jamﬁjrﬁ
Muam .. .

‘7‘ u. u .. ”‘3'

'th qualifying Phr3333. Hymming's 13w (33w 3gb}
.3. M llmwa: 'H p3r3um ruqm1n3 crualty ta 3'1m4i i3
“Hitéuut 1mWfUl 3utharity, h3 kmawimgly n n . depriyea 3n
animal 0% ma33333ry 3H3t3m3mc3 [3nd] 1% he tag. the Ch3r33 3nd

«:2: Li 3 't Dd ”J i; 3 i"; 3H 13.3]. 3 n d u m r": E? if: 23 i3. - 3 r“ i l +3113 1:. 2:3 par-‘03“ 1313-3 i t

 




aw i Eztw

ﬁha
w ’32 53. t h a? r"-

;le t"
H
I!
5+" ,
5111': E“ f"!

Gmw maﬁt

 

immim;

! .
9.4 2?.

. u a... a... n... .«. a.» ~

%TME§E

5:51” 5:5 La} El 1:. 55.3 T“

”EHtEHtiDﬂ&lly

3:3 I“

mmwimgly

'TIwERUEL?

[\J‘

l
[3 x
ﬁbamdmmmant
'ititv
.2
phraﬁea.

{3:} .

dw

. I"
1.3 "r

or inf

GFVQPHmEHt

SaliEumia

3... n.- 0 u.
.“l

u

EH

5 H Hr." ::.. :5

{I

mad, drink mr

HQQ

n.- u» I“. -
lo“: ﬁn. 1..- .
k... at... .m‘ .-c

Qualifying

negligﬁntlu'

........... ......... ‘ ..l
UHHH‘HEnmmPlly'

n._ uni
—-.

L H

éﬁ EI‘FEEBEE E

!"‘
-..‘

'THE R !3WFHBQS

53.1.1.1 1174:3155

irmity DE thy

 

 

 

punchitnit
ani




5
. 9 ‘\

N

' " .... .... ... ,..' ‘ ' 1‘. ...\ ... .... .. . 5.22.: {... .. ' . . a +- I 1:31
thh tha pwmwaw +uud, dtlﬁh mt yrmtmmtlmn {ram -mw‘
El ’ > _ / .' n ‘ J 41;; I a . l r {‘- 1' 3 ,23 I
53413-353, t h E; F" "‘ “ “ ,«M p; , n, / a? g’:;.»,; 2; , ‘ 3 ' \H g :f fi :“w ;. m!» I: g-.. 2 E 1.2. J: “a, q

’E "E! ‘I E - - a . .
"  4 ' ‘17—” " "- ' ~ ’ *'- ‘: M? 2:22: ; 1 1 '- :1 if" I”; 3'” $54.31.?
"w 1:! ‘1’." 5'3": 3" f"; "‘7‘! {-:.-I f! i: 37"., t... E... 1‘ ....‘1 S E "E ...! x1 “.0.- ...'. .1. ... . , ... I"; 2 1 ..

 

 

Emma ’ 51/

. . , m? ”ﬁn
Waﬂhlngtmm 1mn¢%.u u

’ %
Neg: ﬁirqula mimmwlv

Hymmimg @«gw*

"-.- ...- W upc- Dun-I ...... ....- .uu ....- u-n u... mo. ...... ...- ...- ...— “n. .... ...-o

4.: .... - - . .=- . m _ .. -u . < ... 1 -_ W _ m 1..., "4
415- T E"; pt; :2 m r; . r. J," {:3 -::2 :1 p .12 x 1 + 2’..- f‘; :33: r' .2: (:1 -:::: ,2?! {r- -.__.-' -:.: Ll. -..::_ L- int? {'3 .31; i g {22‘ C: c; H ,m. I J- -;::=. M... f L, 1-3,“.
' ' . I . .... ...: .... ...: 2: 2... .: ... . .- ...:I .. 2.... .4. .... .... v... .... .... .... ..-’ ... .. .... .... ..

' . . : .. ‘ " .. .... ‘ .... ...: _1 .' 4.. ‘ .... r- 1.- . . .; .... ...; -:::: g.“ 2...;
and watwr but Tﬁll Eu Lu mdﬂiglung :wQUxih dun

 

.... . - "“3, u. -.. .... ....
Qualifylmg Enramw

' =‘ '1 .. .. .... "...1.......'..'.H
”intﬁﬂtlﬁﬂﬂily uP ﬁwﬂllgwﬂtly

n .. . ,. .... .... . .' :
L.” i H ‘1'} 1.- tt‘ 3:; ‘t::- -:::5. 1’ ' i 1 :-

 

’ --..-. ...“... . ‘ ...li
”kmmwlmqu a a . UHHHLﬁﬁmmPlly

 

94

L?NS PREHEEITIHU QEQHDQHHEHT SF QNIHQLS

< ._
~ *1
.—«J
u
.1. J
“r
4....
*2!
~‘1
i
1"“:
t 3
"1-1
"1
C:
m
....
3
.....x
-:

:i “1" T H E .. E7: 1:! W H E: E7: 2?. 3:5??? {I‘LifEESTUU List-153

”“2

Q. ﬁbamdmmment 0% animal% prehibitad withaut vaEerﬁnce to
damagtiﬁitv mp infirmity a? the animal and withmut qualiEyimg

phwaﬁea.

vagwnment ﬁactlmm ND.

 

 

CaliEQrmia anal 3?E+

 

"" ' "7 1 1"“: {“1 ~""-. 1;). ""3 'I ' =’ : . ’ I.” E I; E. J I “(EN-{“3-
‘ 'u‘ .. ... ...; -‘- .m' to..- II." 0". 'I II ‘ ~ V 4
L L; 1. {3 1' ‘ .21 u u ,_ .__. .. .=.- .... 1

'i‘ ' cﬁmnﬁﬁ
fEmememtlcut QM “a;
v’

 

s51?“
Lu».
a
1...}.—
w
j
t”:
3,:
P‘-
L i
y.
.73
"'9-

 

§_.- .. {... .... .... _.__
" . - - can.
-.:'.5 1 ..23-..:1. ...~

A (F g 7 if L! a? H

«i in? $1
Mlﬂﬁﬁﬁﬂ*ﬁ wwwnh

 




Nevaﬂa

1...

T1
1' ii
“i
5"
,x!
1"‘r'
r...
0': t
14..
.‘3
*1
3...;
.1.

i | . ...
"-.-' I} 553, .1. 3": 1.. (:5.

V;
I ’1 3 "I":
3 ‘ !. ....‘.‘ a
1 ~
\ ‘ v .
l '4'“
3. x, .3
_ a: .g: E i ; E a. .
”h a” p ' t" I"
'. ‘ , ;H V"
‘47 K k‘
3 ,
....
. .

m: Hbamammmant a: ﬂﬁ

chjmgcﬂfiriimf av

~o. .. .9- Inc.

 

b6?@ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁt

 

: [12.5"
6 wazana
Hwﬁan§&§

‘2”-.'......_.'..... ".2“ "‘.. ...'...
mlmtfiLt u? Lalumhlm

 

 

Indiana

(2.

Kentucky
133u353m3\
Mﬁiﬁé

HaggaCWugettE

antam:

3
.J.

'H
1:

-. l .... --
iumbﬁﬂu
.l ‘........ .......' ...._
{"4 E5." i") F"; {:1 5 3 i g3 1-? f l. i' ' *:::.'
if} r"- r‘ 3:; 1:3 n

F: 2"“: 3:333 :53 73:":- E 3* r“: ’75?

3'". J 7"‘- _ 'I _: -‘ .
bﬂﬂitﬁ Lﬁawuivuaa

 

 

ﬁEITtlQﬂ

N

1%1

.a....1.

tu&13
2

x....
’3...) ﬂ

 

 

3 3
Htw'm z

‘W 3‘ r», u

3 3

 

w:333.3

1 7" “3’33“ E“ 1 3'3

zgmamﬁll

:3353 1 1:23:13 1 3

l-
4...:
4‘2:
3 3

(T:

PEﬁﬁi 4

.7 '. ...,. ..I
:' ‘Luxmq... .lf (1

13m%03

H' 3" 3 3. ,,.».-I
t- .»/f)~a %‘ Jai v“..€~"§vé'f JV ‘ u :1. ‘ l ‘1 a ‘ I I

3am.\...-«,+3., . , -' 3 .
1” .7 ‘ ~ ~ ‘1 -- h ~ 2?
f 4 _ a 3_ ~. ~ / '3 . , 7‘ ¥ : t
L 54 ' 3 :3 " ’ '

AWWE

.--. ,‘Z, -... :7". t.-. .-j
34 lﬂdg

....
.W‘ 1 1
_.
‘ :l ‘-

 

 

 




Nevada

Haw Yarﬁ

a}; ,; .m‘ .... .. w: 3... .' f...
£2. .1. 3:31 H :::- .x. .t

u». ~—

ﬁbanﬂmﬁmant
cﬁmnaaticﬁ by mr

{jQVEHWWﬁEﬁt EjEﬁt uni Nan

 

 

 

(ﬁQ

H P l E". CH"! 5*.

Cm;umbia

 

Indi&na

Kantuck“
1 5.511116.» ‘ 5“

Maina

”A

#3.”)?
3 ‘.
A (when:

Magﬁachu5att5
antama iﬁmeBll

{debrmaakﬁi ;E%~1{Hﬁ1; EE%~1{N32

H a: w H 5:1 {'27 ,

lﬁ - a Q.-
L} f“! ’f~ uf‘.

Rhmdm Tﬁlﬁﬁﬁ

- w.

 




aahingtom

 

-' 132““?! 2:: ., - . u r. . _- w
‘-. -..J..:.. -...I a J. -. ~~- . :.'- ..- .- ~.... 'L..- ' {“51 F33 E::.‘- "

whwn “ ..: ntiamall

am? .“2.#” r: J” cam$9§ «rmg‘ g" injuw

o.‘ l «-

:mant p f abamdmmmemt

 

 

3.“: ... ~ .' 1‘
1.3.31.3. =25. .3. .5. T

'yin ¥%7rﬁ§e

 

i {“5 ‘t'. {43 F: t i 43:13. 1 l :3,- ”

'Qw"vﬁmwtem&}“‘
intﬁntimmai y_ kmmwimqu
will¥uliv”

kmmwimgly

.

f“ "“ L 4 ‘ r 1 :' 3'" I i“ "‘1 “" G: ' ‘*-"" “ r“ -"" " " '* .3 '- -‘ ”
._1 ”MIL; J, H 7.] 4. 43" *..'i.x«.l\.:1. H- U: S LU i f '33-“. :5! if 2 £1 L} 4. ‘7'

anawinglv“

J

- -.. ..- w“ m. .. .. .. .. ,... ... .... m. H
r'rzr' :1. :3, =.._!.F : mt: 1 1E .;:i.!.J.':.-..H

..

 




 

 

 

 

«
l

V_.‘ ‘n- .. in. p..- OI 0-!
Mudﬂduﬂmﬁﬁt UT
,m '5 ._ _. .. n, .. L..‘ .‘ ' '.. -.. . =
‘mii.ﬁfuhlbltmﬂg m
"W\¢ffvw“”‘7:?:‘

 

 

 

-._ .~.- ‘00-. n... .o... .... u... no... LI... a... .

Mu law pr: .n1t1mg a A ‘ :1 diaablmd OP gick
13. r“ t 1:: Li k 1:3. h :2:- m ‘3. "-. r 1'31 . .1 {.16 845 5 w i“; i 2:: h
paramn UP pgreu w 'si 3 the QWHEF 0P

TVng aharga mp a mif;g ;% a maimgd’ diav:

“m amlmal, :.: a? . U m Emih animﬁlq
1n the EtF'” _ ~si'.‘- pub it mlmrw
a§ter he ' I

v Q? A m sdemeanorn“

M
L; '3 ~.
a m ilk—was: 1:- .

/\\I /" »,__’/"/ 1/ \ _,

Quali¥yimq Phrazw

 

 

 

 

EEQ +thnmﬁw

‘,
S

liabandmn ”ta d

i

K~”‘ .~-- ~ '“ "— —~ I coo- ... no.
amw Tuutﬂuuw

 




u

Qbandmnmemt QT maimed, diﬁmblﬁd, im§irm,

. .......L..A‘i...' -m..= _."r..'.... ...... ....... ...,.. ...'...,
31$ Prunlmltma, QUmllTylﬂﬂ lﬁﬂgﬂm}: um ﬂutﬁd.f
. ;;,7m~/»W’;7:‘/‘~Mmm,. ,. -, «Iv»— »

avarﬂmémt dattxmm h:

..« . - . I

 

 

 

LUéatrlct cw i slumbia

- a.

Emuth

Swath

A
.A ». -_.

_. _ . A ...v::~§_,~-ﬂ. _ «IV/"'7
5—1}. 1 i... .' +. .' (:3 3...... ..VA . > . I, 0“. : ~ - . . . .... .
.. i 3 ,1. r... .1. v. 1. f 1 .“1 ..‘. ,...’ .. . z : -.... __ 7.1.. ,_ ~_ “. i :12: {j C“) r“. (if: 1 C: k:

A“ tr 7s :"f' . u'
1 m-* ~ »J LJ*~ 1 ~itit- 94$: 1 Cit? r‘eaa :

y ﬁ€V€NNW 3“ 3..‘Zﬁ *3 I": 2 .JL: QNHEH‘ DP
“viﬁﬂ Ljhﬁ“g@ :_ .Imnrfxg: :2 :.rmaimed. -
.‘I a" LE. -'r mnma m , m

i: Y! “.11.” ‘1 5| - - --~ .- yuan airflmczi :1 5
1 5'"! t h. E? :- ..- -' I: C: .~ _ 7'" ‘ 3 _ *1 1 i 5‘“ {1: 1,2; C" {.113 n”:
a+ter r. ~gcﬁlwrﬁ i.1§t; Lhat it in 1
a? ; V'wdﬁmeamaru”
##wﬂwmﬁn_~

~_~...~ «4......» .‘««~_. .ﬂVanm— , ). :LJZ~ : \N / V.. N

1/ ‘ \ ».‘.. 2,3,“, x

A .v/ I", -_ “W

 

.r'

Mua1i¥yimq PHPEEQ

2. n" ‘w— .u .
. _J “I
“am

y

.p. a ‘3 ’ ‘
x ‘ ... .. .. . .' .... .
3, ‘ 4 v, :1. LI {:1 i" ! L3 Uri

»

{ﬁn' “— .« 'ﬂ ‘0. n.- ‘ ”a - n. u
“N .4 \. .1 + : I ‘ z "'1 -
-....’ 17... m1. x ‘....' L..' t 1 1 i...) ..

 




{amtnmta

.. .; ....1. .1. 23;". 51:! Mr" d1: ""xf 3 i" 2:: {j l 53:: H
~ VX

H 4:5? ”j. ﬁwﬂ'

//%;Lxcqf%:,?£%ébﬂé?77eﬂ (:fZ/1153AZ //:/7K«R\K‘

. FL} .zﬁﬂil. unmwmt £317 ChTEITii‘i-Zé‘EE-‘iiiic ﬁni: ”‘7
... muCde
¥7hfx

L502: 2.1:! nmam 6/7“

 

 

 

Delavara 325
. ‘S

TM ‘H L/
Maine ' §~t.w

3w44arﬁglewwd

M - 3.13m :Pi

 

 




 

 

........

. ... .... ,... H .. .. ... ‘ . ' -.
ﬂbﬁﬁdmu in dlﬁ 1n

.- - ... .l_ _ .~
tunic: r L. s_..! L. f 2 I.) C r3
" .1... .. “1 1 ..,.
”ﬁn-3.4 ”3’ 5...: _ 1’ 1 p“: I
“‘ .. .. r . _-
ﬂaw THW Rut:

 

*“r
ﬂ
:"1
1.4..
3

L}

TwaL5C;

GDVQPHMEHt

 

E3 €33 3t. 3\.a r‘ E}
‘ x
jgtk §:1;ﬁbw(ﬂ. '1

Maiﬁﬁ
@ﬁﬂavy1&md

Miggmuri

ﬂhim

 

t :1"-

 

 

“do,

MMC.‘

Prmhibitad, qua1i¥ying

Qu&1i§yimq Language

 

 

,,.." . ......... .........!_,,
H411; un‘ur wa ;

 

 

 

TX)




HﬂliﬂLII ta keep aw lea“
LN1hﬁh5bikEﬂitM‘ijaPFEn it
53111?“ 3.r1§:3 't§"1£e thii'x1‘ ' :3-¥

thhus

un15w¥ul

 

‘cwu511y“ abamdan a
L gnﬁu H! .33 ab5mdcwx

:" ' '.. . H ..‘ .... .. ' ...
wTué La gasu51t

u :1 Ci F .1 f".

tha intgntimm

dun
la

.. .... . . .. .... ... H ... .. .. .. ’ . . ... ' . ... 7 ' . ... . .. ... ' ~1-
HiL:-;Lz71 1,5; =. ; . .J: 55 y ;.m 1 »=.. . 51515-. 5”? ..5.; .1 = :HW‘; {JL1L31 115

:1 . _ "'... . . ...."‘._ ......_. ...: ... . ..." ' .... ...: . . ..
! -‘lji - . f; '..' . ‘ . . '..._:_.' . ‘31.. E 3." ....‘..; ' ... . 3‘? j. c; g“: If“ '13. .3". I;

”“5rtv ; 151'

u LI} t" -.

1’sz i”?! ;'51:

”w .. p ‘\ 3"”

51mgg “T mmxmng rpngrwgm 11 amriwcHUELT? LQHS 1.
., . 'ﬁ

1,6
MN}? 5!: 35 1"‘f“‘_.1! ‘: .. . .. uf‘ -.: 5m .1 1715111 u E3 r" 1”"1—‘HIZ 5-5—3225 a
¢Jatea 5,“;L+ 1mg a'r emf“5 deéimm 5'1351“ ta incluﬁe

..-...“ . '1 ' .‘...... M .... .. . .. . . .. -... ....‘.. ..
+1=v‘-€::3f*_.—~' . . . .1»: 2.. Phi... . .. " :. -- -=. 2....1.‘ -. . haulmmfs tng 111211.

Emvawmmemt $5zzian HO: Di T5 11mm

 

 

 

{3.1.511 l 1UP?" ’1 :1

Colmwadm

M
x.’

a? Calumbia

51%
...L. 1 , ' .
in (“Na- r-‘-

u
,-

 

Michigan

 




L3H 111,411.31 *3 :3 3:: 12923.21 3:1 1:31“ 1 1:3 ” :1 1:11:13“:

umimhab1ked DP bawrem i?‘ 3%,H :m T p ; gnaw; -- {Walne

.~ -.

d w‘imi; true nunmtﬁ1 a? g333v .1: '.x-7ﬁ. '.L -mi'fﬁ car Fﬁarwzh

...

.‘ .- .-. - ._ a .w. . ‘ ' .. . ' .. .' .. . - .. . m- .... . .. _ ,m, .-. ‘: ... 3. ._ 1s
i-"J .1. 2.: if...” 1%.- P 1"5. " . = . ' " 3.. ~.... . . ‘1 - ‘5 1- ' -. .: ' ...‘ - .' -..~,-~ ..- : 121-: .1. L a: f‘

*l

umlﬁw%Ld.'ti adaﬁdcn vn":§_ reg: 3* Lﬂmgr-1L “T:‘“ Ewuhnal

II . :’ ... . on. .1 7'1 0... - n—i — ‘ u.-
”KPUELlV“ mﬁmhduu a milu
.I

ll

-- 2:..."._...‘.-.._ m- ....w
:’ ti 5*. {"5 Ci 1313*”: 5'1. I .... ' - ”'- M -. "‘- C: 12.5 L3!!! 2.2:“ '2: f: 1 1.. -::iH 1 mad .L

' ' ' .. ‘ .' . ' . . . . .... .... . .... . ... ‘9
alga“ the 932..“ .n ﬁnmwm :. gab;
'0. l '. .
any pubii: p"

0% ab&mdmmims

~'.Eﬁ3Ch3f3 ’Fﬁrzaf anijnexl

I
..

Iiic larnﬂg (DP 13igrrtg

.. .... .. ... .. .. .... .. ... ... . 1 ... .... .... .... .... '. .: .... ... ... .... ... "z ' ... ...... . .. ... ' ....
Li .1 41,1...1 -:..-. car 1 1.} 1.3!": -.... ' 1:? 1-3111132: L .3. 1:. :1. L {12’ 1:71 (xi. 1‘: .:. ._ = .231 1‘: P L3. L! 1 3. 1...
.' .... ... . .; ..- . W1 _ ' . _ __ “ .___ . .. ._ , .. -. . .. . ~. ' .._ ,g .. . ._ .- .__.
i 1 51.- 1 Ltd .L 2 if-I! L {“2133 '. f . *9 1. :1" 11.143... 4;. . 3. ‘ - -.-. . . ; ... 5-2; h 114:1 3.- .. f

GP w're§: :- a th@

34" ,

LHL. im‘gg . . PRQTEETE? EH QHTE~5HUELT? L;

3'

3
T; Li Y" E? {:1 if”

“human living cra'

45*.
-i+y a‘y animal” da{im@

1% C ;:.MV; :ncapt a human b:

_. ‘. 1:1!”‘1 H121 3

 

 

 

Q 1r-
. ,

a
w

ﬁrﬁaarn5:¢. ‘ ”{ZPijﬁ‘

£351 1 11-53131“: ' 5.1

Calumbia

:1:':-"~ '1? 1 :1 ~- 1 :1 1:11:21 5%?

 

”$Wﬁ§ﬁ}ﬂiﬁﬁd
%.

Michigan

 




as

'.
1‘

Himmeamtg

 

.' .... r". ....
J... "‘ _. I x 1 i ‘
1 3...} u ”1.3... a u.’ . as.

i ll

ﬁn an animal'

! ."‘. . . .... .' ,. ... I! .... ...
Hi“: :13"! .1 did. 1 L: r‘

_. '3 H .. ‘.«.- m‘ '1 n m -.. . . .u. ..
1...! '§ (:1?! 3. 25} m. J. ~:::( ‘22- ‘-. .3. ‘-.." 1:3! 3 3

. .~ .. .. . .‘.. .. . m"... .... .. ' ... 5 -.. ‘
v 1:53 f '! “Tit-5f! J” Est-:1..- L 3. L3H ML: u 1'“

...

 

 

 

j. in '23 1 n 1“; {I}
.\ ﬂ ,9»

M" if: éI;— .2‘
21W4313ﬁ5

1
‘c‘: K

44b.01£ﬂwﬂ

 




Mimmﬁaota

i... :3 2'”: 551. .

"wrtmctad with

meman+t Sgcticnwéﬂmu

 

 

11.¢1.§40

”'3

Hampahipg

l

 




Wiﬁﬂﬁﬂﬁiﬁ

ﬁeéimitimn

 

i... . ... i... ... .2
m {shhnmit uaéiﬁ;

. .
u..‘

m .51 m m .53. '. r“ d ., may? '1:- t'. . .521 m 5:: h it: :i. 7'

3. {j i: f" 13? r3 '3:- -'...i 1""? {33.1"} 1:!

liviﬁg

H

dwmaat

;vicnx£1y turaz

-Jﬁrwlﬁgj

warmblmad" SQ

*aatuwe

Ehwap, Lﬁat

5:3 :"1 1
anim“

1.
(3*. .1.
any

:vime
ti:

F01 {ﬁf

any equine, t

Lﬂid

birwj an“

.. .. _ .... m .. H
iw'iri‘"":::-£Jrl
I

if) I"

“P”
g»;

mthar dmmgm

aw tha cent

or an animal” pwmtacy

amimal.“

amima

0+

I‘. .- . .

'imitiam

LCM“! l ': l
M ’33- 3-: ‘35-3 .3.
MGM“; 1:

ti :3. 3:; -.

"1;... ' w
“H I 3. 1...!

L*J j. 1. £3

ed,

amir

whaﬂﬂwar

"awl"

a human being

2.:

amlmgl

' .. -.. ".1 -u ..
13-4 1. His: q u U?»

iﬁ

withmut

“nah
Hm&v1:am
mmam

Uirgirxiﬁalw

 




”'Q. *0. . . ,~- , 4. I01 --1 .100 an. <:-> v... 'I .l «n.
L1H"; :2: r '2 Hliirﬂ ' t..- E J. ml";

 

 

 

.‘.

WW‘WWWW '
. kg. -

 

animal

mthwr a; ;Lﬁs ﬁmim&2”

1 . £1." t... f0] 1..“ 335:1 r'} i":

 

 

 

”a?

"I fug‘,,.¢:..5 3,:

I} {.3 H *4 -::?*. 2T2

X

9.. 4 ~ .

.1;- ...

 




..: a: .2.
. . . .. w. ..
....4 nu .1

l3.

mma~2ﬂx

.m. T C H G L H 3

 




mwmw wmw
5‘“ {25? i (:1 . a...‘ '7

u

v ,V f

Jﬁﬂ

fr ”I ..
g 5.;{5’J

. 3
ya. i 3, ,{J'gﬂynd’ {1&4

~41W1

#mm.

-
“-1

..r71":53;

Emnect

“trick “.7 leLmﬁjia

New

 




Hmrtlmm HQ"

.... .... .o-a

m J; r; a.) .~-~. -. w l“ .. .
-...- 1 £11.: !-::*. .L J v
mush-‘1 .-no~~~¢O~cno¢n~m-au-m-o--~.~c‘~

 

mmmtgﬁ

m 1:3

V" - Jr x;-
..«

f0r* mu} ta:

ﬂ“ . u a" '-=T= "c3r* smiED
ﬁﬂf "1” {1.4. i’ 35%

‘44:

Far Lmﬁ to

u
'1

mmmtha

'1 "2‘

"armhect:

.
.u.

 




K1521" "fat :2

I/\:

/
Dal/Weaté/ 2/

 

 

.-., ‘ 3' .... ._.%
and i =... 3...}!

 

andﬂmr U”

a l...

.""‘ L".
3...! i

a ~ixmm barlaﬂ 3+ WU”

m. 2 '.’

I... .... . .u. 1" '
L! 3:3 f“ a 3.2:} 2' g.

:Qmmumlty

.. .... . = i... ....
1fi3....3§“!7:3 21::-

{'31med
i
v ’3 ”1' x‘- é, .34”; \'~‘ . x I“
“33:3- 32 .2 ﬂ .2
I I

. 3 II? 1: " “T" “
awé “3 “ =”“‘

33- ‘ .3 .0 ‘: ' . .“ﬁ .".
/ L13: 2,c2 2~r+2W/wj2332

23/331335 3* F“ ‘ "'7‘ 3 Gm 2 3’ " *2 ,.

Hr'i‘i/“Véﬁ 1.3.3:,

UP ?5 1253 if s . 9' ’ mmmthg

3 up .¢?t@ﬂﬁ3 and/aw um: L 4 mmmtha

‘ {H'KX Eﬁrwffﬁ?“ﬁﬁfﬁimﬁﬁy24332mt5222d2M3&322mﬁﬁwt
2‘2 “3%

vs :2 ‘2 I

'9

3‘1

.33: ‘3
Q 2

"LWM3FP"FJT”“‘Z"T"3’FYI§ '

 




L! p

andfmw

‘ i m 1'. 2:")

.9. r“ .. u.-

wart

::mnnnurwity'

{3:}

f ngﬁwﬁﬁ‘”
.1. mm H

ft
{‘3

A/‘JM i Watﬁ.

5
3"" _."‘ 5% .5:
2“ Nik..1(‘.." {1. > g f ‘7

kxﬁﬁﬁf 6” L}. 3;“:

i-

for up t0 m

u, {3
UP Jm ﬂad; amdfar UP ta
fﬁwfﬁ§mwﬂﬁﬁﬂﬁﬁwﬂﬁmb

..-

KW$%%W@WWTﬂWE

immtha

If

u .'
‘ A“ u...
_, a. x

a; f“! {i

.' .'-’ .'..
mix-+1. .:
... . ..

x x 3*
“{gviﬁﬁ

mmmths

mmnthg

im&&wﬂﬁﬁ3aw%&WW%Wt

 




.v- ..... ’ u" -~‘ -
-'_‘:!. 5 § 1...} .-" L.) P

mwt

anchwzr

mmmﬁhﬁ

andfar up .: w mamthw

... .u ”J I’ .... . .. . .. ' ,... m. ‘..
a1: si.1; i_3r‘ x.i{J ‘zm ._. 1!;Lsfi 1;?7 1;

amdfmﬁ up t6 @Q dayﬁ

up J. £139 and may in adﬁiticn bQ
imp ;3;7*, up to 3 mantha
andfaw ;' A; 3 mmntha

N. m“; ._.H .. ; .;- ...:' ..._,._._.
-::*. .-_. ... « -..- . .~ LJ CI. '7' -~

- "‘ ". .~ ~ ’ t ‘ “ ”45
.3 5: {__! 1”} i4 5].», k {i
, Mt.

mantha

 




Florida House of Representatives

Fred Lippman , Committees

Representatlve, 97th Dlstrlct Rules & Calendar, Chairman
Commerce
RBPIY to: International Trade & Relations,

D 1926 1/2 Tyler Street Chairman
Hollywood, FL 33020 Health Care
(305) 923—4225 Reapportionment
Suncom 451-5259 Strategic Budget Planning, Select

417 The Capitol Rules Reform, ad hoc

Tallahassee, FL 32399-1300
(904) 488-0465

July 10, 1989,

Yvonne D. Hall
1801 N. 46th Avenue
Hollywood, FL 33021

Dear Ms. Hall:

Thank you for your recent letter regarding your support for House
Bill 1511 regarding carriage horses. I regret to inform you that
his bill was withdrawn from consideration by the bill's sponsor on
April 28, 1989.
W‘On a brighter note, I am pleased to tell you that my bill to
QinCrease the penalty for the torture of animals to a gglony was
asuccessfully passed through both houses of fine legislature and
'signed into law.

4I appreciate your having taken the time to share your views on this
issue with me.

Sincerely,

State Representative

FL/so

 




MERCY CRUSADE. Inc.

PG}. Box 3355 - VAN NUYS. CALIFORNIA 91407

 

 

JUNE 1989

 

Dear Member:

Your help is urgently needed to insure passage of MAJOR California State legislation to
end animal suffering. The following bills are now before the legislature.

PLEASE write, phone or wire your own California state Assemblyman and State Senator and
vigorously express your support. A separate letter is required for each bill. A short
note will suffice, and be immeasurably effective. Be sure to show the bill number at
the top of your letter or note.

AB 1842 DOGS AND CATS (For food consumption) Introduced by Jackie Speier

Makes it a misdemeanor to kill dogs and cats for food consumption. Provides the tool
for prosecution in cases such as the recent Long Beach case in which two men killed a
German Shepherd puppy for food. Pup had been given to them for a pet. Judge dismissed
case as no law on books prohibiting killing of dogs and cats for food.

AB 2001 PUPPY MILLS Introduced by Sam Farr

Prohibits the sale of puppies in pet shops if they are less than 12 weeks old, requires
frequent veterinary examinations of puppies while in stores, forces pet stores to be
responsible for sick dogs they sell by making them reimburse customers for veterinary
bills, and will help force puppy mills out of business.

Puppies shipped at 8 weeks of age suffer terribly from stress due to long distance
transportation from mass breeding facilities; are often soon turned in to animal
shelters adding to the surplus dog population. Stress makes them more susceptible
to disease, symptoms of which may not develop until after sale to the public.

Status: Passed by the Assembly GoVernmental Efficiency and Consumer Protection Committee.
As we go to press 6/20, lost on Assembly-floor.by 1 vote. Up for reconsideration on
6/22; working desperately meanwhile for additional votes.

AB 2461 L0 SO/DRAIZE TEST BAN Introduced by Jack O'Connell

Bans the Lethal Dose Test, the Draize Eye Irritancy Test, and the Skin Irritancy Test.
These agonizing tests are all unnecessary. All have alternative tests HOL involving
live animals which are more efficient and effective. Would also ban all types of
Lethal Dose Tests for testing of cosmetics and household products on animals.

Status: On May 2nd passed Assembly Public Safety Committee on a 5 to 3 vote. On
June 7th passed Assembly Ways 6 Means Committee on a 12 to 3 vote, despite heavy
opposition from Cosmetic, Toiletry 8 Fragrance Ass'n., Soap and Detergent Ass'n.,
California Manufacturers' Assfn. and California Chamber of Commerce. SHOWDOWN will
come on Assembly floor SOON. TPLEASE write, wire or phone NOW on this one.

SB 1110 VEAL CALVES Introduced by Milton Marks

Bans veal crates and mandates a larger enclosure so that the calf can turn around,
groom himself and lie down comfortably. We are all aware of the terrible suffering
of these veal calves chained by the neck in an almost single position in semi-
darkness, and stuffed with antibiotics to stifle the pneumonia most have.

Status: Passed by the Senate. Awaiting assignment to an Assembly Committee. Be
sure to contact your own Assemblyman now° There is tremendous opposition from the
Agriculture lobby which is very powerful and influential with the Assembly Agricul-
ture Committee. This bill needs our best effort.

(‘0

B 60 RODUCT ESTIYG Introduced by Ala.

Requires cosmetic and household products sold in California to be labeled if they
are tested on animals. A big step forward to apply economic pressure.

Status: Passed Senate Health G Human Services Committee and Senate Appropriations
Committee, Next hearing on Senate floor. Contact your State Senator.‘

‘ "" "‘an~.

87 ANIMAL FIGHTIN LTY Introduced by David Roberti

Makes anima ighting a possible felony and allows evidence of intent to be used
against cockfighters.

Status: Passed by the Senate. Waiting assignment to Assembly Committee. Contact
your Assemblyperson. This greatly facilitates prosecution of cock and dog fighting
cases, with stiffer penalties.

Over, please

 




-2-

We must, in addition to supporting the GOOD bills, OPPOSE the BAD bills just as
strongly. The bill described below would hamper the great work of ALF (Animal
Liberation Front) and others in providing the exposes of what really goes on in
labs to enlist the support of the general public in the animals cause.

AB 1414 VANDALISM Introduced by Norman Waters

Makes it a crime with stiff penalties (up to one year in jail and/or $50,000
fine to vandalize a research or farm animal facility regardless of how little
damage is done.

Status: Passed by Assembly Public Safety Committee. Next hearing: Assembly
Ways & Means Committee. Very important that your Assemblyperson hear from you
on this attempt to suppress revelations of animal torture in labs.

AB 2524 VEAL CALF STUDY Introduced by Rusty Areias

Provides $100,000 for a study to determine if veal calves suffer from living
in crates. An outrageous attempt to circumvent SB 1110 (refer to other side).

Status: Passed by the Assembly Agriculture Committee (a tool of the powerful
Agriculture lobby). Next hearing: Assembly Ways 6 Means Committee. Please

let Assemblyman John Vasconcellos, Chairman of Assembly Ways 6 Means Committee
know what you think about this waste of taxpayers money and obstructionist bill.

ADDRESS ALL CALIFORNIA STATE ASSEMBLY AND SENATE MEMBERS:

State Capitol
Sacramento, CA 95814

A phone call to the district offices of each legislator helps too. Legislators
are sensitive to communications from their own constituents - the importance of
YOUR letters,wires,and phone calls are vital to the success of the GOOD bills
and defeat of BAD bills. Each letter, wire and phone call COUNTS BIG.

 

NOW is our chance to achieve real help for suffering animals!

 




The Hugane Society Of Southern Nevada.

June 30, 1989

Animal Welfre Institute
P.0. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

PRESS RELEASE FOR YOUR NEWS LETTER
. E222§2_Esl222_225_Eiehtiee_ﬁill

Ax.

gw”A bill to impose felony penalities on organizers of dog
fights has been approved inf the Nevada Legislature.
SB—333 also makes dog fight spectators guilty of a
misdemeanor. In addition, this bill makes organizers
of fights between other animals, such as cocks and
bears, guilty of a gross misdemeanor.

Its been a long uphill battle which took several years
to make dog fighting 21 major crime :hi the State of
Nevada. The hard efforts and work to make this great
legislation a reality is due to the efforts of the
Humane Society of Southern Nevada the S.P.C.A.

SincereT «

Humane Society of Southern Nevada The S.P.C.A.

PO. Box 82022, Las Vegas, NV 89l80-2022 0 l3500 Blue Diamond Road, Las Vegas, NV 89l24 0 (702) 875-4448
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

 




ﬁebzmary a, 1&8?

HS. Qiana ﬁalvexaam

Q/G Erick ﬁalvazaam

Raate 1

Morthﬁialﬁ, ﬁinmagata '5ﬁ5?

Bear ﬁiama:

It wag goaé talking witﬁ yen ya$tﬁrﬁay, aﬁﬁ E’m ﬂelighiéé
that you wili graceaﬁ with th@ “ﬁnti~€rm@liy“ mhagtar for LR.

Encleaeé is a xerax 3f @ageg frgm a @ublicatian gut am: my
tha Aﬁimal Legal Eafamge $unﬁ in l%$?. CS gaggeﬁtﬁ tﬁat the
stakute/section nmm%er3 far ﬁtatﬁ antimcsuwlty lawg ﬁe
checkeﬁ againgt thase we ﬁava in the “&ﬂti~€rualty“ chag‘
I tﬁought ii bast ta Sené this ta yam right ﬁway in the E
0f caiehiag yau befere yam g6 t0 tha law iiﬁrary.

3%: ‘x 173'
5%.

‘
303$

é».

I hoyé year fathﬁz centinuéﬁ t0 imprav&£

Sincarely,

Lynn& C. ﬁatchiaom

anglagure

 

 




terms shall be mandatory and shall not be subject
to suspension, nor shall such person be eligible

Vp-sqmr-H-I. . ﬂ,
_ . , p _ 3a..“ ﬁrm
‘.

any rules or regulations prezigushly made. The commis-
. . ent esr nate 1m may, in connec ion
fonprobation or parole for any part of such :gtgcfhirgafaifing, conﬁinuanceyor renewal ofa license,
period. A plea Of "019 contendere 3?“??th by the visit and inspect the animal research and care facilities
court Sha" be. considered a convrctlon for the 5; of any licensee or of any research institution which has
purposes Of this section ‘ ' ' ' i applied fora license. The Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the Animal Res-
cue League of Boston may be designated as agents of
the commissioner. For purposes of this paragraph the
term “animal’ ’ shall refer to the dog and cat speciﬁcally
and all other sentient creatures except humans. Mass.
Gen. Laws, Ann. Chap. 140§ 174D.

- “a

 

 

bl_o_te_: By specifying that a person commits cruelty to ani-
mals if he “knowingly or with criminal negligence,” acts, the
statute it easier to prosecute; it doesn’t require that the pros-
ecutor prove that the actor acted with an evil intent. The statute
speciﬁcally prohibits the transportation of an animal in a cruel
manner. The statute has a “repeat offender” provision, which
further strengthens the law.

Massachusetts— Regulation of Research Facilities

§ 174D. Research institutions; license to use dogs or
cats; rules and regulations

(a) No research institution shall employ dogs or cats in
scientiﬁc investigation, experiment or instruction or for
the testing of drugs or medicines without having ﬁrst
been issued a license therefor under this section by the
commissioner. A research institution desiring to obtain
a license shall make application to the commissioner.
On receipt of such application the commissioner shall
make or cause to be made such investigation as he may
deem necessary to determine whether the public inter-
est would be served by the issue of such license. The
commissioner shall issue such license unless, after
notice and hearing, he ﬁnds that the research institution,
by reason of its standards, facilities, practices or ac-
tivities, is not a ﬁt and proper institution to receive such
license, and that the issue thereof is not in the public
interest. Each research institution licensed under this
chapter shall before such license issues pay to the com-
missioner a license fee of ﬁfty dollars. Each license
shall expire on June thirtieth next following the date of
issue. The commissioner shall annually renew each
license upon the application of the licensee unless, after
notice and hearing, he ﬁnds that by reasons of the
standards, facilities,practices or activities of the li-
censee such renewal is not in the public interest. The
commissioner may, after notice and hearing, cancel,
suspend or revoke any license if he ﬁnds by reason of the
standards, facilities, practices or activities of the li-
censee the continuation of such license is not in the
public interest.

Whoever knowingly violates any of the provisions of
this section shall be liable for a civil penalty of not more
than one hundred dollars for each offense. The superior
court department of the trial court shall have authority
to enjoin any violation of this section or to take such
other actions as equity or justice may require.

(b) The commissioner may make such rules and regula-
tions, not inconsistent with this section, necessary to
carry out its purposes, and may alter, rescind or add to

-2-

STATE ANTI-CRUELTY STATUTES
(§ refers to section)

Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado

Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii

Idaho

Illinois
Indiana

Iowa

Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts

Michigan

Minnesota
Mississippi

Missouri

Montana

Alabama Code § 13A-11-14
Alaska Stat. Title 11-61.l40
Arizona Rev. Stat. § 13-2910
Arkansas Stat. Ann. § 41-2918
California Penal Code § 597
Colorado Rev. Stat. Ann.
18-9-202, 35-42-112

Connecticut Gen. Stat. Ann. §
53-247

Delaware Code. Ann. Title 11 §
1325

District of Columbia Code §
22-801

Florida Stat. Ann. § 828.12

Vol. 2 Encyc. Ga. Law § 25
Hawaii Rev. Stat. Title 37 §
711-1109

Idaho Code § 18-2102

Illinois Ann. Stat. 8-703.01
Annotated Indiana Code Title 35 §
46-3-2

Iowa Code Ann. § 717.1, 711.2
Kansas Stat. Ann. 21-4310
Kentucky Rev. Stat. 525.125, .130
Louisiana Rev. Stat. 14:102.1
Maine Rev. Stat. Ann. Title 17A §
510

Anno. Code of Md. Article 27 §
59

Massachusetts Gen. Laws Ann.
Chap. 272 § 78

Michigan Compiled Laws Ann.
Chap. 750.49

Minnesota Stat. Ann. § 343.20
Mississippi Code Ann. Title 97 §
41-1

Vernon’s Ann. Missouri § 578.005
et seq.

Montana Code Ann. Title 45 §
8-211

*- g'M‘MJ NtM‘t-«vasu,» g. N,- ,,

 




Nebraska
Nevada

New Hampshire
New Jersey

New Mexico

New York

North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma

Oregon
Pennsylvania

Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas

Utah

Vermont
Virginia
Washington

West Virginia
Wisconsin

Wyoming

Revised Statutes of Nebraska
Chap. 28 § 1001

Nevada Rev. Stat. § 574.050 et
seq.

New Hampshire Rev. Stat. Ann.
Chap. 644.8

New Jersey Stat. Ann. Title 4 §
22-15 et seq.

New Mexico Stat. Ann. Chap. 30
§ 18-1 et seq.

McKinneys Consol. Laws of New
York, Agriculture & Markets Law
§ 350 et seq.

North Carolina Gen. Stat. §
14-360 et seq.

North Dakota Century Code Ann.
Title 36 § 21.1-01 et seq.

Ohio Rev. Code Ann. Chap.
959.01 et seq.

Oklahoma Stats. Ann. Title 21 §
1685

Oregon Rev. Stat. 167 310 et seq.
Purdon’s Pennsylvania Consol.
Stat. Ann. Title 18 § 5511
General Laws of Rhode Island §
4-l-1 et seq.

Code of Laws South Carolina §
47-140

South Dakota Codiﬁed Laws §
40-1-1 et seq.

Tennessee Code Ann. § 39—3—101
et seq.

Texas Code Ann. Penal § 42.11
Utah Code Ann. § 76-9-301
Vermont Stat. Ann. Title 13 § 401
et seq.

Code of Virginia § 18.2-403.l et
seq.; 29—21391 et seq.

Rev. Code of Washington Ann.
Title 16.52 et seq.

West Virginia Code § 61—8-19
Wisconsin Stat. Ann. § 948.01 et
seq.

Wyoming Stat. Ann. § 11-29-101-
et seq.

 

 

APPENDIX 2

STATE HUMANE SLAUGHTER STATUTES

The New Hampshire humane slaughter statute is set forth
below as an example.

427:33 Terms Deﬁned. As used in this chapter the
following words and phrases shall be construed as fol-

lows:

I. The term “slaughterer” means any person, part-
nership, corporation or association regularly engaged in
the slaughtering of livestock;

II. The term “livestock” means cattle, horses, swine,
sheep, goats and other species of animals susceptible of
use in the production of meat and meat products;

111. The term “humane method” means:

(a) any method of slaughtering livestockwhich nor-
mally causes animals to be rendered insensible to pain
by a single blow or shot of a mechanical instrument or
by electrical, chemical or other means that is rapid and
effective, before being shackled, hoisted, thrown, cast,
or cut; and

(b) the method of slaughtering required by the ritual
of the Jewish faith, whereby the animal suffers loss of
consciousness by anemia of the brain caused by the
simultaneous and instantaneous severance of the car-
otid arteries with a sharp instrument, provided that the
method used in bringing the animal into position for
slaughter causes no injury or pain which can be avoided
without interfering with the requirements of ritualistic
slaughter or without imposing unreasonable economic
hardship.

IV. The term “holding pens" means enclosures or
yards where animals are held or handled before slaugh-
tering.

427134 Prohibition. On and after June 30, 1960, no
slaughterer may slaughter livestock except by a humane
method. No person may handle livestock in connection
with slaughter, or drive or transport them to holding
pens or to place of slaughter except with a minimum of
excitement and vehicles must be free from hazards
which could cause suffering or pain.

427:35 Prohibition. No person who has taken posses-
sion of a horse, ostensibly for slaughter, shall‘ use or
deliver possession of said animal for any other purpose.

427.36 Penalty. Any slaughterer who violates this
subdivision shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

427.37 Administration and Enforcement. The com-
missioner of agriculture shall administer the provisions
of this subdivision, adopt such rules, pursuant to RSA
54l-A, as may be necessary to carry this subdivision
into effect. and approve all methods of slaughter used
under the terms of this subdivision. He may, by admin-

 




.2
a...

”fai- "13 >5? ,
44.5194. 3%
... 4-. 4, 45
é. ”a..-

w...

41
24.454; 2,...

:33 ET: 3*
:2»: £2. 5"; :1);
’2:ng m 1“

"Slit

-.

.\

(33": 433124;
b .

+9 as}

$3 :22. 3::
‘ 'k—i'u

{3

bath

thé warﬁing

Ii

NE a

“P a“; MK r-*
on mama) ,.
on :
'x"
.3

1m
aﬁera

ﬂ

‘8

"5/953?

{1*

a

Wﬁfﬁlﬂg
g:
433

Y} Li
{:2

if
4

EU*7

d‘:

£13131}?

{3

aeig
(7

.1

“yearﬁ

'3'”;
L
a

You

a

a
ﬂat
ma

t,
&4
Q4
t

& a
.1
f
a
42.

tnﬁ
E
and
E423?

42::
E":

atat»

..
x
L
a

312%
&
aeatlam

~§
mat

w%'
at:

ﬁrmelty

,tary.
atia“
r mm

M

r'
wk
3a
“2
K§a£§&*"iﬁ

,«
12:.

:1
M

. ,, ,3
33h“;

megiiﬂﬁﬁ

s , .3.
34.34.23,:
5233;”.,

in.
3;
{A

23'“? 4’“ ' z.
3; MS :3

c“
y.

‘1"
34
3f».

“”1

* at
336'}
a
”5.3,;
4.4

he

ﬁﬁ¢imé

.,

4*
s4.

.3 ,4,
tat:
'1...)
{In

[45’
1a
30-

.4,
§
4.

n
J;

.4

“’1
,‘i is_

74
1
‘-

4i
“Eamghsat inﬁ
g

t
imam
he

nvﬁuu
v: ms

E
r

,5
L

 

 

 




