“National Anti—Sweating League
To Secure a Minimum Wage

34, MECKLENBURGH SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.

 

"NEVERHMiA

TALK of the underpayment of women has been met in past times
by the cry of Agitator!” We have now available the ofﬁcial
and authoritative ﬁgures of the Board of Trade Enquiry into the
Earnings of Workpeople in various Trades, and the cry is no
longer effective.

In every trade in which women are employed, thousands of them
receive less than 10s. for a week of full employment, and in a. great
many, large numbers earn as little as 7s., 6s., 5s.

Take ﬁrst the Textile trades. In this best group of women’s
occupations the “average” weekly earnings reach 15s. 5d. But
the relative highness of the ﬁgure is due to the inclusion of the
Lancashire cotton industry, which stands alone among women’s
trades. More typical of the group is the Jute trade, showing
“ average ” earnings of 13s. 5d., or that of Silk, with an “ average ”
of 11s. 2d.

“Average” earnings are, however, but a rough measure of the
goodness or badness’ of a trade. What we want to ascertain is
the number and condition of its less fortunate workers. To this
question the answer in all the textile trades is depressing: in the
manufactu1e of silk and of linen, for instance, two women in ﬁve
earn less than 10s. a week, while in the Hair tlade a maj01ity of
women fail to reach that low sum.

The group of Clothing t1ades is no better. Here the general
average is 13s. 6d, but in Dressmaking and Corset Making the
percentage earning less than 10s. is almost one in three, while in
practically all the trades'there are considerable numbers of women
whose weekly earnings do not reach 8s. Two of the remaining
groups, Potteiy, Brick and Glass, and Food, Drink, and Tobacco,
” Show much worse ﬁgui es

In the Pottery trade, employment is attended by 1isk of lead
poisoning. One would expect the risk to be acknowledged by
higher wages. Yet in this dangerous occupation the average
wage is only US. 11d. and one woman in three fails to achieve 10s.

Brick Making, though free of poisoning risk, is terribly hard, and
beyond the capacity of all but the strongest women. The exces-
sive energy it demands is rewarded by an average wage of 118.5d.,
while of the time workers in the trade, one woman in four receives
less than 9s. 6d.

 

Hy exchange
1 i: 113-" [Thiiin'kT Tilrli'VGI'Sity

“I. 1; Lazarus)

plot

 




Glass' Bottle manufacture shows appalling ﬁgures. Here the
average wage is 8s. 9d., while the number in receipt of more than
105. a week is so small as to be'negligible.

The condition of the Food and Drink trades may be indicated by
the earnings of women engaged in Cocoa, Chocolate, and Sugar
Confectionery. In this trade certain well— known ﬁrms employing
thousands of workers pay high wages Yet, so badly do some
otl1e1 ﬁrms pay that the ave1age fo1 all women is only 118. 9d.,
forty per cent. of them receive less than 10s., and ﬁfteen pe1 cent
less than 8s. a week. These gloomy ﬁgures, are l1oweve1, bright
by comparison with those indicative of the earnings of ,ceitain
groups of home workers.

Makers of the Uppers of Ladies’ Boots and of. Nursery Shoes,
Shirt Machiners and Shirt Finishers, earn often as little as a
penny an hour. Of other miscellaneous worke1s of East London,
a brush worker may be cited as a type. This woman is paid 6%d.
for ﬁlling 1,000 holes in the backs of hair brushes; working
. hard she can ﬁll 200 holes in an hour. She states that she has

worked at the trade since her seventh year; ’ she has never idled,
never had a holiday. Now, app1oaching her sixtieth year, her
sight is failing and her hand losing its cunning. Soon she will
have to go into the wor,kl1ouse or not doing so, must starve.
What a culmination to a life of worthy and unﬁaggingindustryl

Turn ”now to the most/miserable occupation of all the utterly
wretched carding trades carried 011 in Birmingham. Average wages
in these trades are between 3s. and 5s., and in Hook and Eye Carding
3s. is rarely exceeded. No wonder! In this terrible occupation,3841
hooks and 382i eyes must be carded to earn a penny. The work, if
prolonged, is injurious to the eyes, yet women will often stick to it
all night, for children as well as themselves may be dependent upon
it. Nor are the children passive. However young, their little
ﬁngers can “link,’ ” and necessity sets them in motion. Mr. Graves,
Factory Inspector f01 the Birmingham Dist1ict, told a sad story to
the Select Committee 011 Home Work. Often, he said, he had seen
children of three, tom, and ﬁve years of‘age helping their mothers

The evils set f01th in this handbill are grave, but the National
Anti-Sweating League has shown that they can be 1en1oved. lhis
League was instrumental in securing the'passing of the Trade
Boards Act in 1909, and has since assisted it to success in the

Chain Making, Lace Finishing, Paper Box Making, and Wholesale-u

Tailoring Trades, man of which the wages of theworst paid
workers have been substantially increased.

The League is now endeavouring to have the Act applied to other
trades and needs the support of all who sympathise with its work.

Join the National Anti-Sweating League and induce also the
membership of your friends.

Subscriptions of whatever amount, should be sent to the Secre—
tary, National Anti— Sweating League, 34, Mecklenbuigh Square,

London, W. C.

7/ 2114-

 




