6‘ ' r V-
/ ‘The man who tortures animals is a DANGER-
,» ous MEMBER or SOCIETY. He is a degenerate I
_ ’ ' ’

who would commit just such crimes upon the .
ELM??? race, were 1t not for his fear of punish- : j
611 - '—- The American Field on Human Degeneraey. ‘

N

r i

THE GREATEsT OF CRUELTIES. ,ii’gyg’

, A
f. 'l
.0‘ ‘

__.__.____ , y ,

{I

Not long since, an interesting correspondence took place be—
tween a well known London physician and the. Rev. Canon VVilber—
force in regard to the cruelties of vivisection. The entire corre—
spondence is too long to give in brief form, but some extracts from
the letters which passed between the parties will be found of inter—
est. Canon WilberforCe, it will be remembered, is the son of the
philanthropist whose name will ever be associated with the abolition
of slaveryﬂiln the British colonies. ‘ "

The following paragraph is from the letter addressed to the

Rev. Canon Wilberforce by his medical critic: -
4o WIMPOLE STREET, WC, June 23, I892.

“SIR: In the Times of to—day appears an account of the an-
nual meeting of the Society for the Protection of, Animals from
Vivisection. It is there stated that in moving the adoption of the
report you characterized vivisectors as ‘human devils.’ If this be
a correct version of the words you employed, you have placed your—
self under an obligation either to substantiate or to withdraw and
apologize for this expression.” . . . . .

Some extracts from the reply of Canon Wilberforce are as
follows: .

DEANERY, SOUTHAMPTON, June 27, I892.

SIR: The quotation from the Times to which you refer, con—
sisting of two words only, is obviously a most unfair report of an
entire speech. I did. not say, in that indiscriminate manner, that
ALL persons who practiced vivisection were “human devils.” I am
aware that many apparently succeed in escaping moral contamina-
tion from the atrocious deeds they do in the name of science, and I
am prepared to take your word for it that persons capable of inﬂict—
ing excruciating tortures upon helpless animals live in other respects
“noble lives.” I did say, and I emphatically reiterate it, that per—
sons who are capable of doing certain deeds, which I enumerated——
such, for example, as leaving a dog cruciﬁed to the torture—trough,
kept alive by artiﬁcial respiration, in agony unspeakable through-
out the long hours o-f the night, and sometimes from a Saturday to
a M'onday, while they themselves retired to the rest and comfort of
their own homes, hoping to ﬁnd their subject alive for further ex—
periment upon their return to the laboratory—were acting as “in—
human devils.” I do not stand alone in the opinion. The Rev.
Dr. Haughton (question 1888, Royal Commission, 1876) said: “I
would shrink with horror from accustoming large classes of young
men to the sight of animals under vivisection. . . . Science
would gain nothing and the world would have let loose upon it a
set of young devils.”

You say that the spirit of my statement is “entirely opposed to
the teaching of Christianity,” &c. I reply that the so—called “culti-—-

You are doing right when you treat every liv- ,
ing creature as you would wish to be treated.
If you drive a horse, or own a horse, thmk how
you would like to be treated if you were that . .
horse. Treat your dog,r and your cat as you
would like to be treated if you were that dog or .
cat. OVER

 




 

vation of science,” as it is practiced by the physiological investi—
gators, “is entirely opposed to the teaching of Christianity,” is based
upon the rankest materialism, and appeals to the lowest instincts of
man; and, as to “the Church in which I hold a position.” I thank
God that some of its most eminent representatives have organized
within it a league for the “total abolition of the practice of vivisec~
tion.” And the Bishop of Manchester, himself no tyro in science,
preaching on behalf of this league, exposes himself to your “deep
indignation,” for he, too, stigmatizes vivisectors as men “who use
God’s dumb creature-s as the subject of tortures which could only
be called diabolical, and who gain their knowledge by the degrada-
tion of their moral character,” and with these sentiments I cordially
agree.

Our contention is that the public has been blinded by scientiﬁc
dust thrown into its eyes, and that multitudes are wholly unaware
of the unspeakable and ﬁendish cruelties that are perpetrated in the
name of science.

The public is taught to believe that vivisections are rare, that
animals subjected to them are under anaesthetics, and that the dis-
coveries made by the process are of inﬁnite value. The public has
not realized that three thousand" doctors signed a memorial declar—
ing that an important series of experiments could not be carried
through while animals are under anaesthetics; that the arch—vivi-
sector, Schiff, has been honest enough to say, “It is nothing but
hypocrisy to wish to impose on one’s self and others the belief that
the curarized animal does not feel pain.”

Let us glance at some of these so-called “experiments,” and
judge whether men endowed with ordinary sensibilities and imagi—
nations could perform them without temporarily transforming them—
selves into “human devils.” . . . They include baking, freez/
ing, burning, pouring boiling oil on living animals, saturating them
with inﬂammable oil and setting them on ﬁre, starving to death,
larding the feet with nails, forcing broken glass into ears, intestines,
and muscles, making incisions in the skull and twisting about a bent
needle in the brain.

One of these “practical physiologists,”'whom you estimate so
highly, desired recently to ascertain whether it was possible to pour
moulten lead into a man’s ear when drunk without causing him to
shriek. For this purpose he procured several dogs, and the report
says, “he administered an anaesthetic composed of a solution of
chloral and morphine to reduce the dog to the supposed condition of
a drunken man. In spite of this precaution, it appears that when
the molten metal penetrated the ear of one of the animals, accom-
panied by a frizzling sound, the wretched beast struggledlviolently,
and his howls were so dreadful that even the garcons day laboratoire,
accustomed as they are to painful spectacles, were strongly af—
fected.” . f .

The second dog, though similarly anaesthetised, was so horribly




tortured that it actually burst the thongs that bound it to the tor—
ture trough. . ’ , .

The list of Dr. Brown-Sequard and M. Chauyeaus experi—
ments on the spinal marrow are too terrible to describe in extenso.
The following will serve as a sample:

“To ascertain the excitability of the spinal marrow andthe con—
vulsions and pain produced by that excitability,” ‘the studies were
made chieﬂy on horses and asses, who, he says, ‘lend themselves;
marvelously thereto by the large volume of their spinal marrow.”
M. Chauveau accordingly “consecrated 80 subjects to his purpose.
“The animal,” he says, “is ﬁxed on a table. An inCiSion is made pn
its back of from 30 to 3 5 centimetres; the vertebrae are opened With
the help of a chisel, mallet, and pincers, and the spinal marrow is
exposed.” . ' .

Again: Fifty—one dogs had portions of the brain hemisphere
washed out of the head. which had been pierced in several places.

.

SPORT.

[By Dr. J. H. Kellogg of the “Battle Creek Sanitarium.”]

“The slaughter of animals of any kind for
mere pleasure ought to be prohibited by law.
It is the writer’s ﬁrm belief that a fully awak-
ened conscience will recognize animal rights as
well as human rights, and certainly there is no
right more sacred to either animal or human
than the right to live. .

“To the writer, nothing short of the whole-
sale massacre of human beings could be more
hideous than going outwith a shotgun to kill
birds, or with a riﬂe to destroy the graceful .
- antelope or busy rabbits and squirrels, all
actively at work performing ofﬁces in the econ-
omy of nature. Think of the millions of murders
which are daily committed in the name of sport,
of the vast number of noble, happy creatures

The steel trap and other traps, largely used
by rabbit-catchers and gamekecpers have been
well described as abominable devise, both as a
means of destruction and as instruments of
TORTURE MOST HORRIBLE, for not only do the
sharp teeth by which the victim is held and
LACERATIGD cause EXCRUCIATING PAIN, but this
pain is often PROLONGED for days and nights
together, until the keeper or some passer-by
may happen to visit the spot and put the sufferer
out of his misery. HOUSEHOLD PETS are also
often caught in these traps. LAWS should be
passed forbidding the use of such cruel and
criminal contrivances.

Brief facts such as the following may be used
as blackboard lessons by the teacher :

It pays to take care of domestic animals.

Most birds are a great help to the farmer.

 

which are shot down, either killed outright, or
maimed and mutilai d, to linger out a miserable
existence, and ﬁnally to die of pain or starvation.”

“If I were a man of means and had a horse
that I liked, I would turn him out to pasture in
his old age, or, if I could not do that, I would
put him into the hands of somebody I knew who
would use him kindly and carefully, and then
put him to a painless end. Or, if I could not
do either of these things, I would put him out
of the way myself. I would not turn him over
into what is almost of necessity, certain last
years of suffering, of cruelty, of neglect.”—Rev.
M. J. Savage.

 

Animals have rights as well as people.

To abuse any innocent and helpless creature
is mean. cruel and cowardly.

Domestic animals often suffer for want of
fresh water.

Fish should be killed as soon as taken out of
water.

All cruelty degrades the person who practices
it.

The horse is man’s invaluable helper, has as
much right to be happy at his work as you have, -
and should be treated as a friend.

A driver should be his horse’s best friend and
should study his comfort.

Siocieteﬂde Biblogie (Paris, 1883, p. 193).

I certainly do not envy you “the privilege of the friendship of
practical physiologists,” such as these. .

Perhaps you will say that these experiments were performed
by foreigners, and not by the “select few in modern soc1ety that

' 3’
lead, in every sense of the word, noble lives.

“Blessed are the merciful, for they shall ob-

tain mercy. ”

k/l‘"

“We plead the cause of those dumb months

that have no speech.”——-Longfellow.

 

 




 

vation of science,” as it is practiced by the physiological investi-
gators, “is entirely opposed to the teaching of Christianity,” is based
upon the rankest materialism, and appeals to the lowest instincts of
man; and, as to “the Church in which I hold a position.” I thank
God that some of its most eminent representatives have organized
within it a league for the “total abolition of the practice of viviscc—
tion. ” And the Bishop of Manchester, himself no tyro in science.
preaching on behalf of this league, exposes himself to your ‘dcep
indignation,” for he, too, stigmatizes vivisectors as men “who 11S1
God’s dumb creatuIes as the subject of tortures which could onl1
be called diabolical, and who gain their knowledge by the deg1a1la-
tion of their moral character, ”b and with these sentiments I c0rdiall1
agree.

Our contention is that the public has been blinded by scientiﬁc
dust thrown into its eyes, and that multit'udes are wholly una11ar1

of the unspeakable and ﬁendish cruelties that are perpetrated in the
l
4

TO EDUCATE THE BRAINS.

Millions are poured into our colleges and
universities to educate the brains of America,
While almost nothing is done to educate the
heart.

If you have any doubts as to whether animals
feel pain, watch the look of extreme suﬂ'ering
and hopeless woe upon the face of a poor, half—
starved, overworked horse.

We think our civilization is near its meridian,
but we are yet only at the COCKCROWING 011‘ 11111
MORNING.

“Man’s colleague,—-the horse.”—-— Huxley.
“He who is not. actively kind is cruel.”— Ruskin

“Man’s colleagues,—-—the animals and birds.
_ Ml Cl Jo

,1 I ' ‘ ' a frizzling sound, the Wretched beast strug‘gledl’vmle‘ntly, ' ‘

wls were so dreadful that even the gaicons (in labora/mn.

d as they are to painful spectacles, were strongh af-

cond dog, though similarly anaesthetised, was so horribly

 

 




 

tortured that it actually burst the thongs that bound it to the tor-
ture trough.

The list of Dr. Brown—Sequard and M. Chauveau’s experi—
ments on the spinal marrow are too terrible to describe in extenso‘.
The following will serve as a sample:

“To ascertain the excitability of the spinal marrow and the con—
vulsions and pain produced by that excitability,” the studies were
made chieﬂy on horses and asses, who», he says, “lend themselves
marvelously thereto by the large volume of their spinal marrow.”
M. Chauveau accordingly “consecrated 80 subjects to his purpose.”
“The animal,” he says, “is ﬁxed on a table. An incision is made on
its back of from 30 to 3 5 centimetres; the vertebrae are opened with
the help of a chisel, mallet, and pincers, and the spinal marrow is
exposed.”

Again: Fifty—one dOgs had portions of the brain hemisphere
Washed out of the head, which had been pierced in several places.
This was repeated four times; the mutilated creatures and their be-
havior having been studied for months. Most of the animals died
at last of inﬂammation of the brain” (p. 415). “Interesting experi—
ment” on delicately—formed little bitch: Left side of brain ex—
tracted; wire pincers on the hind feet; doleful whining; the little
animal began again to howl piteously; soon afterwards foamed at
the mouth (p. 417). The same dog last operated upon on the 15th
of October; since then blind; died on November 10th. “The dis—
sected brain resembled a lately-heed potato ﬁeld” (p. 418). Little
bitch last operated upon on the 26th of May, and made nearly blind;
died on the 7th of July.

Do you imagine that I should consider myself under any ob—
ligation to applogize for stigmatizing the dastardly perpetrator of
the following abomination an “inhuman devil?” '

Prof. Goltz says that it was “marvelous and astonishing” to ﬁnd
that a dog that had served for some seven experiments, and whose
hind quarters were completely paralyzed, and whose spinal marrow
had been destroyed, the animal suffering besides from fatal peritoni-
tis, was still capable of maternal feelings for its young. “She un—
ceasingly licked the living and the dead puppy and treated the living
puppy with the same tenderness as an uninjured dOg might do.”——
Pﬁ’uger's Archives (vol. IX, p. 564).

I contend that the language does not exist in which it would
be possible to be “uncharitable, unjust, and libelous” in speaking of
such “a labor to elicit truth for truth’s sake.”

For Paul Bert’s reports of his disgusting experiments in am~
putating the breasts of a goat and other animals, see C omptes de la
Societe de Biologie (Paris, 1883, p. 193).

I certainly do not envy you “the privilege of the friendship of
practical physiologists,” such as these.

Perhaps you will say that these experiments were performed
by foreigners, and not by the “select few in modern society that

lead, in every sense of the word, noble lives.” , W

l
l “Blessed are the merciful, for they shall ob-
tain mercy.”

i “We plead the cause of those dumb mouths " is l
j that have no speech.”-—Longfellow. ‘ '

 




The following quotation from Mr. R. T. Reed’s speech in the
House of Commons, April 4th, I883, refers to: English experiments:
“I will take one instance from certain experiments performed by
Professor Rutherford, and reported in the British. Medical Journal.
I refer to the series of experiments commenced December 14th,
1878. These experiments were 31 in number; no doubt there were
hundreds of dogs sacriﬁced upon other series of experiments, but
now I am only referring to one set beginning, as I say, on the 14th
December, I878. There were in this set 31 experiments, but no
doubt many more than 31 dogs were sacriﬁced. All were performed
on dogs, and the nature of them was this: The dogs were starved
for many hours. They were then fastened down; the abdomen
was cut open; the bile duct was dissected out and cut; a glass tube
was tied into the bile duct and brought outside the body. The duct
leading to the gall—bladder was then closed by a clamp, and various
drugs were placed into the intestine at its upper part. The result
of these experiments was simply nothing at all—~I mean it led to no
increase of knowledge whatever, and no one can be astonished at
that, because these wretched beasts were placed in such circum-
stances—their condition was so abnormal—that the ordinary and
universally recOgnized effect of well—known drugs was not pro-
duced. These experiments were performed without anaesthetics—-
the animals were experimented upon under the inﬂuence of a drug
called ‘curare.’ ”

And now, sir, what “phenomena of nature upon which human
progress depends” have been elucidated by these brutal and degrad-
ing tortures? What victory over disease can your “scientiﬁc ex-
perts,” who you say “are alone fully qualiﬁed to form a correct
judgment in such a matter,” point to as the result of vivisection?
Can they cure cancer, consumption, scrofula, lupus? Is it not a fact
that the boasted discoveries of one year are the ludibrium of the
next?

You say “the investigators are convinced of the necessity of
such experimentation.” I reply that an increasing number of intel—
ligent Englishmen, undeterred by what has been well termed (I be-
lieve by the late Lord Shaftesbury) “the insolence of physiological
science,” are convinced of the iniquity, the uselessness, and the peril
to the human race of such experimentation, and they are determined
to do their utmost to render the practice, in this country, at least,
wholly illegal.

I am, sir, yours faithfully,

BASIL WILBERFORCE.

 

Price 8 cents per dozen, 40 cents per 100 copies, postage paid; Address,POiBox2185,
Providence, R. I.

 




