 

 

 

 

THE EVOLUTION

OF THE

ASEPTIC METHOD

IN

SURGERY.

By LAWSON TAIT, L.R.C.P.Ed.,

M.D., NEO-EBOR (HONORIS CAUSA), M.D., COLL. MED. ET
CHIR. s. LOUIS, ETC., ETC. ,

 

REPRINTED FROM THE MEDICAL PRESS AND CIRCULAR,

APRIL 27TH, 1898.

 

LONDON :

BAILLIERE, TINDAL'L AND COX,
20-21 KING WILLIAM STREET, STRAND.

1898.-

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

.n<..~.,..,,<_~;;....;w.w.,_q«.-...-.. 3.4.1:. V. .-,

< a.“ 32.:an-

 

 

111%25-2—7‘ A .3

e , ..;;;

’W-ng

 

THE EVOLUTION

OF THE

ASEPTIOQMETHOD
SURGERY.

By LAWSON TAIT, L.R.C.P.Ed.,

M.D., NEO-EBOR (HONORIS CAUSA), M.D., COLL. MED. ET
CHIR. S. LOUIS, ETC., ETC.

REPRINTED FROM THE MEDICAL PRESS AND CIRCULAR,

APRIL 27TH, 1898.

 

LONDON:

VBAlLLI'ERE, TINDAL’L up 00X,
20-21 KING WILLIAM STREET, STRAND.

1898.

 

 




 

 

 

“ The inventive genius of the profession of the period seems
to be in the direction of “ new methods.” If there was less
lying about results we would have less confusion and be better
able to determine the value of any given surgical procedure,
and our patients would be greatly the gainers. While it is
digressive, I regard it as an important and proﬁtable question
to ask ourselves : Have we advanced any in the last ten years
in our relative position to the men who stand to us as pioneers,
who gave us our ﬁrst lessons, our advanced positions? If so,
in What respect ? Have what we have called our own advances,
improved ways, lowered our mortality ? In pelvic surgery Tait
stood ﬁrst—taught us the best we know. He has had no very
close second. His disciples have not greatly improved upon his
ways. We want great masters in our science to grow up among
us. Frequently some one of our medical or surgical brothers
comes running out of the bushes, crying, ‘ I have found some-
thing.’ It is usually a bug, an antitoxin, or a new method.”

Dr. JOSEPH PRICE,
Trans. American Obstetricians and Gynz‘ecologists.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE EVOLUTION or THE
.ASEPTIc METHOD IN suaenarm)

 

 

 

I DESIRE to supplement the able paper of my
friend, Dr. McMurtry, because what I say must be
largely of the nature of approval as to his results,
something of the nature of correction and criticism,
and altogether the fulﬁlment of a desire similar to
that: by which he is clearly inﬂuenced, to? reconcile
discrepancies and remove difﬁculties. He looks at
the shield, so do I. But we don’t look at the same
side, and I think each side of value, though the values
are different. I trust he will forgive me writing -in
acid-fashioned English. I should have to go to school
again to follow him in the new American language.

I begin with a difference: Dr. McMui-try is good
enough to speak of “ the Tait school of surgery,” and
'to say that “many leaders of surgical opinion while
practising asepsis derided all bacteriological dis-
coveries and repudiated germ invasion as the cause of
.esepti -. infection,” and he in particular accuses me of
this blunder. It would have been more convincing if
he had quoted a single sentence from my own writ-
zings which would have established this charge. which
is, indeed, absolutely the reverse of the truth. I have

:followed all these researches, and do so still, with the

utmost diligence and I welcome each fact With the

utmost reverence. But what is a fact, is the question

on which we so often split! Look at the most recent
researches on the bacteriology. of the skin, surely a

 

 

 

V (a) A remarkably fair spirited article appears in the American
Journal of Surgery and Gynaecology Feb., 1898, by Dr. McMurtry,

.of Danville, to which I wish to make the following addition.—L T.

 

 




    

    

 

 

4

ﬁeld most easily open to accurate investigation, and
we see contradiction following assertion with bewilder-
ing certainty, until we close our eyes in disgust. Look
at the researches on the sterilisation of the hands, a
matter on whichrpDr. McMurtry most properly lays
great emphasis’,and we ﬁnd the most violent discrep-
ancies following one another as fast as sequent and
inconsequent papers can be published. As in all new
ﬁelds'of research .far too great haste has been dis-
played and but’half-formed guesses have been shed
broadcast 'as established truths.

That I have often «mocked at and made fun of this
kind-“0f thing is true enough, but only when I found
thatfz‘ombe‘ginning to end it was false and incom-
patible; with 'what'I love to call “ the science of the
housekeeper.”

That the air contained the germs of ordinary
decomposition has been known ever since the days of
cookery. That science displayed exactly what these
germs were was a glorious victory, but it did not
banish the great truths of the housekeeper. She
knew that many things such as moisture, tempera-
ture, speciﬁc gravity, absence of light and above all
things, “life,” modiﬁed or even prevented harm
being done by the agents of decomposition. no matter
what they were. She knew that nothing led so
certainly to the “ tainting " of a piece of fresh meat
as putting it on a dirty wet dish in a close atmosphe' e.
To rub it dry, to cover it with powder well rubbed in,
if an antiseptic like pepper all the better, but most of
all to place in a current of dry cool air, was to keep
it fresh perhaps for weeks. She knew, in fact, how to
encourage her materials to resist the germs of putre~
faction, until she ﬁnally made them entirely aseptic
by cooking them in a tin-can and soldering themup.
There they kept for years. But she also knew that
the simplest ferms of life could resist those causes of
decompositionso long as life remained. She knew
that non-fertilised eggs will keep only a very short
time, but that fertilised eggs will, under proper con-
ditions, keep three weeks or more.‘ She knew, in
fact, that this mysterious. “life ” is the most per-
fect antiseptic we have, and this prime fact is that

 

 




 

 

5

which makes all “ cultures” and all laboratory
experiments fail absolutely in giving results which
can with safety be applied to the living being, particu-
larly to man.

When we come to consider man we ﬁnd all our
facts at sixes and sevens, and all theories of no avail.
The laboratory fails utterly; and whilst in the pro-
cesses of his body we may see veri-similitude with
those of the lower animals, we are met at once by
facts which show they are not. Bennett and Ruther-
ford made hundreds of experiments in making biliary
ﬁstula-3 in dogs, and they had an enormous primary
mortality, whilst the same operation in the human
being has practically no mortality at all. If success-
ful in the dog to the purport of diverting all his bile
into test tubes, the dog dies inevitably of starvation.
If the same result is obtained in the human subject
he or she fattens on the loss of the bile, and suffers
in no way from it save in the trouble of skin excoria-
tion. The common femoral artery of a large dog
will be closed by four hours’ temporary metallic
compression, whilst forty hours of the same pressure
cannot be depended upon to close a human artery of
the same size.

Not only this, but human beings alive diﬁer in
their individual results from exactly similar condi-
tions and in ways altogether irreconcileable with the
laboratory facts of bacteriology.

N0 disease is so certainly recognised in all its
detail as typhus fever, for in it alone we have a
disease of which not only the clinical facts are
absolutely known, but its causation has been estab-
lished with mathematical certainty. We knew, long
before the days of bacteriology, that it arose from,
and was spread by, a living thing. Whether that
living thing has been spotted and named I do not
yet know, and it is wholly immaterial. (a) ' But Sir
Henry Littlejohn has proved that it is a thing, let us
say a living organism, which can be created or
brought into existence at will, and at will destroyed.

 

(a) I think we may take it from the contradictory evidence
recorded by Dr. McWeeny (British Medical Journal, April 2nd,
1898) that it has not yet been identiﬁed.

 

 




6

 

It is therefore probably, as Darwin suggested, a living
organism of some very ordinary kind which becomes
possessed of its terrible powers simply by living on
the overcrowding of human beings. These powers
are possibly derived from its living on the albu—
minoid substance condensed on walls, or other cold
surface, from the re-breathed air of humanity. There
is no other possible explanation of such experiments
conducted in the black hole of Calcutta, and quite i
recently in the slums of Edinburgh by Sir Henry ll
Littlejohn and Sir William Chambers '
Another stage of the argument is this, that Whilst
the germs of decomposition will attack every dish of ‘
dead milk alike in the same dirty and badly ventilated 5
dairy, the germs of typhus will not attack every per- ‘
son living in the same dirty, overcrowded and ill-A
ventilated house in the West Port; nor of those
attacked will the result be at all the same in any two
cases. Some will escape with slight headaches, whilst
others will die in forty-eight hours of a haemorrhagic
attack, before even the rash is developed. .
This lands us at the diﬁerence between the asepti-
cists and the anti-septicists; the former wanted the
nidus of the germ altered, so that neither pabulum
nor resting places for it could be found; the latter
ﬂed after the spores with lotions, and plasters, and
sprays and irrigations, leaving the dirt alone and the
overcrowding. Let us try the history of the facts.
Lister and I started from common ground. He
entered the Edinburgh Inﬁrmary as assistant
surgeon in 1857, and I as a student in 1860 Syme
was Professor of Clinical Surgery, and had a special
building of his own, lighted and ventilated on both
sides, two stories in height, and with a reasonable
number of beds; the exact number I do not rememk er,
but I should say about thirty. At least the wards
always had a startling contrast in every way with
those in the contiguous building in matters I shall
refer to in detail, and yet the two establishments were
- Sepa1~ate'dr:i:onlydby twovalves of. a swing door.

» Personally, Syme was the personiﬁcation of the best
type of gentleman, always perfectly dressed in his
old-fashioned way, and as clean as a new pin. From

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

7

his boots to the top of his head no one ever saw dirt,
disorder, or the appearance of hurry. He was always
washing his hands - I think I may say he washed them
every time he touched a patient. His assistants had
to be like him, and his old-fashioned nurses were
noted for their tidiness and cleanliness everywhere.
Through the folding doors what a diﬁerence! Every-
where hurry, untidiness, and no mark of what I have
just praised in Syme. There was a good deal of
dandiness, but much dirt. I shall not venture on any
detailed description, though all who took part in it as
principals, have gone to the majority, yet I might
traverse into unintentional exaggeration, and I might
hurt the feelings of some who took part in the aﬁairs
of the old Edinburgh Inﬁrmary after my time.
Sufﬁce it to say it was a four-storey building, badly-
lighted, very badly ventilated, crowded with students
for many hours of the day, with a very insuﬁ’icient
number of nurses who were void of training, that
the wards stunk, that they were overcrowded
and marked by numerous faults in cleanliness
and hygiene which would not be tolerated now in
the oldest-fashioned institution in the country;
There is an authentic word picture of a similar state
of matters at the same time which will serve to show
what Simpson meant by “hospitalism.” I shall
quote it at length : “ The operating table was of wood
and of fabulous age. It was sometimes thought
necessary to have a new mattress for this table when
the stuﬁing was found to be matted together in
lumps by the blood which had during many years
soaked through its covering. The only correct garb
of the surgeon was a frock coat (the oldest and
shabbiest in his wardrobe), which was kept in the
surgeon’s room and never renewed or cleaned during
his twenty years of operative work.” (Syme always
turned up the sleeves Of a dress cOat in which he
might have shown himself, before the operation,
before his Queen at Windsor.) “ The operating

.. theatre attendant was permitted to employ his spare

time in the post-mortem room, the surgeons came
straight from the dissecting-room to operate after
simply washing their hands; ligatures were used

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

8

which had been already soiled by handling with
blood-stained ﬁngers to sew up wounds on a second
case.” And at Edinburgh these ligatures were always
worn ostentatiously by the house surgeon, like a
badge of Knighthood, in the buttonhole of a coat
which often rivalled'that of his chief for dirt and evil
condition. What were the causes of the extraordinary
differences separated by the memorable swing doors P
The prime and real causes were ﬁrst of all that
Mr. Syme was a master, that he held his appoint-
ment for life, was a rich man, and he made his
underlings do as he wished. Besides, he cared a great
deal for results, as was shown in the notorious trials
about perineal section. He was not merely desirous
of doing an operation, but he was desirous of seeing
the patient cured and well years afterwards. Further,
he was a great surgeon ; in every sense the greatest I
have ever seen. Nothing charmed him more than to
show us a man upon whom he had done some
tremendous piece of work years before, and this
alone can be the object of true surgery. On the
other side of the door the men were on short tenure
of ofﬁce, and necessarily some of them were quite
incompetent for it. They dashed at their work,
they hurried it, they crowded all they could into the
ten years they had of it. I saw some awful things
in my six years of pupilage in the old Edinburgh
Inﬁrmary, things surgeons could not possibly bring
about now if they tried. It is now a very parrot cry
that operations are done now which never could have
been done, never were attempted, before the days of
Lister. This is absolute nonsense if it is meant that
Lister has made surgery any safer, and the evidence
is at the hands of Lister’s own father-in-law, Syme
himself. It was etiquette for the physician or sur-
geon responsible for the treatment of a fatal case to
appear at the post-mortem. Syme seldom appeared;
not that he would not come, for no one ever
displayed to my mind a keener anxiety to know
why he had failed. But look at his gigantic
enterprises, enterprises which often, in my own
recollection, brought Lister from Glasgow and
Bickersteth from Liverpool to have the privilege

 

 




 

 

 

9

of assisting. Does Lord Lister, remember, as
1 do, the awful inguinal aneurism, in which the
patient was slit, as it seemed, from the middle
of the thigh up to the umbilicus? The gluteal
aneurisms, the removal of the whole lower jaw, the fear-
ful oesophagotomies, and, most of all, the thirty-seven
consecutive cases of ligation of the femoral artery
for popliteal aneurism, not one of which died?
Perhaps most noteworthy of all, though least capable
of theatrical display, were his numerous perineal
sections, and all this without a single antiseptic, but
with a detailed care for asepsis which was perhaps as
great as my own. He would have no assistant’s
ﬁngers in wounds he made, ﬁngers whose dirt he had
no means of gauging, and no means of depriving of
this deadly inﬂuence. Let us remember that Keith,
who at least led us into the diminished mortality of
abdominal surgery, was Syme’s patient (ﬁrst), then
pupil, house surgeon, and assistant. Had it not been
for the unfortunate quarrel with Lizars in early life,
Syme would never have been prejudiced against
abdominal surgery, he would have established
ovariotomy in the “thirties,” and all that has since
followed from it would have been done by him, and
neither the schools of Lister, nor that of Tait would
ever have \been heard of. Let us hear no more of the
:nonsense about the bad results in surgery of pre-
Listerian times as having been cured by Lister. It is
not the truth.

Let me now take Dr. McMurty somewhat in detail
historically from the year 1867, that in which I was
permitted to pursue an independent course in life
and in surgery. As I have said in public more than
once, I left Edinburgh with at least one conclusion
determined in my mind, that I would never deliber-
ately open the abdomen. The results I had seen in
.Edinburgh were truly awful—some thirty cases and
not a recovery. But then they were all on the other side
«of the swing door. Fortunately for me Simpson’s early
papers on “ Hospitalism ” appeared, and “The Battle
of the Sites ” began, at ﬁrst a sort of duel between
Simpson and Syme—to be expected, as a matter of
«course. At ﬁrst, Syme saw no reason for a change

 




 

10

of site for the Edinburgh Inﬁrmary, and small blame
to him, when considered only from his position. But
he suddenly changed his attitude—we have never been

told why, but the guess that it was the diiference in_

the other side of the door which converted him, when
he had made known to him its awful signiﬁcance.

Then he battled only for an alternative site. In
1868 I broke through my formed resolution, and of
my ﬁrst ten ovariotomies only one died, the mortality
of an untrained beginner but the mortality main-
tained by the intra-peritoneal method unaided by
drainage and purgation. Then evil ways fell upon
me, and I went on with the clamp, raising my mor-
tality to nearly 50 percent. 1878 saw the short ligatures
reintroduced by Bantock and myself, and the princi-
ple of perfect segregation of my patients, together with
the free use of drainage by the tube and the seidlitz;
powder, and the mortality fell to 5'5 per cent. Through
the long series of 1,350 cases, published in the report
of the Birmingham Hospital for Women for 1893, all
hospital cases with every essential detail are thoroughly
authenticated by the Managing Committee of the
hospital and by my colleague, Dr. Savage, and myself,
at whose hands the actual work was done in very nearly
equal shares. At my hands there was no Listerism,
no chemical antiseptics, nothing but soap and water,
and strict attention to detail. In Dr. Savage’s work,
as he permits me to say, he followed Lister in a fashion
of his own, varying from time to time; and the fact-
that we arrived at results almost identical is more
convincing than anything else that chemical anti-
sepsis was an altogether unnecessary factor. No
malicious assertions that our statistics. have been
cooked can touch such a solid fact as this, and our
critics have been invited to go over the record for
themselves. Further, we can assert fearlessly, that
there was no picking of cases, for not a single case.
was refused.

Dr. McMurtry says, what I have over and over
again asserted, that “ the great faculty of absorption
possessed by the peritoneum made abdominal surgery
the ﬁeld of conﬂict for deciding the comparative
merits for asepsis, and the reaction of bacteria to»

 

*

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

11

wound infection generally.” Here another triumph
was secured by Mr. Sampson Gramgee, whose system
of dry dressing by absorbent and expanding cotton.
wool constitutes one of the most brilliant contribu--,
tions to modern surgery, from which I have made now
departure for sixteen years. Equally true is what
Dr. McMurtry says of animal ligatures, but then I
limit this to ﬁne silk, the best, the least dangerous,
and most trustworthy of all ligatures, and for every"
purpose.

“Hospitalism” and “The Battle of the Sites” have
transformed all the hospitals from shambles intox
palaces. Money ﬂows in, and honours follow it, so
soon as the rebuilding and reconstruction of an old.
hospital is proposed. Small hospitals under various
names are spread over this land in countless numbers,..
and with these more complete segregation of the:
patients is the chief object. And when a due interval
has elapsed, anyone who collects a few thousands of'
their cases of amputation and contrasts the results
with the terrible record of my “hospital mortality for"
ﬁfteen years, 1860 to 1875,” will prove to the world the
immense change eifected for the better by Simpson’s.
agitation.

The case against Listerism is very tersely put by
Dr. McMurtry in these words : “ Much confusion.
arose from the failure to recognise the power of the
tissues to resist germ invasion, and that in all sur-
gical operations a certain degree of bacterial infection
is overcome by this resistance.” A corollary to this.
was, of course, that the extent of the wound aided in
its increase the extent of bacterial infection. Had it
not been so, Lister, to be consistent and careful of his.
own welfare, ought to have been shaved every morn-
ing under the spray, or at least under an irrigation,
for one germ would be as fatal as a million. Again,
Dr. McMurtry’s words are true to the letter when he
says: “ Reliance upon antisepsis begot a disregard.
for mechanical cleanliness, and established a con-~
ﬁdence in chemical germicides to atone for slovenly
methods throughout an operation.” So we heard men.
in great surgical positions say in Society debates
that they would go unhesitatingly to the theatre

 

 




 

 

 

12

from the post-mortem room or the dissecting-table’
and perform an ovariotomy provided they were
allowed to wash their hands in a ﬁve per cent. solu-
tion of carbolic acid. This was our danger, but
there was another as great, perhaps greater.
Listerism became a fetish, a royal road to surgical
success by which men ventured to travel in surgery
whose hands ﬁtted them only for ﬁeld labours.

So far Dr. McMurtry and I agreed, but here we
take different paths. He says that our discussions
have now ceased, and that throughout all civilised
nations where surgery is taught and practised as a
science, the principles of Lister are accepted and
applied. It is not so, it shall not be so so long as I
live and can write. The agent may be the germ of
decomposition, or a specially and sportively endowed
germ, but the answer to him is the condition of his
surroundings. With exact and scientiﬁc recognition
of the germ seems to me only the beginning of the
mystery. I believe with Keith as quoted by
McMurtry “it was the "willing and tender, though
unclean hands of the surgeon that carried the
poison into the wounds.” As my experience grows,
as I ponder year after year over my fatal cases, this
conviction gets stronger and stronger. I have
eliminated every cause of death (save accident, and
that so far as I can) save the poisoning hand and
there every now and then I am beaten, beaten in the
most sudden and overwhelming fashion in cases
where there can be no other explanation, and in some
Where I have seen it plain enough. Thus I operate
on a huge perineal abscess and the smell is enough to
empty the house. My ﬁngers are soiled by the
horrible pus, and I wash and wash with germi-
rcide and perfumes, and the smell remains for
day s. Nobody will persuade me that it is the
presence of germs that continues the awful smell. It
is the presence of something far more potent than
germs, probably a secretion of theirs which soaks
deep, deep into the skin, far beyond where a germ
could go. The slightest access of these germs to an
abraded ﬁnger means something little short of death.
A post-mortem was held on one of my patients with

 




 

 

 

13

such an abscess as this round the kidney, and of the
three men. present two, who had no contact at all
actually with the putrid pus, died of putrid sore
throat in a few days, and the third was seriously ill.
This peculiar putridity is common in * perineal
abscesses and in abscesses of the cheek. Itis also met
with in and round the kidney, in the peritoneum when
the bladder is an active factor in the ‘suppuration, and
in all-cases of purulent peritonitis,f and chieﬂy those
of puerperal origln. It is a most deadly‘thing when
introduced into the peritoneal cavity by the " ﬁnger of
the surgeon, even days after his contact with it; Some
years ago I opened the abdomen of a woman four
days after her labour for purulent peritonitis, and
encountered this fearful putridity. Having strong
suspicions of its deadly character, I soaked my hands
for hours in various germicidal lotions as hot as I
could bear them. till my hands were like those of a
washerwoman.

On the third and fourth days after I operated on two
simple ovarian tumour cases, and the rapidity with
which these two women succumbed was altogether
shocking, the post-mortem examination leaving no
other guess than “ acute septicaemia.” A perfectly
parallel experience has been the melancholy fate of
one of my recent assistants. Then when I ﬁnd the
outcome of the most recent investigations of the
scientists, I think of Keith, conspicuously devoid of
any science, and I conclude that he knew more and
was humbler in his belief than the proud-hearted
investigators. I am on his side. Even if every word
of the ever-changing doctrines and details of the
Listerian systems were true, and as I have often said,
there is much true but not much new. I say it is
only another notch on the tree, and not a big one.
Even if it were what Dr. McMurtry claims for it,
now we see what a humiliation it would be to have
to confess that after all this ﬁght of a quarter of a
century, it results only in the old advice to the
AsSyrian, “ Go, wash, and be clean.”

If we had watched Syme more closely and had
listened to Simpson with ear other than that of the
adder, closed and deaf, we had not needed this ﬁght.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




 




