 

 

“ANCES PQWER COBBE

 

XTH Emmmm

//
W“
/ \‘I

rtectzon of Annuals from Viv/”section
1L 0 Nmmg mtg-h the
W . International 2* ssociation
Published by the ‘ .' ﬁmm§7m§ﬂgmgxs§lgﬁ 0325:) ‘

GMV’VEWSE’CM v ,,

A’MHWSTHWWW/v

h mammmxm ﬁssgcmwmx Em ‘ ~ ' w. SRO-N GE VWBbECTWﬂ

FREQ-E THREEFENGEe

 








 

 

 

 

THE MORAL ASPECTS

OF

VIVISECTION.

 

BY

FRANCES POWER COBBE.

 

SIXTH EDITION.

 
 
 
    
     

  
  

/\
A 3:: :rEVt 5.,
/l\®\ /.\ﬁ 0mm ‘* Oclety

Protectiﬁzgm Aninomlshe rom Viuisection

<1:
Published by thy-V1.5 Forﬁgigoglgguppresswlﬁof FR“ ECTION OF

 

’ 4% FRdMiBérmECTI , %‘
, INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATI 011A «3'???»- * SIGN OF VIVISECTION.

 

1884
PRICE THREEPENCE.

 




 

X454. r:- ".\tnmn1 swan-Mauritian"

an;- um-

 

LONDON:
PRINTED BY PEWTRESS & Co.,

28, LITTLE QUEEN STREET, LINCOLN’s INN FIELDS, VV.C.

 

, Wr<.;..m-_h-_~.“.._. ...,._ T. ...‘..........,...-_. ........__..—_-

 

 




 

 

THE

MORAL ASPECTS OF VIVISECTIUN.

 

4»

THE notion of the extreme tenderness and sensibility of
early youth, especially in the male human creature, is almost
as purely conventional and remote from experience as the
poetic ﬁction of an English spring, all sunshine and ﬂowers.
That type of cruelty which comes of ignorance and reckless-
ness alike of their own suffering and that of others, and
wherein Curiosity, not Malice, is the prevailing motive, is at
its worst in adolescence; and only as years go by, and
observations multiply, and the experience of pain ploughs
up the heart, does sympathy grow by slow degrees, till at
last, as Sir Arthur Helps has pointed out, it may be predicted
with certainty that a jury of old men will take the most
merciful view of every case brought for their verdict.

On the larger scale of nations and of humanity, the same
process of initiation into the mysteries of suffering and of
sympathy has gone forward, and we now behold society so far
emerged from the age of barbarism that an English gentle-
man would no more insert now-a-days in his account book
(like the pious and charitable Alleyne) an item for “ Whip-
ping of ye Blind Beare,” than the stream of trafﬁc would
proceed peacefully over Westminster Bridge were a Fenian’s
head to be exhibited on the cornice. The inﬂuences of
civilization, of religion, of cultivation—in short, of all kinds,
mental and moral—have softened, like the rain of heaven,
the crust of our dry, hard world, and there is every reason

 




 

4

to hope that, unless arrested or perverted, they will trickle
downwards and permeate the whole soil of human society, till
the “desert shall rejoice and blossom as the rose.” When
we think of what earth might become were the tiger passions
within our race to be bred out at last, and the divine faculty
of love and sympathy to attain its obviously intended develop-
ment, it would seem as if efforts for the improvement of
our physical or sanitary conditions, or for the advance of
arts, science or laws, were scarcely worth making, in com-
parison of any step which should bring us nearer to such an
age of joy.

But it is by no means an even and unbroken line of
progress which we can ﬂatter ourselves our race is pursuing
towards a millenium of mercy. While the general stream
of tendency is undoubtedly in that direction, and may indeed
be dimly traced so to have been since the beginning of
history, yet there are certain counter currents observable
which are setting altogether in an opposite direction. The
great wars which the gigantic armies of modern European
statecraft have made possible, and the dire legacy of national
hatred which such conﬂicts bequeath to unborn generations,
present uudoubtedly alarming obstacles in our road. It may
excite surprise, perhaps ridicule, if I point to another and
apparently comparatively insigniﬁcant feature of modern
life, as no less threatening in another way. If, while a
patient seems to be recovering from a long malady, a new
and strange symptom should suddenly exhibit itself, the ~
physician would unquestionably hold that there existed
considerable latent danger. Much such a rapid development
of peculiarly acrimonious moral disease appears to be taking
place in that part of our social body which is just now the
seat of highest vitality.

Science is undoubtedly at this hour the ruling passion
of the age. What the Chase, War, Art, and Learning,
have been in various past epochs, so is the pursuit
of Physical Knowledge in our generation. The triumphs
thereby achieved have dazzled us, as the people of France

 

 

 




 

 

 

5

were dazzled by the victories of the ﬁrst Napoleon; and
even such of us as understand but very imperfectly wherein
these boasted conquests consist, are ready, like our betters,
to cast our palms in the way of the new Messiah and shout
“Hosanna!” albeit we have too seldom reason to believe
that he “ cometh in the name of the Lord.” If any men
may claim to be more than others the representatives of the
period, in the “ foremost ﬁles of time,” it is our men of
science. Whether the rest of mankind will hereafter meekly
follow in their mental track yet remains to be seen ; but it is
certain that no statesmen, no divines, no metaphysicians
offer themselves at the present day with so high pretensions
to become our Moses and Aarons, and to lead us—it may be
into a Canaan, it may be into a wilderness. What is done,
thought, felt, by the men of science is of almost incalculable
weight in determining the proximate tendencies of thousands
of lesser spirits—the direction to be taken by all those
innumerable minds which have no motor fOrce of their own,
but follow the Zeizf Geist whithersoever he goeth. A peculiar
and abnormal manifestation of sentiment among the scientiﬁc
class, or even of a certain small section of it,* is, therefore,
quite otherwise signiﬁcant than the rise of a silly or cruel
fashion among the jemwsse dam: of the clubs and the race-
course, or the prevalence of an idle delusion in certain urban
coteries.

Such manifestation is, I apprehend, actually observable in
the very rapid extension of the practice of painful Experi-
ments on Animals, to which some prominence has lately

 

 

3“ Probably the great astronomers and geologists would be the very last
to countenance such practices as those to which reference is made. Mrs.
Somerville’s expressions of abhorrence of them are repeated many times in
her “ Recollections;” and the late venerable Sir Charles Lyell, a short
time before his death, answered the writer’s inquiries as to his opinion with
a shudder of disgust, and added: “I do not even like to think of all the
insects I killed when I was a young man and made my entomological collec-
tion. Of course I did it with every precaution to save them pain, but I do
not like to remember it now.”

 

 

 




 

6

been given in public discussion. In the present paper I
purpose studiously to avoid detailing, or even alluding speci-
ﬁcally to, any of the multiform horrors which are classiﬁed
under the name of Vivisections. But without harrowing the
reader by descriptions of them, I shall merely point to such
experiments as those singularly ingenious varieties of torture
which ﬁll the large volumes of French, German and
English physiological Handbooks, and suggest to my
readers the inquiry; Whether this sort of thing be not
strangely at variance with the tone of thought and practice.
which at present prevail in other departments of human
activity; and whether such books, for example, as these
Catechisms of the Art of Torture, do not even stand
unique in the literature of the world? While our legislation
tends to an almost excessive lenity towards criminals; while
our Art and our Letters become yearly more reﬁned and fas-
tidious; while our manners grow more uniformly courteous
towards all classes; and while in a very special manner, we
are beginning to take a new interest in the intelligence and
affections of the lower animals, and to visit their cruel treat-
ment with condign punishment—in the midst of all this
humanising process we suddenly ﬁnd a break, a pause, nay,
a very decided retrograde movement. It is at least ﬁtting
that we should inquire into the meaning of this strange and
startling phenomenon. Let us suppose, to aid our imagina-
tion, that something analogous to Vivisection were going on
in some other department of modern activity. There are
legends that dilettmzte sovereigns in the Cinque-cento age
(when Art was supreme as Science is now), were so anxious
to aid the great painters at their work, that they beheaded
men to serve for models for John the Baptist, and cruciﬁed
boys to enable them to verify the details of Calvary. Were
a similar expedient suggested in our day in the schools ofthe
Royal Academy, can we conceive the tempest of public
indignation which would gather round the head of the
enthusiastic Art Director who deemed the “ end ” of produc-
ing a noble and religious picture so sacred that all “means ”

 

 




 

 

 

7

were lawful to attain it? Or suppose that, for the sanitary
interests of the community, it were proposed to stamp out
small-pox by administering poison to every person seized
with the disease. Is it imaginable that such a scheme would
obtain a hearing? Or (to come to closer analogies) let us
fancy that, in the progress of gastronOmy, an experiment, to
which we had not become hardened by custom, and no less
cruel than the production of foie gms, or the old process. for
making white veal, were suddenly to be introduced from
France; or that sportsmen adopted a fashion of merely
mangling their game, or using red-hot or poisoned shot.
How horrible and startling should we pronounce the novel
indulgence of tastes so morbid and pastimes so atrocious!
Yet such indifference to suffering as we have imagined in
our hypothetical cases of artists, or sanitary reformers, or
cooks, or sportsmen, would, on the whole, be less monstrous
and anomalous than the passion for Vivisection among the
men of science ; and this for two noticeable reasons. In the
ﬁrst place, artists, sportsmen, and bon-m’vants, know compara-
tively little of the nature and extent of the suffering caused
by lacerations of the living tissues, or the production of
morbid conditions, while the physiologists understand the
matter to a nicety, and have the most perfect acquaintance
with every pain which they cause—nay, the causation which
is often the immediate object of their ingenious exertions.
As the writer of a letter in the Pall Mall Gazette, bearing
the well-known signature of “ Lew1s Caroll,” expressed
it: “ What can teach the noble quality of mercy, of sen-
sitiveness to every form of suffering, so powerfully as the
knowledge of what suffering really is? Can the man who
has once realized by minute study what the nerves are, what
the brain is, and what waves of agony the one can convey to
the other, go forth and wantonly inﬂict pain on any sentient
being P A little while ago we should have conﬁdently replied,
‘ He cannot do it.’ In the light of modern revelations we
must sorrowfully confess he can.” Again, in a still more
marked way the acts of the vivisectors are anomalous and

 




8

out of character. It is the boast of the school of science to
which they belong that it has exploded the old theory that
Man is unique in creation, with a higher origin than the
brutes, and a different destiny. They give us to understand
' that God,—-—or rather the “ Unknown and Unknowable,”—has
“ made of one blood ” at least all the M ammalz'a upon earth.
Not merely our corporeal frames, but Thought, Memory, Love,
Hate, Hope, Fear, and even some shadowy analogues of Con-
science and Religion have been traced by the great
thinker at the head of this school, throughout the lower
realms of life upon this planet; and, in the eyes of most
cultivated and thoughtful persons in these days, the
claims of a dog, an elephant, a seal or a chimpanzee, to
consideration and compassion, are at least as high as were
those of a Negro, a century ago in the eyes of a Jamaica
planter. To ﬁnd a number of men of science—disciples, it v
is believed, almost without exception, of the doctrine of ‘
Evolution —— themselves pursuing, and teaching their
pupils to pursue, trains of physiological investigations
involving unutterable suffering to these same “Poor
Relations” of our human family, is an appalling pheno-
menon. That Pope Pius IX. should have refused the late
Lord Ampthill’s request for permission to form in Rome a
Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, might, perhaps,
be understood on the strange ground his response assumed——
viz., that it was “a theological error to suppose that man
OWGS any duty to the animal.”* But that the disciples of
Darwin should themselves be the teachers and leaders in a
new development of most exquisite cruelty to the brutes

 

 

3* This expression has been perhaps scarcely rightly understood. His
Eminence Cardinal Manning Who has taken a lively interest in the subject
and mo“ importantly served the cause of anti-vivisection, made the
following observations as a Member of the Deputation to the Home
Secretary from the Society for the Protection of Animals liable to
Vivisection :

“ I think it greatly to the honour of England that there is a law in the

Statute 800k punishing cruelty to animals. That law seems to express the

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

9

whom they believe to share our blood,,our intelligence, and
our affections, is indeed a portent of strange and threatening
augury. It involves no less than the adoption of a moral
theory of boundless application—namely, that the weak have
absolutely no claims at all against the strong, but maybe
tortured ad iaﬁm'tam even on the chance of discovering some-
thing interesting to the lordlier race; or for the purpose of
better ﬁxing an impression by the sight of their agonies than
could be effected by the verbal description of a lecturer.*
“ We ask, bewildered,” says a writer in the Daily News, “ how
far then will these apologists of vivisection go in approving
of the sacriﬁce of the weak for the sake of the strong? If it
be proper to torture a hundred affectionate dogs or intelligent
chimpanzees to settle some curious problem about their
brains, will they advocate doing the same to a score of Bos-
jesmen, to the idiots in our asylumns, to criminals, to infants,
to women ?

Truly this mournful spectacle of the perpetration of cruelty
by those who best understand what is cruel, and of the con-
temptuous disregard of the claims of the brutes by those who
have taught us that the brutes are only undeveloped men, is
one to ﬁll us with sorrowful forebodings for that future of our
race which, from other quarters, seems to promise so fairly.
“ The simultaneous loss,” writes one of the deepest and most
observant thinkers of the day, “ from the, morals of our
‘ advanced ’ scientiﬁc men of all reverent sentiments towards
being above them, as towards being below, is a curious and
instructive phenomenon, highly signiﬁcant of the process
which their natures are undergoing at both ends.”

 

great moral principle that people have no right to inﬂict needless pain.
The plea of scientiﬁc inquiry and research appears to present the most
reﬁned pretext of cruelty in violation of that law. The inﬂiction of need-
less ‘pain is a moral wrong; and to say that we owe no moral obligations
to the lower animals is simply odious and detestable, because a moral
obligation is due to their Creator.

* Prof. Rutherford, at a meeting of the British Medical Association at
Edinburgh, expressly defended vivisection on this ground.

 

 




 

 

IO

Of course events, like the sudden development of physio-
logical cruelties, do not take place without sufﬁcient cause,
and are not without some ostensible excuse on the part
of those responsible for them. The common passion for
science in general and for physiology in particular, and
the prevalent materialistic belief that the secrets of Mind
can best be explored in Matter, undoubtedly account in no
small measure for the vehemence of the new pursuit of
original physiological investigations. Then, for the instruc-
tion of students in agonizing experiments, other causes may
readily be found. Young men at the age of ordinary
medical students are, as Ibegan by remarking, ﬁlled with
curiosity and exceedingly empty of sympathy and pity.
An eminent physiologist recently bore testimony to his
surprise when a whole class of his pupils trooped out of
his lecture-room, on purpose to see the assistant kill a
creature which he had considerately intended should be
despatched out of sight before dissection. “ I remained
alone in my chair,” he observed, “ a sadder and a wiser man.”
The same keenness of observation, or a memory of their own
youthful insensibility, ought to teach all professors of physio-
logy that they are indulging a maleﬁcent tendency Which
already exists in their pupils’ disposition, when they invite
mere lads of the Bob Sawyer type to watch their frightful
experiments—the more frightful, so much, alas; the more
attractive.* And, further still, the proclivity of the time to

 

 

 

* Great indignation was expressed at the above remarks in the ﬁrst
edition of this paper by Sir William Gull and Professor Ferrier before the
Royal Commission. Sir William Gull said (Minutes of Evidence, 5502)
that “ he had never seen anything affording the remotest justiﬁcation of the
phraseology ” of the passage, and Professor F errier (ibid, 3350) thought it
“ a gross libel upon a class.”

The opinion of two no less eminent men and more experienced teachers.
Professor Rolleston, of Oxford, and Dr. Haughton were somewhat different.
Professor Rolleston remarked:

“ Kingsley speaks of ‘ the sleeping devil, that is in the heart of everyman,’
but you may say it is the lower nature which we possess in common With
the Carnivora. It is just this, that the sight of a living, bleeding and quiver-

.-

 




‘ IVA/A — A <

nus"

 

II

youthful independence and raw incredulity of the experience
of others, adds strength to the desire of students to see with
their own eyes the phenomena which their instructors might
almost, or quite, as thoroughly convey to them by means of

‘ descriptions, and the extraordinarily perfect models and

diagrams now available.* There is nothing intrinsically
blameworthy in this wish, which is, perhaps, an integralpart
of the scientiﬁc temperament. But its claims to be indulged,
when indulgence means for a sensitive creature exquisite
torture, and for the student such satisfaction as he may ﬁnd
in watching it, is another question.

Of the argumentative defences of vivisection more must
be said. The chief, I think, is a double-barrelled instrument,
aimed at our selﬁshness (under the grandiloquent name of
the Beneﬁt of the Human Race) on the one side, and our bad
conscience as regards various kinds of cruelty on the other.
The latter, or m quoque argument, which was set forth at
large in a semi-jocose pamphlet by the assistant of M. Schiff,
and published in Florence under the name of “ Gli Animali
Martiri,” refers us with a sneer to the cruelties of the chase
and the shambles, and asks us whether, in a world where
such things are done from the very lowest motives, it is worth
while to dispute a few victims for those sacred Altars of

 

ing organism most undoubtedly does act in a particular way upon what Dr.
Carpenter calls, the emotiono-motor nature in us. I know that many men
are superior to it; butI beg to say that if we are talking of legislation, we
are not to legislate for the good, but for the mass who I submit are not
always good ” (1287).

Dr. HAUGHTON said:

“I would shrink with horror from accustominglarge classes of young men
to the sight of animals under vivisection. I believe that many of them
Would become cruel and hardened, and would go away and repeat those
experiments recklessly. Science would gain nothing, and the world would
have let loose upon it a set of young devils” (I888).

="‘And which are so conveyed in other branches of study when their
exhibition would cause any serious inconvenience. What chemist thinks
it needful to blow up a room to show his pupils the qualities of a detonating
powder ?

 




 

12

Science which, form the furniture of physiological labora-
tories? The answer to this appeal is not far to seek. One
offence does not exculpate another, even if both be morally
on the same level. But (as we have just seen) all other cruelties
have some excuse in the ignorance or stupidity of those who .
inﬂict them, while those of the Physiologist alone bear the
treble stigma of being done in the full light of knowledge by
singularly able men, and with the calmest forethought and
deliberation. And while every other kind of cruelty is falling
into disrepute, if not into disuse, this alone is rising almost
into the rank of a profession, like a superior sort of butchery.
As to the argument that it “ does not become people who eat
animal ﬂesh to demur to the torture of animals,” it would have
seemed that no one with common sense could have employed
it, had we not found it repeatedly brought forward by the
pro-vivisectors as if it possessed withering force. The cattle
we use for food exist on the condition that we shall take their
lives when we need them ; and in doing so in the ordinary,
not unmerciful manner, we save them the far worse miseries of
old age and starvation. To kill a creature quickly is one thing.
To cause it to suffer torture which shall make its existence a
curse, is quite another matter.

Finally, for the tediously reiterated but more reasonable
reproach, that the opponents of vivisection make no efforts
to put down Field Sports, and count among their numbers
many fox-hunters, deer-stalkers, fowlers, and anglers—what
shall be answered? My reply is that the parallel between
vivisection and Field Sports is about as just and accurate
as if a tyrant,vaccused of racking his prisoners in his secret
dungeons, were to turn round and open a discussion on the
Lawfulness of War. That creatures who chase, and are
chased all their days in ﬁelds and waters, should have an
arch-enemy and pursuer in man, may be differently esti-
mated as ill or well. But it is almost ludicrous to compare a
fox-hunt (for example) with its free chances of escape and its
almost instantaneous termination in the annihilation of the
poor fox when captured, with the slow, long-drawn agonies

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

I3

of an affectionate, trustful dog, fastened down limb by limb,
and mangled on its torture-trough. An old-world passion,
which had in its place and use in another form of society, is
running to seed in the modern fashion of ﬁeld sports, such as
battues and pigeon matches. A new passion which scarcely
had existence twenty years ago, is sprouting above ground
and showing its bud in Vivisection. _

Of course the motive of the sportsman, being usually
merely sport, contrasts much to his disadvantage with that
which the vivisector requires us to believe is his actuating
principle. The latter tells us that it is for the exalted pur-
pose of alleviating the sufferings of mankind, which touch his
tender heart to the quick, that he puts himself and his brute
victims to the pain of the experiments ; whereas the sportsman
can only sometimes plead that he kills game for food or to
clear the land of noxious creatures; and must usually
confess that he hunts, or shoots, or angles for his own
pleasure, health, and amusement.

So far as the present writer’s opinion is concerned, these
latter motives do not justify such pursuits when they entail
the death of animals neither hurtful to man nor wanted for
his food ; nor do any ﬁeld sports seem to harmonise with the
highest type of cultivated and humane feeling. But the
men who follow them may plead at least the excuse of
custom and of partial ignorance. Turn we, on the other
hand, to those boasted motives of lofty and far-sighted
philanthrophy which are alleged to spur the vivisector to
his ugly work in his laboratory, where no fern-brakes or
heathery hills, no fresh breezes or dancing streams, such as

throw enchantment round the pursuits of the sportsman, are
‘ present to cast any glamour over the process of torture; and
where no chance of escape on the part of the brute, or risk
to his own person, may stir his pulse with the manly struggle
for victory.

In the ﬁrst place, I may remark that the mental consti-
tution of a man must be somewhat exceptional who is
enthusiastically anxious to relieve the sufferings of unseen

 

 

 

 




 

I4

I

and perhaps unborn, men and women, but who cares in
comparison nothing at all for those agonies which are
endured immediately under his eye by creatures who accord-
ing to his philosophy are only a step lower in the scale of
being. It verges truly on the gigantic and Promethean to
talk of such devotion to the interests of Humanity in the
abstract ; and when we behold a cultivated and gifted gentle-
man selecting freely for his life-work the daily mangling of
dogs and cats, we are quite at a loss to qualify the grandeur
of his voluntary martyrdom. Perhaps it is not very astonish-
ing that homely people, who do not feel in their breasts the
vocation for such sublime devotion, should treat the boast
of these motives as just a little partaking of the character
of moonshine; and suppose, in a matter-of—fact way, that
either the vivisector is a perfectly callous man, whose horrrid
work never cost him a pang,“ or that, if he have any linger-
ing feelings of compassion, he puts them aside in favour of
sentiments rather more common in the world than such
Curtius-like self-sacriﬁce. As very few of us would purchase
immunity from our own diseases at the cost of the torture of
a hundred dogs, we may be pardoned for doubting whether
the vivisector who cuts them up (as he assures us) for our
sakes, is really more interested on our behalf than we are
for ourselves.

I believe, then, that we may not unjustiﬁably fall back on
the conclusion that the real motives of vivisectors are of one
or other of two less exalted kinds. The better class we may

 

9“ I am compelled to testify that in wading through a mass of this Dead
Sea literature, I have never been refreshed by a single passing expression
of commiseration for the animals, whose signs of agony are recorded
merely as interesting features of the experiments; or of regret that the
higher scientiﬁc objects in View necessitated the prolongation of their
tortures. If such feelings exist in the hearts of the operators, I congratu-
late them on the signal success wherewith they eliminate the slightest
trace of them from all their reports. Further, in perusing the books dedi-
cated to the instruction of young students, I have looked equally in vain
for any hint of caution, or recommendation to parsimony, in the use of the
most excruciating experiments.

 

 




 

 

 

I5

credit with a sincere ardour for Science, and that passion
which has been well named the Dilletantism of Discovery.
And these belong precisely to that order of hammes a grands
dessez'ns, who are more than any others liable to overstep the
bounds of justice and mercy, and who more than others need
the invention of the social conscience to check their reckless-
ness. For a lower class we must, I fear, take the word of
a man who worked for four months among them, in a labo-
ratory where from one to three dogs were sacriﬁced daily:
“The idea of the good of humanity was simply out of the
question, and would have been laughed at; the great aim
being to keep up with or go ahead of our contemporaries in
science, even at the price of an incalculable amount of
. needless torture to anmals.*

But the motives which actually inﬂuence living vivisectors
do not, of course, determine the ethical lawfulness of the
practice of vivisection. Our real problem is, whether the
highest end to which it may conduce, and which they may
possibly contemplate,—viz., either the direct beneﬁt of man-
kind by special discovery, or the indirect beneﬁt by the
general advancement of science—morally justiﬁes the means
whereby it is to be obtained? Does the Good of Man
justify the torture of brutes?

At this point we are commonly called upon to recognize
with profound admiration and gratitude the immense value
of discoveries said to be due to physiological experiment, and
we are challenged to say Whether, for example, Harvey’s
Circulation of the Blood, Bell’s Double Function of the
Nerves and Simpson’s Chloroform, were not secrets worth
buying at the price of a considerable amount of animal pain?
The ﬁrst answer to this “tall talk” is, that not one of these
great discoveries appears to have been really made by the
aid of vivisection (Mr. Lawson Tait’s “ Uselessness of Vivi-
section”); and that of the other reputed results of such
experiments, it may be generally afﬁrmed that they resemble

w/d’ﬁ/

*9 Dr. Hoggan’s letter to the M orning Post.

 

 

 




 

16

the marvels said to have been wrought by the magicians of
Pharaoh, who could bring the plagues upon Egypt, but re-
mained quite powerless to cure them. Into such controversies,
however, concerning the utility of vivisection, I, for one,
refuse to enter. I am quite ready to admit that beneﬁt has
frequently resulted in all ages from a variety of evil deeds—
from Rapine, Perjury, Infanticide, and especially from the
sacriﬁce of “ hecatombs ” of women to spare “ the smallest
pain ” (or self-restraint) of men. But not on account of such
utility do I consider robbery and falsehood, the murder of
infants or the prostitution of hapless women, right or lawful.
Thus I refuse even to entertain the question, “ Whether the
torture of animals can be justiﬁed on the plea of beneﬁt to
humanity.” And for this simple reason: I do not hold the .
Jesuit principle that “ The End justiﬁes the Means,” and I
am satisﬁed that the“ Means ” of Torture are morally for-
bidden and unlawful. Bishop Butler’s grand axiom that
every sentient creature has an indefeasible claim to be spared
pain merely because it is sentient, involves the corollary that
the claims of the humblest of such creatures must begin some-
where, and cannot be wholly and ﬁnally abrogated,—as they
would be on the hypothesis that we may push our right to
take their lives to the ultimate and indeﬁnitely more remote
point of putting them to torture. To make of the existence
of a creature such a misfortune and curse as that it should
seem better it had never been born,—this is assuredly far
beyond the exercise of any prerogative which man can claim
for himself, either in virtue of any inherent superiority of his
nature, or of any privilege he can conceive to have been
granted to him by the Creator.

To afﬁrm, then, as vivisectors are wont to do, that they
would freely “ sacriﬁce a hecatomb of dogs to save the
smallest pain of a man,” is merely an expression of contempt
for the rights of beings feebler than themselves, and which
are not yet advanced by evolution. to the lordly class of
“ Bimana,” or the genus “Homo.” What are the moral
grounds, we ask, for this astounding new principle of Race

 

 




 

 

I7

Selﬁshness? What is there in Man, either considered only as
our fellow-bimanous animal, or as an immortal being Whose
body is but the garment of his soul, which should make his
triﬂing pain so ineXpressibly solemn a matter, and the agony
of another animal, no less physically sensitive, insigniﬁcant
by comparison P Of course we may naturally feel a little
more spontaneous sympathy with a suffering man than with
a suffering horse. But what is the ethical reason why we
should prefer the pain of a thousand horses to that of a single
man P Sir Henry Taylor has written noble lines on this
matter, going deep into the heart of the question :—
“ Pain, terror, mortal agonies that scare

Thy heart in man, to brutes thou wilt not spare:

Are theirs less sad and real? Pain in man

Bears the high mission of the flail and fan ,-

I n brutes ’tis purely piteous.”*
There is no sight in all the world, to a thoughtful mind, more
suggestive of harrowing reﬂection, no line of the long “ riddle
of the painful earth ” more confounding to the religious soul,
than the sufferings of creatures who have never sinned, and
for Whom (according to common belief) there will be no
compensation for injustice in another life. While human
pain has its plausible explanations and its possible beneﬁcent
results, animal pain seems (at least to our dim eyes) sheer
unmitigated evil. I am at a loss then to conceive on what
principle, deserving the name of moral, we are to speak and
act as if such evil counted absolutely for nothing, while the
aches and pains of men are to be so highly esteemed, that
the most cruel sacriﬁces must not be spared, if a chance eXlSt
of alleviating them. When we remember who are the
teachers who talk about the “ hecatomb,” and What IS the1r

View of the relationship of man to the lower anlmalsiwe
arked) that the only intelhgible
very ancient one—
lization has been

discover (as above rem
Principle on which they proceed 1s that

16 droit du ﬁlm fort. As the main work of civi
/.__.__.__——

 

-__.

 

* Poems ; Vol. III. “ The Amphitheatre at Pozzuoli.”

 

 

 

 




 

18

the vindication of the rights of the weak, it is not too much,
I think, to insist that the practice of vivisection, in which
this tyranny of strength culminates, is a retrograde step in the
progress of our race; a backwater in the onward ﬂowing stream
of justice and mercy, no less portentous than deplorable.
But it is impossible to regard this subject as if it were a
mere abstract ethical problem. The vivisection of dull
reptiles, and wild rats and rabbits, wherewith the elder
generation of students contented themselves, is not alone in
question, nor even that of the heavy beasts in our pastures.
By some strange and sinister fatality, the chosen victims at
present, are the most intelligent and friendly of our domestic
favourites—the cats who purr in love and conﬁdence as they
sit beside us on the hearth, the dogs whose faithful hearts
glow with an affection for us, truer and fonder than we may
easily ﬁnd in any human breast. To disregard all the beauti-
ful and noble moral qualities which such animals exhibit, and
coldly contemplate them as if their quivering frames were
mere machines of bone and tissue which it might be
interesting and proﬁtable to explore with forceps and
scalpel, is to display heinous indifference to Love and
Fidelity themselves, and surely to renounce the claim to be
the object of such sentiments to brute or man. Our human
race has for thousands of years trained these creatures to
serve and trust us, till their natures are all bent towards us
in love and conﬁdence. So deeply rooted, indeed, is this
faith in man in the case of the dogs that those who have
witnessed the scenes in the laboratories of physiologists
testify that the brutes can scarcely be made to understand
that it is intended to hurt and kill them, but still try after
hours of agony, to lick the hands of their tormentor, and
plead with him for mercy with their beseeching eyes when
their limbs are all fastened down and immovable on the
operating table. Will any one contend that it is not the
vilest, the most odious treachery to betray and mock such
faith of the dumb creature, and torture him to death for our
purposes, while he,—poor brute, whom we despise,—-—would

 

 




 

 

I9

die freely to save us from fire or the waves, or perchance
expire of grief upon our graves P

Nay, more; are we not altogether on a wrong track in
arguing this question on the level to which we have
descended P Are not Generosity, Self-sacriﬁce, the readi-
ness to suffer, the very rudiments of all virtue and all nobility
of character P Are we to go back to the condition of savages
—nay rather of those '

i “ Dragons of the prime
\Vhich tare each other in their slime.”

when we have boasted we had ascended to the rank of men,
of Christians, of English Gentlemen P Is it a question for a
man who aspires to be a brave or worthy, not to speak of a
chivalrous or noble person, whether he may, within the limits
of actual offence, spend his days in putting harmless animals
on the rack for the beneﬁt of himself and his kind? And is
it our proper Teachers, those who are ﬁt to guide and train
young minds, and direct the tendencies of future generations,
who are striving to move us to condone and approve such
deeds by cant about the “ Glory of Science,” and by appeals
to our miserable, cowardly fears of disease. and our selﬁsh
willingness to save “the smallest pain of a man at the cost
of the torture of a hecatomb of brutes P ”

To me it appears, I avow, that all this reveals a backsliding
in feeling and moral aim almost measureless in the depth of
its descent. The whole notion of vivisection, as a legitimate
exercise and mode of satisfying human desire of knowledge,
seems to rest on a radically false conception of the proper
ends of human life, and a no less erroneous idea of our
relationship to those humbler tribes of creatures who are

our fellow-lodgers in this planet-house of the Almighty. As
e there better things to live for
nor is any fact which

life is more than meat, so ar
than Knowledge or escape from Pain ;
Science can reveal worth acquiring at the price of selﬁshness

and cruelty. The brutes are not mere toys and puzzles, put
here by their Creator and ours that we may freely dlvert

 

 




 

20

ourselves by breaking them to pieces to see how His wisdom
has made them. They are fellow-w’eatzms with ourselves-—
sinless fellow-creatures, be it remembered, who have broken
no Divine law and deserved no punishment. If the day
ever come (as it is my faith it will, hereafter) when all
men shall look back upon the deeds done upon earth, and
behold them in their true colours, must it not be that in the
agonies of remorse and self-abhorrence in the vivisector’s
soul will be meted out the measure ofjustice he has dealt to
his victims P

To restore the true moral perspective of acts of cruelty, it
is needful that those who have looked on them so closely and
familiarly as to have become blind to their enormity should
learn how they appear to others whose eyes are yet fresh to
the horrid spectacle, and who can take in from their remoter
standpoint at once the vaunted bribe of relief to their own
maladies, and the price which must be paid for it beforehand,
in the pangs ofinnocent creatures. And as the lay conscience
was needed to check the persecutions, inquisitions and
Autosda-fe which the priesthood of Religion justiﬁed on the
high plea of the eternal interests of mankind, so now the same
lay conscience is needed to stop the scarcely less barbarous
cruelties which that other Priesthood—the Scientific—justiﬁes
on the far inferior ground of our bodily welfare.

 

 

 

 








 




