illupal Simian
, fur the
abrehentimt of @1112th in (animals,
‘ 105, glerzugu giant, ,ﬂfunhnxt, $363111.

MW

Humane Slaughtering ‘ i

_ . . I-
Progress and checks to progress in
recent years.
The Reading Case, etc.

. . II. . ,
f1\,._vGeneral aspects of the movement,
H a " l f III. ,
.. ;__:g;__.'l‘;lre Humane Killer in principle and
' ' * ~ practice. _
‘ IV. _
f How to use humane killers (illustrated)

 

BY

R. 0. P. PADDISON,
”-m—eﬂsaé—ﬂ

July,‘ 1922.

 








 

 

 

 

CONTENTS.

INDEX.

PREFACE.

I.
PROGRESS AND CHECKS TO. PROGRESS IN
RECENT YEARS.

THE READING CASE, &c.

II.
GENERAL ASPECTS OF THE MOVEMENT.

III.
THE HUMANE KILLER IN PRINCIPLE
AND PRACTICE.

IV.

    
    
  
 
   

HOW TO USE HUMANE KILLERS (Illustrated).

  

    
   
   
   
  
    
   

 

 




5.... ‘
ikrvIL |....L.‘ » \.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

INDEX.

1.
Progress and checks to progress in recent years.
The by-laws and the war——p. 3. After the war-—p. 3.
The Reading case-—pp. 4, 5, 6. Present position——pp. 7, 8.

II.
General aspects of the movement.

Aims of the humane slaughtering movement--p. 9.
The aims in course of attainment——p. 9‘. Powers
of local authoritieso—p. IO. Legislation by Act of
Parliament——p. 10. Public slaughterhouses and humane
slaughtering-—pp. 11, i2. Cruelty of the knife-—p. 13.
Torture by 1earners——p. 14.. Clause 9 (B) stands for
humane killing—-—p. 15. Clause 9 (A) excludes sheep
and produces cruelty——pp. 15, 16. The Admiralty Com-
mittee (19o4.)—-—p. 17. Present conditions no improvement
——p. 17. Effectual stunning a perfect anaesthetic——p. 18.
Two Bills presented to Parliarnent—-—p. 19. Adoption of
the model by-laws by local authorities—p. 20. The
public’s responsibility——p. 20. How the public can help
-—p. 20. Petitions to local authorities——p. 21. Oppos-
ition of meat traders to the by-laws——p. 22. Butchers
often humane and reasonal>le—-~pp. 23. Slaughtermen-—
p. 23. Sanitary Inspectors—-—p. 24.. '

III.
The humane killer in principle and practice.
The term “humane killer ”-——p. 24. Stunning quite

 




 

 

INDEX (con/z'nuea'j.

painless—~p. 25. Reflex movements—p. 25. Corneal
reﬂeX——p. 25. Humane killing does not injure the meat
———p. 26. Early scientiﬁc experiments——p. 26. Professor
Gerald Leighton’s experiment——p. 27. The ﬁnal test of
experience—«pp. 28, 29. The cry for new experiments--
p. 30. The Belfast experiment-—p. 30. The Birmingham
experiment—~p. 31. The Torquay experiment—p. 32.
Pork butchers and bacon curers——-p. 33. Cruelty in old
methods of stunning———p. 34. 35. Humane killers—~36.
Importance of mastering them before use on animals-~p.
36. The alleged danger of humane killers-—p. 37, 38, 39.
Humane killers for large animals——p. 4o. Humane killers
for small animals——p. 41, 42. The Greener “Safeti”

killer——p 43. Cartridges——p. 44.

IV.
How to use humane killers.
Illustrated directions——pp. 44—51. Illustrations of
humane killers——pp. 52, 53, 54, 55. Price list of humane

killers-«p. 56.

 

 




 

 

PREFACE.

SUCH qualiﬁcations as I possess for writing this pamphlet
are based on experience and study covering many years.
I have Visited slaughterhouses and watched the slaughtering
of animals in most parts of this country and in other
countries; I have sought information amongstall sections
of people concerned in any way with the slaughtering of
animals, and I have had interviews with many Sanitary
InSpectors, members of the veterinary profession and with
some of our leading physiologists. In working to promote
the use of humane killers l have closely studied and
endeavoured to meet CVery objection raised to them, and I
have been constantly in touch with a large number of
meat traders and slaughtermen who have adopted them.

Scientiﬁc text-books and the statements of experts in
meat inspection are sometimes misleading; the opposition
of the body of the meat trade to the humane killer is also
misleading, as it tends to promote the idea that the whole
question is an open one. As a matter of fact the question
was closed when meat traders found the use of the humane
killer did not hinder their business or inconvenience their
clients; and that happened many years ago.

By good fortune I live in a district where the meat
traders are unusually enlightened. For the past (-leVen
years, to my certain knowledge, the use (voluntarily) of the
humane killer on every animal killed for food has been a
regular habit with all of them, excepting a few amongst
the bacon curers. Thus during all these years bcef,
mutton, veal, pork, bacon and all other edible products of
animals killed by the humane method have been provided
by butchers and consumed by a community of 40,000
peOple. If this €X[)€Tlell(3€ stood alone it would justify
my conviction that none of the reasons advanced for
persisting in the old and cruel methods of slaughter have
“a leg to stand upon.”

R. O. P. PADDISON.
101/2 fu/y, 1922.

 




 

 

 

 




 

    

 
   

Humane Slaughtering. *

PROGRESS AND CHECKS TO PROGRESS.
PRESENT POSITION.

“ A person shall not in a slaughter-house proceed to slaughter
any animal until the same shall have been effectually stunned,
and such stunning shall be effected with a mechanically operated
instrument suitable and sufﬁcient for the purpose; provided that
this by-law shall not be deemed to apply to any member of the
Jewish faith, duly licensed by the (lhief Rabbi as a slaughterer,
when engaged in the slaughtering of cattle intended for the food
of Jews aCCOrding to the Jewish method of slaughtering, if no
unnecessary suffering is inﬂicted—Clause 9 {B} of the model
by-Iaws {slaughter-houses} issued by the Local Government Board
in 1915 and re-z'ssued by the Ministry of Health in 1920.

In 1915 the Local Government Board issued the Model
By-laws (including the above clause); but during the war

the whole movement was almost at a
The hy-laws &

The war' prevent humane killers from falling out
of use. Progress in the adoption of the by-laws was
correspondingly slow, and only two or three local

standstill, and it was barely possible to

authorities adopted them.
When the war was over none of the old type of humane
killers suitable for use on the smaller animals were obtain-
able, whilst the economic conditions
After the War, resulting from the war prevented the
manufacture of further supplies for an




 

 

 

 

 

 

4.

indeﬁnite period. It became necessary to work up a new
type of instrument, and steps were quickly taken to do so
(see p. 42—44), with the result that in 1020 the Greener
“Safeti” pistol was put on the market. Progress then
became practicable and in the latter part of 1920 and in
1921 several local authorities adopted the model» by-laws,
and a great many private butchers voluntarily took to the
humane killer. The number of animals killed by the
humane method in 1921, as shewn by the sale of cartridges
to users of the humane killer, was approximately 30o,000
——a very large advance on any previous year.

But in January, 1922, came the crisis caused by the
Reading case, when the validity of the by—law was put in
question. The Corporation of that town prosecuted two

The Reading
Case.

slaughtermen foriailing tocomply with
the by-law, and Mr. Venner, President
of the Reading Meat 'l‘raders’ Associ-
ation, and Mr. Rogers for aiding and abetting the offence.
In each case a pig was killed by the method customary in
bacon factories. The pigs were hoisted by a chain
attached to a hind leg and a winch and then stuck, without
being previoust stunned by a humane killer, as prescribed
in the by—law.

The case was heard by two magistrates. Amongst
the witnesses called for the prosecution were represent-
atives of ﬁve bacon-curing ﬁrms who had definitely
adopted the humane killer in the slaughter of all
their pigs. Three of these ﬁrms had made the change
quite voluntarily, in two cases 8 years ago, in the third case

 

 




 

 

5

a year ago. Another of the ﬁrms had done so ten
years ago" Only the fifth ﬁrm acted under compulsion of
the by-law and had used the humane killer since 1916.

Another witness called for the prosecution was the
Veterinary Inspector of the Corporation of Blackburn,
who has made a particular study of the various methods
of slaughtering animals and read a paper on the subject
at last year’s Sanitary Conference in Folkestone.

The witnesses on the side of the defence included
Professor Wooldridge, F.R.C.V.S., lecturer on meat in-
spection at the London Veterinary College, the chie
Veterinary Inspectors of the Corporations of Edinburgh,
Birmingham, and London, and the representatives of three
large bacon-curing ﬁrms who had given the humane
killer some trial, in one case 20 years ago.

THE READING Ditcrsros.-—'l‘he following was the
decision of the Magistrates :—

Having given this matter careful consideration and weighed all
the evidence put before us, we have come to the conclusion that
the summonses against the four defendants should be dismissed.
\Ve ﬁnd that the by-law is unreasonable because it is partial
and unequal in its operation as between diﬂferent classes of the
community, Further, we are ofopinion that the by-law is un-
reasonable because it applies to all animals without distinction,
and we ﬁnd as a fact, after hearing the evidence submitted to
us, that killing pigs by hoisting and sticking is not less humane
than by shooting. \Ve also find as a fact that the meat of pigs
killed for bacon purposes by a mechanically operated instrument

is more likely to deteriorate for curing than is the meat of pigs

_ “ In this case the humane method was adopted in order to obviate the
nuisance to neighbours caused by the shrieking of the pigs when killed in the
usual way. ,

 




 

 

 

 

 

  

6

killed by hoisting and sticking, We also ﬁnd that there is no
material danger from a mechanically operated instrument if
properly used with ordinary care. In dismissing the summonses
we order the informant to pay ten guineas costs in each case.”

The Reading Corporation appealed to the High Court
against this decision and the appeal was heard on 14th
June by the Lord Chief Justice, Mr. Justice Bailhache and
Mr. Justice Salter. Sir John Simon, KC. and Mr. H. H.
Joy appeared for the appellant; Mr. Upjohn, KC and
Mr. H.J. Rowlands for the respondent.

.THE JUDGMENT OF THE HIGH COURT.-—I give the

judgment as published in “The Times ” of 15th June:—
The Lord Chief Justice, in givingjudgment, said that there was
imposed upon the Corporation of Reading the statutory duty of
making by-laws for the licensing, registration, and inspection of
slaughter-houses and knackers’ yards, and for preventing cruelty
therein. A prosecution was instituted under by-law 9, and in
the result the justices came to the conclusion that the by-law
Was unreasonable on various grounds, which were set out in the
special case. It had been suggestsd that the by-law was bad in
itself, (I) because it prescribed a particular method of slaughter
when various other methods were equally open to, or equally
free from, objection, and (2) because on religious grounds, if
that was the right expression to use, an exception had been
made in the by-law in reference to a particular portion of the
community. In his opinion there was no substance in either of
those criticisms. Applying, as he did, the principles laid down
by Lord Russell in Kruse v. Johnson, he could see no grounds
whatever on which, so far as the law was concerned, the by-law
was open to objection. The appeal would therefore be allowed
with costs, and the case would be remitted to the justices with
a direction to them to convict.” '

 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
  
  
   
   
     

 




 

7

The effect of this judgment goes further than to establish
the by-law on the footing upon which it stood previous to
the Reading decision. It is now clear that the Opinion
of a bench of magistrates will not invalidate it. Again,
justices will be bound by the decision of the High
Court, and will have no Option but to convict oﬂ‘endze'rs
against the by-law. For the same reason local authori-
ties can now more easily enforce it, and without fear of
incurring expense in litigation.

But in the ﬁve months between the Reading decision
and the High Court judgment the movement was again
retarded. The Ministry of Health was bound to withhold
sanction of Clause 9 (B) pending the appeal; local author-
ities abstained from considering its adoption; in some
districts where it was nominally in operation it was not
enforced. and the uncertainty felt in many quarters as to
the fate of the by-law handicapped propaganda. In spite
of these checks fire sale of ﬁumane killers and earlridges
during [be ﬁve moat/1s was grea/ly in excess of llze same period
last year or any previous year.

The general position maybe summarised as follows.:--

Humane slaughtering has not only
taken ﬁrm root in British soil but shows
signs of vigorous growth in the near future.

Present position.

2. The number of keen and useful spade workers is
steadily on the increase.

3. Public opinion is entirely on the side oftbe movement.

4. The humane slaughtering by-law is established in an
unassailable position.

 




 

 

 

  

8

5. The humane killer-s now recommended by the
R.S.P.C.A. and the Council of Justice to Animals have
proved themselves to be all that was claimed for them.
Their proper use needs no skill and is readily learnt by
the average slaughterman, wit/20111 practice on living animals.
They act reliably and effectively, without injury to the
meat (see p. 26, etc.) or danger to slaughtermen (see p.

' 37, etc.) when used with elementary care.

These things do not mean that we shall have no more
difficulties. But they mean that the prospects of the
campaign to extend the by-laws and the voluntary use of
humane killers are brighter than they have ever been.
These objects are surely worth striving for, and they may
well lead to results far in advance of those existing in any
other country. But we must also watch for and combat
the inﬂuences which hinder trhem.

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

 




 

II.
GENERAL ASPECTS OF THE
MOVEMENT.

 

The aims of the humane slaughtering movement may
brieﬂy be stated as follows :—-—
Aims of the

Every animal throughout the country
to be rendered completely uncon-

Humam? scious as a preliminary to slaughter
Slaughtermg or to any painful process preparatory
Movement.

to slaughter (such as the hoisting of
pigs and calves).

2. The method of producing unconsciousness must be
painless, easy to operate and to learn, and act effect-
ively and reliably when applied with ordinary care.

3. The animals in slaughterhouses. apart from the method
of slaughter, to be efﬁciently protected from avoidable
suffering, physical or mental.

Humane slaughtering and the humane treatment of
animals in slaughter-houses are attain-

The aims in course
of attainment.

 

able by the adoption and enforcement
by local authorities of the model by-law's

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

10

issued in 1915 by the Local Government Board and
by the Ministry of Health in 1920. Clause 9 (B)
provides for the effectual stunning of animals by humane
killers. Other clauses provide for animals being fed and
watered (8); for the prevention of any needless pain during
the process of slaughter (10); for saving animals from
sights or smells which may produce mental suffering (II
and I3); and for the competence of any one using
slaughtering appliances (12). Wherever all these clauses
are enforced animals are saved from suffering or terror or
distress from the moment they enter a slaughter house
until they have been killed.

It is open to every local authority having control over
slaughterhouses to adopt the model
by-laws with the sanction of the Min—
istry of Health. As already explained
the enforcement of the by-laws by the local author—
ities has been rendered easy and free from cost by
the recent judgment of the High Court against the
Reading decision, as Magistrates will in future be bound

Powers of Local
Authorities.

to convict offenders for infringement of them.
The time may come when it may be practicable to
legislate effectually by Act of Parliament to apply to the
l. ‘_ l t, whole country. But that time is not in
eglza l0n sight, and until it actually arrives
y. animals can only be saved from the

Act of Parliament . .. _ ..

cruelties of the prevailing system by

local legislation or by the voluntary adoption by butchers
of'humane methods. 7In both directions a great deal of

 

 




 

 

II

spade work has been done by the R;S.P.C A. and other
Societies, as well as by private individuals, with satisfactorv
and promising results. But what has been accomplished
is small by comparison with what remains to be done. It
is encouraging however to know that the work is pro—
gressive, as shown by the steady increase in the disposal
of humane killers and cartridges, that the methods of
propaganda improve in effectiveness and that the number
of helpers is always growing.
In Switzerland, Germany, Holland and Scandinavia
compulsory humaue slaughtering methods have been
, facilitated by the establishment in all
PUbllc large towns and some smaller ones of

Slaughihel‘hOUSBS abattoirs, in which the butchers are
El” Humane compelled to slaughter their animals.
saug erlng. Thus under a national law which en-

forces humane killing in the abattoirs the butchers in the
respective towns cannot escape it. In England the
butchers may use the abattoirs if they like, but they are
not obliged to do so. Thus the local authorities who on
ﬁnancial and sanitary grounds want all the slaughtering to
be done in the abattoirs, are led at times to go out of their
way to induce the, butchers to use them. There is one
town possessing an abattoir where the model by-laws have
been adopted; but they are not enforced with respect to
sheep because the butchers object and w0uld probably do
their slaughtering elsewhere if these animals had to be
stunned with humane killers.

Abattoirs even on the English System are far in advance

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12

of the private slaughterhouse, and the movement on foot
to spread them throughout the country should reCeive every
possible encouragement. It is a mistake however to
suppose that the greater facilities for detecting cruelty in
an abattoir necessarily mean that cruelty will be more
strictly prevented. As things stand to-day it cannot be
said that the treatment of animals in these establishments
is any better than it is in private ones, and cruelties which
are not checked tend quickly to become a regular habit,
especially if they save time and facilitate work. The
extent to which cruelty is prevented in any district
depends chieﬂy 011 the inspectors of the local authority,
and there are districts containing only private slaughter-
houses where they suppress cruelty and promote the
humane treatment of animals. In such areas the butchers
get accustomed to control and the ofﬁcials get accustomed
to exercise it; so that if an abattoir is established in the
same district control is easily continued. But where the
butchers have been allowed a free hand in the treatment
of their. animals in private slaughterhouses they would
probably have the same tolerance if they were slaughtered
in an abattoir.

For similar reasons the enforcement of the humane
slaughtering by-laws should precede rather than wait for
the abattoir. When men are collected together in con-
siderable numbers, as in an abattoir, it is more difﬁcult to
alter their habits than it would be if they could be
dealt with in separate groups. The changed conditions
resulting from a new abattoir impose some trouble and

 




 

I3

worry on the local authority and on the butchers, and may
even lead to friction between the two bodies. In these
circumstances it is more than likely that if the proposal to
enforce humane slaughtering methods were then put
forward pretexts would be found to hang it up indeﬁnitely.
This, at any rate, is the teaching of experience. On the
other hand, if the use of humane killers had been
established before the opening of the abattoir, the habit
of using them would easily be maintained.

To start killing an animal by driving a knife into
it when previous stunning is practicable is obviously a
needless cruelty. Who would allow

Emery a favourite animal to be killed
0 . . _ .
. In this wav? However roﬁclent and
the knife. ’ p

conscientious the operator, he cannot
avoid inﬂiCting pain, which varies in degree and duration
not only according to his skill, but from causes which have
nothing to do with it. I quote as follows from the
Admiralty Report with reference to the method of slaugh-
tering sheep :--“ In the hands of an expert this.method is
“fairly rapid, but somewhat uncertain, the time which
“lapses between the ﬁrst thrust of the knife and complete
“loss of sensibility varying, according to Professor
“Starling’s observations,,from ﬁve to thirty seconds. In
“the hands of an ineXpert operator it may be some time
“before death supervenes, and there can be little doubt
“ that this method must be very painful to the sheep as long
“ as consciousness remains. At the best it is a somewhat
“ difﬁcult operation, and yet in practice is often entrusted

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1+

“to the younger and less experienced hands in the
“ slaughterhouse, the probable reason being that sheep are
“ easy to handle and do not struggle or give trouble when
“ stuck.”

Whilst many slaughterers are expert in using the knife
there are large numbers who are not, and these can only
become proﬁcient,—if they ever do,—by practice on living
animals. The slaughter of animals with a knife is very
skilled work, and the learner has to kill many animals
before he has any chance of becoming expert. Moreover
the various types of animals,--sheep, pigs, calves,--are
stuck and bled differently. Sheep are not slaughtered like
calves, nor calves like pigs, and the slaughterman has to
learn each particular method separately. It follows that a
big proportion of animals suffer torture at the hands of
learners, who often have to stab again and again, or grope
with the knife or the ﬁngers before ﬁnding the veins they
are in search of, and when they succeed in locating them

the are often so im erfectl cut that the
Torture y p y

blood trickles out slowly and the un-
by Learners.

fortunate animal suffers a painful and
lingering death. But even experts often make mistakes.
I have seen them have to stick a second time, and make
two attempts before breaking a sheep’s neck, and stick pigs
so ineffectually that the animals took a long time to die.
All this suffering is inseparable from the prevailing
method of slaughter, and it would be avoided if every
animal were ﬁrst effectually stunned. This is, brieﬂy, the
essence of the case for stunning. But the stunning of

 




 

15
animals by'aimin‘g a blew at their heads is alSo a proliﬁc
source of cruelty (See .pp '34, 35), and it is with‘the view of
preventing such. cruelty that the 11Se'of ahulna’ne‘ killer is
advocated. y'J'here are several types ’of humane killers
which act reliably; and-their proper usedcah easily be
acquired without inﬂicting any pain on an animal (See pp.
3637) ' = »

Clause 9 (B) of the model by- -laws p10vid‘es that may
ammal shall be stunned by a humane killer. But the model

Clause 9 (B)
9 stands fur
,_ humane kllllng

' by- -laws contain an alternative clatise-.—9'
(A)—whicl1 provides that allammals except.
s/zeep shall be ‘?‘ effectually stunned” This
allows the butcher? to stun ananimal by’a
blow aimed at the: head with an'i111ple'111ei19t‘51'1c‘l1 as a club“;
l1am111er,-11.'1all.et, pole—axe, etc. 'At the date tl1e§by~lawswere
issued (1915*) the LoCal Government Board, as s’tated‘ih a
111emora11duin,”‘did not feel that the timeivas al'toge'ther
“ ripe for framing their new model by-laws i111 Si1ch'la'wa'y
“ as toreqnire the use of mechanical to the exicliu'sion offall
“ other stunning instruments” ; but the Local ‘Govern-
ment Board and the Ministry of Health have always
encouraged the adoption ‘of Clause 9 (B) rather than
that of9 (A).’as they realize that from the humane point
’ - of view Clause 9 (A). is very ineffective.
Clause 9 ( ) Sheep are rightly excluded from its oper-
ation, but as more sheep are killed than
the total number of other animals the
clause only affects a' minority. The
reason why sheep are excluded is that the stunning

(excludes sheep
and
produces cruelty.

 




  

 

 

 

16

of them is a difﬁcult Operation which in practice would
cause more cruelty than it saved. 'I'o stun a sheep
eﬂecttially a very hard blow is necessary, and even
then the stunning may be only partial and temporary; but
in order to deliver a hard blow the mallet or club must be
well raised, and it is obvious that the more it is raised the
less likely is the aim to be accurate; and the difﬁculty of
aiming is further increased by the restless and uncertain
movements ofa sheep's head. Although these objections
apply particularly to sheep they also apply to calves and
pigs. Horned cattle are stunned by a poleaxe. Their
heads are fimly secured and an expert operator usually—-
but not always (see p. 35)——brings down an animal at the
ﬁrst blow. Cruelty in the use of the poleaxe is chiefly due
to the fact that it is largely used by persons lacking in
proﬁciency, in which cases the point of the axe is often
driven through some part other than the brain, thus
causing very acute pain.

These cruelties, inevitable under the operation of Clause
9 (A), would disappear under the alternative Clause——9 (B)
——requiring the use of humane killers. 'l‘hese instruments
are simply rested on theanimal’s head, and permanent in-
sensibility results from the mere act of pulling a trigger.
In short Clause 9 (B) stands for humane killing, whilst
9 (A) does not. All persons therefore who desire humane
slaughtering to be brought about are urged to Work for
Clause 9 (B).

The first big step towards reform was the appointment
of the Admiralty Committee (I904) of which Mr. Arthur

 

  

 




    

 

    

I7

' ' . H. Lee, M.P.. Civil Lord'of the Admir-
The Admiralty '
- alty (now Lord Lee of Fareham) was
Committee (1904) , ,. , ,
Chairman. lhe Committees Report
contains a detailed expoSition of the cruelties of the pre-
vailing methods of slaughtering animals. Yet these
methods have not since improved and in some respects
they have become even worse. '
The apprenticing of youths to the trade was then
common, and presumably they received some kind of
instruction in the use of the knife before they started

Present conditions pracusmg 0" “Vl”g ”CMUVBS- The

' lo 78 wl o no ' w ‘k in slau ‘hterl o ses
no Improvement. ’ l ‘ “ 0' s I u .

are very rarely if ever apprenticed,
and pick up their knowledge of slaughtering animals
in a haphazard way, chieﬂy by helping and seeing
their associates at work. The day arrives when they
“try their hand" at killing an animal, and the victim
is usually a sheep, because it gives least trouble.
Under the conditions now existing a slanghterman may
continue unskilfully killing animals all his life, as any one
may slaughter animals for food if he can get some one to
employ him.

In the slaughter of pigs cruelty seems to have very much
increased. The Admiralty Report states :—-—“The Com-
mittee ascertained that it is the usual practiceﬂin large
establishments in- England to stun pigs by a blow on the
forehead previous to sticking them.” At the present day.
nearly all the large bacon factories and the majority of the
smaller ones do not stun their pigs. Probably following




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

    

18

the lead of Chicago, the animals are suspended head
downwards by a chain fastened to a hind leg, then they
are hoisted to a higher level, where they are stuck and bled
to death. Bacon pigs usually weigh zoolbs. to 300lbs. and
the tightening of the noose round the leg with the animals’
terriﬁed struggles must cause intense suffering. ' In some
up-to-date factories the suspended pigs are raised to the
level of the sticker who awaits them by fastening the
chain which grips the leg to a large wheel revolving slowly
and continuously with its burden of shrieking animals.
The method of hoisting and sticking is said to ensure good
bleeding, but the method is a cruel one unless the pigs are
previously shot with a humane killer,"‘ and the experience
of bacon curers who have deﬁnitely incorporated the
humane method in their slaughtering operations shows
conclusively that no detrimental effects result from its use
if reasonable precautions are taken. The Empire Trophy-
for bacon was won in 19x3 against more than 200 com—
petitors by a ﬁrm which adopted the humane method on
every pig.

The ﬁrst recommendation of the Admiralty Committee
was that all animals without exception should be stunned
or otherwise rendered unconscious before blood is drawn.

It may here be said that stunning is the

E ' .
ﬂeetuai aswnmng only known practlcal method ofproducing

. unconsciousness in animals slau )‘htered
perfect anaasthetic i’

for food. ‘l‘lffectual stunning acts as a‘
“ At a meeting of Reading Town Council on 4th July. 1:922, Sir Stewart Abram,

Chairman of the Health Committee, said he had seen pigs shot and there was
Immediate unconsciousness. He alsc iived Oppositea slaughterhouse and he
had heard pigs Shrleknlg in agony, the squeals gradually getting less and less

until they got to nothing.

 




 

    

    
 

I9

perfect and instantaneous anaesthetic, and the stunned
animal is lost in unconsciousness before there is time to
feel the blow which produces it. At the time this recom—
mendation was made, humane killers for sheep, and pigs
and calves——which make up about four-ﬁfths of the
animals killed——were unknown, and the only way they could
be stunned was by aiming a blow at their heads with a
club, a mallet, or a hammer. In spite of the imper-
fections of the method, it would save the animals
considerable suffering. providedthe men were properly
trained in the use of these implements.

Since the issue of the Admiralty report two Bills have
been presented to Parliament to make the stunning of
every animal compulsory on a very wide scale. In 1911‘,
Mr. Gemge Greenwood (now Sir George

T o Bil

W lS Greenwood) introduced a Bill to apply
presented to .

Parliament to the United Kingdom from ISt January

1912, and in 1914. Mr. Arthur Lee
presented another one to apply to England from the Ist
january, 1915. Both Bills failed to get through, although
they were supported by the body of Parliament. Butjudging
by the experience in the application of Clause 9 (B) of
the Model bye—laws in some areas it- would appear that
the practical diﬂiculties in the way of making either of the
Bills effective in all districts of the country simultaneously
might well have proVed insuperable, and would probably
have led to greater cruelties than they were designed to
prevent. 'l‘hese difﬁculties may be expected to diminish
with the spread of knowledge of the subject and of the




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

    
 
    

20

use of efﬁcient humane killers, easy and safe to use witn
moderate care, and reliable in operation."
Over 40 local authorities have now adopted the by-laws

Adoption of the
Model by-Iaws

b progress in the same direction. Members

and a considerable amount of ground-
'worl< has been laid for making further

.. of local authorities usually favour the
local authorities. . .

by-laws, but when it comes to adopting
them they hesitate in too many cases to face the opposition
of local butchers, backed up by the National Federation.

The remedy for this retrograde inﬂuence is public opinion,

The pohlio’s
responsibility.

if it can be got to express itself. In
places where it has done so it has
carried all before it. The public after
all share responsibility with the butchers for: the way in
which the animals that supply them with food are
slaughtered. They have every right to demand that these
creatures shall be spared all unnecessary pain, and it is no
less than their duty to use their inﬂuence to that end in
every legitimate way. They can petition and send depu-

. tations to the local council, pass
How the pubho

resolutions at the ever da' meetings
can help. y i

of different sections of the community,

‘The Meat InSpector at Reading in a letter to the Belfast News Letter states
that the R.S.P.C.A. Killer had been used on 2,000 animals for the Government
without any failure. The Manager of the Abattoir at VVeston-Super-Mare re-
ferring to the use of the same type of killer on thousands of animals during the
last ﬁve years says “ 1 have still to record the ﬁrst failure in its use."

The head slaughterman at the Government slaughter house at Southampton
referring to the shooting of Several thousands of sheep by the Greener “ Sateti "
Killer states that the instrument had never failed. When the by-law came into
force at a large town in the Home counties a demonstrator of the R.S.P.C.A. was
sent to instruct slaughtermen in the uSe of the same instrument on small animals.
After showing the use of it more than 200 animals were shot in the presence 0
thf’ demonstrate» by men who had never used the instrument before and without
a a1 ure.




21

write letters to and insert advertisements in the news-
papers, enlist the co-operation of their editors and of the
clergy, interview members of the local authority and
butchers and talk about the subject to their acquaintances.
The R. S. P.C. A. and other societies are always ready to
supply literature and petition f01ms and help local efforts.

In a few places largely signed public petitions have been
presented to the Council. There is no diﬂiculty in col-
lecting signatures for large petitions, as
the public 13 all 111 favour of slaughtering
animals In the most humane way, but the
work connected with them involves a great deal of
time and much laborious effort on the part of the organi-

. Petitions to
Local Authorities.

sers, and all the workers must exercise great tact and self
control so as to avoid giving needless offence to the meat
trade, which is fully represented and very inﬂuential in
local Councils throughout the country. It is quite com-
mon for four or ﬁve members of a council to be butchers,
and there isat’least one Council 011 which there are nine.
For these reasons it is advisable not to go to the immense
trouble of getting up petitions from the general public,
nor do such petitions always carry so much weight with
members of local Councils as one might anticipate. The
kind of petition which has been found most effective is
one signed by prominent and inﬂuential residents repre-
senting all social classes, religious denominations and
political parties. When the petition is presented to the
Council all the signatories to it should attend if possible.

The butcher’s opposition is largely based on prejudice,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22

which is the result of early training, long habits, and old
i. traditions. They resent interference with
the liberty of killing animals in their
own way, and they often assert that their

Opposition of ‘
meat traders.

+ _'
to ‘he by laws. long experience qualiﬁes them to be the

the best judges in the matter. They strongly dislike com-
pulsion, which would obviously lead to more control and
supervision. They resent the implication that their own
methods are cruel; some of them dislike local legislation,
and a particular grievance is the exemption. allowed in
deference to susceptibilities of a religious nature to~the
'Jewish method of slaughter. _ The cost of humane; killers
and cartridges also weighs with many of them. One may
understand these points of viewand elven sympathise with
some of them, and one may regret that they exist, but
they-cannot for one moment be allowed to interfere with
the propaganda for saving enormous numbers of helpless
creatures from unnecessary and severe sufferings,

The chief Objections iraised'to the adoption‘of‘ humane
methods are that they deteriorate the quality and the
keeping 'property'of the meat and other products and that
the use of humane killers is dangerous. These objections
arerfully dealt with on‘pp. i26 to 34 and 37-‘t0‘4o. It is
only necessary to say here that the facts of-experience do
not support them; - ‘

It may be well here to suggest to all well wishers of the
movement that they can very usefully help it by employing
whatever inﬂuence they possess with any meat traders in

 

 




 

 

23

trying to lessen their objections to the

Butchers Often by—laws by friendly conversation. A

humane and
reasonable.

great many butchers are humane men
and open 'to reason when properly
approached. If their good-will is secured only partially
the local 'authOrity will‘ be much more likely to adopt
humaneslaugbtering legislation than they would be if
butchers reinained hostile, and this they will probably do
when they‘ghave :no opportunity of knowing what their
clients and friends feel about humane slaughter, but
are left to get all their ideas on the subject from their
fellow traders and the columns of their trade journal,
backed up by their own rooted prejudices.” These remarks
apply only to the majority of meat traders, as there are
several who realise the need for strictly protecting animals
in slaughterhouses from cruelty, and in some districts
where the by-laws have been applied the butchers have
offered little or no objection to them.

As regards slaughtermen, the prejudice against humane
methods is chieﬂy amongst theold hands. Most of the
younger men, and especially those who have served in the

army, rather like shooting the animals

Slaughtermen. before slaughter, if the instruments are

‘ . ' easy and quick in manipulation and
give no trouble to keep in working order. It goes without
saying that in paving the Way for the acceptance of the
humane-slaughtering clause in any area the men must on
no account be treated as if they were a negligible factor,
as theiragood-will is a tremendous help towards success,

 




 

-24

and it is Well within their power to set up a very effective
opposition.
The duty of enforcing local by-laws against cruelty
falls to the Sanitary Inspectors, who often prove true
friends to animals by constantly using
Sanitarylnspectors their inﬂuence to protect them from
illtreatment. It is not too much to say
that in some plans the readiness with which butchers and
slaughtermen have accepted the by-laws has been largely
due to the steady inﬂuence of these ofﬁcials. 'l‘heir
friendliness towards the object in view should be cultivated.
They are generally in a position to give very useful in-
formation and advice. and are often more alive to the need

of reform than any one else.

III.

THE HUMANE KILLER
IN PRINCIPLE AND PRACTICE.

9

The terfn “humane killer,’ which is now in general use,

was applied more than 20 years ago bythe manufacturers

The term,
“ humane killer.”

of the ﬁrst instrument of the kind which
was made in England, and accurately
expreSSes its purpose to give a painless
death to the animals Slaughtered for food. But the
humane killer does not kill animals outright, It stuns

 

 




 

 

25

them effectually, death resulting from slaughter during un-
consciousness following the use of the humane killer.
Any one' who by an accident has ever been thoroughly
stunned knows that stunning is quite painless. It is a
physiological fact that complete uncon-
sciousness is produced bystuuning in less
time than ittakes for the sensation of
pain from the blow to reach the brain. Nor when an
animal is stunned by a bullet through the brain is there
any risk of a return to consciousness during the whole

prOcess of slaughter, however clumsily the slaughterer
does his work.

Stunning
quite painless.

Violent kicking or other movements which occur during
unconsciousness are actuated by local nerve centres and
are no indication: of pain. Hens will run
Reﬂex A . .
about and frogs sw1m when their heads
movements. 7 . .
. have been cut off; portions of hangmg
sides . of beef Shrink and writhe when cut with
a knife several hours after death. The Seat of all
conscious feeling in vertebrates is the brain. If this organ
is put out of action there is complete unconsciousness and
therefore .no experience of pain whether in animals or
human beings.
There is an infallible way of testing complete un-
consciousness If the centre of the eyeball is gently.
touched without causing any responsive
Corneal reﬂex. movement, such as a slight ﬂicker of the
eye lid, it may be taken as certain that
unconsciousnessis complete. This test is constantly em-

 




    

 

    

 

26

ployed at demonstrations of humane slaughtering methods
to show that in spite of active movements during and after
the process of slaughter the animal when stunned by a
humane killer cannot feel pain subsequently.

When an animal is stunned by a humane killer and then
stuck, the heart continues pumping ‘with unimpaired efﬁ-
. . , ciency, and the blood from the body ﬂows
. Humane kllhng through the cut blood vessels just as

does "Gt mlure thoroughly as if there had been no

the meat. .4 .
preVIous stunning.

When humane killing was in its infancy meat traders
opposed the new method on the ground that it prevented
proper bleeding of the carcase and that consequently the
quality and keeping property of the meat would be adversely
affected, with obvious injury to their interests. _ Some
interesting scientiﬁc experiments were made to test
the point. Dr. Goltz (1903) weighed the
animals when alive and then weighed the
blood which ﬂowed from their bodies.
Dr. Josepthalliner (1906) measured the quantity of blood:
retained in particular muscles after slaughter. Although the

. Early scientiﬁc
experiments.

methods of these two experiments were different, their
result was identical, as in both cases the careases of the
animals which had ﬁrst been stunned by humane killers
and thenslaughtered were just as thoroughly drained of
blood as those which had been slaughtered without
previous stunning. . .

. ln 1912 Professor Gerald Leighton, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
made his well-known experiment.. 8 oxen were shot by

 

 

 




    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

27
the R.S.P.C.A. killer, and 8 oxen were

 

“Professor
' . . stunned by the pole-axe after taking the
G r Id LeI ht n’ ’
re :xperimgento S most scrupulous care to eliminate every

factor (other than the method of stun-
ning) which might affect thorough bleeding. His method
of comparing the results was to prepare small sections of
the meat “so that one could actually see under the
microsc0pe the contents of the capillaries.

The Report adds ;-—

“ This is the method adopted by all pathologists and histologists
' i“ when they wish to determine the extent of congestion, and it
“seems the only way in which one can demonstrate beyond
“ dispute the actual contents of the blood vessels. The sections
“in these experiments have been taken from portions of meat
“ taken from the fore and hind quarters of all the carcases and

“ from exactly the same situation in each carcase.”

The result of the examination is thus stated :-—

“ The sections so examined under the microscope were compared
“ with others ruade from the meat of animals which had been

 

“killed by the pole-axe. The result of the examination was that
“I did not ﬁnd a single section made from the meat of animals
“killed by the humane method, which showed any evidence what-
“ever of containing more blood than that of the meat killed by

“the methods commonly in use.”

Professor Leighton’s conclusion is that the, objection
that imperfect bleeding results from the use of humane
killers “ cannot be upheld for a moment.”

But the question whether the humane klller is any
detriment to the butcher is well out of its experimental

 




    

 
 
 
 
 
 

    

28

- stage, as it has now for several years been

The, ﬁnal test

. . put to the‘ﬁnal test of experience. I am
of experlence.

not referring to the experimental ex-
perience of those who have given the humane killer
some kind of a trial. Such trials may or may not be
reliable. The precautions necessary for procuring best
results may or may not have been observed. Where there
is prejudice and suspicion the time for them to die down
may or may not have been allowed. The experience upon
which we are justiﬁed in basing deﬁnite conclusions is the
experience of persons who have adopted the humane
killer as a regular feature in the slaughter of all their
animals over an extended period of time. Such experience
at any rate puts the question as to whether the humane
killer is a detriment to the meat trader beyond the region
of doubt.

What is the result of such experience? In the ﬁrst
place, take the large number of foreign abattoirs where
it has long been the practice to use humane killers. If
the practice had resulted in injury to the meat or otfals it
would not now be in operation at these establishments.
Several statements, testifying to the satisfactory results
obtained, have been issued. I select one which was

addressed to the writer from the Hague.
_ “ S. Gravenhage, May 11th, 192[.
i “We have used Humane killers at this Abattoir as long as it
“has existed (ten years) in the slaughter of all animals at the
“ Hague, except what are killed in Jewish ritual manner. The
“instruments save the animals from any suffering, and have no
“ detrimental effect at all on the meat or the organs of the body,

 




 

29

“nor do our butchers make any complaint about their use.”

A LLYR UN HA R REVEL'I‘,
Director.

In this country the humane killer has been increasingly
used during the last ten years, and there are now hundreds
of butchers who have adopted it voluntarily and continue
using it regularly on every animal they slaughter; they
comprise wholesale butchers, large family butchers, small
country butchers, co-operative societies, pork butchers,
bacon curers and jobbing butchers. It is obvious that they
would not use the humane killer voluntarily and regularly
—nor could they do so—if it spoilt the meat or other
products of the carcase in any way. I refer readers for
corroborative evidence on this point to the testimonials
which have been published in leaﬂets by the R.S.P.C.A.

In some districts the use of the humane killer has
been made obligatory. I give two statements from the
places where this regulation has been longest in force.

“ The by-law in force in this borough for the humane slaughtering
“of animals has been in operation for the past four years with
“ satisfactory results. With the mechanical lnstruments now in
“use suﬂ’ering has been reduced to a minimum with no detri-
‘° mental effect to the meat.”

R. E. LAUDICR, M.D., F.R,G.s., D.P.H.,
Medical Oﬂicer of Health,
19th April, 1921. Southampton.

“ \Ve have had Humane Killers in use in ourold and new Abattoirs
“ for over ten years. during which time between 60,000 and
“ 70,000 animals of all kinds have been slaughtered without
“ accident or complaint.

“ We have two qualiﬁed Meat Inspectors in connection with the
“ Abattoir, and they assure me that. the suggestions that there is

 




  

 

3O

“ danger in the use of the implements or that the meat 0r organs
“ are in any way detrimentally affected are quite without founda-
“ tion.

“ There is no doubt that the use of the Humane Killer, as com-
“pared with the ordinary methods of slaughtering saves the
“ animals an enormous amount of unnecessary suffering.”
(Signed) H. A. BROWN, Engineer and Surveyor,,
20th March, 1921. Town Hall, Weston-super-hlure,
But where there is rooted prejudice no evidence seems
to be considered of any value unless it accords with pre-

conceived opinions. Hence the continual

The cry for

. cry for furtherexperiments, on the chance
New Experiments.

. that something will come out of them
which can be‘made use of; and, very naturally such oppor-‘
tunities now and then present themselves. ..
At Belfast, in Ocrober, 1920, two bullocks, three sheep
and one pig were shot by the humane killer, and a similar
number of animals were put to death by the method
customar at the abattoir. 'l'he im)ot-

The BelfaSt taut ,poitft of the effect of the metliods
experiment . on the bleeding was not investigated.
The report on the experiment is favourable as regards the
three sheep that were shot, but'adverse'as regards the two
bullocks and the pig. The two bullocks are stated to
have bled freely; the carcases, however, were found to
have deteriorated on the third day after slaughter, and
portions of muscular tissue which were retained for exam-
ination are reported as having rapidly decomposed. The
ﬂesh of the pig which was shot is reported as “ not in so
good a condition as the ﬂesh of a pig which was stunned

   
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

 




 

3!

by a mallet.” (In view of ﬁndings so opposed to experience,
the Ulster S.P.C.A. got into touch with the owners of the
carcases and some of the consumers of the meat, and
ascertained that the meat of the bullocks was sold in the
usual way at market prices, without loss or inconvenience
to the butchers, or complaints from their customers; that
the purchasers consumed the meat after varying intervals
.——in one instance a sirloin was cooked and served at table
13 days after killingr—and in all cases the meat was in per-
fect condition for eating. The owners of the pig had the
carcase under observation whilst curing, and reported that
it was very much like any other pig.

At Birmingham a demonstration took placelast June
at which I4. animals of different kinds were killed by the
humane method and several by the usual methods. As at

Belfast, no investigation was made to

The Birmingham

. ascertain whether the ﬂesh of the
experiment.

animals was properly drained of blood.
Only naked- -eye observations were made and these were
reported as distinctly adverse to the humane killer. For
detailed particulars of the Birmingham and Belfast ﬁnd-
ings I would refer readers to the full text of the reports,
which Can be obtained from the ofﬁces of “The Meat
Trades' Journal.” The Birmingham branch of the R.S.P.
C. A. ascertained that the owners of the 14. animals slaugh-
tered by the humane killer suffered no loss, and the chief
veterinary inspector of the Birmingham Corporation
admitted the accuracy of this statement when answering
a question put to him at .the Reading trial.

 




 

 

32

With all deference to the writers of the Belfast and Bir-
mingham reports, of whose good faith there is no doubt,
I submit that from the point of view of the meat trader
the all important question to be considered about the
humane killer is whether its use is any detriment to a‘
butcher’s business. As the owners of the carcases of the
humanely killed animals at Belfast and Birmingham
suffered no loss or inconvenience, we are justiﬁed in
saying that the actual results of both demonstrations
were favourable to the humane killer, although the
reports were against it. The results in fact accorded with
"the ﬁndings of experience, if they (lid not conﬁrm the
ﬁndings of the reports.

A recent experiment which has not been so fully made
known as it deserves to be was conducted by Mr. George
E. Body, A.R.I.S., M.S.I.A., the Foods and Meat-Inspector

at 'I‘orquay, as a result of a request by

The Torquay his committee to enquire into and

expemment' report on the use of the humane killer.

His report dated 29th March, 1921, is as follows:—

“I procured Humane Killers and direction cards and killed or
“ had killed under my directions by the humane method I8 beasts,
“ I6 pigs, 8 calves and 45 sheep.

“'l‘he carcases of the shot animals “set” perfectly well. The
“meat kept as well, and could not be detected from the meat of
“animals which had not been shot, The market value of the
“ organs was not affected in any way.

“ In my opinion the humane method is to be preferred, as pain is
"entirely avoided, the Operator does not require a period of
“training or any special skill, nor does the use of Humane

 




 

33

“Killers have any, detrimental effect upon the meat or other
“products of the carcase.”

A great many pork butchers and bacon curers are par-

ticularly opposed to the use ofthe humane killer, and some

Pork Butchers & of them give it a triallor carry. on tllieir
Bacon CUPBI‘S. ' busrness in .places .w rere the by: aw
compelhng its use is in force. Ihey

complain that blood sometimes collects in the heads and
necks of the pigs after using it, that the lungs are dis-
coloured, that the bacon and hams will not cure perfectly
owing to insuﬂicient bleeding, and that “ splashing ” some-
times occurs. On the other hand there are many pork
butchers and bacon curers who take up the humane killer
with good-will and are” ready to make reasonable efforts to
Secure the best results. When this is the case they have
no complaints to make, nor’do they ﬁnd that the adoption
of the humane method is in the least detrimental to their
trade. 'l'hey exercise care in the use of the instrument
and the selection of cartridges; they slit the pigs’ noses
after death to enable blood from the head to run out; they
wipe off traces of blood in the neck if ever they appear ;’
above all they stick the pigs directly they are shot and be-
fore the onset of reﬂex movements which follow soon after
the shooting. This ensures thorough bleeding, if the animal
has been properly stuck and is in perfect condition; and
there appears to be little doubt that “splashing” never
occurs when this rule is observed. unless the pig is suffering
at the time of death from a bad cold, or is’ very excited or
fatigued, or has been fattened on inferior food. An idea

 




  

  
  
 
  
  
 

    

34

has gained ground that “splashing” may be‘cauSe-d by
destruction or injury of the medulla oblongam by the bullet,
but experience does not bear this out. The argument is
that injury to the medulla stops the action of the heart and
so hinders proper bleeding, and is based on the well-known
fact that the nerve centres controlling the heart’s action
are in the medulla. But the contention makes no allow-
ance for the nervous vitality stored in the muscles of the
heart, which continues the heart’s action after the medulla
is destroyed and even after all the blood has been pumped
out of the pig’s body.

To stun an animal by aiming a blow at its head with any
appliance is necessarily unreliable because it depends upon
so many factors for success, Skill, nerve, long training,

constant practice, strength and ﬁtness,

Cruelty in old
methods of
stunning.

care and conscientiousness do not
exhaust the list. The best man can.
, never be sure of his aim. In Munich
I saw a certiﬁcated “Meister” make {our attempts.
with a hammer before bringing down a pig. The
uncertainty andcrueltyof stunning pigs by this method
are well-known to English pig killers. In the case of
Sheep one of the chiefobjections to the ,old way ofcstunning.
is that the blow in a large proportion of cases produces
only temporary unconsciousness. The Board of Agriculs
ture and the Local Government Board discountenanced
the stunning of Isheep by the old method on the ground
that “it is a difﬁcult operation, in the carrying out of
which cruelty might easily occur.” This opinion has beuo

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

  

35

endorsed by the National Federation of Meat Traders’
Associations, who have stated that “it would rather
increase than alleviate their suﬁer'irig'.” Calves are usually
stunned by the ﬂat side of a pole-axe. but these animals
are also likely to return to consciousness, especially as
hard hitting is not always encouraged for fear of bruising
the head and thus possibly lessening its selling value.
Horned cattle nearly always have their heads secuted
before the pole-axe is used, but this is not a sure pro-
tection from bad pole-axing. which is very prevalent and
causes great cruelty. Many slaughterers use the pole-axe
whilst in their pre-expert stage, others do not get sufﬁ-
ciently constant practice, or have not got it in them, ever
to become expert. It is a mistake to suppose that expert
pole-axers are infallible. However skilled a man may be
he has his share of human variability and imperfections.
No man is always at his best, nor does every man always
try his best. I have seen very skilled men make mistakes
on various occasions. I have even known an expert drive
a pole-axe through a cow’s eye from mere carelessness.
And in the case of bulls, many of these animals have such
hard and thick skulls, coated by such extraordinarily tough
hide that it is quite impossible to stun them without
delivering several blows on the same spot. I know

of one large public slaughterhouse where the men are as

expert as anywhere. It was quite a common practice there

when dealing with bulls to cut out a circular piece of skin

and ﬂesh to the bone, so as toifacilitate the entry 'of the

pole-axe. Horrible as this seems it probably shortened

   
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
 

 

  




 

36

the animal’s sufferings. In the case of thick skulled bulls
the blows of a pole-axe are not strong enough to cause
even temporary stunning until the bone is broken through,
and the animal usually bellows from pain during the pro-
gress of the operation.

The employment of humane killers meets the objections
to the old methods of stunning. The slaughterman takes
no aim, as he simply rests the muzzle of the instrument on

the animal‘s head over the brain; the

Humane Killers, blow which produces unconsciousness

is delivered mehanically when the

trigger is pulled or the spring tapped, and is predetermined
by the strength of the cartridge, to act as required. The
bullet or bolt smashes through the skull, causing violent
concussion of the brain, and there is no risk ofa return to
consciousness. Thus the human element is inﬁnitely small
when a humane killer isused as compared with the old
methods of stunning, and the result correspondingly
more certain and therefore more humane. The humane
killers need no special skill or training, and the chief
requisite for their successful use is already posseSSed by
slaughtermen, viz., the habit of handling animals. Any
slaughterer of average aptitude quickly learns how to ﬁre
a killer and apply it to an animal, so as to act .to perfection
in every respect. But he should be
properly instructed in its use, or learn
it by careful study of the directions.
Practice on living animals is unneces-
sary and should be avoided. A pieCe of

» Importance of

mastering them

before use on
animals.

 




 

37

wood, a sack of sawdust, or the head of a dead animal
will give all the practice required. To start using a
humane killer with the idea that no preparation whatever
is necessary for its right use will inevitably lead to failures.
The killers are automatic, but the operator must learn how
rightly to direct them. No one can even put on a coat
without knowing how to do it. The points I wish to em;
phasize here are (I) that half-an-hour’s study and practice
on dead material will give a slaughterman of average ln-
telligence complete mastery of any killer, (2) that until
that mastery is acquired he ought not to use it.

It is obvious that any instrument that kills animals may
be dangerous to human beings; this applies not only to
humane killers, but to the pole-axe and

The alleged danger

. the knife, which have caused many
of humane klllBl‘S.

serious accidents, although little is
heard about them. But the use of a humane killer avoids
some of the risks incurred when a humane killer is not
used, and the question to consider is not only whether the
humane killer is in itself a source of risk, but whether on
the whole it adds to the risks of slaughtering. Another
question is whether certain easy precautions to reduce
risks might not be generally adopted throughout the trade.

When a humane killer is used instead of a pole-axe the
risks attending the use of a pole-axe naturally disappear.
I know of one wholesale butcher who gave up the pole-
axe for the humane killer 8 years ago because he considered
the humane killer was the safer weapon, and he has not
Changed his opinion. Again in the sticking of the smaller

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

38

‘ animals, especially pigs, slaughtermen incur risk when the
animals struggle violently, which they often do. Men
have been wounded by the knife, or the knife has been
dashed out of their hands and wounded some one else.
But when an animal is shot with a humane killer and stuck
i1mnediately,——and before reﬂex movements start,-—he is
quite motionless, and by sticking him when motionless
such risks are avoided.

It is a mistake to suppose that the humane killers pro-
vided with safety devices are dangerous in the same sense
as ordinary ﬁre-arms, such as guns and revolvers, as their
mechanism ensures the safety of slaughtermen exercising
moderate care. It is almost impossible to ﬁre them
accidentally, and if they are employed according to the
directions the bullets lodge in the animal itself and cannot
therefore injure persons. The decision of the Reading
Bench on 13th January last (reversed on appeal) found
the by-law to be unreasonable. But on the question of
the danger of the humane killer put forward by the
defence the magistrates found “that there is no material
“danger from a mechanically operated instrument if
“properly used with ordinary care.”

There have been no fatal accidents with these specially
designed humane killers now generally used, nor am I
aware of an accident causing permanent incapacity to any
limb or organ of the body. More that 8,000 of these
instruments have been sold and most of them have been
in use for several years.

On the question whether the use of the humane killer

 




 

39

adds to risk there could be no surer guide than the attitude
of Insurance Companies in the matter of accident in-
surance. These companies may be assumed to know their
business. They keep records of every accident and its
causes. They have ample facilities for estimating accura-
tely whether the humane killer increases liability to
accident. The humane killer is no new thing. It has
been increasingly used since its introduction into England
more than 20 years ago. There’are towns and districts
where it has been used on every animal killed for food for
many years. If the humane killer added to the dangers of
slaughtering animals these companies would have d is-
covered it long ago. The fact that they have not raised
the premium against those butchers who have adopted the
humane methods speaks for itself. ‘
But such risk as attaches to the use of the humane
killer might easily be reduced still further. The R.S. P.C.A.
have~ spared neither trouble nor expense in their efforts for
the manufacture of reasonably safe instruments, and in
their leaﬂets and advertlsements they have issued instruc-
tions and recommendations for the avoidance of accidents}
But more remains to be done and could easily be done.

* The following is from an advertisement in the “Meat Trades Journal " by
the R.S.P. .A.;—“It is with a View to the safety of butchers that we call
attention to the following rules:--

I. Never put your hand over the muzzle of the instrument.

2. When ﬁring, never point the instrument towards yourself 0r anyone else,
but keep the barrel approximately in line with the neck and body of the
animal.

3. Keep the instrument in working order, and particularly see that the
striking pin and interior of the barrel are free from rust and dirt.

4. When killing single—handed, secure the animal so as to check violent
movements.

5. Carefully study and follow the directions issued with the instruments.-
Experience has shown that wherever these rules are carried out humane killers
are Quite safe when used for their legitimate purpose, and we earnestly hope they
will be carefully followed wherever humane killers are employed.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

40

A gentleman of high standing in the trade, an ex-
President of a Meat Traders’ Association in a large and
important district, who has adopted the humane killer in
his slaughter house for eleven years, has pointed out that
whatever the method of slaughter it is the duty of master
butchers to employ only careful men for that particular
work; also to see that their men know how to handle
a humane killer before using it on animals. As accidents
with humane killers are due to carelessness or improper
use of the instruments it is clear that if these suggestions
were more generally carried out the risks attached to the
instruments would dwindle away. It is open to the repre-
sentatives of the trade to use their inﬂuence in the direc-
tion indicated. If they did so, can there be any doubt that
such action would work for the safety of the slaughterrnen P

The Greener Cattle Killer (No. I in the list) has been
used in England for nearly 25 years and is very well-known
as an effective instrument. Owing to simplicity of design

. 'and exeellence of material and work-
Humane killers

. manship it maintains its efﬁciency for a
for large animals.

very long period. It is operated by
being tapped with a mallet on the ﬁring pin.

No. 2 (The Swedish Killer) acts on similar principles to
No. I but is provided with a safety catch, which puts the
killer out of action in its normal position, and thus prevents
its being ﬁred except by deliberate intention. This Killer
and No. 3 have a very clean reputation for safety. In the
case of the latter (the R.S.P.C.A. Killer) the fact is rather
noteworthy, as the killer has been used by butchers for

 




 

4.1

about 12 years and nearly 5,000 have been sold. Its ex-
cellent record is certainly due to details of construction,
which have been carefully designed with a view to the
safety of slaughtermen. The instrument consists of two
,parts, one of which holds the cartridge, the other the
striker; they are not joined together until the animal is
about to be broughtto slaughter, and the cock is not raised
until the moment before the animal is shot. The hammer
isprotected by a guard, so it cannot be accidentally struck,
nor can the trigger he accidentally pulled, as it needs a
pull of about 18 lbs. to bring the hammer down. Suppos-
ing the killer were to fall on the ﬂoor when loaded and
cocked it would not explode. The bullet is broad and
short and penetrates irresistibly for the ﬁrst few inches,
but its passage through the frontal bone spreads its shape,
it loses its velocity, and never perforates the back of the
skull. In using the killer the Operator stands at the
(animal’s side, he places the muzzle gently on its forehead
from above the level of the eyes, and the animal hardly
notices it. Thus it is more humane and easier to use,
eSpecially when the animal is restless, than a killer
requiring more direct approach, as a beast is often terriﬁed
by seeing a man in close proximity to his face to put
something on his head.

The idea that bullets were not suitable or safe to em-
ploy in the shooting of small animals used to be widely
prevalent, although the old Greener

Humane klllBl‘S cattle killer and the Swedish killer have

for small animals' been used with success for this purpose

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

42

for the past IO or 12 years by loading them with weaker
cartridges than were necessary for large animals. The
general objection: referred to led to the introduction of
the captive bolt pistol, ﬁring a bolt by means of a blank
cart-ridge; the bolt is shot through the animal’s brain,
rendering it unconscious, and then returns automatically
into the barrel. The pistols usually proved most eﬂicient
when they were thoroughly and regularly cleaned and
lubricated. The early captive bolt pistols came from
Germany and were very satisfactory in the abattoirs of that
country, where they were used by municipal slaughtermen,
part of whose duty was to keep the instruments in good
working order. But these pistols did not prove suitable
to the conditions existing in our slaughter-houses, and from
lack of the necessary care and attention most of them
became unworkable or fell out of use. In 1913, Mr. Cash,
of Coventry, inVented the “Cash pistol,” also a captive
bolt, but a great improvement on the earlier German
pistol. It was stronger, more reliable in operation and
required less attentiond A great many Cash pistols were
sold, but their manufacture was discontinued during the
war, nor have any been» put on the market since. 'I
understand that Mr. Cash is working out improvements
fOr his pistol, and whenever the new one appears it will
probably be a very welcome addition to the humane killers
now obtainable, as there are many master butchers who
have a preference for the captive bolt type of instrument.

.When the war was over no satisfactory humane killers
for small animals were obtainable, and attention was

 

 

 




 

 

 

43

turned towards producing one. The type of instrument
in view was one which should be simple in design and
contain as few .parts as possible, so as to reduce the
sources of trouble to a minimum. It should be perfectly
reliable for its purpose when properly used and give'no
trouble to keep in working order. It should be easy and
quick in operation (with a view to facilitate the work in
large slaughter-houses), free from danger (with moderate
care), and the ammunition should be inexpensive.

With these aims in view, and aided by the inventive
ability of Mr. Harry Greener, of Birmingham, and the
practical help of Mr. Spearey, an experienced demonstrator
of the humane killers, several experiments were made
near Stroud on a large scale under the supervision of the
Hon. Humane Slaughtering Adviser of the R.S.P.C.A.
It may here be mentioned that no trial was made on live
animals without ﬁrst ascertaining by other means that the
shot would be eﬁ‘ective. The result of these eﬁ'orts was
the appearance of the Greener “Safti” pistol, manufac—.
tured by the ﬁrm of that name, which
The Greener . 1 , . . .

u Safeti ,, Killer Is now the humane killer generally used

on the smaller animals. I think there
is no doubt whatever that this instrument is most
popular with those slaughtermen who have had the
largest experience of humane killers on small animals.
Its use is also very readily learnt by the beginner. In
this pistol (N0. 5) the barrel slides through a slieve and
is kept from contact with the ﬁring pin by a spring. Thus
when the pistol is in its normal position accidental ﬁring is

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44

impossible. Contact between the striker and the cartridge
can only be effected when the nozzle is deliberately
pressed against the object to be ﬁred at. When pulling
the trigger the barrel is automatically locked against the
breech block, thereby preventing the possibility of back-
ﬁre. The objection to a free bullet is met by the simple
precaution of ﬁring in a line with the neck and body of
the animal, but the bullet is so small and light ('22, as used
in riﬂe saloons) that it travels no further than the back of
the skull. When shooting rams from side to side of the
skull (see directions) the objection is met by the use of a
hollow point bullet.

It should be obvious that only the most reliable
cartridges should be used in humane killing, and
yet cartridges of inferior quality have sometimes been

bought from local traders and have

Cartridges, led to failures and other troubles. The

" R.S.P.C A. continually carry/"out tests

on cartridges and keep stocks of only the best and most

suitable kinds, which they re—sell at cost price to users of

humane killers. ' Or if buyers prefer to get their supplies

elsewhere, the Society gladly advise as to what kinds of
cartridges are the most reliable for particular killers.

I append illustrated directions of all the humane killers
in the list. The sketches of animal’s heads were drawn from

nature by Mr. Keith Henderson, who

IllUStrfltEd Spared no pains to be as accurate as
Directlons. possible. These pictures, taken in con-
junction with the worded directions, will enable anyone

 




 

rm

who studies them carefully, and is accustomed to slaughter—
house work, to kill animals always humanely, without injury
to the meat, or risk to human beings.

A separate leaﬂet printed on green card containing more
detailed directions and some recommendations to slaugh-
termen may be referred to by those who require further

information on the subject. It can be obtained from the
R.S.P.C.A.

CALVES.

 

C—The brain.

Place the Instrument on the forehead, slightly
lower than for large cattle (arrow A), as the upper
part of a calf’s brain is often very undeveloped.

The calf should be shot before being hoisted. The
best way to steady the calf for shooting is by holding
its halter. The calf can be loosely hobbled before
shooting and hoisted immediately after shooting.

 




     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

46

LARGE CATTLE.-

 

A to B—-—The upper surface of the tongue.
C—The brain.

Place the Muzzle of the Instrument on the same spot
aimed at when pole-axing. Point slightly towards the
top of the head, as shown by the arrow, so as to
avoid risk of bullet damaging root of tongue. A
little extra care should be taken to avoid this mistake
when the animal’s head is tied very close to the ground.

When shOoting bulls, place the muzzle Ag-inch t0
the side of the centre, to avoid the hard ridge.

 

 




 

 

47

An old and very hard-skulled animal or a wild and
troublesome one can also be shot in a little hollow
almost against the back of the horns, as shown by the
point of the arrow E, taking care that the barrel
points towards the nose, so that the bullet traverses
the brain. 0n nia'iaccounl place the muzzle further
back, as in that case the animal would only be pithed.
He would probably drop, but he would be quite
conscious.

Cruelty too often occurs in getting beasts into
the slaughter-house, especially when the lairage is
not close to it. A good plan to avoid cruelty and
make the work easier for the men is to make a narrow
passage between the lairage and the slaughler-house,
not wide enough for the animal to turn round in, or
the passage can be in the form of a movable gangway
on low wheels. The beast is rOped at the slaughter-
house door and the ring for securing him should be
as close to it as practicable and situated so that the
animal can be got to it without having to turn round.

 

 

 

 




     
  
  
   
    
  
 
  

48

S H E E P.
FOR CAP'I‘IVE FOR BULLET
BOLT PISTOL KILLER '

 

A to B—The skull under the wool.
C—The brain. D—The scrag.

Directions for the “Safti ” Killer.

Place the muzzle of the Instrument in file hollow
a little at the side of the head, about half way be-
tween the eyes and the ears, as indicated by the
circle at point of arrow E.

  

 




 

 

  

49

Small horned sheep should be shot behind the

horns, a little at the side of the head, so as to avoid
the central ridge.

Steady the head of a sheep by holding the nose,
not the neck, and in both the above methods of

shooting point the pistol as nearly as possible in line
with the neck and the body.

A very good plan when shooting sheep is to feel
through the wool with a ﬁnger for the exact spot on
which to place the instrument.

Old or heavy rams and large horned sheep can be
easily stunned with the Greener “ Safti ” Killer,
but they need special care. The right spot (marked
in sketch with a cross) is about equal distance from
the eye, the ear and the top of the head. Here there
is a depression in the skull, and it the muzzle of the
killer is placed well inside this depression there will
be no fear of failure. Long riﬂe hollow point
cartridges must be used.

Sheep and all animals should be secured for
shooting, and the usual method of securing them for
sticking can be followed with very little variation.
Sheep can be held by an assistant, or three of their
legs tied together, or they can be secured to the
crutch by a chain or rOpe across their bodies.
Steadying them by a stick between their hind legs
often leads to cruelty and this plan should never be
adopted.

 

 

 

 

 

  

 




C—The brain.

Fix the instrument about a ﬁnger’s width above the
level of the eyes, half way across the forehead, aiming
well up into the head, as shown by the arrow.

N.B.—-A pig’s nose should always be cut when a
humane pistol has been used, so that blood
should drain off from the head.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

51

Pigs intended for hoisting should be secured in
the usual way round the hock or foot and the chain
drawn just tight enough to make the pig resist; his
head is then steady for shooting. Pigs not hoisted
are usually'secured by a rope round tne upper jaw or
by being held on a bench.

Pigs, sheep and calves should be stuck immediately
after shooting. Directly they are shot they are quite
motionless for a short interval before the onset of
reﬂex movements. It is ofcourse easier to stick
properly when an animal is motionless, and much
safer. Animals stuck at once usually bleed best.

 

 

 

 




52

 

  

W"§

STRIKER SPRING

 
   

 

4‘8izyi-2_ _, 5.}

STRIKER
SAFETY LOOP (EREECH PIECE GUlDE NUT

No. I—T he Greener Cattle Killer (see p. 40).

 

‘ _ No. z—The Swedish Killer (see p. 40).

 

 

 




 

No. 3—The R.S~.P.C.A. killer (sac p. 40)

 

 




 

54
No. 4—«The “Cash” captive bolt pistol (see p. 42).

 
 




 

1'

 

55

 

 

 

 

 

No/5——The Greener “Safeti” killer (see p. 43)
normal position in which it cannot be ﬁred.

 

 

 

 

 

The Greener “ Safeti” killer can only be ﬁred in
this position, and when pressed gently forward,

 




 

List

of Humane Killers.

 

INSTRUMENT

CARTRIDGE AND
PROJ ECTIL Ia.

PRESENT
Cour 01v
KILLER.

SIZE OF ANIMALS
on WHICH usmn.

 

AG EST-S FOR. INS'I‘RUMEN'I'S

 

 

 

Greener's Cattle Killer

Swedish Killer

R.S.P.(I.A. Killer

1“ Cash ” I{iller

Greener’s “ Szifeti” Killer

'310 centl. ﬁre. Bullet

do. do.

'450 do. do.

'22 rim ﬁre blank.
Bolt.

~22 rim ﬁre. Bullet

 

 

Large, Medium and

Small

(lo.

Large

Medium & Small

do.

 

 

Messrs. \V. \V. Greener,
Birmingham.

Animal Defence Society,
35, Uld Bond St, \V. I
Council ofjnslicc to Animals,
42, Oltl Bond SL, “7. I

R.S.P.C.A., 105, Jcrmyn St.

Ditto.

Messrs. W. \V. Greener,

Bil minghanr

 

*‘ \V'ith slopei bell, 19/—.
1 Not on sale at present, as experiments are being made with a view to perfecting the insrrument.

The above-named

prices are snhject to alteration at any time.

 




 

 




TIvIE POL'E-AXE ‘2?

 

 

Statements in a letter from an abattoir superintendent.

 

 

I have been connected with the'trade for the past
50 years, and have had a large experience in various
parts of England and Scotland, both as butcher
myself and as an abattoir superintendent.

I have been superintendent of Carlisle abattoir for
the past 25 years, and 23 of these last years we have
had only the humane killers at work on cattle
(except for a few weeks during the war when it was
impossible to get cartridges), and whether you look
at it from a butcher’s point of View or any other,
the humane instruments are far and away the best.
They do away with all suffering. The animals bleed
freely and there is no danger connected with the use
of these instruments.

The secretary of Carlisle Butchers' Association
wrote me some time ago that the members of their
Association generally favoured the use of the humane
killer. An est—president wrote me: For quickness
and safety and perfect bleeding he recommends the
humane killer), and healso states that the meat keeps
better, owing to the Cattle being slaughtered under R
much quieter circumstances than when the pole—axe
is used, and ends his letter by saying he would never
think of returning to the hammer or pole—axe.

I urge you to try to get these instruments used. I
shall notiattempt to harrow your feelings with sights
of sufferings I have seen on many occasions when
the hammer or pole—axe are in use, but ask you in
in the name of swarms of animals that cannot plead
for themselves to do your bit to put an end to all
the suffering that follows the old way of slaughter."

JOHN DODDS.

City of Carlisle Public Slaughter House,
July 4, 1922.

(From the “Bath & Wilts Chronicle,” 15 July, 1922.) 7

 




