[Exiract from “JOURNAL OF ZooPHILEY ” of Fehruary,
‘ 1902. Published at Philadelphia]

,WHAT ARE THEY?

AGAIN has the proposition been made to utilise criminals
for physiological research. A Dr. A. B. Fletcher, of
Indianopolis, and two others of the same city, named
respectively Wishard and Sterne, propose the establish-
ment of an experimental hospital, where condemned
criminals shall be practised upon for the beneﬁt of
science. The depressing feature of the situation is
that approval of the idea is not limited to its projectors,
but is shared by others whose course of training has
apparently eliminated from their hearts the last remnant
of pity. “ Vivisection of men condemned to death is
just right,” said Dr. Charles Roehr, of Harvey Medical
College, when commenting on the Indianopolis Move-
ment. The Chicago “Chronicle,” of December 2nd,
reported a doctor named Brower as saying : “ I am in
favour of anything that will advance the knowledge of
scientists”; and another named Whalen, of Rush
Medical College, is stated to have said: “There is
nothing so horrible in human Vivisection if one but looks
at it aright.” What a nice, comforting assurance is here
for the shuddering wretch who may fall into the hands
of this bland person! An Indianopolis paper, the
“Sentinel,” commenting on the proposition to intro-
duce into Congress a Bill to legalise human Vivisection,
stated that Dr. Fletcher had expressed the sentiment of
other prominent medical men over the country, who
“ if the humanitarian z'asz‘z'acz‘s of the people coula’ be
overcome” (italics ours) would bring about a great
epoch in the progression of medical science. “In
science the humanitarian instincts must be left out of
the question,” is the dictum of Fletcher’s fellow-con-
spirator, Wishard. Both he and the other member of
the fraternity, Sterne, admitted the cruelty of the
practice, “ but,” said he, “we must look at it from a
high standpoint.”

And so the last barrier is down. With a calm
effrontery not often exhibited by even the Vivisectors of
animals—for they are apt to declare that the pain they
inﬂict is triﬂing—these persons boldly admit the cruelty
and agree as to the necessity of overcoming the
humanitarian instincts of the people.

 




 




