Section

1.
2.

 

Animals (Scientific
Procedures) Act 1986

CHAPTER 14

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

Preliminary

Protected animals.
Regulated procedures.

Personal and project licences

Prohibition of unlicensed procedures.
Personal licences.
Project licences.

Designated establishments

Scientiﬁc procedure establishments.

Breeding and supplying establishments.
Fees.

Licences and designation certiﬁcates:
general provisions

Consultation.

Conditions.

Variation and revocation.
Right to make representations.
Suspension in cases of urgency.

A

 




 

Secrion
l4.
l5.
l6.
17.

18.
i9.
20.

a
A. o

22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.

28.
29.
30.

Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) A of 1986

Additional controls

Re-use of protected animals.

Killing animals at conclusion of regulated procedures.
Prohibition of public displays.

Neuromuscular blocking agents.

The inspectorate and the committee

Inspectors.
The Animal Procedures Committee.
Functions of the Committee.

Miscellaneous and supplementary

Guidance, codes of practice and statistics.

Penalties for contraventions.

False statements.

Protection of conﬁdential information.

Powers of entry.

Prosecutions.

Repeal, consequential amendments and transitional pro-
VlSlOIlS.

Orders.

Application to Northern Ireland.

Short title, interpretation and commencement.

SCHEDULES:
Schedule l—Standard methods of humane killing.
Schedule Z—Animals to be obtained only from desig-
nated breeding or supplying establish-
ments.
Schedule 3—Consequcntial amendments.
Schedule 4~Transitional provisions.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

c. 14 l
ELIZABETH II

 

 

 

 

Animals (Scientific
Procedures) Act 1986

1986 CHAPTER 14

An Act to make new provision for the protection of

animals used for experimental or other scientiﬁc
purposes. [20th May 1986]

with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and
Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament
assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows :—

B 13 IT ENACTED by the Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and

Preliminary
1.——(l) Subject to the provisions of this section, a pro-Protected
tected animal” for the purposes of this Act means any living animals-
vertebrate other than man.

(2) Any such vertebrate in its foetal, larval or embryonic form
is a protected animal only from the stage of its development
when——

(a) in the case of a mammal, bird or reptile, half the ges-
tation or incubation period for the relevant species
has elapsed ; and

(b) in any other case, it becomes capable of independent
feeding.

(3) The Secretary of State may by order——
(a) extend the deﬁnition of protected animal so as to in-
clude invertebrates of any description ;
(b) alter the stage of development speciﬁed in subsection
(2) above ;' '
A 2

‘6

 

 




 

 

 

Regulated
procedures.

1968 c. 67.

C. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

(6) make provision in lieu of subsection (2) above as res-
pects any animal which becomes a protected animal
by virtue of an order under paragraph (a) above.

(4) For the purposes of this section an animal shall be re-
garded as continuing to live until the permanent cessation of
circulation or the destruction of its brain.

(5) In this section “vertebrate” means any animal of the
Sub-phylum Vertebrata of the Phylum Chordata and “ inverte-
brate ” means any animal not of that Sub-phylum.

 

2. (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, “ a regulated
procedure ” for the purposes of this Act means any experimental
or other scientiﬁc procedure applied to a protected animal which
may have the effect of causing that animal pain, suffering, distress
or lasting harm.

(2) An experimental or other scientiﬁc procedure applied to
an animal is also a regulated procedure if—

(a) it is part of a series or combination of such procedures
(whether the same or different) applied to the same ani-
mal ; and

(b) the series or combination may have the effect mentioned
in subsection (1) above ; and

(c) the animal is a protected animal throughout the series
or combination or in the course of it attains the stage
of its deveIOpment when it becomes such an animal.

(3) Anything done for the purpose of, or liable to result in,
the birth or hatching of a protected animal is also a regulated
procedure if it may as respects that animal have the effect men-
tioned in subsection (1) above.

(4) In determining whether any procedure may have the effect
mentioned in subsection (1) above the use of an anaesthetic or
analgesic, decerebration and any other procedure for render-
ing an animal insentient shall be disregarded ; and the ad-
ministration of an anaesthetic or analgesic to a protected animal,
or decerebration or any other such procedure applied to such
an animal, for the purposes of any experimental or other scien-
tiﬁc procedure shall itself be a regulated procedure.

(5) The ringing, tagging or marking of an animal, or the
application of any other humane procedure for the sole purpose
of enabling an animal to be identiﬁed, is not a regulated pro-

cedure if it causes only momentary pain or distress and no lasting
harm.

(6) The administration of any substance or article to an
animal by way of a medicinal test on animals as deﬁned in sub-
section (6) of section 32 of the Medicines Act 1968 is not a
regulated procedure if the substance or article is administered in

 

 

 




 

Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 c. 14 3

accordance with the provisions of subsection (4) of that section
or of an order under section 35(8)(b) of that Act.

(7) Killing a protected animal is a regulated procedure only
if it is killed for experimental or other scientiﬁc use, the place
where it is killed is a designated establishment and the method
employed is not one apprOpriate to the animal under Schedule 1
to this Act. ‘

l . (8) In this section references to a scientiﬁc procedure do not
include references to any recognised veterinary, agricultural or
animal husbandry practice.

3‘ (9) Schedule 1 to this Act may be amended by orders made
< by the Secretary of State.

 

Personal and project licences

3. No person shall apply a regulated procedure to an animal Prohibition of

unless— unlicensed
(a) he holds a personal licence qualifying him to apply a procedurcs'

5' regulated procedure of that description to an animal

of that description ;

; (b) the procedure is applied as part of a programme of
work speciﬁed in a project licence authorising the ap
plication, as part of that programme, of a regulated
procedure of that description to an animal of that
description ; and

(c) the place where the procedure is carried out is a place

( speciﬁed in the personal licence and the project

i licence.

 

1i 4.——(l) A personal licence is a licence granted by the Seem-persona]
ii tary of State qualifying the holder to apply speciﬁed regulated licences.
procedures to animals of speciﬁed descriptions at a speciﬁed

l place or speciﬁed places.

(2) An application for a personal licence shall be made to
i the Secretary of. State in such form and shall be supported by
such information as he may reasonably require.

(3) Except where the Secretary of State dispenses with the
requirements of this subsection any such application shall be
endorsed by a person who—-

(a) is himself the holder of a personal licence or a licence
treated as such a licence by virtue of Schedule 4 to
this Act ; and

(b) has knowledge of the biological or other relevant quali-
ﬁcations and of the training, experience and character
of the applicant ;

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Project
licences.

c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

and the person endorsing an application shall, if practicable, be
a person occupying a position of authority at a place where the
applicant is to be authorised by the licence to carry out the
procedures speciﬁed in it.

(4) No personal licence shall be granted to a person under
the age of eighteen.

(5) A personal licence shall continue in force until revoked
but the Secretary of State shall review each personal licence
granted by him at intervals not exceeding ﬁve years and may
for that purpose require the holder to furnish him with such
information as he may reasonably require.

5.—(l) A project licence is a licence granted by the Secretary
of State specifying a programme of: work and authorising the
application, as part of that programme, of speciﬁed regulated
procedures to animals of speciﬁed descriptions at a speciﬁed
place or speciﬁed places.

(2) A project licence shall not be granted except to a person
who undertakes overall responsibility for the programme to be
speciﬁed in the licence.

(3) A project licence shall not be granted for any programme
unless the Secretary of State is satisﬁed that it is undertaken
for one or more of the following purposes—-

(a) the prevention (whether by the testing of any product
or otherwise) or the diagnosis or treatment of disease.
ill-health or abnormality, or their effects, in man,
animals or plants ;

(b) the assessment, detection, regulation or modiﬁcation of
physmlogical conditions in man, animals or plants;

(6) the protection of the natural environment in the interests
of the health or welfare of man or animals ;

(d) the advancement of knowledge in biological or behav-
ioural scrences;

(e) education or training otherwise than in primary or sec-
ondary schools ;

(f) forensic enquiries;

(g) the breeding of animals for experimental or other scien-
tiﬁc use.

(4}) Indetermining whether and on what terms to grant a
prOject licence the Secretary of State shall weigh the likely ad-
verse effects on the animals concerned against the beneﬁt likely

to accrue as a result of the programme to be speciﬁed in the
hcence.

 

 

 




 

Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act. 1986 c. 14 5

(5) The Secretary of State shall not grant a project licence
unless he is satisﬁed that the applicant has given adequate con-
sideration to the feasibility of achieving the purpose of the
programme to be speciﬁed in the licence by means not involving
the use of protected animals.

(6) The Secretary of State shall not grant a project licence
authorising the use of cats, dogs, primates or equidae unless he
is satisﬁed that animals of no other species are suitable for the
purposes of the programme to be speciﬁed in the licence or that
it is not practicable to obtain animals of any other species that
are suitable for those purposes.

(7) Unless revoked and subject to subsection (8) below, a
project licence shall continue in force for such period as is
speciﬁed in the licence and may be renewed for further periods
but (without prejudice to the grant of a new licence in respect
of the programme in question) no such licence shall be in force
for more than ﬁve years in all.

 

(8) A project licence shall terminate on the death of the
holder but if— '

(a) the holder of a certiﬁcate under section 6 below in
respect of. a place speciﬁed in the licence; or

1 (b) where by virtue of subsection (2) of that section the

% licence does not specify a place in respect of which
there is such a certiﬁcate, the holder of ' a personal
licence engaged on the'programme in question,

notiﬁes the Secretary of State of the holder’s death within seven
days of its coming to his knowledge the licence shall, unless the
Secretary of State otherwise directs, continue in force until the
end of the period of twenty-eight days beginning with the date of
the notiﬁcation.

Designated establishments

6.——-(1) Subject to subsection (2) below, no place shall be Scientiﬁc
speciﬁed in a project licence unless it is a place designated by a proceﬁium
certiﬁcate issued by the Secretary of State under this section “tagmh‘”
as a scientiﬁc procedure establishment. me“ 5'

(2) Subsection (1) above shall not apply in any case in which

it appears to the Secretary of State that the programme or pro«

,l cedures authorised by the licence require him to specify a diﬁer-
‘ ent place.

(3) An application for a certiﬁcate in respect of a scientiﬁc
procedure establishment shall be made to the Secretary of
State in such form and shall be supported by such information
as he may reasonably require.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Breeding and
supplying
establish-
ments.

C. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procc lures) Act 1986

(4) A certiﬁcate shall not be issued under this section——

(0) except to a person occupying a position of authority at
the establishment in question ; and

(1)) unless the application nominates for inclusron in the
certiﬁcate pursuant to subsection (5) below a person or
persons appearing to the Secretary of State to be shit-
able for that purpose.

(5) A certiﬁcate under this section shall specify——

(a) a person to be responsible for the day-to-day care of
the protected animals kept for experimental or other
scientiﬁc purposes at the establishment ; and

(b) a veterinary surgeon or other suitably qualified person
to provide advice on their health and welfare ;

and the same person may, if the Secretary of State thinks
ﬁt, be speciﬁed under both paragraphs of this subsection.

(6) If it appears to any person speciﬁed in a certificate
pursuant to subsection (5) above that the health or welfare ot any

such animal as is mentioned in that subsection gives rise to
concern he shall——

(a) notify the person holding a personal licence who is in
charge of the animal ; or

(b) if there is no such person or it is not practicable to
notify him, take steps to ensure that the animal is cared
for and, if it is necessary for it to be killed, that it is
killed by a method which is apprOpriate under Schedule
1 to this Act or approved by the Secretary of State.

(7) In any case to which subsection (6) above applies the
person speciﬁed in the certiﬁcate pursuant to paragraph (a) of
subsection (5) above may also notify the person (if different)
speciﬁed pursuant to paragraph (b) of that subsection; and the
person speciﬁed pursuant to either paragraph of that subsection
may also notify one of the inspectors appointed under this Act.

(8) A certiﬁcate under this section shall continue in force until
revoked.

7.——(l) A person shall not at any place breed for use in
regulated procedures (whether there or elsewhere) protected
animals of a description speciﬁed in Schedule 2 to this Act
unless that place is designated by a certiﬁcate issued by the
Secretary of State under this section as a breeding establishment.

(2) A person shall not at a

. . ny place kee an such rotected
animals Wthh have not been p y p

. bred there but are to be supplied
for use elsewhere in regulated procedures unless that place is

designated by a certiﬁcate issued by the Secretary of State under
this section as a supplying establishment.

 

 




 

 

Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 c. 14 7

(3) An application for a certiﬁcate in respect of a breeding
or supplying establishment shall be made to the Secretary of
State in such form and shall be supported by such information
as he may reasonably require. .

(4) A certiﬁcate shall not be issued under this section unless
the application nominates for inclusion in the certiﬁcate pursuant
to subsection (5) below a person or persons appearing to the
Secretary of State to be suitable for that purpose.

(5) A certiﬁcate under this section shall specify-—

(a) a person to be responsible for the day-to—day care of
the animals bred or kept for breeding at the establish-
ment or, as the case may be, kept there for the pur-
pose of being supplied for use in regulated procedures;
and

(b) a veterinary surgeon or other suitably qualiﬁed person
to provide advice on their health and welfare ;

and the same person may, if the Secretary of State thinks ﬁt, be
l speciﬁed under both paragraphs of this subsection.

(6) llf it appears to any person speciﬁed in a certiﬁcate pur-
suant to subsection (5) above that the health or welfare of any
1 such animal as is mentioned in that subsection gives rise to
l concern he shall take steps to ensure that it is cared for and,
a if it is necessary for it to be killed, that it is killed by a method
appropriate under Schedule 1 to this Act or approved by the
a Secretary of State.

(7) In any case to which subsection (6) above applies the
person speciﬁed in the certiﬁcate pursuant to paragraph (a) of
subsection (5) above may also notify the person (if different)
speciﬁed pursuant to paragraph (b) of that subsection; and the
person. speciﬁed pursuant to either paragraph of that subsection
may also notify one of the inspectors appointed under this Act.

(8) A certiﬁcate under this section shall continue in force
until revoked.

(9) Schedule 2 to this Act may be amended by orders made
by the Secretary of State.

8. The holder of a certiﬁcate issued under section 6 or 7Fees.
above shall pay such periodical fees to the Secretary of State
as may be prescribed by or determined in accordance with an
order made by him.

Licences and designation certiﬁcates: general provisions
9.——(l) Before granting a licence or issuing a certiﬁcate Consultation.
under this Act the Secretary of State shall consult one of the
inspectors appointed under this Act and may also consult an
independent assessor or the Animal Procedures Committee
established by this Act.

B

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

8 c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

(2) Where the Secretary of State proposes to consult an in-
dependent assessor he shall notify the applicant of that fact,
and in selecting the assessor he shall have regard to any repre-
sentations made by the applicant.

Conditions. 10.

 

(1) Subject to the provisions of this section,.£'1 licence or
certiﬁcate under this Act may contain such. conditions as the
Secretary of State thinks ﬁt.

(2) The conditions of a personal licence shall include— —-

(a) a condition to the effect that the holder shall take pre-
cautions to prevent or reduce to the minimum consis-
tent with the purposes of the authorised procedures any
pain, distress or discomfort to the animals to which
those procedures may be applied ; and

t (b) an inviolable termination condition, that is to say, a

condition specifying circumstances in which a protected

1 animal which is being or has been subjected to a regu-
lated procedure must in every case be immediately
killed by a method appropriate to the animal under
Schedule 1 to this Act or by such other method as may
be authorised by the licence.

(3} The conditions of a project licence shall, unless the Secre-
tary of State considers that an exception is justified, include a
condition to the died—-

(a) that no cat or dog shall be used under the licence
unless it has been bred at and obtained from a desig-
nated breeding establishment ; and

(b) that no other protected animal of a description speciﬁed
in Schedule 2 to this Act shall be used under the licence
unless it has been bred at a designated breeding estab-
lishment or obtained from a designated supplying es-
tablishment ;

but no exception shall be made from the condition required by
paragraph (a) above unless the Secretary of State is satisﬁed that
no animal suitable for the purpose of the programme speciﬁed
in the licence can be obtained in accordance with that condition.

 

(4) If the conditions of a personal licence permit the holder
to use assistants to perform, under his direction, tasks not re-
quiring technical knowledge nothing done by an assistant in

accordance with such a condition shall constitute a contravention
of section 3 above.

(5) The conditions of a certiﬁcate issued under section 6 above
shall include a condition prohibiting the killing otherwise than
by a method which is appropriate under Schedule 1 to this Act
or approved by the Secretary of State of any protected animal
kept at the establishment for experimental or other scientiﬁc

 




Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 c. 14 9

purposes but not subjected to a regulated procedure or required
to be killed by virtue of section 15 below; and the conditions
of a certiﬁcate issued under section 7 above shall include a
condition prohibiting the killing otherwise than by such a method
of an animal of a description speciﬁed in Schedule 2 to this Act
which is bred or kept for breeding or, as the case may be, kept at
the establishment for the purposes of being supplied for use in
regulated procedures but not used, or supplied for use, for that

purpose.

(6) The conditions of a certiﬁcate issued under section 6 or
7 above shall include conditions requiring the holder of the
certiﬁcate-—

(at to secure that a person competent to kill animals in the
manner speciﬁed by conditions imposed in accordance
with subsection (5) above will be available to do so;
and

(bl to keep records as respects the source and disposal of
and otherwise relating to the animals kept at the estab-
lishment for experimental or other scientiﬁc purposes
or, as the case may be, bred or kept for breeding there
or kept there for the purposes of being supplied for use
in regulated procedures.

(7) Breach of a condition in a licence or certiﬁcate shall not,
invalidate the licence or certiﬁcate but shall be a ground for
its variation or revocation.

H. A licence or certiﬁcate under this Act may be varied or Variation and
revoked by the Secretary of. State— revocation.

(a) on the ground mentioned in section 10(7) above ;

(b) in any other case in which it appears to the Secretary
of State apprOpriate to do so ; or

(c) at the request of the holder.

11—41) Where the Secretary of State proposes— Right to make
(a) to refuse a licence or certiﬁcate under this Act; or :ieg‘focma'

(b) to vary or revoke such a licence or certiﬁcate otherwise
than at the request of the holder,

he shall serve on the applicant or the holder a notice of his
intention to do so.

(2) The notice shall state the reasons for which theSecretary
of State proposes to act and give particulars of the rights con«
terred by subsection (3) below.

(3) A person on whom a notice is served under subsection
(1) above may make written representations and, 1t desned, oral
representations to a person appointed for that purpose by the

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

10

 

 

 

 

Suspension in
cases of
urgency.

c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

Secretary of State if before such date as is speciﬁed in the
notice (not being less than twenty-eight days after the date of
service) he notiﬁes the Secretary of, State of 1118 WlSh to do so.

(4) The holder of a licence or certiﬁcate who is dissatisﬁed
with any condition contained in it may, if he notiﬁes the
Secretary of State of his wish to do so, make written repre-
sentations and, if desired, oral representations to a person
appointed for that purpose by the Secretary of State; but the
making of such representations shall not affect the Operation of
any condition unless and until it is varied under section 11
above.

(5) The person appointed to receive any representations under
this section shall be a person who holds or has held judicial
ofﬁce in the United Kingdom or a barrister, solicitor or advocate
of at least seven years’ standing and the Secretary of State may,
if he thinks ﬁt, appoint a person with scientific or other appro-
priate qualiﬁcations to assist the person receiving the represen-
tations in his consideration of them.

(6) The person appointed to receive any such representations
shall after considering them make a report to the Secretary
of State; and the Secretary of State shall furnish a cow of the
report to the person who made the representations and take it
into account in deciding whether to refuse the application or
to vary or revoke the licence or certiﬁcate, as the case may be.

(7) The Secretary of State may by order make rules with
respect to the procedure to be followed in the making and
consideration of representations under this section, including
provision requiring any such representations to be made within
a speciﬁed time.

(8) A notice under subsection (1) above may be served either
personally or by post.

13.——(1) If it appears to the Secretary of State to be urgently
necessary for the welfare of any protected animals that a licence
or certiﬁcate under this Act should cease to have effect
forthwith he shall by notice served on the holder suspend its
Operation for a period not exceeding three months.

(2) If during that period a notice of proposed variation or
revocation of the llcence or certiﬁcate is served under section 12
above but at the end of that period——

(a) the time for notifying the Secretary of State under sub-
section (3) of that section has not expired ; or

(b) representations are to be or are being made in accord-
ance With that subsection ; or

(e) such representations have been made but the Secretary
of State has not received or has not completed his




Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 c. 14 11

consideration of the report of the person to whom the
representations were made,

he may by notice. served on the holder further suspend the licence
or certiﬁcate until he is able to decide whether to vary or revoke
it but no further suspension shall be for longer than three months
at a time.

i (3) A notice under this section may be served personally or by
post.

Additional controls
14. (1) Where a protected animal— Re-use of

. . t td
(a) has been SUbJCCth to a series of regulated procedures 33:51:
for a particular purpose ; and

(b) has been given a general anaesthetic for any of those
procedures and allowed to recover consciousness,

it shall not be used for any further regulated procedures.

 

‘ (2) Subsection (1) above shall not preclude the use of an
animal with the consent of the Secretary of State if—

(a) the procedure, or each procedure, for which the anaes-
thetic was given consisted only of surgical preparation
essential for a subsequent procedure ; or

(b) the anaesthetic was administered solely to immobilise
the animal ; or

(c) the animal is under general anaesthesia throughout the
further procedures and not allowed to recover con-
sciousness.

(3) Where a protected animal—-
(a) has been subjected to a series of regulated prowdures
for a particular purpose ; but

(1)) has not been given a general anaesthetic for any of
those procedures,

it shall not be used for any further regulated procedures except
; with the consent of the Secretary of State.

(4) Any consent for the purposes of this section may relate to
l a speciﬁed animal or to animals used in spemﬁed procedures or
speciﬁed circumstances.

15.—~(1) Where a protected animal— ﬂags at
(a) has been subjected to a series of regulated procedures conclusion of
for a particular purpose ; and regulated

- (b) at the conclusion of the series is suffering or likely to procedures.

suffer adverse effects.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

12 c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

the persOn who applied those procedures, or the last of them,
shall cause the animal to be immediately killed by a method
appropriate to the animal under Schedule 1 to this Act or by
such other method as may be authorised by the personal licence
of. the person by whom the animal is killed.

(2) Subsection (1) above is without prejudice to any condition
of a project licence requiring an animal to be killed at the con»
clusion of a regulated procedure in circumstances other than
those mentioned in that subsection.

Prohibition of 16.—--(1) No person shall carry out any regulated procedure as
1”th d‘SPIaYS- an exhibition to the general public or carry out any such pro-
cedure which is shown live on television for general reception.

(2) No person shall publish a notice or advertisement announc
ing the carrying out of any regulated procedure in a manner that
would contravene subsection (1) above.

Neuro- 17. No person shall in the course of a regulated procedure—
ESE-£2? (a) use any neuromuscular blocking agent unless expressly
agents, authorised to do so by the personal and project

licences under which the procedure is carried out: or
(b) use any such agent instead of an anaesthetic.

The inspectorate and the committee

Inspectors. 18.—-(1) The Secretary of State shall, with the consent of the
Treasury as to numbers and remuneration, appoint as inspectors

for the purposes of this Act persons having such medical or
veterinary qualiﬁcations as he thinks requisite.

(2) It shall be the duty of an inspector—-

(a) to advise the Secretary of State on applications for
personal and project licences, on requests for their
variation or revocation and on their periodical review ;

(b) to advise him on applications for certiﬁcates under this
Act and on requests for their variation or revocation ;

(c) to visit places where regulated procedures are carried
out for the purpose of determining whether those
procedures are authorised by the requisite licences and
whether the conditions of those licences are being
complied with;

(d) to visit designated establishments for the purpose of
determining whether the conditions of the certiﬁcates
in respect of those establishments are being complied
with;

(e) to report to the Secretary of State any case in which
any provision of this Act or any condition of a licence




Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 c. 14 13

or certiﬁcate under this Act has not been or is not

being complied with and to advise him on the action
to be taken in any such case.

(3) If an inspector considers that a protected animal is under-
gomg excessrve suffering he may require it to be immediately
killed by a method appropriate to the animal under Schedule 1
to this Act or by such other method as may be authorised by

any personal licence held by the person to whom the require-
ment IS addressed.

 

19. (1) There shall be a committee to be known as the The Animal
Animal Procedures Committee. Procedures
Committee.

(2) The Committee shall consist of a chairman and at least
twelve other members appointed by the Secretary of State.

(3) Of the members other than the chairman——

(a) at least two-thirds shall be persons having such a quali‘
ﬁcation as is mentioned in subsection (4) below; and

(b) at least one shall be a barrister, solicitor or advocate,

but so that at least half of those members are persons who neither

hold nor within the previous six years have held any licence

under this Act or under the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876; and 1876 c. 77.
in making appointments to the Committee the Secretary of State

shall have regard to the desirability of ensuring that the interests

of animal welfare are adequately represented.

(4) The qualiﬁcations referred to in subsection (3)(a) above
are full registration as a medical practitioner, registration as a
veterinary surgeon or qualiﬁcations or experience in a biological
subject approved by the Secretary of State as relevant to the
work of the Committee.

(5) Members of the Committee shall be appointed for such
periods as the Secretary of State may determine but no such
period shall exceed four years and no person shall be re»
appointed more than once.

(6) Any member may resign by notice in writing to the Sec-
retary of State ; and the chairman may by such a notice resrgn
his ofﬁce as such.

(7) The Secretary of State may terminate the appointment of

a member if he is satisﬁed that——
(a) for a period of six months beginning not more than
nine months previously he has, Without the consent
of the other members, failed to attend the meetings of

the Committee;
(1)) he is an undischarged bankrupt or has made an arrange-
ment with his creditors ;

 




 

 

 

 

 

14

Functions
ofthe
Committee.

Guidance,
codes of
practice and
statistics.

 

c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

(c) he is by reason of physical or mental illness, or for any
other reason, incapable of carrying out his dutles; or

(d) be has been convicted of such a criminal offence, or his
conduct has been such, that it is not in the Secretary
of State’s opinion ﬁtting that he should remain a
member.

(8) The Secretary of State may make payments to the chair-
man by way of remuneration and make payments to him and
the other members in respect of expenses incurred by them in
the performance of their duties.

(9) The Secretary of State may also defray any other ex-
penses of the Committee.

20.———(l) It shall be the duty of the Animal Procedures Com-
mittee to advise the Secretary of State on such matters concerned
with this Act and his functions under it as the Committee may
determine or as may be referred to the Committee by the Secre-
tary of State.

(2) In its consideration of any matter the Committee shall
have regard both to the legitimate requirements of science and
industry and to the protection of animals against avoidable suffer-
ing and unnecessary use in scientiﬁc procedures.

(3) The Committee may perform any of its functions by means
of sub-committees and may CO-Opt as members of any sub-com-
mittee any persons considered by the Committee to be able to
assist that sub-committee in its work.

(4) The Committee may promote research relevant to its func-
tions and may obtain advice or assistance from other persons
with knowledge or experience appearing to the Committee to be
relevant to those functions.

(5) The Committee shall in each year make a report on its
activities to the Secretary of State who shall lay c0pies of the
report before Parliament.

Miscellaneous and supplementary

21.——-(1) The Secretary of State shall publish information to
serve as guidance with respect to the manner in which he pro-
poses to exercise his power to grant licences and certiﬁcates
under this Act and with respect to the conditions which he
proposes to include in such licences and certiﬁcates.

(2) The Secretary of State shall issue codes of practice as to
the care of protected animals and their use for regulated pro-
cedures and may approve such codes issued by other persons.

(3) The Secretary of State shall consult the Animal Proce
dures Committee before publishing or altering any information

 

 




 

 

Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 c. 14

under subsection (1.) above or issuing, approving, altering or
approving any alteration 1n any code issued or approved under
subsection (2) above.

(4) A failure on the part of any person to comply with any
provision of a code issued or approved under subsection (2)
above shall not of itself render that person liable to criminal or
civil proceedings but—-

(a) any such code shall be admissible in evidence in any
such proceedings ; and '

(b) if any of its provisions appears to the court conducting
the proceedings to be relevant to any question arising
in the proceedings it shall be taken into account in
determining that question.

(5) The Secretary of State shall lay before Parliament-—

((1) copies of any information published or code issued by
him under subsection (1) or (2) above and of any altera-
tion made by him in any such information or code;
and

(b) cepies of any code approved by him under subsection
(2) above and of any alteration approved by him in any
such code;

and if either House of Parliament passes a resolution requiring
the information, code or alteration mentioned in paragraph (a)
above, or the approval mentioned in paragraph (b) above, to be
withdrawn the Secretary of State shall withdraw it accord-
ingly ; and where he withdraws information published or a code
issued by him or his approval of a code he shall publish informa-
tion or issue or approve a code, as the case may be, in sub-

stitution for the information or code previously published, issued '

or approved.

(6) No resolution shall be passed by either House under sub-
section (5) above in respect of any information, code or altera-
tion after the end of the period of forty days beginning with the
day on which a copy of the information, code or alteration was
laid before that House ; but for the purposes of this subsection no
account shall be taken of any time during which Parliament is
dissolved or prorogued or during which both Houses are
adjourned for more than four days.

(7) The Secretary of State shall in each year publish and'lay
before Parliament such information as he considers appropriate
with respect to the use of protected animals in the prevrous year
for experimental or other scientiﬁc purposes.

15

 




 

16 c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

Penalties for 22.—-—(1) Any person who contravenes section 3 above shall
contraventionso be guilty of an offence and liable——
(a) on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding two years or to a ﬁne or to both ;
(b) on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to a ﬁne not exceeding the
statutory maximum or to both.

(2) Any person who, being the holder of a project licence— . I
(a) procures or knowingly permits a person under his 1
control to carry out a regulated procedure otherwrse l
than as part of the programme speciﬁed in the licence ;
or
(b) procures or knowingly permits a person under his con-
trol to carry out a regulated procedure otherw15e than
in accordance with that person’s personal licence,

shall be guilty of an offence and liable to the penalties speciﬁed
in subsection (1) above.

 

(3) Any person who—
(a) contravenes section 7(1) or (2), 14, 15, 16 or 17 above;
or
(b) fails to comply with a requirement imposed on him
under section 18(3) above,
shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months. or to a ﬁne
not exceeding the fourth level on the standard scale or to both.

 

(4) A person shall not be guilty of an offence under section
3 or 17(a) above by reason only that he acted without the auth-
ority of a project licence if he shows that he reasonably believed,
after making due enquiry, that he had such authority.

19“ c. 27. (5) A person guilty of an Offence under section 1 of the Pro-

1912 c. 14. tection of Animals Act 1911 or section 1 of the Protection of
Animals (Scotland) Act 1912 in respect of an animal at a
designated establishment shall be liable to the penalties speci‘
ﬁed in subsection (1) above.

 

 

 

False 23.-—-(1) A person is guilty of an offence if for the purpose of
statements. obtaining or assisting another person to obtain a licence or
certiﬁcate under this Act he furnishes information which he
knows to be false or misleading in a material particular or
recklessly furnishes information which is false or misleading
, in a material particular.

 

. (2) A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be
liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding three months or to a ﬁne not exceeding the fourth
level on the standard scale or to both. 1

 

 




 

 

Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 c. 14 17

 

24. (1) A person is guilty of an offence if otherwise than for Protection of
the purpose of discharging his functions under this Act he dis- conﬁdential
closes any information which has been obtained by him in the information
exercise of those functions and which he knows or has reason-
able grounds for believing to have been given in conﬁdence.

(2) A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be
liable——
(a) on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding two years or to a ﬁne or to both ;

(b) on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding SlX months or to a ﬁne not exceeding the
Statutory maxrmum or to both.

25.-—(l) If a justice of the peace or in Scotland a sheriff is Powers of
satisﬁed by information on oath that there are reasonable entw-
grounds for believing that an offence under this Act has been or
is being committed at any place, he may issue a warrant auth-
orising a constable to enter that place if need be by such force
as is reasonably necessary, to search it and to require any per-
son found there to give his name and address.

(2) A warrant under this section may authorise a constable
to be accompanied by an inspector appointed under this Act and
shall require him to be accompanied by such an inspector if the
place in question is a designated establishment.

(3) Any person who——
(a) intentionally obstructs a constable or inspector in the
exercise of his powers under this section ; or
(b) refuses on demand to give his name and address or
gives a false name or address,
shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or to a

ﬁne not exceeding the fourth level on the standard scale or to
both.

26.~——(1) N o proceedings for— Prosecutions.

(a) an offence under this Act ; or
(b) an offence under section 1 of the Protection of Animals 1911 c. 27.
Act 1911 which is alleged to have been committed 1n
respect of an animal at a designated establishment,
shall be brought in England and Wales except by or With the
consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions.

(2) Summary proceedings for an offence under this Act may
(without prejudice to any jurisdiction exermsable apart from this
subsection) be taken against any person at any place at Wthh he
is for the time being.

 




 

 

i” , -

18

1980 c. 43.

1975 c. 21.

Repeal,
consequential
amendments

c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

(3) Notwithstanding anything in section 127(1) of the Magis-
trates’ Courts Act l980, an information relating to an offence
under this Act which is triable by a magistrates’ court in England
and Wales may be so tried if it is laid at any time within three
years after the commission of the offence and within six months
after the date on which evidence sufﬁcient in the opinion of the
Director of Public Prosecutions to justify the proceedings comes
to his knowledge.

(4) Notwithstanding anything in section 331 of the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1975, summary proceedings for an
offence under this Act may be commenced in Scotland at any
time within three years after the commission of the olfence
and within six months after the date on which evidence sufﬁcient
in the opinion of the Lord Advocate to justify the proceedings
comes to his knowledge ; and subsection (3) of that section shall
apply for the purposes of this subsection as it applies for the
purposes of that section.

(5) For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) above a certi-
ﬁcate of the Director of Public Prosecutions or, as the case may
be, the. Lord Advocate as to the date on which such evidence
as is there mentioned came to his knowledge shall be conclusive
evidence of that fact.

27.—-—(1) The Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 is hereby repealed.

(2) The enactments mentioned in Schedule 3 to this Act

and transitional shall have effect with the amendments there speciﬁed, being

provisions.
1876 c. 77.
1973 c. 60.

Application to
Northern
Ireland.

amendments consequential on the provisions of this Act.

(3) The Breeding of Dogs Act 1973 shall not apply to the
breeding of dogs for use in regulated procedures if they are
bred at a designated breeding establishment.

(4) Schedule 4 to this Act shall have effect with respect to the
transitional matters there mentioned.

(5) The Secretary of State may by order make such further
transitional provisions as he considers necessary or expedient.

28.———-(l) Any power of the Secretary of State to make an
order under this Act shall be exercisable by statutory instrument.

(2) A statutory instrument containing an order under any of
the foregoing provisions of this Act shall be subject to annul-
ment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

29.—-—(1) This Act applies to Northern Ireland with the follow-
ing modiﬁcations.

(2) For any reference to the Secretary of State in any pro-
vision of this Act except sections 19 and 20(1) there shall be

 

 

 




Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 c. 14 19

 

substituted a reference to the Department of Health and Social
Servrces for Northern Ireland; and for the reference in section
18(1) above to the Treasury there shall be substituted a refer-

) ence to the Department of Finance and Personnel for Northern
Ireland.

(3) The functions of the Secretary of State under sections 19
and 20(1) shall be exercisable by him jointly with the Depart-
ment of Health and Social Services for Northern Ireland; and
any notice under section 19(6) or advice under section 20(1)
may be given to either of them.

(4) In section 20(5) above for the reference to Parliament
there shall be substituted a reference to the Northern Ireland
Assembly ; and in section 21 above——

(a) for the references to Parliament or either House of
Parliament there shall be substituted references to the
Assembly;

(b) in subsection (5) after the word “if” there shall be in-
serted the words “within the statutory period (within
the meaning of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ire-
land) 1954)”; and

(c) subsection (6) shall be omitted.

(5) In sections 22(5) and 26(l)(b) above for the references to
section 1 of the Protection of Animals Act 1911 there shall be
substituted references to sections 13 and 14 of the Welfare of1972 c. 7.
Animals Act (Northern Ireland) 1972. _ (NI-)-

(6) In section 25(1) above for the reference to information
on oath there shall be substituted a reference to a complaint on
oath.

 

(7) In section 26 above-—

(a) in subsections ( 1) and (3) for the words “England and
Wales ” there shall be substituted the words “ Northern
Ireland ” ;

(b) in subsections (1), (3) and (5) for the references to the
Director of Public Prosecutions there shall be sub-
stituted references to the Director of Public Pro-secu-
tions for Northern Ireland ; and

(c) in subsection (3) for the reference to section 127(1) of
the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980 there shall be sub-
stituted a reference to Article 19(1) of the Magistrates’ SI. 1981/1675
Courts (Northern Ireland) Order 1981. (81.1.26).

(8) In section 27(3) above for the reference to the Breeding
of Dogs Act 1973 there shall be substituted a reference to 31. 1983/1764
Articles 12, 13 and 43 of the Dogs (Northern Ireland) Order 1983. (N-I.8)-

 

 




 

’ ‘ *h——

20

5.1. 1979/1573
(N.I.l?.).

1954 C. 33
(N.[.).

Short title,
interpretation
and commence~
meet.

c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

(9) Section 28 above shall not apply and any order made by
the Department of Health and Social Services for Northern
Ireland under this Act shall be a statutory rule for the pur-
poses of the Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland) Order 1979
and shall be subject to negative resolution within the meaning
of section 41(6) of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland)
1954.

30.—-—-(1) This Act may be cited as the Animals (Scientiﬁc
Procedures) Act 1986.

(2) In this Act——

“ designated ”, in relation to an establishment, means de-
signated by a certiﬁcate under section 6 or 7 above ;

“ personal licence” means a licence granted under section
4 above;

“ place ” includes any place within the seaward limits of the
territorial waters of the United Kingdom, including any
vessel other than a ship which is not a British ship ;

“ project licence ” means a licence. granted under section
5 above ;

“protected animal” has the meaning given in section 1
above but subject to any order under subsection (3)
of that section ;

“regulated procedure ” has the meaning given in section
2 above.

(3) This Act shall come into force on such date as the Secre-

. tary of State may by order appoint; and dilierent dates may

be appointed for different provisions or different purposes.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

 

c. 14

SCHEDULES

SCHEDULE 1

STANDARD METHODS or HUMANE KILLING

Method

A. Animals other than
facial, larval and embryonic
forms

I. Overdose of anaesthetic
suitable for the species--
(i) by injection
(ii) by inhalation

(iii) by immersion.

(Followed by destruction of
the brain in cold-blooded
vertebrates and by exsanguin-
ation or by dislocation of the
neck in warm blooded verte-
brates except where rigor
mortis has been conﬁrmed).

2. Dislocation of the neck.

(Followed by destruction of
the brain in ﬁshes).

3. Concussion by striking the
back of the head.

(Followed by exsanguina-
tion or dislocation of the neck
in rodents and birds and des-
truction of the brain in ﬁshes).

4. Decapitation followed by
destruction of the brain.

. 5. Exposure to carbon dioxide
in a rising concentration using a
suitable technique followed by
exsanguination or by dislocation
of the neck except where rigor
mortis has been conﬁrmed.

Animals for which appropriate

(i) All animals.

(ii) All animals up to 1 kg
bOdyweight except rep-
tiles, diving birds and div-
ing mammals.

(iii) Fishes
Amphibia up to 250 g
bodyweight.

Rodents up to 500g bodyweight
other than guinea-pigs.

Guinea-pigs and lagomorphs up
to 1 kg bodyweight.

Birds up to 3 kg bodyweight.

Fishes up to 250g bodyweight.

Rodents up to 1 kg bodyweight.

Birds up to 250 g bodyweight.

Fishes.

Cold-blooded vertebrates.

Rodents over 10 days of age up
to 1%; kg bodyweight.

Birds over 1 week of age up to
3 kg bodyweight.

 

Sections 165,10.
15(1) and 15(3).




 

 

 

Sections 7 and
1 0.

Section 27(2).

1911 c. 27.

1912 0.14.

1954 c. 46.

1954 c. 68.

1966 c. 36.

c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

B. Foetal, larval and
embryonic forms

1. Overdose of anaesthetic
suitable for the species“-

(i) by injection (i) All animals.
(ii) by immersion. (ii) Fishes
Amphibia.
2. Decapitation. Mammals.
SCHEDULE 2

ANIMALS To BE OBTAINED ONLY FROM DESIGNATED BREEDING OR
SUPPLYING ESTABLISHMENTS

Mouse

Rat
Guinea-pi g
Hamster
Rabbit
Dog

Cat
Primate

SCHEDULE 3

CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS

1. In section 1(3) of. the Protection of Animals Act 1911 for the
words “ the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 ” there shall be substituted
the words “ the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

2. In section 1(3) of the Protection of Animals (Scotland) Act
1912 for the words “the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 ” there shall
be substituted the words “the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act
1986 ”.

3. In paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Protection of Animals
(Anaesthetics) Act 1954 for the words “ Any experiment duly auth-
orised under the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876” there shall be
substituted the words “Any procedure duly authorised under the
Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

4. In section 12 of the Pests Act 1954 for the words “any ex-
periment duly authorised under the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 ”
there shall be substituted the words “ any procedure duly authorised
under the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

5. In section 19(4)(a) of the Veterinary Surgeons Act 1966 for
the words “ any experiment duly authorised under the Cruelty to
Animals Act 1876 ” there shall be substituted the words “ any pro-

cedure duly authorised under the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures)
Act 1986 ”. '

 

 




 

 

Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 C. 14 23

6. In section 1(2A)(b) of the Slaughter of Poultry Act 1967 for Sen. 3
the words. “ an experiment in respect of which restrictions are im— 1967 c, 24.
posed by the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876, being an experiment
performed sub1ect to any restrictions so imposed” there shall be
substituted the words “a procedure duly authorised under the Ani-
mals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

7. In section 1(2) of the Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) 1963 c.34,
Act 1968 for the words “the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 ” there
ghalllggtgsubstituted the words “the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures)

ct ”.

8. In sections 1(2) and 15(a) of, and paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to, the Welfare of Animals Act (Northern Ireland) 1972 for the 197: c, 7 (NJ).
words “the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 ” there shall be substituted
the words “ the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

9. In section 8(3) of the Badgers Act 1973 for the words from 197.3 c. 57.
“something done” onwards there shall be substituted the words
“doing anything which is authorised under the Animals (Scien-
tiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

l0. In section 5(4) of the Dangerous Wild Animals Act 1976 for 1976 c. 38.
the words “ registered pursuant to the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876
for the purpose of performing experiments ” there shall be substituted
the words “which is a designated establishment within the mean-
ing of the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

SCHEDULE 4 Section 27 (4).
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Existing licences

1. Any licence which immediately before the coming into force
of section 3 of this Act is in force under the Cruelty to Animals 1876 Q77.
Act 1876 (in this Schedule referred to as “the prevrous Act”)
shall until such date as it would have expired under that Act
be treated for the purposes of this Act as if it were a personal
licence.

Current experiments

2.——-(1) Subject to sub-paragraph (2) below, any experiment or
series of experiments which is lawfully in progress under the prevrous
Act immediately before the coming into force of section 3 of
this Act shall be treated for the purposes of this Act as authorised
by a project licence.

(2) The Secretary of State may direct that sub-paragraph (1)
above shall cease to have effect on such date as he may specify;
and different dates may be speciﬁed in relation to different cases.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24

c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

Existing certiﬁcates

3. A person shall not by virtue of paragraphs 1 or 2 above be
entitled to do anything which would have been unlawful under the
previous Act without such a certiﬁcate as is mentionedin para-
graph (2) or (3) of the proviso to section 3 of that Act or in section
5 of that Act unless immediately before the coming into force of
section 3 of this Act he holds the appropriate certiﬁcate under that
Act.

Registered premises

4. Until such date as the Secretary of State may direct there
shall be treated as a designated scientiﬁc procedure establishment
for the purposes of this Act any place registered under the previous
Act or approved by the Secretary of State.

Inspectors

5. Any person who at the coming into force of section 18 of
this Act holds oﬁice as an inspector under the previous Act shall
be treated for the purposes of this Act as an inspector appointed
under that section.

 

PRINTED IN ENGLAND BY J A DOLE
Controller and Chief Executive of Her Majesty‘s Stationery Ofﬁce and
Queen's Printer of Acts of Parliament.
Reprinted in the Standard Parliamentary Page Size.

lst Impression June 1986

2nd Impression October 1988

 

 




 

 

 




Animals (Scientwc Procedures) Act 1986

LONDON: PUBLISHED BY HER MAJESTYS STATIONERY OFFICE
£4.10 net
ISBN 0 10 541486 7

(541466)

 




Animals (Scientific
Procedures) Act 1986

CHAPTER 14

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

Preliminary

Section
1. Protected animals.
2. Regulated procedures.

Personal and project licences

Prohibition of unlicensed procedures.
Personal licences.
Project licences.

Designated establishments

Scientiﬁc procedure establishments.
Breeding and supplying establishments.
Fees.

Licences and designation certificates:
general provisions

Consultation.

Conditions.

Variation and revocation.
Right to make representations.
Suspension in cases of urgency.

A

 




      
  
   
   
 
    
   
    
     
      
          
 
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
  

2 c. 14 Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986

(6) make provision in lieu of subsection (2) above as res-
pects any animal which becomes a protected animal
by virtue of an order under paragraph (a) above.

(4) For the purposes of this section an animal shall be re
garded as continuing to live until the permanent cessation of
circulation or the destruction of its brain.

(5) In this section “ vertebrate” means any animal of the
Sub-phylum Vertebrata of the Phylum Chordata and “ inverte-
brate ” means any animal not of that Sub-phylum.

Regulated 2. (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, “ a regulated

procedures. procedure ” for the purposes of this Act means any experimental
or other scientiﬁc procedure applied to a protected animal which
may have the eﬁect of causing that animal pain, suﬁering. distress
or lasting harm.

(2) An experimental or other scientiﬁc procedure applied to
an animal is also a regulated procedure if—

(a) it is part of a series or combination of such procedures
(whether the same or different) applied to the same ani—
mal ; and

(b) the series or combination may have the effect mentioned
in subsection (1) above ; and

(c) the animal is a protected animal throughout the series
or combination or in the course of it attains the stage
of its development when it becomes such an animal.

(3) Anything done for the purpose of, or liable to result in,
the birth or hatching of a protected animal is also a regulated
procedure if it may as respects that animal have the etlect men-
tioned in subsection (1) above.

(4) In determining whether any procedure may have the eflect
mentioned in subsection (1) above the use of an anaesthetic or
analgesic, decerebration and any other procedure for render-
ing an animal insentient shall be disregarded ; and the ad-
ministration of an anaesthetic or analgesic to a protected animal,
or decercbration or any other such procedure applied to such
an animal, for the purposes of any experimental or other scien-
tiﬁc procedure shall itself be a regulated procedure.

(5) The ringing, tagging or marking of an animal, or the
application of any other humane procedure for the sole purpose
of enabling an animal to be identiﬁed, is not a regulated pro-
cedure if it causes only momentary pain or distress and no lasting
harm.

(6) The administration of any substance or article to an

animal by way of a medicinal test on animals as deﬁned in sub-

1968 c. 67- section (6) of section 32 of the Medicines Act 1968 is not a
regulated procedure if the substance or article is administered in

 

 




 

 

Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 c. 14

accordance with the provisions of subsection (4) of that section
or of an order under section 35(8)(b) of that Act.

(7) Killing a protected animal is a regulated procedure only
if it is killed for experimental or other scientiﬁc use, the place
where it is killed is a designated establishment and the method
employed is not one apprOpriate to the animal under Schedule 1
to this Act.

(8) In this section references to a scientiﬁc procedure do not
include references to any recognised veterinary, agricultural or
animal husbandry practice.

(9) Schedule 1 to this Act may be amended by orders made
by the Secretary of State.

Personal and project licences
3. No person shall apply a regulated procedure to an animal
unless-—

(a) he holds a personal licence qualifying him to apply a
regulated procedure of that description to an animal
of that description ;

(b) the procedure is applied as part of a programme of
work speciﬁed in a project licence authorising the ap-
plication, as part of that programme, of a regulated
procedure of that description to an animal of that
description ; and

(c) the place where the procedure is carried out is a place
speciﬁed in the personal licence and the project
ﬁcence.

 

Prohibition of
unlicensed
procedures.

4.—(l) A personal licence is a licence granted by the Secre- Persona]
tary of State qualifying the holder to apply speciﬁed regulated licences.

procedures to animals of speciﬁed descriptions at a speciﬁed
place or speciﬁed places.

(2) An application for a personal licence shall be made to
the Secretary of. State in such form and shall be supported by
such information as he may reasonably require.

(3) Except where the Secretary of State dispenses with the
requirements of this subsection any such application shall be
endorsed by a person who--

(a) is himself the holder of a personal licence or a licence
treated as such a licence by virtue of Schedule 4 to
this Act ; and

(b) has knowledge of the biological or other relevant quali-
ﬁeations and of the training, experience and character
of the applicant ;




Project
licences.

C. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) A ct 1986

and the person endorsing an application shall, if practicable, be
a person occupying a position of authority at a place where the
applicant is to be authorised by the licence to carry out the
procedures speciﬁed in it.

(4) No personal licence shall be granted to a person under
the age of eighteen.

(5) A personal licence shall continue in force until revoked
but the Secretary of State shall review each personal licence
granted by him at intervals not exceeding live years and may
for that purpose require the holder to furnish him with such
information as he may reasonably require.

5.-—-(l) A project licence is a licence granted by the Secretary
of State specifying a programme of work and authorising the
application. as part of that programme, of speciﬁed regulated
procedures to animals of specilied descriptions at a speciﬁed
place or speciﬁed places.

(2) A project licence shall not be granted except to a person
who undertakes overall responsibility for the programme to be
speciﬁed in the licence.

(3) A project licence shall not be granted for any programme
unless the Secretary of State is satisﬁed that it is undertaken
for one or more of the following purposes——

(a) the prevention (whether by the testing of any product
or otherwise) or the diagnosis or treatment of disease.
ill-health or abnormality, or their effects, in man.
animals or plants ;

(b) the assessment, detection, regulation or modiﬁcation of
physiological conditions in man, animals or plants;

(c) the protection of the natural environment in the interests
of the health or welfare of man or animals ;

(d) the advancement of knowledge in biological or behav-
ioural sciences;

(6) education or training otherwise than in primary or sec-
ondary schools ;

(f) forensic enquiries;

(g) the breeding of animals for experimental or other scien-
tiﬁc use.

(4) In determining whether and on what terms to grant a
project licence the Secretary of State shall weigh the likely ad-
verse eﬁects on the animals concerned against the beneﬁt likely
to accrue as a result of the programme to be speciﬁed in the
ﬁcence.

 




Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 c. 14

(5) The Secretary of State shall not grant a project licence
unless he is satisﬁed that the applicant has given adequate con-
sideration to the feasibility of achieving the purpose of the
programme to be speciﬁed in the licence by means not involving
the use of protected animals.

(6) The Secretary of State shall not grant a project licence
authorising the use of cats, dogs, primates or cquidae unless he
is satisﬁed that animals of no other species are suitable for the
purposes of the programme to be speciﬁed in the licence or that
it is not practicable to obtain animals of any other species that
are suitable for those purposes.

(7) Unless revoked and subject to subsection (8) below, a
project licence shall continue in force for such period as is
speciﬁed in the licence and may be renewed for further periods
but (without prejudice to the grant of a new licence in respect
of the programme in question) no such licence shall be in force
for more than ﬁve years in all.

(8) A project licence shall terminate on the death of the
holder but if—

(a) the holder of a certiﬁcate under section 6 below in
respect of a place speciﬁed in the licence; or
(b) where by virtue of subsection (2) of that section the
licence does not specify a place in respect of which
there is such a certiﬁcate, the holder of a personal
licence engaged on the'programme in question,
notiﬁes the Secretary of State of the holder’s death within seven
days of its coming to his knowledge the licence shall, unless the
Secretary of State otherwise directs, continue in force until the
end of the period of twenty-eight days beginning with the date of
the notiﬁcation.

Designated establishments

6.—-(1) Subject to subsection (2) below, no place shall be Scientiﬁc
speciﬁed in a project licence unless it is a place designated by 21 Procedure
certiﬁcate issued by the Secretary of State under this section CS‘abl‘Sh“
as a scientiﬁc procedure establishment. men“-

(2) Subsection (1) above shall not apply in any case in which
it appears to the Secretary of State that the programme or pro
cedures authorised by the licence require him to specify a differ-
ent place.

(3) An application for a certiﬁcate in respect of a scientiﬁc
procedure establishment shall be made to the Secretary of
State in such form and shall be supported by such information
as he may reasonably require.

 




Breeding and
supplying
establish-
ments.

c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

(4) A certiﬁcate shall not be issued under this section—

(0) except to a person occupying a position of authority at
the establishment in question ; and

(1)) unless the application nominates for inclusion in the
certiﬁcate pursuant to subsection (5) below a person or
persons appearing to the Secretary of State to be suit-
able for that purpose.

(5) A certiﬁcate under this section shall specify——

(a) a person to be responsible for the day-to-day care of
the protected animals kept for experimental or other
seientiﬁc purposes at the establishment ; and

(b) a veterinary surgeon or other suitably qualiﬁed person
to provide advice on their health and welfare ;

and the same person may. if the Secretary of State thinks
ﬁt, be speciﬁed under both paragraphs of this subsection.

(6) If it appears to any person speciﬁed in a certiﬁcate
pursuant to subsection (5) above that the health or welfare of any
such animal as is mentioned in that subsection gives rise to
concern he shall—

(a) notify the person holding a personal licence who is in
charge of the animal ; or

(b) if there is no such person or it is not practicable to
notify him, take steps to ensure that the animal is cared
for and, if it is necessary for it to be killed, that it is
killed by a method which is appropriate under Schedule
1 to this Act or approved by the Secretary of State.

(7) In any case to which subsection (6) above applies the
person speciﬁed in the certiﬁcate pursuant to paragraph (a) of
subsection (5) above may also notify the person (if different)
speciﬁed pursuant to paragraph (b) of that subsection; and the
person speciﬁed pursuant to either paragraph of that subsection
may also notify one of the inspectors appointed under this Act.

(8) A certiﬁcate under this section shall continue in force until
revoked.

7.———(1) A person shall not at any place breed for use in
regulated procedures (whether there or elsewhere) protected
animals of a description speciﬁed in Schedule 2 to this Act
unless that place is designated by a certiﬁcate issued by the
Secretary of State under this section as a breeding establishment.

(2) A person shall not at any place keep any such protected
animals which have not been bred there but are to be supplied
for use elsewhere in regulated procedures unless that place is
designated by a certiﬁcate issued by the Secretary of State under
this section as a supplying establishment.

 




Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 C. 14

(3) An application for a certiﬁcate in respect of a breeding
or supplying establishment shall be made to the Secretary of
State in such form and shall be supported by such information
as he may reasonably require.

(4) A certiﬁcate shall not be issued under this section unless
the application nominates for inclusion in the certiﬁcate pursuant
to subsection (5) below a person or persons appearing to the
Secretary of State to be suitable for that purpose.

(5) A certiﬁcate under this section shall specify——

(a) a person to be responsible for the day-to—day care of
the animals bred or kept for breeding at the establish-
ment or, as the case may be, kept there for the pur-
pose of being supplied for use in regulated procedures;
and

(b) a veterinary surgeon or other suitably qualiﬁed person
to provide advice on their health and welfare ;

and the same person may, if the Secretary of State thinks ﬁt. b
speciﬁed under both paragraphs of this subsection. ‘

(6) if it appears to any person speciﬁed in a certiﬁcate pur-
suant to subsection (5) above that the health or welfare of any
such animal as is mentioned in that subsection gives rise to
concern he shall take steps to ensure that it is cared for and.
if it is necessary for it to be killed. that it is killed by a method
appropriate under Schedule 1 to this Act or approved by the
Secretary of State.

(7) In any case to which subsection (6) above applies the
person speciﬁed in the certiﬁcate pursuant to paragraph (a) of
subsection (5) above may also notify the person (if different)
speciﬁed pursuant to paragraph (b) of that subsection; and the
person speciﬁed pursuant to either paragraph of that subsection
may also notify one of the inspectors appointed under this Act.

(8) A certiﬁcate under this section shall continue in force
until revoked.

(9) Schedule 2 to this Act may be amended by orders made
by the Secretary of State.

8. The holder of a certiﬁcate issued under section 6 or 7Feee.
above shall pay such periodical fees to the Secretary of State
as may be prescribed by or determined in accordance with an
order made by him.

Licences and designation certiﬁcates : general provisions
9.——(l) Before granting alicence or issuing a certiﬁcate Consultation.
under this Act the Secretary of State shall consult one of the
inspectors appointed under this Act and may also consult an
independent assessor or the Animal Procedures Committee
established by this Act.

B

 




Conditions.

c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

(2) Where the Secretary of State proposes to consult an in-
dependent assessor he shall notify the applicant of that fact.

and in selecting the assessor he shall have regard to any repre.
sentations made by the applicant.

lib—(l) Subject to the provisions of this section, a licence or
certiﬁcate under this Act may contain such conditions as the
Secretary of State thinks ﬁt.

(2) The conditions of a personal licence shall include——

(a) a condition to the eﬁect that the holder shall take pre-
cautions to prevent or reduce to the minimum consis-
tent with the purposes of the authorised procedures any
pain, distress or discomfort to the animals to which
those procedures may be applied ; and

(b) an inviolable termination condition, that is to say. a
condition specifying circumstances in which a protected
animal which is being or has been subjected to a regu-
lated procedure must in every case be immediately
killed by a method appropriate to the animal under
Schedule 1 to this Act or by such other method as may
be authorised by the licence.

(3) The conditions of a project licence shall, unless the Secre—
tary of State considers that an exception is justiﬁed, include a
condition to the eflectm

(a) that no cat or dog shall be used under the licence
unless it has been bred at and obtained from a desig-
nated breeding establishment ; and

(b) that no other protected animal of a description speciﬁed
in Schedule 2 to this Act shall be used under the licence
unless it has been bred at a designated breeding estab-
lishment or obtained from a designated supplying es-
tablishment ;

but no exception shall be made from the condition required by
paragraph (a) above unless the Secretary of State is satisﬁed that
no animal suitable for the purpose of the programme speciﬁed
in the licence can he obtained in accordance with that condition.

(4) If the conditions of a personal licence permit the holder
to use assistants to perform, under his direction, tasks not re-
quiring technical knowledge nothing done by an assistant in
accordance with such a condition shall constitute a contravention
of section 3 above.

(5) The conditions of a certiﬁcate issued under section 6 above
shall include a condition prohibiting the killing otherwise than
by a method which is appropriate under Schedule 1 to this Act
or approved by the Secretary of State of any protected animal
kept at the establishment for experimental or other scientiﬁc

 




Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 c. 14

purposes but not subjected to a regulated procedure or required
to be killed by virtue of section 15 below; and the conditions
of a certiﬁcate issued under section 7 above shall include a
condition prohibiting the killing otherwise than by such a method
of an animal of a description speciﬁed in Schedule 2 to this Act
which is bred or kept for breeding or, as the case may be, kept at
the establishment for the purposes of being supplied for use in
regulated procedures but not used, or supplied for use, for that

purpose.

(6) The conditions of a certiﬁcate issued under section 6 or
7 above shall include conditions requiring the holder of the
certiﬁcate--

(a) to secure that a person competent to kill animals in the
manner speciﬁed by conditions imposed in accordance
with subsection (5) above will be available to do so;
and

(b) to keep records as respects the source and disposal of
and otherwise relating to the animals kept at the estab-
lishment for experimental or other scientiﬁc purposes
or, as the case may be, bred or kept for breeding there
or kept there for the purposes of being supplied for use
in regulated procedures.

(7) Breach of a condition in a licence or certiﬁcate shall not.
invalidate the licence or certiﬁcate but shall be a ground for
its variation or revocation.

I]. A licence or certiﬁcate under this Act may be varied or
revoked by the Secretary of State-—
(a) on the ground mentioned in section 10(7) above ;
(b) in any other case in which it appears to the Secretary
of State appropriate to do so ; or
(c) at the request of the holder.

12. (1) Where the Secretary of State proposes——
(a) to refuse a licence or certiﬁcate under this Act; or

. . . ti
(b) to vary or revoke such a licence or certiﬁcate otherwrse

than at the request of the holder.

he shall serve on the applicant or the holder a notice of his
intention to do so.

(2) The notice shall state the reasons for which the Secretary
of State proposes to act and give particulars of the rights cont
ferred by subsection (3) below.

(3) A person on whom a notice is served under subsection
(1) above may make written representations and, if desired, oral
representations to a person appointed for that purpose by the

Variation and
revocation.

Right to make
representa-
'ons.

 




Suspension in
cases of
urgency.

c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

Secretary of State if before such date as is speciﬁed in the
notice (not being less than twenty-eight days after the date of
servrce) he notiﬁes the Secretary of State of his wish to do so.

(4) The holder of a licence or certiﬁcate who is dissatisﬁed
with any condition contained in it may. if he notiﬁes the
Secretary of State of his wish to do so, make written repre-
sentations and, if desired. oral representations to a person
appointed for that purpose by the Secretary of State; but the
making of such representations shall not affect the operation of
any condition unless and until it is varied under section 11
above.

(5) The person appointed to receive any representations under
this section shall be a person who holds or has held judicial
ofﬁce in the United Kingdom or a barrister, solicitor or advocate
of at least seven years’ standing and the Secretary of State may,
if he thinks ﬁt. appoint a person with scientiﬁc or other appro-
priate qualiﬁcations to assist the person receiving the represen-
tations in his consideration of them.

(6) The person appointed to receive any such representations
shall after considering them make a report to the Secretary
of State; and the Secretary of State shall furnish a copy of the
report to the person who made the representations and take it

into account in deciding whether to refuse the application or
to vary or revoke the licence or certiﬁcate, as the case may be.

(7) The Secretary of State may by order make rules with
respect to the procedure to be followed in the making and
consideration of representations under this section, including
provision requiring any such representations to be made within
a speciﬁed time.

(8) A notice under subsection (1) above may be served either
personally or by post.

l3.—(l) If it appears to the Secretary of State to be urgently
necessary for the welfare of any protected animals that a licence
or certiﬁcate under this Act should cease to have effect
forthwith he shall by notice served on the holder suspend its
operation for a period not exceeding three months.

(2) If during that period a notice of proposed variation or
revocation of the licence or certiﬁcate is served under section 12
above but at the end of that period-—

(a) the time for notifying the Secretary of State under sub-
section (3) of that section has not expired ; or

(b) representations are to be or are being made in accord.
ance with that subsection ; or

(e) such representations have been made but the Secretary
of State has not received or has not completed his

 




Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 c. 14

consideration of the report of the person to whom the
representations were made,

he may by notice served on the holder further suspend the licence
or certiﬁcate until he is able to decide whether to vary or revoke
it but no further suspension shall be for longer than three months
at a time.

(3) A notice under this section may be served personally or by
post.

Additional controls

14. (1) Where a protected animal-— Re-Usc 0f

. . rotected
(a) has been subjected to a series of regulated procedures :nimals.

for a particular purpose ; and
(b) has been given a general anaesthetic for any of those
procedures and allowed to recover consciousness.
it shall not be used for any further regulated procedures.
(2) Subsection (1) above shall not preclude the use of an
animal with the consent of the Secretary of State if—

(a) the procedure, or each procedure, for which the anaes—
thetic was given consisted only of surgical preparation
essential for a subsequent procedure ; or

(b) the anaesthetic was administered solely to immobilisc
the animal ; or

(c) the animal is under general anaesthesia throughout the
further procedures and not allowed to recover con-
sciousness.

(3) Where a protected animal——

(a) has been subjected to a series of regulated procedures
for a particular purpose ; but

(b) has not been given a general anaesthetic for any of
those procedures,

it shall not be used for any further regulated procedures except
with the consent of the Secretary of State.

(4) Any consent for the purposes of this section may relate to
a speciﬁed animal or to animals used in speciﬁed procedures or
speciﬁed circumstances.

15.—( 1) Where a protected animal— Killing

- . - animals at
(a) has been SUbJCCth to a 561163 of regulated procedures conclusion of

for a particular purpose ; and regulated

(b) at the conclusion of the series is suffering or likely to Procedures-
suffer adverse effects,

 




c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

the person who applied those procedures, or the last of them.
shall cause the animal to be immediately killed by a method
appropriate to the animal under Schedule 1 to this Act or by
such other method as may be authorised by the personal licence
of the person by whom the animal is killed.

(2) Subsection (1) above is without prejudice to any condition
of a project licence requiring an animal to be killed at the con-
clusion of a regulated procedure in circumstances other than
those mentioned in that subsection.

Prohibition of 16. (1) No person shall carry out any regulated procedure as
PUbl‘C d'SP’aYSo an exhibition to the general public or carry out any such pro-
cedure which is shown live on television for general reception.

(2) No person shall publish a notice or advertisement announo
ing the carrying out of any regulated procedure in a manner that
would contravene subsection (1) above.

Ncum- 17. No person shall in the course of a regulated procedure-—
muscular ( ) ul bl id 1 l
blocking a use any neuromusc ar oc ng agent un ess express y

agents, authorised to do so by the personal and project
licences under which the procedure is carried out; or

(b) use any such agent instead of an anaesthetic.

The inspectorate and the committee

Inspectors. 18.——(l) The Secretary of State shall, with the consent of the
Treasury as to numbers and remuneration, appoint as inspectors
for the purposes of this Act persons having such medical or
veterinary qualiﬁcations as he thinks requisite.

(2) It shall be the duty of an inspector——

(a) to advise the Secretary of State on applications for
personal and project licences, on requests for their
variation or revocation and on their periodical review ;

(b) to advise him on applications for certiﬁcates under this
Act and on requests for their variation or revocation ;

(c) to visit places where regulated procedures are carried
out for the purpose of determining whether those
procedures are authorised by the requisite licences and
whether the conditions of those licences are being
complied with ;

(d) to visit designated establishments for the purpose of
determining whether the conditions of the certiﬁcates
in respect of those establishments are being complied
with:

(e) to report to the Secretary of State any case in which
any provision of this Act or any condition of a licence

 




Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 C. 14

or certiﬁcate under this Act has not been or is not
being complied with and to advise him on the action
to be taken in any such case.

(3) If an inspector considers that a protected animal is under-
going excessive suﬁering he may require it to be immediately
killed by a method appropriate to the animal under Schedule 1
to this Act or by such other method as may be authorised by
any personal licence held by the person to whom the require-
ment is addressed.

19.—(1) There shall be a committee to be known as the The Animal

Animal Procedures Committee. Procedures
Committee.

(2) The Committee shall consist of a chairman and at least
twelve other members appointed by the Secretary of State.

(3) Of the members other than the chairman——

(a) at least two-thirds shall be persons having such a quali-
ﬁcation as is mentioned in subsection (4) below; and

(b) at least one shall be a barrister, solicitor or advocate,

but so that at least half of those members are persons who neither

hold nor within the previous six years have held any licence

under this Act or under the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 ; and 1876 c. 77.
in making appointments to the Committee the Secretary of State

shall have regard to the desirability of ensuring that the interests

of animal welfare are adequately represented.

(4) The qualiﬁcations referred to in subsection (3)(a) above
are full registration as a medical practitioner. registration as a
veterinary surgeon or qualiﬁcations or experience in a biological
subject approved by the Secretary of State as relevant to the
work of the Committee.

(5) Members of the Committee shall be appointed for such
periods as the Secretary of State may determine but no such
period shall exceed four years and no person shall be re-
appointed more than once.

(6) Any member may resign by notice in writing to the Sec—
retary of State; and the chairman may by such a notice resign
his ofﬁce as such.

(7) The Secretary of State may terminate the appointment of
a member if he is satisﬁed that——

(a) for a period of six months beginning not more than
nine months previously he has, without the consent
of the other members, failed to attend the meetings of
the Committee ;

(b) he is an undischarged bankrupt or has made an arrange-
ment with his creditors ;

 




Functions
ofthe
Committee.

Guidance,
codes of
practice and
statistics.

Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986

(c) he is by reason of physical or mental illness, or for any
other reason, incapable of carrying out his duties; or

(d) be has been convicted of such a criminal offence, or his
conduct has been such, that it is not in the Secretary
of State’s opinion ﬁtting that he should remain a
member.

(8) The Secretary of State may make payments to the chair-
man by way of remuneration and make payments to him and
the other members in respect of expenses incurred by them in
the performance of their duties.

(9) The Secretary of State may also defray any other ex-
penses of the Committee.

20.——(l) It shall be the duty of the Animal Procedures Com-
mittee to advise the Secretary of State on such matters concerned
with this Act and his functions under it as the Committee may
determine or as may be referred to the Committee by the Secre—
tary of State.

(2) In its consideration of any matter the Committee shall
have regard both to the legitimate requirements of science and
industry and to the protection of animals against avoidable sulier-
ing and unnecessary use in scientific procedures.

(3) The Committee may perform any of its functions by means
of sub-committees and may co—opt as members of any sub-com-
mittee any persons considered by the Committee to be able to
assist that sub-committee in its work.

(4) The Committee may promote research relevant to its func-
tions and may obtain advice or assistance from other persons
with knowledge or experience appearing to the Committee to be
relevant to those functions.

(5) The Committee shall in each year make a report on its
activities to the Secretary of State who shall lay c0pies of the
report before Parliament.

Miscellaneous and supplementary

21.———(l) The Secretary of State shall publish information to
serve as guidance with respect to the manner in which be pro-
poses to exercise his power to grant licences and certificates
under this Act and with respect to the conditions which he
proposes to include in such licences and certificates.

(2) The Secretary of State shall issue codes of practice as to
the care of protected animals and their use for regulated pro-
cedures and may approve such codes issued by other persons.

(3) The Secretary of State shall consult the Animal Proce
(lures Committee before publishing or altering any information

 




Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 c. 14

under subsection (1) above or issuing, approving, altering or
approving any alteration in any code issued or approved under
subsection (2) above.

(4) A failure on the part of any person to comply with any
provision of a code issued or approved under subsection (2)
above shall not of itself render that person liable to criminal or
civil proceedings but——

(a) any such code shall be admissible in evidence in any
such proceedings ; and

(b) if any of its provisions appears to the court conducting
the proceedings to be relevant to any question arising
in the proceedings it shall be taken into account in
determining that question.

(5) The Secretary of State shall lay before Parliament-—

((1) copies of any information published or code issued by
him under subsection (1) or (2) above and of any altera-
tion made by him in any such information or code;
and ‘

(b) cepies of any code approved by him under subsection
(2) above and of any alteration approved by him in any
such code;

and if either House of Parliament passes a resolution requiring
the information, code or alteration mentioned in paragraph (a)
above, or the approval mentioned in paragraph (b) above, to be
withdrawn the Secretary of State shall withdraw it accord-
ingly ; and where he withdraws information published or a code
issued by him or his approval of a code he shall publish informa-
tion or issue or approve a code, as the case may be, in sub-
stitution for the information or code previously published, issued
or approved.

(6) No resolution shall be passed by either House under sub—
section (5) above in respect of any information, code or altera-
tion after the end of the period of forty days beginning with the
day on which a copy of the information, code or alteration was
laid before that House ; but for the purposes of this subsection no
account shall be taken of any time during which Parliament is
dissolved or prorogued or during which both Houses are
adjourned for more than four days.

(7) The Secretary of State shall in each year publish and lay
before Parliament such information as he considers appropriate
with respect to the use of protected animals in the previous year
for experimental or other scientiﬁc purposes.

 




16 c. 14 Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986

Penalties for 22.7—(1) Any person who contravenes section 3 above shall
contraventionS- be guilty of an offence and liable——
(a) on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding two years or to a ﬁne or to both ;
(b) on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to a ﬁne not exceeding the
statutory maximum or to both.

(2) Any person who, being the holder of a project licence——
(a) procures or knowingly permits a person under his
control to carry out a regulated procedure otherwise
than as part of the programme speciﬁed in the licence ;
or
(b) procures or knowingly permits a person under his con-
trol to carry out a regulated procedure otherwise than
in accordance with that person’s personal licence,
shall be guilty of an offence and liable to the penalties speciﬁed
in subsection (1) above.

(3) Any person who—
(a) contravenes section 7(1) or (2). 14, 15. 16 or 17 above;

or
(b) fails to comply with a requirement imposed on him

under section 18(3) above,

shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or to a ﬁne
not exceeding the fourth level on the standard scale or to both.

(4) A person shall not be guilty of an offence under section
3 or 17(a) above by reason only that he acted without the auth-
ority of a project licence if he shows that he reasonably believed,
after making due enquiry. that he had such authority.

1911 c. 27. (5) A person guilty of an offence under section 1 of the Pro-

1912 c. 14, tection of Animals Act 1911 or section 1 of the Protection of
Animals (Scotland) Act 1912 in respect of an animal at a
designated establishment shall be liable to the penalties speci-
ﬁed in subsection (1) above.

False 23.—(l) A person is guilty of an offence if for the purpose of

statements. obtaining or assisting another person to obtain a licence or
certiﬁcate under this Act he furnishes information which he
knows to be false or misleading in a material particular or
recklessly furnishes information which is false or misleading
in a material particular.

(2) A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be
liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding three months or to a ﬁne not exceeding the fourth
level on the standard scale or to both.

 




Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 C. 14 17

24. (1) A person is guilty of an offence if otherwise than for Protection of
the purpose of discharging his functions under this Act be dis- Sionﬁdenm'
closes any information which has been obtained by him in the ”‘formm‘on'
exercise of those functions and which he knows or has reason-
able grounds for believing to have been given in conﬁdence.

(2) A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be
liable——

(a) on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding two years or to a ﬁne or to both ;

(b) on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to a ﬁne not exceeding the
statutory maxnnum or to both.

25.——(l) If a justice of the peace or in Scotland a sheriff is Powers of
satisfied by information on oath that there are reasonable 01110-
grourids for believing that an offence under this Act has been or
is being committed at any place, he may issue a warrant auth-
orising a constable to enter that place if need be by such force
as is reasonably necessary, to search it: and to require any per-
son found there to give his name and address.

(2) A warrant under this section may authorise a constable
to be accompanied by an inspector appointed under this Act and
shall require him to be accompanied by such an inspector if the
place in question is a designated establishment.

(3) Any person who—
(a) intentionally obstructs a constable or inspector in the
exercise of his powers under this section ; or
(b) refuses on demand to give his name and address or
gives a false name or address,
shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or to a

ﬁne not exceeding the fourth level on the standard scale or to
both.

26.-—(1) No proceedings for-— Prosecutions.
(a) an offence under this Act ; or

(b) an offence under section 1 of the Protection of Animals 1911 c. 27.
Act 1911 which is alleged to have been committed in
respect of an animal at a designated establishment,
shall be brought in England and Wales except by or with the
consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions.

(2) Summary proceedings for an offence under this Act may
(without prejudice to any jurisdiction exercisable apart from this
subsection) be taken against any person at any place at which he
is for the time being.

 




18

1930 c. 43.

1975 c. 21.

Repeal,
consequential
amendments

c. 14 Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986

(3) Notwithstanding anything in section 127(1) of the Magis-
trates’ Courts Act 1980, an information relating to an offence
under this Act which is triable by a magistrates’ court in England
and Wales may be so tried if it is laid at any time within three
years after the commission of the offence and within six months
after the date on which evidence sufﬁcient in the opinion of the
Director of Public Prosecutions to justify the proceedings comes
to his knowledge.

(4) Notwithstanding anything in section 331 of the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1975, summary proceedings for an
otIenee under this Act may be commenced in Scotland at any
time within three years after the commission of the offence
and within six months after the date on which evidence sufﬁcient
in the opinion of the Lord Advocate to justify the proceedings
comes to his knowledge ; and subsection (3) of that section shall
apply for the purposes of this subsection as it applies for the
purposes of that section.

(5) For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) above a certi-
ﬁcate of the Director of Public Prosecutions or, as the case may
be, the Lord Advocate as to the date on which such evidence
as is there mentioned came to his knowledge shall be conclusive
evidence of that fact.

27.———(l) The Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 is hereby repealed.

(2) The enactments mentioned in Schedule 3 to this Act

andtransitional shall have effect with the amendments there speciﬁed, being

provisions.
1876 c. 77.
1973 c. 60.

Application to
Northern
Ireland.

amendments consequential on the provisions of this Act.

(3) The Breeding of Dogs Act 1973 shall not apply to the
breeding of dogs for use in regulated procedures if they are
bred at a designated breeding establishment.

(4) Schedule 4 to this Act shall have effect with respect to the
transitional matters there mentioned.

(5) The Secretary of State may by order make such further
transitional provisions as he considers necessary or expedient.

28.———(l) Any power of the Secretary of State to make an
order under this Act shall be exercisable by statutory instrument.

(2) A statutory instrument containing an order under any of
the foregoing provisions of this Act shall be subject to annul-
ment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

29.—(1) This Act applies to Northern Ireland with the follow-
ing modiﬁcations.

(2) For any reference to the Secretary of State in any pro-
vision of this Act except sections 19 and 20(1) there shall be

 




Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 C. 14

substituted a reference to the Department of Health and Social
Services for Northern Ireland; and for the reference in section
18(1) above to the Treasury there shall be substituted a refer-
ence to the Department of Finance and Personnel for Northern
Ireland.

(3) The functions of the Secretary of State under sections 19
and 20(1) shall be exercisable by him jointly with the Depart-
ment of Health and Social Services for Northern Ireland; and
any notice under section 19(6) or advice under section 20(1)
may be given to either of them.

(4) In section 20(5) above for the reference to Parliament
there shall be substituted a reference to the Northern Ireland
Assembly ; and in section 21 above——

(a) for the references to Parliament or either House of
Parliament there shall be substituted references to the
Assembly;

(b) in subsection (5) after the word “if” there shall be in-
serted the words “within the statutory period (within
the meaning of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ire-
land) 1954) ” ; and

(c) subsection (6) shall be omitted.

(5) In sections 22(5) and 26(1)(b) above for the references to
section 1 of the Protection of Animals Act 1911 there shall be
substituted references to sections 13 and 14 of the Welfare of 1972c. 7.
Animals Act (Northern Ireland) 1972 (N- L)‘

(6) In section 25(1) above for the reference to information
on oath there shall be substituted a reference to a complaint on
oath.

(7) In section 26 above—-

(a) in subsections (1) and (3) for the words “England and
Wales ” there shall be substituted the words “ Northern
Ireland ” ;

(b) in subsections (1), (3) and (5) for the references to the
Director of Public Prosecutions there shall be sub-
stituted references to the Director of Public Prosecu-
tions for Northern Ireland ; and
(c) in subsection (3) for the reference to section 127(1) of
the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980 there shall be sub-
stituted a reference to Article 19(1) of the Magistrates’ SI 1981/1675
Courts (Northern Ireland) Order 1981. (81.1.26).

(8) In section 27(3) above for the reference to the Breeding
of Dogs Act 1973 there shall be substituted a reference to s,]_ 1983/1764
Articles 12, 13 and 43 of the Dogs (Northern Ireland) Order 1983. (N18).

 




c. 14 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

(9) Section 28 above shall not apply and any order made by

the Department of Health and Social Services for Northern

Ireland under this Act shall be a statutory rule for the pur-

S.[.1979/1573 poses of the Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland) Order 1979

NIH). and shall be subject to negative resolution within the meaning

2:521? 33 of section 41(6) of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland)
'~ - . 1954.

Short title, 30.—-(l) This Act may be cited as the Animals (Scientiﬁc

lﬂlcrprcmion Procedures) Act 1986.
and commence-

meat. (2) In this Act-—
“ designated ”, in relation to an establishment, means de-
signated by a certiﬁcate under section 6 or 7 above ;
“ personal licence ” means a licence granted under section
4 above ;

“ place ” includes any place within the seaward limits of the
territorial waters of the United Kingdom, including any
vessel other than a ship which is not a British ship ;

“ project licence ” means a licence granted under section
5 above ;

" protected animal” has the meaning given in section 1

above but subject to any order under subsection (3)
of that section ;

“ regulated procedure ” has the meaning given in section
2 above.

(3) This Act shall come into force on such date as the Secre-
tary of State may by order appoint; and different dates may
be appointed for different provisions or different purposes.

 




Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

SCHEDULES

SCHEDULE 1

SectionsZ,6,7,lO.
l5(l) and 15(3).

STANDARD Mia'ruous on HUMANE KILLING

Method

A. Animals other than
foetal, larval and embryonic
forms

I. Overdose of anaesthetic
suitable for the species—
(i) by injection
(ii) by inhalation

(iii) by immersion.

(Followed by destruction of
the brain in cold-blooded
vertebrates and by exsanguin-
ation or by dislocation of the
neck in warm blooded verte-
brates except where rigor
mortis has been conﬁrmed).

2. Dislocation of the neck.

(Followed by destruction of
the brain in ﬁshes).

3. Concussion by striking the
. back of the head.

(Followed by exsanguina-
tion or dislocation of the neck
in rodents and birds and des-
truction of the brain in ﬁshes).

4. Decapitation followed by
destruction of the brain.

5. Exposure to carbon dioxide
in a rising concentration using a
suitable technique followed by
exsanguination or by dislocation
of the neck except where rigor
mortis has been conﬁrmed.

Animals for which appropriate

(i) All animals.

(ii) All animals up to 1 kg
bodyweight except rep-
tiles, diving birds and div-
ing mammals. .

(iii) Fishes
Amphibia up to 250 g
bodyweight.

Rodents up to 500g bodyweight
other than guinea-pigs.

Guinea-pigs and lagomorphs up
to 1 kg bodyweight.

Birds up to 3 kg bodyweight.

Fishes up to 250g bodyweight.

Rodents up to 1 kg bodyweight.
Birds up to 250 g bodyweight.
Fishes.

Cold-blooded vertebrates.

Rodents over 10 days of age up
to 112-1 kg bodyweight.

Birds over 1 week of age up to
3 kg bodyweight.

 




Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

B. Foetal, larval and
embryonic forms

1. Overdose of anaesthetic
surtable for the species-—

(i) by injection (i) All animals.
(ii) by immersion. (ii) Fishes
Amphibia.
2. Decapitation. Mammals.

Sections 7 and

,0_ SCHEDULE 2

ANIMALS TO BE OBTAINED ONLY FROM DESIGNATED BREEDING OR
SUPPLYING ESTABLISHMENTS

Mouse

Rat
Guinea-pi g
Hamster
Rabbit
Dog

Cat
Primate

Section 27(2). \ SCHEDULE 3

CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS

1. In section 1(3) of the Protection of Animals Act 1911 for the
words “the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 ” there Shall be substituted
the words “ the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

2. In section 1(3) of the Protection of Animals (Scotland) Act
1912 for the words “ the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 ” there shall
be substituted the words “the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act
1986”.

3. In paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Protection of Animals
(Anaesthetics) Act 1954 for the words “ Any experiment duly auth-
orised under the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876” there shall be
substituted the words “Any procedure duly authorised under the
Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

4. In section 12 of the Pests Act 1954 [or the words “any ex-
periment duly authorised under the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 ”
there Shall be substituted the words “ any procedure duly authorised
under the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

5. In section 19(4)(a) of the Veterinary Surgeons Act 1966 for
the words “any experiment duly authorised under the Cruelty to
Animals Act 1876 ” there shall be substituted the words “ any pro-
cedure duly authorised under the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures)
Act 1986 ”.

 




Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 C. 14

6. In section 1(2A)(b) of the Slaughter of Poultry Act 1967 for Sen. 3
the words “an experiment in respect of which restrictions are im- 1967 C, 24_
posed by the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876, being an experiment
performed subject to any restrictions so imposed” there shall be
substituted the words “a procedure duly authorised under the Ani-
mals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

7. In section 1(2) of the Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) 1963 c.34.
Act 1968 for the words “the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 ” there
shall be substituted the words “the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures)
Act 1986”.

8. In sections 1(2) and 15(a) of, and paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to, the Welfare of Animals Act (Northern Ireland) 1972 for the 1972 c. 7 (N.l.).
words “the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 ” there shall be substituted
the words “ the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

9. In section 8(3) of the Badgers Act 1973 for the words from 1973 c. 57.
“something done” onwards there shall be substituted the words
“doing anything which is authorised under the Animals (Scien-
tiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

l0. In section 5(4) of the Dangerous Wild Animals Act 1976 for 1976 c. 38.
the words “registered pursuant to the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876
for the purpose of performing experiments ” there shall be substituted
the words “which is a designated establishment within the mean-
ing of the Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986 ”.

SCHEDULE 4 Section 27 (4).
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Existing licences

1. Any licence which immediately before the coming into force
of section 3 of this Act is in force under the Cruelty to Animals 1376 c. 77.
Act 1876 (in this Schedule referred to as “the previous Act ”)
shall until such date as it would have expired under that Act
be treated for the purposes of this Act as if it were a personal
licence.

Current experiments

2.——(l) Subject to sub-paragraph (2) below, any experiment or
series of experiments which is lawfully in progress under the previous
Act immediately before the coming into force of section 3 of
this Act shall be treated for the purposes of this Act as authorised
by a project licence.

(2) The Secretary of State may direct that sub-paragraph (1)
above shall cease to have effect on such date as he may specify;
and different dates may be speciﬁed in relation to different cases.

 




Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

Existing certiﬁcates

3. A person shall not by virtue of paragraphs 1 or 2 above be
entitled to do anything which would have been unlawful under the
previous Act without such a certiﬁcate as is mentioned in para-
graph (2) or (3) of the proviso to section 3 of that Act or in section
5 of that Act unless immediately before the coming into force of
section 3 of this Act he holds the apprOpriate certiﬁcate under that
Act.

Registered premises

4. Until such date as the Secretary of State may direct there
shall be treated as a designated scientiﬁc procedure establishment
for the purposes of this Act any place registered under the previous
Act or approved by the Secretary of State.

Inspectors

5. Any person who at the coming into force of section. 18 of
this Act holds ofﬁce as an inspector under the previous Act shall
be treated for the purposes of this Act as an inspector appointed
under that section.

 

PRINTED IN ENGLAND BY J A‘l)OLE
Controller and (‘hief Executive of Her Majesty‘s Stationery Ofﬁce and
Queen‘s Printer of Acts of Parliament.
Reprinted in the Standard Parliamentary Page Size
lst Impression June 19.96

2nd Impression October 1988

 




Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures) Act 1986

LONDON: PUBLISHED BY HER MAJI‘ZS'I‘Y‘S STATIONERY ()FFlC'E
£4.10 ncl

ISBN 0 10541486 7
(541466)

 




 
      
       
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
       
    

._; ,__.. -_....,._..~.'.....—s. Maw:

-.._.. L w. .‘

4.....-wm .. c .w,‘ it
~ -.=....‘ ‘.M_..._..-_

. Nashn-“nn‘ H.“ . l

1987:

1988:

1989:

mented by the Experiments on Animals Decree tully implementing lltt:
EC Directive on Animal Experimentation, including a system for regi-
stering premises, authorizing persons involved in the use and supply of
animals, undertaking inSpections, and compiling statistics.

Australia passed Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, int‘Lding Part 3,
Scientific Procedures, providing registration of experimenters, licensing

of scientific establi'sh'mmt and breeding establishments, and requiring //
approval by Animal Experimentation Ethics Committee and Peer /
Review Committee. /

French Decree updated again (see Appendix). .
---—~«--~~~ ~ "WW 2:“ x 4", «m» -- I»:
Portugal adopted regulations for humane trea tment of test animals. ér ‘ 9’ lib" f « /

Sweden passed a new Animal Protection Law, including important pro-
visions for farm animals (see Appendix).

Spain adopted a decree to comply with the EC Directive on protection
of experimental animals.

Austria enacted laboratory animal welfare legislation.

EC Directive L5n3animal experimentation enters into force.

 

,
w....-__ C > A
A
m...

 

 

 

 
 

 




t: m I'ifi‘“ﬁ£!ll‘.1()1‘(3X1’(fl'llllClliLllttlll or {PI-Llll‘uiiltn'l shall purclmse or other wise atquitc
any dog or cat for such purposes from any person except an operator of an auction sale
subject to section 1 2 of this Act or a person holding a valid license as a dealer or exhibitor
issued by the Secretary pursuant to this Act unless such person is exempted from obtain-
ing such license under section 3 of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2138) (PL 89-544, §8, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, §9, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1562)

Section 9. When construing or enforcing the provisions of this Act, the act, omission,
or failure of any person acting for or employed by a research facility, a dealer, or an exhib-
itor or a person licensed as a dealer or an exhibitor pursuant to the second sentence of
section 3, or an operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, or an interme-
diate handler or a carrier, within the scope of his employment or office, shall be deemed
the act, omission, or failure of such research facility, dealer, exhibitor, licensee, operator of
an auction sale, intermediate handler, or carrier, as well as of such person.

(7 U.S.C. 2139) (PL. 89-544, §9, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL 91-579, §10, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, §7, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 10. Dealers and exhibitors-shall make and retain for such reasonable period
of time as the Secretary may prescribe, such records with respect to the purchase, sale,
transportation, identification, and previous ownership of animals as the Secretary may
prescribe. Research facilities shall make and retain such records only with respect to the
purchase, sale, transportation, identification, and previous ownership of live dogs and
cats. At the request of the Secretary, any regulatory agency of the Federal Government
which requires records to be maintained by intermediate handlers and carriers with
respect to the transportation, receiving, handling, and delivery of animals on forms pre-
scribed by the agenCy, shall require there to be included in such forms, and intermediate
handlers and carriers shall include in such forms, such information as the Secretary may
require for the effective administration of this Act. Such information shall be retained for
such reasonable period of time as the Secretary may prescribe. If regulatory agencies of
the Federal Government do not prescribe requirements for any such forms, intermediate
‘handlers and carriers shall make and retain for such reasonable period as the Secretary
may prescribe such records with respect to the transportation, receiving, handling, and
delivery of animals as the Secretary may prescribe. Such records shall be made available
at all reasonable times for inspection and copying by the Secretary.

(7 U.S.C. 2140) (PL. 89-544, §10, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, §11, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, §8, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 11. All animals delivered for transportation, transported, purchased, or sold,
in commerce, by a dealer or exhibitor shall be marked or identified at such time and in
such humane manner as the Secretary may prescribe: Provided, That only live dogs and
cats need to be so marked or identified by a research facility.

(7‘U.S.C. 2141) (PL. 89-544, §11, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, §12, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, §5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 12. The Secretary is authorized to promulgate humane standards and
recordkeeping requirements governing the purchase, handling, or sale of animals, in com-
merce, by dealers, research facilities, and exhibitors at auction sales and by the operators
of such auction sales. The Secretary is also authorized to require the licensing of operators
of auction sales where any dogs or cats are sold, in commerce, under such conditions as
he may prescribe, and upon payment of such fee as prescribed by the Secretary under sec-
tion 23 of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2142) (PL. 89-544, §12, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 35]; PL. 91-579, §13, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, §5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 13. (a) (1) The Secretary shall promulgate standards to govern the humane
handling, care, treatment and transportation of animals by dealers, research facilities, and
exhibitors.

(2) The standards described in paragraph (1) shall include minimum require-
ments—

(A) for handling, housing, feeding, watering, sanitation, ventilation, shelter
from extremes of weather and temperatures, adequate veterinary care, and separation by
species where the Secretary finds necessary for humane handling, care, or treatment of
animals; and

(B) for exercise of dogs, as determined by an attending veterinarian in accord-
ance with the general standards promulgated by the Secretary, and for a physical environ-
ment adequate to promote the psychological well-being of primates.

(3) In addition to the requirements under paragraph (2), the standards described
in paragraph (1) shall, with respect to animals in research facilities, include require-
ments—

(A) for animal care, treatment, and practices in experimental procedures to
ensure that animal pain and distress are minimized, including adequate veterinary care
with the appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, tranquilizing drugs, or euthanasia;

(B) that the principal investigator considers alternatives to any procedure
likely to produce pain to or distress in an experimental animal;

(C) in any practice which could cause pain to animals—-

(i) that a doctor of veterinary medicine is consulted in the planning of
such procedures;
(ii) for the use of tranquilizers, analgesics, and anesthetics;
(iii) for presurgical and postsurgical care by laboratory workers, in
accordance with established veterinary medical and nursing proce-
ures;

V

 

 

 

rwAWL'KJV)’t>

H3 textévufo

 

 

 




. - .. )
A.._a sinst the “5.9.91..- .srslyties.w.i.thgst...ans§thesia;...and_.--.--.-,.. --.........-,.,.... x 2 “3 "~ “l ‘ v u ' l ’..
(v) flgiat‘the with‘holdjnpg of tranquilizers, anesthesia, analgesia, or eutha- l, f \j _ (06 )’ I w“ i f I A", )
nasia when scientifically necessary shall continue for only the neces— P() ,7]. {"1 /}
sary period of time;
(D) that no animal is used in more than one major operative experiment from
which it is allowed to recover except in cases of—
(i) scientific necessity; or
(ii) other special circumstances as determined by the Secretary; and
(E) that exceptions to such standards may be made only when Specified by
research protocol and that any such exception shall be detailed and explained in a report
outlined under paragraph (7) and filed with the Institutional Animal Committee.

(4) The Secretary shall also promulgate standards to govern the transportation in
commerce, and the handling, care, and treatment in connection therewith, by interme-
diate handlers, air carriers, or other carriers, of animals consigned by a dealer, research
facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or other person, or any department, agency,
or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government, for transporta-
tion in commerce. The Secretary shall have authority to promulgate such rules and regu-
lations as he determines necessary to assure humane treatment of animals in the course of
their transportation in commerce including requirements such as those with respect to
containers, feed, water, rest, ventilation, temperature, and handling.

(5) In promulgating and enforcing standards established pursuant to this section,
the Secretary is authorized and directed to consult experts, including outside consultants
where indicated.

(6) (A) Nothing in this Act—

(i) except as provided in paragraph (7) of this subsection, shall be con-
strued as authorizing the Secretary to promulgate rules, regulations,
or orders with regard to the design, outlines, or guidelines of actual
research or experimentation by a research facility as determined by
such facility;
except as provided in subparagraphs (A) and (C) (ii) through (v) of
paragraph (3) and paragraph (7) of this subsection, shall be con-
strued as authorizing the Secretary to promulgate rules, regulations,
or orders with regard to the performance of actual research or exper-
imentation by a research facility as determined by such research
facility; and

(iii) shall authorize the Secretary, during inspection, to interrupt the con-
duct of actual research or experimentation.

(B) No rule, regulation, order, or part of this Act shall be construed to require
a research facility to disclose publicly or to the Institutional Animal Committee during its
inspection, trade secrets or commercial or financial information which is privileged or
confidential.

(7) (A) The Secretary shall require each research facility to show upon inspection,
and to report at least annually, that the provisions of this Act are being followed and that
professionally acceptable standards governing the care, treatment, and use of animals are
being followed by the research facility during actual research or experimentation.

(B) In complying with subparagraph (A), such research facilities shall pro-

 

 

 

vide—

(i) information on procedures likely to produce pain or distress in any
animal and assurances demonstrating that the principal investigator
considered alternatives to those procedures;

(ii) assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that such facility is adhering
to the standards described in this section; and

(iii) an explanation for any deviation from the standards promulgated
under this section.

(8) Paragraph (1) shall not prohibit any State (or a political subdivision of such
State) from promulgating standards in addition to those standards promulgated by the
Secretary under paragraph (1).

(b)(l) The Secretary shall require that each research facility establish at least one
Committee. Each Committee shall be appointed by the chief executive ofﬁcer of each such
research facility and shall be composed of not fewer than three members. Such members
shall possess sufficient ability to assess animal care, treatment, and practices in experimen-
tal research as determined by the needs of the research facility and shall represent soci-
ety's concerns regarding the welfare of animal subjects used at such facility. Of the mem-
bers of the Committee—

(A) at least one member shall be a doctor of veterinary medicine;
(B) at least one member——

(i) shall not be affiliated in any way with such facility other than as a
member of the Committee;

(ii) shall not be a member of the immediate family of a person who is
affiliated with such facility; and

(iii) is intended to provide representation for general community inter-
ests in the proper care and treatment of animals; and

(C) in those cases where the Committee consists of more than three members,
not more than three members shall be from the same administrative unit of such facility.

(2) A quorum shall be required for all formal actions of the Committee, including
inspections under paragraph (3).

(3) The Committee shall inspect at least semiannually all animal study areas and

animal facilities of such research facility and review as part of the inspection— .

(A) practices involving pain to animals, and

(B) the condition of animals, to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
Act to minimize pain and distress to animals. Exceptions to the requirement of in5pection
of such study areas may be made by the Secretary if animals are studied in their natural
environment and the study area is prohibitive to easy access.

 

 

 




AB.1: 6/7/9n

AB.7: 6/7/90

EXCERPTS FROM
THE HEALTH RESEARCH EXTENSION ACT OF 1985
PUBLIC LAW 99-158, NOVEMBER 20, 1985

ANIMALS IN RESEARCH

Sec. 495 (a) The Secretary, acting through the Director of NIH, shall establish guide-
lines for the following:

(I) The proper care of animals to be used in biomedical and behavioral
research.

(2) The proper treatment of animals while being used in such research. Guide- -
lines under this paragraph shall require——

(A) the appropriate use of tranquilizers, analgesics, anesthetics, paralyt-
ics, and euthanasia for animals in such research; and

(B) appropriate pre-surgical and post-surgical veterinary medical and
nursing care for animals in such research. Such guidelines shall not be con—
strued to prescribe methods of research.

(3) The organization and operation of animal care committees in accordance
with subsection (b).

(b)(1) Guidelines of the Secretary under subsection (a) (3) shall require animal care
committees at each entity which conducts biomedical and behavioral research with funds
provided under this Act (including the National Institutes of Health and the national
research institutes) to assure compliance with the guidelines established under subsection
(a).

(2) Each animal care committee shall be appointed by the chief executive offi-
cer of the entity for which the committee is established, shall be composed of not
fewer than three members, and shall include at least one individual who has no asso-
ciation with such entity and at least one doctor of veterinary medicine.

(3) Each animal care committee of a research entity shall—

(A) review the care and treatment of animals in all animal study areas
and facilities of the research entity at least semi-annually to evaluate compli-
ance with applicable guidelines established under subsection (a) for appropri—
ate animal care and treatment;

(B) keep appropriate records of reviews conducted under subpar-
agraph (A); and

(C) for each review conducted under subparagraph (A), file with the
Director of NIH at least annually (i) a certiﬁcation that the review has been
conducted, and (ii) reports of any violations of guidelines established under
subsection (a) or assurances required under paragraph (I) which were
observed in such review and which have continued after notice by the com-
mittee to the research entity involved of the violations.

Reports filed under subparagraph (C) shall include any minority views filed by members
of the committee.

(c) The Director of NIH shall require each applicant for a grant, contract, or coopera-
tive agreement involving research on animals which is administered by the National Insti—
tutes of Health or any national research institute to include in its application or contract
proposal, submitted after the expiration of the twelve—month period beginning on the date
of enactment of this section——

(1) assurances satisfactory to the Director of NIH that——

(A) the applicant meets the requirements of the guidelines established
under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) and has an animal care commit-
tee which meets the requirements of subsection (b); and

(B) scientists, animal technicians, and other personnel involved with
animal care, treatment, and use by the applicant have available to them
instruction or training in the humane practice of animal maintenance and
experimentation, and the concept, availability, and use of research or testing
methods that limit the use of animals or limit animal distress; and
(2) a statement of the reasons for the use of animals in the research to be con-

ducted with funds provided under such grant or contract.

Notwithstanding subsection (a) (2) of section 553 of title 5, United States Code, regula-
tions under this subsection shall be promulgated in accordance with the notice and com-
ment requirements of such section.

(d) If the Director of NIH determines that—-

(1) the conditions of animal care, treatment, or use in an entity which is receiv-
ing a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement involving research on animals under
this title do not meet applicable guidelines established under subsection (a);

(2) the entity has been notiﬁed by the Director of NIH of such determination
and has been given a reasonable opportunity to take corrective action; and

(3) no action has been taken by the entity to correct such conditions;

the Director of NIH shall suspend or revoke such grant or contract under such conditions

as the Director determines appropriate.
(e) No guideline or regulation promulgated under subsection (a) or (c) may require a
research entity to disclose publicly trade secrets or commercial or financial information

which is privileged or conﬁdential.

Sec. 4. Plan for Research Involving Animals

(a) Establishment of Plan—The Director of the National Institutes of Health shall
establish a plan for——

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

. , 'v"“‘.' Kr“ ~Y‘
mm
.. .. H . .. :.....':.:;.‘... Saul-2.1.: .gz‘.';; .'
.7... .. -. ...........-...\.u ,....—.~—| v

"5’1"“"vhfht'. -, <,- -.‘- .,- ~ a I -.. .-" ‘ “ ‘ ‘ i J. ‘~' “'~'
... . 395‘!~ka‘:£§§—£K4F$ixnr1m‘3‘1.’llrfﬁfsmk'g'miu’ . ’ . - > : H

(1) research to be conducted by or through the National Institutes of Health
and the national research institutes into methods of biomedical research and experi-
mentation—

(A) which do not require the use of animals;

(B) which reduce the number of animals used in such research; or

(C) which produce less pain and distress in such animals than methods
currently in use.

(2) establishing the validity and reliability of the methods described in
subparagraph (A);

(3) the development of such methods which have been found to be valid and
reliable; and

(4) the training of scientists in the use of such methods.

he plan required by this paragraph shall be prepared not later than October 1, 1986.

(b) Dissemination of Information—The Director of the National Institutes of Health

hall take such actions as may be appropriate to convey to scientists and others involved
ith research or experimentation involving animals information respecting the methods
ound to be valid and reliable under subsection (a) (2).

(c) Interagency Coordinating Committee—The Director of the National Institutes of
lealth shall. establish within the National Institutes of Health an Interagency Coordinat-
, g Committee to assist the Director of the National Institutes of Health in the develop-

ent of the plan required by subsection (a). The Director of each national research insti-
ite shall serve on the Committee.

 

. Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, France, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United
Kingdom.

. The full text of the 1966 Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, including its 1970, 1976, and
1985 amendments, appears at the end of this chapter.

. The Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act of 1986 continues and in several provisions
increases the protection provided by the 1876 Act. See Appendix for the full text.

. Arizona and Alaska passed anti-cruelty laws in 1913.

. Mr. Morse, who fought the reform efforts of the founders of the Humane Society of
the United States as chief executive of the American Humane Association, became
president of the Humane Society of the United States from 1967-1970.

. The New York State Society for Medical Research also sponsored the bills introduced
by Senator Iavits in the 89th and 90th Congresses (see "Laboratory Animal Laws: Im-
portant Dates," this chapter). .

. The American Humane Association was also absent when hearings were called by
Congressman Poage on the Resnick bill, September 2, 1965. At subsequent hearings,
AHA representatives testified against inclusion of laboratories in the bill, reflecting
the unbridled pressure of the biomedical establishment on the big humane societies at
that period.

. For example, Nobel laureate, Sir Peter Medawar, was Chairman of UFAW’s Scientific
Advisory Committee. He repeatedly sent statements on the value of the British Act for
quotation at Congressional hearings.

. The statements by Sir Graham Wilson and Dr. Lawrence Abel were published by AWI
in Information Report/Moll]; No._4,September—October .1966-.. - .

. Speaker of the House of Tiepresentatives, 1989—.
. Secretary of Health and Human Services, 1982-1985.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

z"_‘”"{‘,.r3""" cuwwxrirg

.va‘

 

 

 

 

 




LAB.1: 5/14/90

Chapter IV I

LABORATORY ANIMAL WELFARE
by Christine Stevens

Not until the end of 1985 when Senator Robert Dole attached his bill,
”Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals," to the Farm Bill by unanimous
consent of Senate and House, did the United States achieve legislation compa-
rable to that already in effect in 14 western European countries1 for protection
of animals used by scientific institutions. The Farm Bill was signed by President
Reagan two days before Christmas, making the Improved Standards provisions
effective December 23, 1986, a year from the date of enactment.2

More than twenty years of intensive work was required to reach the point
at which the American Physiological Society, major experimentalists, withdrew
its opposition to legislation sought by animal protective organizations. The
Association of Professors of Medicine, too, accepted the bill’s provisions in the
closing months of the struggle for its passage.

Efforts which began in 1880 to regulate animal experimentation in the
United States are described in detail from 1945 onward.

NINETEENTH CENTURY LABORATORY ANIMAL
PROTECTIVE PROPOSALS REBUFFED

In 1880, a bill to regulate animal experimentation in the District of Colum-
bia was introduced in Congress. Its provisions were roughly similar to the Brit-
ish Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876 which provided substantial protection for
experimental animals for more than a century with the approval of the British
scientific community.3 But American scientists who were asked for their opin-
ions Opposed and easily defeated this initial effort.

Between 1828 and 1898, nearly every state and territory in the Union pas-
sed an anti-cruelty statute.4 Fourteen of these laws exempted animal experi-
ments. Even the crusading Henry Bergh, an outspoken anti-vivisectionist,
agreed to the exemption of experimental animals when he revised the New
York anti-cruelty law in 1867.

No prosecutions for cruelty to laboratory animals are known during this
period in states without such exemptions. Not until the latter half of the twenti-
eth century (Massachusetts in 1958 and Maryland in 1982) were anti-cruelty
laws invoked on behalf of laboratory animals. In the first case, the Massachusetts
SPCA successfully prosecuted a research scientist and animal caretaker for cru-
elty in maintaining and transporting post-surgical dogs outside the institution
(the Overholt Clinic).

In Maryland, Dr. Edward Taub was found guilty of 17 counts of cruelty to
experimental monkeys at the Institute for Behavioral Research. On appeal, the
judgment was reversed on grounds that the Maryland law was superseded by
the federal Animal Welfare Act.

LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY IN THE POST-SECOND WORLD WAR PERIOD
Animal Seizure

Virtually all bills relating to laboratory animals from 1945 to 1960 were
inspired by the National Society for Medical Research (NSMR) or one of its
affiliates. th’mded in Chicago in 1945 by Dr. A. J. Carlson, Dr. Andrew C. Ivy,
and Dr. George Wakerlin, the NSMR devoted most of its efforts to enactment of
state laws requiring both humane society shelters and public pounds to sur-
render dogs and cats on request from scientific institutions for use in any type of
experiments or tests, no matter how painful and prolonged.

The first forced surrender law was passed in Minnesota in 1948. Humane
societies were unaware that the bill had even been introduced before it had
gone through both Houses and been signed by the Governor. This law required
release of impounded animals from humane society shelters that receive funds
from taxes, as well as from municipal pounds. In 1949 in Wisconsin, an even
more severe seizure law was passed, requiring any stray animal to be made
available on request to a scientific institution. Thus, shelters Operated wholly by
charitable funds were also compelled to supply animals for experiments,
regardless of the degree and duration of pain and suffering inﬂicted. An attempt
was made to pass similar legislation in Illinois, but here it failed, and the individ-

 




 

ual communities were left in control of local policies with respect to disposition
of stray dogs and cats.

Procurement laws passed in New York, South Dakota, Oklahoma, Connect-
icut, Ohio, and Iowa did not attempt to enact such far-reaching legislation.

Robert Sellar, the President of the American Humane Association (AHA),

the national federation of humane societies, saw the grave danger to the move-
ment, whose organizational structure in the late 1940's was especially suscepti-
ble to demoralization through animal seizure legislation. Virtually all the well-
established humane societies centered their work around shelters for lost or
unwanted dogs and cats. If forced to surrender animals for painful experiments,
the entire structure would lose its moral basis as a sanctuary for animals where
they would be safe from inﬂicted suffering. These were dark days for organized
animal protection.

Mr. Sellar sought to reason with the National Society for Medical Research
in hopes of finding a solution to the demand for research dogs without under-
mining the morals of the humane movement. A small AHA group met with an
NSMR group with the understanding that the preliminary talk would not be
publicized. But Mr. Ralph Rohweder, the Executive Secretary of the NSMR,
immediately sent out an announcement calculated to inﬂame anti-vivisection
societies and anti-vivisectionist members of the American Humane Association.
Mr. Sellar lacked the power to resolve the crisis manufactured by the NSMR,
and henceforth, battles raged 1n state after state to pass legislation compelling
humane societies to surrender dogs and cats to the laboratories on demand and
without controls on pain inﬂiction.

With the death of Robert Sellar came the end of real efforts to face the prob-
lem and solve it. The inﬂuence of a coterie of professional humanitarians—the
paid employees of large societies who had a vested interest in the continuance
of their jobs—was not conducive to firm resolve. They felt that they must avoid
offending either anti-vivisectionists, from whom their organizations might
receive large gifts and bequests, or scientific and medical groups, whose power-
ful inﬂuence they feared. Thus it was that the American Humane Association,
normally eager for contributions, declined an offered gift of $10,000 to study
and prepare a concerted plan for obtaining humane treatment of research ani—
mals and a solution to the problem of supply to laboratories.

Before his death, Mr. Sellar had appointed a new director of the National
Humane Review, Fred Myers, a newspaper man who was a reformer and an effec-
tive writer. He attacked the NSMR for its policies of indiscriminate procurement
and use of animals. So telling were his arguments that he was forbidden by
AHA management, which was heavily weighted against any energetic action, to
use the words ”National Society for Medical Research” 1n any article published
in the National Humane Review. Unwilling to submit to such an arbitrary stiﬂing
of truthful reporting, Mr. Myers resigned, together with two of the other three
major staff members: Helen Jones, Director of Education, and Larry Andrews,
Director of Field Services. All were appointees of Robert Sellar, who had been
replaced after his death by Mel Morse.5

The National Humane Society was founded by the dissident trio. The
American Humane Association promptly sued them to force them to change
the society’ 5 name, which, it claimed, was too similar to National Humane Review.
The result was the renaming of the new organization as the Humane Society of
the United States.

Nor was this the only legal action taken in the reform effort. The first
attempt to change the passive attitude of the AHA came at the election of direc-
tors at the 1954 annual meeting. The three reform candidates, Professor Roland
Smith of the Department of English, University of Illinois, Miss J. M. Perry, an
attorney from South Carolina, and Mr. Raymond Naramore, a high school
teacher who became the director of the Rochester and Monroe County Humane
Society, were promptly elected by a delighted membership that had never
before exercised its prerogatives. The controlling group of AHA directors was
dismayed. The following year they fought back, ﬁrst naming a meeting point in
the Northwest where the expense of travel would disCourage the bulk of the
membership, concentrated 1n the East, from attending. Forced by injunction to
name a more central location for the meeting, they resorted to bringing 1n large
numbers of persons never before associated with animal welfare work who
voted as a bloc on signal. The "in” group won and, not long after, Miss Perry
died, and Professor Smith resigned. Mr. Naramore, limited to work on humane
education for schools, died a few years later.

Due to the failure of these and other attempts to bring purpose and life into
the AHA establishment at that time, several new organizations were formed.
The Animal Welfare Institute was founded in 1951, its aim the advancement of
the welfare of all animals, with special emphasis'on the research animals so long
neglected by humane organizations. Its charter was drawn by Herbert Brownell,

9’

 




the distinguished New York lawyer who served as Attorney General under
President Eisenhower.

The Humane Society of the United States was founded in 1954; and in 1959
one of its founders, Helen Jones, left the parent body to found the National
Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, later renamed the International Society for
Animal Rights. .

In 1952, after years of controversy, the Hatch-Metcalf Act was passed. The
Act amended an existing New York laboratory animal care statute into a
procurement law, requiring all dog pounds and all humane societies receiving
public funds to surrender animals to scientific institutions. The New York State
Humane Association actively fought enactment of the law; but its biggest, oldest
member organization, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals (ASPCA), whose board was dominated at that time by research inter-
ests, refused to take a position. Its president was Samuel Milbank of the Milbank
Foundation. The New York State Society for Medical Research,6 proponents of
the law, dismissed all the other organizations as anti-vivisection groups, thus
ensuring passage of the law.

Both the Erie County Humane Society and the Humane Society of Roches-
ter and Monroe County immediately gave up their pound contracts so that it
would not be necessary for them to release animals from their shelters to
laboratories... Only two organizations, the ASPCA and the Syracuse SPCA, con-
tinued to accept tax funds and were thus required to send dogs and cats to sci- /
entific institutions. Between 1966 and 1974&Syracuse SPCA delivered 14,000 I bf 4 9 ~ --/j-\.
dogs and cats to Bristol-Myers, a company with annual sales of more than a bil- “Z 5 a
lion dollars.

Such was the power of the biomedical establishment at the time that the
ASPCA even went so far as to oppose an amendment offered just before the
Hatch-Metcalf Act was passed which would have authorized a representative of
the New York State Humane Association to accompany Health Department
inspectors on the rounds of laboratory animal rooms. The ASPCA was a mem-
ber of the New York State Humane Association, but it joined the New York
State Society for Medical Research in ﬁghting the humane inspection, which, it
was claimed, “would emasculate the bill.” The amendment was defeated, ensur-
ing that inspection under the Hatch-Metcalf Act was a whitewashing operation.
A few examples:

1953: A Health Department inspector took AWI representatives
through CorneH Medical School explaining how excellent the
care for the animals was while passing by a dog whose incision
had opened, allowing his internal organs to fall onto the ﬂoor
of the cage.

1960: AWI was called to inspect the animal quarters at St. Vincent’s
Hospital where gross filth and massive infestation of ticks,
roaches, and other insects were found.

1963: ’AWI was called by a secretary in. New York University Dental
School about epizootics which were running through the ani-
mal colonies due to the fact that wild rodents were fouling the
cages, and cleaning was put off for so~long that there was
scarcely a clear spot to set foot in the dog runway.

All these institutions received dogs from the ASPCA and were inspected
and certified by the Health Department and also by ASPCA employees who vis-
ited at the invitation of the laboratories. When the federal Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act was passed in 1966, the ASPCA ended even the gesture of sending
inspectors to laboratories but continued to supply them 'with dogs and cats until
1971.

Repeal of Animal Seizure Laws

In 1976, a reform movement swept the ASPCA, permanently ending the
supply of dogs and cats from its shelters to laboratories. In 1977, the New York
Assembly voted 126-14 to repeal the Hatch-Metcalf Act. Connecticut, Massa-
chusetts, Ohio and West Virginia also repealed similar acts.

This type of legislation has proved itself a failure. The claims issued for its
enactment, to the effect that dog dealing and stealing would cease if animals
were available to laboratories from humane societies and pounds, were proven
false in the most dramatic way by the very case which set in motion the enact-
ment of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. A dog was bought by a New York
hospital from a Pennsylvania dog dealer, although the hospital was entitled to
free dogs from the ASPCA. In other states, too, which passed animal seizure
legislation, laboratories often have not taken advantage of the law, preferring to

buy from dealers.

 




LAB.2: 5/14/90

Thirteen states prohibit the release of impounded animals to research
facilities: Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, and
West Virginia. Of these, Massachusetts is the only state which specifically pro-
hibits the sale of pound animals brought in from other states as well: "No per-
son, institution, animal dealer, or their authorized agent shall transport . . . any
animal obtained from any municipal or public pound, public agency, or dog
officer . . . into the commonwealth for purposes of research, experimentation,
testing, instruction or demonstration” (Ch. 140, Sec. 174D, 1983).

Release of impounded animals for research purposes is required in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Iowa, Minnesota, Oklahoma (by pounds only; shelters may
release animals for research), South Dakota, and Utah.

Release of impounded animals for research use is allowed in Arizona, Cali-
fornia, Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, Washington, and Wisconsin.

Recent efforts to repeal Minnesota’s law requiring release of animals from
pounds to research facilities have been unsuccessful. However, a law was
enacted in 1987 which provides for inspections of animal dealers by the Minne-
sota Board of Animal Health as well as the U. S. Department of Agriculture,
requires dealers to post signs informing the public that they sell animals to
laboratories, and opens dealers’ premises to the public to enable pet owners to
search for lost or stolen pets. A fine of $1,000 will be imposed on any individual
selling a dog or cat to a research facility without the permission of the owner.

The State of Washington enacted a law in 1989 to prevent pet theft.
Research animal dealers who sell stolen dogs or cats to scientific institutions or
who pose as adopters of animals responding to "free to good home” classified
ads may now be punished by a fine of $10,000 and 5 years in jail. Research
facilities are required to maintain a ﬁle on each dog and cat, including
certification of the animal’s origin, a photograph, and a physical description of
the animal, available for public inspection.

In 1983, Iowa passed a law authorizing suspension or revocation of the li-
cense of an animal shelter, auction, dealer, kennel, or pound for cruelty to ani-
mals.

Massachusetts, in 1985, authorized the Massachusetts SPCA and the Ani-
mal Rescue League of Boston to inspect all animal dealers licensed by the US
Department of Agriculture, thus complementing their previously enacted law
allowing for inspection of research facilities.

In 1989, Kansas enacted legislation requiring annual licensing of all re-
search facilities, dealers, pounds, pet shops and kennels. The Commissioner of
Livestock has extensive authority to inspect facilities and to deny, suspend or re-
voke licenses. A similar law was passed in Iowa.

REGULATORY PROPOSALS STALLED IN COMMITTEE
BY MEDICAL LOBBYISTS

Between the years 1960 and 1966, a great deal of effort was devoted to
unsuccessful attempts to pass legislation based on the principles of the British
Act of 1876. But public interest in the treatment of laboratory animals was grow-
ing, and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) decided to contract for a study
by Dr. David N. Ruth and Mr. Robert W. Cox on ”The Care and Management of
Laboratory Animals Used in the Programs of the Department of Health, Educa-
tion and Welfare” (DHEW). Submissions were widely solicited, and both the
Animal Welfare Institute and Society for Animal Protective Legislation pres-
ented documentation on visits to laboratories. AWI’s ”Critical Review of Condi-
tions in Institutions Receiving Funds Under DHEW Auspices” documented the
following: ' 1'

1. Cages too small for animals to stand or lie in normal position.
2. Failure to administer pain-relieving drugs after surgery.

3. Failure to destroy suffering, moribund animals.

4. Failure to supervise animals after surgery.

5. Failure to provide a comfortable resting place for animals.

6. Repeated use of the same animal for painful procedures.

7. Failure to provide water.

8. Failure to identify animals.

 

 

 




9. Immobilization of unanesthetized animals.
10. Filth.

A 210-page volume was produced, but NIH, dismayed by the extensive
evidence of mistreatment and neglect of laboratory animals and the obvious
need for regulatory legislation revealed by the study, quickly withdrew it. Hun-
dreds of copies were secreted in a storeroom. Senator Clark, however,
demanded and got a copy.

The first bill ever introduced in the United States Congress to regulate ani-
mal experimentation was sponsored by Senators John Sherman Cooper, Mike
Mansfield, E. L. Bartlett, Robert C. Byrd, Frank Church, Estes Kefauver, Wayne
Morse, William Proxmire, Jennings Randolph, Ernest Gruening, Pat McNamara,
Harrison Williams, and Joseph S. Clark. The bill was written by Abe Fortas and
introduced at the request of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation. As
soon as this bill was introduced, the National Anti-Vivisection Society and the
National Society for Medical Research, normally at each other’s throats, found
themselves in agreement: there must be no regulation of animal experimenta-
tion. When hearings were held two years later in the House of Representatives,
Major Charles Hume, founder of the Universities Federation for Animal Wel-
fare of Great Britain, emphasized the fact that, poles apart though they were,
these two groups actually corresponded with a view to helping each other
defeat regulatory legislation.

Opponents thought they had buried regulatory legislation, and in that
Committee they had. But they reckoned without the disappearance of a
Dalmatian dog named Pepper and the response of the House Agriculture Com-
mittee.

The Humane Society of the United States, under the direction of Fred
Myers, insisted that the British Act was not sufﬁciently strong and gave its sup-
port to the Moulder bill. The American Humane Association remained silent
and, when pressed, said it was studying the matter. When Congressman
Kenneth Roberts held two days of hearings on the Griffiths and Moulder bills,
the AHA sent no one to testify.7

Medical research groups and anti-vivisection groups Opposed the bills; the
National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare said it would support the Moulder
bill if it were amended to eliminate all pain inﬂiction. Signiﬁcant statements
were made by scientists and medical men who supported the Griffiths bill
(identical to the Clark-Neuberger bill in the Senate) based on the principles of
the British Act, and also by knowledgeable Britons who had worked under the
Act and could testify from firsthand experience as to its workability and effec-
tiveness in preventing animal suffering without hampering research.

The American Medical Association felt differently,however, and editor—
ialized about what it termed "humaniacs.” An objective and authoritative voice
was heard from England when the Report of the Departmental Committee on
Experiments on Animals was presented to Parliament by the Secretary of State
for the Home Department, April 1965.

The Committee, under the chairmanship of Sir Sydney Littlewood, held
hearings over a two-year period to review the working of the British Act, giving
every individual and group who desired to be heard an opportunity. The result-
ing ”Littlewood Report," a remarkable testimony to fairness and good judg-
ment, surveying every aspect of animal experimentation, of the treatment of the
animals, and of procurement, reported the views of scientists, of the public, and
of groups as diverse as the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare,8 whose
scientific approach is well known, and anti-vivisection organizations seeking
abolition of all experimentation on animals. The most widely quoted paragraph
in the 255-page Report is the ﬁrst of the General Findings: ”Animal experiment
is a complex and highly specialised subject. It is also a moral and social problem
of the first magnitude and one that does not exclusively concern the expert."

The ”Littlewood Report” was referred to repeatedly by two distinguished
medical men who ﬂew to the United States to testify at hearings held September
30, 1965, before the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee: Dr.
Lawrence Abel, former Vice President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Eng-
land and Consulting Surgeon to the Institute of Cancer Research, Royal Cancer
Hospital, and Sir Graham Wilson, former Director of the Public Health Service.

Speaking of the inspectorate under the British Act, Sir Graham said:

The Act is administered by the Home Ofﬁce and is enforced by
specially appointed inspectors possessing a medical or veterinary
qualification. Their main purpose is regulatory and educational rather
than disciplinary. In their visits to the laboratories they satisfy them-
selves about the suitability of the conditions under which the animals
are kept and of the general well-being of the animals themselves; they

 




may assure themselves that the license holder is fully aware of what he
is permitted and not permitted to do; and they make useful sugges-
tions for overcoming difficulties of one sort or another.

Dr. Abel, speaking of the three principles—licensing, inspection, and
pain rule—said:

The third British Principle is the Pain Rule. This sets the limit to
the amount of suffering which may be inﬂicted. We do not commit the
atrocities which are reported from time to time in some other
countries. We do not allow the extravagant cruelty committed by some
investigators of stress and shock. We have proved that the desired
results can be obtained by less inhumane methods. We are convinced
that the freedom of all and sundry to use animals indiscriminately
would not improve the value of research.

The hearings of the Health Subcommittee of the House Interstate and For-
eign Commerce Committee at which Sir Graham and Dr. Abel testified were
never published.9 Scheduled as two-day hearings, they were abruptly canceled
the morning of the second day and never rescheduled by Chairman Paul Rog-
ers, now a consultant for the National Association for Biomedical Research
(NABR). The biomedical establishment apparently considered it dangerous to
expose the public to facts about successful regulation of animal experiments.

RESNICK BILL BYPASSES THE HEALTH COMMITTEES

On July 3, 1965, Fay Brisk, a long-term campaigner for reform of the big
Pennsylvania dog dealers, called the Animal Welfare Institute for help to try to
get Pepper back to her owners, the Lakavage family. Mr. Lakavage, in the hospi-
tal with a heart attack, saw Pepper’s photograph together with seventeen other
dogs and two goats that had been temporarily unloaded from a Pennsylvania
dog dealer's overcrowded truck. Mrs. Lakavage and the three young Lakavages
set off in pursuit of Pepper, who, allegedly, had been taken to a big New York
State dog dealer, Nersesian. When the exhausted family arrived, Nersesian
refused them entry.

1

Senator Clark of Pennsylvania, a well-established fighter for animal protec-
tion and chief sponsor of pending legislation to require humane treatment of
experimental animals, was out of town, but Sara Ehrmann, his Legislative Assis-
tant, responded to the AWI call for help by telephoning Congressman Resnick’s
office in the District where Nersesian’ 5 dog farm was located. Even Congres-
sional intercession failed, however; and Resnick, angered by Nersesian’ 5 high-
handed refusal to admit the family to find their missing pet, decided he would
introduce a bill to prevent such wrongs.

Meantime, pressure by the State Police brought an admission from the
Pennsylvania dog dealer that he had taken his load not to Nersesian, as he first
had said, but directly to Montefiore Hospital in New York. Immediately, Fay
Brisk telephoned the hospital, could hear the rattling of the dog tags at the other
end of the phone, then the news: the dog had died on the operating table the
day before and already had been incinerated. The dog dealer insisted the dog
was not Pepper—the evidence was incinerated—but the call for female
Dalmatians, put out by the hospital to dealers rather than to breeders, had led to
introduction of the Resnick bill on July 9. The Resnick bill, written by attorneys
of the US. Department of Agriculture, required that dealers in dogs and cats
and the laboratories that purchased them be licensed, inspected, and adhere to
humane standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture. A companion bill was
introduced in the Senate by Senator Warren G. Magnuson, Chairman of the
Senate Commerce Committee, and Senator Clark, who came to the Senate ﬂoor
at the same moment to introduce identical bills. In a brief colloquy they agreed
to co-sponsor, and Senator Daniel Brewster of Maryland joined them.

On September 5, Congressman W. R. Poage of Texas, Chairman of the
Livestock Subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee, held hearings on
the Resnick bill. He was the first American legislator to hold hearings on labora-
tory animal legislation with a view to enacting it. He had won passage of the
Humane Slaughter Act in 1958, and was destined to win again for laboratory
animals. Not easily, however. The bill was immediately attacked as anti-vivisec-
tionist by the National Society for Medical Research, which described it as a
”pincers movement” to cut off the supply of animals for laboratories. Anti-vivi-
sectionist groups, however, took but little interest in the matter. The demand for
action came from the general public, outraged by the article in Life magazine
showing Stan Wayman’s photographs of the shocking abuse of dogs in the deal-
ers’ hands.

The sze article was set in motion by Henry Luce after he looked over a col-
lection of photographs supplied by the Animal Welfare Institute, many of them
taken by photographers accompanying AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant,

 




Dorothy Dyce. Under the supervision of Life ’3 Nature Editor, Pat Hunt, the arti-
cle was completed and published February 4, 1966. More mail was received by
Life on this article than on any other in the history of the magazine, and Con-
gress received more mail on the pending bills than on civil rights or Vietnam.

In the face of such demand, the opponents began to modify their opposi-
tion. When Congressman Poage introduced the Committee bill, extending cov-
erage to all Vertebrate animals, and Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania intro-
duced an identical bill in the Senate, the opponents concentrated on exempting
scientific institutions from the humane standards and on cutting back the num-
ber of species covered. The Poage bill came unscathed through the Subcommit-
tee, but the full House Agriculture Committee cut it down to dogs and cats in
dealers’ premises only. Laboratory interests thus won attemporary victory and,
no doubt, believed they could continue to keep the objective veterinary inspec-
tors of the U. S. Department of Agriculture out of scientific institutions.

After the House passed the weakened version Of the Poage bill, a Senate
Commerce Committee staff draft accomplished a comparable weakening of the
bills introduced by Senators Magnuson, Clark, Brewster, and Scott. Again, lab-
oratory interests made a stab at getting themselves exempted, but they had reck-
oned without Senator Monroney, who, as soon as he read the draft, prepared an
amendment restoring coverage of animals inside scientific institutions. Newspa-
pers throughout the country supported the Monroney Amendment in emphatic
terms. So hotly debated was the issue that a second set of hearings was sched-
uled in the Senate Commerce Committee on May 25, 1966.

For six years the National Institutes of Health and its parent Department of
Health, Education and Welfare had opposed all moves toward effective legisla-
tion for humane treatment of research animals. Suddenly, when it became clear
that such opposition could no longer stem the demand for action, NIH asked
Senator Lister Hill, Chairman of the Committee on Labor'and Public Welfare, to
introduce a? bill written by NIH itself providing a self-policing system for
laboratories. Meanwhile, its representatives urged exemption of laboratories
from the straightforward, humane Senate Commerce Committee bill.

 




 

LAB.3: 5/14/90

Neither the Committee nor the Senate as a whole could be brought to sup-
port this maneuver. The Washington Evening Star stated editorially:

THE ANINIAL CRUELTY BILLS

Congress at last is headed toward enactment of a law to require
humane treatment of animals used in laboratory research and to halt
thefts of pets by dealers supplying this market. At the eleventh hour,
however, a snag has been encountered in the Senate Commerce Com-
mittee. Medical researchers, hostile to government supervision, (but
not government grants, it should be added), are attempting a switch
play. A bill introduced by Senator Hill of Alabama would head off fed-
eral inspection of how laboratories treat animals awaiting experiments.
Instead this authority would be given to a private group.

The medical men, in fact have such a group all ready and waiting.
Set up last year, it is called the American Association for Accreditation
of Laboratory Animal Care. Its members are of the establishment, and
are staff members of medical schools and research institutions. And, as
the association’s brochure suggests, the ’inspections’ would be rather
friendly affairs.

There would be no surprise audits, such as those routinely carried
out now in the banking industry, for example. Instead a visit would be
scheduled by ’mutual convenience.’ It would not ‘come distressingly
often—no more than once every five years. The inspectors, according
to the brochure, would charge fees ranging up to $1,000 for their trou-
ble.

If the laboratories are in fact treating their animals humanely, they
should have nothing to fear from a proposal by Senator Magnuson of
Washington that such inspections be made by the Department of Agri-
culture after standards have been published. His bill has nothing to do
with the anti-vivisectionists; the government would not interfere with
any laboratory tests or operations.

Certainly the public should not be deluded into thinking the Hill
proposal represents any kind of adequate substitute for impartial
inspection of such institutions.

Senator Magnuson had made plain his determination to report a bill out of
his Committee. The National Society for Medical Research and National
Institutes of Health, therefore, concentrated on trying to get the laboratories
exempted from compliance with humane standards set by the United States
Department of Agriculture and inspection by its representatives. Glowing
references to the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal
Care (AAALAC), for whose existence Dr. Maurice Visscher, President of the
NSMR, took credit, were a stock in trade; and at the final Senate Commerce
Committee hearings, representatives of the NIH and NSMR strongly supported
the NIH bill and opposed the Monroney Amendment. Testimony was limited to
medical witnesses at this hearing; and two courageous physicians, who had
been associated for years with efforts to obtain humane treatment of laboratory
animals, came to Washington to testify for the Monroney Amendment: Dr.
Nicholas Gimbel, Chief of Surgery at Metropolitan Hospital and Associate
Professor of Surgery at Wayne University Medical School, and Dr. Bennett Der-
by, Head of Neurology at Veterans Administration Hospital in Manhattan and
Assistant Professor of Neurology at New York University Medical School. Dr.
Gimbel and Dr. Derby urged the Senate Committee to provide for humane care
and housing of animals in research institutions. They emphasized that the
Department of Agriculture is the ideal agency to administer such requirements.
Dr. Gimbel, who had devoted considerable time to getting better treatment for
experimental dogs in different institutions, brought the question down to earth
by stating that if he were a dog, he would prefer to have the Department of Agri-
culture administer the law. He said the "welfare of animals should be the
responsibility of a body which is primarily interested in them . . . the Depart-
ment of Agriculture,” and he added: ”If the scientists and organizations repre-
sented in AAALAC had done their job properly, we would not be holding hear-
ings here today. The time has come to bring in independent auditors.” The NIH
bill did not come to hearings.

The Senate Commerce Committee bill, under the leadership of Senator
Magnuson and Senator Monroney, received unanimous endorsement by the
Senate. Eighty-ﬁve Senators came to the ﬂoor to vote for it, and each of the fif-
teen who were absent and unable to vote stated in The Congressional Record that

 




they would have voted for it had they been present. The bill’s sanctions were
strengthened at the insistence of the House Conferees. They agreed to accept
the Senate amendments restoring humane care and housing of animals inside
laboratories and increasing the number of species of animals covered, on condi-
tion that the stronger House enforcement clauses be adopted.

Regulations were promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture February
24Dand ths.,1_eawivre.11!-.intq.sffsstier animalﬁsalers May 25 and for scientific
institutions August 24, 1967. ‘ ' '

Congress broadened and strengthened this first federal law to prevent
abuses of test animals in 1970, 1976, and 1985. The 1966 Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act (fiercely contested by medical and pharmaceutical interests and the
associated industries that sell animals, cages, and equipment to scientific institu-
tions) set humane standards for dogs, cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters, and
guinea pigs in animal dealers’ premises and in laboratories prior to experimen-
tal use of animals. In 1970, the coverage was extended to the entire stay of ani-
mals in laboratories, where they must be maintained according to minimum
standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture. The veterinary care required
includes ”appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, and tranquilizing drugs.” All
warm-blooded animals designated by the Secretary are covered, but neither
birds, farm animals used in research, nor those species that constitute the large
majority of the millions of experimental animals used each year—mice and
rats—have yet been designated. Because inadequate appropriations have had to
be stretched to cover inspections of thousands of sites in laboratories, licensed
animal dealers, licensed exhibitors, registered exhibitors, and carriers under the
Act as amended, no Secretary has been willing to include more animals for
inspectors to check; however, in 1986 the Animal Legal Defense Fund prepared
a brief contending that the Act requires him to do so.

The important requirement for pain-relieving drugs and reporting on their
use or lack thereof was added in 1970. Reports by registered scientific institu-
tions on use of animals are filed with the U. S. Department of Agriculture and
are available for public scrutiny under the Freedom of Information Act. Many
institutions have failed to honor this section of the Act, necessitating additional
legislative and enforcement action.

Under the 1976 amendments sponsored by Agriculture Committee Chair-
man Thomas Foley,10 research institutions were moved to the same category as
exhibitors and dealers with respect to the imposition of fines for violations. Pre-
viously, research facilities were subject to a cease and desist order which they
would have to violate before a fine could be imposed. The 1976 amendments
also include a requirement that agencies of the federal government submit
proof that they are in compliance with the standards Which private institutions
must meet under the eyes of veterinary inspectors of the U. S. Department of
Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. Representative
Margaret Heckler11 proposed and was successful in obtaining this essential
advance on the ﬂoor of the House.

The Animal Welfare Act now constitutes a solid, broad-based structure
whose 1976 amendments, sponsored in the Senate by Senator Lowell Weicker,
cover transportation of animals for research, exhibition, the pet trade, by com-
mon carriers and intermediate handlers. Its anti-dogfighting and cockfighting
provisions are detailed in Chapter IX.

The 1970 reporting requirements on painful experiments focused on the
responsibility of the institutional veterinarian to prevent suffering through
humane experimental design or through use of drugs to relieve pain or anxiety.
However, enforcement in this area has been virtually nil. The 1985 amend-
ments, which should have gone into effect December 23, 1986, remain to be
tested in practice because of the long delay, caused byanti-animal lobbyists, in
the promulgation of final regulations to implement the law.

COMMERCIAL DEALERS AND BREEDERS

The laboratory animal industry, supplying millions of animals to institu-
tions at ever increasing prices, is intensely opposed to regulatory legislation that
affects them and their clients. In 1979, it spawned the National Association for
Biomedical Research (NABR) and the Foundation for Biomedical Research
(FBR) to rival the National Society for Medical Research, which they entirely
absorbed and supplanted in a few years. NABR now orchestrates opposition to
all laws and regulations for laboratory animal welfare. Formation of the organi-
zations was, according to executive Frankie Trull, conceived in her living room.
Henry Foster, the veterinarian who built a two-room rat, breeding business into
the multimillion dollar international laboratory animal production corporation,
Charles River Breeding Laboratories, and his son, an attorney, wrote the neces-
sary legal papers. Ms. Trull, an employee of Charles River, set about lining up
support among commercial and academic laboratories.

 




Meanwhile, Charles River was sold to the big optical company, Bausch and
Lomb, netting Dr. Foster about $38 million personally, according to press
reports. The,;pun-filled, full-page ads offering monkeys, guinea pigs, rabbits, and
other animals for sale have become more sober and strait-laced, but the inten-
sive campaign to market the maximum numbers of animals for experimentation
continues under the new ownership. Charles River has installations in France,
Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom.

Breeding animals for sale to laboratories is big business, and corporations
change hands in transactions based wholly on financial considerations. One of
the largest dog breeders, LRE, which houses several thousand dogs on its prem-
ises, was recently sold to Hazelton, which conducts toxicity tests on contract for
other institutions as well as breeding dogs and other, laboratory animals.

ALTERNATIVES TO LABORATORY ANIMALS

As numbers of animals used in experiments and teSts grew by the million, a
countervailing philosophy was increasingly advocated by animal protective
organizations. The first serious contribution to the field was The Principles of
Humane Experimental Technique, by W. M. S. Russell and R L. Burch, produced
under the aegis of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare in 1959, with
some modest assistance from AWI. This pioneering book established the Three
R’s—Replacement, Reduction, and Refinement—which are now generally rec-
ognized as fundamental elements necessary to prevent large-scale unnecessary
suffering by laboratory animals. While Russell and Burch stressed the scientifi-
cally feasible, others advocated "Alternatives Now!”, claiming that substitutes
for animals ”already existed for all experiments and tests. Bills introduced in
Congress reflected different views of the subject, but they3made up, if not a criti-
cal mass, solid evidence of public concern and hope.

By 1981, seven bills on alternatives and/or regulation of animal experi-
ments were pending in the Subcommittee on Science, Research and Technol-
ogy of the House Committee on Science and Technology. On October 13 and
14, 1981, Subcommittee Chairman Doug Walgren of Pennsylvania held hear-
ings, which drew unexpectedly wide media attention because Maryland police
had removed 17 monkeys just days earlier from a Silver Spring laboratory.
There they had been experimented on by Dr. Edward Taub under grants from
the National Institutes of Health. Dr. Taub and an associate were charged with
17 counts of cruelty for failing to supply veterinary care. Alex Pacheco, who had
worked at the Institute for Behavioral Research as a VOIunteer and had alerted
police to conditions there, showed horrifying pictures of the monkeys and their
quarters at the hearings.

Drafting of a composite bill containing some features from each of the
seven pending proposals was undertaken by the Subcommittee staff. Advice
was sought from the many organizations which had testified pro- or con- the
different bills. On August 4, 1982, Congressman Walgren proposed the new bill,
which was approved by his Subcommittee and its parent Committee. The bill
was referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcom-
mittee on Health and the Environment, and hearings were held by Chairman
Henry Waxman of California on December 9, 1982.

Senator. Robert Dole introduced a bill based on the principles developed in
the October hearings. Senator John Melcher of Montana, the Congress’ only
veterinarian, joined him. Together, they appeared at the Waxman hearings and
testified for the Walgren bill, an unusual tribute Sto the importance of the legisla-
tion. However, no action was taken before the '97th Congress adjourned.

THE DOLE-BROWN AMENDMENTS

When Senator Dole reintroduced his bill in 1983,. he had it redrafted as an
amendment to the Animal Welfare Act, thus broadening its coverage to include
all registered research facilities (over 1,200) inspected by USDA.

This wise decision encouraged consideration by‘ scientific groups who
began a slow move from point-blank opposition to demands for a variety of
modifications in the language of the bill. At hearings of the full Senate Agricul-
ture Committee, chaired by Senator Dole July 20, nearly every witness had sci-
entific qualifications. Humane groups were represented by Bennett Derby,
M.D., Ph.D., who had appeared at the crucial hearings which led to unanimous
Senate passage of the original Act. ‘

Senator. Dole’s masterful handling of the hearings paved the way for action,
but it was not to come in the 98th Congress. Opponents tried a new tack, ques-
tioning the need for the Dole bill. The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
prepared tw'o thick binders of documentation outlining the urgent need for all
the bill’s provisions for minimizing pain and distress and strengthening the
authority of Agriculture’s veterinary inspectors.

 




Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. of California, well known for his suc-
cessful sponsorship of the 1978 humane slaughter amendments (see chapter
III), introduced a bill, H. R. 5725, based on the Dole bill. On September 19,1984,
he chaired hearings in his Subcommittee on Departmental Operations,
Research and Foreign Agriculture which drew a standing-room-only crowd
with long lines waiting outside the hearing room. Interest in the legislation had
been heightened by revelations of severe mistreatment of experimental
baboons at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Sixty hours of self-
incriminating videotapes taken by a research team as a record of their experi-
ments showed virtually every rule of aseptic surgery being violated. Injured
baboons were painfully dangled and ridiculed by groups of laughing students.

The tapes were stolen by a group known as the Animal Liberation Front
and given to People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. They excerpted 25
minutes from the many hours of footage. It was run repeatedly in a nearby
church on the day of the hearings.

Henry Mitchell’s column in The Washington Post September 21, 1984 notes:
”Savagery is very much part of the nature of all humans I have ever known, and
that is one reason civilized nations have gone to such efforts to restrain it or
redirect it.” Citing the evidence and characterizing it as sickening, he wrote:
"Legislation is needed, and those who do not wish to concern themselves with
what amounts to ﬂamboyant sadism should at least have the grace not to
obstruct the long hard thankless labors of those who have not shied from the
evidence and who have at last come up with reasonable and moderate legisla-
tion.’ ’Describing his feelings 1n watching ﬁve minutes of the tapes in St. Mark’s
Church, he concluded: "I left thinking it probably an esthetic error to vomit in a
church. ”

Documentation of neglect and abuse in laboratories throughout the entire
country was derived from official reports of USDA‘ veterinary inspectors
obtained under the Freedom of Information Act and presented by the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation in the form of a 6 ’x10’ chart. A heartening
message of support from Dr. Jean Mayer, President of Tufts University, was
delivered by Dr. Frank Loew, Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine, but
most testimony from scientific groups was severely critical. Congressman
Brown asked his staff to analyze all the criticisms. His bill did not emerge from
the Subcommittee.

Meantime, in the Health and Environment Subcommittee, Congressman
Walgren had succeeded in getting some provisions of his bill included in the
NIH reauthorization bill which was passed by the Congress but vetoed by Pres-
ident Reagan. In the 99th Congress, the bill, after some modiﬁcation and enti-
tled the Health Research Extension Act of 1985, was passed again and Congress
overrode the President’ 5 second veto. The animal welfare provisions are less
stringent than the Dole-Brown legislation, and they apply only to NIH grantees;
nevertheless, the two were destined to fit together well and reinforce one
another m a practical manner.

Senator Dole, elected Majority Leader of the Senate, reintroduced his bill at
the same time as Congressman Brown. This time the bills were identical, the
heroic work of staffers Sara Rasmussen for Brown and Mark Scanlan for Dole.
They produced a ﬁnal draft still containing every major animal protective provi-
sion, phrased 1n the manner least objectionable to the legiOn of opponents and
unremitting critics. . 1-

The New York Times editorialized on July 31,1985 in support of the Dole-
Brown proposals, and in the following months, newspapers in every part of the
country followed suit.

The debate on the 1985 Farm Bill was continuing when the Majority Leader
brought his bill, Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals, to the Senate
floor, October 25. Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, Chairman of the Committee on
Labor and Human Resources, expressed reservations. The bill then went into an
intense discussion by the staffs of Senators Dole, Hatch, and Melcher and repre-
sentatives of the National Ass0ciation for Biomedical Research (NABR), the
Feed Manufacturers Association, and the Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tion. A bill calling for 16 different changes in Senator Dole’s bill had been pre-
pared for Senator Hatch by an NABR attorney. Every point had to be fought
through. Senator Dole appeared from time to time to ask what progress was
being made. At one point, Senator Melcher took part in the arguments, explain-
ing the reason for his language, ”a physical environment adequate to promote
the psychological well-being of primates. ’He had seen laboratory chimpanzee
cages which, even though unoccupied at the time, he characterized as "ex-
tremely efﬁcient, extremely expensive, and extremely cruel.”

A second series of amendments, this time consisting of no less than 32
changes, even including a $500 reduction in the ﬁne, was proposed. A night
meeting in the Dole office was called to resolve the differences. It appeared that

 




although academia was somewhat grudgingly resigned to the legislation, the
pharmaceutical industry was not willing to stop ﬁghting. Indeed, it fought to the
end. Disagreement about the content continued, and Senator Melcher offered a
substitute bill on October 29th. This passed the Senate unanimously.

The House had already passed the Farm Bill without the Dole-Brown
amendments. Fortunately, Majority Whip Tom Foley° of Washington proved
himself a powerful friend of animals during the House-Senate Conference.
Congressman Foley, as noted earlier, was the author of the 1976 amendments to
the Animal ‘Welfare Act. House Agriculture Committee Chairman Kika de la
Garza of Texas gave his blessing to the legislation in Conference. Lobbying to
kill the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Continued to the very last
moment.

The Farm Bill, an enormously lengthy piece of legislation, was in Confer-
ence for days. The Conferees met in a small room in the Russell Senate Office
Building, and dozens of lobbyists from each of the special interests that stood to
gain or lose from some part of the complex bill lined the hallway outside the
room, waiting for news on decisions of the Conferees as staffers came in and
out. At 4:00 p.m. on December 12, it appeared that action on the laboratory ani-
mal section was imminent. Weakening amendments were being urged by the
National Association for Biomedical Research, and Senator Dole had not yet
returned from out of town.

The sight of the Senate Majority Leader striding down the hall rein-
vigorated the weary Society for Animal Protective Legislation lobbyists waiting
for the outcome. ”You’re next,” he said to us. Then he was engulfed by a mass of
farm lobbyists. It was nearly eleven that night when we heard the good news
from Congressman Foley. The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act
had come through the Conference unscathed!

The Conference report was approved by the House on December 16 and
two days later by the Senate. The Improved Standards fOr Laboratory Animals
amendments establish an information service in the National Agricultural
Library in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine to provide data on
alternatives to laboratory animals, help prevent unintended duplication of
experiments and tests, and provide informationto institutions for instruction of
scientists and other personnel in humane practices as required by the new law.
Each registered research facility must appOint an Institutional Animal Care and
Use Committee, including a veterinarian and a persOn not affiliated with the
institution, to represent the general community interests in the proper care and
treatment of animals. The committee must inspect the animal laboratories twice
a year and report deficiencies to the institution for correction. If not corrected
promptly, the U. S. Department of Agriculture must be notified for enforcement
action, and any funding agency involved informed for a decision on whether
the grant should be suspended or revoked.

Investigators are required to consider alternatives and to consult with a vet-
erinarian before beginning any experiment which could cause pain. They must
adhere to standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture for pre- and post-surgi-
cal care, use of pain-relieving drugs or euthanasia, against use of paralytics with-
out anesthesia, and unnecessary use of the same animal for more than one
major operation. Exceptions to the standards may be made only when specified
by a research protocol and an explanation given for any deviation. Fines for vio-
lations were raised from $1, 000 to $2, 500, and for violating a cease and desist
order, from S500 to $1, 500. Each animal may count as a Violation, as may each
day of failure to obey a cease and desist order.

Interest 1n protection of laboratory animals has groWn worldwide, and two
countries made significant improvements in their national laws in 1986: the
United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany. The full text of these
laws appears in the Appendix. Of particular note in the new British Act 15 recog-
nition of gradations of stress or pain and justification thereof. This begins with
the stress caused by putting an animal 1n a cage and progresses to the point of
procedures prohibited because of extreme painfulness.

In issuing project licenses, the British Secretary of State is required to
”weigh the likely adverse effects on the animals concerned against the benefit
likely to accrue.” Both project licenses and individual licenses are mandatory
under the new law. As in the 1876 Act, if an inspector considers that an animal
is undergoing excessive suffering, he may require it to be immediately killed.

The new German law was introduced by Minister of Agriculture Ignaz
Kiechle. It forbids, with provision for special exceptions, the use of animals for
tests on weapons, tobacco, washing powders, and cosmetics. Authorization for
experiments are to be supervised by advisory commissioners. Animal protec-
tion organizations may nominate up to a third of the commission’s members.
The law coVers all experiments leading to pain or injury of an animal.

 




APPROPRIATIONS FOR ENFORCEMENT

The struggle for protection of laboratory animals has had to be fought on
many fronts. When passed in 1966, an appropriation of $300,000 was barely
achieved. Slowly, annual appropriations were worked up to $4,865,000 and
remained at the same level despite attempts by the Office of Management and
Budget to reduce them. In both 1985 and 1986, the Administration recom-
mended that no money whatever be allocated to administer the law and inspect
the 1,219 registered research facilities, the 3,414 licensed dealers’ premises, the
1,386 exhibitors’ premises, or the 374 intermediate handlers operating during
those years.

In 1985 the Congress simply restored the funds, but in 1986, following pas-
sage of the Dole-Brown amendments, Congress voted an increase to $5,8 78,000,
specifying that $750,000 be used for the information service designated by the
new legislation at the National Agricultural library in cooperation with the
National Library of Medicine. The Senate Appropriations Committee report
stated: .

For enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act' the Committee con-
curs with the House in providing $5,878,000 over the budget request.
This is also $1,902,000 more than the 1986 adjusted level. Included in
this appropriation is $750,000 for creation of an information service at
the National Agricultural Library which will include information on
available alternatives to the use of live animals in research. The
remainder of the increase is for the generalexpansion of the program.

On the House ﬂoor, Congressman Bob Traxler Of Michigan said: ”We
restore funding for the Animal Welfare Act once again, rejecting the notion that
enforcement of the act should be turned over to other authorities. That proposal
is simply not sensible in today’s interstate economy.“ «

In 1987, the Office of Management and Budget again recommended zero
funding for the Animal Welfare Act. However, for the first time, the Department
of Agriculture protested, and the budget ﬁgure emerged as $4.947 million, a fig-
ure from which the $750,000 appropriation for the information service at the
National Agricultural Library had been subtracted and which could not cover
the requirement for continued inspection of research facilities until all
deficiencies were corrected. Congress appropriated $6.125 million for Fiscal
Year 1987. In 1988 and 1989, the budget figure again was $4.947 million, but
$6.197 million was appropriated; and the budget request for Fiscal Year 1990
was $7.567 million. Animal protective organizations and scientific groups re-
quested $10 million for enforcement of the law, and the budget request for FY
1991 was raised to $8.688 million. The groups are requesting $12 million in or-
der to ensure adequate inspection. In 1990 about 25% of dog dealers were nev-
er inspected at all. Citizen demand for sufficient funds to enforce the law contin-
ues to be urgently necessary.

 




LAB.3A: 5/14/90

REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT

In October 1988, a reorganization of the Animal and Plant Health Inspec-
tion Service took place. It created a new division, Regulatory Enforcement and
Animal Care (REAC). Enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act has been
removed from Veterinary Services and placed with REAC. REAC inspectors are
assigned on a full-time basis to enforcement of the Act, but their numbers are
inadequate to make the frequent inspections necessary to enforce the law. With-
out substantially increased appropriations, Veterinary Services personnel will
have to be called on to help make inspections.

Citizen complaints concerning research facilities, animal dealers, animal
auctions, and other entities covered by the Animal Welfare Act, including
circuses, zoos, airlines, and the wholesale pet industry, should be directed to the
nearest REAC office or to the central office at Hyattsville. For names and phone
numbers, see the Appendix. Citizen complaints are important in protecting ani-
mals because of REAC’s staff limitations. It is the policy of REAC to investigate
all complaints.

Having failed to prevent enactment of the Improved Standards for Labora-
tory Animals amendments by Congress, opponents transferred their efforts to
the agencies and succeeded in delaying the regulations which must be promul-
gated before the legislation can be enforced. Proposed regulations for Parts 1
and 2 were first issued by the Department of Agriculture in March 1987. The
National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR) inspired thousands of
letters of protest against these well-prepared regulations. The result was that,
rather than being made final, they were withdrawn, and two years passed
before rewritten regulations for Parts 1 and 2 were reproposed and a proposal
for Part 3 regulations finally appeared.

An even more intensive effort by NABR and its constituents followed.
However, a lawsuit filed by the Animal Legal Defense Fund against the Secre-
tary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget was viewed favorably by Judge
Richey, who heard the case in the U. S. District Court. A timetable was set up
with the Justice Department, and on August 31, 1989, final regulations for Parts
1 and 2 were published in the Federal Register.

Part of the campaign against Part 3 regulations is the issuance of inﬂated
figures on compliance costs. As we go to press, an extended delay is expected
with respect to the requirements for exercise for laboratory dogs and an envi-
ronment adequate to promote the psychological well-being of primates.

LABORATORY ANIMAL LAWS: INIPORTANT DATES
England

1870: Royal Society Started establishment of rules for humane experimenta-
tion. A

1876: British Act regulating animal experimentation enacted.

1906-1912: Royal Commission to review the 1876 Act consolidated and
affirmed it. ‘

1925: Founding of Universities Federation for Animal Welfare.

1965: "Littlewood Report” completed after a two-year study of the British Act
of 1876 by a Parliamentary Committee; approved the Act and made
some suggestions for strengthening and improving its implementation.

Following years of work by a coalition of the British Veterinary Associa-
tion, the Committee for Reform of Animal Experimentation, and the
Fund for the Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments, the Ani-
mals (Scientific Procedures) Act became law, replacing the 1876 Act.

United States

1880: Attempt to pass bill for District of Columbia based on British Act of
1876.

1945: Founding of National Society for Medical Research.
1947: Passage of Michigan Animal Care Law. A
1949: First animal seizure law passed in Minnesota.

Animal seizure law passed in Wisconsin.

 




Meeting between National Society for Medical Research and American
Humane Association.

Founding of the Animal Welfare Institute.

Dr. Robert Gesell, Chairman of the Department of Physiology, Univer-
sity of Michigan Medical School, made an unscheduled presentation on
humanity versus inhumanity in animal experimentation at the annual
meeting of the American Physiological Society. ,

Three reform directors elected by membership of American Humane
Association.

American Humane Association Board ensured no more outside inter-
ference.

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals prose-
cuted Dr. Panico of Overholt Clinic for cruelty in transporting an experi-
mental dog.

Bill modeled on principles of British Act introduced by Senator Cooper
and twelve co-sponsors in 86th Congress.

Similar bill introduced by Senators Clark and Neuberger and Congress-
woman Griffiths in 87th Congress.

More restrictive bill introduced by Congressman Moulder at request of
the Humane Society of the United States.

Hearings held on both bills in Health Subcommittee of House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee.

Senator Clark again introduced bill based on British Act with Senators
Maurine Neuberger and Stephen Young co-sponsoring in 88th Con-

gress. .
Congressman Cleveland sponsored identical bill in the House.

Congressman Paul Rogers introduced a bill at the request of the Ameri-
can Humane Association which was so sharply criticized for weakness
by Dr. Eric Hansen, President of the Massachusetts SPCA, that AHA did
not ask membership support.

Congressman William Randall introduced a bill'similar to Moulder bill
at the request of the Humane Society of the United States.

Congressman Edward Roybal introduced at the Wrequest of the Natio®
Society for Medical Research @to prov1de funds to laboratories. J/

MW”;

Senator Clark again introduced a bill based on British Act w1th Senators
Stephen Young, Harry Byrd, E. L Bartlett, and Edmund S. Muskie co-
sponsoring in 89th Congress.

Weakened variations of the Moulder and Randall bills introduced by
Congressmen Rogers and Pepper and Senator McIntyre, and a similar
but not identical bill by Congressman Tupper.

Congressman Roybal again introduced National Society for Medical
Research bill.

July 9, 1965: Congressman Resnick introduced bill to license dealers and
laboratories. Senator Magnuson and Senator Clark simultaneously went
to the Senate ﬂoor to introduce the identical bill in the Senate; Senator
Brewster joined as co-sponsor.

September 2, 1965: Congressman Poage held hearings on Resnick bill and 20
other similar bills, including one introduced on the day of the hearings
by Congressman Ancher Nelsen for the National Society for Medical
Research, which omitted all reference to laboratories, and one intro-
duced before the hearings by Congressman Henry Helstoski for the
National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, which cut laboratories out
of the bill but required dog dealers to treat dogs as "a responsible and
conscientious owner” would care for his "household pet.”

Septem er 30, 1965: Health Subcommittee held hearings on Rogers bill,

eveland bill, and Roybal bill. Canceled second day of hearings after

Dr. Shannon, Head of the National Institutes of Health, testified. These
hearings were never published.

March 7, 8, 1966: House hearings before Livestock and Feed Grains
Subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee on Poage, Resnick,
Helstoski, Nelsen bills, and 30 other bills similar to one of these.

March 8, 1966: Senator Hugh Scott introduced bill identical to Poage bill.

March 25, 1966: Senator Mondale introduced National Society for Medical
Research bill.

 




March 27,28, 1966. Senate Commerce Committee hearings.

April 14,1966: Senator Javits introduced New York State Society for Medical
Research bill.

April 28, 1966: House of Representatives passed weakened version of Poage
bill.

May 10, 1966: National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Senator Hill.

May 18, 1966: Identical National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Con—
gressman John Fogarty. . .

May 25, 1966: Identical National Institutes of Health b'ill introduced by Con-
gressman Harley O. Staggers.

Senate Commerce Committee hearings on the Monroney Amendment
to restore coverage of laboratories.

June 15, 1966: Bill reported by Senate Commerce Committee including
modified Monroney Amendment.

June 22, 1966: 85 to 0 Roll Call Vote in Senate passed bill.

July 26, 1966: Conference Committee reported bill combining strongest pro-
visions of both Senate- and House-passed bills.

August 25, 1966: Bill signed into law by President Johnson.

September 23, 1969: Congressman William G. Whitehurst introduced amend-
ments to include all warm-blooded animals throughout their stay in the
laboratory and to cover animals in the pet trade or for exhibition.

June 8, 9, 1970: House hearings before Livestock and Grains Subcommittee of
the House Agriculture Committee to amend the Act of 1966.
Subcommittee Chairman Foley’s bill to broadenand strengthen the Lab-
oratory Animal Welfare Act, including the useof pain-relieving drugs,
approved.

December 7, 1970: Passed by the House of Representatives.
December 8, 1970: Passed by the Senate.
December 24, 1970: Bill signed into law by President Nixon.

September 25, 26, 27 and 28, 1973: Hearings before the Special Studies
Subcommittee, House Committee on Government Operations, to inves-

tigate the hazards of air-shipping animals, chaired by Congressman
Floyd V. Hicks.

August 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 15 and 20; September 30; October 2, 1974: House hear-
ings before livestock and Grains Subcommittee on amendments intro-
duced by Congressman Foley to regulate the transportation of animals
in interstate commerce and to prohibit certain animal ﬁghting ventures.

September 52.9, 10, 1975: House hearings before Livestock and Grains
Subcommittee on amendments introduced by Congressman Foley to
regulate the transportation of animals in interstate commerce and to
prohibit certain animal fighting ventures.

November 20, 1975: Senate hearings before Subcommittee on Environment
of the Committee on Commerce on amendments introduced by Senator
Lowell Weicker and Senator Robert Dole to regulate animal transport.

December 18, 1975: Passed by the Senate.

February 9, 1976: Passed by the House of Representatives.
April 22, 1976: Bill signed into law by President Ford.

August 23, 1976: Amendment to Toxic Substances Control Act offered by
Congressman Richard Ottinger to require Administrator of Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency to consider non-animal-using methods
where feasible. Amendment failed.

September 30, 1976: Hearings held by Congressman W. R. Poage on a bill to
establish a commission with subpoena powers to study animal prob-
lems, including animal experimentation (introduced by Congressman
Edward Koch, December 11, 1975). NSMR opposed bill. Congress
adjourned without acting on it.

October 13, 14, 1981: House hearings before the Subcommittee on Science,
Research and Technology, chaired by Congressman Doug Walgren, on
seven laboratory animal bills.

August 4, 1982: Combination bill proposed by Congressman Walgren.

December 9, 1982: After gaining Subcommittee and Committee approval, the

 




Walgren bill was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce
where Congressman Henry Waxman chaired hearings in his Subcom-
mittee on Health and the Environment. No actiOn was taken.

July 20, 1983: Senator Robert Dole chaired full Senate Agriculture hearings on
his bill, the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act.

September 19, 1984: Congressman George Brown chaired hearings on his
version of the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act in his
Subcommittee on Departmental Operations, Research and Foreign
Agriculture.

October 25, 1985: Senate Majority Leader Dole brought the Improved Stand-
ards for Laboratory Animals Act to the Senate ﬂ00r as an amendment to
the Farm Bill. The ﬁnal vote was deferred.

October 29, 1985: A substitute bill offered by Senator John Melcher was unan-
imously approved.

November 20, 1985: The Health Research Extension Act, containing a section
on animal welfare and a section on development of alternatives to ani-
mals, was passed over President Reagan’s veto. -

December 12, 1985: The Senate-House Conference onithe Farm Bill approved
the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act.

December 16 and 18,1985: The House, then the Senate, approved the Confer-
ence Report on the Farm Bill.

December 23, 1985: President Reagan signed the Farm Bill.

March 31, 1987: 9 CFR, Parts 1 and 2, Animal Welfare Proposed Rules were
published in the Federal Register.

December 22, 1988: The Animal Legal Defense FundA filed suit againstnthe
U. S. Department of Agriculture, National Institutes of Health, and
Office of Management and Budget protesting delay in promulgating
final regulations.

Apr11 12,1989: Judge Richey dismisSed theﬂsuit w1thout prejudlce and pro-W,

v1ded that in case of further delay, it be brought before him aga1n

March 15,1989: 9 CFR, Parts 1, 2, and 3, Animal welfare Proposed Rules were ,1:

“”7 pubhshed 1n the Federal Register M . . ..,.......,..-

August 31,1989: Pinal regulations on Parts 1 and 2 published in the Federal
Register.

Other Countries
1968: French Decree Regulating Experiments on Animals.

1972: Animal Experiments Section of the Animal Protection Act, Federal
Republic of Germany.

1974: Norwegian Welfare of Animals Act enacted, including regulation of ani-
mal experiments.

1975: Belgium requires licensing and inspection of animal experimentation.
1977;._Dgnmarl< law on animal experiments enacted.

1978: Switzerland enacted an animal protection law which includes experi-
ments on animals.

1979: Major laboratory animal amendments to Swedish Animal Welfare Act
of 1944.

1980: French Decree updated.
1981: Greece enacted a law concerning the protection of animals.

1983: Luxembourg law on the Protection and Welfare of Animals enacted. All
experimental procedures require advance approval by Ministers of
Health and Agriculture. The authorizations, which have a time limit and
may be revoked at any time, are only granted if there is no alternative
method for conducting the experiment.

West Germany amended its Animal Protection-Act (see Appendix).

Finland passed an animal protective law ,including requirements for li-
censing of establishments and individuals qualified to perform animal
experiments in accordance with the EC Directives

New Belgian animal welfare law awaiting Royal Decree for detailed pro-
visions to comply with EC Directive.

Netherlands Experiments on Animals Act entered into force, supple-

{I
f 177‘. ‘ ; . I
g. I3 l ‘3 ?\\ Fry
g. , j
‘1:

‘3‘:

my,

“9,... ‘5‘ 1.-.: 1;“ if ‘ g. “.1 in [/II
1 [11(5) if 39‘: g ;

f / ' _..:" [if I,

1%., (MM . ’4’ f A

 




mented by the Experiments on Animals Decree fully implementing the
EC Directive on Animal Experimentation, including a system for regi-
stering premises, authorizing persons involved in the use and supply of
animals, undertaking inspections, and compiling statistics.

‘1 1987: French Decree updated again (see Appendix). ,

1988: Sweden passed a new Animal Protection Law, in ludin important pro-

1989. Austria enacted laboratory animal welfare legiSlationé E

\

visions for’farm animals (see Appendix).

[WWW ”AA"

 

 

M.” “Iv-£01m?“

e on protection i I

. «a. p.‘ _ .

Spain: Decree adopted to comply with the EC Directi
of experimental animals.

mm
C Directive?” an‘ :7‘ w».
animal experimentation enters into force.

 

 

 

 

 

Australia passed Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act,
including Part 3, Scientific Procedures, providing
registration of experimenters, licensing of scientific
establishments and breeding establishments, and

requiring approval by Animal Experimentation Ethics
Committee and Peer Review Committee.

 




LAB.4: 5/14/90

ANIMAL WELFARE ACT
As Amended
(7 U.S.C. §§2131-2157)

Section 1. (a) This Act may be cited as the ”Animal Welfare Act.”

(b) The Congress ﬁnds that animals and activities which are regulated under this Act
are either in interstate or foreign commerce or substantially affect such commerce or the
free ﬂow thereof, and that regulation of animals and activities as provided in this Act is
necessary to prevent and eliminate burdens upon such commerce and to effectively regu-
late such commerce, in order—

(1) to insure that animals intended for use in research facilities or for exhibition
purposes or for use as pets are provided humane care and treatment;

(2) to assure the humane treatment of animals during transportation in com-
merce; and

(3) to protect the owners of animals from the theft of their animals by preventing
the sale or use of animals which have been stolen.

The Congress further finds that it is essential to regulate, as provided in this Act, the
transportation, purchase, sale, housing, care, handling, and treatment of animals by carri-
ers or by persons or organizations engaged in using them for research or experimental
purposes or for exhibition purposes or holding them for sale as pets or for any such pur-
pose or use. The Congress further finds that—

(1) the use of animals is instrumental in certain research and education for
advancing knowledge of cures and treatment for diseases and injuries which afﬂict both
humans and animals;

(2) methods of testing that do not use animals are being and continue to be devel-
oped which are faster, less expensive, and more accurate than traditional animal experi-
ments for some purposes and further opportunities exist for the development of these
methods of testing;

(3) measures which eliminate or minimize the unnecessary duplication of experi-
ments on animals can result in more productive use of Federal funds; and

(4) measures which help meet the public concern for laboratory animal care and
treatment are important in assuring that research will continue to progress.

(7 U.S.C. 2131) (PL. 89-544, §1, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 350; PL. 91-579, §2, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1560; renumbered and amended by PL. 94-279, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 417)

Section 2. When used in this Act—

(a) The term "person" includes any individual, partnership, firm, joint stock com-
pany, corporation, association, trust, estate, or other legal entity;

(b) The term ”Secretary" means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or
his representative who shall be an employee of the United States Department of Agricul-
ture; '

(c) The term ”commerce" means trade, traffic, transportation, or other commerce—

(1) between a place in a State and any place outside of such State, or between
points within the same State but through any place outside thereof, or within any terri-
tory, possession, or the District of Columbia;

(2) which affects trade, traffic, transportation, or other commerce described in
paragraph (1); v

(d) The term ”State" means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or any other
territory or possession of the United States;

(e) The term "research facility" means any school (except an elementary or secon-
dary school), institution, organization, or person that uses or intends to use live animals in
research, tests, or experiments, and that (1) purchases or transports live animals in com-
merceﬁ‘Ul’Q) receives funds under a grant, award, loan, or contract from a department,
agency, or. instrumentaligy- of the United States for the purpose of carrying out research,
tests, or experiments: Provided, That the Secretary may exempt, by regulation, any such
school, institution, organization, or person that does not use or intend to use live dogs or
cats, except those schools, institutions, organizations, or persons, which use substantial
numbers (as determined by the Secretary) of live animals the principal function of which
schools, institutions, organizations, or persons, is biomedical research or testing, when in
the judgment of the Secretary, any such exemption does not vitiate the purpose of the Act;

(f) The term “dealer” means any person who, in commerce, for compensation or
profit, delivers for transportation, or transports, except as a carrier, buys, or sells, or nego-
tiates the purchase or sale of, (1) any dog or other animal whether alive or dead for
research, teaching, exhibition, or use as a pet, or (2) any dog for hunting, security, or
breeding purposes, except that this term does not include—

(i) a retail pet store except such store which sells any animals to a
research facility, an exhibitor, or a dealer; or

(ii) any person who does not sell, or negotiate the purchase or sale of
any wild animal, dog, or cat and who derives no more than $500
gross income from the sale of other animals during'any calendar
year;

(g) The term ”animal” means any live or dead dog, cat, monkey (nonhuman primate
mammal), guinea pig, hamster, rabbit, or such other warmblooded animal, as the Secre-
tary may determine is being used, or is intended for use, for research, testing, experimen-
tation, or exhibition purposes or as a pet; but such term excludes horses not used for
research purposes and other farm animals, such as, but not limited to livestock or poultry,
used or intended for use as food or fiber, or livestock or poultry used or intended for
improving animal nutrition, breeding, management or production efficiency, or for
improving the quality of food or fiber. With respect to a dog the term means all dogs

 




 

including those used for hunting, security, or breeding purposes;

(h) The term “exhibitor" means any person (public or private) exhibiting any ani-
mals, which were purchased in commerce or the intended distribution of which affects
commerce, or will affect commerce, to the public for compensation, as determined by the
Secretary, and such term includes carnivals, circuses, and zoos exhibiting such animals
whether operated for profit or not; but such term excludes retail pet stores, organizations
sponsoring and all persons participating in State and county fairs, livestock shows, rodeos,
purebred dog and cat shows, and any other fairs or exhibitionswxintended to advance agri-
cultural arts and sciences, as may be determined by the Secretary;

(i) The term "intermediate handler” means any person including a department,
agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government (other
than a dealer, research facility, exhibitor, any person excluded from the definition of a
dealer, research facility, or exhibitor, an operator of an auction sale, or a carrier) who is
engaged in any business in which he receives custody of animals in connection with their
transportation in commerce;

(j) The term ”carrier” means the operator of any airline, railroad, motor carrier, ship-
ping line, or other enterprise, which is engaged in the business of transporting any ani-
mals for hire;

(k) The term ”Federal agency” means an Executive agency as such term is defined in
section 105 of Title 5, United States Code, and with respect to any research facility means
the agency frOm which the research facility receives a Federal award for the conduct of
research, experimentation, or testing, involving the use of animals;

(1) The term ”Federal award for the conduct of research, experimentation, or testing,
involving the use of animals” means any mechanism (including a grant, award, loan, con-
tract, or cooperative agreement) under which Federal funds are provided to support the
conduct of such research;

(m) The term ”quorum” means a majority of the COmmittee members;

(n) The term ”Committee” means the Institutional Animal Committee established
under section 13(b); and *

(o) The term ”Federal research facility” means each department, agency, or instru-
mentality of the United States which uses live animals for research or experimentation.

(7 U.S.C. 2132) (P. L. 89-544, §2, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 350; R]... 91-579, §3, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1560; EL 94-279, §§3, 4, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 417, 418; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,
§1756(a), Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 3. The Secretary shall issue licenses to dealers and exhibitors upon applica-
tion therefor in such form and manner as he may prescribe and upon payment of such fee
established pursuant to section 23 of this Act: Provided, That no such license shall be
issued until the dealer or exhibitor shall have demonstrated that his facilities comply with
the standards promulgated by the Secretary pursuant to section 13 of this Act: Provided,
however, That any retail pet store or other person who deriVes less than a substantial
portion of his income (as determined by the Secretary) from the breeding and raising of
dogs or cats on his own premises and sells any such dog or cat to a dealer or research facil-
ity shall not be required to obtain a license as a dealer or exhibitor under this Act. The Sec-
retary is further authorized to license, as dealers or exhibitors, persons who do not qualify
as dealers or exhibitors within the meaning of this Act upon such persons complying with
the requirements specified above and agreeing, in writing, to comply with all the require-
ments of this'Act and the regulations promulgated by the Secretary hereunder.

(7 U.S.C. 2133) (Rt. 89-544, §3, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351 ; PL. 91-579, §4, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1561)

Section 4. No dealer or exhibitor shall sell or offer to sell or transport or offer for
transportation, in commerce, to any research facility or for exhibition or for use as a pet
any animal, or buy, sell, offer to buy or sell, transport or offer for transportation, in com-
merce, to or from another dealer or exhibitor under this Act any animal, unless and until
such dealer or exhibitor shall have obtained a license from the Secretary and such license
shall not have been suspended or revoked.

(7 U.S.C. 2134) (PL. 89-544, §4, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL; 91-579, §5, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1561; PL. 94-279, §5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat A418)

 

Section 5. N 0 dealer or exhibitor shall sell or otherwise dispose of any dog or cat
within a period of 5 business days after the acquisition of such animal or within such other
period as may be specified by the Secretary: Provided, That operators of auction sales sub-
ject to section 12 of this Act shall not be required to comply with the provisions of this sec-
tion.

(7 U.S.C. 2135) (13.1. 89-544, §5, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351 ; PL. 91-579, §6, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1561)

Section 6. Every research facility, every intermediate handler, every carrier, and
every exhibitor not licensed under section 3 of this Act shall register with the Secretary in
accordance with such rules and regulations as he may prescribe.

(7 U.S.C. 2136) (PL. 89-544, §6, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351 ; PL. 91-579, §7, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1561; PL. 94-279, §6, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 7. It shall be unlawful for any research facility to purchase any dog or cat from
any person except an operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act or a per-
son holding a valid license as a dealer or exhibitor issued by the Secretary pursuant to this
Act unless such person is exempted from obtaining such license under section 3 of this
Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2137) (PL. 89-544, §7, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351 ; PL. 91-579, §8, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1561 )

Section 8. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States which uses

 




animals for research or experimentation or exhibition shall purchase or otherwise acquire
any dog or cat for such purposes from any person except an operator of an auction sale
subject to section 12 of this Act or a person holding a valid license as a dealer or exhibitor
issued by the Secretary pursuant to this Act unless such person is exempted from obtain-
ing such license under section 3 of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2138) (PL. 89-544, §8, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, §9, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1562)

Section 9. When construing or enforcing the provisions of this Act, the act, omission,
or failure of any person acting for or employed by a research facility, a dealer, or an exhib-
itor or a person licensed as a dealer or an exhibitor pursuant to the second sentence of
section 3, or an operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, or an interme-
diate handler or a carrier, within the scope of his employment or office, shall be deemed
the act, omission, or failure of such research facility, dealer, exhibitor, licensee, operator of
an auction sale, intermediate handler, or carrier, as well as of such person.

(7 U.S.C. 2139) (PL. 89-544, §9, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, §10, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, §7, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 10. Dealers and exhibitors shall make and retain for such reasonable period
of time as the Secretary may prescribe, such records with respect to the purchase, sale,
transportation, identification, and previous ownership of animals as the Secretary may
prescribe. Research facilities shall make and retain such records only with respect to the
purchase, sale, transportation, identification, and previous ownership of live dogs and
cats. At the request of the Secretary, any regulatory agency of the Federal Government
which requires records to be maintained by intermediate handlers and carriers with
respect to the transportation, receiving, handling, and delivery of animals on forms pre-
scribed by the agency, shall require there to be included in such forms, and intermediate
handlers and carriers shall include in such forms, such information as the Secretary may
require for the effective administration of this Act. Such information shall be retained for
such reasonable period of time as the Secretary may prescribe. If regulatory agencies of
the Federal Government do not prescribe requirements for any such forms, intermediate
handlers and carriers shall make and retain for such reasonable period as the Secretary
may prescribe such records with respect to the transportation, receiving, handling, and
delivery of animals as the Secretary may prescribe. Such records shall be made available
at all reasonable times for inspection and copying by the Secretary.

(7 U.S.C. 2140) (PL. 89-544, §10, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, §11, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, §8, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 11. All animals delivered for transportation, transported, purchased, or sold,
in commerce, by a dealer or exhibitor shall be marked or identified at such time and in
such humane manner as the Secretary may prescribe: Provided, That only live dogs and
cats need to be so marked or identified by a research facility.

(7 U.S.C. 2141) (PL. 89-544, §11, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351;, PL. 91-579, §12, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94—279, §5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 12. The Secretary is authorized to promulgate humane standards and
recordkeeping requirements governing the purchase, handling, or sale of animals, in com-
merce, by dealers, research facilities, and exhibitors at auction sales and by the operators
of such auction sales. The Secretary is also authorized to require the licensing of operators
of auction sales where any dogs or cats are sold, in commerce, under such conditions as
he may prescribe, and upon payment of such fee as prescribed by the Secretary under sec-
tion 23 of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2142) (PL. 89-544, §12, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351;. PL. 91-579, §13, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, §5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 13. (a) (1) The Secretary shall promulgate standards to govern the humane
handling, care, treatment and transportation of animals by dealers, research facilities, and
exhibitors. “,1

(2) The standards described in paragraph (1) shall include minimum ’
requirements——

(A) for handling, housing, feeding, watering, sanitation, ventilation, shel-
ter from extremes of weather and temperatures, adequate veterinary care, and sepa-
ration by species where the Secretary ﬁnds necessary for humane handling, care, or
treatment of animals; and

(B) for exercise of dogs, as determined by an attending veterinarian in
accordance with the general standards promulgated by the Secretary, and for a phys-
ical environment adequate to promote the psychological well-being of primates.

(3) In addition to the requirements under paragraph (2), the standards
described in paragraph (1) shall, with respect to animals in research facilities, include
requirements— '

(A) for animal care, treatment, and practices in experimental procedures
to ensure that animal pain and distress are minimized, including adequate veterinary
care with the appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, tranquilizing drugs, or eutha-
na31a;

(B) that the principal investigator considers alternatives to any procedure
likely to produce pain to or distress in an experimental animal,

(C) in any practice which could cause pain to animals—

(i) that a doctor of veterinary medicine is consulted in the plan-
ning of such procedures,

(ii) for the use of tranquilizers, analgesics, and anesthetics,

(iii) for presurgical and postsurgical care by laboratory workers, in
accordance with established veterinary medical and nursing
procedures; '

 

 




(iv) against the use of paralytics without anesthesia; and

(v) that the withholding of tranquilizers, anesthesia, analgesia, or
euthanasia when scientiﬁcally necessary shall continue for only
the necessary period of time;

(D) that no animal is used in more than one major operative experiment
from which it is allowed to recover except in cases of—

(i) scientific necessity; or

(ii) other special circumstances as determined by the Secretary;
and

(E) that exceptions to such standards may be made only when specified
by research protocol and that any such exception shall be detailed and explained in a
report outlined under paragraph (7) and ﬁled with the Institutional Animal Commit-
tee.

(4) The Secretary shall also promulgate standards to govern the transporta-
tion in commerce, and the handling, care, and treatment in connection therewith, by
intermediate handlers, air carriers, or other carriers, of animals consigned by a
dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or other person, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local
government, for transportation in commerce. The Secretary shall have authority to
promulgate such rules and regulations as he determines necessary to assure humane
treatment of animals in the course of their transportation in commerce including
requirements such as those with respect to containers, feed, water, rest, ventilation,
temperature, and handling.

(5) In promulgating and enforcing standards established pursuant to this
section, the Secretary is authorized and directed to consult experts, including outside
consultants where indicated. *

(6) (A) Nothing in this Act—

(i) except as provided in paragraph (7) of this subsection, shall be
construed as authorizing the Secretary to promulgate rules, reg-
ulations, or orders with regard to the design, outlines, or guide-
lines of actual research or experimentation by a research facility
as determined by such facility;
except as provided in subparagraphs (A) and (C) (ii) through (v)
of paragraph (3) and paragraph (7) of this subsection, shall be
construed as authorizing the Secretary to promulgate rules, reg-
ulations, or orders with regard to the performance of actual
research or experimentation by a research facility as determined
by such research facility; and

(iii) shall authorize the Secretary, during inspection, to interrupt

g the conduct of actual research or experimentation.

(B) No rule, regulation, order, or part of this Act shall be construed to
require a research facility to disclose publicly or to the Institutional Animal Commit-
tee during its inspection, trade secrets or commercial or financial information which
is privileged or confidential.

(7) (A) The Secretary shall require each research facility to show upon inspec-
tion, and to report at least annually, that the provisions of this Act are being followed
and that professionally acceptable standards governing the care, treatment, and use
of animals are being followed by the research facility during actual research or
experimentation. ,

(B) In complying with subparagraph (A), such research facilities shall
provide—

(i) information on procedures likely to produce pain or distress in
any animal and assurances demonstrating that the principal
investigator considered alternatives to those procedures;

(ii) assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that such facility is

Ar, adhering to the standards described in this section; and

(iii) , . ,. . . , ‘

MW” an explanation for any deviation from the standards promul-
gated under this section.

(8) Paragraph (1) shall not prohibit any State (or a political subdivision of
such State) from promulgating standards in addition to those standards promulgated
by the Secretary under paragraph (1).

(b)(1) The Secretary shall require that each research facility establish at least
one Committee. Each Committee shall be appointed by the chief executive ofﬁcer of
each such research facility and shall be composed of not fewer than three members.
Such members shall possess sufficient ability to assess animal care, treatment, and
practices in experimental research as determined by the needs of the research facility
and shall represent society’s concerns regarding the welfare of animal subjects used
at such facility. Of the members of the Committee-—

(A) at least one member shall be a doctor of veterinary medicine;

(B) atleast one member—

~~~"’/ shall not be affiliated in any way with such facility other than as
a member of the Committee;

(ii) shall not be a member of the immediate family of a person who
is affiliated with such facility; and

(iii) is intended to provide representation for general community

interests in the proper care and treatment of animals; and
(C) in those cases where the Committee consists of more than three
members, not more than three members shall be from the same administrative unit
of such facility.
(2) A quorum shall be required for all formal actions of the Committee,
including inspections under paragraph (3).
(3) The Committee shall inspect at least semiannually all animal study areas

 




and animal facilities of such research facility and review as part of the inspection——
(A) practices involving pain to animals, and
(B). the condition of animals, to ensure compliance with the provisions of
this Act to minimize pain and distress to animals. Exceptions tovthe requirement of
inspection of such study areas may be made by the Secretary if animals are studied
in their natural environment and the study area is prohibitive to easy access.

 




 

    

   
 
 

LAB.5: 5/14/90

(4) (A) The Committee shall file an inspection certification report of each inspection
at the research facility. Such report shall—

(i) be signed by a majority of the Committee members involved in the
inspection;

(ii) include reports of any violation of the standards promulgated, or
assurances required, by the Secretary, including any deficient condi-
tions of animal care or treatment, any deviations of research prac-
tices from originally approved proposals that adversely affect animal
welfare, any notiﬁcation to the facility regarding such conditions,
and any corrections made thereafter;

(iii) include any minority views of the Committee; and

(iv) include any other information pertinent to the activities of the Com-
mittee.

(B) Such report shall remain on file for at least 3 years at the research facility
and shall be available for inspection by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
and any funding Federal agency.

(C) In order to give the research facility an opportunity to correct any
deficiencies or deviations discovered by reason of paragraph (3), the Committee shall
notify the administrative representative of the research facility of any deficiencies or devi-
ations from the provisions of this Act. If, after notification and an opportunity for correc-
tion, such deficiencies or deviations remain uncorrected, the Committee shall notify (in
writing) the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and the funding Federal agency
of such deficiencies or deviations.

(5) The inspection results shall be available to Department of Agriculture inspec-
tors for review during inspections. Department of Agriculture inspectors shall forward
any Committee inspection records which include reports of uncorrected deficiencies or
deviations to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and any funding Federal
agency of the project with respect to which such uncorrected deficiencies and deviations
occurred.

(c) In the case of Federal research facilities, a Federal Committee shall be established
and shall have the same composition and responsibilities provided in subsection (b) of
this section, except that the Federal Committee shall report deficiencies or deviations to
the head of the Federal agency conducting the research rather than to the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service. The head of the Federal agency conducting the research
shall be responsible for——

(1) all corrective action to be taken at the facility; and

(2) the granting of all exceptions to inspection protocol.

(d) Each research facility shall provide for the training of scientists, animal techni-
cians, and other personnel involved with animal care and treatment in such facility as
required by the Secretary. Such training shall include instruction on—

(1) the humane practice of animal maintenance and experimentation;

(2) research or testing methods that minimize or eliminate the use of animals or
limit animal pain or distress;

(3) utilization of the information service at the National Agricultural Library,
established under subsection (e) of this section, and

(4) methods whereby deficiencies in animal care and treatment should be
reported.

(e) The Secretary shall establish an information service at the National Agricultural
Library. Such service shall, in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine, provide
information—

(1) pertinent to employee training;

(2) which could prevent unintended duplication of animal experimentation as
determined by the needs of the research facility; and
(3) on improved methods of animal experimentation, including methods which
could— ~ ' '

(A) reduce or replace animal use; and

(B) minimize pain and distress to animals, such as anesthetic and analgesic
procedures.

(f1) In any case in which a Federal agency funding a research project determines that
conditions of animal care, treatment, or practice in a particular project have not been in
compliance with standards promulgated under this Act, despite notification by the Secre-
tary or such Federal agency to the research facility and an opportunity for correction, such
agency shall suspend or revoke Federal support of the project. Any research facility losing
Federal support as a result of actions taken under the preceding sentence shall have the
right of appeal as provided 1n sections 701 through 706 of Title 5, United States Code.

(f2) N 0 dogs or cats, or additional kinds or classes of animals designated by regula-
tion of the Secretary, shall be delivered by any dealer, research'facility, exhibitor, operator
of an auction sale, or department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any
State or local government, to any intermediate handler or carrier for transportation in
commerce, or received by any such handler or carrier for such transportation from any
such person, department, agency, or instrumentality, unless the animal is accompanied by
a certificate issued by a veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary medicine, certifying
that he inspected the animal on a specified date, which shall not be more than 10 days
before such delivery, and, when so inspected, the animal appeared free of any infectious
disease or physical abnormality which would endanger the animal or animals or other
animals or endanger public health: Provided, however, That the Secretary may by regulation
provide exceptions to this certification requirement, under such conditions as he may pre-
scribe in the regulations, for animals shipped to research facilities for purposes of
research, testing or experimentation requiring animals not eligible for such certification.




Such certiﬁcates received by the intermediate handlers and the carriers shall be retained
by them, as provided by regulations of the Secretary, in accordance with section 10 of this
Act.

(g) No dogs or cats, or additional kinds or classes of animals designated by regulation
of the Secretary, shall be delivered by any person to any intermediate handler or carrier
for transportation in commerce except to registered research facilities if they are less than
such age as the Secretary may by regulation prescribe. The Secretary shall designate addi-
tional kinds and classes of animals and may prescribe different ages for particular kinds or
classes of dogs, cats, or designated animals, for the purposes of this section, when he
determines that such action is necessary or adequate to assure their humane treatment in
connection with their transportation in commerce.

(h) No intermediate handler or carrier involved in the transportation of any animal in
commerce shall participate in any arrangement or engage in any practice under which the
cost of such animal or the cost of the transportation of such animal is to be paid and col-
lected upon delivery of the animal to the consignee, unless the consignor guarantees in
writing the payment of transportation charges for any animal not claimed within a period
of 48 hours after notice to the consignee of arrival of the animal, including, where neces-
sary, both the return transportation charges and an amount sufficient to reimburse the
carrier for all‘out-of-pocket expenses incurred for the care, feeding, and storage of such
animals.

(7 U...SC 2143) (PL. 89- 544, §13, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352, PL. 91-579, §14, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562, PL. 94-279, §§9, 10, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418, PL 99-198, Title
XVII, §1752,Dec.23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1645)

Section 14. Any department, agency or instrumentality of the United States having
laboratory animal facilities shall comply with the standards and other requirements prom-
ulgated by the Secretary for a research facility under section 13 (a), (f), (g), and (h). Any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States exhibiting animals shall com-
ply with the standards promulgated by the Secretary under section 13 (a), (f), (g), and (h).

(7 U.S.C. 2144) (PL. 89-544, §14, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352,; PL. 91-579, §15, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279, §19, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 423; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,
§1758, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 15. (a) The Secretary shall consult and cooperate with other Federal depart-
ments, agencies, or instrumentalities concerned with the welfare of animals used for
research, experimentation or exhibition, or administration of statutes regulating the trans-
portation in commerce or handling in connection therewith of any animals when estab-
lishing standards pursuant to section 13 and in carrying out the purposes of this Act. The
Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services prior to issuance
of regulations. Before promulgating any standard governing the air transportation and
handling in connection therewith, of animals, the Secretary shall consult with the Secre-
tary of Transportation who shall have the authority to disapprove any such standard if he
notifies the Secretary, within 30 days after such consultation, that changes in its provisions
are necessaryin the interest of ﬂight safety. The Interstate Commerce Commission, the
Secretary of Transportation, and the Federal Maritime Commission, to the extent of their
respective lawful authorities, shall take such action as is appropriate to implement any
standard established by the Secretary with respect to a person subject to regulation by it.

(b) The Secretary is authorized to cooperate with the officials of the various States or
political subdivisions thereof in carrying out the purposes of this Act and of any State,
local, or municipal legislation or ordinance on the same subject.

(7 use 2145) (PL. 89-544, §15, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL 91-579, §16, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279, §11, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 419; PL. 98-443, §9(i), Oct. 4,
1984, 98 Stat. 1708; PL. 99-198, Title XVII, §1757, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 16. (a) The Secretary shall make such investigations or inspections as he
deems necessary to determine whether any dealer, exhibitor, (intermediate handler, car-
rier, research facility, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, has
violated or is violating any provision of this Act or any regulation or standard issued
thereunder, and for such purposes, the Secretary shall, at all reasonable times, have access
to the places of business and the facilities, animals, and those records required to be kept
pursuant to section 10 of any such dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, carrier,
research facility, or operator of an auction sale. The Secretary shall inspect each research
facility at least once each year and, in the case of deficiencies or deviations from the stand-
ards promulgated under this Act, shall conduct such follow-up inspections as may be nec-
essary until all deficiencies or deviations from such standards are corrected. The Secretary
shall promulgate such rules and regulations as he deems necessary-to permit inspectors to
confiscate or destroy in a humane manner any animal found to be suffering as a result of a
failure to comply with any provision of this Act or any regulation or standard issued
thereunder if (1) such animal is held by a dealer, (2) such' animal is held by an exhibitor,
(3) such animal is held by a research facility and is no longer required by such research
facility to carry out the research, test or experiment for which such animal has been util-
ized, (4) such animal IS held by an operator of an auction sale, or (5) such animal 1s held
by an intermediate handler or a carrier.

(b) Any person who forcibly assaults, resists, opposes, impedes, intimidates, or inter-
feres with any person while engaged in or on account of the performance of his official
duties under this Act shall be fined not more than $5,000, or imprisoned not more than 3
years, or both. Whoever, in the commission of such acts, uses a deadly or dangerous
weapon shall be fined not more than $10, 000, or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or
both. Whoever kills any person while engaged in or on account of the performance of his
official duties under this Act shall be punished as provided under sections 1111 and 1114
of Title 18, United States Code.

(c) For the efficient administration and enforcement of this Act, the provisions
(including penalties) of sections 6, 8, 9, and 10 of the Act entitled "An Act to create a Fed-

 




 

 

  

eral Trade Commission, to define its powers and duties, and‘. for other purposes,” (15
U.S.C. 46, and 48-50; 38 Stat. 721-723, as amended) (except paragraph (c) through (h) of
section 6 and the last paragraph of section 9, and the provisions of Title II of the ”Organ-
ized Crime Control Act of 1970”) (18 U.S.C. 6001 et seq., 62 Stat. 856), are made applicable
to the jurisdiction, powers, and duties of the Secretary in administering and enforcing the
provisions of this Act and to any person, firm, or corporation with respect to whom such
authority is exercised. The Secretary may prosecute any inquiry necessary to his duties
under this Act in any part of the United States, including any territory, or possession
thereof, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The powers con-
ferred by said sections 9 and 10 of the Act of September 26, 1914, as amended, on the dis-
trict courts of the United States may be exercised for the purposes of this Act by any dis-
trict court of the United States. The United States district courts, the District Court of
Guam, the District Court to the Virgin Islands, the highest court of American Samoa, and
the United States courts of the other territories, are vested with jurisdiction specifically to
enforce, and to prevent and restrain violations of this Act, and shall have jurisdiction 1n all
other kinds of cases arising under this Act, except as provided 1n section 19 (c) of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2146) (PL. 89-544, §16, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, §17, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279, §12, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 420; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,
§1753, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1649)

Section 17. The Secretary shall promulgate rules and regulations requiring dealers,
exhibitors, research facilities, and operators of auction sales subject to section 12 of this
Act to permit inspection of their animals and records at reasonable hours upon request by
legally constituted law enforcement agencies in search of lost animals.

(7 U...SC 2147) (PL. 89-544, §17,Aug. 24, 1966,80 Stat 352 P1. 91579, §18, Dec. 24,
1970,84 Stat. 1564) .

Section 18. Repealed. Pub. L. 91-579. Similar provisions incorporated" 1n section 13 by PL.
91-579, §19, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1564.

(7 U.S.C. 2148)

Section 19. (a) If the Secretary has reason to believe that any person licensed as a
dealer, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, has vio-
lated or is violating any provision of this Act, or any bf the rules or regulations or stand-
ards promulgated by the Secretary hereunder, he may suspe'nd‘such person’s license tem-
porarily, but not to exceed 21 days, and after notice and opportunity for hearing, may sus-
pend for such additional period as he may specify, or revoke such license, if such violation
is determined to have occurred.

(b) Any dealer, exhibitor, research facility, intermediate handler, carrier or operator
of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, that violates any provision of this Act, or
any rule, regulation, or standard promulgated by the Secretary thereunder, may be
assessed a civil penalty by the Secretary of not more than $2,500 for each such violation,
and the Secretary may also make an order that such person shall cease and desist from
continuing such violation. Each violation and each day during which a violation continues
shall be a separate offense. No penalty shall be assessed or cease and desist order issued
unless such person is given notice and opportunity for a hearing with respect to the
alleged violation, and the order of the Secretary assessing a penalty and making a cease
and desist order shall be ﬁnal and conclusive unless the affected person ﬁles an appeal
from the Secretary’s order with the appropriate United States Court of Appeals. The Sec-
retary shall give due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with respect to
the size of the business of the person involved, the gravity of the violation, the person ’5
good faith, and the history of previous violations. Any such civil penalty may be compro-
mised by the Secretary. Upon any failure to pay the penalty assessed by a final order
under this section, the Secretary shall request the Attorney General to institute a civil
action in a diStrict court of the United States or other United States court for any district in
which such person is found or resides or transacts business, to collect the penalty, and
such court shall have jurisdiction to hear and decide any such action. Any person who
knowingly fails to obey a cease and desist order made by the Secretary under this section
shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,500 for each offense, and each day during which
such failure continues shall be deemed a separate offense. :

(c) Any dealer, exhibitor, research facility, intermediate Handler, carrier, or operator
of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, aggrieved by a final order of the Secre-
tary issued pursuant to this section may, within‘60 days after entry of such an order, seek
review of such order in the appropriate United States Court; of Appeals in accordance
with the provisions of section 2341, 2343 through 2350 of Title 28, United States Code,
and such court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to enjoin, set aside, suspend (in whole or
in part), or to determine the validity of the Secretary’s order.

(d) Any dealer, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this
Act, who knowingly violates any provision of this Act shall, on conviction thereof, be sub-
ject to imprisonment for not more than 1 year, or a fine of not more than $2,500, or both.
Prosecution of such violations shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be brought ini-
tially before United States magistrates as provided in section 636 of Title 28, United States
Code, and sections 3401 and 3402 of Title 18, United States Code, and, with the consent of
the Attorney General, may be conducted, at both trial and upon appeal to district court, by
attorneys of the United States Department of Agriculture. ‘

(7 U.S.C. 2149) (PL. 89-544, §19, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352,- PL. 91-579, (320, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1564; PL. 94-279, §13, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 420; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,
§1755, Dec. 28, 1985,99 Stat. 1650) .

Section 20. Repealed. Similar provisions incorporated in section 19 by PL. 94-279,
§14, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 421.

(7 U.S.C. 2150)

  




Section 21. The Secretary is authorized to promulgate such rules, regulations, and
orders as he may deem necessary in order to effectuate the purposes of this Act.

(7 U...SC 2151) (P..L 89-544,§21,Aug.24, 1966,80 Stat. 353) W

Section 22. If any provision of this Act or the application of any such provision to any
person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Act and the applica-
tion of any such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is
held invalid shall not be affected thereby.

(7 U.S.C. 2152) (PL. 89-544, §22, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353)‘;

Section 23. The Secretary shall charge, assess, and cause to be collected reasonable
fees for licenses issued. Such fees shall be adjusted on an equitable basis taking into con-
sideration the type and nature of the operations to be licensed and shall be deposited and
covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts. There are hereby authorized to be
appropriated Such funds as Congress may from time to time provide: Provided, That there
is authorized. to be appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture for enforcement by the
Department of Agriculture of the provisions of section 26 of this Act an amount not to
exceed $100, 000 for the transition quarter ending September 30, 1976, and not to exceed
$400, 000 for each ﬁscal year thereafter.

(7 U..SC. 2153) (PL. 89- 544, §23, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353, P..L 94-279, §18, April 22,
1976,90 Stat. 423)

Section 24. The regulations referred to in section 10 and section 13 shall be pre-
scribed by the Secretary as soon as reasonable but not later than 6 months from the date of
enactment of this Act. Additions and amendments thereto may be prescribed from time to
time as may be necessary or advisable. Compliance by dealersiwith the provisions of this
Act and such regulations shall commence 90 days after the promulgation of such regula-
tions. Compliance by research facilities with the provisions of this Act and such regula-
tions shall commence 6 months after the promulgation of such regulations (August 24,
1966), except that the Secretary may grant extensions of time to research facilities which
do not comply with the standards prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to section 13 of
this Act provided that the Secretary determines that there is evidence that the research
facilities will meet such standards within a reasonable time. Notwithstanding the other
provisions of this section, compliance by intermediate handlers, and carriers, and other
persons with those provisions of this Act, as amended by the Animal Welfare Act Amend-
ments of 1976, and those regulations promulgated thereunder, which relate to actions of
intermediate handlers and carriers, shall commence 90 days after promulgation of regula-
tions under section 13 of this Act, as amended, with respect to intermediate handlers and
carriers, and Such regulations shall be promulgated no later than 9 months after April 22,
1976; and cOmpliance by dealers, exhibitors, operators of auction sales and research
facilities with'other provisions of this Act, as so amended, and the regulations thereunder,
shall commence upon the expiration of 90 days after April 22, 1976: Provided, however,
That compliance by all persons with paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of section 13 and with
section 26 of this Act, as so amended, shall commence upon the expiration of said 90-day
period. In all other respects, said amendments shall become effective upon April 22, 1976.

(7 U.S.C. 2154) (PL. 89-544, §24, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353; PL. 94-279, §15, April 22,
1976, 90 Stat. 421)

Section 25. Not later than March of each year the Secretary shall submit to the Presi-
dent of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives a comprehensive and
detailed written report with respect to—

(1) the identification of all research facilities, exhibitors, and other persons and
establishments licensed by the Secretary under section 3 and section 12 of this Act,

(2) the nature and place of all investigations and inspections conducted by the
Secretary under section 16 of this Act, and all reports received by the Secretary under sec-
tion 13 of this Act,

(3) recommendations for legislation to improve the administration of this Act or
any provision thereof, and

(4) recommendations and conclusions concerning the aircraft environment as it
relates to the carriage of live animals in air transportation. '

This report as well as any supporting documents, data, or findings shall not be released to
any other persons, non-Federal agencies, or organizations unless and until it has been
made public by an appropriate committee of the Senate or the House of Representatives.

(7 U.S.C. 2155) (PL. 89-544, §25, as added by PL. 91-579, §22, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat.
1565; PL. 94-279, §16, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 421)

 




LAB.6: 5/14/90

Section 26. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sponsor or exhibit an
animal 1n any animal ﬁghting venture to which any animal was moved' 1n interstate or for-
eign commerce.

(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sell, buy, transport, or deliver to
another person or receive from another person for purposes of transportation, in inter-
state or foreign commerce, any dog or other animal for purposes of having the dog or
other animal participate in an animal fighting venture.

(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly use the mail service of the United
States Postal Service or any interstate instrumentality for purposes of promoting or in any
other manner furthering an animal fighting venture except as performed outside the lim-
its of the States of the United States.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the
activities prohibited by such subsections shall be unlawful with respect to fighting ven-
tures involving live birds only if the fight 15 to take place in a State where it would be 1n
violation of the laws thereof.

(e) Any person who violates subsection (a), (b), or (c) shall be fined not more than
$5,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both, for each such violation.

(f) The Secretary or any other person authorized by him shall make such investiga-
tions as the Secretary deems necessary to determine whether any person has violated or is
violating any provision of this section, and the Secretary may obtain the assistance of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of the Treasury, or other law enforce-
ment agencies of the United States, and State and local governmental agencies, in the con-
duct of such investigations, under cooperative agreements with such agencies. A warrant
to search for and seize any animal which there is probable cause to believe was involved
in any violation of this section may be issued by any judge of the United States or of a
State court ofgrecord or by a United States magistrate within the district wherein the ani-
mal sought is located. Any United States marshal or any person authorized under this sec-
tion to conduct investigations may apply for and execute any such warrant, and any ani-
mal seized under such a warrant shall be held by the United States marshal or other
authorized person pending disposition thereof by the court in accordance with this
subsection. Necessary care including veterinary treatment shall be provided while the ani-
mals are so held in custody. Any animal involved in any violation of this section shall be
liable to be proceeded against and forfeited to the United States at any time on complaint
filed in any United States district court or other court of the UnitedStates for any jurisdic-
tion in which the animal is found and upon a judgment of forfeiture shall be disposed of
by sale for lawful purposes or by other humane means, as the court may direct. Costs
incurred by the United States for care of animals seized and forfeited under this section
shall be recoverable from the owner of the animals if he appears in such forfeiture
proceeding or in a separate civil action brought in the jurisdiction in which the owner is
found, resides, or transacts business.

(g) For purposes of this section—

(1) the term ”animal fighting venture’ means any event which involves a fight
between at least two animals and 1s conducted for purposes of sport, wagering, or enter-
tainment except that the term ”animal fighting venture” shall not be deemed to include
any activity the primary purpose of which involves the use of one or more animals in
hunting another animal or animals, such as waterfowl, bird, raccoon, or fox hunting;

(2) the term ”interstate or foreign commerce" means—

(A) any movement between any place in a State to any place in another State
or between places in the same State through another State; or
(B) any movement from a foreign country into any State;

(3) the term ”interstate instrumentality” means telegraph, telephone, radio, or tel-
evision operating in interstate or foreign commerce;

(4) the term “State" means any State of the United States, the District of Colum-
bia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United
States;

(5) the term ”animal" means any live bird, or any live dog or other mammal,
except man; and

(6) the conduct by any person of any activity prohibited by this section shall not
render such person subject to the other sections of this Act as a d,ealer exhibitor, or other-
wise. ‘

(h) (1) The provisions of this section shall not supersede or otherwise invalidate any
such State, local, or municipal legislation or ordinance relating to animal fighting ventures
except 1n case of a direct and irreconcilable conﬂict between any requirements thereunder
and this section or any rule, regulation, or standard hereunder

W
(7 U.S.C. 2156) (PL. 89-544, 6(a)-(h) (1), as added by PL. 94-279gs@17, April 22, My”

1976, 90 Stat. 421) . J
Note: PL. 94-279 also amended 39 U.S.C. 3001(a) on material that may not be mailed.

Section 27. (a) It shall be unlawful for any member of an Institutional Animal Com-
mittee to release any conﬁdean information of the research facility including any infor-
mation that concerns or relates to—

(1) the trade secrets, processes, operations, style of work, or apparatus; or
(2) the identity, confidential statistical data, amount or source of any income, prof-
its, losses, or expenditures, of the research facility.

(b) It shall be unlawful for any member of such Committee-

(1) to use or attempt to use to his advantages, or
(2) toreveal to any other person, any information which is entitled to protection
as confidential information under subsection (a) of this section.

(c) A violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section is punishable by—

.l-

 




(1) removal from such Committee; and
(2) (A) a fine of not more than $1, 000 and imprisonment of not more than 1 year,
or
(B) if such violation is willful, a fine of not more than $10, 000 and imprison-
ment of not more than 3 years.

(d) Any person, including any research facility, injured in its business or property by
reason of a violation of this section may recover all actual and consequential damages sus-
tained by such person and the cost of the suit including a reasonable attorney’s fee.

(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any other rights of a person
injured in its business or property by reason of a violation of this section. Subsection (d)
shall not be construed to limit the exercise of any such rights arising out of or relating to a
violation of subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

(7 U.S.C. 2157) (PL. 89-544, §27, as added by PL. 99-198, Title XVII, §1754, Dec. 23,
1985, 99 Stat. 1649)

 

1. PL. 99-198, Title XVII, §1752, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1645, made significant amend-
ments to §13 of the Act and inadvertently duplicated paragraph (f) of §13. The new
paragraph (f) in the 1985 amendments has been designated as (f1) and the old para—
graph (f) has been designated as paragraph (f2) for clarity.i

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

PL. 89-544:
H. Rept. 89-1418, House Committee on Agriculture
S. Rept. 89-1281, Senate Committee on Commerce
Passed House Apr. 28,1966
Passed Senate June 22,1966
H. Rept. 89-1848, Conference Committee
House agreed to conference report Aug. 16, 1966
Senate agreed to conference report Aug. 17, 1966
Approved Aug. 24, 1966

PL. 91-579:
H. Rept. 91-1651, House Committee on Agriculture
Passed House Dec. 7, 1970
Passed Senate Dec. 8, 1970
Approved Dec. 24, 1970

PL. 94-279:
H. Rept. 94-801, House Committee on Agriculture
8. Rept. 94-580, Senate Committee on Commerce
H. Rept. 94-976, Conference Committee
8. Rept. 94-727, Conference Committee
Passed Senate Dec. 18, 1975
Passed House Feb. 9, 1976
House agreed to conference report Apr. 6, 1976
Senate agreed to conference report Apr. 7, 1976
Approved Apr. 22, 1976

PL. 99-198:

H. Rept. 99-271, Part 1, Committee on Agriculture

8. Rept. 99-145, Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry

Passed House Oct. 8, 1985

Passed Senate Nov. 23, 1985

H. Rept. 99- 447 Conference Committee

House and Senate agreed to conference report Dec. 18,
1985

Approved Dec. 23, 1985

f

 




LAB.7: 5/14/90

EXCERPTS FROM
THE HEALTH RESEARCH EXTENSION ACT OF 1985
PUBLIC LAW 99-158, NOVEMBER 20, 1985

ANIMALS IN RESEARCH

Sec. 495 (a) The Secretary, acting through the Director of NIH, shall establish guide-
lines for the following:

(1) The proper care of animals to be used in biomedical and behavioral
research.

(2) The proper treatment of animals while being used in such research. Guide-
lines under this paragraph shall require—

(A) the appropriate use of tranquilizers, analgesics, anesthetics, paralyt-
ics, and euthanasia for animals in such research; and

(B) appropriate pre-surgical and post-surgical veterinary medical and
nursing care for animals 1n such research. Such guidelines shall not be con-
strued to prescribe methods of research.

(3) The organization and operation of animal care committees in accordance
with subsection (b).

(b) (1) Guidelines of the Secretary under subsection (a) (3) shall require animal care
committees at each entity which conducts biomedical and behavioral research with funds
provided under this Act (including the National Institutes of Health and the national
research institutes) to assure compliance with the guidelines established under subsection

(a)

(2) Each animal care committee shall be appointed by the chief executive offi-
cer of the entity for which the committee is established, shall be composed of not
fewer than three members, and shall include at least one individual who has no asso-
ciation with such entity and at least one doctor of veterinary medicine.

(3) Each animal care committee of a research entity shall—

(A) review the care and treatment of animals in all animal study areas
and facilities of the research entity at least semi-annually to evaluate compli-
ance with applicable guidelines established under subsection (a) for appropri-
ate animal care and treatment;

(B) keep appropriate records of reviews conducted under subpar-
agraph (A); and

(C) for each review conducted under subparagraph (A), file with the
Director of NIH at least annually (i) a certification that the review has been
conducted, and (ii) reports of any violations of guidelines established under
subsection (a) or assurances required under paragraph (1) which were
observed in such review and which have continued after notice by the com-
mittee to the research entity involved of the violations.

Reports filed under subparagraph (C) shall include any minority views filed by members
of the committee.

(c) The Director of NIH shall require each applicant for a grant, contract, or coopera-
tive agreement involving research on animals which is administered by the National Insti-
tutes of Health or any national research institute to include in its application or contract
proposal, submitted after the expiration of the twelve-month period beginning on the date
of enactment of this section—

(1) assurances satisfactory to the Director of NIH that-—

(A) the applicant meets the requirements of the guidelines established
under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) and has an animal care commit-
tee which meets the requirements of subsection (b); and

(B) scientists, animal technicians, and other personnel involved with
animal care, treatment, and use by the applicant have available to them
instruction or training in the humane practice of animal maintenance and
experimentation, and the concept, availability, and use of research or testing
methods that limit the use of animals or limit animal distress; and

(2) a statement of the reasons for the use of animals in the research to be con-
ducted with funds provided under such grant or contract.

Notwithstanding subsection (a) (2) of section 553 of title 5, United States Code, regula-
tions under this subsection shall be promulgated in accordance with the notice and com-
ment requirements of such section.

(d) If the Director of NIH determines that— z"

(1) the conditions of animal care, treatment, or use in an entity which is receiv-
ing a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement involving research on animals under
this title do not meet applicable guidelines established under subsection (a);

(2) the entity has been notified by the Director of NIH of such determination

 




and has been given a reasonable opportunity to take corrective action; and
(3) no action has been taken by the entity to correct such conditions;

the Director of NIH shall suspend or revoke such grant or contract under such conditions
as the Director determines appropriate.

(e) No guideline or regulation promulgated under subsection (a) or (c) may require a
research entity to disclose publicly trade secrets or commercial or ﬁnancial information
which 1s privileged or confidential.

-=:1 1

Sec. 4 Plan for Research Involving Ammals

(a) Establishment of Plan—The Director of the National Institutes of Health shall

establish a plan for—

(1) research to be conducted by or through the National Institutes of Health
and the national research institutes into methods of biomedical research and experi-
mentation—

(A) which do not require the use of animals;
(B) which reduce the number of animals used in such research; or

(C) which produce less pain and distress in such animals than methods
currently in use. ‘

(2) establishing the validity and reliability of the methods described in
subparagraph (A);

(3) the development of such methods which have been found to be valid and
reliable; and

(4) the training of scientists in the use of such methods.

The plan required by this paragraph shall be prepared not later than October 1,1986.

(b) Dissemination of Information—The Director of the National Institutes of Health
shall take such actions as may be appropriate to convey to scientists and others involved
with research or experimentation involving animals information respecting the methods
found to be valid and reliable under subsection (a) (2).

(c) Interagency Coordinating Committee—The Director of the National Institutes of
Health shall establish within the National Institutes of Health‘an Interagency Coordinat-
ing Committee to assist the Director of the National Institutes of Health in the develop-
ment of the plan required by subsection (a). The Director of each national research insti-
tute shall serve on the Committee. .

 

. Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, France, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United
Kingdom

. The full text of the 1966 Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, including its 1970,1976, and

1985 amendments appears at the end of this chapter ..

. The Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act of 1986 continues and m several provisions
increases the protection provided by the 1876 Act. See Appendix for the full text.

. Arizona and Alaska passed anti-cruelty laws in 1913.

. Mr. Morse, who fought the reform efforts of the founders’of the Humane Society of
the United States as chief executive of the American Humane Association, became
president of the Humane Society of the United States from 1967-1970.

. The New York State Society for Medical Research also sponsored the bills introduced
by Senator Javits 1n the 89th and 90th Congresses (see ”Laboratory Animal Laws: Im-
portant Dates, ” this chapter).

. The American Humane Association was also absent when hearings were called by
Congressman Poage on the Resnick bill, September 2, 1965. At subsequent hearings,
AHA representatives testified against inclusion of laboratories in the bill, reﬂecting
the unbridled pressure of the biomedical establishment on the big humane societies at
that period.

. For example, Nobel laureate, Sir Peter Medawar, was Chairman of UFAVV’ 3 Scientific
Advisory Committee. He repeatedly sent statements on the value of the British Act for
quotation at Congressional hearings. ,

. The statements by Sir Graham Wilson and Dr. Lawrence Abel were published by AWI
in Information Report Vol. 15, No. 4, September-October 1966.

. Speaker of the House of Representatives, 1989—.

. Secretary of Health and Human Services, 1982-1985.

 




LAB.1: 5/14/90

Chapter IV

LAB ORATORY ANIMAL WELFARE
by Christine Stevens

Not until the end of 1985 when Senator Robert Dole attached his bill,
”Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals,” to the Farm Bill by unanimous
consent of Senate and House, did the United States achieve legislation compa-

. rable to that already in effect in 14 western European countries1 for protection
of animals used by scientific institutions. The Farm Bill was signed by President
Reagan two days before Christmas, making the Improved Standards provisions
effective December 23, 1986, a year from the date of enactment.2

More than twenty years of intensive work was required to reach the point
at which the American Physiological Society, major experimentalists, withdrew
its opposition to legislation sought by animal protective organizations. The
Association of Professors of Medicine, too, accepted the bill’s provisions in the
closing months of the struggle for its passage.

Efforts which began in 1880 to regulate animal experimentation in the
United States are described in detail from 1945 onward.

NINETEENTH CENTURY LABORATORY ANIMAL
PROTECTIVE PROPOSALS REBUFFED

In 1880, a bill to regulate animal experimentation in the District of Colum-
bia was introduced in Congress. Its provisions were roughly similar to the Brit-
ish Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876 which provided substantial protection for
experimental animals for more than a century with the approval of the British
scientific community.3 But American scientists who were asked for their Opin-
ions opposed and easily defeated this initial effort.

Between 1828 and 1898, nearly every state and territory in the Union pas-
sed an anti-cruelty statute.4 Fourteen of these laws exempted animal experi-
ments. Even the crusading Henry Bergh, an outspoken anti-vivisectionist,
agreed to the exemption of experimental animals when he revised the New
York anti-cruelty law in 1867.

No prosecutions for cruelty to laboratory animals are known during this
period in states without such exemptions. Not until the latter half of the twenti-
eth century (Massachusetts in 1958 and Maryland in 1982) were anti-cruelty
laws invoked on behalf of laboratory animals. In the first case, the Massachusetts
SPCA successfully prosecuted a research scientist and animal caretaker for cru-
elty in maintaining and transporting post-surgical dogs outside the institution
(the Overholt Clinic).

In Maryland, Dr. Edward Taub was found guilty of 17 counts of cruelty to
experimental monkeys at the Institute for Behavioral Research. On appeal, the
judgment was reversed on grounds that the Maryland law was superseded by
the federal Animal Welfare Act. '

LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY IN THE POST-SECOND WORLD WAR PERIOD
Animal Seizure

Virtually all bills relating to laboratory animals from 1945 to 1960 were
inspired by the National Society for Medical Research (NSMR) or one of its
affiliates. Founded in Chicago in 1945 by Dr. A. I. Carlson, Dr. Andrew C. Ivy,
and Dr. George Wakerlin, the NSMR devoted most of its efforts to enactment of
state laws requiring both humane society shelters and public pounds to sur-
render dogs and cats on request from scientific institutions for use in any type of
experiments or tests, no matter how painful and prolonged.

The first forced surrender law was passed in Minnesota in 1948. Humane
societies were unaware that the bill had even been introduced before it had
gone through both Houses and been signed by the Governor. This law required
release of impounded animals from humane society shelters that receive funds
from taxes, as well as from municipal pounds. In 1949 in Wisconsin, an even
more severe seizure law was passed, requiring any stray animal to be made
available on request to a scientific institution. Thus, shelters operated wholly by
Charitable funds were also compelled to supply animals for experiments,
regardless of the degree and duration of pain and suffering inﬂicted. An attempt
was made to pass similar legislation in Illinois, but here it failed, and the individ-

 

 




ual communities were left in control of local policies with respect to disposition
of stray dogs and cats.

Procurement laws passed in New York, South Dakota, Oklahoma, Connect-
icut, Ohio, and Iowa did not attempt to enact such far-reaching legislation.

Robert Sellar, the President of the American Humane Association (AHA),
the national federation of humane societies, saw the grave danger to the move-
ment, whose organizational structure in the late 1940’ s was especially suscepti-
ble to demoralization through animal seizure legislation. Virtually all the well-
established humane societies centered their work around shelters for lost or
unwanted dogs and cats. If forced to surrender animals for painful experiments,
the entire structure would lose its moral basis as a sanctuary for animals where
they would be safe from inflicted suffering. These were dark days for organized
animal protection.

Mr. Sellar sought to reason with the National Society for Medical Research
in hopes of finding a solution to the demand for research dogs without under-
mining the morals of the humane movement. A small AHA group met with an
NSMR group with the understanding that the preliminary talk would not be
publicized. But Mr. Ralph Rohweder, the Executive Secretary of the NSMR,
immediately sent out an announcement calculated to inﬂame anti-vivisection
societies and anti-vivisectionist members of the American Humane Association.
Mr. Sellar lacked the power to resolve the crisis manufactured by the NSMR,
and henceforth, battles raged in state after state to pass legislation compelling
humane societies to surrender dogs and cats to the laboratories on demand and
without controls on pain inﬂiction.

With the death of Robert Sellar came the end of real efforts to face the prob-
lem and solve it. The inﬂuence of a coterie of professional humanitarians—the
paid employees of large societies who had a vested interest in the continuance
of their jobs—was not conducive to firm resolve. They felt that they must avoid
offending either anti-vivisectionists, from whom their organizations might
receive large gifts and bequests, or scientific and medical groups, whose power-
ful inﬂuence they feared. Thus it was that the American Humane Association,
normally eager for contributions, declined an offered gift of $10,000 to study
and prepare a concerted plan for obtaining humane treatment of research ani-
mals and a solution to the problem of supply to laboratories.

Before his death, Mr. Sellar had appointed a new director of the National
Humane Review, Fred Myers, a newspaper man who was a reformer and an effec-
tive writer. He attacked the NSMR for its policies of indiscriminate procurement
and use of animals. So telling were his arguments that he was forbidden by
AHA management, which was heavily weighted against any energetic action, to
use the words ”National Society for Medical Research” in any article published
in the National Humane Review. Unwilling to submit to such an arbitrary stiﬂing
of truthful reporting, Mr. Myers resigned, together with two of the other three
major staff members: Helen Jones, Director of Education, and Larry Andrews,
Director of Field Services. All were appointees of Robert Sellar, who had been
replaced after his death by Mel Morse.5

The National Humane Society was founded by the dissident trio. The
American Humane Association promptly sued them to force them to change
the society’s name, which, it claimed, was too similar to National Humane Review.
The result was the renaming of the new organization as the Humane Society of
the United States.

Nor was this the only legal action taken in the reform effort. The first
attempt to change the passive attitude of the AHA came at the election of direc-
tors at the 1954 annual meeting. The three reform candidates, Professor Roland
Smith of the Department of English, University of Illinois, Miss I. M. Perry, an
attorney from South Carolina, and Mr. Raymond Naramore, a high school
teacher who became the director of the Rochester and Monroe County Humane
Society, were promptly elected by a delighted membership that had never
before exercised its prerogatives. The controlling group of AHA directors was
dismayed. The following year they fought back, ﬁrst naming a meeting point in
the Northwest where the expense of travel would discourage the bulk of the
membership, concentrated 1n the East, from attending. Forced by injunction to
name a more central location for the meeting, they resorted to bringing 1n large
numbers of persons never before associated with animal welfare work who
voted as a bloc on signal. The "in” group won and, not long after, Miss Perry
died, and Professor Smith resigned. Mr. Naramore, limited to work on humane
education for schools, died a few years later.

Due to the failure of these and other attempts to bring purpose and life into
the AHA establishment at that time, several new organizations were formed.
The Animal Welfare Institute was founded in 1951, its aim the advancement of
the welfare of all animals, with special emphasis on the research animals so long
neglected by humane organizations. Its charter was drawn by Herbert Brownell,

 




the distinguished New York lawyer who served as Attorney General under
President Eisenhower.

The Humane Society of the United States was founded in 1954; and in 1959
one of its founders, Helen Jones, left the parent body to found the National
Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, later renamed the International Society for
Animal Rights.

In 1952, after years of controversy, the Hatch-Metcalf Act was passed. The
Act amended an existing New York laboratory animal care statute into a
procurement law, requiring all dog pounds and all humane societies receiving
public funds to surrender animals to scientific institutions. The New York State
Humane Association actively fought enactment of the law; but its biggest, oldest
member organization, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals (ASPCA), whose board was dominated at that time by research inter-
ests, refused to take a position. Its president was Samuel Milbank of the Milbank
Foundation. The New York State Society for Medical Research,6 proponents of
the law, dismissed all the other organizations as anti-vivisection groups, thus
ensuring passage of the law.

Both the Erie County Humane Society and the Humane Society of Roches-
ter and Monroe County immediately gave up their pound contracts so that it
would not be necessary for them to release animals from their shelters to
laboratories. Only two organizations, the ASPCA and the Syracuse SPCA, con-
tinued to accept tax funds and were thus required to send dogs and cats to sci-
entific institutions. Between 1966 and 1974 the Syracuse SPCA delivered 14,000

 

dogs and cats to Bristol-Myers, a company w1 annual sales of more than abil-
lion dollars. '

Such was the power of the biomedical establishment at the time that the
ASPCA even went so far as to oppose an amendment offered just before the
Hatch-Metcalf Act was passed which would have authorized a representative of
the New York State Humane Association to accompany Health Department
inspectors on the rounds of laboratory animal rOoms. The ASPCA was a mem-
ber of the New York State Humane Association, but it joined the New York
State Society for Medical Research in ﬁghting the humane inspection, which, it
was claimed, ”would emasculate the bill.” The amendment was defeated, ensur-
ing that inspection under the Hatch-Metcalf Act was a whitewashing operation.
A few examples:

1953: A Health Department inspector took AWI representatives
through Cornell Medical School explaining how excellent the
care for the animals was while passing by a dog whose incision
had opened, allowing his internal organs to fall onto the ﬂoor
of the cage.

1960: AWI was called to inspect the animal quarters at St. Vincent’s
Hospital where gross filth and massive infestation of ticks,
.roaches, and other insects were found.

1963: "AWI was called by a secretary in New York University Dental
School about epizootics which were running through the ani-
mal colonies due to the fact that wild rodents were fouling the
cages, and cleaning was put off for so long that there was
scarcely a clear spot to set foot in the dog runway.

All these institutions received dogs from the ASPCA and were inspected
and certified by the Health Department and also by ASPCA employees who vis-
ited at the invitation of the laboratories. When the federal Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act was passed in 1966, the ASPCA ended even the gesture of sending

inspectors to laboratories but continued to supply them with dogs and cats until
1971.

Repeal of Animal Seizure Laws

In 1976, a reform movement swept the ASPCA, permanently ending the
supply of dogs and cats from its shelters to laboratories. In 1977, the New York
Assembly voted 126-14 to repeal the Hatch-Metcalf Act. Connecticut, Massa-
chusetts, Ohio and West Virginia also repealed similar acts.

This type of legislation has proved itself a failure. The claims issued for its
enactment, to the effect that dog dealing and stealing would cease if animals
were available to laboratories from humane societies and pounds, were proven
false in the most dramatic way by the very case which set in motion the enact-
ment of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. A dog was bought by a New York
hospital from a Pennsylvania dog dealer, although the hospital was entitled to
free dogs from the ASPCA. In other states, too, which passed animal seizure
legislation, laboratories often have not taken advantage of the law, preferring to
buy from dealers.

 




LAB.2: 5/14/90

Thirteen states prohibit the release of impounded animals to research
facilities: Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, and
West Virginia. Of these, Massachusetts is the only state which specifically pro-
hibits the sale of pound animals brought in from other states as well: "No per-
son, institution, animal dealer, or their authorized agent shall transport . . . any
animal obtained from any municipal or public pound, public agency, or dog
officer . . . into the commonwealth for purposes of research, experimentation,
testing, instruction or demonstration” (Ch. 140, Sec. 174D, 1983).

Release of impounded animals for research purposes is required in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Iowa, Minnesota, Oklahoma (by pounds only; shelters may
release animals for research), South Dakota, and Utah.

Release of impounded animals for research use is allowed in Arizona, Cali-
fornia, Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, Washington, and Wisconsin.

Recent efforts to repeal Minnesota’s law requiring release of animals from
pounds to research facilities have been unsuccessful. However, a law was
enacted in 1987 which provides for inspections of animal dealers by the Minne-
sota Board of Animal Health as well as the U. S. Department of Agriculture,
requires dealers to post signs informing the public that they sell animals to
laboratories, and opens dealers’ premises to the public to enable pet owners to
search for lost or stolen pets. A fine of $1,000 will be imposed on any individual
selling a dog or cat to a research facility without the permission of the owner.

The State of Washington enacted a law in 1989 to prevent pet theft.
Research animal dealers who sell stolen dogs or cats to scientific institutions or
who pose as ad0pters of animals responding to ”free to good home” classified
ads may now be punished by a fine of $10,000 and 5 years in jail. Research
facilities are required to maintain a file on each dog and cat, including
certification of the animal’s origin, a photograph, and a physical description of
the animal, available for public inspection.

In 1983, Iowa passed a law authorizing suspension or revocation of the li-
cense of an animal shelter, auction, dealer, kennel, or pound for cruelty to ani-
mals.

Massachusetts, in 1985, authorized the Massachusetts SPCA and the Ani-
mal Rescue League of Boston to inspect all animal dealers licensed by the US.
Department of Agriculture, thus complementing their previously enacted law
allowing for. inspection of research facilities.

In 1989, Kansas enacted legislation requiring annual licensing of all re-
search facilities, dealers, pounds, pet shops and kennels. The Commissioner of
Livestock has extensive authority to inspect facilities and to deny, suspend or re-
voke licenses. A similar law was passed in Iowa.

REGULATORY PROPOSALS STALLED IN COMMITTEE
BY MEDICAL LOBBYISTS

Between the years 1960 and 1966, a great deal of effort was devoted to
unsuccessful attempts to pass legislation based on the principles of the British
Act of 1876. But public interest in the treatment of laboratory animals was grow-
ing, and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) decided to contract for a study
by Dr. David N. Ruth and Mr. Robert W. Cox on "The Care and Management of
Laboratory Animals Used in the Programs of the Department of Health, Educa-
tion and Welfare” (DHEW). Submissions were widely solicited, and both the
Animal Welfare Institute and Society for Animal Protective Legislation pres-
ented documentation on visits to laboratories. AWI's "Critical Review of Condi-
tions in Institutions Receiving Funds Under DHEW Auspices” documented the
following:

1. Cages too small for animals to stand or lie in normal position.
. Failure to administer pain-relieving drugs after surgery.
. Failure to destroy suffering, moribund animals.
. Failure to supervise animals after surgery.
. Failure to provide a comfortable resting place for animals.
. Repeated use of the same animal for painful procedures.
. Failure to provide water.

. Failure to identify animals.

IN Hﬂ ,1 4' (4-
% / t: 1 / :1.. .;.

 




9. Immobilization of unanesthetized animals.

10. Filth.

A 210-page volume was produced, but NIH, dismayed by the extensive
evidence of mistreatment and neglect of laboratory animals and the obvious
need for regulatory legislation revealed by the study, quickly withdrew it. Hun-
dreds of copies were secreted in a storeroom. Senator Clark, however,
demanded and got a copy.

The first bill ever introduced in the United States Congress to regulate ani-
mal experimentation was sponsored by Senators John Sherman Cooper, Mike
Mansfield, E. L. Bartlett, Robert C. Byrd, Frank Church, Estes Kefauver, Wayne
Morse, William Proxmire, Jennings Randolph, Ernest Gruening, Pat McNamara,
Harrison Williams, and Joseph S. Clark. The bill was written by Abe Fortas and
introduced at the request of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation. As
soon as this bill was introduced, the National Anti-Vivisection Society and the
National Society for Medical Research, normally at each other’s throats, found
themselvesvin agreement: there must be no regulation of animal experimenta-
tion. When hearings were held two years later in the House of Representatives,
Major Charles Hume, founder of the Universities Federation for Animal Wel-
fare of Great Britain, emphasized the fact that, poles apart though they were,
these two groups actually corresponded with a view to helping each other
defeat regulatory legislation.

Opponents thought they had buried regulatory legislation, and in that
Committee they had. But they reckoned without the disappearance of a
Dalmatian dog named Pepper and the response of the House Agriculture Com-
mittee.

The Humane Society of the United States, under the direction of Fred
Myers, insisted that the British Act was not sufficiently strong and gave its sup-
port to the Moulder bill. The American Humane Association remained silent
and, when pressed, said it was studying the matter. When Congressman
Kenneth Roberts held two days of hearings on the Griffiths and Moulder bills,
the AHA sent no one to testify.7

Medical research groups and anti-vivisection groups opposed the bills; the
National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare said it would support the Moulder
bill if it were amended to eliminate all pain inﬂiction. Significant statements
were made by scientists and medical men who supported the Griffiths bill
(identical to the Clark-Neuberger bill in the Senate) based on the principles of
the British Act, and also by knowledgeable Britons who had worked under the
Act and could testify from firsthand experience as to its workability and effec-
tiveness in preventing animal suffering without hampering research.

The American Medical Association felt differently, however, and editor-
ialized about what it termed ”humaniacs.” An objective and authoritative voice
was heard from England when the Report of the Departmental Committee on
Experiments on Animals was presented to Parliament by the Secretary of State
for the Home Department, April 1965.

The Committee, under the chairmanship of Sir Sydney Littlewood, held
hearings over a two-year period to review the working of the British Act, giving
every individual and group who desired to be heard an opportunity. The result-
ing ”Littlewood Report,” a remarkable testimony to fairness and good judg-
ment, surveying every aspect of animal experimentation, of the treatment of the
animals, and of procurement, reported the views of scientists, of the public, and
of groups as diverse as the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare,8 whose
scientific approach is well known, and anti-vivisection organizations seeking
abolition of all experimentation on animals. The most widely quoted paragraph
in the 255-page Report is the first of the General Findings: ”Animal experiment
is a complex and highly specialised subject. It is also a moral and social problem
of the first magnitude and one that does not exclusively concern the expert.”

The ”Littlewood Report” was referred to repeatedly by two distinguished
medical men who ﬂew to the United States to testify at hearings held September
30, 1965, before the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee: Dr.
Lawrence Abel, former Vice President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Eng-
land and Consulting Surgeon to the Institute of Cancer Research, Royal Cancer
Hospital, and Sir Graham Wilson, former Director of the Public Health Service.

Speaking of the inspectorate under the British Act, Sir Graham said:

The Act is administered by the Home Ofﬁce and is enforced by
specially appointed inspectors possessing a medical or veterinary
qualification. Their main purpose is regulatory and educational rather
than disciplinary. In their visits to the laboratories they satisfy them-
selves about the suitability of the conditions under which the animals
are kept and of the general well-being of the animals themselves; they

 




may assure themselves that the license holder is fully aware of what he
is permitted and not permitted to do; and they make useful sugges-
tions for overcoming difficulties of one sort or another.

Dr. Abel, speaking of the three principles—licensing, inspection, and the
pain rule—said:

The third British Principle is the Pain Rule. This sets the limit to
the amount of suffering which may be inﬂicted. We do not commit the
atrocities which are reported from time to time in some other
countries. We do not allow the extravagant cruelty committed by some
investigators of stress and shock. We have proved that the desired
results can be obtained by less inhumane methods. We are convinced
that the freedom of all and sundry to use animals indiscriminately
would not improve the value of research.

The hearings of the Health Subcommittee of the House Interstate and For-
eign Commerce Committee at which Sir Graham and Dr. Abel testified were
never published.9 Scheduled as two-day hearings, they were abruptly canceled
the morning of the second day and never rescheduled by Chairman Paul Rog-
ers, now a ~.'consultant for the National Association for‘Biomedical Research
(NABR). The biomedical establishment apparently considered it dangerous to
expose the public to facts about successful regulation of animal experiments.

RESNICK BILL BYPASSES THE HEALTH COMMITTEES

On July 3, 1965, Fay Brisk, a long-term campaigner for reform of the big
Pennsylvania dog dealers, called the Animal Welfare Institute for help to try to
get Pepper back to her owners, the Lakavage family. Mr. Lakavage, in the hospi-
tal with a heart attack, saw Pepper’s photograph together with seventeen other
dogs and two goats that had been temporarily unloaded from a Pennsylvania
dog dealer’s overcrowded truck. Mrs. Lakavage and the three young Lakavages
set off in pursuit of Pepper, who, allegedly, had been taken to a big New York
State dog dealer, Nersesian. When the exhausted family arrived, Nersesian
refused them entry.

Senator Clark of Pennsylvania, a well-established fighter for animal protec-
tion and chief sponsor of pending legislation to require humane treatment of
experimental animals, was out of town, but Sara Ehrmann, his Legislative Assis-
tant, responded to the AWI call for help by telephoning Congressman Resnick’s
office in the District where Nersesian’s dog farm was located. Even Congres-
sional intercession failed, however; and Resnick, angered by Nersesian’s high-
handed refusal to admit the family to find their missing pet, decided he would
introduce a bill to prevent such wrongs.

Meantime, pressure by the State Police brought an admission from the
Pennsylvania dog dealer that he had taken his load not to Nersesian, as he first
had said, but directly to Montefiore Hospital in New York. Immediately, Fay
Brisk telephoned the hospital, could hear the rattling of ithe dog tags at the other
end of the phone, then the news: the dog had died on the operating table the
day before and already had been incinerated. The dog‘dealer insisted the dog
was not Pepper—the evidence was incinerated—but the call for female
Dalmatians, put out by the hospital to dealers rather than to breeders, had led to
introduction of the Resnick bill on July 9. The Resnick bill, written by attorneys
of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, required that dealers in dogs and cats
and the laboratories that purchased them be licensed, inspected, and adhere to
humane standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture. A companion bill was
introduced in the Senate by Senator Warren G. Magnuson, Chairman of the
Senate Commerce Committee, and Senator Clark, who came to the Senate ﬂoor
at the same moment to introduce identical bills. In a brief colloquy they agreed
to co-sponsor, and Senator Daniel Brewster of Maryland joined them.

On September 5, Congressman W. R. Poage of Texas, Chairman of the
Livestock Subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee, held hearings on
the Resnickbill. He was the first American legislator to hold hearings on labora-
tory animal legislation with a view to enacting it. He had won passage of the
Humane Slaughter Act in 1958, and was destined to win again for laboratory
animals. Not easily, however. The bill was immediately attacked as anti-vivisec-
tionist by the National Society for Medical Research, which described it as a
”pincers movement” to cut off the supply of animals for laboratories. Anti-vivi-
sectionist groups, however, took but little interest in the matter. The demand for
action came from the general public, outraged" by the'article in Life magazine
showing Stan Wayman’s photographs of the shocking abuse of dogs in the deal-
ers’ hands. -

The Life article was set in motion by Henry Luce after he looked over a col-
lection of photographs supplied by the Animal Welfare Institute, many of them
taken by photographers accompanying AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant,

 




Dorothy Dyce. Under the supervision of Life '5 Nature Editor, Pat Hunt, the arti-
cle was completed and published February 4, 1966. More mail was received by
Life on this article than on any other in the history of the magazine, and Con-
gress received more mail on the pending bills than on civil rights or Vietnam.

In the face of such demand, the opponents began to modify their opposi-
tion. When Congressman Poage introduced the Committee bill, extending cov-
erage to all vertebrate animals, and Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania intro-
duced an identical bill in the Senate, the opponents concentrated on exempting
scientific institutions from the humane standards and on cutting back the num-
ber of species covered. The Poage bill came unscathed through the Subcommit-
tee, but the full House Agriculture Committee cut it down to dogs and cats in
dealers’ premises only. Laboratory interests thus won a temporary victory and,
no doubt, believed they could continue to keep the objective veterinary inspec-
tors of the U. S. Department of Agriculture out of scientific institutions.

After the House passed the weakened version of the Poage bill, a Senate
Commerce Committee staff draft accomplished a comparable weakening of the
bills introduced by Senators Magnuson, Clark, Brewster, and Scott. Again, lab-
oratory interests made a stab at getting themselves exempted, but they had reck-
oned without Senator Monroney, who, as soon as he read the draft, prepared an
amendment restoring coverage of animals inside scientific institutions. Newspa-
pers throughout the country supported the Monroney Amendment in emphatic
terms. 30 hotly debated was the issue that a second set of hearings was sched-
uled in the Senate Commerce Committee on May 25, 1966.

For six years the National Institutes of Health and its parent Department of
Health, Education and Welfare had opposed all moves toward effective legisla-
tion for humane treatment of research animals. Suddenly, when it became clear
that such opposition could no longer stem the demand for action, NIH asked
Senator Lister Hill, Chairman of the Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, to
introduce a‘bill written by NIH itself providing a self-policing system for
laboratories." Meanwhile, its representatives urged exemption of laboratories
from the straightforward, humane Senate Commerce Committee bill.

 




LAB.3: 5/14/90

Neither the Committee nor the Senate as a whole could be brought to sup-
port this maneuver. The Washington Evening Star stated editorially:

THE ANINIAL CRUELTY BILLS

Congress at last is headed toward enactment of a law to require
humane treatment of animals used in laboratory research and to halt
thefts of pets by dealers supplying this market. At the eleventh hour,
however, a snag has been encountered in the Senate Commerce Com-
mittee. Medical researchers, hostile to government supervision, (but
not government grants, it should be added), are attempting a switch
play. A bill introduced by Senator Hill of Alabama would head off fed-
eral inspection of how laboratories treat animals awaiting experiments.
Instead this authority would be given to a private group.

The medical men, in fact have such a group all ready and waiting.
Set up last year, it is called the American Association for Accreditation
of Laboratory Animal Care. Its members are of the establishment, and
are staff members of medical schools and research institutions. And, as
the association’s brochure suggests, the ’inspections’ would be rather
friendly affairs.

There would be no surprise audits, such as those routinely carried
out now in the banking industry, for example. Instead a visit would be
scheduled by ’mutual convenience.’ It would not come distressingly
often—no more than once every five years. The inspectors, according
to the brochure, would charge fees ranging up to $1,000 for their trou-
ble.

If the laboratories are in fact treating their animals humanely, they
should have nothing to fear from a proposal by Senator Magnuson of
Washington that such inspections be made by the Department of Agri-
culture after standards have been published. His bill has nothing to‘ do
with the anti-vivisectionists; the government would not interfere with
any laboratory tests or operations.

Certainly the public should not be deluded into thinking the Hill
proposal represents any kind of adequate substitute for impartial
inspection of such institutions. '

Senator Magnuson had made plain his determination to report a bill out of
his Committee. The National Society for Medical Research and National
Institutes of Health, therefore, concentrated on trying to get the laboratories
exempted from compliance with humane standards set by the United States
Department of Agriculture and inspection by its representatives. Glowing
references to the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal
Care (AAALAC), for whose existence Dr. Maurice Visscher, President of the
NSMR, took credit, were a stock in trade; and at the final Senate Commerce
Committee hearings, representatives of the NIH and NSMR strongly supported
the NIH bill and opposed the Monroney Amendment. Testimony was limited to
medical witnesses at this hearing; and two courageous physicians, who had
been associated for years with efforts to obtain humane treatment of laboratory
animals, came to Washington to testify for the Monroney Amendment: Dr.
Nicholas Gimbel, Chief of Surgery at Metropolitan Hospital and Associate
Professor of Surgery at Wayne University Medical School, and Dr. Bennett Der-
by, Head of Neurology at Veterans Administration Hospital in Manhattan and
Assistant Professor of Neurology at New York University Medical School. Dr.
Gimbel and Dr. Derby urged the Senate Committee to provide for humane care
and housing of animals in research institutions. They emphasized that the
Department of Agriculture is the ideal agency to administer such requirements.
Dr. Gimbel, who had devoted considerable time to getting better treatment for
experimental dogs in different institutions, brought the question down to earth
by stating that if he were a dog, he would prefer to have the Department of Agri-
culture administer the law. He said the ”welfare of animals should be the
responsibility of a body which is primarily interested in them . . . the Depart-
ment of Agriculture,” and he added: ”If the scientists and organizations repre-
sented in AAALAC had done their job properly, we would not be holding hear-
ings here today. The time has come to bring in independent auditors.” The NIH
bill did not come to hearings.

The Senate Commerce Committee bill, under the leadership of Senator
Magnuson and Senator Monroney, received unanimous endorsement by the
Senate. Eighty-ﬁve Senators came to the ﬂoor to vote for it, and each of the fif-
teen who were absent and unable to vote stated in The Congressional Record that

 




 

they would have voted for it had they been present. The bill’s sanctions were
strengthened at the insistence of the House Conferees. They agreed to accept
the Senate amendments restoring humane care and housing of animals inside
laboratories and increasing the number of species of animals covered, on condi-
tion that the stronger House enforcement clauses be adopted.

Regulations were promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture February
24, land the law went into effect for animal dealers May 25 and for scientific
institutions August 24,1967.

Congress broadened and strengthened this first federal law to prevent
abuses of test animals in 1970, 1976, and 1985. The 1966 Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act (fiercely contested by medical and pharmaceutical interests and the
associated industries that sell animals, cages, and equipment to scientific institu-
tions) set humane standards for dogs, cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters, and
guinea pigs in animal dealers’ premises and 1n laboratories prior to experimen-
tal use of animals. In 1970, the coverage was extended to the entire stay of ani-
mals in laboratories, where they must be maintained according to minimum
standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture. The veterinary care required
includes ”appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, and tranquilizing drugs.” All
warm-blooded animals designated by the Secretary are covered, but neither
birds, farm animals used in research, nor those species that constitute the large
majority of the millions of experimental animals used each year—mice and
rats—have yet been designated. Because inadequate appropriations have had to
be stretched to cover inspections of thousands of sites in laboratories, licensed
animal dealers, licensed exhibitors, registered exhibitors, and carriers under the
Act as amended, no Secretary has been willing to include more animals for
inspectors to check; however, in 1986 the Animal Legal Defense Fund prepared
a brief contending that the Act requires him to do so.

The important requirement for pain-relieving drugs and reporting on their
use or lack thereof was added in 1970. Reports by registered scientific institu-
tions on use of animals are filed with the U. S. Department of Agriculture and
are available for public scrutiny under the Freedom of :Information Act. Many
institutions have failed to honor this section of the Act, necessitating additional
legislative and enforcement action.

Under the 1976 oamendments sponsored by Agriculture Committee Chair-
man Thomas Foley,° research institutions were moved to the same category as
exhibitors and dealers with respect to the imposition of fines for violations. Pre-
viously, research facilities were subject to a cease and desist order which they
would have to violate before a fine could be imposed. The 1976 amendments
also include a requirement that agencies of the federal government submit
proof that they are in compliance with the standards which private institutions
must meet under the eyes of veterinary inspectors of the U. S. Department of
Agriculture’ 5 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. Representative
Margaret Heckler11 proposed and was successful in obtaining this essential
advance on the ﬂoor of the House.

The Animal Welfare Act now constitutes a solid, broad-based structure
whose 1976 amendments, sponsored in the Senate by Senator Lowell Weicker,
cover transportation of animals for research, exhibition, the pet trade, by com-
mon carriers and intermediate handlers. Its anti-dogfighting and cockfighting
provisions are detailed in Chapter IX.

The 1970 reporting requirements on painful experiments focused on the
responsibility of the institutional veterinarian to prevent suffering through
humane experimental design or through use of drugs to relieve pain or anxiety.
However, enforcement in this area has been virtually nil. The 1985 amend-
ments, which should have gone into effect December 23, 1986, remain to be
tested in practice because of the long delay, caused by anti-animal lobbyists, in
the promulgation of final regulations to implement the law.

COMMERCIAL DEALERS AND BREEDERS

The laboratory animal industry, supplying millions of animals to institu-
tions at ever increasing prices, is intensely opposed to regulatory legislation that
affects them; and their clients. In 1979, it spawned the National Association for
Biomedical Research (NABR) and the Foundation for Biomedical Research
(FBR) to rival the National Society for Medical Research, which they entirely
absorbed and supplanted in a few years. NABR now orchestrates opposition to
all laws and regulations for laboratory animal welfare. Formation of the organi-
zations was, according to executive Frankie Trull, conceived 1n her living room.
Henry Foster, the veterinarian who built a two-room rat breeding business into
the multimillion dollar international laboratory animal production corporation,
Charles River Breeding Laboratories, and his son, an attorney, wrote the neces-
sary legal papers. Ms. Trull, an employee of Charles River, set about lining up

support among commercial and academic laboratories.

it

 




Meanwhile, Charles River was sold to the big optical company, Bausch and
Lomb, netting Dr. Foster about $38 million personally, according to press
reports. The pun-filled, full-page ads offering monkeys, guinea pigs, rabbits, and
other animals for sale have become more sober and strait-laced, but the inten-
sive campaign to market the maximum numbers of animals for experimentation
continues under the new ownership. Charles River has installations in France,
Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom.

Breeding animals for sale to laboratories is big business, and corporations
change hands in transactions based wholly on financial considerations. One of
the largest dog breeders, LRE, which houses several thousand dogs on its prem-
ises, was recently sold to Hazelton, which conducts toxicity tests on contract for
other institutions as well as breeding dogs and other laboratory animals.

ALTERNATIVES TO LABORATORY ANIMALS

As numbers of animals used in experiments and tests grew by the million, a
countervailing philosophy was increasingly advocated by animal protective
organizations. The ﬁrst serious contribution to the field was The Principles of
Humane Experimental Technique, by W. M. S. Russell and R L. Burch, produced
under the aegis of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare in 1959, with
some modest assistance from AWI. This pioneering book established the Three
R’s—Replacement, Reduction, and Refinement—which are now generally rec-
ognized as fundamental elements necessary to prevent large-scale unnecessary
suffering by laboratory animals. While Russell and Burch stressed the scientifi-
cally feasible, others advocated ”Alternatives Nowl”, claiming that substitutes
for animals already existed for all experiments and tests. Bills introduced in
Congress reﬂected different views of the subject, but they made up, if not a criti-
cal mass, solid evidence of public concern and hope.

By 1981, seven bills on alternatives and/or regulation of animal experi-
ments werepending in the Subcommittee on Science, Research and Technol-
ogy of the House Committee on Science and Technology. On October 13 and
14, 1981, Subcommittee Chairman Doug Walgren of Pennsylvania held hear-
ings, which drew unexpectedly wide media attention because Maryland police
had removed 17 monkeys just days earlier from a Silver Spring laboratory.
There they had been experimented on by Dr. Edward Taub under grants from
the National Institutes of Health. Dr. Taub and an associate were charged with
17 counts of cruelty for failing to supply veterinary care. Alex Pacheco, who had
worked at the Institute for Behavioral Research as a volunteer and had alerted
police to conditions there, showed horrifying pictures of the monkeys and their
quarters at the hearings.

Drafting of a composite bill containing some features from each of the
seven pending proposals was undertaken by the Subcommittee staff. Advice
was sought from the many organizations which had testified pro- or con- the
different bills. On August 4, 1982, Congressman Walgren proposed the new bill,
which was approved by his Subcommittee and its parent Committee. The bill
was referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcom-
mittee on Health and the Environment, and hearings were held by Chairman
Henry Waxman of California on December 9, 1982.

Senator Robert Dole introduced a bill based on the principles developed in
the October hearings. Senator John Melcher of Montana, the Congress’ only
veterinarian, joined him. Together, they appeared at the Waxman hearings and
testified for the Walgren bill, an unusual tribute to the importance of the legisla-
tion. However, no action was taken before the 97th Congress adjourned.

THE DOLE-BROWN AMENDMENTS

When Senator Dole reintroduced his bill in 1983, he had it redrafted as an
amendment to the Animal Welfare Act, thus broadening its coverage to include
all registered research facilities (over 1,200) inspected by USDA.

This wise decision encouraged consideration by scientific groups who
began a slow move from point-blank opposition to demands for a variety of
modifications in the language of the bill. At hearings of ,the full Senate Agricul-
ture Committee, chaired by Senator Dole July 20, nearly every witness had sci-
entific qualifications. Humane groups were represented by Bennett Derby,
M.D., Ph.D., who had appeared at the crucial hearings which led to unanimous
Senate passage of the original Act.

Senator Dole’s masterful handling of the hearings paved the way for action,
but it was not to come in the 98th Congress. Opponents tried a new tack, ques-
tioning the need for the Dole bill. The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
prepared two thick binders of documentation outlining the urgent need for all
the bill’s provisions for minimizing pain and distress and strengthening the
authority of Agriculture’s veterinary inspectors.

 




Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. of California, well known for his suc-
cessful sponsorship of the 1978 humane slaughter amendments (see ghapter
III), introduced a bill, HR. 5725, based on the Dole bill. On September 19, 1984,
he chaired hearings in his Subcommittee on Departmental Operations,
Research and Foreign Agriculture which drew a standing-room-only crowd
with long lines waiting outside the hearing room. Interest in the legislation had
been heightened by revelations of severe mistreatment of experimental
baboons at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Sixty hours of self-
incrirninating videotapes taken by a research team as' a record of their experi-
ments showed virtually every rule of aseptic surgery being violated. Injured
baboons were painfully dangled and ridiculed by groups of laughing students.

The tapes were stolen by a group known as the Animal Liberation Front
and given to People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. They excerpted 25
minutes from the many hours of footage. It was run repeatedly in a nearby
church on the day of the hearings.

Henry Mitchell’s column in The Washington Post September 21, 1984 notes:
”Savagery is very much part of the nature of all humans I have ever known, and
that is one reason civilized nations have gone to such efforts to restrain it or
redirect it.” Citing the evidence and characterizing it as sickening, he wrote:
"Legislation is needed, and those who do not wish to concern themselves with
what amounts to flamboyant sadism should at least have the grace not to
obstruct the long hard thankless labors of those who have not shied from the
evidence and who have at last come up with reasonable and moderate legisla-
tion." Describing his feelings in watching five minutes of the tapes in St. Mark’s
Church, he concluded: ”I left thinking it probably an esthetic error to vomit in a
church."

Documentation of neglect and abuse in laboratories throughout the entire
country was derived from official reports of USDA veterinary inspectors
obtained under the Freedom of Information Act and presented by the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation in the form of 'a 6’x10’ chart. A heartening
message of support from Dr. Jean Mayer, President of Tufts University, was
delivered by Dr. Frank Loew, Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine, but
most testimony from scientific groups was severely critical. Congressman
Brown asked his staff to analyze all the criticisms. His bill did not emerge from
the Subcommittee. ‘

Meantime, in the Health and Environment Subcommittee, Congressman
Walgren had succeeded in getting some provisions of his bill included in the
NIH reauthorization bill which was passed by the Congress but vetoed by Pres-
ident Reagan. In the 99th Congress, the bill, after some modification and enti-
tled the Health Research Extension Act of 1985, was passed again and Congress
overrode the President’s second veto. The animal welfare provisions are less
stringent than the Dole-Brown legislation, and they apply only to NIH grantees;
nevertheless, the two were destined to fit together well and reinforce one
another in a practical manner.

Senator Dole, elected Majority Leader of the Senate, reintroduced his bill at
the same time as Congressman Brown. This time the bills were identical, the
heroic work of staffers Sara Rasmussen for Brown and Mark Scanlan for Dole.
They produced a ﬁnal draft still containing every major animal protective provi-
sion, phrased in the manner least objectionable to the legion of opponents and
unremitting critics.

The New York Times editorialized on July 31, 1985 in support of the Dole-
Brown proposals, and in the following months, newspapers in every part of the
country followed suit.

The debate on the 1985 Farm Bill was continuing when the Majority Leader
brought his bill, Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals, to the Senate
ﬂoor, October 25. Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, Chairman of the Committee on
Labor and Human Resources, expressed reservations. The bill then went into an
intense discussion by the staffs of Senators Dole, Hatch, and Melcher and repre-
sentatives of the National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR), the
Feed Manufacturers Association, and the Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tion. A bill calling for 16 different changes in Senator Dole’s bill had been pre-
pared for Senator Hatch by an NABR attorney. Every point had to be fought
through. Senator Dole appeared from time to time to ask what progress was
being made. At one point, Senator Melcher took part in the arguments, explain-
ing the reason for his language, "a physical environment adequate to promote
the psychological well-being of primates." He had seen laboratory chimpanzee
cages which, even though unoccupied at the time, he, characterized as ”ex-
tremely efficient, extremely expensive, and extremely cruel.”

A second series of amendments, this time consisting of no less than 32
changes, even including a $500 reduction in the fine, was proposed. A night
meeting in the Dole office was called to resolve the differences. It appeared that

 




although academia was somewhat grudgingly resigned to the legislation, the
pharmaceutical industry was not willing to stop fighting. I,ndeed it fought to the
end. Disagreement about the content continued, and Senator Melcher offered a
substitute bill on October 29th. This passed the Senate unanimously.

The House had already passed the Farm Bill without the Dole-Brown
amendments. Fortunately, Majority Whip Tom Foley° of Washington proved
himself a powerful friend of animals during the House-Senate Conference.
Congressman Foley, as noted earlier, was the author of the 1976 amendments to
the Animal Welfare Act. House Agriculture Committee Chairman Kika de la
Garza of Texas gave his blessing to the legislation in Conference. Lobbying to
kill the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals continued to the very last
moment. .

The Farm Bill, an enormously lengthy piece of legislation, was in Confer-
ence for days. The Conferees met in a small room in the'Russell Senate Office
Building, and dozens of lobbyists from each of the special interests that stood to
gain or lose from some part of the complex bill lined the hallway outside the
room, waiting for news on decisions of the Conferees as staffers came in and
out. At 4:00 p.m. on December 12, it appeared that action on the laboratory ani-
mal section was imminent. Weakening amendments were being urged by the
National Association for Biomedical Research, and Senator Dole had not yet
returned from out of town.

The sight of the Senate Majority Leader striding down the hall rein-
vigorated the weary Society for Animal Protective Legislation lobbyists waiting
for the outcome. ”You’re next,” he said to us. Then he was engulfed by a mass of
farm lobbyists. It was nearly eleven that night when we heard the good news
from Congressman Foley. The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act
had come through the Conference unscathed!

The Conference report was approved by the House on December 16 and
two days later by the Senate. The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
amendments establish an information service in the National Agricultural
Library in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine to provide data on
alternatives to laboratory animals, help prevent unintended duplication of
experiments and tests, and provide information to institutions for instruction of
scientists and other personnel in humane practices as required by the new law.
Each registered research facility must appoint an Institutional Animal Care and
Use Committee, including a veterinarian and a person not affiliated with the
institution, to represent the general community interests in the proper care and
treatment of animals. The committee must inspect the animal laboratories twice
a year and report deficiencies to the institution for correction. If not corrected
promptly, the U. S. Department of Agriculture must be notified for enforcement
action, and any funding agency involved informed for a decision on whether
the grant should be suspended or revoked.

Investigators are required to consider alternatives and to consult with a vet-
erinarian before beginning any experiment which could cause pain. They must
adhere to standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture for pre- and post-surgi-
cal care, use of pain-relieving drugs or euthanasia, against use of paralytics with-
out anesthesia, and unnecessary use of the same animal for more than one
major operation. Exceptions to the standards may be made only when specified
by a research protocol and an explanation given for any deviation. Fines for vio-
lations were raised from $1,000 to $2,500, and for violating a cease and desist
order, from $500 to $1,500. Each animal may count as a violation, as may each
day of failure to obey a cease and desist order.

Interest in protection of laboratory animals has grown worldwide, and two
countries made significant improvements in their national laws in 1986: the
United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany. The full text of these
laws appears in the Appendix. Of particular note in the new British Act is recog-
nition of gradations of stress or pain and justification thereof. This begins with
the stress caused by putting an animal in a cage and progresses to the point of
procedures prohibited because of extreme painfulness.’

In issuing project licenses, the British Secretary of State is required to
”weigh the likely adverse effects on the animals concerned against the benefit
likely to accrue.” Both project licenses and individual licenses are mandatory
under the new law. As in the 1876 Act, if an inspector considers that an animal
is undergoing excessive suffering, he may require it to be immediately killed.

The new German law was introduced by Minister of Agriculture Ignaz
Kiechle. It forbids, with provision for special eXceptions, the use of animals for

tests on weapons, tobacco, washing powders, and cosmetics. Authorization for ...

experiments are to be supervised by advisory commissioners. Animal protec-
tion organizations may nominate up to a third of the commission ’5 members.
The law covers all experiments leading to pain or injury of an animal.

a: /Jl/

‘
if

 




APPROPRIATIONS FOR ENFORCEMENT

The struggle for protection of laboratory animals has had to be fought on
many fronts: When passed in 1966, an appropriation of $300,000 was barely
achieved. Slowly, annual appropriations were worked up to $4,865,000 and
remained at‘fthe same level despite attempts by the Office of Management and
Budget to reduce them. In both 1985 and 1986, the Administration recom-
mended that no money whatever be allocated to administer the law and inspect
the 1,219 registered research facilities, the 3,414 licensed dealers’ premises, the
1,386 exhibitors’ premises, or the 374 intermediate handlers operating during
those years.

In 1985 the Congress simply restored the funds, but in 1986, following pas-
sage of the Dole-Brown amendments, Congress voted an increase to $5,878,000,
specifying that $750,000 be used for the information service designated by the
new legislation at the National Agricultural Library in cooperation with the
National Library of Medicine. The Senate Appropriations Committee report
stated:

For enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act the Committee con-
curs with the House in providing $5,878,000 over the budget request.
This is also $1,902,000 more than the 1986 adjusted level. Included in
this appropriation is $750,000 for creation of an information service at
the National Agricultural Library which will include information on
available alternatives to the use of live animals in research. The
remainder of the increase is for the general expansion of the program.

On the" House ﬂoor, Congressman Bob Traxler of Michigan said: “We
restore funding for the Animal Welfare Act once again, rejecting the notion that
enforcement of the act should be turned over to other authorities. That proposal
is simply not sensible in today’s interstate economy.” _

In 1987, the Office of Management and Budget again recommended zero
funding for the Animal Welfare Act. However, for the first time, the Department
of Agriculture protested, and the budget figure emerged as $4.947 million, a fig-
ure from which the $750,000 appropriation for the information service at the
National Agricultural Library had been subtracted and which could not cover
the requirement for continued inspection of research facilities until all
deficiencies were corrected. Congress appropriated $6.125 million for Fiscal
Year 1987. In 1988 and 1989, the budget figure again was $4.947 million, but
$6.197 million was appropriated; and the budget request for Fiscal Year 1990
was $7.567 million. Animal protective organizations and scientific groups re-
quested $10 million for enforcement of the law, and the budget request for FY
1991 was raised to $8.688 million. The groups are requesting $12 million in or-
der to ensure adequate inspection. In 1990 about 25% of dog dealers were nev-
er inspected at all. Citizen demand for sufficient funds to enforce the law contin-
ues to be urgently necessary.

 




LAB.3A: 5/14/90

REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT

In October 1988, a reorganization of the Animal and Plant Health Inspec-
tion Service took place. It created a new division, Regulatory Enforcement and
Animal Care (REAC). Enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act has been
removed from Veterinary Services and placed with REAC. REAC inspectors are
assigned on a full-time basis to enforcement of the Act, but their numbers are
inadequate to make the frequent inspections necessary to enforce the law. With-
out substantially increased appropriations, Veterinary Services personnel will
have to be called on to help make inspections.

Citizen complaints concerning research facilities, animal dealers, animal
auctions, and other entities covered by the Animal Welfare Act, including
circuses, zoos, airlines, and the wholesale pet industry, should be directed to the
nearest REAC office or to the central ofﬁce at Hyattsville. For names and phone
numbers, see the Appendix. Citizen complaints are important in protecting ani-
mals because of REAC’s staff limitations. It is the policy of REAC to investigate
all complaints.

Having failed to prevent enactment of the Improved Standards for Labora-
tory Animals amendments by Congress, opponents transferred their efforts to
the agencies and succeeded in delaying the regulations which must be promul-
gated before the legislation can be enforced. Proposed regulations for Parts 1
and 2 were first issued by the Department of Agriculture in March 1987. The
National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR) inspired thousands of
letters of protest against these well-prepared regulations. The result was that,
rather than being made ﬁnal, they were withdrawn, and two years passed
before rewritten regulations for Parts 1 and 2 were reproposed and a proposal
for Part 3 regulations finally appeared.

An even more intensive effort by NABR and its constituents followed.
However, a lawsuit filed by the Animal Legal Defense Fund against the Secre-
tary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget was viewed favorably by Judge
Richey, who heard the case in the U. S. District Court. A timetable was set up
with the Justice Department, and on August 31, 1989, final regulations for Parts
1 and 2 were published in the Federal Register.

Part of the campaign against Part 3 regulations is the issuance of inﬂated
figures on compliance costs. As we go to press, an extended delay is expected
with respect to the requirements for exercise for laboratory dogs and an envi-
ronment adequate to promote the psychological well-being of primates.

LABORATORY ANIMAL LAWS: IMPORTANT DATES
England

1870: Royal Society started establishment of rules for humane experimenta-
tion.,_ ’
1876: British Act regulating animal experimentation enacted.

1906-1912: Royal Commission to review the 1876 Act consolidated and
affirmed it.

1925: Founding of Universities Federation for Animal Welfare.

1965: ”Littlewood Report” completed after a two-year study of the British Act
of 1876 by a Parliamentary Committee; approved the Act and made
some suggestions for strengthening and improving its implementation.

Following years of work by a coalition of the British Veterinary Associa-
tion, the Committee for Reform of Animal Experimentation, and the
Fund for the Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments, the Ani-
mals (Scientific Procedures) Act became law, replacing the 1876 Act.

United States

Attempt to pass bill for District of Columbia based on British Act of
1876.

Founding of National Society for Medical Research.

Passage of Michigan Animal Care Law.
First animal seizure law passed in Minnesota.

Animal seizure law passed in Wisconsin.

 




Meeting between National Society for Medical Research and American
Humane Association.

Founding of the Animal Welfare Institute.

Dr. Robert Gesell, Chairman of the Department -’of Physiology, Univer-
sity of Michigan Medical School, made an unscheduled presentation on
humanity versus inhumanity in animal experimentation at the annual
meeting of the American Physiological Society.

Three reform directors elected by membership of American Humane
Association.

American Humane Association Board ensured no more outside inter-
ference.

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals prose-
cuted Dr. Panico of Overholt Clinic for cruelty in transporting an experi-
mental dog.

Bill modeled on principles of British Act introduced by Senator Cooper
and twelve co-sponsors in 86th Congress.

Similar bill introduced by Senators Clark and Neuberger and Congress-
woman Griffiths in 87th Congress.

More restrictive bill introduced by Congressman Moulder at request of
the Humane Society of the United States.

Hearings held on both bills in Health Subcommittee of House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee.

Senator Clark again introduced bill based on British Act with Senators
Maurine Neuberger and Stephen Young co-sponsoring in 88th Con-

gress.
Congressman Cleveland sponsored identical bill in the House.

Congressman Paul Rogers introduced a bill at the request of the Ameri-
can Humane Association which was so sharply criticized for weakness
by Dr. Eric Hansen, President of the Massachusetts SPCA, that AHA did
not ask membership support.

Congressman William Randall introduced a bill similar to Moulder bill
at the request of the Humane Society of theUnitedr States. ,.

 

Congressman Edward Roybal introducethhe request of the National ).
Society for Medical Research/a bill )to ”03193 funds to laboratories. /

“" 'wnwmu a u...- ~

Senator Clark again introduced a bill based on British Act with Senators
Stephen Young, Harry Byrd, E. L. Bartlett, and Edmund S. Muskie co-
sponsoring in 89th Congress.

Weakened variations of the Moulder and Randall bills introduced by
Congressmen Rogers and Pepper and Senator McIntyre, and a similar
but not identical bill by Congressman Tupper.

Congressman Roybal again introduced National Society for Medical
Research bill.

July 9, 1965: Congressman Resnick introduced bill to license dealers and
laboratories. Senator Magnuson and Senator Clark simultaneously went
to the Senate ﬂoor to introduce the identical bill in the Senate; Senator
Brewster joined as co-sponsor.

September 2, 1965: Congressman Poage held hearings on Resnick bill and 20
other similar bills, including one introduced on the day of the hearings
by Congressman Ancher Nelsen for the National Society for Medical
Research, which omitted all reference to laboratories, and one intro-
duced before the hearings by Congressman Henry Helstoski for the
National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, which cut laboratories out
of the bill but required dog dealers to treat dogsas "a responsible and
conscientious owner” would care for his "household pet.”

September 30, 1965: Health Subcommittee held hearings on Rogers bill,
Cleveland bill, and Roybal bill. Canceled second day of hearings after
Dr. Shannon, Head of the National Institutes of Health, testified. These
hearings were never published.

March 7, 8, 1966: House hearings before Livestock and Feed Grains
Subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee on Poage, Resnick,
Helstoski, Nelsen bills, and 30 other bills similar to one of these.

March 8, 1966: Senator Hugh Scott introduced bill identical to Poage bill.

March 25, 1966: Senator Mondale introduced National Society for Medical
Research bill.

 




March 27, 28, 1966: Senate Commerce Committee hearings.

April 14, 1966: Senator Javits introduced New York State Society for Medical
Research bill.

April 28, 1966: House of Representatives passed weakened version of Poage
bill. I
May 10, 1966: National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Senator Hill.

May 18, 1966: Identical National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Con-
gressman John Fogarty.

May 25, 1966: Identical National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Con-
gressman Harley O. Staggers.

Senate Commerce Committee hearings on the Monroney Amendment
to restore coverage of laboratories.

June 15, 1966: Bill reported by Senate Commerce“, Committee including
modified Monroney Amendment. '

June 22, 1966: 85 to 0 Roll Call Vote in Senate passed bill.

July 26, 1966: Conference Committee reported bill combining strongest pro-
visions of both Senate- and House-passed bills.

August 25, 1966: Bill signed into law by President Johnson.

September 23, 1969: Congressman William G. Whitehurst introduced amend-
ments to include all warm-blooded animals throughout their stay in the
laboratory and to cover animals in the pet trade or for exhibition.

June 8, 9, 1970: House hearings before Livestock and Grains Subcommittee of
the House Agriculture Committee to amend the Act of 1966.
Subcommittee Chairman Foley’s bill to broaden and strengthen the Lab-
oratOry Animal Welfare Act, including the use of pain-relieving drugs,
approved.

December 7, 1970: Passed by the House of Representatives.
December 8, 1970: Passed by the Senate.
December 24, 1970: Bill signed into law by President Nixon.

September 25, 26, 27 and 28, 1973: Hearings before the Special Studies
Subcommittee, House Committee on Government Operations, to inves-
tigate the hazards of air-shipping animals, chaired by Congressman
Floyd V. Hicks.

August 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 15 and 20; September 30; October 2, 1974: House hear-
ings before Livestock and Grains Subcommittee on amendments intro-
duced by Congressman Foley to regulate the transportation of animals
in interstate commerce and to prohibit certain animal fighting ventures.

September 9, 10, 1975: House hearings before Livestock and Grains
Subcommittee on amendments introduced by Congressman Foley to
regulate the transportation of animals in interstate commerce and to

' prohibit certain animal ﬁghting ventures.

November 20, 1975: Senate hearings before Subcommittee on Environment
of the Committee on Commerce on amendments introduced by Senator
Lowell Weicker and Senator Robert Dole to regulate animal transport.

December 18, 1975: Passed by the Senate.
February 9, 1976: Passed by the House of Representatives.
April 22, 1976: Bill signed into law by President Ford.

August 23, 1976: Amendment to Toxic Substances Control Act offered by
Congressman Richard Ottinger to require Administrator of Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency to consider non-animal-using methods
where feasible. Amendment failed.

September 30, 1976: Hearings held by Congressman W. R. Poage on a bill to
establish a commission with subpoena powers to study animal prob-
lems, including animal experimentation (introduced by Congressman
Edward Koch, December 11, 1975). NSMR opposed bill. Congress
adjourned without acting on it.

October 13, 14, 1981: House hearings before the Subcommittee on Science,
Research and Technology, chaired by Congressman Doug Walgren, on
seven laboratory animal bills.

August 4, 1982: Combination bill proposed by Congressman Walgren.

December 9, 1982: After gaining Subcommittee and Committee approval, the

 




Walgren bill was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce
where Congressman Henry Waxman chaired hearings in his Subcom-
mittee on Health and the Environment. No action was taken.

July 20, 1983: Senator Robert Dole chaired full Senate Agriculture hearings on
his bill, the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act.

September 19, 1984: Congressman George Brown chaired hearings on his
version of the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act in his
Subcommittee on Departmental Operations, Research and Foreign
Agriculture.

October 25, 1985: Senate Majority Leader Dole brought the Improved Stand-
ards for Laboratory Animals Act to the Senate floor as an amendment to
the Farm Bill. The final vote was deferred.

October 29, 1985: A substitute bill offered by Senator John Melcher was unan-
imously approved.

November 20,1985: The Health Research Extension Act, containing a section
on animal welfare and a section on development of alternatives to ani-
mals, was passed over President Reagan’ s veto.

December 12,1985: The Senate- House Conference on the Farm Bill approved
the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act.

December 16 and 18, 1985: The House, then the Senate, approved the Confer-
ence Report on the Farm Bill.

December 23, 1985: President Reagan signed the Farm Bill.

March 31, 1987: 9 CFR, Parts 1 and 2, Animal Welfare Proposed Rules were
published in the Federal Register.

December 22,1988: The Animal Legal Defense Fundhfgd suit aainst the
U. S. Department of Agriculture, National InStitutes of Health, and
Office of Management and Budget protesting delay in promulgating
ﬁnal regulations. , 4...: wee-MMWW—w .

 

April 12,1989: Judge Richey dismissed theks‘uit without prejudice and pro-
Avided that, in case of further delay, it be brought beforehim again

March 15,1989: 9 CFR, Parts 1, 2, and 3, Animal Welfare Proposed Rules were '

published 1n the Federal Register.
\N W“ “W

August 31, 1989: Final regulations on Parts 1 and 2 published in the Federal
Register.

 

 

 

Other Countries

French Decree Regulating Experiments on Animals.

Animal Experiments Section of the Animal Protection Act, Federal
Republic of Germany.

Norwegian Welfare of Animals Act enacted, including regulation of ani-
mal experiments.

Belgium requires licensing and inspection of animal experimentation.
Denmark law on animal experiments enacted. ‘“

Switzerland enacted an animal protection law which includes experi-
ments on animals.

Major laboratory animal amendments to Swedish Animal Welfare Act
of 1944.

French Decree updated.
Greece enacted a law concerning the protection of animals.

Luxembourg law on the Protection and Welfare of Animals enacted. All
experimental procedures require advance approval by Ministers of
Health and Agriculture. The authorizations, which have a time limit and
maybe revoked at any time, are only granted if there is no alternative
method for conducting the experiment.

West Germany amended its Animal Protection Act (see Ap endixL

Finland passed an animal protective 1aw,inc1uding requirements for li-
censing of establishments and individuals qualified to perform animal
experiments in accordance with the EC Directive.

New Belgian animal welfare law awaiting Royal Decree for detailed pro-
visions to comply with EC Directive.

Netherlands Experiments on Animals Act entered into force, supple-

 




mented by the Experiments on Animals Decree fully implementing the » _ _

EC Directive on Animal Experimentation, including a system for regi- fl: L175 /( (L f/C/j 3 fan ~ ,
stering premises, authorizing persons involved in the use and supply of L 7’14ijng / :131 ’71r7)/1_,ﬁf/) '7"
animals, undertaking inspections, and compiling statistics. 1 C’v“~"" fé“3 f 14.: /)//;r? g; /;3‘

KW
f 1987. French Decree updated again (see Appendix). / , 1 \l)“ 11 J .1

.m WWW“...

2"” 1.»
1988: Sweden passed a new Animal Protection Law, including important pro- 3 (Q, {Q z 1
visions for farm animals (see Appendix). 1 '

I "x.

Spain: Decree adopted to comply with the EC Directive on protection
of experimental animals. “LL”.-. ~ W " " ‘ “W (A \p

1989: Austria enacted laboratory animal welfare legislation. EC Directive a/
animal experimentation enters into force.

 

 




LAB.4: 5/14/90

ANIMAL WELFARE ACT
As Amended
(7 U.S.C. §§2131—2157)

Section 1. (a) This Act may be cited as the ”Animal Welfare Act."

(b) The Congress ﬁnds that animals and activities which are regulated under this Act
are either in interstate or foreign commerce or substantially affect such commerce or the
free ﬂow thereof, and that regulation of animals and activitiesas provided in this Act is
necessary to prevent and eliminate burdens upon such commerce and to effectively regu-
late such commerce, in order—

(1) to insure that animals intended for use in research facilities or for exhibition
purposes or for use as pets are provided humane care and treatment;

(2) to assure the humane treatment of animals during transportation in com-
merce; and

(3) to protect the owners of animals from the theft of their animals by preventing
the sale or use of animals which have been stolen.

The Congress further ﬁnds that it is essential to regulate, as provided in this Act, the
transportation, purchase, sale, housing, care, handling, and treatment of animals by carri-
ers or by persons or organizations engaged in using them for research or experimental
purposes or for exhibition purposes or holding them for sale as pets or for any such pur-
pose or use. The Congress further fin that— W W, Mm”--—

(1) the use of animals is instrumental in certain research and education for
advancing knowledge of cures and treatment for diseases and injuries which afﬂict both
humans and animals;

(2) methods of testing that do not use animals are being and continue to be devel-
oped which are faster, less expensive, and more accurate than traditional animal experi-
ments for some purposes and further opportunities exist for the development of these
methods of testing;

(3) measures which eliminate or minimize the unnecessary duplication of experi-
ments on animals can result in more productive use of Federal funds; and

(4) measures which help meet the public concern for laboratory animal care and
treatment are important in assuring that research will continue to progress.

(7 U.S.C. 2131) (PL. 89-544, §1, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 350; PL. 91-579, §2, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1560; renumbered and amended by PL. 94-279, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 417)

Section 2. When used in this Act—

(a) The term ”person” includes any individual, partnership, firm, joint stock com-
pany, corporation, association, trust, estate, or other legal entity;

(b) The term ”Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or
his representative who shall be an employee of the United States Department of Agricul-
ture;

(c) The term ”commerce" means trade, traffic, transportation, or other commerce—

(1) between a place in a State and any place outside of such State, or between
points within the same State but through any place outside thereof, or within any terri-
tory, possession, or the District of Columbia;

(2) which affects trade, traffic, transportation, or other commerce described in
paragraph (1);

(d) The term ”State" means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or any other
territory or possession of the United States;

(e) The term “research facility” means any school (except an elementary or secon-
dary school), institution, organization, or person that uses or intends to use live animals in
research, tests, or experiments, and that (1) purchases or transports live animals in com-
merce, or (2) receives funds under a grant, award, loan, or contract from a department,
agency, or instrumentality of the United States for the purpose of carrying out research,
tests, or experiments: Provided, That the Secretary may exempt, by regulation, any such
school, institution, organization, or person that does not use or intend to use live dogs or
cats, except those schools, institutions, organizations, or persons, which use substantial
numbers (as determined by the Secretary) of live animals the principal function of which
schools, institutions, organizations, or persons, is biomedical research or testing, when in
the judgment of the Secretary, any such exemption does not vitiate the purpose of the Act;

(f) The term ”dealer” means any person who, in commerce, for compensation or
profit, delivers for transportation, or transports, except as a carrier, buys, or sells, or nego-
tiates the purchase or sale of, (1) any dog or other animal whether alive or dead for
research, teaching, exhibition, or use as a pet, or (2) any dog for hunting, security, or
breeding purposes, except that this term does not include—

(i) a retail pet store except such store which sells any animals to a
research facility, an exhibitor, or a dealer; or

(ii) any person who does not sell, or negotiate the purchase or sale of
any wild animal, dog, or cat and who derives no more than $500
gross income from the sale of other animals during any calendar
year;

(g) The term ”animal” means any live or dead dog, cat, monkey (nonhuman primate
mammal), guinea pig, hamster, rabbit, or such other warmblooded animal, as the Secre-
tary may determine is being used, or is intended for use, for research, testing, experimen-

tation, or exhibition purposes or as a pet; but such term excludes horses not used for
research purposes and other farm animals, such as, but not limited to livestock or poultry,
used or intended for use as food or fiber, or livestock or poultry used or intended for
improving animal nutrition, breeding, management or production efficiency, or for
improving the quality of food or fiber. With respect to a dog the term means all dogs

 




including those used for hunting, security, or breeding purposes;

(h) The term ”exhibitor” means any person (public or private) exhibiting any ani-
mals, which were purchased in commerce or the intended distribution of which affects
commerce, orwill affect commerce, to the public for compensation, as determined by the
Secretary, and such term includes carnivals, circuses, and zoos exhibiting such animals
whether operated for profit or not; but such term excludes retail pet stores, organizations
sponsoring and all persons participating in State and county fairs, livestock shows, rodeos,
purebred dog and cat shows, and any other fairs or exhibitions intended to advance agri-
cultural arts and sciences, as may be determined by the Secretary;

(i) The term ”intermediate handler” means any person including a department,
agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government (other
than a dealer, research facility, exhibitor, any person excluded from the deﬁnition of a
dealer, research facility, or exhibitor, an operator of an auction sale, or a carrier) who is
engaged in any business in which he receives custody of animals in connection with their
transportation in commerce;

(j) The term ”carrier” means the operator of any airline, railroad, motor carrier, ship-
ping line, or other enterprise, which is engaged in the business of transporting any ani-
mals for hire;

(k) The term ”Federal agency” means an Executive agency as such term is defined in
section 105 of Title 5, United States Code, and with respect to any research facility means
the agency from which the research facility receives a Federal award for the conduct of
research, experimentation, or testing, involving the use of animals;

(1) The term ”Federal award for the conduct of research, experimentation, or testing,
involving the use of animals" means any mechanism (including a grant, award, loan, con-
tract, or cooperative agreement) under which Federal funds are provided to support the
conduct of such research,

(m) The term "quorum” means a majority of the Committee members;

(11) The term ”Committee” means the Institutional Animal Committee established
under section213(b); and

(o) The term ”Federal research facility” means each department, agency, or instru-
mentality of the United States which uses live animals for research or experimentation.

(7 U.S.C. 2132) (P. L. 89-544, §2, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 350; PL. 91-579, §3, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1560; PL. 94-279, §§3, 4, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 417, 418; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,
§1756(a), Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 3. The Secretary shall issue licenses to dealers and exhibitors upon applica-
tion therefor in such form and manner as he may prescribe and upon payment of such fee
established pursuant to section 23 of this Act: Provided, That no such license shall be
issued until the dealer or exhibitor shall have demonstrated that his facilities comply with
the standards promulgated by the Secretary pursuant to section 13 of this Act: Provided,
however, That any retail pet store or other person who derives less than a substantial
portion of his income (as determined by the Secretary) from the breeding and raising of
dogs or cats on his own premises and sells any such dog or cat to a dealer or research facil-
ity shall not be required to obtain a license as a dealer or exhibitor under this Act. The Sec-
retary is further authorized to license, as dealers or exhibitors, persons who do not qualify
as dealers or exhibitors within the meaning of this Act upon such persons complying with
the requirements specified above and agreeing, in writing, to comply with all the require-
ments of this Act and the regulations promulgated by the Secretary hereunder.

(7 U.S.C. 2133) (PL. 89-544, §3, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351 ,~ PL. 91-579, §4, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1561)

Section 4. No dealer or exhibitor shall sell or offer to sell or transport or offer for
transportation, in commerce, to any research facility or for exhibition or for use as a pet
any animal, or buy, sell, offer to buy or sell, transport or offer for transportation, in com-
merce, to or from another dealer or exhibitor under this Act any animal, unless and until
such dealer or exhibitor shall have obtained a license from the Secretary and such license
shall not have been suspended or revoked.

(7 U..SC. 2134) (PL. 89-544, §4,Aug.24, 1966,80 Stat. 351, P..L 91-579, §5, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1561, PL 94-279, §5, April 22, 1976,90 Stat/418)“ -..... . .... ......

Section 5. No dealer or exhibitor shall sell or otherwise dispose of any dog or cat
within a period of 5 business days after the acquisition of such animal or within such other
period as may be specified by the Secretary: Provided, That operators of auction sales sub-
ject to section 12 of this Act shall not be required to comply with the provisions of this sec-
tion.

(7 U.S.C. 2135) (PL. 89-544, §5, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, §6, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1561)

Section 6. Every research facility, every intermediate handler, every carrier, and
every exhibitor not licensed under section 3 of this Act shall register with the Secretary in
accordance with such rules and regulations as he may prescribe.

(7 U.S.C. 2136) (PL. 89-544, §6, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, §7, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1561; PL. 94-279, §6, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 7. It shall be unlawful for any research facility to purchase any dog or cat from
any person except an operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act or a per-
son holding a valid license as a dealer or exhibitor issued by the Secretary pursuant to this
Act unless such person is exempted from obtaining such license under section 3 of this

Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2137) (PL. 89-544, §7, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351 ; PL. 91-579, §8, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1561)

Section 8. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States which uses

 




animals for research or experimentation or exhibition shall purchase or otherwise acquire
any dog or cat for such purposes from any person except an operator of an auction sale
subject to section 12 of this Act or a person holding a valid license as a dealer or exhibitor
issued by the Secretary pursuant to this Act unless such person is exempted from obtain-
ing such license under section 3 of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2138) (PL. 89-544, §8, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, §9, Dec. 24, 1970,
84 Stat. 1562)

Section 9. When construing or enforcing the provisions of this Act, the act, omission,
or failure of any person acting for or employed by a research facility, a dealer, or an exhib-
itor or a person licensed as a dealer or an exhibitor pursuant to the second sentence of
section 3, or an operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, or an interme-
diate handler or a carrier, within the scope of his employment or office, shall be deemed
the act, omission, or failure of such research facility, dealer, exhibitor, licensee, operator of
an auction sale, intermediate handler, or carrier, as well as of such person.

(7 U.S.C. 2139) (PL. 89-544, §9, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, §10, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, §7, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 10. Dealers and exhibitors shall make and retain for such reasonable period
of time as the Secretary may prescribe, such records with respect to the purchase, sale,
transportation, identification, and previous ownership of animals as the Secretary may
prescribe. Research facilities shall make and retain such records only with respect to the
purchase, sale, transportation, identification, and previous ownership of live dogs and
cats. At the request of the Secretary, any regulatory agency of the Federal Government
which requires records to be maintained by intermediate handlers and carriers with
respect to the transportation, receiving, handling, and delivery of animals on forms pre-
scribed by the agency, shall require there to be included in such forms, and intermediate
handlers and carriers shall include in such forms, such information as the Secretary may
require for the effective administration of this Act. Such information shall be retained for
such reasonable period of time as the Secretary may prescribe. If regulatory agencies of
the Federal Government do not prescribe requirements for any such forms, intermediate
handlers and carriers shall make and retain for such reasonable period as the Secretary
may prescribe such records with respect to the transportation, receiving, handling, and
delivery of animals as the Secretary may prescribe. Such records shall be made available
at all reasonable times for inspection and copying by the Secretary.

(7 U.S.C. 2140) (PL. 89-544, §10, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, §11, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat.§1562; PL. 94-279, §8, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 11. All animals delivered for transportation, transpOrted, purchased, or sold,
in commerce-{by a dealer or exhibitor shall be marked or identified at such time and in
such humane manner as the Secretary may prescribe: Provided, That only live dogs and
cats need to be so marked or identified by a research facility."

(7 U.S.C. 2141) (PL. 89-544, §11, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, §12, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, §5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 12. The Secretary is authorized ; to promulgate humane standards and
recordkeeping requirements governing the purchase, handling, or sale of animals, in com-
merce, by dealers, research facilities, and exhibitors at auction sales and by the operators
of such auction sales. The Secretary is also authorized to require the licensing of operators
of auction sales where any dogs or cats are sold, in commerce) under such conditions as
he may prescribe, and upon payment of such fee as prescribed by the Secretary under sec-
tion 23 of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2142) (PL. 89-544, §12, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, §13, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, §5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 13. (a) (1) The Secretary shall promulgate standards to govern the humane
handling, care, treatment and transportation of animals by dealers, research facilities, and
exhibitors.

(2) The standards described in paragraph (1) shall include minimum
requirements-—

(A) for handling, housing, feeding, watering, sanitation, ventilation, shel-
ter from extremes of weather and temperatures, adequate veterinary care, and sepa-
ration by species where the Secretary finds necessary for humane handling, care, or
treatment of animals; and

(B) for exercise of dogs, as determined by an attending veterinarian in
accordance with the general standards promulgated by the Secretary, and for a phys-
ical environment adequate to promote the psychological well-being of primates.

(3) In addition to the requirements under paragraph (2), the standards
described in paragraph (1) shall, with respect to animals in research facilities, include
requirements—

(A) for animal care, treatment, and practices in experimental procedures
to ensure that animal pain and distress are minimized, including adequate veterinary
care with the appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, tranquilizing drugs, or eutha-
nasra; .

(B) that the principal investigator considers alternatives to any procedure
likely to produce pain to or distress in an experimental animal;

(C) in any practice which could cause pain to animals—

(i) that a doctor of veterinary medicine is consulted in the plan-
ning of such procedures;

(ii) for the use of tranquilizers, analgesics, and anesthetics;

(iii) for presurgical and postsurgical care by laboratory workers, in
accordance with established veterinary medical and nursing
procedures;

 

 

 

{‘

{If} {2; at

7" ‘ ,

" d w! ( /> "ﬂ/
= z-
” 4. I ‘ fr} ,5"; {7" f"
,' k: , v‘ ,---' “”2““?! .= i . . .

16‘
in?”
A)!

4” “in .
4
a

 




(iv) against the use of paralytics without anesthesia; and

(v) that the withholding of tranquilizers, anesthesia, analgesia, or
euthanasia when scientifically necessary shall continue for only
the necessary period of time;

(D) that no animal is used in more than one major operative experiment
from which it is allowed to recover except in cases of—

(i) scientific necessity; or .

(ii) other special circumstances as determined by the Secretary;
and

(E) that exceptions to such standards may be made only when specified
by research protocol and that any such exception shall be detailed and explained in a
report outlined under paragraph (7) and ﬁled with the Institutional Animal Commit-
tee.

(4) The Secretary shall also promulgate standards to govern the transporta-
tion in commerce, and the handling, care, and treatment in connection therewith, by
intermediate handlers, air carriers, or other carriers, of animals consigned by a
dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or other person, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local
government, for transportation in commerce. The Secretary shall have authority to
promulgate such rules and regulations as he determines necessary to assure humane
treatment of animals in the course of their transportation in commerce including
requirements such as those with respect to containers, feed, water, rest, ventilation,
temperature, and handling.

(5) In promulgating and enforcing standards established pursuant to this
section, the Secretary is authorized and directed to consult experts, including outside
consultants where indicated.

(6) (A) Nothing in this Act——

(i) except as provided in paragraph (7) of this subsection, shall be
construed as authorizing the Secretary to promulgate rules, reg-
ulations, or orders with regard to the design, outlines, or guide-
lines of actual research or experimentation by a research facility
as determined by such facility;
except as provided in subparagraphs (A) and (C) (ii) through (v)
of paragraph (3) and paragraph (7) of this subsection, shall be
construed as authorizing the Secretary to promulgate rules, reg-
ulations, or orders with regard to the performance of actual
research or experimentation by a research facility as determined
by such research facility; and

a (iii); shall authorize the Secretary, during inspection, to interrupt
g the conduct of actual research or experimentation.

(B) No rule, regulation, order, or part of this Act shall be construed to
require a research facility to disclose publicly or to the Institutional Animal Commit-
tee during its inspection, trade secrets or commercial or financial information which
is privileged 0r confidential.

(7) (A) The Secretary shall require each research facility to;show upon inspec-
tion, and to report at least annually, that the provisions of this Act are being followed
and that professionally acceptable standards governing the care, treatment, and use
of animals are being followed by the research facility during actual research or
experimentation.

(B) In complying with subparagraph (A), such research facilities shall
provide—

(i) information on procedures likely to produce pain or distress in
any animal and assurances demonstrating that the principal
investigator considered alternatives to those procedures;

(ii) assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that such facility is

_l___,,_...-.\adhering to the standards described in this section; and

{gan explanation for any deviation from the standards promul-
gated under this section.

(8) Paragraph (1) shall not prohibit any State (or a political subdivision of
such State) from promulgating standards in addition to those standards promulgated
by the Secretary under paragraph (1).

(b) (1) The Secretary shall require that each research facility establish at least
one Committee. Each Committee shall be appointed by the chief executive officer of
each such research facility and shall be composed of not fewer than three members.
Such members shall possess sufficient ability to assess animal care, treatment, and
practices in experimental research as determined by the needs of the research facility
and shall represent society’s concerns regarding the welfare of animal subjects used
at such facility. Of the members of the Committee—

(A) at least one member shall be a doctor of veterinary medicine;

(3;) atleast one member— ‘

(i) /

"JV shall not be affiliated in any way with such facility other than as
a member of the Committee;

(ii) shall not be a member of the immediate family of a person who
is affiliated with such facility; and

(iii) is intended to provide representation for general community
interests in the proper care and treatment of animals; and

(C) in those cases where the Committee consists of more than three
members, not more than three members shall be from the same administrative unit
of such facility. .

(2) A quorum shall be required for all formal actions of the Committee,
including inspections under paragraph (3).

(3) The Committee shall inspect at least semiannually all animal study areas

 




and animal facilities of such research facility and review as part of the inspection—
(A) practices involving pain to animals, and
(B) the condition of animals, to ensure compliance with the provisions of
this Act to minimize pain and distress to animals. Exceptions to the requirement of
inspection of such study areas may be made by the Secretary if animals are studied
in their natural environment and the study area is prohibitive to easy access.

 




LAB.5: 5/14/90

(4) (A) The Committee shall file an inspection certification report of each inspection
at the research facility. Such report shall— ;

(i) be signed by a majority of the Committee members involved in the
inspection;

(ii) include reports of any violation of the standards promulgated, or
assurances required, by the Secretary, including any deficient condi-
tions of animal care or treatment, any deviations of research prac-
tices from originally approved proposals that adversely affect animal
welfare, any notification to the facility regarding such conditions,
and any corrections made thereafter;

(iii) include any minority views of the Committee; and

(iv) include any other information pertinent to the activities of the Com-
mittee.

(B) Such report shall remain on ﬁle for at least 3 years at the research facility
and shall be available for inspection by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
and any funding Federal agency.

(C) In order to give the research facility an opportunity to correct any
deficiencies or deviations discovered by reason of paragraph (3), the Committee shall
notify the administrative representative of the research facility of any deficiencies or devi-
ations from the provisions of this Act. If, after notification and an opportunity for correc-
tion, such deficiencies or deviations remain uncorrected, the Committee shall notify (in
writing) the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and the funding Federal agency
of such deficiencies or deviations.

(5) The inspection results shall be available to Department of Agriculture inspec-
tors for review during inspections. Department of Agriculture inspectors shall forward
any Committee inspection records which include reports of uncorrected deficiencies or
deviations to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and any funding Federal
agency of the project with respect to which such uncorrected deficiencies and deviations
occurred.

(c) In the case of Federal research facilities, a Federal Committee shall be established
and shall have the same composition and responsibilities provided in subsection (b) of
this section, except that the Federal Committee shall report deficiencies or deviations to
the head of the Federal agency conducting the research rather than to the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service. The head of the Federal agency conducting the research
shall be responsible for—

(1) all corrective action to be taken at the facility; and

(2) the granting of all exceptions to inspection protocol.

(d) Each research facility shall provide for the training of scientists, animal techni-
cians, and other personnel involved with animal care and treatment in such facility as
required by the Secretary. Such training shall include instruction on—

(1) the humane practice of animal maintenance and experimentation;

(2) research or testing methods that minimize or eliminate the use of animals or
limit animal pain or distress;

(3) utilization of the information service at the National Agricultural Library,
established under subsection (e) of this section; and

(4) methods whereby deficiencies in animal care and treatment should be
reported.

(e) The Secretary shall establish an information service at the National Agricultural
Library. Such service shall, in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine, provide
information—

(1) pertinent to employee training;

(2) which could prevent unintended duplication of animal experimentation as
determined by the needs of the research facility; and
(3) on improved methods of animal experimentation, including methods which
could— =

(A) reduce or replace animal use; and

(B) minimize pain and distress to animals, such as anesthetic and analgesic
procedures.

(f1) In any case in which a Federal agency funding a research project determines that
conditions of animal care, treatment, or practice in a particular project have not been in
compliance with standards promulgated under this Act, despite notification by the Secre-
tary or such Federal agency to the research facility and an opportunity for correction, such
agency shall suspend or revoke Federal support of the project. Any research facility losing
Federal support as a result of actions taken under the preceding sentence shall have the
right of appeal as provided in sections 701 through 706 of Title 5, United States Code.1

(f2) No dogs or cats, or additional kinds or classes of animals designated by regula-
tion of the Secretary, shall be delivered by any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator
of an auction sale, or department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any
State or local government, to any intermediate handler or carrier for transportation in
commerce, or received by any such handler or carrier for such transportation from any
such person, department, agency, or instrumentality, unless the animal is accompanied by
a certificate issued by a veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary medicine, certifying
that he inspected the animal on a specified date, which shall not be more than 10 days
before such delivery, and, when so inspected, the animal appeared free of any infectious
disease or physical abnormality which would endanger the animal or animals or other
animals or endanger public health: Provided, however, That the Secretary may by regulation
provide exceptions to this certification requirement, under such conditions as he may pre-
scribe in the regulations, for animals shipped to research facilities for purposes of
research, testing or experimentation requiring animals not eligible for such certification.

 




Such certiﬁcates received by the intermediate handlers and the carriers shall be retained
by them, as provided by regulations of the Secretary, in accordance with section 10 of this
Act.

(g) No dogs or cats, or additional kinds or classes of animals designated by regulation
of the Secretary, shall be delivered by any person to any intermediate handler or carrier
for transportation in commerce except to registered research facilities if they are less than
such age as the Secretary may by regulation prescribe. The Secretary shall designate addi-
tional kinds and classes of animals and may prescribe different ages for particular kinds or
classes of dogs, cats, or designated animals, for the purposes of this section, when he
determines that such action is necessary or adequate to assure their humane treatment in
connection with their transportation in commerce.

(h) No intermediate handler or carrier involved in the transportation of any animal in
commerce shall participate in any arrangement or engage in any practice under which the
cost of such animal or the cost of the transportation of such animal is to be paid and col-
lected upon delivery of the animal to the consignee, unless the consignor guarantees in
writing the payment of transportation charges for any animal not claimed within a period
of 48 hours after notice to the consignee of arrival of the animal, including, where neces-
sary, both the return transportation charges and an amount sufficient to reimburse the
carrier for all out-of-pocket expenses incurred for the care, feeding, and storage of such
animals.

(7 U.S.C. 2143) (PL. 89-544, §13, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, §14, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat... 1562; PL. 94-279, §§9, 10, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418; PL. 99-198, Title
XVII, §1752, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1645)

Section 14. Any department, agency or instrumentality of the United States having
laboratory animal facilities shall comply with the standards and other requirements prom-
ulgated by the Secretary for a research facility under section 13 (a), (f), (g), and (h). Any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States exhibiting animals shall com-
ply with the standards promulgated by the Secretary under section 13 (a), (f), (g), and (h).

(7 U.S.C. 2144) (PL. 89-544, §14, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, §15, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279, §19, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 423; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,
§1758, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 15. (a) The Secretary shall consult and cooperate with other Federal depart—
ments, agencies, or instrumentalities concerned with the welfare of animals used for
research, experimentation or exhibition, or administration of statutes regulating the trans-
portation in commerce or handling in connection therewith of any animals when estab—
lishing standards pursuant to section 13 and in carrying out the purposes of this Act. The
Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services prior to issuance
of regulations. Before promulgating any standard governing the air transportation and
handling in connection therewith, of animals, the Secretary shall consult with the Secre-
tary of Transportation who shall have the authority to disapprove any such standard if he
notifies the Secretary, within 30 days after such consultation, that changes in its provisions
are necessary in the interest of ﬂight safety. The Interstate Commerce Commission, the
Secretary of Transportation, and the Federal Maritime Commission, to the extent of their
respective lawful authorities, shall take such action as is appropriate to implement any
standard established by the Secretary with respect to a person subject to regulation by it.

(b) The Secretary is authorized to cooperate with the officials of the various States or
political subdivisions thereof in carrying out the purposes of this Act and of any State,
local, or municipal legislation or ordinance on the same subject.

(7 U.S.C. 2145) (PL. 89-544, §15, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; P.L 91-579, §16, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279, §11, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 419; PL. 98-443, §9(i), Oct. 4,
1984, 98 Stat. 1708; RI... 99-198, Title XVII, §1757, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 16. (a) The Secretary shall make such investigations or inspections as he
deems necessary to determine whether any dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, car-
rier, research facility, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, has
violated or is violating any provision of this Act or any regulation or standard issued
thereunder, and for such purposes, the Secretary shall, at all reasonable times, have access
to the places of business and the facilities, animals, and those records required to be kept
pursuant to section 10 of any such dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, carrier,
research facility, or operator of an auction sale. The Secretary shall inspect each research
facility at least once each year and, in the case of deficiencies or deviations from the stand-
ards promulgated under this Act, shall conduct such follow-up inspections as may be nec-
essary until all deﬁciencies or deviations from such standards are corrected. The Secretary
shall promulgate such rules and regulations as he deems necessary to permit inspectors to
confiscate or destroy in a humane manner any animal found to be suffering as a result of a
failure to comply with any provision of this Act or any regulation or standard issued
thereunder if (1) such animal is held by a dealer, (2) such animal is held by an exhibitor,
(3) such animal is held by a research facility and is no longer required by such research
facility to carry out the research, test or experiment for which such animal has been util-
ized, (4) such animal is held by an operator of an auction sale, or (5) such animal is held
by an intermediate handler or a carrier. V

(b) Any person who forcibly assaults, resists, opposes, impedes, intimidates, or inter-
feres with any person while engaged in or on account of the performance of his official
duties under this Act shall be ﬁned not more than $5,000, or imprisoned not more than 3
years, or both. Whoever, in the commission of such acts, uses a deadly or dangerous

weapon shall be ﬁned not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or
both. Whoever kills any person while engaged in or on account of the performance of his
official duties under this Act shall be punished as provided .under sections 1111 and 1114
of Title 18, United States Code. .

(c) For the efficient administration and enforcement of this Act, the provisions
(including penalties) of sections 6, 8, 9, and 10 of the Act entitled ”An Act to create a Fed-

 




eral Trade Commission, to define its powers and duties, and for other purposes,” (15
U.S.C. 46, and 48-50; 38 Stat. 721-723, as amended) (except paragraph (c) through (h) of
section 6 and the last paragraph of section 9, and the provisions of Title II of the ”Organ-
ized Crime Control Act of 1970”) (18 U.S.C. 6001 et seq., 62 Stat. 856), are made applicable
to the jurisdiction, powers, and duties of the Secretary in administering and enforcing the
provisions offthis Act and to any person, ﬁrm, or corporation with respect to whom such
authority is exercised. The Secretary may prosecute any inquiry necessary to his duties
under this Act in any part of the United States, including any territory, or possession
thereof, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The powers con-
ferred by said sections 9 and 10 of the Act of September 26, 1914, as amended, on the dis-
trict courts of the United States may be exercised for the purposes of this Act by any dis-
trict court of the United States. The United States district courts, the District Court of
Guam, the District Court to the Virgin Islands, the highest court of American Samoa, and

the United States courts of the other territories, are vested with jurisdiction specifically to

enforce, and to prevent and restrain violations of this Act, and shall have jurisdiction in all

other kinds of cases arising under this Act, except as provided in section 19(c) of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2146) (PL. 89-544, §16, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352;. PL. 91-579, §17, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279, §12, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 420; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,
§1753, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1649)

Section 17. The Secretary shall promulgate rules and regulations requiring dealers,
exhibitors, research facilities, and operators of auction sales subject to section 12 of this
Act to permit inspection of their animals and records at reasonable hours upon request by
legally constituted law enforcement agencies in search of lost animals.

(7 U.S.C. 2147) (PL. 89-544, §17, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, §18, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1564)

Section 18. Repealed. Pub. L. 91-579. Similar provisions incorporated' 1n section 13 by PL.
91-579, §19, Dec. 24,1970, 84 Stat. 1564.

(7 U.S.C. 214s)

Section 19. (a) If the Secretary has reason to believe that any person licensed as a
dealer, exhibilfor, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, has vio-
lated or is violating any provision of this Act, or any of the rules or regulations or stand-
ards promulgated by the Secretary hereunder, he may suspend such person’s license tem-
porarily, but not to exceed 21 days, and after notice and opportunity for hearing, may sus-
pend for such additional period as he may specify, or revoke such license, if such violation
is determined to have occurred.

(b) Any dealer, exhibitor, research facility, intermediate handler, carrier or operator
of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, that violates any provision of this Act, or
any rule, regulation, or standard promulgated by the secretary thereunder, may be
assessed a civil penalty by the Secretary of not more than $2,500 for each such violation,
and the Secretary may also make an order that such person Shall cease and desist from
continuing such violation. Each violation and each day during which a violation continues
shall be a separate offense. No penalty shall be assessed or cease and desist order issued
unless such person is given notice and opportunity for a hearing with respect to the
alleged violation, and the order of the Secretary assessing a penalty and making a cease
and desist order shall be ﬁnal and conclusive unless the affected person files an appeal
from the Secretary’s order with the appropriate United States Court of Appeals. The Sec-
retary shall give due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with respect to
the size of the business of the person involved, the gravity of the violation, the person’s
good faith, and the history of previous violations. Any such civil penalty may be compro-
mised by the Secretary. Upon any failure to pay the penalty assessed by a final order
under this section, the Secretary shall request the Attorney General to institute a civil
action in a district court of the United States or other United States court for any district in
which such person is found or resides or transacts business, to collect the penalty, and
such court shall have jurisdiction to hear and decide any such action. Any person who
knowingly fails to obey a cease and desist order made by the Secretary under this section
shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1, 500 for each offense, and each day during which
such failure continues shall be deemed a separate offense. ' '

(c) Any dealer, exhibitor, research facility, intermediate handler, carrier, or operator
of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, aggrieved by a final order of the Secre-
tary issued pursuant to this section may, within 60 days after entry of such an order, seek
review of such order in the appropriate United States Court-of Appeals in accordance
with the provisions of section 2341, 2343 through 2350 of Title 28, United States Code,
and such court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to enjoin, set aside, suspend (in whole or
in part), or to determine the validity of the Secretary's order. A

(d) Any dealer, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this
Act, who knowingly violates any provision of this Act shall, on conviction thereof, be sub-
ject to imprisonment for not more than 1 year, or a fine of not more than $2,500, or both.
Prosecution of such violations shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be brought ini-
tially before United States magistrates as provided in section 636 of Title 28, United States
Code, and sections 3401 and 3402 of Title 18, United States Code, and, with the consent of
the Attorney General, may be conducted, at both trial and upon appeal to district court, by
attorneys of the United States Department of Agriculture.

(7 U.S.C. 2149) (PL. 89-544, §19, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, §20, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1564; PL. 94-279, §13, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 420; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,
§1755, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 20. Repealed. Similar provisions incorporated in section 19 by PL. 94- 279,
§14, April 22, 1,976 90 Stat 421.

(7 U. s. c 2150)

 




Section 21. The Secretary is authorized to promulgate such rules, regulations, and
orders as he may deem necessary in order to effectuate the purposes of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2151) (PL. 89-544, §21, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353) '

Section 22. If any provision of this Act or the application of: any such provision to any
person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Act and the applica-
tion of any such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is
held invalid shall not be affected thereby.

(7 U.S.C. 2152) (PL. 89-544, §22, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353)

Section 23. The Secretary shall charge, assess, and cause to be collected reasonable
fees for licenses issued. Such fees shall be adjusted on an equitable basis taking into con-
sideration the type and nature of the operations to be licensed and shall be deposited and
covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts. There are hereby authorized to be
appropriated such funds as Congress may from time to time provide: Provided, That there
is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture for enforcement by the
Department of Agriculture of the provisions of section 26 of this Act an amount not to
exceed $100,000 for the transition quarter ending September 30, 1976, and not to exceed
$400,000 for each fiscal year thereafter. '

(7 U.S.C. 2153) (PL. 89-544, §23, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353; PL. 94-279, §18, April 22,
1976, 90 Stat. 423)

Section 24. The regulations referred to in section 10 and section 13 shall be pre-
scribed by the Secretary as soon as reasonable but not later than 6 months from the date of
enactment of this Act. Additions and amendments thereto may be prescribed from time to
time as may be necessary or advisable. Compliance by dealers with the provisions of this
Act and such regulations shall commence 90 days after the promulgation of such regula-
tions. Compliance by research facilities with the provisions of this Act and such regula-
tions shall commence 6 months after the promulgation of such regulations (August 24,
1966), except that the Secretary may grant extensions of time to research facilities which
do not comply with the standards prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to section 13 of
this Act provided that the Secretary determines that there is evidence that the research
facilities will meet such standards within a reasonable time. Notwithstanding the other
provisions of this section, compliance by intermediate handlers, and carriers, and other
persons with those provisions of this Act, as amended by the Animal Welfare Act Amend-
ments of 1976, and those regulations promulgated thereunder, which relate to actions of
intermediate handlers and carriers, shall commence 90 days after promulgation of regula-
tions under section 13 of this Act, as amended, with respect to intermediate handlers and
carriers, and such regulations shall be promulgated no later than 9 months after April 22,
1976; and compliance by dealers, exhibitors, operators of auction sales and research
facilities with other provisions of this Act, as so amended, and the regulations thereunder,
shall commence upon the expiration of 90 days after April 22, 1976: Provided, however,
That compliance by all persons with paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of section 13 and with
section 26 of this Act, as so amended, shall commence upon the expiration of said 90-day
period. In all other respects, said amendments shall become effective upon April 22, 1976.

(7 U.S.C. 2154) (PL. 89-544, §24, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353; PL. 94—279, §15, April 22,
1976, 90 Stat. 421)

Section 25. Not later than March of each year the Secretary shall submit to the Presi-
dent of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives a comprehensive and
detailed written report with respect to— . .

(1) the identification of all research facilities, exhibitors, and other persons and
establishments licensed by the Secretary under section 3 and section 12 of this Act;

(2) the nature and place of all investigations and inspections conducted by the
Secretary under section 16 of this Act, and all reports received by the Secretary under sec-
tion 13 of this Act;

(3) recommendations for legislation to improve the administration of this Act or
any provision thereof; and

(4) recommendations and conclusions concerning the aircraft environment as it
relates to the carriage of live animals in air transportation.

This report as well as any supporting documents, data, or findings shall not be released to
any other persons, non-Federal agencies, or organizations unless and until it has been
made public by an appropriate committee of the Senate or the‘House of Representatives.

(7 U.S.C. 2155) (PL. 89-544, §25, as added by PL. 91-579, §22, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat.
1565; PL. 94-279, §16, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 421)

 




LAB.6: 5/14/90

Section 26. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sponsor or exhibit an
animal in any animal fighting venture to which any animal was moved in interstate or for-
eign commerce.

(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sell, buy, transport, or deliver to
another person or receive from another person for purposes of transportation, in inter-
state or foreign commerce, any dog or other animal for purposes of having the dog or
other animal participate in an animal fighting venture.

(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly use the mail service of the United
States Postal Service or any interstate instrumentality for purposes of promoting or in any
other manner furthering an animal fighting venture except as performed outside the lim-
its of the States of the United States.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the
activities prohibited by such subsections shall be unlawful with respect to fighting ven-
tures involving live birds only if the fight is to take place in a State where it would be in
violation of the laws thereof.

(e) Any person who violates subsection (a), (b), or (c) shall be fined not more than
$5,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both, for each such violation.

(f) The Secretary or any other person authorized by him shall make such investiga-
tions as the Secretary deems necessary to determine whether any person has violated or is
violating any provision of this section, and the Secretary may obtain the assistance of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of the Treasury, or other law enforce-
ment agencies of the United States, and State and local governmental agencies, in the con-
duct of such investigations, under cooperative agreements with such agencies. A warrant
to search for and seize any animal which there is probable cause to believe was involved
in any violation of this section may be issued by any judge of the United States or of a
State court of record or by a United States magistrate within the district wherein the ani-
mal sought is located. Any United States marshal or any person'authorized under this sec-
tion to conduct investigations may apply for and execute any such warrant, and any ani-
mal seized under such a warrant shall be held by the United States marshal or other
authorized person pending disposition thereof by the court in accordance with this
subsection. Necessary care including veterinary treatment shall be provided while the ani-
mals are so held in custody. Any animal involved in any violation of this section shall be
liable to be proceeded against and forfeited to the United States at any time on complaint
filed in any United States district court or other court of the United States for any jurisdic-
tion in which the animal is found and upon a judgment of forfeiture shall be disposed of
by sale for lawful purposes or by other humane means, as the court may direct. Costs
incurred by the United States for care of animals seized and forfeited under this section
shall be recoverable from the owner of the animals if he appears in such forfeiture
proceeding or in a separate civil action brought in the jurisdiction in which the owner is
found, resides, or transacts business.

(g) For purposes of this section—-

(1) the term ”animal fighting venture" means any event which involves a fight
between at least two animals and is conducted for purposes of sport, wagering, or enter-
tainment except that the term ”animal ﬁghting venture" shall not be deemed to include
any activity the primary purpose of which involves the use of one or more animals in
hunting another animal or animals, such as waterfowl, bird, raccoon, or fox hunting;

(2) the term ”interstate or foreign commerce” means-—

(A) any movement between any place in a State to any place in another State
or between places in the same State through another State; or
(B) any movement from a foreign country into any State,

(3) the term’ ’interstate instrumentality" means telegraph, telephone, radio, or tel-
evision operating in interstate or foreign commerce;

(4) the term "State" means any State of the United States, the District of Colum-
bia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United
States;

(5) the term ”animal” means any live bird, or any live dog or other mammal,
except man; and

(6) the conduct by any person of any activity prohibited by this section shall not
render such person subject to the other sections of this Act as a dealer, exhibitor, or other-
wise.

(h) (1) The provisions of this section shall not supersede or otherwise invalidate any
such State, local, or municipal legislation or ordinance relating-to animal fighting ventures
except in case of a direct and irreconcilable conﬂict between any requirements thereunder
and this section or any rule, regulation, or standard hereunder.

(7 U s c. 2156) (PL. 89-544 S)6(a) (h)(1), as added by PL. 94 279 $7 Apr1l 22,2
1976,90 Stat 421) ,

Note: PL 94- 279 also amended 39 U. S. C. 3001(a) on material that may not be mailed.

Section 27. (a) It shall be unlawful for any member of an Institutional Animal Com-
mittee to release any confidential information of the research facility including any infor-
mation that concerns or relates to—

(1) the trade secrets, processes, operations, style of work, or apparatus; or
(2) the identity, confidential statistical data, amount or source of any income, prof-
its, losses, or expenditures, of the research facility.

(b) It shall be unlawful for any member of such Committee—

(1) to use or attempt to use to his advantages; or .
(2) to reveal to any other person, any information which is entitled to protection
as conﬁdential information under subsection (a) of this section.

(c) A violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section is punishable by—

1v

 




(1) removal from such Committee; and
(2) (A) a fine of not more than $1,000 and imprisonment of not more than 1 year;

or
(B) if such violation is willful, a fine of not more than $10, 000 and imprison-
ment of not more than 3 years.

(d) Any person, including any research facility, injured In its business or property by
reason of a violation of this section may recover all actual and consequential damages sus-
tained by such person and the cost of the suit including a reasonable attorney’ 5 fee.

(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any other rights of a person
injured' 1n its business or property by reason of a violation of this section. Subsection (d)
shall not be construed to limit the exercise of any such rights arising out of or relating to a
violation of subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

(7 U.S.C. 2157) (P.L. 89-544, §27, as added by PL. 99-198, Title XVII, §1754, Dec. 23,
1985, 99 Stat. 1649)

 

1. PL. 99-198, Title XVII, §1752, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1645, made significant amend-
ments to §13 of the Act and inadvertently duplicated paragraph (f) of §13. The new
paragraph (f) in the 1985 amendments has been designated as (f1) and the old para-
graph (f) has been designated as paragraph (£2) for clarity.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

PL. 89-544: .
H. Rept. 89-1418, House Committee on Agriculture
8. Rept. 89-1281, Senate Committee on Commerce
Passed House Apr. 28, 1966
Passed Senate June 22, 1966
H. Rept. 89-1848, Conference Committee
House agreed to conference report Aug. 16, 1966
Senate agreed to conference report Aug. 17, 1966
Approved Aug. 24, 1966

. 91-579:
H. Rept. 91-1651, House Committee on Agriculture
Passed House Dec. 7, 1970
Passed Senate Dec. 8, 1970
Approved Dec. 24, 1970

. 94-279:
H. Rept. 94-801, House Committee on Agriculture
8. Rept. 94-580, Senate Committee on Commerce
H. Rept. 94-976, Conference Committee
S. Rept. 94-727, Conference Committee
Passed Senate Dec. 18, 1975
Passed House Feb. 9, 1976
House agreed to conference report Apr. 6, 1976
Senate agreed to conference report Apr. 7, 1976
Approved Apr. 22, 1976

PL. 99-198: ,.

H. Rept. 99-271, Part 1, Committee on Agriculture

S. Rept. 99-145, Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry

Passed House Oct. 8, 1985

Passed Senate Nov. 23, 1985

H. Rept. 99-447 Conference Committee

House and Senate agreed to conference report I)ec.18,
1985

Approved Dec. 23, 1985

 




LAB.7: 5/14/90

EXCERPTS FROM _
THE HEALTH RESEARCH EXTENSION ACT OF 1985
PUBLIC LAW 99-158, NOVEMBER 20, 1985

ANIMALS IN RESEARCH

Sec. 495 (a) The Secretary, acting through the Director of NIH, shall establish guide-
lines for the following:

(1) The proper care of animals to be used in biomedical and behavioral
research.

(2) The proper treatment of animals while being used in such research. Guide-
lines under this paragraph shall require—

(A) the appropriate use of tranquilizers, analgesics, anesthetics, paralyt-
ics, and euthanasia for animals in such research; and

(B) appropriate pre-surgical and post-surgical veterinary medical and
nursing care for animals in such research. Such guidelines shall not be con-
strued to prescribe methods of research.

(3) The organization and operation of animal care committees in accordance
with subsection (b).

(b) (1) Guidelines of the Secretary under subsection (a) (3) shall require animal care
committees at each entity which conducts biomedical and behavioral research with funds
provided under this Act (including the National Institutes of Health and the national
research institutes) to assure compliance with the guidelines established under subsection

(a) .

(2) Each animal care committee shall be appointed by the chief executive offi-
cer of the entity for Which the committee is established, shall be composed of not
fewer than three members, and shall include at least one individual who has no asso-
ciation with such entity and at least one doctor of veterinary medicine.

(3) Each animal care committee of a research entity shall——

(A) review the care and treatment of animals in all animal study areas
and facilities of the research entity at least semi-annually to evaluate compli-
ance with applicable guidelines established under subsection (a) for appropri-
ate animal care and treatment;

(B) keep appropriate records of reviews conducted under subpar-
agraph (A); and -

(C) for each review conducted under subparagraph (A), file with the
Director of NIH at least annually (i) a certiﬁcation that the review has been
conducted, and (ii) reports of any violations of guidelines established under
subsection (a) or assurances required under paragraph (1) which were
observed in such review and which have continued after notice by the com-
mittee to the research entity involved of the violations.

Reports filed under subparagraph (C) shall include any minority views filed by members
of the committee.

(c) The Director of NIH shall require each applicant for a grant, contract, or coopera-
tive agreement involving research on animals which is administered by the National Insti-
tutes of Health or any national research institute to include in its application or contract
proposal, submitted after the expiration of the twelve-month period beginning on the date
of enactment of this section—

(1) assurances satisfactory to the Director of NIH that—-

(A) the applicant meets the requirements of the guidelines established
under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) and has an animal care commit-
tee which meets the requirements of subsection (b); and

(B) scientists, animal technicians, and other personnel involved with
animal care, treatment, and use by the applicant have available to them
instruction or training in the humane practice of animal maintenance and
experimentation, and the concept, availability, and use of research or testing
methods that limit the use of animals or limit animal distress; and

(2) a statement of the reasons for the use of animals in the research to be con-
ducted with funds provided under such grant or contract.

Notwithstanding subsection (a) (2) of section 553 of title 5, United States Code, regula-
tions under this subsection shall be promulgated in accordance with the notice and com-
ment requirements of such section.

(d) If the Director of NIH determines that—

(1) the conditions of animal care, treatment, or use in an entity which is receiv-
ing a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement involving research on animals under
this title do not meet applicable guidelines established under subsection (a);

(2) the entity has been notiﬁed by the Director of NIH of such determination

 




and has been given a reasonable opportunity to take corrective action; and
(3) no action has been taken by the entity to correct such conditions;

the Director of NIH shall suspend or revoke such grant or contract under such conditions
as the Director determines appropriate.

(e) No guideline or regulation promulgated under subsection (a) or (c) may require a
research entity to disclose publicly trade secrets or commercial or financial information
which is privileged or confidential.

.> l"- . g
who“ =‘

Sec. 4fPlan for Research Involving Animals W... m .. .. 1...... ~ mm» '"'”"“*’f

(a) Establishment of Plan—The Director of the National Institutes of Health shall
establish a plan for—

(1) research to be conducted by or through the National Institutes of Health - :. ' i g‘ 11/ g ”I, {‘3
and the national research institutes into methods of biomedical research and experi-
mentation—

(A) which do not require the use of animals;
(B) which reduce the number of animals used in such research; or

(C) which produce less pain and distress in such animals than methods
currently 1n use. '

(2) establishing the validity and reliability of the methods described in
subparagraph (A);

(3) the development of such methods which have been found to be valid and
reliable; and

(4) the training of scientists in the use of such methods.
The plan required by this paragraph shall be prepared not later than October 1, 1986.

(b) Dissemination of Information—The Director of the National Institutes of Health
shall take such actions as may be appropriate to convey to scientists and others involved
with research or experimentation involving animals information respecting the methods
found to be valid and reliable under subsection (a) (2).

(c) Interagency Coordinating Committee—The Director of the National Institutes of
Health shall establish within the National Institutes of Health an Interagency Coordinat-
ing Committee to assist the Director of the National Institutes of Health in the develop-
ment of the plan required by subsection (a). The Director of each national research insti-
tute shall serve on the Committee.

 

. Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, France, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United
Kingdom.

. The full text of the 1966 Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, including its 1970, 1976, and
1985 amendments/appears at the end of_ this chapter. .1..- W

. The Animals (Scien c Proce ures) Act of 1986 continues and m several provisions
increases the protection provided by the 1876 Act. See Appendix for the full text.

. Arizona and Alaska passed anti-cruelty laws in 1913.

. Mr. Morse, who fought the reform efforts of the founders of the Humane Society of
the United States as chief executive of the American Humane Association, became
president of the Humane Society of the United States from 1967-1970.

. The New York State Society for Medical Research also sponsored the bills introduced
by Senator Iavits in the 89th and 90th Congresses (see "Laboratory Animal Laws: Im-
portant Dates,” this chapter).

. The American Humane Association was also absent when hearings were called by
Congressman Poage on the Resnick bill, September 2, 1965. At subsequent hearings,
AHA representatives testified against inclusion of laboratories in the bill, reﬂecting
the unbridled pressure of the biomedical establishment on the big humane societies at
that period.

. For example, Nobel laureate, Sir Peter Medawar, was Chairman of UFAW’ 5 Scientific
Advisory Committee. He repeatedly sent statements on the value of the British Act for
quotation at Congressional hearings.

. The statements by Sir Graham Wilson and Dr. Lawrence Abel were published by AWI
in Information Report Vol. 15, No. 4, September-October 1966.

. Speaker of the House of Representatives, 1989—.

. Secretary of Health and Human Services, 1982-1985.

r, .9...” .-«vw2w1~.-....m..~,
anu— 1W

 




 

 

 

_ .vu "
‘5 2, .5 _-
’v V...’ is!
.15

in,

. ex}

‘3 {.4 u-L'

&

ﬂaw?)

«
2* .
Mm.

.1 MM.

in.» Ami
y.

a

.7? ' a

Q..-
is»

 

 

 

 

vent! .5. i Lei

i...

“’3‘ ’5'

Star £4»

' i.
.
«a;

:ih‘

I
* \‘V" 1‘

. '4
.""‘.
A’eur

J

4

 

 




 

  

A I.

[M‘
Rf
I

l

\ (\1‘y/C

LAB.1: 4/2/90

'A

Chapter IV

LABORATORY ANIMAL WELFARE
by Christine Stevens

Not until the end of 1985 when Senator Robert Dole attached his bill,
”Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals,” to the Farm Bill by unanimous
consent of Senate and House, did the United States achieve legislation compa-
rable to that already in effect in 14 western European countries1 for protection
of animals used by scientific institutions. The Farm Bill was signed by President
Reagan two days before Christmas, making the Improved Standards provisions
effective December 23, 1986, a year from the date of enactment.2

More than twenty years of intensive work was required to reach the point
at which the American Physiological Society, major experirnentalists, withdrew
its opposition to legislation sought by animal protective organizations. The
Association of Professors of Medicine, too, accepted the bill’s provisions in the
closing months of the struggle for its passage.

Efforts which began in 1880 to regulate animal experimentation in the
United States are described in detail from 1945 onward.

NINETEENTH CENTURY LABORATORY ANIMAL
PROTECTIVE PROPOSALS REBUFFED

In 1880, a bill to regulate animal experimentation in the District of Colum-
bia was introduced in Congress. Its provisions were roughly similar to the Brit-
ish Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876 which provided substantial protection for
experimental animals3 for more than a century with the approval of the British
scientific community. But American scientists who were asked for their opin-
ions opposed and easily defeated this initial effort.

Between 1828 and 1898, nearly every state and territory in the Union pas-
sed an anti-cruelty statute. Fourteen of these laws exempted animal experi-
ments. Even the crusading Henry Bergh, an outspoken anti-vivisectionist,
agreed to the exemption of experimental animals when he revised the New
York anti-cruelty law in 1867.

No prosecutions for cruelty to laboratory animals are known during this
period in states without such exemptions. Not until the latter half of the twenti-
eth century (Massachusetts in 1958 and Maryland in 1982) were anti-cruelty
laws invoked on behalf of laboratory animals. In the first case, the Massachusetts
SPCA successfully prosecuted a research scientist and animal caretaker for cru-
elty in maintaining and transporting post-surgical dogs outside the institution
(the Overholt Clinic).

In Maryland, Dr. Edward Taub was found guilty of 17 counts of cruelty to
experimental monkeys at the Institute for Behavioral Research. On appeal, the
judgment was reversed on grounds that the Maryland law was superseded by
the federal Animal Welfare Act.

LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY IN THE POST-SECOND WORLD WAR PERIOD
rAgnimal Seizure,

Virtually all bills relating to laboratory animals from 1945 to 1960 were
inspired by the National Society for Medical Research (NSMR) or one of its
affiliates. Founded in Chicago in 1945 by Dr. A. J. Carlson, Dr. Andrew C. Ivy,
and Dr. George Wakerlin, the NSMR devoted most of its efforts to enactment of
state laws requiring both humane society shelters and public pounds to sur-
render dogs and cats on request from scientific institutions for use in any type of
experiments or tests, no matter how painful and prolonged.

The first forced surrender law was passed in Minnesota in 1948. Humane
societies were unaware that the bill had even been introduced before it had
gone through both Houses and been signed by the Governor. This law required
release of impounded animals from humane society shelters that receive funds
from taxes, as well as from municipal pounds. In 1949 in Wisconsin, an even
more severe seizure law was passed, requiring any stray animal to be made
available onrequest to a scientific institution. Thus, shelters operated wholly by
charitable funds were also compelled to supply animals for experiments,
regardless of the degree and duration of pain and suffering inﬂicted. An attempt

 

{91/290 i/lwﬁ {/7

. /¥ .27
/(c
/ 7

(4 d/¢/ Z é/f‘C/JL/
Cjzcézzyuu {MA A?
[L M; /v[(<,[c ZACH,“ if

 




was made to pass similar legislation in Illinois, but here it failed, and the individ-
ual communities were left in control of local policies with respect to disposition
of stray dogs and cats.

Procurement laws passed in New York, South Dakota, Oklahoma, Connect-
icut, Ohio, and Iowa did not attempt to enact such far-reaching legislation.

Robert Sellar, the President of the American Humane Association (AHA),
the national federation of humane societies, saw the grave danger to the move-
ment, whose, organizational structure in the late 1940’s was especially suscepti-
ble to demoralization through animal seizure legislation. Virtually all the well-
established humane societies centered their work around shelters for lost or
unwanted dogs and cats. If forced to surrender animals for painful experiments,
the entire structure would lose its moral basis as a sanctuary for animals where
they would be safe from inﬂicted suffering. These were dark days for organized
animal protection.

Mr. Sellar sought to reason with the National Society for Medical Research
in hopes of finding a solution to the demand for research dogs without under-
mining the morals of the humane movement. A small AHA group met with an
NSMR group with the understanding that the preliminary talk would not be
publicized. But Mr. Ralph Rohweder, the Executive Secretary of the NSMR,
immediately sent out an announcement calculated to inﬂame anti-vivisection
societies and anti-vivisectionist members of the American Humane Association.
. Mr. Sellar lacked the power to resolve the crisis manufactured by the NSMR,
and henceforth, battles raged in state after state to pass legislation compelling
humane societies to surrender dogs and cats to the laboratories on demand and
without controls on pain inﬂiction.

With the death of Robert Sellar came the end of real efforts to face the prob-
lem and solve it. The inﬂuence of a coterie of professional humanitarians—the
paid employees of large societies who had a vested interest in the continuance
of their jobs—was not conducive to firm resolve. They felt that they must avoid
offending either anti-vivisectionists, from whom their organizations might
receive large gifts and bequests, or scientific and medical groups, whose power—
ful inﬂuence they feared. Thus it was that the American Humane Association,
normally eager for contributions, declined an offered gift of $10,000 to study
and prepare a concerted plan for obtaining humane treatment of research ani-
mals and a solution to the problem of supply to laboratories.

Before his death, Mr. Sellar had appointed a new director of the National
Humane Review, Fred Myers, a newspaper man who was a reformer and an effec-
tive writer. He attacked the NSMR for its policies of indiscriminate procurement
and use of animals. So telling were his arguments that he was forbidden by
AHA management, which was heavily weighted against any energetic action, to
use the words ”National Society for Medical Research” in any article published
in the National Humane Review. Unwilling to submit to such an arbitrary stiﬂing
of truthful reporting, Mr. Myers resigned, together with two of the other three
major staff members: Helen Jones, Director of Education, and Larry Andrews,
Director of Field Services. All were appointees of Robert Sellar, who had been
replaced after his death by Mel Morse.5

The National Humane Society was founded by the dissident trio. The
American Humane Association promptly sued them to force them to change
the society’s name, which, it claimed, was too similar to National Humane Review.
The result was the renaming of the new organization as the Humane Society of
the United States.

Nor was this the only legal action taken in the reform effort. The first
attempt to change the passive attitude of the AHA came at the election of direc-
tors at the 1954 annual meeting. The three reform candidates, Professor Roland
Smith of the Department of English, University of Illinois, Miss I. M. Perry, an
attorney from South Carolina, and Mr. Raymond Naramore, a high school
teacher who became the director of the Rochester and Monroe County Humane
Society, were promptly elected by a delighted membership that had never
before exercised its prerogatives. The controlling group of AHA directors was
dismayed. The following year they fought back, ﬁrst naming a meeting point in
the Northwest where the expense of travel would discourage the bulk of the
membership, concentrated in the East, from attending. Forced by injunction to
name a more central location for the meeting, they resorted to bringing in large
numbers of persons never before associated with animal welfare work who
voted as a bloc on signal. The "in” group won and, not long after, Miss Perry
died, and Professor Smith resigned. Mr. Naramore, limited to work on humane
education for schools, died a few years later.

Due to the failure of these and other attempts to bring purpose and life into
the AHA establishment at that time, several new organizations were formed.
The Animal Welfare Institute was founded in 1951, its aim the advancement of
the welfare of all animals, with special emphasis on the research animals so long

 




neglected by humane organizations. Its charter was drawn by Herbert Brownell, ,
the distinguished New York lawyer who served as Attorney General under ’
President Eisenhower.

The Humane Society of the United States was founded in 1954; and in 1959
one of its founders, Helen Jones, left the parent body to found the National
Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, later renamed the International Society for
Animal Rights.

In 1952, after years of controversy, the Hatch-Metcalf Act was passed. The
Act amended an existing New York laboratory animal care statute into a
procurement law, requiring all dog pounds and all humane societies receiving
public funds to surrender animals to scientific institutions. The New York State
Humane Association actively fought enactment of the law; but its biggest, oldest
member organization, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals (ASPCA), whose board was dominated at that time by research inter-
ests, refused to take a position. Its president was Samuel Milbank of the Milbank
Foundation. The New York State Society for Medical Researchf’ proponents of
the law, dismissed all the other organizations as anti-vivisection groups, thus
ensuring passage of the law.

Both the Erie County Humane Society and the Humane Society of Roches-
ter and Monroe County immediately gave up their pound contracts so that it
would not be necessary for them to release animals from their shelters to
laboratories. Only two organizations, the ASPCA and the Syracuse SPCA, con-
tinued to accept tax funds and were thus required to send dogs and cats to sci- 3.7;.
entific institutions. Between 1966 and 1974 whenwtheﬂatchsMetcalfu-Ac—t--was-‘*“” “<31
repealedj'the Syracuse SPCA delivered 14,000 dogs and cats to Bristol-Myers, a _<
company with annual sales of more than a billion dollars.

Such was the power of the biomedical establishment at the time that the
ASPCA even went so far as to oppose an amendment offered just before the
Hatch-Metcalf Act was passed which would have authorized a representative of
the New York State Humane Association to accompany Health Department
inspectors on the rounds of laboratory animal rooms. The ASPCA was a mem-
ber of the New York State Humane Association, but it joined the New York
State Society for Medical Research in ﬁghting the humane inspection, which, it
was claimed, ”would emasculate the bill.” The amendment was defeated, ensur-
ing that inspection under the Hatch-Metcalf Act was a whitewashing operation.
A few examples:

1953: A Health Department inspector took AWI representatives
through Cornell Medical SChool explaining how excellent the
care for the animals was while passing by a dog whose incision
had opened, allowing his internal organs to fall onto the ﬂoor
of the cage.

1960: AWI was called to inspect the animal quarters at St. Vincent’s
Hospital where gross filth and massive infestation of ticks,
roaches, and other insects were found.

1963: AWI was called by a secretary in New York University Dental
School about epizootics which were running through the ani-
mal colonies due to the fact that wild rodents were fouling the
cages, and cleaning was put off for so long that there was
scarcely a clear spot to set foot in the dog runway.

All these institutions received dogs from the ASPCA and were inspected
and certified by the Health Department and also by ASPCA employees who vis-
ited at the invitation of the laboratories. When the federal Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act ”was passed in 1966, the ASPCA ended even the gesture of sending
inspectors to laboratories but continued to supply them with dogs and cats until
1971.

m.
.K

Repeal of Animal Seizure Laws ’ ‘ t .

In 1976, a reform movement swept the ASPCA, permanently ending the
supply of dogs and cats from its shelters to laboratories. In 1977, the New York
Assembly voted 126-14 to repeal the Hatch-Metcalf Act. Connecticut, Massa-
chusetts, Ohio and West Virginia also repealed similar acts.

This type of legislation has proved itself a failure. The claims issued for its
enactment, to the effect that dog dealing and stealing would cease if animals
were available to laboratories from humane societies and pounds, were proven
false in the most dramatic way by the very case which set in motion the enact-
ment of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. A dog was bought by a New York
hospital from a Pennsylvania dog dealer, although the hospital was entitled to
free dogs from the ASPCA. In other states, too, which passed animal seizure
legislation, laboratories often have not taken advantage of the law, preferring to
buy from dealers.

 

\N

 




LAB.2: 4/3/90

Thirteen states prohibit the release of impounded animals to research
facilities: Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, and
West Virginia. Of these, Massachusetts is the only state which speciﬁcally pro-
hibits the sale of pound animals brought in from other states as well: "No per-
son, institution, animal dealer, or their authorized agent shall transport . . . any
animal obtained from any municipal or public pound, public agency, or dog
officer . . . into the commonwealth for purposes of research, experimentation,
testing, instruction or demonstration” (Ch. 140, Sec. 174D, 1983).

Release of impounded animals for research purposes is required in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Iowa, Minnesota, Oklahoma (by pounds only; shelters may
release animals for research), South Dakota, and Utah.

Release of impounded animals for research use is allowed in Arizona, Cali-
fornia, Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, Washington, and Wisconsin.

Recent efforts to repeal Minnesota’s law requiring release of animals from
pounds to research facilities have been unsuccessful. However, a law was
enacted in 1987 which provides for inspections of animal dealers by the Minne-
sota Board of Animal Health as well as the U. S. Department of Agriculture,
requires dealers to post signs informing the public that they sell animals to
laboratories, and opens dealers’ premises to the public to enable pet owners to
search for lost or stolen pets. A fine of $1,000 will be imposed on any individual
selling a dog or cat to a research facility without the permission of the owner.

The State of Washington enacted a law in 1989 to prevent pet theft.
Research animal dealers who sell stolen dogs or cats to scientific institutions or
who pose as adopters of animals responding to ”free to good home” classified
ads may now be punished by a fine of $10,000 and 5 years in jail. Research
facilities are required to maintain a file on each dog and cat, including
certification of the animal’s origin, a photograph, and a physical description of
the animal, available for public inspection.

In 1983, Iowa passed a law authorizing suspension or revocation of the li-
cense of an animal shelter, auction, dealer, kennel, or pound for cruelty to ani-
mals.

Massachusetts, in 1985, authorized the Massachusetts SPCA and the Ani-
mal Rescue League of Boston to inspect all animal dealers licensed by the US.
Department of Agriculture, thus complementing their previously enacted law
allowing for inspection of research facilities.

In 1989, Kansas enacted legislation requiring annual licensing of all re-
search facilities, dealers, pounds, pet shops and kennels. The Commissioner of
livestock has extensive authority to inspect facilities and to deny, suspend or re-
voke licenses. A similar law was passed in Iowa.

REGULATORY PROPOSALS STALLED IN COMMITTEE
BY MEDICAL LOBBYISTS

Between the years 1960 and 1966, a great deal of effort was devoted to
unsuccessful attempts to pass legislation based on the principles of the British
Act of 1876. But public interest in the treatment of laboratory animals was grow-
ing, and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) decided to contract for a study
by Dr. David N. Ruth and Mr. Robert W. Cox on ”The Care and Management of
laboratory Animals Used in the Programs of the Department of Health, Educa-
tion and Welfare” (DHEW). Submissions were widely solicited, and both the
Animal Welfare Institute and Society for Animal Protective Legislation pres-
ented documentation on visits to laboratories. AWI’s ”Critical Review of Condi-
tions in Institutions Receiving Funds Under DHEW Auspices” documented the
following:

. Cages too small for animals to stand or lie in normal position.

. Failure to administer pain-relieving drugs after surgery.

. Failure to destroy suffering, moribund animals.

. Failure to supervise animals after surgery.

. Failure to provide a comfortable resting place for animals.
. Repeated use of the same animal for painful procedures.
. Failure to provide water.

. Failure to identify animals.

 




9. Immobilization of unanesthetized animals.
10. Filth.

A 210-page volume was produced, but NIH, dismayed by the extensive
evidence of mistreatment and neglect of laboratory animals and the obvious
need for regulatory legislation revealed by the study, quickly withdrew it. Hun-
dreds of copies were secreted in a storeroom. Senator Clark, however,
demanded and got a copy.

The first bill ever introduced in the United States Congress to regulate ani-
mal experimentation was sponsored by Senators John Sherman Cooper, Mike
Mansfield, E. L. Bartlett, Robert C. Byrd, Frank Church, Estes Kefauver, Wayne
Morse, William Proxmire, Jennings Randolph, Ernest Gruening, Pat McNamara,
Harrison Williams, and Joseph S. Clark. The bill was written by Abe Fortas and
introduced at the request of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation. As
soon as this bill was introduced, the National Anti-Vivisection Society and the
National Society for Medical Research, normally at each other's throats, found
themselves in agreement: there must be no regulation of animal experimenta-
tion. When hearings were held two years later in the House of Representatives,
Major Charles Hume, founder of the Universities Federation for Animal Wel-
fare of Great Britain, emphasized the fact that, poles apart though they were,
these two groups actually corresponded with a view to helping each other
defeat regulatory legislation.

Opponents thought they had buried regulatory legislation, and in that
Committee they had. But they reckoned without the disappearance of a
Dalmatian dog named Pepper and the response of the House Agriculture Com-
mittee.

The Humane Society of the United States, under the direction of Fred
Myers, insisted that the British Act was not sufficiently strong and gave its sup-
port to the Moulder bill. The American Humane Association remained silent
and, when pressed, said it was studying the matter. When Congressman
Kenneth Roberts held two days? of hearings on the Griffiths and Moulder bills,
the AHA sent no one to testify.

Medical research groups and anti-vivisection groups opposed the bills; the
National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare said it would support the Moulder
bill if it were amended to eliminate all pain inﬂiction. Significant statements
were made by scientists and medical men who supported the Griffiths bill
(identical to the Clark-Neuberger bill in the Senate) based on the principles of
the British Act, and also by knowledgeable Britons who had worked under the
Act and could testify from firsthand experience as to its workability and effec-
tiveness in preventing animal suffering without hampering research.

The American Medical Association felt differently, however, and editor-
ialized about what it termed ”humaniacs.” An objective and authoritative voice
was heard from England when the Report of the Departmental Committee on
Experiments on Animals was presented to Parliament by the Secretary of State
for the Home Department, April 1965.

The Committee, under the chairmanship of Sir Sydney Littlewood, held
hearings over a two-year period to review the working of the British Act, giving
every individual and group who desired to be heard an opportunity. The result-
ing "Littlewood Report,” a remarkable testimony to fairness and good judg-
ment, surveying every aspect of animal experimentation, of the treatment of the
animals, and of procurement, reported the views of scientists, of the public, and
of groups as diverse as the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, whose
scientific approach is well known, and anti-vivisection organizations seeking
abolition of all experimentation on animals. The most widely quoted paragraph
in the 255—page Report is the ﬁrst of the General Findings: "Animal experiment
is a complex and highly specialised subject. It is also a moral and social problem
of the first magnitude and one that does not exclusively concern the expert.”

The "Littlewood Report” was referred to repeatedly by two distinguished
medical men who ﬂew to the United States to testify at hearings held September
30, 1965, before the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee: Dr.
Lawrence Abel, former Vice President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Eng-
land and Consulting Surgeon to the Institute of Cancer Research, Royal Cancer
Hospital, and Sir Graham Wilson, former Director of the Public Health Service.

Speaking of the inspectorate under the British Act, Sir Graham said:

The Act is administered by the Home Office and is enforced by
specially appointed inspectors possessing a medical or veterinary
qualification. Their main purpose is regulatory and educational rather
than disciplinary. In their visits to the laboratories they satisfy them-
selves about the suitability of the conditions under which the animals
are kept and of the general well-being of the animals themselves; they

 




may assure themselves that the license holder is fully aware of what he
is permitted and not permitted to do; and they make useful sugges-
tions for overcoming difficulties of one sort or another.

Dr. Abel, speaking of the three principles—licensing, inspection, and the
pain rule—said:

The third British Principle is the Pain Rule. This sets the limit to
the amOunt of suffering which may be inﬂicted. We do not commit the
atrocities which are reported from time to time in some other
countries. We do not allow the extravagant cruelty committed by some
investigators of stress and shock. We have proved that the desired
results can be obtained by less inhumane methods. We are convinced
that the freedom of all and sundry to use animals indiscriminately
would not improve the value of research.

The hearings of the Health Subcommittee of the House Interstate and For-
eign Commerce Committee at which Sir Graham and Dr. Abel testified were
never published.9 Scheduled as two-day hearings, they were abruptly canceled
the morning of the second day and never rescheduled by Chairman Paul Rog-
ers, now a consultant for the National Association for Biomedical Research
(NABR). The biomedical establishment apparently considered it dangerous to
expose the public to facts about successful regulation of animal experiments.

RESNICK BILL BYPASSES THE HEALTH COMMITTEES

On July 3, 1965, Fay Brisk, a long-term campaigner for reform of the big
Pennsylvania dog dealers, called the Animal Welfare Institute for help to try to
get Pepper back to her owners, the Lakavage family. Mr. Lakavage, in the hospi-
tal with a heart attack, saw Pepper’s photograph together with seventeen other
dogs and tWO goats that had been temporarily unloaded from a Pennsylvania
dog dealer’s overcrowded truck. Mrs. Lakavage and the three young Lakavages
set off in pursuit of Pepper, who, allegedly, had been taken to a big New York
State dog dealer, Nersesian. When the exhausted family arrived, Nersesian
refused them entry.

Senator Clark of Pennsylvania, a well-established fighter for animal protec-
tion and chief sponsor of pending legislation to require humane treatment of
experimental animals, was out of town, but Sara Ehrmann, his Legislative Assis-
tant, responded to the AWI call for help by telephoning Congressman Resnick’s
office in the District where Nersesian’s dog farm was located. Even Congres-
sional intercession failed, however; and Resnick, angered by Nersesian’s high-
handed refusal to admit the family to find their missing pet, decided he would
introduce a bill to prevent such wrongs.

Meantime, pressure by the State Police brought an admission from the
Pennsylvania dog dealer that he had taken his load not to Nersesian, as he first
had said, but directly to Montefiore Hospital in New York. Immediately, Fay
Brisk telephoned the hospital, could hear the rattling of the dog tags at the other
end of the phone, then the news: the dog had died on the operating table the
day before and already had been incinerated. The dog dealer insisted the dog
was not Pepper—the evidence was incinerated—but the call for female
Dalmatians-put out by the hospital to dealers rather than to breeders, had led to
introduction of the Resnick bill on July 9. The Resnick bill, written by attorneys
of the US. Department of Agriculture, required that dealers in dogs and cats
and the laboratories that purchased them be licensed, inspected, and adhere to
humane standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture. A companion bill was
introduced in the Senate by Senator Warren G. Magnuson, Chairman of the
Senate Commerce Committee, and Senator Clark, who came to the Senate ﬂoor
at the same moment to introduce identical bills. In a brief colloquy they agreed
to co-sponsor, and Senator Daniel Brewster of Maryland joined them.

On September 5, Congressman W. R. Poage of Texas, Chairman of the
Livestock Subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee, held hearings on
the Resnick bill. He was the first American legislator to hold hearings on labora-
tory animal legislation with a View to enacting it. He had won passage of the
Humane Slaughter Act in 1958, and was destined to win again for laboratory
animals. Not easily, however. The bill was immediately attacked as anti-vivisec-
tionist by the National Society for Medical Research, which described it as a
“pincers movement” to cut off the supply of animals for laboratories. Anti-vivi-
sectionist groups, however, took but little interest in the matter. The demand for
action came from the general public, outraged by the article in Life magazine
showing Stan Wayman’s photographs of the shocking abuse of dogs in the deal-
ers’ hands.

The Life article was set in motion by Henry Luce after he looked over a col-

lection of photographs supplied by the Animal Welfare Institute, many of them
taken by photographers accompanying AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant,

 




 

Dorothy Dyce. Under the supervision of Life’s Nature Editor, Pat Hunt, the arti-
cle was completed and published February 4, 1966. More mail was received by
Life on this article than on any other in the history of the magazine, and Con-
gress received more mail on the pending bills than on civil rights or Vietnam.

In the face of such demand, the opponents began to modify their opposi-
tion. When Congressman Poage introduced the Committee bill, extending cov-
erage to all vertebrate animals, and Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania intro-
duced an identical bill in the Senate, the opponents concentrated on exempting
scientific institutions from the humane standards and on cutting back the num-
ber of species covered. The Poage bill came unscathed through the Subcommit-
tee, but the full House Agriculture Committee cut it down to dogs and cats in
dealers’ premises only. Laboratory interests thus won a temporary victory and,
no doubt, believed they could continue to keep the objective veterinary inspec-
tors of the U. S. Department of Agriculture out of scientific institutions.

After the House passed the weakened version of the Poage bill, a Senate
Commerce Committee staff draft accomplished a comparable weakening of the
bills introduced by Senators Magnuson, Clark, Brewster, and Scott. Again, lab-
oratory interests made a stab at getting themselves exempted, but they had reck-
oned without Senator Monroney, who, as soon as he read the draft, prepared an
amendment restoring coverage of animals inside scientific institutions. N ewspa—
pers throughout the country supported the Monroney Amendment in emphatic
terms. So hotly debated was the issue that a second set of hearings was sched-
uled in the Senate Commerce Committee on May 25, 1966.

For six years the National Institutes of Health and its parent Department of
Health, Education and Welfare had opposed all moves toward effective legisla-
tion for humane treatment of research animals. Suddenly, when it became clear
that such opposition could no longer stem the demand for action, NIH asked
Senator Lister Hill, Chairman of the Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, to
introduce a bill written by NIH itself providing a self-policing system for
laboratories. Meanwhile, its representatives urged exemption of laboratories
from the straightforward, humane Senate Commerce Committee bill.

‘7

 




LAB.3: 4/3/90

Neither the Committee nor the Senate as a whole could be brought to sup-
port this maneuver. The Washington Evening Star stated editorially:

THE ANIMAL CRUELTY BILLS

Congress at last is headed toward enactment of a law to require
humane treatment of animals used in laboratory research and to halt
thefts of pets by dealers supplying this market. At the eleventh hour,
however, a snag has been encountered in the Senate Commerce Com-
mittee. Medical researchers, hostile to government supervision, (but
not government grants, it should be added), are attempting a switch
play. A bill introduced by Senator Hill of Alabama would head off fed-
eral inspection of how laboratories treat animals awaiting experiments.
Instead this authOrity would be given to a private group.

The medical men, in fact have such a group all ready and waiting.
Set up last year, it is called the American Association for Accreditation
of Laboratory Animal Care. Its members are of the establishmentgjyand ,W;
are staff members of medical schools and research institutions. And, as '
the association’s brochure suggests, the ’inspections’ would be rather
friendly affairs.

There would be no surprise audits, such as those routinely carried
out now in the banking industry, for example. Instead a visit would be
scheduled by ’mutual convenience.’ It would not come distressingly
often—no more than once every five years. The inspectors, according
to the brochure, would charge fees ranging up to $1,000 for their trou-
ble.

If the laboratories are in fact treating their animals humanely, they
should have nothing to fear from a proposal by Senator Magnuson of
Washington that such inspections be made by the Department of Agri-
culture after standards have been published. His bill has nothing to do
with the anti-vivisectionists; the government would not interfere with
any laboratory tests or operations.

Certainly the public should not be deluded into thinking the Hill
proposal represents any kind of adequate substitute for impartial
inspection of such institutions.

Senator Magnuson had made plain his determination to report a bill out of
his Committee. The National Society for Medical Research and National
Institutes of Health, therefore, concentrated on trying to get the laboratories
exempted from compliance with humane standards set by the United States
Department of Agriculture and inspection by its representatives. Glowing
references to the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal
Care (AAALAC), for whose existence Dr. Maurice Visscher, President of the
NSMR, took credit, were a stock in trade; and at the final Senate Commerce
Committee hearings, representatives of the NIH and N SMR strongly supported
the NIH bill and opposed the Monroney Amendment. Testimony was limited to
medical witnesses at this hearing; and two courageous physicians, who had
been associated for years with efforts to obtain humane treatment of laboratory
animals, came to Washington to testify for the Monroney Amendment: Dr.
Nicholas Gimbel, Chief of Surgery at Metropolitan Hospital and Associate
Professor of, Surgery at Wayne University Medical School, and Dr. Bennett Der-
by, Head of Neurology at Veterans Administration Hospital in Manhattan and
Assistant Professor of Neurology at New York University Medical School. Dr.
Gimbel and Dr. Derby urged the Senate Committee to provide for humane care
and housing of animals in research institutions. They emphasized that the
Department of Agriculture is the ideal agency to administer such requirements.
Dr. Gimbel, who had devoted considerable time to getting better treatment for
experimental dogs in different institutions, brought the question down to earth
by stating that if he were a dog, he would prefer to have the Department of Agri-
culture administer the law. He said the ”welfare of animals should be the
responsibility of a body which is primarily interested in them . . . the Depart-
ment of Agriculture,” and he added: ”If the scientists and organizations repre-
sented in AAALAC had done their job properly, we would not be holding hear-
ings here today. The time has come to bring in independent auditors.” The NIH
bill did not come to hearings.

The Senate Commerce Committee bill, under the leadership of Senator
Magnuson and Senator Monroney, received unanimous endorsement by the
Senate. Eighty-five Senators came to the ﬂoor to vote for it, and each of the fif-
teen who were absent and unable to vote stated in The Congressional Record that

 




 

they would have voted for it had they been present. The bill’s sanctions were
strengthened at the insistence of the House Conferees. They agreed to accept
the Senate amendments restoring humane care and housing of animals inside
laboratories and increasing the number of species of animals covered, on condi-
tion that the stronger House enforcement clauses be adopted.

Regulations were promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture February
24; and the law went into effect for animal dealers May 25 and for scientific
institutions August 24, 1967.

Congress broadened and strengthened this first federal law to prevent
abuses of test animals in 1970, 1976, and 1985. The 1966 Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act (fiercely contested by medical and pharmaceutical interests and the
associated industries that sell animals, cages, and equipment to scientific institu-
tions) set humane standards for dogs, cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters, and
guinea pigs in animal dealers’ premises and in laboratories prior to experimen-
tal use of animals. In 1970, the coverage was extended to the entire stay of ani-
mals in laboratories, where they must be maintained according to minimum
standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture. The veterinary care required
includes "appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, and tranquilizing drugs.” All
warm-blooded animals designated by the Secretary are covered, but neither
birds, farm animals used in research, nor those species that constitute the large
majority of the millions of experimental animals used each year—mice and
rats—have yet been designated. Because inadequate appropriations have had to
be stretched to cover inspections of thousands of sites in laboratories, licensed
animal dealers, licensed exhibitors, registered exhibitors, and carriers under the
Act as amended, no Secretary has been willing to include more animals for
inspectors to check; however, in 1986 the Animal Legal Defense Fund prepared
a brief contending that the Act requires him to do so.

The important requirement for pain-relieving drugs and reporting on their
use or lack thereof was added in 1970. Reports by registered scientific institu-
tions on use of animals are filed with the U. S. Department of Agriculture and
are available for public scrutiny under the Freedom of Information Act. Many
institutions have failed to honor this section of the Act, necessitating additional
legislative and enforcement action.

Under the 1976 amendments sponsored by Agriculture Committee Chair-
man Thomas Foley,10 research institutions were moved to the same category as
exhibitors and dealers with respect to the imposition of fines for violations. Pre-
viously, research facilities were subject to a cease and desist order which they
would haveto violate before a fine could be imposed. The 1976 amendments
also include a requirement that agencies of the federal government submit
proof that they are in compliance with the standards which private institutions
must meet under the eyes of veterinary inspectors of the U. S. Department of
Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. Representative
Margaret Heckler11 proposed and was successful in obtaining this essential
advance on the ﬂoor of the House.

The Animal Welfare Act now constitutes a solid, broad-based structure
whose 1976 amendments, sponsored in the Senate by Senator Lowell Weicker,
cover transportation of animals for research, exhibition, the pet trade, by com-
mon carriers and intermediate handlers. Its anti-dogfighting and cockfighting
provisions are detailed in Chapter IX.

The 1970 reporting requirements on painful experiments focused on the
responsibility of the institutional veterinarian to prevent suffering through
humane experimental design or through use of drugs to relieve pain or anxiety.
However, enforcement in this area has been virtually nil. The 1985 amend-
ments, which should have gone into effect December 23, 1986, remain to be
tested in practice because of the long delay, caused by anti-animal lobbyists, in
the promulgation of ﬁnal regulations to implement the law.

COMMERCIAL DEALERS AND BREEDERS

The laboratory animal industry, supplying millions of animals to institu-
tions at ever increasing prices, is intensely opposed to regulatory legislation that
affects them and their clients. In 1979, it spawned the National Association for
Biomedical Research (NABR) and the Foundation for Biomedical Research
(FBR) to rival the National Society for Medical Research, which they entirely
absorbed and supplanted in a few years. NABR now orchestrates opposition to
all laws and regulations for laboratory animal welfare. Formation of the organi-
zations was, according to executive Frankie Trull, conceived in her living room.
Henry Foster, the veterinarian who built a two-room rat breeding business into
the multimillion dollar international laboratory animal production corporation,

Charles River Breeding Laboratories, and his son, an attorney, wrote the neces-
sary legal papers. Ms. Trull, an employee of Charles River, set about lining up
support among commercial and academic laboratories.

 

 




vMeanwhile, Charles River was sold to the big optical company, Bausch and
Lomb, netting Dr. Foster about, $38 million personally, according to press
reports. The pun-filled, full-page ads offering monkeys, guinea pigs, rabbits, and
other animals for sale have become more sober and strait-laced, but the inten-
sive campaign to market the maximum numbers of animals for experimentation
continues under the new ownership. Charles River has installations in France,
Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom.

Breeding animals for sale to laboratories is big business, and corporations
change hands in transactions based wholly on financial considerations. One of
the largest dog breeders, LRE, which houses several thousand dogs on its prem-
ises, was recently sold to Hazelton, which conducts toxicity tests on contract for
other institutions as well as breeding dogs and other laboratory animals.

ALTERNATIVES T0 LABORATORY ANIMALS

As numbers of animals used in experiments and tests grew by the million, a
countervailing philosophy was increasingly advocated by animal protective
organizations. The ﬁrst serious contribution to the field was The Principles of
Humane Experimental Technique, by W. M. S. Russell and R. L. Burch, produced
under the aegis of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare in 1959, with
some modest assistance from AWI. This pioneering book established the Three
R’s—Replacement, Reduction, and Refinement—which are now generally rec-
ognized as fundamental elements necessary to prevent large-scale unnecessary
suffering by laboratory animals. While Russell and Burch stressed the scientifi-
cally feasible, others advocated “Alternatives Now!”, claiming that substitutes
for animals already existed for all experiments and tests. Bills introduced in
Congress reﬂected different views of the subject, but they made up, if not a criti-
cal mass, solid evidence of public concern and hope.

By 1981, seven bills on alternatives and/or regulation of animal experi-
ments were pending in the Subcommittee on Science, Research and Technol-
ogy of the House Committee on Science and Technology. On October 13 and
14, 1981, Subcommittee Chairman Doug Walgren of Pennsylvania held hear-
ings, which drew unexpectedly wide media attention because Maryland police
had removed 17 monkeys just days earlier from a Silver Spring laboratory.
There they had been experimented on by Dr. Edward Taub under grants from
the National Institutes of Health. Dr. Taub and an associate were charged with
17 counts of cruelty for failing to supply veterinary care. Alex Pacheco, who had
worked at the Institute for Behavioral Research as a volunteer and had alerted
police to conditions there, showed horrifying pictures of the monkeys and their
quarters at the hearings.

Drafting of a composite bill containing some features from each of the
seven pending proposals was undertaken by the Subcommittee staff. Advice
was sought‘from the many organizations which had testified pro- or con- the
different bills. On August 4, 1982, Congressman Walgren proposed the new bill,
which was approved by his Subcommittee and its parent Committee. The bill
was referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcom-
mittee on Health and the Environment, and hearings were held by Chairman
Henry Waxman of California on December 9, 1982.

Senator Robert Dole introduced a bill based on the principles developed in
the October hearings. Senator John Melcher of Montana, the Congress’ only
veterinarian, joined him. Together, they appeared at the Waxman hearings and
testified for the Walgren bill, an unusual tribute to the importance of the legisla-
tion. However, no action was taken before the 97th Congress adjourned.

THE DOLE-BROWN AMENDMENTS

When Senator Dole reintroduced his bill in 1983, he had it redrafted as an
amendment to the Animal Welfare Act, thus broadening its coverage to include
all.,R’egisteredﬁR'esearch,szcilities (over 1,200) inspected by USDA.

This wise decision encouraged consideration by scientific groups who
began a slow move from point-blank opposition to demands for a variety of
modifications in the language of the bill. At hearings of the full Senate Agricul-
ture Committee, chaired by Senator Dole July 20, nearly every witness had sci-
entific qualifications. Humane groups were represented by Bennett Derby,
M.D., Ph.D., who had appeared at the crucial hearings which led to unanimous
Senate passage of the original Act.

Senator Dole’s masterful handling of the hearings paved the way for action,
but it was not to come in the 98th Congress. Opponents tried a new tack, ques-
tioning the need for the Dole bill. The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
prepared two thick binders of documentation outlining the urgent need for all
the bill’s provisions for minimizing pain and distress and strengthening the
authority of Agriculture’s veterinary inspectors.

 




 

 

Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. of California, well known for his suc-
cessful sponsorship of the 1978 humane slaughter amendments (see chapter
III), introduced a bill, HR. 5725, based on the Dole bill. On September 19, 1984,
he chaired hearings in his Subcommittee on Departmental Operations,
Research and Foreign Agriculture which drew a standing-room-only crowd
with long lines waiting outside the hearing room. Interest in the legislation had
been heightened by revelations of severe mistreatment of experimental
baboons at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Sixty hours of self-
incriminating videotapes taken by a research team as a record of their experi-
ments showed virtually every rule of aseptic surgery being violated. Injured
baboons were painfully dangled and ridiculed by groups of laughing students.

The tapes were stolen by a group known as the Animal Liberation Front
and given to Pe0ple for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. They excerpted 25
minutes from the many hours of footage. It was run repeatedly in a nearby
church on the day of the hearings.

Henry Mitchell’s column in The Washington Post September 21, 1984 notes:
"Savagery is very much part of the nature of all humans I have ever known, and
that is one reason civilized nations have gone to such efforts to restrain it or
redirect it." Citing the evidence and characterizing it as sickening, he wrote:
”Legislation is needed, and those who do not wish to concern themselves with
what amounts to ﬂamboyant sadism should at least have the grace not to
obstruct the \long hard thankless labors of those who have not shied from the
evidence and who have at last come up with reasonable and moderate legisla-
tion.” Describing his feelings in watching five minutes of the tapes in St. Mark’s
Church, he concluded: ”I left thinking it probably an esthetic error to vomit in a
church.”

Documentation of neglect and abuse in laboratories throughout the entire
country was derived from official reports of USDA veterinary inspectors
obtained under the Freedom of Information Act and presented by the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation in the form of a 6’x10’ chart. A heartening
message of support from Dr. Jean Mayer, President of Tufts University, was
delivered by Dr. Frank Loew, Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine, but
most testimony from scientiﬁc groups was severely critical. Congressman
Brown asked his staff to analyze all the criticisms. His bill did not emerge from
the Subcommittee.

Meantime, in the Health and Environment Subcommittee, Congressman
Walgren had succeeded in getting some provisions of his bill included in the
NIH reauthorization bill which was passed by the Congress but vetoed by Pres-
ident Reagan. In the 99th Congress, the bill, after some modification and enti-
tled the Health Research Extension Act of 1985, was passed again and Congress
overrode the President’s secOnd veto. The animal welfare provisions are less
stringent than the Dole-Brown legislation, and they apply only to NIH grantees;
nevertheless, the two were destined to fit together well and reinforce one
another in a practical manner.

Senator Dole, elected Majority Leader of the Senate, reintroduced his bill at
the same time as Congressman Brown. This time the bills were identical, the
heroic work of staffers Sara Rasmussen for Brown and Mark Scanlan for Dole.
They produced a ﬁnal draft still containing every major animal protective provi-
sion, phrased in the manner least objectionable to the legion of opponents and
unremitting critics.

The New York Times editorialized on July 31, 1985 in support of the Dole-
Brown proposals, and in the following months, newspapers in every part of the
country followed suit.

The debate on the 1985 Farm Bill was continuing when the Majority Leader
brought his bill, Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals, to the Senate
ﬂoor, October 25. Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, Chairman of the Committee on
Labor and Human Resources, expressed reservations. The bill then went into an
intense discussion by the staffs of Senators Dole, Hatch, and Melcher and repre-
sentatives of the National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR), the
Feed Manufacturers Association, and the Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tion. A bill calling for 16 different changes in Senator Dole’s bill had been pre-
pared for Senator Hatch by an NABR attorney. Every point had to be fought
through. Senator Dole appeared from time to time to ask what progress was
being made. At one point, Senator Melcher took part in the arguments, explain-
ing the reason for his language, ”a physical environment adequate to promote
the psychological well-being of primates.” He had seen laboratory chimpanzee
cages which, even though unoccupied at the time, he characterized as ”ex-
tremely efficient, extremely expensive, and extremely cruel.”

A second series of amendments, this time consisting of no less than 32
changes, even including a $500 reduction in the fine, was proposed. A night
meeting in the Dole office was called to resolve the differences. It appeared that

 




although academia was somewhat grudgingly resigned to the legislation, the
pharmaceutical industry was not willing to stop fighting. Indeed, it fought to the
end. Disagreement about the content continued, and Senator Melcher offered a
substitute bill on October 29th. This passed the Senate unanimously.

The House had already passed the Farm Bill without the Dole-Brown 7 ~ if .5; (wag-VJ. / —~—-~ 1192/1“: A”:
amendments. Fortunately, Majority Whip Tom Foley’ omeawshmgtonpmved " " ’ ’ ‘ ‘ , W f ' wt 5
himself a powerful friend of animals during the House-Senate Conference. ./ j / ”if/'xggfﬂf 32W
Congressman Foley, as noted earlier, was the author of the 1976 amendments to :::::: ,, W7, _ . I I - h }
the Animal Welfare Act. House Agriculture Committee Chairman Kika de 121 /~":«) f " f. +9 7? “41
Garza of Texas gave his blessing to the legislation in Conference. Lobbying to "
kill the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals continued to the very last
moment.

The Farm Bill, an enormously lengthy piece of legislation, was in Confer-
ence for days. The'Conferees met in a small room in the Russell Senate Office
Building, and dozens of lobbyists from each of the special interests that stood to
gain or lose from some part of the complex bill lined the hallway outside the
room, waiting for news on decisions of the Conferees as staffers came in and
out. At 4:00 pm. on December 12, it appeared that action on the laboratory ani-
mal section was imminent. Weakening amendments were being urged by the
National Association for Biomedical Research, and Senator Dole had not yet
returned from out of town.

The sight of the Senate Majority Leader striding down the hall rein-
vigorated the weary Society for Animal Protective Legislation lobbyists waiting
for the outcome. "You’re next,” he said to us. Then he was engulfed by a mass of
farm lobbyists. It was nearly eleven that night when we heard the good news
from Congressman Foley. The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act
had come through the Conference unscathed!

The Conference report was approved by the House on December 16 and
two days later by the Senate. The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
amendments establish an information service in the National Agricultural
library in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine to provide data on
alternatives to laboratory animals, help prevent unintended duplication of
experiments and tests, and provide information to institutions for instruction of
scientists and other personnel in humane practices as required by the new law.
Each registered research facility must appoint an Institutional Animal Care and
Use Committee, including a veterinarian and a person not affiliated with the
institution, to represent the general community interests in the proper care and
treatment of animals. The committee must inspect the animal laboratories twice
a year and report deficiencies to the institution for correction. If not corrected
promptly, the U. S. Department of Agriculture must be notified for enforcement
action, and any funding agency involved informed for a decision on whether
the grant should be suspended or revoked.

Investigators are required to consider alternatives and to consult with a vet-
erinarian before beginning any experiment which could cause pain. They must
adhere to standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture for pre- and post-surgi-
cal care, use of pain-relieving drugs or euthanasia, against use of paralytics with-
out anesthesia, and unnecessary use of the same animal for more than one
major operation. Exceptions to the standards may be made only when specified
by a research protocol and an explanation given for any deviation. Fines for vio-
lations were raised from $1,000 to $2,500, and for violating a cease and desist
order, from $500 to $1,500. Each animal may count as a violation, as may each
day of failure to obey a cease and desist order.

Interest in protection of laboratory animals has grown worldwide, and two
countries made significant improvements in their national laws in 1986: the
United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany. The full text of these
laws appears in the Appendix. Of particular note in the new British Act is recog-
nition of gradations of stress or pain and justification thereof. This begins with
the stress caused by putting an animal in a cage and progresses to the point of
procedures prohibited because of extreme painfulness.

In issuing project licenses, the British Secretary of State is required to
”weigh the likely adverse effects on the animals concerned against the benefit
likely to accrue.” Both project licenses and individual licenses are mandatory
under the new law. As in the 1876 Act, if an inspector considers that an animal
is undergoing excessive suffering, he may require it to be immediately killed.

The new German law was introduced by Minister of Agriculture Ignaz
Kiechle. It forbids, with provision for special exceptions, the use of animals for
tests on weapons, tobacco, washing powders, and cosmetics. Authorization for
experiments are to be supervised by advisory commissioners. Animal protec- J;
tion organizations may nominate up to a third of the commissionsflmembers._( __f;,
The law covers all experiments leading to pain or injury of an animal.

 




APPROPRIATIONS FOR ENFORCEMENT

The struggle for protection of laboratory animals has had to be fought on
many fronts. When passed in 1966, an appropriation of $300,000 was barely
achieved. Slowly, annual appropriations were worked up to $4,865,000 and
remained at the same level despite attempts by the Office of Management and
Budget to reduce them. In both 1985 and 1986, the Administration recom-
mended that no money whatever be allocated to administer the law and inspect
the 1,219 registered research facilities, the 3,414 licensed dealers’ premises, the
1,386 exhibitors’ premises, or the 374 intermediate handlers operating during
those years.

In 1985 the Congress simply restored the funds, but in 1986, following pas-
sage of the Dole-Brown amendments, Congress voted an increase to $5,878,000,
Specifying that $750,000 be used for the information service designated by the
new legislation at the National Agricultural library in cooperation with the
National Library of Medicine. The Senate Appropriations Committee report
stated:

For enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act the Committee con-
curs with the House in providing $5,878,000 over the budget request.
This is also $1,902,000 more than the 1986 adjusted level. Included in
this appropriation is $750,000 for creation of an information service at
the National Agricultural Library which will include information on
available alternatives to the use of live animals in research. The
remainder of the increase is for the general expansion of the program.

On the House floor, Congressman Bob Traxler of. Michigan said: ”We
restore funding for the Animal Welfare Act once again, rejecting the notion that
enforcement of the act should be turned over to other authorities. That proposal
is simply not sensible in today’s interstate economy.”

In 1987,- the Office of Management and Budget again recommended zero
funding for the Animal Welfare Act. However, for the first time, the Department
of Agriculture protested, and the budget figure emerged as $4.947 million, a fig-
ure from which the $750,000 appropriation for the information service at the
National Agricultural Library had been subtracted and which could not cover
the requirement for continued inspection of research facilities until all
deficiencies were corrected. Congress appropriated $6.125 million for Fiscal
Year 1987. In 1988 and 1989, the budget ﬁgure again was $4.947 million, but

$6.197 million was appropriated; and the budget request for Fiscal Year 1990
was $7.567 million. Animal protective organizations and scientific groups re-
quested $10 million for enforcement of the law, and the budget request for FY
1991 was raised to $8.688 million. The roups are requesting $12 million in or-
der to ensure adequate inspection. In ;199,, abﬁomuwt25"/_9 of dog dealers were nev— ,
er inspected at all. Citizen demand for sufficient funds 16““éﬁ‘f6‘f6é‘{HEIaW‘edﬁﬁn-‘ ' A. ”

ues to be urgently necessary.

 




LAB.3A: 10/18/89

3. // ' ; /\ L 'IL/I. ' 'ﬁ w
REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT (f, . ,A// ~— / 7-0:? ff; (17¢ .,
. .....- 5/ I .
In October 1988, a reorganization of the Animal and Plant Health Inspec— . “5/. y», ,- ': 'z'“: . , \ Li/ ” Q”
tion Service took place. It created a new division, Regulatory Enforcement and 5 L ('6 j / ”L L t ( [M ﬂr/g w L
Animal Care (REAC). Enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act has been />é* , E C q (’3 k/ (IQ/[311, V
removed from Veterinary Servrces and placed With REAC. REAC inspectors are / ’ " .5

assigned on a full-time basis to enforcement of the Act, but their numbers are
inadequate to make the frequent inspections necessary to enforce the law-Irra/

! , I ‘
,Yeterinary Services personnel will have to be luff/'70 “11‘ .Suoéﬁﬂﬂ‘t/al/
called on to help make inspection; , .
m c rad, std. MR/Oﬁf/af/oﬂ 5’

Citizen complaints concerning research facilities, animal dealers, animal
auctions, and other entities covered by the Animal Welfare Act, including
circuses, zoos, airlines, and the wholesale pet industry, should be directed to the
nearest REAC office or to the central office at Hyattsville. For names and phone
numbers, see the Appendix. Citizen complaints are important in protecting ani-
mals because of REAC’s staff limitations. It is the policy of REAC to investigate
all complaints.

Having failed to prevent enactment of the Improved Standards for Labora-
tory Animals amendments by Congress, opponents transferred their efforts to
the agencies and succeeded in delaying the regulations which must be promul—
gated before the legislation can be enforced. Proposed regulations for Parts 1
and 2 were first issued by the Department of Agriculture in March 1987. The
National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR) inspired thousands of
letters of protest against these well-prepared regulations. The result was that,
rather than being made final, they were withdrawn, and two years passed
before rewritten regulations for Parts 1 and 2 were reproposed and a proposal
for Part 3 regulations finally appeared.

An even more intensive effort by NABR and its constituents followed.
However, a lawsuit filed by the Animal Legal Defense Fund against the Secre-
tary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget was viewed favorably by Judge
Richey, who heard the case in the U. S. District Court. A timetable was set up
with the Justice Department, and on August 31, 1989, final regulations for Parts
1 and 2 were published in the Federal Register.

Part of the campaign against Part 3 regulations is the issuance of inﬂated
figures on compliance costs. As we go to press, an extended delay is expected
'with respect to the requirements for exercise for laboratory dogs and an envi-
ronment adequate to promote the psychological well-being of primates.

 

LABORATORY ANINIAL LAWS: IMPORTANT DATES
ENGLAND

1870: Royal Society started establishment of rules for humane experimenta-
tion. .

1876: British Act regulating animal experimentation enacted.

1906-1912: Royal Commission to review the 1876 Act consolidated and
affirmed it.

1925: Founding of Universities Federation for Animal Welfare.

1965: ”Littlewood Report" completed after a two-year study of the British Act
of 1876 by a Parliamentary Committee; approved the Act and made
some suggestions for strengthening and improving its implementation.

1986: Following years of work by a coalition of the British Veterinary Associa-
tion, the Committee for Reform of Animal Experimentation, and the
Fund for the Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments, the Ani-
mals (Scientific Procedures) Act became law, replacing the 1876 Act.

UNITED STATES

1880: Attempt to pass bill for District of Columbia based on British Act of
1876.

1945: Founding of National Society for Medical Research.
1947: Passage of Michigan Animal Care Law.

1949: First animal seizure law passed in Minnesota. Animal seizure law pas- _- 3
sed in Wisconsmf..M,ss£i§s3:-:Swssa National Society- f9! Medical '-: E 7 f '4 M
Research and American Humane Association?” h " E p ‘ ' _ ' . ‘ . _ . g, L ’ .

,l

 




Founding of the Animal Welfare Institute.

Dr. Robert Gesell, Chairman of the Department of Physiology, Univer- , - .. ILL" . ( ( (:-

sity of Michigan Medical School, made an unscheduled presentation on ‘ _ W... ‘ ' ’ ’ v V [La/L A, ‘(z/ -
humanity versus inhumanity in animal experimentation at the annual .\

meeting of the American Physiological Society. 1 L ( K ( L 5/",

‘ \
O

Three reform directors elected by membership of American Humane

Association. / j L(L,){C ”7C C (C: 7 M (f

American Humane Association Board ensured no more outside inter-
ference. _

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals prose-
cuted Dr. Panico of Overholt Clinic for cruelty in transporting an experi-
mental dog.

Bill modeled on principles of British Act introduced by Senator Cooper
and twelve co-sponsors in 86th Congress.

Similar bill introduced by Senators Clark and Neuberger and Congress-
woman Griffiths in 87th Congress. More restrictive bill introduced by
Congressman Moulder at request of the Humane Society of the United
States.

Hearings held on both bills in Health Subcommittee of House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee.

Senator Clark again introduced bill based on British Act with Senators
Maurine Neuberger and Stephen Young co-sponsoring in 88th Con-

gress.
Congressman Cleveland Sponsored identical bill in the House.

Congressman Paul Rogers introduced a bill at the request of the Ameri-
can Humane Association which was so sharply criticized for weakness
by Dr. Eric Hansen, President of the Massachusetts SPCA, that AHA did
not ask membership support.

Congressman William Randall introduced a bill similar to Moulder bill
at the request of the Humane Society of the United States .

Congressman Edward Roybal introduced a billYt'o provide funds to 2 w
laboratorieth the request of the National Soc1ety fOr Medical Researchj/ \

Senator Clark again introduced a bill based on British Act with Senators
Stephen Young, Harry Byrd, E. L Bartlett, and Edmund S. Muskie co-
sponsoring in 89th Congress.

Weakened variations of the Moulder and Randall bills introduced by
Congressmen Rogers and Pepper and Senator McIntyre, and a similar
but not identical bill by Congressman Tupper.

Congressman Roybal again introduced National Society for Medical
Research bill.

July 9, 1965: Congressman Resnick introduced bill to license dealers and
laboratories. Senator Magnuson and Senator Clark simultaneously went
to the Senate ﬂoor to introduce the identical bill in the Senate; Senator
Brewster joined as co-sponsor.

September 2,1965: Congressman Poage held hearings on Resnick bill and
twemy“ other similar bills, including one introduced on the day of the , " ,, ..
hearings by Congressman Ancher Nelsen for the National Society for
Medical Research, which omitted all reference to laboratories, and one
introduced before the hearings by Congressman Henry Helstoski for
the National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, which cut laboratories
out of the bill but required dog dealers to treat dogs as ”a responsible
and conscientious owner" would care for his "household pet.”

September 30, 1965: Health Subcommittee held hearings on Rogers bill,
Cleveland bill, and Roybal bill. Canceled second day of hearings after
Dr. Shannon, Head of the National Institutes of Health, testified. These
hearings were never published.

March 7, 8, 1966: House hearings before Livestock and Feed Grains
Subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee on Poage, Resnick,
Helstoski, Nelsen bills, and thirty other bills similar to one of these.W

March 8,1966: Senator Hugh Scott introduced bill identical to Poage bill.

March 25, 1966: Senator Mondale introduced National Society for Medical
Research bill.

March 27, 28, 1966: Senate Commerce Committee hearings.

 




April 14, 1966: Senator Javits introduced New York State Society for Medical
Research bill.

April 28, 1966: House of Representatives passed weakened version of Poage
bill
May 10, 1966: National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Senator Hill.

May 18, 1966: Identical National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Con-
gressman John Fogarty.

May 25, 1966: Identical National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Con-
gressman Harley O. Staggers.§gr_11te Commerce Committee hearings
on the Monroney Amendment to restore coverage of labomtgiiié‘s‘f’ww"

 

June 15, 1966: Bill reported by Senate Commerce Committee including
modified Monroney Amendment.

June 22, 1966: 85 to 0 Roll Call Vote in Senate passed bill.

July 26, 1966: Conference Committee reported bill combining strongest pro—
visions of both Senate and House passed bills.

August 25, 1966: Bill signed into law by President Johnson.

September 23, 1969: Congressman William G. Whitehurst introduced amend-
ments to include all warm-blooded animals throughout their stay in the
laboratory and to cover animals in the pet trade or for exhibition.

June 8, 9, 1970: House hearings before Livestock and Grains Subcommittee of
the House Agriculture Committee to amend the Act of 1966.
Subcommittee Chairman Foley’s bill to broaden and strengthen the lab-
oratory Animal Welfare Act, including the use of pain-relieving drugs,
approved.

December 7, 1970: Passed by the House of Representatives.
December 8, 1970: Passed by the Senate.
December 24, 1970: Bill signed into law by President Nixon.

September 25, 26, 27 and 28, 1973: Hearings before the Special Studies
Subcommittee, House Committee on Government Operations, to inves-
tigate the hazards of air—shipping animals, chaired by Representative
Floyd V. Hicks.

August 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 15 and 20; September 30; October 2, 1974: House hear-
ings before Livestock and Grains Subcommittee on amendments intro-
duced by Representative Foley to regulate the ransportation of animals
in interstate commerce and to prohibit certayz: animal ﬁghting ventures.

September 9, 10, 1975: House hearings bets v Livestock and Grains
Subcommittee on amendments introduce- 3y Congressman Foley to
regulate the transportation of animals it verstate commerce and to
prohibit certain animal ﬁghting ventures.

November 20, 1975: Senate hearings before St! 'ommittee on Environment
of the Committee on Commerce on amenc ments introduced by Senator
Lowell Weicker and Senator Robert Dole : regulate animal transport.

December 18, 1975: Passed by the Senate.
February 9, 1976: Passed by the House of Representatives.
April 22, 1976: Bill signed into law by President Ford.

August 23, 1976: Amendment to Toxic Substances Control Act offered by
Congressman Richard Ottinger to require Administrator of Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency to consider non-animal-using methods
where feasible. Amendment failed.

September 30, 1976: Hearings held by Congressman W. R. Poage on a bill to
establish a commission with subpoena powers to study animal prob-
lems, including animal experimentation (introduced by Congressman
Edward Koch, December 11, 1975). NSMR opposed bill. Congress
adjourned without acting on it.

October 13, 14, 1981: House hearings before the Subcommittee on Science,
Research and Technology, chaired by Congressman Doug Walgren, on
seven laboratory animal bills.

August 4, 1982: Combination bill preposed by Congressman Walgren.

December 9, 1982: After gaining Subcommittee and Committee approval, the
Walgren bill was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce
where Congressman Henry Waxman chaired hearings in his Subcom-
mittee on Health and the Environment. No action was taken.

' v/aﬂ /-\/\\ f ‘ .
' f , r .. . ' g - , . ‘ ‘
77/ J K _.-r\ _ ; /.'
I {i '11 213 :w .2. t5" ~- -
.-

9
,1
5 ' fvfixl

.. ’4

 

, ‘ g ,.,




July 20,1983: Senator Robert Dole chaired full Senate Agriculture hearings on -,
his bill, the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act. / A //\l ’7 f/ (1”

September 19, 1984: Congressman George Brown chaired hearings on his .. , ,
version of the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act in his . // 4/ ”7 / X 6.6’ J/ j Z" "
Subcommittee on Departmental Operations Research and Foreign ” A / 7

Agriculture. ’ /‘~,.«' t/ ': '/JC :1. Q/ /Q%’

October 25, 1985: Senate Majority Leader Dole brought the Improved Stand-
ards for Laboratory Animals Act to the Senate ﬂoor as an amendment to
the Farm Bill. The ﬁnal vote was deferred.

October 29,1985: A substitute bill offered by Senator John Melcher was unan-
imously approved

November 20, 1985: The Health Research Extension Act, containing a section
on animal welfare and a section on development of alternatives to ani-
mals, was passed over President Reagan’s veto.

December 12, 1985: The Senate-House Conference on the Farm Bill approved
the Improved Standards for Iaboratnrv Animals Act-

3 , l
'3‘ “ ' n “ 3 i’ 7 ., .'
A .I ~ 3- ,3 3“ . * t . f V We". “'3 .2” J hr
’ ' y ff 1", 1“! I; . l(' f 'y ‘ ‘ 4 f . 3; j ”19,-54F" "n ‘ .1 {I 7’ '7“? "I“ H 21/
. f" 1 ”I . ‘ ~52?“ ” , f" " '-»._, A -‘ ”3

v if 3 “:3" . 3 ‘ Am”; 5 f
If ‘7 > ‘5??? . .

Finland passed an animal protective law, including requirements for
licen51ng of establishments and individuals qualified to perform
animal experiments in accordance with the EC Directive.

New Belgian animal welfare law awaiting Royal Decree for detailed

hrnVr-inq'nvxn J-A ~-_...1-- ___‘ 4.1. 'r-II'I ﬁr“- -

Australia gaggeé Erevention of C uelty to Animals Act,
iﬁcluﬂimg Eart 3, Eciantific ErgCeEures, proviﬁing
regiﬁtration of Experimenters, licenﬁing of AC1 nti1ic
establia hments anE ureealng tstaullshntnts, anE requiring
approval by Animal E19E11m1ﬁtat1oa Ethicg Committee anE Eeer
Eeviaw Eommittea. '

JAE: To clarify, because of all the inserts, under 1986 the
order will now he: ‘

Wag t Germanya amendeﬁ
Finlané pasged aA . . .
Eew Belgian animal . . .

Netherlands Experimaara an . . .
Australia pasged . . .

EOTE: The four pages with the chronological liating (Lle
through L-l?) were not incluEeE in tha revised copy you sent
me, so 1 xerored those pages from the previous galley. I
Eon't know if you ve already done some of these corrections
or met. If you diE alreaéy E0 them, them the only EEW insert
unEar lEEE is ﬁza Australian one (Ina err C above).

 

 

enacted laboratory animal welfare legislation.

1989: Austria

on animal experimentation enters into force.

EC Directive

 




 

 
 

July 20, 1983: Senator Robert Dole chaired full Senate Agriculture hearings on /" 7: ,5; ,A a. , / ...--
his bill, the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act. [a /)r;t a , 2,, g ﬂz/L/ ,
September 19, 1984: Congressman George Brown chaired hearings on his I A 4 fr, : /, . /, , ‘\ -' ’
version of the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act in his . /', {U} {7 {I LC ' "L / ﬁ/ /« , C 5- 4” "
Subcommittee on Departmental Operations, Research and Foreign " I“ V V 77’ ,. . ‘17,;
Agriculture. /7/,~ .r/ L/ Qty/C, (J 47/ .. p344
October 25, 1985: Senate Majority Leader Dole brought the Improved Stand- / " I b "

ards for Laboratory Animals Act to the Senate floor as an amendment to
the Farm Bill. The ﬁnal vote was deferred.

October 29, 1985: A substitute bill offered by Senator John Melcher was unan-
imously approved. .

November 20, 1985: The Health Research Extension Act, containing a section
on animal welfare and a section on deve10pment of alternatives to ani-
mals, was passed over President Reagan’s veto.

I

December 12, 1985: The Senate-House Conference on the Farm Bill approved

the Improved Standards for laboratory Animals Act.
~ A c, "7L 79 ‘

: . .-- U , 5
. I» (4&1: I“! a: J: . V . 'flgb 411, , _ > L. j (I g ‘ A ’1.”
\. J; y a,“ - 4;. a - ’4”st » .. at?” _ v

Finland passed an animal protective law, including requirements for
licensing of establishments and individuals qualified to perform
animal experiments in accordance with the EC Directive.

New Belgian animal welfare law awaiting Royal Decree for detailed
provisions to comply with EC Directive.

a, ‘ j”
I'

1.},
Jffjxi/hetherlands Experiments on Animals Act entered into force, supplemented
,l’iﬂvﬁ by the EXperiments on Animals Decree fully implementing the EC Directive
('gi’tvon Animal Experimentation, including a system for registering
;~J;%.premises, authorizing persons involved in the use and supply of

I (ganimals, undertaking inspections, and compiling statistics.

)w'

f

1987: French Decree updated again (see Appendix).,‘_ .ﬁ -a, /,
.. - My" : ' «if .A‘ I ' 2r: 4‘ In"! t“. . (/1 [/g'i/IJ I, (4; V/V‘”, 7“:;F:”Tﬂ 5‘ 1.41:??? .-

‘ .7"? ‘ Fr; .5‘hmr’/{tﬂ
x ,, ,

1972: Animal Experiments Section of the Animal Pratecnon‘ A'C‘l‘,’ rarer-an:
Republic of Germany.

1974: Norwegian Welfare of Animals Act enacted, including regulation of ani-
mal experiments.

 

 

 

um—ee— ~ “7 1975: Belgium requires licensing
1977: Denmark law on animal experiments enacted. an d 1 ns p e C t i O n O f an 1 ma l
1978: Switzerland enacted an animal protection law which includes experi- exp eri menta ti on .

ments on animals.

1979: Major laboratory animal amendments to Swedish Animal Welfare Act
of 1944.

1980: French Decree updated W I {dag/72

1981: Greece enacted a law concerning the protection of animals.

1983: Luxembourg law on the Protection and Welfare of Animals enacted. All
experimental procedures require advance approval by Ministers of
Health and Agriculture. The authorizations, which have a time limit and
may be revoked at any time, are only granted if there is no alternative
method for conducting the experiment.

  
 
  
  
  
 

 

1986:>West Germany amended its Animal Protection Act (see Appen ' <
Netherlands Experiments on Animals Act entered into force, supple-
m nted by the Experiments on Animals Decree fully implementing the
131% Directive on Animal Experimentation, including a system for regi-{
stering premises, authorizing persons involved in the use and supply of
animals, undertaking inspections, and compiling statistics.

1988: Sweden passed a new Animal Protection Law, including important pro-
visions for farm animals (see Appendix).

)SpainzDecree adopted to comply with the EgDirective on protection < ;C

 

.1,
I

of experimental animals.

caged/7* :7 > 1/

 




 

. I r - /'/: “\Z’ ,//F‘ 4‘ ~. '
Jul 20, 1983: Senator Robert Dole chaired full Senate Agriculture heanngs on / N ,f‘- ﬂ /e, 2 ., \'_, 7/(7 I" 2
Y his bill, the Improved Standards for Laboratory Ammals Act. 2" [f ,1 _, ' / [/15 T7 f/g , }/L/ M 2
September 19, 1984: Congressman George Brown chaired hearings on his (’4 /~ /ﬁ ( / {'1’ ./ a)“ 1 ,1 Z LL c. 1
version of the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act in .1115 // / / K 1.: L- . (:1 !
Subcommittee on Departmental Operations, Research and Foreign - .. . r p 74' /,.»1/(» 3%, »
Agriculture. ,/ 2 2/ war»... “v ’ / ‘2 ,.

October 25, 1985: Senate Majority Leader Dole brought the Improved Stand-
ards for Laboratory Animals Act to the Senate floor as an amendment to
the Farm Bill. The ﬁnal vote was deferred.

October 29, 1985: A substitute bill offered by Senator John Melcher was unan-
imously approved. .
November 20, 1985: The Health Research Extension Act, containing a section

on animal welfare and a section on development of alternatives to ani-
mals, was passed over President Reagan’s veto.

;

December 12, 1985: The Senate-House Conference on the Farm Bill approved
the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act.

December 16 and 18, 1985: The House then the Senate, approved the Confer-
ence Report on the Farm Bill.

December 23, 1985: President Reagan signed the Farm Bill.

March 31, 1987: 9 CFR, Parts 1 and 2, Animal Welfare Proposed Rules were
published in the Federal Register.

December 22, 1988: The Animal Legal Defense Fund filed suit against the U.
S. Department of Agriculture, National Institutes of Health, and Office
of Management and Budget protesting delay in promulgating ﬁnal regu-
lations.

April 12, 1989: Judge Richey dismissed the suit without prejudice and pro-
vided that, in case of further delay, it be brought before him again.

March 15, 1989: 9 CFR, Parts 1, 2, and 3, Animal Welfare Proposed Rules were . 7 ._
published in the Federal Register. 1

August 31, 1989: Final regulations on Parts 1 and 2 published in the Federal
Register.

OTHER COUNTRIES
1968: French Decree Regulating Experiments on Animals.

1972: Animal Experiments Section of the Animal Protection Act, Federal
Republic of Germany.

1974: Norwegian Welfare of Animals Act enacted, including regulation of ani—

—_

 

 

' t . . . . .
ma] exPemens W —- —» 19 75 : Belgl um requ1 res llcen51ng
1977: Denmark law on animal experiments enacted. and i nspecti on Of animal $
1978: Switzerland enacted an animal protection law which includes experi- eXperimentati on . u,

ments on animals. P

1979: Major laboratory animal amendments to Swedish Animal Welfare Act
of 1944.

  
      
 

1980: French Decree updated W I {dé/é’ﬁ,

1981: Greece enacted a law concerning the protection of animals. j, .4 ,

1983: Luxembourg law on the Protection and Welfare of Animals enacted. All /'-”/ 7 MN g . , I Ta”? (1/ . 439774.,
experimental procedures require advance approval by Ministers of /\ ﬂ />7L 1!; . “-7.- --—_.
Health and Agriculture. The authorizations, which have a time limit and / km)? _ n/ ,Q _ (i ‘.
may be revoked at any time, are only granted if there is no alternative W” i ~ " ' “y . "

  
  
  

‘v-

7]

method for conducting the experiment.

1986:>West Germany amended its Animal Protection Act (see Appen 9'

Netherlands Experiments on Animals Act entered into force, supple.< I , . ,
m nted by the Experiments on Animals Decree fully implementing the W)”
ELSC Directive on Animal Experimentation, including a system for regi-< .

stering premises, authorizing persons involved in the use and supply of
animals, undertaking inspections, and compiling statistics.

1988: Sweden passed a new Animal Protection Law, including important pro-
visions for farm animals (see Appendix).

:WpainzDecree adopted to comply with the EigDirective on protection .< {a ,f

of experimental animals.

”'9 ' ' /
7&7 :7 v

 

 




 

LAB.4: 4/3/90

ANIMAL WELFARE ACT ,
As A ended / 4 J ..
(7 u.s.c1 ss mismanw 444M414 m m ,1 ‘ '

Section 1. (a) This Act may be cited as the "Animal Welfare Actj'j'f" A '4 '7‘ I
(b) The Congress ﬁnds that animals and activities which are regulated under this Act
are either in interstate or foreign commerce or substantially affect such commerce or the
free flow thereof, and that regulation of animals and activities as provided in this Act is
necessary to prevent and eliminate burdens upon such commerce and to effectively regu-
late such commerce, in order—
(1) to insure that animals intended for use in research facilities or for exhi-
bition purposes or for use as pets are provided humane care and treatment;
(2) to assure the humane treatment of animals during transportation in
commerce; and
(3) to protect the owners of animals from the theft of their animals by pre-
venting the sale or use of animals which have been-stolen.

The Congress further ﬁnds that it is essential to regulate, as provided in this Act, the
transportation, purchase, sale, housing, care, handling, and treatment of animals by carri- 3,1:
ers or by persons or organizations engaged in using them for research or experimental i 3i“ '14-,
purposes or for exhibition purposes or holding them for sale as pets or for any such pur- ' .44 1' s’ 1;"
pose or use. The Congress further finds that—- .4
(1) the use of animals is instrumental in certain research and education for ‘5 3 ' '
advancing knowledge of cures and treatment for diseases and injuries which .1" “*4
afﬂict both humans and animals; 4,; J . 4 1' .1 J;
(2) methods of testing that do not use animals are being and continue to be 4 _g A 4 f ”444...; -" " ' “
developed which are faster, less expensive, and more accurate than traditional
animal experiments for some purposes and further opportunities exist for the . . j ,
development of these methods of testing; 4: 4:: ' ” .41" 4 1" ‘
(3) measures which eliminate or minimize the unnecessary duplication of ’ i 4 _ .
experiments on animals can result in more productive use of Federal funds; and 4; ~. 41 , ._ _ 4 41f”;
(4) measures which help meet the public concern for laboratory animal " 4 ’ \
care and treatment are important in assuring that research will continue to pro- ' 4 , y ,1" ,-:4,./j

gress. i r ‘ V I // 1
W44 ' ' 1;.»-
(7 U.S.C. 2131) (PL. 89-544, § 1, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 350; PL. 91-579, § 2, Dec. 24, _1 4 I, 1""; _ w
1970, 84 Stat. 1560; renumbered and amended by PL. 94-279, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 417) , 4.121 ,1" v/ 1.1
. .1;

1" A

 

Section 2. When used in this Act— 4
(a) The term "person" includes any individual, partnership, firm, joint stock com- - 4, .1
pany, corporation, association, trust, estate, or other legal entity; 4 A“ 4 ,. 4 ‘
(b) The term ”Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or .1 f 1 f 4
his representative who shall be an employee of the United States Department of Agricul-
ture;

 

(c) The term ”commerce” means trade, traffic, transportation, or other commerce— , , 4 .4
(1) between a place in a State and any place outside of such State, or ‘ ‘ 9"
between points within the same State but through any place outside thereof, or ' 9v 4 ' " '»
within any territory, possession, or the District of Columbia;
(2) which affects trade, traffic, transportation, or other commerce described

in paragraph (1);

(d) The term ”State” means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or any other
territory or possession of the United States;

(e) The term ”research facility" means any school (except an elementary or secon-
dary school), institution, organization, or person that uses or intends to use live animals in
research, tests, or experiments, and that (1) purchases or transports live animals in com—
merce, or (2) receives funds under a grant, award, loan, or contract from a department,
agency, or instrumentality of the United States for the purpose of carrying out research,
tests, or experiments: Provided, That the Secretary may exempt, by regulation, any such
school, institution, organization, or person that does not use or intend to use live dogs or
cats, except those schools, institutions, organizations, or persons, which use substantial
numbers (as determined by the Secretary) of live animals the principal function of which
schools, institutions, organizations, or persons, is biomedical research or testing, when in
the judgment of the Secretary, any such exemption does not vitiate the purpose of the Act;

(f) The term ”dealer” means any person who, in commerce, for compensation or
profit, delivers for transportation, or transports, except as a carrier, buys, or sells, or nego-
tiates the purchase or sale of, (1) any dog or other animal whether alive or dead for
research, teaching, exhibition, or use as a pet, or (2) any dog for hunting, security, or
breeding purposes, except that this term does not include——

(i) a retail pet store except such store which sells any animals to a research

:I facility, an exhibitor, or a dealer; or .

(ii) any person who does not sell, or negotiate the purchase or sale of any wild 4 f 4 A 4,

. . . 4. 4. ,1 1 41 _

animal, dog, or cat and who derives no more than $500 gross income from the sale of “-1 , J
other animals during any calendar year; (I;

(g) The term ”animal” means any live or dead dog, cat, monkey (nonhuman primate
mammal), guinea pig, hamster, rabbit, or such other warmblooded animal, as the Secre-
tary may determine is being used, or is intended for use, for research, testing, experimen-
tation, or exhibition purposes or as a pet; but such term excludes horses not used for
research purposes and other farm animals, such as, but not limited to livestock or poultry,
used or intended for use as food or fiber, or livestock or poultry used or intended for (

improving animal nutrition, breeding, management or production efﬁciency, or for
improving the quality of food or ﬁber. With respect to a dog the term means all dogs ‘

 




including those used for hunting, security, or breeding purposes;

(h) The term ”exhibitor" means any person (public or private) exhibiting any ani-
mals, which were purchased in commerce or the intended distribution of which affects
commerce, or will affect commerce, to the public for compensation, as determined by the
Secretary, and such term includes carnivals, circuses, and zoos exhibiting such animals
whether operated for profit or not; but such term excludes retail pet stores, organizations
sponsoring and all persons participating in State and county fairs, livestock shows, rodeos,
purebred dog and cat shows, and any other fairs or exhibitions intended to advance agri-
cultural arts and sciences, as may be determined by the Secretary;

(i) The term ”intermediate handler" means any person including a department,
agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government (other
than a dealer, research facility, exhibitor, any person excluded from the deﬁnition of a
dealer, research facility, or exhibitor, an operator of an auction sale, or a carrier) who is
engaged in any business in which he receives custody of animals in connection with their
transportation in commerce;

(j) The term ”carrier” means the Operator of any airline, railroad, motor carrier, ship-
ping line, or other enterprise, which is engaged in the business of transporting any ani-
mals for hire;

(k) The term ”Federal agency" means an Executive agency as such term is defined in
section 105 of Title 5, United States Code, and with respect to any research facility means
the agency from which the research facility receives a Federal award for the conduct of
research, experimentation, or testing, involving the use of animals;

(1) The term ”Federal award for the conduct of research, experimentation, or testing,
involving the use of animals” means any mechanism (including a grant, award, loan, con-
tract, or cooperative agreement) under which Federal funds are provided to support the
conduct of such research;

(m) The term ”quorum” means a majority of the Committee members;

(n) The term "Committee” means the Institutional Animal Committee established
under section 13 (b); and

(o) The term “Federal research facility” means each department, agency, or instru-
mentality of the United States which uses live animals for research or experimentation. /.-

(7 U.S.C. 2132) (P. L. 89-544, § 2, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 350; PL. 91-579, § 3, Dew/i
1970, 84 Stat. 1560; PL. 94-279, §,(§,_;4N,A~pr112_2,v1976,90 Stat. 417, 418; PL. 99- 198, Title 1 3
XVII, § 1756(a), Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650) ' ” V

Section 3. The Secretary shall issue licenses to dealers and exhibitors upon applica-
tion therefor in such form and manner as he may prescribe and upon payment of such fee
established pursuant to section 23 of this Act: Provided, That no such license shall be
issued until the dealer or exhibitor shall have demonstrated that his facilities comply with
the standards promulgated by the Secretary pursuant to section 13 of this Act: Provided,
however, That” any retail pet store or other person who derives less than a substantial
portion of hisincome (as determined by the Secretary) from the breeding and raising of
dogs or cats on his own premises and sells any such dog or cat to a dealer or research facil-
ity shall not be required to obtain a license as a dealer or exhibitor under this Act. The Sec-
retary is further authorized to license, as dealers or exhibitors, persons who do not qualify
as dealers or exhibitors within the meaning of this Act upon such persons complying with
the requirements specified above and agreeing, in writing, to comply with all the require-
ments of this Act and the regulations promulgated by the Secretary hereunder.

(7 U.S.C. 2133) (PL. 89-544, § 3, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, § 4, Dec. 24, yr? (yﬂ

Section 4. No dealer or exhibitor shall sell or offer to sell or transport or offer for
transportation, in commerce, to any research facility or for exhibition or for use as a pet
any animal, or buy, sell, offer to buy or sell, transport or offer for transportation, in com-
merce, to or from another dealer or exhibitor under this Act any animal, unless and until
such dealer or exhibitor shall have obtained a license from the Secretary and such license
shall not have been suspended or revoked.

(7 U.S.C. 2134) (PL. 89-544, § 4, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, § 5, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1561; PL. 94-279, § 5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat 418)

Section 5. No dealer or exhibitor shall sell or otherwise dispose of any dog or cat
within a period of 5 business days after the acquisition of such animal or within such other
period as may be specified by the Secretary: Provided, That operators of auction sales sub-
ject to section 12 of this Act shall not be required to comply with the provisions of this sec-
tion.

(7 U.S.C. 2135) (PL. 89-544, § 5, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, § 6, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1561)

Section 6. Every research facility, every intermediate handler, every carrier, and
every exhibitor not licensed under section 3 of this Act shall register with the Secretary in
accordance with such rules and regulations as he may prescribe.

(7 U.S.C. 2136) (PL. 89-544, § 6, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, § 7, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1561 ; PL. 94-279, § 6, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 7. It shall be unlawful for any research facility to purchase any dog or cat from
any person except an operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act or a per-
son holding a valid license as a dealer or exhibitor issued by the Secretary pursuant to this
Act unless such person is exempted from obtaining such license under section 3 of this

Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2137) (PL. 89-544, § 7, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, § 8, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1561)

v vvva‘»~u-~"¢

Section 8. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States which uses

 




(iv) against the use of paralytics without anesthesia; and
(v) that the withholding of tranquilizers, anesthesia, analgesia, or . . ~.
1 euthanasia when scientifically necessary shall continue for only the necessary ""i‘f‘x l {”3 3"71‘";
period of time;
(D) that no animal is used in more than one major operative experi— ‘1
j ment from which it is allowed to recover except in cases of— f h
(i) scientiﬁc necessity; or ’
(ii) other special circumstances as determined by the Secretary;

I". “.4": l, ; ,WF
”2““? -«' "f
.V "My ll ‘

______ { '5 f ’5 «5/55 ¥-«

and As
3 (E) that exceptions to such standards may be made only when
., specified by research protocol and that any such exception shall be detailed and /”
explained in a report outlined under paragraph (7) and ﬁled with the Institu-
tional Animal Committee.

(4) The Secretary shall also promulgate standards to govern the transpor-
tation in commerce, and the handling, care, and treatment in connection there-
with, by intermediate handlers, air carriers, or other carriers, of animals con-
signed by a dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or
other person, or any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United
States or of any State or local government, for transportation in commerce. The
Secretary shall have authority to promulgate such rules and regulations as he
determines necessary to assure humane treatment of animals in the course of
their transportation in commerce including requirements such as those with
respect to containers, feed, water, rest, ventilation, temperature, and handling.

(5) In promulgating and enforcing standards established pursuant to this
section, the Secretary is authorized and directed to consult experts, including
outside consultants where indicated.

(6) (A) Nothing in this Act—

(i) except as provided in paragraph (7) of this subsection, shall be
construed as authorizing the Secretary to promulgate rules, regulations, or
orders with regard to the design, outlines, or guidelines of actual research or
experimentation by a research facility as determined by such facility;

(ii) except as provided in subparagraphs (A) and (C) (ii) through
(v) of paragraph (3) and paragraph (7) of this subsection, shall be construed as
authorizing the Secretary to promulgate rules, regulations, or orders with
regard to the performance of actual research or experimentation by a research
facility as determined by such research facility; and

(iii) shall authorize the Secretary, during inspection, to interrupt
the conduct of actual research or experimentation.

(B) No rule, regulation, order, or part of this Act shall be construed to
require a research facility to disclose publicly or to the Institutional Animal
Committee during its inspection, trade secrets or commercial or financial infor-
mation which is privileged or confidential.

(7) (A) The Secretary shall require each research facility to show upon
inspection, and to report at least annually, that the provisions of this Act are
being followed and that professionally acceptable standards governing the care,
treatment, and use of animals are being followed by the research facility during
actual research or experimentation.

(B) In complying with subparagraph (A), such research facilities shall

2 provide—
(i) information on procedures likely to produce pain or distress in
W any animal and assurances demonstrating that the principal investigator con-
___/ sidered alternatives to those procedures;
(ii) assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that such facility is
'j.) adhering to the standards described in this section; and
(iii) an explanation for any deviation from the standards promul-
j gated under this section.

(8) Paragraph (1) shall not prohibit any State (or a political subdivision of
such State) from promulgating standards in addition to those standards prom-
ulgated by the Secretary under paragraph (1).

(b) (1) The Secretary shall require that each research facility establish at
least one Committee. Each Committee shall be appointed by the chief executive
ofﬁcer of each such research facility and shall be composed of not fewer than
three members. Such members shall possess sufﬁcient ability to assess animal
care, treatment, and practices in experimental research as determined by the
needs of the research facility and shall represent society’s concerns regarding
the welfare of animal subjects used at such facility. Of the members of the Com-
mittee—

' (A) at least one member shall be a doctor of veterinary medicine;
(B) at least one member—
A (i) shall not be afﬁliated in any way with such facility other than
/-~‘ as a member of the Committee;
(ii) shall not be a member of the immediate family of a person
5... 1 who is afﬁliated with such facility; and
(iii) is intended to prOvide representation for general community
‘ interests in the proper care and treatment of animals; and
(C) in those cases where the Committee consists of more than three
"""”‘”‘"; members, not more than three members shall be from the same administrative
A unit of such facility.

(2) A quorum shall be required for all formal actions of the Committee,
including inspections under paragraph (3).

(3) The Committee shall inspect at least semiannually all animal study
areas and animal facilities of such research facility and review as part of the
inspection—

(A) practices involving pain to animals, and

 




animals for research or experimentation or exhibition shall purchase or otherwise acquire
any dog or cat for such purposes from any person except an operator of an auction sale
subject to section 12 of this Act or a person holding a valid license as a dealer or exhibitor
issued by the Secretary pursuant to this Act unless such person is exempted from obtain-
ing such license under section 3 of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2138) (PL. 89-544, § 8, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, § 9, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562)

Section 9. When construing or enforcing the provisions of this Act, the act, omission,
or failure of any person acting for or employed by a research facility, a dealer, or an exhib-
itor or a person licensed as a dealer or an exhibitor pursuant to the second sentence of
section 3, or an operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, or an interme-
diate handler or a carrier, within the scope of his employment or office, shall be deemed
the act, omission, or failure of such research facility, dealer, exhibitor, licensee, operator of
an auction sale, intermediate handler, or carrier, as well as of such person.

(7 U.S.C. 2139) (PL. 89-544, § 9, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, § 10, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. :1562; PL. 94-279, § 7, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 10. Dealers and exhibitors shall make and retain for such reasonable period
of time as the Secretary may prescribe, such records with respect to the purchase, sale,
transportation, identification, and previous ownership of animals as the Secretary may
prescribe. Research facilities shall make and retain such records only with respect to the
purchase, sale, transportation, identification, and previous ownership of live dogs and
cats. At the request of the Secretary, any regulatory agency of the Federal Government
which requires records to be maintained by intermediate handlers and carriers with
respect to the transportation, receiving, handling, and delivery of animals on forms pre-
scribed by the agency, shall require there to be included in such forms, and intermediate
handlers and carriers shall include in such forms, such information as the Secretary may
require for the effective administration of this Act. Such information shall be retained for
such reasonable period of time as the Secretary may prescribe. If regulatory agencies of
the Federal Government do not prescribe requirements for any such forms, intermediate
handlers and carriers shall make and retain for such reasonable period as the Secretary
may prescribe such records with respect to the transportation, receiving, handling, and
delivery of animals as the Secretary may prescribe. Such records shall be made available
at all reasonable times for inspection and copying by the Secretary.

(7 U.S.C. 2140) (PL. 89-544, § 10, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; Pl. 91-579, § 11, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94—279, § 8, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 11. All animals delivered for transportation, transported, purchased, or sold,
in commerce, by a dealer or exhibitor shall be marked or identified at such time and in
such humane manner as the Secretary may prescribe: Provided, That only live dogs and
cats need to be so marked or identified by a research facility.

(7 U.S.C. 2141) (PL. 89-544, § 11, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, § 12, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, § 5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 12. The Secretary is authorized to promulgate humane standards and
recordkeeping requirements governing the purchase, handling, or sale of animals, in com-
merce, by dealers, research facilities, and exhibitors at auction sales and by the operators
of such auction sales. The Secretary is also authorized to require the licensing of operators
of auction sales where any dogs or cats are sold, in commerce, under such conditions as
he may prescribe, and upon payment of such fee as prescribed by the Secretary under sec-
tion 23 of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2142) (EL. 89-544, § 12, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, § 13, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, § 5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 13. (a) (1) The Secretary shall promulgate standards to govern the humane
handling, care, treatment and transportation of animals by dealers, research facilities, and
exhibitors.

(2) The standards described in paragraph (1) shall include minimum

requirements—

(A) for handling, housing, feeding, watering, sanitation, ventilation,

"”"x shelter from extremes of weather and temperatures, adequate veterinary care,

. and separation by species where the Secretary ﬁnds necessary for humane han-

,~ dling, care, or treatment of animals; and

(B) for exercise of dogs, as determined by an attending veterinarian in

“q accordance with the general standards promulgated by the Secretary, and for a ' ‘_
i physical environment adequate to promote the psychological well-being of pri- "1

,5 mates.
(3) In addition to the requirements under paragraph (2), the standards

described in paragraph (1) shall, with respect to animals in research facilities,
include requirements—
(A) for animal care, treatment, and practices in experimental proce-
{dures to ensure that animal pain and distress are minimized, including ade-
Equate veterinary care with the appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic,
«tranquilizing drugs, or euthanasia;
7 (B) that the principal investigator considers alternatives to any proce-
dure likely to produce pain to or distress in an experimental animal;
(C) in any practice which could cause pain to animals—
(i) that a doctor of veterinary medicine is consulted in the plan-
; ning of such procedures;
(ii) for the use of tranquilizers, analgesics, and anesthetics;
(iii) for presurgical and postsurgical care by laboratory workers,
in accordance with established veterinary medical and nursing procedures;

/"V

 




(B) the condition of animals, to ensure compliance with the provisions
of this Act to minimize pain and distress to animals. Exceptions to the require-
ment of inspection of such study areas may be made by the Secretary if animals

are studied in their natural environment and the study area is prohibitive to
easy access.

 




.74..

Econditions of animal care, treatment, or practice "iﬁ'a particular projecthave nOt been in

LAB.5: 4/3/90

23

u-"—

.._/

l

l

<'.-.x$«~

.3:

.._i

(4) (A) The Committee shall file an inspection certiﬁcation report of each
inspection at the research facility. Such report shall—

(i) be signed by a majority of the Committee members involved
in the inspection;

(ii) include reports of any violation of the standards promulgated,
or assurances required, by the Secretarg including any deﬁcient conditions of
animal care or treatment, any (deviation, of research practices from originally
approved proposals that adversely affect animal welfare, any notification to the
facility regarding such conditions, and any corrections made thereafter;

(iii) include any minority views of the Committee; and

(iv) include any other information pertinent to the activities of the

Committee.

(B) Such report shall remain on file for at least 3 years at the research
facility and shall be available for inspection by the Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service and any funding Federal agency.

(C) In order to give the research facility an opportunity to correct any
deficiencies or deviations discovered by reason of paragraph (3), the Commit-
tee shall notify the administrative representative of the research facility of any
deficiencies or deviations from the provisions of this Act. If, after notification
and an opportunity for correction, such deficiencies or deviations remain
uncorrected, the Committee shall notify (in writing) the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service and the funding Federal agency of such deficiencies
or deviations.

(5) The inspection results shall be available to Department of Agriculture
inspectors for review during inspections. Department of Agriculture inspectors
shall forward any Committee inspection records which include reports of
uncorrected deficiencies or deviations to the Animal and Plant Health Inspec-
tion Service and any funding Federal agency of the project with respect to
which such uncorrected deficiencies and deviations occurred.

W (c) In the case of Federal research facilities, a Federal Committee shall be established
‘ and shall have the same composition and responsibilities provided in subsection (b) of
this section, except that the Federal Committee shall report deficiencies or deviations to
the head of the Federal agency conducting the research rather than to the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service. The head of the Federal agency conducting the research
shall be responsible for—

(1) all corrective action to be taken at the facility; and
(2) the granting of all exceptions to inspection protocol.

(d) Each research facility shall provide for the training of scientists, animal techni-
cians, and other personnel involved with animal care and treatment in such facility as
required by the Secretary. Such training shall include instruction on—

(1) the humane practice of animal maintenance and experimentation;
(2) research or testing methods that minimize or eliminate the use of
animals or limit animal pain or distress;
. (3) utilization of the information service at the National Agricultural
library, established under subsection (e) of this section; and
(4) methods whereby deficiencies in animal care and treatment
should be reported.

E (e) The Secretary shall establish an information service at the National Agricultural
library. Such service shall, in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine, provide

‘1 information—

(1) pertinent to employee training;
(2) which could prevent unintended duplication of animal experimen-
tation as determined by the needs of the research facility; and
(3) on improved methods of animal experimentation, including meth-
ods which could-—
(A) reduce or replace animal use; and
(B) minimize pain and distress to animals, such as anesthetic and

analgesic procedures.

.4
A

(01 11 any case in which a Federal agency funding a research project determines that

gcompliance with standards promulgated under this Act, despite notiﬁcation by the Secre-
{ tary or such Federal agency to the research facility and an opportunity for correction, such
agency shall suspend or revoke Federal support of the project. Any research facility losing
iFederal support as a result of actions taken under the preceding sentence shall have the
i t 9 appeal as provided in sections 701 through 706 of Title 5, United States Code.',\ ,
.. ( 2 0 dogs or cats, or additional kinds or classes of animals designated .byuregu‘lation . . .
Eof the Secretary, shall be delivered by any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of '
an auction sale, or department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any
5 State or local government, to any intermediate handler or carrier for transportation in
‘ commerce, or received by any such handler or carrier for such transportation from any
' such person, department, agency, or instrumentality, unless the animal is accompanied by
E a certiﬁcate issued by a veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary medicine, certifying

that he inspected the animal on a specified date, which shall not be more than 10 days
before such delivery, and, when so inspected, the animal appeared free of any infectious
1 disease or physical abnormality which would endanger the animal or animals or other
1 animals or endanger public health: Provided, however, That the Secretary may by regulation
gprovide exceptions to this certification requirement, under such conditions as he may pre-

’irigh

é

iscribe in the regulations, for animals shipped to research facilities for purposes of
iresearch, testing or experimentation requiring animals not eligible for such certification.

iSuch certificates received by the intermediate handlers and the carriers shall be retained

4

 




j by them, as provided by regulations of the Secretary, in accordance with section 10 of this
i Act.
‘ (g) No dogs or cats, or additional kinds or classes of animals designated by regulation
1 of the Secretary, shall be delivered by any person to any intermediate handler or carrier
5 for transportation in commerce except to registered research facilities if they are less than
i such age as the Secretary may by regulation prescribe. The Secretary shall designate addi-
‘3 tional kinds and classes of animals and may prescribe different ages for particular kinds or
classes of dogs, cats, or designated animals, for the purposes of this section, when he
determines that such action is necessary or adequate to assure their humane treatment in
. connection with their transportation in commerce.
(h) No intermediate handler or carrier involved in the transportation of any animal in
commerce shall participate in any arrangement or engage in any practice under which the
. cost of such animal or the cost of the transportation of such animal is to be paid and col-
? lected upon delivery of the animal to the consignee, unless the consignor guarantees in
'- writing the payment of transportation charges for any animal not claimed within a period
1 of 48 hours after notice to the consignee of arrival of the animal, including, where neces-
sary, both the return transportation charges and an amount sufﬁcient to reimburse the
carrier for all out-of-pocket expenses incurred for the care, feeding, and storage of such
animals.

(7 U.S..C 2143) (PL. 89- 544, § 13, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, § 14, Dec. 24,
1970,84 Stat. 1562, P..L 94- 279, §p2‘ 10, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418 PL. 99-198, Title )SVIIM
§ 1752, Dec.23, 1985,99 Stat. 1645)M M" ”WW ......Wmm

Section 14. Any department, agency or instrumentality of the United States having
laboratory animal facilities shall comply with the standards and other requirements prom-
ulgated by the Secretary for a research facility under section 13 (a), (f), (g), and (h). Any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States exhibiting animals shall com-
ply with the standards promulgated by the Secretary under section 13 (a), (f), (g), and (h).

(7 U.S.C. 2144) (P.L. 89-544, § 14, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, § 15, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279, § 19, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 423; PL. 99-198, Title XVII, §
1758, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

 

Section 15. (a) The Secretary shall consult and cooperate with other Federal depart-
ments, agencies, or instrumentalities concerned with the welfare of animals used for
research, experimentation or exhibition, or administration of statutes regulating the trans-
portation in commerce or handling in connection therewith of any animals when estab-
lishing standards pursuant to section 13 and in carrying out the purposes of this Act. The
Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services prior to issuance
of regulations. Before promulgating any standard governing the air transportation and
handling in connection therewith, of animals, the Secretary shall consult with the Secre-
tary of Transportation who shall have the authority to disapprove any such standard if he
notiﬁes the Secretary, within 30 days after such consultation, that changes in its provisions
are necessary in the interest of ﬂight safety. The Interstate Commerce Commission, the
Secretary of Transportation, and the Federal Maritime Commission, to the extent of their
respective lawful authorities, shall take such action as is appropriate to implement any
standard established by the Secretary with respect to a person subject to regulation by it.

(b) The Secretary is authorized to cooperate with the officials of the various States or
political subdivisions thereof in carrying out the purposes of this Act and of any State,
local, or municipal legislation or ordinance on the same subject.

(7 U.S.C. 2145) (P.L. 89-544, § 15, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, § 16, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279, § 11, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 419; PL. 98-443, § 9(i), Oct. 4,
1984, 98 Stat. 1708; PL. 99-198, Title XVII, § 1757, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 16. (a) The Secretary shall make such investigations or inspections as he
deems necessary to determine whether any dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, car-
rier, research facility, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, has
violated or is violating any provision of this Act or any regulation or standard issued
thereunder, and for such purposes, the Secretary shall, at all reasonable times, have access
to the places of business and the facilities, animals, and those records required to be kept
pursuant to section 10 of any such dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, carrier,
research facility, or operator of an auction sale. The Secretary shall inspect each research
facility at least once each year and, in the case of deficiencies or deviations from the stand-
ards promulgated under this Act, shall conduct such follow-up inspections as may be nec-
essary until all deficiencies or deviations from such standards are corrected. The Secretary
shall promulgate such rules and regulations as he deems necessary to permit inspectors to
confiscate or destroy in a humane manner any animal found to be suffering as a result of a
failure to comply with any provision of this Act or any regulation or standard issued
thereunder if (1) such animal is held by a dealer, (2) such animal is held by an exhibitor,
(3) such animal is held by a research facility and is no longer required by such research
facility to carry out the research, test or experiment for which such animal has been util-
ized, (4) such animal is held by an operator of an auction sale, or (5) such animal is held
by an intermediate handler or a carrier.

(b) Any person who forcibly assaults, resists, opposes, impedes, intimidates, or inter-
feres with any person while engaged in or on account of the performance of his official
duties under this Act shall be ﬁned not more than $5,000, or imprisoned not more than 3
years, or both. Whoever, in the commission of such acts, uses a deadly or dangerous
weapon shall be ﬁned not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or

both. Whoever kills any person while engaged in or on account of the performance of his
ofﬁcial duties under this Act shall be punished as provided under sections 1111 and 1114
of Title 18, United States Code.
(c) For the efﬁcient administration and enforcement of this Act, the provisions
(including penalties) of sections 6, 8, 9, and 10 of the Act entitled ”An Act to create a Fed-
eral Trade Commission, to deﬁne its powers and duties, and for other purposes,” (15

 




U.S.C. 46, and 48-50; 38 Stat. 721-723, as amended) (except paragraph (c) through (h) of
section 6 and the last paragraph of section 9, and the provisions of Title II of the ”Organ-
ized Crime COntrol Act of 1970”) (18 U.S.C. 6001 et seq., 62 Stat. 856), are made applicable
to the jurisdiction, powers, and duties of the Secretary in administering and enforcing the
provisions of this Act and to any person, ﬁrm, or corporation with respect to whom such
authority is exercised. The Secretary may prosecute any inquiry necessary to his duties
under this Act in any part of the United States, including any territory, or possession
thereof, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The powers con-
ferred by said sections 9 and 10 of the Act of September 26, 1914, as amended, on the dis-
trict courts of the United States may be exercised for the purposes of this Act by any dis-
trict court of the United States. The United States district courts, the District Court of
Guam, the District Court to the Virgin Islands, the highest court of American Samoa, and
the United States courts of the other territories, are vested with jurisdiction speciﬁcally to
enforce, and to prevent and restrain violations of this Act, and shall have jurisdiction in all
other kinds of cases arising under this Act, except as provided in section 19(c) of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2146) (PL. 89-544, § 16, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; EL. 91-579, § 17, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279, § 12, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 420; PL. 99-198, Title XVII, §
1753, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1649)

Section 17. The Secretary shall promulgate rules and regulations requiring dealers,
exhibitors, research facilities, and operators of auction sales subject to section 12 of this
Act to permit inspection of their animals and records at reasonable hours upon request by
legally constituted law enforcement agencies in search of lost animals.

(7 U.S.C. 2147) (PL. 89-544, § 17, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, § 18, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1564)

Section 18. Repealed. Pub. L. 91-579. Similar provisions incorporated in section 13 by PL.
91-579, § 19, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1564.

(7 U.S.C. 2148)

Section 19. (a) If the Secretary has reason to believe that any person licensed as a
dealer, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, has vio-
lated or is violating any provision of this Act, or any of the rules or regulations or stand-
ards promulgated by the Secretary hereunder, he may suspend such person’s license tem-
porarily, but not to exceed 21 days, and after notice and opportunity for hearing, may sus-
pend for such additional period as he may specify, or revoke such license, if such violation
is determined to have occurred.

(b) Any dealer, exhibitor, research facility, intermediate handler, carrier or operator
of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, that violates any provision of this Act, or
any rule, regulation, or standard promulgated by the Secretary thereunder, may be
assessed a civil penalty by the Secretary of not more than $2,500 for each such violation,
and the Secretary may also make an order that such person shall cease and desist from
continuing such violation. Each violation and each day during which a violation continues
shall be a separate offense. No penalty shall be assessed or cease and desist order issued
unless such person is given notice and opportunity for a hearing with respect to the
alleged violation, and the order of the Secretary assessing a penalty and making a cease
and desist order shall be final and conclusive unless the affected person files an appeal
from the Secretary’s order with the appropriate United States Court of Appeals. The Sec-
retary shall give due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with respect to
the size of the business of the person involved, the gravity of the violation, the person’s
good faith, and the history of previous violations. Any such civil penalty may be compro-
mised by the Secretary. Upon any failure to pay the penalty assessed by a final order
under this section, the Secretary shall request the Attorney General to institute a civil
action in a district court of the United States or other United States court for any district in
which such person is found or resides or transacts business, to collect the penalty, and
such court shall have jurisdiction to hear and decide any such action. Any person who
knowingly fails to obey a cease and desist order made by the Secretary under this section
shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,500 for each offense, and each day during which
such failure continues shall be deemed a separate offense.

(c) Any dealer, exhibitor, research facility, intermediate handler, carrier, or operator
of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, aggrieved by a final order of the Secre-
tary issued pursuant to this section may, within 60 days after entry of such an order, seek
review of such order in the appropriate United States Court of Appeals in accordance
with the provisions of section 2341, 2343 through 2350 of Title 28, United States Code,
and such court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to enjoin, set aside, suspend (in whole or
in part), or to determine the validity of the Secretary’s order.

(d) Any dealer, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this
Act, who knowingly violates any provision of this Act shall, on conviction thereof, be sub-
ject to imprisonment for not more than 1 year, or a fine of not more than $2,500, or both.
Prosecution of such violations shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be brought ini-
tially before United States magistrates as provided in section 636 of Title 28, United States
Code, and sections 3401 and 3402 of Title 18, United States Code, and, with the consent of
the Attorney General, may be conducted, at both trial and upon appeal to district court, by
attorneys of the United States Department of Agriculture.

(7 U.S.C. 2149) (PL. 89-544, § 19, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, § 20, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat..1564; PL. 94-279, § 13, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 420; PL. 99-198, Title XVII, §

1755, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 20 Repealed. Similar provisions incorporated in section 19 by PL. 94-279, §
14, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 421.

(7 U.S.C. 2150)

Section 21. The Secretary is authorized to promulgate such rules, regulations, and

 




orders as he may deem necessary in order to effectuate the purposes of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2151) (P.L. 89-544, §121, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353)

Section 22. If any provision of this Act or the application of any such provision to any
person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Act and the applica-
tion of any such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is
held invalid shall not be affected thereby.

(7 U.S.C. 2152) (P.L. 89-544, § 22, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353)

Section 23. The Secretary shall charge, assess, and cause to be collected reasonable
fees for licenses issued. Such fees shall be adjusted on an equitable basis taking into con-
sideration the type and nature of the operations to be licensed and shall be deposited and
covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts. There are hereby authorized to be
appropriated such funds as Congress may from time to time provide: Provided, That there
is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture for enforcement by the
Department of Agriculture of the provisions of section 26 of this Act an amount not to
exceed $100, 000 for the transition quarter ending September 30, 1976, and not to exceed
$400, 000 for each ﬁscal year thereafter.

(7 U...SC 2153) (PL 89- 544, § 23, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353, P.L. 94-279, § 18, April 22,
1976,90 Stat. 423)

Section 24. The regulations referred to in section 10 and section 13 shall be pre-
scribed by the Secretary as soon as reasonable but not later than 6 months from the date of
enactment of this Act. Additions and amendments thereto may be prescribed from time to
time as may be necessary or advisable. Compliance by dealers with the provisions of this
Act and such regulations shall commence 90 days after the promulgation of such regula-
tions. Compliance by research facilities with the provisions of this Act and such regula-
tions shall commence 6 months after the promulgation of such regulations (August 24,
1966), except that the Secretary may grant extensions of time to research facilities which
do not comply with the standards prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to section 13 of
this Act provided that the Secretary determines that there is evidence that the research
facilities will meet such standards within a reasonable time. Notwithstanding the other
provisions of this section, compliance by intermediate handlers, and carriers, and other
persons with those provisions of this Act, as amended by the Animal Welfare Act Amend-
ments of 1976, and those regulations promulgated thereunder, which relate to actions of
intermediate handlers and carriers, shall commence 90 days after promulgation of regula-
tions under section 13 of this Act, as amended, with respect to intermediate handlers and
carriers, and such regulations shall be promulgated no later than 9 months after April 22,
1976; and compliance by dealers, exhibitors, operators of auction sales and research
facilities with other provisions of this Act, as so amended, and the regulations thereunder,
shall commence upon the expiration of 90 days after April 22, 1976: Provided, however,
That compliance by all persons with paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of section 13 and with
section 26 of this Act, as so amended, shall commence upon the expiration of said 90-,day
period. In all other respects, said amendments shall become effective upon April 22,1976.

(7 U.S.C. 2154) (P.L. 89-544, § 24, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353; P.L. 94-279, § 15, April 22,
1976, 90 Stat. 421)

Section 25. Not later than March of each year the Secretary shall submit to the Presi-
dent of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives a comprehensive and
detailed written report with respect to—

(1) the identiﬁcation of all research facilities, exhibitors, and other persons
and establishments licensed by the Secretary under section 3 and section 12 of
this Act;

(2) the nature and place of all investigations and inspections conducted by
the Secretary under section 16 of this Act, and all reports received by the Secre-
tary under section 13 of this Act;

(3) recommendations for legislation to improve the administration of this
Act or any provision thereof; and

(4) recommendations and conclusions concerning the aircraft environ-
ment as it relates to the carriage of live animals in air transportation.

This report as well as any supporting documents, data, or findings shall not be released to
any other persons, non-Federal agencies, or organizations unless and until it has been
made public by an appropriate committee of the Senate or the House of Representatives.

(7 U.S.C. 2155) (P.L. 89-544, § 25, as added by P.L. 91-579, § 22, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat.
1565; P.L. 94-279, § 16, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 421)

 




LAB.6: 10/18/89

Section 26. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sponsor or exhibit an
animal in any animal ﬁghting venture to which any animal was moved in interstate or for-
eign commerce. .

(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sell, buy, transport, or deliver to
mother person or receive from another person for purposes of transportation, in inter-
state or foreign commerce, any dog or other animal for purposes of having the dog or
other animal participate in an animal ﬁghting venture.

(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly use the mail service of the United
States Postal Service or any interstate instrumentality for purposes of promoting or in any
other manner furthering an animal ﬁghting venture except as performed outside the lim-
its of the States of the United States.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the
activities prohibited by sud! subsections shall be unlawful with respect to ﬁghting ven-
tures involving live birds only if the ﬁght is to take place in a State where it would be in
violation of the laws thereof.

(e) Any person who violates subsection (a), (b), or (c) shall be ﬁned not more than
$5,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both, for each such violation.

(0 The Secretary or any other person authorized by him shall make such investiga-
tions as the Secretary deems necessary to determine whether any person has violated or is
violating any provision of this section,- and the Secretary may obtain the assistance of the

‘ Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of the Treasury, or other law
enforcement agencies of the United States, and State and local governmental agendas, in
on... tam-arias” n5 .m-h invariant-inns- under cooperative agreements with such agencies. A

‘
. ... n
f ' a/j

«I?

F y '4 I“- ,r / , ..H
I ‘ " g j '1. J... t » J~"’Jf I”:

l

(B) any movement from a foreign country

into any State;

Ha‘fgxyp(3) the term ”interstate instrumentality“ .

I!
9)‘

8 I .i‘” 's ‘ ,..- ,9 ,' 4 ,s y 7 ” ‘ ‘1 gt «
I i -’ , '7' ' if ’. .4 l: ‘ » , 4.
-‘ : "i '

i .
"f

(g)_,'@purpos_e_softhis section— . _ g .. .

(1) the term "animal ﬁghting venture" means any event which involves a ﬁght

1 between at least two animals and is conducted for purposes of sport, wagering, or enter-

tainment except that the term “animal ﬁghting venture" shall not be deemed to include

lany activity the primary purpose of which involves the use of one or more animals in
J hunting another animal or animals, such as waterfowl, bird, raccoon, or fox hunting;

(2) the term “interstate or foreign commerce" mans—
__ (A) any movement between any place in a State to any place in another
J State or between places in the same State through another 8 te; or

M-

I f , Ii ' 3‘
13.», . ‘ -._,

mqﬂtme tam "interstate martin-mum? mm'elesmph *dephmr

1 radio, or television operatinng interstate or foreign éaatmer‘ceg”
. ,_ r Z ’14) the term “State" means any State of the United States, the Emma of
fColumbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the
...-J, United States;
' 7_ («#(5) the term “animal" means any live bird, or any live dog or other
mammal. except man; and '
“Mi éww) the conduct by any person of any activity prohibited by this section
’ ' ‘ ,5 shall not render such person subject to the other sections of this Act as a dealer, exhibitor,
...-"’4 or otherwise.
(h) (1) The provisions of this section shall not supersede or otherwise invalidate any
sudt State, local, or municipal legislation or ordinance relating to animal ﬁghting ventures

tion, or standard hereunder.

andthissectionoranyruleregula

except in case ofa direct and irreconcilable conﬂict between any requirements thereunder . . _ I...
' . ..., e

 

m m ) -.NMmu-noaw' ”*‘mfwn, A“ -

1976,
Section 7. (Eﬂt shall be unlawful for any member of an institutional
mittee to release any conﬁdential information of the research facility including any infor-
mation that concerns or relates to—
(1) the trade secrets, processes, operations, style of work. or apparatus; or
1 (2) the identity, conﬁdential statistical data, amount or source of any income,
2 proﬁts, losses, or expenditures, of the research facility. .
(b) It shall be unlawful for any member of such Committee—
(1)touse orattempttousetohisadvantages; or
(2) to reveal to any other person, any information which is entitled to protec-
_- ”on as conﬁdential information under subsection (a) of this section.
(c) A violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section is punishable by—
(1) removal from such Committee; and
(2) (A) a ﬁne of not more than $1,000 and imprisonment of not more than 1

--¢

._ yell?“

I”

(B) if such violation is willful, a ﬁne of not more than $10,000 and imprison-

(7 US. 2156) (EL 89-544,§§,26(a)-(h) (1), as added by Pl. 94-279£'§$.l7, April 22. éé,‘ : =

37%}. Qgg} &/
lbw 91" (Woe ? A H27

P.L. 94—279 also amended 39
3001(5) on material that may
mailed.

Note:
U.S.C.
not be

 




 
   
  

LAB.6: 10/18/89

 
 
 

Section 26. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sponsor or exhibit an
animal in any animal ﬁghting venture to which any animal was moved in interstate or for-
eign commerce.

(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sell, buy, transport, or deliver to
mother person or receive from another person for purposes of transportation, in inter-
state or foreign commerce, any dog or other animal for purposes of having the dog or
other animal participate in an animal ﬁghting venture.

(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly use the mail service of the United
States Postal Service or any interstate instrumentality for purposes of promoting or in any
other manner furthering an animal ﬁghting venture except as performed outside the lim-
its of the States of the United States.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the
activities prohibited by such subsections shall be unlawful with respect to ﬁghting ven-
tures involving live birds only if the ﬁght is to take place in a State where it would be in
violation of the laws thereof.

(e) Any person who violates subsection (a), (b), or (c) shall be ﬁned not more than
$5,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both, for each such violation.

(f) The Secretary or any other person authorized by him shall make such investiga-
tions as the Secretary deems necessary to determine whether any person has violated or is
violating any provision of this section,- and the Secretary may obtain the assistance of the

' Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of the Treasury, or other law
enforcement agencies of the United States, and State and local governmental agencies, in
the conduct of such investigations, under cooperative agreements with such agencies. A
warrant to search for and seize any animal which there is probable cause to believe was
involved in any violation of this section may be issued by any judge of the United States
or of a State court of record or by a United States magistrate within the district wherein
the animal sought is located. Any United States marshal or any person authorized under
this section to conduct investigations may apply for and execute any such warrant, and
any animal seized under such a warrant shall be held by the United States marshal or
other authorized person pending disposition thereof by the court in accordance with this
subsection. Necessary care including veterinary treatment shall be provided while the ani-
mals are so held in custody. Any animal involved in any violation of this section shall be
liable ‘to be proceeded against and forfeited to the United States at any time on complaint
ﬁled in any United States district court or other court of the United States for any jurisdic-

‘ tion in which the animal is found and upon a judgment of forfeiture shall be disposed of
by sale for lawful purposes or by other humane means, as the court may direct. Costs _
incurred by the United States for care of animals seized and forfeited under this section
shall be recoverable from the owner of the animals if he appears in such forfeiture
proceeding or in a separate civil acn‘on brought in the jurisdiction in which the owner is
found, resides, or transacts business. ._

. “" (1) the term "animal ﬁghting venture” means any event which involves a ﬁght
between at least two animals and is conducted for purposes of sport, wagering, or enter-

1 tainment except that the term “animal ﬁghting venture" shall not be deemed to include

lany activity the primary purpose of which involves the use of one or more animals in

J hunting another animal or animals, such as waterfowl, bird, raccoon, or fox hunting;

(2) the term “interstate or foreign commerce” means—
_ (A) any movement between any place in a State to any place in another
.J State or between places in the same State through another 5 te; or M
M <=é-® the term "interstate instrumentality" means telegraph, telephone,

4 radio, or television opersﬁm‘ interstate or foreign'conmierce,” ”“"“‘“" " k “'3"

,. {’14) the term "State" means any State of the United States, the Disn'ict of
if Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the

Ni United States;

ZIJS) the term “animal" means any live bird, or any live dog or other

mammal, except man; and '

.. ’ <W(6) the conduct by any person of any activity prohibited by this section

’ " ' 5’ shall not render such person subject to the other sections of this Act as a dealer, exhibitor,

M or otherwise.

(h) (1) The provisions of this section shall not supersede or otherwise invalidate any
such State, loal. or municipal legislation or ordinance relating to animal ﬁghting ventures
except in use ofa direct and irreconcilable conﬂict between any requirements thereunder 7 . 4,, 3,.
and this section or any rule, regulation, or standard hereunder. 2;“,

(7 US. 2156) (EL 89544.6’~S\,26(a)-(h) (1), as added by P1... 944728117, April 22, 1;: r) if I' // / / I
1976, m 21) " WM“W -ww‘%% -_ _ ”" (: ..-. a I: ‘I .g Q a ’ {a I J /)
a t shall be unlawful for any member of an institutional ' o ' ““f" ' “’Qﬂ—‘f

any conﬁdential information of the research facility including any infor»

   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   

 

 

 

 

l

 

 

 

   
     
 

      
  

mittee to release
mation that concerns or relates to—

(1) the trade secrets, processes, operations, style of work, or apparatus; or p. ’ O ‘4"- _ \g
M (2) the identity, conﬁdential statistical data, amount or source of any income, My? 9L ' /_.J c7? 7 ‘
/J proﬁts, losses, or expenditures, of the research facility.

 

0’) 1‘ 71‘)”: ““1““ ”:2," mﬁm°fgu¢mc°mm’ ~ Note: P . L . 9 4- 2 79 als 0 amended 39
use orattemp use a van ges; or "'"""'- .
(2) torevealtoany other person, any information whichis entitled to protec- U ° 5 ° C - 300 l (a) on materl a]- that may
jtion as conﬁdential information under subsection (a) of this section. not be mai led .
(c) A violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section is punishable by—

(1) removal from such Committee; and
(2) (A) a ﬁne of not more than $1,000 and imprisonment of not more than 1

. Y ,
1, year; or .
/—' (B) if such violation is willful, a ﬁne of not more than $10,000 and imprison- r

  




‘ ment of not more than 3 years ..

(d) Any person, including my research facility, injured in its business or property by ”W
reason of a violation of this section may recover all actual and consequential damages sus-
tained by such person and the cost of the suit including a reasonable attorney’s fee.

(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any other rights of a person
injured in its business or property by reason of a violation of this section. Subsection (d)
shall not be construed to limit the exercise of any such rights arising out of or relating to a
violation of subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

(7 U.S.C. 2157) (m. 89-544,;53 27, as added by P.L 99-198, Title mgr; 1754, Dec.
23, 1985,99 5m. 1649)

 

1. Pl. 99-198 Title XVI 52, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1645, made si ' cant amend-
ments 8 of the ct and inadvertently duplicated paragraph (f? 0(5 . The new
Plug“? (f) in the 1985 amendments has b designated as with the old para-W
graph (f) has been designated as paragraph/@for clarity. W W W W

w, v. .
1- -~~-.~.w«nw-vn~.rw.vnwc—-m

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

12.1.. 89-544:
H. Rept. 89-1418, House Committee on Agriculture
S. Rept. 89-1281, Senate Committee on Commerce
Passed House Apr. 28, 1966
Passed Senate june 22, 1966
H. Rept. 89-1848, Conference Committee
House agreed to conference report Aug. 16, 1966
Senate agreed to conference report Aug. 17, 1966
Approved Aug. 24, 1966

PL. 91-579? j) ' ‘ ‘ '
H. Rept. 91-1651, House Committee on Agriculture
Passed House Dec. 7, 1970
Passed Senate Dec. 8, 1970
Approved Dec. 24, 1970

PL. 94-279:
H. Rept. 94-801, House Committee on Agriculture
5. Rept. 94-580, Senate Committee on Commerce ’
H. Rept. 94-976, Conference Committee
5. Rept. 94—727, Conference Committee
Passed Senate Dec. 18, 1975
Passed House Feb. 9, 1976
House agreed to conference report Apr. 6, 1976
Senate agreed to conference report Apr. 7, 1976
Approved Apr. 22, 1976 '

RI... 99-198:

H. Kept. 99-271, Part 1, Committee on Agriculture
5. Rept. 99-145, Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry

Passed House Oct. 8, 1985
Passed Senate Nov. 23, 1985
H. Rept. 99-447 Conference Committee

House and Senate agreed to conference report Dec. 18,
1985

Approved Dec. 23, 1985

$5-

. m...
H‘ ”Mme—ﬂu. A
m.».,;..

if!
x .l
I

K

i

>

.“A, W‘.
' i "‘2 ‘,_
”W,

m»

1.4-
r‘

"x

WW: ,/’\\ In

/ If“ -1 , r ‘ .
\j: I ’W) ' / / 4% } f/L/W/jL-t ’
, ./ f

/ Z V5.4) ,/..../.}zié_’2..’2( '14 I//\

k, 57
t' -
f
‘I

-—/§-// :1?
)

k

7"‘\

4 z- ..

1" I / A. / ,‘

’l/ )V \/ 1A.} .
xx

/,L. y
ﬂ” /‘ , '
L Lﬂ,

[

1
;
/

17
/ C /L “16.64:-

 




LAB.7: 4/3/90

EXCERPTS FROM
THE HEALTH RESEARCH EXTENSION ACT OF 1985
, PUBLIC LAW 99-158, NOVEMBER 20, 1985

ANIMALS IN RESEARCH

Sec. 495 (a) The Secretary, acting through the Director of NIH, shall establish guide-
lines for the following:

(1) The proper care of animals to be used in biomedical and behavioral
research.

(2) The proper treatment of animals while being used in such research. Guide-
lines under this paragraph shall require——

(A) the appropriate use of tranquilizers, analgesics, anesthetics, paralyt-
ics, and euthanasia for animals in such research; and

(B) appropriate pre-surgical and post-surgical veterinary medical and
nursing care for animals in such research. Such guidelines shall not be con-
strued to prescribe methods of research.

(3) The organization and operation of animal care committees in accordance
with subsection (b).

(b) (1) Guidelines of the Secretary under subsection (a) (3) shall require animal care
committees at each entity which conducts biomedical and behavioral research with funds
provided under this Act (including the National Institutes of Health and the national
research institutes) to assure compliance with the guidelines established under subsection

(a).

(2) Each animal care committee shall be appointed by the chief executive offi-
cer of the entity for which the committee is established, shall be composed of not
fewer than three members, and shall include at least one individual who has no asso-
ciation with such entity and at least one doctor of veterinary medicine.

(3) Each animal care committee of a research entity shall—

(A) review the care and treatment of animals in all animal study areas
and facilities of the research entity at least semi-annually to evaluate compli-
ance with applicable guidelines established under subsection (a) for appropri-
ate animal care and treatment;

(B) keep appropriate records of reviews conducted under subpar-
agraph (A); and

(C) for each review conducted under subparagraph (A), file with the
Director of NIH at least annually (i) a certification that the review has been
conducted, and (ii) reports of any violations of guidelines established under
subsection (a) or assurances required under paragraph (1) which were
observed in such review and which have continued after notice by the com-
mittee to the research entity involved of the violations.

Reports filed under subparagraph (C) shall include any minority views filed by members
of the committee.

(c) The Director of NIH shall require each applicant for a grant, contract, or coopera-
tive agreement involving research on animals which is administered by the National Insti-
tutes of Health or any national research institute to include in its application or contract
proposal, submitted after the expiration of the twelve-month period beginning on the date
of enactment of this section-—

(1) assurances satisfactory to the Director of NIH that—

(A) the applicant meets the requirements of the guidelines established
under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) and has an animal care commit—
tee which meets the requirements of subsection (b); and

(B) scientists, animal technicians, and other personnel involved with
animal care, treatment, and use by the applicant have available to them
instruction or training in the humane practice of animal maintenance and
experimentation, and the concept, availability, and use of research or testing
methods that limit the use of animals or limit animal distress; and

(2) a statement of the reasons for the use of animals in the research to be con-
ducted with funds provided under such grant or contract.

Notwithstanding subsection (a) (2) of section 553 of title 5, United States Code, regula-
tions under this subsection shall be promulgated in accordance with the notice and com-
ment requirements of such section.

(d) If the Director of NIH determines that—-

(1) the conditions of animal care, treatment, or use in an entity which is receiv-
ing a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement involving research on animals under
this title do not meet applicable guidelines established under subsection (a);

(2) the entity has been notified by the Director of NIH of such determination

 




 

 

and has been given a reasonable opportunity to take corrective action; and V
(3) no action has been taken by the entity to correct such conditions; .

the Director of NIH shall suspend or revoke such grant or contract under such conditions ‘7
as the Director determines appropriate.

(e) No guideline or regulation promulgated under subsection (a) or (c) may require a
research entity to disclose publicly trade secrets or commercial or financial information
which is privileged or confidential. '

SEC. 4 PLAN FOR RESEARCH INVOLVING ANIMALS ....W , w“ J -« w «rs/J. I

 

,‘wnr—uﬂ- A- ~-~

(a) Establishment of Plan—The Director of the National Institutes of Health shall IL “‘7' >"!’”"""”" w
establish a plan for—

. (1) research to be conducted by or through the National Institutes of Health
and the national research institutes into methods of biomedical research and experi-
mentation—

(A) which do not require the use of animals;
(B) which reduce the number of animals used in such research; or

(C) which produce less pain and distress in such animals than methods
currently in use. '

(2) establishing the validity and reliability of the methods described in
subparagraph (A);

(3) the development of such methods which have been found to be valid and
reliable; and

(4) the training of scientists in the use of such methods.
The plan required by this paragraph shall be prepared not later than October 1, 1986.

(b) Dissemination of Information—The Director of the National Institutes of Health
shall take such actions as may be appropriate to convey to scientists and others involved
with research or experimentation involving animals information respecting the methods
found to be valid and reliable under subsection (a) (2).

(c) Interagency Coordinating Committee—The Director of the National Institutes of
Health shall establish within the National Institutes of Health an Interagency Coordinat-
ing Committee to assist the Director of the National Institutes of Health in the develop-
ment of the plan required by subsection (a). The Director of each national research insti-
tute shall serve on the Committee.

 

1. Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, France, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United
Kingdom.

2. The full text of the 1966 Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, including its 1970, 1976, and .
1985 amendments appears at the end of thiswchapter. - m WW . WW A z“

m

Mm www.cA-v‘ ‘1.”

3. The Animals (Scientific ProceduresTAct of 1986 continues and in several provisions I .. ,1
increases the protection provided by the 1876 Act. See Appendix for the full text.
4. Arizona and Alaska passed anti-cruelty laws in 1913.
5. Mr. Morse, who fought the reform efforts of the founders of the Humane Society of
the United States as chief executive of the American Humane Association, became
presidentiof the Humane Society of the United States from 1967-1970.
6. The New York State Society for Medical Research also sponsored the bills introduced
by Senator Iavits in the 89th and 90th Congresses (see ”Laboratory Animal Laws: Im-
portant Dates," this chapter).
7. The American Humane Association was also absent when hearings were called by
Congressman Poage on the Resnick bill, September 2, 1965. At subsequent hearings,
AHA representatives testified against inclusion of laboratories in the bill, reﬂecting
the unbridled pressure of the biomedical establishment on the big humane societies at
that period.
8. For example, Nobel laureate, Sir Peter Medawar, was Chairman of UFAW’s Scientiﬁc
Advisory Committee. He repeatedly sent statements on the value of the British Act for
quotation at Congressional hearings.
9. The statements by Sir Graham Wilson and Dr. Lawrence Abel were published by AWI
in Information Report Vol. 15, No. 4, September-October 1966.
10. Speaker of the House of Representatives, 1989—. .
11. Secretary of Health and Human Services, 1982-1985. *

\N

 




LAB.1: 10/17/89

Chapter IV

LABORATORY ANIMAL WELFARE
by Christine Stevens

Not until the end of 1985 when Senator Robert Dole attached his bill,
"Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals,” to the Farm Bill by unanimous
consent of Senate and House, did the United States achieve legislation compa— / \ ,
rable to that already in effect in 14 western European countriesﬁgwrnprag‘tggtion of...” [£90fo 3’)
animals used by scientific‘institutions. The Farm Bill was signed by President ' "
Reagan two days/before Christmas, making the Improved Standards provisions J ,r 7 _ (47” ) f/

/..

{

effective December 23, 1986, a year from the date of enactment. Awwmmmmm f 1‘ U?

‘i A.

More than twenty years of intensive work was required to reach the point
at which the American Physiological Society, major experimentalists, withdrew
its opposition to legislation sought by animal protective organizations. The
Association of Professors of Medicine, too, accepted the bill’s provisions in the
closing months of the struggle for its passage.

Efforts which began in 1880 to regulate animal experimentation in the
United States are described in detail from 1945 onward.

NINETEENTH CENTURY LABORATORY ANIMAL
PROTECTIVE PROPOSALS REBUFFED

In 1880, a bill to regulate animal experimentation in the District of Colum-
bia was introduced in Congress. Its provisions were roughly similar to the Brit-
ish Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876 which provided substantial protection for
experimental animals for more than a century with the approval of the British 4.? / O . ' ' /‘
scientific community.LﬁgtﬁmGrise,g1,,.§gi,§gti§t§myyho were ‘35ng for their Ollin‘ g; { 9%.), 17/ ”+3; >
a , . . . . -'~u-.a.m..........,.._,,.......=.m sum-rm, ,_ -...~-r~r—~ ..,,....m 4, ._,.me l“ V. I 1“. M; kw...“
ions opposed and easﬂy defeated this 1n1t1al effort.

h

Between 1828 and 1898, nearly every state and territory in the Union 11‘ I/ K‘s . - A ‘x i/"
passed an anti-cruelty statutelfﬂgurtﬂeeﬂrkgfthese laws exempted animal experi- .... a “ff {,3 ﬁ'fffjf'f 51.47
ments. Even the crusading HeHry Bergh, "a'ﬁ“‘”‘5i1‘t“§poken anti-vivis‘eCtion'ims‘ff \- ‘
agreed to the exemption of experimental animals when he revised the New
York anti-cruelty law in 1867.

No prosecutions for cruelty to laboratory animals are known during this
period in states without such exemptions. Not until the latter half of the twenti-
eth century (Massachusetts in 1958 and Maryland in 1982) were anti-cruelty
laws invoked on behalf of laboratory animals. In the first case, the Massachusetts
SPCA successfully prosecuted a research scientist and animal caretaker for cru-
elty in maintaining and transporting post-surgical dogs outside the institution
(the Overholt Clinic).

/

In MarylandADr. Edward Taub was found guilty of 17 counts of cruelty to «L. ”
experimental monkeys at the Institute for Behavioral Research. On appeal, the
judgment was reversed on grounds that the Maryland law was superseded by
the federal Animal Welfare Act.

LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY IN THE POST-SECOND WORLD WAR PERIOD

Virtually all bills relating to laboratory animals from 1945 to 1960 were
inspired by the National Society for Medical ReSeatChwglgmgfmﬁg.__affilia,te§.,._. ,/ f' if‘ I ;;
Founded in Chicago in 1945 by Dr. A. ]. Carlson, Dr. Andrew C. Ivy, and Dr. ‘ ““- ‘ f " /
George Wakerlin, the NSMR devoted most of its efforts to enactment of state
laws requiring both humane society shelters and public pounds to surrender
dogs and cats on request from scientific institutions for use in any type of exper-
iments or tests, no matter how painful and prolonged.

The ﬁrst forced surrender law was passed in Minnesota in 1948. Humane
societies were unaware that the bill had even been introduced before it had
gone through both Houses and been signed by the Governor. This law required
release of impounded animals from humane society shelters that receive funds
from taxes, as well as from municipal pounds. In 1949 in Wisconsin, an even
more severe seizure law was passed, requiring any stray animal to be made
available on request to a scientific institution. Thus, shelters operated wholly by
charitable funds were also compelled to supply animals for experiments,
regardless of the degree and duration of pain and suffering inﬂicted. An attempt
was made to pass similar legislation in Illinois, but here it failed, and the individ-
ual communities were left in control of local policies with respect to disposition

of stray dogs and cats.

 




Procurement laws passed in New York, South Dakota, Oklahoma, Connect-
icut, Ohio, and Iowa did not attempt to enact such far-reaching legislation. _
I m" . « .0 =,. of”
Robert Sellar, the President of the American Humane Association, the ... U: i: f :5 ,1
national federation of humane societies, saw the grave danger to the movement, 3
whose organizational structure in the late 1940’s was especially susceptible to
demoralization through animal seizure legislation. Virtually all the well-estab-
lished humane societies centered their work around shelters for lost or
unwanted dogs and cats. If forced to surrender animals for painful experiments,
the entire structure would lose its moral basis as a sanctuary for animals where
they would be safe from inﬂicted suffering. These were dark days for organized
animal protection.

“‘3
"’5.

Mr. Sellar sought to reason with the National Society for Medical Research
in hopes of finding a solution to the demand for research dogs without under-
mining the morals of the humane movement. A small AHA group met with an
NSMR group with the understanding that the preliminary talk would not be
publicized. But Mr. Ralph Rohweder, the Executive Secretary of the NSMR,
immediately sent out an announcement calculated to inﬂame anti-vivisection
societies and anti-vivisectionist members of the American Humane Association.
Mr. Sellar lacked the power to resolve the crisis manufactured by the NSMR,
and henceforth, battles raged in state after state to pass legislation compelling
humane societies to surrender dogs and cats to the laboratories on demand and
without controls on pain inﬂiction.

With the death of Robert Sellar came the end of real efforts to face the prob-
lem and solve it. The inﬂuence of a coterie of professional humanitarians—the
paid employees of large societies who had a vested interest in the continuance
of their jobs—was not conducive to firm resolve. They felt that they must avoid
offending either anti-vivisectionists, from whom their organizations might
receive large gifts and bequests, or scientific and medical groups, whose power-
ful inﬂuence they feared. Thus it was that the American Humane Association,
normally eager for contributions, declined an offered gift of $10,000 to study
and prepare a concerted plan for obtaining humane treatment of research ani-
mals and a solution to the problem of supply to laboratories.

Before his death, Mr. Sellar had appointed a new director of the National < / {42.5"} 5.5 7
Humane Review, Fred Myers, a newspaper man who was a reformer and an «7" } $.45
effective writer. He attacked the NSMR for its policies of indiscriminate
procurement and use of animals. So telling were his arguments that he was for-
bidden by AHA management, which was heavily weighted against any ener-
getic action, to use the words ”National Society for Medical Research” in any
article published in the National Humane Review. Unwilling to submit to such an
arbitrary stiﬂing of truthful reporting, Mr. Myers resigned, together with two of
the other three major staff members: Helen Jones, Director of Education, and
Larry Andrews, Director of Field Services. All were appointees of Robert Sellar, he) _ , ..,. M.» a: }
who had been replaced after his death by Mel Morse] _ "' “Iii?” «SJ ii?” y

W. .

r u“ a6
I: I.“ owe”

s

The National Humane Society was founded by the dissident trio. The
American Humane Association promptly sued them to force them to change
the society’s name, which, it claimed, was too similar to National Humane Review.
The result was the renaming of the new organization as the Humane Society of
the United States.

Nor was this the only legal action taken in the reform effort. The first
attempt to change the passive attitude of the AHA came at the election of direc-
tors at the 1954 annual meeting. The three reform candidates, Professor Roland
Smith of the Department of English, University of Illinois, Miss I. M. Perry, an
attorney from South Carolina, and Mr. Raymond Naramore, a high school
teacher who became the director of the Rochester and Monroe County Humane
Society, were promptly elected by a delighted membership that had never
before exercised its prerogatives. The controlling group of AHA directors was
dismayed. The following year they fought back, first naming a meeting point in
the Northwest where the expense of travel would discourage the bulk of the
membership, concentrated in the East, from attending. Forced by injunction to
name a more central location for the meeting, they resorted to bringing in large
numbers of persons never before associated with animal welfare work who
voted as a bloc on signal. The ”in" group won and, not long after, Miss Perry
died, and Professor Smith resigned. Mr. Naramore, limited to work on humane
education for schools, died a few years later.

Due to the failure of these and other attempts to bring purpose and life into
the AHA establishment at that time, several new organizations were formed.
The Animal Welfare Institute was founded in 1951, its aim the advancement of
the welfare of all animals, with special emphasis on the research animals so long
neglected by humane organizations. Its charter was drawn by Herbert Brownell,
the distinguished New York lawyer who served as Attorney General under
President Eisenhower.

 




The Humane Society of the United States was founded in 1954; and in 1959
one of its founders, Helen Jones, left the parent body to found the National
Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, later renamed the International Society for
Animal Rights.

In 1952, after years of controversy, the Hatch-Metcalf Act was passed. The
Act amended an existing New York laboratory animal care statute into a
procurement law, requiring all dog pounds and all humane societies receiving
public funds to surrender animals to scientiﬁc institutions. The New York State
Humane Association actively fought enactment of the law; but its biggest, oldest
member organization, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to /
Animals (ASPCA), whose board was dominated at that time by research inter-
ests, refused to take a position. Its president was Samuel Milbank of the Milbank 419 m {p {a
Foundation. The New York State Society for Medical Research“; pro onents of ' mﬂﬁyég.(._ a?” j E “a“
the law, dismissed all the other organizations as anti-vivisection groups, thus lw‘” a " W " g ..
ensuring passage of the law.

.2"

Both the Erie County Humane Society and the Humane Society of Roches-
ter and Monroe County immediately gave up their pound contracts so that it
would not be necessary for them to release animals from their shelters to
laboratories. Only two organizations, the ASPCA and the Syracuse SPCA, con-
tinued to accept tax funds and were thus required to send dogs and cats to sci-
entific institutions. Between 1966 and 1974 when the Hatch—Metcalf Act was
repealed, the Syracuse SPCA delivered 14,000 dogs and cats to Bristol-Myers, a
company with annual sales of more than a billion dollars.

Such was the power of the biomedical establishment at the time that the
ASPCA even went so far as to oppose an amendment offered just before the
Hatch-Metcalf Act was passed which would have authorized a representative of
the New York State Humane Association to accompany Health Department
inspectors on the rounds of laboratory animal rooms. The ASPCA was a mem-
ber of the New York State Humane Association, but it joined the New York
State Society for Medical Research in fighting the humane inspection, which, it
was claimed, ”would emasculate the bill.” The amendment was defeated, ensur-
ing that inspection under the Hatch-Metcalf Act was a whitewashing operation.
A few examples:

1953: A Health Department inspector took AWI representatives
through Cornell Medical School explaining how excellent the
care for the animals was while passing by a dog whose incision .. _ ,-
had openedfallowing his internal organs to fall onto the ﬂoor of .< [x7 :33 'fiie" f” """ 1; x /
the cage. " " KM

AWI was called to inspect the animal quarters at St. Vincent’s
Hospital where gross filth and massive infestation of ticks,
roaches, and other insects were found.

AWI was called by a secretary in New York University Dental
School about epizootics which were running through the ani-
mal colonies due to the fact that wild rodents were fouling the
cages, and cleaning was put off for so long that there was
scarcely a clear spot to set foot in the dog runway.

All these institutions received dogs from the ASPCA and were inspected
and certified by the Health Department and also by ASPCA employees who vis-
ited at the invitation of the laboratories. When the federal Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act was passed in 1966, the ASPCA ended even the gesture of sending
inspectors to laboratories but continued to supply them with dogs and cats until
1971.

In 1976, a reform movement swept the ASPCA, permanently ending the
supply of dogs and cats from its shelters to laboratories. In 1977, the New York . _
Assembly voted 126-14 to repeal the Hatch-Metcalf Act. Connecticut and" Ohioﬁ

also repealed similar acts. /\

 

Lu
/ . , ,. , ,
> ‘ ""‘ “M W“ HWWWAP’" '

\

'a

t

, . t

’ ' . , 1. j

J

t

t :v
a J

This type of legislation has proved itself a failure. The claims issued for its
enactment, to the effect that dog dealing and stealing would cease if animals
were available to laboratories from humane societies and pounds, were proven
false in the most dramatic way by the very case which set in motion the enact-
ment of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. A dog was bought by a New York
hospital from a Pennsylvania dog dealer, although the hospital was entitled to
free dogs from the ASPCA. In other states, too, which passed animal seizure
legislation, laboratories often have not taken advantage of the law, preferring to

buy from dealers.

 




LAB.2: 10/17/89

Thirteen states prohibit the release of impounded animals to research /‘

facilities: Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New

Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Islandwi/
dina, Vermont, and West Virginia. Of these, Massachusetts is the only state

which specifically prohibits the sale of pound animals brought in from other

states as well: ”No person, institution, animal dealer, or their authorized agent

shall transport . . . any animal obtained from any municipal or public pound,

public agency, or dog officer . . . into the commonwealth for purposes of

research, experimentation, testing, instruction or demonstration” (Ch. 140, Sec.
174D, 1983).

Release of impounded animals for research purposes is required in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Iowa, Minnesota, Oklahoma (by pounds only; shelters may
release animals for research), South Dakota, and Utah.

Release of impounded animals for research use is allowed in Arizona, Cali-
fornia, Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennesseegand Wisconsin.

Recent efforts to repeal Minnesota’s law requiring release of animals from
pounds to research facilities have been unsuccessful. However, a law was
enacted in 1987 which provides for inspections of animal dealers by the Minne-
sota Board of Animal Health as well as the U. S. Department of Agriculture,
requires dealers to post signs informing the public that they sell animals to
laboratories, and opens dealers’ premises to the public to enable pet owners to
search for lost or stolen pets. A fine of $1,000 will be imposed on any individual
selling a dog or cat to a research facility without the permission of the owner.

The State of Washington enacted a law in 1989 to prevent pet theft.
Research animal dealers who sell stolen dogs or cats to scientific institutions or
who pose as adopters of animals responding to ”free to good home” classified
ads may now be punished by a fine of $10,000 and 5 years in jail. Research
facilities are required to maintain a file on each dog and cat, including
certification of the animal’s origin, a photograph, and a physical description of

the animal, available for ublic ins ection. . 1”; ﬂaw/1 , ,7 wfil/j
p p ﬂ fry/(7“ A 524?”; ”p.47, ,. / .t t. n

<__::_____‘ “m... . , M3“:

 

 

ﬁr.)

‘ yum.“
A ...v f K
v, /l ‘. 2’? "“755“ ‘2‘ f
-.~ . ‘I ; J " .
I .A‘ {1;}..“(1' j

In 1983, Iowa passed a law authorising suspension or
revocation of the license of an animal shelter, auction,
dealer, kennel, or pound for cruelty to animals.

Massachusetts, in 1985, authorized the Massachusetts
SPCA and the Animal Rescue League of Boston to inspect all
animal dealers licensed by the U. S. Department of
Agriculture, thus complementing their previously enacted law
allowing for inspection of research facilities. '

In 1989, Kansas enacted legislation requiring annual
licensing of.all research facilities, dealers, pounds, pet
shops and kennels. The Commissioner of Livestock has
extensive authority to inspect facilities and to deny,
:uspend or revoke licenses. A similar law was passed in

owa.

A 210-page volume was produced, but Nin, alsmayeu uy uu: CALcutuvc
evidence of mistreatment and neglect of laboratory animals and the obvious
need for regulatory legislation revealed by the study, quickly withdrew it. Hun-
dreds of copies were secreted in a storeroom. Senator Clark, however,

demanded and got a copy.

The first bill ever introduced in the United States Congress to regulate ani-
mal experimentation was sponsored by Senators John Sherman Cooper, Mike
Mansfield, E. L. Bartlett, Robert C. Byrd, Frank Church, Estes Kefauver, Wayne
Morse, William Proxmire, Jennings Randolph, Ernest Gruening, Pat McNamara,

 




LA 82: 10/17/89

Thirteen states prohibit the release of impounded animals to research
facilities: Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Massachgsetts, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Islan outh Caro-

Tina; Vermont, and West Virginia. Of these, Massachusetts is the only state
which specifically prohibits the sale of pound animals brought in from other
states as well: ”No person, institution, animal dealer, or their authorized agent
shall transport . . . any animal obtained from any municipal or public pound,
public agency, or dog officer . . . into the commonwealth for purposes of
research, experimentation, testing, instruction or demonstration” (Ch. 140, Sec.
174D, 1983).

Release of impounded animals for research purposes is required in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Iowa, Minnesota, Oklahoma (by pounds only; shelters may
release animals for research), South Dakota, and Utah.

Release of impounded animals for research use is allowed in Arizona, Cali-
fornia, Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee/and Wisconsin.

Recent efforts to repeal Minnesota’s law requiring release of animals from
pounds to research facilities have been unsuccessful. However, a law was
enacted in 1987 which provides for inspections of animal dealers by the Minne-
sota Board of Animal Health as well as the U. S. Department of Agriculture,
requires dealers to post signs informing the public that they sell animals to
laboratories, and opens dealers’ premises to the public to enable pet owners to
search for lost or stolen pets. A fine of $1,000 will be imposed on any individual
selling a dog or cat to a research facility without the permission of the owner.

The State of Washington enacted a law in 1989 to prevent pet theft.
Research animal dealers who sell stolen dogs or cats to scientific institutions or
who pose as adopters of animals responding to ”free to good home” classified
ads may now be punished by a fine of $10,000 and 5 years in jail. Research
facilities are required to maintain a file on each dog and cat, including
certification of the animal’s origin, a photograph, and a physical description of
the animal, available for public inspection.

/_:’;___a
«\‘
REGULATORY PROPOSALS STALLED IN COMMITTEE
BY MEDICAL LOBBYISTS

Between the years 1960 and 1966, a great deal of effort was devoted to
unsuccessful attempts to pass legislation based on the principles of the British
Act of 1876. But public interest in the treatment of laboratory animals was grow—
ing, and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) decided to contract for a study
by Dr. David N. Ruth and Mr. Robert W. Cox on "The Care and Management of
Laboratory Animals Used in the Programs of the Department of Health, Educa-
tion and Welfare” (DHEW). Submissions were widely solicited, and both the
Animal Welfare Institute and Society for Animal Protective Legislation pres-
ented documentation on visits to laboratories. AWI’s ”Critical Review of Condi-
tions in Institutions Receiving Funds Under DHEW Auspices” documented the
following:

 

 

1. Cages too small for animals to stand or lie in normal position.
. Failure to administer pain-relieving drugs after surgery.
. Failure to destroy suffering, moribund animals.

. Failure to supervise animals after surgery.

. Repeated use of the same animal for painful procedures.

. Failure to provide water.

2
3
4
5. Failure to provide a comfortable resting place for animals.
6
7
8

. Failure to identify animals.

9. Immobilization of unanesthetized animals.

/

«$10. Filth. 4 AM:

A 210-page volume was produced, but NIH, dismayed by the extensive
evidence of mistreatment and neglect of laboratory animals and the obvious
need for regulatory legislation revealed by the study, quickly withdrew it. Hun-
dreds of copies were secreted in a storeroom. Senator Clark, however,

demanded and got a copy.

The first bill ever introduced in the United States Congress to regulate ani-
mal experimentation was sponsored by Senators John Sherman Cooper, Mike
Mansfield, E. L. Bartlett, Robert C. Byrd, Frank Church, Estes Kefauver, Wayne
Morse, William Proxmire, Jennings Randolph, Ernest Gruening, Pat McNamara,

 

 




Harrison Williams, and Joseph S. Clark. The bill was written by Abe Fortas and

introduced at the request of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation. As 6,
soon as this bill was introduced, the National Anti-Vivisection Society andftil‘mx ..
National Society for Medical Research, normally at each other’s throats, found. V
themselves in agreement: there must be no regulation of animal experimenta-

tion. When hearings were held two years later in the House of Representatives,

Major Charles Hume, founder of the Universities Federation for Animal Wel-

fare of Great Britain, emphasized the fact that, poles apart though they were,

these two groups actually corresponded with a view to helping each other

defeat regulatory legislation.

Opponents thought they had buried regulatory legislation, and in that
Committee they had. But they reckoned without the disappearance of a
Dalmatian dog named Pepper and the response of the House Agriculture Com-
mittee.

The Humane Society of the United States, under the direction of Fred
Myers, insisted that the British Act was not sufficiently strong and gave its sup-
port to the Moulder bill. The American Humane Association remained silent
and, when pressed, said it was studying the matter. When Congressman
Kenneth Roberts held two days of hearings on the Griffiths and Moulder bills,
the AHA sent no one to testify.7

Medical research groups and anti-vivisection groups opposed the bills; the
National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare said it would support the Moulder
bill if it were amended to eliminate all pain inﬂiction. Significant statements
were made by scientists and medical men who supported the Griffiths bill
(identical *0 the Clark-xhlsgegasxkill,,.i§1..th.e_-.§99ete) baseden the,principleaseirf‘? 5
the British Act, and also by knowledgeable Britons who had worked under the
Act and could testify from firsthand experience as to its workability and effec-
tiveness in preventing animal suffering without hampering research.

The American Medical Association felt differently, however, and editor-
ialized about what it termed ”humaniacs.” An objective and authoritative voice
was heard from England when the Report of the Departmental Committee on
Experiments on Animals was presented to Parliament by the Secretary of State
for the Home Department, April 1965.

The Committee, under the chairmanship of Sir Sydney Littlewood, held
hearings over a two-year period to review the working of the British Act, giving
every individual and group who desired to be heard an opportunity. The result-
ing ”Littlewood Report,” a remarkable testimony to fairness and good judg-
ment, surveying every aspect of animal experimentation, of the treatment of the
animals, and of procurement, reported the views of scientists, of the public, and
of groups as diverse as the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare,8 whose
scientific approach is well known, and anti-vivisection organizations seeking
abolition of all experimentation on animals. The most widely quoted paragraph
in the 255—page Report is the first of the General Findings: ”Animal experiment
is a complex and highly specialised subject. It is also a moral and social problem
of the first magnitude and one that does not exclusively concern the expert.”

The ”Littlewood Report” was referred to repeatedly by two distinguished
medical men who ﬂew to the United States to testify at hearings held September
30, 1965, before the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee: Dr.
Lawrence Abel, former Vice President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Eng-
land and Consulting Surgeon to the Institute of Cancer Research, Royal Cancer
Hospital, and Sir Graham Wilson, former Director of the Public Health Service.

Speaking of the inspectorate under the British Act, Sir Graham said:

The Act is administered by the Home Office and is enforced by
specially appointed inspectors possessing a medical or veterinary
qualification. Their main purpose is regulatory and educational rather
than disciplinary. In their visits to the laboratories they satisfy them-
selves about the suitability of the conditions under which the animals
are kept and of the general well-being of the animals themselves; they
may assure themselves that the license holder is fully aware of what he
is permitted and not permitted to do; and they make useful sugges-
tions for overcoming difficulties of one sort or another.

Dr. Abel, speaking of the three principles—licensing, inspection, and the
pain rule—said:

The third British Principle is the Pain Rule. This sets the limit to
the amount of suffering which may be inﬂicted. We do not commit the
atrocities which are reported from time to time in some other
countries. We do not allow the extravagant cruelty committed by some
investigators of stress and shock. We have proved that the desired
results can be obtained by less inhumane methods. We are convinced
that the freedom of all and sundry to use animals indiscriminately

 




would not improve the value of research.

The hearings of the Health Subcommittee of the House Interstate and For-
eign Commerce Committee at which Sir Graham and Dr. Abel testified were
never published.9 Scheduled as two-day hearings, they were abruptly canceled
the morning of the second day and never rescheduled by Chairman Paul Rog-
ers, now a consultant for the National Association for Biomedical Research
(NABR). The biomedical establishment apparently considered it dangerous to
expose the public to facts about successful regulation of animal experiments.

RESNICK BILL BYPASSES THE HEALTH COMMITTEES >

On July 3, 1965, Fay Brisk, a long-term campaigner for reform of the big
Pennsylvania dog dealers, called the Animal Welfare Institute for help to try to
get Pepper back to her owners, the Lakavage family. Mr. Lakavage, in the hospi-
tal with a heart attack, saw Pepper’s photograph together with seventeen other
dogs and two goats that had been temporarily unloaded from a Pennsylvania
dog dealer’s overcrowded truck. Mrs. Lakavage and the three young Lakavages
set off in pursuit of Pepper, who, allegedly, had been taken to a big New York
State dog dealer, Nersesian. When the exhausted family arrived, Nersesian
refused them entry.

Senator Clark of Pennsylvania, a well-established fighter for animal protec-
tion and chief sponsor of pending legislation to require humane treatment of
experimental animals, was out of town, but Sara Ehrmann, his Legislative Assis-
tant, responded to the AWI call for help by telephoning Congressman Resnick's
office in the District where Nersesian’s dog farm was located. Even Congres-
sional intercession failed, however; and Resnick, angered by Nersesian’s high-
handed refusal to admit the family to find their missing pet, decided he would
introduce a bill to prevent such wrongs.

Meantime, pressure by the State Police brought an admission from the
Pennsylvania dog dealer that he had taken his load not to Nersesian, as he first
had said, but directly to Montefiore Hospital in New York. Immediately, Fay
Brisk telephoned the hospital, could hear the rattling of the dog tags at the other
end of the phone, then the news: the dog had died on the operating table the
day before and already had been incinerated. The dog dealer insisted the dog
was not Pepper—the evidence was incinerated—but the call for female
Dalmatians, put out by the hospital to dealersgather than to breeders, had led to

introduction of .thQRSEEPiCK bill on JulyjninthgTheJ Resnickbillawritten by attor:_,...,.

. ~~~~~~~~ “7'” 3y» . , ,._, .9“... . ._. -x..

V m.
o

neys of the United StateS“"‘Department 0 Agriculture, required that dealers in< Ci,
dogs and cats and the laboratories that purchased them be licensed, inspected,

and adhere to humane standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture. A compan-

ion bill was introduced in the Senate by Senator Warren G. Magnuson,
Chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, and Senator Clark, who came to

the Senate ﬂoor at the same moment to introduce identical bills. In a brief collo-

quy they agreed to co-sponsor, and Senator Daniel Brewster of Maryland joined

them.

On September fifth; Congressman W. R. Poage of Texas, Chairman of the 4 ‘5‘
livestock Subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee, held hearings on
the Resnick bill. He was the first American legislator to hold hearings on labora-
tory animal legislation with a view to enacting it. He had won passage of the
Humane Slaughter Act in 1958, and was destined to win again for laboratory
animals. Not easily, however. The bill was immediately attacked as anti-vivisec-
tionist by the National Society for Medical Research, which described it as a
"pincers movement” to cut off the supply of animals for laboratories. Anti-vivi-
sectionist groups, however, took but little interest in the matter. The demand for
action came from the general public, outraged by the article in Life magazine
showing Stan Wayman’s photographs of the shocking abuse of dogs in the deal-
ers’ hands.

The Life article was set in motion by Henry Luce after he looked over a col-
lection of photographs supplied by the Animal Welfare Institute, many of them
taken by photographers accompanying AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant,
Dorothy Dyce. Under the supervision of Life’s Nature Editor, Pat Hunt, the arti-
cle was completed and published February 4, 1966. More mail was received by
Life on this article than on any other in the history of the magazine, and Con-
gress received more mail on the pending bills than on civil rights or Vietnam.

In the face of such demand, the opponents began to modify their opposi-
tion. When Congressman Poage introduced the Committee bill, extending cov-
erage to all vertebrate animals, and Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania intro-
duced an identical bill in the Senate, the opponents concentrated on exempting
scientific institutions from the humane standards and on cutting back the num-
ber of species covered. The Poage bill came unscathed through the Subcommit-
tee, but the full House Agriculture Committee cut it down to dogs and cats in
dealers’ premises only. Laboratory interests thus won a temporary victory and,

 




no doubt, believed they could continue to keep the objective veterinary inspec-
tors of the U. S. Department of Agriculture out of scientific institutions.

After the House passed the weakened version of the Poage bill, a Senate
Commerce Committee staff draft accomplished a comparable weakening of the
bills introduced by Senators Magnuson, Clark, Brewster, and Scott. Again, lab-
oratory interests made a stab at getting themselves exempted, but they had reck-
oned without Senator Monroney, who, as soon as he read the draft, prepared an
amendment restoring coverage of animals inside scientific institutions. N ewspa-
pers throughout the country supported the Monroney Amendment in emphatic
terms. So hotly debated was the issue that a second set of hearings was sched«
uled in the Senate Commerce Committee on May 25, 1966.

For six years the National Institutes of Health and its parent Department of
Health, Education and Welfare had opposed all moves toward effective legisla-
tion for humane treatment of research animals. Suddenly, when it became clear
that such opposition could no longer stem the demand for action, NIH asked
Senator Lister Hill, Chairman of the Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, to
introduce a bill written by NIH itself providing a self-policing system for
laboratories. Meanwhile, its representatives urged exemption of laboratories
from the straightforward, humane Senate Commerce Committee bill.

 




LA 8.3: 10/17/89

Neither the Committee nor the Senate as a whole could be brought to sup-
port this maneuver. The Washington Evening Star stated editorially:

THE ANIMAL CRUELTY BILLS

Congress at last is headed toward enactment of a law to require
humane treatment of animals used in laboratory research and to halt
thefts of pets by dealers supplying this market. At the eleventh hour,
however, a snag has been encountered in the Senate Commerce Com-
mittee. Medical researchers, hostile to government supervision, (but
not government grants, it should be added), are attempting a switch
play. A bill introduced by Senator Hill of Alabama would head off fed-
eral inspection of how laboratories treat animals awaiting experiments.
Instead this authority would be given to a private group.

The medical men, in fact have such a group all ready and waiting.
Set up last year, it is called the American Association for Accreditation
of laboratory Animal Care. Its members are of the establishment; and
are staff members of medical schools and research institutions. And, as
the association’s brochure suggests, the ’inspections’ would be rather
friendly affairs.

There would be no surprise audits, such as those routinely carried
out now in the banking industry, for example. Instead a visit would be
scheduled by ’mutual convenience.’ It would not come distressingly
often—no more than once every five years. The inspectors, according
to the brochure, would charge fees ranging up to $1,000 for their trou-
ble.

If the laboratories are in fact treating their animals humanely, they
should have nothing to fear from a proposal by Senator Magnuson of
Washington that such inspections be made by the Department of Agri-
culture after standards have been published. His bill has nothing to do
with the anti-vivisectionists; the government would not interfere with
any laboratory tests or operations.

Certainly the public should not be deluded into thinking the Hill
proposal represents any kind of adequate substitute for impartial
inspection of such institutions.

Senator Magnuson had made plain his determination to report a bill out of
his Committee. The National Society for Medical Research and National
Institutes of Health, therefore, concentrated on trying to get the laboratories
exempted from compliance with humane standards set by the United States
Department of Agriculture and inspection by its representatives. Glowing
references to the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal
Care (AAALAC), for whose existence Dr. Maurice Visscher, President of the
NSMR, took credit, were a stock in trade; and at the final Senate Commerce
Committee hearings, representatives of the NIH and NSMR strongly supported
the NIH bill and opposed the Monroney Amendment. Testimony was limited to
medical witnesses at this hearing; and two courageous physicians, who had
been associated for years with efforts to obtain humane treatment of laboratory
animals, came to Washington to testify for the Monroney Amendment: Dr.
Nicholas Gimbel, Chief of Surgery at Metropolitan Hospital and Associate
Professor of Surgery at Wayne University Medical School, and Dr. Bennett
Derby, Head of Neurology at Veterans Administration HOSpital in Manhattan
and Assistant Professor of Neurology at New York University Medical School.
Dr. Gimbel and Dr. Derby urged the Senate Committee to provide for humane
care and housing of animals in research institutions. They emphasized that the
Department of Agriculture is the ideal agency to administer such requirements.
Dr. Gimbel, who had devoted considerable time to getting better treatment for
experimental dogs in different institutions, brought the question down to earth
by stating that if he were a dog, he would prefer to have the Department of Agri-
culture administer the law. He said the ”welfare of animals should be the
responsibility of a body which is primarily interested in them . . . the Depart-
ment of Agriculture,” and he added: ”If the scientists and organizations repre-
sented in AAALAC had done their job properly, we would not be holding hear-
ings here today. The time has come to bring in independent auditors." The NIH
bill did not come to hearings.

The Senate Commerce Committee bill, under the leadership of Senator
Magnuson and Senator Monroney, received unanimous endorsement by the
Senate. Eighty-five Senators came to the ﬂoor to vote for it, and each of the
ﬁfteen who were absent and unable to vote stated in mCongressional Record
that they would have voted for it had they been present. The bill's sanctions

I

5 . x’ r”

a f ‘
4 ,/ f4 5 5/ “FM-'5'

 




 

 
 

were strengthened at the insistence of the House Conferees. They agreed to
accept the Senate amendments restoring humane care and housing of animals
inside laboratories and increasing the number of species of animals covered, on
condition that the stronger House enforcement clauses be adopted.

Regulations were promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture February
24; and the law went into effect for animal dealers May 25 and for scientific
institutions August 24, 1967.

Congress broadened and strengthened this first federal law to prevent
abuses of test animals in 1970, 1976, and 1985. The 1966 Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act (fiercely contested by medical and pharmaceutical interests and the
associated industries that sell animals, cages, and equipment to scientific institu-
tions) set humane standards for dogs, cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters, and
guinea pigs in animal dealers’ premises and in laboratories prior to experimen-
tal use of animals. In 1970, the coverage was extended to the entire stay of ani-
mals in laboratoriesmwﬁre they mustwbewmaintained according to minimum
standards set by the Seéiaaﬁyﬁf AgriculturETThew‘v‘éterﬁinarlymcaré'”'"i‘é'qwu‘iFédm
includes "appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, and tranquilizing drugs.” All
warm-blooded animals designated by the Secretary are covered, but neither
birds, farm animals used in research, nor those species that constitute the large
majority of the millions of experimental animals used each year—mice and
rats—have yet been designated. Because inadequate appropriations have had to
be stretched to cover inspections of thousands of sites in laboratories, licensed
animal dealers, licensed exhibitors, registered exhibitors, and carriers under the
Act as amended, no Secretary has been willing to include more animals for
inspectors to check; however, in 1986 the Animal Legal Defense Fund prepared
a brief contending that the Act requires him to do so.

The important requirement for pain-relieving drugs and reporting on their
use or lack thereof was added in 1970. Reports by registered scientific institu-
tions on use of animals are filed with the U. S. Department of Agriculture and
are available for public scrutiny under the Freedom of Information Act. Many
institutions have failed to honor this section of the Act, necessitating additional
legislative and enforcement action.

Under the 1976 amendments Sponsored by Agriculture Committee Chair-
man Thomas Foley,""research inStitutions were moved to the same category as
exhibitors and dealers with respect to the imposition of fines for violations. Pre-
viously, research facilities were subject to a cease and desist order which they
would have to violate before a fine could be imposed. The 1976 amendments
also include a requirement that agencies of the federal government submit
proof that they are in compliance with the standards which private institutions
must meet under the eyes of veterinary inspectors of the U. S. Department of
Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. Representative
Margaret Heckler” proposed and was successful in obtaining this essential
advance on the ﬂoor of the House.

The Animal Welfare Act now constitutes a solid, broad-based structure
whose 1976 amendments, sponsored in the Senate by Senator Lowell Weicker,
cover transportation of animals for research, exhibition, the pet trade, by com-
mon carriers and intermediate handlers. Its anti-dogfighting and cockEf/ighting <
provisions are detailed in Chapter IX.

The 1970 reporting requirements on painful experiments focused on the
responsibility of the institutional veterinarian to prevent suffering through
humane experimental design or through use of drugs to relieve pain or anxiety.
However, enforcement in this area has been virtually nil. The 1985 amend-
ments, which should have gone into effect December 23, 1986, remain to be
tested in practice because of the long delay, caused by anti-animal lobbyists, in
the promulgation of ﬁnal regulations to implement the law.

COMMERCIAL DEALERS AND BREEDERS

The laboratory animal industry, supplying millions of animals to institu-
tions at ever increasing prices, is intensely opposed to regulatory legislation that
affects them and their clients. In 1979, it spawned the National Association for
Biomedical Research (NABR) and the Foundation for Biomedical Research
(FBR) to rival the National Society for-Medical Research, which they entirely
absorbed and supplanted in a few years. NABR now orchestrates opposition to
all laws and regulations for laboratory animal welfare. Formation of the organi-
zations was, according to executive Frankie Trull, conceived in her living room.
Henry Foster, the veterinarian who built a two-room rat breeding business into
the multimillion dollar international laboratory animal production corporation,
Charles River Breeding Laboratories, and his son, an attorney, wrote the neces-
sary legal papers. Ms. Trull, an employee of Charles River, set about lining up
support among commercial and academic laboratories.

 

 

  




Meanwhile, Charles River was sold to the big optical company, Bausch and
Lomb, netting Dr. Foster about $38 million personally, according to press
reports. The pun-.Wfilled, full-page ads offering monkeys, guinea pigs, rabbits, ,5"
and other animals for sale have become more sober and strait-laced, but the
intensive campaign to market the maximum numbers of animals for experimen-
tation continues under the new ownership. Charles River has installations in
France, Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom.

Breeding animals for sale to laboratories is big business, and corporations
change hands in transactions based wholly on financial considerations. One of
the largest dog breeders, LRE, which houses several thousand dogs on its prem-
ises, was recently sold to Hazelton, which conducts toxicity tests on contract for
other institutions as well as breeding dogs and other laboratory animals.

ALTERNATIVES TO LABORATORY ANIMALS

As numbers of animals used in experiments and tests grew by the million, a
countervailing philosophy was increasingly advocated by animal protective
organizations. The first serious contribution to the field was The Principles of
Humane Experimental Technique, by W. M. S. Russell and R. L. Burch, produced
under the aegis of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare in 1959, with
some modest assistance from AWI. This pioneering book established the Three
R’s—Replacement, Reduction, and Refinement—which are now generally rec-
ognized as fundamental elements necessary to prevent large-scale unnecessary
suffering by laboratory animals. While Russell and Burch stressed the scientifi-
cally feasible, others advocated ”Alternatives Nowl”, claiming that substitutes
for animals already existed for all experiments and tests. Bills introduced in
Congress reﬂected different views of the subject, but they made up, if not a criti-
cal mass, solid evidence of public concern and hope.

By 1981, seven bills on alternatives and/or regulation of animal experi-
ments were pending in the Subcommittee on Science, Research and Technol-
ogy of the House Committee on Science and Technology. On October 13 and
14, 1981, Subcommittee Chairman Doug Walgren of Pennsylvania held hear-
ings, which drew unexpectedly wide media attention because Maryland police
had removed 17 monkeys just days earlier from a Silver Spring laboratory.
There they had been experimented on by Dr. Edward Taub under grants from
the National Institutes of Health. Dr. Taub and an associate were charged with
17 counts of cruelty for failing to supply veterinary care. Alex Pacheco, who had
worked at the Institute for Behavioral Research as a volunteer and had alerted

police to conditions there, showed horrifying pictures of the monkeys and their
quarters at the hearings.

Drafting of a composite bill containing some features from each of the
seven pending proposals was undertaken by the Subcommittee staff. Advice
was sought from the many organizations which had testified pro- or con- the
different bills. On August 4, 1982, Congressman Walgren proposed the new bill,
which was approved by his Subcommittee and its parent Committee. The bill
was referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcom-
mittee on Health and the Environment, and hearings were held by Chairman
Henry Waxman of California on December 9, 1982.

Senator Robert Dole introduced a bill based on the principles developed in
the October hearings. Senator John Melcher of Montana, the Congress’ only
veterinarian, joined him. Together, they appeared at the Waxman hearings and
testified for the Walgren bill, an unusual tribute to the importance of the legisla-
tion. However, no action was taken before the 97th Congress adjourned.

THE DOLE-BROWN AMENDMENTS

When Senator Dole reintroduced his bill in 1983, he had it redrafted as an
amendment to the Animal Welfare Act, thus broadening its coverage to include
all Registered Research Facilities (over 1,200) inspected by USDA.

This wise decision encouraged consideration by scientific groups who
began a slow move from point-blank opposition to demands for a variety of
modiﬁcations in the language of the bill. At hearings of the full Senate Agricul-
ture Committee, chaired by Senator Dole July 20, nearly every witness had sci-
entific qualifications. Humane groups were represented by Bennett Derby,
M.D., Ph.D., who had appeared at the crucial hearings which led to unanimous
Senate passage of the original Act.

Senator Dole’s masterful handling of the hearings paved the way for action,
but it was not to come in the 98th Congress. Opponents tried a new tack, ques-
tioning the need for the Dole bill. The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
prepared two thick binders of documentation outlining the urgent need for all
the bill’s provisions for minimizing pain and distress and strengthening the
authority of Agriculture’s veterinary inspectors.

 




Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. of California, well known for his suc-
cessful sponsorship of the 1978 humane slaughter amendments (see chapter
III), introduced a bllltbased on the Dole bllllI-I R 5725. On September 19, 1984,
he chaired hearings in his Subcommittee On ”Departmental Operations,
Research and Foreign Agriculture which drew a standing-room-only crowd
with long lines waiting outside the hearing room. Interest in the legislation had
been heightened by revelations of severe mistreatment of experimental
baboons at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Sixty hours of self-
incriminating videotapes taken by a research team as a record of their experi-
ments showed virtually every rule of aseptic surgery being violated. Injured
baboons were painfully dangled and ridiculed by groups of laughing students.

The tapes were stolen by a group known as the Animal L1beratlon Front
and given to People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. They made a 25 mm M
mute ver51on to show the public) It was run repeatedly 1n a nearby church on the
day of the hearings.

Henry Mitchell' 5 column in The Washington Post September 21, 1984 notes:
”Savagery is very much part of the nature of all humans I have ever known, and
that is one reason civilized nations have gone to such efforts to restrain it or
redirect it.” Citing the evidence and characterizing it as sickening, he wrote:
”Legislation is needed, and those who do not wish to concern themselves with
what amounts to ﬂamboyant sadism should at least have the grace not to
obstruct the long hard thankless labors of those who have not shied from the
evidence and who have at last come up with reasonable and moderate legisla-
tion.” Describing his feelings in watching ﬁve minutes of the tapes in St. Mark's
Church, he concluded: ”I left thinking it probably an esthetic error to vomit in a
church.”

Documentation of neglect and abuse in laboratories throughout the entire
country was derived from official reports of USDA veterinary inspectors
obtained under the Freedom of Information Act and presented by the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation in the form of a 6'x10’ chart. A heartening
message of support from Dr. Jean Mayer, President of Tufts University, was
delivered by Dr. Frank Loew, Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine, but
most testimony from scientific groups was severely critical. Congressman
Brown asked his staff to analyze all the criticisms. His bill did not emerge from
the Subcommittee.

Meantime, in the Health and Environment Subcommittee, Congressman
Walgren had succeeded in getting some provisions of his bill included in the
NIH reauthorization bill which was passed by the Congress but vetoed by Pres-
ident Reagan. In the 99th Congress, the bill, after some modiﬁcation and enti-
tled the Health Research Extension Act of 1985, was passed again and Congress
overrode the President’s second veto. The animal welfare provisions are less
stringent than the Dole-Brown legislation, and they apply only to NIH grantees;
nevertheless, the two were destined to fit together well and reinforce one
another in a practical manner.

Senator Dole, elected Majority Leader of the Senate, reintroduced his bill at
the same time as Congressman Brown. This time the bills were identical, the
heroic work of staffers Sara Rasmussen for Brown and Mark Scanlan for Dole.
They produced a final draft still containing every major animal protective provi-
sion, phrased in the manner least objectionable to the legion of opponents and
unremitting critics.

The New York Times editorialized on July 31, 1985 in support of the Dole-
Brown proposals, and in the following months, newspapers in every part of the
country followed suit.

The debate on the 1985 Farm Bill was continuing when the Majority Leader
brought his bill, Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals, to the Senate
ﬂoor, October 25. Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, Chairman of the Committee on
' Labor and Human Resources, expressed reservations. The bill then went into an
intense discussion by the staffs of Senators Dole, Hatch, and Melcher and repre-
sentatives of the National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR), the
Feed Manufacturers Association, and the Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tion. A bill calling for 16 different changes in Senator Dole’s bill had been pre-
pared for Senator Hatch by an NABR attorney. Every point had to be fought
through. Senator Dole appeared from time to time to ask what progress was
being made. At one point, Senator Melcher took part in the arguments, explain-
ing the reason for his language, "a physical environment adequate to promote
the psychological well-being of primates.” He had seen laboratory chimpanzee
cages which, even though unoccupied at the time, he characterized as
”extremely efficient, extremely expensive, and extremely cruel.”

A second series of amendments, this time consisting of no less than 32
changes, even including a $500 reduction in the fine, was proposed. A night
meeting in the Dole office was called to resolve the differences. It appeared that

 




 

although academia was somewhat grudgingly resigned to the legislation, the
pharmaceutical industry was not willing to stop ﬁghting. Indeed, it fought to the
end. Disagreement about the content continued, and Senator Melcher offered a
substitute bill on October 29th. This passed the Senate unanimously.

The House had already passed the Farm Bill without the Dole-Brown
amendments. Fortunately, Majority Whip Tom Foley‘of ~liva's'hington"proved
himself a powerful friend of animals during the House-Senate Conference.
Congressman Foley, as noted earlier, was the author of the 1976 amendments to
the Animal Welfare Act. House Agriculture Committee Chairman Kika de la
Garza of Texas gave his blessing to the legislation in Conference. Lobbying to
kill the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals continued to the very last
moment.

The Farm Bill, an enormously lengthy piece of legislation, was in Confer-
ence for days. The Conferees met in a small room in the Russell Senate Office
Building, and dozens of lobbyists from each of the special interests that stood to
gain or lose from some part of the complex bill lined the hallway outside the
room, waiting for news on decisions of the Conferees as staffers came in and
out. At 4:00 pm. on December 12, it appeared that action on the laboratory ani-
mal section was imminent. Weakening amendments were being urged by the
National Association for Biomedical Research, and Senator Dole had not yet
returned from out of town.

The sight of the Senate Majority Leader striding down the hall rein-
vigorated the weary Society for Animal Protective Legislation lobbyists waiting
for the outcome. ”You’re next,” he said to us. Then he was engulfed by a mass of
farm lobbyists. It was nearly eleven that night when we heard the good news
from Congressman Foley. The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act
had come through the Conference unscathed!

The Conference report was approved by the House on December 16 and
two days later by the Senate. The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
amendments establish an information service in the National Agricultural
Library in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine to provide data on
alternatives to laboratory animals, help prevent unintended duplication of
experiments and tests, and provide information to institutions for instruction of
scientists and other personnel in humane practices as required by the new law.
Each/Registered,Research.Facility must appoint an Institutional Animal Care
and Use Committee, including a veterinarian and a person not affiliated with
the institution, to represent the general community interests in the proper care
and treatment of animals. The committee must inspect the animal laboratories
twice a year and report deficiencies to the institution for correction. If not cor-
rected promptly, the U. S. Department of Agriculture must be notified for
enforcement action, and any funding agency involved informed for a decision
on whether the grant should be suspended or revoked.

Investigators are required to consider alternatives and to consult with a vet-
erinarian before beginning any experiment which could cause pain. They must
adhere to standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture for pre- and post-surgi-
cal care, use of pain-relieving drugs or euthanasia, against use of paralytics with-
out anesthesia, and unnecessary use of the same animal for more than one
major operation. Exceptions to the standards may be made only when specified
by a research protocol and an explanation given for any deviation. Fines for vio-
lations were raised from $1,000 to $2,500, and for violating a cease and desist
order, from $500 to $1,500. Each animal may count as a violation, as may each
day of failure to obey a cease and desist order.

Interest in protection of laboratory animals has grown worldwide, and tvgo
countries made significant improvements in their national laws in 1986:..The
United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany. The full text of these
laws appears in the Appendix. Of particular note in the new British Act is recog-
nition of gradations of stress or pain and justification thereof. This begins with
the stress caused by putting an animal in a cage and progresses to the point of
procedures prohibited because of extreme painfulness.

In issuing project licenses, the British Secretary of State is required to
"weigh the likely adverse effects on the animals concerned against the benefit
likely to accrue.” Both project licenses and individual licenses are mandatory
under the new law. As in the 1876 Act, if an inspector considers that an animal
is undergoing excessive suffering, he may require it to be immediately killed.

The new German law was introduced by Minister of Agriculture Ignaz
Kiechle. It forbids, with provision for special exceptions, the use of animals for
tests on weapons, tobacco, washing powders, and cosmetics. Authorization for
experiments are to be supervised by advisory commissioners. Animal protec-
tion organizations may nominate up to a third of the commissions' members.
The law covers all experiments leading to pain or injury of an animal.

9
i\

./

.’

 




APPROPRIATIONS FOR ENFORCEMENT

The struggle for protection of laboratory animals has had to be fought on
many fronts. When passed in 1966, an appropriation of $300,000 was barely
achieved. Slowly, annual appropriations were worked up to $4,865,000 and
remained at the same level despite attempts by the Office of Management and

Budget to reduce them. In both 1985 and 1986, the Administration recom- 1, /,

mended that no money whatever be allocated to administer the law and inspect
the 1, 219 Registered Research Facilities, the 3, 414 licensed dealers’ premises"; 1’;
the 1, 386 exhibitors’ premises, or the 374 intermediate handlers operating dur-

ing those years.

In 1985 the Congress simply restored the funds, but in 1986, following pas-
sage of the Dole-Brown amendments, Congress voted an increase to $5, 878, 000,
specifying that $750, 000 be used for the information service designated by the
new legislation at the National Agricultural Library in cooperation with the
National Library of Medicine. The Senate Appropriations Committee report
stated:

For enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act the Committee con-
curs with the House in providing $5,878,000 over the budget request.
This is also $1,902,000 more than the 1986 adjusted level. Included in
this appropriation is $750,000 for creation of an information service at
the National Agricultural Library which will include information on
available alternatives to the use of live animals in research. The
remainder of the increase is for the general expansion of the program.

On the House ﬂoor, Congressman Bob Traxler of Michigan said: “We
restore funding for the Animal Welfare Act once again, rejecting the notion that
enforcement of the act should be turned over to other authorities. That proposal
is simply not sensible in today' s interstate economy.

In 1987, the Office of Management and Budget again recommended zero

funding for the Animal Welfare Act however, for the first time, the Department 4% {”1“
‘5'“, 1:2

of Agriculture protested, and the budget figure emerged as $4. 947 million, a fig-
ure from which the $750, 000 appropriation for the information service at the
National Agricultural Library had been subtracted and which could not cover
the requirement for continued inspection of research facilities until all
deficiencies were corrected. Congress appropriated $6 .125 million for Fiscal
Year 1987. In 1988 and 1989, the budget figure again was $4. 947 million, but
$6.197 million was appropriated; and the budget request for Fiscal Year 1990”“ 15;"
$7. 567 million. Animal protective organizations and scientific groups area,”
(requestmg $10 million for enforcement of the law, Citizen demand for sufficient .. ‘ !
has to enforce the law continues to bextnecessary W“

= .‘ 1,
, “L”
I v . .
1 vi". " \'
’ x . 9g“?

7‘4.» ’x‘
., 1,1, . *

 




LAB.3A: 10/18/89

REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT

In October 1988, a reorganization of the Animal and Plant Health Inspec-
tion Service took place. It created a new division, Regulatory Enforcement and
Animal Care (REAC). Enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act has been
removed from Veterinary Services and placed with REAC. REAC inspectors are
assigned on a full-time basis to enforcement of the Act, but their numbers are
inadequate to make the frequent inspections necessary to enforce the law ﬂip}
[isome cases it is expected that? Veterinary Services persOnnel Will have to #be
called on to help make mSpections.

Citizen complaints concerning research facilities, animal dealers, animal
auctions, and other entities covered by the Animal Welfare Act, including
circuses, zoos, airlines, and the wholesale pet industry, should be directed to the
nearest REAC office or to the central office at Hyattsville. For names and phone
numbers, see the Appendix. Citizen complaints are important in protecting ani-
mals because of REAC’s staff limitations. It is the policy of REAC to investigate
all complaints.

Having failed to prevent enactment of the Improved Standards for Labora-
tory Animals amendments by Congress, Opponents transferred their efforts to
the agencies and succeeded in delaying the regulations which must be promul-
gated before the legislation can be enforced. Proposed regulations for Parts 1
and 2 were first issued by the Department of Agriculture in March 1987. The
National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR) inspired thousands of
letters of protest against these well-prepared regulations. The result was that,
rather than being made ﬁnal, they were withdrawn, and two years passed
before rewritten regulations for Parts 1 and 2 were reproposed and a proposal
for Part 3 regulations ﬁnally appeared.

An even more intensive effort by NABR and its constituents followed.
However, a lawsuit filed by the Animal Legal Defense Fund against the Secre-
tary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget was viewed favorably by Judge
Richey, who heard the case in the U. S. District Court. A timetable was set up
with the Justice Department, and on August 31, 1989, final regulations for Parts
1 and 2 were published in the Federal Register.

Part of the campaign against Part 3 regulations is the issuance of inﬂated
figures on compliance costs. As we go to press, an extended delay is expected
with respect to the requirements for exercise for laboratory dogs and an envi-
ronment adequate to promote the psychological well-being of primates.

LABORATORY ANIMAL LAWS: INIPORTANT DATES
ENGLAND

1870: Royal Society started establishment of rules for humane experimenta-
tion.
1876: British Act regulating animal experimentation enacted.

1906-1912: Royal Commission to review the 1876 Act consolidated and
affirmed it.

1925: Founding of Universities Federation for Animal Welfare.

1965: “Littlewood Report” completed after a two-year study of the British Act
of 1876 by a Parliamentary Committee; approved the Act and made
some suggestions for strengthening and improving its implementation.

Following years of work by a coalition of the British Veterinary Associa-
tion, the Committee for Reform of Animal Experimentation, and the
Fund for the Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments, the Ani-
mals (Scientific Procedures) Act became law, replacing the 1876 Act.

UNITED STATES

Attempt to pass bill for District of Columbia based on British Act of
1876.

Founding of National Society for Medical Research.
Passage of Michigan Animal Care Law.

First animal seizure law passed in Minnesota.ZAnimal seizure law pas-
,.$?d in “W1sconsm .JMeeting between National Society for Medical

Research and American Humane Association

.5" I
V 1
t

,. 1‘
15:8 111‘

we: i ‘3 1“

 




Founding of the Animal Welfare Institute.

Dr. Robert Gesell, Chairman of the Department of Physiology, Univer-
sity of Michigan Medical School, made an unscheduled presentation on
humanity versus inhumanity in animal experimentation at the annual
meeting of the American Physiological Society.

Three reform directors elected by membership of American Humane
Association.

American Humane Association Board ensured no more outside inter-
ference.

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals prose-
cuted Dr. Panico of Overholt Clinic for cruelty in transporting an experi-
mental dog.

Bill modeled on principles of British Act introduced by Senator Cooper
and twelve co-sponsors in 86th Congress.

Similar bill introduced by Senators Clark and Neuberger and Congress-

woman Griffiths in 87th Congress fMore restrictive bill introduced by
$1 Congressman Moulder at request" of the Humane Society of the United
9 States.

Hearings held on both bills in Health Subcommittee of House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee.

Senator Clark again introduced bill based on British Act with Senators
Maurine Neuberger and Stephen Young co-sponsoring in 88th Con-

gress.
Congressman Cleveland sponsored identical bill in the House.

Congressman Paul Rogers introduced a bill at the request of the Ameri-
can Humane Association which was so sharply criticized for weakness
by Dr. Eric Hansen, President of the Massachusetts SPCA, that AHA did
not ask membership support.

Congressman William Randall introduced a bill similar to Moulder bill
at the request of the Humane Society of the United States.

Congressman Edward Roybal introduced a bill to provide funds to
laboratories at the request of the National Society for Medical Research.

Senator Clark again introduced a bill based on British Act with Senators
Stephen Young, Harry Byrd, E. L Bartlett, and Edmund S. Muskie co-
sponsoring in 89th Congress.

Weakened variations of the Moulder and Randall bills introduced by
Congressmen Rogers and Pepper and Senator McIntyre, and a similar
but not identical bill by Congressman Tupper.

Congressman Roybal again introduced National Society for Medical
Research bill.

July 9, 1965: Congressman Resnick introduced bill to license dealers and
laboratories. Senator Magnuson and Senator Clark simultaneously went
to the Senate ﬂoor to introduce the identical bill in the Senate; Senator
Brewster joined as co-sponsor.

September 2,196:5 Congressman Poage held hearings on Resnick bill and
“twenty Other similar bills, including one introduced on the day of the
hearings by Congressman Ancher Nelsen for the National Society for
Medical Research, which omitted all reference to laboratories, and one
introduced before the hearings by Congressman Henry Helstoski for
the National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, which cut laboratories
out of the bill but required dog dealers to treat dogs as "a responsible

and conscientious owner” would care for his ”household pet.”

September 30, 1965: Health Subcommittee held hearings on Rogers bill,
Cleveland bill, and Roybal bill. Canceled second day of hearings after
Dr. Shannon, Head of the National Institutes of Health, testified. These
hearings were never published.

March 7, 8, 1966: House hearings before Livestock and Feed Grains
Subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee on Poage, Resnick,/
Helstoski, Nelsen bills, and thirty Q6ther bills similar to one of these. *4.

March 8, 1966: Senator Hugh Scott introduced bill identical to Poage bill.

March 25, 1966: Senator Mondale introduced National Society for Medical
Research bill.

March 27, 28, 1966: Senate Commerce Committee hearings.

:2~
«4M

-\

l

I , 4 /‘~‘/ ‘6 ’
I 575 7/ "
‘ ‘i

.27.? :22 K M/

.2 2 (L.

,3le / OLA

 




 
 

April 14, 1966: Senator Javits introduced New York State Society for Medical
Research bill.

April 28, 1966: House of Representatives passed weakened version of Poage
bill.
May 10, 1966: National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Senator Hill.

May 18, 1966: Identical National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Con-
gressman John Fogarty.

May 25, 1966: Identical National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Con— 77 _7 7 7. . 7 77
1W1 Staggers. {Senate Commerce Committee hearings 4.9187712? 2‘1”: 7 if . 1 <’ 7.7!
‘17 on the Monroney Amen ment to restore coverage of laboratories. i 71»;- (7'77: " 7 :~ ‘ 7

    
      
        
     
        
   

June 15, 1966: Bill reported by Senate Commerce Committee including
modified Monroney Amendment.

June 22, 1966: 85 to 0 Roll Call Vote in Senate passed bill.

July 26, 1966: Conference Committee reported bill combining strongest pro— 7 i 7
visions of both Senate7—7and Housi-passed bills. 40~ E, t {l 7.)! (“if 143*
,7 77, .

 
       
    

August 25, 1966: Bill signed into law by President Johnson.

   

September 23, 1969: Congressman William G. Whitehurst introduced amend— 7 7
ments to include all warm-blooded animals throughout their stay in the 7 7.7" 7 , . 7,.) 7
laboratory and to cover animals in the pet trade or for exhibition. /// i: /1_..:./ '1 ‘ ' "—' z" " " ‘ . ”

 
   
   
    

June 8, 9, 1970: House hearings before Livestock and Grains Subcommittee of 777,5,» (7:77,“ t- m. , " I
the House Agriculture Committee to amend the Act of 1966. 7 7 -'
Subcommittee Chairman Foley’s bill to broaden and strengthen the Iab- 1“ 7/ 7- » ..
oratory Animal Welfare Act, including the use of pain-relieving drugs, "
approved.

 
   
 
    
 

December 7, 1970: Passed by the House of Representatives.
December 8, 1970: Passed by the Senate.
December 24, 1970: Bill signed into law by President Nixon.

September 25, 26, 27 and 28, 1973: Hearings before the Special Studies
Subcommittee, House Committee on Government Operations, to inves- f; 7 ., .
tigate the hazards of air-shipping animals, chaired by Represeizttartiste'‘"‘1I.41 . ”if «.53 6:21;! .5 1
Floyd v. Hicks. v‘

August 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 15 and 20; September 30; October 2, 1974: House hear-
ings before Livestock an7d7Grains Subcommittee on amendments intro- 7.. 7
duced by RepresentativéFoley to regulate the transportation of animals (7’ 1 15:7 3; f" 7g; :31: 5“}
in interstate commerce and to prohibit certain animal fighting ventures. ' 1 ' .77:

 
 
      
   
   
   
   
       
    

September 9, 10, 1975: House hearings before Livestock and Grains
Subcommittee on amendments introduced by Congressman Foley to
regulate the transportation of animals in interstate commerce and to
prohibit certain animal fighting ventures.

 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
  

November 20, 1975: Senate hearings before Subcommittee on Environment
of the Committee on Commerce on amendments introduced by Senator
Lowell Weicker and Senator Robert Dole to regulate animal transport.

December 18, 1975: Passed by the Senate.
February 9, 1976: Passed by the House of Representatives.
April 22, 1976: Bill signed into law by President Ford.

August 23, 1976: Amendment to Toxic Substances Control Act offered by
Congressman Richard Ottinger to require Administrator of Envi- ‘
ronmental Protection Agency to consider non-animal-using methods
where feasible. Amendment failed.

September 30, 1976: Hearings held by Congressman W. R. Poage on a bill to
establish a commission with subpoena powers to study animal prob-
lems, including animal experimentation (introduced by Congressman
Edward Koch, December 11, 1975). NSMR opposed bill. Congress
adjourned without acting on it.

October 13, 14, 1981: House hearings before the Subcommittee on Science,
Research and Technology, chaired by Congressman Doug Walgren, on
seven laboratory animal bills.

August 4, 1982: Combination bill proposed by Congressman Walgren.

December 9, 1982: After gaining Subcommittee and Committee approval, the

Walgren bill was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce
where Congressman Henry Waxman chaired hearings in his Subcom- .
mittee on Health and the Environment. No action was taken. \L

 
     




July 20, 1983: Senator Robert Dole chaired full Senate Agriculture hearings on
his bill, the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act.

September 19, 1984: Congressman George Brown chaired hearings on his
version of the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act in his
Subcommittee on Departmental Operations, Research and Foreign
Agriculture.

October 25, 1985: Senate Majority Leader Dole brought the Improved Stand-
ards for Laboratory Animals Act to the Senate ﬂoor as an amendment to
the Farm Bill. The ﬁnal vote was deferred.

October 29, 1985: A substitute bill offered by Senator John Melcher was unan-
imnnslv approved.

licensing 2: t bi'ih lnt ti til 91 fa,inCluding Lequirements for
es a is me 3 and individuals u y . ‘ “ ““ ~ '

- . . q alified t rm

animal experiments in accordance with the EC Directive O perfo

New Belgian animal welfar - -
. . e law awaitin R0 1 -
prOViSions to comply with EC Directive? ya Decree for detailed

N . .
bithﬁglgids Experiments on Animals Act entered into force, supplemented
on Animalpg:;::p;:n:ntAnimals Degree fully implementing the EC Directive
. a ion, inc u ing a system for re ' t '
premises, authorizing persons invol‘ ' gls erlng
. . . ved in the use and su 1
animals, undertaking inspections, and compiling statistiig Y Of

1987: French Decree updated again (see Appendix).

OTHER COUNTRIES
French Decree Regulating Experiments on Animals.

Animal Experiments Section of the Animal Protection Act, Federal
Republic of Germany.

Norwegian Welfare of Animals Act enacted, including regulation of ani-
mal experiments. .. ..
Denmark law on animal experiments enacted. A
Switzerland enacted an animal protection law which includes experi-
ments on animals.

Major laboratory animal amendments to Swedish Animal Welfare Act
of 1944.

French Decree updatedW

Greece enacted a law concerning the protection of animals.

Luxembourg law on the Protection and Welfare of Animals enacted. All
experimental procedures require advance approval by Ministers of ,
Health and Agriculture. The authorizations, which have a time limit and \
may be revoked at any time, are only granted if there is no alternative .
method for cnndnctino tho pynprimpnt-

1989: Austria enacted laboratory animal welfare legislation.

EC Directive on animal experimentation enters into force.

 




  

July 20, 1983: Senator Robert Dole chaired full Senate Agriculture hearings on
his bill, the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act.

September 19, 1984: Congressman George Brown chaired hearings on his
version of the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act in his
Subcommittee on Departmental Operations, Research and Foreign

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

   
 
  
  

 

 

Agriculture. ,
October 25, 1985: Senate Majority Leader Dole brought the Improved Stand- /;/:5' 7‘, 4/3/77 L- ,/‘:2«7f):.-217 if2>7735291¢§z
ards for Laboratory Animals Act to the Senate ﬂoor as an amendment to ’ /. ,1 / f, ‘1 / j
the Farm Bill. The final vote was deferred. //,1?”11 77 ~11 " (xi/:1 7 5:2 ,27’1‘1 1274;711:7327“ {ﬁdx
October 29, 1985: A substitute bill offered by Senator John Melcher was unan— 1 “ff/‘7 .K, k1"
irnously approved. " ,2/
November 20, 1985: The Health Research Extension Act, containing a section
on animal welfare and a section on development of alternatives to ani-
mals, was passed over President Reagan’s veto.
December 12, 1985: The Senate-House Conference on the Farm Bill approved
the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act.
December 16 and 18, 1985: The House, then the Senate, approved the Confer-
ence Report on the Farm Bill.
December 23, 1985: President Reagan signed the Farm Bill.
March 31, 1987: 9 CFR, Parts 1 and 2, Animal Welfare Proposed Rules were ‘6 {7"
published in the Federal Register. <1 71 =20 7171 5255 E , f
‘1' ' 2 <7; .7 72 777.57 .2 727
December 22, 1988: The Animal Legal Defense Fund filed suit against the@ «7’ K7? p 12-277 2 --7 “"1 1 1 1‘7"
S. Department of Agriculture, National Institutes of Health, and Office
of Management and Budget protesting delay in promulgating final regu-
lations.
April 12, 1989: Judge Richey dismissed the suit without prejudice and pro-
vided that, in case of further delay, it be brought before him again.
March 15, 1989: 9 CFR, Parts 1, 2, and 3, Animal Welfare Proposed Rules were it 7 -. ..
published in the Eggeral Register. <2” .7 Q1 l {:32
August 31, 1989: Final regulations on Parts 1 and 2 published in the ,Eeder, , {I 2' ('1 4,
Register,- 7‘ 13’ ‘77"
OTHER COUNTRIES
1968: French Decree Regulating Experiments on Animals.
1972: Animal Experiments Section of the Animal Protection Act, Federal _ , .. , ,,
Republic of Germany. - 7 ‘ 1 ’1
1974: Norwegian Welfare of Animals Act enacted, including regulation of ani- . 1 1 1
mal experiments. , .22 ,.
1977: Denmark law on animal experiments enacted. 1
1978: Switzerland enacted an animal protection law which includes experi-
ments on animals.
1979: Major laboratory animal amendments to Swedish Animal Welfare Act
of 1944. f, ,2 . y
1980: French Decree updatedW 4’: 11111 12:11 /ﬂ ,2’ “7"“? .7
1981: Greece enacted a law concerning the protection of animals. [02711-3 327$ ﬂ ,x'l (:2 //
2, 7.: -7' 11/ 7'. ,2, “,2” 2~__ ~
1983: Luxembourg law on the Protection and Welfare of Animals enacted. All 7 ,2 1 .22 / ‘ _ .. ‘3
experimental procedures require advance approval by Ministers of , [711/ 11111 i1 227’ 77* “‘7 1 '
Health and Agriculture. The authorizations, which have a time limit and ' 127
may be revoked at any time, are only granted if there is no alternative ) , .
method for conducting the experiment. 7 ,7 2': 1'11“ 17‘
1986: ‘West Germany amended its Animal Protection Act (see Appendix). ,_ 1 11" , 2 ’
17157115: Netherlands Experiments on Animals Act entered into force, supp e- 2 ,7 {.2 27: 1, . . ,
‘1 ,‘ mented by the Experiments on Animals Decree fully implementing the f’ , . . 7’
,5}: 7.1:: 1 EEC Directive on Animal Experimentation, including a system for regi- ,M’ ‘ , . 7 ..
stering premises, authorizing persons involved in the use and supply of 11" 7777/94/2/ [2V yam“! 71:17 ,
animals, undertaking inspections, and compiling statistics. , 5,; 1.. 2 j, , , , , , ' ' 2 . 7’ 7- 1 '
‘, , 11,1; '1: 7. , .. 7 _ I; ’1
1988: Sweden passed a new Animal Protection Law, including important pro- . .5 2“ . f pf ' 1 y 7;" ‘ ‘2‘ "
visions for farm animals (see Appendix). ‘ 2777““1273' ~ - : 7' $377721 7‘“ .
SpainVDecree adopted to comply with the EEC Directive on protection ,< f: ' , . 2 ‘ 2 2 _, :1 ‘ 7
of experimental animals. 1::72 1 11 7,, 7 , 2 " 2

 

 

   

 

 

  




LAB.1: 10/17/89

Chapter IV

LABORATORY ANIMAL WELFARE
by Christine Stevens

Not until the end of 1985 when Senator Robert Dole attached his bill,
"Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals,” to the Farm Bill by unanimous
consent of Senate and House, did the United States achieve legislation compa-
rable to that already in effect in 14 western European countries for protection of
animals used by scientific institutions. The Farm Bill was signed by President
Reagan two days before Christmas, making the Improved Standards provisions
effective December 23, 1986, a year from the date of enactment.

More than twenty years of intensive work was required to reach the point
at which the American Physiological Society, major experimentalists, withdrew
its opposition to legislation sought by animal protective organizations. The
Association of Professors of Medicine, too, accepted the bill’s provisions in the
closing months of the struggle for its passage.

Efforts which began in 1880 to regulate animal experimentation in the
United States are described in detail from 1945 onward.

NINETEENTH CENTURY LABORATORY ANIMAL
PROTECTIVE PROPOSALS REBUFFED

In 1880, a bill to regulate animal experimentation in the District of Colum-
bia was introduced in Congress. Its provisions were roughly similar to the Brit-
ish Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876 which provided substantial protection for

experimental animals for more than a century with the approval of the British ’

scientific community. But American scientists who were asked for their opin-
ions opposed and easily defeated this initial effort.

Between 1828 and 1898, nearly every state and territory in the Union
passed an anti-cruelty statute. Fourteen of these laws exempted animal experi-
ments. Even the crusading Henry Bergh, an outspoken anti-vivisectionist,
agreed to the exemption of experimental animals when he revised the New
York anti—cruelty law in 1867.

No prosecutions for cruelty to laboratory animals are known during this
period in states without such exemptions. Not until the latter half of the twenti-
eth century (Massachusetts in 1958 and Maryland in 1982) were anti-cruelty
laws invoked on behalf of laboratory animals. In the first case, the Massachusetts
SPCA successfully prosecuted a research scientist and animal caretaker for cru-
elty in maintaining and transporting post-surgical dogs outside the institution
(the Overholt Clinic).

In Maryland Dr. Edward Taub was found guilty of 17 counts of cruelty to
experimental monkeys at the Institute for Behavioral Research. On appeal, the
judgment was reversed on grounds that the Maryland law was superseded by
the federal Animal Welfare Act.

LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY IN THE POST-SECOND WORLD WAR PERIOD

Virtually all bills relating to laboratory animals from 1945 to 1960 were
inspired by the National Society for Medical Research or one of its affiliates.
Founded in Chicago in 1945 by Dr. A. J. Carlson, Dr. Andrew C. Ivy, and Dr.
George Wakerlin, the NSMR devoted most of its efforts to enactment of state
laws requiring both humane society shelters and public pounds to surrender
dogs and cats on request from scientific institutions for use in any type of exper-
iments or tests, no matter how painful and prolonged.

The ﬁrst forced surrender law was passed in Minnesota in 1948. Humane
societies were unaware that the bill had even been introduced before it had
gone through both Houses and been signed by the Governor. This law required
release of impounded animals from humane society shelters that receive funds
from taxes, as well as from municipal pounds. In 1949 in Wisconsin, an even
more severe seizure law was passed, requiring any stray animal to be made
available on request to a scientific institution. Thus, shelters operated wholly by
charitable funds were also compelled to supply animals for experiments,
regardless of the degree and duration of pain and suffering inﬂicted. An attempt
was made to pass similar legislation in Illinois, but here it failed, and the individ-
ual communities were left in control of local policies with respect to disposition

of stray dogs and cats.

i I”)

f fl /" (4.“ /’/§ ”‘- /.

M C» “4&1:sz ’ < 7'.
/

£305? ’76 ., I < >
g/VH’HQ/ xii/ZCC/GZ 5d)“ 665”

 




Procurement laws passed in New York, South Dakota, Oklahoma, Connect-
icut, Ohio, and Iowa did not attempt to enact such far-reaching legislation.

Robert Sellar, the President of the American Humane Association, the
national federation of humane societies, saw the grave danger to the movement,
whose organizational structure in the late 1940’s was especially susceptible to
demoralization through animal seizure legislation. Virtually all the well-estab-
lished humane societies centered their work around shelters for lost or
unwanted dogs and cats. If forced to surrender animals for painful experiments,
the entire structure would lose its moral basis as a sanctuary for animals where
they would be safe from inflicted suffering. These were dark days for organized
animal protection.

Mr. Sellar sought to reason with the National Society for Medical Research
in hopes of finding a solution to the demand for research dogs without under-
mining the morals of the humane movement. A small AHA group met with an
NSMR group with the understanding that the preliminary talk would not be
publicized. But Mr. Ralph Rohweder, the Executive Secretary of the NSMR,
immediately sent out an announcement calculated to inﬂame anti-vivisection
societies and anti-vivisectionist members of the American Humane Association.
Mr. Sellar lacked the power to resolve the crisis manufactured by the NSMR,
and henceforth, battles raged in state after state to pass legislation compelling
humane societies to surrender dogs and cats to the laboratories on demand and
without controls on pain inﬂiction.

With the death of Robert Sellar came the end of real efforts to face the prob-
lem and solve it. The inﬂuence of a coterie of professional humanitarians—the
paid employees of large societies who had a vested interest in the continuance
of their jobs—was not conducive to firm resolve. They felt that they must avoid
offending either anti-vivisectionists, from whom their organizations might
receive large gifts and bequests, or scientific and medical groups, whose power-
ful inﬂuence they feared. Thus it was that the American Humane Association,
normally eager for contributions, declined an offered gift of $10,000 to study
and prepare a concerted plan for obtaining humane treatment of research ani-
mals and a solution to the problem of supply to laboratories.

Before his death, Mr. Sellar had appointed a new director of the National
Humane Review, Fred Myers, a newspaper man who was a reformer and an
effective writer. He attacked the NSMR for its policies of indiscriminate
procurement and use of animals. So telling were his arguments that he was for-
bidden by AHA management, which was heavily weighted against any ener-
getic action, to use the words ”National Society for Medical Research” in any
article published in the National Humane Review. Unwilling to submit to such an
arbitrary stifling of truthful reporting, Mr. Myers resigned, together with two of
the other three major staff members: Helen Jones, Director of Education, and
Larry Andrews, Director of Field Services. All were appointees of Robert Sellar,
who had been replaced after his death by Mel Morse.

The National Humane Society was founded by the dissident trio. The
American Humane Association promptly sued them to force them to change
the society’s name, which, it claimed, was too similar to National Humane Review.
The result was the renaming of the new organization as the Humane Society of
the United States.

Nor was this the only legal action taken in the reform effort. The first
attempt to change the passive attitude of the AHA came at the election of direc—
tors at the 1954 annual meeting. The three reform candidates, Professor Roland
Smith of the Department of English, University of Illinois, Miss J. M. Perry, an
attorney from South Carolina, and Mr. Raymond Naramore, a high school
teacher who became the director of the Rochester and Monroe County Humane
Society, were promptly elected by a delighted membership that had never
before exercised its prerogatives. The controlling group of AHA directors was
dismayed. The following year they fought back, first naming a meeting point in
the Northwest where the expense of travel would discourage the bulk of the
membership, concentrated in the East, from attending. Forced by injunction to
name a more central location for the meeting, they resorted to bringing in large
numbers of persons never before associated with animal welfare work who
voted as a bloc on signal. The ”in” group won and, not long after, Miss Perry
died, and Professor Smith resigned. Mr. Naramore, limited to work on humane
education for schools, died a few years later.

Due to the failure of these and other attempts to bring purpose and life into
the AHA establishment at that time, several new organizations were formed.
The Animal Welfare Institute was founded in 1951, its aim the advancement of
the welfare of all animals, with special emphasis on the research animals so long
neglected by humane organizations. Its charter was drawn by Herbert Brownell,
the distinguished New York lawyer who served as Attorney General under

President Eisenhower.

 




The Humane Society of the United States was founded in 1954; and in 1959
one of its founders, Helen Jones, left the parent body to found the National
Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, later renamed the International Society for
Animal Rights.

In 1952, after years of controversy, the Hatch-Metcalf Act was passed. The
Act amended an existing New York laboratory animal care statute into a
procurement law, requiring all dog pounds and all humane societies receiving
public funds to surrender animals to scientific institutions. The New York State
Humane Association actively fought enactment of the law; but its biggest, oldest
member organization, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals (ASPCA), whose board was dominated at that time by research inter-
ests, refused to take a position. Its president was Samuel Milbank of the Milbank
Foundation. The New York State Society for Medical Research, proponents of
the law, dismissed all the other organizations as anti-vivisection groups, thus
ensuring passage of the law.

Both the Erie County Humane Society and the Humane Society of Roches-
ter and Monroe County immediately gave up their pound contracts so that it
would not be necessary for them to release animals from their shelters to
laboratories. Only two organizations, the ASPCA and the Syracuse SPCA, con-
tinued to accept tax funds and were thus required to send dogs and cats to sci-
entific institutions. Between 1966 and 1974 when the Hatch-Metcalf Act was
repealed, the Syracuse SPCA delivered 14,000 dogs and cats to Bristol-Myers, a
company with annual sales of more than a billion dollars.

Such was the power of the biomedical establishment at the time that the
ASPCA even went so far as to oppose an amendment offered just before the
Hatch-Metcalf Act was passed which would have authorized a representative of
the New York State Humane Association to accompany Health Department
inspectors on the rounds of laboratory animal rooms. The ASPCA was a mem-
ber of the New York State Humane Association, but it joined the New York
State Society for Medical Research in fighting the humane inspection, which, it
was claimed, ”would emasculate the bill.” The amendment was defeated, ensur-
ing that inspection under the Hatch-Metcalf Act was a whitewashing operation.
A few examples:

1953: A Health Department inspector took AWI representatives
through Cornell Medical School explaining how excellent the
care for the animals was while passing by a dog whose incision
had opened allowing his internal organs to fall onto the ﬂoor of
the cage.

AWI was called to inspect the animal quarters at St. Vincent’s
Hospital where gross ﬁlth and massive infestation of ticks,
roaches, and other insects were found.

AWI was called by a secretary in New York University Dental
School about epizootics which were running through the ani-
mal colonies due to the fact that wild rodents were fouling the
cages, and cleaning was put off for so long that there was
scarcely a clear spot to set foot in the dog runway.

All these institutions received dogs from the ASPCA and were inspected
and certified by the Health Department and also by ASPCA employees who vis-
ited at the invitation of the laboratories. When the federal Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act was passed in 1966, the ASPCA ended even the gesture of sending
inspectors to laboratories but continued to supply them with dogs and cats until
1971.

In 1976, a reform movement swept the ASPCA, permanently ending the
supply of dogs and cats from its shelters to laboratories. In 1977, the New York

Assembly voted 126-14 to repeal the Hatch-Metcalf Act. Connecticut md’Ohio _,
«i ”\L

also repealed similar acts.

This type of legislation has proved itself a failure. The claims issued for its
enactment, to the effect that dog dealing and stealing would cease if animals
were available to laboratories from humane societies and pounds, were proven
false in the most dramatic way by the very case which set in motion the enact-
ment of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. A dog was bought by a New York
hospital from a Pennsylvania dog dealer, although the hospital was entitled to
free dogs from the ASPCA. In other states, too, which passed animal seizure
legislation, laboratories often have not taken advantage of the law, preferring to
buy from dealers.

4—-/@

J w- r

[)6 /

675/ 4/) ”W76? / ﬁg / Z a rd; Adds
(54444;:ué 'ﬁﬁazﬁ-)

// f I,

; /J/’i‘l €67]: f; (“a "1
x _) ,

T‘— ) W, ”I (:(h (3(5 ff—s I‘ M ‘ ' ' J ’ I, 7/ ' ‘ l7" ‘// 1“} I A
I ""‘ A tray”, {,1 ’(l’ {pi/‘3‘?” [1/ / /’ (f, if} I (I: c’ 11
l .

J

 




LAB.2: 10/17/89

Thirteen states prohibit the release of impounded animals to research
facilities: Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Caro-
lina, Vermont, and West Virginia. Of these, Massachusetts is the only state
which specifically prohibits the sale of pound animals brought in from other
states as well: ”No person, institution, animal dealer, or their authorized agent
shall transport . . . any animal obtained from any municipal or public pound,
public agency, or dog officer . . . into the commonwealth for purposes of
research, experimentation, testing, instruction or demonstration” (Ch. 140, Sec.
174D, 1983).

Release of impounded animals for research purposes is required in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Iowa, Minnesota, Oklahoma (by pounds only; shelters may
release animals for research), South Dakota, and Utah.

Release of impounded animals for research use is allowed in Arizona, Cali-
fornia, Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, and Wisconsin. . ., m

Recent efforts to repeal Minnesota’s law requiring release of animals from
pounds to research facilities have been unsuccessful. However, a law was
enacted in 1987 which provides for inspections of animal dealers by the Minne-
sota Board of Animal Health as well as the U. S. Department of Agriculture,
requires dealers to post signs informing the public that they sell animals to
laboratories, and opens dealers’ premises to the public to enable pet owners to
search for lost or stolen pets. A fine of $1,000 will be imposed on any individual
selling a dog or cat to a research facility without the permission of the owner.

The State of Washington enacted a law in 1989 to prevent pet theft.
Research animal dealers who sell stolen dogs or cats to scientific institutions or
who pose as adopters of animals responding to "free to good home” classified
ads may now be punished by a fine of $10,000 and 5 years in jail. Research
facilities are required to maintain a file on each dog and cat, including
certification of the animal’s origin, a photograph, and a physical description of
the animal, available for public inspection.

REGULATORY PROPOSALS STALLED IN COMMITTEE
BY MEDICAL LOBBYISTS

Between the years 1960 and 1966, a great deal of effort was devoted to
unsuccessful attempts to pass legislation based on the principles of the British
Act of 1876. But public interest in the treatment of laboratory animals was grow-
ing, and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) decided to contract for a study
by Dr. David N. Ruth and Mr. Robert W. Cox on ”The Care and Management of
Laboratory Animals Used in the Programs of the Department of Health, Educa-
tion and Welfare” (DHEW). Submissions were widely solicited, and both the
Animal Welfare Institute and Society for Animal Protective Legislation pres-
ented documentation on visits to laboratories. AWI’s ”Critical Review of Condi-
tions in Institutions Receiving Funds Under DHEW Auspices” documented the
following:

1. Cages too small for animals to stand or lie in normal position.
. Failure to administer pain-relieving drugs after surgery.

. Failure to destroy suffering, moribund animals.

. Failure to supervise animals after surgery.

. Failure to provide a comfortable resting place for animals.

. Repeated use of the same animal for painful procedures.

. Failure to provide water.

. Failure to identify animals.

\OQVQmﬂkCﬁN

. Immobilization of unanesthetized animals.

10. Filth.

A 210-page volume was produced, but NIH, dismayed by the extensive
evidence of mistreatment and neglect of laboratory animals and the obvious
need for regulatory legislation revealed by the study, quickly withdrew it. Hun-
dreds of copies were secreted in a storeroom. Senator Clark, however,

demanded and got a copy.

The first bill ever introduced in the United States Congress to regulate ani-
mal experimentation was sponsored by Senators John Sherman Cooper, Mike
Mansfield, E. L. Bartlett, Robert C. Byrd, Frank Church, Estes Kefauver, Wayne
Morse, William Proxmire, Jennings Randolph, Ernest Gruening, Pat McNamara,

Q r
if??? I“. x: u...“ 3 ,..f i.‘ a"? .1 Era '93»
«an 1 . ,s- ‘1 ‘i * t»:
vs!

 




Harrison Williams, and Joseph S. Clark. The bill was written by Abe Fortas and
introduced at the request of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation. As
soon as this bill was introduced, the National Anti-Vivisection Society and
National Society for Medical Research, normally at each other’s throats, found
themselves in agreement: there must be no regulation of animal experimenta-
tion. When hearings were held two years later in the House of Representatives,
Major Charles Hume, founder of the Universities Federation for Animal Wel-
fare of Great Britain, emphasized the fact that, poles apart though they were,
these two groups actually corresponded with a view to helping each other
defeat regulatory legislation.

Opponents thought they had buried regulatory legislation, and in that
Committee they had. But they reckoned without the disappearance of a
Dalmatian dog named Pepper and the response of the House Agriculture Com-
mittee.

The Humane Society of the United States, under the direction of Fred
Myers, insisted that the British Act was not sufficiently strong and gave its sup-
port to the Moulder bill. The American Humane Association remained silent
and, when pressed, said it was studying the matter. When Congressman
Kenneth Roberts held two days of hearings on the Griffiths and Moulder bills,
the AHA sent no one to testify.7

Medical research groups and anti-vivisection groups opposed the bills; the
National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare said it would support the Moulder
bill if it were amended to eliminate all pain inﬂiction. Significant statements
were made by scientists and medical men who supported the Griffiths bill
(identical to the Clark- Neuberger bill in the Senate) based on the principles of
the British Act, and also by knowledgeable Britons who had worked under the
Act and could testify from ﬁrsthand experience as to its workability and effec-
tiveness in preventing animal suffering without hampering research.

The American Medical Association felt differently, however, and editor-
ialized about what it termed "humaniacs.” An objective and authoritative voice
was heard from England when the Report of the Departmental Committee on
Experiments on Animals was presented to Parliament by the Secretary of State
for the Home Department, April 1965.

The Committee, under the chairmanship of Sir Sydney Littlewood, held
hearings over a two-year period to review the working of the British Act, giving
every individual and group who desired to be heard an opportunity. The result-
ing ”Littlewood Report,” a remarkable testimony to fairness and good judg-
ment, surveying every aspect of animal experimentation, of the treatment of the
animals, and of procurement, reported the views of scientists, of the public, and
of groups as diverse as the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare,8 whose
scientific approach is well known, and anti-vivisection organizations seeking
abolition of all experimentation on animals. The most widely quoted paragraph
in the 255-page Report is the first of the General Findings: ”Animal experiment
is a complex and highly specialised subject. It is also a moral and social problem
of the first magnitude and one that does not exclusively concern the expert.”

The "Littlewood Report” was referred to repeatedly by two distinguished
medical men who ﬂew to the United States to testify at hearings held September
30, 1965, before the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee: Dr.
Lawrence Abel, former Vice President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Eng-
land and Consulting Surgeon to the Institute of Cancer Research, Royal Cancer
Hospital, and Sir Graham Wilson, former Director of the Public Health Service.

Speaking of the inspectorate under the British Act, Sir Graham said:

The Act is administered by the Home Office and is enforced by
specially appointed inspectors possessing a medical or veterinary
qualification. Their main purpose is regulatory and educational rather
than disciplinary. In their visits to the laboratories they satisfy them-
selves about the suitability of the conditions under which the animals
are kept and of the general well-being of the animals themselves; they
may assure themselves that the license holder is fully aware of what he
is permitted and not permitted to do; and they make useful sugges-
tions for overcoming difficulties of one sort or another.

Dr. Abel, speaking of the three principles—licensing, inspection, and the
pain rule—said:

The third British Principle is the Pain Rule. This sets the limit to
the amount of suffering which may be inﬂicted. We do not commit the
atrocities which are reported from time to time in some other
countries. We do not allow the extravagant cruelty committed by some
investigators of stress and shock. We have proved that the desired
results can be obtained by less inhumane methods. We are convinced
that the freedom of all and sundry to use animals indiscriminately

 




 

would not improve the value of research.

The hearings of the Health Subcommittee of the House Interstate and For-
eign Commerce Committee at which Sir Graham and Dr. Abel testified were
never published.9 Scheduled as two-day hearings, they were abruptly canceled
the morning of the second day and never rescheduled by Chairman Paul Rog-
ers, now a consultant for the National Association for Biomedical Research
(NABR). The biomedical establishment apparently considered it dangerous to
expose the public to facts about successful regulation of animal experiments.

RESNICK BILL BYPASSES THE HEALTH COMMITTEES

On July 3, 1965, Fay Brisk, a long-term campaigner for reform of the big
Pennsylvania dog dealers, called the Animal Welfare Institute for help to try to
get Pepper back to her owners, the Lakavage family. Mr. Lakavage, in the hospi-
tal with a heart attack, saw Pepper’s photograph together with seventeen other
dogs and two goats that had been temporarily unloaded from a Pennsylvania
dog dealer’s overcrowded truck. Mrs. Lakavage and the three young Lakavages
set off in pursuit of Pepper, who, allegedly, had been taken to a big New York
State dog dealer, Nersesian. When the exhausted family arrived, Nersesian
refused them entry.

Senator Clark of Pennsylvania, a well—established fighter for animal protec-
tion and chief sponsor of pending legislation to require humane treatment of
experimental animals, was out of town, but Sara Ehrmann, his Legislative Assis-
tant, responded to the AWI call for help by telephoning Congressman Resnick’s
office in the District where Nersesian’s dog farm was located. Even Congres-
sional intercession failed, however; and Resnick, angered by Nersesian’s high-
handed refusal to admit the family to find their missing pet, decided he would
introduce a bill to prevent such wrongs.

Meantime, pressure by the State Police brought an admission from the
Pennsylvania dog dealer that he had taken his load not to Nersesian, as he first
had said, but directly to Montefiore Hospital in New York. Immediately, Fay
Brisk telephoned the hospital, could hear the rattling of the dog tags at the other
end of the phone, then the news: the dog had died on the operating table the
day before and already had been incinerated. The dog dealer insisted the dog
was not Pepper—the evidence was incinerated—but the call for female
Dalmatians, put out by the hospital to dealers rather than to breeders, had led to
introduction of the Resnick bill on July ninth. The Resnick bill, written by attor-
neys of the United States Department of Agriculture, required that dealers in
dogs and cats and the laboratories that purchased them be licensed, inspected,
and adhere to humane standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture. A compan-
ion bill was introduced in the Senate by Senator Warren G. Magnuson,
Chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, and Senator Clark, who came to
the Senate ﬂoor at the same moment to introduce identical bills. In a brief collo-
quy they agreed to co-sponsor, and Senator Daniel Brewster of Maryland joined

them.

On September fifth, Congressman W. R. Poage of Texas, Chairman of the

livestock Subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee, held hearings on '

the Resnick bill. He was the first American legislator to hold hearings on labora-
tory animal legislation with a view to enacting it. He had won passage of the
Humane Slaughter Act in 1958, and was destined to win again for laboratory
animals. Not easily, however. The bill was immediately attacked as anti-vivisec-
tionist by the National Society for Medical Research, which described it as a
”pincers movement” to cut off the supply of animals for laboratories. Anti-vivi-
sectionist groups, however, took but little interest in the matter. The demand for
action came from the general public, outraged by the article in Life magazine
showing Stan Wayman’s photographs of the shocking abuse of dogs in the deal-
ers’ hands.

The Life article was set in motion by Henry Luce after he looked over a col-
lection of photographs supplied by the Animal Welfare Institute, many of them
taken by photographers accompanying AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant,
Dorothy Dyce. Under the supervision of Life’s Nature Editor, Pat Hunt, the arti-
cle was completed and published February 4, 1966. More mail was received by
Life on this article than on any other in the history of the magazine, and Con-
gress received more mail on the pending bills than on civil rights or Vietnam.

In the face of such demand, the opponents began to modify their opposi-
tion. When Congressman Poage introduced the Committee bill, extending cov-
erage to all vertebrate animals, and Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania intro-
duced an identical bill in the Senate, the opponents concentrated on exempting
scientific institutions from the humane standards and on cutting back the num-
ber of species covered. The Poage bill came unscathed through the Subcommit-
tee, but the full House Agriculture Committee cut it down to dogs and cats in
dealers’ premises only. Laboratory interests thus won a temporary victory and,

U’

 




no doubt, believed they could continue to keep the objective veterinary inspec-
tors of the U. S. Department of Agriculture out of scientific institutions.

After the House passed the weakened version of the Poage bill, a Senate
Commerce Committee staff draft accomplished a comparable weakening of the
bills introduced by Senators Magnuson, Clark, Brewster, and Scott. Again, lab-
oratory interests made a stab at getting themselves exempted, but they had reck-
oned without Senator Monroney, who, as soon as he read the draft, prepared an
amendment restoring coverage of animals inside scientific institutions. Newspa-
pers throughout the country supported the Monroney Amendment in emphatic
terms. So hotly debated was the issue that a second set of hearings was sched-
uled in the Senate Commerce Committee on May 25, 1966.

For six years the National Institutes of Health and its parent Department of
Health, Education and Welfare had opposed all moves toward effective legisla-
tion for humane treatment of research animals. Suddenly, when it became clear
that such opposition could no longer stem the demand for action, NIH asked
Senator Lister Hill, Chairman of the Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, to
introduce a bill written by NIH itself providing a self-policing system for
laboratories. Meanwhile, its representatives urged exemption of laboratories
from the straightforward, humane Senate Commerce Committee bill.

 




LAB.3: 10/17/89

Neither the Committee nor the Senate as a whole could be brought to sup-
port this maneuver. The Washington Evening Star stated editorially:

THE ANIMAL CRUELTY BILLS

Congress at last is headed toward enactment of a law to require
humane treatment of animals used in laboratory research and to halt
thefts of pets by dealers supplying this market. At the eleventh hour,
however, a snag has been encountered in the Senate Commerce Com-
mittee. Medical researchers, hostile to government supervision, (but
not government grants, it should be added), are attempting a switch
play. A bill introduced by Senator Hill of Alabama would head off fed-
eral inspection of how laboratories treat animals awaiting experiments.
Instead this authority would be given to a private group.

The medical men, in fact have such a group all ready and waiting.
Set up last year, it is called the American Association for Accreditation
of Laboratory Animal Care. Its members are of the establishment; and
are staff members of medical schools and research institutions. And, as
the association’s brochure suggests, the ’inspections’ would be rather
friendly affairs.

There would be no surprise audits, such as those routinely carried
out now in the banking industry, for example. Instead a visit would be
scheduled by ’mutual convenience.’ It would not come distressingly
often—no more than once every five years. The inspectors, according
to the brochure, would charge fees ranging up to $1,000 for their trou-
ble.

If the laboratories are in fact treating their animals humanely, they
should have nothing to fear from a proposal by Senator Magnuson of
Washington that such inspections be made by the Department of Agri-
culture after standards have been published. His bill has nothing to do
with the anti-vivisectionists; the government would not interfere with
any laboratory tests or operations.

Certainly the public should not be deluded into thinking the Hill

proposal represents any kind of adequate substitute for impartial
inspection of such institutions.

Senator Magnuson had made plain his determination to report a bill out of
his Committee. The National Society for Medical Research and National
Institutes of Health, therefore, concentrated on trying to get the laboratories
exempted from compliance with humane standards set by the United States
Department of Agriculture and inspection by its representatives. Glowing
references to the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal
Care (AAALAC), for whose existence Dr. Maurice Visscher, President of the
NSMR, took credit, were a stock in trade; and at the final Senate Commerce
Committee hearings, representatives of the NIH and NSMR strongly supported
the NIH bill and opposed the Monroney Amendment. Testimony was limited to
medical witnesses at this hearing; and two courageous physicians, who had
been associated for years with efforts to obtain humane treatment of laboratory
animals, came to Washington to testify for the Monroney Amendment: Dr.
Nicholas Gimbel, Chief of Surgery at Metropolitan Hospital and Associate
Professor of Surgery at Wayne University Medical School, and Dr. Bennett
Derby, Head of Neurology at Veterans Administration Hospital in Manhattan
and Assistant Professor of Neurology at New York University Medical School.
Dr. Gimbel and Dr. Derby urged the Senate Committee to provide for humane
care and housing of animals in research institutions. They emphasized that the
Department of Agriculture is the ideal agency to administer such requirements.
Dr. Gimbel, who had devoted considerable time to getting better treatment for
experimental dogs in different institutions, brought the question down to earth
by stating that if he were a dog, he would prefer to have the Department of Agri-
culture administer the law. He said the ”welfare of animals should be the
responsibility of a body which is primarily interested in them . . . the Depart-
ment of Agriculture,” and he added: "If the scientists and organizations repre-
sented in AAALAC had done their job prOperly, we would not be holding hear-
ings here today. The time has come to bring in independent auditors.” The NIH
bill did not come to hearings. '

The Senate Commerce Committee bill, under the leadership of Senator
Magnuson and Senator Monroney, received unanimous endorsement by the
Senate. Eighty-five Senators came to the ﬂoor to vote for it, and each of the
fifteen who were absent and unable to vote stated in The Congressional Record
that they would have voted for it had they been present. The bill’s sanctions

 




 

were strengthened at the insistence of the House Conferees. They agreed to
accept the Senate amendments restoring humane care and housing of animals
inside laboratories and increasing the number of species of animals covered, on
condition that the stronger House enforcement clauses be adopted.

Regulations were promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture February
24; and the law went into effect for animal dealers May 25 and for scientific
institutions August 24, 1967.

Congress broadened and strengthened this first federal law to prevent
abuses of test animals in 1970, 1976, and 1985. The 1966 Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act (fiercely contested by medical and pharmaceutical interests and the
associated industries that sell animals, cages, and equipment to scientific institu-
tions) set humane standards for dogs, cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters, and
guinea pigs in animal dealers’ premises and in laboratories prior to experimen-
tal use of animals. In 1970, the coverage was extended to the entire stay of ani-
mals in laboratories where they must be maintained according to minimum
standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture. The veterinary care required
includes ”appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, and tranquilizing drugs.” All
warm-blooded animals designated by the Secretary are covered, but neither
birds, farm animals used in research, nor those species that constitute the large
majority of the millions of experimental animals used each year—mice and
rats—~have yet been designated. Because inadequate appropriations have had to
be stretched to cover inspections of thousands of sites in laboratories, licensed
animal dealers, licensed exhibitors, registered exhibitors, and carriers under the
Act as amended, no Secretary has been willing to include more animals for
inspectors to check; however, in 1986 the Animal Legal Defense Fund prepared
a brief contending that the Act requires him to do so.

The important requirement for pain-relieving drugs and reporting on their
use or lack thereof was added in 1970. Reports by registered scientific institu-
tions on use of animals are filed with the U. S. Department of Agriculture and
are available for public scrutiny under the Freedom of Information Act. Many
institutions have failed to honor this section of the Act, necessitating additional
legislative and enforcement action.

Under the 1976Wamendmentssponsored‘byuAgriculture Committee Chair-

man Thomas Foleyiresearwch’ institutions were moved to the same category as
exhibitors and dealers with respect to the imposition of fines for violations. Pre-
viously, research facilities were subject to a cease and desist order which they
would have to violate before a fine could be imposed. The 1976 amendments
also include a requirement that agencies of the federal government submit
proof that they are in compliance with the standards which private institutions
must meet under the eyes of veterinary inspectors of the U. S. Department of

Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. Representative

Margaret Heckler‘g proposed and was successful in obtaining this essential
advance on the ﬂoor of the House.

The Animal Welfare Act now constitutes a solid, broad-based structure
whose 1976 amendments, sponsored in the Senate by Senator Lowell Weicker,
cover transportation of animals for research, exhibition, the pet trade, by com-
mon carriers and intermediate handlers. Its anti-dog fighting and cock-fighting
provisions are detailed in Chapter IX.

The 1970 reporting requirements on painful experiments focused on the
responsibility of the institutional veterinarian to prevent suffering through
humane experimental design or through use of drugs to relieve pain or anxiety.
However, enforcement in this area has been virtually nil. The 1985 amend-
ments, which should have gone into effect December 23, 1986, remain to be
tested in practice because of the long delay, caused by anti-animal lobbyists, in
the promulgation of ﬁnal regulations to implement the law.

COMMERCIAL DEALERS AND BREEDERS

The laboratory animal industry, supplying millions of animals to institu-
tions at ever increasing prices, is intensely opposed to regulatory legislation that
affects them and their clients. In 1979, it spawned the National Association for
Biomedical Research (NABR) and the Foundation for Biomedical Research
(FBR) to rival the National Society for Medical Research, which they entirely
absorbed and supplanted in a few years. NABR now orchestrates opposition to
all laws and regulations for laboratory animal welfare. Formation of the organi-
zations was, according to executive Frankie Trull, conceived in her living room.
Henry Foster, the veterinarian who built a two-room rat breeding business into
the multimillion dollar international laboratory animal production corporation,
Charles River Breeding Laboratories, and his son, an attorney, wrote the neces-
sary legal papers. Ms. Trull, an employee of Charles River, set about lining up
support among commercial and academic laboratories.

gr’iém‘fv’f‘afa )

N

 




Meanwhile, Charles River was sold to the big optical company, Bausch and
Lomb, netting Dr. Foster about $38 million personally, according to press
reportS- The Pun-nfjllssii..full:Pa.89 ads offering,,._mqnlseyasyinea pigs, rabbits. riﬂe-rm: .2 «<1 , We: .
and other animals for sale havel'bé'gfhwemﬁioreﬁsObeWr and strait-laced, bdt‘iﬁe “3W My.“ i I.
intensive campaign to market the maximum numbers of animals for experimen-
tation continues under the new ownership. Charles River has installations in
France, Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom.

Breeding animals for sale to laboratories is big business, and corporations
change hands in transactions based wholly on financial considerations. One of
the largest dog breeders, LRE, which houses several thousand dogs on its prem-
ises, was recently sold to Hazelton, which conducts toxicity tests on contract for
other institutions as well as breeding dogs and other laboratory animals.

ALTERNATIVES TO LABORATORY ANIMALS

As numbers of animals used in experiments and tests grew by the million, a
countervailing philosophy was increasingly advocated by animal protective
organizations. The first serious contribution to the field was The Principles of
Humane Experimental Technique, by W. M. S. Russell and R. L. Burch, produced
under the aegis of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare in 1959, with
some modest assistance from AWI. This pioneering book established the Three
R’s—Replacement, Reduction, and Refinement—which are now generally rec-
ognized as fundamental elements necessary to prevent large-scale unnecessary
suffering by laboratory animals. While Russell and Burch stressed the scientifi-
cally feasible, others advocated "Alternatives Nowl”, claiming that substitutes
for animals already existed for all experiments and tests. Bills introduced in
Congress reﬂected different views of the subject, but they made up, if not a criti-
cal mass, solid evidence of public concern and hope.

By 1981, seven bills on alternatives and/or regulation of animal experi-
ments were pending in the Subcommittee on Science, Research and Technol-
ogy of the House Committee on Science and Technology. On October 13 and
14, 1981, Subcommittee Chairman Doug Walgren of Pennsylvania held hear-
ings, which drew unexpectedly wide media attention because Maryland police
had removed 17 monkeys just days earlier from a Silver Spring laboratory.
There they had been experimented on by Dr. Edward Taub under grants from
the National Institutes of Health. Dr. Taub and an associate were charged with
17 counts of cruelty for failing to supply veterinary care. Alex Pacheco, who had
worked at the Institute for Behavioral Research as a volunteer and had alerted

police to conditions there, showed horrifying pictures of the monkeys and their
‘ quarters at the hearings.

Drafting of a composite bill containing some features from each of the
seven pending proposals was undertaken by the Subcommittee staff. Advice
was sought from the many organizations which had testified pro- or con- the
different bills. On August 4, 1982, Congressman Walgren proposed the new bill,
which was approved by his Subcommittee and its parent Committee. The bill
was referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcom-
mittee on Health and the Environment, and hearings were held by Chairman
Henry Waxman of California on December 9, 1982.

Senator Robert Dole introduced a bill based on the principles developed in
the October hearings. Senator John Melcher of Montana, the Congress’ only
veterinarian, joined him. Together, they appeared at the Waxman hearings and
testified for the Walgren bill, an unusual tribute to the importance of the legisla-
tion. However, no action was taken before the 97th Congress adjourned.

THE DOLE-BROWN AMENDMENTS

When Senator Dole reintroduced his bill in 1983, he had it redrafted as an
amendment to the Animal Welfare Act, thus broadening its coverage to include
all Registered Research Facilities (over 1,200) inspected by USDA.

This wise decision encouraged consideration by scientific groups who
began a slow move from point-blank opposition to demands for a variety of
modifications in the language of the bill. At hearings of the full Senate Agricul-
ture Committee, chaired by Senator Dole July 20, nearly every witness had sci-
entific qualiﬁcations. Humane groups were represented by Bennett Derby,
M.D., Ph.D., who had appeared at the crucial hearings which led to unanimous
Senate passage of the original Act.

Senator Dole’s masterful handling of the hearings paved the way for action,
but it was not to come in the 98th Congress. Opponents tried a new tack, ques-
tioning the need for the Dole bill. The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
prepared two thick binders of documentation outlining the urgent need for all
the bill’s provisions for minimizing pain and distress and strengthening the
authority of Agriculture’s veterinary inspectors.

 




Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. of California, well known for his suc-
cessful sponsorship of the 1978 humane slaughtﬂgramendments (see chapter j. .4. y , j . ‘ , , :2
III), introduced a biuﬁﬁﬁgiﬂﬂhe Dole hing: R. 52.2.; On September 19, 1984, Q ,9 ii i) g“? . 1?: 41:; ‘4’me ’49 ‘3‘ U I A ‘
he chaired hearings in his subcommittee ‘on‘ Departmental Operations, M . A
Research and Foreign Agriculture which drew a standing-room-only crowd
with long lines waiting outside the hearing room. Interest in the legislation had
been heightened by revelations of severe mistreatment of experimental
baboons at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Sixty hours of self-
incriminating videotapes taken by a research team as a record of their experi-
ments showed virtually every rule of aseptic surgery being violated. Injured
baboons were painfully dangled and ridiculed by groups of laughing students.

The tapes were stolen by a group known as the Animal Liberation Front ”.4... . w: Q .d
and given to People for the E33211 Treatment of Animals. They WMLM 61X537’f‘iifﬂ372eggg .w M; I
'c. It was run repeatedly in a nearby church on the /’4 M 1’; ar”/ Ax}

M" a; ﬁgﬁ I ' " " vs . t, -‘ “w

‘ ' ,. , , «9’31: « ”j ...

_ ,9 ' I A: my? . 4699.“. “"“*v “f‘ (fry/TH)!“ 3
. .4“ 4'5“” hf r." i~ w W C) M” r“:

A if“! ‘ I

> .- 4:_. I \.~ ~ I I. ‘ .
I” y» ' f” Q 6’ . 4 my, 4.»; - 1,. ‘x' "‘9’" g.“ If:
. . . . c . . ‘ .. , A
Lru "\an “'1 .V 1 "” . s": . . '2.‘H”,gr¢"”‘

‘uteversiowtoushowi-the—pu
day of the hearings.

Henry Mitchell’s column in The Washington Post September 21, 1984 notes:
”Savagery is very much part of the nature of all humans I have ever known, and
that is one reason civilized nations have gone to such efforts to restrain it or
redirect it.” Citing the evidence and characterizing it as sickening, he wrote:
”Legislation is needed, and those who do not wish to concern themselves with
what amounts to ﬂamboyant sadism should at least have the grace not to
obstruct the long hard thankless labors of those who have not shied from the
evidence and who have at last come up with reasonable and moderate legisla-
tion.” Describing his feelings in watching ﬁve minutes of the tapes in St. Mark’s
Church, he concluded: ”I left thinking it probably an esthetic error to vomit in a
church.”

Documentation of neglect and abuse in laboratories throughout the entire
country was derived from official reports of USDA veterinary inspectors
obtained under the Freedom of Information Act and presented by the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation in the form of a 6’x10’ chart. A heartening
message of support from Dr. Jean Mayer, President of Tufts University, was
delivered by Dr. Frank Loew, Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine, but
most testimony from scientific groups was severely critical. Congressman
Brown asked his staff to analyze all the criticisms. His bill did not emerge from
the Subcommittee.

I

Meantime, in the Health and Environment Subcommittee, Congressman
Walgren had succeeded in getting some provisions of his bill included in the
NIH reauthorization bill which was passed by the Congress but vetoed by Pres-
ident Reagan. In the 99th Congress, the bill, after some modification and enti-
tled the Health Research Extension Act of 1985, was passed again and Congress
overrode the President’s second veto. The animal welfare provisions are less
stringent than the Dole-Brown legislation, and they apply only to NIH grantees;
nevertheless, the two were destined to fit together well and reinforce one
another in a practical manner.

Senator Dole, elected Majority Leader of the Senate, reintroduced his bill at
the same time as Congressman Brown. This time the bills were identical, the
heroic work of staffers Sara Rasmussen for Brown and Mark Scanlan for Dole.
They produced a ﬁnal draft still containing every major animal protective provi-
sion, phrased in the manner least objectionable to the legion of opponents and
unremitting critics.

The New York Times editorialized on July 31, 1985 in support of the Dole-
Brown proposals, and in the following months, newspapers in every part of the
country followed suit.

The debate on the 1985 Farm Bill was continuing when the Majority Leader
brought his bill, Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals, to the Senate
ﬂoor, October 25. Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, Chairman of the Committee on
Labor and Human Resources, expressed reservations. The bill then went into an
intense discussion by the staffs of Senators Dole, Hatch, and Melcher and repre-
sentatives of the National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR), the
Feed Manufacturers Association, and the Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tion. A bill calling for 16 different changes in Senator Dole’s bill had been pre-
pared for Senator Hatch by an NABR attorney. Every point had to be fought
through. Senator Dole appeared from time to time to ask what progress was
being made. At one point, Senator Melcher took part in the arguments, explain-
ing the reason for his language, "a physical environment adequate to promote
the psychological well-being of primates.” He had seen laboratory chimpanzee
cages which, even though unoccupied at the time, he characterized as
”extremely efficient, extremely expensive, and extremely cruel.”

A second series of amendments, this time consisting of no less than 32

changes, even including a $500 reduction in the fine, was proposed. A night
meeting in the Dole office was called to resolve the differences. It appeared that

 




although academia was somewhat grudgingly resigned to the legislation, the
pharmaceutical industry was not willing to stop fighting. Indeed, it fought to the
end. Disagreement about the content continued, and Senator Melcher offered a
substitute bill on October 29th. This passed the Senate unanimously.

The House had already passed the Farm Bill without the Dole-Brown
amendments. Fortunately, Majority Whip Tom Foleyrof Washington proved
himself a powerful friend of animals during the House-Senate Conference.
Congressman Foley, as noted earlier, was the author of the 1976 amendments to
the Animal Welfare Act. House Agriculture Committee Chairman Kika de la
Garza of Texas gave his blessing to the legislation in Conference. Lobbying to
kill the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals continued to the very last
moment.

The Farm Bill, an enormously lengthy piece of legislation, was in Confer-
ence for days. The Conferees met in a small room in the Russell Senate Office
Building, and dozens of lobbyists from each of the special interests that stood to
gain or lose from some part of the complex bill lined the hallway outside the
room, waiting for news on decisions of the Conferees as staffers came in and
out. At 4:00 p.m. on December 12, it appeared that action on the laboratory ani-
mal section was imminent. Weakening amendments were being urged by the
National Association for Biomedical Research, and Senator Dole had not yet
returned from out of town.

The sight of the Senate Majority Leader striding down the hall rein-
vigorated the weary Society for Animal Protective Legislation lobbyists waiting
for the outcome. "You’re next,” he said to us. Then he was engulfed by a mass of
farm lobbyists. It was nearly eleven that night when we heard the good news
from Congressman Foley. The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act
had come through the Conference unscathed!

The Conference report was approved by the House on December 16 and
two days later by the Senate. The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
amendments establish an information service in the National Agricultural
Library in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine to provide data on
alternatives to laboratory animals, help prevent unintended duplication of
experiments and tests, and provide information to institutions for instruction of
scientists and other personnel in humane practices as required by the new law.
Each Registered Research Facility must appoint an Institutional Animal Care
and Use Committee, including a veterinarian and a person not affiliated with
the institution, to represent the general community interests in the proper care
and treatment of animals. The committee must inspect the animal laboratories
twice a year and report deficiencies to the institution for correction. If not cor-
rected promptly, the U. S. Department of Agriculture must be notified for
enforcement action, and any funding agency involved informed for a decision
on whether the grant should be suspended or revoked.

Investigators are required to consider alternatives and to consult with a vet-
erinarian before beginning any experiment which could cause pain. They must
adhere to standards set by the Secretary of Agriculture for pre- and post-surgi-
cal care, use of pain-relieving drugs or euthanasia, against use of paralytics with-
out anesthesia, and unnecessary use of the same animal for more than one
major operation. Exceptions to the standards may be made only when specified
by a research protocol and an explanation given for any deviation. Fines for vio-
lations were raised from $1,000 to $2,500, and for violating a cease and desist
order, from $500 to $1,500. Each animal may count as a violation, as may each
day of failure to obey a cease and desist order.

Interest in protection of laboratory animals has grown worldwide, and two
countries made significant improvements in their national laws in 1986: The
United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany. The full text of these
laws appears in the Appendix. Of particular note in the new British Act is recog-
nition of gradations of stress or pain and justification thereof. This begins with
the stress caused by putting an animal in a cage and progresses to the point of
procedures prohibited because of extreme painfulness.

In issuing project licenses, the British Secretary of State is required to
"weigh the likely adverse effects on the animals concerned against the benefit
likely to accrue.” Both project licenses and individual licenses are mandatory
under the new law. As in the 1876 Act, if an inspector considers that an animal
is undergoing excessive suffering, he may require it to be immediately killed.

The new German law was introduced by Minister of Agriculture Ignaz
Kiechle. It forbids, with provision for special exceptions, the use of animals for
tests on weapons, tobacco, washing powders, and cosmetics. Authorization for
experiments are to be supervised by advisory commissioners. Animal protec-
tion organizations may nominate up to a third of the commissions’ members.
The law covers all experiments leading to pain or injury of an animal.

 




APPROPRIATIONS FOR ENFORCEMENT

The struggle for protection of laboratory animals has had to be fought on
many fronts. When passed in 1966, an appropriation of $300,000 was barely
achieved. Slowly, annual appropriations were worked up to $4,865,000 and
remained at the same level despite attempts by the Office of Management and
Budget to reduce them. In both 1985 and 1986, the Administration recom-
mended that no money whatever be allocated to administer the law and inspect
the 1,219 Registered Research Facilities, the 3,414 licensed dealers’ premises,
the 1,386 exhibitors’ premises, or the 374 intermediate handlers operating dur-
ing those years.

In 1985 the Congress simply restored the funds, but in 1986, following pas-
sage of the Dole-Brown amendments, Congress voted an increase to $5,878,000,
specifying that $750,000 be used for the information service designated by the
new legislation at the National Agricultural Library in cooperation with the
National Library of Medicine. The Senate Appropriations Committee report
stated:

For enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act the Committee con-
curs with the House in providing $5,878,000 over the budget request.
This is also $1,902,000 more than the 1986 adjusted level. Included in
this appropriation is $750,000 for creation of an information service at
the National Agricultural Library which will include information on
available alternatives to the use of live animals in research. The
remainder of the increase is for the general expansion of the program.

On the House ﬂoor, Congressman Bob Traxler of Michigan said: "We
restore funding for the Animal Welfare Act once again, rejecting the notion that
enforcement of the act should be turned over to other authorities. That proposal
is simply not sensible in today’s interstate economy.”

In 1987, the Office of Management and Budget again recommended zero
funding for the Animal Welfare Act, however, for the first time, the Department
of Agriculture protested, and the budget figure emerged as $4. 947 million, a fig-
ure from which the $750, 000 appropriation for the information service at the
National Agricultural Library had been subtracted and which could not cover
the requirement for continued inspection of research facilities until all
deficiencies were corrected. Congress appropriated $6 .125 million for Fiscal
Year 1987 In 1988 and 1989, the budget figure again was $4.947 million, but

$6 .197 million was appropriated; and the budget request for Fiscal Year 199039?” W473»;
$7. 567 million. Animal protective organizations and scientific groups W“ {7" atom; 7" jg, ﬁlm

¢equest1ng $10 million for enforcement of the law. MW demand for sufﬁcient , p and th e 1:) ud ge t r eq ue S t

 

for FY 1991 was raised to $8. 688
¢W€%Wafgjf million. The groups are requesting

‘ $12 million in order to ensure
adequate inspection. In 1990, about
25% of dog dealers were never
inspected at all.

funds to enforce the law continues to be necessary.

 




 

LAB.3A: 10/18/89

REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT

In October 1988, a reorganization of the Animal and Plant Health Inspec-
tion Service took place. It created a new division, Regulatory Enforcement and
Animal Care (REAC). Enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act has been
removed from Veterinary Services and placed with REAC. REAC inspectors are
assigned on a full-time basis to enforcement of the Act, but their numbers are
inadequate to make the frequent inspections necessary to enforce the law. ‘

' ' _ ’y 0 I o ' I f; I 17 f 15"“ ‘1:q:z,"1-M’y fig: ’f ”1‘5“”: >5“ :v V;
.59me~e&sesi,.1t.”maexpeetedwtha?» nVeterinary Serv1ces personnel Will have to be l“; i F7513 6 1,me 5_ ,w M, . g N I. i. 4M 5‘ ,I.
called on to hel make ins ections. ' ”WES” ' , . ,1». y . . ,0 .ﬁ. .. «a

p p I)? :37. (”‘12. “7* “l” if Fife” if 34’” zed K 5:2," “a;

f

 

Citizen complaints concerning research facilities, animal dealers, animal
auctions, and other entities covered by the Animal Welfare Act, including
circuses, zoos, airlines, and the wholesale pet industry, should be directed to the
nearest REAC office or to the central office at Hyattsville. For names and phone
numbers, see the Appendix. Citizen complaints are important in protecting ani-
mals because of REAC’s staff limitations. It is the policy of REAC to investigate
all complaints.

Having failed to prevent enactment of the Improved Standards for Labora-
tory Animals amendments by Congress, opponents transferred their efforts to
the agencies and succeeded in delaying the regulations which must be promul-
gated before the legislation can be enforced. Proposed regulations for Parts 1
and 2 were first issued by the Department of Agriculture in March 1987. The
National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR) inspired thousands of
letters of protest against these well-prepared regulations. The result was that,
rather than being made final, they were withdrawn, and two years passed
before rewritten regulations for Parts 1 and 2 were reproposed and a proposal
for Part 3 regulations finally appeared.

An even more intensive effort by NABR and its constituents followed.
However, a lawsuit filed by the Animal Legal Defense Fund against the Secre-
tary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget was viewed favorably by Judge
Richey, who heard the case in the U. S. District Court. A timetable was set up
with the Justice Department, and on August 31, 1989, final regulations for Parts
1 and 2 were published in the Federal Register.

Part of the campaign against Part 3 regulations is the issuance of inﬂated
figures on compliance costs. As we go to press, an extended delay is expected
with respect to the requirements for exercise for laboratory dogs and an envi-
ronment adequate to promote the psychological well-being of primates.

LABORATORY ANINIAL LAWS: IMPORTANT DATES
ENGLAND

1870: Royal Society started establishment of rules for humane experimenta-
tion.

1876: British Act regulating animal experimentation enacted.

1906-1912: Royal Commission to review the 1876 Act consolidated and
affirmed it.

1925: Founding of Universities Federation for Animal Welfare.

1965: “Littlewood Report” completed after a two-year study of the British Act
of 1876 by a Parliamentary Committee; approved the Act and made
some suggestions for strengthening and improving its implementation.

1986: Following years of work by a coalition of the British Veterinary Associa-
tion, the Committee for Reform of Animal Experimentation, and the
Fund for the Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments, the Ani-
mals (Scientific Procedures) Act became law, replacing the 1876 Act.

UNITED STATES

1880: Attempt to pass bill for District of Columbia based on British Act of
1876.

1945: Founding of National Society for Medical Research.
1947: Passage of Michigan Animal Care Law.

1949: First animal seizure law passed in Minnesota. Animal seizure law pas-
sed in Wisconsin. Meeting between National Society for Medical
Research and American Humane Association. l/

 




 

1951: Founding of the Animal Welfare Institute.

1952: Dr. Robert Gesell, Chairman of the Department of Physiology, Univer-
sity of Michigan Medical School, made an unscheduled presentation on
humanity versus inhumanity in animal experimentation at the annual
meeting of the American Physiological Society.

1954: Three reform directors elected by membership of American Humane
Association.

1955: American Humane Association Board ensured no more outside inter-
ference.

1958: Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals prose-
cuted Dr. Panico of Overholt Clinic for cruelty in transporting an experi-
mental dog.

1960: Bill modeled on principles of British Act introduced by Senator Cooper
and twelve co-sponsors in 86th Congress.

1961: Similar bill introduced by Senators Clark and Neuberger and Congress-
woman Griffiths in 87th Congress. More restrictive bill introduced by
Congressman Moulder at request of the Humane Society of the United
States.

1962: Hearings held on both bills in Health Subcommittee of House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee.

1963: Senator Clark again introduced bill based on British Act with Senators
Maurine Neuberger and Stephen Young co-sponsoring in 88th Con-

gress.

Congressman Cleveland sponsored identical bill in the House.

Congressman Paul Rogers introduced a bill at the request of the Ameri-
can Humane Association which was so sharply criticized for weakness
by Dr. Eric Hansen, President of the Massachusetts SPCA, that AHA did
not ask membership support.

Congressman William Randall introduced a bill similar to Moulder bill
at the request of the Humane Society of the United States.

Congressman Edward Roybal introduced a bill to provide funds to
laboratories at the request of the National Society for Medical Research.

1965: Senator Clark again introduced a bill based on British Act with Senators
Stephen Young, Harry Byrd, E. L Bartlett, and Edmund S. Muskie co-
sponsoring in 89th Congress.

Weakened variations of the Moulder and Randall bills introduced by
Congressmen Rogers and Pepper and Senator McIntyre, and a similar
but not identical bill by Congressman Tupper.

Congressman Roybal again introduced National Society for Medical
Research bill.

July 9, 1965: Congressman Resnick introduced bill to license dealers and
laboratories. Senator Magnuson and Senator Clark simultaneously went
to the Senate ﬂoor to introduce the identical bill in the Senate; Senator
Brewster joined as co-sponsor.

September 2, 1965: Congressman Poage held hearings on Resnick bill and
twenty other similar bills, including one introduced on the day of the
hearings by Congressman Ancher Nelsen for the National Society for
Medical Research, which omitted all reference to laboratories, and one
introduced before the hearings by Congressman Henry Helstoski for
the National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, which cut laboratories
out of the bill but required dog dealers to treat dogs as ”a responsible
and conscientious owner” would care for his ”household pet."

September 30, 1965: Health Subcommittee held hearings on Rogers bill,
Cleveland bill, and Roybal bill. Canceled second day of hearings after
Dr. Shannon, Head of the National Institutes of Health, testified. These
hearings were never published.

March 7, 8, 1966: House hearings before Livestock and Feed Grains
Subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee on Poage, Resnick,
Helstoski, Nelsen bills, and thirty other bills similar to one of these.

March 8, 1966: Senator Hugh Scott introduced bill identical to Poage bill.

March 25, 1966: Senator Mondale introduced National Society for Medical
Research bill.

March 27, 28, 1966: Senate Commerce Committee hearings.

 




April 14, 1966: Senator Javits introduced New York State Society for Medical
Research bill.

April 28, 1966: House of Representatives passed weakened version of Poage
bill.

May 10, 1966: National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Senator Hill.

May 18, 1966: Identical National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Con-
gressman John Fogarty.

May 25, 1966: Identical National Institutes of Health bill introduced by Con-
gressman Harley O. Staggers. Senate Commerce Committee hearings
on the Monroney Amendment to restore coverage of laboratories.

June 15, 1966: Bill reported by Senate Commerce Committee including
modified Monroney Amendment.

June 22, 1966: 85 to 0 Roll Call Vote in Senate passed bill.

July 26, 1966: Conference Committee reported bill combining strongest pro-
visions of both Senate and House passed bills.

August 25, 1966: Bill signed into law by President Johnson.

September 23, 1969: Congressman William G. Whitehurst introduced amend-
ments to include all warm-blooded animals throughout their stay in the
laboratory and to cover animals in the pet trade or for exhibition.

June 8, 9, 1970: House hearings before Livestock and Grains Subcommittee of
the House Agriculture Committee to amend the Act of 1966.
Subcommittee Chairman Foley’s bill to broaden and strengthen the [ab-
oratory Animal Welfare Act, including the use of pain-relieving drugs,
approved.

December 7, 1970: Passed by the House of Representatives.
December 8, 1970: Passed by the Senate.
December 24, 1970: Bill signed into law by President Nixon.

September 25, 26, 27 and 28, 1973: Hearings before the Special Studies
Subcommittee, House Committee on Government Operations, to inves-
tigate the hazards of air-shipping animals, chaired by Representative
Floyd V. Hicks.

August 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 15 and 20; September 30; October 2, 1974: House hear-
ings before Livestock and Grains Subcommittee on amendments intro-
duced by Representative Foley to regulate the transportation of animals
in interstate commerce and to prohibit certain animal fighting ventures.

September 9, 10, 1975: House hearings before Livestock and Grains
Subcommittee on amendments introduced by Congressman Foley to
regulate the transportation of animals in interstate commerce and to
prohibit certain animal fighting ventures.

November 20, 1975: Senate hearings before Subcommittee on Environment
of the Committee on Commerce on amendments introduced by Senator
Lowell Weicker and Senator Robert Dole to regulate animal transport.

December 18, 1975: Passed by the Senate.
February 9, 1976: Passed by the House of Representatives.
April 22, 1976: Bill signed into law by President Ford.

August 23, 1976: Amendment to Toxic Substances Control Act offered by
Congressman Richard Ottinger to require Administrator of Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency to consider non-animal-using methods
where feasible. Amendment failed.

September 30, 1976: Hearings held by Congressman W. R. Poage on a bill to
establish a commission with subpoena powers to study animal prob-
lems, including animal experimentation (introduced by Congressman
Edward Koch, December 11, 1975). NSMR opposed bill. Congress
adjourned without acting on it.

October 13, 14, 1981: House hearings before the Subcommittee on Science,
Research and Technology, chaired by Congressman Doug Walgren, on
seven laboratory animal bills.

August 4, 1982: Combination bill proposed by Congressman Walgren.

December 9, 1982: After gaining Subcommittee and Committee approval, the
Walgren bill was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce
where Congressman Henry Waxman chaired hearings in his Subcom-
mittee on Health and the Environment. No action was taken.

 




July 20, 1983: Senator Robert Dole chaired full Senate Agriculture hearings on
his bill, the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act.

September 19, 1984: Congressman George Brown chaired hearings on his
version of the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act in his
Subcommittee on Departmental Operations, Research and Foreign
Agriculture.

October 25, 1985: Senate Majority Leader Dole brought the Improved Stand-
ards for Laboratory Animals Act to the Senate ﬂoor as an amendment to
the Farm Bill. The ﬁnal vote was deferred.

October 29, 1985: A substitute bill offered by Senator John Melcher was unan-
imously approved. -

November 20, 1985: The Health Research Extension Act, containing a section
on animal welfare and a section on development of alternatives to ani-
mals, was passed over President Reagan’s veto.

December 12, 1985: The Senate-House Conference on the Farm Bill approved
the ImDI‘OVPd Qtandarﬂc Fna- T Gkﬁvnl-A-nwr A -:.......1.. A -L

1"», . , .....-
ﬂy\~,,,-;./f, 7 m? /;?/
....u. . aura '

C%ngxu .w 2,; “t“ -
. I a

Finland passed an animal protective law, including requiremegtsmfor
licensing of establishments and individuals qualified to per or
animal experiments in accordance with the EC Directive.

New Belgian animal welfare law awaiting Royal Decree for detailed
provisions to comply with EC Directive.

Netherlands Experiments on Animals Act entered into torciﬁesgppéim:giiie
by the Experiments on Animals Decree fully implementingterin

on Animal Experimentation, including a system for regis 1 gOf
premises, authorizing persons involved in the use an. :upp y

animals, undertaking inspections, and compiling statis i .

1987: French Decree updated again (see Appendix).

Republic of Germany.

Norwegian Welfare of Animals Act enacted, including regulation of ani-
mal experimgrnts. ,. '

a , .wiww ~~»w--> ”’ﬂl975: Belgium requires licensing
Denmark law on animal experiments enacted.

and inspection of animal
Switzerland enacted an animal protection law which includes experi— experimentation .

ments on animals.

Major laboratory animal amendments to Swedish Animal Welfare Act
of 1944.

French Decree updated W {dig/(Z72

Greece enacted a law concerning the protection of animals.

Luxembourg law on the Protection and Welfare of Animals enacted. All
experimental procedures require advance approval by Ministers of
A ‘ " - -~L:n1~ have a time limit and

VISIOnS IUI lallll allullulu \vw— .—-rr _____-_,-

xﬁggﬁpammecree adopted to compl with the ﬁDirective on protection 4 f: (L,
.J' - '-

of experimental animals.

1. , ‘-. '. 1., .I‘
q . . 1
x ‘ -

“Mow ' 1g“ =

v.4

 




    
 
      
 
    
      
     
   
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
    
      
         

,4.
. .7

July 20, 1983: Senator Robert Dole chaired full Senate Agriculture hearings on
his bill, the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act.

September 19, 1984: Congressman George Brown chaired hearings on his
version of the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act in his
Subcommittee on Departmental Operations, Research and Foreign
Agriculture.

October 25, 1985: Senate Majority Leader Dole brought the Improved Stand-
ards for Laboratory Animals Act to the Senate ﬂoor as an amendment to
the Farm Bill. The ﬁnal vote was deferred.

October 29, 1985: A substitute bill offered by Senator John Melcher was unan-
imously approved. ,

November 20, 1985: The Health Research Extension Act, containing a section
on animal welfare and a section on development of alternatives to ani-
mals, was passed over President Reagan’s veto.

December 12, 1985: The Senate-House Conference on the Farm Bill approved
the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act.

December 16 and 18, 1985: The House, then the Senate, approved the Confer-
ence Report on the Farm Bill.

December 23, 1985: President Reagan signed the Farm Bill.

March 31, 1987: 9 CFR, Parts 1 and 2, Animal Welfare Proposed Rules were
published in the Federal Register.

December 22, 1988: The Animal Legal Defense Fund filed suit against the U.
S. Department of Agriculture, National Institutes of Health, and Office
of Management and Budget protesting delay in promulgating final regu-
lations.

April 12, 1989: Judge Richey dismissed the suit without prejudice and pro-
vided that, in case of further delay, it be brought before him again.

March 15, 1989: 9 CFR, Parts 1, 2, and 3, Animal Welfare Proposed Rules were
published in the Federal Register.

August 31, 1989: Final regulations on Parts 1 and 2 published in the Federal
Register.

OTHER COUNTRIES

1968: French Decree Regulating Experiments on Animals.

1972: Animal Experiments Section of the Animal Protection Act, Federal
Republic of Germany.

1974: Norwegian Welfare of Animals Act enacted, including regulation of ani-
mal experiments. _ '

1977: Denmark law on animal experiments enacted.

1978: Switzerland enacted an animal protection law which includes experi-
ments on animals.

1979: Major laboratory animal amendments to Swedish Animal Welfare Act
of 1944.

1980: French Decree updated W

1981: Greece enacted a law concerning the protection of animals.

1983: Luxembourg law on the Protection and Welfare of Animals enacted. All
experimental procedures require advance approval by Ministers of
Health and Agriculture. The authorizations, which have a time limit and
may be revoked at any time, are only granted if there is no alternative ’
method for conducting the experiment. /K

1986:>West Germany amended its Animal Protection Act (see Appendi <
Netherlands Experiments on Animals Act entered into force, supple-
m nted by the Experiments on Animals Decree fully implementing the

Directive on Animal Experimentation, including a system for regi-<'
stering premises, authorizing persons involved in the use and supply of
animals, undertaking inspections, and compiling statistics.

1988: Sweden passed a new Animal Protection Law, including important pro-

, visions for farm animals (see Appendix).
F ' )SpaingDecree adopted to comply with the
of experimental animals.

I ‘ -. .1
L ‘ ., , (
V ' '

"W \N

EEé/Directive on protection 4

Vt-wf‘

.awﬁl975: Belgium requires licensing

<de /e+5,

900—61..

 

 

and inspection of animal
experimentation.

\

/.

. i,
I
I!

. ./

.k“

: I,“ :
~W¥1~r eager/"WWW /
@924 ----- :begW/ ~
. 46472144721’2 Weﬁ'm 4;} k
11W 2 .;

 

EC

a

I

PC”,
V




 

LAB.4: 10/18/89

ANIMAL WELFARE ACT
As Amended
(7 U.S.C. SS 2131-2157)

Section 1. (a) This Act may be cited as the ”Animal Welfare Act”.

(b) The Congress finds that animals and activities which are regulated under this Act
are either in interstate or foreign commerce or substantially affect such commerce or the
free flow thereof, and that regulation of animals and activities as provided in this Act is
necessary to prevent and eliminate burdens upon such commerce and to effectively regu-
late such commerce, in order—-

(1) to insure that animals intended for use in research facilities or for exhibi-
tion purposes or for use as pets are provided humane care and treatment;

(2) to assure the humane treatment of animals during transportation in com-
merce; and

(3) to protect the owners of animals from the theft of their animals by prevent-
ing the sale or use of animals which have been stolen. The Congress further ﬁnds that it is
essential to regulate, as provided in this Act, the transportation, purchase, sale, housing,
care, handling, and treatment of animals by carriers or by persons or organizations
engaged in using them for research or experimental purposes or for exhibition purposes
or holding them for sale as pets or for any such purpose or use. The Congress further
finds that—-

(1) the use of animals is instrumental in certain research and education for advancing
knowledge of cures and treatment for diseases and injuries which afﬂict both humans and
animals;

(2) methods of testing that do not use animals are being and continue to be devel-
oped which are faster, less expensive, and more accurate than traditional animal experi-
ments for some purposes and further opportunities exist for the development of these
methods of testing;

(3) measures which eliminate or minimize the unnecessary duplication of experi-
ments on animals can result in more productive use of Federal funds; and

(4) measures which help meet the public concern for laboratory animal care and
treatment are important in assuring that research will continue to progress.

(7 U.S.C. 2131) (PL. 89-544, SS 1, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 350; PL. 91-579, SS 2, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1560; renumbered and amended by PL. 94-279, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 417)

Section 2. When used in this Act—-

(a) The term ”person” includes any individual, partnership, ﬁrm, joint stock com-
pany, corporation, association, trust, estate, or other legal entity;

(b) The term ”Secretary" means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or
his representative who shall be an employee of the United States Department of Agricul-
ture;

(c) The term ”commerce" means trade, trafﬁc, transportation, or other commerce—

(1) between a place in a State and any place outside of such State, or between
points within the same State but through any place outside thereof, or within any terri-
tory, possession, or the District of Columbia;

(2) which affects trade, trafﬁc, transportation, or other commerce described in
paragraph (1);

(d) The term ”State" means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or any other
territory or possession of the United States;

(e) The term “research facility” means any school (except an elementary or secon-
dary school), institution, organization, or person that uses or intends to use live animals in
research, tests, or experiments, and that (1) purchases or transports live animals in com-
merce, or (2) receives funds under a grant, award, loan, or contract from a department,
agency, or instrumentality of the United States for the purpose of carrying out research,
tests, or experiments: Provided, That the Secretary may exempt, by regulation, any such
school, institution, organization, or person that does not use or intend to use live dogs or
cats, except those schools, institutions, organizations, or persons, which use substantial
numbers (as determined by the Secretary) of live animals the principal function of which
schools, institutions, organizations, or persons, is biomedical research or testing, when in
the judgment of the Secretary, any such exemption does not vitiate the purpose of the Act;

(f) The term ”dealer" means any person who, in commerce, for compensation or
proﬁt, delivers for transportation, or transports, except as a carrier, buys, or sells, or nego-
tiates the purchase or sale of, (1) any dog or other animal whether alive or dead for
research, teaching, exhibition, or use as a pet, or (2) any dog for hunting, security, or
breeding purposes, except that this term does not include—

(i) a retail pet store except such store which sells any animals to a research
facility, an exhibitor, or a dealer; or

(ii) any person who does not sell, or negotiate the purchase or sale of any wild
animal, dog, or cat and who derives no more than $500 gross income from the sale of
other animals during any calendar year;

(g) The term ”animal” means any live or dead dog, cat, monkey (nonhuman primate
mammal), guinea pig, hamster, rabbit, or such other warmblooded animal, as the Secre-
tary may determine is being used, or is intended for use, for research, testing, experimen-
tation, or exhibition purposes or as a pet; but such term excludes horses not used for
research purposes and other farm animals, such as, but not limited to livestock or poultry,
used or intended for use as food or fiber, or livestock or poultry used or intended for
improving animal nutrition, breeding, management or production efﬁciency, or for
improving the quality of food or ﬁber. With respect to a dog the term means all dogs
including those used for hunting, security, or breeding purposes;

(.c

 




(h) The term ”exhibitor" means any person (public or private) exhibiting any ani-
mals, which were purchased in commerce or the intended distribution of which affects
commerce, or will affect commerce, to the public for compensation, as determined by the
Secretary, and such term includes carnivals, circuses, and zoos exhibiting such animals
whether operated for profit or not; but such term excludes retail pet stores, organizations
sponsoring and all persons participating in State and county fairs, livestock shows, rodeos,
purebred dog and cat shows, and any other fairs or exhibitions intended to advance agri-
cultural arts and sciences, as may be determined by the Secretary;

(i) The term ”intermediate handler" means any person including a department,
agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government (other
than a dealer, research facility, exhibitor, any person excluded from the definition of a
dealer, research facility, or exhibitor, an operator of an auction sale, or a carrier) who is
engaged in any business in which he receives custody of animals in connection with their
transportation in commerce;

(j) The term ”carrier” means the operator of any airline, railroad, motor carrier, ship-
ping line, or other enterprise, which is engaged in the business of transporting any ani-
mals for hire;

(k) The term ”Federal agency” means an Executive agency as such term is defined in
section 105 of Title 5, United States Code, and with respect to any research facility means
the agency from which the research facility receives a Federal award for the conduct of
research, experimentation, or testing, involving the use of animals;

(1) The term ”Federal award for the conduct of research, experimentation, or testing,
involving the use of animals” means any mechanism (including a grant, award, loan, con-
tract, or cooperative agreement) under which Federal funds are provided to support the
conduct of such research;

(m) The term ”quorum” means a majority of the Committee members;

(11) The term ”Committee” means the Institutional Animal Committee established
under section 13(b); and

(o) The term ”Federal research facility” means each department, agency, or instru-
mentality of the United States which uses live animals for research or experimentation.

(7 U.S.C. 2132) (P. L. 89-544, SS 2, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 350; PL. 91-579, SS 3, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1560; PL. 94-279, SS 3, 4, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 417, 418,- PL 99- 198, Title
XVII, SS 1756(a), Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 3. The Secretary shall issue licenses to dealers and exhibitors upon applica-
tion therefor in such form and manner as he may prescribe and upon payment of such fee
established pursuant to section 23 of this Act: Provided, That no such license shall be
issued until the dealer or exhibitor shall have demonstrated that his facilities comply with
the standards promulgated by the Secretary pursuant to section 13 of this Act: Provided,
however, That any retail pet store or other person who derives less than a substantial
portion of his income (as determined by the Secretary) from the breeding and raising of
dogs or cats on his own premises and sells any such dog or cat to a dealer or research facil-
ity shall not be required to obtain a license as a dealer or exhibitor under this Act. The Sec-
retary is further authorized to license, as dealers or exhibitors, persons who do not qualify
as dealers or exhibitors within the meaning of this Act upon such persons complying with
the requirements specified above and agreeing, in writing, to comply with all the require-
ments of this Act and the regulations promulgated by the Secretary hereunder.

(7 U.S.C. 2133) (PL. 89-544, SS 3, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL 91-579, SS 4, Dec. 24,
1979, 84 Stat. 1561)

Section 4. No dealer or exhibitor shall sell or offer to sell or transport or offer for
transportation, in commerce, to any research facility or for exhibition or for use as a pet
any animal, or buy, sell, offer to buy or sell, transport or offer for transportation, in com-
merce, to or from another dealer or exhibitor under this Act any animal, unless and until
such dealer or exhibitor shall have obtained a license from the Secretary and such license
shall not have been suspended or revoked.

(7 U.S.C. 2134) (PL. 89-544, SS 4, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, SS 5, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1561; PL. 94-279, SS 5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat 418)

Section 5. No dealer or exhibitor shall sell or otherwise dispose of any dog or cat
within a period of 5 business days after the acquisition of such animal or within such other
period as may be specified by the Secretary: Provided, That operators of auction sales
subject to section 12 of this Act shall not be required to comply with the provisions of this

section.

(7 U.S.C. 2135) (PL. 89-544, SS 5, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; RL. 91-579, SS 6, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1561)
Section 6. Every research facility, every intermediate handler, every carrier, and

every exhibitor not licensed under section 3 of this Act shall register with the Secretary in
accordance with such rules and regulations as he may prescribe.

(7 U.S.C. 2136) (PL. 89-544, SS 6, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, SS 7, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1561; PL. 94-279, SS 6, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 7. It shall be unlawful for any research facility to purchase any dog or cat from
any person except an operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act or a per-
son holding a valid license as a dealer or exhibitor issued by the Secretary pursuant to this
Act unless such person is exempted from obtaining such license under section 3 of this

Act.
(7 U.S.C. 2137) (PL 89-544, SS 7, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, SS 8, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1561)

Section 8. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States which uses
animals for research or experimentation or exhibition shall purchase or otherwise acquire

 




any dog or cat for such purposes from any person except an operator of an auction sale
subject to section 12 of this Act or a person holding a valid license as a dealer or exhibitor
issued by the Secretary pursuant to this Act unless such person is exempted from obtain-
ing such license under section 3 of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2138) (PL. 89-544, SS 8, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, SS 9, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562)

Section 9. When construing or enforcing the provisions of this Act, the act, omission,
or failure of any person acting for or employed by a research facility, a dealer, or an exhib-
itor or a person licensed as a dealer or an exhibitor pursuant to the second sentence of
section 3, or an operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, or an interme-
diate handler or a carrier, within the scope of his employment or office, shall be deemed
the act, omission, or failure of such research facility, dealer, exhibitor, licensee, operator of
an auction sale, intermediate handler, or carrier, as well as of such person.

(7 U.S.C. 2139) (PL. 89-544, SS 9, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, SS 10, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, SS 7, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 10. Dealers and exhibitors shall make and retain for such reasonable period
of time as the Secretary may prescribe, such records with respect to the purchase, sale,
transportation, identification, and previous ownership of animals as the Secretary may
prescribe. Research facilities shall make and retain such records only with respect to the
purchase, sale, transportation, identification, and previous ownership of live dogs and
cats. At the request of the Secretary, any regulatory agency of the Federal Government
which requires records to be maintained by intermediate handlers and carriers with
respect to the transportation, receiving, handling, and delivery of animals on forms pre-
scribed by the agency, shall require there to be included in such forms, and intermediate
handlers and carriers shall include in such forms, such information as the Secretary may
require for the effective administration of this Act. Such information shall be retained for
such reasonable period of time as the Secretary may prescribe. If regulatory agencies of
the Federal Government do not prescribe requirements for any such forms, intermediate
handlers and carriers shall make and retain for such reasonable period as the Secretary
may prescribe such records with respect to the transportation, receiving, handling, and
delivery of animals as the Secretary may prescribe. Such records shall be made available
at all reasonable times for inspection and copying by the Secretary.

(7 U.S.C. 2149) (PL. 89-544, SS 10, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351 ; PL. 91-579, SS 11, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, SS 8, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 11. All animals delivered for transportation, transported, purchased, or sold,
in commerce, by a dealer or exhibitor shall be marked or identified at such time and in
such humane manner as the Secretary may prescribe: Provided, That only live dogs and
cats need to be so marked or identified by a research facility.

(7 U.S.C. 2141) (PL. 89-544, SS 11, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, SS 12, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, SS 5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 12. The Secretary is authorized to promulgate humane standards and
recordkeeping requirements governing the purchase, handling, or sale of animals, in com-
merce, by dealers, research facilities, and exhibitors at auction sales and by the operators
of such auction sales. The Secretary is also authorized to require the licensing of operators
of auction sales where any dogs or cats are sold, in commerce, under such conditions as
he may prescribe, and upon payment of such fee as prescribed by the Secretary under sec-
tion 23 of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2142) (PL. 89-544, SS 12, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, SS 13, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; PL. 94-279, SS 5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 13. (a) (1) The Secretary shall promulgate standards to govern the humane
handling, care, treatment and transportation of animals by dealers, research facilities, and
exhibitors.

(2) The standards described in paragraph (1) shall include minimum requirements—

(A) for handling, housing, feeding, watering, sanitation, ventilation, shelter
from extremes of weather and temperatures, adequate veterinary care, and separation by
species where the Secretary finds necessary for humane handling, care, or treatment of
animals; and

(B) for exercise of dogs, as determined by an attending veterinarian in accord-
ance with the general standards promulgated by the Secretary, and for a physical environ-
ment adequate to promote the psychological well-being of primates.

(3) In addition to the requirements under paragraph (2), the standards described in
paragraph (1) shall, with respect to animals in research facilities, include requirements—

(A) for animal care, treatment, and practices in experimental procedures to
ensure that animal pain and distress are minimized, including adequate veterinary care
with the appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, tranquilizing drugs, or euthanasia;

(B) that the principal investigator considers alternatives to any procedure
likely to produce pain to or distress in an experimental animal;

(C) in any practice which could cause pain to animals—

(i) that a doctor of veterinary medicine is consulted in the planning of
such procedures;

(ii) for the use of tranquilizers, analgesics, and anesthetics;

(iii) for presurgical and postsurgical care by laboratory workers, in
accordance with established veterinary medical and nursing procedures;

(iv) against the use of paralytics without anesthesia; and

(v) that the withholding of tranquilizers, anesthesia, analgesia, or
euthanasia when scientifically necessary shall continue for only the necessary period of

time;

(D) that no animal is used in more than one major operative experiment from

 




which it is allowed to recover except in cases of—

(i) scientific necessity; or

(ii) other special circumstances as determined by the Secretary; and

(E) that exceptions to such standards may be made only when specified by
research protocol and that any such exception shall be detailed and explained in a report
outlined under paragraph (7) and filed with the Institutional Animal Committee.

(4) The Secretary shall also promulgate standards to govern the transportation in
commerce, and the handling, care, and treatment in connection therewith, by interme-
diate handlers, air carriers, or other carriers, of animals consigned by a dealer, research
facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or other person, or any department, agency,
or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government, for transporta-
tion in commerce. The Secretary shall have authority to promulgate such rules and regu-
lations as he determines necessary to assure humane treatment of animals in the course of
their transportation in commerce including requirements such as those with respect to
containers, feed, water, rest, ventilation, temperature, and handling.

(5) In promulgating and enforcing standards established pursuant to this section, the
Secretary is authorized and directed to consult experts, including outside consultants
where indicated.

(6) (A) Nothing in this Act—

(i) except as provided in paragraph (7) of this subsection, shall be con-
strued as authorizing the Secretary to promulgate rules, regulations, or orders with regard
to the design, outlines, or guidelines of actual research or experimentation by a research
facility as determined by such facility;

(ii) except as provided in subparagraphs (A) and (C) (ii) through (v) of
paragraph (3) and paragraph (7) of this subsection, shall be construed as authorizing the
Secretary to promulgate rules, regulations, or orders with regard to the performance of
actual research or experimentation by a research facility as determined by such research
facility; and

(iii) shall authorize the Secretary, during inspection, to interrupt the
conduct of actual research or experimentation.

(B) No rule, regulation, order, or part of this Act shall be construed to require
a research facility to disclose publicly or to the Institutional Animal Committee during its
inspection, trade secrets or commercial or financial information which is privileged or
confidential.

(7) (A) The Secretary shall require each research facility to show upon inspec-
tion, and to report at least annually, that the provisions of this Act are being followed and
that professionally acceptable standards governing the care, treatment, and use of animals
are being followed by the research facility during actual research or experimentation.

(B) In complying with subparagraph (A), such research facilities shall pro-
vide—

(i) information on procedures likely to produce pain or distress in any
animal and assurances demonstrating that the principal investigator considered alterna-
tives to those procedures;

(ii) assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that such facility is adhering
to the standards described in this section; and

(iii) an explanation for any deviation from the standards promulgated
under this section.

(8) Paragraph (1) shall not prohibit any State (or a political subdivision of such State)
from promulgating standards in addition to those standards promulgated by the Secretary
under paragraph (1).

(b) (1) The Secretary shall require that each research facility establish at least one
Committee. Each Committee shall be appointed by the chief executive officer of each such
research facility and shall be composed of not fewer than three members. Such members
shall possess sufficient ability to assess animal care, treatment, and practices in experimen-
tal research as determined by the needs of the research facility and shall represent soci-
ety’s concerns regarding the welfare of animal subjects used at such facility. Of the mem-
bers of the Committee——

(A) at least one member shall be a doctor of veterinary medicine;

(B) at least one member—-

(i) shall not be affiliated in any way with such facility other than as a
member of the Committee;

(ii) shall not be a member of the immediate family of a person who is
affiliated with such facility; and

(iii) is intended to provide representation for general community inter-
ests in the proper care and treatment of animals; and

(C) in those cases where the Committee consists of more than three members,
not more than three members shall be from the same administrative unit of such facility.

(2) A quorum shall be required for all formal actions of the Committee, including
inspections under paragraph (3).

(3) The Committee shall inspect at least semiannually all animal study areas and ani-
mal facilities of such research facility and review as part of the inspection-—

(A) practices involving pain to animals, and

(B) the condition of animals, to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
Act to minimize pain and distress to animals. Exceptions to the requirement of inspection
of such study areas may be made by the Secretary if animals are studied in their natural
environment and the study area is prohibitive to easy access.

 




LAB.5: 10/18/89

(4) (A) The Committee shall file an inspection certiﬁcation report of each inspection
at the research facility. Such report shall—

(i) be signed by a majority of the Committee members involved in the
inspection;

(ii) include reports of any violation of the standards promulgated, or
assurances required, by the Secretary, including any deﬁcient conditions of animal care or
treatment, any deviation of research practices from originally approved proposals that
adversely affect animal welfare, any notification to the facility regarding such conditions,
and any corrections made thereafter;

(iii) include any minority views of the Committee; and

(iv) include any other information pertinent to the activities of the
Committee.

(B) Such report shall remain on file for at least 3 years at the research facility
and shall be available for inspection by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
and any funding Federal agency.

(C) In order to give the research facility an opportunity to correct any
deficiencies or deviations discovered by reason of paragraph (3), the Committee shall
notify the administrative representative of the research facility of any deficiencies or devi-
ations from the provisions of this Act. If, after notification and an opportunity for correc-
tion, such deficiencies or deviations remain uncorrected, the Committee shall notify (in
writing) the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and the funding Federal agency
of such deficiencies or deviations.

(5) The inspection results shall be available to Department of Agriculture inspectors
for review during inspections. Department of Agriculture inspectors shall forward any
Committee inspection records which include reports of uncorrected deficiencies or devia-
tions to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and any funding Federal agency
of the project with respect to which such uncorrected deficiencies and deviations
occurred.

(c) In the case of Federal research facilities, a Federal Committee shall be established
and shall have the same composition and responsibilities provided in subsection (b) of
this section, except that the Federal Committee shall report deficiencies or deviations to
the head of the Federal agency conducting the research rather than to the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service. The head of the Federal agency conducting the research
shall be responsible for—

(1) all corrective action to be taken at the facility; and

(2) the granting of all exceptions to inspection protocol.

(d) Each research facility shall provide for the training of scientists, animal techni-
cians, and other personnel involved with animal care and treatment in such facility as
required by the Secretary. Such training shall include instruction on—

(1) the humane practice of animal maintenance and experimentation;

(2) research or testing methods that minimize or eliminate the use of animals
or limit animal pain or distress;

(3) utilization of the information service at the National Agricultural Library,
established under subsection (e) of this section; and

(4) methods whereby deficiencies in animal care and treatment should be
reported.

(e) The Secretary shall establish an information service at the National Agricultural
Library. Such service shall, in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine, provide
information—

(1) pertinent to employee training;

(2) which could prevent unintended duplication of animal experimentation as
determined by the needs of the research facility; and

(3) on improved methods of animal experimentation, including methods
which could—

(A) reduce or replace animal use; and

(B) minimize pain and distress to animals, such as anesthetic and anal-
gesic procedures.

(01 In any case in which a Federal agency funding a research project determines that
conditions of animal care, treatment, or practice in a particular project have not been in
compliance with standards promulgated under this Act, despite notification by the Secre-
tary or such Federal agency to the research facility and an opportunity for correction, such
agency shall suspend or revoke Federal support of the project. Any research facility losing
Federal support as a result of actions taken under the preceding sentence shall have the
right of appeal as provided in sections 701 through 706 of Title 5, United States Code.

(f)2 No dogs or cats, or additional kinds or classes of animals designated by regulation
of the Secretary, shall be delivered by any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of
an auction sale, or department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any
State or local government, to any intermediate handler or carrier for transportation in
commerce, or received by any such handler or carrier for such transportation from any
such person, department, agency, or instrumentality, unless the animal is accompanied by
a certificate issued by a veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary medicine, certifying
that he inspected the animal on a specified date, which shall not be more than 10 days
before such delivery, and, when so inspected, the animal appeared free of any infectious
disease or physical abnormality which would endanger the animal or animals or other
animals or endanger public health: Provided, however, That the Secretary may by regula-
tion provide exceptions to this certification requirement, under such conditions as he may
prescribe in the regulations, for animals shipped to research facilities for purposes of
research, testing or experimentation requiring animals not eligible for such certification.
Such certificates received by the intermediate handlers and the carriers shall be retained
by them, as provided by regulations of the Secretary, in accordance with section 10 of this

 




Act.

(g) No dogs or cats, or additional kinds or classes of animals designated by regulation
of the Secretary, shall be delivered by any person to any intermediate handler or carrier
for transportation in commerce except to registered research facilities if they are less than
such age as the Secretary may by regulation prescribe. The Secretary shall designate addi-
tional kinds and classes of animals and may prescribe different ages for particular kinds or
classes of dogs, cats, or designated animals, for the purposes of this section, when he
determines that such action is necessary or adequate to assure their humane treatment in
connection with their transportation in commerce.

(h) No intermediate handler or carrier involved in the transportation of any animal in
commerce shall participate in any arrangement or engage in any practice under which the
cost of such animal or the cost of the transportation of such animal is to be paid and col-
lected upon delivery of the animal to the consignee, unless the consignor guarantees in
writing the payment of transportation charges for any animal not claimed within a period
of 48 hours after notice to the consignee of arrival of the animal, including, where neces-
sary, both the return transportation charges and an amount sufﬁcient to reimburse the
carrier for all out-of- pocket expenses incurred for the care, feeding, and storage of such
animals.

(7 U.S.C. 2143) (PL. 89-544, SS 13, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, SS 14, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 State. 1562; PL. 94-279, SS 9, 10, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418; PL. 99-198, Title
XVII, SS 1752, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1645)

Section 14. Any department, agency or instrumentality of the United States having
laboratory animal facilities shall comply with the standards and other requirements prom-
ulgated by the Secretary for a research facility under section 13 (a), (f), (g), and (h). Any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States exhibiting animals shall com-
ply with the standards promulgated by the Secretary under section 13 (a), (f), (g), and (h).

(7 U.S.C. 2144) (PL. 89-544, SS 14, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, SS 15, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279, SS 19, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 423; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,
SS 1758, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 15. (a) The Secretary shall consult and cooperate with other Federal depart-
ments, agencies, or instrumentalities concerned with the welfare of animals used for
research, experimentation or exhibition, or administration of statutes regulating the trans-
portation in commerce or handling in connection therewith of any animals when estab-
lishing standards pursuant to section 13 and in carrying out the purposes of this Act. The
Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services prior to issuance
of regulations. Before promulgating any standard governing the air transportation and
handling in connection therewith, of animals, the Secretary shall consult with the Secre-
tary of Transportation who shall have the authority to disapprove any such standard if he
notifies the Secretary, within 30 days after such consultation, that changes in its provisions
are necessary in the interest of ﬂight safety. The Interstate Commerce Commission, the

Secretary of Transportation, and the Federal Maritime Commission, to the extent of their
respective lawful authorities, shall take such action as is appropriate to implement any
standard established by the Secretary with respect to a person subject to regulation by it.

(b) The Secretary is authorized to cooperate with the officials of the various States or
political subdivisions thereof in carrying out the purposes of this Act and of any State,
local, or municipal legislation or ordinance on the same subject.

(7 U.S.C. 2145) (PL. 89-544, SS 15, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, SS 16, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279, SS 11, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 419; PL. 98-443, 88 9(i),
Oct. 4, 1984, 98 Stat. 1708; PL. 99-198, Title XVII, SS 1757, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 16. (a) The Secretary shall make such investigations or inspections as he
deems necessary to determine whether any dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, car-
rier, research facility, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, has
violated or is violating any provision of this Act or any regulation or standard issued
thereunder, and for such purposes, the Secretary shall, at all reasonable times, have access
to the places of business and the facilities, animals, and those records required to be kept
pursuant to section 10 of any such dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, carrier,
research facility, or operator of an auction sale. The Secretary shall inspect each research
facility at least once each year and, in the case of deficiencies or deviations from the stand-
ards promulgated under this Act, shall conduct such follow-up inspections as may be nec-
essary until all deﬁciencies or deviations from such standards are corrected. The Secretary
shall promulgate such rules and regulations as he deems necessary to permit inspectors to
conﬁscate or destroy in a humane manner any animal found to be suffering as a result of a
failure to comply with any provision of this Act or any regulation or standard issued
thereunder if (1) such animal is held by a dealer, (2) such animal is held by an exhibitor,
(3) such animal is held by a research facility and is no longer required by such research
facility to carry out the research, test or experiment for which such animal has been util-
ized, (4) such animal is held by an operator of an auction sale, or (5) such animal is held
by an intermediate handler or a carrier.

(b) Any person who forcibly assaults, resists, opposes, impedes, intimidates, or inter-
feres with any person while engaged in or on account of the performance of his official
duties under this Act shall be ﬁned not more than $5,000, or imprisoned not more than 3
years, or both. Whoever, in the commission of such acts, uses a deadly or dangerous
weapon shall be ﬁned not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or
both. Whoever kills any person while engaged in or on account of the performance of his
ofﬁcial duties under this Act shall be punished as provided under sections 1111 and 1114
of Title 18, United States Code.

(c) For the efﬁcient administration and enforcement of this Act, the provisions
(including penalties) of sections 6, 8, 9, and 10 of the Act entitled ”An Act to create a Fed-
eral Trade Commission, to deﬁne its powers and duties, and for other purposes," (15
U.S.C. 46, and 48-50; 38 Stat. 721-723, as amended) (except paragraph (c) through (h) of

 




section 6 and the last paragraph of section 9, and the provisions of Title II of the ”Organ-
ized Crime Control Act of 1970") (18 U.S.C. 6001 et seq., 62 Stat. 856), are made applica-
ble to the jurisdiction, powers, and duties of the Secretary in administering and enforcing
the provisions of this Act and to any person, firm, or corporation with respect to whom
such authority is exercised. The Secretary may prosecute any inquiry necessary to his
duties under this Act in any part of the United States, including any territory, or posses-
sion thereof, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The powers
conferred by said sections 9 and 10 of the Act of September 16, 1914, as amended, on the
district courts of the United States may be exercised for the purposes of this Act by any
district court of the United States. The United States district courts, the District Court of
Guam, the District Court to the Virgin Islands, the highest court of American Samoa, and
the United States courts of the other territories, are vested with jurisdiction specifically to
enforce, and to prevent and restrain violations of this Act, and shall have jurisdiction in all
other kinds of cases arising under this Act, except as provided in section 19(c) of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2146) (PL. 89-544, SS 16, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, SS 17, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279, SS 12, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 420; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,
SS 1753, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1649)

Section 17. The Secretary shall promulgate rules and regulations requiring dealers,
exhibitors, research facilities, and operators of auction sales subject to section 12 of this
Act to permit inspection of their animals and records at reasonable hours upon request by
legally constituted law enforcement agencies in search of lost animals.

(7 U.S.C. 2147) (PL. 89-544, 33 17, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352,- PL. 91.579, 33 18, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1564)

Section 18. Repealed. Pub. L. 91-579. Similar provisions incorporated in section 13 by PL.
91-579, SS 19, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1564.

(7 U.S.C. 2148)

Section 19. (a) If the Secretary has reason to believe that any person licensed as a
dealer, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, has vio-
lated or is violating any provision of this Act, or any of the rules or regulations or stand-
ards promulgated by the Secretary hereunder, he may suspend such person’s license tem-
porarily, but not to exceed 21 days, and after notice and opportunity for hearing, may sus-
pend for such additional period as he may specify, or revoke such license, if such violation
is determined to have occurred.

(b) Any dealer, exhibitor, research facility, intermediate handler, carrier or operator
of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, that violates any provision of this Act, or
any rule, regulation, or standard promulgated by the Secretary thereunder, may be
assessed a civil penalty by the Secretary of not more than $2,500 for each such violation,
and the Secretary may also make an order that such person shall cease and desist from
continuing such violation. Each violation and each day during which a violation continues
shall be a separate offense. No penalty shall be assessed or cease and desist order issued
unless such person is given notice and opportunity for a hearing with respect to the
alleged violation, and the order of the Secretary assessing a penalty and making a cease
and desist order shall be final and conclusive unless the affected person files an appeal
from the Secretary’s order with the appropriate United States Court of Appeals. The Sec-
retary shall give due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with respect to
the size of the business of the person involved, the gravity of the violation, the person’s
good faith, and the history of previous violations. Any such civil penalty may be compro-
mised by the Secretary. Upon any failure to pay the penalty assessed by a final order
under this section, the Secretary shall request the Attorney General to institute a civil
action in a district court of the United States or other United States court for any district in
which such person is found or resides or transacts business, to collect the penalty, and
such court shall have jurisdiction to hear and decide any such action. Any person who
knowingly fails to obey a cease and desist order made by the Secretary under this section
shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,500 for each offense, and each day during which
such failure continues shall be deemed a separate offense.

(c) Any dealer, exhibitor, research facility, intermediate handler, carrier, or operator
of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, aggrieved by a final order of the Secre-
tary issued pursuant to this section may, within 60 days after entry of such an order, seek
review of such order in the appropriate United States Court of Appeals in accordance
with the provisions of section 2341, 2343 through 2350 of Title 28, United States Code,
and such court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to enjoin, set aside, suspend (in whole or
in part), or to determine the validity of the Secretary’s order.

(d) Any dealer, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this
Act, who knowingly violates any provision of this Act shall, on conviction thereof, be sub—
ject to imprisonment for not more than 1 year, or a ﬁne of not more than $2,500, or both.
Prosecution of such violations shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be brought ini-
tially before United States magistrates as provided in section 636 of Title 28, United States
Code, and sections 3401 and 3402 of Title 18, United States Code, and, with the consent of
the Attorney General, may be conducted, at both trial and upon appeal to district court, by
attorneys of the United States Department of Agriculture.

(7 U.S.C. 2149) (PL. 89-544, SS 19, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579, SS 20, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1564; PL. 94-279, SS 13, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 420; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,

SS 1755, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 20. Repealed. Similar provisions incorporated in section 19 by PL. 94-279, SS
14, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 421.

(7 U.S.C. 2150)

Section 21. The Secretary is authorized to promulgate such rules, regulations, and
orders as he may deem necessary in order to effectuate the purposes of this Act.

 




 

(7 U.S.C. 2151) (PL. 89-544, 58 21, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353)

Section 22. If any provision of this Act or the application of any such provision to any
person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Act and the applica-
tion of any such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is
held invalid shall not be affected thereby.

(7 U.S.C. 2152) (PL. 89-544, SS 22, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353)

Section 23. The Secretary shall charge, assess, and cause to be collected reasonable
fees for licenses issued. Such fees shall be adjusted on an equitable basis taking into con-
sideration the type and nature of the operations to be licensed and shall be deposited and
covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts. There are hereby authorized to be
appropriated such funds as Congress may from time to time provide: Provided, That
there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture for enforcement by
the Department of Agriculture of the provisions of section 26 of this Act an amount not to
exceed $100,000 for the transition quarter ending September 30, 1976, and not to exceed
$400,000 for each fiscal year thereafter.

(7 U.S.C. 2153) (PL. 89-544, SS 23, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353; PL. 94-279, SS 18, April
22, 1976, 90 Stat. 423)

Section 24. The regulations referred to in section 10 and section 13 shall be pre-
scribed by the Secretary as soon as reasonable but not later than 6 months from the date of
enactment of this Act. Additions and amendments thereto may be prescribed from time to
time as may be necessary or advisable. Compliance by dealers with the provisions of this
Act and such regulations shall commence 90 days after the promulgation of such regula-
tions. Compliance by research facilities with the provisions of this Act and such regula-
tions shall commence 6 months after the promulgation of such regulations (August 24,
1966), except that the Secretary may grant extensions of time to research facilities which
do not comply with the standards prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to section 13 of
this Act provided that the Secretary determines that there is evidence that the research
facilities will meet such standards within a reasonable time. Notwithstanding the other
provisions of this section, compliance by intermediate handlers, and carriers, and other
persons with those provisions of this Act, as amended by the Animal Welfare Act Amend-
ments of 1976, and those regulations promulgated thereunder, which relate to actions of
intermediate handlers and carriers, shall commence 90 days after promulgation of regula-
tions under section 13 of this Act, as amended, with respect to intermediate handlers and
carriers, and such regulations shall be promulgated no later than 9 months after April 22,
1976; and compliance by dealers, exhibitors, operators of auction sales and research
facilities with other provisions of this Act, as so amended, and the regulations thereunder,
shall commence upon the expiration of 90 days after April 22, 1976: Provided, however,
That compliance by all persons with paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of section 13 and with
section 26 of this Act, as so amended, shall commence upon the expiration of said 90- day
period. In all other respects, said amendments shall become effective upon April 22, 1976.

(7 U.S.C. 2154) (PL. 89-544, SS 24, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353; PL. 94-279, SS 15, April
22, 1976, 90 Stat. 421)

Section 25. Not later than March of each year the Secretary shall submit to the Presi—
dent of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives a comprehensive and
detailed written report with respect to—

(1) the identification of all research facilities, exhibitors, and other persons and estab—
lishments licensed by the Secretary under section 3 and section 12 of this Act;

(2) the nature and place of all investigations and inspections conducted by the Secre-
tary under section 16 of this Act, and all reports received by the Secretary under section
13 of this Act;

(3) recommendations for legislation to improve the administration of this Act or any
provision thereof; and

(4) recommendations and conclusions concerning the aircraft environment as it
relates to the carriage of live animals in air transportation.

This report as well as any supporting documents, data, or ﬁndings shall not be released to
any other persons, non- Federal agencies, or organizations unless and until it has been
made public by an appropriate committee of the Senate or the House of Representatives.

(7 U.S.C. 2155) (PL. 89-544, SS 25, as added by PL. 91-579, SS 22, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat.
1565; PL. 94-279, SS 16, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 421)

 




LAB.6: 10/18/89

Section 26. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sponsor or exhibit an
animal in any animal ﬁghting venture to which any animal was moved in interstate or for-
e1gn commerce.

(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sell, buy, transport, or deliver to
another person or receive from another person for purposes of transportation, in inter-
state or foreign commerce, any dog or other animal for purposes of having the dog or
other animal participate in an animal ﬁghting venture.

(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly use the mail service of the United
States Postal Service or any interstate instrumentality for purposes of promoting or in any
other manner furthering an animal fighting venture except as performed outside the lim-
its of the States of the United States.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the
activities prohibited by such subsections shall be unlawful with respect to fighting ven-
tures involving live birds only if the ﬁght is to take place in a State where it would be in
violation of the laws thereof.

(e) Any person who violates subsection (a), (b), or (c) shall be fined not more than
$5,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both, for each such violation.

(f) The Secretary or any other person authorized by him shall make such investiga-
tions as the Secretary deems necessary to determine whether any person has violated or is
violating any provision of this section, and the Secretary may obtain the assistance of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of the Treasury, or other law
enforcement agencies of the United States, and State and local governmental agencies, in
the conduct of such investigations, under cooperative agreements with such agencies. A
warrant to search for and seize any animal which there is probable cause to believe was
involved in any violation of this section may be issued by any judge of the United States
or of a State court of record or by a United States magistrate within the district wherein
the animal sought is located. Any United States marshal or any person authorized under
this section to conduct investigations may apply for and execute any such warrant, and
any animal seized under such a warrant shall be held by the United States marshal or
other authorized person pending disposition thereof by the court in accordance with this
subsection. Necessary care including veterinary treatment shall be provided while the ani-
mals are so held in custody. Any animal involved in any violation of this section shall be
liable to be proceeded against and forfeited to the United States at any time on complaint
ﬁled in any United States district court or other court of the United States for any jurisdic-
tion in which the animal is found and upon a judgment of forfeiture shall be disposed of
by sale for lawful purposes or by other humane means, as the court may direct. Costs
incurred by the United States for care of animals seized and forfeited under this section
shall be recoverable from the owner of the animals if he appears in such forfeiture
proceeding or in a separate civil action brought in the jurisdiction in which the owner is
found, resides, or transacts business.

(g) for purposes of this section—

(1) the term ”animal ﬁghting venture” means any event which involves a ﬁght
between at least two animals and is conducted for purposes of sport, wagering, or enter-
tainment except that the term ”animal ﬁghting venture” shall not be deemed to include
any activity the primary purpose of which involves the use of one or more animals in
hunting another animal or animals, such as waterfowl, bird, raccoon, or fox hunting;

(2) the term ”interstate or foreign commerce” means—

(A) any movement between any place in a State to any place in another
State or between places in the same State through another State; or

(B) the term ”interstate instrumentality” means telegraph, telephone,
radio, or television operating in interstate or foreign commerce;

(4) the term ”State” means any State of the United States, the District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the
United States;

(5) the term ”animal" means any live bird, or any live dog or other
mammal, except man; and

(6) the conduct by any person of any activity prohibited by this section
shall not render such person subject to the other sections of this Act as a dealer, exhibitor,
or otherwise.

(h) (1) The provisions of this section shall not supersede or otherwise invalidate any
such State, local, or municipal legislation or ordinance relating to animal ﬁghting ventures
except in case of a direct and irreconcilable conﬂict between any requirements thereunder
and this section or any rule, regulation, or standard hereunder.

(7 U.S.C. 2156) (PL. 89-544, 85 26 (a)-(h) (1), as added by PL. 94-279, SS 17, April 22,
1976, 90 State. 421)

Section 27. (a) It shall be unlawful for any member of an Institutional Animal Com-
mittee to release any conﬁdential information of the research facility including any infor-
mation that concerns or relates to—

(1) the trade secrets, processes, operations, style of work, or apparatus; or

(2) the identity, conﬁdential statistical data, amount or source of any income,
proﬁts, losses, or expenditures, of the research facility.

(b) It shall be unlawful for any member of such Committee—

(1) to use or attempt to use to his advantages; or

(2) to reveal to any other person, any information which is entitled to protec-
tion as confidential information under subsection (a) of this section.

(c) A violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section is punishable by—

(1) removal from such Committee; and

(2) (A) a fine of not more than $1,000 and imprisonment of not more than 1

year; or

(B) if such violation is willful, a ﬁne of not more than $10,000 and imprison-

 




 

ment of not more than 3 years.

(d) Any person, including any research facility, injured in its business or property by
reason of a violation of this section may recover all actual and consequential damages sus-
tained by such person and the cost of the suit including a reasonable attorney’s fee.

(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any other rights of a person
injured in its business or property by reason of a violation of this section. Subsection (d)
shall not be construed to limit the exercise of any such rights arising out of or relating to a
violation of subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

(7 U.S.C. 2157) (PL. 89-544, SS 27, as added by PL. 99-198, Title XVII, SS 1754, Dec.
23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1649)

 

1. PL. 99-198, Title XVII, SS 1752, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1645, made significant amend-
ments to SS 13 of the Act and inadvertently duplicated paragraph (f) of SS 13. The new
paragraph (f) in the 1985 amendments has been designated as (f)1 and the old para-
graph (f) has been designated as paragraph (f)2 for clarity.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

PL. 89-544:
H. Rept. 89-1418, House Committee on Agriculture
S. Rept. 89-1281, Senate Committee on Commerce
Passed House Apr. 28, 1966
Passed Senate June 22, 1966
H. Rept. 89-1848, Conference Committee
House agreed to conference report Aug. 16, 1966
Senate agreed to conference report Aug. 17, 1966
Approved Aug. 24, 1966

PL. 91-579
H. Rept. 91-1651, House Committee on Agriculture
Passed House Dec. 7, 1970
Passed Senate Dec. 8, 1970
Approved Dec. 24, 1970

PL. 94-279:
H. Rept. 94-801, House Committee on Agriculture
S. Rept. 94-580, Senate Committee on Commerce
H. Rept. 94-976, Conference Committee
S. Rept. 94-727, Conference Committee
Passed Senate Dec. 18, 1975
Passed House Feb. 9, 1976
House agreed to conference report Apr. 6, 1976
Senate agreed to conference report Apr. 7, 1976
Approved Apr. 22, 1976

PL. 99-198:

H. Rept. 99-271, Part 1, Committee on Agriculture

S. Rept. 99-145, Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry

Passed House Oct. 8, 1985

Passed Senate Nov. 23, 1985

H. Rept. 99-447 Conference Committee

House and Senate agreed to conference report Dec. 18,
1985

Approved Dec. 23, 1985

 




 

LAB.7: 10/18/89

EXCERPTS FROM
THE HEALTH RESEARCH EXTENSION ACT OF 1985
PUBLIC LAW 99-158, NOVEMBER 20, 1985

ANIMALS IN RESEARCH

Sec. 495 (a) The Secretary, acting through the Director of NIH, shall establish guide-
lines for the following: '

(1) The proper care of animals to be used in biomedical and behavioral
research.

(2) The proper treatment of animals while being used in such research. Guide-
lines under this paragraph shall require——

(A) the appropriate use of tranquilizers, analgesics, anesthetics, paralyt-
ics, and euthanasia for animals in such research; and

(B) appropriate pre-surgical and post-surgical veterinary medical and
nursing care for animals in such research. Such guidelines shall not be con-
strued to prescribe methods of research.

(3) The organization and operation of animal care committees in accordance
with subsection (b).

(b) (1) Guidelines of the Secretary under subsection (a) (3) shall require animal care
committees at each entity which conducts biomedical and behavioral research with funds
provided under this Act (including the National Institutes of Health and the national
research institutes) to assure compliance with the guidelines established under subsection

(a)-

(2) Each animal care committee shall be appointed by the chief executive offi-
cer of the entity for which the committee is established, shall be composed of not
fewer than three members, and shall include at least one individual who has no asso-
ciation with such entity and at least one doctor of veterinary medicine.

(3) Each animal care committee of a research entity shall—

(A) review the care and treatment of animals in all animal study areas
and facilities of the research entity at least semi-annually to evaluate compli—
ance with applicable guidelines established under subsection (a) for appropri-
ate animal care and treatment;

(B) keep appropriate records of reviews conducted under subpar-
agraph (A); and

(C) for each review conducted under subparagraph (A), file with the
Director of NIH at least annually (i) a certiﬁcation that the review has been
conducted, and (ii) reports of any violations of guidelines established under
subsection (a) or assurances required under paragraph (1) which were
observed in such review and which have continued after notice by the com-
mittee to the research entity involved of the violations.

Reports filed under subparagraph (C) shall include any minority views filed by members
of the committee.

(c) The Director of NIH shall require each applicant for a grant, contract, or coopera-
tive agreement involving research on animals which is administered by the National Insti—
tutes of Health or any national research institute to include in its application or contract
proposal, submitted after the expiration of the twelve-month period beginning on the date
of enactment of this section—

(1) assurances satisfactory to the Director of NIH that—

(A) the applicant meets the requirements of the guidelines established
under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) and has an animal care commit—
tee which meets the requirements of subsection (b); and

(B) scientists, animal technicians, and other personnel involved with
animal care, treatment, and use by the applicant have available to them
instruction or training in the humane practice of animal maintenance and
experimentation, and the concept, availability, and use of research or testing
methods that limit the use of animals or limit animal distress; and

(2) a statement of the reasons for the use of animals in the research to be con-
ducted with funds provided under such grant or contract.

Notwithstanding subsection (a) (2) of section 553 of title 5, United States Code, regula-
tions under this subsection shall be promulgated in accordance with the notice and com-

ment requirements of such section.
(d) If the Director of NIH determines that—

(1) the conditions of animal care, treatment, or use in an entity which is receiv-
ing a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement involving research on animals under
this title do not meet applicable guidelines established under subsection (a);

(2) the entity has been notified by the Director of NIH of such determination

 

 




 

and has been given a reasonable opportunity to take corrective action; and .

. (3) no action has been taken by the entity to correct such conditions; the
Director of NIH shall suspend or revoke such grant or contract under such conditions
as the Director determines appropriate.

(e) No guideline or regulation promulgated under subsection (a) or (c) may require a
research entity to disclose publicly trade secrets or commercial or ﬁnancial information
which is privileged or conﬁdential.

SEC. 4 PLAN FOR RESEARCH INVOLVING ANIMALS

(a) Establishment of Plan—The Director of the National Institutes of Health shall
establish a plan for—

(1) research to be conducted by or through the National Institutes of Health
and the national research institutes into methods of biomedical research and experi-
mentation—

(A) which do not require the use of animals;
(B) which reduce the number of animals used in such research; or

(C) which produce less pain and distress in such animals than methods
currently in use.

(2) establishing the validity and reliability of the methods described in
subparagraph (A);

(3) the development of such methods which have been found to be valid and
reliable; and

(4) the training of scientists in the use of such methods.
The plan required by this paragraph shall be prepared not later than October 1, 1986.

(b) Dissemination of Information—The Director of the National Institutes of Health
shall take such actions as may be appropriate to convey to scientists and others involved
with research or experimentation involving animals information respecting the methods
found to be valid and reliable under subsection (a) (2).

(c) Interagency Coordinating Committee—The Director of the National Institutes of
Health shall establish within the National Institutes of Health an Interagency Coordinat-
ing Committee to assist the Director of the National Institutes of Health in the develop-
ment of the plan required by subsection (a). The Director of each national research insti-
tute shall serve on the Committee.

 

1. Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, France, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United
Kingdom.

2. The full text of the 1966 Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, including its 1970, 1976, and
1985 amendments appears at the end of this chapter.

3. The Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act of 1986 continues and in several provisions
increases the protection provided by the 1876 Act. See Appendix for the full text.

4. Arizona and Alaska passed anti-cruelty laws in 1913.

5. Mr. Morse, who fought the reform efforts of the founders of the Humane Society of the
United States as chief executive of the American Humane Association, became
president of the Humane Society of the United States from 1967-1970.

6. The New York State Society for Medical Research also sponsored the bills introduchdﬁmﬁf.

a/
by Senator Iavits in the 89th and 90th Congresses (see that Pgéfo ). ‘ :ijﬁiabzé 153 [51:59??? [I 1.3” (f.
I

 
  

 

7. The American Humane Association was also absent when héarings were called by ' if, fr, “: :_ WIN .1. ..
Congressman Poage on the Resnick bill, September 2, 1965. At subsequent hearings, '1 I: [“4” 3* ”‘4" ‘ F m " ..
AHA representatives testified against inclusion of laboratories in the bill, reﬂecting the
unbridled pressure of the biomedical establishment on the big humane societies at that

eriod.

8. lgor example, Nobel laureate, Sir Peter Medawar, was Chairman of UFAW’s Scientific
Advisory Committee. He repeatedly sent statements on the value of the British Act for
quotation at Congressional hearings.

9. The statements by Sir Graham Wilson and Dr. Lawrence Abel were published by AWI

in Information Report Vol. 15, No. 4, September-October 1966. f) .. f , a gm), 6“” A; ,. , : / a my?
, H ' >- ""‘" " " " " __. I" I . l w "w a", : / 1...; " :_ :3 A i w w\ -' a a I," ' ': :13“ I"? 3"“, ff“?! ("If ”'1‘". 1 "It! i“, J... ﬁg‘f .0 A; L. (”A ‘1? W
10.15.2035931 ofHealthandHumanSemes19821985.: 5,252.,W w... 25/,» . .4 , a? 7L ,w - 4 , . . w, r" - ----- , :

. cf
1

1

o,

4;. .,

fl

 




LAB.4: 10/18/89

ANIMAL WELFARE ACT
As Amended
(7 U.S.C. SS 2131-2157)

Section 1. (a) This Act may be cited as the ”Animal Welfare Act”.
(b) The Congress ﬁnds that animals and activities which are regulated under this Act
are either in interstate or foreign commerce or substantially affect such commerce or the
free ﬂow thereof, and that regulation of animals and activities as provided in this Act is
necessary to prevent and eliminate burdens upon such commerce and to effectively regu-
late such commerce, in order— .

(1) to insure that animals intended for use in research facilities or for exhibi- y , . <

ition purposes or for use as pets are provided humane care and treatment; 5 I 3

(2) to assure the humane treatment of animals during transportation in com

Jmerce; and

(3) to protect the owners of animals from the theft of their animals'by prevent- Q 1
ing the sale or use of animals which have been stolen The Congress further finds that it is —< (\xf’ﬂa, E’
essential to regulate, as provided in this Act, the transportation, purchase, sale, housing,
care, handling, and treatment of animals by carriers or by persons or organizations
engaged in using them for research or experimental purposes or for exhibition purposes
or holding them for sale as pets or for any such purpose or use. The Congress further
finds that—

? (1) the use of animals is instrumental in certain research and education for advancing
3 knowledge of cures and treatment for diseases and injuries which afﬂict both humans and
3 animals;

3......) (2) methods of testing that do not use animals are being and continue to be devel-
3 oped which are faster, less expensive, and more accurate than traditional animal experi-
ments for some purposes and further opportunities exist for the development of these
5methods of testing;
“3"”9‘ (3) measures which eliminate or minimize the unnecessary duplication of experi-
ments on animals can result in more productive use of Federal funds; and
~-- 3}. (4) measures which help meet the public concern for laboratory animal care and
M treatment are important in assuring that research will continue to progress.

(7 U.S.C. 2131) (PL. 89-544,,383383231, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 350,- PL. 91-579@2, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1560; renumberEd and amended by PL. 94-279, April 22, 1976, 0 Stat. 417)

a

'4
'f'
5.;

 

Section 2. When used in this Act—
(a) The term ”person” includes any individual, partnership, ﬁrm, joint stock com-
pany, corporation, association, trust, estate, or other legal entity;
(b) The term ”Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or
his representative who shall be an employee of the United States Department of Agricul-
ture;
(c) The term ”commerce” means trade, traffic, transportation, or other commerce-—
(1) between a place in a State and any place outside of such State, or betweenl‘ r ,“:
points within the same State but through any place outside thereof, or within any terri- f 3 " -
gtory, possession, or the District of Columbia; ;
3 (2) which affects trade, traffic, transportation, or other commerce described in ‘
Jparagraph (1);
(d) The term ”State” means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or any other
territory or possession of the United States;
(e) The term ”research facility” means any school (except an elementary or secon-
dary school), institution, organization, or person that uses or intends to use live animals in
research, tests, or experiments, and that (1) purchases or transports live animals in com-
merce, or (2) receives funds under a grant, award, loan, or contract from a department,
agency, or instrumentality of the United States for the purpose of carrying out research,
tests, or experiments: ﬁtuiglgdLThat the Secretary may exempt, by regulation, any such a 1 33:2 ;
school, institution, organization, or person that does not use or intend to use live dogs or
cats, except those schools, institutions, organizations, or persons, which use substantial
numbers (as determined by the Secretary) of live animals the principal function of which
schools, institutions, organizations, or persons, is biomedical research or testing, when in
the judgment of the Secretary, any such exemption does not vitiate the purpose of the Act;
(f) The term ”dealer” means any person who, in commerce, for compensation or
profit, delivers for transportation, or transports, except as a carrier, buys, or sells, or nego-
tiates the purchase or sale of, (1) any dog or other animal whether alive or dead for
research, teaching, exhibition, or use as a pet, or (2) any dog for hunting, security, or
breeding purposes, except that this term does not include—
(i) a retail pet store except such store which sells any animals to a research
facility, an exhibitor, or a dealer; or
(ii) any person who does not sell, or negotiate the purchase or sale of any wild
animal, dog, or cat and who derives no more than $500 gross income from the sale of
other animals during any calendar year;
(g) The term "animal” means any live or dead dog, cat, monkey (nonhuman primate
mammal), guinea pig, hamster, rabbit, or such other warmblooded animal, as the Secre-
tary may determine is being used, or is intended for use, for research, testing, experimen-
tation, or exhibition purposes or as a pet; but such term excludes horses not used for
research purposes and other farm animals, such as, but not limited to livestock or poultry,
used or intended for use as food or fiber, or livestock or poultry used or intended for
improving animal nutrition, breeding, management or production efficiency, or for
improving the quality of food or fiber. With respect to a dog the term means all dogs
including those used for hunting, security, or breeding purposes;

 




 

 

 
 

(h) The term ”exhibitor" means any person (public or private) exhibiting any ani-
mals, which were purchased in commerce or the intended distribution of which affects
commerce, or will affect commerce, to the public for compensation, as determined by the
Secretary, and such term includes carnivals, Circuses, and zoos exhibiting such animals
whether operated for proﬁt or not; but such term excludes retail pet stores, organizations
sponsoring and all persons participating in State and county fairs, livestock shows, rodeos,
purebred dog and cat shows, and any other fairs or exhibitions intended to advance agri-
cultural arts and sciences, as may be determined by the Secretary;

(i) The term ”intermediate handler” means any person including a department,
agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government (other
than a dealer, research facility, exhibitor, any person excluded from the definition of a
dealer, research facility, or exhibitor, an operator of an auction sale, or a carrier) who is
engaged in any business in which he receives custody of animals in connection with their
transportation in commerce;

(j) The term ”carrier” means the operator of any airline, railroad, motor carrier, ship-
ping line, or other enterprise, which is engaged in the business of transporting any ani-
mals for hire;

(k) The term ”Federal agency” means an Executive agency as such term is defined in
section 105 of Title 5, United States Code, and with respect to any research facility means
the agency from which the research facility receives a Federal award for the conduct of
research, experimentation, or testing, involving the use of animals;

(1) The term ”Federal award for the conduct of research, experimentation, or testing,
involving the use of animals” means any mechanism (including a grant, award, loan, con-
tract, or cooperative agreement) under which Federal funds are provided to support the
conduct of such research;

(m) The term ”quorum” means a majority of the Committee members;

(n) The term ”Committee” means the Institutional Animal Committee established
under section 13 (b); and

(o) The term ”Federal research facility” means each department, agency, or instru-
mentality of the United States which uses live animals for research or experimentation.

(7USC 2132) (P L. 89-544 S/JgAug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat 350,- PL 91-579@3, Dec. 24, st ‘3
1970, 84 Stat 1560; PL. 94—279,,SS. 3, 4, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat 417, 418, PL. 99—wm " -

XVII,"SS 1,756(a) Dec 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650) (Jag? .‘a 34;) 4‘77

Section 3. The Secretary shall issue licenses to dealers and exhibitors upon applica-
tion therefor in such form and manner as he may prescribe and upon payment of such fee I
established pursuant to section 23 of this Act: Provided That no such license shall be 4;" i 2:}? 5,. Cf m
issued until the dealer or exhibitor shall have demonstrated that his facilities comply with ,
the standards promulgated by the Secretary pursuant to section 13 of this Act: Provided, .4 .1 3.: ‘
Whowever That any retail pet store or other person who derives less than a substantial“: 3,4 3:; 5:3." “'31;
portion of his income (as determined by the Secretary) from the breeding and raising of
dogs or cats on his own premises and sells any such dog or cat to a dealer or research facil-
ity shall not be required to obtain a license as a dealer or exhibitor under this Act. The Sec-
retary is further authorized to license, as dealers or exhibitors, persons who do not qualify
as dealers or exhibitors within the meaning of this Act upon such persons complying with
the requirements Specified above and agreeing, in writing, to comply with all the require-
ments of this Act and the regulations promulgated by the Secretary hereunder.

(7 U..SC. 2133) (P.L 89- 544 1:5 3, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; EL. 91-579, SS 4, Dec. 24, < é,
1979, 84 Stat. 1561) .4

Section 4. No dealer or exhibitor shall sell or offer to sell or transport or offer for
transportation, in commerce, to any research facility or for exhibition or for use as a pet
any animal, or buy, sell, offer to buy or sell, transport or offer for transportation, in com-
merce, to or from another dealer or exhibitor under this Act any animal, unless and until
such dealer or exhibitor shall have obtained a license from the Secretary and such license
Shall not have been suspended or revoked.

(7 U.S-.C. 2134) (PL. 89-544,@4 Aug. 24, 1966,80 Stat. 351,- P.L. 91-579@5, Dec. 24, ,5 85
1970, 84 Stat. 1561; PL. 94-279,, 5, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat 418) ......t‘ W" "M;

Section 5. No dealer or exhibitor shall sell or otherwise dispose of any dog or cat
within a period of 5 business days after the acquisition of such animal or within such other 3; 3,: 3f 3 3, 3:,
period as may be specified by the Secretary: Prov1ded That operators of auction sales“; v " ‘3" "9
subject to section 12 of this Act shall not be required to comply with the provisions of this
section.

,8".

(7 USC. 2135) (PL. 89-544,{:\S§)5, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351; RL. 91-579,;35‘_>.f.3g 6, Dec. 24, .17 .. 5;;
1970,84 Stat. 1561) “m“

Section 6. Every research facility, every intermediate handler, every carrier, and
every exhibitor not licensed under section 3 of this Act shall register with the Secretary in
accordance with such rules and regulations as he may prescribe.
(7 U...SC 2136) (PL. 89- 544, S516 Aug. 24, 1966,80 Stat 351, PL. 91-579,,3S§)7, Dec. 24, ,5” _ 3 f;

1970,84 Stat. 1561; PL 94-279, .‘8 _ 6,Apr1122, 1976,90 Stat. 418)

Section 7 It shall be unlawful for any research facility to purchase any dog or cat from
any person except an operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act or a per-
son holding a valid license as a dealer or exhibitor issued by the Secretary pursuant to this
Act unless such person is exempted from obtaining such license under section 3 of this
Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2137) (PL 89-5445 7, Aug. 24, 1966,80 Stat. 351; PL 91-579,§i$:)8, Dec. 24, 33:...
1970,84 Stat. 1561) .

Section 8. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States which uses
animals for research or experimentation or exhibition shall purchase or otherwise acquire

 

’/

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

."ﬁ
\/.

  




any dog or cat for such purposes from any person except an operator of an auction sale
subject to section 12 of this Act or a person holding a valid license as a dealer or exhibitor
issued by the Secretary pursuant to this Act unless such person is exempted from obtain-
ing such license under section 3 of this Act.

(7 U...SC 2138) (PL. 89- 544, SS 8, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 351, PL. 915795,,51911399 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562)

Section 9. When construing or enforcing the provisions of this Act, the act, omission,
or failure of any person acting for or employed by a research facility, a dealer, or an exhib-
itor or a person licensed as a dealer or an exhibitor pursuant to the second sentence of
section 3, or an operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, or an interme-
diate handler or a carrier, within the scope of his employment or office, shall be deemed
the act, omission, or failure of such research facility, dealer, exhibitor, licensee, operator of
an auction sale, intermediate handler, or carrier, as well as of such person.

(7U...SC 2139) (P..L 89- 544, SS9 Aug.24, 1966,80 Stat. 351; PL 91-579, SS 10 Dec. 24,
1970,84 Stat. 1562, PL 94- 279,; SS7 April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 10. Dealers and exhibitors shall make and retain for such reasonable period
of time as the Secretary may prescribe, such records with respect to the purchase, sale,
transportation, identification, and previous ownership of animals as the Secretary may
prescribe. Research facilities shall make and retain such records only with respect to the
purchase, sale, transportation, identiﬁcation, and previous ownership of live dogs and
cats. At the request of the Secretary, any regulatory agency of the Federal Government
which requires records to be maintained by intermediate handlers and carriers with
respect to the transportation, receiving, handling, and delivery of animals on forms pre-
scribed by the agency, shall require there to be included in such forms, and intermediate
handlers and carriers shall include in such forms, such information as the Secretary may
require for the effective administration of this Act. Such information shall be retained for
such reasonable period of time as the Secretary may prescribe. If regulatory agencies of
the Federal Government do not prescribe requirements for any such forms, intermediate
handlers and carriers shall make and retain for such reasonable period as the Secretary
may prescribe such records with respect to the transportation, receiving, handling, and
delivery of animals as the Secretary may prescribe. Such records shall be made available
at all reasonable times for inspection and copying by the Secretary.

1970,84 Stat 1562; PL 94- 279,. SS 8, April 22,1976, 90 Stat. 418)

Section 11. All animals delivered for transportation, transported, purchased, or sold,
in commerce, by a dealer or exhibitor shall be marked or identified at such time and in

cats need to be so marked or identified by a research “facility. '

(7U...SC 2141) (PL 89-544,\SS 11,mAug. 24,1966, 80 Stat. 351; PL. 91-579, SS 12, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1562; P..L 94- 279, SS 5, April 22, 1976,90 Stat. 418)

Section 12. The Secretary is authorized to promulgate humane standards and
recordkeeping requirements governing the purchase, handling, or sale of animals, in com-
merce, by dealers, research facilities, and exhibitors at auction sales and by the operators
of such auction sales. The Secretary is also authorized to require the licensing of operators
of auction sales where any dogs or cats are sold, in commerce, under such conditions as
he may prescribe, and upon payment of such fee as prescribed by the Secretary under sec-
tion 23 of this Act.

(7 USC. 2142) (PL. 89-544 SS )12, Aug. 24, 1966,80 Stat. 351; PL 91-579, SS 1,3 Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat 1562; PL 94- 279 SS 5, April 22, 1976,90 Stat. 418)

Section 13. (a) (1) The Secretary shall promulgate standards to govern the humane
handling, care, treatment and transportation of animals by dealers, research facilities, and
exhibitors.

(41(2) The standards described" in paragraph (1) shall include minimum requirements—£31)

:1 (A) for handling, housing, feeding, watering, sanitation, ventilation, shelter‘”
§from extremes of weather and temperatures, adequate veterinary care, and separation by {1.1%.
; species where the Secretary finds necessary for humane handling, care, or treatment of L
J animals, and
. [I (B) for exercise of dogs, as determined by an attending veterinarian in accord-
1ance with the general standards promulgated by the Secretary, and for a physical environ- «.-
ment adequate to promote the psychological well-being of primates. »
(3) In addition to the requirements under paragraph (2), the standards described in
paragraph (1) shall, with respect to animals in research facilities, include requirements—
(A) for animal care, treatment, and practices in experimental procedures to
ensure that animal pain and distress are minimized, including adequate veterinary care
with the appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, tranquilizing drugs, or euthanasia;
(B) that the principal investigator considers alternatives to any procedure
likely to produce pain to or distress in an experimental animal,
(C) in any practice which could cause pain to animals—
(i) that a doctor of veterinary medicine is consulted in the planning of
such procedures,
(ii) for the use of tranquilizers, analgesics, and anesthetics;
(iii) for presurgical and postsurgical care by laboratory workers, in
accordance with established veterinary medical and nursing procedures;
(iv) against the use of paralytics without anesthesia; and
(v) that the withholding of tranquilizers, anesthesia, analgesia, or
euthanasia when scientifically necessary shall continue for only the necessary period of
time;

«yup-

(D) that no animal is used in more than one major operative experiment from

 




which it is allowed to recover except in cases of—

(i) scientific necessity; or

(ii) other special circumstances as determined by the Secretary; and

(E) that exceptions to such standards may be made only when specified by
research protocol and that any such exception shall be detailed and explained in a report
outlined under paragraph (7) and filed with the Institutional Animal Committee.

(4) The Secretary shall also promulgate standards to govern the transportation in
commerce, and the handling, care, and treatment in connection therewith, by interme-
diate handlers, air carriers, or other carriers, of animals consigned by a dealer, research
facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or other person, or any department, agency,
or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government, for transporta-
tion in commerce. The Secretary shall have authority to promulgate such rules and regu—
lations as he determines necessary to assure humane treatment of animals in the course of
their transportation in commerce including requirements such as those with respect to
containers, feed, water, rest, ventilation, temperature, and handling.

(5) In promulgating and enforcing standards established pursuant to this section, the
Secretary is authorized and directed to consult experts, including outside consultants
where indicated.

.41...-”(6) (A) Nothing in this Act—

(i) except as provided in paragraph (7) of this subsection, shall be con-
strued as authorizing the Secretary to promulgate rules, regulations, or orders with regard
to the design, outlines, or guidelines of actual research or experimentation by a research
facility as determined by such facility;

(ii) except as provided in subparagraphs (A) and (C) (ii) through (v) of
paragraph (3) and paragraph (7) of this subsection, shall be construed as authorizing the
Secretary to promulgate rules, regulations, or orders with regard to the performance of
actual research or experimentation by a research facility as determined by such research
facility; and

(iii) shall authorize the Secretary, during inspection, to interrupt the
conduct of actual research or experimentation.

(B) No rule, regulation, order, or part of this Act shall be construed to require
a research facility to disclose publicly or to the Institutional Animal Committee during its
inspection, trade secrets or commercial or financial information which is privileged or
confidential.

(7) (A) The Secretary shall require each research facility to show upon inspec-
tion, and to report at least annually, that the provisions of this Act are being followed and
that professionally acceptable standards governing the care, treatment, and use of animals
are being followed by the research facility during actual research or experimentation.

(B) In complying with subparagraph (A), such research facilities shall pro-
vide—

(i) information on procedures likely to produce pain or distress in any
animal and assurances demonstrating that the principal investigator considered alterna-
tives to those procedures;

(ii) assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that such facility is adhering
to the standards described in this section; and

(iii) an explanation for any deviation from the standards promulgated
under this section.

(8) Paragraph (1) shall not prohibit any State (or a political subdivision of such State)
from promulgating standards in addition to those standards promulgated by the Secretary
under paragraph (1).

(b) (1) The Secretary shall require that each research facility establish at least one
Committee. Each Committee shall be appointed by the chief executive officer of each such
research facility and shall be composed of not fewer than three members. Such members
shall possess sufﬁcient ability to assess animal care, treatment, and practices in experimen-
tal research as determined by the needs of the research facility and shall represent soci-
ety’s concerns regarding the welfare of animal subjects used at such facility. Of the mem-
bers of the Committee-—

(A) at least one member shall be a doctor of veterinary medicine;

(B) at least one member—

(i) shall not be affiliated in any way with such facility other than as a
member of the Committee;

(ii) shall not be a member of the immediate family of a person who is
affiliated with such facility; and

(iii) is intended to provide representation for general community inter-
ests in the proper care and treatment of animals; and

(C) in those cases where the Committee consists of more than three members,
not more than three members shall be from the same administrative unit of such facility.

(2) A quorum shall be required for all formal actions of the Committee, including
inspections under paragraph (3).

(3) The Committee shall inspect at least semiannually all animal study areas and ani-
mal facilities of such research facility and review as part of the inspection—

(A) practices involving pain to animals, and

(B) the condition of animals, to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
Act to minimize pain and distress to animals. Exceptions to the requirement of inspection
of such study areas may be made by the Secretary if animals are studied in their natural
environment and the study area is prohibitive to easy access.

 




LAB.5: 10/18/89

(4) (A) The Committee shall file an inspection certification report of each inspection
at the research facility. Such report shall—

(i) be signed by a majority of the Committee members involved in the
inspection;

(ii) include reports of any violation of the standards promulgated, or
assurances required, by the Secretary, including any deficient conditions of animal care or
treatment, any deviation of research practices from originally approved proposals that
adversely affect animal welfare, any notification to the facility regarding such conditions,
and any corrections made thereafter;

(iii) include any minority views of the Committee; and

(iv) include any other information pertinent to the activities of the
Committee.

(B) Such report shall remain on file for at least 3 years at the research facility
and shall be available for inspection by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
and any funding Federal agency.

(C) In order to give the research facility an opportunity to correct any
deficiencies or deviations discovered by reason of paragraph (3), the Committee shall
notify the administrative representative of the research facility of any deficiencies or devi-
ations from the provisions of this Act. If, after notiﬁcation and an opportunity for correc-
tion, such deficiencies or deviations remain uncorrected, the Committee shall notify (in
writing) the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and the funding Federal agency
of such deficiencies or deviations.

(5) The inspection results shall be available to Department of Agriculture inspectors
for review during inspections. Department of Agriculture inspectors shall forward any
Committee inspection records which include reports of uncorrected deficiencies or devia-
tions to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and any funding Federal agency
of the project with respect to which such uncorrected deficiencies and deviations
occurred.

(c) In the case of Federal research facilities, a Federal Committee shall be established
and shall have the same composition and responsibilities provided in subsection (b) of
this section, except that the Federal Committee shall report deficiencies or deviations to
the head of the Federal agency conducting the research rather than to the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service. The head of the Federal agency conducting the research
shall be responsible for—

(1) all corrective action to be taken at the facility; and

(2) the granting of all exceptions to inspection protocol.

(d) Each research facility shall provide for the training of scientists, animal techni-
cians, and other personnel involved with animal care and treatment in such facility as
required by the Secretary. Such training shall include instruction on—

(1) the humane practice of animal maintenance and experimentation;

(2) research or testing methods that minimize or eliminate the use of animals
or limit animal pain or distress;

(3) utilization of the information service at the National Agricultural Library,
established under subsection (e) of this section; and

(4) methods whereby deficiencies in animal care and treatment should be
reported.

(e) The Secretary shall establish an information service at the National Agricultural
Library. Such service shall, in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine, provide
information—

(1) pertinent to employee training;

(2) which could prevent unintended duplication of animal experimentation as
determined by the needs of the research facility; and

(3) on improved methods of animal experimentation, including methods
which could—

(A) reduce or replace animal use; and

(B) minimize pain and distress to animals, such as anesthetic and anal-
gesic procedures.

(f)1 In any case in which a Federal agency funding a research project determines that
conditions of animal care, treatment, or practice in a particular project have not been in
compliance with standards promulgated under this Act, despite notification by the Secre-
tary or such Federal agenCy to the research facility and an opportunity for correction, such
agency shall suspend or revoke Federal support of the project. Any research facility losing
Federal support as a result of actions taken under the preceding sentence shall have the
right of appeal as provided in sections 701 through 706 of Title 5, United States Code.

(f)2 N 0 dogs or cats, or additional kinds or classes of animals designated by regulation
of the Secretary, shall be delivered by any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of
an auction sale, or department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any
State or local government, to any intermediate handler or carrier for transportation in
commerce, or received by any such handler or carrier for such transportation from any
such person, department, agency, or instrumentality, unless the animal is accompanied by
a certificate issued by a veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary medicine, certifying
that he inspected the animal on a specified date, which shall not be more than 10 days
before such delivery, and, when so inspected, the animal appeared free of any infectious
disease or physical abnormality which would endanger the animal or animals or other
animals or endanger public health: Provided, W That the Secretary may by regula-
tion provide exceptions to this certification requirement, under such conditions as he may
prescribe in the regulations, for animals shipped to research facilities for purposes of
research, testing or experimentation requiring animals not eligible for such certification.
Such certificates received by the intermediate handlers and the carriers shall be retained
by them, as provided by regulations of the Secretary, in accordance with section 10 of this

 




Act.

(g) N 0 dogs or cats, or additional kinds or classes of animals designated by regulation
of the Secretary, shall be delivered by any person to any intermediate handler or carrier
for transportation in commerce except to registered research facilities if they are less than
such age as the Secretary may by regulation prescribe. The Secretary shall designate addi-
tional kinds and classes of animals and may prescribe different ages for particular kinds or
classes of dogs, cats, or designated animals, for the purposes of this section, when he
determines that such action is necessary or adequate to assure their humane treatment in
connection with their transportation in commerce.

(h) No intermediate handler or carrier involved in the transportation of any animal in
commerce shall participate in any arrangement or engage in any practice under which the
cost of such animal or the cost of the transportation of such animal is to be paid and col-
lected upon delivery of the animal to the consignee, unless the consignor guarantees in
writing the payment of transportation charges for any animal not claimed within a period
of 48 hours after notice to the consignee of arrival of the animal, including, where neces-
sary, both the return transportation charges and an amount sufficient to reimburse the
carrier for all out-of?pocket expenses incurred for the care, feeding, and storage of such
animals. 4.. - 4. 7 . Ma - .... ,. 1-

(7 U.S.C. 2143) (PL. 89-544,/‘§,§13,Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579;§,S,T14, Dec. 24,

at».
“M‘Mw Swarm" I

1970, 84 State? 1562; PL. 941279....8229, 10, April 22, 19761.30 §ESE:_41§;-1.’-L- 99-198; Title

XVII, Ss1752,“i5‘é‘c:‘23;“1'9‘85“‘,“9"9 stat. 1645) ‘ ‘

Section 14. Any department, agency or instrumentality of the United States having
laboratory animal facilities shall comply with the standards and other requirements prom-
ulgated by the Secretary for a research facility under section 13 (a), (f), (g), and (h). Any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States exhibiting animals shall com-
ply with the standards promulgated by the Secretary under section 13 (a), (f), (g), and (h).

(7 U.S.C. 2144) (PL. 89-5442EQ14, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352,- PL. 91-579,..SS‘15, Dec. 24, ,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279,:SS19, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 423; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,
_SS".i.1758, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 15. (a) The Secretary shall consult and cooperate with other Federal depart-
ments, agencies, or instrumentalities concerned with the welfare of animals used for
research, experimentation or exhibition, or administration of statutes regulating the trans-
portation in commerce or handling in connection therewith of any animals when estab-
lishing standards pursuant to section 13 and in carrying out the purposes of this Act. The
Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services prior to issuance
of regulations. Before promulgating any standard governing the air transportation and
handling in connection therewith, of animals, the Secretary shall consult with the Secre-
tary of Transportation who shall have the authority to disapprove any such standard if he
notifies the Secretary, within 30 days after such consultation, that changes in its provisions
are necessary in the interest of ﬂight safety. The Interstate Commerce Commission, the

Secretary of Transportation, and the Federal Maritime Commission, to the extent of their
respective lawful authorities, shall take such action as is appropriate to implement any
standard established by the Secretary with respect to a person subject to regulation by it.

(b) The Secretary is authorized to cooperate with the officials of the various States or
political subdivisions thereof in carrying out the purposes of this Act and of any State,
local, or municipal legislation or ordinance on the same subject.

(7 U.S.C. 2145) (PL. 89-544;S_S?15, ,,,,, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579,:3g316, 09c. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-279, éS-‘ll, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 419; PL. 98-443,;gs? 9(1),
Oct. 4, 1984, 98 Stat. 1708; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,,:§§,”1757, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 16. (a) The Secretary shall make such investigations or inspections as he
deems necessary to determine whether any dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, car-
rier, research facility, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, has
violated or is violating any provision of this Act or any regulation or standard issued
thereunder, and for such purposes, the Secretary shall, at all reasonable times, have access
to the places of business and the facilities, animals, and those records required to be kept
pursuant to section 10 of any such dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, carrier,
research facility, or operator of an auction sale. The Secretary shall inspect each research
facility at least once each year and, in the case of deficiencies or deviations from the stand-
ards promulgated under this Act, shall conduct such follow-up inspections as may be nec-
essary until all deficiencies or deviations from such standards are corrected. The Secretary
shall promulgate such rules and regulations as he deems necessary to permit inspectors to
conﬁscate or destroy in a humane manner any animal found to be suffering as a result of a
failure to comply with any provision of this Act or any regulation or standard issued
thereunder if (1) such animal is held by a dealer, (2) such animal is held by an exhibitor,
(3) such animal is held by a research facility and is no longer required by such research
facility to carry out the research, test or experiment for which such animal has been util-
ized, (4) such animal is held by an operator of an auction sale, or (5) such animal is held
by an intermediate handler or a carrier.

(b) Any person who forcibly assaults, resists, opposes, impedes, intimidates, or inter-
feres with any person while engaged in or on account of the performance of his official
duties under this Act shall be ﬁned not more than $5,000, or imprisoned not more than 3
years, or both. Whoever, in the commission of such acts, uses a deadly or dangerous
weapon shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or
both. Whoever kills any person while engaged in or on account of the performance of his
official duties under this Act shall be punished as provided under sections 1111 and 1114
of Title 18, United States Code.

(c) For the efficient administration and enforcement of this Act, the provisions
(including penalties) of sections 6, 8, 9, and 10 of the Act entitled ”An Act to create a Fed-
eral Trade Commission, to define its powers and duties, and for other purposes," (15
U.S.C. 46, and 48-50; 38 Stat. 721-723, as amended) (except paragraph (c) through (h) of

 




section 6 and the last paragraph of section 9, and the provisions of Title II of the ”Organ- - ,
ized Crime Control Act of 1970”) (18 U.S.C. 6001 |§_t__s._e_q., 62 Stat. 856), are made applica- < Vii/f .3 .5.
ble to the jurisdiction, powers, and duties of the Secretary in administering and enforcing

the provisions of this Act and to any person, firm, or corporation with respect to whom

such authority is exercised. The Secretary may prosecute any inquiry necessary to his

duties under this Act in any part of the United States, including any territory, or posses-

sion thereof, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The powers

conferred by said sections 9 and 10 of the Act of September. 1914, as amended, on th§__ 2 Q
district courts of the United States may be exercised for the purposes of this Act by any 3

district court of the United States. The United States district courts, the District Court of

Guam, the District Court to the Virgin Islands, the highest court of American Samoa, and

the United States courts of the other territories, are vested with jurisdiction specifically to

enforce, and to prevent and restrain violations of this Act, and shall have jurisdiction in all

other kinds of cases arising under this Act, except as provided in section 19 (c) of this Act.

(7 U.S.C. 2146) (PL. 89-54412Q16 Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352,- PL. 91-579@17, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1563; PL. 94-2794.S.S ‘12, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 420; PL. 99-198, Title XVII,
(“85,0753 Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1649)

Section 17. The Secretary shall promulgate rules and regulations requiring dealers,
exhibitors, research facilities, and operators of auction sales subject to section 12 of this
Act to permit inspection of their animals and records at reasonable hours upon request by
legally constituted law enforcement agencies in search of lost animals.

(7 U.S.C. 2147) (PL. 89-544,@h7, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579,‘§§;;18, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1564)

Section 18. Repealed. Pub. L. 91-579. Similar provisions incorporated in section 13 by PL.
9167941558519! Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1564.

(7 U.S.C. 2148)

Section 19. (a) If the Secretary has reason to believe that any person licensed as a
dealer, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, has vio-
lated or is violating any provision of this Act, or any of the rules or regulations or stand-
ards promulgated by the Secretary hereunder, he may suspend such person’s license tem-
porarily, but not to exceed 21 days, and after notice and opportunity for hearing, may sus-
pend for such additional period as he may specify, or revoke such license, if such violation
is determined to have occurred.

(b) Any dealer, exhibitor, research facility, intermediate handler, carrier or operator
of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, that violates any provision of this Act, or
any rule, regulation, or standard promulgated by the Secretary thereunder, may be
assessed a civil penalty by the Secretary of not more than $2,500 for each such violation,
and the Secretary may also make an order that such person shall cease and desist from
continuing such violation. Each violation and each day during which a violation continues
shall be a separate offense. No penalty shall be assessed or cease and desist order issued
unless such person is given notice and opportunity for a hearing with respect to the
alleged violation, and the order of the Secretary assessing a penalty and making a cease
and desist order shall be ﬁnal and conclusive unless the affected person files an appeal
from the Secretary’s order with the appropriate United States Court of Appeals. The Sec-
retary shall give due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with respect to
the size of the business of the person involved, the gravity of the violation, the person's
good faith, and the history of previous violations. Any such civil penalty may be compro-
mised by the Secretary. Upon any failure to pay the penalty assessed by a final order
under this section, the Secretary shall request the Attorney General to institute a civil
action in a district court of the United States or other United States court for any district in
which such person is found or resides or transacts business, to collect the penalty, and
such court shall have jurisdiction to hear and decide any such action. Any person who
knowingly fails to obey a cease and desist order made by the Secretary under this section
Shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,500 for each offense, and each day during which
such failure continues shall be deemed a separate offense.

(c) Any dealer, exhibitor, research facility, intermediate handler, carrier, or operator
of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this Act, aggrieved by a ﬁnal order of the Secre-
tary issued pursuant to this section may, within 60 days after entry of such an order, seek
review of such order in the appropriate United States Court of Appeals in accordance
with the provisions of section 2341, 2343 through 2350 of Title 28, United States Code,
and such court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to enjoin, set aside, suspend (in whole or
in part), or to determine the validity of the Secretary’s order.

(d) Any dealer, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale subject to section 12 of this
Act, who knowingly violates any provision of this Act Shall, on conviction thereof, be sub-
ject to imprisonment for not more than 1 year, or a ﬁne of not more than $2,500, or both.
Prosecution of such violations shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be brought ini-
tially before United States magistrates as provided in section 636 of Title 28, United States
Code, and sections 3401 and 3402 of Title 18, United States Code, and, with the consent of
the Attorney General, may be conducted, at both trial and upon appeal to district court, by
attorneys of the United States Department of Agriculture.

(7 U.S.C. 2149) (PL. 89-544,;‘135219, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 352; PL. 91-579,.;;;S,S”f20, Dec. 24,
1970, 84 Stat. 1564; PL. 94-279,SS 13, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 420,- PL. 99-198, Title XVII, '-
.-§§r’1755, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1650)

Section 20. Repealed. Similar provisions incorporated in section 19 by PL. 94-27238; - 1’“ ,
14, April 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 421.

(7 U.S.C. 2150)

Section 21. The Secretary is authorized to promulgate such rules, regulations, and
orders as he may deem necessary in order to effectuate the purposes of this Act.

 




(7 U...SC 2151) (PL. 89-544, SS ‘21 Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353)

Section 22. If any provision of this Act or the application of any such provision to any
person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Act and the applica-
tion of any such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is
held invalid shall not be affected thereby.

(7 U.S.C. 2152) (FL. 8964443132; Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353)

Section 23. The Secretary shall charge, assess, and cause to be collected reasonable
fees for licenses issued. Such fees shall be adjusted on an equitable basis taking into con-
sideration the type and nature of the operations to be licensed and shall be deposited and
covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts. There are hereby authorized to be
appropriated such funds as Congress may from time to time provide: Provided, That
there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture for enforcement by
the Department of Agriculture of the provisions of section 26 of this Act an amount not to
exceed $100,000 for the transition quarter ending September 30, 1976, and not to exceed
$400,000 for each fiscal year thereafter.

(7 U.S.C. 2153) (PL. 39—544,:§;,§§:3‘23, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353,- PL. 94-279, SS '18, April
22, 1976, 90 Stat. 423) '

Section 24. The regulations referred to in section 10 and section 13 shall be pre-
scribed by the Secretary as soon as reasonable but not later than 6 months from the date of
enactment of this Act. Additions and amendments thereto may be prescribed from time to
time as may be necessary or advisable. Compliance by dealers with the provisions of this
Act and such regulations shall commence 90 days after the promulgation of such regula-
tions. Compliance by research facilities with the provisions of this Act and such regula-
tions shall commence 6 months after the promulgation of such regulations (August 24,
1966), except that the Secretary may grant extensions of time to research facilities which
do not comply with the standards prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to section 13 of
this Act provided that the Secretary determines that there is evidence that the research
facilities will meet such standards within a reasonable time. Notwithstanding the other
provisions of this section, compliance by intermediate handlers, and carriers, and other
persons with those provisions of this Act, as amended by the Animal Welfare Act Amend-
ments of 1976, and those regulations promulgated thereunder, which relate to actions of
intermediate handlers and carriers, shall commence 90 days after promulgation of regula-
tions under section 13 of this Act, as amended, with respect to intermediate handlers and
carriers, and such regulations shall be promulgated no later than 9 months after April 22,
1976; and compliance by dealers, exhibitors, operators of auction sales and research
facilities with other provisions of this Act, as so amended, and the regulations thereunder,
shall commence upon the expiration of 90 days after April 22, 1976: Provided, however,
That compliance by all persons with paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of section 13 and with
section 26 of this Act, as so amended, shall commence upon the expiration of said 90- day
period. In all other respects, said amendments shall become effective upon April 22, 1976.

(7 USC. 2154) (PL. 89-5441? 24, Aug. 24, 1966, 80 Stat. 353; PL. 94-279,...35T15r April
22, 1976, 90 Stat. 421)

Section 25. Not later than March of each year the Secretary shall submit to the Presi-
dent of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives a comprehensive and
detailed written report with respect to—

(1) the identiﬁcation of all research facilities, exhibitors, and other persons and estab-
lishments licensed by the Secretary under section 3 and section 12 of this Act;

(2) the nature and place of all investigations and inspections conducted by the Secre-
tary under section 16 of this Act, and all reports received by the Secretary under section
13 of this Act;

(3) recommendations for legislation to improve the administration of this Act or any
provision thereof; and

(4) recommendations and conclusions concerning the aircraft environment as it
relates to the carriage of live animals in air transportation.

This report as well as any supporting documents, data, or findings shall not be released to
any other persons, non- Federal agencies, or o_ganizations u
made public by an appropriate committee of the Senate or the House of Representahves

(7 U...SC 2155) (PL 89- 544, SS’ 25, as added by PL 91-579. SS 22, Dec. 24,1970, 84 Stat.
1565, PL. 94-279, SS 16, April 22,1976, 90 Stat. 421)

 




LAB.6: 10/18/89

Section 26. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sponsor or exhibit an
animal in any animal ﬁghting venture to which any animal was moved in interstate or for-
eign commerce.

(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sell, buy, transport, or deliver to
another person or receive from another person for purposes of transportation, in inter-
state or foreign commerce, any dog or other animal for purposes of having the dog or
other animal participate in an animal fighting venture.

(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly use the mail service of the United
States Postal Service or any interstate instrumentality for purposes of promoting or in any
other manner furthering an animal fighting venture except as performed outside the lim-
its of the States of the United States.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the
activities prohibited by such subsections shall be unlawful with respect to ﬁghting ven-
tures involving live birds only if the ﬁght is to take place in a State where it would be in
violation of the laws thereof.

(e) Any person who violates subsection (a), (b), or (c) shall be fined not more than
$5,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both, for each such violation.

(f) The Secretary or any other person authorized by him shall make such investiga-
tions as the Secretary deems necessary to determine whether any person has violated or is
violating any provision of this section, and the Secretary may obtain the assistance of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of the Treasury, or other law
enforcement agencies of the United States, and State and local governmental agencies, in
the conduct of such investigations, under cooperative agreements with such agencies. A
warrant to search for and seize any animal which there is probable cause to believe was
involved in any violation of this section may be issued by any judge of the United States
or of a State court of record or by a United States magistrate within the district wherein
the animal sought is located. Any United States marshal or any person authorized under
this section to conduct investigations may apply for and execute any such warrant, and
any animal seized under such a warrant shall be held by the United States marshal or
other authorized person pending disposition thereof by the court in accordance with this
subsection. Necessary care including veterinary treatment shall be provided while the ani-
mals are so held in custody. Any animal involved in any violation of this section shall be
liable to be proceeded against and forfeited to the United States at any time on complaint
ﬁled in any United States district court or other court of the United States for any jurisdic-
tion in which the animal is found and upon a judgment of forfeiture shall be disposed of
by sale for lawful purposes or by other humane means, as the court may direct. Costs
incurred by the United States for care of animals seized and forfeited under this section
shall be recoverable from the owner of the animals if he appears in such forfeiture
proceeding or in a separate civil action brought in the jurisdiction in which the owner is
found, resides, or transacts business.

(g) for purposes of this section—

(1) the term ”animal fighting venture" means any event which involves a ﬁght
between at least two animals and is conducted for purposes of sport, wagering, or enter-
tainment except that the term ”animal fighting venture” shall not be deemed to include
any activity the primary purpose of which involves the use of one or more animals in
hunting another animal or animals, such as waterfowl, bird, raccoon, or fox hunting;

(2) the term “interstate or foreign commerce” means——

(A) any movement between any place in a State to any place in another
State or between places in the same State through another State; or

(B) the term “interstate instrumentality” means telegraph, telephone,
radio, or television operating in interstate or foreign commerce;

(4) the term ”State” means any State of the United States, the District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the
United States;

(5) the term ”animal" means any live bird, or any live dog or other
mammal, except man; and

(6) the conduct by any person of any activity prohibited by this section
shall not render such person subject to the other sections of this Act as a dealer, exhibitor,
or otherwise.

(h) (1) The provisions of this section shall not supersede or otherwise invalidate any
such State, local, or municipal legislation or ordinance relating to animal ﬁghting ventures
except in case of a direct and irreconcilable conﬂict between any requirements thereunder ﬂ
and this section or any rule, regulation, or standard hereunder.” . ~

(7 U.S.C. 2156) (PL. 89-544,;SS26 (a)-(h) (1), as added by PL94-279,SS 17,Apr1122,
1976, 90‘ tat 4213 333W" . 1 7W 4 ~ _. .. “
Section 27. (Ej‘ifghan‘bé unlawful for any member of an Institutional Animal Coffi-
mittee to release any confidential information of the research facility including any infor-
mation that concerns or relates to—
(1) the trade secrets, processes, operations, style of work, or apparatus; or . J
(2) the identity, conﬁdential statistical data, amount or source of any income, ' " _,
proﬁts, losses, or expenditures, of the research facility.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any member ofsuch Committee— SNOte: P.L _ 9 4_279 also amended 39
(1) to use or attempt to use to his advantages; or U S C 30 O l (N .
(2) to reveal to any other person, any information which is entitled to protec- ° ‘ ' . d) on ma te r l a 1 th 3 t may
tion as confidential information under subsection (a) of this section. not be mal led .
(c) A violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section is punishable by—
(1) removal from such Committee; and
(2) (A) a ﬁne of not more than $1,000 and imprisonment of not more than 1
year; or IV

(B) if such violation is willful, a ﬁne of not more than $10,000 and imprison-

 

 




ment of not more than 3 years.

(d) Any person, including any research facility, injured in its business or property by
reason of a violation of this section may recover all actual and consequential damages sus-
tained by such person and the cost of the suit including a reasonable attorney's fee.

(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any other rights of a person
injured in its business or property by reason of a violation of this section. Subsection (d)
shall not be construed to limit the exercise of any such rights arising out of or relating to a
violation of subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

(7 USC. 2157) (PL. 89-544,j_'§:§ 27, as added by PL. 99-193, Title xv11,;s"§‘ 1754, Dec.
23, 1985,99 Stat. 1649) '

 

1. PL 99-198 Title XVII, S 1752, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1645, made sign cant amend-
ments to§313 of the Act and inadvertently duplicated paragraph (f) of SS 3 The new
paragrap (f) m the 1985 amendments has beezn designated as (f) an the old para-

graph (f) has been designated as paragraph (f)2 for clarity.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

PL. 89-544:
H. Rept. 89-1418, House Committee on Agriculture
S. Rept. 89-1281, Senate Committee on Commerce
Passed House Apr. 28, 1966
Passed Senate June 22, 1966
H. Rept. 89-1848, Conference Committee
House agreed to conference report Aug. 16, 1966
Senate agreed to conference report Aug. 17, 1966
Approved Aug. 24, 1966

PL. 91-579
H. Rept. 91-1651, House Committee on Agriculture
Passed House Dec. 7, 1970
Passed Senate Dec. 8, 1970
Approved Dec. 24, 1970

PL. 94-279:
H. Rept. 94-801, House Committee on Agriculture
S. Rept. 94-580, Senate Committee on Commerce
H. Rept. 94-976, Conference Committee
S. Rept. 94-727, Conference Committee
Passed Senate Dec. 18, 1975
Passed House Feb. 9, 1976
House agreed to conference report Apr. 6, 1976
Senate agreed to conference report Apr. 7, 1976
Approved Apr. 22, 1976

PL. 99-198:

H. Rept. 99-271, Part 1, Committee on Agriculture

S. Rept. 99-145, Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry

Passed House Oct. 8, 1985

Passed Senate Nov. 23, 1985

H. Rept. 99-447 Conference Committee

House and Senate agreed to conference report Dec. 18,
1985

Approved Dec. 23, 1985

 




LAB.7: 10/18/89

EXCERPTS FROM
THE HEALTH RESEARCH EXTENSION ACT OF 1985
PUBLIC LAW 99-158, NOVEMBER 20, 1985

ANIMALS IN RESEARCH

Sec. 495 (a) The Secretary, acting through the Director of NIH, shall establish guide-
lines for the following:

(1) The proper care of animals to be used in biomedical and behavioral
research.

(2) The proper treatment of animals while being used in such research. Guide-
lines under this paragraph shall require—

(A) the appropriate use of tranquilizers, analgesics, anesthetics, paralyt-
ics, and euthanasia for animals in such research; and

(B) appropriate pre-surgical and post-surgical veterinary medical and
nursing care for animals in such research. Such guidelines shall not be con-
strued to prescribe methods of research.

(3) The organization and operation of animal care committees in accordance
with subsection (b).

(b) (1) Guidelines of the Secretary under subsection (a) (3) shall require animal care
committees at each entity which conducts biomedical and behavioral research with funds
provided under this Act (including the National Institutes of Health and the national
research institutes) to assure compliance with the guidelines established under subsection

(a)-

(2) Each animal care committee shall be appointed by the chief executive offi-
cer of the entity for which the committee is established, shall be composed of not
fewer than three members, and shall include at least one individual who has no asso-
ciation with such entity and at least one doctor of veterinary medicine.

(3) Each animal care committee of a research entity shall—

(A) review the care and treatment of animals in all animal study areas
and facilities of the research entity at least semi-annually to evaluate compli-
ance with applicable guidelines established under subsection (a) for appropri-
ate animal care and treatment;

(B) keep appropriate records of reviews conducted under subpar-
agraph (A); and

(C) for each review conducted under subparagraph (A), file with the
Director of NIH at least annually (i) a certification that the review has been
conducted, and (ii) reports of any violations of guidelines established under
subsection (a) or assurances required under paragraph (1) which were
observed in such review and which have continued after notice by the com-
mittee to the research entity involved of the violations.

Reports filed under subparagraph (C) shall include any minority views filed by members
of the committee.

(c) The Director of NIH shall require each applicant for a grant, contract, or coopera-
tive agreement involving research on animals which is administered by the National Insti-
tutes of Health or any national research institute to include in its application or contract
proposal, submitted after the expiration of the twelve-month period beginning on the date
of enactment of this section-—

(1) assurances satisfactory to the Director of NIH that-—

(A) the applicant meets the requirements of the guidelines established
under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) and has an animal care commit-
tee which meets the requirements of subsection (b); and

(B) scientists, animal technicians, and other personnel involved with
animal care, treatment, and use by the applicant have available to them
instruction or training in the humane practice of animal maintenance and
experimentation, and the concept, availability, and use of research or testing
methods that limit the use of animals or limit animal distress; and

(2) a statement of the reasons for the use of animals in the research to be con-
ducted with funds provided under such grant or contract.

Notwithstanding subsection (a) (2) of section 553 of title 5, United States Code, regula-
tions under this subsection shall be promulgated in accordance with the notice and com-

ment requirements of such section.
(d) If the Director of NIH determines that—

(1) the conditions of animal care, treatment, or use in an entity which is receiv-
ing a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement involving research on animals under
this title do not meet applicable guidelines established under subsection (a);

(2) the entity has been notified by the Director of NIH of such determination

 




nr ' «I

and has been given a reasonable opportunity to take corrective action; and

(3) no action has been taken by the entity to correct such conditions the
Director of NIH shall suspend or revoke such grant or contract under such conditions
as the Director determines appropriate.

(e) No guideline or regulation promulgated under subsection (a) or (c) may require a
research entity to disclose publicly trade secrets or commercial or financial information
which is privileged or confidential.

SEC. 4 PLAN FOR RESEARCH INVOLVING ANIMALS

(a) Establishment of Plan—The Director of the National Institutes of Health shall
establish a plan for—

(1) research to be conducted by or through the National Institutes of Health
and the national research institutes into methods of biomedical research and experi-
mentation—

(A) which do not require the use of animals;
(B) which reduce the number of animals used in such research; or

(C) which produce less pain and distress in such animals than methods
currently in use.

(2) establishing the validity and reliability of the methods described in
subparagraph (A);

(3) the development of such methods which have been found to be valid and
reliable; and

(4) the training of scientists in the use of such methods.

The plan required by this paragraph shall be prepared not later than October 1, 1986.

(b) Dissemination of Information—The Director of the National Institutes of Health
shall take such actions as may be appropriate to convey to scientists and others involved
with research or experimentation involving animals information respecting the methods
found to be valid and reliable under subsection (a) (2).

(c) Interagency Coordinating Committee—The Director of the National Institutes of
Health shall establish within the National Institutes of Health an Interagency Coordinat-
ing Committee to assist the Director of the National Institutes of Health in the develop-
ment of the plan required by subsection (a). The Director of each national research insti-
tute shall serve on the Committee.

 

1. Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, France, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United
Kingdom.

. The full text of the 1966 Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, including its 1970, 1976, and
1985 amendments appears at the end of this chapter.

. The Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act of 1986 continues and in several provisions
increases the protection provided by the 1876 Act. See Appendix for the full text.

. Arizona and Alaska passed anti-cruelty laws in 1913.

. Mr. Morse, who fought the reform efforts of the founders of the Humane Society of the
United States as chief executive of the American Humane Association, became
president of the Humane Society of the United States from 1967-1970.

. The New York State Society for Medical Research also sponsored the bills introduced
by Senator Iavits in the 89th and 90th Congresses (see chart pages ).

. The American Humane Association was also absent when hearings were called by
Congressman Poage on the Resnick bill, September 2, 1965. At subsequent hearings,
AHA representatives testified against inclusion of laboratories in the bill, reﬂecting the
unbridled pressure of the biomedical establishment on the big humane societies at that

eriod.

. IFjor example, Nobel laureate, Sir Peter Medawar, was Chairman of UFAW’s Scientific
Advisory Committee. He repeatedly sent statements on the value of the British Act for
quotation at Congressional hearings.

9. The statements by Sir Graham Wilson and Dr. Lawrence Abel were published by AWI
in Information Report Vol 15, No. 4, September-October 1966. ;

10. \Siecretary of Health and Human SerVices, 1982-1985:)“ J. {at ”2 ‘ f, x W?

*1;

. r.'

 




Iowa—A law was passed during the
1983 session which now allows for the
suspension or revocation of a license or

registration certiﬁcate of an animal shel-
ter, pound, dealer, kennel, or auction for
any injurious or cruel acts to animals.

 




Massachusetts enacted a law granting the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals (MSPCA) and the
Animal Rescue League of Boston authori-
ty to inspect all animal dealers licensed by

the USDA. This complements their previ-
ously enacted law allowing inspection of
research facilities. A second measure pro-
hibits anyone other than a veterinarian
from euthanizing an animal with T-6l.

 




Newsletter

SCIENTISTS CENTER FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

Government
Regulations for Animals
Used in Research

 

There is one law (the Animal Welfare Act of 1966,
as amended in 1970, 1976, and 1985) plus regula-
tions developed by one federal agency (namely the
National Institutes of Health (NIH), a part of the De-
partment of Health and Human Services, that cover
most of the animals used for research and testing in
the United States. Special circumstance testing
rules also have been developed by the US. Environ-
mental Protection Agency and the Food and Drug
Administration.

Although NIH regulations were designed to
compel uniform standards of laboratory animal care
and use in research funded by NIH, their regulations
have been widely accepted by other federal agencies
and other institutions and, by this common accep-
tance, have become standards for animal care and
research and non-research institutions (independent
of whether they receive NIH funding). The NIH
reporting procedure requires copies of inspection
documentation required in the Animal Welfare Act.
Additional regulations for use of farm animals in
research are in the development stage.

—
Inside This Issue

Government Regulations for
Animals Used in Research
Inside SCAW

Chasing Bird Predators Away
From Food Grain

Upcoming Meetings
Legislation and Litigation

Implementing Animal Welfare in the
Pharmaceutical Industry

Economic Importance of Replacing Lab
Animals in Testing Protocols

How Laboratory Animal Veterinarians
View Themselves

 

BETHESDA, MD FALL 10 (3)

Scientists are acutely aware that the conditions
under which their research animals are housed and
cared for directly impact upon the quality of their
research. For example, an air supply which contains
too much carbon dioxide, or which contains trace air
pollutants, turns on (increases the activity) of sev-
eral enzymes and reduces the activity of others.
These animals would react much the same way that
people do during air pollution alert days. Scientists
depend upon the repeatability of their results in their
own and other laboratories, stable baselines for
these (and other) enzymes, hormones and other
parameters, and so have appreciated the develop-
ment of guidelines which might help assure the
quality of their animal research tools.

In turn, regulatory standards have helped admin-
istrators (frequently non-life scientists) understand
and approve requests by animal researchers to reset
to high priority, acquisition of new or refurbished
animal facilities that meet current standards. In-
dependent verification of the quality of an animal
facility (and therefore a detailed list of changes nec-
essary to achieve an especially good level of animal
care facilities), that also help convince administrators
to allocate ﬁscal resources, is acquired when institu-
tions seek to have their animal care facilities accred-
ited. Certification is granted only after trained in-
spectors from the American Association for Ac—
creditation for Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC)
inspect and certify that all of the institution’s animal
quarters have not only attained a high quality for
their physical facilities but have also employed ani-
mal caretakers who have taken approved animal
care courses and received personal certification. In-
stitutions that do not maintain high quality animal
facilities and animal care, lose accreditation.

All research using vertebrate animals must com—

1 with the US. Government Principles on Uti-
Iizaton and Care of Vertebrate Animals. The
principles are broadly stated and are left. to the
various funding agencies to generate spec1ﬁc 1n-
formation on how the principles are converted into
actions. For NIH grantees, and all of the other
research and non-research institutions which adhere
to the NIH standards, the information is contained in
two booklets (which are updated periodically). These
booklets are:

Continued on page 4

 

 




 

ngrg gf Trustees

Sherman Bloom, MD, President
Chairman, Department of Pathology
University of Mississippi Medical Center
Jackson, Mississippi

Richard J. Traystman, PhD, Vice
President

Professor and Director of
Anesthes. & Critical Care Medicine
Research Laboratories

The Johns Hopkins Hospital
Baltimore, Maryland

Andrew N. Rowan, PhD, Secretary
Assistant Dean, New Programs
School of Veterinary Medicine

Tufts University

Boston, Massachusetts

W. Jean Dodds, DVM, Past-President
Santa Monica, California

J. Fredrick Cornhlll, DPhil

Director and Chair, Biomedical Engi-
neering Center

Professor of Surgery

The Ohio State University
Columbus, Ohio

George A. Kanotl, STD
Chairman, Department of Bioethics
Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Columbus, Ohio

Joy A. Mench, DPhil
Assistant Professor
Department of Poultry Science
University of Maryland

College Park, Maryland

Richard A. Murphy, PhD
Professor, Department of Physiology
University of Virginia

Charlottesville, Virginia

Harry C. Rowsell, DVM, PhD
Executive Director

Canadian Council on Animal Care
Ottawa, Ontario

Robert R. Smeby

Adjunct Professor

Department of Biology
Cleveland State University, and
Staff, Research Division
Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Cleveland, Ohio

Richard C. Simmonds, DVM, MS,
Treasurer

Director, Laboratory Animal Medicine
School of Medicine

University of Nevada

Reno, Nevada

 

Inside SCAW. . .

By Gerald Schneider
Executive Director

Allis in order at SCAW!

SCAW has applied for affiliation with the

American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).
(Letters to support afﬁliation should be sent to Dr. Alvin W. Trivelpiece,
Executive Officer, AAAS, 1333 H Street, N.W., Washington, DC.
20005). A newly-written membership brochure is in the works. The
Board of Trustees will meet again on November 11. And, staff poli-
cies relating to holiday, vacation, health, disability, and annuity plans

have been ﬁnalized and adopted.

Helene Guttman
New Editor

Dr. Helene N. Guttman joins SCAW
as Newsletter Editor with this issue. She
brings to the Newsletter her knowledge

and skill as a scientist as well as a writer. '

Dr. Guttman has a Ph.D. in Mi-
crobiology from Rutgers, an AM. in
Medical Sciences from Harvard, an MA.
in Botany from Columbia, and a BA. in
Biology from Brooklyn College. She
also is a graduate of the Intensive Bioeth-
ics Course, Georgetown University.
While pursuing graduate studies, Dr.
Guttman held several positions at Haskins
Laboratories, a private research institu-
tion in New York City. She started as a
volunteer and, 12 years later ended as a
Member, Senior Research Staff.

Dr. Guttman’s work at Haskins was
especially pertinent to SCAW: she de-
veloped cellular models to replace ani-
mals in preclinical biomedical tests and
research. In fact, the title of two papers
published by her at that time began with
“Protozoa as Pharmacological Tools...”.

Dr. Guttman left Haskins to begin an
academic career that included research,
teaching, and administration. Her final
academic positions were at the Univer-
sity of Illinois in Chicago where she was
Professor of Biological Sciences, Profes-
sor of Microbiology, Associate Director
for Research in the Urban Systems Labo-
ratory, and a member of the Executive
Committee of the Graduate College.
During her active research career, Dr.
Guttman authored about 75 research
papers and book chapters on a variety of
topics on microorganisms, cells in cul-

 

ture, plants and animals.

Following her academic career, Dr.
Guttman moved to the Washington, DC.
metropolitan area where she began her
current career phase in the federal gov-
ernment. Prior to her current full-time
position as Associate Director of the
Beltsville Human Nutrition Research
Center, Agricultural Research Service of
the US. Department of Agriculture, Dr.
Guttman served as Research Resources
Coordinator in the Office of the Director,
the National Heart, Lung and Blood In-
stitute of the National Institutes of Health
(NIH), and also Deputy Director of the
Science Advisory Board of the US.
Environmental Protection Agency.

Dr. Guttman is also a fellow of sev-
eral scientific societies, and has served
on editorial boards and as an officer of
other societies. Among her current soci-
ety responsibilities is service as Co-Chair
of the Education and Training Commit-
tee of the National Capital Area Branch
of the Tissue Culture Association. N oth-
ing but the best for SCAW!

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Harry Rowsell
Receives Order of
Canada Award

SCAW Board of Trustees member,
Harry C. Rowsell, Ph.D., DVM also
founder and Executive Director of the

 

Canadian Council on Animal Care, will
receive Canada’s highest honor—the
Order of Canada—for his contribution to
the welfare of experimental animals. His
appointment as Ofﬁcer of the Order indi-
catestheintemationalscopeofhis achieve-
ments, according to Canada’s Chancel-
lery of Orders and Decorations. The
investitute of the appointees will be made
by Governor General Jeanne Sauve at
Rideau Hall, Ottawa, November 8.

The order was established as the
“centrepiece of Canada’s system of
honours,” and the latin motto on its medal
translates “They desire a better country.”
The Chancellery described Dr. Rowsell’ s
accomplishments as follows:

“Veterinarian, pathologist, animal wel-
fare advocate and humanist, he is recog-
nized and respected throughout the world
for his outstanding contributions to the
promotion of the responsible and humane
treatment of animals in biomedical and
scientific research. Through hisforesight
and dynamic leadership as founder and
current Executive Director of the Cana-
dian Council on Animal Care, and effec-
tive system of animal care has been de-
veloped and implemented in Canadian
universities and research laboratories."

Fred Cornhill
Promoted

SCAWBoard of Trustees member,J .
Fredrick Cornhill, D.Phil., was promoted
to Professor of Surgery at The Ohio State
University in Columbus. He is Acting
Director of Laboratory Animal Re-
sources for the University.

 

 

 

 

SCAW Conference
Proceedings:

Science and Animals:
Addressing
Contemporary Issues

Proceedings from the June 1988 Wash-
ington, D.C. Conference sponsored by
SCAW will be published in December.
Costs for publication will be partially
supported by a grant from the National
Agricultural Library, and contributions
from other donors.

Presentations and discussions dur-
ing the four-day conference provide use-
ful and timely information on current
issues of laboratory animal well-being.
This publication will help research sci-
entists, administrators and others to un-
derstand these issues, and to comply with
national policies on laboratory animal
welfare.

 

 

bibliography.

 

NAL Project Concluding

SCAW is finalizing its project of providing the Na-
tional Agricultural Library (NAL) with an annotated bib-
liography of about 209 citations in 12 categories of key
literature on laboratory animal well-being relative tothe
Animal Welfare Act and surrounding issues. This
includes providing NAL with copies of everything cited.
(SCAW will also obtain copies for its own library at the
same time.) In addition, SCAW will print 5,000 copies
of the bibliography, 3,000 of which will go to .NAL, and
the remaining 2,000 copies to all facnlmes registered by
the USDA. under the Animal Welfare Act (some
1 ,1 00 institutions), and others likelyto want and usethe

Overseeing the project as Principal Investigators
are SCAW Board of Trustees members, Drs. Sherman
Bloom, Harry Rowsell, and Richard Simmonds. Domg
time on the an notatio nsthemselves IS William T. Carlson
ongriculturaI and Environmental I nformatlon Retrieval

and Indexing Services (AE-IRIS).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

—

Government Regulations
C onthuedfrpm page I

o The NIH Guide for the Care
and Use of Laboratory Animals. De-
tailed standards for living conditions and
use of vertebrate animals in biomedical
research (widely accepted, voluntarily,
by other researchers and testing laborato-
ries which use animals.)

0 The Public Health Service Pol-
icy on Humane Care and Use of Labo-
ratory Animals. (Note that NIH is part
of the Public Health Service. Means of
assuring compliance with the Guide are
spelled out. During the last year, require-
ments have tightened from annual re-
ports to semi-annual reports.)

Copies of the two booklets may be
obtained from:

The Office of Protection from

Research Risks National Institutes

of Health

Building 31, Room 4809

Bethesda, MD 20892

The Instituional Obligations of Re-
search Animal Users include establish-
ment of an Institutional Animal Care
and Use Committee (IACUC) com-
prised of a minimum of five persons.
One member must be a veterinarian who
is Board Certified in Laboratory Animal
Medicine, and one member must be a
community (lay) member not affiliated
with the institution. Frequently, IACUCs
also include an ethicist or member of the
clergy. Research grant proposals to be
submitted to NIH must first be reviewed
and approved by the IACUC. Even if
research proposals are NOT destined to
be considered for NIH funding, it is
common practice for IACUCs to approve
before any animal work is allowed. For
example, the Agricultural Research Serv-
ice (ARS),the intramural research agency
of the US. Department of Agriculture,
requires IACU C approval before any new
research project can begin.

Review by IACUC includes deter-
mination of whether other non-animal,
methods could better serve the research
or testing purpose. If use of animals is
justified, the committee determines
whether the investigator proposes to use
the appropriate species and number of
animals. Another article in a forth-
coming SCAW Newsletter will sum-
marize an IACUC investigator train-

 

Chasing Bird Predators Away
From Food Grain

That the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) adminis-
ters and enforces the Animal Welfare Act and amendments is well known to
animal welfare groups and organizations engaged in animal research.
Fewer groups and individuals know that APHIS also employs research
scientists.

At its wildlife research field station in Gainesville, Florida, biologists are
working on the development of nontoxic, environmentally safe ways to pro-
tect human food plants from invading birds. One large problem is invasions
of blackbirds that can decimate grain fields before the seeds even get a
chance to sprout. Although the current research has not led to a final
solution, it is useful for our readers to be aware of the many steps required
to accomplish this goal and the present status of one such research effort.

A strategy for sending blackbirds away from newly-seeded rice to other
seeds (which, of course, they eat in the wild when a farm isn’t handy), is to
coat seeds with a non-toxic mixture which turns gooey in wet rice paddies
and makes the seeds unpalatable to the birds. The first try, a coating
composed of clay, starches, and gelatin, was a good blackbird discourage-
mentwhen field tested in a rice paddy in Gainesville, but failed to discourage
birds from eating the rice planted near Ville Platte, Louisiana. The re-
searchers think that the difference in water acidity of the Louisiana rice
paddy caused the coating to detach from the rice seeds. Further research
is needed to create seed coating goos that adhere to seeds under diverse

 

 

field conditions.

 

 

 

ing workshop on determination of
appropriate number of animals. Pro-
cedures which cause pain and means of
alleviating pain, as well as special justi-
fication for withholding pain-relieving
medication, receive special attention from
IACUCs. Research on pain itself is re-
viewed very carefully.

All institutional animal facilities are
inspected by IACUCs. Most institutions
includeboth announced and unannounced
inspections and delegate to their inspec-
tion teams authority to immediately close
an animal room with serious environ-
mental problems and to relocate the ani-
mals.

Current NIH policy is to require two
reports per year from all grantees. Some
other institutions and agencies have vol-
untarily registered with NIH and report
in the same time frame, even though they
are not compelled to do so. All research
institutions, including NIH grantees, are
covered under the Animal Welfare Act
that requires them to register with APHIS/
US DA. (Also see other article this News;
letter that lists types of institutions cov-
ered under the Act).

APHIS/USDA conducts unan-
nounced site visits to all registered re-
search facilities at least once annually.
The Act covers primates, dogs, cats, rab-
bits, guinea pigs, and hamsters,regardless
of the funding source, type of research, or
research facility. Follow-up inspections
are required if deficiencies are found.
Violations can lead to loss of federal
funding (where appropriate), and/or fines
of up to $2,500 per day for noncompli-
ance, plus an additional $1,500 per day
for failure to obey a cease and desist
order.

Current NIH guidelines require
semi-annual reports that must contain
copies of documentation of compliance
with the Animal Welfare Act, c0pies of
the IACUC facilities inspection reports
(including evidence of correction of any
problems), progress towards attaining
AALAC accreditation, and training
workshops for IACUC members, animal
carepersonnel or investigators. Thereport
must be signed by the official responsible
for the entire institution’s operation.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Upcoming Meetings

Society for Neuroscience

Two workshops pertinent to
SCAW readers will be held No-
vember 13 and November 14,
1988 in Toronto, Canada (see
News from Societies article for
details).

Three Public Health Service
Policy Workshops

Public Health Service Policy Work-

shops on the Humane Care and
Use of Laboratory Animals will be
presented by the National Insti-
tutes of Health, Office for Protec-
tion from Research Risks.

The Public Health Service
(PHS) policy on Humane Care
and Use of Laboratory Animals
has clearly defined the oversight
responsibilities of awarded insti-
tutions and their Institutional Ani-
mal Care and Use Committees
(lACUC). The mechanism by
which an lACUC exercises this
responsibility and implements the
PHS policy is left to the institu-
tions discretion and to a large

 

extent must be tailored to fit the
programs and personnel at each
Institution. These workshops will
prowde those interested in or re-
sponSible for the humane use of
animals in biomedical research
_and an opportunity to share their
ideas and experiences with like-
minded individuals.
_ _The programs aredesigned for
institutional administrators, animal
care committee members, labo—
ratory animal veterinarians, inves-
tigators, and others involved in
managing animal research pro-
gmms

The workshops are given peri-
odically in different parts of the
country and cosponsored by NIH
land the host institutions listed be-
ow:

1. Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity on December 1 and 2,1988.

For information contact: The
Office of Continuing Education,
Johns Hopkins University 720
Rutland Avenue, Baltimore, MD
21205, Telephone (301)955-
2959.

2. The University of Texas,
Health Sciences Center on
January 24-25, 1989.

 

 

Forinforrnation, contact: Molly
Greene, University of Texas,
Health Sciences Center, 7703
Floyd Curl Drive, San Antonio, TX
78284, Telephone (512)567-
3717.

3. The Unlverslty of Utah
on February 9 and 10, 1989

For information contact: Joan
Prorost, Conferences and Insti-
tutes, University of Utah, Salt Lake
City, UT 84112, Telephone
(801)581—5809.

Meeting on Social
Knowledge in Primates

November 30: The Primate So-
ciety will hold its winter scientific-
meeting, dealing with social knowl-
edge in primates, at the meeting
rooms of the London Zoo. Speak-
ers will represent both the field
and laboratory aspects of ethol-
ogy and psychology.

For information, contact Dr.
R. Dunbar, Department of Anthro-
pology. University College Lon-
don, Gower Street, London WC1 E
BBT, England.

—

 

 

 

ORDER FORM

FIELD RESEARCH GUIDELINES:
Impact on Animal Care and Use Committees

Edited by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.

 

Please send

Ship to:

capies of Field Research Guidelines
l have enclosed the amount of $5.00 per requested copy (nine or more copies $4.00 each) to cover
POStage and handling. Make check payable to the Scientists Center for Animal Welfare or SCAW.

Date: _______________._.

 

Mm

Address

 

 

City/State/Zip Code

 

 

Mail this form, with your remittance, to:

Scientists Center for Animal Welfare
4805 St. Elmo Avenue
Bethesda, Maryland 20814

 

 

The Scientists Center for Animal Welfare
(SCAW), founded in 1979, is_a unique non-
profit organization of screntists and sup—
portive members who care about how ani-
mals are used by peo le. SCAW seeks the
best reconcrliation 0 human needs With
requirements and well-being of all animals.
SCAW occupies the reasoned middle
ground on often contentious and polarized
animal welfare/animals rights controver-
Sies.

Editor—in-Chief Gerald Schneider
Newsletter Editor Helene N. Guttman
Production Jane Rogers
Circulation Barbara Unsen

The Newsletter is published four times a
year for members. Regular dues for indi—
viduals is a tax—deductible_$30 per year.
Other membership categories eXIst. “Mul-
ti Ie copies also are available to Institutional

embers. Address in Uiries to Soientists
Center for Animal Wel are, 4805 St. Elmo
Avenue, Bethesda, MD 20814. Tel:
(301 )654-6390.

ISSN 0742-5260
Copyright © 1988 _
Screntists Center for Animal Welfare

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

During the 1988 state 1e islative
process, five states passe bills af-

ectin g the use of animals in re-
search and education.

California: Chapter 65 (origi-
Eﬂy AB 2507) which becomes
effective January 1, 1989 states
that any student, kindergarten
through 12th grade, “with a moral
objection to dissecting or other-
wise harming or destroying ani-
mals,” may refuse to do so.

 

‘ Iowa: A licensing bill (SF 394)
Similar to the Kansas legislation

    

Argentina: A successful cam—
pai n o t, e Associcion Para 1a
De enssa de los Derechos del Ani-
mal led to passage of a new an-
tivivisection and anti-animal dis-
section law that affects some ri—
mary schools and most secon ary
schools. Prior to the banning lan—

uage, the following statement is
included in the law:

“Considering that biology is a
life science, it is not coherent to
teach at the cost of the death of
other live creatures; that acting
in that way would be part of a
dangerous mechanism which
would tend to benumb the spirit
in the face of pain, suﬁ’ering, re-
spect and life itself; that it is
necessary to promote biologi-
cal knowledge and scientific
interest in perfect compatabil-
ity with respect and pity for all
forms of life; that it is necessary
to promote moral values, giving
priority to creation and not to
destruction.”

(see Kansas HB 2219 below) has
been signed. All Iowa facilities
must obtain an annual registration
certificate and allow inspections
during’normal business hours.

,

.,m . , 4 '. ‘ new w
- .1 ”F133;! '1! ‘; .,_. ~ ”gap/.“fnrsve‘
‘ v. w '

Kansas: ' According to HB2219:

beginning January 1, 1989, all re-
search facilities, dealers, pounds,
pet shops and kennels must be ‘li-
censed annually by the Commis—
sioner of Livestock. The Com-
missioner not only will have the
authority to deny, suspend or re-
voke a license but also has exten-
sive authority to inspect facilities

,M ‘fl
5,: , / WV

/7‘ ﬂ.-.” _-.. .., I , ’

5'; 4.4!; ‘, . u" .< ~ .... ._. '-
{'

Sweden: A law that became ef-
fective July 1, 1988, affects test-
ing of cosmetics using animals,
and farmers.

The section of the law that re-
fers to cosmetics testing directly
involves consumers in that all cos—
metics that have been tested on
animals must contain a statement
to that effect on the label. Sales
fi ures will be a measure of
w ether Swedish consumers in
general care sufficently about
reducing animal testing to switch
to cosmetics tested by non-animal
methods.

Farmers are affected b sev-
eral sections of the law: (1 teth-
erin farm animals in cramped
con itions is banned; (2) cows
must be grazed outside; (3) pigs
must be transferred to larger sites
than was customary and no longer
can be tethered permanently; and
(4) farm animals in general have to
have separate sleeping, resting, and
feeding areas.

,v’ “,9 . 3 ”ya; 11” f. '"I
«v we .w r ,
gﬁz/ ’ it ; . ‘ ' / K/éwﬂ“ [I f.»
j", j g' /' v f w". '"
,. a. --" of ' 4' P
f " ~ I " - 2“ gm: ,
why” ‘1!“ ..~"‘ ( , A, ,
. ’ ”13‘" ’, " .4~‘

and promulgate additional re gula—
tions.

Minnesota: Effective Au ust 1,

, according to the new _MP_‘
ter 535 (originally SF 1879), a
person who intentionally, and
without permission, releases an
animal lawfully confined for sci-
ence, research, commerce or edu-

Cation will be guilty of a misde-

meanor and liable for damages
and costs of replacing the animal.

South Carolina: Chapter 431
origina yH 1 acce tedprac-
tices of veterinary me wine and
animal husban are now exempt
from the anima cruelty statute.
No mention is made of research in

Chapter 431.

; .-—> .

I.
‘3 “5,6”

 

 

ngug §I§ [Q §QAW

Those of you who want to contribute
more financially to S CAW in the
future can do so, among other
ways, by means of a provision in
your will. The following word-
ing for a bequest might be used,
but legal counsel should be re— ‘
tained to check if it is the best
wording for bequests in your
state:

"I give, devise and bequeath
to the SCIENTIST CENTER FOR
ANIMAL WELFARE, a not4for-
proﬁt organization, currently
located at 4805 St. Elmo Ave-
nue, Bethesda, MD 20814, the
sum of $ (or specifi-
cally described property)... ”

Inquiries about bequests
can be made to the Executive
Director. SCAW looks forward
to hearing from you.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Non-animal Toxicity Tests
Specified in House Bill

The Consumer Products Testing Act
(HR 1635) sponsored by Representa-
tive Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) in-
cludes a section that would require all
federal agencies to issue regulations
that specify use of non-animal tox—
icity tests to satisfy any agency re-
quirements.

At a May 16, 1988 hearing on the
bill before the House Subcommittee
on Health and Environment, two
federal scientist/administrators (Drs.
David Rall, National Institute of
Environmental Health Sciences/NIH;
and John Moore, U.S. Environmen-
tal Protection Agency), and Dr. David
Blake, a Johns Hopkins University
scientist and member of the NABR
Board of Directors, testiﬁed in oppo-
sition to passage of the bill.

The three scientists stressed that
the bill is misleadingbecause itfalsely
assumes that valid non-animal tests
are now available, or will be in the
next year to totally replace laboratory
animals in acute toxicity testing. Dr.
Blake stated that the bill fails “to
recognize the complexity of acute
toxicity questions or how the regula-
tory process functions and provides
no practical solutions for the future.”

' Dr. Rail emphasized that, if en-
acted, the law’s prohibition of animal
testing would paralyze research and
testing related to cancer causes, pre-
vention, and treatment, and also cause
delays that would “virtually arrest
efforts to develop and improve thera-
pies and vaccines for human infec-
tions such as AIDS, hepatitis B, in-
ﬂuenza, herpes and gonorrhea."

Copies of the testimony given by
the three federal scientists may be
obtained from the National Asso-
ciation for Biomedical Research:
NABR, 818 Connecticut Avenue,
N.W., Suite 303, Washington, DC.
20006.

~ several” groups (American Di a-
betes Association, American Society
for Microbiology, Associatio‘n‘vof
American Medical Colleges, Associ-
ation of American Universities, and
National Association of State
Universities and Land Grant Col-
leges) joined in issuing a position
statement on the bill to the House
Subcommittee on Health and the
Environment on May 31, 1988 which
stated in part:

“The research community believes
that reducing the number of animals

used in biomedical research,aswell .
as in such procedures as acute toxi-
city testing, is a wholly laudable
public policy goal. Great steps have
been taken in this direction in recent
years. However, despite the prog-
ress thathas been made, the tech-
nology. and development of al-
ternatives to the use of animals is
simply not to the point where use of
animals in testing and research can
be statutorily halted. Therefore, we
reject the premise of HR 1635—
mainly that live animal models can
be replaced completely for purposes
of acute toxicity testing.

No further hearings on this bill are
scheduled at this time.
Continued on page 8

How to Support the

:Scientists Center for Animal

:Welfare (SCAW)

Iii mri

Membership privileges include: Newsletter, alerts, notices of events and
lpublications, participating in conferences, access to the library, and
voting on matters determined by SCAW’s Board of Trustees. Choose the
Ihighest category that applies, and enclose your tax-deductible dues

 

 

I(made payable on a US. bank or provide money order in US. funds).
: *Patron $200 []
“Contributor $100 [] $ 50 []
I Regular $ 30 [1
| Student $ 15 [1
: Institutional [] Check here to receive brochure
I Name
: Address
I City State Zip

 

:*lncludes free copy of Effective ACUCs, and free copy of Field Research

Guidelines.

|**lnc|udes free copy of Field Research Guidelines.

Mark off appropriate box above and return
the completed form with payment to “SCAW” to:

I
I
I Scientists Center for Animal Welfare
| 4805 St. Elmo Avenue

 

Bethesda, MD 20814-4805

 

7

 




 

 

“

Federal Legislative Update
continued from page 7

Copies of the complete statement
are available from the Public Affairs
Ofﬁce, American Society for Micro-
biology, 1913 I Street, N.W., Wash-
ington, DC. 20006.

Possible Changes in Rules
for Transporting Wild
Animals and Birds into the
United States

Results concerning comments to a
notice in the Federal Register by the
Fish and Wildlife Service to amend
current transport regulations (the
comment period deadline was Sep-
tember 9) will soon be known.

The areas of the current regula-
tion to be altered include the follow-
mg:

0 Changeparts ofthecurrentregulations
that contradict Animal Welfare Act
standards.

0 Add missing deﬁnitions or clarify
unclear deﬁnitions. Some of the terms
addressed are: “injured,” “normal
rigors of transportation,”“noxious ma-
chinery,” “obvious distress,” “physi-
cal traumas,” “psychological trauma,”
and “wild animal.”

a Add a statement concerning whether
a veterinarian must be certiﬁed in the
country of origin in order to examine
animals for import into the United
States.

0 Add speciﬁc shipping and handling
requirements.

0 Add details for monitoring animals
during transport.

0 Add species-specific provisions.

Ii.Z-I-I-Z-I-I-I-I:2‘I‘I-I~Z-I-Z'I-I-I-I-I-I-.'-I-I-Z-I-I-Z-I-Z-“Iii-2::-Z-I'I-I-Z-I~I'I-Z:Z-2'2:Z~I'2-I-f'I-Z:2-I-I~I-3'2:I:1'I~I-I'I‘I'I'I-I-I-I-I-I-Z-Iiri I I

Pet Theft Act of 1 988

A bill entitled “The Pet Theft Act of
1988 (S. 2353) was introduced by
Senator Ford (D—KY), Apn'129, 1988,
to amend the Federal Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act. This act would
makes it unlawful for any class B li-
censee (individuals who both raise
and purchase animals) from obtain-
ing live, random source dogs and cats
from sources other than state, county,

 

 

Diagnostic laboratories:

Large-scale
Small-scale

State-owned facilities .
Private and local facilities

Agricultural research
Animal studies, nonfarm
Behavioral studies
Biological specimens
College laboratories
Drug firms

Federal facilities
Laboratory tests

Marine mammal research
Nonregulated species
Privately owned facilities
Quality-control studies
School laboratories
State-owned facilities

 

 

Research Facilities Covered Under the
Animal Welfare Act

Dogs and cats used (any size lab)

Institutions selling or trading surplus animals:

Types of research facilities:

For detailed description of all institutions covered under the Animal
Welfare Act, write to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
(APHIS), Federal Building, Room G1 00, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville,
MD 20782 and request Program Aid Number 1117 (entitled "Licensing
and Registration Under the Animal Welfare Act”).

Registered Under the Act
Controlled Under the Act
Registered Under the Act

Registered Under the Act
Lie/reg Under the Act

Exempt Under the Act
Registered Under the Act
Registered Under the Act
Exempt Under the Act
Registered Underthe Act
Registered Underthe Act
Controlled Under the Act
Registered Under the Act
Registered Underthe Act
Exempt Under the Act
Registered Under the Act
Registered Under the Act
Exempt Under the Act
Registered Underthe Act

 

 

 

 

or city-owned and operated pounds
or shelters, or from individuals who
have not bred and raised such dogs
and cats on their own premises.
Dealers have to provide valid certiﬁ-
cation of animals, including infor-
mation on the dealer, the recipient,
and the animal. In addition, the act
requires that a dog or cat be held at the
pound or shelter for at least one week
before being released to the dealer;
ﬁnes for violation would be levied
against the dealer.

Small amendments to the origi-
nal text were made by a bipartisan
group of three co-sponsors [Senators
P. Lehy (D-VT), Robert Dole (R-
KS), and Kent Conrad (D-ND)]. The
amended S. 2353 was sent to each
senator by computer telemail. This
computer alert system requested
placement of the bill on the Senate’s
consent calendar. Since no senator

objected to the placement, the bill ~

was passed, through the consent cal-
endar mechanism (without recorded

vote), on August 10, 1988. There is __
no parallel legislation pending in the

House.

Animal Welfare Information
Center: An Endangered
Species?

Establishment of a database referral
system on animal welfare at a newly-
instituted Animal Welfare In-
formation Center (AWIC) in the Na—
tional Agricultural Library, Beltsville.
Maryland was made possible by a
transfer of two $750,000 funding
transfers, one each during FY 1987
and FY 1988 by the Animal and Plant

Continued on page 12

 

 

 

 

 




 

Implementing Animal Welfare in the
Pharmaceutical Industry

 

A 1987 talk delivered by Jacob C. Stucki, Ph.D.,
Corporate Vice President for Pharmaceutical Re-
search, The Upjohn Company at the SCAW Con-
ference on Well-Being of Laboratory Animals,
gave details of his company’ s animal-related opera-
tions, including some changes in emphasis over the
last 20 years. Dr. Stucki also stressed that it is
Upjohn policy to minimize use of animals in re-
search whenever possible. The following extracts
from the talk show parallels with university-based
animal welfare actions, and instances where large
pharmaceutical companies enforce stricter policies:

Each Upjohn employee who uses or cares for
animals operates under policies and procedures de-
scribed in an "Animal Welfare Handbook. " The cor-
porate Animal Welfare and Use Committee (their
IACUC), has been in operation for more than 20
years—much longer than those in research univer—
sities. When ﬁrst organized, the Committee focused
mostly on animal procurement, quarantine, health
assessment, care, husbandry, and maintenance of
animals. Later, several additional responsibilities
were added including animal research protocol
review, animal resources inspection, and training
and education of personnel involved in animal care,
laboratory work, and research.

The Executive Committee of the Animal Wel-
fare and Use Committee reports directly to the
Corporate Vice President for Pharmaceutical Re-
search. Members of the Executive Committee in-
clude representatives from four of the company’s
divisions: Pharmaceutical Research; Control; Agri-
cultural Research; and Pharmaceutical Regulatory
Affairs. The corporate Animal Welfare and Use
Committee includes two non-Upjohn members—a
professor of biology, and a professor of philosophy.
The Committee’s executive secretary is the Chief
Attending Veterinarian (who also is in charge of the

 

Research Animal Support and Laboratory Services
Unit).

Pharmaceutical companies, as do universities,
house and maintain their animals according to the
NIH Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory
Animals, and establish that their level of perfor-
mance passes certification review by the American
Association for the Accreditation of Laboratory
Animal Care (AAALAC).

Dr. Stucki emphasized that the pharmaceuti-
cal industry, in general, subscribes to the following
nine basic animal welfare principles. These are:

1. While animal studies are crucial elements in
the process of evaluating drug safety and efficacy in
humans, scientifically validated adjuncts to animal
tests, if acceptable to regulatory agencies, should be
used whenever possible.

2. The design of studies, and the methods of
conducting the research involving animals, should
be directly related to well-defined scientific objec—
tives that ensure that the appropriate species and a
minimum number of animals are used. Further, the
scientiﬁc objects of the studies should be relevant to
human or animal health, or to the advancement of
knowledge.

3. Duplication of experiments involving ani-
mals should be avoided unless there is need to
confirm scientiﬁc results. Familiarity with the sci-
entific literature is considered essential in determin-
ing both the need to use animals and in deciding
whether the research is duplicative.

4. Analgesics, sedatives, or anesthetics must
be used in a manner consistent with the scientiﬁc
objective for all procedures involving distress or
pain to animals. Upjohn feels strongly that use of
immobilizing drugs in unanesthetized animals to di-

Continued on page 10

 

 




 

 

Pharmaceutical Industry
Continued from page 9

minish reactions to distress or pain is
unacceptable.

5. If, after any experiment, an ani-
mal suffers from severe or chronic pain
or distress that cannot be relieved, that
animal should be humanely euthanized.

6. Animals obtained for research
must be procured, transported, housed,
and treated in accordance with federal,
state, and local laws, guidelines and in-
stitutional policies.

7. Animals should be housed and
treated in a manner that promotes their
health and comfort. The housing, feed-
ing, and care of all animals used in re-
search and testing must be directed by a

professional with training and experi-
ence in laboratory animal care. Veteri-
nary medical services must be available
as part of the animal health monitoring
program.

8. Scientists, and all personnel su-
pervising or performing animal studies,
must be appropriately qualified to do so.
They should be trained and experienced
in the proper and humane care and use of
laboratory animals in addition to the sci-
ence they represent.

9. If exceptions to these principles
are necessitated by the requirements of a
particular study, the investigators directly
involved must obtain the advance ap—
proval of management. And to provide
such approval in an informed, respon-

 

Seisnes and Animaﬂs:
Washington, D.C

Addressing Centsmpsrary [issuiss

June 22-25, 1988

 

 

I wish to order the following audio cassette tapes. I understand my order will be mailed to me within six weeks.
Please mail to: ,

Name

Address

City State Zip

 

been)

(approx. 90 minutes)

01

(approx. 45 minutes)

6)

Thomas W. Dunfee (approx. 60 minutes)

lillllll

(13V

(approx.. 90 minutes)

(approx. 45 minutes)

Keith Kelley (approx. 90 minutes)

16. Set of tapes, 1-15

Handllng charge
TOTAL

Maryland 20814

 

Indicate number of copies beside the tape titles you wish to order and fill in amount due.

1. Recognizing the "Well-Being" of Laboratory Primates
Melinda A. Novak/Stephen J. Suomi (approx. 45 minutes)

. What Is "Suffering"?, Eric J. Cassell (approx. 45 minutes)

. Value vs. Animal Cost, David G. Porter (approx. 90 minutes)

. Can Animal Use Be Ethically Justified, J. Wesley Robb

. Research with Endangered Species, Devra G. Kleiman
. Public Accountability wIthIn the Commerlcal Sector,

An Effective Industrial ACUC (approx. 45 minutes)
. Effects of Environmental Factors on Retinal Structure
and Function,, and Dermal Physiology and Bone, Theodore
P. Williams, and Michael F. Holick (approx. 90 minutes)
9. Regulation of Biological Rhythms by Environmental
Factors, Russel Reiter; Effects of Environmental Parameters
on the Regulation of Neuroendocrlne Systems, George Brainard

10. Agricultural Issues: Introduction, and Benefits and Costs
of Animal Agricultural, William Ray Stricklin (approx. 60 minutes)
11. Guidelines for Agricultural Animals, Stanley E. Curtis

12. Role of Ethology in Determining Farm Animal Well-Being
David Fraser; Role of the Immune System In Animal Well-Being,

13. Educating Community Members; Liability Exposure of
Community Members (approx. 90 minutes)
14. Committee Knowledge of Protocol Adherence; Institutional
Politics vs. Community Members (approx. 90 minutes)
15. Community Member Responsibility; The Role of Community
Members In Public Education (approx 90 minutes)

All orders must be prepaid by check made payable in US. funds to the Scientists Center for Animal Welfare
(SCAW). Send order to Tapes Order. Scientists Center for Animal Welfare, 4805 St. Elmo Avenue, Bethesda,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amount
C_0§_l Es
$12.00 $
$12.00 $
$15.00 $
$15.00 $
$12.00 $
$12.00 $
$12.00 $
$15.00 $
$15.00 :1;
$12.00 $
$12.00 $
$15.00 1;
$15.00 $
$15.00 3;
$15.00 $
$175.00 $
$ 4.00

 

 

sible manner, management should have
an appropriate review group, such as an
Institutional Animal Committee, to as-
sist in making proper judgments in such
exceptional cases. In no instance should
such exceptions be granted for purposes
of demonstration or training.

Dr. Stucki also described the fol-
lowing two barriers hindering optimum
progress toward further advances in ani-
mal well-being:

1. Regulatory requirements for test-
ing drugs and other chemicals specify
various types of animal tests (including
speciﬁc protocols and numbers of ani-
mals). Some of these regulatory re-
quirements are made by agencies in other
countries where United S fates firms wish
to sell their products.

2. Lack of sufficientknowledge con-
cemin g systemic reactions of animals to
drugs to enable total substitution of
computer models for animals tests
(S CAW Newsletter readers may refer to
the Spring 1988 issue which describes
progress in computer modeling).

In closing, Dr. Stucki emphasized
some of the questions that need to be
answered before a model can completely
replace an intact animal. For example:

0 How does an intact interacting
system operate to maintain homeostatic
balance and what changes take place
when a new chemical is introduced?
What are the underlying mechanisms of
toxicity and death at the cellular level
which can be used for an infallible end-
point for toxicity measurements in vitro?

0 How can potentially toxic effects
a chemical may have at other, possibly
unexpected sites, be modeled? (This
problem of host toxicity limits introduc-
tion in in vitro tests. N_ot§: New drugs
to treat diseases of animals also have to
be tested for efficacy and safety. In
addition, pesticides and compounds used
to control weeds need tests to assure that
humans, farm animals and wildlife will
not suffer adverse effects.

 

 

1O

 

 




 

 

Economic Importance of Replacing Lab
Animals in Testing Protocols

You know the question is a nationally-important economic issue when
The Wall StreetJournal runs the story on page 1. The following appeared
in the Business Bulletin column on Thursday, September 8, 1986:

LAB ANIMAL TESTS decline, thanks to new technology and
animal-rights efforts.

Animal rights, once viewed as a fringe concern, are now “accepted
by the scientiﬁc community as being within their objectives,” says
Henry Spira of the Animal Rights Coalition. Mobil Oil Corp, Hoffmann—
La Roche Inc. and Exxon Corp. jointly survey alternative tests used at 40
labs and plan to share the results. The Soap and Detergent Association
meets Sept. 14 with government agencies to discuss new tests. “More
companies are going public on what they’re doing” to reduce animal
testing, says the Council on Economic Pn'orities’ Myra Alperson.

The push isn’t all altruism. Tests now being developed use fewer or
no animals, but also are cheaper, faster and potentially more accurate.
Corporate interest has sparked a ﬂurry of entrepreneurial activity.
National Testing Corp., Palm Springs, Calif., has a test-tube altemative
to eye-initant tests done on live rabbits. Others develop new types of
skin tests.

But validation of such tests has been difﬁcult. “The government
agencies don’t want to change too quickly,” says Christopher Kelly of
National Testing.

 

 

 

General Interest Magazines
Cover Animal Issues

August Harper’s Magazine had a
cover story about a Round Table at Cooper
Union (a New York City institution of
higher education) entitled: “Just Like Us”
Toward aNation of Animal Rights.” Two

magazines had articles in May: Town and
Country’s presentation was entitled
“Animal Rights and Wrongs” The Pas—
sionate Crusade for the Ethical Treat-
ment of Animals.” Facets’ article was
entitled: “Animal Rights, Human
Wrongs?”

—

News from Societies

Two programs on animals in research
and animal care will be given by The
Society for Neuroscience during its an-
nual meeting to be held in Toronto,
Canada, in November, 1988.

An animal care tutorial entitled M od-
ern Procedures in the Care and Use_0f
Experimental Animals will be held on
November 13, 1988 and moderated by
Adrian Morrison, the society’s Chairper-
son, Committee on Animals in Research.
The speakers, Howard Hughes, V.M.D.,
Allen Klide, V.M.D., and Lawrence
Soma, V.M.D. will discuss correct surgi-
cal principles, postoperative care, and
appropriate anesthesia and analgesia for
laboratory animals. _

A panel on Animals in Research will
be held on Monday, November 14, 1988.

The topics to be covered include:

0 Trends in the Use of Animals in
Research
Frankie Trull, NABR
0 An Experience with Animal Ac-
tivism
Herbert Pardes, NY. State
Psychiatric Institute
0 The Importance of Grassroots
Organizing
Steve Carroll, Incurably 111 for
Animal Research
Further information can be obtained
from the Society for Neuroscience, 11
Dupont Circle, Suite 500, Washington,
D.C. 20036.

 

Effective
Animal Care
And USE
Committees

bara Orlans
Righaarrd C. Simmonds

w. lean Dodds
EDITORS

WELFARE
SCIENTISTS CENTER FOR ANIMAL

 

 

ORDER FORM

EFFECTIVE ANIMAL CARE AND USE COMMITTEES:
EDITORS: F. Barbara Orlans, Richard C. Simmonds, W. Jean Dodds

Price: $45 per copy

Multiple Copy Discount: For five or more copies, the price is $35.00 per

copy.

Please send __ copy(ies) of EFFECTIVE ANIMAL CARE AND USE COMMITTEES:

El Payment of $

 

Ship to:

enclosed. Make check payable to the Scientist’s Center for
Animal Welfare or SCAW. All orders must be accompanied by payment.

Date

Mail this form, with your
remittance, to:

 

 

Name

Sclentists Center for
Animal Welfare

 

Address

City/State/Zip Code

4805 St. Elmo Avenue
Bethesda, Maryland 20814

 

 

11

 




6

 

 

 

 

SCIENTISTS CENTER FOR ANIMAL WELFARE
4805 St.- Elmo Avenue, Bethesda, MD 20814

D CHANGE OF ADDRESS. PLEASE CLIP THE ADDRESS
LABEL BELOW AND RETURN TO US ALONG WITH YOUR
NEW ADDRESS.

Exp. 07/27/89
Christine Stevéns
President
Animal Welfare I
Bbx 3650

Washington DC 20007

nstitute

Federal Legislative Update
Continued from page 8

Health Inspection Service (APHIS),
another USDA agency well-known
to our readers since it administers the
Animal Welfare Act. Funding con-
straints, coupled with enlarged re-
sponsibilities for APHIS in FY 1989,
led to discontinuation of funding for
FY 1989 (which runs from October
1, 1988 through September 30, 1989),
and endangered the life of AWIC
when APHIS’s decision became
known in late Summer, 1988.

Rapid reorientation of its sparse
program funding by NAL manage-
ment to AWIC in mid-September,
only weeks before the beginning of
FY 1989, assures the continuity of
AWIC for another year. To assure
the stability and continued devel-
opment of AWIC, speciﬁc congres-
sional funding action would be help-
ful, but as we go to press, there are no
funding bills in the hoppers of either
house of Congress for annual op-
eratmg costs.

 

NON-PROFIT
US. POSTAGE
PAID
Washington, D.C.
Permit No. 1587

 

 

 

 




