The Work of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
from 1955, When Only Two Federal Laws

to Protect Animals Existed, to 1999, When Fifteen
Protective Federal Laws are on the Books

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation was founded at
the time of the introduction of the ﬁrst federal bill to require
humane slaughter of animals. Till then, humane organizations
had little success in obtaining needed federal legislation be-
cause they spent most oftheir efforts in caring for lost and stray
animals, and they were concerned about losing their tax-exempt
status ifthey did much work on legislation. Until 1977, United
States law specified that an organization could not retain such
status if it spent a “substantial” amount on lobbying.

Upon its founding in 1955, the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation registered under the Federal Lobbying Act and de-
voted its efforts entirely to passage of needed laws. From 1955
on, it worked intensively to obtain enactment of the following
major federal legislation. Note that nine strengthening amend-
ments have been passed over the years. The Society continues
to seek improvements in existing laws.

1958 The first federal Humane Slaughter Act was passed, re-
quiring all packers selling to the US government to pro-
vide anesthetization or instant stunning by mechanical
or electrical means prior to slaughter for all animals in all
their plants except for kosher slaughter. The law covered
80% of animals slaughtered. (See 1978 for broadening
and strengthening of the law.)

1959 The Wild Horse Act passed. It prohibits poisoning of
waterholes where wild horses and burros drink and use
of aircraft to round the horses up for sale to slaughter-
houses.

1966 The Laboratory Animal Welfare Act was passed after years of
work. It set minimum standards of care and housing for dogs,
cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters and guinea pigs in the pre-
mises of animal dealers and laboratories and identiﬁcation of
dogs and cats to prevent theft. Dealers are licensed, laborato-
ries registered. (See 1970, 1976, 1985 and 1990 for broadening
and strengthening of the law.)

The Endangered Species Act was passed, providing for listing
by the Secretary of Interior of threatened species and endan-
gered species and prohibiting importation of the latter

for commercial purposes. (See 1973 for strengthening of
the law.)

1970 A measure to prohibit soring of Tennessee Walking
Horses for show purposes was passed. (See 1976 for
amendments.)

Legislation to extend the protection of the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act to all species of warm-blooded ani-
mals, throughout their stay in the laboratory and in the
wholesale pet and exhibition trades as well, was passed
unanimously by both Houses of Congress. The bill was
renamed the Animal Welfare Act.

197 1 A law was passed to provide a criminal penalty for shooting
animals and birds from aircraft.

A second law to protect wild horses was passed.

Resolutions passed by both Houses of Congress re-
quested the Secretary of State to call for a ten-year inter-
national moratorium on commercial whaling.

1972 Based on the adoption ofthe l97l resolutions, the United
States delegation to the Stockholm Conference on the
Human Environment proposed the moratorium on com-
mercial whaling, and it was adopted by a 53-0 vote.

The Society worked for passage ofthe Marine Mammal

Protection Act, which prohibits killing, taking or harass-

ing of any marine mammal without a permit and bans

importation of any part or product of a nursing marine
mammal or its mother. It sets the goal of zero mortality or
serious injury rate for dolphins caught incidental to tuna
purse seining. (See 1976 and 1992 for extension of the
law‘sjurisdiction.) Resolutions in the House and Senate
calling for international protection of polar bears were
passed.

An amendment giving the Department of the Interior
power to enforce the law providing a criminal penalty for
shooting at animals from aircraft was passed.

 




 

Prohibition of poisoning of predators on public lands was
passed by the House but not by the Senate.

US action to protect endangered species was greatly strength-
ened: (l) the Convention on International Trade in Endan-
gered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora was concluded in Wash-
ington, DC after 92 nations took part in a three-week confer-
ence; (2) to conform with the requirements of the Convention,
the Endangered Species Act was strengthened and broad-
ened.

Hearings were held against the poisoning of predators on
public lands.

1974 A bill which included authorization of funds for re—

search on methods of animal birth control was passed

by the House and Senate but vetoed by the Presi—

dent; nine days of hearings were held on legislation

to regulate air shipment of animals; oversight hear-

ings were held in the Senate to strengthen the Horse
Protection Act. Continued efforts were made to enact legisla-
tion against the poisoning of predators. The Executive Order
banning predator poisoning on public lands was threatened
and had to be forcefully defended.

1 97 5 The Executive Order on predator poisoning was modiﬁed to

provide for experimental use of cyanide with a view to de-
veloping a cyanide collar for sheep to kill only predators
actually attacking sheep.

Hearings were held on legislation to restrict the cruel steeljaw
leghold trap and on a bill to invoke economic sanctions
against whalers. The Senate passed a bill substantially
strengthening the Horse Protection Act of 1970.

1976 The Animal Welfare Act was broadened to: (l) regulate car-

riers, intermediate handlers, and animal brokers, requiring
them to adhere to humane standards; (2) specify that all
dogs - including dogs for hunting, security, or breeding
purposes be protected by the Act; (3) prohibit COD trans-
portation of animals unless the shipper guarantees payment
of round-trip fare and costs for care of animals not claimed
at destination. Also, animals cannot be transported at an
age less than the Secretary of Agriculture permits; and deal-
ers, exhibitors, auction sale operators, and Federal, State
and Local agencies are required to obtain a veterinarian’s
certiﬁcate before delivering animals for transporta-
tion affecting commerce; (4) extend the Secretary’s
investigative authority to intermediate handlers and
carriers and authorize a civil penalty of up to $1,000
for each violation of the humane standards; (5) im-
pose a uniform civil penalty of up to $1,000 on all
persons regulated under the statute, and eliminate
the requirement that the Secretary issue a
cease-and-desist order before imposing a civil pen—
alty on research facilities; (6) make it a crime pun-
ishable by ﬁne and imprisonment knowingly to
sponsor, participate in, transport in interstate com-
merce, or use the mails to promote ﬁghts between
dogs or other mammals or between cocks, except

where state law permits it; (7) require all government agen-
cies - including the Army, Air Force, and National Institutes
of Health — using laboratory animals to show that they are
ﬁJlly in compliance with the Act.

 
    

Congress passed the Tule Elk Bill, providing protection for
a species found only in parts of California.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 was amended
to increase its coverage from 12 to 200 miles, consistent
with the new 200-miIe-limit law extending US jurisdic-
tion.

The Horse Protection Act of 1970 was revamped, civil ﬁnes

being increased from $1,000 to $2,000 for each offense, and

criminal penalties raised from a maximum ﬁne for ﬁrst of-

fenders of $2,000 and/or a six-monthjail term to a

maximum $3,000 and/or a year in jail. A second

criminal offense can be penalized by a ﬁne up

to $5,000 and/or two years in jail. Other sec-

tions provide: authority for the US Depart-

ment ongriculture (USDA) to seize illegal

equipment as evidence for trial; authority for

USDA to detain a horse for 24 hours for further ex-

amination; power to subpoena non—govemment witnesses

in civil cases; penalties for assaulting, intimidating or inter—

fering with federal agents; penalties for knowingly making

false reports or entering a horse in a show under a false
name. Authorization for funding was increased.

1978 The Federal Humane Slaughter Act was signiﬁcantly im-

proved by requiring that all animals slaughtered for meat
imported into the US be humanely slaughtered. Foreign
packers importing to this country must meet standards
equal to those required of US packers. Further, the Fed-
eral Meat Inspection Act was amended for all federally
inspected plants to empower the inspectors to stop the
slaughtering line on the spot if any cruelty is observed.
Slaughtering may not recommence until deficiencies,
whether of equipment or of abuses by personnel, are
corrected. The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
played a major role in obtaining enactment ofthis legis—
lation, which had been pending for years.

The Agricultural Appropriations Bill was amended on the
Senate floor to authorize use of funds for research on animal
birth control, but the US Department of Agriculture failed to
make use of the funds.

1979 The Packwood—Magnuson Amendment to the Interna-

tional Fishery Conservation and Management Act was
passed, providing important protection for whales and
other sea creatures. The amendment cuts a nation’s ﬁsh
allocation by 50% on certiﬁcation by the Secretary of
Commerce that a nation has not lived up to the Act. All
allocations would be stopped in a year if such nation
persisted in its violation, thus providing a powerful in-
centive for whaling nations to adhere to rulings of the
International Whaling Commission.

Terrestrial as well as marine animals were included in the
embargo sanctions ofthe Pelly Amendment ofthe 1967
Fisherman’s Protective Act. All threatened or endangered
species are covered in the new amendment so the Presi—
dent can embargo all products from any nation that di-
minishes the effectiveness of an international wildlife
conservation agreement such as the Convention on In—
ternational Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora.

 

 




The House of Representatives passed the Elephant Protec-
tion Act by unanimous consent and sent it to the Senate.

1980 Amendments to the Lacey Act making this 1912 statute en-

forceable and increasing penalties for willful importation of
wildlife obtained illegally in a foreign country or transported
illegally across state lines were passed by the House and ap-
proved by the Senate Committee on Environment and Public
Works, but blocked by the objection of individual Senators.

Hearings were held on an International Wildlife Protec-
tion Bill introduced as an amendment to the Elephant
Protection Act but despite support at the hearings by
every organization except the ivory dealers’ lobby, the
bill was blocked.

1981 The enforcement provisions of the Lacey Act were substan-

tially strengthened. Violation of the Lacey Act now carries
penalties of a maximum ﬁne of $20,000 and/or ﬁve years
imprisonment for each violation of the Act.

The Elephant Protection Act died without action.

The Endangered Species Act was reauthorized after a vig-
orous battle with special interests who tried, for the most
part unsuccessfully, to weaken it.

1982 The Marine Mammal Protection Act was reauthorized.

1985 The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act passed

unanimously. The new law which amends the Animal Welfare
Act was designed to minimize animal pain and distress. It es-
tablishes an information service in the National Agricultural
Library in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine
to provide data on alternatives to laboratory animals, help
prevent unintended duplication of experiments and tests, and
provide information to institutions for instruction of scien-
tists and other personnel in humane practices as required by
the new law. Each registered research facility must appoint
an institutional animal committee including a veterinarian
and a person unafﬁliated with it to represent the general
community interesting the proper care and treatment of ani-
mals. The committee must inspect the animal laboratories
twice a year and report deﬁciencies to the institution for
correction. If not corrected promptly, the US Department of
Agriculture must be notiﬁed for enforcement action, and
any funding agency involved informed for a decision on
whether the grant should be suspended or revoked.

Investigators are required to consider alternatives and to
consult with a veterinarian before beginning any experi-
ment which could cause pain. They must adhere to stan-
dards set by the Secretary of Agriculture for pre- and
post-surgical care, use of pain-relieving drugs or euthana-
sia, against use of paralytics without anesthesia and un-
necessary use of the same animal for more than one major
operation. Exceptions to the standards may be made only
when speciﬁed by a research protocol and an explanation
given for any deviation. Fines for violations were raised
from $1 ,000 to $2,500 and from $500 to $1,500.

1990 The Pet Theft Act passed as an amendment to the Animal

Welfare Act. It requires pounds to hold dogs and cats ﬁve
days before releasing them to dealers. The amended Act also

 

allows the US Department of Agriculture to seek injunctions
against any licensed facility found dealing in stolen animals or
placing the health of any animal in serious danger in violation
of the Animal Welfare Act.

1991 Final regulations for the Improved Standards for Laboratory

Animals were published in 199 1. However, the Animal Legal
Defense Fund and the Society for Animal Protective Legis-
lation had to go to court because the Congressional man-
date for “a physical environment adequate to promote the
psychological well-being of nonhuman primates” and for
exercise for laboratory dogs was not met. US District Court
Judge Charles Richey ruled in favor of animal welfare, but
the Government and the National Association for Biomedi—
cal Research appealed his decision; it was ultimately re-
versed.

1992 Three major animal protection bills were enacted in Octo-

her.

The Wild Bird Conservation Act put an immediate import ban

on the ten bird species whose survival is most severely threat-

ened by capture for the commercial pet trade. It requires that,

within one year, importation of all species of birds listed by the
Convention on International Trade
in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora (CITES) be prohibited. The
Secretary of the Interior is empow-
ered to enforce the conservation and
humane treatment standards of
CITES, saving hundreds of thou-
sands of beautiful birds from terrible
suffering and death.

' By the end of l 992, one hundred and
six airlines had stopped transport-
ing wild-caught birds for the pet
trade.

The Driftnet Fishery Conservation
Act provides the US with the sanc-
tions necessary to enforce the
driftnet ban agreed by the United Nations that went into
effect December 3 l, 1992. Nations that continue to put out
30—miIe-Iong driﬁnets entangling whales, dolphins, seals,
sea birds, and every other living creature that falls into their
toils can no longer sell ﬁsh to US markets and their vessels
are now denied US port privileges.

The International Dolphin Conservation Act establishes a
global moratorium from March 1, 1994, on tuna ﬁshing which
kills dolphins; imposed strict, non-discretionary embargoes
and sanctions against countries failing to abide by the glo-
bal moratorium; established the United States as a
dolphin-safe zone by June l, 1994; prohibited sale, purchase,
transport of tuna and tuna products that are not dolphin
safe; provided $3 million a year for research on ﬁshing tech-
niques that do not kill dolphins. However, legislation passed
in 1997 has put this important law in severe jeopardy.

1999 The Endangered Species Act must be reauthorized by

Congress. Opponents of the strong law have mounted
major campaigns to weaken and undermine the act. The
Society is ﬁghting back to protect the act as it stands.

 




SAPL is working to pass the Bear Protection Act, which
aims at eliminating the incentive to kill bears for their gall-
bladders by making it illegal to sell, import or export the
internal organs of a bear as well as products containing, or
claiming to contain, these bear parts.

The Society is working for enactment of legislation to amend
the Animal Welfare Act to prohibit random source dog and
cat dealers from supplying these animals to research facili-
ties. Adoption of the bill would l)protect pets from being
taken by theft or fraud and sold to laboratories for experi-
mentation, 2) reduce the suffering and neglect of current
victims of the commercial trade, and 3) save the US. Depart—
ment of Agriculture money which could be used for increased
enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act.

The Society is seeking passage oflegislation to end the use
of steel jaw leghold traps in the United States. Published
polls reveal that the vast majority ofAmericans oppose use
of these notoriously cruel devices, yet the United States
lags behind 88 countries who have prohibited their use.

Our Record

Of the existing laws to protect animals, 15 were passed since the
founding of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation and, to a
substantial extent, because of the Society’s work. The two previ—
ously enacted laws are the 1906 “28-hour Law” protecting livestock
shipped by rail, and the 1948 law authorizing the US Customs to
prosecute shippers of animals if they fail to maintain reasonable
humane standards. These two dates and the 42 years between them
speak for themselves of the lack of action on legislation to protect
animals before the founding of the Society.

The Society prepares information for use by Members ofCongress
and their staffs. It sends circular letters to individuals and organiza-
tions interested in animal protective legislation, informing them of ways
in which they may help, principally by writing to Members of Con-
gress or other government ofﬁcials and to the editors of newspapers.

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation needs your help to con-
tinue its essential work. If you believe in protection of animals by law,
please give generously. Because contributions are not tax deductible,

the Society is always underfunded.

Society for Animal Protective Legislation

PO Box 3719, Washington, DC 20007

(202) 337—2334
fax: (202) 338—9478 email: sapl@animalwelfare.com
URL: http://WWW.animalwelfare.com

 

 

w/«m IN G
Hume

laaossuki¢

I wish to help obtain more and stronger laws to protect animals.

D Please add my name to your mailing list.

El Please send me information on how to remember the Society for Animal Protective Legislation in my will.

. (Not deductible in computing income tax because

 

Enclosed is my contribution of 3

the Society for Animal Protective Legislation is registered under the Federal Lobbying Act.)

 

Name

 

Address

City

 

 

 

Phone

 

 

 




 




WHAT IS HAPPENING
TO THE ANIMALS?

Forests, grasslands and coral reefs are in danger: animals are
losing the fight for space. Poaching, hunting and pollution all
destroy animals too. They are killed for fur, skins and ornaments;
for sport and entertainment.

Poaching (killing animals against the law) is one of
the main threats.

Imagine animals such as the Elephant, the Koala Bear, and the
Giant Panda vanishing forever: you could only see them in books,
museums, or films. It could happen.

\

fa) 80% of ivory comes

A scientist has claimed that Polar Bears cover their 1%
black noses with their paws when hunting seals.
It helps them blend into the white background.

The animal world is full of surprises. Did you know that . . ? {x

When a Hippo mother goes off to feed, STOP THE from poaChing-
h f' d b b 'tt f h h'ld TRAGIC
s e In sa a ysu er or ercl ren. SLAUGHTER. _ _

The Asian Elephant can live to the ripe old age of 70. ANIMALS MATTER FACTS

_ . Every year over
Have you heard of the Australian Northern Hairy

BUt . I . Nosed Wombat? It is so seriously endangered that _ _ _
there could be only forty left in the whole world. 100 mIIIIon anlmals

Do you remember the Dinosaurs? They became

Many 0f the world’s extinct 65 million years ago (due to natural causes) are kllled for fur'

and disappeared forever.

MOSt magnificent But what does extinct mean? It means animals

dying out because they cannot live with changes
in their homelands. It used to occur naturally. 300’000 Whales and

and wonderful animals This time there is a difference. dolphins Will die
_ People are destroying the animals. AbOllt 1 ,000
are In great danger. a slow and painful

kinds of animals are deaththisyeah

now close to extinction.

 




r:
0
dd
\J
U
L—
-r:5
.1.
.2:
an
L...
U
.5
.IJ
.:
a...
Q)
.1.
W
a

 

Conservation groups such as the World
Wide Fund for Nature and Greenpeace
are trying to make governments and
people listen and act.

CITES (the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species) is also an
organization which wants to protect
wildlife. Over eighty countries have
ioined but many more will not, and so
the killing goes on.

Many countries have introduced laws to
protect their animals, but laws on their
own are not enough. More effort (and
money) is needed to control animal
trade and stop the poachers.To make
matters worse, lots of people in
undeveloped countries are very poor,
and peach so they can live. it’s a
political problem too.

Pollution must also be cut down and
ways found so that people and animals
can share living space without harming
each other.

SOINHATCHUI

YOEIDOVTO

HELP?

Animals cannot speak—you can!
So do their protesting for them.

oFind out all you can. Read.

Ask questions.

«Join organizations which protect
and support endangered animals
(see back page)

«Don’t buy products made from
endangered animals: Ignore

turtle shells, skin wallets or ivory
ornaments (especially on vacation).
Try to convince others not to buy.

Remember, if you buy these you
increase the risk of extinction.

 

 

 

 

A CAUSE

FOR HOPE?

There are a few success stories: Operation Tiger
saved the Bengali Tiger from extinction, and so
did efforts to help the Polar Bear.

We can all change things ~ you can change things.
Why not mention the subject at school to your
teacher and learn more about it?

EVEN AS YOU READ, MORE ANIMALS
ARE BECOMING ENDANGERED.

HELP SAVE THE ANIMALS.
DON’T DELAY, DO SOMETHING NOW!

USEFUL

ADDRESSES

*9.
P‘

If you would like more information on endangered
animals, write or telephone the following organizations:

Greenpeace USA, Inc. World Wildlife Fund
1436 U Street, NW PO. Box 224
Washington, D.C. 20009 Peru, IN 46970

Tel. (202) 462-1177 Tel. 800-833-1600

African Wildlife Foundation
of the United States 1717 Massachusetts Ave., NW
2100 L Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20036
Washington, D.C. 20037 Tel. (202) 265-8393

Tel. (202) 452-1100

Humane Society

Center for Marine Conservation
Animal Welfare Institute 1725 De Sales St., NW, Suite 500
R0. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20036
Washington, D.C. 20007 Tel. (202) 429-5609
Tel. (202) 337-2333

All the soaps in the range are manufactured by
Soapworks Ltd (a wholly-owned subsidiary
company of The Body Shop Int. PLC), located in
Easterhouse, Scotland.

© 1990 The Body Shop, Int.
45 Horsehill Road
Cedar Knolls, NJ 07927

Printed on recycled paper

 




 

 

 

53:35. ; |lltr£$L LL:

 

 

 

 

 

 




r“ A Lettiietr Wom A Whale \a

Dear Friends,

Hello, l am a Blue whale. I am the biggest animal that has ever
lived on earth—bigger than even the dinosaurs! You probably have
never actually seen me or my smaller cousins, though, because we live in
the ocean. My great whale relatives include the Fin, Sperm, Sei,
Bowhead, Right, Humpback, Gray, Bryde’s and Minke whales. My smallest
relatives include the dolphins and porpoises. Because we live in the
ocean, maybe you think we are fish, but we’re not. We are mammals
just like you. And I guess that makes us distant relatives.

A long, long time ago—about 50 or 60 million years ago—my
earliest ancestors lived on land. During the following millions of years,
though, they moved to the ocean. Very, very slowly they underwent
changes that made life in the ocean easier. Their front legs developed
into flippers. Their back legs disappeared. Their tails developed flukes.
All these changes made movement in the water easier. A thick layer of
blubber under their skin allowed them to live in cold water. {Since my
ancestors were mammals and breathed air, they also had to develop a
way of staying underwater for long periods at a time. Well, my
ancestors adapted very well to their new environment. We present-day
whales are very comfortable living in the ocean.

Unfortunately, you humans have never understood us whales very
well. Because we live in the ocean, and you live on land and don’t have
the chance to see us very often, I guess we have always seemed a bit
mysterious. Would you believe that you and l have a lot in common?
Well strange as it may seem, we do! We also happen to be very
intelligent creatures. My brain, for example, is one of the most
complex brains of all Earth’s animals. I am sure that we whales and

 




you humans have many secrets to learn from one another. We are
peaceful, playful, social animals. Often we roam the seas in groups
or pods—frolicking together, “talking” to one another, and
sometimes even singing together. My cousins, the Humpback whales,
are famous for their songs. Some of us have social and family
structures similar to your own, and more complex than those of many
other animals. For example, besides my mother, I have an “auntie” to
take care of me while I am growing up. She is a sort of aunt and baby-
sitter combined. We are also sensitive, caring animals. A mother
whale is very loving and protective toward her baby calf. Individual
whales may come to the aid of another member of the pod during
times of trouble. So, you see, even though we don’t look at all
alike, you and l aren’t so different after all!

‘ Your ancestors knew even less about us whales than you do.
They thought we were monsters from the deep and they hunted us
down with their boats and harpoons. They mercilessly killed us so
they could make smokeless candles, oil for their lamps, and other
products. During the 1800’s a certain folklore grew about us
whales. Back in those days, I guess men thought it was adventurous
to join up with a whaling crew and sail the high seas in search of the
largest animal on Earth. In the words of you humans, those were the
“romantic” days of your long history of whale hunting. Believe me,
although we have tried to understand, we whales see nothing romantic
about it. Put yourself in our place, and l’m sure you’ll agree.

Nineteenth-century whaling wasn’t romantic, but I’m willing to
admit that it may have been adventurous to some men. Catching a
whale in those days required a certain amount of skill. Once one of
us was sighted, there was no guarantee that the whalers could catch
him. Some of us could swim faster than their boats. Those of us
who were ‘slower swimmers sometimes could-avoid harpooners by
staying underwater for long periods at a time.

Well, enough background information about us. The real reason

2

, I am writing you is to bring your attention to a very important

matter—whale hunting today. Whaling today is a totally different
story from nineteenth century whaling. It is definitely not
romantic. It is not even adventurous. To put it simply, whaling
today is barbaric and cruel. Your modern ships equipped with sonar
and explosiveharpoons take away any advantage we may have once
had. As soon as we are located by sonar, we are as good as dead.
There is no way we can escape. As a result, I live in constant fear of
being found by a whaling ship. In half an hour, a factory ship can
change me from a happy, peaceful whale into a butchered mass of
blood, meat and bones. With your new space-age technology, you
can kill as many of us whales in one day as your ancestors did in one
year. We blue whales and our other cousins have been killed in such
great numbers that we are in danger of becoming extinct. It has
taken us whales millions upon millions of years to evolve into our
present high form of life. Yet, in a period of a few short decades,
you humans have threatened to reduce us to a mere memory.

Fortunately, not all countries are involved in whaling. The last
whaling nations are Japan and Norway. We do not understand why
these countries continue to hunt us down and slaughter us even
though the many nations who are seeking to protect us have
protested their actions. All whale products can already be
replaced with inexpensive commercial substitutes.

Please write to the Ambassadors of Japan and Norway and tell
them that you wish their countries would stop killing us whales.
You can write to them at the following addresses:

JAEAN: [NICQRWAY‘s

His Excellency Takakazu Kuriyama His Excellency Kjeld Vibe
Ambassador of Japan Ambassador of NorWay
2520 Massachusetts Ave., NW 2720 34th St. NW
Washington, DC. 20008 Washington, DC. ‘ 20008

 




Believe us, we are happy being whales. We don’t want to be
face cream, fertilizer, or mink food. We are physically defenseless
against your technology. All we can do is extend to you our
gestures of friendship and our pleas for compassion. Maybe you
have heard of my cousin Nacho, the California Gray whale who made
history by seeking human companionship. My Gray cousins have, to
a degree, overcome their fear of you humans and are expressing
their friendship. The California Gray whales were protected from
US whalers from 1971 until now. However, the Makah Tribe from
Washington State, backed by the US. government, is seeking
permission from the International Whaling Commission to kill five
Gray Whales a year. Be sure to write to President Clinton begging
not to support the killing of my California cousins. His address is:

President Clinton
The White House
Washington, D.C. 20500

The final decision regarding the fate of us whales lies entirely in
your hands. Please show a little humanity. After all, isn’t
“humanity” supposed to be one of your outstanding “human”
characteristics? The similarity of the two words is no mere
coincidence. Please help save us!

Yourfﬁend,
A Blue Whale

.
- ‘-

\.

~‘a

H4
\'~\
‘\

‘9

\a
Animal Welfare Institute P.0. Box 3650 \Eé‘, Washington, D.C. 20007

 




 

Hearings on the Brown bill,

house companion to the Dole bill

Back in the House Agriculture Committee, described in the Ann Landers column seems to be some lack of adequate standards
where since 1965, all legislation to protect published that morning which he placed in for the use of laboratory animals.” He spoke
laboratory animals in the United States has the record of the hearings. He assured Con- of The Psychology Department in Berkeley,
been initiated, an all-day hearing was con- gressman Harley Staggers (D,WV), who noting that the supervising veterinarian, was
ducted September 19th by Congressman questioned the enforcement of the Animal so dissatisfied with conditions for the animals
George E Brown, _]r. (D»CA) 0“ his ht”, Welfare Act, that there is “compliance with that he refused to sign the annual reports. “I
H-R-5725, the Improved Standards for the guidelines in general throughout the like the University of California,” he said,
Laboratory Animals Act. With Mr. Brown in research communi-ty” and that “periodic site “I’m an alumnus of it myself and I think it's

. the Chair as head or the Subcommittee 0" visits will tune up the system.” And when the a great institution, but, it may be that we
Department Operations, ' Research, and Congressman pressed him further, he said, ' have a situation somewhat like we have here
Foreign Agriculture, the hearing began With a “I don’t share the implication that there is in Congress, with our Ethics Committee. We
statement by the ranking Republican Pat widespread abuse of animals that justifies don’t always diligently pursue some of the
RObCI’tS (R,KS), WllO thanked Chairman legislation,” allegations that we might just because we are
Brown for his leadership and spoke warmly 0f Chairman Brown said that some of the in- all part of the same club, you know, institu-
the senior Senator from Kansas, Robert stitutions on the list NIH found “adequate to' tional framework, It’s that kind of problem
Dole, author 0f the Senate bill, 8'657' 00“” excellent” had been found out of compliance that I think we need to be concerned
gressman Roberts said, “We can’t tolerate by USDA, and he inquired as to whether the about . , . Are you concerned about that, Dr.
any inhumane treatment.” NIH visits were announced or unannounced. Wyngaarden?” asked the Chairman.

Congressman Charles Rose (D,NC), a Dr. Wyngaarden referred this question to his “I do think the performance record of
member or the ht“ House Agriculture Com- Deputy, Dr. William E. Raub, who replied NIH . . . indicates that even to the point of
mittee, appeared before the Subcommittee to that the visits are announced in advance and terminating support when necessary we can
state that “This is an extremely fair and said, “Our total thrust is looking at systemic be firm and forceful when the situation re-
realistic bill.” Mr. Rose said that he had seen strengths or weaknesses more than specific quires that” replied the NIH Director.
himself “that there has been abuse.” Prais- remedies.” The Chairman pursued the ques- “Generally speaking though the situation
ing the bill’s requirement for thStttUttOha] tion of NIH’s supervision of its grantees. only requires that when there’s aloud public
committeesi he said: “This is important “Generally your statement presents an en- hue and cry,” said Bmwn. “l’m conremed
because for the first time the public and the couraging analysis of the situation with that we do everything we can to create sys-
people concerned With the treatment and regard to research using live animals;” he terns which will help to overcome that as
well-being Of these animals Wt“ have input. said, “Yet we still find examples and they are much as possible.”

This legislation also establishes for the first in very prestigious institutions where there
time a data base that contains Information on

all the completed animal research. In addi-
tion, this data base will provide information
on improved methods for minimizing pain
and alternatives to using animals for
research.” The Congressman said he was
“very distressed to learn that there are farm
groups opposed to the bill. I hope,” he said,
‘ ‘they understand that laboratory animals are
not farm animals, and because of the kind of
experiments that they undergo and the pain
they suffer, they deserve special attention.”
Mr. Bert Hawkins, Administrator of the
U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal
and Plant Health Inspection Service, testified am . . .
for the Department. He stated that as Ad- ; Dr. John Scamcr (third from left) Honorary Secretary of the British VcrcnnaryAssoaanon testiﬁes on
ministrator, he had placed a great emphasis behalf of Humane Information Services in favor ofHR5725. He is ﬂanked by representatives oiaommcr
on compliance with the Act. “We are citing dill intent!!! opposingtbc bill.
people regularly,” he said, and publicizing
the facts. He promised that given another SUPPORT FROM PRESIDENT JEAN MAYER
year, enforcement of the Act would be much
improved. With regard to H.R. 5725, the The first public witness was Dr. Frank Loew, Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine,
Department position might best be described Tufts University, speaking in the place of the University’s President, Jean Mayer who was unable
as neutral. to be present. Dr. Mayer, a distinguishednutritional scientist, advisor to Presidents and the
Following Administrator Hawkins was Dr. Senate, has been repeatedly honored nationally and internationally. As a leader, his support for
james B, Wyngaarden, Director of the Na- H.R. 5725 is highly significant, and it is consistent with his published statements of concern for
tional Institutes of Health. Dr. Wyngaarden needless animal suffering. In a New York Times op ed piece he expressed opposition to painful ex-
told the Subcommittee that NIH “relies on a periments by high school students.
written system” of assurances and “has not Dean Loew said, “I’m here to speak in credentials include chairmanship of the Insti-
felt the need to establish routine inspections,” support of the proposed legislation. I bring tute for Laboratory Animal Resources/Na-
but he referred to the random site visits you greetings from jean Mayer.” Loew’s tional Academy of Sciences, presidency of the

 

 

 

 




 

Association of Veterinary Colleges and mem-
bership in the Society of Toxicology and
American Institute of Nutrition, part of the
Federation of American Societies for Experi-
mental Biology. He pointed out that he was
not representing any societies but expressing
his personal scientific opinion. He noted that
the public expects accountability from all
scientists, including research with human
subjects and DNA. He characterized criti-

cisms based on costs as “particularly weak.”
He said scientists risk loss of public faith and
Congressional faith.

On enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act
he said the USDA staff is too small and its
legal support is stretched too thinly so that it is
a scapegoat for real or imagined problems.
Praising Chairman Brown, he said, “The
Animal Welfare Act is good. Your proposal
will make it better.” And he emphasized that
“a sound, properly enforced law can help
scientists as well as animals. ”

Explaining the reason for opposition by
some scientific groups, he said, “There can
be orthodoxy in science just as in anti-
science.”

The next witness provided an instant dem-
onstration of that orthodoxy. Dr. G.L. Van
Hoosier urged an 18-month study before
legislating. He expressed fear that “the dif-
ference between legislation and guidelines
could cause confusion,” thought action
should wait till the revised NIH Guide was
“tested in the field,” and felt that “adjunct
methods” (a phrase used by those who shud-
der at the very idea of alternatives for labora-
tory animals) could “only be developed
through research, not research on research.”
He said, “We do not need more legislation,
just more support for research and animal
care training.” And be joined in attacks on
the “Scapegoat” mentioned by Dean Loew:
The US. Department of Agriculture.

Dr. John McCardle, speaking for the Hu-
mane Society of the United States told the
subcommittee that he had had ten years ex-
perience working with experimental animals
including experimental surgery. ”I was told
by my superiors not to worry about post-
operative pain becuase animals don’t feel
pain.”

Dr. Glenn Geelhoed, representing the
Association of American Medical Colleges
and the National Society for Medical Re—
search said “We regret that we cannot offer
our full support of H.R. 5725 at this time”
and like all the opponents of the bill called for
more study, insisting there have been only “a
few isolated instances of noncompliance”
which he said “were the exception not the
rule” and ”very, very rare.” He urged the
Chairman to postpone action “until all efforts
to develop and revise existing guidelines were
completed and their implementation by three
agencies analyzed for effectiveness.” [Dr.
Geelhoed refers to the welter of recommenda-

tions, guidelines, policies and principles being
proposed by NIH, the most recent one only
published in The Federal Register in
August]. The postponement he proposes
could be extended indefinitely. The obvious
aim of AAMC and NSMR, who object
specifically to H.R. 5725’s requirement that
the institutional committee review “practices
involving pain to unanesthetized animals ‘to
ensure compliance with standards of animal
care, treatment and practices and that pain
and distress is minimized.”’ According to
Dr. Geelhoed this “severely undermines the
time-honored and proven peer review process
of the research institutions.” [It’s obvious he
has not viewed the tapes taken of themselves
by scientists at the University of Penn-
sylvariia’s Head Injury Clinic. See quotes on
page 9.]

The American Physiological Society was
represented by Dr. Walter Randall. While
referring to the NIH, Public Health Service,
and Interagency Research Animal Commit-
tee guidelines which he said “could and
should accomplish most of what is being pro—
posed” in H.R. 5725, he commendably re-
frained from demanding postponement and
study. “If Congress has conclusive evidence
that the standards for laboratory animals 11"
quire additional legislative restrictions the
Society would then support the concept of
amending the Animal Welfare Act” he said.

“The Society, applauds Congressman
Brown for inclusion of our recommendations
and for his sensitive understanding of our
concerns," Dr. Randall said. He reported on
a substantial decrease in the use of animals
for teaching physiology. An APS survey of
physiology departments indicates that the use
of animals for teaching has dropped from
90% in 1979 to 66% in 1984.

The afternoon session began with strong
opposition to H.R. 5725 by the President of
the Association for BiOmediml Research
(ABR) Edward C. Melby, Jr., Dean of Cor-
nell Veterinary College. Dr. Melby’s oppo-
sition is understandable because 1) ABR is a
trade organization founded by the world’s
biggest laboratory animal salesmen, Charles
River Breeding Laboratories, which Melby
serves as a consultant. Charles River spends
large sums for promotion of maximum sales
and does not want them decreased as a result
of the bill’s requirement that investigators
consider alternatives, and 2) Cornell Veteri-
nary College inspection reports, obtained by
the Animal Welfare Institute under the Free-
dom of Information Act show repeated, major
“deficiencies” and “alleged violations” as
recorded by USDA’s veterinary inspectors.
For example on four different inspections
from 1981-84 dogs were found in cages so
small they did not meet the minimum start-
dards. The inspector noted, 3/17/82 “Al-
though dogs have been removed from the
poorest caging, there are still dogs digging at

the ceiling, making holes in the wall board."
Problems with rabbits are similar, small, in-
sanitary cages repeatedly cited by the USDA
veterinarian who wrote 12/2/82 “There is no
evidence that cages are being sanitized . . ,
pans under rabbit cages have large quantiﬁes
of fecal matter in them and no evidence that
they are being emptied once/week.” Wong;
still'11/20/80 “The rabbits in all threerooms
of this facility had either no water or very
small amounts of water (i.e. less than approx-
imately 1-2 teaspoons).”

Serious neglect of a sick cat was noted
7/23/81 “In the cat room, in the breedrn' g col-
ony ail, emaciated cat with diarrhea, eye
discharge was observed. The caretaker did
not know if vet carehad been provided and
stated that he did not think the cat was being
treated, had been treated, or had been given
an examination. The cat should be removed
immediately, given veterinary care, and kept
isolated from cats of the breeding colony.”

With such extensive failure to live up the
minimum standards of the Animal Welfare
Act by Cornell Veterinary College, it was
startling indeed to hear the Dean propose
ABR “assistance’ ’ to the USDA inspectors in
the form of a “training program with
AAALAC.” Dean Melby said this was “to,
make sure all APHIS inspectors have the
same training.” But what sort of training
would a trade association with a vested inter-
est in the status quo offer? USDA will be bet-
ter off doing its own training.

Melby said ABR supports the Walgren
amendments to the NIH reauthorization bill
(H.R. 2350) concerning the outside member
on the institutional committee. The reason
ABR likes this greatly weakened version of
the bill Congressman Walgren tried to pass is
that the key provision is omitted, namely that
the committee member who is not afﬁliated
with the institution “shall be responsible fOr
representing community concerns regarding
the welfare of animal subjects." This provi-
sion in H.R. 5725 is fiercely opposed by ABR
and its cohorts.

Dr. Barbara Orlans, founder of the Scien-
tists Center for Animal Welfare and a mem'
ber of long standing on the Scientific Advisory
Committee of the Animal Welfare Institutc
testified in support of H.R. 5725, emphaflz’
ing the importance of the role of the institu-
tional committee, concerning which the
Center has conducted surveys and BMW”-
Bm Dr. Marshall Steinberg speaking for the
Society for Toxicology claimed "It If 009'
ceivable the community could not pIOVldC an
outside member of the institutional commlt'
tee.” He opposed the bill.

Harold C. Brown, jr. spoke for the Na'
tional Association of Life Science Industries.
Inc., a trade association of contract labora'
tories. He thought service on the institution?!
committee was “not particularly amm‘f‘
and he hammered on the issue of protecting




underwen—amanerthatthe Food and
Drug Administration has dealt with suc-
cessfully in the institutional review boards
which include more than one outside
member.

Marc Rosenberg speaking for the National
Coalition on Science and Technology said the
bill requires “a broad consensus,” but he
wanted to divide its provisions into other laws
and regulations -- hardly conducive to ad-
vancihg a rapid consensus.

Honorary Secretary of the British Veteri-

Association, Dr. John Seamer, flew
from England to present testimony at the
hearing on behalf of Humane Information
Services, a strong supporter of H.R. 5725.
The Chairman noted that "the British have
had legislation for more than one hundred
years and their experience would be valuable
to us.” Dr. Seamer emphasized the impor»
tance of the “pain condition” in the British
Act, which states, “If an animalat any time
during (such) experiment is found to be sub
fering severe pain which is likely to endure,
such animal shall forthwith be painlessly
killed.” Dr. Seamer continued, "Thus,
regardless of the nature or purpose of the ex-
periment, and regardless of whether or not a
result has been achieved, it is the rule that
any animal suffering severe pain which is
likely to endure shall be killed forthwith. He
reported that the British Veterinary Asso-
ciation with the support of the Committee for
the Reform of Animal Experimentation and
the Fund for Replacement of Animals in
Medical Experiments wants all experiments
to be subject to the ocndition that any animal
suffering severe pain or severe distress that
cannot be alleviated should be killed. In
response to the Chairman’s questions.
Seamer indicated that “a government White
paper is anticipated within the lifetime of the
present government.” He said certain pro-
cedures are not permitted in Britain and gave
the Noble-Collip Drum‘ as an example.
Congressman Brown asked, “Who makes
that judgment?" Dr. Seamer replied that it is
complex: the person making the application
discusses it with The Home Ofﬁce inspector,
and ifthey can’t reach agreement it goes to
the Advisory Committee. The decision rests
ultimately with the Home Secretary.

The last panel began with The American
Farm Bureau represented by Sttlart Proctor
who said emotional arguments were being
used to fabricate a problem where one does
not exist with regard to farm animals and he
questioned whether “Congress has been pre'
sented with sufficient evidence to substantiate
the need for corrective legislation” With
laboratory animals. “Congress," he “id. ".-
bcing asked to overreact to an undocumcnwd
problem.”

The Fund for Animals testimony, present-
0d by Gretchen Wyler, contained many pages
of documentation, and Ms. Wyler presented

.Amh‘mmallanimalsaremmﬂdo

52 letters from physicians and veterinarians
supporting H.R. 5725. She cited ways in
which the Brown bill would have prevented
the mistreatment of the baboons at the
University of Pennsylvania. “Your bill is not
anti-science,” she said, “It would distinguish
us as a more civilized nation.”

Steve Kopperud, Legislative Director of
the American Feed Manufacturers Associa-
tion expressed the view that the Secretary of
Agriculture possesses authority under the
Animal Welfare Act to promulgate regula-
tions providing for all the requirements of the
bill except the criminal penalties for release of
trade secrets. He said the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration enters into contractual ar-
rangements with the non-afﬁliated member of
the institutional review boards which cor-
responds, in experiments with human beings,
to the institutional committee in the BroWn
and Dole bills to protect animals. “This con-
tractual protection has been sufﬁcient for
FDA,” he said, .“and there is no reason it
would not be sufﬁcient for USDA. ” Thus did
one industry representative answer the com-
plaints of representatives of another segment
of industry!

Donald McCaig, sheep farmer and author
of Nop's Trials, which describes the adven-
tures of a border collie stolen and sold to a
laboratory, testified, “H.R. 5725 is a good
bill. It promotes the most basic sort of animal
husbandry. It should save tax revenues and
will certainly reduce animal pain. Most live-
stock farmers who knew its provisions would

support it wholeheartedly."

The last witness, Christine Stevens speak-
ing on behalf of the Society for Animal Pro-
tective Legislation, presented data collected
by the Animal Welfare Institute under the
freedom of Information Act which shows
“Major and repeated ‘deﬁciencies’ or ‘al-
leged violations’ of the minimum standards of
the Animal Welfare Act by 23.7% of the sam-
ple of 186 institutions whose inspection
reports and annual reports have so far been
examined. Another 22% have less frequent
major violations; 28.5% have only minor
ones; 1.6% are under investigation.
Thus, even using the most optimistic assump-
tions only 24.2% of registered
research facilities are regularly meeting the

existing minimum standards of the Animal
Welfare Act!"

”The number of animals used is higher in
40.9% of the 44 institutions in the second
year, demonstrating that the glib and often
repeated statement that the use of animals is
just naturally decreasing and there is no need
of legislative encouragement in this area to be
far from accurate. It is noteworthy, too, that
77.3% of these severely deﬁcient institutions
were rewarded by an inaease in NIH funds
in the second year noted. 22.7% of the 44
used more animals and got more money from
NIH despite their bad record with USDA."

The full record of the hearings when print-
ed will be available from the Superintendent
of Documents.

Chaimran George ' .

Nop ’5 Trials

7 Available free on request: Reprints of

by Christine Stevens.

from author Donald Mt.‘(.'aig.

an article from the September 27, 1984 issue of Nature
international edition, “Mistreatment of laboratory anirnals endangers biomedical research

 

 




 

Commentary on Videotapes taken by scientists at the Head Injury Clinical Research Center, University
of Pennsylvania from testimony of Christine Stevens, Society for Animal Protective Legislation.

 

Because the original tapes were stolen from
the laboratory by a group called the Animal
Liberation Front, copies are not being shown
in the House of Representatives. People for
the Ethical Treatment of Animals has a half-
hour of excerpts from a copy of the 60-hour
long tapes which can be viewed by all in-
terested persons. In looking at this half-hour,
I noted numerous graphic illustrations of

been prevented by the legislation. Selecting
seven sequences, I wrote corresponding cita-
tions of the bill’s provisions, and this material
follows. The relevance of the bill is given in
all capitals, the experimenters’ remarks in
lower case.

I should state that the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation does not endorse the
theft of the tapes. After consultation with

and view these copies of the incriminating
evidence. Excerpts have already been widely
viewed on television. We believe an examination
of them will be of value to the Congress in
understanding why there is such vehement and
constantly increasing dissatisfaction with in-
proper conduct of animal experimentation, as
vividly documented in these tapes. And it is
especially relevant to Congress since it shows so

needless suffering which would have

Sequence I THE HEAD INJURY CLINICAL RESEARCH CENTER OF
THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA RECEIVED NEARLY A MIL-
LION DOLLARS FROM THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
IN 1983. '

THE BROWN BILL WOULD PREVENT DISCRIMINATION
AGAINST PERSONNEL WHO REPORT ANIMAL MISTREATMENT
TO THE INSTITUTION’S ANIMAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE SO
THAT CORRECTIONS CAN BE MADE WITHOUT ADVERSE
PUBLICITY.

THIS BABOON IS UNDERGOING SURGERY WITHOUT ADE-
QUATE ANES'THESIA. NOTE THE ANIMAL RAISING HIS TAIL. THIS
IS CRUEL ON-THE-JOB LEARNING. NOTE ONE EXPERIMENTER
HOLDING DOWN THE BABOON’S LEG.

‘(a) Oh! He’s lifting his head! Come on, baby!

(b) I better get some nitrous. [nitrous oxide, an anesthetic agent]

(a) Stop! stop, for heaven’s sake. He wants to get up. He says I’ve had it. It
hurts him, for Christ’s sake. All you got to do is make a little slit in the periosteum
and push it back.

(b) Ya, but it bleeds.

(a) You got to do something to control the bleeding. That’s what the bovie is
for . . . Not there, There!

THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES TRAINING SESSIONS FOR SCIEN-
TISTS AND TECHNICIANS IN METHODS TO LIMIT A IMAL PAIN
AND DISTRESS. IT REQUIRES THE USE OF PAIN ELIEVING
DRUGS TO MINIMIZE SUCH PAIN. IT PROVIDES FOR AN INFOR-
MATION SERVICE ON IMPROVED METHODS SUCH AS ANESTHE-
TIC AND ANALGESIC PROCEDURES.

THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES THAT PAIN RELIEVING DRUGS
NEVER BE WITHHELD LONGER THAN NECESSARY.

Sequence II THIS BABOON IS ABOUT TO BE SUBJECTED TO HIS
SECOND INJURY

(a) This is monkey B9. The monkey now weighs 8.8 kilos. The animal is down
for a second lateral bang. That’s him waving. As you can see, the monkey’s
awake, moving all extremities. That’s his trainer who’s taught him how to do

EEG, blood pressure etcetera. The animal is to be thrust in the lateral position to
become a chronic animal, uh, for long term studies.

(b) You might want to mention the monkey’s already been banged once.
(a) I said that, a second bang.

(b) Did you say that?

(a) This is his second bang. He was banged once at 680 g force and quickly
recovered. Cheer leading over in the corner‘we have B_ 10., B 10 wishes his
counterpart well. As you can see, B 10 is alive. B 10 is watching and hoping for a
good result for future B 17 over here.

CASION FOR MERRIMENT

(a) Change his name, and we’ll call him “Slim. ” We Could run a diet service,
bring ’em in slam ’em, put ’em to bed. (hammering and laughter) Thibault’s
weight reduction clinic.

THE HELMET WHICH IS CEMENTED TO THE BABOON’S HEAD
WITH DENTAL CEMENT IS BEING HAMMERED WITH A CAR-
PENTER’S HAMMER AND SCREW DRIVER TO BREAK IT APART.
(a) We don’t know where to put ’em. This guy’s waking up. Conceivably we
will come in and they’ll be running around the lab. He’s moving! He’s moving!
He has this little string on his tail. We just pull. (more hammering) Push!
Ooh! It’s a boy!

counsel, we fmd that it is not illegal to show

those tricks. The animal is mounted in a helmet. He is monitored for ICP, EKG, ‘

Sequence III REMOVAL OF THE HELMET APPEARS TO BE AN OC— ‘

clearly the waste of government money.

THIS CRUDE METHOD or REMOVING THE HELMET CAUSE—sH
UNQUANTIFIED TRAUMA TO THE EXPERIMENTAL SUBJECT.

(3) We’re thinking of going on strike. The contract says no more than three
comatose boonies at any one time. That is in the contract. (more hammering)

(a) Seems like I left a little ear behind.

(b) Oooohay!

THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES THE INSTITUTIONAL COMMI'I'TEE
TO BE NOTIFIED OF ANY CHANGE IN PRACTICES ADVERSELY AF —
FECTING THE WELFARE OF THE ANIMALS. USE OF HAMMER
AND SCREWDRIVER WERE NOT MENTIONED IN THE GRANT
REQUEST.

Sequence IV RESEARCHERS, STANDING OVER ANOTHER BABOON
ON THE OPERATING TABLE, DISCUSS THE LACK OF SANITATION

(a) Why is it so dusty down here? Why, because they’re basically incompetent
down here. Well, I mean, just in general our procedures cause dust.

They don’t . . . They’re not regular in cleaning at all, and I’ve called them
three times. When they do clean they’re half-ass.

Lately the ventilation system has been spewing out some sort of . . . dust. It’s
the type of thing. . . Ya, I don’t, you know. I complain about it, but you
know . . . When you come down here it smells like urine.

(b) We have three months of urine down in the bottom of that thing . . .
Urine asphyxiation . . . toxicity.

(a) We had to get her out of that. She was just filling it up with buckets of
unne.

THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES SEMI-ANNUAL INSPECTIONS BY AN
ANIMAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE INCLUDING A VETERINARIAN
AND AN OUTSIDE MEMBER RESPONSIBLE FOR REPRESENTING
COMMUNITY CONCERNS FOR THE WELFARE OF THE ANIMAL
SUBJECTS. UNCORRECTED DEFICIENCIES MUST BE REPORTED
TO THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND FUNDING
AGENCIES.

Sequence V WHILE CONDUCTING A SURGICAL PROCEDURE ON
ANOTHER BABOON’S HEAD, THE EXPERIMENTER, WHO WEARS
NO MASK, CAP OR STERILE CLOTHING, DROPS AN INSTRUMENT
ON THE FLOOR, PICKS IT UP WITHOUT REMOVING HIS GLOVES
AND WITHOUT STERILIZING IT, CONTINUES THE OPERATION.
THE SURGEON IS SMOKING A PIPE. AN ASSISTANT IS SMOKING A
CIGARETTE, AND A THIRD BENDS OVER THE UNDRAPED BA-
BOON ON THE OPERATING TABLE, HOLDING A CIGARETTE
WITH A LONG ASH IN HIS MOUTH. (more smoking) THE BROWN
BILL PROVIDES THAT A FEDERAL AGENCY SUSPEND OR REVOKE
SUPPORT FOR A PROJECT IF ANIMAL CARE, TREATMENT OR
PRACTICES HAVE NOT BEEN IN COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE
STANDARDS. THE NIH GUIDE’WAS REPEATEDLY VIOLATED IN
THIS NONSTERILE SURGERY.

Sequence VI THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES THAT A VETERINARIAN
BE CONSULTED IN THE PLANNING OF ANY PROCEDURE INVOLV-
ING PAIN TO UNANESTHETIZED ANIMALS. NOTE THE BABOON
PULLING AGAINST THE BONDS ON HIS LEGS AND SWITCHING
HIS TAIL AS THE MACHINE ADMINISTERS THE POWERFUL
FORCE.

Sequence VII (a) Come on, monkey, hang in there just a little longer, baby! 4
A DYING BABOON IS ATTENDED ONLY BY A STUDENT WHO
CURSES “THE PROBLEM” BUT CANNOT DEAL WITH IT. THE
BROWN BILL REQUIRES POST-SURGICAL CARE IN ACCORDANCE
WITH ESTABLISHED MEDICAL AND NURSING PROCEDURES.

 

It is regrettable indeed that spokesmen for
the University of Pennsylvania asserted
publicly that the baboons were anesthetized
and felt no pain. These statements show
remarkably poor judgment in as much as: l)
The videotape clearly shows a baboon

 

undergoing head surgery with

inadequate anesthesia (see above, “It hurts
him for Christ’s sake”); and 2) The NIH pro-
tocol for the grant states that the general
anesthetic is allowed to wear off for a full hour
before the massive injury is inflicted. Line 1,
page 193 of the grant application reads,
‘ ‘Through the endotracheal tube

the animal spontaneously ventilates 70-80%
nitrous oxide anesthesia until 1 hour before
acceleration after which it breathes room air.”

To cap it all, the University of Pennsylvania
claims in its annual report to the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture that it caused no unrelieved
pain to animals!

 

 

 




 

Elie Washington 1330

 

/
st
mil T T1

 

CORP CHRISTI. TEXAS
12A ednesday, Sept. 19. 1984

m

——

Research cruelty

More humane treatment of laboratory
animals is aim of legislation

century ago Charles Darwin
told a Royal Commission
that experiments involving
cruelty to animals were
“damnable” unless they pro-
vided knowledge otherwise
unobtainable.

They are no less damnable today than they
were in Darwin’s time, but they continue to
proliferate in this country. There are laws to
prevent cruelty to animals, but not when it
involves laboratory eXperiments.

Over the years, there have been numerous
attempts to set up standards governing the
treatment of laboratory animals, and without
exception the various legislativeefforts have
failed. Laboratory researchers have bitterly op-
posed all efforts to require the humane treat-
ment of laboratory animals, like the present
effort in Congress by Sen. Bob Dole, sponsor
of Senate Bill 657 and Rep. George Brown,
sponsor of a companion bill in the House, HR
5725.

This legislation has long been needed. The
mistreatment of animals by research institu-
tions is a national disgrace.

An estimated 60 million animals are used for
laboratory experiments each year. Many of the
experiments involve needless suffering and in-
adequate care. Many, if not most, of the ani-
mals are not given anesthetics during painful
experiments. Consider these examples provid-
ed in a booklet by the Society of Animal
Protective Legislation in Washington:

I “A beagle dog is used in a massive burn

experiment. Note the crouching posture (pic-

ture shown) whereby the dog is trying to re'-
lieve the misery of lying on a
wire—mesh-bottom cage after its skin has been
burned off.”

I “A monkey miserably holds her head,

covering the empty eye socket where an eye
was excised by the experimenter. Like many
other monkeys she will be used again in other
experiments.”

/ “Cats whose eyelids were sewn shut were
then put in monkey cages. This blinded cat
(photo shown) is trying to escape through a
hole intended for a monkey water bottle.
These sightless creatures often went thirsty and
hungry for .lack of properly secured food and
water bowls. They could not help blundering
into the easily tipped bowls and spilling their
contents.”

J Then there is the case of “Snowball,” a
Samoyed that was found in the doorway ufa
VA hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. The dog was
covered with deeply infected wounds. There
was a gaping six-inch- hole in its groin area.
The dog. was also found to be suffering from
pneumonia and dehydration. A veterinarian
put the animal to sleep, after determining that
it was “suffering tremendously.” The Veterans
Administration denied the animal had been
mistreated and said it had received “excellent
treatment.”

The Dole and Brown bills would discourage
such “excellent treatment.” The legislation lS
aimed at ending painful experiments when
possible, or minimizing pain by requiring
pain-relieving drugs in other cases. It would
require researchers to certify that they had

 




considered alternatives other than the use of
live animals. And the legislation would require
every institution that uses research animals to
appoint a committee to review the experi-

ments twice a year.

congressional approval.

creatures like Snowball of that.

It is a modest bill that should be given quick

. 5 '3'

Snowball as a happy family pet (left) and as a victim of animal research (right)

..- ._.. A .. 72—“. -

We like to tell ourselves that civilization has
made us more humane — but you would have
a hard time convmcing the pitiful research

 

Curb needless suffering

HE USE OF animals in medical re-

search is almost certain to contin~

ue, despite the justified protests
from animal-lovers about the pain such
research sometimes causes animals.

Therefore, what is needed is a way to
control such research, eliminating or at,
least curtailing the suffering of animals
while allowing the research to continue.

Legislation introduced in Congress by
Sen. Robert Dole, R-Kan., and Rep.
George E. Brown Jr., D-Callf., seems to
meet those requirements. The bills, 5
657 and HR 5725, would broaden the
standards governing research facilities,
set up animal study committees to re-
view conditions in the facilities and es-
tablish procedures for the use of pain-re-
lieving drugs on animal research
subjects.

They would also provide for an infor-
mation service at the National Agricul-
tural Library that would compile and
distribute research information that

could help eliminate or reduce the use
of animals, minimize pain and distress
and reduce tile duplication of research.

Although there are about 60 million
animals usedE for research in the United
States each year, such research is go-
verned only by a minimal set of stand-
ards contained in the Animal Welfare
Act. The Dole and Brown bills would ex-
pand those standards as an amendment
to the Animal Welfare Act.

The two bills set up the kind of re-
search controls that we felt were lacking
in the California legislation drawn up by
State Sen. David Roberti, D-Hollywood,
which was rejected by an Assembly
committee in June. We opposed the R0-
berti bill because of that lack, but we
support the Dole and Brown legislation.
We urge. the Senate and House to pass
the legislation, and we urge interested
citizens to contact their senators and
representatives.

 

9IUJ°M|90 'ONV °|9d

 

=3
3
5.
5.
§
(b

 




\‘53
Q
as
3:
2
en
.5
5‘
m
d

23
2-:-
k9

ISUI‘C

s
.8.
E3
.25
5
CI}
J
>—4
E

O R 2

Friday, September 21, 1984

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

uWhat evidence is there that mistreatment; of laboratory animals is a problem?"

 

By Henry Mitchell

Savagery and Science

And Civilization’s Stake

Death and unalleviated suffering
are perfectly acceptable in both hu-
mans and animals—even in, your
favorite hound—on occasion.

Not that those are desirable

Illustration by Susan mm to: The Wuhmgtori. Post.

things, but when they are unavoid-
able they do not raise feelings of
disgust. Thus an old bleeding heart
like me has had no trouble at all
being first on the scene when young
men died in car accidents. It was
not pleasant, but it was neither dis-
gusting nor traumatic to pull one of
them away from his truck where
the gasoline was pouring down on
him. He died a few minutes later,
and anyone would feel a surge of
grief at a life cut short, senselessly
as we would say.

But disgust and rage are absent.

Neither is there cause for rage
when kids accidentally let your fa-
vorite hound out of his yard and he
is hit by a car as you watch, and you
pick him up and on the way to the

vet’s he struggles over on the seat
to rest his head on your lap. No evil
attaches to the kids or to the driver
that hit him or the vet that tried to
save him. The emptiness remains,
but it is a condition of having been
born in the first place that such
events will happen not once or
twice but many times and it is sim
ple wisdom to accept them.

It is entirely different, though, if
the same death or the same suffer-
ing is caused deliberately, for no
sane purpose. Savagery is very
much part of the nature of all hu-
mans I have ever known, and that is
one reason civilized nations have
gone to such efforts to restrain it or
redirect it.

Most of us get through the world

without murdering people or pulling
wings off birds because we mutually
support each other in civilized
ways, but it must be a naive human
indeed who has not noticed unat-
tractive things in himself.

If we somehow miss that back-
and-forth exchange with the civi-
lized world, however, or if our laws,
courts, government officials and so
on slide back from civilized stano
dards, then we or any other people
allow our natural savagery to come
forth, and this tensions'between
what we think we believe and what
we really are has always been the
main crisis of civilization.

Almost every American, I think,
would object strongly to a guy who
for the sake of entertainment

 

 

 

soaked small cats, or even large
ones, in turpentine and set them
afire. Civilization has insinuated it-
self so deeply into the national life
that we may be startled to notice
how civilized we really are cat-
turpentinewise.

If, however, somebody tells us
that animals are routinely tortured
in laboratories, we do not for a sec—
ond believe it, and we suppose the
messenger is some sort of nut who
perhaps is anti-science, or who is so
hopelessly sentimental in the worst
meaning of the word that we should
avoid him in the future.

Most of us believe—though we
concede there are various argu»;
ments to the contrary—that it is
acceptable to conduct experiments
on animals when the purpose is to
advance medical knowledge, to de-
velop new techniques (burn therapy
comes to mind, for surely humans
are now alive who even a few years
ago would have died from burns
before these sophisticated therapies
were developed) and to add to se-
rious knowledge generally.

We are convinced the govern-
ment has set standards for humane
treatment of laboratory animals.
We believe it is the law that animals
may not be tortured for frivolous

—_

4—

reasons. We believe scientists are
as humane as any other group of
ordinary Americans and like the
rest of us have known what it is .to
.love a dog.

So we hear with considerable an-
noyance the repeated and now in-
creasing volume of protest against
practices in scientific laboratories
with research animals.

At hearings this week by a con-
gressional subcommittee chaired by
Rep. George Edward Brown Jr. (D-
Calif.) on the subject of legislation
to regulate humane methods of re-
search, one view was frequently
expressed:

While there may have been one
or two widely publicized incidents of
heartless treatment in laboratories,
by and large the animals are treated
with tremendous concern for their
sufferings. Especially in laborato-
ries accredited by groups con-
cerned with laboratory animals, it is
virtually unheard of for animals to
be mistreated, or housed badly, or
otherwise made to suffer. And in
those researches on animals that
necessarily result in pain and death,
every effort is made to insure that
no animal suffers needlessly, but is
given anesthetics or a humane
death when recovery is not possi-

ble.

This is a highly civilized view.
The only trouble with it is that it
may be factually wrong.

“What evidence is there, after all,
that mistreatment of laboratory
animals is a problem in the first
place?” This question was repeat-
edly asked in one form or other dur-
ing the daylong session in the Long-
worth House Office Building.

It is a reasonable question. What
evidence in fact exists?

There are reports of inspectors
sent by the federal government to
check routinely in laboratories.
What do their reports say?

Well, I have read excerpts from
many of them, and I think they say
there is vast room for improvement
in laboratory practices.

Unfortunately, it takes time and
effort to read the reports. It takes
some hours even to read the argu-
ments submitted to the Brown
hearings.

It takes time to read a report
submitted to the regents of the Um-
versrty of California at Berkeley, a
damning study of laboratory am-
mals there, a report including inter-
office confidential memoranda. It
even takes time, and a stronger
stomach than I possess, to view the

tapes stolen from a laboratory at
the University of Pennsylvania,
showing primates in research on
head injuries.

We by and large do not have the
time to explore such questions,
which do not concern us in our daily
rounds. Since we do not want to
hear details, we do not know de-
tails, and wind up saying there is no
evidence beyond the shrill and per-
haps paranoid cries of the few who
protest so loudly. We turn our an-
noyance against the messengers, an
easier thing than trying to weigh
the facts, which can hardly be
weighed without first hearing them.

We neither know nor wish to
know the amount of money involved
(detailed figures are available and
suffice it to say many millions of tax
dollars a year go into it) in scientific
research involving animals. We do
not wish to think of the extent to
which researchers and universities
rely on such money, and wish it to
continue.

We have neither the time nor the
expertise to evaluate the usefulness
to scrence of prying a helmet off a
baboon with a hammer and screw-
driver after the animal, still alive,
has been slammed (to use a labo-
ratory word) to simulate the blows.

received by boxers or car accident
victims.

I find myself unwilling to write
about unsavory things, when what I
really want to do is relay some en-
chanting anecdote about the horse
in London that was in a bomb ex-
plosion but recovered, etc.

If criticism is voiced about lack of
anesthetics, or failures even worse,
will this not be interpreted as sen-
timental anger against science and
research altogether? And God
knows nobody wants to read it any
more than a writer wants to write
it, so usually the thing is unsaid and
unheard and we wind up saying
there is no evidence.

There is evidence and it is sick-
ening. Legislation is needed, and
those who do not wish to concern
themselves with what amounts to
flamboyant sadism should at least
have the grace not to obstruct the
long hard thankless labors of those
who have not shied from the evi-
dence and who have at last come up
with reasonable and moderate leg-
islation. Which does not restrict any
laboratory experiment, however
painful or fatal, beyond requiring
minimally humane methodology. It
is inconceivable there can be objec-
tions.

 

It is also worth pointing out that
the University of California and the
University of Pennsylvania are not
two-bit institutions. If laboratory
abuses can occur there, they can
occur anywhere, simply because
humane care of animals takes time
and money and careful administra-
tion—things always in short supply.

The tapes stolen (stealing is an
important crime, needless to say)
from the University of Pennsylvania
lab were originally to have been
shown in the Longworth Building,
but governmental objections pre-
vailed and they were shown at St.
Mark’s Church. I sat still for about
five minutes of them, noticing the
rather pretty windows over the al-
tar full of angels making music. The
tapes were shown a few feet in
front of the altar, though the site is
irrelevant. The language of the lab~
oratory experimenters, (“he’s going
to bite your . . .," etc.) is excusable
on the grounds that what was being
done would naturally arouse anxiety

and be reflected in words appropri‘
ate for uneasy men.

All the same, I left, thinking it
probably an esthetic error to vomit
in a sanctuary.

 




Humane Forum

Preventing Needless Pain

By Christine Stevens

 

F‘°’l/lnimals

Published by the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to A nimals

August 1984
Volume 117 Number 4

Secretary, Society for Animal Protective Legislation

Animal abuses in scientiﬁc institutions using ani-
mals for experiments and tests continue to be distressingly
common. Documentation of extreme neglect and other
apparent violations of the federal Animal Welfare Act is
provided by inspection reports that the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation obtained from the US. Department
of Agriculture (USDA) under the Freedom of Information
Act. These reports demonstrate how vitally necessary it was
to pass the laboratory Animal Welfare Act in 1966 and to
strengthen and broaden it with amendments in 1970 and
1976. But the USDA’S veterinary inspectors have to ﬁght hard
to obtain compliance with the law, and the law is still not as
strong as it needs to be.

Major medical schools are still leaving dogs and
monkeys sitting in their own excrement in ﬁlthy cages and
enclosures. Rabbits, dogs, and monkeys are frequently con-
ﬁned in cages too small for them to make even normal pos-
tural adjustments. Many times the cages are deteriorating,
with jagged wires or other metal edges that injure the ani-

mals. In a number of cases, dogs and cats are obtained from
sources that cannot be checked by the USDA. An extreme
example of negligence was found in a facility that kept
rabbits in stacked open cages with a ﬁve-foot drop to a
cement ﬂoor below. Only the USDA’s threat of court action
impels some of these institutions to comply with the law’s
minimum standards.

The existing Animal Welfare Act addresses allevia-
tion of laboratory animal pain only in general terms. New
legislation (S. 657 and H.R. 5725) proposed by Senator
Robert Dole and Congressman George Brown must be
passed to strengthen the required protection of these
animals. It is essential that pre— and post-operative care be
mandated, and that the repeated use of an animal in a series
of painful experiments be curbed. These bills call for an ani—
mal-research committee in each institution, including a vet-
erinarian and a person not employed by the institution, to
represent community concerns for the welfare of the animal
subjects. The committee would make semi-annual animal
inspections and address matters relating to the animals’ wel-
fare and the institution’s prevention of pain and distress.

S. 657 and H.R. 5725 would also require training
sessions for scientists and technicians who work with
animals; these sessions would include information on non—
animal alternatives for use in testing, means of reducing the
number of animals used, and techniques to avoid needless

suffering of laboratory animals. All personnel in the institu—
tion would be instructed to report neglect or mistreatment of
animals to the institution’s animal-research committee so
that prompt correctional action could be taken. To prevent
fear of reprisal against staff members, the bills specify that
they may not be discriminated against for making such
reports. At present, anxiety over possible job loss keeps
laboratory workers from reporting abuses they observe.

These bills also provide for the establishment of
an information service at the National Agricultural Library

for two major purposes: to disseminate information on tech-
niques to reduce, replace, or reﬁne animal experiments and
to reduce unnecessary experiment duplication by providing
a clearinghouse for such data. It should be noted that an
enormous waste of government funds has resulted from the
failure of different agencies that conduct extensive animal
testing to inform one another of their activities. At a
National Institutes of Health (NIH) symposium on testing
methods the Food and Drug Administration’s chairperson of
an interagency review group was asked how much money
had been expended on unnecessary test duplication. He
placed that waste in the billions of dollars.

Other important provisions of the bills require use
of anesthesia on animals paralyzed by curare and similar
drugs; a prohibition against withholding painkillers or
euthanasia from suffering animals (often at the conclusion
of an experiment animals are left to die painfully in their
cages); and a provision for adequate exercise. Although pro—
gressive laboratories no longer subject dogs to perpetual
caging, which used to be virtually standard practice, numer-
ous institutions still deny them the opportunity to stretch
their legs outside their cages. Even current USDA regula-
tions which prohibit hosing cages with dogs inside are being
ﬂouted by a few big, well—known laboratories that receive
tens of millions of taxpayers’ dollars to conduct experiments
on animals.

NIH relies on the American Association for the
Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC) to
assure that institutions they fund are providing appropriate
animal care. But AAALAC accreditation lasts ‘for three
years, and in the interim all kinds of abuses can, and often
do, surface, as is fully documented by USDA veterinary in—
spectors who conduct site visits.

The effort to whitewash conditions in laboratories
is, not surprisingly, led by a trade organization founded by
the biggest laboratory animal dealers and breeders in the
world. Charles River Laboratories, in Wilmington, Massa—
chusetts, organized the Association for Biomedical Re-
search (ABR), an aggressive lobbying group that is cur—
rently pushing for a “study” bill to block action on this
much—needed legislation. The study bill, they gleefully
state, “would more than likely spin off the animal—research
legislation for several years.” Charles River was recently
transferred to Bausch and Lomb, the giant optical company,
under whose aegis an aggressive advertising campaign to
sell not the necessary number of animals for research, but
the maximum number of animals they can persuade institu-
tions to purchase, will continue.

Readers are urged to help combat this threat: write
your Senators and Representatives and urge them to support
S. 657 and H.R. 5725. Your letters are important!

For more information on this critical issue, write Christine
Stevens at the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, R0. Box 3719
Georgetown Station, Washington, DC 20007

 

 




The
Animal
Welfare
Act is in

Danger

Enforcement of America’s principal federal law
for the protection of animals is being
undermined by the National Association for
Biomedical Reseach. Essential regulations for
implementation of amendments passed by the
Congress in 1985, Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals, are being blocked. Efforts
are even being made to weaken regulations that
have been in place for many years to make them
impossible to enforce.

HOW LONG CAN THE LAW BE FLOUTED?

 




Ruth Fremson - Washington Times

 

Millions of animals
suffer needlessly
because the federal law
Congress passed to
protect them is being
eviscerated
by a
lobbyist and
the vested
interests she
represents.

 

I

Frankie Trull

When the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act was passed in
1966 it inspired enormous public support — more letters,
members of Congress reported, than even the Vietnam
War. And when it was broadened and strengthened in
1970, 1976 and 1985, the same public outpouring de-
manded protection for the animals. Now dealing behind
closed doors, the National Association for Biomedical
Research (NABR), is dismantling the mandate of Con-
gress and circumventing the will of the American people.
NABR is trying to erode the existing standards and block
promulgation of the regulations for the Improved Stan-
dards for Laboratory Animals amendments. An objec—
tive analysis from the Government Information Insider
of OMB Watch details what is happening. It is reprinted
in full on the reverse of this leaﬂet.

How can a lobbyist manipulate government agencies
to stop a federal law in its tracks?

The NABR is the brainchild of the biggest supplier of
laboratory animals in the world, Charles River, Inc., now
owned by the industrial conglomerate, Bausch and Lomb.
The more animals are used the more money they make.
They are marketed with slick advertising techniques de-
signed to sell laboratories the maximum numbers. Frankie
Trull, the Executive Director, tells how NABR was cre-
ated in her living room when she was working for Char-
les River. Now, commercial animal dealer inﬂuence is a
driving force that has been able to dictate ofﬁcial corre—

This is a douroculi
monkey, the species
that ﬁgured in a
recent case of
government fraud.
Bolivia, where the
monkeys were
captured, demanded
their return, but the
American dealer,
though his passport
had been conﬁscated,
ﬂed the country.

Ernest Walker

 

spondence from the Office of Science and Technology
Policy and policy at the National Institutes of Health.
Under NABR’s inﬂuence, the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB) not content with years of delay, has
even drawn up a schedule to waste 35 more months before
final regulations on the 1985 law are issued. The Depart-
ment of Agriculture cannot easily ignore the arrogant
“advice” of OMB. That would bring us to 1993, possibly
a record in delaying tactics to undermine the will of
Congress and ﬂout the wishes of the American people.
Former OMB counsel Michael Horowitz has been
successful in gutting the regulations by changing the regu-
latory approach of the Department of Agriculture. NABR
has been insisting that the regulations be rewritten into
“performance standards”, vaguely worded regulations

 

which are generally unenforce-
able. The Ofﬁce of Science and
Technology Policy forthe White
House, whose biomedical re-
search desk is manned by
Frankie Trull friend and former
NIH chief, James Wyngaarden,
issued a letter on the regulations
which repeats the arguments
which NABR has been using
since 1985, when the law was
passed. OMB ordered the regu-
lations withdrawn because of
this letter. The arguments have
all been answered years ago, but

Ernest Walker

 

 

the facts have been overridden Mefglgtztzing
by NABR’s clout. J p hJuman
NABR claims to represent caregiver

the academic community and

many of the statements issued at

NABR events discuss academic freedom. However,
when a New York University professor was sued by Im-
muno AG, a huge multinational Austrian pharmaceutical
Company, because of a letter to the editor, published in
a scientiﬁc journal he edits, NABR submitted testimony
on behalf of Immuno AG. After a ﬁve year battle, the pro-
fessor was vindicated in the First District Court Appel-
late Division which found the suit to be without merit.
NABR then ﬁled an amicus brief for the New York State

Ernest Walker

Because primates are
our closest relatives
in the animal
kingdom, they are
used extensively in
laboratories. A
human hand and
that of 42M
Miracles. the

dourocouli monkey.

 

  
 
 
 
 

Ernest Walker

 

Appeals Court which also dismissed
the suit. When the need for larger
cage sizes for primates in laborato-
ries is being discussed, scientists are
afraid to speak out because they fear
that their NIH grants will not be
continued if they disagree with the
party line that cage size is not im-
portant to the animal, which must
spend his or her life in it. NHL
whose spectacular failure to pre—
vent cruelty to animals in grants
they funded led to enactment by
Congress of the Improved Stan-
dards for Laboratory Animals
amendments, is also fully behind
the use of the unenforceable per-
formance standards.

A demonstration
of psychological
well-being.
Douroculis love
to leap and frolic.

    

 

 

The animals who need the pro-

tection of the Improved Standards

for Laboratory Animals amendments do not yet have it.

There are no regulations for “an environment adequate to

promote the psychological well-bein g of non-human pri-

mates”, nor are there regulations for the exercise of labo-

ratory dogs. Non—human primates must have larger

cages, live in social groups and have a varied environ-
ment to interact ureche.PeterHamllton

 

with. Dogs must be
released from their
cages for daily exer-
cise. The U.S.
Department of Ag-
riculture must pub-
lish clear enforce-
able standards for
the care and hous-
ing of laboratory
animals, and the
USDA must have
enough funding to
enforce those regu—
lations.

 

A dying rabbit denied the protection of

sizes were summarily withdrawn at the
insistence of the Ofﬁce of Science and
Technology Policy.

 

improved standards proposed by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. Increased cage

Ufeforce - Peter Hamilton

 

This is not an
"environment
adequate to
promote
psychological
well-being. "
Primates in
laboratories still
wait for enforcable
regulations under
the Improved
Standards for
Laboratory Animals
amendments.

 

 

 

 

Uleloroe - Peter Hamilton

 

 

 

 

Congress mandated exercise for laboratory dogs in 1985.
But NABR lobbying has held up the regulations to this
day. Until the Oﬂice of Management and Budget releases
its vice-like grip on the regulations, dogs like him will
remain behind bars with no relief.

 

 

 

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
PO. Box 3719
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

 

 

 




Creature Dis com forts

by Gwen Rubinstein

For the Department of Agriculture's animal welfare
efforts, delay is a four-letter word: O-l-R-A.

Find one sentence in a relatively obscure 1983 report of a presidential task force. (“Health, safety and environmental regulations
should address ends rather than means”) Add one former OMB (Office of Management and Budget) official hired by an interest

group. (Michael Horowitz, once general counsel.) Stir. That’s the formula concocted by the biomedical research community
to scuttle federal regulation of how its members treat animals in their experiments.

At least 17 million animals are used in laboratory experiments each
year, according to Congress’s Office of Technology Assessment. About 85
percent are rats and mice; the other 15 percent are cats, dogs, monkeys,
hamsters, guinea pigs, and other common domestic animals.

Persistently bad conditions in laboratories led Congress to amend the
Animal Welfare Act in 1985 to instruct the United States Department of
Agriculture (USDA) to set minimum standards for the humane handling,
housing, care, treatment and transportation of those animals. But finalizing
regulations to implement those changes has turned into a Sisyphean task for
USDA. Each time the agency proceeds to a new level of review at OM B’s
Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA), the same issues
surface to send it back to square one.

The proposed regulations were first published, under court order, in
March, 1989. But they had languished for nearly eight months of review at
OIRA. While animal welfare advocates viewed the proposal as only the bare
minimum, they still wanted to see something implemented. So the Animal
Legal Defense Fund (ALDF) went to court to force release of the regulations.

But now USDA is back where it started - again. In mid-April, OIRA
returned a draft of the final rule to USDA for “reconsideration” - putting it on
hold. OIRA’s actions came on the heels of a letter from President Bush’s
science advisor, D. Allan Bromley, criticizing the proposal, as OIRA had
before, for taking the wrong approach.

The stumbling block USDA has hit head-on is well-organized opposi-
tion with inside-the-White-House connections and knowledge of how OIRA
works. Problems first surfaced in September, 1988, or about three months
after USDA submitted draft proposed regulations to OIRA for review.

Animal welfare groups say the playing field changed when Horowitz,
now an attorney with Myerson, Kuhn & Sterrett, was hired by the American
Council on Education on behalf of member universities that use animals in
experiments. Also a member in the firm is Robert Bedell, who left OIRA in
1986 after several years as deputy administrator.

While few could argue with the act’s goals of more humane treatment
of laboratory animals, the research community, with Horowitz’s help, found
a way to deflect the discussion from that to something more bureaucratic -
the regulatory approach USDA chose. The successful tack taken by
research groups was to criticize the regulations as prescribing “engineering”
controls for compliance rather than describing the desired “performance”
and leaving it up to laboratories to determine their own way of complying.

The regulations “painta very detailed picture of laboratory animal care,"
complains an industry trade group, the National Association for Biomedical

Research (NABR), Washington, DC. “They tell you point by point - and that’s
what we object to.”

To back up its point, industry often singles out the regulation’s require-
ments for exercise and socialization of dogs. The 1985 amendments stated
that regulations should set “minimum requirements for exercise of dogs, as
determined by an attending veterinarian in accordance with general stan-
dards promulgated by the Secretary.”

Asa result, the proposed regulations setaminimum of 30 minutesaday
of exercise. To support that requirement, the proposed regulations noted
that “[t]he consensus of [agency] veterinarians with training and experience
in the care of dogs is that 30 minutes of daily exercise is a reasonable
minimum for maintenance of a dog’s health and well-being." (Federal
Register, March 15, 1989, p. 10905)

Despite the language of the amendments, industry groups claim that
the regulations are too specific. The agency “is going about this in a way we
call engineering standards instead of giving us desired performance,"
complains the NABR. “Our whole objective is to maintain healthy, behavior-
ally normal dogs, but how this is accomplished should be left up to the
veterinarians responsible."

In truth, however, the regulations do leave the specifics up to laboratory
veterinarians. For example, the proposal does not specify how dogs are
supposed to be exercised - only the amount of time they are to exercise, or
have the option to exercise. In addition, the regulations give several exercise
options as examples, but generally leave the details up to the laboratories.
“[T]he method or type of exercise be determined by the attending veterinar-
ian and may consist of one or more methods," the proposed regulations
state. (p. 10905)

Nevertheless, both OIRA and the White House have echoed industry’s
complaints about the regulation being too prescriptive and detailed. Both
have also supported their position by quoting from the same page of Reagan
Administration Regulatory Achievements, on August, 1983, report of the
Presidential Task Force on Regulatory Relief.

In his April 16, 1990 letter to Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter,
Bromley wrote: “[T]he standards are engineering rather than perform-
ance-based standards and will be extraordinarily expensive. I am also
informed that there is no scientific evidence that the proposed standards will
improve animal welfare."

In the letter, Bromley urged Yeutter to reconsider the standards in light
of “the guidance of the President's Regulatory Task Force, chaired by then
Vice-President Bush (Regulatory Policy Guideline No. 5 at P 19): ‘Health,

safety, and environmental regulations should address ends rather than
means."

In reality, Bromley’s comments did little more than reiterate complaints,
first raised by industry, then raised by OIRA more than a year earlier during
regulatory review. But they also halted the standards progress.

In a letter dated the next day, Acting OIRA Administrator James B.
MacRae followed up on Bromley’s letter, noting “We agree with [Bromley's]
concerns.” But MacRae's letter also added: “With the apparent need to
obtain greater scientificjustification and validation for the regulatory alterna-
tive selected, it appears premature for [USDA] to have submitted this draft
rule for review."

The whole turn ofevents completelyfrustrated USDAwho have worked
on the regulations for more than two years, staff at the National Institutes of
Health (NIH) who were in close consultation over the regulation, and animal
welfare advocates. The events have also angered congressional sponsors
of the amendments. For example, former Senator John Melcher (D-MT) told
Nature magazine that he had “never seen anything so misinform ed about the
legislative process" as Bromley’s letter.

. The case is also a sterling example of what can go wrong during OIRA
regulatory review under Executive Order (E.O.) 12291:

Delay.

OIRA held the proposed animal welfare regulations under review for
228 days, or the better part of eight months. Because the order sets no
deadlines for OIRA regulatory review, OIRA can thwart agency regulatory
efforts simply by not acting on them quickly. ‘

Substantive interference.

E.O. 12291 does not officially sanction OIRA to second guess other
agencies over their substantive review regulatory decisions. After all,
Congress delegates rulemaking authority to agencies, not OIRA. The 1985
Animal Welfare Act amendments give the Secretary of Agriculture, not the
OMB director, authority to write regulations to put them into effect.

Disguising qualitative analysis under cost-benefit analysis.

E.O. 12291 requires that a regulation’s benefits to society outweigh its
costs. This has allowed OIRA, in the guise of quantitative cost-benefit
analysis, to slow the progress of rules based on qualitative grounds,
including ideology.

One example is the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) now-in-
famous asbestos rulemaking. OIRA pressured EPA into discounting the
value of the human lives the rule would save to skew the cost-benefit
analysis and make the rule less likely to pass the test.

In this case, OIRA continued asking USDA for more information to
support the rulemaking, despite the fact that a September 5, 1988, letterfrom
OIRA’s MacRae to USDA made it clear OIRA’s bottom line - that it thought
the standards were too prescriptive. Yet, the letter directed USDA to
improve (i.e. change to OIRA’s liking) its cost-benefit analysis by quantifying
“the indirect opportunity costs of the regulations on biomedical research.”

To do so, MacRae suggested that USDA “list the contributions of bi-
omedical research to human health safety that have resulted from animal
research and describe the potential losses to society when research costs
are increased by the regulations.” But what he didn’t ask and should have,

according to animal welfare advocates is “how much it costs society when
data are incorrect because of mistreatment of experimental animals.”

During the rulemaking, OIRA also wentout of its way to solicitopinions
from other federal agencies, most notably the Interagency Research Animal
Committee (IRAC, based at NIH). OIRA asked IRAC directly to criticize
USDA’s efforts, which also frustrated USDA staff.

USDA complained early-and often -to OIRA about the outside involve-
ment. “The comment filed in opposition to the regulations by the State
Department, which conducts and funds no [biomedical] research, dramati-
cally illustrates the kind of unhelpful reactions we can expect [this] to
provoke,” USDA wrote in a September, 1988, letter. “We think your letter to
IRAC was improper and inappropriate.”

In a follow-up letter written in October, then Secretary of Agriculture
Richard Lyng made the same points to then OMB Director James C. Miller
Ill. “We believe that this initiative was ill-advised and will not advance our
common objective of development of regulations to implement the amend-
ments,” Lyng wrote. The letter also criticized how much time OIRA's review
hadtaken.

Miller was quick to respond - and put Lyng in his place, making it clear
that OIRA, not USDA, controlled the future of the animal welfare standards.
“[C]urrent resistance to fulfilling your agency’s obligations presents the most
serious delay in the promulgation of these rules." Miller’s letter fumed. “I
would suggest you instruct your staff to cooperate with mine, so that we
might resolve any differences within the Executive Branch. Only then can
OMB clear these regulations for publication in the Federal Register.”

But OIRA wouldn’t let up. It included IRAC in all the details of the
rulemaking. For example, in January, 1989, OIRA persuaded IRAC to
establish a subcommittee to “resolve issues in the proposed regulations that
are ofconcern to IRACmemberagencies."Onlylaterdid OlRAinform USDA
of the meeting - and the decision.

The outcome of the final rule may also depend on legal action filed by
the Animal Legal Defense Fund (ALDF). In a complaint filed on March 14 in
the US. District Court for the District of Columbia, ALDF named OMB and
its director, Richard Darman, in a list of defendants responsible for illegal
delay of the standards. Also named in the complaint were the Departments
of Health and Human Services and Agriculture and their Secretaries, Louis
Sullivan and Clayton Yeutter.

In the complaint, ALDF charged that OMB, through EC. 12291, had
attempted to “thwart the will of Congress in enacting" the animal welfare
standards, as well as “delay the regulation’s promulgation and implementa-
tion." ALDF asserted that OMB’s actions violated the Constitution’s Separa-
tion of Powers clause by blocking “the express delegation of rulemaking
authority to the Secretary of [Agriculture]."

In early May, the Department of Justice, the government’s lawyer, pro-
posed to the court that the standards, at least for dogs and non-human
primates, be completed by February, 1991 . ALDF briefs in response are due
May 29.

From the Government information insider. published by OMB Watch 1731 Con-
necticut Ave, NW, Washington, DC. 20009-1146, (202) 234-8494.
Reprinted by permission.

 

 




  

A demonstration
of psychological
well-being.
Douroculis love
to leap and frolic.

 

Appeals Court which also dismissed
the suit. When the need for larger
cage sizes for primates in laborato-
ries is being discussed, scientists are
afraid to speak out because they fear
that their NIH grants will not be
continued if they disagree with the
party line that cage size is not im—
portant to the animal, which must
spend his or her life in it. NIH,
whose spectacular failure to pre-
vent cruelty to animals in grants
they funded led to enactment by
Congress of the Improved Stan-
dards for Laboratory Animals
amendments, is also fully behind
the use of the unenforceable per-
formance standards.

The animals who need the pro-

tection of the Improved Standards
for Laboratory Animals amendments do not yet have it.

There are no regulations for “an environment adequate to
promote the psychological well—bein g of non-human pri-
mates”, nor are there regulations for the exercise of labo-
ratory dogs. N on-human primates must have larger
cages, live in social groups and have a varied environ-

ment to interact
with. Dogs must be
released from their
cages for daily exer-
cise. The U.S.
Department of Ag-
riculture must pub-
lish clear enforce-
able standards for
the care and hous-

ing of laboratory
animals, and the
USDA must have
enough funding to
enforce those regu—
lations.

 

Uleloroe - Pete! Hamilton

 

A dying rabbit denied the protection of
improved standards proposed by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. Increased cage
sizes were summarily withdrawn at the
insistence of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy.

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Lifeforoe - Peter Hamilton

Ufel‘ome - Pete! Hamilton

  

 

 

 




 
  
 
  
 
  

 

 

 

'7

 

0 A ‘
«W7: "Av w‘m" mm
.‘y/‘N‘! ‘1,‘_.‘“;-' ‘_">

n a n

.’ .r I" w/s 19-: may“ vvn wan/,4», M A‘-
. , , r ‘ ‘ , . ,
I ~/‘ _. ’2, ...‘ ‘ 't

{y‘J 4/

.,
/-!"1’/f (73/1,qu r, ,m Ara-7
‘ / I" "4); ‘1

‘I‘Ju‘ ' ,r

   

d
“") “/7”? ‘Y"? ”W (of)
‘ ., ,:-' J; . L" J J

 

)

Oi

 

v:

   

 

an

 

‘ /
I

am

., (I,

 

‘1
WWW mm
x ya. I ‘1

my“. W! «n .
7:" If“ VC
‘ var/m wax:

Jig/“4.1L" [Jr'L‘

n ,1
m for" 4m m “at /‘
‘ .,‘ L1 ‘J.l [I 4“. t ‘/ c. 2

4w
‘ /

’7

J‘ .YJ

  

t) 7
017‘! MW .
.; I) J“ (21:)

. M‘ u.
‘11,!

{RE

 

l

 

9.7

/

4
A; W? m A a
r .1 a waxy ;/ J u / J 1AM») o

 
    
    

 

 

 

 

 

q.

 

 

 

x. . 7 , r ,
0 7%» new u u
‘f ' I '1} 'I’L/ 9/25.) :/

 

 

5-71
L “.1;ch

 

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
P.O. Box 3719
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

 

 

 

 




 

Here are current

examples of suffering

which 8.1233 and .
H.R.2653 would ‘ j

"ﬂaunt,“ ‘xun

"Fﬂaw

"WWW"...

MM“ M11,

prevent.

 




     
 
   
   
   
       
 
   
    
 
   

8.1233 and H.R.2653 ARE NEEDED TO PREVENT
INTENSE PAIN AND PROLONGED DISTRESS
WHICH IN NO WAY CONTRIBUTES TO THE
ADVANCEMENT OF BIOMEDICAL SCIENCE.

  

1) On Friday afternoon at 3:30 p.m., two dogs
fresh from surgery, still unconscious, were left in a
room full of other caged dogs, with no provision for
care as they came out of anesthesia or for needed atten-
tion over the weekend.

8.1233 and H.R.2653 mandate pre- and
post-surgical care. They call for use of pain-relieving
drugs to minimize animal pain and distress.

du1
led
use
suf
ter:
Sin;
all
Sig]

:HSUS

photo




 

.
Am r AT"‘f—‘(‘1C'
/ '42..-.

.xr. / i .

   

2) Failure of government agencies to avoid
duplicative testing by checking with one another has
led to massive waste of taxpayers’ money. The animals
used in such tests, many of them painful and lethal,
suffered to no purpose whatever. The head of the In-
teragency Regulatory Liaison Group stated: “If a
single test, done with a given procedure, would satisfy
all of the agencies’ requirements, there would be
signiﬁcant savings. It may reach billions of dollars. ”

8.1233 and H.R.2653 would establish an in-
formation service at the National Agricultural
Library in cooperation with the National Library
of Medicine to prevent unintended duplication, and
to provide information on alternatives to animals.

           

     

 

 

 




 

 

© Lifeforce —— Peter Hamilton

 

3) Some medical schools and hospitals continue
to train students in practice surgery using the same dog
repeatedly for major abdominal surgery. They do this
despite a recommendation against it in the Guide for
the Care and Use of Experimental Animals that Na-
tional Institutes of Health grantees are supposed to
follow.

8.1233 and H.R.2653 would prohibit this
callous and outdated system of subjecting the same
dog to student operations.

4) Animals are often left to die slowly and pain-
fully in their cages from the results of experiments and
tests, even though the results have been achieved and
the ﬁnal agony does nothing to advance scientiﬁc
goals.

5‘ Lifctbrce ~< Peter Hamilton

. . 8.1233 and H.R.2653 provide that pain
rehevmg. drugs or euthanasia may not be un-
necessarily withheld from suffering animals.




 
    
   
    
  
   
 
   
 
   

5) Recently Ohio State University was fined by
the U.S. Department of Agriculture under the existing
Animal Welfare Act for placing chains with identifica-
tion tags on the necks of kittens and, with almost
unbelievably callous negligence, allowing them to re—
main as the kittens grew so that the chains and tags
were actually embedded in their necks.

8.1233 and H.R.2653 make several provi-
sions to prevent such obvious failure by experi-
menters or caretakers to look at the animals: 1) the
institutions must provide instruction or training on
animal maintenance to personnel, 2) each institu-
tional committee must have an outside member to
inspect and represent society’s concerns for the
welfare of the animal subjects, 3) research facilities
must inform their employees to report any viola-
tions and not discriminate against them for such
reporting. These provisions would help mitigate
shortage of enforcement funds which has prevented
USDA inspectors from making rounds as frequently
as they should.

 

 

 

 

@ Lifeforce — Peter HamiIton




6) Forward—looking institutions have long since
stopped l950’s-style lifetime caging of dogs —- packing
a room full of a hundred dogs in tiered cages from
which they emerge only for experiments. But many
dogs still are permanently caged, their only means of
protest the deafening barking and flinging of their
bodies against the metal cage walls when a stranger
enters the room.

8.1233 and H.R.2653 add to the standards
now required by the Animal Welfare Act the pro-
vision for exercise, thus ending this ugly, long-
standing abuse just because a stubborn individual
or group refuses to give these most trusting animals
the basic comfort of being allowed to relieve
themselves outside their sleeping space. The so-called
“random source dogs” sold by dog dealers who
comb the country from state to state buying dogs
from “bunchers” and pounds, are sometimes house-
trained former pets that can become ill to the point

of death by prolonged restraint from urinating in
their cages.

PUBLIC MISINFORMATION

In their required annual reports to the US. Depart-
ment of Agriculture many institutions claim they have
caused no unrelieved pain to laboratory animals. One of
these is the University of Pennsylvania. Spokesmen for
the University publicly asserted that baboons used in its
Head Injury Clinical Research Center were anesthetized
and felt no pain, but the protocol for the National In-
stitutes of Health grant states that the general anesthetic
is allowed to wear off for a full hour before the massive

 

 

 




injury is inﬂicted. NIH grants have

amounted to nearly one million

dollars a year even though the

University admittedly failed to meet

the standards in the NIH “Guide”.

An inspection by a USDA Animal

Care Specialist revealed 74 alleged

violations of the Animal Welfare Act.

Videotapes made by the re-

searchers themselves* show surgery

being conducted on a baboon who is

coming out of anesthesia and trying

to get up. The tapes also show

nonsterile surgery. A surgeon even

. _. drops an instrument on the ﬂoor,

picks it up and without sterilizing it,

continues the operation. In another sequence researchers are hammering with

a carpenter’s hammer and screwdriver to remove the helmet fastened to the

baboon’s head with dental cement. This crude method of removing the hehnet

causes unquantified trauma throwing the scientific results into question. As

the helmet finally breaks, the researcher comments: ‘ ‘Seems like I left a little
ear behind.”

*These videotapes were illegally removed by a group called the Animal Liberation Front. The Society
for Animal Protective Legislation does not endorse the theft Of the tapes, but it is not illegal to show
and view copies of the incriminating evidence. Copies of excerpts from the 60 hour long record have
been widely circulated and a copy of all the tapes was provided by People for the Ethical Treatment
of Animals to the US. Department of Agriculture for review.

 

Photo: Buddhists Concerned for Animals

Whole associations Of scientists have donated money to finance appeal
after appeal to rid Edward T aub of his original conviction on six counts
of cruelty in failing to provide adequate veterinary care for his experimen-
tal primates. Testimony under oath demonstrated the filthy conditions: ir-
regular feeding by unsupervised ill-paid students who came in at any hour
of day or night, sometimes not at all; rotting bandages, rotting food, piles
of mouldy feces, rodent infestation, a malfunctioning lighting system which
left the lights on 24 hours a day; a veterinarian whose activities were limited
to signing his name to NIH forms; and a refrigerator containing prescrip-
tion drugs dating back to the 1960’s.

Edward Taub received more than $2 million from NIH over the years,
and he claims that the conditions in his laboratory are no different from
other primate labs! Two colleagues agreed with him.

 

Photo: Alex Pacheco

VIOLATIONS OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE ACT

In a study of USDA inspection reports
for more than 200 institutions obtained
under the Freedom Of Information Act it
was found that only about a fifth are One or more
regularly meeting the standards of the 3:222:12;

Animal Welfare Act. The others are divid- 01 ““10““ 25.8%
ed as shown. .
Serious and

Clearly, USDA’S veterinary inspectors chronic .
must be given more authority so that institu- 19% deﬁc‘enc‘“
tions take their obligations under the law
seriously and do not repeat their failures to
comply or allow violations to recur.

52.9%

NO deficiencies

Under investigation

 

@ Lifeforce — Peter Hamilton

PROVISIONS OF THE DOLE AND BROWN BILLS

8.1233 and H.R.2653 would establish principles already
recognized by responsible scientists and administrators. It
would direct that investigators:

I Consider the use of alternatives to animals and strive
to use the least painful practices.

I Avoid repeated use of the same animal for painful
procedures.

I Use anesthesia when an animal has been paralyzed by
a curare-like drug.

I Consult with a veterinarian in planning potentially pain-
ful experiments or tests to minimize pain.

I Never withhold painkillers or euthanasia any longer
than strictly necessary.

I Avoid unintended or otherwise unnecessary duplication
of experiments or tests.

To assist in putting these humane principles into practice,
8.1233 and H.R.2653 would provide an information service
at the National Agricultural Library, in consultation with the
National Library of Medicine, in order to prevent unnecessary
duplication of experiments or tests and to give information
on alternatives to laboratory animals.

The bills also would require each institution to form an
animal committee, including at least one member not
associated with the institution. Such a member would be
responsible for representing society’s concerns for the welfare
of the animals.

The bills would prevent discrimination against personnel
who report violations to the committee.

The bills would amend the Federal Animal Welfare Act
passed in 1966 and amended in 1970 and 1976. Enforced by
the US. Department of Agriculture’s Veterinary Services, the

law now sets minimum standards of care but fails to include
any of the above-mentioned points, which are essential to pre-
vent the needless pain and distress widespread in laboratories
throughout our nation.

We owe decent treatment to the animals that give their lives
to improve our health. It is the least we can do to repay them.

Who could object to this moderate, humane legislation
carefully drafted in consultation with scientific and animal
welfare groups and free of any substantial expenditures by ‘
government or industry?

For one, those who want to sell the maximum numbers of
animals to laboratories like the multinational animal dealer
and breeder Charles River. This firm receives millions of
dollars each year from the National Institutes of Health on
contract to supply small animals. It uses these contracts in
its full-page ads soliciting trade.

In its ads for cynomolgus monkeys, it advises scientists:
“Don’t put your research on hold” for lack of primates. The
fact that all primates are listed as endangered or threatened
by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora doesn’t slow down Charles
River’s aggressive salesmanship on these monkeys.

Meantime, important advances are being made in scien-
tifically sound ways to reduce massive use of animals and pro-
vide better safety for human beings through improved tox—
icological tests.

The Dole and Brown bills provide a moderate but effec—
tive and logical step to Obtaining humane treatment for
laboratory animals. They should become law in this session
of Congress.

Photographs of the eyes of rabbits after undergoing the Draize Rab

 




 

, LABORATORY ANIMAL DEALERS: A PROFIT PICTURE V

Before it became part of Bausch and Lomb in 1984,
Charles River Laboratories, the world’s biggest laboratory
animal dealer, showed annual sales of about $45 million
with year end profits of $6.2 million. The growth rate
has been 17 070, and Forbes magazine listed Charles River
among “up and comers/the class of ’83.”

I The Dole bill and the Brown bill were specifically
drafted to avoid major expenditures by either the govern-
ment or the institutions. They do not aim at more bricks
and mortar, but at minimizing pain and distress and
reducing the number of animals used.

. , n w a

r. a . a”. .. . ,

,,.,r r. r“ nz: n r.“ C“ f“ K, f , r
Yr .1 N. 43 , 7/7 ./' J

,4. .. ’5. ... 1.1.

_ _,__._ " " o , ' ‘1 -.- a
, 1 If: (a a P r~ -» --.--. » -f~\ A. C‘" —;A, 0,," [— -; fr: {‘5 ‘r
, M... Lv. . _ , L ,I. _ _.' 1. I.» ‘ L ,r '
— _ -. n "" V r
h , 31 Err-try '."\ ‘vrr/ ,rl rs rm rum n a 1". WV, (a r-\ r ’ r,- "K". ,«V r .. 3
‘ L ' ._ ., I I ”V ',-. '1 . i. i ’ , . ‘ ‘
—.y_.——., ,— —- .. .’i/:‘ ,_—s « - — "A, ,7». ,7 A». Aura. . . ., f. (A, n, K“ (W WA Fir. .1. ,- . .' I, , ,
, , x I . . ' _ , ' . i. _ '2.) ‘ ‘. ‘
L 2 . . . . .. _. 2 I-

.J/El.

E
Q
~
2
E
(u
:c
I...
E
D
l
I
,Q
‘8
‘3
ié’
Q
'7)

PLEASE URGE YOUR LEGISLATORS TO SUPPORT
3.1233 and H.R.2653

ALL SENATORS MAY BE ADDRESSED:
Senate Office Building, Washington, DC. 20510

ALL REPRESENTATIVES MAY BE ADDRESSED:
House Office Building, Washington, DC. 20515

CO-SPONSORS OF 8.1233

The author of 8.1233 is Senator Robert Dole (R, KS). The co-sponsors are Senator Jeff
Bingaman (D, NM), Senator Rudy Boschwitz (R, MN), Senator Quentin Burdick (D,
ND), Senator John Chafee (R, R1), Senator William Cohen (R, ME), Senator Alfonse
D’Amato (R, NY), Senator David Durenberger (R, MN), Senator Wendell Ford (D, KY),
Senator Slade Gorton (R, WA), Senator John Heinz (R, PA), Senator Robert Kasten Jr.
(R, WI), Senator Patrick Leahy (D, VT), Senator Spark Matsunaga (D, HI), Senator
Claiborne'Pell (D, RI), Senator William Proxmire (D, WI), Senator William Roth, Jr. (R,
DE), Senator Paul Simon (D, IL), Senator Robert Stafford (R, VT), Senator Ted Stevens
(R, AK), Senator Edward Zorinsky (D, NE).

CO-SPONSORS OF H.R.2653

The author of H.R.2653 is Rep. George E. Brown, Jr. (D, CA). The co-sponsors are Rep.
Thomas S. Foley (D, WA), Rep. Daniel K. Akaka (D, HI), Rep. Chester G. Atkins (D,
MA), Rep. Helen Bentley (R, MD), Rep. Howard L. Berman (D, CA), Rep. Mario
Biaggi (D, NY), Rep. Sherwood L. Boehlert (R, NY), Rep. Robert A. Borski (D, PA),
Rep. Barbara Boxer (D, CA), Rep. John Bryant (D, TX), Rep. Sala Burton (D, CA),
Rep. William Carney (R, NY), Rep. Rod Chandler (R, WA), Rep. William Clay (D,
MO), Rep. George W. Crockett, Jr. (D, MI), Rep. Robert W. Davis (R, MI), Rep.
Ronald V. Dellums (D, CA), Rep. Robert K. Dornan (R, CA), Rep. Mervyn M. Dymally
(D, CA), Rep. Dennis E. Eckart (D, OH), Rep. Bob Edgar (D, PA), Rep. Don Edwards
(D, CA), Rep. Mickey Edwards (R, OK), Rep. Vic Fazio (D, CA), Rep. Hamilton Fish,
Jr. (R, NY), Rep. Don Fuqua (D, FL), Rep. Sam Gibbons (D, FL), Rep. Willis D.
Gradison, Jr. (R, OH), Rep. Kenneth Gray (D, IL), Rep. Bill Green (R, NY), Rep. Judd
Gregg (R, NH), Rep. Frank J. Guarini (D, NJ), Rep. Cecil Heftel (D, HI), Rep. Frank
Horton (R, NY), Rep. James Howard (D, NJ), Rep. William J. Hughes (D, NJ), Rep.
Andrew Jacobs, Jr. (D, IN), Rep. James Jeffords (R, VT), Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D, OH),
Rep. Barbara B. Kennelly (D, CT), Rep. Joseph Kolter (D, PA), Rep. Tom Lantos (D,
CA), Rep. Sander M. Levin (D, MI), Rep. Mel Levine (D, CA), Rep. Stan Lundine (D,
NY), Rep. Raymond McGrath (R, NY), Rep. Thomas Manton (D, NY), Rep. Edward J.
Markey (D, MA), Rep. Robert Matsui (D, CA), Rep. Nicholas Mavroules (D, MA), Rep.
Barbara Mikulsi (D, MD), Rep. Norman Mineta (D, CA), Rep. Parren J. Mitchell (D,
MD), Rep. Joe Moakley (D, MA), Rep. Alan Mollohan (D, WV), Rep. Robert J. Mrazek
(D, NY), Rep. Henry J. Nowak (D, NY), Rep. Stan Parris (R, VA), Rep. Melvin Price
(D, IL), Rep. Nick Joe Rahal], II (D, WV), Rep. Don Ritter (R, PA), Rep. Peter W.
Rodino, Jr. (D, NJ), Rep. Robert A. Roe (D, NJ), Rep. Charles Rose (D, NC), Rep.
Edward R. Roybal (D, CA), Rep. Martin Olav Sabo (D, MN), Rep. Charles E Schumer
(D, NY), Rep. John Seiberling (D, OH), Rep. Fortney H. Stark (D, CA), Rep. Gerry E.
Studds (D, MA), Rep. A1 Swift (D, WA), Rep. Robin Tallon (D, SC), Rep. Esteban
Torres (D, CA), Rep. Robert G. Torricelli (D, NJ), Rep. James Weaver (D, OR), Rep. G.
William Whitehurst (R, VA), Rep. Pat Williams (D, MT), Rep. Charles Wilson (D, TX).

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P.O. BOX 3719, WASHINGTON, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

it Eye Irritation Test.

This brochure may not be reproduced. Free copies are available from the Society for Animal Protective Legislation on request.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

ElA/Dave Currey

 

ot so long ago these birds were
flying free in the forests of West Africa.
Now they are dead, victims of violent and
inhumane capture and transport methods.
Their case is not unusual; it is appallingly
common. Every year millions of birds (20
million in Senegal alone) are trapped for
cage bird markets in the United States,
Europe and Japan. Half of them will die
before leaving their native soil. The
trauma of capture, brutal mishandling,
hunger and thirst, gross overcrowding, and
disease caused by stress claims a cruel toll
of victims. More die in the holds of
airlines, in quarantine stations of
importing countries and in pet stores.

For each
wild bird
surviving
to be sold
in a pet
store, ﬁve
have died.

Capture of Wild Birds

Parrot and mynah chicks, still covered with
down, may be stolen from their nests in tree holes.

 

 

 

Red-crowned parrot chicks being sold illegally in Mexico.

E. Inigo

C. Plowden/TERRA/HSUS

 

shipped to importing countries.

Sometimes an entire tree is cut down, and those
birds that survive are crammed into boxes to
begin the long and often fatal journey to pet
stores. Many parrots are smuggled into the
U.S. over the Mexican border, crowded into
car trunks with their beaks taped shut, and
drugged to keep them quiet—80% die in the
process.

 

This smuggled parrot, its feet bound and beak wrapped with masking
tape, was dead when it was seized with 259 others by Customs.

Adult birds are caught by cruel means, such
as “bird lime” placed on tree branches. This
adhesive sticks to their feet and they struggle

U.S. Customs

 




vainly to escape.
Large birds are
often shot at with
the intention of
“winging” them so
they can be cap-
tured. In the pro-
cess many are killed
or die later of lead
poisoning. The calls
of a live “decoy”
bird are used to
lure large parrots
and macaws to hid-
den snares on poles
and smaller birds to
nets. Because of
their close family
ties, mates and
young of the
entrapped birds
often try to rescue
them by ﬂying at
the captors and
become trapped
themselves.

H... mu: m

Peru.

 

Bird catcher prepares decoy Senegal parrot. After its
Wing feathers are cut, it Will be tied to a peg 1n the
ground to lure other birds to a hidden trap.

Orange-backed Troupial, a decoy, at-
tracts other birds to a mist net in

EIA/Dave Currey

C. Plowden/TERRA/HSUS

tever the method,
capture is inhumane.

A bird catcher takes two finches to a cage. Some 15% of the birds die

from shock when first caged.

Transport of Wild Birds

Wild birds, so tightly packed into crates
that they cannot move, are shipped far
distances to importing countries. Each year
over 200,000 birds are unloaded at U.S. ports
of entry—many dead on arrival—according to
official records. Aircraft holds in which the
birds are carried are often not properly
ventilated or pressurized. Temperatures may
vary from below freezing to above 100° F.
Delays can result in days spent in airport
holding areas with the birds getting neither
food nor water.

EIA/Dave Currey

From 1980 to 1986, at least 259,733
birds arrived dead at U. S. airports.

EIA/Dave Currey

 

Senegal parrots crammed into an air transport case, 50 par-
rots to a case. When smaller birds are shipped, at least 200
must fit.

The animal rescue center at London’s
Heathrow Airport examined crates of wild birds
destined for the U.S. They found many
shipments of birds in pathetic condition. A
consignment of African finches had been given
only a few hours supply of food and water for
a trip that can take days. Although
immediately given water, many of the birds
were too weak to be revived.

 




Export compounds in many countries are
crowded with hundreds of thousands of
birds—many with specialized dietary needs.
Birds die, fall off their perches and are swept

EIA/Dave Currey

m . f , . .
Red Bishops and other birds inside a Senagalese export compound.

 

up in the morning. Diseases erupt and spread.
One shipment of African finches arriving at a
quarantine station in Illinois had over 12,000
birds dead on arrival; by the end of the 30-day
quarantine period, 70% of the remaining birds
were dead. Every year in the US. alone, over
100,000 birds are dead on arrival or die in
quarantine. Quarantine station

owners in the US. are not

required to have a knowledge of

birds or their care; they need

only provide a building with ade-

quate security where birds are

screened for Newcastle disease,

a virus lethal to poultry. One

quarantine station owner had

been feeding delicate lories, nec-

tar and fruit-eating Asian par-

rots, a diet of strawberry jam.

Almost all the lories died, even

after being given proper care by

a zoo which volunteered to help.

. :r, v.” r?"
J 1 ‘ l ‘f

\
‘ l

m?

\ \\.
.I /,-»
. .-
, m. .._.._

Some experts estimate that 100,000 birds are
smuggled into the US. each year—most from
Mexico. They are hidden in car door panels, suit-
cases or car trunks. One was even found in a cer-
amic vase only slightly larger than the bird.

Many smuggled birds carry Newcastle disease
and, since they are not quarantined, they spread
this highly contagious disease to other birds nation—
wide. Over the past decade, millions of taxpayer
dollars have been spent to control these outbreaks.

Military Macaws are an endangered species,
and commercial trade is now prohibited under the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species (CITES). Yet these macaws which sell for
$1,000 each in pet stores have been seized at the
Mexican border—crammed into small crates—with
a high proportion of dead among the survivors.

Endangered birds are imported using false
documents obtained from corrupt officials. The
profits are enormous. Smugglers frequently hide
behind the facade of legal importation. Numer-
ous quarantine station owners in the US. have
been convicted of bird smuggling. In fact, many
birds sold in pet stores are actually smuggled

birds. The
only way to
curb smuggl-
ing is to cur—
tail the public
demand for
wild birds,
through both
legislation and
education.

These parrots,

hidden in a car and

wrapped in news-

papers, had suffo-

cated before being

found by Customs.
US. Customs

US. Customs

For those who have seen ﬂocks of wild birds
living in freedom, the sight of a wild-caught
macaw sitting forlornly on a wooden stand in a
pet store, or a group of African finches ﬂying at
cage bars, is heartbreaking. So stressed by the
unnatural surroundings, thwarted in their instinct
to ﬂy, to seek wild food, to roost with others of
their species and above all to escape danger,
many wild-caught birds pluck out their own
feathers, or even bite off their'own toes. The wild
parrot placed in someone’s home is totally iso-
lated from its own world, and may have lived in
freedom for 20 or more years. Pet stores may
offer these birds as “singers” or “talkers” with
little or no information on their true behavioral
needs. Many zoos report calls from distraught
parrot owners who offer to donate their
imported birds after finding that they scream at
dawn as they do in the wild, bite objects or
people, or fall prey to a variety of diseases.
Some of these diseases such as psittacosis,
salmonella and tuberculosis are transmissible to
humans.

\ . l |

. . l . l v , r ,

,\I‘,\_‘\. 1“ I”, ,
‘ *' V, ,.A_ .5. a _ / an. ‘2

I < , V. “ v!" ~ .VA .7 -
l '_'."“-.‘. - ’= v-1 ,7 " ., ,
' * ‘ r . . ‘. . u ‘ ; I ' \ , l

O Spread the word. Visit your local pet store. If wild

birds are being sold, tell the owner that you will
boycott the store.

0 Ask your local TV and radio stations to discuss

the problem, and write a letter to the editor of
your local paper protesting the sale of wild-caught
exotic birds. Remember, it is illegal to capture
and sell native American birds, and it should be
illegal to sell all wild birds.

' Contact your local humane and conservation

organizations. Ask for their help in informing the
public of this destructive trade.

 

For further
information
write to:

Society

for Animal
Protective
Legislation
P.O. Box 3719
Washington,
D.C. 20007
(202) 337-2334

Up to 10 copies
of this leaﬂet are
available free.
Additional
copies are 25¢
each.

Cover photo:
C. Plowden/
TERRA/HSUS

 

Back cover:
Helen Snyder

Rosemarie Gnam

Bahama Amazon Parrot

 




Humane Forum
Preventing Needless Pain
By Christine Stevens

Secretary, Society for Animal Protective Legislation

Animal abuses in scientiﬁc institutions using ani—
mals for experiments and tests continue to be distressingly
common. Documentation of extreme neglect and other
apparent violations of the federal Animal Welfare Act is
provided by inspection reports that the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation obtained from the US. Department
of Agriculture (USDA) under the Freedom of Information
Act. These reports demonstrate how vitally necessary it was
to pass the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act in 1966 and to
strengthen and broaden it with amendments in 1970 and
1976. But the USDA’s veterinary inspectors have to ﬁght hard
to obtain compliance with the law, and the law is still not as
strong as it needs to be.

Major medical schools are still leaving dogs and
monkeys sitting in their own excrement in ﬁlthy cages and
enclosures. Rabbits, dogs, and monkeys are frequently con-
ﬁned in cages too small for them to make even normal pos—
tural adjustments. Many times the cages are deteriorating,
with jagged wires or other metal edges that injure the ani-
mals. In a number of cases, dogs and cats are obtained from
sources that cannot be checked by the USDA. An extreme
example of negligence was found in a facility that kept
rabbits in stacked open cages with a ﬁve-foot drop to a
cement ﬂoor below. Only the USDA’s threat of court action
impels some of these institutions to comply with the law’s
minimum standards.

The existing Animal Welfare Act addresses allevia-
tion of laboratory animal pain only in general terms. New
legislation (S. 657 and HR. 5725) proposed by Senator
Robert Dole and Congressman George Brown must be
passed to strengthen the required protection of these
animals. It is essential that pre— and post-operative care be
mandated, and that the repeated use of an animal in a series
of painful experiments be curbed. These bills call for an ani-
mal-research committee in each institution, including a vet-
erinarian and a person not employed by the institution, to
represent community concerns for the welfare of the animal
subjects. The committee would make semi-annual animal
inspections and address matters relating to the animals’ wel-
fare and the institution’s prevention of pain and distress.

S. 657 and HR. 5725 would also require training
sessions for scientists and technicians who work with
animals; these sessions would include information on non-
animal alternatives for use in testing, means of reducing the
number of animals used, and techniques to avoid needless
suffering of laboratory animals. All personnel in the institu-
tion would be instructed to report neglect or mistreatment of
animals to the institution’s animal-research committee so
that prompt correctional action could be taken. To prevent
fear of reprisal against staff members, the bills specify that
they may not be discriminated against for making such
reports. At present, anxiety over possible job loss keeps
laboratory workers from reporting abuses they observe.

These bills also provide for the establishment of
an information service at the National Agricultural Library

F’Vlnimals

Published by the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

August 1984
Volume 117 Number 4

for two major purposes: to disseminate information on tech-
niques to reduce, replace, or reﬁne animal experiments and
to reduce unnecessary experiment duplication by providing
a clearinghouse for such data. It should be noted that an
enormous waste of government funds has resulted from the
failure of different agencies that conduct extensive animal
testing to inform one another of their activities. At a
National Institutes of Health (NIH) symposium on testing
methods the Food and Drug Administration’s chairperson of
an interagency review group was asked how much money
had been expended on unnecessary test duplication. He
placed that waste in the billions of dollars.

Other important provisions of the bills require use
of anesthesia on animals paralyzed by curare and similar
drugs; a prohibition against withholding painkillers or
euthanasia from suffering animals (often at the conclusion
of an experiment animals are left to die painfully in their
cages); and a provision for adequate exercise. Although pro—
gressive laboratories no longer subject dogs to perpetual
caging, which used to be virtually standard practice, numer—
ous institutions still deny them the opportunity to stretch
their legs outside their cages. Even current USDA regula-
tions which prohibit hosing cages with dogs inside are being
ﬂouted by a few big, well-known laboratories that receive
tens of millions of taxpayers’ dollars to conduct experiments
on animals.

NIH relies on the American Association for the
Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC) to
assure that institutions they fund are providing appropriate
animal care. But AAALAC accreditation lasts ‘for three
years, and in the interim all kinds of abuses can, and often
do, surface, as is fully documented by USDA veterinary in—
spectors who conduct site visits.

The effort to whitewash conditions in laboratories
is, not surprisingly, led by a trade organization founded by
the biggest laboratory animal dealers and breeders in the
world. Charles River Laboratories, in Wilmington, Massa-
chusetts, organized the Association for Biomedical Re—
search (ABR), an aggressive lobbying group that is cur-
rently pushing for a “study” bill to block action on this
much-needed legislation. The study bill, they gleefully
state, “would more than likely spin off the animal-research
legislation for several years.” Charles River was recently
transferred to Bausch and bomb, the giant optical company,
under whose aegis an aggressive advertising campaign to
sell' not the necessary number of animals for research, but
the maximum number of animals they can persuade institu-
tions to purchase, will continue.

Readers are urged to help combat this threat: write
your Senators and Representatives and urge them to support
S. 657 and HR. 5725. Your letters are important!

For more information on this critical issue, write Christine
Stevens at the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, PO. Box 3719
Georgetown Station, Washington, DC 20002

 




 

 

The Animal Welfare Institute (AWI) is a. non—profit
charitable organization founded in 1951 to reduce the
sum total of pain and fear inflicted on animals by
humans. Speciﬁc goals are:

Humane treatment of lahoratory animals anal the
development and use ofnon—animal testing methods.

Ban on steel jaw traps and reﬁrm of other cruel methods

for controlling wildlife populations.

Prevention of trade in wild—caught exotic hirds, and
regulation oftransport conditions for all animals.

Preservation of species threatened hy extinction.

Reform ofcruel treatment offarm animals, such as
intensive confinement in animalfactories. AW] was
a leading opponent of cruel slaughter methods in the
19505.

Encouragement of humane science teaching and
prevention ofpainful experiments on animals hy
high school students.

 




Programs of the Institute
CI Laboratory Animals

Strict enforcement of
the Animal Welfare
Act, the major federal
statute on protection
of animals, is a pri—
mary goal of AWI.
Our documentation
made possible the
law’s enactment in
1966 and its strength—
ening and broadening

amendments in 1970, 1976, 1985 and 1990.

 

The activities of unscrupulous random source, ani—
mal dealers are of great concern to AVVI because of
the suffering they inﬂict on dogs and cats obtained
by illegal means. Despite their horrific track record,
USDA licensed Class B dealers are major suppliers

of dogs and cats for experimental laboratories.

AWI supports the 3 Rs: replacement of experimen—
tal animals by alternatives, reﬁnement to reduce pain
and suffering when animals are still used, and re—
duction of numbers of animals used.

We provide a free copy of Beyond tbe Laboratory
Door on request by libraries, scientific institu—
tions and humane societies. Comfortable Quar—
ters for Laboratory Animals is also available with—
out charge to institutions that want to end con—
finement of animals to small, barren cages and
make decent provision for their needs. Animals
and Tbeir Legal Rigbts, the fourth edition of
AWI’s informative analysis of major US laws af—
fecting animals with appendices that include sig-
nificant legislation in other countries, is also free
on request to Chiefs of police in addition to the
above—mentioned institutions, as is Tbe Animal
Dealers: Evidence ofAbuse ofAnimals in tbe Com—
mercial Trade 1952—1997, an exhaustive study of
the trade in animals for research as well as the
exotic animal business.

Cl Whales
In 1971, AWI launched the Save the Whales Cam—

paign. Almost three decades later we are still at work,
fighting the resumption of commercial whaling and
the bogus expansion of “scientific” and “aboriginal
subsistence” whaling. Insisting that it is time to let
these beings live in peace, we also work against cap-
tures from the wild and the killing of dolphins by

tuna fleets.

CI The Wildlife Trade

Every year, millions of animals are killed to sat—
isfy the global demand for their parts and prod—
ucts made from them. One of AWI’S goals is to
stop commercial overexploitation of these threat-
ened and endangered species. Elephants across

 

Africa have been historically slaughtered for their
ivory tusks. Some animals are targeted for the
alleged sexual potency of their parts such as tiger
bone and rhino horn. Bears are killed for their gall
bladders and bile which are used in traditional Asian
medicines and cosmetics.

AWI has worked to protect these and myriad other
species from unscrupulous profiteers and continue
taking a lead role in the protection of wildlife across
the globe. A\X/I produces reports and books on con—
servation of threatened and endangered species, ex—
posing egregious examples of species overutilization.
AWI will continue to work with government offi—
cials in the US and other countries to ensure that all
Species receive the protection they desperately need.

SSOW Elqlu 3

El Trapping

The non—selective and highly destructive steel jaw
leghold trap is the most common type of trap used on
the millions of animals killed for their fur each year in
the US. Victims suffer excruciating pain and fear as
they tear ligaments and break teeth in their struggle to
free themselves from the bone-crushing trap. A\WI is
campaigning vigorously against the steel trap in this
country and abroad. The European Union passed a
law banning this cruel trap in all member states, but
in our country, hundreds of thousands of them are
still in use.

El Farm Animals

Increasingly, farm animals are raised in close con—
finement in “factories” where they suffer severe dep—
rivation. AW/I works to halt these intensive farming
practices and replace them with methods which are
both humane and economical. A paperback book,
Factory Farming: Tbe Experiment Tbat Failed docu—
ments the cruelty and available alternatives.
Factory farming bas ta/een tbejoy out oftbe lives of millions
ofcaloes and pigs, and billions ofbens; it bas driven count—
less families oft/1e land; it bas polluted streams and rivers;

it bas injected massive amounts of antibiotics and otber drugs

into tbe public food supply resulting in serious bealtb risks.

—From the Introduction by Christine Stevens

Cl Publishing and Education

A W] Quarterly is sent to members, deans ofmedi—
cal and veterinary schools, public libraries, hu—
mane societies, law enforcement officers, and

thousands of veterinarians, teachers, scientists and
administrators.

AWI distributes books, films and other educa—
tional materials to research institutions, librar-
ies, police chiefs, humane societies and school
teachers. We publish books, such as Wbales vs.
Wbalers and Tbe Endangered Species Handbook,
on different aspects of animal welfare and pro-
Vlde them free to those who can put them di—

rectly to use helping animals. Others may pur—
chase them at cost.

 




E] The Albert Schweitzer Medal

In 1951, Dr. Albert Schweitzer gave his permission
to the Animal Welfare Institute to strike a medal in
his honor to be presented for outstanding achieve—
ment in the advancement of animal welfare.

In granting his permission, Dr. Schweitzer wrote,

“I would never have believed t/iat myp/oilosop/oy, w/oic/o .

incorporates in our ethics a compassionate attitude to—
ward all creatures, would oe noticed and recognized
in my lifetime. ”

Medalists have ranged from well—known leaders—-
Rachel Carson, Hubert Humphrey, and Senator
Robert Dole—to Patrolman John Mobley whose
actions reduced the suffering of laboratory dogs.

El Action in the Field

The Animal Welfare Institute provides representa—
tion, speakers and exhibits at conferences and meet-
ings around the world. At the Convention on In—
ternational Trade in Endangered Species and the
International Whaling Commission, AVVI represen—
tatives work actively to influence the outcome for
the benefit of animals, confronting exploiters with
incontrovertible facts, figures, and photographic
documentation. A\WI’s companion organization, the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation, works for
animal protective legislation within the US.

Membership in the
Animal Welfare Institute

 

The Animal Welfare Institute has been working for
nearly 50 years to prevent needless suffering of ani—
mals. We need your help to continue the struggle.
Please join us by becoming a member. A\WI puts
your tax—deductible contribution to work immedi—
ately to help-animals.

Members of AVVI enjoy many benefits, including a
subscription to the AW] Quarterly and an opportu—
nity to receive free copies of A\WI’s books as they are
published. In addition, we keep you informed of
AW/I’s progress with special mailings as well as the
annual report. Members are invited to the Albert
Schweitzer Medal presentation and reception in
honor of its recipient.

r- —————————————— ‘|
Membership Application

I support your work and would like to become a
member of the Animal Welfare Institute.

Cl $ 1000 Benefactor
Cl 55 500 Patron
Cl 25 100 Friend
E] $ 50 Supporter

Cl EB 25 Regular

Cl $ 5 Student or Senior Citizen

Enclosed is my tax-deductible contribution of
$ to help you continue your work

Visa/MC

 

expiration date:

Name

 

Address

 

City State Zip

Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2332
awi@animalwelfare.com

www.animalwelfare.com -
L_________________J

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
for animals. :
|
I
|
|
I
|
l
|
|
I
|

Printed on Recycled Paper

 




 

PROTECT

OUR PETS

 

 

S _ . , ~3§
{86.x W235“ mm of 78 pet}; S£’>I£‘i {01‘(.1?sz‘33'51mniaff<:‘m.
fk:3:,1r‘iéé{:*n dag}; including Rm were .I'€.i’§§(i£1{j;’d by
their {)WI‘K?ITS. Sadly, ﬂu? {)tfwz‘; were used in
I;3Ij)(:rat'otj}-‘ E‘s-335:3.

 

WRITE YOUR
REPRESENTATIVE
IN CONGRESS
NOW

 

 

 

 




 

HELP STOP PETS FROM BEING TAKEN BY ANIMAL DEALERS AND SOLD T0 LABORATORIES

 

THE FEDERAL ANIMAL
WELFARE ACT

The 'Animal Welfare Act (AWA) was
enacted in 1966 to protect animals
from inhumane treatment and address
the serious problems associated with
animal dealers, including pet theft.
Individuals who collect animals from
random sources and sell them to
research facilities are licensed by the
United States Department of Agricul—
ture (USDA) as Class B dealers.

The USDA is charged with enforcing
the AWA. The law includes the require-
ment that dogs and cats sold by dealers
to registered research facilities must be
provided with adequate care including:
appropriate housing, handling, nutri-
tion, water, veterinary care and shelter
from adverse weather conditions. It also
requires the dealer to keep complete
records on the origin and destination of
the animals, in addition to other vital
information.

 

 

1 sea c1“, stolen from
his kennel it“:
A’iimesota, rag-(.3115
sold to a Class B

' {leader whit: sold
(an? it} a . Li}L}{.}I‘éli{}f}:=’.

 

 

Random Source (Class B) Dealers:

0 have acquired stolen or fraudulently
obtained dogs and cats and sold them to
research facilities;

0 often launder animals by moving them
repeatedly across state lines, and by trans—
ferring them from dealer to dealer, making
it virtually impossible for pet owners to find
their missing animals;

0 routinely violate the law by failing to
maintain accurate records of the source of
dogs and cats they supply to research fa-
cilities; and

o typically fail to meet even the minimum
requirements of the Animal Welfare Act.

USDA licensed Class B dealers profit
from the sale of dogs and cats despite
appalling alleged violations of the Ani-
mal Welfare Act. Following are a few
examples:

0 One former dealer was convicted of
selling more than 1,600 dogs and cats to
research facilities without proper records
identifying the sources of the animals.

0 Another dealer falsely reported ac-
quiring 357 dogs from a pound that USDA
investigators discovered was nonexistent.
This same dealer was found to have de-
stroyed dogs by gunshot in Violation of
USDA regulations. She is still in business
selling dogs to research facilities.

0 Dogs and cats on another dealer’s
premises have been found suffering from
lameness, severe dehydration, emaciation,
bloody injuries, severe nasal and ocular
discharges, and respiratory problems. Al—
though USDA fined him for violating the
Animal Welfare Act, his license was not
revoked and he is still in business.

 

Sr'nokey, a Saint

B {91‘I’liifd mix, was
listed by both {leader
and fti?5£??é§2i‘€iﬁh facility
as a 13m WI} {notzgjrel

 

There are only about 40 licensed Class
B dealers supplying dogs and cats for
research purposes. Many of these dealers
are under investigation or have cases pend—
ing against them by USDA for alleged
violations of the Animal Welfare Act. Pro-
hibiting random source (Class B) dealers
from selling dogs and cats to research
facilities is the only responsible thing to do.

One of the worst nightmares for anyone
who has companion animals is the fear
that the animal could be taken by a dealer
and sold to a laboratory. This is a real
threat and it must be stopped.

 

Please write your Congressional
Representative urging him or her to co-
sponsor the Pet Safety and Protection Act
(HR. 453) and to request hearings in the
House Agriculture Committee. Hon. Larry
Combest (R-TX) is Chairman of the full
Committee, and Hon. Richard Pombo (R—
CA) is Chairman of the Livestock, Dairy
and Poultry Subcommittee to which the
bill has been referred.

Representatives may be addressed at:
House Office Building,
Washington, DC 20515.

 

 

_J

 




 

 

§E'¥{3.?l}es:, at?“ 12:13:"
I“; awe {mm

3:: {13(1):}; {rm-r“.

ﬁt: :52" v. :35: the
third dog; :0
{35.12;};u3- 31’ from
ftiis fart-til} in
two }"’£i:’£3§‘5§.

THE PROBLEM:
RANDOM SOURCE DEALERS

Beloved pet dogs and cats are being
stolen. Rex, Sheba, Smokey and Isaac
are a few examples. Other companion
animals, such as Sosha, a dog who lived
in Washington State, are acquired
through “free to good home” advertise-
ments.

These animals end up in the hands
of random source dealers. The dealers
are anxious to get as many dogs and
cats as they can because they are able
to sell them to laboratories for hun-
dreds of dollars apiece. Then the ani-
mals are used for experimentation.

Rex, Sheba, Smokey and Isaac are
among the few lucky ones; they were
rescued in time. Sosha and countless
others are dead after being used for
research purposes. More than 100,000
dogs and cats are used for experimen—
tation each year in the United States.

 

HELP STOP PETS FROM BEING
TAKEN BY ANIMAL DEALERS
AND SOLD TO LABORATORIES

 

For more information contact:
Society for Animal
Protective Legislation
PO Box 3719
Georgetown Station

Washington, DC 20007
Phone: (202 37—2334
email: sap|@animalwelfare.com

 

 

Om to ("tetalrmabis (ﬁrmditimm. (.2‘SIQ3A had to (T{f}f}fi.§(fiii€?
.11? f5} (1’ eggs; 3’ mind i 13;; this; bound from a lfc‘ftmged {Tia}: \ 3
(trailer in lndiarm,

 




 

 

 




THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL
OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Patrolman John Mobley of the Detroit Police Force,
whose prompt reporting on suffering and neglect of
experimental animals led to improvements in their care.

Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United
States Abe Fortas, author of the ﬁrst Federal bill to
require humane treatment of research animals.

For outstanding contributions
to Animal Welfare

In 1954, a gold replica of the Medal was presented to Dr. Albert
Schweitzer by Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, where Dr. Schweitzer had
gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize.

Senator Warren G. Magnuson and Senator A.S. Mike
Monroney, who sponsored and fought for enactment of
the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, passed by a vote of

SCHWEITZER MEDALISTS

Dr. Robert B ay, veterinarian in charge of a colony of 500
experimental beagles, whose humane treatment of the
animals exemplifies the purpose for which the medal was
struck.*

Major C.W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol.,
Director-General of the Universities Federation for Ani-
mal Welfare (U.F.A.W.), London, author, speaker, and
Founder of U.F.A.W., which pioneered in enlisting sci-
entific efforts for animal welfare.

Paul Kearney, author of "The Case for Humane Vivisec-
tion," the ﬁrst article in a national magazine calling for
humane treatment of research animals.

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, author of the ﬁrst humane
slaughter bill introduced in the Congress of the United
States and chief Senate sponsor of the Federal Humane
Slaughter Act, passed in 1958.

Congressman W.R. Poage, Chairman of the Livestock
and Feed Grains Subcommittee of the Committee on
Agriculture, United States House of Representatives,
and chief sponsor of the Federal Humane Slaughter Act.

Isobel Slater, M .B .E., Founder, and Chief Z.S . Fundikira,
President, Tanganyika Branch of the Royal Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, with 40,000 Afri-
can members. Hon. G. Mennen Williams presented the
medals in Africa. In New York, Hon. Adlai E. Stevenson
made the Schweitzer award address.

William H.A. Carr, author, reporter, and animal columnist.

Rachel Carson, author of Silent Spring.

Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist, whose discov-
ery and reporting on hundreds of Food and Drug Admin-
istration test dogs perpetually caged in a sub-basement
led to Congressional action providing comfortable ken—
nel runways for them.

 

85 to 0 in the United States Senate.

Dr. Francis Mulhem and Dr. Earl Jones of the US Depart-
ment of Agriculture, who prevented much suffering by
enforcement of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act.

Dr. John Quinn, State Veterinarian, Michigan Depart-
ment of Agriculture, who created the ﬁrst Animal Wel-
fare Committee of the United States Animal Health
Association.

Stan Wayman, Life photographer, whose "Concentra-
tion Camps for Dogs" and other picture stories brought
recognition to millions of people that animals need
protection.

Bob Cromie, whose hard hitting columns against cruel
experiments by school children resulted in Westinghouse
Science Fair prizes being changed to eliminate any
experimentation on captive vertebrates. The Medal was
presented by Senator Charles Percy.

Hon. Thomas Foley, who won enactment of the Animal
Welfare Act amendments of 1970 including the require-
ment for "appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic and
tranquilizing drugs" for experimental animals. The Medal
was presented by Senator Warren D. Magnuson.

Russell Train, Chairman, President's Council on Envi-
ronmental Quality, who obtained unanimous adoption of
a resolution for a ten-year moratorium on commercial
whaling. The Medal was presented by S. Dillon Ripley,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Scott McVay who obtained the listing of all the great
whales on the US Endangered Species List. The Medal
was presented by Dr. Lee Talbot, Senior Scientist, Coun-
cil on Environmental Quality.

Dr. Lee Talbot, who successfully fought cruel poisons
spread on federal lands. The Medal was presented by
Hon. Russell Train, Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency.

Fay Brisk, who uncovered cruelty and theft by laboratory
dog dealers in the 19605 and initiated an animalport in

Washington, DC. to help animals transported by air.
The Medal was presented by Senator Lowell Weicker.

* Dr. Bay later resigned after being refused permission by new manage-
ment to end the suffering of a beagle with 24 fractures.

 




Daniel Oduber, President of Costa Rica, for outstanding
achievement in creating major national parks in Costa
Rica where wildlife can ﬂourish. The presentation was
made by Senator Hubert Humphrey.

Yoko Muto, animal caretaker at Tokyo University, and
representative of the Japan Animal Welfare Society, for
her seven years of unstinting effort to allay the suffering
of thousands of dogs used for experimental surgery, by
gentle, personal nursing given each animal. The presen-
tation was made by Ambassador Mike Mansﬁeld.

Shri H.M. Patel, Chairman of the Indian Board for
Wildlife, for his contributions to wildlife conservation
and humane education as Indian Minister of Finance.

Roger and Katharine Payne, for leadership in the protec-
tion of whales, through observation of living Humpback
and Right whales. Medal presentation by Senator Paul
Tsongas.

Dr. Dallas Pratt for his landmark books, especially Alter-
natives to Pain in Experiments on Animals. Medal
presented by Senator Mark Hatﬁeld.

Senator Robert Dole whose leadership ensured enact-
ment of the 1985 Improved Standards for Laboratory
Animals Act and the 1978 humane slaughter legislation.

Jane Goodall, for her leadership in ﬁghting for protection
of chimpanzees in the wild and in laboratories. Senator
John Melcher, author of the requirement for psychologi-
cal well—bein g of laboratory prim ates, presented the Medal.

Astrid Lindgren for achieving enactment of the world's
most comprehensive law against cruel factory farming
practices. Medal presentation by Congressman Charles
Bennett. Mrs. Lindgren is the author of many children's
stories which are classic, not only in Swedish literature,
but in translation throughout the world.

Allan Thornton and Dave Currey of the Environmental
Investigation Agency for achieving international protec-
tion for elephants and dolphins by revealing cruel and
illicit commercial killing. The Medal was presented by
Senator John Heinz.

Michael Tillman for thwarting the commercial Whalers,
reversing the Revised Management Procedure, and main-
taining the moratorium on whale killing for proﬁt at the
1993 International Whaling Commission meeting in
Kyoto. Medal presentation by Jason Robards.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 2009—7—

 

 




non—votin
M EM B E R8 H I P

Cl I would like to become a member.
CI I would like to renew my membership.

Name
Address
City

 

 

State Zip

 

CI $1000 Benefactor

CI $500 Patron

CI $100 Friend

CI $50 Supporting

CI $25 Regular

Cl $5 Student or Senior Citizen

C] I wish to make an additional tax—deductible
donation of $

 

Enclosed please ﬁnd $

 

PAYM ENT ()P’I"I(L)NS

CI Check or money order (payable
to the Animal Welfare Institute)

Cl Visa or MasterCard
Card Number:

Lilli] l l l ll l l l H l l JD
Expiration date: E D — [1;]

Month

 

Signature

 

D Check here If you require a receipt

 

BENEFITS ()F
MEMBERSHIP

' A year’s subscription to the

Animal W/elfare Institute Quarterly

' An invitation to the Albert
Schweitzer Award presentation
ceremony and to the reception in
honor of its recipient

' One free copy of an AW book
listed below

° A\X/I’s Annual Report

ID
_._ ‘d

You may select a free copy of
one of these hooks when you join
or renew your membership:

CI Animals and Their Legal Rights

CI The Animal Dealers: E oidence of A huse
ofAnimals in the Commercial
Trade, 1952—1997

Cl Beyond the Lahoratory Door

CI The Bird Business: A Study of the
Commercial Cage Bird Trade

CI Comfortahle Quarters for Lahoratory
Animals

CI Factory Farming: The Experiment
That Failed

C] First Aid and Care of Small Animals

Cl Flight to Extinction: The lVild—Caught
Bird Trade

CI Whales Versus Whalers

 




AVAILABLE FROM

PO BOX 3650, Washington, DC 20007

 




APPRECIATION AND
PROTECTION OF ANIMALS

The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly
Our magazine dealing with current animal welfare issues,
including treatment of captive animals in laboratories, com—
mercial trade, factory farms, and traplines, summaries of
international meetings, laws and treaties affecting animals,
articles by undercover investigators, and book reviews. Illus-
trated, one year subscription. $25.00

Animals and Their Legal Rights
US legislation, with appendices on important foreign laws.
AWI, 441 pages, fourth edition, 1990. One copy free to
libraries, police and humane societies. To others $8.00

Man and Beast
by Major C.W. Hume. Essays on animal issues by the founder
of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare. This really
is the first animal rights book. UFAW, 222 pages, illustrated
by Fougasse, second edition, 1982. $5.00

The Neighbours
Anthology of animal poems. UFAW, 1 17 pages, illustrated by
Fougasse. Free to teachers; to others $5.00

The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion
by Major C.W. Hume. UFAW, 100 pages, illustrated by
Fougasse. $10.00

Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer
by Ann Cottrell Free. AWI and others, 93 pages, illustrated,
revised edition, 1988. $5.00

Since Silent Spring: Our debt to Albert Schweitzer and
Rachel Carson
A speech by Ann Cottrell Free. 17 pages, 1992. $3.50

The Schweitzer Medalists
The medal has been presented for outstanding contributions
to animal welfare from 1955 on. Free

Childhood Cruelty Toward Animals Among Criminals
and Noncriminals
by Stephen Kellert and Allen Felthouse. 16-page study
reprinted from Human Relations, Vol. 38, No. 12. Documents
a 11nk between childhood cruelty to animals and adult Violent
crimes, 1985. $0.50

The Animal Dealers: Evidence of Abuse of Animals in the
Commercial Trade 1952-1997
A shocking expose of cruelty, fraud and negligence in the
growmg trade 1n animals—both in exotic animals and in dogs
and cats for research. Edited by Mary Ellen Drayer. AWI, 430
pages, illustrated. $8.00

WILDLIFE UNDER THREAT

Flight to Extinction: The Wild-Caught Bird Trade
Report by the Environmental Investigation Agency and AWI.
27 pages, 31 color photographs, 1992. $5.00

The Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial Cage Bird
Trade

by Greta Nilsson. Foreword by S. Dillon Ripley. AWI, 121
pages, illustrated in black and white and color, 1981. One

copy free to libraries. To others $5.00

Importation of Birds Into The United States In 1985
by Greta Nilsson. Discussion of developments and research
in the cage bird trade. AWI, 203 pages, 1989. $5.00

Importation of Birds Into The United States 1986-1988
by Greta Nilsson. A continuation of the preceding report.
AWI, 287 pages including tables, 1990. $5 .00

Help Us Stop This Cruelty
Full color brochure on the bird trade. AWI, 1989. Up to 10
copies available free. Additional copies $0.25

Under Fire: Elephants in the Front Line
A report with color photographs and maps by the Environmen-
tal Investigation Agency, 57 pages, 1992. $6.50

Living Proof: African Elephants—the Success of the CITES
Appendix I Ban
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. 18
pages, illustrated in color, 1994. $8.00

The Political Wilderness: India’s Tiger Crisis
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. Illus-
trated, 1996. $8.00

Corporate Power, Corruption, & the Destruction of the
World’s Forests: the Case for a New Global Forest Agree-
ment
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. 52
pages, illustrated in color, 1996. $8.00

How to Save the World’s Forests
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. Illus-
trated, new edition,1995. 3.00

Slaughter of the Apes: How the Tropical Timber Industry
is Devouring Africa’s Great Apes

A report by the World Society for the Protection of Animals.
.16 pages, illustrated in color, 1996. $2.00

Russia’s Final Roar: Criminal Threats to the Siberian Tiger
and Local Communities: an Inside Look at a New Fight for
Survival
A report by the Investigative Network. 24 pages, illustrated in
color, 1996. $10.00

From Forest to Pharmacy: The Global Underground Trade
in Bear Parts
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. 56
pages, illustrated in color, 1996. $10.00

Why the World Must Kill the Trade to Save the Bears
A report by the Investigative Network. 12 pages, illustrated in
color, 1995. $3.00

CITES: Enforcement Not Extinction
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. 38
pages, illustrated in color, 1994. $5.00

America Leads the World in Preventing the Extinction of
Species
A report on Endangered Species Act success stories by AWI.
14 pages, illustrated in color, 1994. Free

Save the Elephants Longsleeve T-Shirt
Elephants trumpeting with message in the three CITES lan-
guages (English, French and Spanish). White with black print,
adult sizes CI M C] L CI XL only (specify artwork on front
CI or back CI). $14.00

 




TRAPPING

Text of European Community Regulation regarding
trapping and importation of furs. Free

Petition against the steel jaw leghold trap Free

Facts About Furs
by (irela Nilsson and others. 257 pages of information on the
way furs are obtained throughout the world. 79 illustrations,
l8 appendices. AWI revised edition, I980. $10.00

Alternative Traps. comprising The Role of Cage and Box
Traps in Modern Trapping, The Role of Legsnares in
Modern Trapping. and The Role of Spring Powered Killing
Traps in Modern Trapping

by Tom (iarrett. 6| pages. illustrated. AWI, 1996. $8.00

Trapping Agony
The views of (‘harles Darwin on the cruelty of the steel jaw
leghold trap. Reprinted from Defenders magazine. Free

What is the Real Price ofa Fur Coat?
Cruel methods of obtaining wild furs. Society for Animal
Protective Legislation. 4 pages. Free

Steel Jaw Traps Maim and Cripple Pets _
A compilation of articles on pets caught in steel Jaw traps.
Socrety for Animal Protective Legislation. FICC

Ban Steel Jaw Leghold Traps
8 l/2" by 14” poster illustrating the cruelty of steeljaw traps.
Society for Animal Protective Legislation. Free

A Survey of Opinions of US. Citizens on the Use of the Steel
Jaw Leghold Trap
Conducted by Stephen Kellert. Ph.D.. Yale School of Forestry
and Environmental Studies. Includes a list of the 88 nations
that prohibit use of this trap. Free

Leghold Traps Are lnhumane
11” by 17“ poster separating fact from ﬁction on leghold
trapping and European Union Regulation 3254/91. AWI. Free

Opposition to Steel Jaw Leghold Traps is Overwhelming
Results of an opinion poll conducted by Caravan ResearCh
showing that 74% ofAmericans believe steeljaw leghold traps
should be prohibited. Free

LABORATORY ANIMALS

The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique ,
by W.M.S. Russell and R.L. Burch. A reprint of this ClaSSIC
book. UFAW. 238 pages. 1992. $25.00

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals _
New. completely revised edition. edited by Dr. Ylktor Rem-
hardt: text and illustrations provided by the screntists mOSt
expert in the housing and care of each individual species-
_AWI. 120 pages. illustrated. 1997. One copy free to seientlﬁc
institutions. veterinarians or architects. To others

Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
Text of the 1985 amendments to the Animal Welfare Act from
The Congressional Record. Vol. 131. No. 175. Free

Humane Consideration for Animal Models
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Animal Models of
Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases. National Academy
of Sciences, 8 pages. 1976. Free

Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals:
A Review of Scientiﬁc Literature from 1975-1978
by Jeff Diner with a foreword by Samuel Peacock, M.D. AWI,
195 pages, 1979. $5.00

Beyond the Laboratory Door
Continues the above review, 1978-1984, and includes two
new sections: “Unjustiﬁable by Any Standard” (citing USDA
reports of laboratory inspections) and “Photographs of Ex-
perimental Animals,” AWI, 266 pages, 1985. $5.00

Mistreatment of Laboratory Animals Endangers
Biomedical Research
Commentary by Christine Stevens, Nature, September 27,
1984. Free

Humane Perspectives
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The Future
ofAnimals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Research, Develop-
ment, Education, and Testing. National Academy of Sciences,
9 pages, 1977. Free

A Bibliography for Members of Institutional Animal Care
and Use Committees
Annotated. Includes publications on alternatives to
animals, laws and regulations, training courses, and the psy-
chological well-being of primates. AWI. Free to
members of IACUCs, all others $0.50

Use of Laboratory Animals in Research
Dissent by committee member Christine Stevens to the report
of the National Research Council Committee on the Use of
Laboratory Animals in Biomedical and Behavioral Research.
2 pages, 1988. Free

Excerpts from: Housing, Care and Psychological Well-being
of Captive and Laboratory Primates , a 544 page book edited by
Evalyn F. Segal, Noyes Publications.
Contains quotations from 50 leading primatologists and other
scientists. 3 pages, 1989. Free

Concentration Camps for Dogs
Reprinted from Life magazine. 8 pages, 1966. Free

Protect Our Pets _
Help stop pets from being taken by unscrupulous an1ma1
dealers and sold to laboratories. AWI, 4pages. Also, 32” button
reading “Protect our pets 0 Stop dog & cat theft.” Free

Social Housing of Previously Single-Caged Macaques: What
Are the Options and the Risks?
By Viktor Reinhardt, Cathy Liss and Christine SteVens. Re—
printed from the journal Animal Welfare. UFAW, 20 pages,
illustrated, 1995. Free

Also see The Animal Dealers, on page 2.

FACTORY FARMING

Factory Farming: The Experiment that Failed . _
Compilation of AWI Quarterly articles showing Intensive
rearing of calves, sows and hens and practical alternative
methods. AWI, 86 pages, 1987. One copy free to 11brar1es
and humane societies. To others $5.00

How Astrid Lindgren Achieved Enactment of the 1988
Law Protecting Farm Animals in Sweden
A translation of articles and letters published in Expressen,
Stockholm, from 1985—1989. AWI, 27 pages. Free

 




HUMANE EDUCATION

Good Kind Lion
For primary grades. UFAW, 4 pages, illustrated by Fougasse.
$0.50 or free with a self—addressed, stamped envelope

Kittens and Cats and You and Your Dog
For primary grades. Humane Society of Huron Valley, 12 and 16
pages, with pictures suitable for coloring. One copy free to teach-
ers, librarians and humane societies. To others & additional copies
$0.50 or free with a self-addressed, stamped envelope

First Aid and Care of Small Animals
by Ernest P. Walker. For use by teachers in primary and secondary
schools. AWI, 52 pages, second edition. One copy free to teachers,
librarians, humane societies and scout leaders. To others $3.00

Attitudes Towards Animals
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The American Biology
Teacher, 3 pages Free

Biology Students as Experimental Subjects
by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article from The American
Biology Teacher. Free

Alternatives that Don’t Harm or Destroy Animals
Substitutes for dissection and invasive experiments. Free

Humane Rules For Canadian Science Fairs
One page. Free

VIDEOS

Video rentals are subject to availability and can only be shipped
within the US. All video rentals require a $25. 00 refundable
deposit (please enclose a separate check) and are available for one
week.

Where Have All the Dolphins Gone?
Vldeo documenting the dolphin slaughter narrated by George C.
Scott. Marine Mammal Fund. 48 minutes. $500

The Earthtrust Driftnet Expedition _
Video showing entanglement of marine mammals and birds 1n
driftnets. Earthtrust. 25 minutes. 33500

America’s Shame
V1deo showing suffering of animals caught in leghold traps. The
Fur—Bearers. 15 minutes $5.00

Gregory Peck Speaks Against Leghold Traps .
Soc1ety for Animal Protective Legislation. PSA for loan to telev1-
Sion stations only. Free

The Pig Picture
Video detailing the cruelty of factory hog farm conditions. Pro-
duced by the Humane Farming Association and AWI. $5 .00

Down on the Factory Farm
Video produced by the BBC documenting cruel confinement and
showmg alternative housing systems. 50 minutes. $5.00

Laboratory Dogs
Vldeo showing humane care and hOUSlng of dogs in an experimen-
tal surgery laboratory. Produced by Crawley Films. $5.00

Animal Detectives

A 7-part documentary series documenting illegal trade in endan-
gered species and shocking abuse of wildlife around the globe.
Env1ronmental Investigation Agency, 1995. Available from EIA,
15 Bowling Green Lane, London EC1R OBD, UK.

 

 

 

 

 

SAVE THE WHALES

Whales vs. Whalers: A Continuing Commentary
Articles published from 1971 to 1995 in the AW] Quarterly on
national and international efforts to prevent the extinction of
whales. Free to teachers; to others $5.00

The Global War Against Small Cetaceans
Documentation of the hundreds of thousands of dolphins,
porpoises and small whales that are killed and exploited. A
second report by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 63
pages, illustrated in color, 1991. $6.50

The Continuing Global War Against Small Cetaceans
An update by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 46
pages, illustrated in color, 1996. $6.50

Under Fire: Environmental Threats and the Extinction of
the World’s Cetaceans

An update by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 46
pages, illustrated in color, 1996. $6.50

The Gray Zone: Industrial Threats to Gray Whales in
Baja, Mexico

A report by the Investigative Network, 18 pages, illustrated,
1996. $10.00

Strandings: Ways to Save Whales

by Frank Robson. Includes step-by-step instructions to assist
stranded marine mammals. Science Press, hardcover, 123
pages, over 70 illustrations, 1984. $16.00

What Dolphins Are Teaching Us About Communication:
A New Age Interview with Frank Robson

by Jim Nollman. A five-page discussion with the author of
Strandings. Free

A Whale of a Friend
An ocean giant and man play together in an historic happen—
ing. 4 pages. Reprint from The Toronto Star. Free

A Letter from 3 Whale
by Anthony Sandonato. For primary grades. AWI, 4 pages.
One c0py free. Additional copies $0.50

Save the Whales Poster

Richard Ellis illustrations of the Great Whales. One free to

teachers only, extras $2.00
Copies of this and many otherAWI publications are available free

on the World Wide Web, at http://www.animalwelfare.com

Wear a Message: Save the Whales and Protect the Dol-
phins from Pollution and Proﬁteering is printed on the
front of AWI’ s T-shirts. Many different species of cetaceans

are pictured on the back.
Adult sizes CI M D L C] XL $12.00

A full-color print measuring 20” x 26”, from an original
painting by Richard Ellis, of two majestic cachalot whales,
suitable for framing, is available to anyone donating $25 or
more to the Animal Welfare Institute’s SAVE THE
WHALES campaign.

CI Please send me the Richard Ellis print

 

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007

I wish to become a non-voting member of
the Animal Welfare Institute.

D $1000 Benefactor Cl $500 Patron
CI $100 Friend Cl $50 Supporting

Cl $25 Regular Cl $5 Student or.
Semor C1t1zen

(Subscription to the AW] Quarterly included)

NAME

ADDRESS

 

CITY

 

STATE

 

INSTITUTION

 

Please send me the items marked, for which I

enclose $ -
(DC residents add 6% sales tax to all orders.)

 

 

[3 Check or money order (payable to
the Animal Welfare Institute)

[I Visa or [3 MasterCard
Card Number:

DUDE DEED BEBE DEED
Expiration date: D D _ D D

Month Year

 

Signature

 

 

 

All orders should be accompanied by payment. To lower
expenses, an acknowledgment of your gift will be sent
only upon request. If you require a receipt, check here E].

Teachers, please use school letterhead and indicate
grade level. We regret that only reprints and leaﬂets
can be provided free to student teachers.

 




I / / /lz / /
/ ////2/12%, . i/ 4/
, -/////% %,¢”/" /". /
”2
3' 32/22
%@//;¢//2

‘7

l

7.

//

% 25,27 //,, Z22} I' ,

'/ 0/41 ,1...
/ .

22

2 ;
/

/
/

 




 

ﬁx .

 

 




S THE HAUNTING EERIE MUSIC begins, she

glides onstage into the light. Small and blonde
and sinewy, she wears only filmy veils that float
behind her, evanescent as whale spume.

The music is the songs of humpback whales, and the
dance is “Whale Song.” At first the dancer rolls and slides,
smooth and steady as a whale slicing through the water.
But suddenly the enemy appears, and the peace of nature is
shattered as the gentle creature becomes a quarry. Increas-
ingly frantic, she flees her pursuers, but they are relentless
and the harpoon finds its mark. FlOpping and gasping in
her death throes, the great whale finally subsides, sinking
with violent convulsions into the stillness of death.

Conceived and choreographed seven years ago by Martita
Goshen, “Whale Song” has been performed all over the
world: on the White House lawn and in the emperor’s gar—
den in Tokyo, in a cow pasture in Maine and in London’s
Trafalgar Square, in schools from New York to Copenhagen.

Whales are not Goshen's only concern. ”Whale Song”
was her first work involving animals—chosen because
whales represent to her an international symbol of man’s
disrespect for nature and the suffering caused by his depre-
dations—but it has since been joined by other dances:
about sea turtles, about seals, about wolves, and, in her
latest work in progress, about dogs.

Martita Goshen is an anomaly. Straddling the world of
dance and that of animal protection and environmental
conservation, she has created a unique niche for herself in
expressing both concerns. Her work in behalf of endan-
gered species began with her first exposure to whales, an

 

Not interested in per-
forming literal imita-
tions of animals in her
dances, Martita strives
to evoke their spirits
in the public '8 mind.
Here and on the open-
ing page: Dancing to a
Mozart horn concerto,
Martita becomes a sea
turtle capriciously soar-
ing through the sea.

October/November

otos by Tom Caravaglia

 




 

,, , /,. '%?//'/-7»’. v.
, / ,0 ¢//ﬁ,////////fl//u/
' /M." ’/ .. ,.

, ,H/ “[7197!”

4., ' W

My/ . ' 7/ //
Wm“: M f V 4/ 4539””
éa/lﬂW/Mw M ”M ,Mwu,’
,4. ,“”w%%? 14%.;

' ’ ”’H ’ ’

i

/ ,
W/ '
, . //////////

// C ,
4% I /: / //'/5 ///
/

/
’/
4,

/’

i
/

w

;, .,// . , (a
’ ,." /; ////‘ ’7, ,.
' " , /

experience so ove whelming it amounted to an epiphany.

On a visit to California while on vacation from the
Charles Weidman Company (with which she was dancing),
Goshen took a National Geographic—sponsored boat trip in
San Diego Bay. There she saw a gray whale—and the whale
saw her. “She turned and her eye looked at me, and at that
point my life became absolutely different," says Martita
softly, ”because in that eye was the wisdom of the world.
Something drew me right to the pupil, and it brought a
sense of utter calmness to my life which before then did
not exist. In that eye I saw fear, curiosity, and acceptance.
That such a huge creature could be so gentle and so obvi-
ously intelligent! I felt my life take on new importance.

26 Animal Kingdom

 

 

. ' 155%,»!

, 7/ / I .
”/4, ,.
W a, - “/31

Within a few days, I heard a recording of the songs of
humpback whales and I thought, ‘Why don’t I do a ballet
about whales?’ The first time I did it was in 1976, with
nine dancers in a company in Bethesda, Maryland, and I
knew the night I premiered it that I’d found my home.”

Goshen’s work has won her the respect of many col-
leagues in the environmental movement. Iacques Cousteau
called her whale dance “more eloquent than any speech
and as graceful as the fluid dance of the true whale."

N ADDITION TO PERFORMING, Goshen has worked exten-
sively with schoolchildren, directing workshops and
training teachers as well as children in the use of dance as

 

 

 

 




a tool to promote understanding of environmental issues.
Last year she completed “residencies" in 18 elementary,
junior high, and high schools in New York City as part of
the Arts in General Education program, a Board of Educa-
tion—Sponsored effort to integrate the arts into the educa-
tional process.

”She worked with the classes and did dance workshops
as well as dancing for the children," reports Elton Warren,
director of ACE. ”It certainly opened up the children’s
awareness. It made them conscious of the plight of whales
and the dangers to our environment. The children wrote
original stories, plays, essays, and poetry and made pic-
tures and created dances about whales and the ecological

Through dance performances and workshops, Martita
brings home to schoolchildren the plight of animals.

 

chain. Martita not only turned on the kids, but she touched
the teachers in such a way that they are still working on
this, a year later."

Indeed, the impact of Goshen’s work in the schools is
striking. “Your dance was beautiful because you showed
me how whales and wolves suffer," wrote one fifth-grader
from a New York City public school. “Before this, I did
not care about whales and wolves. When you said that peo-
ple kill the whale with a harpoon, I felt really bad.”

“I think her work is important,” says Christine Stevens,
president of the Animal Welfare Institute, in Washington,
DC. “She seems to get children to really take an interest
in whales, seals, stray dogs, and so on. Whenever she cho-
reographs a dance and performs it, they really get in touch
with their feelings about animals.

”We need to have young people learn about the impor-
tance of maintaining these creatures, many of which are in
considerable danger of extinction,” adds Stevens. “Some-
thing like this encourages them to have the right kind of
feeling toward other living things, whether they be ani-
mals or people. Martita’s work is unique; I don't think
there’s anybody who could be compared with her in that
she has created these original dances.”

Those who have worked with Martita often credit her
with a powerful sense of empathy that enhances the im-
pact of her dances. “I think she has an innate rapport with
nature, a feeling of being part of nature," observes Thomas
B. Grooms, executive director of the Center for Environ-
mental Education in Washington, DC, which—like AWI—
has helped fund Goshen’s travels. “The students who
work with her become so enthusiastic, and they learn an
immense amount of information about the issue of endan-
gered species, why it’s important for us all to learn how to
get along together on this planet, and that we all have a re—
sponsibility to one another.”

HAT LESSON OF RESPONSIBILITY was one Goshen herself
began to learn at an early age. Her background is as
much an anomaly as her work is. The daughter of an Ameri-
can diplomat who specialized in Latin American affairs, she
was born in Uruguay, but the family moved often. “I grew
up in the hot steaming jungles of Brazil, Paraguay, Colom-
bia, Argentina, and Venezuela,” she reports. Her own life
was comfortable, but she was shocked by its contrast with
the suffering she saw. “As a child, the hardest thing to un-
derstand is how you can go to school in a limousine and
see such dire poverty around you," adds Martita, who re-
members herself as “a very pensive child, very solemn."
When she went into the villages, she would find “a
whole other world," and she began to realize the gulf be—
tween herself and the people around her. “In their eyes I
saw the ravages of poverty, and I was wearing organdy
dresses," she recalls. “I felt guilty. I faced my parents with
this, and Daddy said, ‘This is why you get an education, to

 

Leslie Bennetts is a reporter for The New York Times.

October/November 27

 




 

  

try to help others.’ ”

Such views led Martita’s father to steer her away from
ballet, which she loved. “He felt my other strengths had to
be encouraged. He said, ‘I don’t mind this as a hobby, but
you’re going to get an education.’ ”

A serious skiing accident when she was a teenager forced
her to drop not only dance but virtually all other strenuous
physical activity. She underwent surgery and received a
plastic knee joint, but the damage was extensive. ”It took
me years to learn how to walk again,” Goshen says. “The
accident was in 1962, and it was 1971 before I had fluid use
of my leg again.”

Goshen spent her adolescent years in Europe, first in Lis-
bon, then at a finishing school in Lausanne, Switzerland,
which she hated. ”My family thought it would be a great
treat and I’d have a lark, but I was appalled by the frivolity
of it. It seemed unreal to me. I had this burning desire to
fix, to make the world better—to contribute somehow.”

After graduating from Elmira College, in upstate New
York, and earning a master’s degree in political science at
West Virginia University, Goshen worked as a volunteer
doing research on the aging and on poverty in Appalachia
for Robert F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King.

She was shattered by their deaths and began to reassess
her goals, which were largely a product of her upbringing
rather than independent impulse. “I guess I thought I was
going to work in the State Department or at the United Na-
tions,” she says. “But I had this drive—the drive that
makes you go onstage and give and give, and if you’re a
good artist it’s never enough. I tried to give that on an
everyday level, and I was doing eight million projects and
it still wasn’t fulfilling my needs.”

Among the roles she tried to play was that of doctor’s
wife. Goshen was married to a Washington psychiatrist for
10 years, but they separated in 1978—partly because of her
growing commitment to dance and a demanding travel
schedule, which proved disruptive to their home life. Al-
though Goshen retains her former husband’s name (her
own family name is Kingsley), she is now divorced and
lives in Brooklyn with a fellow dancer and cellist.

AVING COME TO DANCE relatively late, Goshen has
H nonetheless trained with a wide range of artists ,- her
resume includes stints as an apprentice with the Charles
Weidman, the lose Limon, and the Erick Hawkins com-
panies; Twyla Tharp,- and Anna Sokolow, among others.
“I was in my early 203 when I was training,” she notes. “It
occurred to me that I shouldn’t ask for too much because I
had been crippled. I just said, ’I have to do this for myself,’
and I did it.”

As an artist Goshen is inspired by all kinds of stimuli.
just as the eye of a whale prompted her commitment to
that species, when she heard a composition called “Wolf
Eyes,” by jazz saxophonist Paul Winter, she was deeply
moved. Upon learning that wolves are sometimes run down
and cornered by hunters in helicopters, she was aghast,
and created a dance about wolves. She choreographed a sea
turtle dance at the request of Christine Stevens, despite
considerable difficulties posed by the sea turtle’s shape
and style of motion. “I took some poetic license,” Goshen

28 Animal Kingdom

 

admits. "After all, you can’t just go lumbering around the
stage like a jerk.”

A couture assistant to Christian Dior saw Goshen per-
form her seal dance in Paris and offered his services to ben-
efit the cause. The result was a costume with extravagant
lavender and green ruffles, which helped put Goshen in the
mood to communicate the essence of sea turtle. ”I don’t
want to imitate these animals,” she explains. ”I want to
evoke their spirit in the public’s mind.”

Her dog dances were inspired by a growing involvement
with a pack of feral dogs living on her street. Although
they were a neighborhood nuisance, nobody did anything
about them. “The dogs looked terrible,” Goshen says.
"They were mangy and suffering, and I finally said, ‘I can’t
take this anymore.’ ” She began to stay up late at night and
listen to what was going on in the street when the dogs
came out to scavenge. Then she started putting out food,
and gradually each dog permitted her to approach and fi-
nally to feed it. The entire campaign was conducted with
extreme caution, since feral dogs can be dangerous.

She now has a whole system worked out. "I get the dog
cleaned up and bring it to my ballet teacher, who tries to
place it through her students,” Goshen says. If no one will
take the dog, Martita takes it to the ASPCA—unless she
herself has succumbed to its forlorn soulful eyes.

The first adoptee was Beanie, a nervous mutt who had
been hit by a car. Partially lame, he also had cigarette
burns under his chin, inflicted by an unknown abuser. Go—
shen took him to the pound but no one wanted him ,- she fi-
nally couldn’t bear it and took him home with her to stay.
Beanie remains high-strung and somewhat lame, and he
flinches whenever anyone scratches him under the chin;
but his tail thumps wildly at a kind word or even a benign
look and a more loving dog would be hard to find. At the
moment Goshen is also mistress to Ginger, a golden retriev-
er, but she hopes to find Ginger a good home. “I’m such a
sop. I really shouldn’t take her,” she sighs unconvincingly.

Since embarking on her career as a dog owner, Goshen
has choreographed two of three planned dog dances: a trio
involving a Springer Spaniel, a Russian Wolfhound, and a
Great Dane ; and a humorous poignant piece about a stray
dog. She is developing a duet about a stray and “a very
leggy elegant Weimaraner.” All the dances make delight-
fully clear each breed’s personality and characteristic style
of motion, and Goshen's stray—scrappy, tough, and vul-
nerable—is a surefire crowd pleaser.

Though she choreographs most of the dances she per-
forms, Goshen asked another choreographer, David Ander-
son, to create a work for her about seals, an elegy for a
mother seal whose baby has just been killed. She has per-
formed that work in a number of places, including a Green-
peace benefit in Paris.

Her other travels have been under the auspices of a vari-
ety of organizations. During the Carter administration,
she danced on the White House lawn at an event spon—
sored by several environmental and conservation groups to
celebrate solar energy and the importance of preserving en—
dangered species.

The Animal Welfare Institute sent her to Tokyo, where
she danced in the emperor’s garden to show American sup-

 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
    




H- .. ..i.__.-...-A<._ Mug...
>-_..,‘. »« ‘.._ s _. .-.~

Upper right: Martita evokes the essence of a whale. . . .
A harpoon rushing through the air, strikes her as she
leaps above the water's surface. Lower right: A wolf at
dawn listens to the sounds of the deep woods.

 

port for whale protection during the International Whaling
Commission conference in Japan. Another IWC conference
took her to London,- there she danced in Trafalgar Square
on behalf of Friends of the Earth.

Goshen has been chosen as one of eight individuals to be
featured in a public television series about artists who ex—
press environmental concerns through their work. The
series, produced by the South Carolina Educational Televi—
sion network, will also profile photographer Ansel Adams,
violinist Isaac Stern, and theater producer—director Ioseph
Papp. It will air in South Carolina this fall and will later be
shown around the country. The segment on Goshen shows
her working with schoolchildren and performing her
whale dance on a beach. “She expresses with her body
what a lot of us feel in terms of our concern for that beauti-
ful animal,” says lack Hanna, producer of the series.

Goshen has paid a price for such satisfactions, of
course—one that appalls her family. ”Nobody gave me the
money to do the art," she says. ”I did it because I had a
burning desire to make a difference. The whales can’t talk.
But I’m so poor, I go around debating whether or not I’ll
use the subway. My mother’s family can’t understand why
I would want to live in New York City and starve. My
father thinks it’s a scandal. He feels that with my degrees I
should be commanding a huge salary or contributing to so-
ciety as a professor at Smith College or something. I under—
stand how they feel,” she adds with a grin. "I sometimes
question my sanity too.”

But her work has provided an outlet for the feelings that
used to overwhelm her. “I am intrigued by the animal
kingdom because I find that the rage and frustration I feel
about the injustices of the human world, I can resolve in
dealing with the animal world,” she explains. ”I was in a
constant state of rage in my ZOs—at man’s indifference and
cruelty and inhumanity to himself and to animals and to
Earth. I’ve calmed down a lot now. Every day, you’ve got
to live as if it were your last. I despise the ordinary; the
mundane is fearful to me; because it makes us forget the
precious things in life—being alive, honoring life."

Asked about future works, Goshen talks about butter-
ﬂies and rare birds, about elephants and chimpanzees,
about tigers; she would like to do a dance on each.

”And I still want to perform at Iacob’s Pillow and to go
back to Tokyo ,- those are the two things I still want to do as
a professional," she says. “Other than that, I’ve done so
much more than I ever dreamed I could. And I don't think
I’ve even reached my peak. When I can show the joy and
grief of a little cartoon creature, the audience is more like-
ly to open their hearts to that creature. I’m always looking
for a way to shock and titillate the viewer’s mind. Animals
are beautiful and need to be preserved; they ’re endangered
and oppressed. I’m strong and blessed, one of the privileged,
so I feel it’s my responsibility to take care of my corner of
Earth, no matter how small.” [:1

 

photos by James Ferry

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

To Educators:

Martita Goshen specializes in working with teachers and children in integrating
concern for the environment and endangered species into the school curriculum.

For a complimentary teacher’s copy of this article and additional humane
educational materials write to:

The Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650,
Washington, DC 20007

For workshops and performances contact:

Martita Goshen’s EarthWorks

23 Dean Street .
Brooklyn, NY 11201 Phone 212-625-5207

Reprinted with the kind permission of “Animal Kingdom.”

 




 

Snowball was once a happy pet.

A controversy exists over the treatment and
care of animals used in research laboratories.

The debate affects all of us.

This pamphlet seeks to provide an
understanding of the debate and promote
legislation to resolve the controversy.

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
PO. Box 3719
Washington, D.C. 20007
(202) 337-2334

 




WHAT’S THE PROBLEM?

Snowball was once a happy pet.

A controversy exists over the treatment and
care of animals used in research laboratories.

The debate affects all of us.

WHAT’S THE SOLUTION?

This pamphlet seeks to provide an
understanding of the debate and promote
legislation to resolve the controversy.

 

THE DOLE BILL, S.657
in the U.S. Senate

THE BROWN BILL, H.R. 5725
in the U.S. House of Representatives

 

 

 

 

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
P.O. Box 3719
Washington, D.C. 20007
(202) 337-2334

 

 

 

 

Recently formed research associations ”With a vested interest in animal research have launched a mass media campaign

to promote the following myths:

MYTH: Animals are given surgical care com-

parable to that given human patients.
‘Researchers must take steps to eliminate any pain greater
than a pin-prick.’ (Stanford Medical Center brochure)

Federal regulations do not require the
FACT: use of anesthesia if the experimenter
says it will interfere with the results of the study. Research

institutions are required to make yearly reports on the
number of animals subjected to painful procedures without

anesthesia. In 1982, 169 research centers reported 130,363

animals used in this manner.

‘Whenever possible, researchers do use
MYTH: alternatives.’ (California Biomedical

Research Association)

A 1976 independent survey of grants

F ACT: issued by three government research in-

stitutes showed that, on the average, only one third of the
grantees had even considered the possibility of using alterna-
tives to live animal subjects.

MYTH: The present standards for thwhumine

. care of animals are carefully monitored
and strictly enforced by the U.S. Department of

Agriculture.
There is evidence of considerable na-

F ACT: tionwide laboratory animal abuse. A

Harvard Medical School technician told Congress:

‘ ' ' '
I Witnessed animals suffocating because of overcrowd-
ing . . . Complaints to m su ervisor were ignored.’

Neurobiologist Dr. Jay Class, formerly a faculty
member of the University of Pittsburgh School of Medi-
cine, testified before Congress on the need for legislation
to ensure adequate anesthesia and surgical care:

‘The paralyzation method (giving animals drugs which
allow them to feel pain but which paralyze their capacity to
move or cry out) and others of equal horror are
COMMON PLACE IN LABORATORIES ACROSS
THE COUNTRY . . . the most insidious aspect of this
method is that since the animal is paralyzed the experi-
menter DOES NOT HAVE TO COME FACE TO FACE
WITH THE ANIMAL’S AGONY.’

Dr. Gary M. Williams, New York Medical College,
stated in a New York Times interview, 2/ 16/83:

‘. . . the evidence (that the test need not be done on
animals) is frequently ignored by people in a position to
expedite changes . . . people with responsibility often
lack the appropriate background or training and are'mse—
cure in making needed changes . . . Anyone whose Job Is
dependent upon animal testing will feel threatened by
challenges to those practices.’

the hospital laboratory at the University of Florida a

newspaper reporter discovered a dog With an 1nc1s1on
open and its entrails exposed.

Dr. Bruce Max Feldman, for six years a University of
California, Berkeley clinical veterinarian stated: ‘The
critical problem in UC laboratories was irresponSIble

animal care.’
In a Christian Science Monitor interview, the head of the

USDA inspection team admitted that the USDA lacked
sufficient manpower to enforce the Animal Welfare Act.

The Dole and Brown Bills would

mandate pre- and post-surgical care.

require the use of pain-relieving drugs to
minimize animal pain and distress.

provide that euthanasia may not be unnecessari-
ly withheld from suffering animals.

prohibit the use of paralytic drugs without anes-
thesia.

avoid the repeated use of the same animal for
painful procedures.

establish an information service at the National
Agricultural Library to prevent unintended
duplication of research and to provide informa-
tion on alternatives to the use of animals.

direct researchers to at least consider the use of
alternatives and to strive to use the least painful
methods.

require institutions to instruct personnel on
humane practices.

require a representative of community concerns
for the welfare of the animal subjects to monitor
the care and treatment of laboratory animals.

prohibit discrimination against employees who
report animal abuses.

 

 

 

 




We are led to believe that the Animal Welfare Act ensures humane care for laboratory animals.

THEN WHY DID THE FOLLOWING INCIDENT HAPPEN?

1. Snowball as a ‘research tool’ ’

On the night of March 24-, 1983, a medical student found
an emaciated Samoyed collapsed in a doorway at the

research facility in the Veterans Administration Hospital
Palo Alto, California.

Photos: Peninsula Humane Society

2. Legs ulcerated

The dog was shaking and coughing. On one leg, an,
ulcerated wound had gone through skin and tissue, exposing
the bone. All legs were covered with deeply infected wounds.
In his right groin, a gaping six-inch incision oozed a

Senator Robert Dole, R-Kansas, is the author ofS. 657, and
Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. , D-California authored
H.R. 5725. These bills provide a moderate but effective

The student took the dog to an emergency clinic where he
was considered untreatable and euthanized. According to
the veterinarian: ‘This animal was suffering tremendously
and was not receiving proper medical or nutritional
treatment.’

According to autopsy reports, performed at the clinic
and at University of California-Davis: . . . THE DOG
WAS SUFFERING FROM ADVANCED PNEUMONIA
AND DEHYDRATION . . . A LARGE AMOUNT OF
HAIR WAS FOUND IN THE STOMACH . . . THE IN—
TESTINAL TRACT WAS EMPTY . . .

Considerable media publicity led the VA to appoint a
panel of hospital staff members to investigate the incident.
This in-house committee concludes: ‘The research animal
had received excellent treatment until the time it was
taken from the facility by a medical student.’

(Campus Report, 5/11/83)

Failure of government agencies to avoid
duplicative testing by checking with one

means to make greatly needed reforms in the treatment of
laboratory animals. The DOLE and BROWN BILLS were
specifically drafted to avoid major expenditures to either
government or research institutions. Twenty-ﬁve senators
have joined Senator Dole in co-sponsoring this bill, and
forty—seven Representatives have joined Congressman Brown.

The DOLE and BROWN BILLS could help prevent such
incidents because they require institutional committees to in-
clude a member not paid by the institution representing
community concerns for the welfare of the animal subjects.

Surely, it is time for an indignant public to take action. The
research community repeatedly claims that laboratory.
animals are treated humanely. At the same time, they lobby
against legislation that could ensure humane care.

 

 

WHAT YOU CAN DO

YOUR LETTERS CAN MAKE THE

DIFFERENCE
Please urge your legislators to support 8.657 and H.R. 5725

All Senators may be addressed:

Senate Ofﬁce Building
Washington, DC 20510

another has led to a massive waste of tax-
payers’ money. The head of the Inter agen-
cy Regulatory Liaison Group stated that if
the agencies would coordinate their testing
efforts ‘. . . there would be significant sav-
ings. It may reach BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS.’

yellowish fluid.

All Representatives may be addressed:
House Ofﬁce Building
Washington, DC 20515

WHAT OTHERS SAY

Also, thank Senator Robert Dole and Congressman
George E. Brown, Jr. Let them know that you count

‘Balance between the protection of animals and the needs
on them to guide the bills through to enactment.

of legitimate research must be the concern of the Congress.

S. 657 and H.R. 5725 achieve this balance and they do it
more effectively than any other proposed legislation.’

Dr. Bennett Derby

Professor of Neurobiology

New York University Medical School

‘The Dole and Brown Bill’s provisions to ensure the
humane care of laboratory animals will improve the quality
and reliability of biomedical research. Generally, research-
ers are too busy to educate themselves on alternative tech-
niques. The Dole and Brown Bill’s provisions for in-hOuse
training sessions on alternative methods will facilitate their
choosing the most effective and most humane procedures for
accomplishing their experimental goals.’

Dr. Peter D. Wood

Deputy Direct
. or
Stanford Heart 'Dlsease Prevention Program

Stanford University

For further information contact:

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
P.O.Box 3719
Washington, D.C. 20007
(202)337—2334

 

 

 

‘The scientiﬁc community would be well advised to show
good faith in eliminating unnecessary use of animals. If they
don’t do it themselves, it will be done for them by an indig-
nant public.’

 

 

 

Prepared by the Humane Legislative Network,
a community organization working to bring about
responsible, humane animal legislation

Dr. Gary Williams
New York Medical College

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

First Edition, 1955
Second Edition, 1980

Ralph Heath releases a small Red Knot, found sick on the beach, that recuperated at the Suncoast

Seabird Sanctuary. The release of birds back into the wild represents the purpose and ultimate goal of
the Sanctuary.

Photograph by Kevin Butler

Printed in USA.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

FIRST AID AND CARE

 

OF SMALL ANIMALS

 

 

 

t

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

by Ernest P. Walker, former Assistant Director
National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution

 

 

 

 

 

 

Published by Animal Welfare Institute P.O. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

Price: $2.00

 




 

 

 

4s

 

 

 

 

Photograph by United Press International

Red Fox Puppy Raised on a Bafﬂe

 




 

 

 

 

 
 

’ﬂ, -,
w ’5
I ' X,
«.4
'. " /
/ a
.7; z
22;

/

321;.

 

EW7E€ZEA

   

An interest in and fondness for animal
life is apparently a part of every child and
it is during childhood and youth that the
greatest good can be accomplished in in-
stilling a knowledge of animals and an in-
terest in our interdependence with animals.
During this period much can be accom-
plished in guiding the student towards a
sympathetic understanding of all living
things as well as the humane and consid-
erate attitude which results from such un-
derstanding. Many valuable object lessons
can be taught during this time.

It should be borne in mind that children
and young people, however fondof animals
or interested in them, may through careless-
nessor ignorance cause the animal serious
harm. Also, there are individuals who wil-
fully try to injure an animal, and there are
those who have received erroneous informa-
tion at home or elsewhere that are disposed
to destroy every living thing. Therefore, in
teaching the handling of animals, one should
be careful to observe the peculiarities of the
individual student and not only show him
how to care fOr the animal properly, but
correct him should he be disposed to injure
the animal wilfully. This should be a partic-
ularly important phase because the spirit of
cruelty to animals and wilful disregard of
their rights and comforts can readily be a
fore-runner of antisocial behavior with seri-
ous consequences in later life.

There are few subjects as complex as biol-

?i@% %%l%@l%iﬂ max z

\\

 

ogy that are so simple to teach in the ele-
mentary form. Begun even in kindergarten,
it can well be studied to the highest college
course. One field of biology teaching that
is altogether too often neglected is that of
correcting the innumerable misapprehensions
and superstitions that exist regarding ani-
mals. There appears to be an almost inﬁnite
number of these, and even old biologists
are constantly hearing of superstitions and
notions that are new to them. Some are
merely the erroneous use of an Old World
name applied to a New World form, such
as the error of calling the North American
skunks "pole cats,” when the term "pole
cat” is properly applicable to a weasel-like
creature in the Old World. The well-known
Ground Hog Day fable is as persistent as
if it were true. Regarding the reptiles and
amphibians, the percentage of superstitions
and groundless fears is much higher than
regarding the birds and mammals. By skill-
ful leadership, these superstitions and erro-
neous notions can be scrutinized and the
students disabused of the wrong notions,
perhaps with the result that they may help
to educate their elders. The prevalence of
such false beliefs leads to extensive destruc-
tion of valuable animals and on many oc-
casions to wanton cruelty. The teachers who
undertake to combat such remnants of the
dark ages will be pioneers indeed and the
most fertile ﬁeld for undertaking this is
with young people.

Childhood as well as early youth is a

 




 

 

valuable time for learning and yet no formal
laboratory is necessary for teaching. In every
community children come into possession of
little creatures that interest them. Some of
these creatures are in need of help and the

child can learn valuable lessons as to their
requirements by being taught how to care for
them. Thus they develop their interest in ani-
mals and learn the basic principles of caring
for both the wild creatures and themselves.

 

Photograph by United Press International

Young Hummingbird Being Fed from an Eye-Dropper

 

 

 

 

’1')

Q'h

m H Don:

P?!"




 

One of the easiest methods of stimulating
interest, and satisfying children as well as
adults, is to put out food for animals to at-
tract them to a given location where they can
be readily observed. This can be done with
a surprisingly simple array of food and is not
limited to birds and squirrels as many people
suppose. Food placed on a window ledge
in a city will almost invariably be found by
some animal if the food is suitable. Insects
can be attracted in this way in. even the most
thickly populated areas. The window ledges
of inner city homes thereby become as
good feeding stations as suburban homes.
Sparrows, pigeons and other birds, squirrels
and insects are all fascinating creatures that
can be studied at close range by the observer
who will put out suitable food and water for
them and remain quietly inside the room.
Such feeding and watering need not be
limited to the winter but can properly be
carried on throughout the year. Birds that
are nesting are especially glad to have a
source of supply of such materials as raisins,
peanut hearts or crushed peanuts, bits of
meat and seeds.

Feeding and watering stations can also be
provided in back yards on the ground, on
posts, or on other elevated places.

In. their active lives, children frequently
find baby birds that are just out of their nests
and learning to ﬂy; sometimes, due to the
death of the parent birds, the young are
really in need of help. Baby squirrels are
sometimes found which have fallen out of
their nests; they have become hungry when
the mother squirrel has met with some acci-

dent and failed to return. During drives in the
country, people frequently find small crea-
tures along the roadsides, particularly turtles,
and sometimes baby skunks, baby opossums,
and other young animals. Some are in need
of assistance; others are adults or are able to
care for themselves. Unless the people who
pick them up have a genuine interest in try-
ing to save them and will take the pains to
provide proper conditions for their survival,
the story is usually a short one—the animal
soon dies, most often through well-inten-
tioned ignorance or neglect. It is to focus
attention upon what can and should be done
for small wild creatures which either appear
to be, or actually are, in need of help that
this pamphlet is prepared. It is not intended
to stimulate or encourage the capture and
keeping of more wild creatures, but rather to
assist well-intentioned people to do the right
thing in the right way for the animals that
fall into their hands.

   

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

A Yellow Jacket Auras-ted to Meat on a
Window-ledge

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photograph by United Press International
Injured Squirrel Rescued and Adopted by High School Senior

 

4

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

’E‘ﬁﬁﬂiﬁlQﬁ

I know of no better way to teach young
people the importance of their own proper
nutrition and care than to let them learn how
to care for animals properly. It can be a valu-
able object lesson. Indeed, to emphasize the
proper care of different kinds of animals gives
an even wider scope to teaching than is pos-
sible by some of the laboratory experiments
in which a single animal or groups of ani-
mals are mistreated by being fed deﬁcient
diets in order to show the results of such
deﬁciencies. Such laboratory experiments, if
carried on by qualiﬁed research workers, have
a place in scientiﬁc studies, but ordinarily
only a single phase of nutritional deﬁciency
can be shown. The young person who is
shown the numerous steps necessary to pro-
vide for the requirements of different kinds

 
 

 

Baby Opossums Eat Watermelon for a Change

 

@W? %'4::’ M‘EWQ

of little animals learns far more than he can
by trying to bring about one given deﬁciency.
He learns to take pride in his accomplish-
ment in raising each animal successfully and
in keeping it in good health. To do this he
must learn much regarding the requirements
of the animal in the wild—i.e., how it lives.
This involves consideration of the group to
which the animal belongs—whether bird,
mammal, reptile, fish, insect, etc. Consider-
ation must then be given to the age of the
animal, its temperature requirements, the fre-
quency with which it should be fed, whether
or not it is able to feed itself or must be
hand-fed, and the kinds of food —— whether
milk, meat, soft proteins, insects, fruit, or
green vegetable material ——- and the type of
housing and exercise required.

 

 




 

 

 

. 4‘ I; w...— ..

 

The requirements of animals are almost as
varied as the number of different kinds of
animals. Obviously it would not be possible
in a small publication to go into details con-
cerning requirements for all species of ani-
mals that might be encountered, or concern-
ing all the afflictions and accidents to which
they may be subject. Therefore, the aim in
this is to outline a few general principles
for the care of wild things —— a sort of an
abridged first-aid manual.

When a wild creature is found, the first
question that should be considered is: Does
it really need help, or is it able to take care
of itself either at the location where found
or in some adjacent, more favorable location?
A baby bird just out of the nest, learning
to ﬂy, does not ordinarily require human
help. Indeed, it is much better to go quietly
away and leave it alone so that its parents
can attend to feeding it and so that it can
learn to ﬂy and take care of itself. Some-
times it is down on the ground where there
are cats or dogs or where it may be subject
to other dangers. Then a human can some-
times help it by putting it up on a.limb,
back in the nest, or in some protected place.
Or, if the cat or dog can be put under re-
straint or removed, the little creature can be
left where it is. Occasionally nestling birds
are found on the ground after a severe storm.
Some of them can be saved by taking them
in, warming them and feeding them until
they are able to be released safely.

If a human being does decide to take an
animal into his possession because it is in-
jured or the parents are dead, he should at

once consider what it needs in the way of
food, warmth, and protection. A great many
people immediately think of feeding birds
bread and milk. But no wild bird ever re-
ceives milk in its normal life and there is
doubt as to whether the bird’s digestive sys-
tem is adapted to handle milk to good ad-
vantage. The great majority of small birds
are fed worms, insects, spiders and fruit
when they are little. When they become
older, their food may be very different.

It is important that young birds have a
warm dry place to stay. A depression in a
mass of tissue paper in a cardboard box
makes a good temporary home for a young
bird.

Turtles, snakes, lizards, salamanders, frogs
and toads that are found along the roadside
ordinarily need no help; unless they are in
some situation from which they cannot ex-
tricate themselves, they are well able to take
care of themselves and most of them would
be far better off if left alone. Almost every
one of these groups has requirements pecu-
liar to its kind, so before a person takes them
into his possession he shOuld make certain
that he knows how to care for them or has
a source of information that will enable him
to give them proper care.

Baby opossums found in the pouch of the
mother or clinging to her after she has been
killed or injured on the road usually need
help. But frequently baby skunks, raccoons,
rabbits and other young animals are brought
in, and the person thinks that he has done
an admirable rescue job whereas probably
the little creature could have done very We“

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

for himself if he had been left alone. Perhaps
he has lost his mother, but by the time an
animal is old enough to be out following
mother through the woods he is usually able
to obtain food for himself.

Young furry creatures that require human
help and are taken home should be offered
warm milk, somewhat diluted in accordance
with the formula on page 22.

Anyone contemplating taking an animal
home should consider whether or not it will
be accepted by other members of the family.
Sometimes members of the family are so
strongly prejudiced against animals that they
will be seriously upset by its presence or will
do the animal harm. On the other hand, since
many such prejudices and notions are the re-
sult of ignorance, these persons often change
their viewpoint when they have an oppor-
tunity to see the animal at close range and
to come to understand something about it.
and may become interested and fond of the
animal.

Practically every wild creature is afraid of
humans, and until the human has demon-
strated his kindness to it and has convinced
it that he is not dangerous,. the little creature
will be fearful and will usually ﬁght to pro-
tect itself. Taming newly caught animals re-
quires varying lengths of time, but the basic
principles are the same: it should at ﬁrst be
allowed to be quiet, its food and water being
supplied by only one person who makes all
moves very gently and quietly and speaks

gently to it at frequent intervals. As the wild
thing gradually becomes accustomed to hu-
man presence, one can eventually touch it
and ﬁnally handle it; but caution should be
used that the animal is not injured, that it
does not bite one, escape, or hurt itself. Bear
in mind that the one thing above all others
feared most by wild creatures is to be re-
strained. If they are held ﬁrmly in the hand
before they are accustomed to human pres-
ence, they may injure themselves or become
so badly frightened that they are more difﬁ-
cult than ever to tame. Also, a person will
often injure the animal by holding it too
tightly in his efforts to prevent it from es-
caping.

Persons who render aid to animals that
are in difﬁculties and in need of help will
ordinarily have nothing to fear as to legal
consequences; but they should not intention-
ally capture them or keep birds or mammals
beyond the time necessary for them to re-
cover sufficiently to take care of themselves.

There are both Federal and State laws that
give protection to many of the wild creatures.
These laws were formulated because of the
great need to prevent excessive destruction
of the wild life; many of the laws also cover
taking animals into one’s possession even
though the animals are not killed. Informa-
tion regarding such matters can usually be
obtained from the local law enforcement
agencies, the Wildlife Department of each
State, or the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service, Washington, DC.

 




 

 

Photograph by United Press International

A Young Crow which Enjoys Human Companionship

8

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Those, of us who are engaged in zoo ad-
ministration become painfully aware that a
large pr0portion of the people who obtain
animals with great enthusiasm soon lose their
enthusiasm when they find that caring for
the animal involves regularity and some
work. We are constantly having offered to
us animals which people have picked up on
the assumption that they are rescuing them,
or which they have kept for a while until
they have tired of them. Sometimes the
owner has concluded that the animal is fail-
ing in health and he wishes to get rid of it
before it dies. This suggests that teachers
could well emphasize that children and adults
not take animals into their possession unless
they are certain that they know how to care
for them properly and are equally certain
that they are willing to devote the time and
effort to give them proper care.

Animals that have been captured as babies
and raised in captivity are poorly prepared
to make their own way if liberated without
a preliminary training period in the wild. If
people are so situated that they can permit
their pet to obtain a portion or much of its
food with them and go out into the surround-
ing region and gradually accustom itself to

a wild life, they can frequently give the pet
a good opportunity to establish itself in ad-
jacent regions with fair chances of survival.
It should be borne in mind that an animal
which is accustomed to receiving its food and
shelter from humans and has not had enough
exercise to ﬁt it for a strenuous life in the
wild requires such a preliminary training.
Many animals when liberated are afraid of
the wild and will come back to their homes,
but will gradually extend their explorations
as they gain confidence and eventually take
up their abode in the wild, often near by,
and will return occasionally to visit their
human friends. The preliminary try-out pe-
riod is of great importance for another rea-
son. If there are other animals of the same
kind living in the vicinity, they generally
have the feeling that they have a prior claim
on the surrounding territory and the pet is
likely to be attacked by them. Therefore,
the liberated pet should have the opportunity
to return to the shelter and food supply with
its human friends until it has gradually won
a place for itself in the surrounding territory
and is able to compete with the wild crea-
tures of that vicinity for both food and
shelter.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photograph ‘by United Press International

Baby Robin with Broken leg in Splint

ILL ANIMALS

 

Injuries and sickness are of course proper-
ly subject for treatment by a veterinarian, but
often a veterinarian may not be available or
the person who ﬁnds the animal victim may
not feel that he can afford to pay for veteri-
nary services. Therefore a few brief sugges-
tions may be of some assistance, but it should
be borne in mind that they are not offered
in lieu of advice of a veterinarian or a physi-
cian but rather as tentative suggestions that
may be of some assistance if a veterinarian’s

10

or physician’s advice cannot be obtained.
Injured animals that are most frequently
found are those that have been hit by a car
or occasionally those that have been injured
by hunters. When they are hit by cars, they
may be only temporarily stunned. Sometimes
they recover fairly quickly and are able to
continue on their way. On other occasions,
they may have suffered serious internal in-
juries that cannot be determined from ex-
ternal examination. Still others may have

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

sustained broken wings or broken legs. The
ﬁrst rule, like that advocated by physicians
for humans, is to make sure the patient is
made as comfortable as possible and kept
quiet. If they are stunned or subject to shock,
they may make a fairly quick recovery and
require no treatment other than protection
from further injury. If possible, they should
be liberated at the same location that they
were found. If there are severe internal in-
juries, it is rarely possible to do anything
for them other than to keep them quiet and
provide food and water in the hOpe that they
may gradually recover. If there are broken
wings or legs, sometimes a simple splint de-
vice can be improvised with match stems,
stiff cardboard, adhesive tape, or other ma-
terials at hand. Such efforts of repair work
should, however, be done only by an adult
or an older child who will take pains to see
that the break is set properly. If there are
no other serious injuries, the natural rapid
healing of animals will sometimes permit a
satisfactory recovery and repair of the broken
member.

During the period of recovery, it is gen-
erally a good plan to keep the animal in sub-
dued light or a darkened room, and to screen
it from view in such a manner that it can feel
secluded so that it will not worry so much
regarding danger from humans, dogs, cats,
or other enemies. As it gradually recovers,
it may become somewhat tame and develop
into a pleasing pet, or it may remain fearful
of humans and their surroundings. Of those
that recover, some can resume their lives in
the wild. Others may be so handicapped that
they could not make their own living. In
that case, the animal must become the special
charge of one member of the class.

11

Sick animals are not found so often, but
they are occasionally picked up. Usually,
however, by the time they are so sick that
humans can take possession of them, they
are past recovery; about all that one can do
is to try to make them comfortable, provide
food and water, and hope for the best. Se-
verely injured animals should be painlessly
destroyed by the means described on page 12.

In handling and caring for animals, pe0ple
will frequently sustain scratches or bites, but
for the most part if reasonable precautions
are taken there is not much more danger to
the human than there would be from a sim-
ilar break in the skin or mutilation of the
flesh from some mechanical injury. Any such
breaks in the skin should be washed thor-
oroughly with plenty of soap and treated
promptly with iodine or other antiseptic
preparation.

The experience of zoologists and members
of the staffs of zoos who are frequently in-
jured by animals indicates that there is very
little danger from rabies or other diseases
carried by wild animals. However, reason-
able precaution should be taken in all cases
to avoid injuries and to care for wounds from
bites or scratches of such animals as foxes,
skunks, raccoons, and opossums, as in some
regions these may carry rabies. Other animals
also sometimes carry rabies. There are even
some records of North American bats having
rabies. An animal that has bitten a person
should be kept under observation for 14
days. If within this time it becomes ill or
dies, its brain should be examined by the
local health department. If it is still healthy
at the end of 14 days, it could not have
transmitted rabies.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

FINAL DISPOSITIQN 0%? ANIMALS

Bear in mind that when ﬁrst captured,
almost all animals are scared and wish to
seek seclusion. Also, many of them through-
out their lives try to keep out of sight and
in protected locations. Indeed, some will fret
themselves to death if they cannot get out
of sight and be in the dark, or at least feel
that they are away from observation. Noc-
turnal animals must be able to get into
dark retreats.

Even animals that are often observed sun-
ning in the wild need to be able to get into
the shade at will. Turtles, amphibians, and
invertebrates have often been killed by hav-
ing their terrariums left on a window ledge
unprotected from hot, direct sunlight.

Good teaching of biology requires that
accidents such as these do not happen. Many
teachers have found that although a group
may join in caring for any animal or animals
in a classroom, the ﬁnal responsibility for
the animal’s health and well-being must
be placed with one individual who makes
a daily check on food, water, cleanliness of
housing, and health of the animal, and per-
forms any tasks which may have been for-
gotten or neglected. Care of animals over
week-ends or longer holidays must be care-
fully provided for. 80 must ﬁnal disposition

12

of animals at the end of the school term.
It should be the aim of the class to have
rehabilitated any wild creatures which may
have been cared for so that they have be-
come self-supporting by the end of the term.
Those which cannot be successfully rehab-
ilitated, and any domestic animals such as
mice, rats or guinea pigs which the class has
maintained might be adopted by members
of the class. The progeny of such animals
should not be allowed to increase beyond
that which can easily be provided with
homes. .However, should this occur, the ani-
mals can be turned over to the local humane
society for placement or painless destruction,
or the teacher can destroy them painlessly
by putting them in a covered container in
one corner of which a chloroform-soaked
cloth has been placed. Animals should not
be put in direct contact with wet chloroform
because it burns; chloroform vapor, how-
ever, renders small animals and birds un-
conscious in a short time and they die
painlessly by a means which is easy to ad-
minister. The animals should be left in
the chloroform chamber for at least one
half hour to be sure that they have passed
from unconsciousness to death. Stiffness (rig-
or mortis) indicates that they are dead and
may be disposed of.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

A Grasshopper Mouse (Onychomys leucogaster) Standing by the Entrance to its Nest Box

13

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Space does not permit a detailed discussion
of the many different kinds of cages, aquaria,
and enclosures that may be used to house
animals, for they are varied and depend on
the requirements of the different kinds of
animals, where they are to be kept, and the
expense if any that is to be incurred. Nice-
ly constructed cages, aquaria and yards are
desirable, but frequently the animal can be
cared for almost as well by the use of in-
genuity in adapting whatever may be at
hand or readily available to accommodate it.

Creatures that require water in which to
swim, or soil in which to burrow and live,
can often be accommodated in such aquaria
as are available at many stores. Also, it is
possible to use S-gallon oil cans, that have

been thoroughly cleaned, and other con-
tainers.

One type of cage that is inexpensive, easy
to construct, and adaptable to several dif-
ferent types of creatures is composed of a
pan about 12 by 18 inches, and two to three
inches deep, into which is set a strip of one—
fourth or one-half inch wire mesh fabric.
The height of the cage is determined by the
width of the strip of fabric. Fifteen inches is
a good average height. The top can be con-
structed of wire fabric slightly larger than
the sides of' the cage. If the portion projecting
beyond the sides of the cage is bent down-
ward, it overlaps the sides like the top of a
suitcase or trunk. The top is hinged to the

upper edge of the side of the cage with
soft wire.

This type of cage will accommodate such

14

small mammals as mice and rats and even
little creatures that need only shallow water
in which to swim or rest. A nest-box, such
as an empty rolled-oats or corn-meal box,
can be provided with a hole in the end
and soft paper furnished for nest material.
Fine clean soft sand in the bottom of the
pan helps furry creatures to keep their fur
clean.

Animals are naturally clean about their
persons so that those that are being kept in
captivity should have an opportunity to keep
clean. Their cages and nest boxes should
be carefully cleaned at regular intervals.

Most small mammals require a great deal
of exercise; therefore, if they are to be kept
in captivity for more than a few days, suit-
able provision should be made for them to
exercise. Such creatures as moles should have
earth in which to dig. The considerable array
of mouse-like creatures —— squirrels, ﬂying
squirrels and others — should have one or
the other of two types of exercise wheels,
described as follows:

The ferns wheel type, similar to a drum
without the heads, should have a diameter
at least three times the head and body length
of the animal. That is, an animal which is
10 inches from the tip of its nose to the base
of its tail should have a wheel about 30
inches in diameter.

The width of the wheel is not important.
Even a 30vinch wheel need not be more than
10 inches wide. Wheels may be very simply
or elaborately made. The picture shows a type
of construction that has been found quite
satisfactory. A strip of wire fabric of fairly
small mesh is bent into a circle of the proper
size for the wheel, and it is supported by

 




 

 

 

 

Flanagan: by Ernest P. Waller
A Laboratory White Rat Carries Into her Nest a Baby ”Flying” Squirrel that She Has Adopted

 

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

She Nurses the Squirrels on Top of Nest Box in her Cage

15

 




 

 

 

 

Ferris Wheel Type Exercise Wheel. (The diameter should be
at least three times the head and body length of the animal.)

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

Big-eared Cliff Mice (Peromyscus truei) Running on Inclined Disc
Exercise Wheel

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

Inclined Disc Exercise Wheel (See Text for size)

16

 

      

 




 

 

spokes on an axle held up by uprights at least
twice as far from the edges of the wheel as
the diameter of the body of the animal. That
is if the animal has a body diameter of two
inches, the supports should be four inches or
more from the sides of the wheel. This is to
prevent injury to the animal by being caught
between a spoke of the revolving wheel and
the support for the axle.

The inclined disc wheel is easier to make
and is satisfactory for mice, hamsters, and
shrews. It should be made of a disc 10 to 15
inches in diameter, of one-eighth inch mason-
ite, plywood, or other rigid material that can
be easily cleaned. On the bottom side of the
disc, at the center, a piece of sheet metal per,
haps an inch square should be placed under
a block of wood two or three inches square
and one and one/fourth inches thick. In the
center of the hole in the block of wood,
there should be bored a hole of proper size
to fit freely over a nail or small rod that
projects upward through a wooden base that
is at least six inches square. This nail or rod
is bent slightly so that the disc stands in an
inclined position. The little square of metal
between the block and disc is to keep the axle
from wearing a hole in the disc. The wheel
must run very easily, as you will have only
one mouse’power to run it.

Such wheels give the animals a great deal
of pleasure and much needed exercise, and
in many instances they definitely contribute
to the animals’ health and longevity.

Digging and tree climbing animals are ac-
customed in the wild to a great deal of wear
on their toe nails. In captivity they do not
have the opportunity to keep the nails worn
down by climbing or digging so it some-
times becomes necessary to cut the nails

17

back. However, it is preferable to provide
tree-climbing creatures with rough limbs to
climb so that they can keep their claws worn
down to some extent; sometimes burrowing
animals can be induced to dig into holes in
lean concrete.

The front or incisor teeth of rodents grow
continuously throughout life and they must
be kept worn down or they will grow so
long that the animal cannot eat. Therefore
plenty of hard nuts should be made avail-
able, which the animals must gnaw into in
order to get the nut meat. Also, freshly cut
green limbs and roots will frequently be
gnawed by many animals such as porcupines.
Such woody material is particularly valuable
in helping them keep their teeth in proper
condition.

It should be borne in mind that close
physical restraint is the one thing that ani-
mals fear most. If they are held in the hand
before they are accustomed to contact with
humans they will often struggle so violently
they will injure themselves. Also if they are
put into a small container without a place
to hide they may injure themselves. One
method that will sometimes help them to
feel less exposed and frightened is to put
material in the container before they are
put into it, under which or behind which
they can hide. For example, small burrowing
creatures are greatly relieved if there is leaf
mold, soil, or sand in the cage or box. Other
small mammals will be best satisfied if there
is a mass of leaves or loose cloth.

 




 

 

 

OBSERVATIONS ON FEEBIW@

To those of us who are somewhat familiar
with animals, the ignorance displayed by
many- people regarding them is incredible.
We receive many calls from people saying
that they have come into possession of an
animal. They usually, but not always, recog-
nize it as a bird or a mammal (they usually
say animal), but they rarely distinguish
between reptiles and amphibians. Many
think that bats are birds and few have the
slightest conception of whether or not the
animals are young or adult, and what they
would normally eat. Very few realize that
reptiles must be kept warm to be active. Still
fewer realize that the amphibians must be
kept moist. Very few have the slightest con-
ception of the various kinds of invertebrates
or their requirements.

It is therefore essential that the informa-
tion supplied be most elementary, simple,
readily understood, and speciﬁc.

Unfortunately, it is not possible to give
much of the needed information in written
form without assuming that the recipient of
the information has at least a fair knowledge
of the various kinds of animals. It therefore
appears advisable to adopt a method of feed-
ing that I have found over many years to
be helpful, without much danger of causing
speciﬁc harm or injury to the animals: I urge
people to offer the animal that falls into
their hands the widest possible variety of
foods and let it make the choice. I suggest
fruits, both fresh and frozen (thoroughly
thawed); fresh wholesome uncooked meat,
such as hamburger; worms and insects; eggs
in almost any form, both cooked and raw

18

(the yolk of hard—boiled eggs is relished by
many creatures); fresh milk or milk with
raw egg and hamburger mixed in it; such
fresh green material as lettuce, cabbage, kale,
spinach, and other leafy material including
lawn clippings, the leaves and twigs of
forest trees and shrubs, root vegetables such
as carrots, sweet potatoes, and Irish potatoes;
also grains, such as dry uncooked rolled oats,
sunflower seeds, and packaged bird seed.

The prepared commercial baby food called
Pablum is a nutritious combination that is
relished by many different animals, not only
in the dry form as it comes from the pack-
age, but also moistened or cooked.

People often ask whether or not the food
should be cooked. I have found that it will
stimulate their thinking to ask them who
cooks food for the animals in the wild, and
follow this up by an admonition that they
bear in mind how the animal lives in the
wild, that it will necessarily obtain its shelter
and food in the immediate vicinity in which
it is living. Since the availability of the foods
and the kinds will vary with the seasons,
the animal will normally vary its diet some-
what with the seasons, and it will have a
wide variety of plant and animal material
from which to select. In general, I believe it
safe to inform people that if an animal is
not suffering from some seriOus dietary de-
ficiency, it is well to offer it a very wide
variety of foods so that the animal can make
its own selection. With such a wide selection
before it, there is little or no danger that it
will take food which is not good for it.
This method of feeding animals has been

 

 

 




' Ihl’la
1 :57 L-
. $5557
”III

,.
1’

.
u,
éIIi .4
a “’2".
n

..
< gage‘giisgs?

s. . a“:
nﬁé’F‘V-l‘i‘:
.

5%

. ﬁéié‘é'eﬁ-“I

3%,? " 330°" n v

‘ ’. \- ' 7 , <1 I
‘1, ~ 167$

5 ~ "
f D
"W"? ~° s.
”yaw" s"- “

 

Photograph by United Press International

Recently Hatched Baby Bird in Cotton-wool Nest
(Although this bird is being fed with an eye-dropper, it needs solid food such as worms.
small bits of meat and fruit.)

 

 

A Glass Tube Made into a Feeder for Hummingbirds. (It is
provisioned with a liquid made up of sugar and water,
mixed one part sugar to four parts boiled, cooled water.) -

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker .

19

 




 

 

 

given a thorough tryout with creatures re-
garding which little is known or which are
known to be very difficult to keep in cap-
tivity. Also this method has generally been
well accepted by thousands of people to
whom it has been given.

With such a wide variety of food offered
to the animals, it is then an easy matter
to observe what they like and also to offer
some prepared foods. Indeed, there are a
few foods, like sweet potatoes, that seem
to be more acceptable to the animals when

. cooked. However, cooking often destroys the -

vitamins or washes out valuable minerals
and it is obvious that in the long run the
tastes of the animals indicate a preference
for- the natural raw foods.

It should be borne in mind that the car-
nivorous animals, and others that eat animal
life, generally conSume the entire body of
their victim which includes the glands, blood,
hair, or feathers, and often the bones. The
whole animal is a complete food or bal-
anced diet for those creatures that live on
animal food, but red meat which humans
usually use lacks much that is essential.
Therefore it is desirable when feeding meat-
eating animals to let them have, at least at
intervals, dead whole mice, rats, pigeons, or
other animals.

Vitamins have been used with remarkable
success in many instances in building up.
animals that were obviously failing and in
keeping others in good health. In general,
we do not know enough about the vitamin
requirements of animals to be able to pre-
scribe specifically, but fortunately un-needed
or excess vitamins apparently do no harm,

20

and if the animal needs any portion of the
vitamin mixture that is given, it may be
distinctly benefited. Therefore, it is some-
times a good plan to make a palatable vita-
min mixture available to animals. Such mix-
ture should be of types that can be mixed in
the milk or water or placed on food, or that
the animal will take voluntarily. Veterinari-
ans can give much good advice regarding vi-
tamin and mineral preparations for animals.
One should not attempt to force animals
to take food or medicine unless the person
prescribing and administering is well qual-
ified. to determine what should be given and
how it should be administered. Fresh clean
drinking water should be available at all
times, and while the addition of vitamins
to drinking water was mentioned above, it
should not be a regular practice. It should
be done only occasionally to facilitate the
animal in taking the vitamin mixture. Cod
liver oil is a valuable supplement to the
regular food.

In view of the foregoing discussion, it
will be seen that when an animal is to be
cared for, it is important first to determine
as nearly as, possible the kind of animal——
whether it be a mammal, bird, reptile, am-
phibian, fish or invertebrate. If it is a quite
young mammal, its normal food would be
its mother’s milk. If it is past the baby stage,
it should have made available to it the type
of food it would obtain in the wild or as
close an approach to it as possible. If it is
a young bird of the passerine type, which is
the most plentiful, it will probably accept
worms of many different kinds or hamburger

and small bits of fruit. If it is an adult of the -

small bird type, it will probably thrive on




this, but may also take seeds. If it is a hawk
or an owl, it should have liver, and other
organs. If it is a sea coast type of bird, or
one of the herons, it will probably accept

fish—either small Whole ones or strips of

larger fish. It should be

released just as soon

as it can take care of itself in the same area

in which it was found.

 

A Baby Pipistreﬂe Bat Taking Milk from 0 Medicine Dropper
while it Rests on the Arm of the Author

21

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

 




 

 

'4?

This group includes the host of furry and
hairy creatures that range in size from the
tiny shrew—smaller than a mouse—to ele-
phants, and includes such spiny, scaled or
plate-covered creatures as the porcupines,
pangolins, and armadillos, also the otters
and seals that inhabit both fresh water and
salt water, and the whales and porpoises.

 

In this very abridged account we can con-
sider only the more common small land
forms. All of these young are nursed on
their mothers’ milk. Most of them are help-
less when born and must be kept warm and
be fed milk at frequent intervals. In general,
they can be kept warm by being placed in
a box or basket with plenty of clean, soft,
dry material such as woolen cloth or soft
cleansing tissue paper. If they are cold to
the touch, artificial heat can be supplied by
placing them near the pilot light of a gas
stove or an electric heating pad turned low,
or near a lamp bulb. Care should be taken
in all such installations that there is no
danger of starting a fire and that the little
ones do not become too hot. In general,
they should be offered food at two-hour in-
tervals or even more frequently, from early
in the morning, until evening, and some
will probably thrive better if they are fed
occasionally through the night.

There are several good milk replacement
formulas on the market, such as Kitten Milk
Replacer (KMR), Esbilac (for dogs) and
Pet-Nip-lac, a general small animal milk
replacement. These are available from most

pet supply stores and veterinarians. Consul-
tation with a veterinarian or humane society

 

22

«1/ 7
4 2.4
3" 4

J”

specialist will help you to decide which is
best to use for the animal you are feeding.

For an emergency situation, a formula of
3 ounces whole milk
1 egg yolk
1 tablespoon baby cereal (if available)
has been used successfully.

Because some small .mammals don’t do
well on cow’s milk, it is preferable to use a
soybean protein milk substitute, or "Similac",
found in most large grocery stores. Be sure
to warm the formula to body temperature
before feeding.

The length of time that the young should
be on milk varies greatly with the kind of
animal. With baby shrews it varies from a
few days to about two weeks. Baby ”ﬂying”
squirrels and baby tree squirrels nurse about
two months. If one does not have speciﬁc in-
formation as to the period over which it
should be given milk, he can learn from
the animal by making available to it various
kinds of solid food in addition to the milk.
When the animal has reached the proper
stage of development, it will naturally begin
to nibble on suitable foods if they are
offered. This is the beginning of a transition
period during which the animal will volun-
tarily reduce its consumption of milk and
increase the amount of solid food that it
takes. However, milk should be made avail-
able to it for as long as it will take it,'eV€ﬂ
at irregular intervals.

Small nursing bOttles can usually be ob-
tained from veterinarians and pet stores.




r).
(a

€93;

k;

‘7. 5,23
\l ,.

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

lands,

” squirrels are not fr

In flu wild, but: and ”ﬂy

Squirrel that are Pots of the Author. (The but had entered a building
is way out.
tolerated on. unoﬂur.)

m.“
HY."
"mm
an...
M“.
out
00
ft."
a '
Burn.
Aab

 

23




 

These are fairly satisfactory for the feeding
of small animals. In selecting such bottles, it
is well to choose one that has the smallest
opening in the nipple; this will help to pre-
vent strangling the little creatures by giving
the milk too fast. Medicine droppers also can
be used on very small creatures. When giv-
ing milk to the helpless young, great care
should be taken to give it slowly so that
they do not strangle. Milk bubbling out of
the nose of the little creature is a certain
sign that the milk is being given too rapidly.

Such rats, rabbits,
squirrels and other rodents should be of-
fered dry oats, peanut hearts, peanuts, other
nut meats, green foods such as lettuce, car-
rots, kale, etc., and some fruit; some will
take bits of meat, cottage cheese, etc. As
soon as they are able to open the harder nuts,
such as acorns, pecans, walnuts, and hickory
nuts, they should be given plenty of these
nuts whole so that they must work for a
considerable time to open them. The front
or incisor teeth of these creatures grow rapid-
ly and continuously throughOut life and must
be worn down by a great deal of gnawing.
Otherwise they will grow so long that the
animal cannot eat even though plenty of
food is available.

creatures as mice,

Young skunks, opossums, raccoons, foxes,
and other meat-eaters should be offered ham-
burger and other meats, ﬁsh, uncooked eggs,
an assortment of fruits, green vegetables, and
table scraps. Some will eat considerable fruit
and vegetable material, while others will
take very little of this and will prefer the
meat, eggs, milk, etc. Shrews must have an
abundance of food constantly available. Their
preference is earth worms, other worms, in.

24

sects, meat and eggs, although some will
also eat many different kinds of food includ-
ing nut meats, sunflower seeds, and some
fruit and green material. Seals are mainly
ﬁsh eaters, but they should also be offered
crabs, crayﬁsh, and shrimp.

Fish will frequently be taken by many of
the mammals. Canned salmon and canned
tuna are often relished.

Rabbits can be kept either indoors or out-
doors. If outdoors, they should be securely
enclosed so that they will not be killed by
predators. They should have a snug shelter
in their hutch where they can get away from
inclement weather, and there should be am-
ple shade so that they can get out of the
sun in hot weather. They can be fed
rabbit pellets which are available at many
of the pet stores and feed stores; grains,
such as oats and wheat; green material, such
as grass, clover, some seeds, lettuce, carrots,
kale, etc. Perhaps the most important factor
for keeping rabbits successfully is cleanliness,
because they are far more susceptible than
most animals to digestive disturbance from
soiling of their quarters and food. Their food
should be clean and fresh.

Enclosures for rabbits should have a mini-
mum of 8 square feet for the smaller kinds
of rabbits and 15 square feet for the larger
breeds. There are many different types of
enclosures that can be provided ——- portable
ones with wire fabric bottoms so that they
can be moved onto clean grassy areas or
be permanently located. Any enclosure for
rabbits should be so constructed that it can
be kept thoroughly clean. Wire mesh bot-
toms are used in commercial rabbit raising'

Ti-




 

Ti-

They should be protected with a roof over
at least a portion of the cage and there
should be a nest box with an end or side

opening in which the animal can take

shelter.
Small mammals should have a nest box

 

in which they can hide and feel secure away
from any disturbance, and many- of them
will beneﬁt by having clean nest material
such as paper or dry leaves. Those from
desert regions should have clean dry sand
to help keep their fur in good condition.

Photograph by Unlted Press International

Motherless Baby" Rabbits Being Fed Milk in Doll Nursing Bottles

25

 

 




 

 

 

by RALPH HEATH, Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary

The birds that most frequently fall into
the hands of humans are babies or juveniles
just'out of the nest. If they have just left
the nest and are running around on the

ground, parents are usually around and still ’

caring for them, so it is well to let them
alone. If they have to be moved, place them
in a thick bush. Some birds that are injured,
- usually by ﬂying into a building or being
struck by automobiles, can best be cared for
by being kept quiet in a somewhat darkened
box or cage for a short time.

Unfeathered babies should be put in a
small bowl, or cup lined with soft tissue
paper. Place the container on a heating pad
set on low, or you may attach a 71/4 watt
light bulb (night light) to the side of the
bowlcontainer. Make sure the container is
not in a drafty place. The container with the
bird, can be placed inside a cardboard box
with the top of the box covered by a bath
towel. This provides the bird with a make-
shift incubator. The towel allows air to get
to the bird and prevents drafts. The towel
also helps keep heat in the cardboard box.
Maintain the environment at 80-900.
Decrease the temperature gradually as the
baby‘qgets feathers, but always keep the baby
warm. A small glass thermometer can be
placed in the container.

Feathered babies should be placed in a box
or cage lined with newspaper. Place a small
stick or branch in for a perch. Take care
that the branch has no insecticides on it.

When feeding young Mockingbirds, Blue
Jays, Cardinals, Sparrows, Pigeons, and
Doves, an acceptable emergency formula is:

Mashed hard-boiled egg yolk
Warm water
Mix to the consistency of mush.
or
A commercial prepared baby food of
Strained cereal and egg yolk.

A Maintenance formula for small feath-
ered birds consists of

Mashed hard boiled egg yolks
or strained cereal and egg yolk
(baby food)
Equivalent amount of high prorein
baby cereal (dry)
Mix with warm water until creamy
Add supplementary vitamins, one drop
per mixture.
(You may use parakeet liquid vitamins
if convenient.)

Mix the ingredients to a creamy consis-
tency. Only very young birds, Pigeons, and
Doves, before they are self-feeding, should be
fed with an eye dropper. Eye dropper feeding
must be done with great care or the baby
could drown or strangle. The eye dropper
should have a long tapering point, and the
formula should be warm. If the bird is active
and hungry, and they usually are, it will open
its mouth readily. If the baby does not open
its mouth, gently tap on the side of the beak
or gently tap the container holding the bird-
Insert the eye dropper as far back in the
throat as possible on the RIGHT SIDE OF
THE BIRD’S THROAT. Squeeze the for-
mula gently into the throat. On all birds,
except doves and pigeons, you should see a
swelling on the RIGHT SIDE of the throat
as the crop ﬁlls. Stop feeding when the crOP
appears full. It does not take much, so use
common sense. If you must force feed the

26'




bird, (Doves and Pigeons must be force fed)
gently but ﬁrmly, pry open the bill with your
thumbnail, and hold the mouth open while
feeding it a couple of squirts from the eye
dropper.

Tiny Sparrows should be fed every ten
minutes, all day; Blue Jays, Mockingbirds,
As the
baby progresses, increase the time between
feedings.

and Cardinals every 20 minutes.

Doves and Pigeons are fed differently.
Since they do not open their mouths readily,
they must be fed with an eye dropper, pref-
erably one with a long tapering point. Insert
the eye dropper, down the throat on the
bird’s RIGHT side, hand squeeze the bulb
gently. The crop of Doves and Pigeons is
located at the base of the neck in front of

the chest. Tiny, downy Doves and Pigeons

should be fed approximately every 30 min-
utes from morning until dark for the first
two weeks. The crop can store a lot of food,
so stop feeding before it’s too full and
swollen. Overfeeding in Doves and Pigeons
plugs the crop, and the bird dies. If the crop
does not empty, give the bird one or two
drops of warm mineral oil or olive oil.

When the bird begins feathering out,
becomes more active, and begins to hop
around, move it to a cage.

When caring for Mockingbirds, Jays, and
Cardinals, put the food on a swab stick, or
popsicle stick, if the mouth is large enough,
and place it well back in the throat. Alter-
nate feedings of formula (use less water to
make it more solid) with raw hamburger
(take care to keep it fresh), and dry dog food
pellets soaked in warm water.

Eventually add a small jar of moistened

27

dog food pellets and hamburger to the cage.
Dip the beak into the mixture. Continue
hand feeding, however, until you are certain
the bird is eating on its own.

Dover and Pigeons:

When the bird begins to peck at the bot-
tom of the cage, sprinkle wild bird seed on
the ﬂoor of the cage. Also place a container
of water (mayonnaise jar lid will do) in the
cage. Continue to feed with an eye dropper
until you are certain that the bird is eating on
its own (when you can feel the crop full of
seeds). This transition may take 1-2 weeks of
supplementary feeding.

S parrowr:

Alternate formula with moistened dog
food pellets, as above. When the bird is
pecking at the formula on a swab stick or
spoon, place the spoon in the cage, and watch
to make sure the bird is eating the formula
from the spoon by itself. When this hap-

pens, sprinkle parakeet seed over the for-
mula, and on the ﬂoor of the cage. Put a
small jar lid of water in the cage at this stage,
and add hamburger bits to the spoon. Grad-
ually decrease amount of formula until the
bird is entirely on seed and hamburger; then
gradually add wild bird seed, and decrease
the amount of parakeet seed.

Other birds such as hawks and owls feed
their young on small animal prey such as
mice and rats. Eagles and ospreys eat ﬁsh,
and large insects for the sparrow hawks.
Hawks and owls do well on meats, raw
chicken, and some liver. This is good food
to provide when it is necessary to keep them
captive in order to administer ﬁrst aid. These
birds should be released as soon as possible in
the locality where they were found, or a
well-protected wooded area.

 




 

 

The young of herons (long-legged, long-
necked birds that usually frequent the vicin-
ity of water) usually eat ﬁsh, frogs, and
crayﬁsh, and they will thrive best on such a
diet. However, comparatively few of these
birds fall into human hands.

Gulls, terns and their relatives, and such
sea-coast birds as murres, pufﬁns, and guil~
lemOts, feed almost entirely on ﬁsh.

The young of quail, grouse, and pheasants
feed on a considerable assortment with em-
phasis on insects, but also seeds and plant
food. The diet of the adults is composed of
a considerable proportion of grain, seeds, and
insects, supplemented by green food and
fruit. In captivity, the young can be offered
hamburger, ground-up hard-boiled eggs, bits
of such green material as lettuce, fruit, seeds
and grain.

Parent birds do nor carry water to their
young, but the food that they carry contains

 

 

   

a high proportion of moisture that is ordi-
narily adequate. However, it does no harm
to dip in water the food that one is going to
give to young birds so that they get some
additional moisture in this way. Raisins.
soaked in water are often enjoyed. A small
water dish should be kept in the cage so that
they can drink when they want to do so.
(Caution—the container for water should be
shallow so the bird does not fall in and
drown.)

Do remember—our state and federal laws
do not permit the permanent possession of
wild birds. Before you assume the respon-
sibility of caring for the bird, be aware that
the task is time consuming and the mortality
rate is high. You are caring for the bird
TEMPORARILY for the sole purpose of
returning it to the wild.

More information on the feeding of wild
birds and mammals can be found in the
charts on the following pages.

PhOtograph by United Press International

A Friendly Dog Worms Duckling:

28

 

 

 




FOOD SUBSTITUTION CHART: BIRDS

 

 

 

 

Category
WATER BIRDS

Loons, Grebes, Water Turkeys

Pelicans, Cormorants

Swans, Geese

Ducks, (surface feeding):
Mallards, Teals, Pintails,
Canvasbacks, Scaups

Ducks (diving): Sea ducks,
Eiders, Harlequins, Old Squaws

Gulls and other scavengers

Terns

MARSH AND SHORE BIRDS

Rails, Plovers, Sandpipers,
Phalaropes

Herons, Egrets, Bitterns, Cranes

Woodcocks

LAND BIRDS

Cuckoos

Roadrunners

Hummingbirds

Kingbirds, Vireos, Nighthawks,
Whippoorwills, Swifts,
Flycatchers, Swallows

Kingfishers

Woodpeckers, Flickers,
Sapsuckers

 

Natural Wild Food

Animal Food only; fish, frogs, crabs,
aquatic insects

Fish, marine worms
Aquatic vegetation, some grains

Vegetation, grasses, wild celery,
aquatic animal food, worms

Shrimp, mollusks, crabs, small fish

Snails, shrimp, clams, insects, fish

Insects, dragonflies, shrimp, small
fish

Crayfish, shrimp, marine worms,
frogs, insects, mice, shrews, snails,
wild grasses, some grains

Mealworms, berries, beef strips

Mainly earthworms, some grains,
flies, beetles, spiders, caterpillars

Mainly tent caterpillars, worms,

bugs, grasshoppers,

Snakes, spiders, lizards, grasshoppers,
birds

Nectar from flowers, tiny insects

Entirely insectivorous, will have to
be handled since they catch food
in the air

Fish, minnows, crabs, frogs, locust,
Hzards

Grubs, ants, bores, beetles, berries
in the winter

 

Substitute

Whole fish only (herring)

Same as above

Intermediate chicken scratch, wild
bird seed, bread, lettuce, grass

Chicken meat scratch, bread,
grass, lettuce, ground beef, earth-

worms, kibble dog food

Bread, night crawlers, cut herring
tails or small whole fish

Beef, fish, bread, kibble dog food

Beef strips, fish, night crawlers,
shrimp

Beef strips, night crawlers, chicken
scratch, kibble, cut up fish, sand
shrimp

Fish, chicken necks, shrimp

Earthworms, night crawlers, beef

strips, mealworms, bone meal
added.
Lean ground beef, beef strips,

meal worm 5, bread,

Beef strips, lean ground beef, meal
worms

Honey, sugar or molasses in water
in small vials

Lean ground beef, very small
strips of raw beef, meal worms

(feed from stick, moving whiskers
around bill)

Fish, beef strips, night crawlers

Meal worms, beef strips, suet,
ground beef, raisins, dried apple

 

g

29

 

 




 

 

 

Category
Larks

Magpies, Crows, Ravens
(Carrion eaters and scavengers)

Jays

Chats, Chickadees, Titmice,
Nuthatches, Towhees

Mockingbirds, Starlings, Brown
Thrashers, Warblers, Robins,
Thrushes, Catbirds, Bluebirds,
Cedar Waxwings

Cowbirds, Sparrows, Blackbirds
Meadowlarks

9

Orioles, Tanagers

Grosbeaks, Purple Finches,
Cardinals, Buntings, Crossbills

Shrikes

PREDATORS ‘

Hawks: Red-tailed, Cooper’s

Sparrow Hawks (Kestrels)

Ospreys (Fish Hawks)

Kites

Bald Eagles

Golden Eagles

Large Owls

Barred Owls

Elf, Pigm y Owls

 

Natural Wild Food

Seeds, grasshoppers, beetles, cat-
erpillars

Insects, acorns, fruit, small birds

Large insects, some frogs, mice,
acorns and sunflower seeds

Pine seeds, sunflower seeds,
acorns, poison ivy,beetles, weevils,
ants, other insects

Holly, grapes, cherries, sumac,
pokeweed, Virginia creeper, cedar
pyracantha, worms, ants, beetles
in fall and winter

Crickets, insects, weed seeds

Caterpillars, ants, spiders, wild
fruits

Insects, bugs, beetles, sunflower
seeds, dogwood, sumac, tree buds,
fruits

Grasshoppers, beetles, caterpillars,
wasps, small rodents, frogs

Mice, rats, rodents of all kinds,
buds

Grasshoppers, insects, wasps,

locusts, 'very occasionally, small
birds

Fish

Lizards, snakes, frogs, grasshop-
pers, snails

Rodents, birds

Rodents, birds

Rodents of all kinds

Rodents of all kinds

Large insects, moths, beetles

 

Substitute

Meal worms, wild bird seed, bread,
lean ground beef

Ground beef, beef, chicken scratch,
bread, hard-boiled egg, kibble,
raisins, dried apple

Ground beef, hard—boiled egg,
sunflower seeds, peanuts, nuts,
kibble, raisins, dried apple

Shelled peanuts, nuts, blueberries,
apples, wild bird seed, sunflower
seeds, suet, kibble

Diced apples, raisins, sour cherries,
bread, suet, ground beef, fruits,
meal worms, earthworms, kibble

Wild bird seed, scratch, bread,
suet, ground beef, kibble

Apples, cherries, blueberries, bread,

ground beef, meal worms, suet,
kibble

Meal worms, suet, sunflower
seeds, cherries, wild bird seed,
bread, raisins, kibble

Meal worms, ground beef, shrimp,
chicken, bread, lettuce, earthworms,

kibble

Lean strips of beef or beef heart,
chicken, (bone meal and
vitamins added)

Beef strips, meal worms. grasshop-
pers, (bone meal and vitamins
added)

Fish, beef strips

Shrimp, beef strips, fish, chicken

Beef chunks, chicken, (bone meal
and vitamins added)

Beef chunks, chicken, (bone meal
and vitamins added)

Beef, chicken, (bone meal and
vitamins added)

Fish, beef, chicken

Meal worms, grasshoppers, moths,
beetles, beef strips, ground beef

 

I“Require addition of roughage to diet —

fur, small feathers, and ground bone

30

 

 

 




 

FOOD SUBSTITUTION CHART: MAMMALS

 

Category

Squirrels, Chipmunks, Mice
Rabbits, Woodchucks, Ground
Squirrels

Opossums

Raccoons, Coatimundis, Muskrats,
Otters, Minks

Skun ks

Foxes, Coyotes

Deer

 

Natural Wild Food

Nuts, dogwood, maple buds, oak,
acorns, corn, sunﬂower seeds, fruit

Grasses, herbaceous plants, twigs of
young trees, corn, oats, clover

Scavenger—will eat just about any-
thing

Frogs, crayfish, grasshoppers, sala-
manders, bird eggs, acorns, corn, fruit

Larval insects, frogs, toads, mice, fruit

Mice, rodents, small animals and birds

Vegetarian diet

Food Substitute‘

Apples, watermelons, bread, corn,
nuts, sunflower seed, chicken scratch,
quartered oranges

Grass, clover, lettuce, apples, carrots,
bread, commercial hamster or rabbit
food

Beetles, large insects, grubs, meat,
fish, fruit, milk, bread, you name it

Apples, grapes, corn, nuts, bread,
large grasshoppers, chicken, ground
beef, worms, grubs, beetles, oranges

Milk, bread, fruits, nuts, meal worms,
large grasshoppers, grubs, beetles,
ground beef, oranges

Beef, grapes, apples, dog food, chic-
ken, oranges

Grain, wild bird seed, lettuce, carrots,
cabbage, corn

 

 

'Moistened kibbled dogfood is pre-
ferable to beef in most cases.

 

 

 

Chart reprinted with permission from the book CARE OF THE WILD FEATHERED AND FURRED, A Guide to
Wildlife Handling and Care, by Unity Press, 235 Hoover Road, Santa Cruz, CA 95065; with additions based on
experience, by Dianna King, staff member of the Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary.

31

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

%%?MM$%

It should be borne in mind that reptiles
must be kept rather uniformly warm if they
are to remain active and eat. The North
American forms should not be subject to
temperatures much below 65° F. and they
stand the best chance of thriving if main-
tained at temperatures about 80° F. If they
are subject to chilling at night, even though
they may be warm enough during the day-
time, they will refuse to eat; but being some-
what active, they will be using up energy and
will starve to death. Therefore, persons who
have reptiles of any kind are confronted with
the problem of maintaining them at a con-
stant temperature that is acceptable to the
reptiles or letting them go into hibernation
during the colder period of the year.

Hibernation is a long winter sleep that is
enjoyed by practically all reptiles in the wild
state. During this period they are entirely
inactive, their temperature is lowered and
their breathing and heart beats are greatly
reduced. If they have gone into hibernation
in a good physical state and are kept under
favorable conditions, they regularly survive
for periods of six months Or more and some
have survived for much longer periods. The
aquatic forms usually hibernate in mud or
moist locations. The dry land forms usually
burrow into the soil or go into locations
where they will be protected from extremes
of temperatures and have some slight degree
of moisture about them.

Reptiles are generally much less active
physically than birds or mammals, so they
require much less food for their size. Fre-

32

quently they will eat only at intervals of
several days or longer.

Alligators, crocodiles and their relatives
eat fish and meat. It is essential that they
be kept warm, preferably not below 80°;
they should be in a well-lighted location but
should have an opportunity to get out of the
direct rays of the sun. They should have a
pan or pool in which to swim and there
should be ample space above the water level
for them to dry off and bask in the sun. If
kept warm, they will usually eat meat and
fish in small amounts; the young eat daily,
but as they become older, they need not be
fed so often. Caution should be exercised
not to be bitten by them.

Turtles

Turtles do not ordinarily require human
help. Indeed, they are generally better off
if left in their natural surroundings. How-
ever, they may be kept for a few days in a
school room without harm and then returned
to the locality where they were fOund. The
land forms, such as the box turtle, should
not be put into deep water but should be in
an enclosure in which there is a shallow pan
of water into which it can scramble to drink
or to soak when it wants to; there should be
a dry area, which can be sand, earth, boards,
or paper. The dry land forms eat worms)
insects and grubs, and will often take ham-
burger in captivity. They also eat some plant
material such as lettuce and kale, and some
fruit such as tomatoes, strawberries, applCS,
grapes, etc. I have known a wild one that

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

A Little Girl Fondles her Pat Green Snake

33

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

lived near a picnic area that would come to
get bread and butter and sugar. It is well
to put one or two drops of cod liver oil on
each feeding of hamburger for small and
medium size turtles and three or four dr0ps
on the hamburger or ﬁsh for the larger size
turtles.

The fresh water forms, such as are found
around our streams and lakes and which are
sold in stores, thrive in an aquarium but
must have a dry area above water where
they can come out, dry, and sun themselves.
They are particularly fond of worms and in-
sects and will take hamburger and bits of
ﬁsh, also small amounts of fruit and green
food. Care must be taken to keep the turtle’s
terrarium in a location which does not com-
pel the animal to remain in hot direct sun-
light for hours. Captive turtles and other
animals left on window ledges exposed to
the direct rays of the sun are sometimes

killed.

Snapping turtles (fresh water forms) reg-
ularly feed on ﬁsh and animal food. They
are aggressive and vicious, and give severe
bites. Anyone handling them should use
considerable caution not to be bitten, for
they draw their heads back and strike quick-

ly and at a surprising distance. They are
best 'left alone.

Marine turtles are not ordinarily taken
into captivity, except occasionally along the
sea coast. They rarely thrive in captivity un-
less one is particularly well equipped to care
for them. Their food consists of ﬁsh and
other kinds of animal life, and some eat
considerable vegetable material.

Snakes

Snakes hold a remarkable fascination for

34

many youngsters and very few children are
afraid of them. It is apparently the adults
who pass on from generation to generation
the strong aversions, erroneous beliefs and
superstitions regarding snakes which in most
cases have little or no foundation of truth.
In North America, poisonous snakes com-
pose a very small percentage of the total
number of species and individuals. There
are only two groups that are poisonous: the
pit-vipers, including the rattlesnakes, c0pper-
heads, and true water mocassins, and the
elapine snakes, including the coral snakes.
All other North American snakes are not
only non-poisonous but are generally beneﬁ-
cial in the balance of nature because they
prey upon rats and mice which are so de-
structive to our crops. Like turtles, they may
be brought to the classroom for a few days,
then returned to the place where they were
found. Most snakes can be kept in captivity
for short periods with only moderate facil-
ities and without much difficulty. They do
not require much care nor elaborate cages. A
box with a glass front, and a few holes or
cracks in it to admit air, is usually adequate.
Water should be available at all times.

Snakes in general eat whole animals rang-
ing in size from worms, grubs, insects, mice,
rats and squirrels to larger creatures for the
larger snakes. Many snakes also eat eggs.
The non-poisonous North American snakes
~particularly the small ones and the young
-—should be offered worms, grubs and in-
sects. The large kinds, if taken at all, should
be kept no more than a day or two, during
which time it is not necessary to feed them.
They should then be returned to the place
where they were found. Most snakes are
rather irregular in their feeding. After hav-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

Horned and Other Lizards in a Cage that Simulates Desert Conditions. (There are sand, a
small cactus plant and stones under which they may hide. There is also a small dish of
water. The cage is well lighted, being made of pebble glass on the two sudes and the
back, while the front is of clear glass.)

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ing eaten a good meal, they may go for sev-
eral days or weeks without eating again. If
they are cold they will not eat at all. Fre-
quently they will refuse to eat when they
are preparing to shed their skins. At this
time they should have a slightly moist loca-
tion to facilitate the loosening of the skin,
and it is well for them to have rough objects
against which they can rub to help them
remove the old skin.

Lizards

Like other reptiles, lizards must be kept
warm; otherwise they become sluggish, will
not eat, and will want to go into hibernation.
Some lizards eat plant food such as fruits
and green leaves; others eat a mixture of
plant and animal foods, including insects and
worms. Practically all of the North Amer-
ican forms feed almost entirely on worms,
grubs and insects.

The little green or brown lizards sold as
“chameleons,” are really anolis, which inhabit
the southwestern United States. Purchasers
are sometimes told that they need be fed only
sweetened water. This, however, is erroneous.
They require living insects such as ﬂies,
mOths, or meal worms, and they will eat
many other kinds. One good way of restrain-
ing them and giving them an opportunity to
get live food is to build a cage of mesh small
enough to keep the lizard from escaping but
large enough to admit insects. The cage can
have in it a growing plant so that the lizard
can climb about on the plant. The cage,
plant, and lizard can be kept on a window
ledge or Other location where insects can get

to it but it should not be constantly in the

36

direct rays of the sun. Insects can be induced
to come into the cage by placing water, bits
of fruit, syrup, or meat in the cage. When the
live insects come to these baits, the lizard
will have an opportunity to catch them. The
American anolis will sometimes eat some
very ripe banana, which helps to supplement
its diet.

Horned lizards of the southwestern United
States are frequently kept in captivity. They
feed most readily on ants and if one cannot
otherwise provide them with suitable food, a
small cage can be constructed of wire fabric
and placed on the ground in the vicinity of
an ant colony. With baits of sugar or other
food placed in the cage to attract the ants,
the horned lizard can be left there for a feW
hours at a time to catch them.

All lizards require water but some will not
drink it freely. However, a shallow dish Of
water should be made available to them. One
way of giving them water is to spray the
lizard and plant with lukewarm water at fre-
quent intervals, as lizards take up moisture
through the skin. The false chameleon 0r
anolis will rarely drink from a dish, although
occasionally one will drink from a teaspoon
held to its mouth. The best way to make cer-
tain that they are adequately supplied with
water is to sprinkle them, and the surface
on which they rest, with lukewarm water.
Another way that will sometimes help those
that appear to be drying up is to let them
stand brieﬂy in a shallow pan of warm
water. It is usually necessary to hold the
lizard, but keep its head out of the water;
you can sometimes see the skin absorbing
moisture like a blotter taking up ink.

 




 

 

AMPHIBIAN S

The best temperature range for amphib-
ians is from 65° to 80°, a temperature lower
than 65° will cause most of them to cease
to eat, become sluggish, and want to go into
hibernation

This group includes the toads, frogs and
salamanders and the immature forms of the
toads and frogs that are known as tadpoles.
They have relatively smooth, moist skin and
must be in fairly moist surroundings to
survrve.

The North American frogs and toads feed
almost exclusively on worms and insects, and
if they are to be kept in captivity, they should
be offered a good assortment of these until
the person learns definitely the kinds that
they will accept or refuse.

Very satisfactory containers are aquariums
partially filled with water and with some
area above the water level, perhaps covered
with moss. Also large cans containing water
and stones can be used, but the cans should
be discarded when they begin to rust.

Toads and Frogs

A terrarium can be arranged in an aqua-
rium, or in a box or big pan provided with
a dish of water large enough for the frog or
toad to get into. The terrarium should also
include an area, preferably with soil and per-
haps some moss or living plants, where the
animal can get out of water. Most toads and
frogs feed mainly on worms, grubs, and in-
sects, and they can often be kept with good
success. They lay their eggs in fresh water,
usually in pools in the spring time. The eggs

37

soon hatch into tadpoles that have a tail.
They grow for a period in this stage. Finally,
the tail is absorbed, legs are develoPed, and
they become fully formed little frogs or
toads. Tadpoles live entirely in the water
and breathe through gills, but by a gradual
transition they become air-breathing creatures
with lungs. This is a remarkable phenom-
enon of nature that is a fascinating study
for children.

Most tadpoles feed almost exclusively on
soft plant tissues such as algae and soft
green leaves. If they cannot be provided
with water, soil, and vegetation of the type
among which they w0uld normally live, they
can sometimes be raised on very soft lettuce
leaves that are dropped in the water and
allowed to disintegrate still further. Tiny
pieces of meat or fresh bones or bone mar-
row should also be put in the water to take
the place of the minute animal life some of
them would .eat in the wild.

It is essential that tadpoles be in water
until they are ready to leave it voluntarily
to go on to adjacent drier areas after they
have absorbed their tails and gills and de-

veloped legs. At this time they are ready-

for small worms and insects such as their
parents consume, but of smaller size.

Salamanders

Salamanders have tails throughout their
lives, in addition to their arms and legs. In
their early stages they have gills which are
later absorbed in most forms; some breathe
through the skin. They feed mainly on mi-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

nute animal life and should be offered small above water on which they can rest is ade-

worms, insects and grubs. Some will also quate for salamanders. Very attractive ex-
take bits of hamburger and ﬁsh if attached hibits can be provided by the use of aquatic
to a straw and moved slowly before them. plants, moss or other types of plants.

i A terrarium or aquarium with some space

 

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

 

Two Argonn'no Hornod Frogs in a Cage that has a Shallow Pool of Water,
Earth and Growing Plants

38

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

araa

Children playing near shallow fresh and
salt water frequently capture small ﬁsh and
sometimes take them home alive. To care
for them, the ﬁrst requirement of course is
to provide either fresh or salt water, depend-
ing upon the kind of water from which they
are taken. The aquarium need not be elab-
orate. Indeed, almost any sort of a container
that will hold enough water can be used. But
it is important that there be a considerable
volume of water in order that the oxygen
necessary for the ﬁsh to survive will not be
quickly depleted. The larger the exposed
surface of water the better. Depth is not of
so much importance but the sides of the con-
tainer must be high enough above the water
level to prevent the ﬁsh from jumping out.

Without attempting to designate the kinds
of foods that are best for the many different
kinds of ﬁsh, it is suggested that the ﬁsh be
supplied with the widest possible variety of
insects, worms, and grubs and with bits of
hamburger, as well as small amounts of
such green foods as lettuce, cabbage, grass,
clover, and tiny bits of fruit. Small amounts
of cooked cereal can also be offered in the
water. Some satisfactory packaged ﬁsh foods
can be obtained at the better pet stores.
From this array of material, the ﬁsh will
perhaps be able to obtain food that is suit-
able for its requirements. Bear in mind that
ﬁsh eat but small amounts, so be sparing in
the quantities given.

Living aquatic plants growing in the aqua-
rium will assist in keeping the water in suit-
able condition for the welfare of the ﬁsh.

39

Indeed, if a suitable balance of plant and
animal life is provided, it will not be neces-
sary to change the water in the aquarium.
However, if there is not enough growing
plant life, and if an excess of food is left in
the water, it will be necessary to change the
water in the aquarium at fairly frequent in-
tervals or at least syphon off from the bottom
a portion of the water and add fresh water
to keep up the supply.

SALT WATER FORMULAS

Formula Formula
1 2
SALT % % Pounds Ounces
Sodium chloride 2.700 2.840 28 6
Potassium chloride 0.075 0.078 121/2
Calcium chloride
(anhydrous) “0.113 0.125 1 4
Magnesium chloride
(6H20) 0.295 0.547 5 7%
Magnesium sulphate
(7H2O) 0.682 0.719 7 3
Potassium bromide 0.010 ........
Sodium carbonate
(10H20) 0.033 ........
Sodium bicarbonate 0.193 0.013 2
Potassium nitrate ........ 0.013 2
Sodium monohydrogen
phosphate ........ 0.001 1/6
Ferric chloride ........ 0.0005 1/ 12

The pounds and ounces in the last column are for
100 gallons of formula 2, using soft fresh water or
distilled water. The last three ingredients in the table
should be added after the ﬁrst group has dissolved.
The resulting solution should have a speciﬁc gravity
of about 1.025, and, since most marine species do very
well at 1.020, it may be diluted to that reading if re-
quired. Some queer and interesting effects, varying
greatly with species, are sometimes seen as a result
of such speciﬁc gravity changes. Fish obviously un-
happy at 1.030 may perk up and look ﬁne at 1.020,
yet others which are dashing around and eating well
at 1.030 may decline at 1.020. The majority seem to
prefer the rather more diluted water.

From “Culture Methods
for Invertebrate Animals”

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Animals without backbones,
mainly small to minute creatures.)

There are many different kinds of inver-
tebrates, almost every one of which has its
own peculiar requirements, so it is not ad-
visable to do much more than outline a few
basic principles for their care.

Observe where they are found and the
conditions under which they are living, and
try to simulate the conditions that nature
would normally have maintained for them
at the location where they are found. That
is, are they living in fresh water? In salt
water? In moist earth? In dry sand? Among
the rocks at high altitudes, or low altitudes?
In a hot climate, or in a cold climate? Then
consider the type of food that would be
available in those locations. By such obser-
vations and the exercise of ingenuity, even
the novice can learn to maintain very attrac-
tive and successful exhibits of invertebrates.
Containers for such exhibits can range from
cans, jars, or inexpensive aquariums to elab-
orate cages and tanks. There are a number
of handbooks and manuals that tell how to
care for some invertebrates. A few are listed
in the bibliography.

Insects are particularly interesting subjects
that are usually readily available and can
provide attractive and fascinating exhibits,
in which one can witness the remarkable
changes in the form of an individual during
the course of its life.

Creatures of the sea coast are commonly
found. Perhaps the most frequently taken of
these are the crustaceans, such as the hermit
crabs, crayﬁsh, other little relatives of the
lobster, shrimp and edible crab. They breathe
through a gill type of apparatus and must

40

be kept moist if they are to survive. Those
that are accustomed to sea water shOuld
have salt water.

There is no satisfactory substitute for sea
water, so if one intends to keep marine
forms he should make plans to obtain fresh
clear sea water regularly or to arrange to
filter and aerate his supply. Some forms of
life can be kept fairly well in a solution
consisting of either one of the two formulas
listed on Page 39.

 

Photograph by Ernest

A laboratory Jar Culture of Wax Maths and Wax warms

p, Walker

 




 

 

Most of these creatures feed on a consid-
erable variety of animal and plant material
so they may well be offered bits of ﬁsh,
meat, worms, and insects, and small amounts
of green plant material—or, better yet, the
algae of the sea coast.

Clams, mussels, snails, and snail-like crea-
tures that frequent marine habitats, fresh
water streams and lakes, and dry land plants
are all found by children. Those native to
ocean beaches should be provided with salt
water and sand in which they can burrow,
or rocks on which they can climb or under
which they can hide. Sea weed and algae

and minute animal life native to the beaches
can be put into the aquarium. Such food
material as pieces of lettuce and other green
plant material and bits of fish and meat can
be supplied in the hope that some may be
suitable for the kinds of creatures being kept.

Fresh water forms should, of c0urse, be
kept in fresh water aquariums with plants.
The minute animal life of fresh water
streams and ponds might also be introduced
in the hope that some of it might be suitable
food for the larger creatures in the aquarium.
In addition, such food material as was men-
tioned for the marine forms can be offered.

 

A PYFOMFda' Fly Trap made of Finn

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

Mesh Wire Fabric. (Sea fox! page 44).

41

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

If it is not convenient to obtain live insects
and worms for food from pet stores or other
sources, it is possible to establish and main-
tain cultures for this purpose. A few of the
more important ones are as follows:

How to Rear Meal Worms

Meal worms (Tenebrio molitor or T. ob-
scurus) are greatly relished by many different
kinds of creatures. They can be raised easily
in pans, jars or cans that have smooth sides
and a depth of 8 inches or more. They are
generally given as food in the larval or
worms stage, which is about an inch long
and 1/8 inch in diameter. However, the bee-
tles are also relished by some animals, and
these insects are excellent food.

In the National Zoological Park, the meal
worm cultures are maintained in trays or
drawers about 40 inches long, 20 inches from
front to back, and 8 to 10 inches deep, with
metal bottoms and a metal overhang around
the edge at the top. Bran or corn meal is
put in the drawers to a depth of 2 to 3 inches
and two layers of burlap are placed on the
bran. The culture is occasionally sprinkled
lightly with water to supply moisture, and
pieces of potato, apple, and banana peel are
put into the bran to supplement the meal
worms’ diet. Do not make the bran or corn
moist, or it will mildew.

When the larvae are full grown, they con-
gregate between the two layers of the burlap.
It is then an easy matter to scoop up quan-
tities of them. It is also possible to separate
them from the bran by sifting through a

42

coarse-mesh screen, allowing the bran with
the dusty residue and small worms and eggs
to fall back into the tray.

Small cultures can be kept in pound coffee
cans, or in almost any container that has
ventilation and will retain the insects.

Meal worms do not deve10p rapidly, so
one should have as much as 2 square feet
of ﬂoor space in the containers if he expects
to feed many worms to an animal. All stages
of the meal worm are relished. The worms
are preferred, but the beetles are probably
more valuable food as they are the mature
(sexual) form.

The original stock for starting a culture of
meal worms can be obtained from some pet
stores or animal dealers. Persons who do
not have access to such sources might be
able to obtain wild ones from granaries or
other places where the worms and beetles
have established themselves in grain, bran,
meal, or Hour.

How to Rear Wax Moths

Wax moths and wax worms (Galleria
mellonella) are relished by many animals,
though refused by some. These insects can be
raised easily and rapidly by establishing a
culture in a can or jar of at least one-gallon
capacity with a close-ﬁtting, ﬁne—mesh wire
screen top. Fill the container about half full
with beeswax from which the honey has
been extracted, leaving the wax loos’ely ar-
ranged, that is, not packed down in the jar.
If bee comb is not available, the insects will
thrive on the following mixture: 1 part ﬁne

 




 

corn meal, 2 parts whole-wheat ﬂour, 2 parts
skim milk powder, 1 part powdered dried
yeast, and 2 parts standard wheat middlings.
This should be thoroughly mixed. When
ready for use, it should be mixed with equal
parts of honey and glycerine until it is about
the consistency of wet sand.

Start the culture with a few newly-emerged
wax moths, or wax worms in any stage of
development, and put on the wire lid so it
ﬁts snugly. If humidity is low, a tablespoon-
ful of water should be sprinkled over the
wax about once a week. If the humidity is
high, no additional moisture is likely to be
needed. Keep the culture at room tempera-
ture, and within a week or two there should
be worms, and perhaps some moths. The
growth is very rapid and the food is quickly
consumed. If properly cared for, a can or jar
of about two gallon capacity should produce
almost a quarter of a pound of worms and
moths a week.

When the moths or worms are to be given
as food, take out masses of the cocoons or
wax with worms and moths on it, and let
the animal catch them. Replenish the wax,
and the culture will continue with the great
number of tiny worms that remain in the
jar. Be certain always to leave a few newly
emerged moths in the jar to lay eggs for the
next crop.

Don’t allow the worms to escape where
they can damage cloth, paper, books, or
wood. The moths do no damage by eating,
and apparently any eggs they lay in house-
furnishings do not hatch, or at least do not
survive. The worms can do considerable
damage.

The moths or worms for starting the cul-
ture might be obtainable from bee raisers,

43

who ﬁnd them to be serious pests in apiaries.

How to Rear Enchytraeid Worms

Enchytraeus are white worms only about
the size of a No. 20 thread and an inch long.
They are easy to raise and are particularly
good food for small ﬁsh and some other
small creatures such as crayﬁsh.

They can be raised in tight containers
such as a wooden box or dish pan? In the
container, place rich leaf mold and soil to
a depth of 3 to 4 inches. Stock the culture
soil with worms obtained from dealers in
aquarium or biological supplies or from
other sources. Rolled oats, cereals, cracker
crumbs or pieces of boiled potato can be
used as food. The soil should be kept
slightly moist; it is well to have a cover
that will rest on the soil and yet will pro-
vide some air around the edges of the cover.
This will keep out light and help to prevent
too rapid evaporation. The culture container
should be kept where the temperature is
about 60° F. and the culture should receive
almost daily attention to make certain that
food, moisture and temperature conditions
are maintained satisfactorily.

The worms breed rapidly, and after the
culture has been going a short time, it will
be found that the worms have collected in

groups like tangled string, for breeding. A,

portion of these can be used for food for
animals and the culture can be kept going
indeﬁnitely.

How to Rear Cockroaches

Cockroaches are relished by many different
kinds of animals and since they can often
be readily obtained in the wild and can be

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

reared easily, they are of considerable im—
portance for animal food. There are several
different kinds, all of which have their own
peculiarities of habits as well as form.

A simple way to maintain a culture for
supplying only a few cockroaches for pet
animals is to keep them in metal boxes. A
good size is 14 x 18 x 7 inches, with a
screen mesh wire top. Convenient shelters
for the insects can be provided in the cage
by notching the upper edge of round pint
ice-cream cartons and inverting them in the
cage so that the insects can get inside the
cartons for shelter. A cage of this size will
accommodate about 600 adult cockroaches,
if it has about 11 of the round pint cartons
inverted in it. Other boxes and devices can
also be used. The inside of the cage should
be smooth and about 2 inches of the upper
edge should be smoothly and evenly smeared
with vaseline to prevent the insects from
climbing up the edge of the cage. The in-
sects can be fed many different kinds of
food. Some laboratories have standardized on
some of the dry dog rations, but a variety
of table scraps will sufﬁce for maintaining
a small colony. Water must be provided.
This can be arranged in various ways. The
insects to start the culture can be obtained
from some biological laboratories, if they
cannot be caught locally. They thrive best
at a temperature of from 70° to 80° F.

H ow to Rear Flies

Common house ﬂies (Musca domestica)
and other ﬂies are relished by many different
kinds of creatures, particularly by inseCt-

eating lizards. If the lizards or other pets
are kept in cages with wire mesh large
enough to admit ﬂies, these insects can fre-
quently be enticed into the cage with food
that appeals to them so that the pet can
capture the ﬂies itself. However, during the
colder months of the year this method can.
not be followed.

A ﬂy culture can be started and maintained
without much difﬁculty. An excellent method
is to make a funnel-shaped device of wire
fabric, with a door in the side of it. Invert
the funnel in a pan, in which meat or ﬁsh
is placed, and leave the door on the side
of the funnel open so that ﬂies can enter
to feed on the meat or ﬁsh and to lay their
eggs. If one desires to use the ﬂies immedi-
ately, an empty milk bottle can be inverted
over the small end of the funnel and when
the ﬂies have laid their eggs, the door to the
funnel can be closed. By gentle tapping on
the cage, the ﬂies will be induced to go up
into the milk bottle which can then be
placed in the cage of the pet which is

to be fed.

The ﬂy eggs will hatch and the worms.
called maggots, will feed on the meat or
fish. When they have reached about their
full growth at this stage, they will want
to go downward into soil or sand. It is
therefore a good plan to have ﬁne sand
in the bottom of the pan into which the
maggots can go to pupate, that is, to go
into their inactive Chrysalis state. If tlﬂe
weather is warm, they will remain in this
stage only a few days before emerging as
adult ﬂies. If one desires to provide for a
supply during the winter period, the pupae
can be placed in a refrigerator or other cold

44

 




 

place and held dormant until ﬂies are re-
quired for food. Then as many pupae should
be taken out of the refrigerator as ﬂies are
needed; if they are kept warm (75° to 80°
F.), the adult ﬂies will emerge within a
few days.

With careful attention and some practice,
it is possible to accumulate considerable
quantities of the ﬂy pupae during the sum-
mertime; if they are maintained within a
temperature range of 35° to 50°, and if the
sand or the surroundings are kept slightly
moist, they will be available to provide adult
ﬂies throughout the winter.

Another food mixture that was developed
by Henry H. Richardson for raising ﬂy lar-
vae throughout the year is as follows:

"Wheat bran ............... 31/4 lbs.
Alfalfa meal ............ 13/4 lbs.
Water .............................. 5000 cc Mix thoroughly
Yeast suspension ...... 300 cc
Diamalt .......................... 25 cc

Add the water mixture to the bran mixture
and stir thoroughly. The amount of water used
in the medium is of considerable importance
and depends to some extent on the type of rear-
ing jar used and the tightness of the cover.
Tall narrow-mouthed containers need less water
as evaporation from such jars is less. The
amount of water should be such that the me-
dium will dry out on top as incubation pro-
gresses, as the mature maggots pupate here.
If too much water is used, the top of the
medium remains wet and the larvae will tend
to migrate out. of the jar in their effort to ﬁnd
a dry place for pupation. Trouble with fungus
growths may also be experienced. The medium
may be used as soon as prepared.”

From “Culture Methods for Invertebrate Animals”

Maintaining Earthworm Cal/me;

Earthworms can usually be obtained in
considerable numbers during or following
hght rains and they are most active in the

45

earlier portion of the night. If they are col-
lected at that time, they can be kept easily
under conditions that can ordinarily be pro-
vided in the home or small laboratory.
Boxes with 8 to 12 inches of rich loam,
leaf mold and dead leaves provide good
conditions for maintaining the worms. The
leaves and soil should be moistened at fre-
quent intervals but should not be saturated.
It is preferable that the temperature be
below 60° F.

Injured earthworms should not be put
into the culture but can be used for food
immediately if needed.

The earthworms commonly found around
manure piles are usually not acceptable to
animals, so while they are easily obtained
and easily raised, it is usually a waste of
effort to keep them.

While earthworms normally feed and
thrive on decaying vegetation such as leaves,
they appear to be beneﬁted by the addition
of small amounts of corn meal or rolled oats
Care should be taken not to
moisten the culture so much that itsours
or molds.

in the soil.

The larval and pupa forms (the quiet
stages in the bee comb) of honey bees are
relished by many animals. Cultures of honey
bees can be maintained by the same method
that bee raisers employ or the larvae can
sometimes be obtained from bee raisers.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

BOOKS AND RECORDINGS FOR
STUDY, DISCUSSION OR DEBATE

 

ANIMAL BEHAVIOR AND OBSERVATIONS OF
ANIMALS IN THE WILD

Adamson, Joy. Born Free. New York: Random
House, 1974.

Burkhardt, Dietrich, Wolfgang Schliedt and Helmut
Altner. Signals in the Animal World. New York:
McGraw—Hill Book Company, 1967.

Crisler, Lois. Arctic Wild. Westminister,
Ballantine Press, 1973.

Douglas-Hamilton, Iain and Oria. Among the
Elephants. New York: The Viking Press, 1975.

Eckstein, Gustav. Everyday Miracle. New York:
Harper 8: Row, 1965.

Lives. New York and London: Harper and
Brothers, 1932.

Goodall, Jane Van Lawick. My Friends the Wild
Chimpanzees. Washington, DC: National Geo-
graphic Society, 1967.

Hancocks, David. Master Builders of the Animal
World. New York: Harper 8: Row, 1973.

Kieran, John. A Natural History of New York City.
Garden City, NY: Natural History Press, 1971.

Linden, Eugene. Apes, Men and Language. New
York: Saturday Review Press/E.P. Dutton and
Co., Inc., 1974.

Lorenz, Konrad. King Solomon’s Ring. New York:
New American Library, 1952.

Man Meets Dog. New York: Penguin, 1965.

Portmann, Adolf. Animal Camouflage. Ann Arbor,
Michigan: Univ. of Michigan Press, 1959.

Ryden, Hope. America’s Last Wild Horses. New
York: E.P. Dutton and Co., Inc., 1970.

God’s Dog. New York: Coward, McCann and
Geoghegan, Inc., 1975.

Schaller, George B. The Year of the Gorilla.
Chicago: The University of Chicago Press,
1964.

Schulberg, Budd. Swan Watch. New York: Delacoite
Press, 1975.

Tinbergen, Niko. The Animal in Its World. Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University
Press, 1973.

Curious Naturalists. New York: Basic Books,
1958.

Social Behavior in Animals.
Halstead Press, 1966.

Md:

New York:

RECORDINGS OF ANIMAL VOICES

A Day in Algonquin Park, William W. H. Gunn,
Boston; Houghton Mifflin Co.
And God Created Great Whales,

b Alan
Hovhaness, Andre Kostelanetz y

conducting

46

(Columbia M-30390), side one. An unusual
composition based on and including actual re-
cordings of humpback whales.

Antarctica, recordings of the sounds of several Ant-
arctic species, recorded by Edwin Mickleburgh,
Saydisc Specialized Recordings, Ltd, England.

Deep Voices, Roger Payne, Capitol Records.

Paul Horn: Inside II, Killer whale recordings with
flute accompaniment, side two, Epic KE 31600.

The Frog Pond. Providence, R.I.: Droll Yankees Inc.,
1969.

The Language and Music of the Wolves. Narrated by
Robert Redford, New York: American Museum
of Natural History, Tonsil Records, 1971.

The Sea at Castle Hill. Providence, R.I.: Droll
Yankees Inc.

Songs of the Humpback Whale, Roger Payne,
Capitol Records.

The Songs of Insects. Richard D. Alexander and
Donald J. Borror. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.

The Swamp in June. Providence, R.I.: Droll
Yankees Inc., 1975.

Voices of the Night. (34 frogs and toads) Peter
Kellog and Arthur A. Allen. Boston: Houghton
Mifflin Co.

Voice of the Whale (Vox Balaenae) by George
Crumb. Played by the Aeolian Chamber Players
(Columbia N32739), side one. Inspired by the
songs of the humpback whales.

BASIC REFERENCES

Red Data Book. Morges, Switzerland: International
Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources, 1976.

Walker, Ernest P. Mammals of the World. Baltimore,
Md: The Johns Hopkins Press, 3 volumes,
Third Edition, 1975.

Predator Control - 1971, Report to The Council on
Environmental Quality and The Department of
the Interior. Advisory Committee on Predator
Control, Institute for Environmental Quality,
Ann Arbor, Michigan: The University Of
Michigan.

US. Conservation and Environmental LawS, A

Compilation of Federal Laws Relating to Can-

servation and Development of Our Nations

Fish and Wildlife Resources, Environmental

Quality and Oceanography. Washington, DC-

US. Government Printing Office, 1975.

 




 

BIRDS

Austin, Oliver L. Jr., Families of Birds. Illustrated by
Authur Singer. New York: Golden Press; Racine,
Wisconsin: Western Publishing Co., 1971.

Bijleveld, Maarten. Birds of Prey in Europe. Lon-
don: The Macmillan Press, Inc., 1974.

Craighead, John J. and Frank C. Craighead, Jr.
Hawks, Owls and Wildlife. New York: Dover
Publications, 1969.

Dennis, J.V. A Complete Guide to Bird Feeding.
New York: Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1978.

Eckstein, Gustav. Canary. New York: Harpers, 1936.

Heilmann, Gerhard. The Origins of Birds. New York:
Dover Publishing Inc., 1972.

Hickey, Joseph J. A Guide to Bird Watching. New
York: Dover Publications, 1975.

Hyde, Dayton O. Sandy. New YOrk: The Dial Press,
Inc., 1968.

Jacques, H.E. How to Know the Land Birds. Du-
buque, Iowa: William C. Brown Co., 1947. Pic-
tured Key Nature Series, (Valuable for Identifi-
cation).

Pasquier, Roger F. Watching Birds, An Introduction
to Ornithology. Boston: Houghton Mifﬂin Com-
pany, 1977.

Pearson, T. Gilbert, Editor. Birds of America. New
York: Doubleday, 1936.

Pratt, Ambrose. The Lore of the Lyrebird. Sydney,
Australia: Endeavor Press, 1937.

Skutch, Alexander F. Illustrator, Author B. Singer.
The Life of the Hummingbird. New York: Vine-
yard Books, Crown Publishers, Inc., 1973.

Terres, J.K. How Birds Fly Under the Water and
Through the Air. New York: Hawthorn Books,
Inc., 1968.

Welty, Joel Carl. The Life of Birds. Philadelphia, Pa.:
W.B. Saunders Company, 1975.

Zeleny, Lawrence. The Bluebird, How You Can
Help Its Fight for Survival. Bloomington, Indi-
ana, University Press, 1976.

Zinn, Herbert S. and Gabrielson, Ira N. Birds. New
York: Simon and Schuster, 1949 (Golden
Nature Series).

Zinn, Herbert S. and Gabrielson, Ira N. A Golden
Guide to Birds. New York: Golden Press, 1949;
Racine, Wisconsin: Western Publishing Com-
Pany, 1956.

The Care and Feeding of Orphan Song and Garden
Birds. Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary, Inc., 19328
Gulf Blvd, Indian Shores, FL 33535.

Helplfor Hooked Birds. Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary,
nc.

Homes for Birds. Fish and Wildlife Service, Conser-
vation Bulletin, No. 14, 1969 US. Department
of the Interior, Washington, DC. 20240.

Recycle for the Birds. National Wildlife Federation,
Reprint from Ranger Rick magazine; Dec-i
1975, 1412 16th Street, NW. Washington, DC.
20036.

RECORDINGS OF BIRD SONGS

Allen, Arthur A. and Peter Paul Kellog. America
Bird Songs, Vol 1 8L ll.
Bird Songs in Your Garden.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Song Birds of America.
Boston: Houghton, Mifflin Co.
Baird, James. The Edge of the Meadow. Providence,
Rhode Island: Droll Yankees, Inc., 1969.
Borror, Donald J. Common Bird Songs. New York:
Dover Publications.
Songs of Eastern Birds.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Songs of Western Birds.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Sounds of Nature, Finches.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Sounds of Nature, Prairie
Spring. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Sounds of Nature, Warblers.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Sounds of Nature, A Day at
Flores Moradas. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Borror, Donald J. and William W.H. Gunn. Sounds
of Nature, Thrushes, Wrens, and Mockingbirds
of Eastern North America. Boston: Houghton
Mifflin Co.
Kilham, Peter. Songs of the Forest. Providence,
Rhode Island: Droll Yankees Inc., 1964.

Krutch, Joseph Wood and the Cornell Laboratory of
Ornithology. Bird Songs in Literature. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Co.

Peterson, Roger Tory. A Field Guide to Bird Songs.

Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.

Bird Songs of Dooryard, Field and Forest, Parts I, II,
and Ill, Ficker Records, Old Greenwich, Con-
necﬁcut

Birds on a May Morning, Droll Yankees, Inc.,
Providence, Rhode Island.

Sapsuckers and Flickers, Droll Yankees, Inc., Provi-
dence, Rhode Island.

Song Sparrow, Droll Yankees, Inc., Providence,
Rhode Island.

Spring Morning, Droll Yankees, Inc., Providence,
Rhode Island.

The Brook, Droll Yankees, Inc., Providence, Rhode
Island.

The Farm, Droll Yankees, Inc., Providence, Rhode
Island.

ENDANGERED SPECIES

Cox, James A. The Endangered Ones. New York:
Crown Publishing, Inc., 1975.

Green, lvah. Wildlife in Danger. New York: Coward
McCann, Inc., 1959.

Inskipp, Tom and Sue Wells. International Trade in
Wildlife. London: 1979. Published by Earth-
scan, division of International Institute for Envir-
onment and Development and the Fauna Pre-
servation Society.

47

 

 

 




 

 

McNulty, Faith. Must They Die? The Strange Case of
The Prairie Dog and the Black-Footed Ferret.
New York: Doubleday and Company, Inc.,
1971.

Moorehead, Alan. No Room in the Ark. New York:
Harper and Bros., 1960.

US. Department of the Interior. Endangered and
Threatened Wildlife and Plants. Washington,

DC: Office of the Federal Register, National Ar-

chives and Records Service, General Services
Administration. 1976.

World Wildlife Conference: Efforts to Save Endang-
ered Species. US. Department of State Publica-
tion 8729. Washington, DC: US. Government
Printing Office, 1973.

INSECTS

Borror, D.J. and D.M. Delong. An Introduction to
The Study of Insects. New York; Holt Reinhart
& Winston, 1970.

Brues, Charles T. Insects, Food and Ecology. New
York: Dover Publications, 1972.

Butler, Colin G. The World of the Honey Bee. New
York: Taplinger, 1974.

Chu, P. How to Know the Immature Insects. Iowa:
Wm. C. Brown Co., 1949. (Pictured Key Nature
Series).

Comstock, John H. The Spider Book. New York:
Cornell University Press, 1940. (Comstock
Handbook Series).

Dadant & Sons. The Hive and the Honey Bee. Ham-
ilton, Ill.: Dadant & Sons, 1975.

Fabre, J. Henri. Unabridged Works. New York:
Dodd, Mead and Company.
Bramble Bees and Others.

The Glow-Worm and Other Beetles.
The Hunting Wasps.

The Insect World.

The Life of the Caterpillar.
The Life of the Fly.

The Life of the Scorpion.

The Life of the Spider.

The Life of the Weevil.

The Mason-Bees.

More Beetles.

More Mason-Bees.

The Sacred Beetle and Others.
Social Life in the Insect World.

Grzimek, Bernhard. Grzimek’s Animal Life Encyclo-
pedia, Insects. New York: Van Nostrand Rein-
hold Company, 1975.

Holland, W.J. The Butterfly Book. New York: Dou-
bleday & Co., 1947. The Moth Book. New
York: Dover Publications, 1969.

Huxley, Julian. Ants. New York: Jonathan Cape and
Harrison Smith, Inc., 1950.

Imms, A.D. Textbook of Entomology. New York:
E.P. Dutton & Co. 1948.

Jacques, H.E. How to Know the Insects. Iowa: Wm_
C. Brown, Co., 1947 (Pictured Key Nature
Series).

Maeterlinck, Maurice. The Life of the Bee. Trans-
lated by Alfred Sutro. New York: Dodd Mead,
and Co., 1912.

The Life of The White Ant. Translated by Alfred
Sutro. New York: Dodd, Mead and Co., 1927.

Morse, Roger A. Bees and Beekeeping. Ithaca, New
York: Cornell University Press, 1975.

Sharp, David. Insects. (Cambridge Natural History).
New York: Dover Publications, Inc., 2 volumes,
1970.

Sudd, John H. An Introduction to the Behavior of
Ants. New York: St. Martins, paperback, 1967.

Teale, Edwin Way. The Golden Throng. New York:
Dodd, Mead and Co., 1945.

Tweedie, Michael. Atlas of Insects. New York: The
John Day Company, 1974.

von Frisch, Karl. The Dancing Bees. New York: Har-
court, Brace & Co., 1955.

Wilson, Edward O. The Insect Societies. Cambridge,
Massachusetts: Harvard University Press, 1971.

Zinn, Herbert S. and Clarence Cottam. Insects. New
York: Simon and Schuster: 1951 (Golden
Nature Guide Series).

INVITATION TO ACTION

Amory, Cleveland. Mankind? New York: Harper &
Row, 1974.

Batten, Peter. Living Trophies, A Shocking Look at
the Conditions in America’s Zoos. New York:
Thomas Y. Crowell Company, 1976.

Grzimek, Bernhard. Serengeti Shall Not Die,
London, Hamish Hamilton, 1960.

Harrison, Ruth. Animal Machines, The New Factory
Farming Industry. London, Vincent Stuart Ltd,
1964.

Inskipp, T.P. and Thomas G.J. Airborne Birds.
Sandy, Bedfordshire, England: Royal Society
for the Protection of Birds. 1976.

Inskipp, T.P. All Heaven in a Rage. Royal Society for
the Protection of Birds, Sandy, Bedfordshire,
England, 1975.

Jordan, Bill and Ormrod, Stefan The Last Great
Wild Beast Show, A Discussion on the Failure
of British Animal Collections. London: Con-
stable and Co., Ltd. 1978.

Osborn, Fairfield. Our Crowded Planet. New York:
Doubleday, 1962.

Pratt, Dallas. Painful Experiments on Animals. New
York, Argus Archives, 1976.

Regan, Tom and Peter Singer. Animal Rights and
Human Obligation. Englewood Cliffs, New
Jersey: Prentice Hall, 1976.

Regenstein, Lewis. The Politics of Extinction. New
York: MacMillan, 1975.

 




 

Scheffer, Victor B. A Voice for Wildlife. New York:

Charles Scribner’s & Sons, 1974,

Singer, Peter. Animal Liberation. New York: The
New York Review, 1975.

OCEANS, LAKES AND STREAMS AND THEIR
INHABITANTS

Bishop, Sherman C. Handbook of Salamanders:
The Salamanders of the United States, of Can-
ada, and of Lower California. Ithaca, New York:
Cornell University Press, 1967.

Comstock, Anna B. Handbook of Nature Study.
Ithaca, New York: Comstock Publishing Asso-
ciates, Cornell University Press, 1941.

Burton, Maurice and Robert. The Encyclopedia of
Fish. London: BPC Publishing, Ltd., 1975.
Carson, Rachel. The Sea Around Us. Garden City,

New York: Natural History Press, 1954.

Carrighar, Sally. The Twilight Seas: A Blue Whale’s
Journey. Illustrated by Peter Parnell. New York:
Weybright & Talley, division of McKay, 1975.

Cousteau, Jacques-Yves. The Undersea Discoveries
of Jacques-Yves Cousteau. New York: Double-
day & Co. (series).

Hervery, G.F. and Jack Hems. The Goldfish. Levit-
town, New York: Transatlantic Arts, 1968.
Hoke, John. The First Book of Snakes. New York:

Franklin Watts, Inc., 1956.

Humane Society of the United States. “Care of Cold
Blooded Pets.” Reprint from Kind Magazine.
Washington, DC.

Innes, William T. Exotic Aquarium Fishes. New
Jersey: TFH Publishers, 1966.

Mann, Lucile Q. Tropical Fish. New York: Arco
Publishers, 1974.

McNulty, Faith. The Great Whales. New York:
Doubleday and Co., 1974.
Whales: Their Life in the Sea. New York: Har-
per and Row, 1975.

Mostert, Noel. Supership. New York: Alfred A.
Knopf, Inc., 1974.

Mowat, Farley. A Whale for the Killing. Boston: Little,
Brown & Co., 1974.

Needham, James G. and Paul Needham. A Guide to
the Study of Fresh Water Biology: With Special
Reference to Aquatic Insects and Other Inver-
tebrate Animals and Phytoplankton. San Fran-
cisco, California: Holden-Day Publishers, 1962.

Payne, Roger S. and Scott McVay. Songs Of Hump-
back Whales. Science, August 13, 1971.

Pickwell, Gayle. Amphibians and Reptiles 0f the
Pacific States. New York: Dover Press, 1972.

Reidman, Sarah R. and Elton T. Gustafson, Home is
the Sea: For Whales. New York: Abelard-Schu-
man Ltd., 1971.

SCheffer, Victor B. The Year of the Whale, illustrated
by Leonard Everett Fisher. New York: Charles
Scribner & Sons, 1969.

49

Small, George. The Blue Whale. New York: Colum-
bia University Press, 1971.

Stenuit, Robert. Dolphin: Cousin to Man. New YOrk:
Sterling Publishing Co., 1968.

Wright, Albert H. and Anna Allen Wright. Handbook
of Frogs and Toads of the United States and
Canada. Ithaca, New York: Cornell University
Press, 1949.

Zinn, Herbert S. and Robert M. Smith. Reptiles and

Amphibians. New York: Simon and Schuster,
1955.

PHOTOGRAPHY

Field Photography. Alfred A. Blaker. San Francisco:
Freeman Publishers, 1976.

Here’s How, “Nature Photography”, pp. 1—9,
Kodak Publication No. AE-81, Rochester, New
York: Kodak Consumer Markets Division.

Photographing Nature, (series). Hertfordshire,
England: Fountain Press, 1975.

Trees
Insects
Seashore

Photographing Nature, Life Library of Photography.

New York: Time-Life Books, 1971.

PLANTS

Baylis, Maggie. Plant Parenthood. San Francisco:
101 Productions, paperback, 1975.

Better Homes and Gardens Books. Better Homes
and Gardens New Garden Book. New York,
1968.

Bush-Brown, James. American Gardening Book.
New York: Scribner, 1966.

Elbert, George. Indoor Light Gardening Book. New
York: Crown Publishing Company, 1974.

Faust, Joan Lee. The New York Times Book of
House Plants. New York: A & W Visual Library,
The New York Times Book Company, paper-
back, 1973.

Wyman, Donald. Gardening Encyclopedia. New
York: MacMillan, 1971.

WILD FAUNA AND FLORA AND THE LAND

Adams, Richard. Nature Through the Seasons. New
York: Simon and Schuster, 1975.

Adams, Richard. Nature Day and Night. New York:
Viking Press, 1978.

Allen, Durward L. Wolves of Minong, Their Vital
Role in a Wild Community. Boston: Houghton
Mifﬂin Company, 1979.

Bates, Marston, The Forest and the Sea. A Look at
the Economy of Nature and the Ecology of
Man. New York: Random House, 1960.

Bigelow, Howard E. Mushroom Pocket Field Guide.
New York: Macmillan Press, 1974.

Burt, W.H. and RP. Grossenheider. A Field Guide to
the Mammals. Boston: Houghton Mifﬂin Com-
pany,1952.

 




 

Butcher, Devereux. Exploring Our National Parks
and Monuments. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.,
1969.

Bogue, Gary L. Caring for Wild Orphans. Reprint
from Defender’s magazine. Defender’s of Wild-
life, Washington, DC.

Carlquist, Sherwin. Island Biology. New York and
London. Columbia University Press, 1974.
Collett, Rosemary. My Orphan of the Wild. Phila-

delphia, Pa.: J.B. Lippencott Company, 1974.

Eckstein, Gustav. Lives. New York: Harpers, 1932.

Edwards, Mary Louise. In Woods and Meadows.
New York: Vantage Press, 1978.

Hamilton, William J. The Mammals of Eastern Uni-
ted States. New York: Hafner Press, 1963.

Hickman, Mae and Maxine Guy. Care of the Wild
Feathered and Furred. Santa Cruz, California:
Unity Press, 1973.

Krutch, Joseph Wood. Grand Canyon. New York:
Morrow & Co. 1971.
The Desert Year. New York: Viking Press,
1963.
The Great Chain of Life. Boston: Houghton
Mifﬂin Co., 1957.
The Twelve Seasons. Plainview, New York:
Books for Libraries, 1949.
The Voice of the Desert. New York: Morrow &
Co., 1955.

Leister, Mary. Wildlings. Maryland: Stemmer House,
1976.

Lyneborg, Leif. Mammals in Colour. Poule-Dorset,
England: Blandford Press, 1971.

McClintock, Drocas. Squirrels of North America.
New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold Company,
1970.

McIlvaine, Charles and Robert K. Macadam. One
Thousand American Fungi. New York: Dover
Publications, Inc. paperback. 1973.

Matthiessen, Peter. Wildlife in America. New York:
Viking Press, 1964.

Milne, Lorus and Margery. The Balance of Nature.
New York: Alfred Knopf. 1960.

Russell, H.R. A Teacher’s Guide; Ten Minute Field
Trips Using the School Grounds for Environ-
mental Studies. Chicago: J.G. Ferguson Pub-
lishing Co., 1973.

Smith, Hopbart M. Handbook of Lizards: Lizards of
the United States and Canada. Ithaca, New
York: Cornell University Press, 1946.

Snedigar, Robert. Our Small Native Animals, Their
Habits and Care. New York: Dover Press, 1939.

Teale, Edwin Way. Autumn Across America. New
York: Dodd, Mead and Co., 1969.

Journey Into Summer. New York: Dodd Mead
and Co., 1969.
North with the Spring. New York: Dodd Mead,
and Co., 1951.

Villiard, Paul. Wild Animals Around Your Home.

New York: Winchester Press, 1975.

50

Weber, William J., D.V.M. Wild Orphan Babies. New
York: Holt, Rinehart, and Winston. 1975.

Zinn, Herbert S. and Donald F. Hoffmeister. Mam-
mals. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1955.
(Golden Nature Guide Series.)

‘ A Field Guide to the Insects of America North of
Mexico Borror, Donald J. and White, Richard,
E. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1970.

(’ Peterson Field Guide Series)

‘ Field Guide to the Atlantic Seashore, Bay of
Fundy to Cape Hatteras. Gosner, Kenneth, L.
Boston; Houghton Mifﬂin Company 1979.

‘ Field Guide to Western Reptiles and Amphi-
bians. Stebbins, Robert C. Boston; Houghton
Mifflin Company, 1966.

' Field Guide to the Mammals. Burt, W.H. and
Grossenheider, R.P. Boston; Houghton-Mifﬂin
Company Third edition, 1976.

‘ Field Guide to Reptiles and Amphibians of East-
ern and Central N. America. Conant, Roger.
Boston; Houghton-Mifflin Company, 1975 (sec-
ond edition).

‘ Field Guide to the Birds Eastern Land and
Water Birds Peterson, R.T. Boston; Houghton-
Mifflin Company, 1939.

' Field Guide to Western Birds Peterson, R.T.
Boston; Houghton-Mifﬂin Company; 1961.

RECOMMENDED BIOLOGY PROJECT BOOKS
High School Level

Experiments in Animal Behavior, Marguerite D.
Hainsworth, Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston,
1968.

How to Follow the Adventures of Insects, Vin-
son Brown, Little Brown and Co., Boston, 1968.

Experiments with Microscopic Animals: Investi-
gations for the Amateur Scientist, Philip Gold-
stein and Jerome Metzner. Doubleday and Co.,
Inc., New York, 1971.

Manual of Field Biology and Ecology, A.H. Ben-
ton and WE Werner, Jr., Burgess Publishing
Co., Minneapolis, 1972. 408 pp.

Experiments in Visual Science for Home and
School, James R. Gregg, The Ronald Press Co.,
New York, 1966.

Field Ecology, E.A. Phillips, BSCS Laboratory
Block, D.C. Heath and Co., Boston, 1964.

Air Pollution Experimentsfor Junior and Senior
High School Science Classes, Eds., DC. Hunter
and HG Wohlers. Published by Air Pollution
Control Association, 4400 Fifth Avenue, Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania 15213, 1969.

The Curious Mollusks, Marie M. Jenkins, Holi-
day House, 18 East 56th Street, New York,
NY. 10022, 1972, 224 pp.

Anti-Pollution Lab, Elliot H. Blaustein, Sentinel
Books Publishers, Inc., New York, 1972, 128 pp-

 




 

Insects in the Classroom, J.H. Borden, and ED.
Herrin. British Columbia Teachers’ Federation,
105-2235 Burrard St., Vancouver 180, British
Columbia, 1972, 172 pp.

Humane Biology Projects

Animal Welfare Institute, Washington, DC, 1977
57 pp.

7

Free or Inexpensive Materials Available From the
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE, PO. Box 3650,
Washington, DC. 20007

Animal Expressions
a photographic footnote to Charles Dar-
win’s Expression of the Emotions in Man
and Animals. Foreword by F.J. Mulhern,
D.V.M. 54 pages. 106 illustrations. Animal
Welfare Institute. Free on request to veteri-
narians and persons employed by research
institutions in the management of animal
colonies and care of animals. To others. . .$1.00

Animals and Their Legal Rights

by Emily Leavitt and other authors. Sum-
mary and history of laws affecting the we]-
fare of animals in the United States. Ani-
mal Welfare Institute, 1978. One copy free

upon request to libraries and humane so-
cieties. To others ....................... $2.00

The Neighbours

anthology of animal poems. Illustrated by
Fougasse, 117 pages. Published by
UFAW ................................ $2.00

The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion

by Major C.W. Hume, M.C., B.Sc., London,
Illustrated by Fougasse. 100 pages. UFAW

....................................... $2.00
Let Us Live

leaflet on trapping, illustrated in full color

........................................ Free

Facts About Furs
by Greta Nilsson. Revised edition, 1980.
Over 250 pages on the way furs are
obtained throughout the world. 79 illustra-
tions, 48 charts, tables and maps. One
COpy free to humane societies and librar-

ies. To others .......................... $3.00

Federal Measures Against the Abuse of Wild Animals

by Nathaniel Reed, Assistant Secretary,
US. Department of the Interior. Reprint
from the American Biology Teacher, April
1974 ................................... Free

51

The Bird Business

by Greta Nilsson. A Study of the importa-
tion of birds into the United States. Animal
Welfare Institute, 1977 , 81 pages ........ $3.00

International Trade in Wildlife

by Tim Inskipp and Sue Wells. Published
by Earthscan, of the International Institute
for Environment and Development. 1979.

104 pages ............................. $3.00

Vanishing Wildlife
A Unit on Endangered Species for the Mid-

dle Grades. Boston, Endangered Species
Productions, 1974 ...................... $1.00

Humane Biology Projects

Animal Welfare Institute. Revised edition.
21 contributors, 57 pages, illustrated. De-
signed for use in secondary schools. One
copy free upon request to teachers, librar-
ians, humane societies. To others ........ $2.00

First Aid and Care of Small Animals

by Ernest P. Walker. Revised edition,
1980. One copy free upon request to
teachers, librarians, scout leaders, humane
societies. To others ..................... $2.00

Attitudes Toward Animals
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article
from the American Biology Teacher, 3
pages, November 1970 .................. Free

Biology Students as Experimental Subjects

by F. Barbara Orlans, PhD. Reprint of arti-
cle from the American Biology Teacher,
October 1974 ........................... Free

Good Kind Lion

for primary grades. 4 pages, UFAW, One
copy .................................... Free
additional c0pies ...................... 20c ea.

Kittens and Cats

for primary grades. 12 pages, with pictures
suitable for coloring. Humane Society of
Huron Valley. One copy free upon request

to teachers, librarians, humane societies.

To others ................................ 20c
Additional copies ..................... 20c ea.

You and Your Dog

for primary grades. 16 pages, with pictures
suitable for coloring. Humane Society of
Huron Valley. One copy free upon request

to teachers, librarians, humane societies.

To others ................................ 20c
Additional copies ......................... 20c

 

 

 

 

 




 

Befriending Animals

by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article
from Childhood Education. For primary
grades, 4 pages .......................... Free

Articles published from 1971 to 1980 in the
AWI Information Report on national and
international efforts to prevent extinction
of whales .................... Single copy free

Vanishing Giants

The History, Biology and Fate of the Great
Whales. 24 pages ....................... $2.00

How to Liven Up Your Classroom with a Pod
of Whales.
For teachers, 2 pages .................... Free

A Whale of a Friend

an ocean giant and man play together in a
historic happening. 4 pages, Reprint from
Toronto Star, February 28, 1976 .......... Free

A Letter from a Whale

by Anthony Sandonato. For primary grades.
Animal Welfare Institute, 1977. 4 pages. . . Free

OTHER ORGANIZATIONS CONCERNED WITH
ANIMALS AND THE ENVIRONMENT

The Center for Action
On Endangered Species
175 West Main Street
Ayer, Mass. 01432

The Cousteau Society
c/o the Cousteau Group
777 Third Avenue

New York, NY. 10017

Defenders of Wildlife
1244 19th Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20036

Environmental Action Foundation
724 Dupont Circle Building
Washington, DC. 20036

Environmental Defense Fund
1525 18th Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20036

Environmental Policy Center
317 Pennsylvania Avenue, SE.
Washington, DC. 20003

Environment Liaison Center
PO. Box 72461
Nairobi, Kenya

52

Fauna Preservation Society

c/o Zoological Society of London
Regent’s Park

London, NW. 1, England

Friends of the Earth
620 C Street, SE.
Washington, DC. 20003

The Fund for Animals
1765 P Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20036

The Humane Society of the United States
2100 L Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20037

International Council for Bird Preservation
c/o British Museum of Natural History
Bloomsbury, London WC. 1, England

International Union for the Conservation of Nature
Avenue du Mont Blanc

CH - 1196

Gland, Switzerland

National Audubon Society
950 Third Avenue
New York, NY. 10022

National Parks and Conservation Association
1701 18th Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20036

Natural Resources Defense Council
917 15th Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20005

The Sierra Club
800 Second Avenue
New York, NY. 10017

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
PO. Box 37 19
Washington, DC. 20007

Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary

18328 Gulf Blvd.
Indian Shores, FL 33535

The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds
The Lodge

Sandy, Bedfordshire

SG 19 2DL

England

The Wilderness Society
1901 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW.
Washington, DC. 20006

World Wildlife Fund
1601 Connecticut Ave., NW.
Washington, DC. 20009

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Alligators ....................................... 32
Amphibians ..................................... 37
Amphibians, temperature for ..................... 37
Aquaria ........................................ 39
Attracting wild animals ............................ 3
Baby animals in the wild .......................... 3
Bat and “flying squirrel (picture) .................. 23
Bat, Pipistrelle, baby (picture) ....... , ............. 21
Bees, honey, for food ............................ 45
Bibliography .................................... 46
Birds, recently hatched (picture) .................. 19
Birds ........................................... 26
Birds, injured ................................... 26
Birds, emergency formula for .................... 26
Birds, feeding ................................ 26-30
Birds, legal protection for ........................ 28
Birds, nestlings, warmth for ...................... 26
Birds, water for .................................. 28
Bites on humans ................................ 11
Cages and housing .............................. 14
Care, responsibility for ........................... 12
“Chameleons” .................................. 36
Clams .......................................... 41
Claws .......................................... 17
Cockroaches, rearing ............................ 43
Cottontail rabbit, baby (picture) ................... 25
Crabs ........................................... 40
Crayfish ........................................ 4O
Crocodiles ...................................... 32
Crow (picture) ................................... 8
Cruelty .......................................... 1
Duck, baby and dog (picture) .................... 28
Earthworm culture .............................. 45
Enchytraeid worms, rearing ...................... 43
Erroneous beliefs ................................. 1
Euthanasia ...................................... 12
Exercise ........................................ 14
Experiments, objectionable ........................ 5
Feeder, hummingbird (picture) ................... 19
Fish ............................................ 39
Feeding requirements ........................... 18
Feeding stations .................................. 3
Flies, rearing .................................... 44
Fly trap (picture) ................................ 41
“Flying” squirrel and bat (picture) ................ 23
Food cultures ................................... 42
Food, kinds of ............................ 18, 26-31
Foster mother, picture ........................... 15
Fox, red, baby, picture. ................. Frontispiece
Frogs ........................................... 37
Grasshopper mouse (picture) .................... 13
Green snake, pet (picture) ....................... 33
Hibernation ..................................... 32
Horned frog in cage (picture) .................... 38
Humane death .................................. 12
Hummingbird (picture) ........................... 2

Hummingbird feeder (picture) .................... 19 4

Initial handling .................................. 12
Injured animals . . . ._ ............................. 10
Insects .......................................... 4O
Invertebrates .................................... 40
Laboratory rat (pictures) ......................... 15
Laws protecting wildlife ........................... 7
Lizards ......................................... 36
Lizards, horned ................................. 36
Lizards, in cage (picture) ......................... 35
Lizards, water for ................................ 36
Mammals ....................................... 22
Mammals, food for .......................... 24, 31
Meal worms, rearing ............................. 42
Mice, big-eared cliff (picture) ..................... 16
Milk formula .................................... 22
Misapprehensions ................................ 1
Mussels ......................................... 41
Nest boxes .................................. 14, 25
Nursing bottles .................................. 24
Opossums, baby (picture) ......................... 5
Rabbit, cottontail, babies (pictures) ................ 25
Rabbits, enclosures for ........................... 24
Rabies .......................................... 11
Releasing wild animals ............................ 9
Reptiles ......................................... 32
Reptiles, temperatures ........................... 32
Requirements of animals .......................... 6
Responsibility for care ........................... 12
Robin, baby, (picture) ............................ 10
Salamanders .................................... 37
Salt water, formulas for .......................... 39
Scratches on humans ............................ 11
Shrimp ......................................... 4O
Sick animals .................................... 11
Snakes ......................................... 34
Snakes. poisonous , , ............................ 34
Superstitions ..................................... I
Sympathy ........................................ 1
Tadpoles ....................................... 37
Taming wild creatures ............................ 7
Teeth, care of ............................... 17, 24
Temperature for reptiles ......................... 32
Toads .......................................... 37
Toenails ........................................ 17
Turtles .......................................... 32
Turtles, marine .................................. 34
Turtles, snapping, caution ........................ 34
Veterinary care ................................. 10
Vitamins, use of ............. . .................... 20
Yellow jacket (picture) ............................ 3
Warmth ........................................ 22
Water, drinking ................................. 20
Wax moths and worms (picture) ................. 40
Wax moths, rearing ............................. 42
Wheels, exercise ................................ 14

WhBEIS, exercise (picture) ........................ 16

 




 

 

 

/\
Q

!
I‘d ,

 

 

 

Animal Welfare Institute PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 




 

 

 

 

        

‘- "'nVya-Ya/ \

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Fl‘Ol’lt COVBI‘Z Our nation’s symbol, the American Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus)
was on the brink of extinction when the first Endangered Spec1es Act was. pasised in 19:7.
Thanks to the protection afforded by the Act, law enforcement, and public .e ucation this
magnificent bird has now rebounded to the point where in June 1994, all populations except I e

hreatened species list.
nsferred from the endangered to the t . . .
extreme SOUthweStem were tra Photo by Don Pﬁtzer / US Fish and Wildlife Serwce.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Washington DC

 

 

 

Back cover: More than 50,000 Grizzly Bears ( Ursus arctos) once roamed the lower 48
states, but now only Alaska sustains a robust population. The Grizzly's precipitous decline was
slowed when the bears were listed as a threatened species outside of Alaska in 1975.

Photo by Len Rue Jr.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

\

Endangered Species Act an Economic and Medical Asset

US legislation protecting wildlife and the environment is the finest in the world. It is important that

our nation maintain this leadership of which every American can be justifiably proud. In 1973,

Congress enacted a comprehensive, model Endangered Species Act (ESA). This legislation has been

extremely effective in saving wildlife and plant species in danger of extinction.

Non-consumptive Use of Wildlife—A Fiscal Boon

The economic benefits of preserving
species and their environments are
numerous. In 1991, whalewatching
in the US brought an estimated $37.5
million in direct revenue while an—
other $155.5 million was earned by
associated businesses (W DCS 1991).
In Southern New England alone, tour-
ists payvmore than $21 million each
year to visit whales in their natural
environment (Hoyt 1994). Hump-
back, Fin, and Minke Whales fre-

 

 

 

 

 

 

Whalewatching, one example of the non-consumptive use of wildlife,
earns millions of dollars for both the east and west coasts.

quent these waters, as well as the occasional Orca and Pilot Whale. One might even be fortunate

enough to catch a glimpse of the highly endangered North Atlantic Right Whale.

The California Gray Whale, now removed from the endangered species list, is the star of the West

Coast’s whalewatching industry. Commercial whalewatching vessels also serve as platforms for

educational outreach and scientific research. The Endangered Species Act was key to protecting the

whales that now support an industry pouring millions into our coastal economies.

Agriculture Dependent on Wild Plants & Animals

American agriculture's debt to wild plants is estimated at $1 billion per year (Myers 1983). All of

our food comes from species of plants and animals that were once wild. Cultivated plant species

g
E
as
e.
,5;

 

 




 

 

 

 

become prey to diseases, fungus or insect attack. When Southern comleaf blight attacked crops in
1970, losses totalled almost $1 billion (Fenyvesi 1995). The disease was stopped when an old,
resistant corn species was found and bred into a new hybrid (Fenyvesi 1995). Currently, botanists
are collecting seeds of wild potatoes in an attempt to prevent a variant of the fungus that caused the
Irish potato famine in the 18405 from ruining crops in the US. Food losses to insects in the US amount
to at least $5 billion per year, and hundreds of insects have become resistant to a wide spectrum of
pesticides (Myers 1983). Species capable of saving agricultural crops and billions of dollars for
American farmers will be lost without protection from the ESA. Many of these ancestor plants and
insect predators are highly endangered and urgently need to be maintained in their native habitats.

The ESA has identified many of these species and preserved them from extinction.

Life-saving Medicine from Rare Species

 

Worldwide, medications derived from plants are worth
$40 billion annually (Lean and Hinrichsen 1994).
Most of our medicines came originally from wild
plants, including major painkillers, birth—control
agents, and malaria drugs. Quinine, digitalis, and
morphine all come from plants. According to a study
funded by the International Union for the Conserva-
tion of Nature and the World Bank, more than 40
percent of all prescriptions in the US still depend on
natural sources (Swaminathan 1990). Only a small
percentage of wild plants have been tested for medici-

nal value. In some cases, plants that might have

 

 

 

 

disappeared altogether were found to be medical trea-

The purple foxglove is a major source of digitalis, a

sures. The Madagascar Periwinkle is a small flower— heart stimulant.

ing plant that grows in a country that has lost more than 80 percent of its vegetation. Two p0t€nt
compounds found in this plant have proven effective in the treatment of Hodgkins’ Disease and

produce a 99 percent remission in patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia (Myers 1983). Sales

of these two drugs exceed $180 million a year (Wilson 1992).

4mm napmo momma xmx MN

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

. Another species that could have slipped into extinction is the Pacific Yew. Traditionally considered
a “trash plant” by foresters in the Pacific Northwest, this evergreen has been cleared to make way
for plant species that are profitable to the timber industry. Research in the past few years revealed
that the Pacific Yew contains compounds effective in treating ovarian and other cancers (Middleton

1992). Synthesis of these chemicals will save thousands of lives and be worth millions of dollars.

The Pacific Yew grows in old-growth forest, home of the Spotted Owl. This threatened bird’ s
addition to the ESA provoked a bitter controversy between loggers and conservationists. After a
ﬂurry of lawsuits from both sides, logging limits were implemented. In spite of dire predictions from
lumber companies that 100,000 jobs would be lost as a result of the reduction in logging, employment
in Oregon, the heart of the spotted Owl’s habitat, has increased (Egan 1994). An inﬂux of technology
firms and retraining of loggers through government programs has brought new higher paying jobs
to Oregon, resulting in the highest employment rate in a generation (Egan 1994). The ESA is directly

responsible for saving both the Pacific Yew and the Spotted Owl through habitat protection.

When a species’ habitat is preserved, an entire ecosystem may benefit. That ecosystem may harbor
other species valuable to medicine or perform functions essential to the health of the environment.
For instance, old growth forests keep streams and rivers clear from erosion, and their slow release
of water keeps rivers ﬂowing through-
out the longest droughts (Middleton
1992). Salmon find the rivers of old
growth forests ideal for spawning;
where logging has ruined stream
banks and caused erosion, salmon
have disappeared. The salmon spe—
cies of the Pacific Northwest were

once an extremely valuable economic

 

”EARS GJHPUM pure [1 .5 80/191 )1 '8 931099

 

 

asset, but today several species of

 

 

salmon are approaching extinction in
Salmon stocks have plummeted in the lower 48 states as streams became

major part due to logging. degraded by logging operations.

 

 




 

Their Loss is Our Loss

Economic interests that wish to weaken the ESA argue that the Act unreasonably interferes with
government and private projects and infringes on the constitutional rights of individuals. In truth,
however, few conﬂicts have arisen and the majority of these have been settled to the satisfaction of
all. By September 1994, the US Fish and Wildlife Service has issued 36 permits for “Habitat
Conservation Plans” with 150 more in process (Fish and Wildlife Service 1995). These agreements
between the government and private landowners permit activities normally restricted under the BSA
as long as adequate safeguards to protect endangered species are adopted. Many involve financial
benefit to landowners (Fish and Wildlife Service 1995). For example, those who donate land
inhabited by endangered species to a nonproﬁt organization or to the federal government receive a

tax deduction.

To consider the ESA an economic detriment to this country is folly. This Act, a major benefit for
agriculture and medicine and a means of preserving the precious genetic heritage of this country,
must be protected. In the words of Edward O. Wilson of Harvard University, “We have inherited
a treasure house but are throwing out a great many of the pieces without so much as looking at them”
(Myers 1983). Congress will set our cOurse by choosing either to protect this country’s natural

heritage or contribute to its destruction for the sake of short-term commercial gain. We are at a

crossroads.

 

 

 




 

 

 

The Endangered Species Act’s Role in Preserving Species

The revivals 0f the California Condor and the Black Footed Ferret epitomize the success of the
Endangered Species Act in making it possible for native species to recover from near-extinction.

0 California Condor (Gymnogyps californianus)
This majestic bird of prey, North
America’s largest, once soared
over most of the continent. Its
bones have been found among
Florida’s Pleistocene fossils.
The California Condor’s range
has declined since Lewis and
Clark saw them frequently along
the Columbia River in Wash—
ington State. They were also
seen along the California coast
south to B aja California, Mexico
and east to the Sierra Nevada
Mountains. With their 10-foot
wing spans, the birds were easy
targets. Hundreds were shot
during the 19th century. In the
late 18005, when word spread
that the Condors were approach—
ing extinction, egg and specimen collectors preyed on the remaining birds. Between 1881 and 1910,
288 birds were killed as museum specimens. By the turn of the century, only a few hundred birds
remained, and by 1939 just 60 were left (Greenway 1967). In spite of legal protection and the
establishment of the Sespe Condor Refuge, the birds’ decline continued. California Condors were
on the verge of extinction as a result of hunting, accidental trapping and poisoning, and loss of
grassland habitat to agriculture.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The California Condor population, once reduced to 9 birds, has rebounded
thanks to the Endangered Species Act.

By 1985, only nine birds existed (Bergman 1990). The US Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), with
funding under the Endangered Species Act, chose to capture the remaining wild birds. The decision
to remove all Condors from the wild turned out to be the only way to preserve the species, since the
birds’ wide-ranging behavior exposed them to countless perils that were beyond the control of FWS.
To the amazement of many, the captive program succeeded. By July 1994, 85 California Condors
resided in captive facilities where they had been successfully bred (Collar et al. 1994). Four captive—
bred birds survived reintroduction into the wild in 1992. For a species that does not breed until the
age of six, lays only one egg and whose chicks remain ﬂightless and dependent on their parents for
two years (Greenway 1967), this is a truly amazing recovery.

sowes 951mm pun [ISM smﬁams paid

 




 

The California Condor is an ancient species whose superbly aerodynamic flight makes the most
sophisticated man—made aircraft look clumsy by comparison. As a scavenger, the Condor plays an
important role in the environment. Without the Endangered Species Act and an eleventh hour rescue
by the Fish and Wildlife Service, the California Condor would almost certainly be extinct.

° Black-footed Ferret (Mustela nigripes)
The Endangered Species Act is the primary
force behind the continuing recovery of the
BlaCk—footed Ferret. Always a rare species,
the Black-footed Ferret preyed on prairie dogs
in the vast grasslands that once covered central
North America west of the Mississippi River.
Prairie dog towns covered some 98 million
acres; one prairie dog town in the Texas Pan-
handle covered some 25,000 square miles.
Prior to the 19th century, prairie dogs may
have numbered five billion (DeBlieu 1993).
Prompted by complaints from cattlemen and
ranchers, the government sponsored the de-
struction of prairie dog towns beginning in
1900. Because poisoning was the main method
Of killing, ferrets were also poisoned When Black-footed ferrets are on the rebound. These two peerfrom
they fed on the dead prairie dogs. By the mid 61 Prairie 6108 11016-

20th century, fewer than 100 Black-footed Ferrets had ever been seen. By the 19708, all but two
percent of the prairie dog population had been poiSoned, and the Black-footed Ferret and two species
of prairie do gs—the Utah and Mexican Black-tailed—were exceedingly endangered.

 

No ferrets were seen between 1953 and the early 1960s, when the Fish and Wildlife Service
considered declaring the species extinct. Then, in 1964, a small population was discovered in
Mellette County, South Dakota. No study of this elusive predator had ever been undertaken, and the
exciting discovery produced much information about the species’ breeding and life history.
Unfortunately, the South Dakota Black-footed Ferrets died out, apparently as a result of continued

rodent poisoning in the area. The captive animals kept at the Fish and Wildlife Service’s Patuxent
Wildlife Research Center also died off by 1979.

The chance recognition of a dead Black-footed Ferret by a Wyoming taxidermist in 1981 resulted
in rediscovery of this species on a ranch. Unfortunately, most of the wild population disappeared
within a few years. Of the 127 ferrets discovered, the majority apparently died from canine distemper
(Godbey and Bi g gins .1994). Eighteen ferrets were taken into captivity. The captive ferret populatiOn
rose to 1 18 animals by September 1989 (DeBlieu 1993) and to 250 breeding adults by 1994 (Godbey

and Biggins 1994), thanks to the efforts of the state of Wyoming and oversight by the Fish and
Wildlife Service.

 

$51: 3 d‘




i—Sé) a

Reintroduction of the Black-footed ferret has been difficult. Poisoning of prairie dogs still continues,
often under government auspices. Scientists recommended that all government poisoning on public
land be halted and subsidies be offered to ranchers who do not kill prairie dogs (DeBlieu 1993). After
much research, a release site was located, and, in 1991, 49 ferrets were released north of Laramie,
Wyoming. By the next spring, two of the females had produced litters (DeBlieu 1993). In 1993, more
Black-footed Ferrets were released at a national wildlife refuge in Montana. In 1994, the species was
returned to South Dakota. The recovery programs and associated education campaigns have been
conducted with the cooperation of state, federal, local and private concerns.

Other Endangered Species Successes

The following status reports were derived from 1994 issues of the Endangered Species Technical
Bulletin, a publication of the US Fish and Wildlife Service.

0 Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus)
Bald Eagles underwent a
catastrophic decline after the
introduction of DDT and other
pesticides that interfered with
the birds ’ reproductive systems.
In 1963, only 417 nesting pairs
remained south of Alaska. The
Bald Eagle was listed in the 3 _‘ _ _ , _ i
first Endangered Species Act 22mm
in 1967. In 1972, DDT was * ’

banned. Public education and
strong law enforcement over
the next decades aided the

species’ recovery. Today there
are more than 4,000 nesting Director of the US Fish and Wildlife Service Mollie Beattie and Hope as she

pairs and five to six thousand takes wmg

juvenile birds. On June 30, 1994, the Fish and Wildlife Service proposed that all but the southwestern
populations be reclassiﬁed as threatened. Mollie Beattie, Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service,
announced the return of this magnificent bird by releasing Hope, an in] ured Bald Eagle who had been
rehabilitated. She said, “The eagle’s recovery is a tribute to the success of the Endangered Species
Act and other conservation laws and to the selﬂess efforts of the many, many people who have
worked so hard to bring the eagle back from the brink of extinction.”

° Siler Pincushion Cactus (Pediocactus sileri)
This rare cactus was downlisted from endangered to threatened in 1993 because of increases 1n 1ts

population size and distribution.

  
 

1911s :1qu 'w saumfkq ozoqd :sad quSu‘rqva‘

 




 

0 Virginia Big-eared Bat (Plecotus townsendii virginianus)

Since the Virginia Big-eared Bat’s listing in 1979, populations have increased from a low of 1,300
to over 13,000 in West Virginia and North Carolina. Gates placed at nesting caves prevent vandals
and others from entering the caves and disturbing the bats.

° Red Wolf (Canis rufus)

In 1973, only 100 red wolves
remained after predator control
programs and hybridization with
coyotes decimated this unique
American canid. Like the Cali—
fornia Condor and Black-footed
Ferret, this species became ex-
tinct in the wild. Fourteen cap—
tured wolves formed the nucleus
of the Fish and Wildlife Service’ s
captive-breeding colony. By
1993, more than 233 animals re—
sided in 31 breeding facilities.
Several successful releases into
the wild have taken place in North
Carolina. Between 46 and 60

After captive breeding by the Fish and Wildlife Service, Red Wolves have been
released and are reproducing in the wild. '

animals now survive and are breeding in the wild. Without the Fish and Wildlife Service’ s breeding
and release program, the Red Wolf would be extinct.

° Heller’s Blazing Star (Liatris helleri)

Only seven wild populations of this North Carolina plant remain. With Fish and Wildlife Service
funding, 3,000 seedlings have been returned to their cliffside habitat.

0 Least Bell’s Vireo
(Vireo bellii pusillus)

New sightings of this endangered south-
ern California bird indicate that it is re—
covering and recolonizing its previous
habitat. In Riverside County, 150 vireo
pairs were seen in 1994, while only 19
pairs were recorded in 1986. Popula-
tions elsewhere have also increased.
Habitat preservation and restoration and
control of the parasitic cowbird have
been crucial to the recovery of the Least

Bell’s Vireo.

Habitat destruction was the main culprit behind the decline of the
now recovering Least Bell’s Vireo.

 

   

S QJHPHAA pun [131:1 80/591133 suing

931A}?

98 QJHPIMA pue [151:1 SMXSMOISEW ‘8

saw

 

 




 

 

0 California Gray Whale (Eschrictius robustus)

' The North Pacific population of the Gray Whale was removed from the endangered species list after

its population increased from fewer than 10,000 in the 19305 to 21,000 in 1994. The present
population is thought to be equal to pre-whaling numbers. Two laws brought this species back from
near-extinction—The Endangered Species Act and the Marine Mammal Protection Act.

0 Oregon Silverspot Butterﬂy (Speyeria zerene hippolyta)

This butterﬂy, native to marine grasslands lining the Pacific northwest coast of Oregon and
Washington, is threatened by habitat loss through development and growth of scrubland. The female
Silverspot lays her eggs on or near blue violets, which are the sole food for the larvae. The Siuslaw
National Forest in Oregon, where most of the remaining butterflies are found, has restored hundreds
of acres of habitat in cooperation with the Fish and Wildlife Service. The species is now on its way
to recovery.

0 Foreign Species

The Endangered Species Act
also regulates the importation
and exportation of endangered
and threatened species that are
native to other countries. The
Act listed 535 non—indigenous
species as of January 1, 1995.
Included in the list are Leop-
ards, Tigers and rhinoceroses,
the great whales, Andean Con-
dors, Harpy Eagles, many par—
rot species, Resplendent
Quetzals, all sea turtles,numer— . .
ous tortoises, caimans, croco- _ _ 2.,
diles, iguanas, fish, inverte- M '

brates and plants. Mammals US Fish and Wildlife and Customs Ag
specimens each year.

I
g
5.
(m
U:
Q
E
(I)
E!
m
D"
p

     

     

' at

   

. .. ::-.

ems seize thousands of illegally imported

 

comprise the majority of non-
indigenous species——252 endangered and 22 threatened. A permit must be obtained from the Fish

and Wildlife Service prior to importation of a listed species or any parts or products derived from
them. Permits are issued only for purposes of scientific research or to enhance survival of the species.
Permits are not granted for purely commercial activity. For example, imports of spotted cat skins
by the fur industry are not permitted. These listings have protected many endangered species, but
illegal imports continue despite risk of severe penalties, including jail sentences. Thousands of items
are confiscated by Fish and Wildlife Service agents each year. Stuffed sea turtles, coats made from
the pelts of endangered animals and taxidermy specimens are among the items often purchased by
tourists. Items destined for the traditional Chinese medicine trade, such as Tiger bones and powdered

rhinoceros horn, are brought in by smugglers.

 




 

Interpol estimates that the international illegal trade in wildlife exceeded $6 billion in 1994, second
only to the drug trade in proﬁt margins for black market commerce. In fact, wildlife trading is
increasingly linked with drug trading and other forms of organized crime. The reason is simple:
proﬁts are very high and wildlife enforcement is very weak. The mark-up price of a rare bird caught
in the wilds of South America, rivals the retail price of cocaine by the time both make their way to
the streets of Miami. This has attracted the attention of criminal syndicates who are looking for new
ways to make money as well as new channels to smuggle their other contraband in and out of the
United States. Packets of cocaine have been sewn into boa constrictors (Galster et al. 1994) and
hidden in polar bear hides. Heroin has been found in tiger skin rugs. The need for a strong ESA has

never been greater.

Departed and Fading North American Wildlife

Since 1600 at least 87 species of animals—from mammals to invertebrates—and 90 species of plants
have become extinct in North America (Prancel990, WCMC 1994). The 26 extinct vertebrate
species have left obvious ecological vacuums. The disappearance of species from parts of their
ranges, such as the loss of the Grey Wolf from most of North America, has also had important
biological consequences. The following table dramatically depicts the continued threat to North
American Wildlife.

 

North American Extinct and Threatened Animal Species
(United States of America and Canada)
Extinct Species Threatened Species
USA CANADA
Mammals 3 29 10
Birds 4 14 4
Reptiles 1 26 0
Amphibians 1 18 0
Fishes 17 174 0
Invertebrates 61 701 13
Totals 87 _ 962 27
SourCe: WCMC. (World Conservation Monitoring Centre). 1994. 1994 IUCN
Red List of Threatened Animals. International Union for the Conservation of
Nature, Berne, Switzerland.

 

 

 

As past extinctions have shown, wildlife conservation on a species—by—species basis is not enough.
Our ability to maintain healthy ecosystems is dependent on an accurate understanding of the
interconnection between all species. The Fish and Wildlife Service’s National Biological Survey,
conducted by 1,700 scientists and natural resource specialists, is the first coordinated effort to assess
and evaluate the health of species and ecosystems in the US. The Survey’s findings will aid in the
listing and delisting of endangered and threatened animals and plants under the BSA.

10

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Rising Rate of Bird Extinctions a:
9
:3
Fr
50 §
45 // é
.. / 1
o “I
.E 40 a:
3; i
Lu 9
E 35 3.5;
E E!-
0 €
33 30 é
0“
a) 3.
.9 g
8 25
Q.
U)
E 20
m
“5
a 15
.Q
E
3
z 10
5
I I I I I I I
1600-l 1650-‘ 1700-l 1750-I 1800-l 1850-I 1900-l 1950-
1649 1699 1749 1799 1849 1899 1949 1999
50 Year Periods

 

 

 

Increase in Bird Extinctions an Ill Omen

Because birds are fairly representative of vertebrate species in terms of their rates of extinction, they
are considered keen indicators of the planet’ 5 health. Since 1600, some 121 bird species have become
extinct. The rise in the rate of extinction becomes dramatic when one analyzes the incidence over
50-year periods. Between 1600 and 1649, only four species became extinct. In the next fifty-year
period, 11 species were lost. In the 19th century, extinctions rose dramatically with 41 species lost.
In the first half of the 20th century, 37 species have disappeared, almost as many as in the entire 19th
century. Should the accelerated rate of extinction continue, one bird species will be lost every year

by the year 2000.

Island species have been more vulnerable than mainland species because they occupy limited
habitats and because many are—or were——flight1ess, making it difﬁcult for them to ﬂee from human
hunters or adjust to changes in their environments. Until recently, about 75% of bird extinctions took
place on islands. Undoubtedly, more extinctions would have occurred on mainlands if not for the

11

 




 

large range of most mainland birds, which enables them to sustain local extinctions and still survive.
These avian extinctions represent a great biological loss since many of these species were highly
unusual and were not closely related to any species still in existence. Consider that the tallest bird
ever to have lived on earth, New Zealand’ 8 Giant Moa, and the heaviest bird, the Great Elephant bird
of Madagascar, became extinct just since 1600, not in prehistoric times. The only known bird species
in which males and females had different sized and shaped beaks, the Huia of New Zealand, became
extinct early in the 20th century. The Passenger Pigeon is another casualty, along with the Northern
Hemisphere’s only penguin—like bird, the Great Auk. In each case, the birds were victims of
overhuntin g by humans. Other causes of bird extinctions include introduced disease, habitat
destruction and introduction of non-indigenous animals such as livestock, rats and dogs. The loss
of habitat, almost always a result of human interference, is now emerging as the major threat to birds,
although introduction of non-indigenous species, overhunting and capture for the commercial pet
trade continue to represent major dangers.

**********

We have seen biological systems collapse in the past. Central Madagascar, once a verdant paradise,
is now a moonscape. The Mediterranean was once surrounded by forests, but today much of the land
is barren and sterile. Our failure to understand and respect our natural environment and preserve the
rich array of animal and plant life is suicidal. The loss of species diversity is endangering our own
existence by eliminating our life support system. Extinctions, past and impending, are warning ﬂags,
signalling an emergency that threatens all life on earth.

12

 

 




 

 

References

Bergman, C. 1990. Wild Echoes. Encounters with the Most Endangered Animals in North America. Alaska Northwest
Books, Anchorage.

Collar, N.J ., M.F. Crosby and A]. Stattersﬁeld. 1994. Birds to Watch 2. The World List of Threatened Birds. BirdLife
International, UK.

DeBlieu, Jan. 1993. Meant to be Wild. The Struggle to Save Endangered Species Through Captive Breeding. Fulcrum
Publishing, Golden, Colorado.

Egan, T. 1994. Oregon, Foiling Forecasters, Thrives as It Protects Owls. New York Times, Oct. 19, 1994, page A1.
Fenyvesi, Charles. 1995. The race to beat back crop killers. US. News & World Report, April 10, 1995, page 61—2.
Fish and Wildlife Service. 1995. Endangered Species Bulletin. Vol. XX, No. 1, J an/Feb.

Galster, S., et al. 1994. Crimes Against Nature. Endangered Species Project, San Francisco.

Godbey, J. and D. Biggins. 1994. Recovery of the Black—footed Ferret: Looking Back, Looking Forward. Endangered
Species Technical Bulletin (USFWS) Vol. XIX, No. 1, pages 10, 13. J an./Feb.

Greenway, J. 1967. Extinct and Vanishing Birds of the World. Dover, New York.

Hoyt, Erich. 1994. Whale Watching and the Community: The Way Forward. Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society,
B ath, UK.

Lean, G. and D. Hinrichsen. 1994. Atlas of the Environment. Harper Perennial, NY.

Middleton, D. 1992. Ancient Forests: A Celebration ofNorth America’s Old Growth Wilderness. Chronicle Book, San
Francisco.

Myers, N. 1983. A Wealth of Wild Species. Storehouse for Human Welfare. Westview Press, Boulder, Colorado.

Prance, GT. 1990. Flora. In: The Earth as Transformed by Human Action. Ed. by B .L. Turner et al. Cambridge University
‘ Press.

Swaminathan, MS. 1990. Foreword. In: Conserving the World’s Biological Diversity. Ed. by J .A. McNeely et al.
International Union for the Conservation of Nature, The World Bank, World Resources Institute, Conservation

International and the World Wildlife Fund.

WCMC (World Conservation Monitoring Centre). 1994. 1994 I UCN Red List of Threatened Animals. International
Union for the Conservation of Nature, Berne, Switzerland.

WDCS (Whale and Dolphin Conservation Center). 1991. personal communication.
Wilson, E.O. 1992. The Diversity of Life. W.W. Norton & Co., NY.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO. Box 3650
Washington DC 20007 .
Tel: 202—337-2332 Fax: 202-338-9478 Email: awi@igc.apc.org

 

 

 

 




j 7‘1“""MK

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




   

  
 
     
   
    
      

 
 

        

  

JJI: .....I
.IIIJI. ..I

.......JJJ. n......
.«J. ............ J J.
J1".5'...;.J.JIJ.1... '1.".I.

 

‘I-I:. an:...:..... JJJJJ.;.I.J.‘:.’. '

...,zm. .1 ..I.

’II...IJIIJJII.-I IIJJ "’.“"'
J

 

 

..n.
n11 'I’.’ IJ.:J‘J’. J.
J,..I.IJ xIIIJIuJJ-JJJm

 

     

     

. J .IIJ‘JJJJ.
.I.IJI.JJ:.....JI.J 111.11. ..2
J

 

   

        

 

..I
J‘. ...J. '.'.a J
IJ. .JIJJJJHJlm

   
 

......JJJJJJJ'J'n ”..I

IIIrIuIJIq
.I.I.»JIJ...:.JJI.JJII, I.I.J l

 

  
  
  
  
  

 

        
 

 

 

     

 

  
  
      

 

 

 

 

’1 1’...........
.11 4....1..'..1..J...1, .5

I1. IJJ.....1. IJJ .

...... 1 J.

‘IIIIJI 1IJ.'.'I.I.’ . ....J. '1‘,
.11 ...J. J.

    

J .I. .2. ‘.J....J.:._.JJ..
JJJ‘,J ’ J:

 

     
        

» J ......JJJJIJJ‘.
I....”J'1J..JJ.J.J ’JJJ’JJ.
JI/IJ,I:JJJI.-IJ.JJ._ J-IJJ.

.J‘I'J‘J.J
. IJJIIIIaJJIIIxInnnJJ‘JJ’JJJ J

        

 

J

IJI .
' l n uprmImJuvan
aJ....,.I..IJ:IIJ.J:J.........._......

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

        

 

  
   

 

   
  
 
     
       
   
   
  
      
    

   
  

 

 

      
      

 

 

 

 

        

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

     

 

          

.I.. ..I III.I.IJI.I.IJ ".‘J‘”’11”51.“‘1' I
‘lh‘x‘rf:11.‘-1171 In -n Al I! I
.......J ......JJ.....JI.,..I. .
. J..I'. 5..I....,...I.,...JJ......, .I.
.1 J. v. I'I’ " ' IIJII‘ .1111
'J ..I .1
11/..." .. 11'1'I'IJJFJ'J nix l .J'III'J JII'.I:.' 5'6
.... .. ,.. ... .... .........5.........,. . .. .11.. ..
...... .I.IJ'I,I..I,I. IJ.,I.I.I.....I.I . 1 I.....JI..'....'....1..... .,..........1...1...5 z .,..J.J.........
.I. J JIInIIJJJ't: JJJJ':J mJ-u .II III- II. :IJJIIJIIIJJerq ‘Y Jun-....IJJJjJ
J... .I.. J .. .I.I.J... .....IJI...........1 ..
JIIIJJJIIIuI-IJJI.'J'11.II:I.' ..IIIIIII. -.-JI..I..JJ.IJ I: .II!” . .I.
IIIJI 111qu . ..I1.’-:.1.'.~.'1 .JJ ...
I" It" ”11.1111/1151171ng um.)
.

J.

 

   
      
  

             
     
    
       

 
   
  

  

    
  

      
   
     
       
   
  
 
  
    

     
       

 

    
  

     
       

 
   
   

    
 
      
 
   

 

  

    

      

      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

  
 

 
   
    
     
 
 
  
  

    

  

 
     
   
  
  
    
   

 
   
 
 

  
  
 

        

  
 

        
   
    
 
    

 

           
     

       
       

           

       

         
     
      
     
   
     

    

 

        

 

   
      

     

  
     
   
 
    

    
      

    

             

 
     

                    

  

            

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

    
    
      

      

    
   

    

 

             

 

 

 

      

       

   

          

 

 

 

        
   
     

  

 

     

 

 

    

 
 
      

      

      

 

 

 

 

      

 
     

   

    

    

 

 

 

   
   

     

      

      

           

   

       
  

 
  

    
     
        

    

 
 

  

       
    

      
          

 

    

 

         
        

 
     

        

 

   

    

           

 

 

J .. .. J J . 5 5.. ...._J
. . 1.. ...... . ...... ... I.
11.1I.1.1‘1...I,I’.11..II.II ...I.....~..1.I.f'.I..1.....IJ1....1,’..I...1.. .11.... ....I. .., I.I... ..‘1 ....
...I'../ .g1JI ..,. ... ..I...IJI.....JJ1.II...... .. ......5.I.I5...IJI.I.........I.I..J ..'.1.I. II.II.IJII.I.I.,JIIJI.I.I.I II I.,,IJI.J.I ..
"751'? ..I/J. . I.III..I.I.:J .. III.I..{ I.I.;IJI.I1.I.I I ......I'JI'........ ..,.I.I...IJI.......JIJI.I.I.I.IJI.I.I.I.I.1
Illi'l‘lj; {WI/.951] ’ i J "IIJI.’:.J.‘_.‘I‘IJ'J’ III.II.JI'xJ.n'J'J,r-.'/IJ.’I!.J1 J_JJ‘.'.. .... I.I..I...J {..mI-IJguJ’I 'IJJJ
.I. J. . ... ...,J5I..,.. ..,...........J. J .,.JJJJ...I..J.......I .
1/, .. ....J J. J. I.I..I...I.....J .I.IIJII. 51.2. J . . .I.I...J..IIII.,I.I.,I.I.III I.II
I’ai'ﬂé’I/U’If 1121?". (15-2.. I '.1'I.. .4 1. 1 ...J. .1‘.I “....II
III'JI. I.II.,“ . III..IJIJ,IJ.I.[..IJI..II J. IIIJIIIIIJIII 11ng III/I.IIJIIJIIJIIJI . ,.J.,..I..JI.I.I.I.I.I.I.I I,II.I.I.I.I.IIJI..5I.IJ 11111an
(1’4” J’n'J‘IJ’IJ‘J IJJJ'IIE. .I.:u ..JJJJJ I In" IxIm-J. I.IJIJJJ IIJx J11. J. “HﬂYIHll’uh um
.II/1.11.. 1". "I'll" ..II“.I’1 "11171111.. 1.11.4}? ....I.'.' .111in5 , 11.11. .
”" ”"""IIJI.'.'JI. "M 4"","5 'I‘" J’. " "’ Ix.’ ' "".‘J"J./' .1 I' “1'”".‘.'.“.."/".J’."‘J""'"I”.'J‘I‘J‘J'.’J’.'.’.’ ‘1.”"".”" .J'.......J...‘J‘J’J‘.’J’.f1..JJ;. .... '1..'.i.’.‘n’
if?" "II‘IIJ‘ 11.11.". .I.I .III'I.IJ. II"..I _ I.‘.II'JIJI.I.. .I.I.J I III.II..II.'II":1.I .I.I.II1.I.1... . J’. 1...... I.I. .I.I..I. .I.II.I.I...J. I.J.III'.I.I.,.....J.J.....
,.,.,.I.I . . . ..
,-I... .. . .,..... .1. ...... ....5. .. II.
.1113; 4” 111/1111.“ 11/: "I..'1J’1.II.'.'J'5I1., ..I .. I.. .
‘ J. J '. J J. I .I {11/ -..JJIJJ.JJJJI .11.. J- '. .
I'.Iz'1.I...IZ’IfI1/. J11 .. J. I111.” . .,.J...J.. ..I.J-J1.J..'.'........II.I‘ .11. ...-11......
... 1...}... I..'. I..I...JI.I..J "..I/ J. ...... .....1 .”....'...._ -I....‘..:.... ... JJJ ...-...I..JJ..1....... ...
..‘1‘..1.J/JJJIJ ... I n .11.. J JIJHJ In. [In J... ...J JrIJ..-.J [KI-[IIYJIH[DIIVH~IHHH ‘IJ ...x.:I.....J ‘J’JJ'J'JJ'JJJ. .... J. "7.5.1”... .,IIﬁh'Jy-Aﬂ 1.1.1 .11.”... J
IIJJJJJJJJ. .II.I.J.-' I.I. ...II... .J ..J ....."IJI...,’I‘ ........-1.. I.I J. .. “711’ .I...I.. ..I.........I. I... .................,,.....,..J.,. ”I.II.... ......J..,,I -'.
MIX/”I ... .. "‘I I.. .IIIJI'I1.11I1III'1111‘I‘IJ...JI1J‘I"II'II'112I’1'IJ1III. "IL'."J-I1I1I1. m "Ig11'I1/11II1J. ...11111. III:11/.'.'1~.II.‘1I.’...J111.‘1’J‘1.I1.
.II.., .. .,.I... II......, ......J. . ... . J . .
. . [.../1 .....I. 1‘ ......J......I I.I. .. _ . ...... . ...... ..I.....I...I. .I .J. I. .I.I.I ..,.5 ....IJIZJJI. .
J. ..I’ ﬁlmy/..I"; 111151114151. ’11 "I'J'II'I'I’I’I" "I 1.1 J. 1.11.111 .....1." II..1,I..I.I...I1..I...1.5. I. 1.11. 1..."... I... 111...... ..,...
1,J,I{.'. .J_ .I. “.1": .II, .I..J...I..I.I1JIJ IJI5IJIJIIIIIIII I In... ...11......I5.I ""1 .,I..IJ ’.'.".’."f." .I.IJ',.IJJJ.IIII5I.II.I.IJIII .I..IJI.I.,,..‘IIJIJI.IIIIII,II ....II.III.I..I.IJ.,. .IJJ...I...I..,I.I:.IJIJ....JIJIJI.I.I..JI.I..n I
. . . ...}...JI .. J. I... .. . ..I... ”.I.I.I..I.J._.I..J..I,I.J ..I..IJ.J....J... ...J. ....
,. .I.I.II.I.I1.1...JI‘I.';'1'1.III.7 .I.I.I . .1. .. ..1J1 é. .. ...

              

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

SIMON 81 SCHUSTER BOOKS FOR YOUNG READERS
Published by Simon & Schuster
New York London Toronto Sydney Tokyo Singapore




 

 

 

 

 

 

SIMON & SCHUSTER

BOOKS FOR YOUNG READERS

" Simon 8: Schuster Building

Rockefeller Center

1230 Avenue of the Americas

New York, New York 10020

Text copyright © 1989 by Downs Matthews.
Photographs copyright © 1989 by Dan Guravich.
All rights reserved including the right of
reproduction in whole or in part in any form.
SIMON 8: SCHUSTER BOOKS FOR YOUNG
READERS is a trademark of Simon 8: Schuster Inc.

Designed by Malle N. Whitaker.
Manufactured in the United States of America.

1098765432
(pbk)10987654321

Library of Congress Cataloging—in-Publi cation Data
Matthews, Downs.
Polar bear cubs/ Downs Matthews;
photographs by Dan Guravich.
Summary: Describes the life of a pair of polar
bear cubs as they play, explore, and learn to
hunt with their mother.
1. Polar bear—Behavior—Juvenile literature.
2. Polar bear——Development—Juvenile
literature. 3. Animals—Infancy—Juvenile
literature. 4. Mammals-Behavior—Juvenile
literature. 5.Mammals—Development—
Juvenile literature. [1. Polar bear] 1.
Guravich, Dan, ill. II. Title.

QL737.C27M355 1989 599.74’446—dc19
88-10284

ISBN: 0-671-66757—2 ISBN: 0—671—74493—3 (pbk)

 

 

 

 

 




 

     
 
     

 

 

 

 

 

      
   

          

 

  
  
 

         
 

 

      

     
 

     

 

 

 

 

 

      

    

   

      

[5,.
n
W:
I 7' II]: 1
I?" y’f/I‘l, ’5}: ‘i'?
1" l/w‘..l’.;/".'ﬁ,;//}; 1,1157” 5'19”“
AM u u“ [m y -
Mum, ,, 1/",IHLH‘H'H ,7/5/ 1 x
z ‘Isv‘AzZ/zn'w'mli‘rcizéill/W
"2"" ”will? .x' mm 5.,
”77'; Wm. my, ”4,3723%; 2/174??? .
a. w gm." Mam/II 771" l’m; ltx'ismr‘lu v 1!
W ”ﬁx/y I.
I 1/ 1 r r I

awnnmmmamen,Imam-mnnwmunmmu,.mwummsuw

 
  
 

 

icture a place so cold that oceans freeze...a
place where tall trees can’t grow...a place
where the sun never shines in winter nor sets
in summer. There is such a place. It is called the

Arctic. It is the world of snow and ice at the North Pole.
Polar bears live there.

 




 

 

 

 

 

1
21.3va

. a
' 597%}
we:

    

Polar bears are sometimes called ice bears because
they are at home on the frozen surface of the Arctic
Ocean. Nature has given them the things they need to
live and be comfortable in the cold weather. They have
warm white coats. The hairs of their fur are hollow to
trap heat. They store a thick layer of fat under their skin
to keep out the cold.

Polar bears are not herd animals. They stay by
themselves. They hunt alone and seldom see each other.

But in the spring of each year, male polar bears look for
female polar bears to mate with.

 

 




 

 

 

The bears mate in April.
When a female bear knows
she is going to be a mother,
she eats many seals and
grows fat. In September, she
leaves the sea ice and returns
to her irthplace. There she
searches for a den where her
cubs can be born. A den is a
cave dug into the frozen eart
or a deep snowdrift.

When the female finds a

en she likes, she goes inside
and settlesdown. Winter
winds blow snow over the
entrance to the den. In
December, the female gives
birth to her cubs.

 




 

 

  

A female bear usually gives birth to two cubs at
a time. When they are born, the cubs are smaller than a
human baby. They are only a foot long and weigh a little
more than one pound. Fine white hair covers their
bodies. Their eyes are closed. Like human babies, they
can do nothing for themselves.

But polar bear cubs grow quickly. Their mother feeds
them on rich milk. Each day they gain weight. Their
fur grows out and becomes thick. In a coup e of weeks
their eyes open. After two months they learn to V talk.
They begin to explore their den and learn how it looks
and smells.

ages. a»;

“93.0:

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

By March, the male cub
weighs thirty pounds. His
smaller sister weighs twenty—
five pounds. It is time for
them to leave'the den and
learn about the outside world.

Their mother pushes away
the snow that covers the
entrance to the den. The cubs
are bewildered at first. The
world is new and strange.
They have never seen the sky
or felt the Wind. The mother
lies down and holds her cubs
next to her body to keep them

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

Each day, the female bear
takes her cubs outside. The
cubs learn about their world.
They see bushy willow trees
just three feet tall. White birds
called ptarmigan feed like
chickens on willow buds.
Under the snow little furry
rodents called lemmings live
in tunnels they dig. Arctic
foxes trot by, unting the
lemmings. White-feathered

yrfalcons and snowy owls
ﬂy overhead, looking for
ptarmigan to eat. Sometimes
herds of caribou pass by.
After-them come wolves,
which feed on caribou.

As the days pass, the polar
bear cubs grow stronger an
wiser. They learn how to walk
in the snow. At first, they sli
and slide. They fall and
tumble. But their big square
paws help them stay on top of
the snow’s crust. Their claws
grow out and help them grip
the surface.

 




 

 

    

 

When a fox comes close,
the mother bear worries. She
fears the fox might bite her
cubs. She lowers her head

and growls. Then she runs at
the fox.

The cubs learn by imitating
their mother. They growl
when their mother growls.
When she chases the fox, they
fo low. When she goes for a
wa k, her cubs put their feet
in her tracks. When she lifts
her nose to sme l the air, they
sniff too. They learn that
every animal has its own
scent. Soon, the cubs can tell
all the animals apart by their
smel, even at a distance or in
the dark. Their keen noses
warn them when danger
approaches.

 

 

 




   
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 
 

 

The cubs play in the snow.
They stand on their hind legs
and wrestle with each other.
They run and chase.

Exercise makes them
hungry. Their mother scoops
a hollow in the snow and sits
down. The cubs run to her
and nurse. Her milk is so rich
that they soon get fat. They no
longer feel the cold.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Now the days are getting longer. Spring is coming to
the Arctic. The female polar bear must catch seals to eat
before the sea ice melts and the seals swim away. She
hasn’t eaten for many months, but she has had to nurse
two growing cubs. She is getting thin and hungry. She
must have food.

The way to the frozen sea lies over fields of snow. The
mother bear leads and her cubs follow, putting their
paws in her tracks.

When the cubs grow tired, they complain to their
mother with little whines. She stops and lets them nurse.
She holds them next to her body while they take a nap.
After their nap, they want to play, but their mother won’t
let them. She snorts, ”Chuff! Chuff! Chuff!” It is time to

leave, and when their mother walks away, the cubs
follow.

 

 

 

 




 

 




 

 

 

 

 

As she travels, the cubs’ mother sniffs the air. Her keen
nose picks up scents of all kinds. She smells foxes, but
the cubs are too large now for a fox to hurt them. She
smells wolves, and from far away she smells a big male
polar bear. That is something to worry about. Adult male
bears sometimes kill cubs. She also smells seals, which to

her mean food. She walks faster. The cubs trot behind.

 

 




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

When they reach the
seashore, the cubs are tired.
Their mother takes them
behind a low ridge to a spot
sheltered from the wind. Little
willow trees grow there, close
to the ground. The snow lies
deep among the willows. She
makes a bed for the cubs by
digging a hole in the snow.
Lying down together, the
bears curl up against each
other and go to sleep. The
wind blows a blanket of snow
over them. Underneath, they
are snug and comfortable.

.301 l
"“W'

, /
’mi’a

it;

"u... MWH»~«~»«~ ”a”- » —. » .. ._~_.___——.~ _ -.___.————- .____..—-‘
i
. ... M...»— WWW
A

 




 

@335

l L
“ a
“ s3 ‘
‘l‘m‘é‘?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mg .3,
£va " 3
$3ng

 

«

‘ as; 1"
..ae

,.

ll .

 

When she awakes, the female polar bear raises her
head and sniffs the air. She picks out the scent
of an adult male bear coming toward her. That’s bad
news. She wakes her cubs and hurries away. The-cubs
must run to keep up.

The mother hopes to avoid the male bear, but he sees
them and follows. Now she knows that she cannot run
away. Encouraging her cubs to stay behind her, she
lowers her head, curls her lip, and shows her teeth. To a
bear, this means anger. The female advances on the male
bear, growling. The male is three times the size of the
female, but he doesn’t want a fight. Polar bears are so
big and strong that they could kill each other easily.

 

 




 

 

The male bear stands still
and turns his head away. The
female advances with her
jaws open and her long teeth
showing. She charges at the
male bear. He opens his jaws
too, but backs away.

As their mother challenges
the male bear, the cubs growl
and hiss, just as she does.

But the female bear still
fears for her cubs. She throws
herself at the male and knocks
him down. After that, he
decides to leave her alone. He
jumps to his feet and trots

away. The female bear calls to
her cubs. They set off again
for the frozen sea where they
can hunt seals.

 




 

 

 

i A Trocks show-that a beer has visited this seol's breathing. hole. Hunting i>

To catch a seal, a bear must be patient and quiet. Seals
have good ears and can hear the sound of a bear’s foot
as it steps on the snow. If a seal hears a bear coming, it
will swim away to safety. A bear will sometimes have to
wait for many hours by a breathing hole for theseal to
return. When the sealcomes back, the bear must move
quickly to catch it before it can escape.

The female bear leads her cubs to a breathing hole out
on the sea ice. She shows them how to move and wait

uietly If they start to play, she spanks them and nips
their ears. She must teach them to be patient when they
hunt, or they will go hungry.

Eventually, a seal comes to the surface to breathe. The
female bear pounces and drags it out onto the ice. She

calls to her cubs to come and look at the dead seal and
taste its meat.

 

 




2 34 ‘ ”3%

’ “"‘~' sa- ‘3- t 3‘

9&w‘gi}?
9 J." A".

. .
°- , Io 3)

a 5,-o;§5$5:.
a» a mag
553°, 313:0
33%; '

0

vi?

'v
r:

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

As the months pass, the
cubs continue to grow bigger
and stronger. After a year,
they know how to catch seals,
but they still have much to
learn. They are not yet ready
to leave their mother. She
protects them and teaches
them how to stay alive and
healthy in their harsh world.

The cubs sleep and play and
explore new things. At the
same time, they practice the
skills they will need when they
grow up and have to look
after themselves.

 




 




 

 

By the time they are two years old, polar bear cubs
can live alone in the Arctic. Their mother has taught
them how to walk over snow and ice and swim in the
cold water. They know how to make a bed in the snow
and keep warm during the winter storms, and they
have learned the ways of seals and how to hunt for
them. They know how to wash after eating and keep
themselves clean. It is time for them to leave their
mother and go their separate ways.

When he is eight years old, the male cub will mate
with an adult female and become a father. When she is
six, the female cub will be old enough to find a mate and
have cubs of her own. She will teach them how to live in
the wintry Arctic world, just as her mother taught her.

 




. .
Mm-
, .

u"
‘

 

,Iﬂh ‘
.w‘“

km

{ §
‘4
2433*» 5&3 5’ o
4””?QO hﬂﬁ’:
‘.-\. 7‘ Kv'0'
Y, 13” v 331%?“ ' h
, 0&3

o.
;
93¢
‘u
‘ v: "’ 1
H ,zv “

«J

E-
o
a,»

‘
‘o'
.
$° ‘
3,»,

4 ' ﬁg

ct“

“HUN?"
W H
“mm
mmﬂhl‘“

‘ ‘W

v
“‘1‘)“’.‘
mint?!”
‘Iu'v H H

', ”ﬂu
“mi" N

 




drews

is dispense » ﬂy and evocatively....Crisply
' ~B00klist (starred review)

ISBN U-E?l-?HLIE]3-3

III III  

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

PO. BOX 3650

WASHINGTON DC. 20007

FALL 1984

VOL. 33 NO. 3

 

US Capitulates to Japan on Whales

'Whale protectors sue

Abruptly abdicating the leadership posi-
tion the United States has held in the long
ﬁght to save the great whales from extinc-

tion, the US Government on November 13 ,

bowed to Japan’s intense pressure and an-
nounced it would not impose economic sanc-
tions on Japan for sperm whaling, despite

Japanese Whalers immediately began
harpooning the endangered sperm whales
in defiance of the IWC ban.

The Packwood-Magnuson amendment to
the Fishery Conservation and Management
Act requires the US Government to certify
any country that “diminishes the effective-
ness” of the International Whaling Commis-
sion, and cut off 50% of its allocation of

ﬁsh in the US 200-mile limit. If the violation

continues for a year, the nation is banned

the International Whaling Commission deci-
sion that no spem whales be killed.

. . - t v
, . .n i
L . . 1w: . .
. - - .‘ _ p,
“T . 44,5. M , '~ _“ -' ‘ -.,_ 1‘:
, q "/7 .- w” _. x. J

“Genius Award” to Roger Payne

Roger Payne

observin g whales.

The prestigious MacArthur Foundation award made to the ﬁve most brilliant thinkers it
selects each year will be presented to Dr. Roger Payne in recognition of his accomplishments in
cetology and environmental affairs. The award carries with it $240,000 in 1984.

Roger Payne, a distinguished member of the Animal Welfare Institute’s Scientiﬁc Committee
since 1976, received the Albert Schweitzer Medal in 1980. His magniﬁcent acceptance speech
appeared in the “Animal Welfare Institute‘Q'uarterly” Vol. 30, No. 1, Spring, 1981. It was he
who brought the songs of the humpback whale to public notice, and the recordings were
distributed so widely that it outstripped all previous records. His television documentary, “Mon-
sters of the Deep,” told for the first time of the lives of the severely endangered Southern Right
whales closely observed for years in Patagonian waters by Roger and Katy Payne. In 1978, he
prepared a statement for submission to the International Whaling Commission on ethical con-
siderations.

from all ﬁshing in the US ZOO-mile zone.
Japan has killed sperm whales (see Green-
peace photograph) contrary to the 25 to 1
vote by IWC nations protecting sperm
whales but, instead of certifying and cutting
Japan’s ﬁsh quota, our government promised
to withhold sanctions and let Japan kill 400
sperm whales a year for two years. Scientiﬁc
ﬁndings show that because of the savage ex-
ploitation of this population of whales in the

continued on page 6

Ethical Questions

of Whaling
by Roger Payne, Ph.D.

Research on whales demonstrates that
they are in possession of unusually large
brains. Although there is no general
agreement on what the function of these
brains may be, it is a principle of evolu-
tion that such a complex organ does not
develop in a species unless it confers an
advantage on the survival of that species.

Recent research on whales has demon-
strated that some species‘ have very com-
plex repertoires of sounds; that other
species make sounds that can carry over
distances of thousands of miles; that still
others sing long, complex (and, to human
ears, beautiful) songs, that these songs
are constantly changed according to laws
of form that are remarkably similar to
some laws of human musical composi-
tion, and that these laws are inherited cul-
turally or genetically. The function of the
songs and the reason they change so con-
stantly are unknown, but the ability to
memorize a song lasting perhaps 25 min-
utes, and to incorporate in it all of the
complex annual changes, presumably in-
dicates something of what the whale’s
brain can do.

In at least four separate laboratories in

continued on page 6

 




Thirty-four charged — federal undercover operation comes to an end

The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announced October 4 that 34 people from 9 States have been charged in
Montana and Colorado With violating State and Federal Wildlife laws. These actions conclude a 3-year under-

cover investigation of illegal poaching and smuggling of native and exotic Wildlife, Operation Trophy Kill.

Nearly 200 Federal and State law enforce—
ment agents participated in the arrests and
served 20 search warrants. States involved in-
clude Montana, Alaska, Arizona, Okla-
homa, Texas, Oregon, and California.

Fish and Wildlife Service agents covertly
ran a tanning and taxidermy business in C01-
orado, where they detected smuggling of
endangered wildlife skins into the United
States and illegal trade in protected species
of big game and rare birds. Further charges
involve illegal guided hunts around Yellow-
stone National Park and in Mexico. Some in-
dictments allege illicit trade to the Orient of
wildlife parts and products supposed to have
medicinal and aphrodisiacal properties.

Other charges include smuggling skins
from species protected by the Endangered
Species Act -— especially the cheetah,
jaguar, ocelot, leopard, margay, and Amer-
ican crocodile — into the United States
through the mail, in containerized cargo
ships, and in hidden compartments of ve-
hicles; violations of the Lacey Act for inter-
state transportation of illegally-taken North
American wildlife, including a bighorn
sheep, (the bigger the horn, the bigger the
price) mountain goats, elk, mule deer, black
bear, antelope, mountain lions, bobcat, and
lynx; Eagle Act and Migratory Bird Treaty
Act violations regarding the killing and selling
of eagles, hawks, owls, ﬂamingo, scarlet ibis,
and songbirds; and conspiracy.

The investigation found that bighorn
sheep skulls might sell on the black market
for as much as $5,000. Finished and tanned
tiger and jaguar skins can sell for $3,000-
$4,000. Bear gall bladders — prized in the
Far East for their supposed medicinal and
aphrodisiacal values —- can bring $3,000 a
pound when properly ground, while other
bear parts are used in bear-paw soup, which
is considered a delicacy.

U.S. Attorney Robert N. Miller reporting
on Operation Trophy Kill, said that eleven
criminal complaints were ﬁled in Colorado
charging seventeen individuals from ten
states with violations of various federal stat-
utes designed to protect and preserve wild-
life. An additional seventeen individuals
were charged with similar violations arising
out of Operation Trophy Kill by the United
States Attorney in Montana.

Charges were filed in the United States
District Court in Colorado against the

 

 

 

Important News: Norway and Denmark
have proposed reinstatement of the North
American gyrfalcon to Appendix I of the
Convention on International Trade in En-
dangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

White Phase Gyrfalcon, birds such as this bring $50, 000 or more on the international market. The
North American population of this coveted species should be reinstated to Appendix I of CITES.

following individuals:

Tillman Niblett, a resident of Davis, Okla-
homa, is an international hunting and ﬁsh-
ing guide. He was charged with smuggling
ocelot, margay and jaguar skins from Mexico
into the United States and with illegal trans-
portation of American crocodile skins that
had been smuggled into the United States, in
violation of the federal smuggling laws; with
illegal sales of jaguar and margay skins in
violation of the Endangered Species Act; and
with illegal sales of migratory birds, includ-
ing cardinals, barred owls, great-horned
owl, swainson’s hawk,and blue jays, in viola-
tion of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. Mr.
Niblett faces a maximum penalty of twenty-
two years in prison and $52,000.00 in ﬁnes.

Brian Gaisford is a resident of New York,
New York, and is employed by Hemingway
African Gallery in New York, New York.
Gaisford is charged with illegal transactions
in cheetah and leopard skins, including the
unlawful sale of a cheetah skin that had been
smuggled into the United States from Africa,
in violation of the Lacey Act, the Endan-
gered Species Act, and the federal smuggling
statutes. He faces a maximum penalty of
eleven years in prison and $40,000.00 in
ﬁnes.

Steven J. Ackerman is a taxidermist resid-
ing in Pensacola, Florida. Morton J Greene
is in the construction business, and is a resi-
dent of Mt. Lebanon, Pennsylvania. They
are charged with conspiracy to defraud the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service by
selling documents concerning lawfully im-

ported leopard and tiger skins in order to
facilitate other illegal transactions in the
skins of those animals, in violation of the
federal conspiracy laws.

Ackerman is also charged with illegal sales
of endangered species of wildlife, including
Siberian tiger, Black leopard, Clouded
leopard, and jaguar, in violation of the En-
dangered Species Act, and illegal sales of
migratory birds, including red-shouldered
hawks, cattle egrets, flamingos and sandhill
cranes, in violation of the Migratory Bird
Treaty Act.

MortonJ. Greene is also charged with un-
lawfully offering for sale various endangered
species, including jaguar, Indian leopard,
Indian tiger and African leopard, in Viola-
tion of the Endangered Species Act. Acker-
man faces a maximum penalty of twelve
years in prison and $74,000.00 in ﬁnes.
Greene faces a maximum penalty of six years
in prison and $30,000.00 in ﬁnes.

Jung T. Wang, President of a business
known as U-JIN Enterprises located in San
Francisco, California, is charged with illegal
purchases of bear gall bladders in interstate
commerce, in violation of the Lacey Act,
and with unlawful transportation of a
marine mammal, speciﬁcally a Polar bear
skin, in violation of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act. WANG faces a maximum
penalty of seven years in prison and
$40,000.00 in fines.

Kyune Hyong (KHH) Kim and Peter Kim
are residents of Carson, California, where

continued on next page

U.S.F. W. Operation Falcon (1984)

 




 

they operate a business known as Pecal
Enterprises. They are both charged with il-
legal purchases of bear gall bladders in
interstate commerce, in violation of the
Lacey Act. K.H. Kim and Peter Kim face a
maximum penalty of eight years in prison
and $50,000.00 in ﬁnes.

Thomas Radoumis operates a taxidermy
shop known as Dejon’s Taxidermy in Rose—
mead, California. He is charged with selling
cheetah skins that had been smuggled into
the United States from Africa, in violation of
the Endangered Species Act and the federal
smuggling laws. He faces a maximum penal-
ty of .eleven years in prison and $40,000.00 in
ﬁnes.

Steven and Connie Murray are residents of
Edinburg, Texas, where they operate a busi-
ness known as Trips Unlimited which offers
hunting and ﬁshing trips in Mexico. Michael
Maynard is a resident of McAllen, Texas,
where he operates a business known as
Odyssey Travel Service, which arranges
hunting and ﬁshing trips in Mexico. Sergio
Nocedal is a resident of Reynosa, Mexico,

where he is employed as a Customs agent.
These individuals are charged with conspir-
acy to smuggle and the smuggling of jaguar
and ocelot skins into the United States, .in
violation of the federal smuggling and con-
spiracy laws.

Douglas Gish, a taxidermist, is a resident
of Denver, Colorado and is owner of Head’s
West Taxidermy in Denver, Colorado. War-
ren- Parker is a resident tof Blue Springs,
Missouri, where he workstin the construction
business. These individuals are charged with
the unlawful purchase of a jaguar skin which
had been smuggled into the United States
from Mexico, in violation of the federal
smuggling laws. They face a maximum
penalty of ﬁve years in prison and a
$10,000.00 ﬁne.

Philip Tumbull, a resident of Oakland,
Oregon, is charged with the unlawful sale in
interstate commerce of wildlife, including
two mountain lion hides and two Black bear
hides, in violation of the Lacey Act. Tum-
bull faces a maximum penalty of ﬁve years in
prison, a $20,000.00 ﬁne, or both.

Kurt Fox, a taxidermist who operates a

taxidermy business in Cold Springs, New
York, known as Fox Studio Taxidermy, Fox
is charged with the unlawful purchase of a
Bengal tiger skin, in violation of the Endan-
gered Species Act. He faces a maximum
penalty of one year in jail, a $20,000.00 ﬁne,
or both.

 

Black bear

North Yemen is still the chief importer of rhino horn

During the 1970s around 40% of all rhino horn entering international trade was being imported by North Yemen, and
there being crafted into handles for traditional daggers or jambiasBut with the collapse of Africa’s rhino populations, the govem-

ment bowed to international pressure and in August 1982 rhino—horn imports were banned.

The ban, though, is not working. Indeed
the 40% ﬁgure quoted above is now over
50% — although the total tonnage is down
considerably because rhinos are today so few
and far between. This latest estimate comes
from Esmond Bradley Martin, a rhino expert
who has made a particular study of the rhino
trade and who returned to North Yemen in
October 1983 to ﬁnd out which countries are
now the suppliers, what prices are being paid
and how demand might be reduced.

Although jambias with rhino-horn handles
are now very expensive — average prices
range from $435 to $875 — demand still ex-
ceeds supply. The oil bonanza has pumped
money into many purses. Almost all men
have daggers and in most parts of the country
these are worn every day. By the age of 12
boys will usually possess one. After allowing
for the fact that over 90% of these youngsters
will either inherit their dagger or be contented
(for the time being) with a handle made
from the horn of cow or water buffalo, some
two tons of rhino horn are still needed every
year to satisfy this one market. This is twice
the tonnage entering the country in 1982. De-
mand from older men and from an increasing
inﬂux of western tourists compounds the
problem.

The “solution” currently being attempted
is to increase supplies. Rhino horn is ﬂown in
from Khartoum —— though it may well have
originated from outside Sudan. It travels in
the personal luggage of traders who, unlike
other travelers, can pass through Customs at

The above piece is based on an article by Esmond Bradley Martin

Sana’al airport (Sana’a is North Yemen’s
capital) without any fear of a search. Not that
a, search would prove embarrassing. Bradley
Martin questioned several Customs ofﬁcers
and they were emphatic that rhino horn could
be legally brought in. They disclaimed all
kndwledge of a Ministerial Order which
reads: “The importation of Rhinoceros Horn
in any form is strictly forbidden.”

Clearly the ﬁrst move in any serious at?

tempt to stamp out this trafﬁc is to ensure that
Customs ofﬁcers know the law and are intent
on applying it — meaning that they inspect
the luggage of traders and their “friends”.

Secondly there should be a ban on the export'

of rhino-horn shavings to Hong Kong,
Singapore and Taiwan wherethey are made

into quack medicines. Because 70% of a raw.

Smuggled rhino horns

 
       

in the March-April, 1984 issue of the Kenyan magazine Swara.

horn is wasted when carved into a dagger
handle, shavings exist in huge quantities.
Were dealers to lose this market, things
would be a lot tougher for them. Thirdly the
import duties on cow and water-buffalo horn
should probably be removed to encourage
their use for dagger handles. And perhaps,
too, the media could assist by dramatizing the
plight of the rhino and the rarity of rhino
horn. The likely effect would be to drive up
the price beyond the purse of all but a few, so
reducing demand.

But if the problem is to be solved, any
moves by North Yemen will have to be mat-
ched by far stricter controls on rhino-horn ex-
ports from, in particular, Sudan. If the rhino
is to be saved, the “Khartoum Connection”
must be broken.

W. W. F. /M . Wolf/QUICK

 

 




FDA’s Crawford makes progress on alternatives

The Food and Drug Administration is moving towards serious concern for laboratory
animals used in testing. In a speech September 24th, Lester M. Crawford, DVM, PhD,
Director of FDA’s Center for Veterinary Medicine, told a seminar on Animal Testing:
Legal, Science and Policy Issues, “The problem was taken so seriously in the federal gov-
ernment that the Food and Drug Administration in January 1984 formed a Steering Com-
mittee on Animal Welfare issues.” He outlined the activities of the committee and reported
that it found a number of unique in Vitro methodologies under development. He also noted
that “some of the basic methods are being used in different centers for different purposes.
An exchange of information and views would strengthen the agency science base.” Dr.
Crawford emphasized that practices vary from center to center and that “agency staff mem-

and the Ames Salmonella Reversion tests are
being investigated for their value in provid—
ing information on food additive and con-
taminant toxicity.

“Scientists at the NCTR also use in Vitro
methods and procedures for a variety of
research purposes. These include primary
hepatocyte cultures for metabolism studies
and the Chinese hamster ovary cells and the
Ames test to determine mutagenic effects.

 

 

bers can benefit by sharing information.”

Dr. Crawford made no mention of pend-
ing legislation. However, these ﬁndings of
the FDA Steering Committee underline the
great value which would be obtained were
the Information Service proposed by the
Dole and Brown bills, “Improved Standards
for Laboratory Animals,” in the National
Agricultural Library, in place. It is vitally
important that the animal suffering resulting
from tests which could be accomplished
without using animals, be prevented. The
waste of funds involved is a second reason for
exerting active efforts both to develop al-
ternative methods and to ensure that, when
developed, they are actually used.

Dr. Crawford gave a number of examples
of “speciﬁc instances where requirements for
animal tests have been eliminated or are
being considered for elimination as the re-
liability of alternative procedures is vali-
dated.” He stated:

“For example, cell culture systems have
been shown to be equally or more sensitive
than mice, guinea pigs and rabbits in tests
for extraneous microbial agents that may be
present in inactivated products such as
poliomyelitis and rabies vaccines and for
similar tests of live virus vaccines such as
measles, mumps, rubella and the oral polio—
virus vaccines. Appropriate changes in the
current additional standards for these bio-
logical products will be made to delete the
requirement for the use of animals in testing.

“In addition, the use of cell cultures for
testing the presence of residual live virus in
inactivated poliomyelitis vaccine is being
evaluated to determine if they are as reliable
as monkeys. Preliminary results indicate that
the cell culture systems may be more sensi-
tive. For medical device products, approval
has been given for industry to substitute a
variety of chemical and cell culture tests for in
Vivo tests of material toxicity and identiﬁ-
cation and for quality control.

“Pyrogen testing of drug products and
biological products is changing from using
rabbits to using the Limulus Amebocyct
Lysate (LAL) assay to determine the pres-
ence of bacterial endotoxins. Guidelines
addressing this change have been proposed,
and comments received on them are cur-
rently being reviewed. In fact, some manu-
facturers already have received approval to
substitute LAL tests for the use of rabbits.

4

Attempts are being made to develop in Vitro
methods to replace animal tests presently
used for assaying foods for protein quality
and vitamin D content.

“Immunochemical and biochemical tech-
niques are being substituted for animals to
determine the potency and purity of some
biological products. Analytical methodology
such as spectrophotometry is used to assure
potency of meningococcal and pneumococ-
cal polysaccharide vaccines and chroma-
tography is used to determine the identity
and molecular conﬁgurations of new prod-
ucts using recombinant DNA technology.
Single radial immunodiffusion procedures
are used to determine the potency of in-
ﬂuenza vaccines and also are currently being
evaluated for determining the potency of
rabies and inactivated poliomyelitis vaccines.
The utility of enzyme-linked immunoassay
and radioimmunoassay is also being evalu-
ated as a suitable replacement for potency
testing of poliomyelitis vaccines which cur-
rently requires the use of monkeys.

“Research and development of a number
of other alternative methods is being con-
ducted or supported. Tissue culture, cell cul-
ture and subcellular cultures are being eval-
uated for the application to test for many
substances such as heparin and protamine
sulfate. Genetic probes, developed through
advances in recombinant DNA technology,
are being investigated for their application
in assessing virulence and pathogenicity of
food borne bacteria. Probes are now avail-
able for Escherichia coli, and Yersina
entcrocolitica with probes under develop-
ment for Shigellae, Campylobacter jejuni,
Clostridium perfrin gens, Bacillus cereus,
Vibrio cholera, Salmonella and Clostridium
botulinum. The agency is following studies
of cell culture methods using corneal epi-
thelial stromal and endothelial cell lines and
use of a protozoan species as alternatives to
the use of animals for identification of ocular
irritants.

‘ ‘For cosmetic ingredients, in vitro tests us-
ing ocular tissue cultures and cadaver skin in
the Franz cell are now used frequently to
provide information on skin sensitization and
percutaneous absorption of cosmetic in-
gredients.

“Unscheduled DNA synthesis, mammal-
ian cell transformation, mouse lymphoma

Microorganisms, such as bacteria, yeasts and
fungi, are being employed instead of animals
to assess the toxicity of environmentally im-
portant chemicals.’ ’

FDA is a sizable agency. In order to im-
prove coordination in this important field,
the Steering Committee recommended that
a series of workshops be conducted under the
Commissioner’s sponsorship on acute toxicity
studies required throughout the agency. Dr.
Crawford said: “Regulatory and research
staffs of the various centers would attend
with the objective being to assure that every-
one uses the same terms in dealing with in-
dustry. A second objective would be to in-
form staff members from each center of the
requirements in other centers.”

Pain symposium
spurs book

From the ﬁrst-ever symposium to address the
issue of animal pain — held at the 1982
meeting of the Federation of the American
Societies for Experimental Biology — has
sprung an important book, Animal Pain:
Perception and Alleviation. The ﬁrst section
is a thorough review of the scientific basis of
pain and pain perception in animals. The se-
cond section focuses on the alleviation of
pain and contains a chapter by Lloyd E.
Davis from the College of Veterinary Medi-
cine, University of Illinois. While his contri-
bution is solidly scientific, there is one
paragraph in particular which makes his
overall philosophy — and doubtless that of
his collaborators in this book — splendidly
clear. It runs as follows.

“One of the psychological curiosities of
therapeutic decision—making is the withhold-
ing of analgesic drugs because the clinician is
not absolutely certain that the animal is ex—
periencing pain. Yet the same individual will
administer antibiotics without documenting
the presence of a bacterial infection. Pain
and suffering constitute the only situation in
which I believe that, if in doubt, one should
go ahead and treat.”

The American Physiological Society and
editors O.E. Reynolds and SR. Geiger are
to be congratulated on publishing this
230-page book. It costs $39.95 and is dis-
tributed by Williams and Wilkins, 428 East
Preston Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.
In England they can be reached at 266 Ful-
ham Road, London SW10.

 




 

Lifeforce intends suing

The Canadian organization Lifeforce is ac-
cusing the Heart and Stroke Foundation of
Ontario of funding cruel research on ba-
boons imprisoned for months in restraint de-
vices. Lifeforce has film and documentation
in support of this charge and intends suing
those involved in the research at the Uni-
versity of Western Ontario.

The case, the ﬁrst of its kind in Canada,
will be brought under the Criminal Code of
Canada. It is likely to be expensive and the
organization is therefore appealing for dona-
tions. The address is: Lifeforce, Box 3117,
Main Post Ofﬁce, Vancouver, Canada, V6B
3X6.

Baboon in restraining chair after surgery covers
her eyes with her hands.

Dog ﬁghters in disguise

 
     

The sign on the building said “Sunday services 11 a.m. ” But the Brush Arbor
Revival house in Robbinsville, North Carolina, was not quite What it seemed.

Inside the most prominent feature was a
16-by-16 foot pit. And on the last Sunday of
last October — not for the ﬁrst time but
surely for the last time — the pit was all
covered in blood, the blood of dogs brought
together to do sanguinary battle, urged on
by a large and brutish crowd of gamblers
and sadists.

The ﬁght was openly advertised in a
Georgia store, for word had gone round that
the local sheriff had been “bought off”.
What the ﬁght promoters had failed to
reckon with, though, was that the sheriff
was new. And out to get them.

Two Albert Schweitzer Fellowships aimed
at reducing use of animals in testing and re-
search are being offered jointly for the Sum-
mer, 1985, by the Albert Schweitzer Fellow-
ship and the Center for Advanced Training in
Cell and Molecular Biology of the Catholic
University of America, Washington, D.C.

The Fellowships are open to college juniors
and seniors, ﬁrst year graduate students and
ﬁrst year medical students. The Schweitzer
Fellows will spend 9-10 weeks, including
June and July, at the Center. Courses in
basic cell and tissue culture and in vitro tox-
icology will be offered as well as an in vitro
neurotoxicology research program. Re-
ﬁnement of skills in these areas may encour-
age further development of viable substitutes
for animals.

Applicants must submit a completed appli-
cation, a current academic transcript and an
800-1000 word essay on “Dr. Schweitzer’s
Perspectives on Animals and Biomedical Re-
search” or a “Personal View of Dr.
Schweitzer’s Philosophy of Reverence for
Animal Life.” Deadline for applications:
March 1, 1985.

The Center is waiving its $1200 tuition fee

 

—-————Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellowships

Two dogs were ﬁghting in the pit when
the sheriff’ 3 men sprang their trap. The
spectators tried to ﬂee but most were
caught; 90 arrests were made on the spot.
One arrested man had $100,000 in a bag
and many had several thousand dollars on
them. The would-be escapers left behind al-
cohol, drugs and weapons —— ranging from
brass knuckles to guns.

Dog-ﬁghting is a misdemeanor in North
Carolina. Those convicted face $500 ﬁnes
and/or six months in jail. No great penalty
for such vicious and callous cruelty.

and the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship is
awarding a $1250 stipend for housing, travel
and other essential expenses. Low cost hous-
ing is available.

Applications and reading lists may be ob-
tained from Dr. Roland M. Nardone, Direc-
tor, Center for Advanced Training in Cell
and Molecular Biology, Catholic University
of America, Washington, D.C. 20064. Tel.
(202) 636-6161.

The selection committee will include Dr.
Nardone and Fellowship board members,
Christine Stevens, president of the Animal
Welfare Institute, and Ann Cottrell Free,
Schweitzer Medalist and author-editor of
Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer.

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship is a na-
tional membership organziation, headquar-
tered at 866 United Nations Plaza, New
York, N.Y. 10017. It seeks to foster Dr.
Schweitzer’s ethic of reverence for life and to
provide support for the Albert Schweitzer
Hospital, Lambaréné, Gabon. The Center
for Advanced Training is sponsored by the
Department of Biology of Catholic Uni-
versity, where doctoral research and instruc-
tion are part of a 70 year tradition.

 

 

 

 

@ Lifefomc — Peter Hamilton

Top View of the chair is reminiscent
of 17th cen tury stocks.

Big ﬁnes
for dog dealers

Dog dealer Allen Avis from Monroeville,
New Jersey, has been ﬁned $3000 on 12
counts of selling dogs without a license and
twice failing to answer a formal complaint
charging him with wholesaling a cat and
about 60 dogs one year after his federal li-
cense had expired.

One of those to whom Avis had frequently
sold dogs is Rudolph Vrana, a lab animal
dealer in Millville, New Jersey. He too has
been ﬁned $3000 for transporting dogs, cats
and rabbits in overcrowded conditions, fail-
ing to provide veterinary care for sick cats
and using poorly constructed cages.

%

Dog dealer Donald Stumbo from Lima,
New York, has been ﬁned $4000 and or-
dered to suspend business for 120 days. He
was judged guilty of giving “a bare minimum
of attention” to his animals. He challenged
the evidence on which this judgment was
based but a retrial found it ‘ ‘abundantly sup-

ported. ”
‘ha

Harold and Ethel Taylor, dog dealers from
Kansas, have been charged with raising, sell-
ing and transporting dogs wholesale without
a valid dealer’s license. APHIS has asked
that the Taylors be ﬁned $13,000 and served
with a cease-and-desist order. The couple
was warned in 1979 and again in 1980 that
they were in violation of the Animal Welfare

Act. -
3%.

James and Julie Stuekerjuergen, dog dealers

from Iowa, have been charged with repeat-
edly violating the Animal Welfare Act. In
1982 the dealers shipped 76 dogs below the
minimum age of eight weeks to distant
destinations in the US and Canada. APHIS
has asked that the dealers’ license be sus-
pended for at least 90 days. It is also asking
for $500 per violation —— a total ﬁne of
$38,000 — and a cease-and-desist order.

~1-9‘ff: ‘33 a «CK—UPI: 0' C“ .

. i?

 




 

 

 

 

Sculpture in stone of a sperm whale by William Cafritz.

Japan continued

North Paciﬁc over the years, it cannot in-
crease its numbers for a decade or more even
if no sperm whales are killed!

The Animal Welfare Institute and eight
other groups ﬁled a lawsuit in US District
Court seeking a judicial order nullifying any
bilateral agreement with Japan that would
allow outlaw whaling, and a court order di—
recting the Secretaries of Commerce and
State to impose mandatory sanctions against
the Japanese ﬁshing industry as required
under the Packwood-Magnuson Amend-
ment. ,

Representing the conservationists in the
lawsuit is William D. Rogers, former Under
Secretary of State. His law ﬁrm, Arnold and
Porter, prepared the legal action pro bono.

Rogers stated: “The lawsuit is based on
the premise that any commitment by the
Secretary of Commerce not to certify
Japanese sperm whaling would be an
unlawful agreement not to enforce US Law.’ ’

Senator Bob Packwood (R-Oregon), co-
author of the law, says the US-Japan agree—
ment is ﬂatly illegal: “Packwood-Magnuson
is extremely clear. It is absolutely manda—
tory, not discretionary policy. It leaves no
wiggle room or gray area in which represen-
tatives of our government can negotiate with
the Japanese or any other foreign power to
take sperm whales.”

One of two sperm whale brought in by Nitto Hogei whaling ship R yuho Maru at Wadaura Chiba

November 11, 1984.
6

 

Capitulation by the US came after several
weeks of intense negotiations between the
two countries. Japan kept increasing the
pressure against government agencies that
were trying to maintain American leadership
in whale conservation and the deterrent of
the Packwood-Magnuson Amendment. The
Japanese ﬁshing industry threatened massive
retaliation against US ﬁshermen, with whom
they do heavy trade. Japan’s Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries reportedly threat-
ened US agricultural imports. Foreign Min-
ister Shintaro Abe coordinated a drum-beat
attack against US policy in both Washington
and Tokyo.

Working hand-in-hand with Japanese ne-
gotiators were ofﬁcials of the State Depart-
ment, speciﬁcally the Japan Desk and the
Economic Affairs bureau, who felt that the
penalties of the Packwood-Magnuson
Amendment should not be brought to bear
against Japan.

Thomas Garrett, who served as US deputy
commissioner to the IWC from 1977 through
1983 and headed the American delegation to
the IWC in 1981 when the commission
voted, by 25 to 1 (with only Japan
dissenting), to prohibit all further sperm
whaling, stated, “Any deal to allow con-
tinued sperm whaling jeopardizes the fruits
of twelve years of labor and support of mil-

   

© 1984 Pat Plenum/Greenpeace

w

, Japan on

 

photos: W’" Cafritz

lions of Americans. It would open a Pan-
dora’s Box of problems. Every whaling na-
tion, including those that have agreed to
cease whaling or have already stopped,
would demand a similar deal.

“If the US is faced down in this manner,”
Garrett points out “the Packwood-Magnuson
Amendment and its sister law, the Pelly
Amendment, which alone have deterred
whaling nations from defying the IWC in
recent years, would cease to be credible. The
moratorium would crumble and the IWC
would revert to impotence.”

 

 

Boycott

An intensively coordinated worldwide
boycott of Japan Airlines (J AL) is scheduled
to begin January 1, 1985 if Japan has not
withdrawn its objections to the ban on sperm
whaling and the moratorium and agreed to
comply with IWC decisions.

Travel agents in North America, Europe,
Australia and New Zealand will be asked not
to book passengers on JAL ﬂights and all
friends of whales urged to refrain from ﬂying
JAL until Japan honors the decisions of the
IWC. The Government of Japan owns
37.7% of JAL, the largest share holder

 

being the Ministry of Finance.

Roger Payne continued

the United States, there is research cur-
rently in progress on techniques for com-
municating with cetaceans. Though dif-
ferent in detail, these efforts are essen-
tially modiﬁcations of techniques pio-
neered by primatologists for teaching
American Sign, computer, and symbolic
languages to chimpanzees and gorillas.
The early emphasis in that research was
on demonstrating that some non-human
animals are capable of the same abstrac-
tions necessary to communicate via
human languages. That chimpanZCCS
and gorillas are capable of such abstrac-
tion is now widely accepted.

The current research with porpoiSCS,
though it employs the same techniques;
has a different emphasis. One current di-
rection is an effort to learn more about
behavior of porpoises in the wild by
teaching a porpoise a simple language
and then asking it simple questions. COD'

continued on next page

 




versations are envisioned such as: “Before
you came here, how many ﬁsh did you eat
each day?” or “Did sharks ever attack
you?” or “Do you like it here?”. Ques-
tions of this and of greater complexity have
been asked of and answered by non-
human primates, and present indications
suggest that porpoises will do well in such
tests. If so, animal behaviorists may soon
resemble their anthropologist colleagues as
regards study techniques — interviews
with the subject may become a principal
tool of investigation in animal behavior.

We have been discussing research proj-
ects that are currently underway, not sim-
ply plans for the future. Should these
projects yield positive results (and current
indications strongly suggest they will -—
and soon), it would probably seem ironic,
if not unethical, to many more people
than have hitherto been involved in ques-
tions of whale conservation, to recognize
a value for porpoises and whales only in
relation to how much they contribute to
human nutrition or in respect to their
worth as lubricants.

The problems of research with large
whales are manifest, experimentation
under controlled conditions is unknown,
and we must be content at present with
simple observations. In spite of these lim-
itations, it is already obvious that what-
ever it is cetaceans use their large brains
for, it is almost certainly not the same as
what humans do with theirs. Thus, re-
gardless of the answer, it promises to be

Major Consumer of
Endangered Species

Japan’s intransigent role in providing a
market for endangered species of wildlife
was reported by the major Tokyo newspapers
October 12th. The Asahi Shimbun said,
“Wild animals that are nearly extinct are
coming into Japan illegally. Many countries
of origin are trying to prevent the removal of
such species.”

A news story in the Nikei Shimbun head-
lined “Unusual Vote Criticizing Japan —
Kuala Lumpur Conference of Asia and
South Paciﬁc Region on Convention on In-
ternational Trade in Endangered Species”
stated:

“Japan ratiﬁed the treaty in 1980. In order
to protect Japanese industry, the government
held that 14 species would not be covered,
Including 6 whale species, 3 sea turtles, 1
crocodile, and others. Japan claimed more
exemptions than any other country. The
Japanese government has never set up laws to
enforce the treaty, simply changing the im-
port/export law a bit. There are n—o special
officials at ports or airports to check illegal
Imports of wild animals or plants. Although
the treaty requires export permission from
Countries of origin, Japan only requires cer—
tiﬁcation of the origin of the species. These
certiﬁcates are very easy to obtain, so export

one of the most intriguing discoveries of
the future. By continuing whaling, we
threaten this mystery; we threaten the
legacy we leave for our descendants, and,
thus, we threaten our options as a species.

In the United States, we spent, during
1975, more money on seeing live marine
mammals (in zoos and aquaria, on whale-
watching tours, in television specials, and
in books and magazine articles) than the

 

 

On December eleventh,
Whale protection groups filed .3
tion for summary judgment, as
that the U.S./_]apan bil
agreement be declared unleé
and also asking for a court:
forcing Secretaries Baldrig
Shultz to impose sanctions on J
immediately. An expedited he?!
is expected in January.

 

 

 

 

largest whaling nation made from whal-
ing. It is clear from this and from the
increasing presence of whales in the lit-
erature, art, music, sculpture, dance,
conservation efforts, news media cover-
age, and legislation of this country that
an increased awareness of the values of
whales in their live state makes the prac-
tice of whaling unacceptable to US. citi-
zens on ethical grounds.

    
   
 
 

 

to Japan is relatively easy. A world confer-
ence is held every two years, with a regional
conference in between. The regional confer-
ence was attended by 15 of the 17 Asian,
Mideast and South Paciﬁc parties. Iran and
Japan were the only countries not in atten—
dance. An ofﬁcial from the Japanese em-
bassy in Malaysia came the ﬁrst day, but did
not participate. The other countries were
very disappointed in Japan’s boycott of the
conference. If the Japanese government does
not do anything before the next CITES in
April 1985, the government will be criticized
by other countries as has happened as a
result of whaling policies. Criticism directed
toward Japan came in the form of a vote.”

The Mainichi Shimbun carried a similar
report.

Will the Japanese public demand a
change in government policy?

 

“Seminar on CITES
Implementation
in Asia and Oceania
Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia),
1 to 12 October 1984
Resolution

Japan

‘ ‘Noting that in the preamble to the Con—
vention it is stated that International co-op-
eration is essential for the protection of cer-
tain species of wild fauna and ﬂora against
over-exploitation through international

trade;

‘ ‘ Considering that such international co-op-
eration is the central and fundamental obli-
gation of each and every Party state;

< ‘ Aware that the Government of Japan has
acknowledged its consistent failure to meet
this obligation through non-compliance with
the provisions of the Convention and Res-
olutions adopted by the Conference of the
Parties;

“ Mindful of Japan’s major role in the inter-
national trade in wildlife and wildlife
products;

“ Conscious of the complex national factors
that often make it difﬁcult for a Party to im-
plement the Convention fully;

"‘ NOTING, however, that such factors can-
not be considered sufﬁcient reason for a Par-
ty to fail consistently to meet its main obli-
gation under the Convention;

‘ ‘ THE SEMINAR ON THE IMPLEMEN-
TATION OF CITES IN ASIA AND
OCEANIA

‘ ‘ URGES the Government of Japan to take
immediate remedial measures to ensure ef-
fective implementation of the Convention;

‘ ‘ REQUESTS the Secretariat to convey this
appeal directly to the Government of Japan
at the earliest possible opportunity; and

“ RECOMMENDS that if the Government
of Japan does not take the necessary remedi-
al measures before the ﬁfth meeting of the
Conference of the Parties, the Parties should
address the problem at that meeting with a
view to ﬁnding an immediate and effective
solution.”

 




 

 

IUCN members meet in Madrid

For 10 days in November members of the International Union for Conservation of Nature
and Natural Resources (IUCN) met in Madrid, Spain. On the eve of the conference Patrick
Allen questioned IUCN’s Director General, Dr. Kenton Miller, on the Union’s overall ef-
fectiveness and philosophy. AWI is a member of IUCN and a report on the meeting will ap-

pear in the next Quarterly.

PA. IUCN is an unusual organization. Its
members, 500 and more, are, on the one
hand, governments and government agen—
cies, and, on the other hand, the NGOs, the
non-governmental bodies, some of them very
small indeed. How does it work? What do
members contribute and what do they get
out of it?

KM. One of the chief ways they contribute is
by serving on one of IUCN’s six ‘commis-
sions’. For example, lawyers develop new
treaties and conventions through the Com—
mission on Environmental Law; directors of
parks, working with the National Parks
Commission, help in setting up reserves
around the world; wildlife biologists collabo-
rate with the Species Survival Commission in
the urgent task of protecting endangered
plants and animals. And so on.

Members also participate in a political
sense. At our triennial General Assembly —
and the next one is in Madrid in just a week’s
time — they have a voice and a vote. They
judge us on past performance and help set
policies for the next three years. And of
course they support us financially — al-
though we still have to look outside the mem-
bership for the funding of some 75% of

our work.

 

drawings by Fougasse

PA. With its global network of members,
IUCN should be uniquely placed to learn of
environmentally destructive plots and plans
preferably before they are hatched but, fail-
ing that, at least before too [much damage
has been done. But does this happen? Does
the network work?
KM. In certain areas, yes. For example, the
people who watch over the wellbeing of
species through the Species Survival Com-
mission are quick to tell us of destructive
happenings and imminent dangers. Say one
of our ‘spies’ learns of a wildlife smuggling
offence. The ﬁrst alerted, often within hours
of the event, may well be the Wildlife Moni-
toring Unit which is part of IUCN’s Conser-
vation Monitoring Centre based in Cam-
bridge, England. The facts will be promptly
relayed to the secretariats of IUCN and
CITES in Switzerland. They then act.
Local infringements, though, are more
likely to be spotted by local conservation
bodies and dealt with on the spot without
recourse to IUCN. And this is as it should be.
At the same time it is true that our member-
ship is concentrated in western developed
countries and very thin on the ground in
precisely those lands where the damage -—

8

both actual and potential — is greatest.
From these areas we often learn too little and

too late. a

PA. To discover what is going on may be
hard enough. But these days it must be still
harder, with regard to a great many coun-
tries, to get governments to admit to any
problem, let alone to get them to take counter
measures. Politically, vast areas of the globe
must, in effect, be no-go areas to IUCN.

KM. Sadly this is true —- though perhaps less
so than you might suppose. We are not the
UN and therefore we are not held back from
saying our piece, forcibly if need be, and of-
fering our services. We feel we have the
authority to work wherever we are needed
and to act as a forum that links policies with
science. We can lobby; we can try to inﬂu-
ence. And we are becoming better repre-
sented in areas like Brazil, the Pacific coast
of South America, eastern Africa and parts
of Asia. Also on our Board of Directors —-
which we call the Council — are people from
every region of the world and every political
system, all of whom have high rank at home.

J; '14”)A

PA. May I' turn now to the jewel in IUCN’s
crown, the World Conservation Strategy. Is
the jewel genuine — or paste? That is to say,
has the Strategy prompted deeds which
otherwise would not have happened? Laun-
ched some four and a half years ago, its
prime purpose was to encourage countries to
bring out their own national conservation
strategies on the principles laid down. To
what extent has this happened? And is the
Strategy still alive, still inﬂuencing conserva-
tion around the world?

KM. The World Conservation Strategy is
alive and well. Its development is at different
evolutionary stages in different parts of the
world. Some nations adapted it to their
needs soon after its launch in 1980; some did
so later. Others are still have’ring. It is only in
the last 18 months or so that development
agencies have begun to look seriously at the
Strategy. It will often take at least a year to
achieve constructive dialogue between devel-
opment planners and conservationists. And
then another year passes while action-plans
are shaped.

PA. Meanwhile the health of the planet con-
tinues to deteriorate. Reports of natural dis-
asters seem to be on the increase — the fam-
ine in Ethiopia being but the latest and most

horrendous example. Yet, and this I ﬁnd puz-
zling, professional conservationists. seem to
have been very shy of ascribing any part of
these calamities to man-made causes. In
other words they have refrained from
strengthening their case by pointing the
moral. Why?

KM. This is an issue on which it has proved
difﬁcult to work with the big battalions, such
as the UN. Quite frankly it is politically very
awkward to accept that major disasters like
the Sahel drought are in large measure due
to misguided use of land — even though this
is conﬁrmed by certain studies, notably by
the US National Academy of Sciences and the
League of Red Cross Societies.

We have recently been asked by the latter
to collaborate on disaster-prevention — and
prevention in these matters, as well as bring-
ing obvious humanitarian beneﬁts, would be
so much cheaper and easier than cure. We
welcome this chance of working with aid
agencies which, with the best of intentions,
have often been the villains of the piece by
funding unwise development.

w

PA. What are your relations with the World
Bank and the other big aid bodies?

KM. IUCN has recently grown a new limb,
the Conservation for Development Centre. It
is there to try to see that development takes
conservation into account —-— because only
then will development prosper — and that
aid agencies take heed of the World Conser-
vation Strategy. We now have a number of
collaborative projects with the World Bank
and with other agencies in which we are
drawn into the planning stage from the
outset. This relationship is growing. Some
months ago we had a workshop in Switzer-
land where people from the development
agencies and from IUCN came together to
learn from each other. ‘

  

PA. I think some people might regard this
Conservation for Development Centre, set
up within the same building as IUCN, as a
bit of a Trojan horse. They would argue that
conservation and development are not
natural allies, that development is entirely
concerned with man’s material welfare and
conservation is not — or at any rate
shouldn’t be.
KM. The debate on this within IUCN is in-
herent in our very composition. To some of
our members the all-important issue is pres-
ervation of species; for others the chief con-
cern is sustainable development in agricul-
ture, forestry, ﬁsheries. For still others
animal welfare is perhaps the overriding con-
sideration. Insofar as these priorities con-
ﬂict, the dominant attitude in IUCN as a
whole is that so long as the majority of the
peoples on the planet face problems of nutri-
tion, water supply, housing and debilitating
poverty, we have, in all humanity, to give
continued on next page

 




 

IUCN continued
priority to the development aspect of conser-
vation, striving to ensure that it is effective,
that it works with nature and not against.
And we must work with the people too. In
regions such as central Africa, southern Asia
and Amazonia, we can best protect genetic
resources by harnessing age-old customs to
new—found methods. And the people of these

regions may also have much to teach us.
{m-

a?»
3g?

PA. Does IUCN then believe that species
should be saved only because they are poten-
tial genetic resources, or do species have a
right to life in their own right?

KM. IUCN believes very strongly that we
have to cover both ends of the spectrum. We
must stand on science, on the materialistic
aspects of human life — the provision of
food, medicine, ﬁrewood. But we must also
take an ethical stand, be attentive to re-
ligious beliefs and have concern for future
generations. It is a balancing act — and the
challenge is to keep the balance. We would
like to prevent all future extinction of
species; they may one day be of use to us, but
even if not, we believe they should continue
to exist.

  
   

W
5/7”” a,”

PA. I think this brings us to the heart of the
matter because there are people inside IUCN
as well as outside who say that conservation is
a crusade or it is nothing. These people
believe that IUCN is, in effect, selling the
pass — that it has these grandiose and very
ﬁne sentiments but that its gaze is so focused
on its own machinery and trying to make it
run smoothly that it has lost its overall vision.
KM. Now you are here touching on a point
very close to my heart. After around 15
months in this job I feel very close to my
predecessors — endlessly battling to get the
machinery in trim so that then we can get on
with conservation. A big part of the problem
is the perpetual fund-raising we have to
undertake to ﬁnance the secretariat —
bringing in its train mountains. of paper-
work. There is no question but that this gets
in the way of the real work.

PA. But when people say that conservation
must be a crusade, what they have in mind is
that unless public fervour is really aroused,
the action will be at best piecemeal and too
slow. You agree that materialistic goals are
insufﬁcient on their own to spark the cru-
sading Spirit, but do you believe that any one
ethical framework can embrace so many
creeds and cultures and such a huge dis-
Paﬁty of life styles and living standards?

KM. Probably not. But I have thought
about trying through IUCN to work with re-
ligious leaders and people versed in hu-
manist ethics from all parts of the world to
establish the extent of the common ground.

The song of the last ’o’o

 

Molokai 0-0 Moho bishopi Extinct c. 1904

© 1981 by London Editions/David Day

The newest state of the Union is in trouble. The natural resources of Hawaii, the tropical forests
with their amazing variety of animals (particularly birds) and plants, are fast disappearmg.

A staggering 95 % of these plant species are
endemic to the islands — in a word, unique.
Yet no fewer than 800 of them are now class-
ed as endangered or threatened. The animals
too are, for the most part, endemic. And huge
numbers are endangered. Indeed many have
already been pushed to the point of no return.
They are extinct.

In other parts of the world the best way of
protecting species is to create a park around
them and forbid all human activity therein.
But on the Hawaiian islands, as on most
islands, “benign neglect” is not a policy that
will work. For it reckons without the chief
enemy, the animals and plants brought in
from outside, either intentionally or acciden-
tally, by man.

Some two centuries back the explorers
Cook and Vancouver‘ introduced cattle,
goats, sheep and pigs. All quickly multiplied
to pest proportions. Mouﬂon sheep, axis
deer, black-tailed deer'and a host of other
“foreign” settlers are now also wreaking
havoc amongst the native species, unequip-
ped by evolution to deal with competition
from such introduced target animals for hunts-

men. Exotic weeds are hardly less of a
plague, strangling the native plants as they

 

My guess is we would ﬁnd that a great many
of the tenets of environmental management,
of our responsibility to future generations, of
the rights of species other than man, are held
universally. Such an exercise would, I
believe, sharpen the way we think about
these issues, these values — and sharpen too
our presentation, our propaganda if you
will, to the public at large.

PA. Christianity, of course, has often stood
accused of being the enemy of conservation,
of taking the God of Genesis with his injunc-
tion to man to “subdue the earth” too liter-
ally. But scattered through the Good Book,
so I’m told, are the essential bones of a full-
bodied conservation theology waiting to be
put together. It is high time this happened.

spread ever further despite all efforts to con-
trol them.

Most of the invaders are now too well en-
trenched to be removed. But sometimes other
factors can impede control efforts. For exam-
ple, feral sheep, goats, and pigs quite recently
acquired the semi-protected status of
‘ ‘game’ ’. This gave rise to the celebrated case
in which a bird, the palila, made history by
suing the Hawaii Department of Land and
Natural Resources — and winning! The
palila (represented by the Sierra Club) suc-
cessfully maintained that the Department was
wilfully permitting sheep to destroy its
habitat, thus violating the Endangered
Species Act.

There have been other victories too, for
conservationists have been battling long and
hard to protect Hawaii’s unique natural
treasure-house. But looking to the future, if
ﬁnal and irreversible defeat is to be averted,
then, in the words of one of conservation’s
front-line warriors, “immediate and heroic
action is required.”

Once upon a time there were four or may-
be ﬁve species of a Hawaiian bird called the
’o’o. Its brilliant yellow feathers were much
prized by the makers of royal capes and hel-
mets. Extinction has long since claimed all
but one of these species. And that one now
has only one known surviving member a
lonely male who sings continuously by its old
nest site in an ’ohi’a tree. Is the song of the
last ’o’o a poignant symbol of the way things
are going in Hawaii today?

The above piece is based on a long article
On the Cutting Edge of Extinction by Steve
Yates in Audubon Magazine, july, 1984.
Readers wishing for further facts on problems
faced by island (and other) species will ﬁnd
them in AWI’s The Endangered Species
Handbook, price $5.00. The book’s primary
aim is unashamedly educational, in the belief
that effective conservation depends on well-
informed, popular support. This is particular-
ly lacking in Hawaii where the public schools
teach virtually nothing about the islands’
natural history and where the state’s Division
of Forestry and Wildlife has no public infor-
mation ofﬁcer.

9

   

3:61:32 <' ,

’1

; ~ 3:.7 .54.ﬁ‘£m&;& -A




 

 

 

Dr. Wood-Gush’s university lecture tour

The internationally renowned ethologist
from the Edinburgh School of Agriculture,
Professor David Wood-Crush, has just com-
pleted an intensive month-long lecture tour
of nine U.S. universities and two U.S.
Department of Agriculture research centers
under the auspices of the Animal Welfare
Institute. Dr. Wood-Gush, known especially
for his extensive research on poultry
behavior, spoke on farm animal welfare and
presented the results of his study of domestic
swine. He emphasized that, “Humane hous-
ing systems should take the animals’
behavior into account, ’ ’ and stated, ‘ ‘Most of
our domestic animals still retain much of the
behavior of their ancestral species, and when
housing and management systems do not
take this into account, problems can arise,
particularly in cases in which there is poor or

 

Dr. Alex Stolba

At the border between woodland and open grass-
land on an Edinburgh hillside sows use facial
glands to mark trees.

indifferent stockmanship. It is possible to
design systems to ﬁt the animals’ behavior,
but ﬁrst it is necessary to study their behavior
under conditions that resemble those of their
putative ancestors, both physically and
socially.’ ’ Such studies with large white swine
carried out with Dr. Alex Stolba, a Swiss
ethologist, involved the close observation of
the hogs on an Edinburgh hillside which in-
cluded forests, marsh, grassy pastures, gorse
bushes and a stream. These observations
were used to develop a novel housing system
for hogs that enables the animals to carry out
many activities observed outdoors but in a
modest amount of space. In fact, the space
requirements of the “Pig Family Pen” are
equivalent to those of semi-conﬁnement
systems. (See Quarterly vol. 31, no. 4 for
more photos and information.)

Great interest was shown in this work by
agricultural engineers, animal scientists and
veterinarians who scheduled lectures by
Wood-Gush at their institutions. His ﬁrst
stop was Fort Worth, Texas where he spoke

10

 

 

A sow carries a /‘
branch to help build \...-X
the communal nest 57m
site being rearranged j
by two sows. The pig-
lets nearby will join
the nest after the sows
have settled in.

 

   
 
     
 
 
  

II/ V)
Mk ‘7 \"“' 5A in
' ' 'n‘ ”1/ “LL; ‘4
s 1““ ”\w ll/a' I RN
“|I\‘.1 ~‘Ilsﬂt‘.t ‘ "M 4
‘ ‘. .-- \IU' qyy \\
\
\-\/“ "i o 1
.I- ‘ Q ' 1' 'ﬂ 1
\ . \ ‘ . \ ‘1. I‘l‘
'\ . ,‘ '-
u l' "_ .
\I l - . luvh,‘ If."l '~ ;
r ‘.

 

 

to the animal welfare committee of the U.S.
Animal Health Association. He then went on
to give university-sponsored lectures at Texas
A & M University, the universities of Min-
nesota and Illinois, Purdue University, Cor-
nell University at Ithaca, West Virginia State
University, Pennyslvania State University
and Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University. Dr. Wood-Gush also lectured at
USDA’s Meat Animal Research Center in
Clay Center, Nebraska and its Beltsville
Agricultural Research Center in Maryland.
(This lecture was jointly organized by the
University of Maryland.)

Under a grant from the British Ministry of
Agriculture the “Pig Family Pen,” has been
thoroughly researched from a scientiﬁc
standpoint. A new three-year grant will per-
mit detailed economic assessment. The pro-
ductivity and excellent physical health of the
hogs managed in this unique housing system
provides powerful evidence that managing
animals in behaviorally appropriate condi-
tions will beneﬁt farmers. Estrus is syn-
chronized among the four sows kept in each
unit, simplifying management for the

farmer, and it is exhibited while the sows are
nursing their piglets, resulting in a biological
optimum of 2.5 litters per year from each

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l
1 i Front Gate/ :
1'“ : FA ES R R LGate
: (opt.l__
" Threshold /
ROOTING AREA
2.5m Peat/ Bark
Levering Bars
_— | Water
Trough
_‘| ’ Rubbing
Post
3m ACTIVITY AREA _CLeep Rail
Straw
:l l Straw Rack —E
_l_ Feed Gateloptll—f
Stalls
25'“ NESTING AREA
Straw
EQEEQVﬂDQllqiL§ _ _ __
l Treatment Stall ( opt.)
j— \1 \/
1m REAR PASSAGEWAY

 

Schematic drawing of the Pig Family Pen .

sow. The average number of hogs sold from
each litter is 8.1, an acceptable ﬁgure but
one Dr. Wood—Gush expects to increase.

The Pig Family Pen
unit includes an area
where pigs can mimic
the rooting and lever-
ing activities they per-
form outdoors.

Dr. Alex S tolba

Dr. Alex S tolba

Drawn from a photograph by kind permission of Dr. A. Stolba.

 




 

Why does a crated calf need so much medicine?

Under a grant from the U.S. Department
of Agriculture’s Agricultural Research Ser-
vice, four systems for raising veal calves were
examined at Texas Agricultural and
Mechanical University. Following are ex-
tracts from the summary of the University’s
preliminary draft, published in The Vealer
April, 1984.

Note that calves isolated in narrow stalls or
individual pens required five times the
amount of medication as the hutch and yard
calves! Many became lame, and the stress
caused by long-term chronic close conﬁne-
ment caused measurable physiological
changes.

These ﬁndings should speed change from
solitary conﬁnement to straw yards by all who
raise veal calves. Consumers should ask but-
chers how the veal calves were housed and in-
sist upon straw-yard veal.

Extract from Texas A and M

“ Dr. Ted Friend and associates at Texas
A&M University conducted a series of trials
using Holstein bull calves raised in each of
three treatments: (1) narrow stalls, (2) in-
dividual pens, (3) individual calf hutches with
yards. The physiological data obtained at six
weeks indicate that a state of chronic stress
was induced in stall and pen calves.

“ Switching the hutch calves with the stall
calves caused a reversal of adrenal function
and T3 concentration within 9 days. This
supports the hypothesis that the observed
changes in physiology were a direct result of
housing methods. There was no difference in
gain, as expected, since all calves were fed the
same amount of milk replacer. The stall and
pen calves required approximately ﬁve times
the amount of medication as the hutch and
yard calves. The stall and pen calves showed
a signiﬁcant increase in rate and amount of
movement (running, jumping, etc.) when
removed from the stalls and pens for open
ﬁeld tests.

“ Stall calves stumbled and fell more fre—

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Aline S. de Aluja D.V.M. — Mexico

T.G. Antikas,, D.V.M. — Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain — Bangladesh
Angela King — United Kingdom

Simon Muchiru — Kenya

David Ricardo — Canada

quently than calves from other treatments.
The greater incidence of highly active
behavior in stall and pen calves, despite a
higher incidence of lameness, 'attests to the
strength of motivation induced by intensiﬁed
drives.

“ Stall and pen calves also engaged in more
social play (head butting, running together,
etc.) than calves from the less conﬁning treat-
ments. Hutch-and-yard calves commenced
grazing sooner, suggesting the frustrating of
one drive may inﬂuence the display of other
behaviors.

“ Results from these studies indicate calves
require some degree of exercise to prevent
lameness and chronic stress. Relationships
were indicated between increasing degree of
constraint, increasing stress and decreased
disease resistance. The results indicate that
long-term chronic close conﬁnement can have
adverse effects on the overall production of
calves by inducing physiological changes
associated with stress. The results also in-
dicate that calves have a drive for social in-
teraction and exploration as well “as for
locomotion. ’ ’

 

Book review

Nop’s Trials, a novel by Donald McCaig.

Crown Publishers,

Nop is a Border Collie who works for his
master, Lewis Burkholder, on his farm in
Virginia where he has some 800 sheep and 70
cows. Nop’s work is to control the sheep and
cows; the description of how Nop manages
the ﬂock is not only interesting but moving.
Lewis has family problems and so sometimes
takes Nop to other places for Sheepdog trails.
Unfortunately, he also has his rivals and
enemies and Nop is stolen — and even has to
bear the indignity of appearing in a circus
with a monkey riding on his back. Further
adventures remain for Nop before he is re-
united with his real master; he is even sold to
a laboratory for use in medical tests.

Donald McCaig carefully researched the
cruelty and dishonesty rife in the laboratory
animal dealer business, and his book is a
Black Beauty-like call to reform the sordid
trade in dogs by “bunchers” and their con-
freres. Nor are the consuming laboratories
that create the market left unscathed. This
is a long novel — perhaps a little. too long ——
but I have to admit that I found it difﬁcult
to put aside, as I am sure every dog lover will
also.

——Hugh Gough

Officers

Godofredo Stutzin —— Chile
Ambassador Fumihiko Togo — Japan
N.E. Wernberg —— Denmark

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Cynthia A. Bank, Executive Assistant
Elizabeth B. Cory, Publicatio'ns Coordinator
Jessie Despard,Administrative Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research Associate

for livestock and poultry .
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary

Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Inc.; New York: 1984. $14.95.

 

Donald McCaig with his Border Collies.

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. Jewett, jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Louise Wright, Research Assistant

 

 




 

 

 

Alex eyes his large selection of toys.

In the Department of Anthropology at
Northwestern University, Dr. Irene Pepper-
berg and students are carrying out a study on
the parrot’s ability to identify objects and use
spoken words to express his wishes. Alex is
fond of toys and enjoys selecting different
colors and shapes of wood from his toy box.

Training sessions take up half of the day.
The other half is devoted to random conver-
sations. The students and Dr. Pepperberg
always respond to Alex’s questions. Alex’s
test scores average 75-80% correct. Accord-
ing to Dr. Pepperberg, “Most of his errors
are generic; he will call a green key simply
key or identify three pieces of paper as just
paper. He isn’t wrong when he uses these
labels, but we consider them errors because

Gray Parrots are extremely popular in the
pet trade because of their ability to learn to
repeat words and phrases. Dr. Pepperberg’s
research shows that these birds are extremely
intelligent, making their exploitation for the
pet trade to become toys and status symbols
all the more tragic. In the wild, Gray Parrots
live in lowland forests of central and west
Africa where they ﬂy and roost in closely knit
groups. When caught for the pet trade they
die by the thousands before the survivors
begin their lonely lives as household pets.
Over 70,000 of these birds have been im-
ported for the U.S. pet trade since 1980, and
almost 13,000 died in transit or in quaran-
tine stations. Ghana, Liberia, Mali, Zaire,
Togo, the Cameroon and Senegal are the
major exporters. Total world trade may
amount to 50,000 birds per year. Japan and
Europe also import large numbers of these
parrots.

Total U.S. imports and several of the ship-
ments with very high mortality are listed
below:

One of these shipments, the importation
in September 1982 in which 468 parrots ar-
rived dead at Kennedy Airport caused the
importer to sue the airline. Another ship-

he hasn’t given us all the information.”

Alex takes an interest in mirrors, and on
viewing himself Alex said to a student,
“What’s that? What Color?” the student
replied, ‘ ‘That’s gray; you’re a gray parrot.”
After this sequence was repeated on six occa-
sions, Alex said gray. After that, he used the
word correctly for gray paper, gray wood,
and other gray toys.

According to Dr. Pepperberg: “Alex’s
vocabulary consists of labels for 23 ex-
emplars: paper, wood, key, hide (rawhide
chips), peg wood (wooden Clothespin), cork,

corn, nut, rock, water, gravel, banana,
shower, pasta, scraper (metal nail file),
walnut, wheat (shredded wheat cereal),
chair, grape, back, gym, knee (pronounced
gee for reasons we do not yet understand),
and carrot. He also knows flve colors —— rose
(red), green, blue, gray, and yellow; four
shapes — two-, three-, four-, and ﬁve-comer
(respectively: football, triangle, square, and
pentagon), and quantities up to ﬁve. He can
use phrases such as ‘come here,’ ‘no,’ and
‘want’ with any object label; ‘wanna go’ plus
any location label; and ‘you tickle me.’ ”

Dr. Irene Pepperberg testing the powers of communication of AIex, an African gray parrot.

ment of 500 Gray Parrots in july 1983 from
Ghana to Saudi Arabia stopped over in
Kenya where over 200 of the birds were
found to be dead or dying. The Royal So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals hired a lawyer to sue Ethiopian airlines
in this case, but most instances of heavy tran-
sit mortality go unnoticed.

Gray Parrots are being so heavily exploited
that they may become endangered. Anyone

considering buying one of these birds should
realize that he or she is contributing to this
cruel trade. For one parrot to survive to the
pet shop, several die en route. Future re-
search on Gray Parrots in their native habi-
tats can be expected to demonstrate that
they have a complex system of commun-
ication, just as scientists are discovering
among whales and wolves. They truly de-
serve to live in freedom.

 

 

Greta Nilsson

Source: U.S. Department
of Agriculture Quarantine
forms 17-13.

Data compiled by AWI
from these forms

 

 

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

UARTERLY

 

PO. BOX 3650

WASHINGTON DC. 20007

SUMMER 1984

VOL. 33 NO. 2

 

Governor Mario Cuomo.

NEW YORK SHOWS THE WAY

A major step toward stopping the wild bird trade

The lives of tens of thousands of wild birds
worldwide have been saved by New York
Governor Mario Cuomo’s courageous and
far-sighted signing on 7 August of the WiId
Bird BiII. The bill bans the sale in the state of
birds not bred in captivity.

Ferocious opposition came from the Pet In-
dustry Joint Advisory Council, a very power-
ful and vocal lobby group which formed a
special New York Chapter just to squash the
bill. But letters in support came not just from
American bird lovers but from conservation-
ists in tropical-forest lands too. And they
came in sackloads.

The ﬁnal decision, though, was the Gover-

Governor Cuomo’s message on signing the

 

w~""" Wild Bird Bill ﬁ-I

‘ ‘The intent Of this bill 1s to prohibit the sale of wild birds 1n New York State and therefore to
remove the state from the market now served through the importation of wild birds. Underly-
ing this intent is a belief that populations of wild birds now endangered or threatened Will be
saved and that inhumane practices used in the birds’ capture and, transport willbe discouraged
if these birds are unsal-eable in our market.

_ The bill willbe effective November 1, 1985. In the past session I have actively participated in

the development and enactment of legislation to reinforce the statutory prohibition of animal.
ﬁghting. Inthe 1983 legislative sessiOn I approved legislation to increase penalties associated
with the taking 0f threatened or endangered species. When implemented by regulation of the,
Department of Environmental Conservation, this bill will build on these earlier efforts. to foster
the important objectives Of hiimane animal treatment and protection of threatened or en-
dangered species.

Veterinarians and others concerned with the health of domestic bird populations and
zoological interests Which depend on wild birds to support their scientiﬁc work have expressed
some concerns with this bill. These valid concerns, however, may clearly be accommodated
through the regulations which the Department will issue to implement this legislation. The
bill’s sponsors have weighed the Importance of these regulations and left the Department over a
year to canvass all groups interested in the bill and to prepare regulations to reﬁne the bill’s

 

 

broad expression of legislative intent.”

 

 

Hearings on the Brown bill,

Back in the House Agriculture Committee,
where since 1965, all legislation to protect
laboratory animals in the United States has
been initiated, an all-day hearing was con-
ducted September 19th by Congressman
George E. Brown, Jr. (D,CA) on his bill,

H.R.5725, the Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals Act. With Mr. Brown in
the Chair as head of the Subcommittee on
Department Operations, Research, and
Foreign Agriculture, the hearing began with a
statement by the ranking Republican Pat

Roberts (R, KS), who, thanked Chairman
Brown for his leadership and spoke warmly of
the senior Senator from Kansas, Robert
Dole, author of the Senate bill, 3.657. Con-
gressman Roberts said, “We can’t tolerate
any inhumane treatment.

Congressman Charles Rose (D, NC), a
member of the full House Agriculture Com-
mittee, appeared before the Subcommittee to
state that “This is an extremely fair and
realistic bill.’ ’ Mr. Rose said that he had seen
himself “that there has been abuse.” Prais-

nor’s alone — and it seems he was never in
doubt that the bill which the Senate had over-
whelmingly approved deserved his endorse-
ment. His statement (see box) indicates his
compassion for these maltreated wild birds as
well as his wish to prevent the trade from pro-
pelling still more species into the endangered
category.

In his statement he made no mention of the
pet trade. The only opponents of the bill he
referred to were veterinarians and “zoologi-
cal interests”: he directed the Department of
Environmental Conservation to accom-
modate these ‘ ‘valid concerns’ ’ through regu-
lations which it will propose in 1985. The bill
comes into force on 1 November 1985, so giv—
ing dealers over a year to dispose of their wild
birds and obtain captive-bred replacements.

In the US, New York State is the third
largest market after California and Florida for
wild birds. Parrots, macaws, cockatoos,
toucans, ﬁnches and other birds are imported
by the million for sale in pet shops nation-
wide. Few people realize that their purchase
of these birds condemns others to be trapped
in the wild and subjected to cruel and un-
sanitary crowding on their way to the pet
stores. Since 1976 almost ﬁve million birds
have been imported by the US; over 75%
were wild-caught and one million died during
shipment in airless cargo holds or in the
quarantine stations where they are screened
for Newcastle Disease.

Millions more died in capture and early
transport to exporters, and on release from
quarantine, in pet shops and in people’s
homes. Indeed four out of ﬁve never get to

continued on page 2

House companion to the Dole bill

ing the bill’s requirement for institutional
committees, he said: “This is important
because for the ﬁrst time the public and the
people concerned with the treatment and
well-being of these animals will have input.
This legislation also establishes for the ﬁrst
time a data base that contains information on
all the completed animal research. In addi-
tion, this data base will provide information
on improved methods for minimizing pain
and alternatives to using animals for

continued on page 4

 




Bolivian Birds

Many of the birds had lost their tails

photo -— Prodena Bolivia

and Primates Return to the Forest

When the Bolivian Government banned
parrot exports for one year on April 1st, ex—
porters had over 18,000 birds in stock. The
export ban was delayed for one month to
allow dealers to empty their stocks, most of
which were being exported with false papers.
In an unprecedented act, a group of young
people (Santa Cruz Brigado Juvenil) raided
the airport compound of one of these dealers
intercepting the last ﬂight before the ban. The
Bolivian Wildlife Society, Prodena Bolivia,
came to the rescue of 900 parrots and 30
primates from this compound. The birds were
first taken to the Santa Cruz Zoo, but inade-
quate space necessitated moving them. A
representative of Prodena Boliva, Robin
Clarke, converted his garage into a rehabilita-
tion center.

Within weeks, almost 500 of the parrots
were released back into the wild, having nar-
rowly escaped being shipped abroad for the
pet trade. The remaining birds need special
care to rehabilitate them so they can become
independent. Five of the macaws are missing
one eye and many have lost their tails.
Numerous other injuries were incurred dur-

m

 

NEW YORK continued

this final stage — a cage in a sitting room.
And of the (relatively) few that do, most die
within a year.

Many countries have banned the export of

their birds. But these bans are difﬁcult to en-
force; smuggling, and trans-shipment of pro-
tected birds, is rife because too many people
are eager to pay high prices for rare species.
In recent months AWI has been analyzing
mortality data obtained from the Department
of Agriculture and sending it, along with a
record of species imported, to exporting
countries.

A major impetus behind the New York bill
was Whitney N. Seymour, Jr. , one of whose
family contracted psittacosis after purchasing
a parrot which died of the disease. Pamphlets
written for young people by the Seymour

family and called Parrot Troopers tell of the
horrors inﬂicted on these birds — their
nesting trees felled and their bodies crammed
into crates and shipped to markets abroad.
AWI will be intensifying its efforts to keep
wild birds out of the pet trade. Members
wishing to help in this public education cam-
paign may request copies of AWI’s The Bird
Business, a copiously illustrated analysis of
the cage-bird trade. We can also supply
copies of Parrot Troopers. And don’t forget
— letters to local newspapers and Visits to pet
shops asking them to sell only captive-bred
birds will help to save the lives of birds still
ﬂying free in remote parts of the world.
New York has shown the way. Will Cali-

fornia, Florida and other states follow?

Greta Nilsson

 

The Bird Business

A Study 0! the
Com '

ago Bird Trade

 

Please send me
Name

Address

The Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial Cage Bird
Trade by Greta Nilsson. Foreword by S. Dillon Ripley,
AWI, 1981. Illustrated in black and white and color, 121
pages. One copy free to libraries and humane societies. To
others —— $5.00.

Please use this coupon or write to:
Animal Welfare Institute

Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007

copies of The Bird Business.

Zip Code

 

 

 

  

ing capture and holding, and an unexpected
cold spell claimed the lives of 28 birds. 268
parrots now are being cared for by Prodena
Bolivia. They have been moved to a thatched
shelter next to the new National Park Am-
boro. Some of the birds are in an inbetween
stage, perching in trees nearby but coming for
food, while 66 macaws have ﬂown off into the
Amboro Park, joining 19 monkeys from the
original shipment that were transported to the
park from the Santa Cruz Zoo. The majority,
149 birds, are Blue and Yellow Macaws and
others include Scarlet, Green—winged and
Military and Chestnut-fronted Macaws,
Blue-fronted and Tucuman Amazons and
Blue-crowned Conures.

This is the first such project ever under-
taken for Latin American birds and, along
with the export ban, constitutes some real
hope for the future of Bolivian parrots. For
many years, Bolivia has been the major
wildlife exporter in Latin America, depleting
not only its own wild bird and primate
populations, but also those of neighboring
countries from which smuggled wildlife was
received and exported under false papers.
Bolivia is a party to the Convention on Trade
in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora (CITES), but until its recent ban, had
not abided by the terms of the convention.
Traders within the country, including some
high up in the government, received export
and CITES permits as political favors or as a
result of bribes. So blatant were the illegalities
that the CITES Secretariat, which oversees
the implementation of the convention, had to
personally visit Bolivia in 1982 to investigate

photo — Prodena Bolivia

 

The thatched sheIter where the injured birds re-
gained their strength.

 

 

 

 

    

the situation. It was then revealed that the
head of the Bolivian Management Authority,
the ofﬁcial empowered with issuing permitS,
had had 2000 copies of CITES permits
Printed, paid for by the Bird Export Associa-
tion of Bolivia. In return for the favor, the
Association had received 1500 blank permit
forms, with which they could export any
SPCCies they wished. All these permits were
declared invalid by the CITES Secretariat

continued on page 3

 




 

 

BOLIVIA continued

who allowed 150 “recovered” forms to be
used under strict control while new permits
were printed. The rest of the blank permits
remained in circulation. Subsequently, in
February, 1983, the CITES Secretariat was
forced to issue another notiﬁcation to all
member nations to reject even these
“recovered” permits which the new head of
the Bolivian Management Authority found
missing when he took ofﬁce. The Secretariat
asked for copies of all Bolivian permits in this
series from member countries since ‘ ‘many of
them seem to have been altered after is-
suance.” Two shipments of Blue-fronted
Amazon parrots shipped under these false
permits were seized in mid-1983, but most
shipments apparently went undetected.

The situation reached a climax at the ﬁrst
seminar on CITES implementation in South
and Central America and the Caribbean in
August, 1983. Representatives from other
Latin American countries accused Bolivia of
permitting illegal shipments of CITES species
and of failing to “properly implement the
convention with regard to its relations with
the CITES Secretariat.” They formally
urged Bolivia to remedy the situation and
these allegations may have been instrumental
in the appointments of new Bolivian CITES
personnel and the enactment of an export
ban. Another possible factor in the enactment
of the export ban was the discovery in early
1984 of yet another irregularity in Bolivian
CITES permits. Forged permits, virtually
identical to the authentic ones, had been used
in shipments destined for France,
The Netherlands and West Germany. The
CITES Secretariat had to make another
notiﬁcation to the parties requesting that all
Bolivian permits be copied and sent to them
for examination.

The Animal Welfare Institute has exam-
ined quarantine forms ﬁled by US. bird im-
porters for the Department of Agriculture’s
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
The numbers of birds imported by the US.
from Bolivia since 1980 exceeded exports
from all other Latin American countries —
212,897 birds. Among them were many
native to countries where they are protected
— Hyacinth Macaws, janday, Golden-
capped and Cactus Conures, for example,
are all protected Brazilian birds. All but 885
of the birds Bolivia exported to the US. were
of the parrot family, and a few were rare
species. The Red-fronted Macaw and
Caninde Macaw have been listed in Appen-
dix I, the endangered category of CITES
which does not permit commercial trade, but
these birds still received no ofﬁcial protection
from the Bolivian government. U.S. imports
of these two species totaled 790 birds in the
four-year period (January 1980 - December
1983), and 104 of these died in transit or in
quarantine. Unfortunately for the birds, the
Appendix I listing did not take effect until late
in 1983 when the majority of them had
already been exported for the pet trade.
Bolivia continued to export Red-fronted and

Caninde Macaws to other countries in spite of
the Appendix I listing until their recent export
ban. These birds have not been totally
eliminated in the wild according to Reginald
Hardy, founder of Prodena Bolivia, and the
new protection may allow them to rebuild
their numbers . . . if illegal capture does not
occur.

Mortality of birds exported from Bolivia
has been very high — 32,705 birds died on
the way to the US. or in quarantine stations.
Shipments in which large numbers of birds
died were rife: Of 246 Blue and Yellow
Macaws shipped in September, 1980, 81 ar-
rived dead; 191 of 248 Yellow-collared
Macaws died in quarantine in December,
1981; 635 of 1200 Mitred Conures shipped in
August 1982 were dead on arrival; as were
1168 of 1862 shipped in August, 1983; In
January, 1981, 584 Dusky-headed Conures

Socializing near the
thatched shelter
where they were fed
and medicated.

arrived dead in a shipment of 1036 birds; 157
Toco Toucans were unloaded dead in
December 1981: the list goes on and on.
The birds rescued by the Bolivian Wildlife
Society were therefore very fortunate and
Society members are working to make the ex-
port ban permanent. AWI has sent the mor-
tality data compiled to those working for a
permanent ban to aid them in their efforts.
The wildlife dealers in Bolivia, centered in
Santa Cruz in the western part of the country
bordering Brazil, have already begun efforts
to lift the export ban. They have been known
to represent themselves as conservationists.
One bird exporter declared his exporting ﬁrm
a “zoo” and wrote an article in an aviculture
magazine claiming concern for the rare Red-
fronted Macaw; this species has the misfor-
tune to have as its sole habitat the Cochabam-
ba valley near Santa Cruz. He said that the
major threat to the birds was persecution from
local farmers growing peanuts and corn who
shot birds raiding their crops. When inter-
viewed by an omithologist surveying Latin
American parrots, this man admitted that he
was a bird dealer, but said that exports of this

 

Roasting in the surrounding trees.

 

photo — Prodena Bolivia

bird would not exceed 150 per year (of a total
estimated population of a few thousand),
while he was in fact exporting many times
that number. The omithologist discovered
that the dealers were the major threat to the
species, not farmers, and the story that they
were persecuted was spread to foster the no-
tion that the birds’ lives would be saved by
export.

Bolivia is a microcosm of the bird trade and
its problems, problems caused by the enor-
mous proﬁts to be gained from the sale of wild
birds, the greed of exporters, importers and
pet dealers, and above all, the disastrous ef-
fects of this trade on wild birds. On the bright
side New York State has banned the sale of
wild birds (see front page story) and Mexico,
until recently a major exporter, banned all
wildlife exports in late 1982, joining other
Latin American countries — Costa Rica,
Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, Surinam,
French Guiana, Brazil and Paraguay.
Worldwide, many countries ban exports of
live, native wildlife, but smuggling and trade
from those still exporting keeps wild birds in
trade. 3

photo — Prodena Boliviam

 




BROWN BILL continued

research.” The Congressman said he was
“very distressed to learn that there are farm
groups opposed to the bill. I hope,” he said,
‘ ‘they understand that laboratory animals are
not farm animals, and because of the kind of
experiments that they undergo and the pain
they suffer, they deserve special attention.”

Mr. Bert Hawkins, Administrator of the
US. Department of Agriculture’s Animal
and Plant Health Inspection Service, testiﬁed
for the Department. He stated that as Ad-
ministrator, he had placed a great emphasis
on compliance with the Act. “We are citing
people regularly,” he said, and publicizing
the facts. He promised that given another
year, enforcement of the Act would be much
improved. With regard to H.R. 5725, the
Department position might best be described
as neutral.

Following Administrator Hawkins was Dr.
James B. Wyngaarden, Director of the Na-
tional Institutes of Health. Dr. Wyngaarden
told the Subcommittee that NIH “relies on a
written system” of assurances and “has not
felt the need to establish routine inspections, ’ ’
but he referred to the random site visits
described in the Ann Landers column
published that morning which he placed in
the record of the hearings. He assured Con-
gressman Harley Staggers (D,WV), who
questioned the enforcement of the Animal
Welfare Act, that there is “compliance with
the guidelines in general throughout the
research community’ ’ and that ‘ ‘periodic site
visits will tune up the system.’ ’ And when the
Congressman pressed him further, he said,
“I don’t share the implication that there is
widespread abuse of animals that justiﬁes
legislation. ’ ’

Chairman Brown said that some of the in-
stitutions on the list NIH found “adequate to
excellent” had been found out of compliance
by USDA, and he inquired as to whether the
NIH visits were announced or unannounced.
Dr. Wyngaarden referred this question to his
Deputy, Dr. William E. Raub, who replied
that the Visits are announced in advance and
said, “Our total thrust is looking at systemic
strengths or weaknesses more than speciﬁc
remedies.’ ’ The Chairman pursued the ques—
tion of NIH’s supervision of its grantees.
“Generally your statement presents an en-
couraging analysis of the situation with
regard to research using live animals;” he
said, ‘ ‘Yet we still ﬁnd examples and they are
in very prestigious institutions where there
seems to be some lack of adequate standards
for the use of laboratory animals.” He spoke
of the Psychology Department in Berkeley,
noting that the supervising veterinarian, was
so dissatisﬁed with conditions for the animals
that he refused to sign the annual reports. “I
like the University of California,” he said,
“I’m an alumnus of it myself and I think it’s
a great institution, but it may be that we
have a situation somewhat like we have here
in Congress with our Ethics Committee. We
don’t always diligently pursue some of the
allegations that we might just because we are

 

  

all part of the same club, you know, institu-
tional framework. It’s that kind of problem
that I think we need to be concerned
about . . . Are you concerned about that, Dr.
Wyngaarden?” asked the Chairman.

“I do think the performance record of

NIH . . . indicates that even to the point of
terminating support when necessary we can

 

ﬂ SUPPORT FROM PRESIDENT JEAN MAYER

be ﬁrm and forceful when the situation re-
quires that” replied the NIH Director.

“Generally speaking though the situation
only requires that when there’s a loud public
hue and cry,” said Brown. “I’m concerned
that we do everything we can to create sys-
tems which will help to overcome that as
much as possible.”

 

The ﬁrst public witness was Dr. Frank Loew, Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine,
Tufts University, speaking in the place of the University’s President, Jean Mayer who was unable
to be present. Dr. Mayer, a distinguished nutritional scientist, adv1sor to Presidents and the
Senate, has been repeatedly honored nationally and internationally. As a leader, his support for
H.R. 5725 is highly signiﬁcant, and it is consistent with his published statements of concern for
needless animal suffering. In a New York Times op ed piece he expressed opposition to painful ex-

periments by high school students.

Dean Loew said, “I’m here to speak in
support of the proposed legislation. I bring
you greetings from Jean Mayer.” Loew’s
credentials include chairmanship of the Insti-
tute for Laboratory Animal Resources/Na-
tional Academy of Sciences, presidency of the
Association of Veterinary Colleges and mem-
bership in the Society of Toxicology and
American Institute of Nutrition, part of the
Federation of American Societies for Experi-
mental Biology. He pointed out that he was
not representing any societies but expressing
his personal scientiﬁc opinion. He noted that
the public expects accountability from all
scientists, including research with human
subjects and DNA. He characterized criti-
cisms based on costs as “particularly weak.”
He said scientists risk loss of public faith and
Congressional faith.

On enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act
he said the USDA staff is too small and its
legal support is stretched too thinly so that it is
a scapegoat for real or imagined problems.
Praising Chairman Brown, he said, “The
Animal Welfare Act is good. Your proposal
will make it better.” And he emphasized that
“a sound, properly enforced law can help
scientists as well as animals.”

Explaining the reason for opposition by
some scientiﬁc groups, he said, “There can
be orthodoxy in science just as in anti-
sc1ence.”

The next witness provided an instant dem-
onstration of that orthodoxy. Dr. G.L. Van
Hoosier urged an 18-month study before
legislating. He expressed fear that “the dif-
ference between legislation and guidelines
could cause confusion,” thought action
should wait till the revised NIH Guide was
“tested in the ﬁeld,” and felt that “adjunct
methods” (a phrase used by those who shud-
der at the very idea of alternatives for labora-
tory animals) could “only be developed
through research, not research on research.”
He said, “We do not need more legislation,
just more support for research and animal
care training.” And be joined in attacks on
the “Scapegoat” mentioned by Dean Loew:
The US. Department of Agriculture. Dr.
Van Hoosier represented the National Asso-
ciation of State Universities and Land Grant
Colleges.

Dr. John McCardle, speaking for the Hu-
mane Society of the United States told the
subcommittee that he had had ten years ex-
perience working with experimental animals
including experimental surgery. “I was told
by my superiors not to worry about post-
operative pain because animals don’t feel
pain.”

Dr. Glenn Geelhoed, representing the
Association of American Medical Colleges
and the National Society for Medical Re-
search said “We regret that we cannot offer
our full support of H.R. 5725 at this time”

and like all the opponents of the bill called for
more study, insisting there have been only “a
few isolated instances of noncompliance”
which he said “were the exception not the
rule” and “very, very rare.” He urged the
Chairman to postpone action ‘ ‘until all efforts
to develop and revise existing guidelines were
completed and their implementation by three
agencies analyzed for effectiveness.” [Dr.
Geelhoed refers to the welter of recommenda-
tions, guidelines, policies and principles being
proposed by NIH, the most recent one only
published in The Federal Register in
August]. The postponement he proposes
could be extended indeﬁnitely. The obvious
aim of AAMC and NSMR, who object
speciﬁcally to H.R. 5725’s requirement that
the institutional committee review “practices
involving pain to unanesthetized animals ‘to
ensure compliance with standards of animal
care, treatment and practices and that pain
and distress is minimized.’ ” According to
Dr. Geelhoed this “severely undermines the
time—honored and proven peer review process
of the research institutions.” [It’s obvious he
has not viewed the tapes taken of themselves
by scientists at the University Of Penn-
sylvania’s Head Injury Clinic. See quotes on
page 9.]

The American Physiological Society was
represented by Dr. Walter Randall. While
referring to the NIH, Public Health Service,
and Interagency Research Animal Commit—
tee guidelines which he said “could and
should accomplish most of what is being pI‘O'
posed” in H.R. 5725, he commendably re-
frained from demanding postponement and

continued on page 5

  

 




study. “If Congress has conclusive evidence
that the standards for laboratory animals re-
quire additional legislative restrictions the
Society would then support the concept of
amending the Animal Welfare Act” he said.

“The Society applauds Congressman
Brown for inclusion of our recommendations
and for his sensitive understanding of our
concerns,” Dr. Randall said. He reported on
a substantial decrease in the use of animals
for teaching physiology. An APS survey of
physiology departments indicates that the use

of animals for teaching has dropped from ~

90% in 1979 to 66% in 1984.

The afternoon session began with strong
opposition to H.R. 5725 by the President of
the Association for Biomedical Research
(ABR) Edward C. Melby, Jr., Dean of Cor-
nell Veterinary College. Dr. Melby’s oppo-
sition is understandable because 1) ABR is a
trade organization founded by the world’s
biggest laboratory animal salesmen, Charles
River Breeding Laboratories, which Melby
serves as a consultant. Charles River spends
large sums for promotion of maximum sales
and does not want them decreased as a result
of the bill’s requirement that investigators
consider alternatives, and 2) Cornell Veteri-
nary College inspection reports, obtained by
the Animal Welfare Institute under the Free-
dom of Information Act show repeated, major
“deﬁciencies” and “alleged violations” as
recorded by USDA’s veterinary inspectors.
For example on four different inspections
from 1981-84 dogs were found in cages so
small they did not meet the minimum stan-
dards. The inspector noted, 3/17/82 “Al-
though dogs have been removed from the
poorest caging, there are still dogs digging at
the ceiling, making holes in the wall boar .”
Problems with rabbits are similar, small, in-
sanitary cages repeatedly cited by the USDA
veterinarian who wrote 12/2/82 “There is no
evidence that cages are being sanitized . . .
pans under rabbit cages have large quantities
of fecal matter in them and no evidence that
they are being emptied once/week.” Worse‘
still 11/20/80 “The rabbits in all three rooms
of this facility had either no water or very
small amounts of water (i.e. less than approx-
imately 1-2 teaspoons).”

Serious neglect of a sick cat was noted
7/23/81 “In the cat room, in the breeding col-
ony an emaciated cat with diarrhea, eye
discharge was observed. The caretaker did
not know if vet care had been provided and
stated that he did not think the cat was being
treated, had been treated, or had been given
an examination. The cat should be removed
immediately, given veterinary care, and kept
isolated from cats of the breeding colony.”

With such extensive failure to live up to the
minimum standards of the Animal Welfare,
Act by Cornell Veterinary College, it was
startling indeed to hear the Dean propose
ABR ‘ ‘assistance’ ’ to the USDA inspectors in
the form of a “training program with
AAALAC.” Dean Melby said this was “to
make sUre all APHIS inspectors have the

’

same training.’ But what sort of training
would a trade association with a vested inter-
est in the status quo offer? USDA will be bet-
ter off doing its own training.

Melby said ABR supports the Walgren
amendments to the NIH reauthorization bill
(H.R. 2350) concerning the outside member
on the institutional committee. The reason
ABR likes this greatly weakened version of
the bill Congressman Walgren tried to pass is
that the key provision is omitted, namely that
the committee member who is not afﬁliated
with the institution “shall be responsible for
representing community concerns regarding
the welfare of animal sub'ects ” This provi-

 

 

from England to present testimony at the
hearing on behalf of Humane Information
Services, a strong supporter of H.R. 5725.
The Chairman noted that “the British have
had legislation for more than one hundred
years and their experience would be valuable
to us.” Dr. Seamer emphasized the impor-
tance of the “pain condition” in the British
Act, which states, “If an animal at any time
during (such) experiment is found to be suf-
fering severe pain which is likely to endure,
such animal shall forthwith be painlessly
killed.” Dr. Seamer continued, “Thus,
regardless of the nature or purpose of the ex-
periment, and regardless of whether or not a

    

photo — R.R. Eck

 

Dr. John Seamer (third from left) Honorary Secretary of the British Veterinary Association, testifies on

behalf of Humane Information Services in favor of HR5 725. He is ﬂanked by representatives of commer-

cial and scientific interests opposing the bill.

sion in H.R. 5725 is ﬁercely opposed by ABR
and its cohorts.

Dr. Barbara Orlans, founder of the Scien-
tists Center for Animal Welfare and a mem-
ber of long standing on the Scientiﬁc Advisory
Committee of the Animal Welfare Institute
testiﬁed in support of H.R. 5725, emphasiz-
ing the importance of the role of the institu-
tional committee, concerning which the
Center has conducted surveys and symposia.
But Dr. Marshall Steinberg speaking for the
Society for Toxicology claimed “It is con-
ceivable the community could not provide an
outside member of the institutional commit-
tee.” He opposed the bill.

Harold C. Brown, Jr. spoke for the Na-
tional Association of Life Science Industries,
Inc., a trade association of contract labora-
tories. He thought service on the institutional
committee was “not particularly attractive”
and he hammered on the issue of protecting
trade secrets — a matter that the Food and
Drug Administration has dealt with suc-
cessfully in the institutional review boards
which include more than one outside
member.

Marc Rosenberg speaking for the National
Coalition on Science and Technology said the
bill requires “a broad consensus,” but he
wanted to divide its provisions into other laws
and regulations —- hardly conducive to ad-
vancing a rapid consensus.

Honorary Secretary of the British Veteri-
nary Association, Dr. John Seamer, ﬂew

result has been achieved, it is the rule that
any animal suffering severe pain which is
likely to endure shall be killed forthwith. He
reported that the British Veterinary Asso-
ciation with the support of the Committee for
the Reform of Animal Experimentation and
the Fund for Replacement of Animals in
Medical Experiments wants all experiments
to be subject to the condition that any animal
suffering severe pain or severe distress that
cannot be alleviated should be killed. In
response to the Chairman’s questions,
Seamer indicated that “a government White
paper is anticipated within the lifetime of the
present government.” He said certain pro-
cedures are not permitted in Britain and gave
the Noble-Collip Drum* as an example.
Congressman Brown asked, “Who makes
that judgment?” Dr. Seamer replied that it is
complex: the person making the application
discusses it with The Home Ofﬁce inspector,
and if they can’t reach agreement it goes to
the Advisory Committee. The decision rests
ultimately with the Home Secretary.

The last panel began with The American

Farm Bureau represented by Stuart Proctor
who said emotional arguments were being
used to fabricate a problem where one does
not exist with regard to farm animals and he
questioned whether “Congress has been pre-
sented with sufﬁcient evidence to substantiate
the need for corrective legislation” with
laboratory animals. “Congress,” he said, “is

continued on page 8

 

‘A device in which small animals are tumbled to
throw them into shock.

5

 

 

 




 

Notes on Hearings on H.R. 1797

to end use of steel jaw traps

“Until the animal can talk to me in our
language, I don’t believe we can say he feels
pain,” Parker Dozhier of the American Fur
Resources Institute told Chairman Henry
Waxman, (D, CA) at the August 3rd hearing
on H.R. 1797 to end use of the steel jaw, leg-
hold trap. An impassioned defender of steel
traps, Dozhier asked the Chairman: “Are

 

Chairman Henry Waxman conducts hearings on
H.R. 1797. Subcommittee Counsel John
McLaughlin is at his side.

you planning on quitting eating and wearing
clothing?” Without pausing for a response,
he rushed on to attack hunters who oppose the
cruel trap that maims their hunting dogs.
“That’s greed!” he cried, “That’s competi-
tion for the resource!”

Not to be outdone by Dozhier, Don Hoyt
Sr., President of the National Trappers’ As-
sociation claimed supporters of H.R. 1797
belong to “animal worship cults” and aver-
red that the 59 countries in which steel jaw
traps are illegal “are still in the dark ages.
The biologists in the Fish and Wildlife Service
are 50 years ahead of everybody else.” Hoyt
did not explain how they got ahead by cling-
ing to an antique device which the other coun-
tries have left behind.

Ron Lambertson, Associate Director for
Wildlife Resources, who represented the
U.S. Department of the Interior had tried a
similar line, but hit stiff Congressional reac-
tion to his claim that the United States is
“number one” in this ﬁeld with no need to
look to other countries. “Why shouldn’t we
look to them?” snapped Congressman James
Scheuer (D, NY). ‘ ‘We’d have to be a nation
of collective fools not to look to other countries
that have succeeded.” Lambertson lamely
countered “This is a tool that allows us to
manage the resources.” But, Scheuer thun-
dered “It’s not graven in the sky. Trapping
may be a technique of management, but not
the steel jaw, leghold trap.”

Congressman Doug Walgren (D, PA) ask-
ed for full information on the Fish & Wildlife
Service’s evaluation of more humane tech-
niques used in other countries and asked how
many had been evaluated in the last ﬁve

6

years. ‘ ‘That’s difﬁcult to say’ ’ said Lambert-
son, but, “we’ll be glad to make that avail-
able, Sir.” Walgren pursued, “Not only the
data on what you tried out, but their exper-
ience.” And he pointed out that slavery was
outlawed by the British in 1831, before the
United States outlawed it.

Congressman Scheuer cited the refusal of
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to
accept data from abroad on drugs. No matter
how excellent its quality, the FDA forced
duplication of the research. He said this made
him “a little bit cynical” and urged that “if
there’s something we can learn from other
countries, we should do so.” Bowing to the
pressure, Lambertson replied, “We work
very closely with other countries,” but his
previous statements about testing the Swedish
legsnare gave the lie to this assertion.

Professor Jan Englund of the Swedish
Museum of Natural History gave a thor-
oughly documented account of severe injuries
to foxes caught in steel jaw traps prior to their
being outlawed in Sweden. But, Lambertson

 

Mollie, who lost a leg to a steel jaw trap, attended
the hearing.

claimed coyotes escaped by pulling out of the
legsnares with which Sweden has replaced
steel traps. “I don’t understand escaping”
said Professor Englund. “You must have in-
creased the length too much” Plainly, FWS
had failed to seek the necessary advice from
Sweden’s leading expert on the legsnare. En-
glund’s data, provided in full to the Commit-
tee, demonstrated that the massive injuries
caused by the steel jaw trap are reduced by
thousands of percentage points when the leg-
snare is substituted. Of the “Soft catch,” he
said, “It can only cause more hurt to the
jaws.”

Chief sponsor of H.R. 1797 Clarence Long
(D, MD) led off the hearing characterizing
the steel jaw trap as “the most inhumane
form of capturing animals”. With aide
Charles Stek he demonstrated the striking
power of the trap, triggering it with a pencil
which shattered on impact. With him was a
hawk, theoretically protected by Maryland
and federal law, but maimed in a steel jaw
trap set by the State Department of Natural
Resources. Diane Pearce a wildlife rehabilita-

 

  

Congressman Clarence Long, Chief'Spons

testifying for H .R. I 797. Congressman D0

bear trap on witness tabIe.

tor, displayed the handsome bird, showing its
pathetic stump. It can never be returned to
the wild because of its injury.

Diane Pearce, wildlife rehabilitator holds one-
legged hawk maimed in a steel jaw trap.

Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. a CO-
sponsor of H.R. 1797, spoke feelingly 0f the
pain and fear inﬂicted on animals who fall
victim to the hidden traps and drew attention
to statistics from states that have taken athon-
“The Florida Fish and Game Commisswn,

 

Professor Jan Eng1und, reports on massive injuries to foxes in st
cable coated legsnares.

high-1)....

A!




 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  

photos: Lynda Power

essmgm Don Young, at right, testified against it. Note

) foxes in steel traps and how Sweden substituted

 

(U

 
  

R’- ,F"

a

side her.

for example, banned the leghold trap, refer-
ring to it as ‘barbaric and inhumane’. Since
1973 when the traps were banned, Florida
recorded its highest harvest of furbearers and
a reduction of rabies cases,” he said.

One member of Congress, however, Don
Young (R, AK), who formerly ran a
300-mile-long trapline himself, decried H.R.
1797. “Dogs and cats are caught, I won’t
deny,” he said, “but why are the dogs
loose?” He further acknowledged, “They do
suffer pain, but no worse than a rabbit caught
by an owl or hawk. Ever heard a rabbit howl
When caught in the claws of an owl?’ ’ he ask-
ed. He gave a graphic imitation of a rabbit’s
screams, but failed to mention that owls
(111.1(3le kill and eat their prey, whereas an
anlmal in a steel trap may suffer for hours or
daYs. In Alaska there is no requirement to
check traps even after a week.

At hearings held in 1975, Congressman
01mg put a small trap on his hand in an ef-
f01jt to convince the subcommittee that the
Pain wasn’t as bad as they thought, but he
qumkly removed it when the Chairman noted
that since his hand was turning blue, he could
take it off. This time, a bear trap had been
11113?“ 0n the witness table by the Society for
t nlmal Protective Legislation so that anyone
empted to repeat that demonstration would
ave a trap 0f a size proportionate to an adult

Tripod resting on the witness

human rather than one designed to catch a
creature ten times smaller than a man.

The Society also had a trap on display to
which a set of 20 sharp teeth has been at-
tached. Pro-steel trap witnesses tried to claim
teeth were no longer legal, and Congressman
Young asserted, “whoever owned the (bear)
trap was guilty of a crime”. However
Christine Stevens testifying for the Society for
Animal Protective Legislation pointed out
that there are no size limitations on steel traps
in 22 of the 50 states, and teeth are legal in 28
states. In fact the teeth on display were

 

"ems '''''

ta

 

recently bought for $3.75 per dozen sets in a
state where teeth are illegal (Illinois), and
they were mailed to Virginia, where they’re
supposedly illegal too. Cathy Liss demon-
strated the contraption. N 0 one offered to put
his hand in.

Congressman Young spoke of “furry
animals” killed by cars on the George Wash-
ington Parkway, but when Chairman Wax-
man challenged: “You don’t really believe
that the fact animals are killed on the road
justiﬁes the leghold trap,” the Representative
from Alaska fell back on its use for manage-
ment adding that it was commercial “for the
little man.” But the Chairman retorted,
“There were small holders of slaves. That
doesn’t justify slavery.”

Greg Linscombe from the Louisiana
Department of 'Wildlife and Fisheries repre-
senting the International Association of Fish
and Wildlife Agencies says he doesn’t want to
“inject the Federal Government into the
management of wildlife resources.” He esti-
mated there are 400,000 to 500,000 trappers
in the United States.

Display of traps at the hearing.

   

 

ble as Dr. Ned Bu yukimhci testifies for the
Animal Protection Institute. Tripod ’5 owner, Dr. Donald Fincher is be-

..m....... ««««««

  

 

A mixed panel testiﬁes: left to right Dr. John
Grandy, Humane Society of the United States,
Christine Stevens and Hibbert Robertson, Wood-
stream Corporation.

Hibbert Robertson, Executive Vice Presi-
dent of the world’s biggest steel jaw trap
manufacturer, the Woodstream Corporation
of Lititz, Pennsylvania, claimed H.R. 1797
would “seriously damage our company’ ’ , but
under questioning by the Chairman who ask-
ed, “Why not sell the legsnare?” he relented
so far as to say, “We’re going to see if the
consumer would buy it. We think it is effec-
tive.” He also admitted under Waxman’s
questions that Woodstream is losing money
on the steel jaw trap part of its business.
“Woodstream survives,” he said, “because
we’re a diversiﬁed company. ”

“Susan Russell testifying for Friends of
Animals referred back to Congressman
Young’s description of trappers as ‘ ‘little peo-
ple”. “He’s right”, she said, “they’re kids”.
Dr. George Whitney, emphasizing the appal-
ling pain suffered by steel jaw trapped
animals also referred to the large number of
child trappers and condemned states that
reduce license fees for children. The animals,
he said, “chew up every blade of grass, break
teeth, and go through unbelievable torture.”
He reported that the Connecticut Veterinary
Medical Association voted unanimously in
favor of a resolution to ban the steel jaw trap.
He submitted a book of letters from know-
ledgable scientists and other experts
condemning this trap.

But the American Farm Bureau Federation
gave no indication of having heard the pre-
ceding testimony. Its Assistant Director of
National Affairs, Dennis Stolte, while agree-
ing that “inhumanity does result from the
leghold trap” proceeded to blame “the inhu-
manity of predators”, quoting ProfeSsor
Walter E. Howard to the effect that coyotes
suffocate sheep, taking an average of 13 min-
utes to kill them. Of the millions of animals
painfully caught in steel jaw traps how many
have been killed by the trapper only 13

continued on page 8

  

Steel jaw traps on the right, on the left, alternative devices. 7

 

 




 

BROWN BILL continued

being asked to overreact to an undocumented
problem.”

The Fund for Animals testimony, present-
ed by Gretchen Wyler, contained many pages
of documentation, and Ms. Wyler presented
52 letters from physicians and veterinarians
supporting H.R. 5725. She cited ways in
which the Brown bill would have prevented
the mistreatment of the baboons at the
University of Pennsylvania.

Steve Kopperud, Legislative Director of
the American Feed Manufacturers Associa-
tion expressed the view that the Secretary of
Agriculture possesses authority under the
Animal Welfare Act to promulgate regula-
tions providing for all the requirements of the
bill except the criminal penalties for release of
trade secrets. He said the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration enters into contractual ar-
rangements with the non-afﬁliated member of
the institutional review boards which cor-
responds, in experiments with human beings,
to the institutional committee in the Brown
and Dole bills to protect animals. “This con-
tractual protection has been sufﬁcient for
FDA,” he said, “and there is no reason it
would not be sufﬁcient for USDA. ” Thus did
one industry representative answer the com-
plaints of representatives of another segment
of industry!

Donald McCaig, sheep farmer and author
of Nop’s Trials, which describes the adven-
tures of a border collie stolen and sold to a
laboratory, testiﬁed, “H.R. 5725 is a good
bill. It promotes the most basic sort of animal
husbandry. It should save tax revenues and
will certainly reduce animal pain. Most live-
stock farmers Who knew its provisions would

TRAPS continued
minutes after being trapped?

Jimmy Cupit speaking for Concerned
Houndsmen Against the Steel jaw Trap said
‘ ‘99% of trapping is carried out by hobbyists,
amateurs, and week-end trappers who do not
engage in it for subsistence but make it a
spare-time job, even recreation.’ ’ He referred
to a “sub-teenager running out with a cheap
mess of steel jaw traps, putting them all over
the place, and catching anything that walks,
crawls or ﬂies down from its perch. Very few
trades a young person could grow up in will
give him a worse life than trapping. But
young people are pulled right into it by the
older ones, and those whose stomachs don’t
turn the first time they have to go out on a
trap-line and see what happens, the ones who
are least revolted by this, become the trappers
who keep going, and who use the steel jaw
trap, and who say that the agony of the
animals isn’t really as bad as it looks, we
shouldn’t worry about it. Well the concerned
houndsmen and true sportsmen are worried,
we are sick and tired of losing our hunting
dogs and pets. We are sick and tired of losing
our game at an alarming rate. There are
areas in Mississippi and other states that
don’t have any game to hunt, and the main
reason for this is the steel jaw trap.”

Elmer Davies, inventor of the EZYONEM
cable coated leg snare described it as follows:

8

Chairman George E. Brown, Jr.
receives a copy of Nop’s
from author Donald McCaig.

Available free on request: Reprints of an article from the September 27, 1984 issue of Nature

Trials

support it wholeheartedly.”

The last witness, Christine Stevens speak-
ing on behalf of the Society for Animal Pro-
tective Legislation, presented data collected
by the Animal Welfare Institute under the
Freedom of Information Act which shows
“Major and repeated ‘deﬁciencies’ or ‘al-
leged violations’ of the minimum standards of
the Animal Welfare Act by 23. 7 % of the sam—
ple of 186 institutions whose inspection
reports and annual reports have so far been
examined. Another 22% have less frequent
major violations; 28.5% have only minor
ones; 1.6% are under investigation.
Thus, even using the most optimistic assump-
tions only 24.2% of registered
research facilities are regularly meeting the

 

existing minimum standards of the Animal
Welfare Act!”

“The number of animals used is higher in
40.9% of the 44 institutions in the second
year, demonstrating that the glib and often
repeated statement that the use of animals is
just naturally decreasing and there is no need
of legislative encouragement in this area to be
far from accurate. It is noteworthy, too, that
77.3% of these severely deﬁcient institutions
were rewarded by an increase in NIH funds
in the second year noted. 22.7% of the 44
used more animals and got more money from
NIH despite their bad record with USDA.”

The full record of the hearings when print-
ed will be available from the Superintendent
of Documents.

international edition, “Mistreatment of laboratory animals endangers biomedical research”

by Christine Stevens.

“The EZYONEM Leg Snare is a non-
progressive holding device. It does not conti-
nue to get tighter and tighter as the animal
struggles to be free. The cable that holds the
leg is neoprene coated to eliminate chaﬁng or
cutting. The body of the trap is made of ﬁber-
glass reinforced polycarbon. A smooth round
surface is presented so that tooth damage
from chewing is eliminated. The EZYONEM
LEG SNARE can be used in any type of set
that is commonly used with the steel trap.

  

Cathy Liss set of? a steel trap with teeth attached.

photo — Lynda Power V

This does away with trappers having to learn
new methods. The price is comparable to that
of the traps now used. From conception to
production the EZYONEM has taken ﬁfteen
years to become the trap that is good enough
to offer to the trapper.”

Dr. Ned Buyukmihci representing The
Animal Protection Institute responded to a
question from the Chairman on predators by
noting that the State of California has been
spending $1.60 for animal damage control for
every $1 of damage to livestock by predators.

Lewis Regenstein, Vice President of the
Fund for Animals and author of The Politics
of Extinction, sharing the organization’s
allotted ﬁve minutes with Hope Ryden whose
classic studies of eagles, coyotes, and bobcats
qualify her as a leading expert on the effects
of the steel jaw trap; strongly urged passage of
H.R. 1797.

But Vivian Pryor who introduced herself as
“a wife, mother and homemaker as well as a
trapper and concerned conservationist, ’ ’ says
steel jaw traps are “wholesome”. She repre-
sented the giant National Wildlife Federation
(NWF) best known to the public for its color-
ful wildlife stamps sent out by the million
before Christmas as unsolicited fund raisers.
As they attach a sticker depicting a cheery car-
dinal in the snow to a Christmas card, few

continued on page 10




 

Commentary on Videotapes taken by scientists at the Head Injury Clinical Research Center, University
of Pennsylvanla from testimony of Christine Stevens, Society for Animal Protective Legislation.

Because the original tapes were stolen from been prevented by the legislation. Selecting
the laboratOI'Y by a group called the Animal seven sequences, I wrote corresponding cita-
Liberation Front, copies are not being shown tions of the bill’s provisions, and this material
in the House of Representatives. People for follows. The relevance of the bill is given in
the Ethical Treatment of Animals has a half- all capitals, the experimenters’ remarks in
hour of excerpts from a copy of the 60-hour lower case.
long tapes which can be viewed by all in- I should state that the Society for Animal
terested persons. In looking at this half-hour, Protective Legislation does not endorse the
I noted numerous graphic illustrations of theft of the tapes. After consultation with
needless suffering which would have counsel, we find that it is not illegal to show

 

and view these copies of the incriminating
evidence. Excerpts have already been widely
viewed on television. We believe an examination
of them will be of value to the Congress in
understanding why there is such vehement and
constantly increasing dissatisfaction with im-
proper conduct of animal experimentation, as
vividly documented in these tapes. And it is
especially relevant to Congress since it shows so
clearly the waste of government money.

 

Sequence I THE HEAD INJURY CLINICAL RESEARCH CENTER OF
THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA RECEIVED NEARLY A MIL-
LION DOLLARS FROM THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH

IN 1983.
THE BROWN BILL WOULD PREVENT DISCRIMINATION

AGAINST PERSONNEL WHO REPORT ANIMAL MISTREATMENT
TO THE INSTITUTION’S ANIMAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE SO
THAT CORRECTIONS CAN BE MADE WITHOUT ADVERSE
PUBLICITY.

THIS BABOON IS UNDERGOING SURGERY WITHOUT ADE-
QUATE ANESTHESIA. NOTE THE ANIMAL RAISING HIS TAIL. THIS
IS CRUEL ON-THE-JOB LEARNING. NOTE ONE EXPERIMENTER
HOLDING DOWN THE BABOON’S LEG.

(a) Oh! He’s lifting his head! Come on, baby!

(b) I better get some nitrous. [nitrous oxide, an anesthetic agent]

(a) Stop! stop, for heaven’s sake. He wants to get up. He says I’ve had it. It
hurts him, for Christ’s sake. All you got to do is make a little slit in the periosteum
and push it back.

(b) Ya, but it bleeds.

(a) You got to do something to control the bleeding. That’s what the bovie is
for. . . Not there, There!

THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES TRAINING SESSIONS FOR SCIEN-
TISTS AND TECHNICIANS IN METHODS TO LIMIT ANIMAL PAIN
AND DISTRESS. IT REQUIRES THE USE OF PAIN RELIEVING
DRUGS TO MINIMIZE SUCH PAIN. IT PROVIDES FOR AN INFOR-
MATION SERVICE ON IMPROVED METHODS SUCH AS ANESTHE-
TIC AND ANALGESIC PROCEDURES.

THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES THAT PAIN RELIEVING DRUGS
NEVER BE WITHHELD LONGER THAN NECESSARY.

Sequence II THIS BABOON IS ABOUT TO BE SUBJECTED TO HIS
SECOND INJURY

(a) This is monkey B9. The monkey now weighs 8.8 kilos. The animal is down
for a second lateral bang. That’s him waving. As you can see, the monkey’s
awake, moving all extremities. That’s his trainer who’s taught him how to do
those tricks. The animal is mounted in a helmet. He is monitored for ICP, EKG,
EEG, blood pressure etcetera. The animal is to be thrust in the lateral position to
become a chronic animal, uh, for long term studies.

(b) You might want to mention the monkey’s already been banged once.

(a) I said that, a second bang.

(b) Did you say that?

(a) This is his second bang. He was banged once at 680 g force and quickly
recovered. Cheer leading over in the comer we have B 10. B 10 wishes his
COUnterpart well. As you can see, B 10 is alive. B 10 is watching and hoping for a
800d result for future B 17 over here.

Sequence III REMOVAL OF THE HELMET APPEARS TO BE AN OC-
CASION FOR MERRIMENT

‘3) Change his name, and we’ll call him ‘ ‘Slim.’ ’ We could run a diet service,
”98 ’em in slam ’em, put ’em to bed. (hammering and laughter) Thibault’S
welght reduction clinic.

THE HELMET WHICH IS CEMENTED TO THE BABOON’S HEAD
WITH DENTAL CEMENT IS BEING HAMMERED WITH A CAR-
PENTER’S HAMMER AND SCREW DRIVER TO BREAK IT APART.
.(a) We don’t know where to put ’em. This guy’s waking up. Conceivably we
Will come in and they’ll be running around the lab. He’s moving! He’s moving!

He has this little string on his tail. We just pull. (more hammering) Push!
Ooh! It’s a boy!

THIS CRUDE METHOD OF REMOVING THE HELMET CAUSES
UNQUANTIFIED TRAUMA TO THE EXPERIMENTAL SUBJECT.

(3) We’re thinking of going on strike. The contract says no more than three
comatose boonies at any one time. That is in the contract. (more hammering)

(a) Seems like I left a little ear behind.

(b) Oooohay!
THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES THE INSTITUTIONAL COMMITTEE
TO :BE NOTIFIED OF ANY CHANGE IN PRACTICES ADVERSELY AF-
FECTING THE WELFARE OF THE ANIMALS. USE OF HAMMER
AND SCREWDRIVER WERE NOT MENTIONED IN THE GRANT
REQUEST.
Sequence IV RESEARCHERS, STANDING OVER ANOTHER BABOON
ON THE OPERATING TABLE, DISCUSS THE LACK OF SANITATION

(a) Why is it so dusty down here? Why, because they’re basically incompetent
down here. Well, I mean, just in general our procedures cause dust.

They don’t . . . They’re not regular in cleaning at all, and I’ve called them
three times. When they do clean they’re half-ass.

Lately the ventilation system has been spewing out some sort of . . . dust. It’s
the type of thing. . . Ya, I don’t, you know. I complain about it, but you
know . . . When you come down here it smells like urine.

(b) We have three months of urine down in the bottom of that thing. . .
Urine asphyxiation . . . toxicity.

(a) We had to get her out of that. She was just ﬁlling it up with buckets of
urine.
THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES SEMI-ANNUAL INSPECTIONS BY AN
ANIMAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE INCLUDING A VETERINARIAN
AND AN OUTSIDE MEMBER RESPONSIBLE FOR REPRESENTING
COMMUNITY CONCERNS FOR THE WELFARE OF THE ANIMAL
SUBJECTS. UNCORRECTED DEFICIENCIES MUST BE REPORTED
TO THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND FUNDING
AGENCIES.
Sequence V WHILE CONDUCTING A SURGICAL PROCEDURE ON
ANOTHER BABOON’S HEAD, THE EXPERIMENTER, WHO WEARS
NO MASK, CAP OR STERILE CLOTHING, DROPS AN INSTRUMENT
ON THE FLOOR, PICKS IT UP WITHOUT REMOVING HIS GLOVES
AND WITHOUT STERILIZING IT, CONTINUES THE OPERATION.
THE SURGEON IS SMOKING A PIPE. AN ASSISTANT IS SMOKING A
CIGARETTE, AND A THIRD BENDS OVER THE UNDRAPED BA-
BOON ON THE OPERATING TABLE, HOLDING A CIGARETTE
WITH A LONG ASH IN HIS MOUTH. (more smoking) THE BROWN
BILL PROVIDES THAT A FEDERAL AGENCY SUSPEND OR REVOKE
SUPPORT FOR A PROJECT IF ANIMAL CARE, TREATMENT OR
PRACTICES HAVE NOT BEEN IN COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE
STANDARDS. THE NIH GUIDE WAS REPEATEDLY VIOLATED IN
THIS NONSTERILE SURGERY.
Sequence VI THE BROWN BILL REQUIRES THAT A VETERINARIAN
BE CONSULTED IN THE PLANNING OF ANY PROCEDURE INVOLV-
ING PAIN TO UNANESTHETIZED ANIMALS. NOTE THE BABOON
PULLING AGAINST THE BONDS ON HIS LEGS AND SWITCHING
HIS TAIL AS THE MACHINE ADMINISTERS THE POWERFUL
FORCE.
Sequence VII (a) Come on, monkey, hang in there just a little longer, baby!
A DYING BABOON IS ATTENDED ONLY BY A STUDENT WHO
CURSES “THE PROBLEM” BUT CANNOT DEAL WITH IT. THE
BROWN BILL REQUIRES POST-SURGICAL CARE IN ACCORDANCE
WITH ESTABLISHED MEDICAL AND NURSING PROCEDURES.

 

the animal spontaneously ventilates 70-80%

It IS regrettable indeed that spokesmen for
e .University of Pennsylvania asserted
PUhhcly that the baboons were anesthetized
and felt no pain. These statements show
remarkably poor judgment in as much as: 1)
u ned v1deotape clearly shows a baboon

ergOIng head surgery with

 

inadequate anesthesia (see above, “It hurts
him for Christ’s sake”); and 2) The NIH pro-
tocol for the grant states that the general
anesthetic is allowed to wear off for a full hour
before the massive injury is inﬂicted. Line 1,
page 193 of the grant application reads,
‘ ‘ Through the endotracheal tube

nitrous oxide anesthesia until 1 hour before
acceleration after which it breathes room air.”

To cap it all, the University of Pennsylvania
claims in its annual report to the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture that it caused no unrelieved
pain to animals!

 

 

9

 

 




 

 

TRAPS continued

people realize that they are contributing to the
continued use of the cruel steel jaw trap in our
country. The NWF testimony contained
monstrous errors of fact. For example
‘ ‘Unlike the foot snare which often causes ex-
tensive damage to, the foot of a captured
animal, the leghold trap does not completely
restrict blood circulation.” .

Tripod, the gray and white tabby cat whose
leg had been mangled in a trap, was a mute
witness disproving Mrs. Pryor’s allegation.
Dr. Donald Fincher had to amputate her leg
after Tripod’s owners brought her in, and
with their consent, he adopted her. Only a
month later the veterinary clinic was subject-
ed to burglary and arson, and, Tripod was
missing. But in three days she returned and
has won such trophies as ‘ ‘Best Cat’ ’. She ap-
peared to be the most relaxed individual at
the hearings as she reclined on the witness
table close to Dr. Fincher.

Representatives of the fur industry were
anything but calm, “What they are really
after is the dismantling of our industry,”
cried Henry Foner whose arguments against
H.R. 1797 rested largely on imputation of
motives, which seems to haveicreated an at-
mosphere of hysteria not related to observable
'facts. Not one of the 59 countries in which it is
illegal to use steel jaw leghold traps has taken
any action against the fur industry. In fact,
London and Frankfurt are two of the biggest
fur centers in the world; yet both the United
Kingdom and West Germany have long ban-
ned the steel jaw leghold trap. Winston
Churchill was responsible for the ban in
Britain.

Fred Schwartz turned out to be a “no
Show” on the furrier’s panel, but he submit-
ted testimony for the record against H.R.
1797. “I believe I might add without im-
modesty, ’ ’ he wrote, “that my face is already
familiar to millions who know me better as
‘Fred the Furrier’ through my rather exten-
sive advertising campaign in print and the
broadcast media.”

Sandy, canine star of long-running musical
“Annie, ”joins the campaign.

10

my Ste

 

 

 

Book review

StrandingS , by Frank D. Robson, The Science Press , Johannesburg,

South Africa, 1984. Illustrated, with drawings, charts and diagrams.
Available from the Animal Welfare Institute, $39.95 prepaid.

One expects a book on whale stranding to
be a museum scientist’s tome, replete with
tables of lengths and extrapolated weights, a
catalogue of parasites; and a picture some-
where of the author among painstakingly
cleaned and mounted skeletons.

There is no smell of formalin about the
pages of Strandings. What Frank D. Robson
has distilled from sixteen years of work
among many hundreds of cetaceans aground
along the New Zealand coasts, is an insight-
ful, informative, sometimes moving book on
the behavior of living whales, combined with
an eminently practical manual on how to
assist stranded animals. It dispells the
mythology which has grown up around mass
strandings, and allows us to grasp why —
from the standpoint of the whales themselves
— the animals go aground. Robson is a
pioneer; the ﬁrst person to have systematical-
ly exploited the opportunity to learn about liv-
ing cetaceans through strandings. His book
is, without question, a classic and his personal
example in successfully moving hundreds of
whales and dolphins back to sea or preventing
them from stranding at all stands as a goal for
friends of whales throughout the world.

Frank Robson was in his mid fifties, just
retired as a commercial fisherman, when he
began his study of strandings. He was
motivated, more than anything else, by his
perplexity at the awesome spectacle of —— as it
was then regarded — mass cetacean suicide.
The only hint that he might succeed, where
the scientiﬁc establishment had failed, in
unravelling the enigma was his uncanny
ability to train, and to understand dolphins at
the Napier, New Zealand oceanarium.

Strandings puts to rest the illogical notion
of mass suicide. Robson found that strand-
ings of toothed whales and large dolphins fall
into four categories: individual strandings of
aged and inﬁrm whales; strandings of other-
wise healthy whales with localized parasite
infections; mass strandings of herds made up
of family groups; and strandings from
bachelor sperm whale herds migrating from
the Antarctic. He provides perfectly logical,
although sometimes surprising, explanations
for each behavior.

The strandings of aged individuals, no
longer able to continue swimming, who come
ashore — perhaps deliberately — to die are
the least difficult to understand. Robson
studied numerous cases, and does not hesitate
to assert that attempts to reﬂoat obviously
sick, aged and emaciated whales are hopeless,
and that the animals should be euthanized.
Most, upon autopsy, have been found, along
with their other troubles, to carry appalling
loads of nematodes and other internal
parasites.

Younger adults who ground, sometimes
with their calves, have similarly proven be-
yond help. The great bulk of the animals
autopsied were shown to have gross parasite

 

infections of the ears and sinuses. These un-
fortunate whales often gash the areas sur-
rounding the infection on rocks in a desperate
effort to achieve relief. The only quandary for
would-be-rescuers is an accompanying calf.
Only if the mother is no longer lactating,
Robson suggests, should the calf be reﬂoated.
This must be done after the mother has been
euthanized, so the calf will not hear her
distress calls and return.

 

p oto — ran Robson

 

\m

Cover photo of Strandings, a dolphin rescue.

It is the strange phenomenon of mass
stranding that the book chieﬂy addresses.
Through his own observations, and by ex-
haustive debrieﬁngs of local observers, Rob-
son has been able to reconstruct the sequence
of events in scores of mass strandings some
involving over 200 pothead or false killer
whales. Robson finds that while herds may
occasionally become disoriented by severe
storms, especially those with massive light-
ning discharges, this is uncommon except
among bachelor sperms.

Most strandings of mixed herds are social
in origin. In almost all cases they are brought
about by group concern for the fate of a single
whale.

Occasionally the “key” whale in question
is an aged animal which detaches itself from a
passing herd and goes ashore, and, in ex-
tremis, begins emitting distress calls, which
draw in the herd and eventually leads it to
strand itself. Sometimes the key whale is a
female experiencing difﬁculty in giving birth.
The most typical situation, however, involves
the ejection from the herd of an animal,
usually an adolescent, who has apparently
violated some taboos of the herd. Such an
outcaste,agitated and disoriented,is liable to
strand itself. Its distress calls, despite its
pariah status, draw members of its own fami-
ly group who go aground trying to help. Their
distress in turn brings other family groups,
until the entire herd is aground.

The common denominator of mixed group

continued on page 11




S TRANDIN GS continued

strandings is emotional agitation. Emotional-
ly stressed animals, among the spec1es.prone
to stranding, swim on the surface. ThlS robs
them of the ability to gauge the depth of the
water, which they can readily do with
(forehead transmitted) sonar during their nor-
mal “loping” mode of swimming. The ﬁrst
indication a surface swimming animal may
have of shore is when it feels bottom. By then,
it is usually too late, in an incoming tide, to
avoid grounding.

Strandings provides state-of—the-art advice
on rescuing and reﬂoating whales. Robson
stresses however, that social bonds are so in-
tense that it is useless to expect whales to re—
main at sea as long as other members of the
herd continue to emit distress calls. The best
way to prevent distress calls from living
whales while reﬂoating operations are under-
way, is for humans to stand by them, wetting
them down occasionally and talking in a calm
and reassuring way. This fact, repeatedly
demonstrated during strandings, goes far in
itself to support Robson’s view that some in-
terspecies communication is possible, and, in
fact, naturally occurs.

Strandings is far from truly “stripping the
mystery” from whale beaching. Robson has
answered certain questions only to open the
way to new ones. Many of his conclusions
and hypotheses need further testing by other
investigators, in other settings. Certainly,
Frank Robson stands far forward on the front
line of human efforts to understand whales.
Strandings is a book any scientist involved in
cetacean research must read, and that
everyone interested in whales will very much

want to read. Tom Garrett

Piloting grounded whales back to sea and safety

At low tide on 28 September 1983 a large herd of pilot whales grounded on a gradual-sloping,
sandy beach in N orthland, New Zealand. It was 6 a.m. and a cold bleak morning with rain

squalls and a south-westerly wind.

The grounding was discovered by a resi-
dent who promptly raised the alarm by phon-
ing the local radio station and her neighbors.
In no time people began arriving at the scene.

Fortunately one or two of them were
conversant with my rescue techniques and a
trial run was attempted. Although it met with
some success we decided to wait for the in-
coming tide to assist us in our efforts by giving
the whales more buoyancy.

Meanwhile more. helpers were arriving,
among them a busload of schoolchildren. By
this time the tide was “making” fast, so we
assembled our teams and went into action,
turning the whales seawards and then push-
ing and pulling with each incoming wave.

Once beyond the breakers no further assis-

tance was needed; the water was now deep
enough for the whales to swim. The rescue
continued until all but four of the 80-strong
herd were back in the sea again.

The four exceptions were juveniles which
had died of stress brought on by the ordeal
coupled with enforced separation from their
mothers. They were lifted by helicopter and
buried well above high-water mark.

The schoolchildren who helped in the res-
cue have been presented with a com-
memorative plaque.

A feature worthy of note is that dolphins
are sometimes involved. Twice in recent
years they have been seen piloting rescued
whales to the safety of the open sea.

Frank Robson

Japan to end commercial whaling
—— but will the whales notice any change?

Japan’s smoke-screen

Japan will end commercial whaling in line
with the advice from a private body to the
Chief of the Fisheries Agency. Excellent news,
you would think —— but what is the exact form
of this “advice”?

As from November 1985, commercial
whaling would ostensibly cease. In the Ant-
arctic it would be replaced by ‘ ‘investigative’ ’
whaling for research purposes conducted, as
now, by a mother ship and four catcher boats.

US stands ﬁrm on whaling

Correspondence durlng the summer be-
tween Senator Bob Packwood and Secretary
of Commerce Malcolm Baldrige makes it
plam that the US will indeed implement the
Packwood-Magnuson Amendment against
any country which continues commercial
Whaling after the end of next year when the
whaling ban comes into effect.

Senator Packwood wrote to the Secretary of
Commerce on 28 June seeking an assurance
on this score. On 24 July he received a very
positive letter from Secretary Baldrige which
said (in part): “Any government that chooses
to ignore the commercial whaling mora-
torium . . . should be prepared to accept the
consequences. I agree that any doubt regard-

In Japanese coastal waters it would be classed
as “indigenous” (on the model of the
Alaskan eskimo’s bowhead quota). The
workforce in Japan’s only whaling company
would remain at its present strength.

What does all this amount to? Surely it is
the continuation of commercial whaling by
another name — or rather by two other
names, “investigative” and “indigenous”.
It will not do.

ing the US position should be dispelled. I
hope this clarifies our commitment to the ef-
fective implementation of the moratorium.”
Packwood-Magnuson reduces by at least
half the tonnage of ﬁsh that a nation in breach
of IWC regulations may catch in US waters.
Japan and the USSR are now being told
unambiguously: comply — or else.

 

-—_.

 

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.
John Walsh, M.D.

Staff

P attic}? Allen, Editorial Consultant

Cynthla Bank, Administrative Assistant
Elizabeth E. Cory, Publications Coordinator
Jessie Despal‘d,Administrative Assistant

 

 

International Committee

Aline S. de Aluja D.V.M. — Mexico

T.G. Antikas,, D.V.M. — Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain — Bangladesh
Angela King -— United Kingdom

Simon Muchiru — Kenya

David Ricardo —— Canada

Godofredo Stutzin — Chile

Ambassador Fumihiko Togo —— Japan

N.E. Wernberg — Denmark

Officers

Diane Halverson, Research Assoc1ate

for livestock and poultry .
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary

Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David O. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Louise Wright, Research Assistant

 

\
\

11

 

 

 




Birds of a feather get “stung” together

1:: \.
. . ’ » g Hg»; :3, [5'

Anatum Peregrine Falcon (endangered species).
This chick (eyas) was illegally taken from a wild
nest for illegal market.

In Botswana the rules of sound conserva-
tion continue to be ﬂouted — with
devastating impact on both people and
animals. Regular readers of the Quarterly
will recall that we highlighted (Fall 1983) the
tragic plight of Botswana’s wildebeest, dying
in their tens of thousands through being
denied access to their main watering grounds
during the recent years of unbroken drought.
Barring the animals from the life—giving lakes
is 1800 miles of steel fencing, erected in the
unproven belief that it will stop the spread of
foot-and—mouth disease to some three million
cattle.

The diabolical fences are one problem.
Another is the cattle themselves. The herds so
grossly exceed the carrying capacity of the

Operation Falcon, a 3-year “sting”,
culminated in the busting of a nationwide
ring dealing in endangered birds of prey. The
raptors, plundered from the wild, were sold in
a multi-million dollar black market, many of
them to European and Arab falconers who
will pay colossal sums for the right bird. Arc-
tic gyrfalcons, which winter as far south as
Colorado, can fetch as much as $50,000 each.

Pickings were rich and plentiful. But sud-
denly on 29 june the party ended — with a
vengeance. Across 14 states 150 special
agents of the US Fish and Wildlife Service
plus 150 state wildlife ofﬁcers moved in. They
made 39 arrests and seized huge numbers of
live raptors — among them gyrfalcons and
14-0 peregrines —-—- as well as cars, trucks and
even planes. Over 80 felony charges are
pending.

This same day, 29 June, was also a black
day for raptor-smuggling confederates north

of the border. In Ontario, Alberta, British
Columbia and the Yukon there were 15 ar-
rests.

It transpires that many of the 400-500 rap-

- tors stolen from the wild during the last three

years were “laundered” through captive-
breeding operations involving the use of gov-
ernment labels. In 1983 the US Fish and
Wildlife Service, ignoring the pleas of conser-
vationists had made life easier for the traf-
ﬁckers by lifting a federal ban on the sale of
raptors bred in captivity, provided they were
marked with authorized leg bands.

Following the arrests Interior Secretary
William Clark said: “The Department is
greatly concerned about the impact illegal
trade is having on wild populations of birds,
converting a public trust to a private gain. We
intend to review in depth the existing
regulatory mechanism that has apparently
been deﬁed on such a large scale.”

 

 

One of the 39 arrested, Marcus Ciesielski, a West German aged 21, was found guilty by a
Montana court in August of participating in a plot to smuggle six gyrfalcons out of the country.
He was ﬁned $10, 000 and faces deportation. Mr. Ciesielski purchased the birds from an
undercover agent and ﬂew them in a rented plane from Great Falls, Montana, to Washington,
DC. From there a confederate drove the birds in a limousine provided by the Saudi Embassy to
Kennedy Airport where he bought seven first-class tickets (for himself and the six birds?) on
Saudi Arabian Airlines. The Saudi Embassy pleads ignorance of the whole affair.

“Aid” from World Bank and EEC is hitting Botswana hard

land that huge tracts of once fertile soil are
now sterile desert.

And who is chieﬂy responsible for the
destruction of Botswana’s productivity base,
the land itself? Ironically it is international aid
donors — notably the World Bank and the
EEC. The former has loaned more than $10
million for cattle projects while the latter
“generously” subsidizes Botswana’s beef ex-
ports (so adding, amongst other ill effects, to
Europe’s beef mountain).

There might be some slight justiﬁcation for
this policy if the people as a whole beneﬁted.
But they do not. The money goes to those
whose purses are already bulging. Says an aid
ofﬁcial: “The $100 million earned last year
from beef exports went straight into the

 

Animal dealer Marlin Zartman, operating

pockets of private owners — one-third of
them to one man.”

That man is Derek Brink whose land-
holding of close on one million acres is believ-
ed to be the world’s largest. Small herders are
increasingly being squeezed out; the big ran-
chers, who are often government ofﬁcials,
control the water points and the usable
rangeland.

Savage drought plus ruinous development
policies allied to greed are hitting Botswana
hard. The people suffer, the cattle and the
wildlife die. This mournful saga will continue
until the government, helped rather than
hampered by foreign ‘ ‘aid”, takes the conser-
vation rule-book to heart.

 

an auction in Douglassville, Pa., has been

Animal d 6 a1 61‘ charged for a second time with providing sub-

standard care and treatment for sick and in-

° jured dogs, cats, guinea pigs and rabbits

Charged agaln _ which he was holding for sale. If found guilty
[of violating the Animal Welfare Act, Zartman

Sued by both cancer researcher Brenda
Charles Kahan of the University of Wisconsin and by
the university itself for fraudulent misrepre-
sentation in supplying genetically con-
taminated mice for use in research, Charles
River has agreed to settle. While terms of the
settlement between Kahan and the company
have not been disclosed, the agreement with
the university establishes a $40,000 research
fund. Two-thirds of this sum will support
Kahan’s research and one-third will go to
zoological research at the university. (For the
background to this shabby story involving the
world’s biggest commercial supplier of
laboratory animals, see Quarterlies for
Winter 1984 and Summer 1982.)

River
settles

 

faces a $2000 ﬁne, a cease-and-desist order
and suspension of his federal license.

 

 

The number of animals used by Colgate-
Palmolive in testing new products fell by
more than 50% in 1983. The company is
shortly to sponsor a symposium on “the pre-

tCSt I'lCW products vention of pain in animal experiments.”

— Avon is also using fewer animals. A drop of

31% in 1983 comes on top of a 33 % reduction
for the previous year.

Fewer animals to

 

 

 

 

 

 




NATURE VOL3ll 27 SEPTEMBER I984

 

 

COMMENTARY

Mistreatment of laboratory animals
endangers blomedical research

from Christine Stevens

There is now an opportunity for legislators in the United States to rescue medical
researchers from themselves.

IN the United States, laboratory animals
are used in much greater numbers and
subjected to far more neglect and
mistreatment than elsewhere, in Britain for
example. The reason for this is simple: US
law does not come to grips with pain
prevention. In the absence of an adequate,
regulatory regime, an all too casual attitude
has developed. Pain relief, or indeed any
sort of post-operative care, is often omitted
in laboratories, test procedures are un-
necessarily duplicated and even the
minimal standards of care required by
current law are routinely ignored. These
negligent attitudes are reinforced by a
chronically short-staffed and underfunded
federal enforcement programme 0n the
one hand and, on the other, an aggressive
lobby of commercial animal suppliers
whose objective is, simply, to sell as many
animals as it can to researchers and testers.

New Bills

An opportunity has now presented itself to
bring the federal Animal Welfare Act up to
a level roughly comparable with the laws
governing the use of laboratory animals in
Britain and fourteen European countries.
Congress has been presented with two
legislative proposals, the Senate with a bill
(8.657) introduced by Senator Robert Dole
(Republican, Kansas) and the House of
Representatives with one (HR. 5725)
introduced by Representative George
Brown (Democrat, California), both of
which have been endorsed by the American
Veterinary Medical Association. Unfor-.
tunately, opposition organized largely by
the trade association representing
laboratory animal breeders has so far
prevented these proposals from getting
anywhere.

There is no shortage of examples of the
current act’s deficiencies. The only pain-
reducing provision is a deliberately vague
phrase included under a general require-
ment for “adequate veterinary care”
which calls for “appropriate use of anaes-
thetic, analgesic and tranquillizing drugs”.
Public scrutiny of compliance with this
provision is provided only by a requirement
that laboratories list the numbers of
painful experiments and tests conducted
without such drugs, and then note the
reason in a one-page annual report.

As a result, compliance even with this
vague requirement has been casual in the
extreme. The majority of medical schools
boldly claim, year after year, that all the
pain and distress they cause experimental
animals is prevented by pain-killing drugs.

 

(Pharmaceutical houses tend to be more
honest in admitting that they inflict
suffering; this they usually blame on the
testing requirements imposed by the Food
and Drug Administration.)

Under the current law, it is entirely up to
the researcher to determine whether pain-
relieving drugs are necessary. Edward
Taub, who received much publicity after
the National Institutes of Health (NIH)
suspended support for his research on
deafferented monkeys, claimed that his
superior knowledge made veterinary
advice unnecessary. He claimed that no
pain-relieving drugs were needed because
sensory nerves were cut in the procedure he
was using. But Dr William Pryor, the lab-
oratory veterinarian at East Carolina
University, testified before a Health and
Human Services Department appeals panel
to which Taub had taken his case that
analogous procedures on humans result in
great post-surgical pain, and he
recommended an analgesic specifically
suited for the purpose.

At the University of California at
Berkeley, researchers charged that
graduate students conducting major
surgery, including the removal of eyes from
cats, in Dr Russel DeValois’s laboratory,
often administered anaesthesia incorrectly.
One witness said, “From the high-pitched
squealing of the kitten, it was obvious that
the animal was experiencing intense pain’ ’.

The Dole/Brown proposals would
impose the very modest requirement that
researchers consult with a veterinarian in
the planning of any procedure involving
pain to unanaesthetized animals. The bills
would also require that post70perative care
be provided and that proper staff be avail-
able at nights and on weekends. This might
do away with the scheduling of surgery at
entirely inappropriate times, as happens
now. I have seen unconscious post-surgical
dogs left in a room with twenty other
barking dogs at 3.30 on a Friday afternoon
“Been doing some cutting today?” the
veterinarian said to a caretaker down the
hall. “Yeah”, he nodded.

British act

Before giving further examples to illustrate
the need for improved legislation in the
United States, I should note that about
thirty years ago, I went to Britain at the sug—
gestion of my father, Robert Gesell, Chair-
man of the Physiology Department at the
University of Michigan Medical School, to
consult those whom he considered the best
biomedical scientists to get their views on

 

the British act regulating animal experi-
mentation. I spoke to Sir Alexander
Fleming, J .B.S. Haldane and many other
distinguished investigators, and visited
their animal rooms.

Even though funds were extremely
limited at the time (just after the Second
World War), I found the animals far better
housed and looked after than in most of the
American universities I have recently
inSpected. Fleming’s rabbits were fine-
looking creatures, at ease in cages big
enough for them to take a hop or two and
sit up in the classic Easter rabbit pose if they
felt so inclined. Haldane’s newts lived in
large well-furnished aquaria. In the dog
laboratories I visited, the dogs occupied
good-sized pens —— in sharp contrast with
the small cages stacked to the ceiling in
many US dog rooms of the period, where
the cages were commonly hosed with the
dogs still inside trying to dodge the stream
of water.

No scientist I interviewed during my visit
complained of the British Cruelty to
Animals Act. Indeed, I was told that it was
of much value in bringing home to young
research workers their responsibilities to
experimental animals. Neither the
individual licences nor the pain conditions
under which they worked were burden-
some. The general attitude was summed up
later, when Sir Graham Wilson and Dr
Lawrence Abel came to the United States
to testify at a Congressional hearing on 30
September 1965. Dr Abel, a former vice-
president of the Royal College of
Surgeons, said in part: ‘ ‘We do not commit
the atrocities which are reported from time
to time in some other countries. We do not
allow the extravagant cruelty committed by
some investigators of stress and shock. We
have proved that the desired results can be
obtained by less inhumane methods’ ’ . This
testimony was so telling that the sub-
committee chairman, to whom a word
from NIH was law, decided to suppress it.
The second day of the hearing was
cancelled, and the hearing record was never

. published.

I returned from Britain convinced that
the British act was a boon to animals,
admired by British scientists and altogether
most valuable despite its age and the need,
in certain respects, for updating.

But on the other side of the Atlantic,
there was a violent reaction by groups such
as the National Society for Medical
Research when a streamlined bill built on
the principles of the British act was intro-
duced by 13 leading senators. NIH’s public

 




 

296

response was less frenetic but equally
adamant. NIH even went so far as to with-
draw and secrete hundreds of copies of a
substantial study it had contracted for
because the report clearly showed wide-
spread mistreatment of experimental
animals and indicated a need for regulatory
legislation.

Blocking tactics

Senator Lister Hill, named after the illus-
trious British bacteriologist, was NIH’s
man in the Senate, and he loyally sat on the
bill for six years, refusing all attempts to get
it to hearings in the committee he chaired.
Not until a stolen dalmatian, trucked
across state lines by a dealer in laboratory
dogs, ignited an unquenchable public
interest, did legislation on laboratory
animals reach the Senate floor via a dif-
ferent committee. As soon as it did, the
vote to protect the animals was unanimous.
Unfortunately, the bill (although opposed
as fiercely as the better drafted bill based on
the British Act) was weak and narrow in its
coverage. Amendments passed in 1970 and
1976 finally gave the Secretary of
Agriculture authority to include all warm-
blooded animals, and required users to
report painful experiments and tests
conducted without anaesthetic, analgesic
or tranquillizing drugs.

Mistreatment of laboratory animals in
the United States in some cases involves a
failure to provide even basic care, let alone
pain-relieving drugs. For example, at the
Veterans Administration (VA) Hospital
connected with Stanford University
Medical School, a medical student working
late was startled to find an experimental
dog collapsed at the door of his room. He
promptly called the VA veterinarian, but
she refused to come to treat the obviously
suffering animal, so the student took the
dog to the veterinarian on duty at" the
emergency service, who determined that it
was past any possible treatment and
euthanized the animal. A necropsy showed
nothing but hair in the animal’s stomach.
The festering sores showed no sign of treat-
ment. The hospital’s claims that nothing
was seriously wrong and that another dog
had inflicted the injuries were hopelessly
unconvmcmg.

Refusal to acknowledge error, no matter
how grossly evident, appears to be a common
weakness among those who neglect and/ or
mistreat laboratory animals.

The veterinary inspectors of the US
Department of Agriculture (USDA) some-
times try to use their limited authority
under existing law to require proper pro~
cedures. For example, at the University of
Chicago, brain surgery was being con-
ducted on squirrel monkeys in an office off
a busy corridor. An office table was used as
an Operating table. Instruments were not
properly sterilized. The inspector called for
immediate transfer to one of the uni-
versity's regular operating rooms.

The proliferation of poorly controlled
experimentation in dozens of sites on a

 

COMMENTARY

campus makes USDA’s task difficult, and
since the financial provision for enforce-
ment of the Animal Welfare Act has never
been adequate, it has sometimes been years
before every nook and cranny where
animals are stowed away has been ferreted
out. At the University of California at
Berkeley, it took a new inspector to find
them all. USDA finally brought a case
against the Berkeley campus, charging
major violations. The case was recently
settled when the university agreed in a
“consent decision” to pay a $12,000 fine,
establish a training programme for animal
handlers and to “cease and desist” from
violating the Animal Welfare Act.

The seeming inability of this institution
to control its faculty and students is
revealing in the light of the thick report of
its own specially constituted committee
emphasizing that “more diligence on the
part of the investigators and better
discipline of the caretakers at a minimum
of additional costs” would resolve most of
the problems. A typical USDA inspection
report reads: “Monkeys in room G25 are
fed by placing feed in waste pan under floor
grill — no feeders present . . . in many
rooms a build-up of faeces . . . no regular
observation of animals by caretaker under
veterinarian’s supervision. Some question
of DVM [Doctor of Veterinary Medicine]
even having access to animal quarters let
alone establish an adequate programme of
veterinary care.”

Reports for all 1,166 Registered

Research Facilities in the United States may ‘

be obtained under the Freedom of Inform-
ation Act (FOIA); the Animal Welfare
Institute [of which the author is president]
has been studying a series of these over the
past six months. The reports are
astonishing — Harvard, Yale, Johns
Hopkins, Vanderbilt, the universities of
Utah, Rochester, Pittsburgh, each
receiving between $17 and $51 million a
year from NIH, all accredited by the
American Association for the Accredit-
ation of Laboratory Animal Care,
regarded by NIH as an ironclad guarantee
of first-class care and treatment of animals,
repeatedly violate USDA’s minimum
standards.

Most frequently recurring are: cages too
small for monkeys, dogs and rabbits to
make normal postural adjustments, green
scum in the water bottles, inadequate
ventilation, and just plain filth. These
notes on the University of Utah are typical:
“Primates have inadequate space
filters are pretty well plugged with hair . i .
large rabbits [weighing] 9 to 11 pounds
have 432 square inches and they should
have at least 540 . . . some of the cages are
not high enough that rabbits can stand up

feed in some feed containers
contaminated with urine from top cage.”
Or from Rochester: “Primates ‘in Room
6~7573B are being kept in cages which have
not been sanitized for over 6 weeks.” At
Pittsburgh: “The [cat] room did not
appear to have been cleaned since the last

 

NATURE VOL3ll 27' SEPTEMBER 1984

 

inspection . . . 24 hours for correction.”
At Harvard a list of 23 different animal
rooms housing dogs, cats, guinea pigs,
rabbits, gerbils and monkeys used old,
rusty, difficult-to-clean cages. The
inspector also noted “loose sharp wires”
and wrote “it appears sanitation is non-
existent while animals are in isolation
chambers”. One might suppose that
correction would be automatic when
USDA inspectors write such comments and
the institution’s attending veterinarian
signs off on them. But unless the inspector
actually recommends that USDA’s
General Counsel prepare a case against the
institution, the deficiencies frequently drag
on, as documented in the Animal Welfare
lnstitute’s files.

The USDA inspectors urgently need the
increased authority that the Dole and
Brown bills would give them, and they need
the assistance which institutional
committees under this legislation would
provide. Key provisions include the
appointment of a committee member not
employed by the institution “responsible
for representing community concerns
regarding the welfare of animal subjects”,
and the requirement that the committee,
make semi-annual inspections of “all
animal study areas and facilities”. In
addition institutions would be required to
inform their employees to report violations
of the law to the institutional committee so
that prompt corrective action can be taken.
Employees would be protected from
discrimination against them which many
fear at present if they request better
treatment of animals.

The basic purpose of the Dole and
Brown bills is to prevent needless suffering
before it occurs. By putting all personnel
on notice that they are not to turn a blind
eye to such suffering, the observantand
compassionate would occupy the posrtion
now frequently usurped by the callous and
domineering. All too often, when 1 Wm
laboratories I hear the words, “but don’t
sayl told you”. This is absurd when the
heads of institutions urgently need to know
about mistreatment of animals. If they do
not know and thus cannot take effective
corrective action, they are increasmgly
likely to find themselves in the
embarrassing position that scandals
nobody dared to tell them about are
publicly revealed. The consequence of tho!
will be inereasing erosion of public falth in
institutions supported by the tax payers.

Prevention of needless suffering would
also be advanced by the provisions of the
Dole/Brown bills that aim to eliminate
the wasteful duplication of animal
experiments and tests. Unintended
duplication of government tests was
estimated in 1981, by the head of the
Interagency Regulatory Liaison Group, to
have wasted thousands of millions of: tax
dollars, yet there is nothing in the Animal
Welfare Act as it stands to PICVCm
recurrence of this needless use of animals-
The Dole/Brown bills would establish an




NATURE VOL3ll 27 SEPTEMBER I984

 

 

 

 

information service, in cooperation with
the National Library of Medicine, to
prevent such duplication. (Purposeful
replication of research would be
unaffected.) This service would also handle
information on alternatives to animal
experimentation and testing.

Enlightened self-interest alone should
cause every medical school to back the
Dole and Brown bills. Failure to protect an
investment of millions of dollars by
supporting reasonable legislation is
shortsighted. But such is the prejudice
against legislation, especially on the part of
those who do not read the words but rely on
lobbying organizations’ generalizations,
that the Dole and Brown bills are still
widely resisted. Organizations that fought
the 1966 Laboratory Animal Welfare Act
with almost hysterical intensity now,
having become accustomed to it, join in
testimony before Congress to increase
support for its enforcement. No doubt they
will do the same if the pending amendments
to improve the law are passed.

But the opposition is stepping up its
activities. At least that is the sinister
reading of the recent decision by the
executive director of the Association for
Biomedical Research (ABR) to move to
Washington, DC. ABR was founded in
1979 by a small group of animal breeders
(including Henry Foster, founder of
Charles River Breeding Laboratories, the
largest pUrveyor of laboratory animals in
the world) and biomedical researchers who
felt a need for “active representation” on
legislation affecting the use of animals. The
organization includes about 200
institutions, including medical schools,
pharmaceutical companies and breeders,
who depend on animal research. Anyone
who doubts that animal research is big
business should examine the case of
Charles River, which began as a two—room
rat-breeding facility and which was
recently acquired by Bausch and Lomb, the
Optical company, in a stock transfer that
netted Foster nearly $38 million, according
to press accounts.

The spectacular growth of the industry
might be slowed by the Dole/ Brown bills’
requirement that investigators consider
alternatives to animals, and by the in-
formation service that the bills would
establish to provide facts on “methods
which could reduce or replace animal use”.

NOt surprisingly, ABR has favoured
substitute legislation sponsored by Senator
Omn Hatch (Republican, Utah) and
Senator Edward Kennedy (Democrat,
Massachusetts) that would call on the
National Academy of Sciences to conduct
an. 18-month study of the current use of
animals in research. This legislation has
already been passed by the House of
Rf~‘l3resentatives, incorporated as part of
the NIH authorization bill.

Although ABR says that a study is
needed in order to determine whether
PTOblems really do exist in the use of
research animals, its director, Frankie

 

COMMENTARY

Trull, offered a possibly more candid
explanation of its support for study
legislation in a recent talk she gave to
faculty, staff and students at the University
of Illinois at Chicago Health Sciences
Center. Trull told the audience: “Now, we
are criticized for being strong proponents
of study legislation by animal welfare
organizations who say this is a stalling
tactic. Well . . . none of us was born
yesterday. The fact of the matter is that, in
some ways, it is a stalling tactic.” And in
response to a question from the audience
on how to deal with the media, Trull
offered this advice: “You don’t answer
their questions. In other words, they’ll say,
‘isn’t it true that 83 per cent of all animals
had pain-killing drugs withheld during
experimentation in your facility last year?’
By the way, they know all that stuff. God
bless the Freedom of Information Act,
they know everything about everything.
What you do is you say something like, ‘In
1983, in our research institution, we were
able to develop a breakthrough in
Alzheimer’s dis‘ease.”’ Trull warned that
unless researchers take the fight seriously,
what happened in Britain could happen in
the United States. “England has had
horrendous problems, historically, with
antivivisectionists . . . there is no question
in my mind that the English, in fact, really
truly do like their animals better than their
people.”

In calling on her scientific audiences to
do battle with “the other side”, Ms Trull
deliberately fosters confusion between
soundly based regulatory legislation and
antivivisectionist sentiment. She
emphasizes the rash of break-ins by animal
rights groups. “The reason I say please
clean up your own shops is that the break-
ins are inside jobs, every one of them. By
inside jobs, I mean that some sincere,
genuine animal technician or cage cleaner
or whatever, goes to an animal rights rally
or reads an article in a magazine and wants
to help the other side. Every single one of
the break-ins in the 30 or 40 we’re aware of
involve inside jobs.”

A rational response to this would be to
enact the appropriate legal escape valve in
the Dole/ Brown bills so that personnel
who observe mistreatment of animals are
protected against reprisals when they blow
the whistle -— and that a local institutional
animal care committee exists to receive
such complaints, investigate, and orderthe
problem corrected. But such a senSible
procedure is anathema to ABR, which
thrives on an “us and them” mentality..

Edmund Burke’s advice to choose early
reform, which he described as
“accommodation with a friend”, as
against late reform or “capitulation to an
enemy,” is lost on the lobbyists who fight
against proper regulation of animal
experimentation. Thus the biomedical
community, which needs the Dole/Brown
bills as much as the animals do, is listening
to badly biased advice inspired by vested
interests that seek to increase commerCial

animals.

 

297

profits on animals, and

services.

equipment

Pain clause

Most European countries have legislation
which addresses pain prevention, often
more specifically and strictly than the
Dole/Brown bills. The pain conditions in
the British act, for example, which have
proved workable over more than a century,
have spared great pain to large numbers of
The proposed bills require
assurances that paralytics may not be used
without anaesthesia, and pain relief or
euthanasia may not be withheld when not
scientifically necessary, much milder
provisions than those which obtain in
Britain.

At present, it is common for animals to
be left to die in agony, and no law requires
that they be euthanized even when the
experiment is over. Nor does current law
specify that dogs must be released for
exercise outside their cages. The Mayo
Clinic is still hosing cages with the dogs
inside. Small wonder that contagion is rife
among the more than 500 dogs recently
viewed by the 13 owners of stolen dogs that
Mayo had purchased, despite repeated
warnings that many of the dogs they kept
buying seemed to be pets. Before the recent
scandal broke, Mayo even bought dogs at
the laboratory door. Now a sign is posted:
“All please note. We no longer purchase
dogs from individuals. But we continue to
take them as gifts.” It was through this
unexpected review of Mayo practices that
the dehydration of Mayo dogs came to
light. Two owners reported that their dogs
immediately drank five-quart pails of
water on their return home, so intense was
their thirst.

It is only natural for people to become
angry when the privilege of using
laboratory animals is so grossly abused.
The US Congress and people generally
want the abuses stopped. Neither Congress
nor the overwhelming majority of the
public want a ban on experimentation.
Scientists of good will should recognize
this, reject the paranoia sown by lobbyists
and join with legislators such as George
Brown, a tried and true friend of science,
and Senator Dole, whose record on fiscal
responsibility has earned him great respect
for sound decision making.

‘ ‘Those who experiment upon animals”,
Albert Schweitzer wrote, “by surgery and
drugs or innoculate them with diseases in
order to be able to help mankind by the
results of pain, should never quiet their
consciences with the conviction that their
cruel action may in general have a worthy
purpose. In every single instance, they
must consider whether it is really necessary
to demand of an animal this sacrifice for
men. And they must take anxious care that
pain be mitigated as far as possible.” T

 

 

 

Christine Stevens is President of the Animal
Welfare Institute, Washington, DC, 20007,

USA.

 




nature

 

NATURE VOL.3ll 27 SEPTEMBER I984

 

' tie-3,1 new 4(‘WuﬁMJ-étmw‘t’wk rm}. sz-x

A pillar of light at the anthelic point (opposite the Sun)

photographed on 28 March 1978 at Point Barrow, REPRINTS OF THIS ARTICLE

Alaska. This effect is caused by light from the Sun (at an
elevation of 6°) undergoing up to four internal

reﬂections within airborne ice crystals. See page 339. MAY B E ORDERED FROM

OPINION__ THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Poor control for US in formation 285

Omhanedacademy 286 BOX 3650, WASHINGTON, D.C. 20007

Redundant agency

--——-—NEWS

Nuclear winter

Netherlands budget

Publication controls

In vitro fertilization

Information technology

Model zoo

Arms control 290
Toxic hazards in Britain

Archaeology

UN biotechnology 291
Badgers at bay

Sellafield

French research 292
UK biotechnology

Florida citrus 293
Danube environment

-CORRESPONDENCE-

On “Science for the people”/ How
to name genes 294

#COMMENTARY-"ﬂ-

Mistreatment of laboratory animals
endangers biomedical research
C Stevens 295

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Alternatives that Don’t Harm or Destroy-Animals

 

Frog Dissection Study Living Things:
Alternatives: SOMSO FROG MODEL Projects That Don’t Hurt Animals

Human internal .~ Thousands of educationally sound biology
‘ , anatomy from ' 77, I” . projects can be done without resorting to
x-rays, movies of .5- ‘ harming or killing vertebrate animals.
stomach after ‘ ‘
barium meal, _ A Study plants, fungi, protozoa, worms,
pyelograms Of v _ ’ ‘ snails, insects, and other invertebrates
kidney, imaging ‘

of the heart,
CAT scans

Study human physiology and
psychology
Frog dissection Observe behavior of domestic pets.

. animals on free range farms, in the wild
Videos .-

or at zoos

 

 

Take-apart frog Study normal functions such as :
models . communication
. learning processes

Student«made models of stomach, etc ° activity cycles
. reproduction

. .~ . - . .. - genetics
Student made skeleton of whole fish from . Special senses

supermarket . growth
. metabolism

Dissection of chicken wings and slaughter . nerve reﬂexes
house materid . interrelationship of organisms

 

 

Living things are marvelous. Study them,
but never harm them, in your biology class or elsewhere.

For more information, write: Animal Welfare Institute PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 

 




