A WRONG METHOD,

BEING TWO LETTERS ON

EXPERIMENTATION ON LIVING
ANIMALS.

BY

LAWSON TAIT, F.R.C.S.',

PROFESSOR OF GYNECOLOGY, QUEEN’S COLLEGE, BIRMINGHAM, ETC.

 

lunhnu :

VICTORIA STREET AND INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE
PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION,
20, VICTORIA STREET, SW.

———_

 




 

Printed by PEWTRESS (f7 00.,

28, LITTLE QUEEN STREET, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

A WRONG METHOD.

 

 

(Reprinted from the “ TIMES,” November 8th, 1892.)

SIR,———In your columns of October 25th there appeared an
able article of four columns’ length setting forth a series of
alleged illustrations of beneﬁts arising from vivisectional
research, and I have to acknowledge the courtesy you have
extended to me in allowing me to make an endeavour to show
the fallacies of the illustrations and of the argument. I desire
also to recognise the perfect fairness with which you have
permitted discussion of this burning question in your widely-
read paper.

First of all, I am under a disadvantage in that I am replying
to an anonymous and singularly able writer; and, further, in
that more than a week has elapsed since the appearance of his
article. But if I recite his illustrations brieﬂy I think I can,
in much less than his four columns, effectually dispose of them.
They are as follows, the kinds of experiment being very clearly
grouped according to intention :—

1. “An orderly series, intended to ascertain the functions of
organs or assemblages of organs in the human or animal body,”
and this group is illustrated by “ the experiments of Dr. William
Harvey, by which he discovered the circulation of the blood; ”
by “ Sir Charles Bell, who, by researches which were entirely
experimental, and which were carried on during the years

 




 

 

 

 

4

between 1807 and 1826, took the ﬁrst great step towards educing
order out of chaos ;” by Marshall Hall, “who established on
a ﬁrm basis, and solely by experiment, the so-called reﬂex
function of the spinal cord, and its independence, in certain
conditions, of the control ordinarily exercised over it by the
brain ; ” by Ferrier’s experiments, from which the writer con-
cludes that “a brain tumour was ﬁrst removed within the last
ﬁve or six years; ” by Dr. Hope, who, between 1829 and 1839,
“in the only possible way, showed by experiments on living
animals precisely how the sounds of the heart were produced,
and by what changes in the valves or cavity they might be
modiﬁed in this or that manner.” These illustrations occupy
two and a-half of the four columns, and as they all belong to
ancient history, with the doubtful case of brain surgery, they
may be at once dealt with to save confusion.

I have to express a regret that the clever writer (lid not
extend such inquiries as he has made into some new ﬁeld where
he might have found examples that had not been sufﬁciently
combated before. Further, I am surprised that elementary
logic did not show him that what has been done in the past is
not necessarily an indication or a justiﬁcation for what may be
done now, nor for What shall be done in the future. If I were
to grant, for the sake of argument, all that he claims for
Harvey, Hunter, Bell, and Hope, does it follow that with our
splendidly-reﬁned methods of research we are bound to follow
blindly the rough methods of the 17th century, the scars of

which seem so objectionable to our modern methods of thought? '

Elia tells us that the discovery of roast pig was made by the
burning down of a house, and that for generations no roast pig
was obtained save by the burning of a house. Suppose that it was
seriously suggested that this method of research for roast pig
was better than any other, that there was no other, and that its
results were so necessary that it must be continued, would not

 

 




 

 

5

public opinion step in to the meeting of cooks and tell them
that their method was objectionable, but that if it were really
necessary it must be fully justiﬁed? The cooks would have
to justify their proceedings not by allusions to the fact that
roast pig has been discovered in this way, but by a proof that
it could have been discovered in no other way, and that the
primitive way still remained the best method of obtaining it.
Then legislation would come in to restrict the damage which, in
public opinion, would arise from the process, inspectors of the
cooks would be appointed (and these inspectors would not be
cooks), and the whole thing would be narrowly watched. For
the defence of such an objectionable method of research the
recital of doubtful ancient history will not sufﬁce.

But I will meet the advocate of vivisection on his own
ground, and therefore I take the historic evidence which
concerns Harvey as the ﬁrst and most-elaborately-argued
example.

I submit that as the result of careful historical research
many competent authorities have denied that the merit of the
discovery of the circulation of the blood is to be given to
Harvey. French authors claim it for Servetus, and with them
I entirely agree. Italians claim it for one of their countrymen,
and they make out a better case than has, been done for
Harvey; but the whole discussion has become farcical because
its foundation is evidently far more in national pride than on
individual merit. This discussion existed long before the
vivisection question came to the front.

But even if, on patriotic grounds, we accept Harvey as the
successful candidate, there still remains the question—all
important for the present purpose—Did he make any sub-
stantial contribution to his success by experiments on living

animals? My answer is obtained from his own writings, and I

say that he made no such substantial contribution; indeed, far

m... “a...“mmur. . -. ,_ “

 




6

from it, for he was often led astray by his vivisection ; and it
seems to me, as a skilled anatomist, that the circulation of the
blood could not, even now, be either discovered or demonstrated
by any other method than the use of an injecting syringe and
a dead body.

As a matter of history the only approach to satisfactory or
scientiﬁc experimentation to be found in Harvey’s work on the
circulation is given in a letter to Paul Slegal, in which he
describes an experiment with a clyster bag on a dead body. If
he had pursued this method of research and left living animals
alone, he would have anticipated many very important discoveries j
which were necessary for the complete disclosure of the scheme
of the circulation and which were actually not made till the
time of Malpighi.

But granting that Harvey did make discoveries, the relation
of vivisection to them is given entirely and dispassionately by
Sir Henry Acland, who, in answer to Lord Winmarleigh at
the ROyal Commission (Question 991), said : “ It is not quite
certain what argumentation led Harvey to that (the discovery
of the circulation of the blood), whether it was the observation
of the living structure or the contemplation of the dead
structure.” Harvey worked and wrote in the 17th century, a
time when the rights of human beings had but scant considera-
tion, a time when men’s thoughts were rough and rude on

 

 

 

almost all questions, and when science was in its infancy. We
cannot blame Harvey for not being in advance of his time, and
for being incapable of a reasoning power which has been granted
to some who follow him in the 19th century. But we can
blame those of our own time who remain wilfully blind to the
logical conclusions of the facts given by Harvey himself.
When I say, as my general argument, that vivisectional experi-
ments are useless and misleading, I merely say what Harvey
himself proves in numerous instances. He did not see the

 




 

7

logical conclusions of his facts, but he states the facts clearly
enough. The following illustrations I take from his works
almost at random (Willis’s Edition, Old Sydenham Society) :—

P. 16. Speaking of Galen’s most meaningless and utterly
useless experiment of dividing the trachea of a living dog,
forcibly distending the lungs with a pair of bellows, and then
tying the trachea securely, he says: “ Who, indeed, doubts
that, did he inflate the lungs of a subject in the dissecting-
room, he would instantly see the air making its way by this
route were there actually any passage for it ”Q ” In this case
Harvey was clearly of opinion that vivisection was useless.

P. 50. “ The truth, indeed, presents itself obviously before
us when we consider what happens in the dissection of living
animals; the great artery need not be divided, but a small
branch only (as Galen even proves in regard to man), to have
the whole of the blood of the body, as well that of the veins
as of the arteries, drained away in the course of no long time
—some half—hour or less. Butchers are well aware of the fact,
and can bear witness to it 3 for, cutting the throat of an ox and
so dividing the vessels of the neck, in less than a quarter of an
hour they have all the vessels bloodless. The same thing also
occasionally occurs with great rapidity in performing ampu-
tations and removing tumours in the human subject.”

Here vivisection experiment was therefore wholly un-
necessary, but Harvey did not see it.

P. 126. “ The internal jugular vein of a live fallow deer
having been exposed (many of the nobility and his most serene
hIajesty the King, my master, being present), was divided, but
a few drops of blood were observed to escape from the lower
oriﬁce rising up from under the clavicle; whilst from the
superior oriﬁce of the vein, and coming down from the head, a
round torrent of blood gushed forth. You may observe the
same fact any day in practising phlebotomy; if with a ﬁnger

 




 

 

 

 

'8

you compress the vein a little below the oriﬁce the blood is
immediately arrested; but the pressure being removed forth-
with, the ﬂow returns as before.”

The experiment alluded to here forms, so far as I can
discover, the basis of Hannay’s well-known picture, which affords
the British public the proof of Harvey’s claim as the discoverer
of the circulation very much as British popular theologyis drawn
chieﬂy from Milton’s “ Paradise Lost.” But Harvey admits in
the last sentence that the experiment was wholly unnecessary.

Again, if we go into Harvey’s mistakes we ﬁnd further proof
of the misleading nature of vivisectional research. Thus at
p. 103 he says: “I can therefore boldly afﬁrm that there is
neither anastomosis of the venze portee with the cava, of the
arteries with the veins, &c.” (concerning the liver); and we
ﬁnd his experiments giving conclusions wholly at variance with
the facts displayed by the injecting syringe.

I have, of course, no right to force my own conclusions upon
other people, but my research into the history of this question
was undertaken long before the vivisection question attracted
my attention, and its results were to establish opinions con-
cerning Harvey’s relationship to the discovery of the blood such
as I have indicated. a

The story of Charles Bell’s researches into the nervous
system would occupy a whole issue of your great newspaper to
do it justice. It is a record of brilliant success and disastrous
failure. I shall content myself with quoting his own well-
known views on the subject of vivisection and its relation to
his own results as the best answer to your contributor. They
will be found on page 217 of the second volume of his great
work on the Nervous System published in 1839 :—

“In concluding these papers I hope I may be permitted to
offer a few words in favour of anatomy as better adapted for
discovery than experiment.

 

 

 




 

 

9

“Anatomy is already looked upon with prejudice by the
thoughtless and ignorant; let not its professors unnecessarily
incur the censures of the humane. Experiments have never
been the means of discovery; and a survey of what has been
attempted of late years in physiology will prove that the
opening of living animals has done more to perpetuate error
than to conﬁrm the just views taken from the study of anatomy
and natural motions.

“ In a foreign review of my former papers the results have
been considered as a further proof in favour of experiments.
They are, on the contrary, deductions from anatomy, and I
have had recourse to experiments, not to form my own opinions,
but to impress them upon others. It must be my apology that
my utmost efforts of persuasion were lost while I urged my
statements on the grounds of anatomy alone. For my own part
I cannot believe that Providence should intend that the secrets
of nature are to be discovered by means of cruelty, and I am
sure that those who are guilty of protracted cruelties do not
possess minds capable of appreciating the laws of nature.”

As an aid to the digestion of the above, it may interest my
opponent to take Professor Ferrier’s Views on the same subject,
as stated in his preface to his work on Functions of the Brain :—

“N 0 one who has attentively studied the results of the
labours of the numerous investigators in this field of research,
can help being struck by the want of harmony, and even
positive contradictions, among the conclusions which apparently
the same experiments and the same facts have led to in different
hands.”

For any discovery made by Marshall Hall, either of ‘ “ reﬂex
function of the spinal cord and its independence, in certain
conditions, of the control exercised over it by the, brain,” no
experiments on animals were in the least degree required. The
experiment so often made by accident, in which the human

 




 

 

 

 

10

neck is broken below the fourth cervical vertebra, gives every
particle of the information far more accurately, for the animal
experimented upon there is a reasoning and observing creature
who can intelligibly give account of What he feels and what he
does not. Here the experiments on animals only obscured the
results of clinical observation on man and hindered progress.
Another illustration of the ﬁrst group which I did not speciﬁc-
ally indicate is given in the recent investigations on the thyroid
body. Enlargement of this is a matter which has been in-
timately engaging my attention for many years. It has been
established beyond all doubt that in a great group of cases
locality is the chief factor. In anotherI have myself accounted
for the disease by the sexual diseases of women. I have
followed the records of the vivisectional experiments, and I
might be satisﬁed with what your contributor says of them:
“ So far the gain is perhaps negative; but the causes of thy—
roidal failure have yet to be ascertained, and there can be but
little doubt but that positive results will be secured by-and-
” I confess that I see no such hope. The last discussions
have indicated a mass of confusion, from which I can extract

bye.

no idea save that the experiments on animals are positively
ludicrous in the utter absence of purpose which they show.
Some of them can be explained only on the supposition that
the thyroid body is regarded by the experimenters as a
powerful toxic agent. In 95 per cent. of the pOpulation its
presence is never felt. However, this a case far too
immature for either side to reckon upon. So, indeed, are
all the “cultivation experiments ”-—— Witness the deplorable
results in both Pasteur’s remedy for hydrophobia and Koch’s
remedy for tubercle. I have been very familiar with rabies
in the dog, and I have been to Pasteur’s laboratory; and if
the disease which M. Pasteur gives to these dogs is the same
thing, indeed if it is not entirely a different thing from the

 

 




. __._.(E....V n:r.,-;¢ ,

11

‘ rabies which communicates hydrophobia to the human being,

then I must declare my powers of clinical observation to be
strangely defective considering the position in that respect I
have acquired in my profession. So far these inoculation
experiments have been devoid of any results save those so
dangerous that on the ground of their risk alone I should
hamper them by every kind of restriction. That they may
be productive of some good. is possible, for they certainly have
yielded some exact information; but their very danger makes
one feel alarmed when they are being conducted in the neigh-
bourhood and they are faced by this initial objection, Are they
the only road open for investigation? I answer unhesitatingly
that the avenue of clinical research in zymotics has only been
casually traversed, and that no systematic effort to exhaust it
has yet been made. When that has been done there will be
time enough to begin artiﬁcial production, continuation, or
imitation of these diseases, if these objectionable steps should
ever be required. As it is there is not the faintest indication
from any of these experiments of a cure for a zymotic. Indeed,
the more accurate the facts become as they are disclosed,
the more apparent is it to outsiders (who here certainly see
most of the game) that the removal of zymotics will depend on
general hygiene and not on a system of individual inoculations.

In dealing with his second group, your contributor again
reverts to ancient history, and gives his version of the story of
John Hunter’s operation for the cure of aneurism.

This illustration of the value of vivisection has been so
completely and so often destroyed that it is absolutely
unnecessary to allude to it further than to explain that
Hunter modiﬁed Anel’s operation merely because he found
that the artery near to the seat of disease would not hold the
ligature, and the patients bled to death. As the arteries of
animals never suffer from the disease in question, experiments

 




 

12

upon them could not have helped Hunter in any way What-
ever. Sir James Paget, who has lately appeared as an
ardent advocate for vivisection, and, therefore, may be appealed
to by me as a witness not biassed to my view, has recorded his
opinion in the Hunterian oration given at the College of
Surgeons in 1877, that Hunter’s improvement in the treatment
of .aneurism “was not the result of any laborious physiological
induction; it was mainly derived from facts very cautiously
observed in the wards and dead-house.” I11 this opinion Sir
James Paget is undoubtedly correct. Hunter tried his best to
induce aneurism on the lower animals and failed.

This view has been entirely confirmed by the late Sir William
Fergusson, the late l‘dr. Niacilwain,surgeon to St. Bartholomew’s
Hospital, and many others, so that I am really amazed to see
this fallacious illustration revived, the more that there is not a
scrap of evidence that Hunter himself believed in, or made any
such claim. It is impossible that so great a surgeon as he was
could have devised so satisfactory an operation, save on two
grounds, one of clinical and pathological observation to the
effect that the further you get from the seat of disease the
healthier the artery is; and, secondly, that the triangle where
the artery is reached is the best site for the operation, for purely
anatomical reasons. He could not possibly have arrived at
these indispensable and fundamental conclusions from any kind
of experiment on any kind of animal.

The illustration brought in by the instance of Von Graefe’s
treatment'of glaucoma by iridectomy is a new one, and I am
not in any way proﬁcient in diseases of the eye. But I was
house surgeon to the eye wards in the Royal Inﬁrmary of
Edinburgh when Von Graefe’s discovery was given to the
world, and I read a paper on the subject to the Students’
Medical Society. I have found the manuscript of that paper,
and there is no allusion in it to any experiments on animals. I

 

 

 




 

 

13

have inquired of one of the most eminent ophthalmic surgeons
in the world, especially an authority on glaucoma, and he asserts
that he was a pupil of Von Graefe’s at the time and never heard
of his performing any experiments on animals. The only
authority on diseases of the eye just by my hand'is the standard
work by Mr. Brudenell Carter, and at page 414 he gives the
story brieﬂy and succinctly as follows, and with that I shall
leave this more than doubtful illustration :—

“ Before 1856 glaucoma was justly regarded as being beyond
the reach of any treatment then practised; but the ophthal—
moscope, by showing the excavation of the optic disc, caused
the increase of tension to be more regarded than it had been
prior to this discoVery. Von Graefe, who had observed that
the excision of a large piece of iris, in making an artiﬁcial pupil,
was always followed by marked diminution of tension, deter-
mined to try how the same proceeding would affect glaucomatous
hardness, and his experimental operations soon c0nvinced him
how brilliant was the success that he was destined to achieve.
Surgery has won few greater triumphs than the inclusion of
the whole glaucomatous class among the maladies which admit
of cure by means of operation.”

In the above extract it is clear that Mr. Brudenell Garter
means by the word “ experiments ” the experimental operations
on human patients, based on the beautiful inductive reasoning
which arose from the use of the ophthalmoscope. Glaucoma
does not occur in any animal, and, therefore, no experiments on
them could have been useful.

The use of experiments upon animals for the detection of
poisons has been successful, as in the cases of Palmer, Pritchard,
850. But such experiments are only conﬁrmatory of suspicious
aroused by information obtained from other sources. They
are clumsy and untrustworthy, and in these days, when methods
of chemical and physical analysis have reached inﬁnite

 




 

 

l4

excellence, they ought to be entirely supplanted by exact
chemical research. Strychnine has yielded to this and so Will
the other alkaloids if medico-legal chemists are put on their
mettle. They are the ofﬁcial custodians of the safety of the
public from poisons, and they ought not to rest with their
science under such a stigma as is involved in the employment
of such rough and uncertain methods. At the worst such
experiments are but a bagatelle, both in number and in degree,
to those against which we mostly level our complaints.

Belonging to the same group are the further and best
illustrations afforded by your writer in the cases of nitrite of
amyl and chloroform. Of the former I can only say that
having had occasion to watch its employment in a few cases
some years ago I was so alarmed by its Violence and uncertainty
that I would never again sanction its use, and my reticence was
strengthened when I learned from Dr. Lauder Brunton himself
that the substance could hardly be obtained chemically pure,
and that the commercial article produced far more powerful
and dangerous results than the pure drug did. Such drugs do
not enter into my therapeutics.

The ﬁnal illustration is chloroform and the most recent
experimental research into its properties at Hyderabad. The
formulated result, from animals, is “ that the primary source of
danger in the use of chloroform is always failure of the respi-
ration and never failure of the heart.” This may be true about
dogs, but concerning human beings it is absolute nonsense, and
I venture to assert that there are few living men, if any, who
have had a longer continual and daily experience in the
application of chloroform to human beings than I have had.

Concerning the results of brain surgery your contributor is
entirely wrong. The earliest and by far the best efforts in
this direction were made, and the most brilliant results were
obtained far better than those of Mr. Victor Horsley, not ﬁve

 

 




 

 

15

or six years ago, but ten and twelve years ago, by Dr. William
Macewen, of Glasgow, the greatest living surgeon, and he
devised his successful operations entirely by the symptoms
of the patients. Localisation of function by experiments on
animals had no place in his conclusions at all. (See .Dr.
Whitson’s letter to the Times, December, 1884.)

I have omitted detailed allusion to Dr. Hope’s experiments
on the cardiac valves, because I have already occupied too much
of your space, and this is an in stance in which only ridicule can
be used as a weapon. The experiments were clumsy and
barbarous, and Williams exposed their fallacies at the time.
What there is of accuracy about them could have been, and
has since been, far better proved by the clinical and pathological
observation of incompetent and damaged valves.

I am, 850.,

LAWSON TAIT.

 

(Sent to the “TIMES,” but not inserted.)

SIR,—-—-My reply to my anonymous Opponent will be very
brief, because he does not attempt to deal with my argument at
all, conﬁning himself merely to further contentions in favour
of his illustrations. I insist again that such illustrations are
quite valueless as indications of what we ought to do now in
the way of research, seeing that this method of experiment
has become so obnoxious, by the growth of public opinion. In
this particular light it stands alone, there is no other method of
research of any kind to which such objection can be taken,
and therefore the complaint that we are seeking to prevent the
extension of knowledge is not applicable.

Your contributor Complains that I make no attempt to
explain in what direction a more excellent method of research
may be found. My answer is that this is no part of my business ;
that is the affair of the professional physiologist ; but I can go

 




 

16

so far as to say that the methods of clinical and pathological
research are not only not yet exhausted but that it is only the
fringe of them which has been touched by systematic research.
Let me know that these have been exhausted and then we can
say to our scientiﬁc friends that they must still ﬁnd other
methods of research which are free from objection; and if
they are forced to ﬁnd them by public opinion they will-ﬁnd
them. We have had all this kind of objection over and over
again in other instances, but when the objectionable door is
closed by public opinion another and a better way is speedily
found, as in the case of roast pig.

Your contributor devotes another column to Harvey, but I
cannot ask you to waste further space upon this question. Let
any unprejudiced reader peruse an article in the Fortnightly
Review, for July, 1876, by Dr. J. H. Bridges, the eminent
Comtist, on “Harvey and Vivisection,” and there he will ﬁnd
the matter settled.

As to Sir Charles Bell I am content to rest upon his own
opinion as to his own methods of work, and the relative value
he puts upon them in the words I quoted.

To the assistance of your contributor comes Dr. John
Berry Haycraft, one of large experience in experiments on
living animals, a professional physiologist, and who therefore
must be of opinion that there is “ nothing like leather.” The
quotation which he uses from Palmer’s Edition of Hunter’s
work made no impression on me ten years ago, as it makes none
now, and for two reasons. First of all the quotation only says
(and bear in mind the words are not Hunter’s but only the
report of a most inaccurate reporter, put down years after the
alleged incident) “ the results of these experiments conﬁrmed
Mr. Hunter in his opinion, etc.” It was, therefore, not to the
experiments at all that Hunter owed his idea of the operation,
but, as Sir James Paget says, to his pathological and clinical

 




 

 

 

 

17

observation. The experiments at most only conﬁrmed an
opinion legitimately arrived at. But my own belief is that
Hunter never performed such perfectly fatuous expedments;
certainly, if he did, he could never have come to such conclusions
about them. To dissect off the outer coats of the femoral artery
of a dog was about the most foolish way to imitate the aneurysm
of a human blood-vessel which could be contrived. I cannot
believe that the great Hunter could conceive such a stupidity,
but I can and do believe that Everard Home imagined it, as we
know he imagmed a great many things. But if Hunter did
perform these experiments and did come to such conclusions
from them, the whole thing is so ludicrous, from a surgical
point of view, that it only forms an additional argument in
favour of stopping a method of research which might have led
astray even the genius of John Hunter. Fortunately the
experiments did not influence Hunter’s logical mind; for close
to Dr. Haycraft’s quotation from Everard Home there is this
other and far more satisfactory passage : l\Ir. Hunter found
“ that the cause of failure in the common operation arises from
tying a diseased artery, which is incapable of union in the time
necessary for the separating of the ligature ”—sound surgical
reasoning, worthy of Hunter.

Precisely the same criticism applies to the alleged experiments
of Graefe. After he had discovered the increased intra-ocular
pressure by the ophthalmoscope he applied the induction method
and reasoned out his case. If his conclusions were conﬁrmed by
experiments on animals the discovery was not made by their
means. They might have led Von Graefe to false conclusions
and have nipped the whole thing in the bud.

Your contributor complains that I said he was “entirely
wrong” in his history of brain surgery. I desire to
express my regret at having used a phrase with the
slightest suspicion of being offensive. I will leave your readers

 




 

18

‘to substitute what they like to convey the same meaning
without being offensive; for if he will go back through the
great mass of literature concerning brain surgery (I do not mean
the mere treatment of accidents, but deliberate operations on
the skull cavity and its contents) which begins in the middle of
last century and goes on continuously till the present year, he
will find my conclusion correct, that here as elsewhere experi-
ments on animals have been constantly hindering progress and
that great advances of surgery have nearly all been due to the
possibility of operating on insensitive patients, and to nothing
else.

I see from your columns of to-day that the Association for
the Advancement of Medicine by Research propose to publish a
work “ which shall describe the leading experimental researches
to which physiology, medicine, and surgery, have been indebted
for the means of progress in the healing art.” I am delighted
to learn this, as the illustrations are to be given by specialists
and not by men who indulge in mere vague general statements,
depending on their social eminence for the conviction they
cannot communicate by actual knowledge. Let us have the
illustrations given by competent men and we can discuss them.
I for one would like to be converted from my present views, to
which I was driven years ago by the overwhelming mass of
futile, contradictory, and misleading experiments which had
been and were then being carried on. The mere culling a
piece of information here and there will not justify a method
of research which has led us into thousands of errors ; yet this
is the issue which the Association of Vivisectors will have to
encounter when their book comes out.

I am, &c.,
LAWSON TAIT.
Birmingham, November 11th, 1892.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




Sittnris (Street and @ntmmtimml (Smitty; ﬁnr the
ﬁrstsqtinu nil @uimalg ﬁrms iﬁ'inimﬁuu.
OFFICES: 20, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.

Vice-Presidents.
THE LORD CHIEF JUSTICE OF ENGLAND.
THE DUKE or PORTLAND. THE DUCHESS or PORTLAND.

The MARQUIS 0F BUTE. LORD CARDROSS.

The MARQUIS OF HERTFORD. LORD CONGLETON.

The MARQUIS 0F WORCESTER. LORD LEIGH.

The DOWAGER MARCHICNESS OF CRMONDE. VISCCUNT POLLINGTON.

The EARL OF DELAWARE. LORD RADSTOCK.

The EARL 0F DARNLEY. LORD ROBARTES.

The DOWAGER COUNTESS OF PORTSMOUTH. Her Excellency LADY PAGET.
VISCOUNT SIDMOUTH. Rt. Hon. JAMES STANSFELD, M.P.
The BISHOP OF BATH AND WELLS. The ARCHBISHOP OF TUAM.

The BISHOP OF MANCHESTER. Hon. EVELYN ASHLEY.

The BISHOP 0F LIVERPOOL. The DEAN 0F LLANDAFF.

The BISHOP OF SOUTHWELL. SIR GERALD CODRINGTON, Bart.
The BISHOP OF WAKEFIELD. WILLIAM ADLAM, Esq., F.S.A.
The BISHOP SUFFRAGAN 0F COVENTRY. FRANK MORRISON, Esq.

' BISHOP BARRY. ROBERT T. REID, Esq., Q.C., M.P.
BISHOP CRAMER-ROBERTS. REV. CANON WILBERFORCE.

The BISHOP 0F NOTTINGHAM.

Central Executive Committee.

The LADY ABINGER. W. S. LILLY, Esq., LL.M.

MRS. ADLAM. MISS MARSTON.

MRS. ARTHUR ARNOLD. REV. J. MATTHEWS.

LADY EDITH ASHLEY. MISS S. S. MONRO.

REV. J. P. BACON-PHILLIPS. MRS. FRANK MORRISON.

MRS. BARRY. The LADY MOUNT-TEMPLE.

ERNEST BELL, Esq., M.A. JOSIAH OLDFIELD, Esq., M.A., B.C.L.
EDWARD BERDOE, Esq., L.R.C.P. . MRS. JAMES PENDER.

ALEXR. BOWIE, Esq., M.D. , F. E. PIRKIS, Esq., R.N., F.R.G.S.
The Hon. MRS. R. C. BOYLE. MRS. LLOYD PRICE.

MISS OLIVE BRYANT. '5 LESTER REED, Esq., F.C.S., F.I.C.
The COUNTESS OF CAMPERDOWN. . MISS ELLEN E. REES.

JOHN H. CLARKE, Esq., M.D. ; REV. F. S. ROSS, B.A.

MISS FRANCES POWER COBBE ' GEORGE W. E. RUSSELL, Esq., M.P.
J. E. COOKE, Esq. E REV. J. H. SATCHELL.

MRS. E. M. JAMES. % MARK THORNHILL, Esq.

REV. FRANCIS G. JONES. ; LADY WINDSOR.

MRS. LEYCESTER. ‘

Hon. Treasuren—HCN. BERNARD COLERIDGE, Q.C., M.P.
Secretary.—BENJA MIN BRYAN, Esq.
Assistant Secretary.——SIDNEY Gr. TRIST. Esq.

 

 

 

 

THE Object of the Society is the Total Abolition of the practice of Vivisection as
deﬁned in the Report of the Royal Commission.

Those Who sympathise with this Object are most earnestly entreated to aiford the
Society all the help in their power, by subscribing, and inducing others to subscribe,
liberally to its funds ; by Obtaining Signatures to Petitions to Parliament; and also!
by disseminating the publications of the Society. and especially its organ THE
ZOOPHILIST, wherein the latest information respecting the Anti-Vivisection agitation
is to be found.

Member’s Annual Subscription, 103. Life Membership, £5. Subscription to
THE ZOOPHILIST, the Organ of the Cause, 3.9. 6d. per annum, post free.

Price, 3a.; 23. 6d. per doz. ; 183. per 100.

 




