“ THE WRONG IDEA

By MARY ODETTE

All over the country during this week there are men and women giving
their time and their thoughts, some in a greater degree, 'some in a lesser
according to their different abilities or the amount of time at their disposal
to the cause of modern chivalry, speaking up for the helpless. Others

are giving their time and their thoughts
to listen; to listen and be interested, that
is what is so important. For it is that
interest that matters, and I ask you to
consider with me how worthy of your
interest this question of animal welfare is,
and what a large part it plays in your own
human life.

There are a great many people who think it is not worth while spending
their time worrying about animals, when there is so much human suffering
in the world. But what they seem to forget is, however terrible our own
wrongs may be, we are at least able to speak and ﬁght for ourselves. The
miner, in spite of the danger and disagreeableness of his calling, is‘able to
and does demand that as much as possible may be done for his welfare;
whereas the wretched pit pony must live blind and dumb in the darkness
until we humans have time to think about it. Who knows that the tragedy
and helplessness of human fate is always as unjust as it may sometimes
appear? There is so much of our own suffering for which we ourselves are
responsible. War, in spite of the amount of innocent suffering involved,
is still a man-made monster. There is nothing responsible for it but us
men and women; the primitive greed and violence that still run" in many
of the human race. But the great mystery and pitiableness of the suffering
of little children and animals is their innocence.

Let us consider very closely the idea that it is waste of time thinking
about the welfare of animals. In plainer English, it is waste of time
thinking about anything that does not directly concern our own welfare.
ls it not but another expression, perhaps not such a direct one as others,
but nevertheless an expression of what I am going to call the “wrong
idea”? By that I mean that idea that has misled humanity since the
beginning of time. The idea that. it is possible to dole out justice and
humanity in “doses”. The idea that you and I can consider only the
comfort and well-being of ourselves and our own, our own class, our
own nation, our own people, and expect—vain, futile creatures that we
are—that the world can be run for the favoured few. That we ourselves
can keep afloat, safe in our indifference and blindness, while the very
boards under our feet are being rotted away by the need and suffering
of others. ' '

We believe that there is room in this world for every creature to
breathe, for every creature to have a place in the sun. And that belief
is the great hope of youth. Never, since the beginning of the world,
had youth been brought face to face with the horror of the “wrong

 




idea” as in the Great War. And never has there been such an effort to
uproot the “wrong idea” as we “much criticised young moderns”
are making since the war. We may, some of us, be very misled in our
efforts, and we may sometimes get very cross with each other, but at
least the old comfortable indifference has gone. And there is one thing
that shines forth in the midst of all this modern chaos, and is, in my mind,
the hope of future generations—~the realisation that is coming over
humanity that all human and charitable effort is futile unless it is universal
The “wrong idea” that one man may batten on another, one class on
another, one nation on another, is passing. \

As evil begets evil, so love begets love. With this new awakening in
our hearts of our duty to one another has come this tremendous awaken-
ing, which has suddenly arisen during the last few years in the midst of
us men and women, of our duty to the little brothers of mankind. What
I would put before every serious-minded man and woman is this: there
is no effort too small to make the world a more wholesome and less‘
miserable place for any creature, however humble, that is waste of time
in our battle with the “wrong idea”. The love of God surrounds all
his creatUres, and when we try to apply within the selﬁsh limits of our
own family, our own nationality, our own class, or even our own species,
the love and justice of God, it is as if we were trying to measure out the
inﬁnite by inches.

Those of us who are working for humane education and more humane
conditions for animals are helping to build a strong foundation in the
cause of humanity We all know that violence and vice is a matter of ‘
degrees, and there is no descent so slippery and insidious as cruelty!
What applies to individuals applies to peoples and nations. And when
we take this opportunity of Animal Welfare Week to ask those of you
who would like to see the world a better place for all, to try to ﬁnd time
to interest yourselves seriously in at least one of the questions that affect.
the welfare of animals, whether it is vivisection, or humane slaughter,
or performing and captive animals, or whatever it is, it is not a question
of being sentimentally fond of animals, any more than that the Factory
Act was a question of being fond of children, or the abolition of the slave
trade was a question of being fond of negroes, or being fond of the
working‘man, but because these things have got to be faced if we hope
to make the world a better place in the fullest sense.

There is not one of us who is’not interested in some cause that voices
our ‘own particular interests. Perhaps it is something more vital than ‘
interest; perhaps it is 'a question of the whole condition of our lives,
and of those who are near and dear‘to 'us. There are some even who have
'not the hope to see things remedied in their own life-time, but. who are,
nevertheless, ﬁghting ceaselessly in the hope ofcreating a better chance
for those who will come after. And if we hope to beat down, on our
behalf, the selﬁshness and indifference of mankind and vested interests,
let us spare just a little time in this busy life of ours to listen to those
whose very dumbness cries out against our indifference. ~

NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WE

lé—G-nosvenor—ﬁlace tendon-ﬁJALl . _ g
' W.P.I.——2563
FEL18 l94o '

serial Record Dividing

 

 




