 

 

Reprinted from
PURE BRED DOGS/AMERICAN KENNEL GAZETTE
(August 1977)

With Permission of The American Kennel Club¢

'09

Owners
DognapperS

Fay
Brisk

 

 

 




 

TWELVE
the dis-
covery of stolen dogs in research
laboratories led to a new law—the
Laboratory Animal Welfare Act—to pre-
vent petnapping for such purposes. Con-
gressional hearings at the time produced a
neatly dressed young man with a crew cut
and a ready smile. His name was Harry,
and he was a convicted dog thief from a
small town in Pennsylvania.

Harry had agreed to “tell all,” providing
his identity was kept secret. (“I don’t want
my kids to know I stole dogs”) He describ-
ed how he kept stolen pets (mostly
Beagles) in his barn with burlap Over the
windows “to keep ‘em quiet,” and how cars
were rigged for the job. “We’d take the
back seat out of a sedan, and build a
framework and put‘wire mesh around it,
with a gate on one side. We could pile a lot
of dogs in there. The guys I worked with?
Never knew their names. Just called them
“Joe,” or “Jack.”

“It’s a rotten racket.” he told a room full
of Congressmen, “but a good way to make
an easy buck.”

It still is. In recent years, police say it has
become even more profitable and better-
organized, especially on the East Coast.

0 In Pennsylvania, a new Secretary
of Agriculture, Kent D. Shelhamer,
launches state-wide reforms after three
State Dog Law Officers uncover evidence
of dognapping, counterfeit dog tags and
false records at dealers’ kennels.

O In Plattekill, N.Y., Mrs. Joseph
Trainor glances out of her window to see
two men coax her Irish setter into their
blue van and drive away. Leaving her hus-
band to call the police, Mrs. Trainor runs
out of the house and into her car, and
chases the van to an intersection, where
she manages to block traffic and get her
dog back. The men, both from New
Jersey, are charged with larceny. Both
plead guilty and are awaiting sentence.

0 In Walden, N.Y. humane society
direc’tor Mrs. Florence Thiele reports fin-
di'ng German Shepherds and hunting dogs
whose ears have been mutilated by thieves
attempting to remove tattoos.

O In Virginia’s Blue Ridge hunt coun-
try, offer of a $1,000 reward fails to bring
back a trained Doberman. In Darien,
Conn., a $1,000 reward is posted for “Oui-
Si,” a black French Poodle. In Washington,
DC, the same sad newspaper ad appears
daily for six months: “$500 for the return of
my" Beagle, Clancy.”

Because petnapping as such is no
federal crime, there are no nationwide
figures on stolen dogs, but animal shelter
personnel estimate that not more than ten
to 15 percent reported lost are returned to
their owners. Others are brought back for
“rewards” or are found dead along the
highways, or in the fields during hunting
season, but the vast majority simply
vanish.

Are they, as their owners claim, lured by
bitches in heat to waiting trucks, caught by
traps, enticed by drugged meat or shot
with tranquilizer guns? Are they the vic-
tims of professional thieves, or could the
thief be the local dog warden, out for a few
quick sales?

Whatever the method, dogs—mostly
purebreds—are disappearing in great
numbers throughout the country, and in-
formed sources say they are being stolen
for a variety of outlets: the black market
pet trade, operators of attack dog rentals
hunting dog dealers and for use in dog
fights as well as for research laboratories.

Mike Kredovski, a federally-licensed
dealer, who buys roughly 900 mixed
breeds (and a fair number of purebreds) a
month from pounds in Michigan and Ohio,
openly agrees.

“If there is such a thing as a dog mafia,
we’ve got one,” he says. “But there aren’t
as many stolen dogs going to laboratories
as there used to be. The purebreds are be-
ing stolen for use as guard dogs and for
backyard breeders. That’s where the
money is.”

But another laboratory animal dealer,
who asked not to be identified, admits he
gets calls for special breeds:

“Not for Poodles or Cocker Spaniels.
You couldn’t give them away. But the labs
really go for Beagles. They. head the list.
And they want Dalmatians and Irish
Setters for special experiments—I’m not
sure what. German Shepherds and
Labradors are used for heart surgery. The
latest request is for 90-lb. short-haired
dogs. That means Great Danes. Once I got
a call for a harlequin Great Dane. I couldn’t
fill it, but another dealer did.”

Some dealers fill these orders legitimate-

.lyv from reputable pounds or private-

sources, but many must resort to shady

deals with “dog jockeys” or “bunchers” to
meet their quotas—and no questions ask-
ed. A laboratory will pay $50 or more for a
German Shepherd. Thus, with nearly
1,000 .Iaboratories using some 200,000
dogs annually (a conservative estimate
that doesn’t include government
laboratories), the money spent for ex-
periments on stolen dogs could add up to a
tidy sum.

Equally profitable is the illegal trade in
hunting dogs, even for the small supplier.
All year round, but especially during hun-
ting season, you will see sleek, Black and
Tan Coonhounds, Blue Ticks, Labrador
Retrievers and other purebreds tied up in a
back shed in the outskirts of Alexandria,
Va. Once a week, a burly, gray-haired
man, wearing a hunter’s cap and boots,
loads the dogs into a closed pickup and
heads for the Pennsylvania hills. A few
hours later he turns into a dirt road leading
to a licensed dealer’s kennels. He unloads,
picks up his cash and leaves. (Penn-
sylvania law requires health certificates for
all dogs brought into the state for resale,
but state dog law officers ignore it.) In
Pennsylvania, the dogs are whisked from
one dealer to another until they are too dis—
persed to trace. Meanwhile, the Virginia
“buncher” begins, again, to make his rou-
nds of distant pounds and other sources of
supply.

“I git my dogs fair and square,” he told
this writer over the telephone. “Lots of
times, people jest drop ‘em off at my door. I
wouldn’t lie to ya. I ain’t had nuthin’ but
mutts all year...”

More sophisticated operators, however,
are part of an interstate dog racket with
headquarters in New Jersey, in the opinion
of Mrs. Edna Cooke, a humane agent who
has investigated guard dog traffic in the
Washington, DC. area.

“Every year there’s a convention of dog
dealers in Maryland,” she said. “The
license plates on the cars are practically all
from New Jersey.”

She said Siberian Huskies and
Malamutes are being stolen for guard dog
work as well as Doberrnans and German
Shepherds, adding, “The thieves around
here are so slippery, they even go to train-
ing sites and steal from each other!”

Mrs. Cooke is convnnced that
dognappers have no specialties: “They get
what they can, then sort it out. But it’s all a
cover up for an even worse crime.”

That crime was brought to the attention
of a Congressional committee several
years ago by Duncan Wright, then Presi~

PURE—SHED DOGS AMERICAN KENNEL GAZETTE




    

   

Mrs. Florence Thiele, director of the Walden, N. Y. Humane Society, took this picture of a Doberma

says she found in a pile of 46 unidentifiable dogs that had been skinned for their pelts. She claims this practice has

become routine in upstate New York, where dognapping is prevalent.

dent of the American Dog Owners
Association:

“Dogfighting encompasses a broad
spectrum of activities varying... from the
fighting of dogs bred and trained for that
purpose...to the fighting of pet-type dogs
stolen or acquired from pounds or
shelters... The use of pet-type dogs within
the dogfighting community occurs only
among those using the dogﬁghting as a
source of revenue and as a base for
promoting other activities The un-
trained dogs are injected with drugs and
subjected to the use of a cattle prod until
driven hysterical, at which point they are
turned loose Upon one another...”

A new law, which imposes heavy
penalties on anyone transporting dogs
across state lines for fighting purposes,
may deter some dognapping. But charged
with enforcing it is the US. Department of
Agriculture which has yet to catch a thief
under the 1966 Laboratory Animal Welfare
Act requiring dealers to maintain adequate
facilities and detailed records. Dog dealers’
records are inspected—for the most

AUGUST 1977

part—by livestotk—oriented
veterinarians inclined to be more concern-
ed with hog cholera than they are with dog
thieves, and USDA officials frankly admit
they don’t have the funds or the staff—or
even the legal authority—to do better.

“Even if we tracked down a dog thief we
couldn’t arrest him,” says Dr. Alfred E.
Decoteau, who is in charge of USDA’s
New England Veterinary Services. “We
can only prosecute licensed dealers for
falsifying records, providing we can get the
case into court.”

(One case Dr. Decoteau recalls he could
not get into court occurred in September,
1974, - when his staff and that of the
Massachusetts SPCA provided evidence
that two dognapping rings were operating
in the area. A licensed dealer was involved
in knowingly purchasing stolen dogs, he
said, but USDA attorneys in Washington
wouldn’t consider it. The Massachusetts
SPCA, however, took the case to court
and won.)

Dr. Decoteau who has tried for years to
strengthen USDA regulation points out

 

n Pinscher she

that laboratory animal dealers can
purchase “literally hundreds”, of stolen
dogs with a record-keeping system he con-
siders “highly inadequate.”

“The dealer can write down that he
receives a certain number of dogs from a
certain pound in a certain city,” he ex-
plains. “But we have no way of checking
his records. And we can’t get any informa-
tion from the pounds, because municipal
or county pounds are exempt from the
Animal Welfare Act.”

Dr. Decoteau is chairman of the Animal
Welfare Committee of the United States
Animal Health Association. He believes
that laboratories should raise their own
dogs and advocates banning the sale of
pound dogs (and cats, too!) to USDA-
licensed dealers.

Such a ban seems to be working in a
two-county area in northern Virginia
where, due largely to the efforts of Mrs.
Mary Warner, dognapping has virtually
come to a halt. For several years, Mrs.
Warner, a Minneapolis—born
horsewoman whose own German

 




Shepherd was stolen from her Berryville
farm, testified before Congressional com-
mittees and initiated state police in-
vestigations to stop the thefts. Then, a year
ago last spring, a state trooper uncovered
a load of 83 dogs from Virginia pounds
“packed like sardines” into an out-of—state
dealer’s truck, prompting Mrs. Warner to
call a meeting of dog owners and other
concerned citizens living in communities
along Interstate Highway 81, where pet-
napping was heaviest. Together, they
formed “Action 81.”

“We just got tired of having our dogs
stolen and not having the police do
anything‘about it,” she said. “So we decid-
ed to organize and work things out at the
grass roots level.”

To “work things out,” Mrs. Warner

recruited sharp-eyed school children,
senior citizens, waitresses at roadside
diners, farmers, gas station attendants and
others to act as “spotters.” The spotters
keep an eye on truck stops and back roads
leading to secluded barns serving as dog
collection points. They take down license
numbers and descriptions of trucks and
report them to Mrs. Warner, who pin-
points it all on a map, along with missing
pet reports. She also has mailed out more
than 10,000 “Action 81” postcards and
countless booklets containing information
on dognapping and how to prevent it. As a
result, “Action 81” is expanding and attrac-
ting members from other states. (It has
also attracted the attention and support of
Mrs. Christine Stevens, president of the
highly—prestigious Animal Welfare In-
stitute.)

66

headquarters, Where volunteers, who
already knew of Mabel’s disappearance,
called state officials in Harrisburg, Pa.
while the truck continued on its way tOLa
dealer’s kennels in eastern Pennsylvania.

Whether Mabel was actually on that
truck is a matter of the utmost conjecture,
and what transpired may always remain a
mystery, but late that same dark and rainy
night, her owner saw a station wagon pull
up to his driveway, stop momentarily, then
speed away. And there, bouncing joyously
on the front lawn, was Mabel!

Mabel’s owner was fortunate. The vast
majority of dog owners have no idea whom
to call or where to look. “Dog bunchers"
and “jockeys” abound in great numbers.
They live in shacks in the woods or on
farms or even in residential
neighborhoods, where they can keep dogs
in basements or backyards until they sell
them. They have unlisted phone numbers,
“no trespassing” signs on their property,
and they don’t advertise. Some are kennel
Operators doing business on the side. They
provide emergency dumping grounds for
stolen dogs. One suspect kennel operator
this writer visited had more than 60 dogs
tied to makeshift doghouses in a muddy
area just off the main highway.

“Want to buy a English Setter?” he ask-
ed. “Just'turned up one day. Once in a
while people find their lost dogs here. [give
them back. Glad to oblige.”

Such neighborly concern achieves its
purpose. It stumps police: “Can’t make
any arrests that way!” And, as the record
shows, they seldom do. ‘

‘The purebreds are being stolen. for use as guard

dogs and for backyard breeders. That’s where the

money is.’

“Since we organized,” Mrs. Warner
says, “we have succeeded in keeping
dognappers out of our area. Now we must
help other communities do the same!”

Has “Action 81” ever caught a
dognapper? Once, Mrs. Warner thought
they had one, but he got away by disguising
his truck as a US. Customs vehicle haul-
ing sentry dogs. (“The customs people said
it wasn’t their truck. We just weren't smart
enough on that one!”) But the tale that is
fast becoming a legend up and down the
Shenandoah Valley is about an Airedale
named Mabel.

When this family pet disappeared from
home, her disappearance was regarded
glumly as “the end of Mabel.” But it wasn't.
At a diner twenty miles away, a waitress
serving coffee to a truck driver heard dogs
barking inside a large, green van. She
wrote down the Pennsylvania license
number and telephoned it to “Action 81”

99

Given this dismal outlook, dog owners
are searching for ways to prevent dognap-
ping, and many are writing to “Action 81"
for instructions on how to set up similar
operations in their own communities. A co-
ordinated, “Action. 81” network
throughout the country would undoubted-
ly dampen the activities of some
dognappers—primarily in rural areas and
small towns—but much more needs to be
done at local, state and federal levels.

Dognapping for research could be curb-
ed considerably if the US. Department of
Agriculture established a separate bureau
within its existing structure to enforce the
Laboratory Animal Welfare Act and its
amendments. Currently, inspectors spend
less than five percent of their time making
inspections of some 8,000 USDA-licensed
animal dealers, research laboratories and
other installations covered by the Act. The
rest of the time is spent on livestock and

plant inspections.

With a separate bureau—which could
be established administratively—a small
number of inspectors would be relieved of
the burden of other duties and could
devote all their time to enforcing the Act.
What’s more, the $1.5 million allotted by
Congress for this purpose would no doubt
be used far more advantageously than it is
now. Letters urging the establishment of
such a bureau should be addressed to: The
Honorable Bob Bergland, Secretary of
Agriculture, USDA Administration Bldg,
Washington, DC, 20250.

At the state level, a high incidence of
dognapping should be called to the atten-
tion of state officials—including the
Governor~and dog owners should in-
quire about state laws covering dog
larceny. (Pennsylvania has a separate Dog
Law Bureau staffed by Enforcement Of-
ficers.)

At the local level, all ordinances per-
taining to dogs should be reviewed and
brought up to date. County and municipal
pounds should be inspected, and their
records thoroughly checked. Through the
news media, dog owners should be warned
not to leave their pets in a car, tied to a
pole, alone in the backyard or permitted to
roam. A dog on the loose—particularly
without a license tag—is as inviting to a
thief as a purse on a sidewalk.

Above all, dogs should be tattooed on
the inner right hind leg with the owner’s
Social Security number and registered
with the National Dog Registry. (An un—
registered tattoo can’t be traced.) The
NDR was established in 1966 by Dr. David
H. Timrud, a New Jersey physician on the
staff of Princeton University, after his own
dog was stolen. It proved to be a unique in-
surance policy.

Research laboratories will not use tat-
tooed dogs, and dealers won’t buy them.
(Occasionally, however, one slips through.
Not long ago, a laboratory found a tat-
tooed dog and notified the NDR. lt belong-
ed to a woman in Colorado.) As a result, a
thief who steals a tattooed dog usually
releases it. When it is found, police or
animal shelters notify the NDR, and the
NDR telephones the owner. Over the past
11 years, the NDR says it has found and
returned “thousands” of dogs-~many of
them simply lostw-to their owners.

NDR's manager, Mrs. Dagmar Swan-
son, operates a daily (weekends included)
24-hour, dog retrieval service, an opera-
tion that is endorsed by numerous
obedience and kennel clubs. For further in-
formation, write to NDR, 227 Stebbins
Road, Carmel, N.Y., 10512, or call 914-277-
4485. There are other registries
throughout the country which tattoo and
register pets. One of the problems in retur-
ning a lost pet is knowing whom to contact.
Each registry has its own identification
system. its success depends upon the
amount of public awareness there is in the
area it primarily serves.

PUFE-BRED DOGS AMERICAN KENNEL GAZETTE

 




Young People and Their
Wildlife Heritage

By DEVEREUX BUTCHER

S THERE anything that you, as a teacher, can
do to help more young people enjoy our wildlife
without destroying it? There is much you can do.
You are, in fact, in a most favorable position to
stimulate sympathy and understanding toward
wildlife, and to encourage appreciation of it for its
own sake.

The need for such education is twofold. First, the
killing of wildlife for fun must, in many cases, have
a lowering effect upon the morals of those who prac-
tice this so-called sport. The world is full of misery
and suffering, and it is imperative that thinking
people everywhere do all within their power to re-
duce suffering and the causes of it. Secondly, the
present pressure for “sport” shooting is so great, and
is so rapidly increasing, that our beautiful, inter-
esting birds and mammals of the wild are becoming
scarce, and many species sought by gunners will be-
come extinct, as some already have, unless we as a
nation encourage and soon adopt a new attitude
toward our wildlife.

The decline of wildlife, in large measure, is the
result of human ignorance, lack of understanding
and appreciation of the creatures and their needs.
Gunning and the destruction of habitat are the
chief causes.

 

,_ - ‘.. l... _ ., " 1.2,." ‘..r_ ’
- m , , 9.40.4»;5,’ , 7‘9 my". --= . .._.,,, ~§W~3<W4M1141ﬁ5‘5‘? ‘ w-N":

.,., awe-.v-w- m». - _

If you read National Parks Magazine between
1942 and 1957 or National Wildlanals News
between 1959 and 1962, or if you have read the
book Exploring Our National Wildlife Refuges,
Houghton Mifflin (30., Boston, 1963, you know
the handiwork of this writer, who also authored
Exploring Our National Parks and Monuments
and, most recently, Our National Parks in Color.

Out of his experiences Butcher has developed
strong feelings about many problems facing the
people of this country in the matter of preserva-
tion of the scenic wilderness and forest areas
and plantlife and wildlife. This article offers
to teachers a plea to consider our wildlife heri-
tage and to incorporate such consideration in
the science instruction of young people.

 

 

 

Although we must establish inviolate sanctuaries
for wildlife wherever we can, and restore habitats,
this is often a slow and costly way to protect wildlife,
and it beneﬁts wildlife only in local areas. The
great need of the time is to teach our youngsters
that the wild birds and mammals are sentient beings
not greatly differing from ourselves, and having the
same right to life as we; that it is neither heroic nor
manly to wound or kill them for pleasure or to
demonstrate marksmanship.

*Each year, during the gunning season, nearly
15,000,000 men and boys kill wildlife for fun, and
this number is steadily growing. Unless this huge
army can be materially reduced, the future of wild-
life is indeed gloomy.

In our own country, species that are now extinct
or vanishing include many sought by gunners.
Among them are various species of ducks, grouse,
doves, pigeons, woodcock, Attwater’s prairie chicken,
heath hen and others. The magniﬁcent golden eagle,
accused of molesting lambs, is shot down from air-
planes in Texas. The big whooping crane, not
classed as a “game” bird, is still being shot
during migration, and has been reduced to about
twenty-ﬁve individuals. The trumpeter swan, our
largest waterfowl, may yet be saved, although only
about 600 remain in the United States, with

” wwmmmaﬁyrrurbeara‘srshat

or suffering untold agony through use of the steel
trap, have disappeared over wide areas of their
former ranges. The woodland caribou, gone over
most of its once vast range, is still being shot in the
name of sport. The Lava Beds and Audubon big-
horn sheep are extinct, while the Dall sheep of
Alaska and other species of bighorn, as well as the
barren-ground caribou, are showing alarming de-
creases.

With such human activities as cutting of forests,
agriculture, urban development and inundation by
dam-building wiping out more and more wildlife
habitat, it must be clear to any thinking person that
we shall not long continue to have many of the won-
derful wild creatures unless we cut down the present

Reprinted from
The SCIENCE TEACHER

 




 

 

trend toward sport shooting. We consider ourselves
civilized, yet no nation in the world, with perhaps
the exception of Canada, seems so determined to
sacriﬁce its wildlife upon the altar of sport.

Who are the promoters of sport shooting? They
are the gun and ammunition makers, hardware
merchants, chambers of commerce, resort owners——
anyone who can earn a dollar by the Spilled blood
of wildlife. Also, the idea that there is pleasure in
the chase and the kill is handed down from father to
son. It would indeed be a rare boy who would
recognize that his father was doing wrong by killing
wildlife for fun.

There is one form of advertising by the gun
makers over which you can have control. How
would you respond, for instance, to the following
advertisement? “A full-color 16-min. motion pic-
ture ﬁlm, The Making of a Shooter, which provides
both entertainment and instruction, is available to
sportsmen’s clubs, schools, and other interested
groups for showing without charge.” State game de-
partments and such organizations as the Boy Scouts
of America, 4H Clubs, and the National Safety
Council are assisting in distributing the ﬁlm. “This
kodachrome ﬁlm, produced by professional movie
technicians,” continues the advertisement, “is re-
leased by the as a part of its nation-wide
campaign to promote the proper handling of ﬁre-
arms and to keep shooting a safe sport. Although
this picture is primarily a safety ﬁlm, it presents
in a most effective manner the recreational ap-

peal and character—building possibilities of hunting
and other forms of shooting. It traces the de-
velopment of a lovable youngster, under expert
supervision, into a real sportsman with a full knowl-
edge of how a gun should be handled safely and
effectively.” As a piece of sales promotion, this
ﬁlm is superb. The announcement is skillfully
worded to throw the youth leader off guard, by using
phrases like “lovable youngster,” “character—build-
ing possibilities” and “recreational appeal.” The
ﬁlm is designed for but one purpose—to (plant the
idea of shooting wildlife in innocent minds, and thus
to create an ever-growing demand for ﬁrearms.

The gun-maker’s magazine advertising is equally
alluring. It plays up the idea that by toting a gun
you become a “red-blooded he—man.” It gloriﬁes
pioneers like Daniel Boone, but never mentions that
the pioneers had to shoot wildlife for "food, or else
starve. What youngster can resist imagining himself
the counterpart of the “sturdy pioneer”? National
magazines published by and for the gunning frater-
nity are loaded with advertising that maligns
predatory species, encouraging their extermination
by shooting; and they are ﬁlled with stories that
glamorize the chase and the kill. News releases en-
couraging “sport” shooting are poured out con-
stantly to the press by the gunning interests, and
by state wildlife “protective” agencies, which de-
rive much of their income from the sale of gunning
licenses.

Society in general does not yet frown upon
“sport” killing, although more and more people are
becoming opposed to it. Most people dislike any
form of “sport” or pleasure involving intentional
injury or death to living creatures. Witness, for
example, the exhibition of bison slaughter with
bows and arrows recently staged in Wyoming as a
tourist attraction. Said a newspaper account of it,

MY FAWN

There’s a gun in the water of Moosehead Lake,
About sixty feet from shore,

That I threw away for humanity’s sake
Some thirty years or more.

It was there I ﬁrst wounded a drinking doe;
I was proud when I saw her fall.

She rose, then fell, crawled slowly away—
In the distance a plaintive call.

When I reached her side she was lapping a fawn,
A wee timid trembling thing.

Then my soul seemed to point a ﬁnger of scorn
To my heart with the deathly sting.

I picked up the fawn when the mother died,
And knelt at the great lake shore;

I loved it, I hugged it, I prayed and cried
Not to kill or eat ﬂesh any more.

I damned that gun, I cursed that shot,
And buried the doe that day.

In tears I prayed o’er the burial spot,
Then carried my fawn away.

Author unknown.
From The Malayan Vegetarian.

 




“There were no cheers from the spectators.” Or
witness the “Goose-pull” presented as a side show
at a horse race in South Carolina. Public opinion
was strongly against these cruel activities, as was
shown by both the disgust of the audiences and by
the press. A classic instance of brutality was the
Ohio circle fox hunt, which ended by children,
cheered on by their elders, clubbing exhausted, help-
less little foxes to death. This event was pictured in
a March, 1944, issue of Life magazine. The editors
reported in a later issue that more letters came in
as a result of this article than any other published
up to that time, and ﬁfty to one were on the side of
the fox.

Cruelty is not tolerated by most of us, but as a
nation, we have not earnestly begun to demand an
end to practices like these and to mass cruelty, such
as gunning and trapping.

Urging the practicing gunner to abandon his
bloody pastime is futile. Every method along that
line has been tried for decades, with no success.
Shame alone gets results, and this will occur when
the gunner’s community recognizes the moral wrong
in pleasure killing.

I propose that instead of encouraging more young-
sters to seek pleasure in the death of our interesting
wild creatures, we train them to enjoy wildlife for its
own sake; that we build within them a strong and
sympathetic understanding and appreciation of
Wildlife; that we discourage the idea that hunting is
a wholesome, manly sport; that we show them that
the greatest pleasure derived from wildlife comes not
from wounding and killing it, but from observing it
unmolested in its natural environment. There are
countless wholesome ways to enjoy the outdoors
without killing the creatures that make their homes
there. We might stimulate the slogan “If you must
shoot, do it with a camera.”

The noted naturalist, John Muir, once wrote:
“Under proper training even the most savage boy
will rise above the bloody ﬂesh and sport business,
the wild foundational animal dying out day by day,
as divine, uplifting, transﬁguring charity grows in.
Godlike sympathy grows and thrives and spreads far
beyond the teachings of churches and schools, where
too often the mean, blinding loveless doctrine is
taught that animals have neither mind nor soul, have
no rights that we are bound to respect, and were
. made only for man, to be slaughtered or enslaved.”

During recent decades, particularly following the
two world wars, the gunning fraternity has won
great numbers ‘of new adherents. Because the fra-
ternity is well organized, it brings pressures upon
federal and state legislators for enactment of laws

that serve its pleasure. Many laws so promoted are
not in the best interests of wildlife protection. In
spite of laws, wardens and refuges, there is leSs and
less wildlife. That means that not only is the
gunner doing himself out of gunning, but others——
the great majority—are having less opportunity to
gain inspiration and pleasure from seeing it.

What would be the public attitude toward gunning
were it a spectator sport? Perhaps it is unfortunate
that it is not, for I am sure that long ago it would
have been outlawed along with the bullﬁght. What
would be the condition of wildlife today, had an
eleventh commandment directed man to be kind to .
all the beautiful, interesting ﬂesh and blood crea-
tures with which we are sharing the earth?

We frequently hear of men turning from the pur-
suit of wildlife with lethal weapons. Some admit
they turn from it with revulsion at further blood-
letting. Almost always, these are men in their later
years. It is encouraging to hear of these cases, but
the tragic thing is that these men did not turn from
it in their early years, before they had done their
killing. To see that our young people receive proper
training in this subject is the bounden duty of all
youth leaders, as well as of informed and thinking
parents everywhere. '

The gunner is on the defensive, and he is quick
to ﬁnd ways to justify his killing. One of his argu-
ments is to tell you that when you give up eating
beef, he will stop shooting. Lest you get caught in
that trap, it should be pointed out that the slaughter
of livestock is not pleasure killing. It is the idea
that there is or can be fun in wounding and killing
that must be eternally played down, until men and
women everywhere recognize the moral wrong
therein. Bythis means, and by no other, can the
decline of our wildlife be checked and vanishing
species be perpetuated for the pleasure of ourselves
and generations yet unborn.

TO A FUR SCARF

The trap jaws clanked and held him fast
None marked his fright, none heard his cries.
His struggles ceased; he lay at last
With wide uncomprehending eyes
And watched the sky grow dark above
And watched the sunset turn to gray;
And quaked in anguish while he strove
To gnaw the prisoned leg away.
Then day came rosy from the East,
But still those steel jaws kept their hold;
And no one watched the prisoned beast
But Fear and Hunger, Thirst and Cold.
Oppressed by pain his dread grew numb.
Fright no more stirred his ﬂagging breath.
He longed in vain to see him come,
The cruel biped, bringing death.
Then through the gloom that night came ONE
Who set the timid spirit free:
“I know thine anguish, little son—
So once men trapped and tortured ME.”

—F. F. Van de Water.

 




PLANET AT RISK: FOUR VIEWS—A special report on the government’s Global 2000 Study, the recently unveiled
World Conservation Strategy, two diplomatic meetings on the future of Antarctica and July’s International Whaling
Commission meeting, written by Gus Speth, Thomas E. Lovejoy, James N. Barnes and Christine Stevens.

Gus Speth The Looming Test for Mankind

T IS BECOMING increasingly evident that there
must be decisive global action, and soon, if the
world is to cope successfully with the grave popu—

lation, natural resource and environmental trends that
are threatening the ability of our planet to sustain life as
we have known it.

Three years ago President Carter set in motion an
attempt—the first by any government—to make long—
term quantitative projections regarding these trends.
The result, the Global 2000 Report which Secretary of
State Muskie and I made public on Iuly 24, offers sober-
ing confirmation of the dire prospect if ”the nations of
the world fail to achieve a change of direction.

The picture painted by the report is one of a planet
with more than 6 billion human beings by the year
2000— 50 percent more than now; with growing numbers
of people suffering hunger and privation; with mount—
ing losses of croplands, grasslands and forests; with
dwindling supplies of fresh water, timber and fish; with
accelerating degradation of air and water; and with plant
and animal species vanishing at a rate without prece-
dent, carrying with them unassessed potentials for the
future good of mankind in food, fuel, medicinal and
other substances and the like.

Even now, 800 million people live in conditions of
abject poverty, their lives dominated by hunger, ill
health and the absence of hope, and the earth’s carrying
capacity—the ability of biological systems to meet basic
human needs—is rapidly eroding.

One of the most troubling of the Global 2000 Report’s
findings is the negative effect of rapid population growth
and poverty on the productivity of renewable natural
resource systems. We have become accustomed in recent
years to warnings about the need to conserve nonre-
newable resources, but the Global 2000 Report under-
scores the serious stresses that threaten the world’s re—
newable resources—such as croplands, forests and fish-
eries—as well.

At the present rate, according to the report, by 2000
some 40 percent of the remaining forest cover in the less
developed countries will be gone. Most of this stagger—
ing loss will be in what biologically is the richest part of
our planet—the humid tropical forests of Africa, Asia
and South America. An estimate prepared for our study
suggests that by 2000 between half a million and 2 million
plant and animal species could be extinguished—a third
to half of them in the vanishing tropical forests.

Deforestation will also destabilize water flows, leading
to siltation of streams, reservoirs and irrigation works,
depletion of ground water, intensified flooding and
aggravated water shortages. In South Africa and South—
east Asia a billion people live in heavily farmed alluvial
basins and valleys that depend for their water on forested

mountain watersheds. By 2000, at the present rate, forests
in these regions will shrink by half, seriously impacting
food production.

The Global 2000 conclusions are not predictions of
what will occur, but projections of what could occur if we
do not respond. The projections should serve as effective
warnings that vigorous, determined new initiatives will
be required worldwide to meet human needs while pro—
tecting and restoring the earth’s capacity to support
life. If there was doubt before, there should be little
doubt now—the nations of the world, industrialized and
less developed alike, must act in concert to secure sus—
tainable economic development, to control population
growth and to protect the earth’s resources and environ-
ment before the trends depicted in the Global 2000 Re-
port become realities.

The humanitarian reasons for action by our own na-
tion are strong enough by themselves, but we must be
aware of the report’s implications for our security as well.
Secretary Muskie made the point well in his recent
defense of our foreign aid program before the Foreign
Policy Association: “It is in our interest to do all we can
now to counter the conditions that are likely to drive
people to desperation later. . . . We would rather send
technicians abroad to help grow crops than send soldiers
to fight the wars that can result when people are hungry
and susceptible to exploitation by others.”

Clearing like this—in Malaysia—is fast destroying
the planet’s incalculably rich tropical rain forests.

Reprinted by permission from THE LIVING WILDERNESS, September 1980. Copyright© 1980 by The Wilderness Society.
Available from Animal Welfare Institute, P.O. Box 3650, Washington, D.C. 20007.

 




Will the world respond to the warnings delineated in
the Global 2000 Report? I am optimistic that as people
here and abroad come to realize the full dimensions of
the challenge before us, a positive and ultimately power—
ful response will be forthcoming.

We have already made a good start in addressing many
global problems. Our government has contributed im—
portantly to a series of United Nations conferences on
population, food and hunger, the human environment
and other issues. A federal interagency task force re—
cently studied and reported on tropical deforestation.
At the June economic summit in Venice, the United
States took an important initiative on long-range eco-
nomic analysis and planning. Our country is a world
leader in wildlife conservation, wilderness preservation
and the assessment of environmental effects of govern-
mental actions. The President’s Executive Order of
January 5, 1979, directing federal government agencies
to consider the effects of their actions abroad is a partic—
ularly significant expression of this leadership. Other
nations have also begun to respond to the problems noted
in the Global 2000 Report. They are beginning to replant
deforested areas, conserve energy, make family planning
measures Widely available, take actions to reduce soil

losses and desertification, explore alternatives to oil use
and reduce the use of harmful pesticides.

In bringing about needed changes, the United States
has both the ability and the obligation to continue its
strong leadership role. Even though many of the prob-
lems identified in the report seem remote from us, they
are not, and we must turn our attention, ingenuity and
generosity increasingly to them. We must cope with
these global demands in part by laying a sound founda-

Thomas E. Lovejoy

OME YEARS AGO a World Wildlife Fund meeting
in Woods Hole tussled with the question of how
to design a colonization scheme for this planet

if our species were to come to it from elsewhere instead
of having gradually evolved here. The discussion cen-
tered on a global biological management plan consisting
essentially of two parts: first, establishment of a genetic
bank of wildlands and aquatic areas in which the full
array of the earth’s plant and animal species could be
protected in their natural aggregations; and second, use
of the balance of the planet to support humanity on a
self—sustaining basis without adverse impacts on the vital
genetic reserves.

Since we do not (at least at present) have the luxury
of being able to colonize an uninhabited planet, the
Woods Hole discussion wound up addressing a modified
question: how closely can we approach the ideal bio-
logical management plan in order to maintain the fullest
possible capacity of the biosphere to support human life,
now and for generations hence?

In essence, an answer to that Woods Hole question

 

tion at home. For example, by relying increasingly on
energy conservation and renewable resources here at
home, the United States is enhancing its ability to pro—
vide leadership abroad as countries search for sustain—
able energy futures. We must also move to protect our
domestic agricultural base; if we continue to lose pro—
ductive farmland at current rates, our position as a major
food exporter—and our ability to feed people of other
nations—will be jeopardized.

To provide the basis for a strengthened, sustained
response to the problems identified in the Global 2000
Report, President Carter has created a Presidential Task
Force on Global Resources and Environment and has
asked that it report back to him with a plan of action
within six months. In developing our follow-up to the
Global 2000 Report, the task force will have a number
of other studies and reports to draw upon: the World
Conservation Strategy announced earlier this year by
the International Union for Conservation of Nature and
Natural Resources, the UN Environment Programme
and the World Wildlife Fund; the work of the World
Bank under the able leadership of Robert McNamara;
the papers of the Worldwatch Institute, which first
brought many of these issues to wide public attention;
and the contributions of many other national and inter—
national organizations, both governmental and non-
governmental. I look forward to working with all of
these groups in forging a strong, effective response to
the Global 2000 Report.

Gus Speth, chairman of the Council on Environmental
Quality, was co—chairman of the Year 2000 Study and chairs
the presidential task force now developing an action plan.

A Global Survival Strategy

has been offered in the World Conservation Strategy
unveiled in March under the auspices of the three largest
international organizations concerned with the future of
the earth’s natural systems—the International Union
for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources,
United Nations Environment Programme and World
Wildlife Fund. The strategy is also an important, ex—
tremely timely answer to the tremendous challenge
delineated in the United States’ Global 2000 Study— the
challenge of halting and reversing the present negative
trends afflicting civilization, before humanity is con—
fronted with utter disaster.

The aim of the World Conservation Strategy is to help
advance the achievement of sustainable development
through conservation of the world’s living resources.
The strategy calls for explaining the contribution that
conservation can make to human survival and develop—
ment, identifying priority conservation issues and the
main requirements for dealing with them, and proposing
effective courses of action. The list of priority issues is
essentially the same as that in the Global 2000 Report

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

—the mounting loss of forests, farmlands and grazing
lands, spreading desertification, soil erosion and water—
shed degradation, climate alteration and air pollution,
overexploitation of fish and other wildlife, and whole-
sale species extinction, together with the inadequate
measures now being taken to meet these daily more
serious problems.

The World Conservation Strategy obviously is heavily
conservation-oriented. But far too often, “conservation”
is perceived as something at odds with the practical
needs of life— something to be indulged in if there aren’t
more serious matters demanding attention. In some
situations in developing nations, conservation actually
has been viewed as an underhanded form of neo—
imperialism, really intended to thwart their industrial
destiny and to keep them mere economic vassals of the
already industrialized nations. On both sides, conser-
vation and development usually are seen as opposites.

The fundamental message of the World Conservation
Strategy is that conservation and development are in fact
inextricably intertwined. On the one hand, development
that imperils its biological basis is obviously unsound
and destined to be short—lived. While in past centuries
it was possible for exploiters to move on to new resources
and new lands, now we find ourselves treading more and
more on previously traveled and trammeled ground.
The fact is that we have all but used up the option of
shifting exploitive sites. We have already seriously
eroded the planet’s basic biological capacity to support
life—though by no means to the extent that we will if
the Global 2000 projections and World Conservation
Strategy propositions go unheeded. On the other hand,
as a practical and social possibility, conservation actually
depends upon development. This is an aspect of the
World Conservation Strategy message that has not been
widely understood, at least outside the developing na-
tions. It is very hard to talk wildland preservation either
with people whose major concern is where the next
mouthful is coming from or with their governments,

fames N. Barnes

N MAY 20 in Canberra, Australia, 15 nations
concluded a new convention for the conserva—
tion of antarctic marine living resources. The

final convention, however, is virtually the same as the
inadequate draft version discussed in these pages last
year. While it contains the world’s first “ecosystem ap-
proach” to managing marine life, the convention was
held hostage in many important respects to the larger
question of antarctic sovereignty claims.

Seven of the 13 Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties—
Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, New Zealand, N or-
way and United Kingdom—claim wedges of the conti—
nent while the other six— Belgium, Japan, Poland, South
Africa, USA. and U.S.S.R.—-contest the claims. (See
map in The Living Wilderness, June 1979, p. 33.) East and

which often lack sufficient means to address the most
immediate and pressing social and human needs. That
is why conservation applied simplistically has often
seemed an elitist exercise, rather than a concern about a
decent existence for present and future generations.

Nowhere is this set of problems more acute than in the
tropical regions of the planet, particularly the humid
forest zOnes. There many people live in substandard
conditions, and the greatest concentration of the planet’s
species occurs in formations highly vulnerable to most
ordinary forms of manipulation. Nowhere is develop-
ment in the beneficial sense more needed. Nowhere else
is there so much to be lost in both numbers of species
and biological productivity. The tropical forests, and
how to use their biological riches nondestructively in
support of people, constitute one of the greatest scientific
and sociological challenges of all time.

The World Conservation Strategy contains a number
of important suggestions on how better to integrate con-
servation and development, and it explicitly recognizes
the need to approach this question on the international
as well as national level. Resource destruction is not in
any nation’s interest. Integrating conservation and de-
velopment is. In this respect the international involve-
ment of the United States, with all its leadership poten-
tial, is critically important. It is heartening to see in the
Global 2000 Report and the recent report of the Inter—
agency Task Force on Tropical Forests evidence of grow-
ing acceptance on the part of our government of the
urgency of a major United States role in meeting this
global challenge. The problems are manifestly global,
and only world strategy and action can solve them.

Dr. Thomas E. Lovejoy, vice president for science of World
Wildlife Fund—US, participated in development of the World
Conservation Strategy and wrote the section of the Global 2000
Report dealing with species loss. For more information on the
global strategy, write World Wildlife F and-US, 1601 Con-
necticut Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. 20009.

Danger for the Antarctic

West Germany, which are engaged in experimental ant-
arctic krill fishing, were invited to join the negotiations,
and they have the right to become original parties to the
convention when it is formally ratified.

The new convention requires all decisions to be made
by consensus, which gives a virtual veto to every mem-
ber. It ignores the important question of national quotas,
and because of the consensus voting requirement, it is
unlikely that such quotas will ever be set. The conven-
tion fails to establish an international inspection and
enforcement regime. There is no provision for a per-
manent scientific staff to evaluate research data and
develop appropriate conservation measures. The nego-
tiating parties failed to agree to a United States proposal
for a 2—million-ton interim harvest quota on krill, the

 




 

 

ETWEEN 17 and 29]anuary 1979 at least 20 Adelie
penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) were seen at Cape
Bird, Antarctica, (770 13' S, 1660 28' E), with feathers
matted by a dense, black petroleum oil. Two of these
birds were badly oiled, but oil covered less than 20
percent of the body surface of the other oiled birds.
Of the two badly oiled birds, one had a heavy coating
of oil over the entire lower half of the body, with other
thinly oiled areas. The oil was more widespread on
the second bird, but was neither as thick nor as con—
tinuous. Oiled penguins were first seen on 17 January
and continued to come ashore until 20 January. Oiled
birds were seen after this date, but these may have
been recorded already.

Seabirds may be killed by oil spills in two ways.
Firstly, through hypothermia caused by petroleum
oils breaking down the feather structure that keeps
the plumage waterproof. When the skin is wetted,
birds lose body heat and die of hypothermia. Sec-
ondly, by ingestion of oil while preening, but the
effect of this on survival is unknown. The two heavily
oiled birds seen probably would have survived.

The location and size of the oil spill which affected
these birds is not known. That so few oiled birds were
seen at such a large rookery (about 23,500 pairs) sug—
gests that the slick was small, or else distant from
Cape Bird. However, penguins come and go from the
rookery often at this time of year, so the number of
birds affected could have been much greater than the
20 or so seen by me. Badly oiled birds are likely to
have died at sea before reaching Cape Bird.

The oil probably came from a ship in the area. A
frequent cause of small oil slicks is the pumping over—
board of oil residues that accumulate in ships’ bilges.

While this instance of oil pollution was probably
small, it should serve as a warning. Not only penguins
are at risk; other antarctic marine life is also vulner—
able to oil pollution, and ships should take care to
avoid the discharge of oil overboard.

— GRAHAM 1 WILSON

Graham ]. Wilson, research associate at the University
of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand, has spent two

 

 

 

 

Oiled Penguins in Antarctica

 

An oiled Adelie penguin photographed by researcher

Graham Wilson at Cape Bird on fanuary Z 7, 1979.

antarctic summers studying birds and mammals at Cape
Bird on Ross Island, 60 miles north of the United States’
McMurdo Station. This report on oiled penguins is re-
printed from “New Zealand Antarctic Record,” a New
Zealand government publication. At the time of the inci-
dent, the “Glacier” and “Polar Star,” United States Coast
Guard icebreahers, were in the area, and one passed Cape
Bird a day or two before he first saw oiled penguins, accord-
ing to Mr. Wilson. After we reported the matter, the Coast
Guard checked the logs of the icebreahers and informed
us it felt neither vessel was a likely source of the spill. Other
vessels were in the area during this period. —Ed.

 

 

shrimp-like crustacean which is the foundation of ex—
istence for the major antarctic living species. Nor was
any action taken to ban krill fishing in the vital feeding
grounds of endangered blue and humpback whales.
Early this year, American groups took the initiative
in organizing the Antarctic and Southern Ocean Coali-
tion (ASOC) to press for strong antarctic conservation
measures. More than 100 organizations in 20 countries,

including The Wilderness Society, belong to the coali-
tion. ASOC petitioned to be accredited as an observer
in Canberra, to which it sent 10 delegates. The Treaty
Powers gave observer status to the International Whaling
Commission, International Union for Conservation of
Nature and Natural Resources, United Nations Food
and Agriculture Organization, European Economic
Commission and several other organizations. But at a

 




special closed-door meeting just before the conference
opened, the governments voted to deny ASOC accredi—
tation, as well as curbing severely the participation of
other observers. Indeed, except for the EEC, all ob-
servers were relegated to a role that excluded them from
most meaningful portions of the negotiations. They were
allowed only infrequent, largely ritualistic opportuni—
ties to speak.

Under these adverse circumstances, the help of the
IUCN delegate—U.K. IUCN Vice President Robert
Boote—proved invaluable in getting the coalition’s
Views before the other delegates. Two ASOC letters to
delegates were sponsored by IUCN, and several informal
sessions were held with delegates. IUCN also distributed
copies of the report of an independent scientific work—
shop held in Washington early in April under the spon-
sorship of the Oceanic Society, the Center for Law and
Social Policy and IUCN. The workshop recommended
a significant change in the “ecosystem” portion of the
convention. Every delegation in Canberra agreed that
our interpretation was what the wording of Article II
means, so the workshop report serves as important treaty
history. (Article II imposes ecosystem-conservation ob—
ligations on all parties.)

Most of ASOC’s proposals, however, were not dis-
cussed seriously, if at all, largely because of Soviet op-
position to any changes in the most important articles.
Even a proposal by ASOC and IUCN that the treaty
parties declare the 19803 the Decade of Southern Ocean
Research went nowhere. Such research would help pro-
vide essential information for implementing the eco-
system approach in antarctic decision-making. But this
proposal was not even considered. None of the treaty
nations has yet made any commitment to support the
major long-term research program that will be essential
if the ecosystem approach‘is to mean anything. In the
end, a small victory was won when a provision limiting
to the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties the right
to propose amendments was killed. But there can be no
substantial optimism that the new convention will work.

The other vital antarctic issue of potential oil explora—
tion was not on the Canberra agenda. But it was a key
topic of debate at the 10th regular meeting of the Antarc—
tic Treaty Consultative Parties in Washington last fall.
Working groups at that closed—door meeting, restricted
to official delegates of the 13 nations, deliberated on the
legal, political, scientific and environmental implica-
tions of the oil question. They agreed that available in-
formation is too skimpy to make a meaningful assessment
of the possible environmental impacts of antarctic oil
exploitation —which fortunately hasn’t started yet. They
also agreed that any new regime developed to regulate
oil activity would have to providefor such an assessment,
as well as for some way to decide whether proposals
would be environmentally acceptable. Some nations
believe, however, that it would be safe to begin drilling
exploratory wells in the nearr future. Thus the process
for deciding what activities are acceptable will be critical.

Originally many governments hoped that a further
meeting would be held this year to go into the issues
in greater depth. But it now appears that the next formal

 

deliberations won’t occur until the 11th consultative
meeting in Argentina next June.

In July the State Department announced that it would
soon start drafting an environmental impact statement
on an antarctic minerals regime. Unfortunately, none
of the treaty governments is yet giving any serious
thought to the alternative—instituting protected status
for the Antarctic such as the World Preserve proposed
to President Carter last year by The Wilderness Society
and 19 other American conservation groups. (See “Last
Chance for Wild Antarctica?” in The Living Wilderness,
June 1979.) Many organizations recently renewed the
World Preserve proposal.

At july’s International Whaling Commission meeting,
the United States took the lead in squelching a Seychelles

 

Experts retained by the United States
government to study possible impacts

of antarctic oil drilling have concluded
that serious accidents would be inevitable.
Oil spills and chronic pollution could

imperil all marine life in the region.

 

proposal that the IWC urge Antarctic Treaty nations not
to take krill in the feeding grounds of the endangered
blue and humpback whales. The State Department rep-
resentative was backed immediately by Britain and South
Africa. All three plainly had an interest in discouraging
IWC interference with future exploitive activity.

Enough already is known about the Antarctic to give
abundant cause for concern about the region’s vulnera—
bility should oil operations be launched. Experts re-
tained by the United States government to study possible
impacts of antarctic oil drilling have concluded that
serious accidents would be inevitable. Drilling rigs
would be at the mercy of enormous icebergs that period-
ically scour the ocean bottom—icebergs sometimes as
large as three square miles. Oil tankers would be subject
to violent storms with winds up to 200 miles an hour,
and to pack ice which often is blown 30 miles in a single
day. 011 spills and chronic pollution could imperil all
marine life in the region, including endangered whale
species.

Persuading the interested governments to pay more
attention to these disturbing facts, however, plainly is
going to require more public pressure than has been
applied to date. '

fames N. Barnes has been serving on both the United States
delegation to the meetings of the Antarctic Treaty Consulta-
tive Parties and the delegation on the living resources conven—
tion. He is co—director of the Center for Law and Social Policy
in Washington. Further information on the living resources
convention, the minerals regime and the recent AS OC—I UCN
workshop may be obtained by writing him at the center,
1751 N Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. 20036.

 

 

 




 

 

Christine Stevens

DYING INDUSTRY OF DEATH” was the London
Times’description of commercial whaling which
headed an editorial on the 32nd meeting of the

International Whaling Commission. But death has al-
ways been powerful and well-financed. The N akabe
family, rulers of Taiyo Fishery Company, the biggest
fishing company in the world, are well connected at
the highest levels of the Japanese government, and the
recently installed Prime Minister, Zenko Suzuki, has
strong ties with fishing interests.

The hopes for major whale conservation measures at
the July 21—26 meeting in Brighton, England, were
dashed by intensive Japanese public-relations expendi—
tures. In the United States, for example, under the re-
quirements for registration as a foreign agent, Washing-
ton lobbyist Robert J. Keefe reported an $80,000 fee from
the Japan Whaling Association. Third World countries
thinking of joining the IWC in order to register their
support for whale protection reportedly were subjected
to heavy Japanese pressure not to join.

Japan is virtually the sole market for whale meat. Ice-
land, Spain, Norway, South Korea, Peru and Chile ex-
port to Japan nearly all the meat from the whales they
harpoon, and their commissioners generally have fol-
lowed Japan’s lead in voting at the IWC. Denmark also
formerly supported commercial whaling to the maxi-
mum. But the Norwegian and Danish Ministries of the
Environment and Foreign Affairs have recently looked
at whaling more critically. This year when the proposal
for a moratorium on commercial whaling came up,
Norway abstained rather than vote against it, and Den—
mark voted “yes.”

Ever since it was approved unanimously at the Stock-
holm Conference on the Human Environment in 1972,
a 10—year moratorium on commercial whaling has been
the key issue at IWC meetings. Last year a moratorium
was achieved on factory-ship whaling for all whale spe-
cies except the small minke whale. This year four mora-
torium proposals were voted on: (1) a moratorium on all
commercial whaling beginning in the 1981—82 season;
(2) a two-year phase-out moratorium; (3) an immediate
moratorium on killing sperm whales; and (4) a mora-
torium on sperm whaling beginning in the 1982-83 sea-
son. All received a majority of votes, but all failed to
obtain the necessary three-fourths.

Strangely, Canada (whose whaling was ended in 1973
when then Environment Minister Jack Davis declared
that it could not be commercially successful unless more
fin and sei whales were killed than the populations could
sustain without endangerment) voted this year with the
Soviet Union and Japan against the full moratorium.
Canada’s motivation is difficult to assess. In 1973 Canada
voted for the moratorium on all commercial whaling.
Last year it abstained. This time, after Canada voted
“no” even on the phase-out moratorium, as well as on
an urgently needed sperm whale moratorium, demon—

 

The Whales Versus Japan

strators burned the Canadian flag in the street outside
the Metropole Hotel, where the meeting was being held.
The sperm whale moratorium failed by one vote. It
would have been adopted had Canada backed it. So next
season 1,320 sperm whales will die because of the Cana-
dian vote.

Countries opposing moratoria often point to the fact
that the IWC’s Scientific Committee has not said they
were necessary. But in the last three years this committee
has increasingly admitted how extremely limited its data
are. This year it reported on the “breadth and depth
of uncertainties,”-noted that “not one whale-stock assess-
ment exists which is free from some of the uncertainties
described” and suggested that a cessation of whaling
might be necessary to “decrease the risks of whaling in
the face of such uncertainties.”

When the Scientific Committee recommends a zero
quota for a whale species in a specific area, there can
be no doubt of the urgent, even desperate need for it.
Yet Japan, with its well-organized bloc of whaling coun-
tries, was able to prevent passage of the zero quota for
sperm whales in the North Pacific called for by the
Scientific Committee. Eight-hundred and ninety of these
large-brained whales will be harpooned there in the
coming year as the result of the commissioners’ bar—
gaining. The quota reads “890 males,” but since Japan
claims the whalers can’t tell male from female except by
size till after they are hauled aboard the factory ship, a
so-called “by—catch” for females also is allowed.

Whether the “international” inspectors (Japanese on
Russian ships, Russians on Japanese) report accurately
in all cases has long been in question. Greenpeace found
that a Japanese shore station was killing whales last year
after the season was officially closed. And even if in-
fractions are reported, there is no IWC penalty. Average

 

Conservationists burn the Canadian flag after Canada ’5

votes against whaling curbs at the fuly I WC meeting.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

fines levied by the industry itself are generally in the
$23 range for an undersized or lactating whale, hardly a
major deterrent to a gunner intent on filling the factory
ship’s hold.

Infractions Committee meetings at the IWC are little
more than a gesture. The U.S.S.R.’s manner of stone-
walling on its huge overkill of sperm whales this year
was to ascribe the harpooning of 331 extra whales to a
misunderstanding and to detail to the committee alleg—
edly non-English-speaking members of its delegation.
As for the Soviet kill of nearly a thousand orcas (killer
whales) in the Antarctic, this was also attributed to a
misunderstanding. The commission set a zero quota on
orcas in the Antarctic for the coming season.

Peru also managed to “misunderstand” to the extent
of killing 259 sperm whales and 107 Bryde’s whales
beyond the numbers allotted by the IWC. Peru submitted
no infraction reports at all—nor did Denmark (despite
the killing of 10 humpbacks by Greenlanders), South
Korea (through which illicit Taiwanese whale meat was
“laundered” to the Japanese market), Norway (which
imported 25 tons of whale oil from the notorious pirate
ship Sierra last year) and Spain (which filed an objection
to its fin whale quota last year, then withdrew the objec-
tion during the meeting; according to a worker within the
industry, Spain already has exceeded this year’s quota,
and at least two of the kills were reportedly blue whales,
among the most severely endangered species).

The savagery of the Spanish whaling industry is
epitomized by its use of “cold” harpoons to kill giant
fin, sperm and blue whales, which must be harpooned

Wearing executioners’ hoods, whale enthusiasts protest I WC failure to take tougher action against whale slaughter. On the
pavement outside the Brighton, England, meeting place are charred remnants of flags of pro—whaling nations.

 

repeatedly. The terror and pain of the whales were dis—
missed by the Spanish commissioner because some meat
is destroyed by use of explosive harpoons, which kill
much more rapidly. “Do we want to lose an important
part of the meat?” he asked, adding that it was “in a way
senseless if we lose part of the whale we are killing.”
Every whaling nation except Spain and South Korea
routinely uses explosive harpoons for large whales.

Towering ominously behind the commissioner
throughout the meeting was Juan Masso, director of the
Spanish whaling station, a man who reportedly ordered
a photographer beaten and watched the beating despite
the fact'that permission to photograph at the whaling
station had been asked. A crewman on a Spanish whaling
vessel, in a letter to a conservation group, wrote: “Once
a whale is harpooned the boat is stopped and the whale
is allowed to pull the boat for one or two miles until
it tires, when it is harpooned again, then the whale is
inflated to burst it inside and also to keep it afloat.”
According to another eyewitness report, this one from
the Azores, a sperm whale killed last year took 24 hours
to die. .

A ban on cold harpoons was proposed by Professor
Derek Ovington, commissioner from Australia, who
stated:

I do not believe that because we are government officials
we can close our eyes to what is happening. With greater
emphasis on harvesting minke whales, the commission has
unintentionally increased the inhumanity of its overall
operations. Australia regards this as morally unacceptable
and as not being in accord with the wishes expressed by all

  




 

 

commissioners to reduce any cruelty involved in whaling.

The swing towards greater use of the cold harpoon means

that on average whales taken under the aegis of the Inter-

national Whaling Commission are now taking longer to die
and are in greater pain than has been the case in the past.

The justification for the wanton disregard of the normally

accepted animal rights is that there is less damage to that

portion of the animal taken by man. It is wrong that an
industry, so subject to public scrutiny as whaling, could sit
by while realizing that the method of killing used is not even
the most humane currently available. The position of the

International Whaling Commission is morally indefensible

by any standards.

The commission voted a binding schedule amendment
to ban the use of cold harpoons for whales larger than
minkes. A non-binding resolution by the Australian
commissioner looked toward consideration of a similar
ban for minke whales next year.

Japan, where promising technology for a high—impact
explosive harpoon designed especially for the small
minke whales is being developed, nevertheless strongly
opposed such considerations. Kunio Yonezawa, the
Japanese commissioner, stated: “You have to trust the
good-faith efforts of my country and other whaling
nations to improve the method of killing.” But observers
present at the 1975 IWC meeting when the United States
raised the question of less inhumane killing methods
recall that the then Japanese commissioner, Iwao Fujita,
refused even to allow discussion of the subject. It had not,
he said, been placed on the agenda 60 days before the
meeting. So humane killing was not even talked about
until 1976. Now, under worldwide public pressure, Japan
is devoting long-overdue efforts to the matter.

There was a small reduction in the minke whale quotas
this year. Japan’s efforts to increase the quotas failed.

The bowhead battle which since 1977 has beenthe
United States Achilles’ heel in the commission was finally
dealt with after much rescheduling in the agenda, with
a three-year bloc quota of 45 bowhead whales landed
or 65 struck, whichever occurs first. This constitutes a
small reduction from the current one—year quota of 18
landed or 26 struck. The Scientific Committee reiterated
its unqualified recommendation of a zero quota, but
legal counsel retained by Eskimo whalers fought stren-
uously to keep the quota as high as possible, and US.
Commissioner Richard Frank again spent a dispropor-
tionate amount of time and energy in seeking to keep
the quota at this year’s level. Conservationists were
gravely concerned that no quota would be agreed on, and
that the matter would go into prolonged litigation in
US. courts. This would have increased even further
the risk to the bowheads, whose population, according
to the most authoritative scientific projection available,
will decrease even if no whales are killed.

The danger to every species of whale had the bowhead
been thrown back into domestic litigation was equally
serious. It is essential that Whales swimming past the
coasts of any country retain whatever protection the IWC
provides now or in the future. Thus the 45/65 quota
was the lesser, by far, of the two undesirable choices
available. It is to be hoped that Eskimo whalers will now
study all of the scientific information that has been col-

lected and decide—because it is in the long—term interest
of “the people of the whale”—to decrease their captures
well below the limit set by the IWC and to adopt methods
to prevent the high “struck and lost” rate that still plagues
them. The 19th-century weaponry left behind by the
Yankee whalers who nearly killed the bowhead to ex—
tinction surely has no “cultural” value—quite the re-
verse. It is a sorry memento of the uncontrolled greed
of the commercial whalers of the period.

The 1980 IWC meeting failed to make the significant
gains that friends of whales had hoped for. No break—
through like last year’s moratorium on most factory—
ship whaling took place. Panama, which proposed that
unusually successful move, is now out of the IWC alto—
gether. Japanese whaling interests are organizing inter—

 

The 1980 I WC meeting failed to make
the significant gains that friends of
whales had hoped for. No breakthrough
like last year’s moratorium on most

factory-ship whaling took place.

 

nationally against any further reduction of quotas, but
the broad trend now is for the whales. Persistent efforts
by conservationist nations and organizations, sup—
ported by the continued growth of active public concern
throughout the world, can bring an end to the unjusti-
fied commercial exploitation that whales still suffer.

The IWC lacks enforcement power, but a law that can
protect whales in all parts of the world was passed last
year by Congress: the Packwood—Magnuson amendment,
named for the senators who pushed it through, Bob
Packwood (R-Oregon) and Warren G. Magnuson (D—
Washington). It amends the Fishery Conservation and
Management Act to cut fish allocations by half on certi-
fication by the Secretary of Commerce that a nation has
violated the provisions of the Pelly amendment. If the
nation failed to rectify the violation, all allocations would
be terminated in a year. The Pelly amendment refers
to any nation that “diminishes the effectiveness” of an
international agreement for the conservation of marine
resources.

Several nations, including the Soviet Union and
Japan, have heavy interests in fishing within our 200—
mile zone. Because whaling is a dying industry while
fishing is extremely lucrative, this sanction, if the gov-
ernment firmly invokes it, can ensure that IWC regula—
tions are observed by member nations on peril of losing
the opportunity to fish in rich United States waters.

Christine Stevens represented the African Wildlife Leader-
ship Foundation as an oﬂicial observer at the I WC meeting.
She is president of the Animal Welfare Institute and secretary
of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation in Washing-
ton and has been working to protect whales since 1970. To
help in the whale cause, write Animal Welfare Institute, P. O.
Box 3650, Washington, D. C. 20007.

 




EXCERPTS FROM HEARINGS ON PAINFUL TRAPPING DEVICES, November 17, 18, 1975

Compiled by the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
P. 0. Box 3719
washington, D.C. 20007

Pain and Terror

a; . 1 iron e11 D V 1 11 noi‘~ I uartment of A~, ul ,_ :
Historica.ly, the use of the leg-hold trap has neen emp oye- to
catch wild animals. As a citizen, veterinarian, and one deeply
interested in humane care for our animal papulation, both domestic
and wild, I abhor such disregard for animal life. This method
produces to the animal's body: extreme pain, shock, trauma to the
tissues, and at best, slow death. Occasionally the animal will, if
physically able, chew the part so encumbered causing further trauma
with the intent to achieve a pitiful type of freedom." (p.66)

‘Michael E, Milts, D,V,M,: "Terror: While often overlooked as a
io ogical reality, terror is real. Foxes have chewed off their
limbs in a desperate attempt to escape. The shock resulting from

the pain and loss of blood freguently results in this method of

escape ending in death." (p.6

ggngressman Glenn Anderson. author of H.R. 66, and Robert Lapez,
D.V.M.: ‘ '

Mr. Anderson: "Now another statement was made that trappers would

go around every 4 days and check the trapsbecause of the long

d00-m'i.1e trap line; and that most of the animals would already be
ea .

Dr. Lopez: "Right."

Mr. Anderson: Why would they be dead?"

Dr. Lopez: "...stated temperatures at 40 belOw, this animal is

running around in shock, he is losing blood and in intense pain and
the blood pressure drops, and he is very vulnerable to the cold so

he would die probably within 24 hours, depending on the cold."

Mr. Anderson: "Then the animal would freeze to death and would die

guriggﬂthese 24 hours. ‘Wbuld not the animal be in pain prior to
eat

Dr. Lopez: "Violent pain and finally passing out, right."

Mr. Anderson: "These are the things that someone with your back-
ground, having been a trapper as well as a veterinarian, can make a

great contribution on."

Dr. Lopez: "Yes, and another thing, the bottom of the human arm is
like the bottom of an animafs 1imb....You can look at your hand and
everything comes up, the arteries are on top, the nerves are all on
tap, right on top, and these are badly damaged."

Mr. Anderson: "50, as a result, the animal dies of shock?"

Dr. Lopez: "Right."

Mr. Anderson: Intense pain all the time."

Dr. Lapez: "Intense pain all the time." (pp, 122-123)

 




"Trash" Animals

 

Dick Randall, ex-trapper for Fish and Wildlife Service, now’Wyoming

E e d Representative, Defen ers of Wi ife: The leghold trap is
inherent y non-selective. It is probably the most cruel device

ever invented by man, and is a direct cause of inexcusable destruction
and waste of our wildlife. My trapping records show that for each
target animal I trapped, about two unwanted individuals were caught.
Because of trap injuries, these non-target species usually had to

be destroyed. (p.273) '

Erank Conibear, inventor of the Conibear trap: The number of
unwanted, useless wildlife caughtis usually several times the
number of wanted fur-bearers. (p.311)

Sierra Club, North Star chapter: Surveys indicate that out of
every—four animals trapped, only one is of actual value for its
fur. A recent Minnesota survey reinforces these tragic figures
concerning the unintentional catch of non-target animals. (p.337)

The Chairman questioning George Rost,ﬁRegional Supervisor, Division
of Wildlife Services. U.S, Department of the Interior, on capture
ofnon-target animals:

Mr. Leggett: Would there be a substantial number you release alive?
Mr. Rost: Yes.

Mr. Leggett: Are you able to make any estimate at this point?

Mr. Rost: Oh, I would say perhaps 25 to 30 percent of those taken
are in good enough condition to be released. Now, if the leg is
twisted to the point we feel that the animal would not survive, it
is dispatched at the site....Some animals fi ht harder than others,
and do more damage faster than others. (p. 30)

 




Children and Domestic Animals

Dr. Frederick W, Stuewer, Senior Wildlife Executive. Wildlife

Division, State of Michigan: The large conibear has been outlawed
in Michigan, because of danger to pets and dogs and to children.
We know some hunters' dogs are caught, particularly in the hunting
season in tra s of those out working toward collecting the coyote
bounty. (p. 49)

 

:le ' .ua -ll N-w ~r:e- 5r4nch H usne ociet of th- n :d
States: Your Children, Your Pets, Your Wildlife Are Caught - A—Few
Cases: .

Westwood - Young girl's ankle broken when she stepped on a
camouflaged trap

New Milford - Little girl, reaching into tall grass to remove
an obstruction in the path of her doll buggy, set off a trap that
snapped shut on her hand.

Closter - Young boy's foot caught in trap while he was walking
near a creek.

Oradell - Dog caught in trap as mistress was walking him. She
accidentally sprung a second trap, which just missed catching her
foot.

Bound Brook - Veterinarian found eight traps set along a path
frequented by children.

Teaneck - Three traps found in people's yards. Two gripped
torn-off cat's paws, one gripped a chewed-off raccoon paw.

anberton - German shepherd dragged trap two weeks before
rescue. Paw smashed and gangrenous.

Scotch Plains - Cat caught in trap, dragged it until rescued.
Lower half of leg amputated.

Wayne - Pet collie caught in trap, terrified and in such pain
a tranquilizer gun had to be used before the animal could be approached
to remove the trap.

River Vale - Fox terrier killed when a steel trap snapped shut
on its face.

Cliffwood Beach - Pet dog which escaped from owner's yard was
found eight days later with steel-toothed trap on foot. Dog's teeth
worn down from chewing at trap. Foot amputated because of gangrene.

Paramus - Pet cat missing one week, returned dragging trap, in
starved condition. Paw hanging, almost severed, leg gangrenous.

New Milford - Pet cat missing two weeks, found with head in
trap. Large holes on both sides of mouth, almost a skeleton.

Green Brook - Cat in trap five days. Both front legs
mangled and ulcerated from paws to elbows. Euthanized by veterinarian.

Bridgewater - Cat in trap three days. Leg amputated.

Mahwah - Raccoon with one front paw already missing from fonmer
trap injury observed caught in trap by remaining front paw.

River Edge - Dead fox left in trap; tail had been cut off by
trapper.

Hillsdale - Raccoon caught in trap and axed to death by boys.

Harrington Park - Duck found with both.feetmissing from being
caught in traps. ,

Wayne - Great horned owl caught by leg, contracted tetanus and
gangrepe; destroyed :y veterinarian.

G en Roc - Mot er duck with 13 little ones le
severed. (p.135) ’ g completely

 




Robert Lopez, D,V.u.: In the past three decades I have treated

un reds of cases of dogs and cats that had been caught by the leg
in traps and have been brought to my hospital. I took the liberty
to bring the paw of a domestic cat that was just amputated by me in
my hospital a few days ago. May I pass that around. Other patients
were treated without surgery. Many would never walk normally again
because of poorly healed compound fractures. All suffered intense
pain over a long period of time. When this paper was written I had
five cases of cats and two of dogs in my two hospitals, who have
been caught by the leg in steel traps. At least three of these will
need amputation. (PP.ll9-120) -

Jim gorrigonI Executive Director, Ggorgia Wildlife Federation:
Any nter that allows his dog to run on the property of another
man without permission is a shiftless, no good worthless skunk in

my opinion, and his dog deserves what they et and that is a very
poor excuse, very poor justification. (p.2 3)

Gerald F. Brancich D.V.M.: ...regarding trapping injuries, I am
pleased to see action Being taken to prevent these needless
injuries. we have gone through our files for the past approximately

three years and have recorded the following injuries. T ey are re-
corded according to date, animal, area of occurrence, type of injury
and outcome. The majority of these animals were euthanized at the
owners' requests as a result of gangrene affecting the feet.

[Three of thirteen examples given follow]

5. 12/30/72 - Beagle, right front foot, swollen, cold, purplish
skin - one toe white. Recheck 1/3/73 less swollen - toe stil cool.
Recheck 1/6/73 listless, unresponsive - had had convulsions, owner
had euthanized. Live in a wooded area, not reported that we know of.
Grand Rapids, Minn.’

9. 1/9/74 - Lab-mix, right front foot (trap on foot, fox trap)
swollen - oozing area, no feeling in toes. Recheck 1/21/74 still
swollen - sore, cool, not gangrenous. Recheck l/28/74 swelling
down, some infection. Recheck 2/1/74 gangrenous, owner had euthanized.
give in rural area near woods. Don't believe reported. Coleraine,

nn.

12. 12/24/74 - Lab mix, had tongue in trap, % to % of tongue
amputated - possible damage to nerves and blood vessels. 12/30/74
(still in hospital) tongue healing slowly. Live in residential

aregal)cave one of report sheets to owner. Grand Rapids, Minn.
p.

 




How Trapped Animals Are Killed

 

Mrs. Graham ﬁ' Young, Director, Wildlife and Conservation, New
3ersevg3ranc . Humane Soc ety_g__thg_gnitgd_§tgtg§: Dr. Ashley
Montagu, one of the outstanding scientists and anthropologists of
our age, wrote the Branch with reference to leghold trapping by
young people, 'The personality of children cannot help but be
damaged by such activities, and rendered cruel and unfeeling not
only toward animals but also toward human beings.'..The New'Jersey
Branch has documented many cases in which peOple have witnessed
children attempting to kill trapped animals by exceedingly
primitive and gruesome means. A small sampling: axing a raccoon
to death, stoning a skunk to death, clubbing a raccoon with boards,
kicking a living trapped blue jay, removing an opossum from.a trap
and hanging him from a tree to die. (p.32)

 

 

Daniel J. Kelly, Wildlife Researcher:..The needless cruelty

associated with steel-trapping was revealed in a much more shocking
manner several days later. Both front legs caught in traps, the
coyote, exhausted after four days of fighting the unyielding steel,
crouched against the tree stump, his piercing yellow eyes still
alertly focused on my every movement. Thoughts of mercifully

killing or releasing the animal were fleeting as an approaching

car brought a rush of reality. A man in his 60's emerged from the

car expressing surprise and resentment at my presence. Once an
understanding had een established, the trapper set about the

business of disposing of the trapped coyote. The trapper approached,
a five-foot green birch club in hand. The coyote struggled frantically
against the traps, ulling one leg loose and leaving the lifeless

paw in the trap. T e trapper poked at the coyote. The animal

hissed and snapped at the club. Then, as the trapper slowly swished
the club back and forth, the coyote became unusually calm. ‘Mesmerized
by the steady mOtion, he crouched motionless, his yellow eyes
dutifully following the swishing club. ' ,

Suddenly the club smashed across the coyote's nose and slammed
him to the ground. But the blow was not delivered with precision.
Almost instantly he was in a semi-crouch; blood spurting from the
nose, eyes dazed. Again the club fell. The trapper, in one
practiced motion, grabbed the stunned coyote by the hind legs,
stretching the animal full length while planting his foot heavily
on its neck. The other foot delivered a series of thumping blows
to the coyote's chest expelling hollow gasps of air. Releasing
the hind egs, the trapper rested one foot on the coyote's neck,
the other on the chest. The coyote's eyes bulged, the mouth gaped,
the tongue hung listlessly along the blood-stained jaw. Periodically
stomping near the heart, the trapper maintained this position for 14

 




minutes. He indicated this was necessary to ensure that the '
animal was dead - 'Once had one leap up and take a bite at me.

There was no emotion involved, only a degree of disgust when thgl .
blow fell short or a brief expression of satisfaction when thﬁ ow
was effective; the coyote was avarmint and was treated as atflc .
While focusing the camera, I thought how ridiculous it was or a
ZOO-pound man to be stomping on an lB-pound coyote as if his Kggy
existence depended on the animal's elimination. The co ote,

he been given the opportunity, would not even have soug t revenge.
He would only have tried to escape. ‘

. , 1

Satisfied the co ote was dead, the trapper added several fina
stomps before releasiﬁg the remaining trap. Reluctantly, Idaccegted
his offer to accompany him down the road. The carcass was “TE: t
into the trunk along with the wide-e ed carcass of another. r is
more sets yielded another coyote, a adger, a racpoon and twolmagp s.
These coyotes were trapped under the auspices of recreations

trapping.’ (pp.57-58

Congressman_99n Young_of Alaska, a member of the Subcommittee,
requested the opportunity to testify. Following is part of a
colloquy between him and the Chairman:

Mr. Leggett: You come back to these 500 traps, are the animals
always dead?

Mr. Young: Not always, but most of the time they are, and I see
those traps every 4 days. , ,

Mr. Leggett: And when they are not dead, what do you do, shoot them?
Mr. Young: No, Mr. Chairman, you do not puncture the fur at any
time, it decreases the value of the fur. I use a snare on the lynx,
especially if the foot is not caught properly in the trap. You put
it over their head and you pull back, and the foot comes out of the
trap, and all of a sudden you have a 35 or 40-pound mammal fighting
mad next to you. You pray you can hold on to his neck so he can
strangle very rapidly, in 6 or 7 seconds. Mr. Chairman, do you
still want me to keep this trap on my hand?

Mr. Leggett: No, you can take it off now. What is this trapping
for, recreation?

Mr. Young: Trapping for recreation is a method by which many
people do enjoy the outdoors. (p.83)

 




Currently Available Pain Reducinngethods

 

 

Hr. L n A. Greenwelt Director, U.§. Fish and Wildlife Service
U S De artment o t e Interior; Accompanied 52 gagggg_32§£,
Regions? Supervisorﬁﬁivision of Wildlife Services:

‘Mr. Greenwa t: We ve one some research on the we s to make

existing trap equi eat more humane. Frequently we ve been
fairly successful n employing what we term tranquilizer tabs
which is used with the trap in such a way that the animal taken
by the device consumes the tranquilizer and thus does not fight
t e trap. ‘

Mr. Oberstar: Do you have an of those that the committee could
see, if we wanted to, not rig t away?

Mr. Greenwalt: Yes.

Mr. Rost: we are using this in the wolf program in southeast
Texas. It does very little damage because the animal does not
fight the trap.

Mr. Greenwalt: The red wolf is an endangered species that we
are attempting to restore.

Mr. Oberstar: would that be effective on beaver?

Mr. Greenwalt: I think not. There are other kinds of tra s that
can be employed with beavers for live capture. The sancal ed

 

suitcase trap, which is widely used in the capture and transplant-
ing of beavers, effects a safe containment without injury to the
beaver. (p.226)

. Mr. Anderson: You mentioned that you use offset traps. Does the
Department of Interior use any padding around the jaws of the trap?
Mr. Rost: Only when we are trying to take some animal and we do
not want any type of damage to the foot. This would be an animal
that is normally not a target animal. For example, we use the
padded trap for prairie dogs, when a zoo needs-animals for its
population or when they want to start a colony. We do pad the jaw
under such circumstances. (PP.220-221)

Mr. Rost: The jaws of the offset trap do not come together, when
it is closed, and therefore do not break the bone in the leg of the
caught animal. When the offset jaw trap takes an animal, the jaws
of the trap do not completely come together, thus decreasing the
chances of breaking the bone in the animal's leg. The animal does
not fight the trap as much, and the possibility of it twisting its
foot off is reduced. (p.221)

g; Robert Henderson, Extension Specialist, Wildlife Damage Control,
Kansas State Univers%§¥; In 1965, Donald S. Balser wrote aapaper
ife 2,
He

 

 

n the Journa o Wi. Nana ement, Vol.29, No.3, pp.438-
entitled, 'Tranﬁﬁilizer Tabs For CapEuring Wild Carnivores.’

found that by using a tranquilizer tab on the jaw of a steel, leg-
hold trap that he could prevent injury, suffering and the possibility
of escape. The tab consists of a cloth tablet wired to the trap jaw
and containing the tranquilizer.

 




Upon capture the animals usually chew the tab and'ingest the
drug. The drug takes effect in approximately 10-30 minutes, and
strugglin by the trapped animal is reduced. The effects usually
last 4-4 hours, depending on the amount of tranquilizer consumed.
This device was deve oped primarily for capturin animals unharmed

for laboratory experiments, but it has additiona a plications in
capturing animals for marking, in providing easy re ease of dogs
or other pets, and in making steel trapping more humane. In some
cases we use tranquilizer tabs in Kansas. I hepe that in the
future these tabs will gain.more widespread use. (p.258)

 




Endangered Species

Dick Randall W omin Field Re resentative Defenders of Wildlife:
Occasionally, Information will surface that throws some light on p
the magnitude of the destruction wrought by leghold traps. Thomas
J. Harper, a U.S. game management agent, reported at a National
Wildlife Federation meeting that about 2,500 eagles had been un-
intentionally-trapped in northeastern Nevada during the winter of
1972-73. He estimated that 630 of the birds had perished. Harper
said, 'The traps break the eagles' legs and sometimes sever one or
two toes. Many of the birds die of exposure because traps_are
checked only every ten days.’ Harper said there was no way to
estimate indirect losses from maimed birds that wrenched free from
the traps. Without question, eagles that escaped with damaged
feet or talons would be unable to capture prey normally, and were
condemned to a slow, inexorable death. In addition, Harper
reported that between 700 and 1,000 hawks, owls, and other birds
of prey had been trapped. He estimated that 80 percent of them
had died. (p.273)

R. Max Peterson, Deputy Chief for Programs and LegislatioanForest
Servi e De artment of A riculture: The only way an endangered
species would e

 

 

be involve in trapping would accidental. (p.75)
Mr. Anderson: According to the U.S. Department of the Interior's
status re ort on wildcats of the world, 1970, the U.S. fur industry
imported 8,456 leopard skins, 35,000 jaguar pelts, 350,000 ocelots,
32,000 cheetah skins, they were also imported which represents 1
times the number of cheetahs estimated by the report in all parts of
Africa. All these cats were added to the U.S. endangered species
litt so the imported fur, they are now banned, but is it not obvious
the demand created by the U.S. market for these products, provided
a.tremendous economic incentive for the slaughter of these cats, and
thus help to bring them to the verge of extinction, and does not
'the U.S. industry share much of the responsibility for this tra edy.
Ht. Poser (President of the American Fur Merchants' Association :
Mr. Anderson, that is really, I mean no disrespect, but an emotional
statement.

Mr. Anderson: It is not emotional. I am.pointing to facts.

Mr. Poser: The numbers of skins taken were obviously in response

to the market demand. (p.295)

 




One Percent Professional

Sierra Binb- North Star Cha ter: In 1973, 14,118 trapping licenses
were 3013 In'MInnesota. In aaaition, youngsters under age 16 need
no license to tra , except for beaver and otter. The average
income per genera trapping license was $364.00 (p.339)

_§gnatogAChar1engc0. Mathias: The 0.5. De artment of Commerce
estimates that there are approximately 1,0 0,000 trappers in this
country of whom onl one percent are professionals', i.e., persons

for whom.the sale 0 'EEIts comprises a significant portion of their
income. (p.25)

 




