P!\iéli"iii PL ‘
r“ (1 3:? 52‘3": i" N :5"

 

Science, in demonstrating the common origin and kinship of mankind and
the sub-human species has thereby discovered for itself the law of the unity of life
on which is founded the statement, the truth of which is established by the witness

of experience and history, that “Cruelty to Animals is an enemy to Progress.n

Ethics teach that cruelty and oppression are as degrading to the oppressor as
thev are harmful to the helpless victim.

Religion constrains us to treat others as we would ourselves be treated, and
to reverence the life in all God’s creatures, and teaches that as a man soweth so

shall he also ireap.

The lnfliction of Suffering on animals for any purpose other than their own
individual beneﬁt is thus indicated as a violation of the claims of kinship, justice and
compassion, and inimical to the spiritual and material advancement of humanity. It
therefore behoves us to seek to minimise their sufferings and promote their welfare

as we seek to minimise the suffering and promote the welfare of human beings.

From this it follows that the aim of an Animals’ Charter should be to establish
by declaration the rights of animals to justice and the joy of life, to encourage legislative
action and administrative control which shall secure the legal and social recognition
of these rights, and to promote methods of education which shall evoke a more

chivalrous attitude towards animals, the natural outcome of which will be the abandon-

ment of all practices which involve the explgit‘ation of sub-human beings without due

regard t‘oitheiii feelings and "welfare.
(Slit: OVER)

 




It is recognised that the full application of the principles laid down in rtiis"
Charter to the habits, customs and practices of daily life can only be realised gradually

Among the aims of the Charter, which it is hoped to realise in the 1mmed1atei" ’

future, are:

Y

(A) The encouragement of a more humane diet and dress.

(Bl The assurance eby lee‘al enactment and administrative action,’t~hat
so long; as man continues to take the life of animals in connection
with the sup )l\ of food and clothing, or in protecting himself
against their depredations, or for any purpose whatever, it shall
be taken in the most humane way possible.

The prohibition of methods of transport of animals which entail
more than the minimum of discomfort or suffering, and of the use
of traps and other means employed in the capture of animals
which cause avoidable suffering.

The prohibition of the infliction, of pain or suffering on animals in
the pursuit of physiological or other knowledge.

The abolition of sports and amusements which involve the hunting,
killing or 111aiming of animals and of methods of trainingr animals
to perform which subject them to pain and suffering.

The discontinuance of the use of animals in warfare and in prepar-
ation for war.

The employment of mechanical power wherever the conditions of
service impose upon animals undue strain or suffering, as, for
example, in mines, and for heavy transport in congested traffic
on unsuitable road surfaces.

The discontinuance of the practice of the i111prisonment or chaining
of ani111als for purposes of education, amusement, convenience or
for profit.

NOTE.“For the purposes of this Charter, the term ”Animals" shall be taken to

include all Sub-Human Creatures.

 

The above Charter was approved by a Conference convened by the National Council

for Animals Welfare, May 3rd, 1927.

 

NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE,

WP. 1070—233

 




