National Canine Defence League—No. 273.

THE MARTYROOM OF DOGS
IN LABORATORIES.

TORTURED OOO SEEKS REFUGE
IN A SHOP.

w+

“ DAILY NEws,” May 29th, 1906.

A reward is offered by the National Canine Defence League
for “the name and address of the lady who was making pur-

 

 

chases in a shop in Gower Street, when a collie (afterwards claimed
by a doctor) took refuge in the shop ; its throat had been cut,
and it was suffering terribly.” So runs the advertisement, and
thereby hangs a dreadful story.

In the course of an interview, Mr. J. Hughes, secretary of
the League (the offices of which are at 27, Regent Street, S.W.),
made the following statement to a representative of “ The Daily
News ” 2——

“ I have investigated this matter as far as is possible at

present. I heard of the occurrence, and called on the shop-

keeper, who told me that he was serving a lady when a dog
rushed in, with its neck bandaged and a tube in its throat.
The animal, which was a beautiful collie, put its paws on the
counter in an appealing fashion. Tears were ﬂowing down its
face. Immediately afterwards a man, described by the shOp—
keeper as a doctor, came in and asked him whether he had '
seen a dog. Thoughtlessly, the shopkeeper pointed to the
creature, and said, ‘Is that it?’ The doctor smiled at the
shopkeeper, and took the dog away with him.

 




“The lady was greatly distressed, and asked what it
meant. The shopkeeper replied that it was a case of vivi-
section. She said that up to that time she had disbelieved
statements as to the cruelty practised by vivisectors, but she

was now convinced that half the truth had not been told.

“ The shopkeeper further informed me that he knew people
had left the neighbourhood because of the cries of the animals,
but that precautions had now been taken to prevent the sounds
from being heard.”

This is as far as the matter can be carried at present, but
Mr. Hughes is hoping that the lady will come forward and give
her statement.

The Canine Defence League has a Bill before Parliament
for the exemption of dogs from vivisection. During the General
Election pledges in favour of the Bill were given by a majority
of the members of the present House of Commons. The
measure, which is in charge of Mr. Ellis Griffith, has been read
a ﬁrst time, and is blocked by Sir Philip Magnus, the member

for London University.

A petition in support of this Bill, signed by seven hundred
thousand persons, is nearly nine miles long. A medical petition
to the same effect bears the signatures of nearly twelve hun-

dred doctors. Both petitions are being added to daily.

The League will bring a mass of evidence before the Com-
mission on Vivisection.

 

Laaﬂats amt all information can be had gratis of
JOHN HUGHES, Secretary,
NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE,
27, Regent Street, London, SW.

Printed and Published by The Holnzcsdalc Press Lz‘d., Redhill Juncfz'on and Lomi’on.‘

 

 




