Speciﬁc Examples of the
war-time value of Rocks in
cornﬁelds and ploUthand

Copyright

Firing at Nesting Birds is a National disgrace,
punishable in man-trap days
compiled by
MRS. T. S. HAWKINS

 




 

The following speciﬁc examples of the war-time value of
Rooks in newly—sown cornﬁelds and plOughland, may be ig—
nored by those who are blinded by prejudice, but they cannot
make away with them.

Rooks on Trial, by a farmer in 1944

“Them Rooks are always busy in the ﬁelds,” said a farmer,
“but I bain’t sure if they be doing good or the opposite. Next
year I’m ﬁnding, out,” so he ploughed some old ley sowed it
with Winter wheat, netted off part of the ﬁeld with ﬁve feet
wire netting in order to exclude the Rooks. From the ﬁeld

. in general he harvested a very good crop, on the isolate Wired
piece of the ﬁeld there was little» to harvest, most 'of the
original good crop was cleared off by grubs and Wireworm.

N art/iamptonshire Evening Telegraph, 5th: June, 1944.
War-time Rooks On Trial, Feb” 1941

“One ﬁeld of newly—sown corn was guarded by a paid Rook
shooter : the next ﬁeld unguarded was infested by Rooks. In
the autumn the unguarded ﬁeld had far the better crop : the
guarded ﬁeld was weak and patchy.”

Daily Express, 26th 111 ay, 1941.

Rooks in War-time : A Wrong Oﬂiicial Prediction

“I have recently drilled a ﬁeld of barley near a small
rookery. The ﬁeld was inspected by an ofﬁcial as it was
coming through, and his opinion was that it was ruined. Now
a. week later, the ﬁeld has a marvellous plant of barley, owing
to the Rooks clearing out the wireworm which last year badly
damaged a crop of sugar beet. This is concrete proof that
the Rooks did not eat corn as they Worked every row frOm
. top to bottom of the ﬁeld.” ‘

O

. LEONARD RICHARDSON.
'Anglian Daily Times, 20th April, 1944.

“One member of the N.F.U. was told that Rooks had
ruined his sowing of oats, but he discovered thatit was one
_of_the best oat crops he ever had.”

Doncaster Gazette, lst April, 1943.

A Yorkshire Rook Trial in the Last War
In the Yorkshire dales boys were employed to keep Rooks
away from one ﬁeld, the Rooks visiting the other ﬁeld un-
disturbed. The ﬁeld which the Rooks ranged at their own
freewill yielded far the better results of the two.

 

 




‘ Part of a park in the same‘dale was sown with oats. After .‘
the sowing the area was black over with Rooks.’ Everyone
predicted that not a blade would come through, but the yield
proved to be the ﬁnest crop of oats ever grown in that dale.
This proves that the Rooks in both cases must have been
mainly concerned in the destruction of injurious insects,
whereas to the casual observer they appeared to be devour—-
ing the seed as fast as it was sown, said that noted naturalist.

' 'RILEY FORTUNE. ‘

Ro‘oks in War-time Cornﬁelds
“Is the Rook a, crook? Agriculturalists havelong been
divided over this question. Rooks are blamed for eating the
corn seeds in the ground. But a Cheshire farmer’s son shot
a Rook the other day—they are very numerous in his area—

‘ ‘ He’d eaten spadefuls of insects,’ said the 5011. His father _

h0wever averred that the Rook arm‘y could do with thinning
down.”

Manchester Evening N ews, 13th June, 1944.

iRooks in the Cornlands of the Gotswolds

“Our harvest camp site for three years was inan ancient
park abounding in Rooks, thousands Sallying forth to the
fertile cornlands of the Cotswolds. Yet all the. farmers in
that district experienced almost-the best crops ever known.
The tenant of the Home Farm, which is surrounded by
rookeries, told me last year that he had never known such
crops.” ,

' . ' ' - DR. SIBLY.
The 14/ estern Afar], 4th April, 1944.

Rooks in _ war-time Cornﬁelds'

“I was looking at some of my grassland that had-been com-
pulsorily plOughed. There were hundreds of Rooks on it
after grubs, etc. It has since been sown, the crops are about
ﬁve inches high. ,1 never see a Rook near it.”

. LIEUT.-C0L0NEL LEONARD NOBLE.
30th April, 1942. ' ' '

Rooks in War-time : Damage More Apparent than. Rieal,

“A number of young Rooks were shot which were preying
very heavily upon a barley ﬁeld, but not one kernel of corn
was in them, their gizzards were full of leatherjackets, wire— '
worms and beetles.”

Farmers’ .l/Veekly, 213i .March, 1941.

 




 

“A large ﬂock of Rooks descended on a ﬁeld lately planted
with wheat. The farmer shot two or three to protect the
young corn; he regretted his action as they had been collect-
ing wireworms only.” .

FRANCIS PITT (a well—known N atn'ralist).'

Evening News, thh July, 1943.

Damage More Apparent than Real

The ﬁeld adjacent to my rookery'was drilled with barley.
Owing to the lack of moisture, it failed to germinate for over
a month. My neighbour feared that the crop would be a
complete failure, because his shepherd informed him that th
ﬁeld was “black ower wi’ crows; every daa.” -

To our amazement, when the rain at last arrived, the green
blades of. corn appeared in the rows with unfailing regu—
larity, and eventually the “full corn in the ear” yielded the
best crop on the farm! We were thus- forced to the con-
clusion that the Rooks had been foraging for 'grubs, leather—
jackets, wireworms and other injurious pests instead of de-
vouring the seed corn. '

A. R. TUCKER, Ornithologist.

Why are Rooks always expected to be “devouring the seed
. corn” with their insectivorous beaks ?—T.S.H.

Damage More Apparent than Real

“The ﬁeld had been sown to oats and rolled. Thereafter
it was visited every day and all day by a number of Rooks
and Jackdaws, which dug the surface so thoroughly that the
ﬁeld had the appearance of never having been rolled. I
confessed to misgivings, but the oats came up as thick‘as a
mat.”

R. G. ADAMS, Lympstone. .

When Rooks pull up plants in order to obtain hidden food
foes which destroy plants for three or four years 'during
their larvae period, the farmer gains on balance from the
Rooks apparent damage. '

F. AKEHURST, B.A., FRI-LS.

In a number of such cases there were unjustiﬁed fears
about Rooks in the drilled ﬁelds until they proved that they
were consuming insects and grubs. No doubt this extra-
ordinary expectation of damage is due to some farmers being
made anti—Rook minded by foolish ejaculations in the Press,

 

 

 




 

 

such as “Rooks are Saboteurs No. 1'!” “Black Poultry,” etc.
How ironical it is that at the very moment that Rooks are
saving cereals from hidden foes which the drill and the
harrow expose, they are thought harmful by superﬁcial ob—
servers. The Rooks detractors admit that these birds leave
the sower for the plough !

‘ ' T. S. HAWKINS.

Nesting Rooks:

“If the ene'mies'of the Rook could only see in a measure
the mass of insects one pair of Rooks destroyin feeding one
nest of young Rooks, persecuiton would cease at once. For
365'days in the year these unpaid servants are proteCting our
food supplies.

C. T. AbAMS, An arable farmer of 700 acres.

Another Opinion of Nesting Rooks

Professor Newstead examined some young Rooks on the
19th of May. They contained the following surface cater—
pillars (Noctual). No. (1) contained 47 moth larvae, N o. (2)
23 moth larvae, 1 grain of wheat, 1 molluse, No. (3), 65 moth
larvae, 1 grain of wheat, 1 wireworm, remains of dung beetle,
No. (4), 3 moth larvae, pieces of potato tuber, remains of
click beetles, No. (5), 75 moth larvae, N o. (6), 47 moth larvae.
All baby Rooks must be fed on soft food owing to the nature
and the structure of their intestines,

T. S. HAWKINS.

Benefactors Exhibited as Malefactors
“In Harpenden, where the Common has been ploughed up,
'I have seen numbers of Rooks diligently searching for
insects. The birds efforts have not been appreciated, a shot
Rook dangles from a stick stuck in the ground.”

E. G. BARLow.

Damage More Apparent than Real

“By a sad irony a Rook whichwas: doing duty as a scare— ‘
crow suspended from a stick in' a cornﬁeld and which I
dissected was entirely crammed with wireworms.” '

DR, C. R, TICEHURST, M.R.C.S., M.B..O.U.,
in “The Birds of Sufol/e”

 




 

‘ Sardonic

“A new variety. of Rook—a bird with a beak so constructed
that it cannot dig for wireworm and'can only operate on the
crops.” ' ‘

East Anglian Daily Times, 11th July, 1942.

“ Nature’s Insecticides ” ,
“It has been instructive to observe how Rooks have ﬂocked

to newlybroken—up pasture lands where they have devoured ,

large numbers of wireworm and other insect pests.”
- - H. J. W.
Burton Observer, 9th April, 1942. ‘

‘ The Leatherjackets Eaten by Major-General Sir Here-
Ward Wake’s Nesting Rooks

' I once shot a Rook returning to the'nest and foundtthat the
bird’s beak and throat contained about 40 leatherjackets.
some had fallen out. ,

Our keeper was stationed at nesting time to count the visits
of parent birds to their young at the end of April with 12
hours of daylight; he found one bird returned to the nest.
on an, average every ﬁve minutes. .

Now supposing the Rooks fed their young for only SIX
hours in the day, and supposingeach parent returned to the
nest only ﬁve times in the hour and supposingthey each
brought only 30 leatherjackets on each occasion,the number

of leatherjackets destroyed by that one pair in one day only '

would be 2 X 5 X 30 X 6 = 1,800, and obviously it might be
twice that number. .

Young Rooks in the nest must be given soft food or they
die. In 30 days it is quite possible that this one pair of
Rooks killed 60,000 leather j ackets.

, Rooks inf] War-time
“It was a pleasing sight on hundreds of fields after old
turf had been ploughed, to see the-Rooks working over them

day after day for weeks to ﬁnd many" kinds of injurious
insects. . - ' ‘

A. MONTGOMERY. .
Farmers’ Weekly, 15th April, 1941.

‘~‘ Nature’s Insecticides ”
, Farmers were told in the Press after the' last war, 1914-18,
by those Who miscall it f‘SpOrt,” to ﬁre at nesting birds, that

 




the vast increase in grassland drastically reduced the Rooks
insect food, and made them destructive. Many farmers were
hoodwinked by this laughable misrepresentation of facts,
which they quoted. Now that there is a vast increase in
arable land, 1940—44, we are told there are not enough insects
for Rooks, so they will raid the cornﬁelds. It is impossible
to have it both ways ! - So owing to this, and the conﬂicting
views of farmers, the British Trust for Ornithology is in—
vestigating the Rooks diet for a year. An ornithological
trial of national importance can surely be conducted entirely
without bias by ornithologists and entomologists? It may,
therefore, be pertinent to ask why “pest ofﬁcers” of all
W.A.E.Cs. who call Rooks “pests” in the Press, and have
treated them as such for years, have such a leading part in
this British Trust investigations? Will the anti—Rook frater—
nity be fair to the Rooks? In order to safeguard these birds
from being enticed into trap-cages baited with corn and'then
shot, may I stress the importance of having unbiased ornitho-
IOgists to see every Rook shot for the analyst? The Rooks diet
is not restricted to soil food foes, these birds consume innum—
erable mottled umber caterpillars and Tortrix oak—leaf rollers.
They cleared a 400 acre wood of these tree foes. Rooks
consume the following devastators, I know, from my life—
long observations of their food in their tame and wild state.

Many kinds of wireworm, cockchafer beetles, and cock—
chafer grubs (Rook worms), cutworms, cockabundies,
leatherjackets, crane—ﬂy (several species), many kinds of
weevils, cheesy bugs, ﬁeld slugs, Snails, millepedes, many
kinds of beetle, including click, dor oil, helmate elator, corn
ground, and the extremely destructive grubs of the turnip
moth, antler moth, winter moth, diamond—back moth, umber
moth, magpie moth, ghost—swift moth, heart and dart moth,
mottled umber moth, large yellow underwing and green—oak
Tortrix (oak—leaf rollers), Rooks come in thousands to the
oak woods with their young ones for a feast of these devas—
tators. Rooks also consume caterpillars of the white cabbage
butterﬂy, blue bottles and larvae, winged ants as they

i emerge. from walls, wood lice, crickets, they kill,

but do not appear to eat. Consider the progressive increase
of a pair of crane ﬂies in ten generations, it amounts to
l,77‘1,470,000,000,000,000,000,000,000. How much damage
would their larvae .leatherjackets do if not kept in
check by Rooks who raid their subterranean pas-
sages if Rooks render the food producer a triple wire-

 




worm service; they not only consume click beetles and their.
wireworm larvm, but also the wireworms stronghold, couch
grass. The succulent roots of this troublesome weed is often
found in the “pellets” of Rooks. The dietof Rooks is not
conﬁned to grassland, arable and woods. These birds ﬁnd a
menu of sand eels and crustacean all round the seashore,
estuaries, and tidal .marks and many aquatic creatures in
riverside pools, ditches, andmarshes; They also ﬁnd food
in city tip bins, country dumps with numerous loaves and
mice, waste grain, in stubble ﬁelds or emptied from sacks,
railway sidings, and manure'heaps.

When 631 Rooks were dissected by Dr. Collinge, grain
occurred in 320 cases. '

Is not 'it a fact that the monthly analysis of the Rooks diet
by Edward Wilson and Florent Prevost showed no grain or
roots! at all?

T. S. HAWKINS.

1'

Professor Ritchie says: “The percentage of food is
not the simple matter of calling all equal at 50——,50 as a
wireworm has no simple relation to a corresponding bulk
of grain, one wireworm equals 200 grains of crop barley,
100 grains of wheat, 50 grains of oats.” It is, impossible to
compare a volume of grain with a volume of insects; and
their incredible powers of reproduction. The taking of ripe
or ungerminated grain is not at all commensurate with the
vast beneﬁt done by consuming innumerable insects when
about to deposit their eggs, if allowed to hatch out the
larvae must destroy a quantity of foodstuff hundreds of
times in excess of the same volume of grain. With the
speedy methods of modern farming with the three—furrow
tractor plough the Rooks can clear only one furrow of wire—
worm and grubs for a very short time before the tractor’
is round again driving them away, the other two furrows
are covered up, so wireworms and. grubs are sheltered and
saved from the birds._ But with the one-furrow horse plough
the Rooks had plenty of time for weeks; to clear each furrow
of devastators. Whatever may be said for, or against, ‘
Rooks, does not effect the question of putting a stop to the
Hitlerite raids in the nesting season. They are a hideous
blot on our national escutcheon, as cruel actions denote .
bullies.

T. S. HAWKINS, author of “My Friend the R0018,” etc.

 




