PROFESSOR LAWSON TAlT’S REPLY
TO MR. ERNEST HART.

 

 

(FROM THE “ECHO,” JANUARY 4TH, 1893.)

MR. ERNEST ABRAHAM HART now shirks the questions
which he himself has raised, and makes not the slightest
effort to reply to the effective answers which he has received
from many of your correspondents. I am glad, hOVV,ever to
see that he has altered his style of language very materially,
and, save for some slight gratuitous impertinence to myself,
his present letter is free from the singularly offensive style
he has adopted—in your columns as in his own journal—in
discussing this question.

Mr. Hart engages in no new argument, but seems to think
it will help his cause to make me appear ridiculous; but he
does not succeed, and it would not help his case if he did.
He thinks it inconsistent that I should have on some past
occasion “gratefully eulogised” the editing of the British
ﬂiedz’cal Journal. It would be curious indeed if it had not been so.
Mr. Hart has been editor, and I have been one of the numerous
proprietors, for over 20 years, and if there had not been occasions
when there was good reason for my gratefully eulogising the
paper and its editing it is perfectly certain Mr. Hart could
not have retained his position for such a lengthened period.
But the regrettable thing is that, whilst I have been the
object of frequent and fulsome adulation by this editor when
I agreed with him, nothing is too had for me now when we
happen to be on different sides. That his rude and wicked
article in the Neil; Review should receive the “high praise”
of men like those he quotes is only evidence of their bad taste
and unsound judgment, for no matter what side they may
take in the discussion, readers generally must look upon such
an article as a disgrace to journalism.

“ Now, as to the thesis that discoveries made by experi-
ments on animals have not in the past, and do not now, from
day to day and year to year, advance the progress of the
healing art ”—this is just the question at issue, and is not to
be settled by mere statements of authority, especially as the
dictum delivered by Mr. Hart was uttered 1n 1876, before the

 




2

question had been critically examined. It would not be, and
is not accepted now.

On one small . matter Mr. Hart does me a wrong in saying

that I informed your readers that the illustrious John Hunter
was the author of a mass of appalling nonsense. I am
writing away from my collection of the correspondence of
this discussion, but I am perfectly sure I never said
anything that could bear such an interpretation. What I
did say, and wished my readers to infer, and what I say
deliberately now, is that Sir Everard Home’s version of
Hunter’s work concerning the experiments on animals is
“appalling nonsense,” with which I do not believe Hunter
had any association at all. I cannot believe that so great
and so astute a surgeon as Hunter could have devised an
experiment to elucidate the cure of aneurism in which there is
not present a single condition intrinsic to the aneurismal
condition of an artery.
, Of Pasteur, I say that the disease he is communicating to
human beings through his experiments on dogs is not rabies.
Of Lister, I say that his wild vagaries, ever changing and
never constant, have hindered the progress of surgery. Of
Koch, I say that his work on tuberculosis, so far, has proved
nothing but a disaster to humanity—unless it be to the
Hebrew speculators in Berlin. Of Sir Andrew Clark, I
merely ask your readers to make their own conclusions from
the following parallel columns :—-

SIR ANDREW CLARK BEFORE SIR
THE “ CLINICAL SOCIETY OF BRISTOL

ANDREW CLARK AT
(ll/Ester” Daily

 

LONDON” (British Medical
Journal, Feb. 3rd, 1883).

“ For whatever purpose
they may be employed ; how-
ever carefully they may be
designed and executed ; how-
ever successful may be the
precautions taken to exclude
error, experiments have
their subtle difﬁculties and
dangers which are perilous to
truth, and cannot be wholly
averted. By the prestige of
precision," which often un-
deservedly they profess, un-
due weight is attached to
their results; and by the
assumption that in like con-
ditions the results would be
the same in man as in the
lower animals, ﬂagrant errors
are committed, and currency
is given to false or inadequate
generalisations. The experi-

Press, Nov. 17th, 1892).

“The law of vicarious
suffering was a law of the
physical, mental, moral, and
spiritual life; and no living
sentient being could escape
from its operation. It was
plainly the appointment of
God, and if one animal might
not be used in the service of
another and higher animal,
God was neither just nor lov-
ing. Experiments performed
upon animals with due care,
for a high purpose, in a rever-
ent spirit, and with results in
good transcending any suffer-
ing inﬂicted, were not cruel.
. . . . It was folly now to
argue the question whether
experimental research had
contributed to the advance-
ment of theoretical and prac-
tical knowledge, for it was




menter interprets the results
of his experiments by the
light of their structural
results; he forgets or he
ignores the life history of the
processes by which they have
been evolved, and he takes
no account of the fact,
beyond controversy, that
different clinical states ﬁnd
occasionally the same struc-
tural expression. In such
circumstances doubt is in-
evitable, and it is only «to
clinical medicine that any
just appeal for its solution
can be made. To her, at last,
all such experiments must be
brought for trial; she must
be their examiner, critic,
interpreter, user, and judge.
And no results of experiments
can be made of any avail to
medicine, or be used with
safety in her service, until
they have been ﬁltered
through the checks and
counter-checks of clinical ex-
perience, and have responded
to the tests and counter-tests
of clinical trial. Had these
principles exerted their just
inﬂuence in the recent debates
concerning questions of this
kind, we should not have
had a seton in the neck of
a man taken as the parallel
of a seton in the neck of a
guinea-pig; we should not
have had the artiﬁcial tuber-
culosis of the rodent pro-
nounced to be identical with
the natural tuberculosis of
the child; we should not
have had grey tubercles and
caseous pneumonias pro-
nounced on the grounds of
mere likeness of structure to
be of one and the same
nature; and we should have
been spared the sight of
science, drunken with success
and drivelling with pro-

certain that no “substantial
advance had been made in
physiological knowledge, and
none in the departments of
midwifery, surgery, and medi-
cine, without the assistance
of this method of research.
. . . . By experimental re-
search surgeons had been
able to arrest or cure diseases,
and Koch discovered in the
presence and action of
the tubercular bacillus the
true cause of tuberculous or
consumptive disease .....
Furthermore, there were just
reasons for expecting that
the continuance of this ex-
perimental research would
lead to the discovery of means
for the prevention, and,
perhaps, even the cure,
of pulmonary consumption,
which destroyed so many of
the fairest and best of their
race. By experimental re-
search they had discovered
the condition for using with
efﬁciency and safety almost
all the stronger and most
useful drugs, and by experi-
ments upon animals they had
discovered the nature and re-
lations of infectious diseases,
and they had learned how, in
some measure, to prevent the
development and to control
the spread of fevers, cholera,
and anthrax. And yet, with
all these services before them,
they could not scratch the
neck of a rabbit for the
advancement of knowledge
without becoming legal
criminals. Knowledge could
be advanced now only by
experiment, and if experi-
ment were to be suppressed,
and if consistently the use of
knowledge acquired in this
manner were to be rejected,
then it was certain the
art of preventing and. of

 




phesies, soliciting the public curing the diseases of beasts
on the common highway,” and men would decay, that
. physical and mental degen era -
tion would follow, and that
science in England would
become the contempt and

pity of the world.”

Then, as a conclusion, Mr. Ernest Abraham Hart wishes it
to appear that I alone set. up for wisdom on this question,
though he knoWs it is not so, and scores of letters have been
sent to his journal on my side of the question, which he has
refused to publish. ' '

Why, then, is all this craze for experimentation on animals
I cannot understand, while there remain unexhausted so
many roads to fame and fortune by bedside observation and
pathological research ; there-is some mystery about it which
I cannot fathom. Can it be a racial peculiarity, a survival of
that terrible tendency of the Hebrew people to exact an eye
for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, and to indulge in other
effete habits of a bloodthirsty kind? Certain it is that the
“researchers” are largely recruited by persons with names
like Hart, Schiff, Klein, Schaeffer, Buffer, and others, all of
which indicate Semitic origin.

LAWSON TAIT.

Lyndhurst Road, Hants, December 29th.

 

 

 

 

PEWTRESS & 00., Printers, 28, Little Queen Street, High Holborn, “10.

 




