"'2 were , .u rials; .

it Hi; ~-

NATURE'S CHECKS AND BALANCES.,:3.;

$3.1! _.
,7”: ”5}”
n

 

O we think of animals as creatures who are intended only or mainly i

to‘ serve our convenience and pleasure, to provide us with food and

clothing, to spend their lives in labour for us, to be hunted and. harassed

and worried. to their death or to be subject to lifelong conﬁnement for our
education and entertainment?

If we regard them‘as created for these and other human ends,
can we have considered them as living, feeling,‘intelligent creatures to
whom life is dear, to whom freedom to move among their own kind
within their natural environment is the breath of life—as creatures who

i love their young and are ready to defend them from attack and injury at
the cost of their own lives? ' -

These are some of the observed and established facts about animal
life and feeling, as we may learn from. those who have ‘S’tudied the life _.
and conduct of animals in. their natural, haunts. They are facts the truth
of which we can, to some extent at least, test for ourselves in so far as we
make sympathetic and patient contact with the animals in our own homes
and the surrounding countryside.

Equally challenging is the fact that every species has its appointed _
place and natural function in Nature’s great scheme of wild life in which
its value to man may be of but secondary importance to its value to other
creatures. A particular species may appear to be of little use to man.
The leopard, for instance, has his place and function in the great
scheme of things. He is, indeed, as F. W. Champion explains in his

‘ book, “ The Jungle in Sunlight and Shadow,” a very important unit in
the scheme of life in, India. 'There, deer and Wild‘ hogs abound; they
increase so rapidly and are so voracious that they would consume all the
available food inside the forests and the other animals would starve.
The leopard is one of the natural. checks on the undue increase of deer

and wild hogs.

Animals have their ownplace in Nature’s scheme and function—a

, place and functionﬁwe shall most certainly fail to understand if we are

only concerned with the short-sighted question “ Of what use are they
to man?” A V A

s

1 In Nature’s scheme man. is. only one of the animals—eand is. as
much subject to. Nature’s. laws as the rest of them. But he has
unhappily not recognised this in many of hisldealings with the
animal world, either because he chooses to ignore it in pursuit of his
proﬁt and pleasure and sport, or because he does not use his intelli-
gence to look” far enough ahead ‘to‘ consider what "the long-term results
of his actions are likely to be. For the proﬁt or pleasure of the moment
he will mortgage and sacriﬁce the future in disregard or deﬁance of
the law—~As a man soweth’ so shall he also reap. Especially has..he
been found wanting in relation to the principle of the Balance .of Nature,
with disastrous conseqUences to himself. Why is it we "are plagued
with an excessive [population of rats and rabbits for instance, to such
an extent that an estimate of the damage done by rats alone of
£10,000,000 annually is authoritatively stated to be .“ probably well
within the mark”? "

[9.110.

 




1

The answer given to this question by oyne’welI—known authority,
Mr. H. G. Maurice, is :-—- w.

“ One of the chief reasons why we are plagued with an excesr
sive population of rats, and let me add rabbits, is the senseless
persecution of such useful creatures as the polecat, the stoat, the
weasel, and of owls, kestrel, hawks and other valuable birds of
prey (chieﬂy in the supposed interests of game-preserving) ”

Now in spite of certain minor depredations on cereal crops and
fruits made by the sparrow, the starling, rook and gull, they are all ‘
useful destroyers of insects and weed seeds and are on balance a beneﬁt
to agriculture and,‘ food production. Well might Ralph Hodson write:—

I saw with open eyes ‘ ._ I saw in (a Vision _

Singing birds sweet . The worm in the wheat \

Sold in the shops for And 'in the shops nothing

People to eat: ' For people to eat;
Sold in the shops of ’ Nothing for sale in
Stupidity Street. -, . Stupidity Street.

Man has gone against Nature in his treatment of animals. He has '
created a civilisation in which he has become artiﬁcially dependent for
his food, his health, his clothing, his tranSporrt, his pleasure and many
of his comforts, upon the callous exploitation and ‘selfish destruction of
animal life with little or no regard to the sufferings and miseries inﬂicted
upon these sentient fellow creatures in the process. ’

So ruthless has he been in pursuit of "his-ends, in certain directions,

that a scientiﬁc journal a few years back published the statement that:

“The modern ravages of themfur and hide trade, with the

work of: the bone fertiliser trade, now threaten the entire vertebrate

kingdom ” . I i \ ~ .
.and a trade paper “ The Fur Trader’”, declaredzu— ’. ,,

“ The trade in skins will increase in volume until the needs

of men coupled with the vanity of women have exhausted all

the beasts upon the earth’s surface.” 7

Will itiever be possible for him to slow up and reverse this proces
and live in peace and comradeship with all that lives and breathes?
Difficult it undoubtedly will be, but today there are many people Who
are learning to live with only a minimum of animal exploitation;
people who are planning and working to create a new order, based, not
upon the principle that might and superior intelligence imply the right
to tyrannise and oppress, but upon reverence for all life and the recog-
nition of the bond that exists between all that lives. Truly it is written
beneath the statue erected to the memory of the horses that fell in the
Boer War :-~ ‘ -- , ‘ ' g

. ‘ “The greatness of a nation consists not so much in the ”num-

bers of its people or the extent of its territory, as in, the greatness

and justice of its compassion.” , i ‘ ’

The older generations camiot do emuch more towards theii‘building
of this new order; it is for. the younger generations to set their minds
and‘hearts and hands to this great adventure. ’ A. ' ’

i , .. ROBERT H. SPURRIER.

For further details, information, literature, speakers, elc.,'please wrile‘io the y I

SECRETARY, NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS' WELFARE,
_' . 32, Queen's Avenue, London, N..lO

 

A. V. Huckle & Son, Ltd., Printers, 60 Ramsden Road, Balh‘am, London, S.VV.12.

 




