We need a boundless ethics
which will include the
animals also.

Albert Schweitzer

Let Us
Live 0 O O

The aim of this
appeal is to
awaken your con-
science to save
millions of ani-
mals from the in- ,
conceivable agony
of the steel-jaw ‘
trap.

Arctic fox
(Photo Fred Bruenner, Montreal)

The Animal Welfare Institute
protests against cruel trapping
of animals for fur.

The Animal Welfare Institute in
collaboration with the World Fed-
eration for the Protection of
Animals fights against barbaric
methods of capture and killing.

 

The list of threatened and en—
dangered species grows each year.
33 New York furriers were caught
red-handed in 1973 participating in
an international ring of fur traders
trafficking in endangered species:
spotted cats, nearly extinct giant
otters, and other creatures cruelly
and illegally killed and smuggled out
of their native lands.

Do Not Buy

More than 25 mil- ? I

lion wild animals.
so called because
they live in free-
dom, are trapped
or snared every
year. victims of a
greedy and ruth-
less fur trade that
feeds on human
vanity.

 

 

Martyred Victims
of the Steeljaw
Traps

Every year tens of millions of
animals are trapped, about 13 mil-
lion in the United States and Can-
ada alone: including beavers, lynx.
squirrels, wolves, arctic foxes, red
foxes, muskrats and raccoons.
Struggling for days and nights,
sometimes for weeks in the well-
hidden steeljaw traps, they suffer
unimaginable anguish,thirst, hunger.
freezing cold and exhaustion. In
their desperate efforts to free the
trapped leg, they only succeed in
most cases in tearing the flesh.
breaking the bone, or breaking their
teeth against the hard steel of the
trap.

How can the intensity of their
anguish be measured?

 




 

A Canadian survey of two traplines
over a 5-year period showed that
for 561 animals caught whose fur
was saleable, there were 1350
additional victims crushed in the
steel jaws.

The Steeljaw
Trap, A Mortal
Peril for All
Animals

 

The screams of this little bird
brought no help. In the jargon of
the trapping industry, this delicate
singer is mere "trash" to be thrown
out.

Thousands of traplines are laid
across the vast Canadian wilderness
and in every state of the United
States. The loss of sensitive
creatures useless to the fur trade.
but valuable to our ecosystem,
attains incalculably monstrous
figures.

A fur coat is no
longer a status
symbol

Beautiful “fake furs” are available
from countless reputable manu-
facturers at a fraction of the cost of
real fur—both in terms of dollars
and of animal suffering.

Now that the public is learning of
the gruesome trapping and mar-
tyrdom of fur bearing animals
individual buyers must consult
their consciences. They must de-
cide if they can still bear to buy or
to wear real fur. Documented facts
and photographs demonstrate
how furs are obtained. They know
that in choosing synthetic fur or
plain cloth they are opting for
life— not for agonizing death for
animals.

 

These were what trappers call
”trash". Animals without value for
the trapper: geese, ducks, song
birds, eagles, owls, porcupines.
squirrels, and a host of other crea-
tures including family pets.

 

 

This pamphlet has been prepared for distribu-
tion in the United States and Canada. Infor—
mation from both countries is included.

 

 

 

If you wear fake fur you are sure
that no animal suffering was
involved.

 




 

   

Fear and pain inflicted by the leg-
hold trap is so intense that many
animals gnaw their paws off to
escape. Others die of thirst,
hunger or cold before the trapper
returns. Few state laws require ,
daily inspections of trap lines, 2.
and such laws as exist, are not
enforced.

us death

torture!

Blood-spattered
snow provides a
nightmare setting
for the terror,
pain, and despair
which the im-
placable trap
elicits from its
small victim —-a
barbaric drama of
suffering which
has been com-
pared to cruci-
fixion.

 

 

 

 

Dozens of these little ermines are
necessary to make a single coat.

 

- - ..--.\..A_A.-.-.- .

 

 

This is an appeal to all good citizens
to ban the use of an outmoded
instrument of torture for mere com-
mercial gain. The leghold trap, in—
vented in Medieval England to catch
human beings who tried to poach
on the lands of the gentry, is still
being used unblushingly by the fur
industry. It's time to stop!

Frequently the trapped animals, es-
pecially mother animals who at-
tempt the impossible in order to re-
turn to their babies, gnaw off the
imprisoned foot. The fur trade calls
this ”wring off".

To prevent such escape, which
means loss of the pelt, some traps
are placed in or near water. Thus
the struggle for life of the captured
animal ends in death by drowning.

7

Depending upon the amount of air
ln'ltS lungs, it can take twenty
minutes to drown a beaver.

 




   

 

For the majority of trappers, the These photographs
cruel business is merely a sideline, were taken from a
and some states even encourage film of the World
schoolboys to trap by providing a Federation for the
cheaper license for them than for Protection of Ani-
. adults. mals (WFPA).

 

(Photo Lay—out Courtesy of the EurOpean Committee
for the Protection of Seals and other Furbearing
Animals)

mfg). «WI ~ uw~hwu~¢ 24-2.}..2 .n,

Documented
horror

Testimony of a ”One day, I saw a large beaver, a

trapper: front paw caught in a leghold trap.
The paw was no longer covered
with skin or flesh, the bone was
visible, naked and white. At my

; approach, as the beaver struggled

l * desperately to free itself, the bone

l

' «Luke‘s, . dzeumq.» ~.,

Kl

broke with a sickening sound.”

 

. Austria, Chile, Denmark, Norway.

1 Switzerland, West Germany and
the United Kingdom have outlawed
the leghold trap. Only traps that kill
immediately or those that hold the
animal unharmed are allowed. But
in the United States and Canada.

‘ there are no national laws against
these traps, and only a few states 'f
ban their use in certain areas.

Animal protective organizations
throughout the United States.
Canada and the whole world appeal
to all people of good will to aid them
in ending the torture of the perse-
cuted furbearers.

~bh’r‘wm‘v »—_......~w .4 ..s_~.r~¢ . .. . : -. - .:._.. A ’ ~ _ ..,

-t - w4 ”my ~17. paw...el~.

C0pies of this leaflet are available
free on request for distribution from
the Animal Welfare Institute, PO.
Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007

. . Name _

Looking at these photographs. j —

what does your conscience dic- . Address

tate? What is your responsibility l —
b ; Please send me

toward these martyred creatures? . _ . _ .
copies of this leaflet for distribution.

 

 
 

«43“ . .,..; , .

   

; _- A. ._.._......._a .

 

 




Med schools and
science departments
can profit from
flexibility of modular
construction in
animal cages

By WILLIAM HOFFER

Doctors at Johns Hopkins University in
Baltimore, Md., are experimenting with
new techniques of gastrointestinal sur-
gery. At the Medical College of Vir-
ginia in Richmond, researchers are test-
ing a special anti-rejection drug that
might give transplant patients more
hope of recovery. Naturally these new
techniques cannot be tried initially on
humans.

Colleges throughout the US. carry
out a wide range of research programs
that require the use of dogs, cats, mon-
keys, rabbits, sheep and countless other
animals—but a new enforcement policy
by the federal government may make it
difﬁcult for a school to continue animal
research unless it drastically changes its
facilities.

The Animal Welfare Act is the basic
law setting caging requirements for lab-
oratory animals. A dog, for example,
“shall be provided minimum square
footage of ﬂoor space equal to the
mathematical square of the sum of the
length of the dog in inches, as mea-
sured from the tip of its nose to the
base of its tail, plus six inches, ex-
pressed in square feet.” That means

that a moderate sized dog must be kept.

in a cage tr kennel measuring 4’ x 6’ or
even larger. '

A. E. Farwell, Jr., director of animal
services for Johns Hopkins, explains
that the rules have been in effect for
years. “But once an animal was taken
from your holding facility and assigned
to a researcher, those rules no longer
applied,” Farwell says. “Now the en-
forcement of the law has been changed,
and even an animal currently being

lly kennel runs for dogs.

3 monkeys housed in what were origina

Modular kennels
for laboratory

 

 

tested must be kept in the type of en-
closure designated.” Farwell also notes
that the Department of Agriculture has
stepped up its enforcement of the regu-
lations.

Several years ago Johns Hopkins’ ani-
mal facilities consisted mainly of cages
made of special plastic and iron bars.
Some cost as much as $2,000 per cage.
They were bulky and hard to clean.

Then Farwell discovered a company
in nearby Gambrills, Md, that offered
an alternative. The company, Bob Long
Kennel Runs, manufactures animal ken-
nels in modules.

At the factory, panels are constructed
of lengths of steel pipe welded together
in the desired size. Then specially
treated, smooth mesh is stretched over
the panel. In a matter of minutes panels
can be clamped together to form mod-
ules of any number and shape.

“They cost only about a fourth as
much as the cages,” Farwell says. “But
the biggest advantage is that we have so
much more ﬂexibility with them.”

Unlike fence, which must be con-
structed over sunken posts, the kennel
panels are free-standing. They can be
rearranged at will. “We use some runs
for dogs, and we’ve got sheep and

swine in others,” says Farwell. “If your
requirements change you only have to
unclamp the panels and rearrange them
for different spacing.”

Johns Hopkins now has more than
100 of the runs located in various build-
ings. One of the most dramatic installa-
tions is in the Brady Building of the
hospital, where dogs are used in urol-
ogy research. To meet the new require-
ments of the Animal Welfare Act Far-
well had to ﬁnd extra space. At the end
of the hall he located an old storeroom
ﬁlled with discarded research equip-
ment.

In a matter of days Farwell had the
equipment moved out (most of it was
old enough to junk) and the room
painted.

“A man from Bob Long Kennel
Runs came over and measured the
room, and together we planned the best
use of the ﬂoor space,” Farwell reports.
“The ceiling posed an unusual problem
because several sloping beams ob—
structed the area. But the company fab-
ricated several panels for us specially to
ﬁt around obstructions.”

The result was an instant animal
holding room with 16 spacious kennel
runs. The dogs were happier, the doc-

Reprinted from the Hey, 1973 issue of COLLE°E MANAGEMENT magazine with permission of the
publisher. This article is copyrighted. C>1973 by Macmillan Professional MAgazines, Inc.
All rights reserved.

 




tors were happier, and the inspector
from the US. Department of Agricul-
ture\was happier.

Of course, more ﬂexibility is available
when a kennel run installation is
planned for a new location. That is why
James Dwyer, director of animal ser-
vices at the Medical College of Virginia
in Richmond, breathes a sigh of relief
that he used modular construction.

The school built a massive modern
animal holding center at its animal re-
search farm a few miles outside of
Richmond. Carefully planned and con-
structed, the building contains nearly
100 modular kennel runs, stretched out
in military-like rows for easy cleaning.

Shortly after completion of the build-
ing, Dwyer moved hundreds of dogs
into their quarters. “All of a sudden
one of the doctors told me he had de-
cided to use rhesus monkeys instead of
dogs!” Dwyer says.

If the college had purchased cages for
the dogs, they would have had to order
new, different types of cages for the
monkeys. The dog cages would have
been stored until they were needed
again.

“We simply ordered more panels,”
Dwyer notes. “We clamped them over
the tops of the runs so the monkeys
couldn’t get out.”

Fences are generally built with a 2”
wire mesh, but the modular kennel runs
are built with a 11/4” mesh to prevent
dogs from chewing on and damaging
the panels. This proved to be especially
useful for containing the smaller, in-
quisitive monkeys.

The size of the runs allowed Dwyer
to keep several monkeys together. They
seem to enjoy the company, he re-
ported, and they love the extra room to
jump about.

A minor problem developed, how-
ever, because the frisky little creatures
would all jump for the kennel door
when it was opened. Once outside the
runs they could easily escape into the
uncovered beams of the ceilings.

“With more panels we constructed a
security area outside the doors of the
main runs,” says Dwyer. He utilized a
unique sliding gate that moves to the
side instead of opening out. The gate
gives the handler much greater control
of the situation.

The free-standing design of the runs
cuts maintenance costs. Floor extensions
lift the panels about an inch off the sur-
face, allowing them to be quickly
ﬂushed with a hose. (Farwell says he
cut his cleaning staff by 60% since
switching to the modular runs.)

Dwyer admits he was lucky to use
the modular kennels, because he did
not anticipate the sudden change in ani-
mal requirements, and he needed a ver-
satile way to meet the speciﬁcations of
the Animal Welfare Act. “Who knows—
maybe next month someone will want
to work with giraﬂes!” I

 

' G
< ’ . i,
>
. ,
t x.
. .\~‘ 6 §
. . ‘ g
Q ' n "
D
" s
' 2
‘ I

’6’}: '

6

t
‘ .
‘ Q
t . ‘ “-

5
A“; ' ' - - ‘ 0 :4
b ﬁx“: § 57" 17,:i‘)8"3\ &

. I“ .

:r‘ ‘fxs‘ﬁl. .\
k} 9 1 2 r r

u
xx

 

 

 

 

 

 

director of animal services for Johns Hopkins University, uses mod—
ular kennel runs to convert old storerooms into modern animal facilities. Below. James
Dwyer, director of animal services at Medical College of Virginia, demonstrates sliding gate
for special security area described in article.

 

 

 

 




 
   

  

PAINLESS
ANIMAL .
EXPERIMENTATION—

FOR HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS

 
 

 

By DR. F. BARBARA ORLANS
Dr. Orlans, a physiologist, writes, lec-
tures, and serves on the Scientific
Committee on Humane Standards for
Research Animals, of the Animal Wel-
fare Institute. She lives in Bethesda,
Md.

What would your response be if
a teenager told you he blinded

birds by removing their eyeballs,

or attempted animal heart trans-
plants and brain operations?
(These are actual examples of
high school student projects this
year.) Would you congratulate
him for his enterprise and daring
or would you be appalled?

“Atrocious ‘experiments’,” de-
clared The New York Times in a
recent editorial‘. This is a situa-
tion “that must be brought under
control.”

“Not so,” say some science
fair officials. “We give prizes for
such projects.”

But students receive prizes
when their “only real achieve-
ment has been the deliberate or
inadvertent torture of animals,”
says The New York Times.

Among the regional prizewin-
ners on show at a recent science
fair were many unsavory juvenile
animal projects, all of which re-
ceived official approval from the
fair’s organizers. Thus, a Ten-
nessee boy froze hamsters and
mice by pouring liquid nitrogen
over them and then tried to revive
them; a boy from Mississippi per—
formed extensive heart surgery
on rabbits for his project; and a
girl from Pennsylvania induced
muscular atrophy in rats and then
forced them to swim to exhaus-

  

tion. A prize of $250 was pre-
sented to a 16-year—old New York
boy for his home operations of
bisecting mice brains, and a
similar prize was given for ex-
periments on 1,000 (l) mice which
had been subjected to irradiation
and skin transplants.

Nor‘are these isolated exam-
ples, for a recent survey showed
that a fifth of 802 biology projects
at 10 recent science fairs in-
volved pain or death to higher
animalszwa proportion that repre-
sents a gross distortion of biol—
ogy. Considering the vast range
of biological topics and materials,
and the many painless animal
and human experiments which
can serve to convey the prin-
ciples of mammalian physiology
at this level, the fact that an esti-
mated 50,000 students choose a
project in which animals are hurt
or killed is profoundly disturbing.

Must experimentation on ani—
mals in high school biology
courses include pain or death,
when ample studies can be un-
dertaken without harming them?
For example, the following could
be demonstrated: the effect of
lighting on activity cycles; varia-
tions in food consumption with
the amount of work performed;
depth perception; the effect of
age on exercise, and so forth.

College courses often use stu-
dents themselves as subjects in
nonhazardous demonstrations of
basic concepts3, such as reaction
times, eye preference, cardio-
respiratory changes during exer—
cise, sweat gland activity, the

 

   

effects of temporary respiratory
cessation or gravity stress, two-
point discrimination of touch, etc.
Many of these studies can be un-
dertaken by high school students,
and, considering their ready»
made practicality, it is remark-
able that students do not study

themselves more often "for sci-

ence competitions.

Is the policy of promoting radi—
cal and painful animal experimen-
tation by teenagers justifiable?
Does it represent a carefully rea-
soned course, or does it reflect
a situation which has developed
by default because no one has
stopped to think or challenge
the increasing sensationalism of
some science competitions"?
What are the cumulative effects
of reward for spectacular juvenile
“experiments” on current impor-
tant medical issues?

The simple policy that student
work on vertebrate animals
should be painless would solve
many problems besetting science
instruction and high school com-
petitions. The Connecticut State
Board of Education has recently
adopted this policy, stating that,
“No vertebrate animal should be
subjected to any experiment or
procedure which interferes with
its normal health or causes it pain
or distress." Similarly, the school
board of the Alexandria (Va.) city
schools has adopted this same
code, and, in addition, it provides
explicit interpretation instructing
teachers to permit neither class-
room nor extracurricular projects
involving organ transplants, can-

 

 




 

cer experiments, or interference
with immature vertebrates caus-
ing deformity or death.

These school administrators
recognize the great importance
of seeing that students receive
sufficient advice before starting
home experiments, and so they
require students to submit a writ-
ten report of science fair projects
for screening before starting
work. Those involving animal
pain are rejected, and more suit-
able ones are suggested. This re-
sponsible administration ensures
that students derive, positive atti—
tudes and sound educational ex-
periences from science competi-
tions, and its example should
serve as a pattern for other areas
to copy.

Developing a policy for ani-
mal experimentation by students
should take into account moral,
psychological, social, education-
al, and scientific issues:

MORAL GROUNDS—Moral justi—
fication is needed to inflict pain
on an animal deliberately. Where
there is an expectation that sci—
entists may obtain more knowl-
edge in order to advance human
health and welfare, then surely
justification exists. But, a plain

distinction can be drawn between
genuine research with its aim of
original contributions to knowl—
edge; and student exercises that
serve elementary educational
purposes, often repetitive of well—
established facts. The latter need
not and should not inflict pain on
animals.

PSYCHOLOGICAL GROUNDS——
Recognizing that youngsters can
be emotionally upset by seeing
others injure animals, many
school districts require that no
animals be killed in the presence
of pupils. When a student him-
self hurts or kills an animal, the
experience may be either trau-
matic or emotionally desensitiz—
ing. Many high school students
cannot bring themselves to harm
animals as it is against their nat—
ural feelings, and they are seri-
ously troubled over the moral
problems involved when others
hurt and kill living beings. Sure-

ly it is of paramount importance
that a child be protected from
violent experiences that are psy-
chologically disturbing.

SOCIAL GROUNDS—~The social
dangers of encouraging and pro-
liferating killing of any kind
among teenagers are too obvious
to belabor. In these days of wide-
spread violence, any measure
which inflicts harm on others
should be avoided unless that
harm is decisively outweighed by
important social benefits that can
be achieved in no other way.
Since the social benefits of scien—
tific education in elementary and
secondary schools can plainly be
achieved without inflicting pain
or death upon animals (as has
been demonstrated in the entire
educational system of Great Brit-
ain and has recently been de—

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 




 

beneficial to society.

creed in France), the continued
abuse of animals in high schools
is, on balance, more harmful than

EDUCATIONAL GROUNDS—
Teaching about abnormal states
before the student has a sound
grasp of normal physiology, or
attempting surgery before the
student has learned anatomy, is
contrary to common sense and
to a sensible sequence of. scien-
tific education.

SCIENTIFIC GROUNDS—Teen-
age surgery or induction of pain-
ful pathological conditions in ani-
mals constitutes an improper
regard for animal life and an

unbalanced view of biology—,

which can adversely affect the
next generation of scientists. Will
killing pet goldfish with deter-
gent improve tomorrow’s conser-
vationists? Will abusing animals
in simulation of slum conditions
make future social scientists of
tomorrow more compassionate?
Will backyard home surgery ele-

SCHOLASTIC TEACHER, April 6, I970

vate the ethical standards of to-
morrow’s surgeons?

NEED FOR HUMANE EDUCA-
TION—In the past, instruction in
animal care has often been rele-
gated to the elementary schools.
But there is just as much need
for humane education in second-
ary schools and higher education.
In elementary schools the accent
should be on pets, while in high
schools instructiOn is needed in
the care Of animals and many
other types of living organisms
used in biology classes.4 It is in
the teenage years that students
usually begin to face moral prob-
lems regarding the infliction of
pain and death on man and other
animals (although even five-year-
olds question the killing of ani-
mals for food). In both high
school and college, teachers
should discuss with their stu-
dents the ethical issues involved
in animal experimentation.

RESPONSIBILITY OF TEACHERS
—All teachers have a responsi-
bility to help their pupils develop
kindly attitudes toward animals
and a balanced view of biological
study. Many science fair officials
have succeeded in playing down
the undesirable spectacular ele-
ments in these competitions and
emphasizing their genuine edu-
cational features. Closer attention
to the proper boundaries of stu-
dent animal experimentation,
with exclusion of all pain—inflict-
ing animal work, will help to
fulfill these'objectives. El

 

REFERENCES

1“Prizes for Torture,” The New York
Times, Saturday, May 10, 1969.

2Orlans, F. B. “The Frequency of In-
humane Work in High Schools,” Informa-
tion Report 17; 2: 1968, Animal Welfare
Institute, PO. Box 3492, Grand Central
Station, N.Y., N.Y. 10017.

3 McBIair, William. Experiments in Phys-
iology, The National Press, Palo Alto,
Calif., 1965, $2.95, or free if adopted as
school text.

4One good current text is “How to
Care for Living Things in the Class-
room," by Grace K. Pratt, Stock No. 471-
14288, available from the National Sci-
ence Teachers Association, Washington,
DC, 35¢.

 




THE WHALERS IN THE ASCENDANCY

Tokyo’s International Whaling
Commission Meeting

The much heralded reduction in sperm whale quotas
achieved this June at the Canberra meeting of the International
Whaling Commission (IWC) was reversed in Tokyo in Decemo
ber. With a massive demonstration outside the Japanese For-
eign Office where the meeting was held, whalers and their
cohorts in the Seamen’s Union shouted into bullhorns and
waved signs calling for what they termed scientific utilization of
whales. The Commissioners rushed with unprecedented haste
‘to vote an increase of killing 5,681 sperm whales in the North
Pacific. (They raised the 1978 quota of 763, voted this June, up
to 6,444; the 1977 quota was 7,200).

The Chairman of the Commission, Arthur Bollen of Australia,
issued a press release at noon after switching from the Technical
Committee meeting into full plenary session. Commissioners
had only just received a scientific paper criticizing the figures
and had had no opportunity to study it.

Some of the commissioners had not even received this paper
by the world’s leading whale population scientist, Dr. Sidney
Holt of the UN. Food and Agriculture Organization. The paper
is reprinted in the column at the right. Dr. Holt flatly states that
the figures adopted by the Scientific Committee at its November
meeting, preceding the Tokyo IWC meeting, are not credible.
His reasons are clearly and scientifically stated and are worth
reading in full.

Other scientists found the analysis of Dr. Seijo Ohsumi of the
Far Seas Fisheries Research Laboratory so difficult to believe
that the Committee decided to pool the figures they had from

southern hemisphere sperm whaling with those Dr. Ohsumi 1

presented for the North Pacific. By mingling the incredible figure
with an existing figure from a different part of the oceans, they
came up with a figure which no scientist advocated on the basis
of research; nevertheless, since it issued from the Scientific
Committee, and most countries have slowly and painfully come
to the conclusion that the Scientific Committee should be
supported, most of the commissioners came to Tokyo with
instructions to vote for its findings and they did so.

Only France had the courage to vote against the massively
increased quota. The United Kingdom abstained. All other
nations (Argentina, Australia, Canada, Denmark, Iceland,
Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South
Africa, United States, and the Soviet Union) voted for the
increase.

The United States has fought hard over the past four years to
end the former practice of IWC Commissioners voting quotas
much higher than those advised by the Scientific Committee. Its
success in establishing the reputation of this Committee created,
for this session at least, an uncontrollable monster.

All of the data on which Dr. Ohsumi’s paper was based came
from Japanese whaling vessels. The data goes back to periods
when there were no international observers aboard the vessels,
and even now, the observers are not in a position to attest to the
type of data involved. In any case, the raw data was not even
submitted to the other members of the Scientific Committee.
This is the sort of presentation on which the Committee, and the
Commission is asked to operate.

The Russians who kill even more sperm whales than the
Japanese simply refuse to supply any but the most limited data.
Scientists from non-whaling countries have devoted little time to
the analysis of such data as they are able to get their hands on.
Thus, although Dr. Ohsumi’s paper was not accepted without
doubts, questions and arguments within the Scientific Commit-
tee, it constituted by far the greatest influence on the outcome of
the Committee’s meeting at Cronulla, Australia just before the
full IWC meeting of the Commissioners in Tokyo.

Secrecy

The actions of the IWC, seem to an observer, to be guided by
two ruling passions: secrecy, and the killing of whales to the
maximum degree possible in the prevailing climate of public
opinion. At this session, it betrayed a strange dichotomy with
regard to the press. As noted above, the Chairman of the
Commission insisted that the Commissioners vote immediately
and finally on the greatly increased sperm whale quota for the
North Pacific because of the interest of the Japanese press in
knowing the outcome.

On the other hand, the secrecy rules with regard to the
Scientific Committee were so strict that nothing more than the
bare figure of increase leaked out until the morning of the
Tokyo meeting of the full Commission when Dr. Holt made
copies of his paper available.

On the following day, a statement by the International Union
for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN),
the major international body providing expertise on endangered
species, was issued by Dr. John Beddington. The IUCN state
ment appears below

STATEMENT BY THE INTERNATIONAL UNION
FOR THE CONSERVATION OF NATURE

ON THE IWC DECISION ON NORTH PACIFIC
SPERM WHALES

The International Union for the Conservation of Nature
(IUCN) ‘ is unhappy both about the conclusions reached by the
Scientific Committee at their special meeting in Cronulla and by
the way they were reached. It is not confident that an adequate
assessment of the status of the stocks was made nor that the
mathematical model used is valid. It notes that the Scientific
Committee stated that the dramatic change in the stock assess-
ment was largely brought about by an adjustment of the effort
modifiers and it regrets that no indication of the sensitivity of
these results to those statistics was given. This is particularly
serious when one of the effort modifiers used, that for ASDIC
was calculated from data sufficiently problematic to be derived
from operations in both the North Pacific and the Southern
Oceans. IUCN further notes the Scientific Committee’s request
for raw data to be made available prior to the meetings of the
committee and feels that this is an absolute prerequisite for
adequate assessment. IUCN therefore feels unable to support
the commission’s decision to endorse the Scientific Committee’s
recommendations on the quotas for the 1978 North Pacific
Sperm whale season. Accordingly, it reserves its right to con-
tinue to work for alternative assessment and management
procedures to those used by the IWC.

’Dr. John Beddington represented the International Union for
the Conservation of Nature at the Scientific Committee Meeting
of the International Whaling Commission at Cronulla, Australia,
November 21-25, 1977 as an observer. He also represented the
IUCN at the Tokyo meeting of the IWC where he submitted this
statement.

SPECIAL MEETING OF THE
INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION
TOKYO, DECEMBER 6-7, 1977

Statement by Dr. Sidney J. Holt

Observer representing Food and Agriculture
Organization

It was with great regret that the Food and Agriculture Organi-
zation (FAO) found that, due to unforeseen circumstances, it
was not possible for a representative to attend the Special
Scientific Committee meeting in Cronulla. This means that my
comments must be based on study of the report of the
Committee and of the background papers, instead of on an
intimate knowledge of, and participation in the Committee’s
discussions, as is usual. I have however, consulted some of the
participants in the meeting and thereby assured myself that
there are no fundamental misunderstandings involved in the

, following remarks. It is important, in such matters, to try “to see

the wood for the trees” and this is perhaps more easy than if we
had been involved in the very complex and difficult discussions
of the meanings of the data and the properties of the assess-
ment models used. In this position one may try to assess the
overall credibility of the advice the Committee has now pre-
sented to the Commission. I hope my friends in the Scientific
Committee will forgive me if I say that the results are not-
credible.

In recent years the advice of the Committee has on several
occasions been that quotas should be drastically revised, usually
downward. Such advice has been received with surprise and
displeasure by some Commissioners. Such proposals for revi~
sion have been based on analyses taking into account more
data, or using better analytical models, or both. In the present
case the proposed stock classifications are dramatically changed
and quotas revised upwards on the basis only of a re-application
of the same model, using few new data. This calls for a more
than usually close look at the way in which this has come about.

It is not easy to see by inspection how the “Allen model”
works. For this reason FAO posed last July—that is, immediate-
ly after the decision to call a Special Meeting—a number of
written questions to the Convener of the meeting, with copies to
the Secretary of the Commission and to the Chairman of the
Scientific Committee. Unfortunately these questions have not
been answered, but we consider them still to be relevant. They
concern the separate effects, on assessments, of changes in the
assumptions concerning the efficiencies of recorded whaling
effort, and in the assumed pregnancy rates and their depen-
dence on density. It seems that:

a) the reclassifications proposed are virtually entirely due to
changes in assumed efficiency factors—including the effect of
catcher size, but mainly the effects of ASDIC; and

 




MEETING OF INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION

[continuedfrom page 1]

b) the suggested quotas for females derive essentially from
an assumption that pregnancy rate increases by 25% (from
0.20 to 0.25) from one extreme of population density to
another. Evidence has been presented concerning the average
level of pregnancy rate, but none whatever for the range of
density dependence, nor even that the pregnancy rate actually
has increased with the decline in numbers of biomass, either of
females, or of males plus females. In my opinion the range
adopted and even the direction of change, are complete
guesses. Thus, if the range were actually 0.210 to 0.235 the
quotas would be about halved; if it were 0.19 to 0.29 they would
be doubled; and so on. The actual range may well be outside
such assumed values. The proposed quotas should be viewed
in the light of such very considerable ignorance.

However, the biggest factor in the revised advice is the new
position taken by the Committee with respect to the effective-
ness of ASDIC, which is in some respects the opposite of what
has been written and said in scientific discussions in recent
years. It is now said not only that ASDIC is used by the
Japanese catchers only in chasing, but also that the main effect
of introducing ASDIC has been some reduction in the time
spent chasing. Since that time is a rather small fraction of the
catchers’ day’s work, this is held to justify the Committee’s
adoption of a very low value of the ASDIC efficiency factor as
concluded in recent analyses by Japanese scientists. However, it
is admitted that many chases were, especially before ASDIC
came into general use, unsuccessful, and it has been affirmed on
earlier occasions that use of ASDIC greatly increases the
likelihood that a chase will result in capture. If this is so the
increase in efficiency could be great, and would not be meas—
ured as the inverse of chasing time. Unfortunately neither the
report nor the background documents are informative on this
crucial matter.

Then it is necessary to seek an explanation of why the ASDIC
efficiency factor reported by Japanese scientists is low compared
with all previously published studies, which range up to 100%
and more. A possible explanation is to be found in the detailed
account given of the Japanese operational method, in which it is
emphasized that catchers attached to one expedition always
work cooperatively, throughout the search and hunt. This
means that the comparison of catches by ASDIC-fitted boats
with those without ASDIC, in the same expedition and during
the same season, is spurious as a measure of the efficiency
factor. Further varying practices between expeditions from one
year to another might account for the extreme variation in the
estimates quoted. There is therefore no good reason to accept
the low values in preference to the much higher values obtained
in earlier critical studies.

There is an interesting consequence of the new theory that
ASDIC is not very useful—and it has been said that it could
even be a disadvantage—in sperm whale hunting, but that it has
been installed at considerable expense primarily because of its
value in baleen whaling. If this view were accepted, most
assessments for baleen whales would need to be revised,
because baleen whaling effort has not been corrected for
ASDIC in the assessments on which present classifications and
quotas are based. I suggest that such revision will lead at least to
enhanced protection for sei whale stocks and to prolongation of
the protection of fin whale stocks.

Another point that should be taken into consideration is the
decision of the Scientific Committee to retain 1947 as the initial
year on which to base classification advice. The catch data
presented show that, on the basis of the model adopted, the

 

 

 

 

”land-station catches of females from the Western Division for 20

years before 1947 would have been sufficient to hold the
number of females down to between 90 and 95% of their initial
number. Consideration of this fact would be enough to lead to
classification of females as “protected” in the Western Division.

The last point I wish to make refers to the absurdity of con-
tinuing to equate one female with one male in calculating the
appropriate quotas for sperm whales, ignoring the fact that each
male yields two or three times as much oil, meat and meal as
one female. Apart from the fact that it has not yet been shown
convincingly that there is any sustainable numerical advantage
in catching any females, there is clearly no advantage in
catching females if account is taken of the great difference in size
between the sexes. Among the unanswered questions posed by
FAQ to those responsible for the models adopted was the
question of just how great the calculated marginal advantage, by ,
weight or number is—if there is one—and how much, and in
what ways, such a calculation depends on the assumed values
of the parameters used in the model. It may be worth recalling
also, that if a stock is classified as “initial management,” as is
now proposed for the Eastern Division, there is even more
reason to take account of the size differences, while the stock is
still well above the “optimal” levels.

In sum, to an “observer” it does not appear that the advice
now presented is more reliable or more likely to be correct than
the advice previously offered. The complex calculations that
have been made are on the one hand incomplete in that the
properties of the model and their dependence on precise
parameter estimates and assumptions have not been revealed
and, on the other hand, are such that they obscure the facts that
the crucial parameters have been guessed rather than esti-
mated, and that the calibration of crude effort data to take into
account increasing efficiency is still very far from satisfactory.

Some breakdown of operational features has at last been
provided for one part of one of the pelagic ﬂeets, 15 years after
the Scientific Committee first asked for such data; but the
breakdown available still omits critical information—such as the
change in the frequency of successful chase, and the time series
of searching time per catcher day’s work. Further, the analysis of
such information as is given leaves a great deal of room for
doubt as to what is actually being estimated, and whether the
undoubted increases are yet adequately being taken into ac-
count.

Without departing from the principle that management must
be based on the best scientific advice, it seems it would be wise
for the Commission also to take into account:

a) the very great uncertainties in the assessment of sperm
whales which persist, practically unchanged, despite the
best efforts of the Scientific Committee;

b) the likely direction of biases in the data and in the assess-
ments (including an arbitrary starting year of 1947, long
after intensive sperm whaling started);

c) the fact that assessments are still based on data from only
a relatively small part of the sperm-whaling ﬂeet; and that
those data are incomplete and have been presented
selectively.

d) the consequences to the baleen whale assessments of the
“new theory” concerning the technology of sperm whale
hunﬁng.

It would be appreciated if these observations could be

included in the documentation of the present meeting.

6 December, 1977

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 




_. "   U 3 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH EDUCATION AND WELFARE /Publ|c Health Servnce
. _ BUREAU OF DISEASE PREVENTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL CUNTRUL/Natmnal Commumcable Disease Came“ ""-.A,A§3Atlanta Ga 3U33-‘j;j,,:j§

Public Health Servuce Auduovusual FBCIUAAH”

Fl

LABORATORY DOGS M- l446-X ~ ’ .
- ,16mm, blaCk and white sound, 17 minutes, 1966 _7fj._ EA,
‘ Cleared for television ' ' -. . , . , _ ‘ ~

PURPOSE: . ' , I. To demonstrate a practical method of housing and caring for re- “ A;
__;,A,,;_search dogs without the use of cages and to show the value of care??? 1 . ,

‘ »“d::“”1~:_;c'z~-

individual attention to experimental dogs' - to encourage provision. iii";*1».;‘._9.‘:-‘
of the best housing by administrators of re search institutions.

, CONTENT: , The film contrasts the life of a caged research dog with that of a
' A ' " ~ ggroup cf compatible dogs that have undergone different types of
experimental surgery at the modern animal lab at the University
. A '_ of OttaWa Facu1ty. of Medicine. Useful advice on animal care includes
stress On the importance of a clean, large room for the dogs to
(“live in,- daily exercise on a long roof runway, and the availability
f of enough foOd and wawr Postoperative care of adog whose leg
' ° whas been Severed and replanted is shown, imediate postoperative
. care includes the administration of pain—relieving ygs and ﬂuids
' thrOughout the night Latér treatment and special feeding emphasize _
I the importance of humanitarianism in research and e,- __‘;_;7rimentation

EAUDIENCE':.1 ' . ~Animal technicians, , all schools of the health sciences, research .
' A a 7 - foundations, hospital administrators and veterinarians
Q PRODUCTIN'Producedby Crawley Films rOttawa, anada, for the «i-l‘f'imal Welfare -» l
i AVAILABILITY ' 'Free short-term loan from. .

Public Health Service Audiovisual Facility
Atlanta, Georgia 30333
Attn Distribution Unit

APurchase from
V Animal Welfare Institute ;,-;-‘-;,4.-: ‘

'-'9"‘;Post Office Box 3492
' __:Grand Central Station

 




 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

 

 

 

January, 1978

Dear Friend of Whales,

Enclosed is information about the tragic rise in killing of
sperm whales adopted at the International Whaling Commission meet-
ing in Tokyo. This must not be accepted for the future. It is
essential to have a thorough examination, not only of the data,
but of the theories on which populations of these remarkable beings
are being computed. The U.S. Commissioner, appointed just before
the Tokyo meeting should be aware of your feelings. We hOpe you
will write to him:

Hon. Richard Frank, Administrator

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
U.S. Department of Commerce

Washington, D.C. 20235

Please tell Mr. Frank that the questions raised by the Inter-
national Union for the Conservation of Nature and by Dr. Holt can-
not be allowed to go unanswered. Remind him of how little we know
about the creature whose brain is so much bigger than ours: the
sperm whale. Remind him of the terrible torture the whales undergo
when explosive harpoons burst inside them. Let him know that you
want the United States to fight the slaughter - a slaughter motivat-
ed wholly by commercial considerations and one whose resulting meat
is not even intended for human consumption but rather for captive
mink and sables, or for chickens, themselves mistreated under fac-
tory farming systems.

Your help is deeply appreciated. Thank you!

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens .
President

  




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

May 19, 1978

Dear Defender of Whales,

Good News! The whaling moratorium issue is back on the agenda
of the International Whaling Commission! Your help is needed im-

mediately to urge the member nations to vote ”yes.

 

This is the greatest Opportunity the world has yet had to save
the whales from the commercial whalers who have driven species after
species to the brink of extinction.

Here are the facts: Early in the meeting of the International
Whaling Commission (IWC) that begins June 26th in London, England,
the seventeen Commissioners will vote on two separate moratorium
proposals: _—_

 

1) Agenda item 9.1, a ten-year moratorium on pelagic whaling.
(Pelagic whaling means killing whales on the high seas more than
200 miles from shore. Only three nations still engage in pelagic
whaling. They are the Soviet Union, Japan and Norway.

2) Agenda item 9.2, a ten-year moratorium on other commercial
whaling. (Four additional IWC member nations kill whales along
their own coasts: Australia, Brazil, Denmark, and Iceland.)

Clearly, the possibility of achieving a moratorium on pelagic
whaling is much greater than than on coastal commercial whaling,
because the seven whaling nations are virtually certain to vote a-
gainst Agenda item 9.2 which affects them all. IWC rules require
a three-quarters majority vote. That means thirteen of the seven-
teen nations must vote "yes" to win. Remember, it was pelagic
whaling that drove the blue whale, the largest creature ever t9
live gn this earth g9 close to extinction that it may never Eg-
cover. W§_must target the pelagic whaling moratorium while en-
couraging as many votes as possible for the total moratorium (both
agenda items).

 

 

 

 

 




-2-

Popular support for a moratorium is great, but it must mani-
fest itself clearly to influence government deCiSions now being
taken in the different countries.

LETTERS TO NON-WHALING IWC MEMBER COUNTRIES

If we could count on all ten non-whaling countries to cast their
votes for both moratorium proposals, we would be close to victory.
Unfortunately, the fact that a country does not kill whales won't
automatically ensure "yes" votes. Many of the Commissioners are
chosen from their countries' fisheries ministries, and they tend
to stick together in the "whalerS'clubf as the IWC has long been
called. That is why it is vitall important to write to heads of
state, respectfully rEﬁuEEtTﬁg—Ehgm to instruEE'EHEif Commissioners

How to vote at the June meeting.

Two kinds of letters are needed: those to non-whaling coun-
tries asking that their Commissioners be directed to vote for both
moratorium proposals, or, at the very least, for the moratorium
on pelagic whaling; and those to countries that limit their whal-
ing to their own ZOO-mile coastal limits, asking them to vote for
a moratorium on pelagic whaling. In ever letter, it is essential

to ask for a vote in favor of agenda item 9.|. Every possible vote
is needed. 7"

IWC member nations that do not engage in commercial whaling:

 

Argentina New Zealand
Canada* Panama

France South Africa*
Mexico United Kingdom*
Netherlands* United States*

Letters to heads of state will be valuable. Those that are
starred are especially important to write to for tHe reasons He-

61 e GIOW.
m

 

CANADA It is rumored that Canada might go back into commercial whal-
inggwhich it stopped in 1973 when the Minister of the Environment
pointed out, "The total stock of fin and sei whales had been re-
duced sharply as a result of Operations from the mid-1960's onward.
While the industry, to remain financially viable, required a catch
of the same order as that achieved in recent years, it was esti-
mated that the remaining stocks were only sufficient to support an
operation of about one third that size."

. Please urge Prime Minister Trudeau to uphold the moral posi-
tion taken by Canada at the Stockholm Conference on the Human En-
Vironment in 1972 and at the IWC in 1973 when Canada voted for a
ten-year moratorium on all commercial whaling. Ask him to ensure
that the Canadian Commissioner votes for both moratorium proposals-

Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, c/o Embassy of Canada
1746 Massachusetts Avenue, N,W.
Washington, D.C. 20036

 




-3-

NETHERLANDS In writing to Prime Minister van Agt, please express your
"* deep appreciation for the leadership of his nation in wildlife pre-
servation, and request his affirmation of both moratorium proposals.
Point out that scientific data on whales is so inadequate that quotas
have swung back and forth by as much as 900% in the last three IWC
meetings - following the advice of the IWC's Scientific Committee!
A moratorium is the only sound answer.
Prime Minister Andreas A.M. van Agt, c/o Embassy of the Netherlands
4200 Linnean Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008

UNITED KINGDOM A similar letter would be appropriate for Prime Minister
aIIaghan. The British Prime Minister recently urged his nation's
scientists to use alternatives to laboratory animals wherever pos-
sible. A man of such sensitivity can surely be appealed to on be-
half of the endangered whales. And, although his scientific ad-
visors are likely to argue against a moratorium, claiming that it
would be "unscientific" you can point out that continuing to kill
whales while such extreme fluctuations in population estimates are
being put forward by IWC scientists, is the ultimate in unsound
and unscientific decision-making.
Prime Minister James Callaghan, c/o Embassy of Great Britain
3100 Massuchusetts Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008

SOUTH AFRICA In writing to Prime Minister Vorster, please express ap-
preciation for South Africa's discontinuance of commercial whaling
in 1976. One of the old whaling vessels has sunk. Another has
been turned into a museum. South Africa has large national parks
to preserve wildlife on land. Now it deserves praise for the de-
cision to preserve whales in its waters. But as a recent whaling
nation, its Commissioner is very likely to vote with the whaling
nations if a high-level decision is not specifically made to sup-
port the moratorium. Please ask Prime Minister Vorster to make
that decision and to reject the Soviet and Japanese demands to
continue to kill whales on the high—Egas.

rimE_Minister John—vohhher, c/o Embassy of South Africa
3051 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008

 

 

 

NEW ZEALAND was once a whaling nation. With Australia, it wiped out
the populations of humpback whales - the singers made famous by
Roger Payne's record, 'The Songs of the Humpback Whale" - that
used to swim between the two countries. Then conscience struck,
and years before the Stockholm Conference vote in favor of a ten-
year moratorium, New Zealand renounced whale killing. It gave
Up its membership in the IWC at the same time, but in 1976, it re-
joined, speaking with a clear voice for protection of whales.
Respectful letters should go to Prime Minister Robert D. Muldoon
complimenting him on the leadership New Zealand has shown in re-
cent years in this field. Urge him to instruct New Zealand's
Commissioner to vote for both moratorium proposals.

Prime Minister Robert D. Muldoon, c/o Embassy of New Zealand
19 Observatory Circle, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008

 




-4-

ARGENTINA, FRANCE and MEXICO have shown themselves to be staunch friends
of whales. Letters to their heads of state should recognize, with
gratitude, the support they have given for the moratorium in the
past, and request continuation of this support at the crucial meet-
ing this June. The proposals to be voted on were placed on the a-
genda by the Commissioner for Panama, who is strongly committed to
saving the whales.

President Jorge Videla President Valery Giscard-D'Estaing
c/o Embassy of Argentina c/o Embassy of France
1600 New Hampshire Avenue, N.W. 2535 Belmont Road, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20009 Washington, D.C. 20008

President Jose LOpez Portillo

c/o Embassy of Mexico

2829 16th Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20009

 

UNITED STATES President Carter is a leader for the moratorium. In his
nv1ronmental Message last MayT' e 1rected the Secretary of Com-
merce with the foreign policy guidance of the Secretary of State

to "maintain firm U.S. support for a ten-year worldwide moratorium
on the commercial killing of whales." Please thank the President

and tell him how verydeegly you would appreciate His making known

 

#

EETotHer TWC nations his esire to see a moratorium ado te . ‘SEEH
action Ey—Ehe Pre31deﬁE’would undouBEEdTy make a major Eifference
in the outcome of the voting. His sincere personal interest in
saving the whales is the most powerful single element in the fight
to prevent their extinction. If he decides to communicate directly
with other heads of state, the "whalers' club" buddy system will
break down, and at least the pelagic moratorium proposal will stand
a real chance of being adopted.

President Jimmy Carter

The White House

Washington, D.C. 20500

LETTERS TO COUNTRIES THAT KILL WHALES

At this time, there would be little to be gained by writing
to the pelagic whaling nations: Russia, Japan and Norway, since
they are sure to vote against both moratorium proposals. However,
those nations that do not pursue the whales into distant seas have
no reason to vote against a moratorium on pelagic whaling since it
would not affect them.

Even though you may be disinclined to ask the help of any
whale-killing nations, we must have "yes" votes from at least
three of them in order to win. Therefore we urge you to write to
the heads of state of Australia, Brazil, Denmark and Iceland re-

questing them to instruct their Commissioners to vote "yes" on
agenda item 9.1 "Ten-year moratorium on pelagic whaling."

Here are some suggestions for writing to these nations.

 

AUSTRALIA An official Inquiry into Whales and Whaling is being conducted

 




-5-

in Australia as a result of an election promise made by Prime Minis-
ter Fraser. The Chairman, the Hon. Sir Sydney Frost, a retired
high court judge, is conducting the inquiry which may lead to the
closing of Australia's last whaling station at Cheynes Beach where
more than 700 sperm whales are being killed this year. It would be
tactful to thank Prime Minister Fraser for holding the inquiry and
re uest him to instruct the Australian Commissioner to vote for the
pelagic whaling moratorium as a si n of good faith. _UnfortunateT-_'
t e Austra ian Commiss1oner, _Mr. rt 0 en as Chairman of they
IWC, has repeatedly favored Japan and11 Russia in his conduct of the
meetings. This is his last year as Chairman. Unless firml in-
structed to vote for the moratorium on pelagic whaling, He wiIT'vote
.___,____
aga1nst it and may use his position as Chairman to help defeat it.
We cannot expect Australia to vote for a moratorium on all commercial
whaling while the official inquiry is underway. But there is good
reason for Prime Minister Fraser to take this Opportunity to end
pelagic whaling for the next ten years. Your letters will help to
secure this much needed vote.

Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser, c/o Embassy of Australia

1601 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20036

BRAZIL conducts coastal whaling but no pelagic whaling. It has outlawed

unting and export of its land mammals. Please urge President Geisel
to instruct the Brazilian Commissioner to vote "yes' on Agenda Item
9.1 "Ten-year moratorium on pelagic whaling. Respectfully point
out to him that a " es" vote is consistent with Brazil' 8 recognition
for the need for— conservat1on of wildlife in 1ts area of control.
A__ote for the pelagic morator1um is 1n the interest ”of—the Brazilian
nation.

President Ernesto Geisel, c/o Embassy of Brazil

3006 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.

washington, D.C. 20008

 

 

 

ICELAND is hostile to anti-whaling efforts; however, among whale killing
nations, it has been more conservation-minded than the others.
Therefore it would be wise to appeal to Prime Minister Hallgrimsson
on the basis that Iceland has long recognized the necessity for
conservation of whales and should, therefore, support the pelagic
moratorium as the most practical way of maintaining all species of
whales throughout the world so that they can play their role in the
ocean ecosystem. The Government of Iceland is well aware that
the populations of the great whales have been enormously reduced
by the greedy excesses of commercial whaling on the high seas.
Iceland sells whale meat to Japan. It may be pressured by Japanese
interests to vote against the pelagic whaling moratorium, but Ice-
land is a proud nation. It should not be subservient to another
nation merely because that nation is a customer.

Prime Minister Geir Hallgrimsson, c/o Embassy of Iceland
2022 Connecticut Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008

DENMARK is a whaling nation because of coastal whaling by its Green-
Ianders. There is no reason whatsoever why it should favor a con-
tinuation of pelagic whaling. Nevertheless, the Danish Commissioner
has repeatedly voted with Russia and Japan, even when every other

 




-5-

nation has refused to support the two biggest whaling nations. No
one knows why he takes this position, but it is very striking. It
is extremely important that Prime Minister Jorgensen give personal
consideration to the upcoming vote. Please write him politely

but forcefully, calling upon him to instruct the Danish Commissioner

tg vote ayes" on Agenda Item 9.1 "Ten-year moratorium on pelagic
w a 1ng.

Prime Minister Anker Jorgensen, % Embassy of Denmark
3200 Whitehaven Street
Washington, D. C. 20008

This has necessarily been a long letter, and we realize that
we are asking for a very considerable effort on your part. We do
so because this is the time when our letters can do the most in
the hard fi ht ta‘gava the wHETEs. o pIease‘WETEE—aE—many as—you
EEK. Remem er, there must Be I3 "yes" votes to win. Be sure to in-
clude your address. We would be much interested in reading the
responses you receive so we can coordinate with others working for
the whales here and abroad. There's not much time, so please begin
writing now. If you'd like some extra copies of this letter to give
to friends who will help, let us know, and they'll be sent immediately.
If you have friends in any of the IWC countries please enlist their
help.

If you want to remain on our mailing list, please let us know,
as we are revising the list to cut down on any unnecessary ex-
pense. If you are moving, please let us know so your address can
be corrected. There is no charge to remain on the mailing list
so long as you are willing to write letters to help protect whales.
Enclosed is a self-addressed envelope for your convenience. We'll
be very grateful for any donation you can send, for the campaign
must have funds to spread knowledge about the plight of the whales
and information on how each friend of whales can help. Whatever
you can do, either or both by writing letters and contributing money,
will be truly appreciated. Together we can and must win protection
for the beleaguered whales.

Sincerely,

[as-z; a

Christine Stevens
President

 

.L_7 Yes, Please continue to send me information about whales and
how I can help to protect them.
/ 7 I cannot send a contribution at this time.

‘L_7 I wish to contribute $ towards SAVE THE WHALES campaign.
Name (please print)

 

Address

 

City State Zip

 

 

 




Federal Measures

Against the Abuse

Of Wild Animals

NATHANIEL P. REED

THE WORD “HUMANE” is deﬁned as (i) having what
are considered the best qualities of mankind: kind,
tender, merciful, considerate; and (ii) civilizing, re-
ﬁning, humanizing. This is a noble charge. I do not
believe that steel leg-hold traps, nondegradable, non-
speciﬁc poisons, the traﬂic' in wild-animal furs, or
the illegal shooting of eagles and hawks would, by
any man’s deﬁnition, be considered among the best
qualities of mankind.

A nation that has been party to the increased im-
portation of wild animals—from 28,684,000 in 1967
to the staggering total of 120,000,000 in 1972—must
recognize its faults. Let me cite a few outstanding
disgraces.

Between 1 July 1970 and 1 July 1973, with a lim-
ited force of agents, the US. Department of the In-
terior has documented the illegal importation of
33,677 animals, most of which have been seized.

Since 1970 seven airlines have been charged with

violations involving wildlife importations. (One of
these violations involved the illegal importation of
over 29,900 South American river turtles.) Since
1971 our agents have completed 541 endangered-
species cases of violations of the Lacey Act.

A ﬂoodtide of concern—much of which centers on
the plight of endangered species and on problems
involving trade, movement, and handling of animals
—has arisen across this country and now is spread-
ing throughout the world. I’m not sure all of us in
positions of authority fully comprehend the depth of
this concern. The outward signs are obvious: a daily
deluge of mail at our ofﬁces in Washington and the
various state capitals, the rapid growth of organiza-
tions lobbying for everything from marine mammals
to kangaroos to butterﬂies, and the increasing atten-
tion being paid to these problems by the news media,
various legislative bodies, and the international dip-
lomatic community.

2|) THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER, APRIL |974

I believe that if we concentrate on two areas—the
second-rate zoos and the so-called wild animal “pet”
business—we can jointly solve some serious prob-
lems.

Animals Caged Like Criminals

I recognize that separating zoos that are represen-
tative of humane approaches to wildlife resources
from the underfunded, outdated, poorly conceived
zoos all too commonly found across the United States
is a difficult and touchy subject. But a visit to New
York’s Central Park Zoo, Washington’s National Zoo,
or the zoos of San Francisco and Portland, Ore., pro-
vides convincing evidence of such inhumanity. I see
nothing humane or educational about animals caged
like Criminals. All too frequently, additions to collec-
tions are sought by keepers who are in “silent com-
petition” with other zoos. All too frequently, rather
than face expensive remodeling, the 200’s limited
funds are used to add to the collection.

I can’t help wondering why most zoos don’t limit
the expensive business of showing collected animals,
retaining only the progeny of zoo animals. Instead
of captured animals, add environmental-education
centers, which would present ﬁrst-rate lectures and
movies on the earth and its creatures. I am assured
by those who maintain zoos that their raison d’etre
is an educational one. I suggest, for instance, that
young and old alike could learn far more from ﬁlms
about African lions, narrated by Boyce Reusberger;
about baboons, narrated by Jane Goodall; or about
gorillas, narrated by Diane Fossey. We could all
learn about their distribution, range, habitat, niche
with their fellow-creatures, eating, mating, and
sleeping habits, and their daily problems; that is, we
could really learn about their lives in the wild.

What can anyone learn from watching the tragi-
cally sad animals in most zoos? That a zebra has
stripes, giraffes have long necks, polar bears have
white hides, and brown bears like peanuts!

 

Nathaniel Pryor Reed is Assistant Secretary

of the US. Department of the Interior,

Washington, DC. 20242. He oversees the “

Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife, the

National Park Service, and the Bureau of

Outdoor Recreation. A 1955 graduate, in

liberal arts, of Trinity College, Hartford,

Conn., he became active in environmental

matters in connection with his management

of the family real estate and hotel interests in Florida. He
received appointments to several positions under three
Florida governors and was a key ﬁgure in the opposition
to the Evergla-des‘jetport and in other efforts to save Florida
wildlands. He was appointed to his present position by
President Nixon in 1971. Reed is an amateur botanist and
ichthyologist and is an ardent hunter and ﬁsherman. It has
been said of him that “he moves energetically from grizzly
bears to garden clubs, from oil shale to estuaries, and with
it all he still ﬁnds time to pursue an endless dialogue with
youth.” The present paper was originally presented before
the Humane Society of the United States, in Atlanta last
October, and is reproduced (as edited) with the author’s
permission. The portrait photo is by Fabian Bachrach.

 




 

I have watched with sorrow and anger the children
crammed before the gorilla pen at the National Zoo,
in Washington—children watching animals that live
in antiseptic, sterile cages having no similarity to the
great steaming jungles of their birth. Children can
be cruel; and often, in their search to be the crowd’s
leading jester, they seek ways to torment the thor-
oughly bored gorillas. N o zookeeper can persuade
me that it is an educational experience worthy of its
name if a child, looking at one of the earth’s most
magniﬁcent creatures, considers the animal an im-
becile and laughable, or that the visitor, because of
the setting, considers himself superior to that animal.

Anyone who has seen the charge of a male gorilla
knows the feeling of the beast’s magniﬁcent superior-
ity. Anyone who has seen a 225—kg gorilla carefully,
meticulously prepare its night bed shares a sense of
wonderment. Anyone who has seen the tender
touches among members of a gorilla clan knows the
depth of affection shared by these majestic animals.
The zoo gorillas or pandas or lions, tigers, giraffes,
snakes, birds—the whole menagerie—are a pathetic
spectacle that, if not properly cared for, we can do
without.

Why not a superb auditorium in the midst of a
botanic garden among a limited number of innova-
tively caged progeny of 200 creatures, born to put
up with the boredom and conﬁnement of a highly
regulated life? Let the great American ecologists—
Durward Allen, Starker Leopold, Stanley Cain,
Maurice Hornocker, Eugene Odum, to name a few—
prepare ﬁlm lectures on the magic interrelationship
between animal and habitat, which is what ecology
is all about. I can listen to Allen describe the inter-
relationship between Isle Royale’s wolves and moose
by-the hour. The poor, wormy, rashy, jittery wolves
caged in most zoos have faint resemblance to the
power, intelligence, and fascination of mature ani-
mals living in the wild. '

I’d make a terrible zoo-ologist. I don’t care that
much about the physiology of an animal. I want to
know what it eats, how it kills, where it sleeps, and
its rang . I want to‘know everything about its en-
vironme t and how it ﬁts into the ecologic system.
Zoos should be centers of environmental education,
not pathetic exhibitions.

Zoos and Endangered Species

During recent years I have heard a great deal
about the role of zoos in the c0nservation of endan-
gered species. I know that Pére David’s deer and
Przewalski’s horse would be extinct if breeding
herds had not been preserved in zoologic gardens,
and I hear many zoos proclaiming their intent to
establish breeding groups of just about every animal
on the endangered-species list. I am favorably im-
pressed by the dedication and competence of some
zoo directors and by the commitment many of their

institutions are making toward propagating the ani--

mals in their collections. The more advanced actually

 

Fig. 1. In Peru, newly captured monkeys are carried from a
riverboat to a hot, insanitary warehouse, whence they will be
shipped to the US. (Photo © National Enquirer, Lantana,
Fla.)

are reducing the number of species in their collec-
tion, to concentrate on solving the maintenance and
propagation problems of those species they retain.
This we encourage.

But far too many institutions are better described
as consumers of wildlife than as conservers of wild-
life. We ﬁnd that placing an animal on our endan-
gered species list immediately increases both the de-
mand for and the price of that animal. For example,
the number of applications to import cheetahs in
the year following our designation of this cat as an
endangered species was about four times the number
imported during the previous year, and the price
kept pace with the demand. One can hardly help
pondering whether this increase in demand repre-
sents a desire to propagate the species or merely a
desire to add a pair of “high interest” animals to a
collection.

Through the administration of our federal permit
system, I intend to see that the trafﬁc in endangered
species is carefully restricted to those institutions
that can demonstrate the ability to realize the repro-
ductive potential of such animals and that the ani-
mals taken come from populations that can safely
stand their loss.

In 1974 we plan to designate a series of “endan-
gered-species survival centers”—institutions fully
qualiﬁed to specialize in the maintenance and breed-
ing of certain species. Such designated survival cen-
ters will be permitted to import limited numbers of
endangered species; and we will turn over conﬁs-
cated animals to them. Surplus animals produced in
the survival centers will be the major source of such
creatures for other institutions. '

Another kind of so-called zoo is the roadside zoo—
the tourist trap where one ﬁnds animals conﬁned
under conditions so disgusting that no discussion is
warranted other than to say that the leadership of
the Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife plans to

WILD ANIMAL ABUSE 2 l 3

 

 

 




 

 

 

do all it can to make such abominations the charter
members of a list of endangered, outmoded animal
institutions.

Traﬂic in Exotic “Pets”

The whole shady business of trafficking in cap-
tured wild animals in the guise of providing “pets”
should come to a prompt conclusion. Insatiable
Americans are encouraging the worst dregs of so-
ciety—wild-animal dealers—mto strip the world’s wil-
dernesses of unprecedented numbers of animals. The
numbers are mind-boggling. The effect on native
populations is tragic, and the inhumanity of the traf-
ﬁc is so colossal as to cry out to all intelligent people
a loud “Stop!”

Recently, for example, Washington newspapers
carried the story of a timber wolf’s near-fatal attack
upon a small boy. This unhappy event didn’t take
place in the wilds of Alaska or Canada; it occurred
in the basement of the child’s suburban Maryland
home. The boy’s father had purchased the wolf from
a Midwestern animal dealer and was keeping it in a
very small cage in the basement for possible use in
his attack-dog business.

I question the right of any man to own a wolf.

A member of my staff, who is an aquarist by avo-
cation, recently was shopping for tropical ﬁsh in sev-
eral Maryland petshops. Among the guppies and
angelﬁsh offered for sale were the following:

1. The infamous walking catﬁsh, whose escape into
the wild in Florida and subsequent spread north-
ward, whose voracity toward native species, and
whose ability to move cross-country from water-
course to watercourse are now well known to ecolo-
gists.

2. The moray eel, large specimens of which are
capable of severing a man’s ﬁnger.

3. The lion ﬁsh, a beautiful saltwater species whose
venomous spines are capable of inflicting agonizing
wounds upon the unwary handler.

4. The piranha, which is looked upon by some as
one of the most dangerous ﬁsh in the world.

The petshop sales personnel appeared totally un-
informed concerning the hazard presented by these
ﬁsh. No information was offered concerning the
threat to the environment if a buyer decided to re-
lease his newly acquired “pets” into the wild; and
the only apparent qualiﬁcations needed by a prospec-
tive purchaser of even the most hazardous species
was the ability to point to the animal he wished and
to meet the dealer’s price.

When I think of the loss of ﬁsh in transit and the
stripping of reefs, streams, ponds, and lakes by un-
scrupulous collectors, I am sickened.

The American people import staggering numbers
of living wildlife. For example, in 1972 our country-
men imported more than 100,000 mammals. Approxi-
mately 80—90% of these were primates (monkeys,
apes, and their allies). Most were animals captured
in the wild. Very little information concerning the

2” THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER, APRIL |974

 

 

Fig. 2. Agent for a Peruvian exporter “handles” two monkeys
he has just bought. (Photo © National Enquirer, Lantana,
Fla.)

problems or details of the worldwide animal trade
is made public, but there are a number of concerned
people—including some of the dealers themselves-—
who are trying to correct this. Here are excerpts
from a report we received from one such interested
party, which described a typical primate “pipeline”:

Handling of these captured animals varies little.
. . . Most . . . are kept in burlap sacks when trans-
ported to the village from the countryside, . . . at
times half a day’s journey by horseback. Exposure
. . . and . . . deprivation . . . , combined with the shock
of being separated from the mother, is the situation
with the majority of animals. . . . There may be one
to two resellings before the . . . individual ﬁnally
reaches the depots. The monkey is . . . again exposed
to a drastic change in environment upon arrival at
the depot . . . . At this point . . . most animals have
passed through 2 to 4 hands, [and] conditions at the
depots . . . unequivocally fail to meet minimum suit-
able health conditions. One dealer has a small ﬂame-
thrower with which he claims to sterilize cages, but
I am skeptical of its frequency of usage. . . . Monkeys
remain in the dealer’s compound from 1 to 6 days. . . .
The dealers try to transport them by bulk . . . when-
ever possible early in the week in . . . various ver-
sions of conﬁning wire mesh, wooden boxes, and the
universal burlap bag.

#2:? _

r

.339; 1 '

,. :3.

51-,-

 




 

The percentage of animals that survive to this
point is depressingly low. It is estimated, for exam-
ple, that nearly four of every 10 marmosets die while
trying to negotiate this pipeline. That estimate does
not take into consideration the number killed during
the capture process. In many species the adult ani—
mals must be killed to permit the capture of the most
desirable and salable animals for the trade—the
young; and this means the death of at least one
breeding adult for each animal taken.

Like the barbarism of the trafﬁc, the stress on
wild-animal populations is intolerable and should be
unacceptable to the majority of the American people.
The problems of those who do survive to reach a ma-
jor trade depot have only begun. Michael Webster,
a conservationist in Asia, recently described some of
the conditions in Hong Kong, an important wild-ani-
mal trade center, as follows:

Civets being poked with sharp sticks to see if they
are ﬁerce enough, monkeys being prodded with live
cigarettes, and live wading birds hung by the legs
are all commonplace sights. In terms of suffering,
the whole trade is quite horriﬁc. The following ac-
count of a visit to one of the main importers just
after he had received a consignment may give some
idea of the total lack of feeling which the dealers
display:

“Outside the shOp . . . an assortment of lethargic
wild cats of various Species are piled, in individual
cages, one on top of the other. They have no water
and no food. Further around to the left are about 40
masked civets in similar cages, with a prospective
buyer prodding them with a sharp stick. . . . In the
center of the shop is a pile of baskets, each about 3
feet in diameter and 9 inches high. One contains a
young imperial eagle, unable to stretch its legs, let
alone its wings. One contains a serpent eagle; an-
other, a large owl. At the back of the shop, the cages
are piled even higher. One large cage contains about
30 porcupines! One of these is lying on its back,
disembowelled.”

Our information indicates that Webster’s descrip-
tion reﬂects conditions commonly encountered in the

 

Fig. 3. Baby without mother. The baby died. (Photo © Na-
tional Enquirer, Lantana, Fla.)

  

  

, <
‘ , ' #\\\\\\;\\\ ‘
“~\\\

 

Fig. 4. Birds and other victims of the pet trade will be ﬂown
in cramped cages to Miami. (Photo © National Enquirer,
Lantana, Fla.)

international wild-animal trade today. These condi-
tions are examples of inhumanity at its worst.

In 1972 Americans also imported 700,000 birds,
more than 2.5 million reptiles, and more than 112
million living ﬁsh. The death rate of theSe forms—
especially birds—is-even more shameful than that of
mammals. Consider, for example, the endangered
quetzal (Guatemala’s national bird): an estimated
50 died for each one that survived to reach a zoo or
pet—owner.

And what about the owners of exotic pets? Is the
opinion of a Washington pet dealer, that “people
want to keep more exotic animals because of the
whole interest in nature and ecology,” valid? Or is
the view expressed by a Humane Society ofﬁcial,
that “the typical exotic-pet owner is a ﬂagrant ex-
hibitionist who wants to walk down the street and
get stopped every ﬁve minutes and asked questions
about his pet,” more accurate?

Irrespective of whether either view is correct or
whether the truth lies somewhere between, I feel
strongly that it is obvious that the world’s wildlife
is no longer able to sustain the unregulated exploita-
tion to which it has been subjected for so long. At a
time when mammals—the group of animals about
which we know the most—are becoming extinct at
the rate of nearly one a year, and when we have lit-
tle reason to believe that any other group of animals
is faring better, we ﬁnd the number of wildlife im-
ported into this country zooming upward. And, al-
though these data are not available, there is little

WILD ANIMAL ABUSE 2 I 5

 




reason to believe the same is not happening in other
countries.

New Ethics—and Strong Laws

We must develop a new ethics, and we must en-
force new regulations to end this gruesome business.

Under the Endangered and Threatened Species
Conservation Act of 1973 the Secretary of the
Interior is authorized to regulate the taking of
endangered species of native wildlife if‘ the state
does not do so. This should mean that roadside zoos
will ﬁnd far fewer species available to use as tourist
bait; and, if timber wolves are going to be encoun-
tered, I predict it will be in the wild, rather than sub-
urban basements.

The bill also permits us to identify a category of
“threatened” animals—those that appear to be head-
ing toward the depths of “endangerment”—and to
take action before they literally become threatened
with extinction. This will enable us to use an “ounce
of prevention” instead of a “pound of cure.” All
professional wildlife students know that once a crea-
ture is endangered the road to recovery is very, very
painful and difﬁcult.

In addition, we are reviewing our authorities un-
der the Lacey Act—a milestone of conservation legis-
lation, enacted at the turn of the century. Heretofore,
our policy under the Lacey Act has been to allow
relatively unregulated importation of exotic wildlife
until a species escapes, becomes established in the
wild, or otherwise proves beyond a shadow of doubt
that it is indeed a threat to the named interests. At
that point, the species is added to a brief list of “in-
jurious animals,” and further importations are pro-
hibited, except under permits issued for scientiﬁc,
medical, educational, or exhibition purposes. Frank-
ly, I feel that that procedure, which is curative
rather than preventive, has been as effective as clos-
ing the barn door after the horse is out.

Recently I met with representatives of the conser-
vation community and announced our intention to
revise our policy to strictly control the importation
of injurious wildlife. I am delighted to be able to
announce that, in spite of an incredible number of
delays, the proposal soon will be published in the
Federal Register and available for public review and
comment.

Perhaps the most signiﬁcant action taken recently
toward the regulation of the international wild-ani-
mal trade was the signing, in Washington in March
1973, of the Convention of International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. More
than 80 nations participated in the three-week nego-
tiation of this treaty; and already 37, including the
United States, have signed. The Senate has given its
unanimous advice and consent, it has been signed by
the President, and the 1973 Endangered Species Act
(discussed earlier) has been modiﬁed to implement
the Convention. It is a lengthy, complex document
and is regarded as a very strong international agree-

2|6 THE AMERICAN BIOLOGY TEACHER. APRIL l974

ment. Of special interest is a requirement that all

living specimens be “so prepared as to minimize the

risk of injury, damage to health or cruel treatment.”
The implementation of this Convention will be a
gigantic stride toward removing much of the rust
and corrosion in the animal-trade pipelines I have
described.

I have laid out a road map that can lead to a much
better era of wildlife conservation: one in which
man treats his fellow-creatures and our shared en-
vironment in a rational, responsible manner. I know
from experience that this road is neither smooth nor
easy: many bumps, pitfalls, and blind alleys lie be-
fore us. But I invite everyone to travel this road, in
company with our enthusiastic Secretary of the In-
terior and the dedicated men and women of the Fish
and Wildlife Service. I hope you will help us avoid
the numerous hazards that lie ahead. If, by working
together, we are able to complete the journey, then
there is no doubt in my mind that the world we be-
queath to our children will be better than the one
we have inherited.

 

 




 

DR. SCHWEITZER’S MESSAGE TO
THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

I am profoundly moved that you would like to give my
name to the medal you have created. I give you this right
with all my heart. I would never have believed that my
philosophy, which incorporates in our ethics a compassion-
ate attitude toward all creatures, would be noticed and
recognized in my lifetime. I knew this truth would impose
itself one day on human thought, but it. is the great and
moving surprise of my life that I should still be able to witness
this progress of ethics.

Your medal celebrates this progress: philosophy obliged

to intervene for animals when up till now it has shown so
little interest in them.

Lambaréné

May 2, 1951

PRINTED ON 100% RECYCLED PAPER

EDUCATIONAL 7

 

ATERIALS

 

AVAILABLE FROM THE

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 

 

 

 

75
/L

 




 

 

GENERAL

 

Animal Expressions

a photographic footnote to Charles Darwin’s
Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals.
Foreword by F. J. Mulhern, D.V.M. 54 pages. 106
illustrations. Animal Welfare Institute. Free on request
to veterinarians and persons employed by research
institutions in the management of animal colonies and
care of animals. To others ..................... $1.00

Animals and Their Legal Rights

by Emily Leavitt and other authors. Summary and
history of laws affecting the welfare'of animals in the
United States. Animal Welfare Institute (Third edition
in preparation). One copy free upon request to
libraries and humane societies. To others .......... $2.00

The Neighbours

anthology of animal poems. Illustrated by Fougasse,
117 pages. Published by UFAW ................ $2.00

The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion
by Major C. W. Hume, M.C., B.Sc., London,

Illustrated by Fougasse. 100 pages. UFAW ........ $2.00
Let Us Live
leaflet on trapping, illustrated in full color .......... Free

Facts About Furs

by F. Jean Vinter, M.D. Revised edition, Animal Wel-
fare Institute, 1973. 106 pages of information on the
way furs are obtained throughout the world. 28
illustrations. Indexed for easy reference. One copy
free to humane societies and libraries; to others ..... $2.00

Canada’s Shame
film produced by the Association for the Protection of
Fur-Bearing Animals showing the extreme suffering
undergone by animals caught in leghold traps, 16mm,

color, sound, 15 minutes. One week rental ........ $10.00

Predator Control

Report to the Council on Environmental Quality and
the Department of the Interior by the Advisory Com-
mittee on Predator Control, January 1972 ........ Free

Federal Measures Against the Abuse of Wild Animals

byNathaniel Reed, Assistant Secretary, U.S. Depart—
ment of the Interior. Reprint from The American
Biology Teacher, April, 1974 .................. Free

Information Report

Animal Welfare Institute quarterly ............... $2.00
Towards the Ideal in an Animal Shelter ............. Free
HUMANE SLAUGHTER

Uniform State Humane Slaughter Bill
by Council of State Governments ............... Free

Manufacturers leaflets concerning available equipment
for rendering livestock unconscious painlessly ...... Free

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

Laboratory Dogs

16 mm. sound film showing humane care and
housing of dogs in an experimental surgery
laboratory. Produced by Crawley Films.

For one week’s rental ...................... $10.00

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals

illustrated manual, designed for those planning to
build, remodel or re-equip animal quarters. Animal
Welfare Institute. One copy free on request to scienti-
fic institutions, veterinarians, or architects. To others $2.00

Modular Kennels for Laboratory Animals

by William Hoffer. Reprint from College Management,
3 pages, May, 1973 ......................... Free

The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique
by W.M.S. Russell & R. L. Burch, 238 pages ...... $5.00

The Rational Use of Living Systems in Bio—Medical
Research

proceedings of the UFAW Symposium, including dis—
cussion of tissue cultures and other substitutes for test
animals for certain purposes. October 1971 ........ $1

More About Alternatives

by Dr. T.W. Hegarty of the Fund for the Replacement
of Animals in Medical Experiments. Reprint of article
from Parenthese, Summer 1975 ................ Free

Beyond Adequate Veterinary Care

address delivered at American Veterinary Medical
Association Convention, Anaheim, California, 1975
by Dr. Marjorie Anchel ....................... Free




30

00

)0

\U

00

DO

\U

Report of the Departmental Committee on Experiments
on Animals
(Chairman: Sir Sydney Littlewood) Presented to
Parliament by the Secretary of State for the Home
Department by Command of her Majesty, April,

1965. 255 pages ............................ $3.50

THE FOLLOWING TWO ITEMS ARE AVAILABLE
ONLYTO PERSONS EMPLOYED IN
SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTIONS.

Basic Care of Experimental Animals

Fourth edition. Written simply, designed for animal
room personnel, 78 pages, illustrated. Animal
Welfare Institute. Free upon request ONLY to persons
employed in scientific institutions. Available in English
or Spanish.

Handling Laboratory Animals

16 mm. sound film showing proper handling of 12
common species of laboratory animals. Produced by
MacQueen Films with cooperation of National
Institute for Medical Research, London, England.

One week’s rental .......................... $10.00

 

HUMANE EDUCATION

 

Humane Biology Projects

Animal Welfare Institute. 17 contributors, 50 pages,
illustrated. Designed for use in secondary schools.
One copy free upon request to teachers, librarians,

humane societies; to others .................... $1.00

First Aid and Care of Small Animals

by Ernest P. Walker. Designed for use in primary and
secondary schools. 46 pages, illustrated. Animal
Welfare Institute. One copy free upon request to
teachers, librarians, scout leaders, humane societies;

to others .................................. $ 1.00

Canada’s Experience With Student Use of Living
Animals

by H.C. Rowsell, D.V.M., D.V.P.H., Ph. D. Reprint
of article from The American Biology Teacher,
January, 1974 .............................. Free

Regulations for Animal Experimentation in Science Fairs
new humane rules for Canadian Science Fairs, 1975 . Free

Better Nutrition Studies

29 F. Barbara Orlans. Reprint from The American
'OIOQV Teacher, 3 pages, November 1970 ........ Free

Live Organisms in High School Biology

by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article from

The American Biology Teacher, 4 pages. September,
1972 .................................... Free

Attitudes Towards Animals

by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The
American Biology Teacher, 3 pages, February, 1970 Free

Sanctified Torture

by John Hillaby. Reprint of article from New Scientist,
1 page, January 1969 ....................... Free

Administrative Control Over Science Fair Projects
by William Dunkum, 1969. 4 page leaflet ......... Free

Biology Students as Experimental Subjects

by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of‘article from
The American Biology Teacher, October, 1974 ..... Free

Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools

by Dr. W.W. Armistead, Dean, College of Veterinary
Medicine, Michigan State University, 1 page ....... Free

Good Kind Lion

for primary grades. 4 pages, UFAW. One Copy ..... Free
Additional copies ........................... 3¢ ea.

Kittens and Cats

for primary grades. 12 pages, with pictures suitable for
coloring. Humane Society of Huron Valley. One copy
free upon request to teachers, librarians, humane
societies; to others .......................... 10¢

You and Your Dog

for primary grades. 16 pages, with pictures suitable for
coloring. Humane Society of Huron Valley. One copy
free upon request to teachers, librarians, humane
societies; to others .......................... 10¢

Befriending Animals _
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Child-
hood Education. For primary grades, 4 pages ...... Free

NOTE: TeaChers please indicate grade level.

We regret that only reprints and leaflets can be provided
free to student teachers. Orders for manuals should be

accompanied by payment.

[Order blank on reverse side]

 




 

 

 

MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION
& MATERIALS ORDER FORM

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

P.O. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007

 

I wish to become a non-voting member of
the Animal Welfare Institute

Life $100
Associate $10
Sustaining $5

Contributing $2

(Subscription to Quarterly Information Report included)

NAME ...........................................
ADDRESS ...................................
........................ ZIPCODE............

INSTITUTION (If any) ...............................

Please send me the items checked for which I enclose $ ............
Payment Must Accompany Order

Additional order instructions: .........................

BROCHURE & SYMBOL DESIGN: CACHALOT DESIGN GROUP
MARBLEHEAD, MASSACHUSETTS

 

SAVE THE WHALES
CAMPAIGN ORDER FORM

 

SAVE THE WHALES flier explaining how you can help. Free

Articles published from 1971 to 1976 in the AWI
Information Report on national and international
efforts to prevent extinction of whales. . . .Single copy Free

Report on the 28th meeting of the International
Whaling Commission, June 21-25, 1976 .......... Free

Whales, Dolphins and Men

comprehensive study of cetacea and their persecution
by man. 16 mm, sound, color, 45 minutes. One week

rental .................................... $10.00

Last Days of the Dolphins?
Dick Cavett narrates this film containing footage
obtained after a court fight with tuna interests showing
the tragic killing of dolphins in tuna purse seines. 16
mm, color, SOUnd, 27 minutes. One week rental . . . .$10.00

Vanishing Giants

The History, Biology and Fate of the Great Whales.
24 pages .................................. $2.00

How to Liven Up Your Classroom With a Pod of Whales.
For teachers, 2 pages ........................ Free

A Whale of a Friend

an ocean giant and man play together in a historic
happening. 4 pages. Reprint from Toronto Star,
February 28, 1976 .......................... Free

Campaign materials:

Poster ............................. One free
Button ............................. One free
Bumper sticker ...................... One free
T-shirts, small, medium, or large ........... $5.00
Children’s, small, medium, or large ......... $4.00

Full color reproduction of original painting by Richard
Ellis of the swiftest of commercially exploited whales, the
Sei, mother and young, suitable for framing: a gift to

persons contributing ten dollars or more to the SAVE
THE WHALES campaign.

Please use form below for SAVE THE WHALE
campaign orders.

NAME ......................................

ADDRESS ..................................

ZIP CODE

CONTRIBUTION $ ...................

 




CHRISTINE STEVENS

Humane Considerations for
Animal Models

Reprinted from

Animal Models of Thrombosis and
Hemorrhagic Diseases

DHEW Publication No. (NIH) 76-982

US. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare
Public Health Service

National Institutes of Health

Washington, D. C. 1976

I was asked to speak on ‘ ‘the humane care of animals as it relates to the
speciﬁc study of spontaneous animal disease.” The title “Humane
Considerations for Animal Models” was suggested as appropriate, but
those animal models that suffer from diseases chemically or mechani-
cally induced by man do not fall into the area marked out for me to
discuss at this workshop.

The animals whose welfare I will address have, therefore, departed
from the norm in a natural manner. Their ailments may or may not
bother them very seriously—for example, white cats with inherited
deafness can live comfortable, contented lives as pets. They do not
need therapy. At the same time, those deaf white cats involved in
studies on the causes of deafness and disturbances of the inner ear at
the University of California College of Medicine at Irvine are not
subjected to experiments that are painful, frightening, or dangerous.
According to a news report,1 the “cats ride up and down in a lift while
their eye movements are observed and photographed. That is the
extent of the experimentation to which they are subjected.” With
friendly treatment, good food, and comfortable quarters, these cats can
contribute to science in much the same way as a human volunteer.

A second category of animal model is exempliﬁed by the allergic fox
terrier who was a much publicized subject of research at the University
of Michigan Medical School some years ago.2 While not disabling, the
dog’s allergies, similar to those of human hay fever and asthma
sufferers, were unpleasant. Trying potential remedies on her was,

151

 




 

    

152 CHRISTINE STEVENS

when they worked, helpful to her. Again, so long as friendly treatment,
good food, and comfortable quarters are provided in a situation of this
kind, the animals can live a good life, whether in a scientiﬁc institution
or, preferably, at home with short visits to the institution for observa-
tion and testing.

In a third category, animals with very serious diseases, such as the
most severely affected hemophilic dogs cared for by Dr. Dodds,3 may
require constant professional supervision. In such cases, the question
arises of the availability of such supervision and the dedication of the
staff caring for such delicate animals. Standards for their care and
treatment must exceed the relatively simple requirements of the ﬁrst
two categories of animals—those that, despite some disability, are
relatively healthy. A high grade of nursing care by dedicated workers
with a genuine interest in the animal patients is required and must be
carried out in surroundings that are pleasant for the animal nurses as
well as for the subjects of the studies.

The fourth and ﬁnal category comprises animals so ill that euthanasia
is necessary to prevent further suffering. Like aborted human fetuses,
the dead bodies of these animals, before decomposition sets in, may
prove useful for some studies. Such animals must be killed by an
anesthetic overdose while their owners (if they are owned animals)
hold or stroke them to prevent them from suffering fear.

“Fear,” as Dr. Lawrence Abel has stated, “is the psychological
aspect of pain in experimental work with animals.”4 As such, it is to be
avoided in the care, handling, and treatment of laboratory animals to
the very greatest extent possible. An understanding of animals, and
especially of the species being studied, and a personal lack of fear is
essential. People who are afraid of animals are very likely to frighten
the animals by the unnecessary roughness they so often use.

Too many laboratories resemble prisons, with their combination of
overcrowding of some and isolation of other inmates, their bad food,
inferior sanitation, and unsympathetic and sometimes brutal caretak-
ers. .

Frederick Wiseman’s documentary ﬁlm, Primate, which has caused
some scientists to bristle defensively, in fact showed remarkably high
standards of sanitation, space for animals, availability of trained staff.
lack of rough handling, and generally advanced standards of care. Had
Mr. Wiseman wished to make a point of showing the seamy side of
laboratory animal treatment and care, as the National Society for
Medical Research seems to think he did,5 he surely would have
selected a grimier and less well-ﬁnanced institution for his cinéma
vérité. I recently showed a documentary to veterinarians of the

  




 

  

Humane Considerations for Animal Models 153

Department of Agriculture to demonstrate the inadequacy of enforce-
ment of the Animal Welfare Act. This ﬁlm shows animals at night in a
large and badly run series of research animal rooms. Numerous
violations of the federal law were visible. In Primate no violations were
to be seen, no ﬁlth, no. crowding of » six or eight creatures in a cage
scarcely large enough‘for two, no suppurating wounds, no births on
bare, cold metal, no wild rodents, no-insect infestations, as in the
simpler documentary. In short, the American public saw in Primate a
standard of laboratory animal treatment that is far above average. Yet
there is no doubt the public was shocked, and I believe I am correct in
summing up the cause of the shock as the self-explained attitudes of the
scientists.

The public likes to think of research scientists as selﬂess ﬁghters
against disease struggling under difficult circumstances of the kind that
Paul de Kruif used to describe. In Primate, however, they saw
something else; as one major journal6 put it: ~

Primate is a tough ﬁlm, and like almost all of Wiseman’s previous work, it is raising
outraged howls from its subjects. As usual, these take the form of demands for a
nan'ation that Would “explain" what they think they are doing. But Wiseman believes
that showing unpremeditated behavior (plus the subjects’ own dialogue) tells more about
the human reality of an institution than after-the-fact rationalizations of that behavior. He
does not pretend to be an objective reporter. Primate is obviously one man’s honest, if
controversial view of an institution. Nevertheless, this assault on scientism and social
scientism, the unquestioning belief that “pure” research must—perhaps because people
insist on calling it pure—be valuable for its own sake. raises an issue of extraordinary
urgency. More than that, and more than any of the Yerkes experiments, it also raises
questions about the nature of man and suggests disturbing answers.

At the end of the ﬁlm, the viewing public heard a round-table
discussion by research scientists on how to get more money for
research. The rationale presented was weak and self-serving to the
point of comedy, and the New York Times headline, “Fred Wiseman’s
Primate Makes Monkeys Out of Scientists,”7 seemed an impolite but
accurate assessment.

This brings us to the question that has long been skirted: Once
standards of care, housing, and handling of animals have reached those
shown in Primate. is society justiﬁed in leaving the rest to the
institution and its funders? I doubt if most viewers would answer
afﬁrmatively.

Since this session is entitled “Public Relations,” I assume public
relations advice is wanted from those of us assigned to this part of the
program. The advice I have to give, based on 23 years as a full-time
volunteer with the Animal Welfare Institute, is for everyone associated

 

  




i154 CHRISTINE STEVENS

in any way with animal experimentation to start looking at animals as
animals, not as useful items of laboratory equipment or as “tools.” In
order to develop a broader perspective, biomedical researchers should
do more reading in other disciplines. Ethologists, ﬁeld zoologists, and
some psychologists are publishing work that may often be just as good
as or better scientiﬁcally than that in the biomedical researcher’s own
special ﬁeld of interest. '

If he uses rats, for example, he should be familiar with the work of
Bennett et al.,‘*9 which has demonstrated that rats in an “enriched
environment” develop brains that weigh more than those of littermates
conﬁned to the usual bare laboratory cage devoid of any objects of
interest to a rat. Bennett et al. have used larger cages with a few simple
additions—ladders, nest boxes, and exercise wheels among them—to
be used communally by a number of rats. ,

The studies of Lee Kavanau with Peromyscus reveal that these wild
deer mice like to control their own environment, particularly the
degree of light in their cages. ‘0 Since they are nocturnal, the equivalent
of pale moonlight appeals to them, and they readily operate switches to
attain the particular amount of light they prefer. They also run for miles
in a single night in exercise wheels if these are provided.

In- an article on zoos entitled “The Shame of the Naked Cage,”
Desmond Morris decried the barrenness of cages generally provided
for zoo animals.11 It is an unfortunate fact that most laboratory cages
for the same species are even more barren and usually smaller to boot.
Yet it has been known for a good many years that the great apes have
individual artistic styles12 not necessarily corresponding with what
might be expected from their appearance. For example, the delicate,
wavy, tentative lines cOnsistently produced by a tremendous female
gorilla who sat towering over her keeper at their drawing sessions
compare surprisingly with the bold and colorful creations of a very
small young male chimp.

I once had a chance conversation with the wife of a French abstract
painter who had the misfortune to follow a chimpanzee at a New York
gallery. The chimpanzee’s paintings were a matter of dismay to the
young woman, who assured me that it was “not good for art.”

The joke told at the recent Forum on Human Experimentationl3 held
here about the chimpanzee who communicated so well that it was asked
if he had given his informed consent points in a direction that users of
primates should consider. Already the early work with American sign
language is being stepped up, ‘4 and a chimpanzee infant has learned the
signs far earlier even than the famous Lucy, who was once observed
trying to teach her pet cat the sign for “book” (open palms joined like a

 




Humane Considerations for Animal Models 155

book cover). So far, Lucy has not succeeded in bringing still another
species into the magic circle of expression in speciﬁc words and
sentences (R. Fouts, personal communication, 1975), but it’s clear she
has an open mind! No interspecies prejudice mars her outlook.

When Konrad Lorenz, Niko Tinbergen, and Karl Von Frisch won
the Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine in 1973, the world was put
ofﬁcially on notice that ethology must be taken seriously by the
medical research establishment. However, these laureates, not unlike
Darwin, who also raised the dignity of animals and who is still under
attack for daring to do so, have not really penetrated the conscious—
ness, the thinking, the general mentality of the vast majority of people
who use animals for research or testing.

If the weight of the scientiﬁc achievements of Lorenz, Tinbergen,
and Von Frisch have not been able to do so on their own, my advocacy
is indeed a weak reed—except that public relations is a real considera-
tion. And the public has grown conscious of animals and their needs in
a way that is quite foreign to the attitudes of those old-fashioned bogey
men, the antivivisectionists. In 1975, even the word itself has an
unreal, dated ring that goes with antivaccinationists, and now that
smallpox vaccination itself is no longer a stern requirement for
travelers every 3 years, the whole structure of the early confrontations
seems to be falling apart.

As it falls apart, the old-fashioned animal room with its series of
identical cages, like the old-fashioned zoo with ‘its rows of barred
cages, should be giving way to the more truthful, realistic, and
certainly more scientiﬁc way to see animals through the eyes of serious
students of their behavior. Konrad Lorenz wrote: . . one can only
get to know the higher and mentally active animals by letting them
move about freely. How sad and mentally stunted is a caged monkey or
parrot and how incredibly alert, amusing and interesting is the same
animal in complete freedom.”15

Jane Goodall has sOught to translate some of what she has learned at
the Gombe Stream from the wild chimpanzees to ways to keep captive
animals at the Stanford Primate Center. She wrote (J. von Lawick-
Goodall, personal communication, 1972):

The design of this facility has been deliberately inﬂuenced by an understanding of the
requirements of chimpanzees gleaned from 12 years of association with these apes in the
wild. Each enclosure will be one and a quarter acres, will provide structures for climbing
and locomotor exercise, structures designed so that the individuals in a group (6 to 10)

can escape visual contact with each other, and will provide the maximum amount of
interesting stimuli possible in the setting.

We know from countless experiments on isolation stress that solitary

 




156 CHRISTINE STEVENS

conﬁnement for the large majority of warm-blooded animals is un-
biological.““20 We know that the wild ancestors of Cam's familiaris,
the dog, were social pack animals adapted to running long distances to
capture prey, yet, with a degree of stubborn deﬁance of the obvious
that will surely be looked back upon with amazement and disgust, a
segment of the scientiﬁc community has fought almost a decade against
a regulation to require institutions that maintain their experimental
dogs in cages to let them out once a day“! This must be one of the
lowest of low points in public relations for the medical establishment.

Albert Schweitzer called for a boundless ethics that will include the
animals also. He wrote: “Thought cannot avoid the ethic of reverence
and love for all life. It will abandon the old conﬁned systems of ethics
and be forced to recognize the ethics that knows no bounds.”22 Those
words should be applied to all use of animal models. Dr. Schweitzer’s
entire philosophy focuses on the development of individual
conscience—and that, of course, is the very opposite of what is
generally thought of as public relations. But there could be no better
way to develop public approval than to conscientiously and in every
single instance give consideration to the feelings and the well-being of
each individual animal studied in conducting biomedical researCh. If
that were done, there would be a huge reduction in laboratory animal
suffering.

However, it would be extremely naive to suppose that an ethical
revolution is about to occur spontaneously in animal experimentation.
If a reasonable facsimile of ethical progress is to be made, those who
think of animals as mere tools must be controlled by suitable incentives
and regulations.

If we look at the problem from the standpoint of Powers’ Behavior:
The Control of 1'3’erception,23 it is clear that a failure of perception of
animals as sentient beings with individual desires and needs is likely to
result in callousness. Those whose education and training have created
blind spots with respect to animals are incapable of creating the trust
that could exist if the double standard for experimental animals were
ended.

Animal models with spontaneous disease, especially pet animals
studied on an out-patient basis with the cooperation of their owners,
can help to end this unfair and inhumane double standard from which
laboratory animals have suffered so long. A friend of mine regularly
took her dog for immunotherapy at oncology clinics in New York City
for a period of 3 months. The dog lived at home and made a temporary
partial recovery as a result of the experimental treatments. The owner
at no time gave up responsibility for or control of the dog but, in effect,

 




Humane Considerations for Animal Models 157

acted in a role comparable to a parent of a sick child too young to
understand or give consent for experimental therapy. It takes more
human effort to test experimental treatments in this manner than it
would to collect sick animals and maintain them in a single facility, but
the latter system would..mean that many of the animals would be
subject to anxiety and mental suffering. In the case of aged dogs used '
to the personal attention of a loved owner, the degree of such suffering
can be extremely severe. Thus it would be unacceptable both from the
humane standpoint and from the standpoint of sound scientiﬁc proce-
dure in which the introduction of variables should be kept to the
minimum. Even if a treatment in itself is beneﬁcial, it may be
impossible to judge its beneﬁts if the animal subject is in a constant
state of depression and protest against being kept captive in a strange
restrictive environment away from the owner to which it has been
bonded for years.

Under no circumstances should an attempt be made to persuade
owners to abandon diseased animals to be caged for the remainder of
their lives, under conditions provided by the average laboratory at the
present time.

As in all experimentation, efforts should be made to keep the
experimental treatments as pleasant as possible, and, if a promising
treatment cannot be pleasant, the numbers of animals receiving it
should be very small in preliminary tests.

To sum up, animals suffering from spontaneous diseases that approx-
imate human disorders can be considered in a category for experimen-
tation that parallels similar research in man. If the animals receive
carefully designed and administered experimental treatments aimed at
alleviating or curing their diseases, and if the attention and care they
receive is successful in maintaining them in a contented condition,
either in the homes of their owners or in quarters speciﬁcally arranged
to meet their basic needs and individual preferences, the main criteria
for acceptable use of their spontaneous disease to learn how best to
control or manage it will have been met.

REFERENCES

l. Getze, G. 1973. Deaf cats aid in ear research. Los Angeles Times, July 29.

2. Patients “Treated Like Dogs” at U-M unit. I965. The News-Palladium (Boston
Harbor, Mich.), April 7.

3. Dodds, J. 1974. Hereditary and acquired hemorrhagic disorders in animals. Pages
215—247 in Theodore H. Spaet (ed.), Prog. Hemostasis Thrombosis. Vol. 2.
Grune & Stratton, New York.

4. Abel, L. Laboratory Dogs, Animal Welfare Institute ﬁlm, produced by Crawley
Films, Ottawa.

 




CHRISTINE STEVENS

. Yerkes director ﬁles complaint with FCC on ﬁlm inaccuracy. 1975. Nat. Soc. Med.

Res. Bull., 26: (1):3.

. Schickel, R. 1974. Viewpoints: Shooting the institution. Time December 9:95.

. Kraemer, C. 1974. Fred Wiseman’s Primate makes monkeys out of scientists. New

York Times, Dec. 1, Sec. 2, p. l.

. Bennett, E. L., M. C. Diamond, D. Krech, and M. R. Rosenzweig. 1964. Chemical

and anatomical plasticity of brain. Science 1462610.

. Bennett, E. L., M. C. Diamond, and M. R. Rosenzweig. 1969. Rat brain: effects of

environmental enrichment on wet and dry weights. Science 163i825.

. Kavanau, L. 1967. Behavior of captive white-footed mice. Science 155:1623.

. Morris, D. 1968. The shame of the naked cage: Must we have zoos? Life 65:78-80.

. Morris, D. 1962. The biology of art. Methuen, London.

. National Academy of Sciences. 1975. Forum on Experiments and Research with

Humans: Values in Conﬂict. Washington, DC.

. Baur, S. February 24, 1975. First message from the planet of the apes. New York
'Magazine: 30. -

. Lorenz, K. 1952. King Solomon’s ring. Thomas Y. Crowell Co., New York.

. Bexton, W. H., W. Heron, and T. H. Scott. 1954. Eﬁ‘ects of decreased, variation in

the sensory environment. Can. J. Psychol. 8:70.

. Essman, W. B. 1966. The development of activity differences in isolated and

aggregated mice. Anim. Behav. l4(4):406.

. Menzel, E. W.. Jr. 1963. The effect of cumulative experience on responses to novel

objects in young isolation-reared chimpanzees. Behaviour XXl:l.

. Grifﬁths, W. J ., Jr. 1961. Effect of isolation on treadmill running in the albino rat.

Psychol. Rep. 8:243.

. Weltman, A. S., A. M. Sackler, R. Schwartz, and H. Owens. Effects of isolation
stress on female albino mice. Lab. Anim. Care, 18:426.

. Fed. Reg. 31. 1966. No. 242, Part III, p. 16113. Federal Register 39. 1974. No. 187,
Part III, p. 34420.

. Joy, C. R. 1950. The animal world of Albert Schweitzer. Beacon Press, Boston.

. Powers, W. T. 1973. Behavior: The control of perception. Aldine Publishing Co.,
Chicago.

 




Reprinted from

The Future of Animals, Cells, Models,
and Systems in Research, Development,
Education, and Testing

ISBN 0-309-02603-2

National Academy of Sciences
Washington, DC. 1977

 




CHRISTINE G. STEVENS

Humane Perspectives

The elegant architectural drawings of the Italian Renaissance can give a
long. romantic perspective ending at a vanishing point in the far
distance or a bold. immediate perspective in which a great building
rises sharply in front of us and the perspective falls away so rapidly that
all but the foreground is dwarfed. If we translate visual perspective into
time. the choice between these two manners is open as well. We may
emphasize the lengthy debate stretching back through a misty middle
distance to Queen Victoria’s reign. when sharp criticism of cruelty to
experimental animals began. with the horrors of a series of major
operations on unanesthetized horses in the veterinary school at Alfort.
France ( 1). Then. if we take the long view on attitudes towards animals.
the perspective leads back till the mist turns thicker and foggier among
the ancients. Alternatively, we may be transﬁxed by the overriding
importance of the present and dismiss the past with a few sketchy lines.

The spirit of our time is against authoritarianism, against the image of
the cruel tyrant who rules his subjects by force and compels them to
undergo hardships. Cruel animal experimentation is thus contrary to
the spirit of the times. But animal experimentation should not and need
not be cruel.

An example of a cruel experiment I noticed in looking through the
Journal ()fDrug Research. vol. 6. no. 3. December 1974 (2). published
in Cairo. Egypt. describes how the development of peptic ulcers is:

executed through the extensive triggering of the emotion of fear. Prolonged forcible
immobilisation of animal. the crippling panic of helplessness will release the reins of the
two autonomic components. . . . The ﬁrst for the induction of neurogenic gastric

l6

 




    

  

Humane Perspectives 17

ulcerations was made by squeezing the animal into a tight wooden box (3). Although
ulcer did occur, their size and number did not provide a convenient statistical value. This
could be explained by the ability of the animal to move the limbs slightly. In this study a
more severe type of panic stricken struggling animal was seeked. Forcible ﬁxation with
overwhelming muscle contraction with all the autonomic fear syndrome are thus fulﬁlled
in order to obtain the appreciable pathologic lesion. . . . The animal was layed supine on
a wooden board with ﬁxation hooks at the four corners. The four limbs were tied without
excessive tension to avoid respiratory hindrance. This type of ﬁxation compelled the
animal to try hard, but in vain, to ﬁght for release. The sympathetic hyper-excitability
was manifest by tachycardia, tachypnea and pupillary dilatation. The tail of the animal
was insistently wiggling and showed vasculo-constriction. The rat. although pitied, was
left in its sufferings and agony for 24 hours. After the lapse of this period, the animal was
sacriﬁced by cerebral destruction and disemboweled. [sic]

What could more precisely exemplify the spirit of authoritarianism
than wilfully inducing such extreme fear in small defenseless animals?
Yet this took place in a country that 5,000 years ago perfectly mum—
miﬁed and wrapped in linen bands in sculptural harmony the sacred
ibis, symbol of the god of science. Such an ibis may be seen at the
Egyptian Embassy, in Washington, DC.

So when we try to see a humane perspective, we have to admit that
in some respects we may be looking through the wrong end of the opera
glasses.

But if we shorten our perspective, if we look at the past few years in
our own country and in the Western European democracies, we see
that the darkest side of human nature, that most desperately in need of
control, seems to be increasingly subject to regulation in animal
experiments.

A resolution passed at the 1975 symposium of the International
Committee on Laboratory Animals* calls for legislation regulating
animal experimentation in every country that uses laboratory
animals—quite a contrast from the early 1960’s, which saw such ﬂat,
solid, seemingly unbreakable opposition in the American scientiﬁc
community to mandatory humane requirements?“ New laws have been

* VI Symposium of the International Committee on Laboratory Animals. July 9—11.
1975. Thessaloniki. Greece.

7“ Such opposition included actual suppression of a report prepared by the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare, entitled “The Care and Management of Laboratory-
Animals Used in the Programs of the Department of Health, Education. and Welfare.”
Division of Operations Analysis. Ofﬁce of the Comptroller, Ofﬁce of the Secretary.
January 1966. The report, published copies of which were locked in a storeroom.
contained documented material critical of the treatment of laboratory animals by
National Institutes of Health grantees. For example. on page 131, a summary of Animal
Welfare Institute cn'ticisms appears as follows:

 




18 CHRISTINE G. STEVENS

passed in the 1970’s in Finland, the Netherlands, West Germany, and
Austria that seek to improve the lot of experimental animals, and I
would note that it is in new laws and proposals that requirements are
found in some cases that alternatives to laboratory animals be used
where possible.

There can be no doubt that the right of laboratory animals to
protection against cruelty, whether sadistic or nonsadistic, from ne-
glect, from inadequate quarters, hunger, thirst, and fear, is now recog-
nized, and that it is further recognized that self-policing to ensure these
rights is not acceptable.

There are those who have denied that animals have rights, but they
have already been overtaken and left in a rather dim, reactionary
posture by some solid legal thinking on the rights of trees and streams
and other natural entities (4) and the way in which the sustaining of
these rights beneﬁts us all—both people and other animals.

When Darwin showed that we were 1 among nearly 200 other species
of primates and 12.000 to 15,000 species of mammals, he laid the
groundwork for a different attitude toward our fellow mammals. It was
no accident that he played a leading part in obtaining the ﬁrst law to
regulate animal experimentation, the British Cruelty to Animals Act of
1876. He said the thought of painful experiments made him feel sick
and kept him awake at night (5).

But, of course, it is no guarantee of kindness to be recognized as
man’s fellow mammal, bird or other creature, given the ferocious
cruelty with which fellow men have so often been treated by one
another. It is important to give recognition to the value of each
individual animal, to its ability to feel and to suffer, in order to avoid

 

(a) Cages Too Small for Animals to Stand or Lie in Normal Positions:
lnstitutions visited—8 (7 grantees, one intramural)
Species affected—dogs. rabbits, monkeys
Failure to Administer Pain-Relieving Drugs After Surgery
lnstitutions visited—3 (grantees)
Species affected—dogs, and all laboratory animals used
Failure to Destroy Suffering. Moribund Animals:
lnstitutions visited-——2 (grantees)
Species affected—dogs
Failure to Supervise Animals After Surgery:
lnstitutions Visited—3 (grantees)
Species aﬁected—dogs
Failure to Provide a Comfortable Resting Place for Animals:
lnstitutions visited—3 (grantees)
Species affected—cats, raccoons. dogs. other species
Repeated Use of the Same Animal for Painful Procedures:
lnstitutions visited—1 (grantee)
Species affected—dogs
Failure to Provide Water:
lnstitutions visited—4 (grantees)
Species affected—monkeys. rabbits. dogs. cats. guinea pigs.

 




Humane Perspectives

self-righteous abuse of animals by the ignorant, who may otherwise
regard them as mere things. But beyond that, in considering the
situation of laboratory animals, so similar to that of human prisoners,
the massive problem of human cruelty and callousness must be tack-
led. It has never yet undergone any serious scientiﬁc scrutiny.

The scandals of the nursing homes, full of neglected and abused old
people, exemplify one aspect of this problem. The recently published
Alexander Dolgun’s Story: An American in the Gulag (6) constantly
brings to mind parallels with experimental animals as the reader
visualizes the long corridors of cell doors—like the long rows of
cages—the deliberate sleep deprivation for the purpose of obtaining
desired information (“Talk, and you’ll get sleep.”) (p. 80)—like sleep
deprivation studies in animal laboratories, also conducted for the
purpose of obtaining information—even to the brief periods of exercise
and removal from the cell once a day. “Around seven . . . the guard
. . . takes you down some steps and out into the yard for the exercise
period . . . I have ﬁfteen minutes for fresh air.” (p. 52) But, as the
pressure was stepped up, the victim was moved to the most dreaded of
the prisons, Sukhanovka:

 




20 CHRISTINE G. STEVENS

l was never taken outside. For that whole period in Sukhanovka, I never saw the sky,
although by the end of March, the smell of pines coming in through the window when it
was open for those few precious minutes each morning gave me visions of an outside
world and gave me a little hope somehow.

These lines, speaking of the sense of smell, which is such a feeble
sense in man as compared with the dog, bring home the cruelty of the
deprivation of outdoor exercise for that species in particular.

There certainly is no broad-scale intention on the part of the Ameri-
can scientiﬁc community to “break the spirit” of stray dogs, the
so-called random-source dogs, it purchases from pounds and dog
dealers, by shutting them all up in cages and never letting them out
again. But the fact is that these creatures, whose olfactory capabilities
are inﬁnitely superior to ours and whose delight in running is based on
a long evolutionary history, are being stubbornly subjected for no
purpose at all to treatment reserved for suspected spies in the cruelest
of the Soviet prisons in 1948 under Stalin! Clearly, this makes no sense,
and the obstinacy with which certain elements of the scientiﬁc commu-
nity has stuck to its determination to continue this unjustiﬁed depriva-
tion makes suspect any claim of serious responsibility for laboratory
animals by the scientiﬁc community as a whole.

Since no one claims that science will be advanced by routinely
keeping dogs uncomfortable rather than comfortable, why should the
public believe claims of many institutions that they never cause pain to
experimental animals even when conducting research? A 1973 analysis
of reports to the US. Department of Agriculture, under-the Animal
Welfare Act of 1970, shows that the majority of institutions reporting
indicated no pain was caused that was not relieved by anesthetic,
analgesic, and tranquilizing drugs. The only large-scale exceptions
given in these reports were based on government drug-testing require-
ments cited by manufacturers of pharmaceuticals who reported, for
example, on use of “the writhing test”* to measure the potency of
analgesics. (Writhing, of course, means writhing in agony—a standard
test that should not be tolerated in any civilized country.)

Anyone who has visited laboratory animal rooms and talked with
those in charge knows that much pain and fear goes unrelieved,
whether by drugs, kindness, or intelligent planning, and that inﬂiction

* Wamer-Lambert Research Institute. Morris Plains. N .J.. reported in l973: “Approxi-
mately 100 experiments using 5000 mice are conducted yearly in evaluating the analgesic
properties of potential agents. Mice are given phenquuinone. i.p.. and after a few
minutes begin to writhe and stretch their abdomen from injection of this irritant. Other
techniques required to induce pain in rodents (i.e.. hot plate. tail ﬂick) are used as
secondary procedures in analgesic development" (7).

 




Humane Perspectives 21

of unrelieved suffering is not by any means conﬁned to the drug
industry.

The temper of the times is as intolerant of “cover-ups” as it is of
authoritarianism, and, viewing past, present, and future in perspective,
I recommend strongly that all scientiﬁc institutions using animals thor-
oughly review and accurately report on the means they are now using
to prevent poorly planned research, testing or education that inﬂicts
suffering, either physical or mental, on animals from being carried out.
If they ﬁnd the means faulty or if they ﬁnd that they have violated
Public Law 91-579 and submitted erroneous reports to the Congress
through the US. Department of Agriculture, immediate action should
be taken to end both the laxity and the veiling of unpleasant facts from
the public.

Take, as an example, the University of Wisconsin. The 1974 report
for the Primate Center’s operation in 1973 shows “approximate
number used: 600 primates” with none under the “pain and stress”
category (8). The 1973 report for operation in 1972 shows a total of
1,302 primates used by all departments within the University of Wis-
consin with none under the “pain and “stress” category (9). In an
interview in Psychology Today, April 1973 (10), Dr. Harry Harlow,
asked how he creates a depressed state in monkeys, replied, “We put
them in a small closed chamber shaped like an inverted triangle—a
narrow base and a wider top. You might say it is a modiﬁed form of
sadism . . . the animals are denied motion play. They just cannot move
about.” Dr. Harlow goes on to say that the triangle cage “really isn’t a
sadistic device,” but Carol Travis, his interlocutor, asks, “Isn’t induc-
ing mental stress sadistic?” and is given Dr. Harlow’s rationale—a
rationale that is quite legal. But there can be little doubt that a
procedure described in this manner by its author ought to appear in the
annual report of the University of Wisconsin. The Congress, to whom
the ﬁnal report is submitted, cannot be expected to leaf through
journals to ﬁnd out whether or not it is accurate.

Another experiment, this one reported to the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service by the Albert Einstein Medical Center, in
Philadelphia, describes another procedure that must have caused great
mental suffering: “To condition cats by swimming for subsequent
experiments on the heart. . . . The cat will start swimming in a tank
ﬁlled with lukewarm water and under supervision at short periods (ﬁve
minutes at a time) up to 45 minutes, three times daily. Since these
studies require utmost physical performance by the cat, general
anesthetics or sedatives are not used. At the end of four months, the
cat will be sacriﬁced and the heart will be weighed (including right and

 




22 CHRISTINE G. STEVENS

left ventricles separately). The studies will be performed on isolated
papillary muscles of the right ventricle in the myograph setup” (11).

Another experiment in which physical pain plays a minor part while
mental suffering plays the major part is described as follows by the ITT
Research Institute of Chicago: “Seven hours a day, seven days a week,
twenty monkeys individually caged, are exposed to risk of electrical
shock. Lever pressing response every 15 seconds avoids shock com-
pletely. Failure to respond causes delivery at a rate of 100 per minute,
repetitive, single, 60 cycle, 2 milliamperes, 50 millisecond duration
shocks to the feet through a grid ﬂoor of 5%; inch diameter tubing.” A
mechanism is described to prevent continuance if a monkey is “in—
capacitated and fails to respond within a few minutes.” The statement
indicates, “It is estimated an average monkey receives 50 shocks per
day” (12).

An analysis of types of painful experiments from the 1973 reports of
registered research facilities to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service shows many of them being conducted in psychology depart-
ments.

Thus we have an indication that a large proportion of animal suffer-
ing in laboratories is not, as is commonly assumed, aimed at alleviation
of human suffering by ﬁnding cures or means of preventing diseases.
Strong representations have been made on this subject by the World
Federation for the Protection of Animals. Efforts to focus on feasible
substitutes for test or experimental animals are being made by the Fund
for Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments (FRAME), whose
ATLA Abstracts (13) is subscribed to by universities and research
institutions throughout the world and should be subscribed to as a
matter of course by all medical libraries. Published twice a year, it
consists of abstracts from the international scientific literature in 16
ﬁelds in which tissue or organ cultures, computers, mathematical
models, or other methods are used instead of animals. The purpose is
to encourage investigators to consider these methods, use them wher-
ever possible, and develop further non-animal-using approaches to
research and testing. FRAME takes no part in legislative action.

Indeed, there has been no legislative action relating to laboratory
animals for a long time in the United Kingdom, despite the fact that an
extremely competent and comprehensive governmental “Report of the
Departmental Committee on Experiments on Animals,” commonly
called “The Littlewood Report” after its chairman, Sir Sydney
Littlewood, recommended such action in 1965. In the “Summary of
Conclusions and Recommendations,” 15 general ﬁndings are listed,
the ﬁrst two of which are basic to any broad view of humane perspec-

 




Humane Perspeetives 23

tives: “l) Animal experiment is a complex and highly specialised
subject. It is also a moral and social problem of the first magnitude and
one that does not exclusively concern the expert. 2) There is general
recognition that anyone who makes use of an animal in research incurs
a moral responsibility to juStify his action and a duty to limit pain and
give proper care.” Number l() is also worthy of note: “There is no
scientific evidence that any single vertebrate species is more sensitive
to pain than another” (14).

Some years have passed since the National Society for Medical
Research flooded the news media with assertions that laboratory
animals were “more pampered than pets." Figure 1 shows one of the
University of Minnesota’s dog rooms not unlike those of a good many
other medical schools during the pampered-as-pets propaganda period. .
so there will be no mistake about the quality of the doublethink.

Even today. with the Animal Welfare Act in effect, it would be legal
to put small dogs into cages like those at the University of Minnesota
and leave them there for years. There is a long way to go even in the
relatively noncontroversial matter of care and housing of laboratory
animals. We are only now seriously entering the phase of insistence on
use of the excellent array of drugs that effectively alleviate or prevent
pain and fear. We are only beginning to be serious about using
substitutes for laboratory animals. about designing experiments more
humanely to avoid physical and mental suffering. and about designing
experiments to reduce rather than expand the numbers of animals for
any given intervention. especially if it is likely to cause suffering.

If this symposium advances the use of substitutes it will be a first
sign that organized science is prepared to do actual work to help
laboratory animals. If. on the other hand. as has been charged by
United Action for Animals. the symposium is intended to retard such
progress (15); if it falls into the category of some of the National
Academy of Sciences committee work described in The Brain Bank of
America (16). in which Philip Boffey documents a variety of instances
of how government agencies and commercial interests use the
Academy to head off potential criticism. then. the confrontation. the
division that the Animal Welfare Institute has always sought to avoid.
will be sharpened and given a new life. That is the perspective of the
immediate future: Will investigators. veterinarians. and administrators
stop ﬁghting simple decency in the care. maintenance. and protection
from suffering of laboratory animals? Will the pharmaceutical industry.
the medical schools. and the government agencies that use animals be
willing to take the animals’ welfare seriously? Or will there be a new
round of angry attacks on one side and stonewalling on the other?

 




24 (HUUSTHHEG.STEVENS

Glancing over a breakdown of 713 form letters (Animal Welfare Insti-
tute unpublished data), some of them mere Xerox copies without any
address at all, sent in to the Department of Agriculture opposing any
release of laboratory dogs from cages, one cannot rule out a continua—
tion of the attitude that has made the American Medical Association’s
reputation what it is.

If confrontation it is to be, then the attitude toward animals born of
the environmental movement and the new knowledge of animal behav-
ior and the capacities of animals in nature revealed through the past 10
years’ observations of mammals will be joined on the side of what the
American Medical Association likes calling “humaniacs.” I hope that
battle royal will never have to take place.

REFERENCES

l. Hume, C. W. I962. Man and beast. Universities Federation for Animal Welfare.
London. p. “5.

2. Gala. E. E.. A. Kandil. and M. Abdel Latif. 1974. Correction of gastrogenic
ulceration by ascorbic acid. J. Drug Res. 6(3): l l-l7.

. Bonﬁls, S. I960. Action of an immunodibenzyl derivative on experimental con—
straint “ulcer” and gastric secretion in the white rat. C. R. Soc. Biol. 154:924.

. Stone. Christopher. 1973. Should trees have standing? William Kaufmann. Los
Altos, Calif. 102 pp.

. Hume. C. W. 1962. Man and beast. Universities Federation for Animal Welfare.
London. p. 59. -

. Dolgun, Alexander. 1975. Alexander Dolgun’s story: An “American in the gulag.
Alfred A. Knopf, New York. 370 pp.

. Schwartz. Edward. Henry H. Freedman. Richard C. Brogle. and Eliot Stein—
berg. 1973. Annual report of research facility. Warner-Lambert Research Institute.
Morris Plains. NJ. 4 pp.

. Ribelin. William E. and David K. Smith. 1974. Annual report of research facility.
University of Wisconsin. 23 pp.

. Ribelin. William E. 1973. Annual report of research facility. University of
Wisconsin. 3 pp.

. Travis. Carol. 1973. Harry. you are going to go down in history as the father
of the cloth mother. Psychology Today 6(1 l):65—77.

. Henry. Robert. Joseph Tabachnick. Allen Root. and Herman Goldner. 1973.
Annual report of research facility. Albert Einstein Medical Center. Philadelphia. 2 pp.

. Port, Arthur. Alan M. Shipman. James W. Parker. and R. M. Blodgett. 1973.
Annual report of research facility. lTT Research Institute of Chicago. Chicago.
2 pp.

. ATLA Abstracts. 1975. Alternatives to laboratory animals. vol. 3. no. 1. Fund for
the Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments. London.

. Littlewood. Sydney. I965. Report of the Departmental Committee on Experiments
on Animals. Her Majesty’s Stationery Ofﬁce. London. pp. 189—190.

. The politics of vivisection: ls replacement being scuttled? United Action for
Animals. New York. Undated. Pamphlet received August 20. I975.

. Boffey. Philip. 1975. The brain bank of America. McGraw-Hill. New York. 312 pp.

 




i
I ' ‘ . i'i‘ciu‘, v «“1- .‘ r‘ '
h . t.~\|_,‘_,-:IMQ..2 . I. .Q

~ ....;:.i‘..a~.0‘rm

‘ u- . .‘
. . ._ .. 7 r
-.-, ._. . ‘
. .~ I. .‘ - , l~ _ . , , 1..
. . . \ ~. .4.“ \
‘—‘-'_‘- y-
CJAKJ‘.» Sun-Yuma: Q . ..-...r

' mm may“

UNDER memes

Copyright © l97| Chicago Sun-Times. reproduced by courtesy of
Wil-Jo Associates. Inc. and Bill Mauldin.

MORATORIUM ON WHALING
From The Congressional Record
HON. JOHN D. DINGELL
of Michigan
In The. House of Representatives
Tuesday, December 14, 1971

Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, Secretary of Interior

Rogers C. B. Morton, in a statement released by his
office on December 12, 1971, called for a moratorium
on whaling.

So that my colleagues will have an opportunity to
be aware'of the Secretary’s views on this matter, I
insert the text of the statement at this point in the
Congressional Record:

Secretary Morton Calls for Moratorium
on W haling
“We must accelerate the worldwide fight to pre—
serve the great whales,” Secretary of the Interior
Rogers C. B. Morton said today while commenting on
the fact that after 200 years the United States has
now stopped all commercial exploitation of whales.

The Department of the Interior’s ban on the im-
portation of vhale products, including oil, meat, teeth
and ambergris, went into final effect last week. Even
the import of foreign cars containing whale oil additive
in their transmissions will be affected. In line with In—
terior’s stand, the Department of Commerce will issue
no licenses after December 31 to US. commercial fish-
ermen to take whales on the Endangered Species list.

“The whales are an international resource belonging
to the many and must not be exterminated for the
few,” he said. “This Administration, acting on prin-
ciple and despite the unfortunate economic hardship it
has brought to some firms, has set an example that
hopefully other nations will follow.”

“We have done everything we can unilaterally. We
must now concentrate our efforts on getting the Inter-
national Whaling Commission to enforce their own
regulations and to set realistic catch quotas by indi-
vidual species and area in order to allow a maximum
rebuilding of all 'Whale populations.”

At its annual meeting last June, the Commission had
agreed unanimously that all member nations should
implement the international observer scheme for the
1971-72 whaling season. “I was keenly disappointed
that the Sogiet and Japanese whaling fleets sailed for

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

P.O. Box 3650, Washington, D. C. 20007

the Antarctic in October with no international observers
on board,” Morton said. “It is clear that time is run-
ning out for the whales.”

“If the Commission cannot move quickly and surely
to meet its international obligations, a moratorium on
all whaling is the only solution. Both houses of Con-
gress have passed a resolution calling for a 10-year
moratorium and we support it,” Morton said.

“As long as man views these magnificent creatures
as solely an economic product, we are in grave danger
of destroying the complex web of life of which man is
an inextricable part.”

“In this environmental decade, it would be barbarous
to stand idly by while the last of earth’s largest and—-
next to man—most intelligent creatures are reduced to
pet food, face creams and lubricating oils,” said Morton.
“All whale products have synthetic substitutes and are
no longer essential to man’s well-being. Yet the rate
of killing in recent years has already driven some spe—
cies to the brink of extinction and now threatens those
few remaining species whose populations are still large
enough to be commercially exploitable.”

It was in an effort to halt this slaughter that Interior
last December placed all eight species of great whales
on its list of endangered foreign wildlife. This move
cut off a US. market which had consumed more than
20 percent of the world’s whale products.

However, a “hardship clause” in the Endangered
Species Conservation Act of 1969 allowed 12 months
in which firms that import and use such products could
fulfill existing contracts. All special _ 'ermits issued for
this purpose 'during the past year y;Interior’s Fish
and Wildlife Service expired on midnight of December
1,1971. The last import permits for whale oil was is-

sued in August and the last for meat products in De-
cember 1970.

In September this year the Fish and Wildlife Service
denied a request by a major importer for an additional
3,000 long tons of sperm whale oil. Officials said they
felt that granting such a request, well above the firm’s
previous importation levels, could only result in more
endangered whales being killed.

“Another valid reason to stop whaling,” Morton said,
“is the recent discovery by the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration of excess mercury in whale meat.” More
than a million pounds of contaminated meat destined

for pet food have been seized.

Morton concluded, “Now that the US. no longer
has any commercial interest in whales, either as har-
vester or as consumer, we are in a position to provide
leadership in the worldwide drive to preserve the whale
as a vital part of the marine ecosystem.”

 

Jan.-Feb.-March, 1971

AWI URGES MORATORIUM ON
KILLING OF WHALES

A Moratorium on the killing of whales has been pro-
posed by the Animal Welfare Institute, the Interna-
tional Society for the Protection of Animals, and the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation. A rest period
of at least ten years is needed to save the great
whales. Whaling ships are catching more small whales
now because of the scarcity of the large ones; how-
ever, when large ones can be had, they, too, are killed,
even in some instances members of species which are
theoretically protected by agreement of the Interna-
tional \Nhaling Commission.

This June the International Whaling Commission
is scheduled to meet in Washington, DC. The Com-
mission was formed in 1937 and sets quotas on the
killing of whales each year; however, the scientific
committee’s recommendations are regularly exceeded
when the members of the Commission vote behind
closed doors. The result is the steady decline of the
whales, with disastrous losses in the population of
many specie:

 




Two major whale-protective actions have been taken
by the United States government in recent months:
first, the inclusion of the sperm and baleen whales on
the Endangered Species List by then Secretary of
the Interior, \Nalter Hickel; second. an order by Sec—
retary of Commerce, Maurice Stans which effectively
ends whaling by United States concerns. The Stans
order carried out the intent of the Hickel listing. In
issuing the order Secretary Stans said, “In the past,
thoughtlessness and irresponsibility have removed no
fewer than 120 different species of wild life from our
planet.” The United States is now in the strongest
possible position to urge the needed moratorium on

the killing of whales, since it has done its utmost with—
in the past year to provide the protection which is
essential if all species of whales are to survive.

Studies of these highly intelligent and remarkably
gentle animals should be instituted during the mora—
torium. There are vast differences between the dif-
ferent species. For example, while the Humpback
Whale produces music which sounds like that of a
gifted modern composer, there are other whales whose
communication is carried on in a series of clicks, so
far not decoded by human observers. Funds are need-
ed to record the sounds of the Bowhead Whale. The
audience created by the recording of the Humpback
Whales’ extraordinary songs—songs sung without vocal
cords—awaits the next scientifically recorded mes—
sage from the deep.

Species listed in the Survival Service Commission
Red Data Book of the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature include: Fin Whale, Balae—
noptera physalus (Linnaeus, 1758); Southern Right
Whale, Eubalaena australia (Desmoulins, 1822);
Humpback Whale, Megaptera novaeangliae (Boro-
wski, 1781); North Pacific Right Whale, Eubalaena
sieboldii (Gray, 1864); Pigmy Blue Whale, Balae—
noptera musculus brevicauda (Zemsky & Boronin,
1964); Greenland Right Whale, Balaena mysticetus
(Linnaeus, 1758); Blue Whale, Balaenoptera muscu-
lus musculus (Linnaeus, 1758). Secretary Hickel ex-
plained clearly why he placed on the Endangered Spe-
cies List, whales which do not appear in the Red Data
Book. In an article in Sports Illustrated, December
14, 1970, he said, “. . . in View of the existing evi-
dence on the status of whales, I made this decision
for the following reasons. First, it appeared that the
whaling nations still viewed whale. resources on a
short-term basis. Many scientists have told me that
if present trends continue, all large whales Will be
driven to the point of possible extinction within a few
years . . . during the peak year of 1930—31 Whalers
took almost 30,000 blue whales—the mightiest cre-
ature ever to live on the face of the earth. Today some
estimates of the number surviving are as low as 600,
the highest 3,000. They have been protected since
1965, but the question is: Are there enough animals
left for males to find females across the great oceans?
The numbers are so low that the death rate from
natural'causes and from occasional ‘accidental’ har-
pooning may be much greater than the birth rate. It
would be a crime beyond belief if in the same decade
that we walked on the moon we also destroyed the
largest animal that ever was. The humpback whale,
a playful monster renowned for its unearthly songs
and foam-spattering leaps, has also been reduced to
the point of possible extinction. The bowhead and
two right whale species, almost exterminated by early

.5 ﬂ
hunters, have never really recovered. Only the Cali—
fornia gray whale, after decades of complete protec-
tion, has made a partial recovery.

“Now the 80-foot finback is being pursued down
the same‘path. From a peak Antarctic harvest of over
30,000 in the early 60’s these waters now yield only
some 2,500 whales a year. Just a few years ago an
annual harvest of 10,000 fins could have been carried
out indefinitely, but the ‘pattern of predation,’ as Scott
McVay, Chairman of the Environmental Defense ‘
Fund, calls it, *c’Ontinues. With the fins on the way
out, the Whalers are now concentrating on the smaller
se1 and sperm whales. As they go down the line,
they must kill more whales, and even porpoises, to
make the business barely pay. In 1930-31 some 43,000
whales yielded 3.5 million barrels of oil. In 1966-67,
52,000 whales yielded a mere 1.5 million barrels.

f‘But consider that the International Whaling Com-
mision’s present kill quotas for baleen whales in the
Antarctic are 20% higher than those recommended
by its own scientific committee and that the male
sperm-whale catch in the North Pacific is a shocking
21/2 times the sustainable yield estimated by Japanese
sc1entists. The IWC agreed to reduce its sperm whale
quota by a meager 10%, but the whaling nations still
refuse to allow international observers to supervise
the regulations on quotas, size and species. On this
basis cetologists contend that these species will be
commercially extinct within 10 years.

“The second reason I took this action was that all
whale products, with the exception of the meat, can
be produced by other means. After we killed off the
buffalo we found replacements for its meat and hide.
Must we kill off the great whales before we use the
replacements for its products? Soap, margarine, beauty
cream, machine oil and pet food are hardly a justi-
ﬁable reason to destroy the world’s mightiest creature.
Substitutes can be used for all of these products—
even the sperm oil so prized in industry. . . .

“Melville would be surprised to learn whaling
reached its height in the last decade. The lookouts
have been replaced with radar and helicopters, the
longboats with 20-knot Whale catchers. A factory ship
can dispose of an 80-ton carcass in 30 minutes. No

animal can endure such a massive technological on-
slaught.”

Jam-F eb.-March, 1972

WHALE OIL SUBSTITUTE

Senator Hugh Scott (R., Penna.) author of the
Resolution requesting The Secretary of State to call
for a ten-year international moratorium on the killing
of all species of whales and dolphins, spoke on the
floor of the Senate, March eighth on the invention of a
whale oil substitute by a young chemist, Alex D. Rec—-
chuite at Sun Oil Company’s Research Center.

“I cite this incident,” Senator Scott said, “as an ex-
ample of what industry can accomplish when presented
with challenges of all kinds, be they environmental,
consumeristic, or other. This is how one company met
its responsibility to the environment and to its cus- ‘
tomers.”

(Continued on page 3)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NO. OF WHALES KILLED

 

l 1930 1940
-...._a .

WORLD CATCH

 

OF BALAENOPTERA WHALES

 




In an article from The Sun Oil magazine entitled,
“Giving the Whale a Fighting Chance,” Bud Davis
describes what happened. “At the time the ban on
whale imports was announced, sulfurized natural sperm
oil was the only known substance which could give
these oils the required resistance to high temperatures
and pressures. Without it, a sizeable amount of ma-
chinery in the US. might literally grind to a halt-

“In anticipation of the ban. many researchers began
looking for a sulfurized sperm oil substitute. One such
scientist was Alex D. "Recchuite, a young chemist at

Sun Oil Company’s research center in Marcus Hook,
Pennsylvania.

“Late in September 1970, Mr. Recchuite discovered
how to make a synthetic sulfurized sperm oil. ‘Sun
sells more than 50 products containing sulfurized sperm
oil —— mainly industrial lubricants —— and we knew an
embargo could be instituted at any time,’ he explained.
‘So our gear oil lubricants group started looking for
a substitute early in 1970.’

“ ‘I got involved in the project in a roundabout way.
The gear oil group was testing everything on the mar-
ket —— unsulfurized'. as well as sulfurized sperm oil
substitutes. I was in the research center’s metal work-
ing group at the time, but the men in gear oils asked
us to help out because we had more experience with
sulfurization.’

“At first, all Mr. Recchuite did was sulfurize the
straight sperm oil substitutes that were brought to him.
But each time, he became more involved in the pro-
ject. ‘A few of the substitutes seemed to have the right
properties,’ he noted, ‘but they were very costly. Others
were easily sulfurized, but would not dissolve in the

base oil. Still others were very difficult to sulfurize at
all.’

“Then one day Mr. Recchuite came up with what
he calls a ‘harebrained idea’for a synthetic product
that would be inexpensive, easily sulfurized, and sol-
~ uble in a variety of base oils. With the help of his c0.-
Worker, Edward Jolly, he made some of the product
and took it to the gear oils laboratory for testing. ‘To
our surprise it worked just fine.’ He recalled as though
he was still surprised. ‘So we applied for a patent.’

“The process was licensed to Mayco Oil and Chemi-
cal Company of Bristol, Pennsylvania, a firm with ex-
tensive experience in sulfurization and the ability to
get the discovery into commercial production quickly.

“It is now being marketed by Sun and many other
firms ,under the trade name Maysperm.”

April-May-June. 1972

STOCKHOLM CONFERENCE VOTES 53-0
FOR 10-YEAR MORATORIUM
ON WHALING

A special report to The Washington Post with a
date-line Stockholm, June 9, begins: “The US. dele-
gation to the llZ—nation environment conference here
won a victory today for their proposed 10-year world-
wide moratorium on commercial whaling.

“The American proposal——considered by many skep-
tics as a test of whether anything could really be ac-
complished at this international meeting was approved

by a vote of 53 to 0, with only Japan, Brazil and South
Africa abstaining. '

An article by Walter Sullivan in The New York
Times the day before reported on a rally held June 8:
“The crusade for a resolution drew an oddly assorted.
group of environmental protectors out into the Swedish
countryside last night to hear the lugubrious cry of
whales across the pine-studded landscape.

“The group included United States Government rep-
resentatives, and their host was the Hog Farm Com-
mune from New Mexico. '

“The common objective is approval of ”a proposal,
placed before the United Nations Conference on the
Human Environment on American initiative to ap-
peal for a 10-year moratorium on commercial whaling.

“If the resolution is passed, the International‘Whal-
ing Commission, which meets in London late this
month, will find it hard to ignore.

“The commission is composed of 14 nations that have
been active in whaling. Because of the decline in whale
populations, only Japan and the Soviet Union now con?
duct large-scale hunting.

“The whale cries were generated, both from tape
recordings and by human imitation, at a demonstratiOn
last night that brought conference ‘ officials and dele-
gates to the; Hog Farm Commune’s encampment on‘
the city’s outskirts. The Hog Farm is a‘traveling group
of American youths who live in buses.

“Maurice F. Strong, the dapper Canadian who is
secretary general of the United Nations conference,
mounted the rough-hewn platform and made his way
through garishly clad youths to a microphone that
moaned in the brisk wind. -

“The plight of the whale, faced with extinction, an-
ticipates that of man himself, Mr. Strong said. .The
long-range purpose of the conference, he added, is to
enable man to avoid such a fate, and he urged the
youths to continue goading the conscience of the world’s
governments. .

“Mr. Strong’s remarks reached across the generation
gap and his audience rich in beards, long hair and blue- .
jeans, gave him an ovation. After the reading of a poem,
part of which was ostensibly written by a whale: 31th

A bus decorated tolook like a whale led a group of about 2,000 [5&3th ina
demonstration supporting the 10-year whaling moratorium.

 




prolonged moans and groans, Walter J. Hickel, former
United States Secretary of the Interior, climbed onto
the floodlit platform.

“He was introduced by Stuart Brand, wearing a
plumed top hat. Mr. Brand was author of “The Last
Whole Earth Catalogue,” which won a National Book
Award this year. Mr. Hickel said it Would be ‘a crime
beyond belief if in the same ‘decade that man walked
on the moon he also destroyed the largest creature on
earth.’

“Today one of the HOg Farm buses, draped in black

‘ plastic of the refuse-bag variety to resemble a whale,
led a parade through Stockholm, followed by youths
carrying flowers and either making whale noises or
crying ‘Val! Val!’ the Swedish word for whale and
the ancient cry'of Norwegian Whalers.

“While the Soviet Union has boycotted the confer—
ence in protest at East Germany’s exclusion as a vot-
ing participant, Japan is here and fighting the ban.
A Japanese amendment to the recommendation would
limit the prohibition to ‘endangered whale stocks.’

“This, in the American view, would open a loophole
large enough to make the resolution valueless.”

Fortunately, the Japanese failed to influence the Con-
ference. According to The Washington Post the cause
of the whales “has won enormous and extremely emo-
tional international support, and this expression of so
firm an opinion by so nearly global a body has come
only a few days before the International Whaling Com-
mission is to meet in London.”

 

July, August, September, 1972

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL
WHALING COMMISSION MEETING
by Tom Garrett

Wildlife Conservation Director of
Friends of the Earth

On June 26, only two weeks after the passage of the
U.S. resolution at Stockholm calling for a ten year
moratorium on all forms of commercial whaling, the
International Whaling Commission convened its 24th
annual meeting in London. I attended the conference
as an “advisor” to the U.S. delegation, and was able
to observe, and in an extremely minor way participate
in, the conference.

The delegates, for the most part the same men who
have attended IWC meetings for years and compiled
the shameful, tragic record of the IWC, shrugged off
the results of Stockholm and conducted business as
usual. Two long-delayed reforms, the replacement of
the Blue Whale Units by species quotas, and an “in-
ternational observer” scheme were put into effect. Un-
der the constant prodding of U.S. Chairman Russell
Train, some small reductions in some quotas were
agreed upon. But of the fourteen nations attending,
only the U.S., Mexico, Argentina and the United King-
dom supported a moratorium on whaling. Australia
and Norway, whose governments voted for the whaling
resolution at Stockholm, opposed .it in London.

The first act of the Commission in its opening plen-
ary session, after the delegates had run the gauntlet of
Friends of the Earth (FOE) pickets, led by Angela
King of FOE Ltd’s London office, was to eject the
press. A U.S. resolution to re-admit newsmen failed
to receive a second. Dr. J. M. McHugh of the U.S. the
chairman of the IWC, then dutifully warned delegates
and observers not to divulge the proceedings to the
press or public. -

The proceedings, within technical committee ses- .

sions and later plenary sessions, then fell into a pat-
tern. The Japanese delegation, consisting of the owners
of the major Japanese whaling companies and led by
former IWC chairman and President of the Japan
Whalers Association, I. Fujita, vehemently opposed
any attempt to reduce quotas. He was supported closely
by the Soviet Union, by the delegate from Panama who
showed startling enthusiasm for the Japanese cause,
and by South Africa, Australia, Norway and generally
Iceland. The Canadian delegate, Dr. Sprules, who had
been expected to support the U.S. position on the basis

of his government’s expressed policy, sat with an
owner of a Canadian shore whaling statlon on his
right, wavering nervously, and often, in effect, sup-
porting the Japanese. Only 1n the case of Finback
whales, was Chairman Train able to lever down the
low Japanese-Russian offer, from a kill of 700 in the
North Pacific to 650, from a kill of 2000 1n the Antarc-
tic to 1950. Both populations of whales are now tragic-

ally close to complete disappearance. Last” year the
Russians and Japanese were not able to find and kill
enough fin whales in the North Pacific to fill a quota
of 1000, and wound up with a “take” of 813. In the
Antarctic, the “sustainable yield” is estimated at around
2000. For a decade, between 1952 and 1962, as the
industry (under the aegis of the IWC) turned on the
F inback in the Antarctic following the destruction of
the Blue Whale, over 20,000 Finbacks were killed an-
nually. In 1960-61, over 27,000 were killed.

The quota of Sei, Sperm and Bryde whales remains

at the “low offer” of the Japanese and Russians, set
at maximum sustainable yield estimates made on the
basis of Japanese and Russian sightings and catch
data. Quotas were imposed on Sperm whale kills south
of 40°N. for the first time. A quota on Minke whales,
which are now beginning to be massively exploited
following the destruction of the large whales, was set
in the Antarctic at 5000. The Canadian Atlantic shore
stations, which it is now admitted, “mistakenly” deci-
mated the North Atlantic Finback population remains
without IWC quota 0r supervision.

The American delegation left the conference frus-
trated and disappointed at the intransigence of the’
Japanese and the Russians, and at the weakness and
vacillation of delegations which, it had been hoped,
might take a stand for the whales. But there was some
encouragement over the limited reforms secured, and
over the shattering of pernicious traditions of the Com-
mission. Veteran delegates, who were used to, operat-
ing the Commission as a closed, private club were dis-
mayed when Chairman Train held a news conference
mid—way through the Commission proceedings, and di-
vulged the votes of the commissioners on the U.S. pro-
posal for a moratorium. As a result several commis-
sioners, notably those of Norway and Canada were
strongly censured by their home governments. Public
interest representatives on the U.S. delegation were
also pleased at the prospect of a strong governmental
friend of whales succeeding Dr. J. M. McHugh, who
resigned at the close of the meeting, as U.S. commis-
sioner, and at the militantly protectionist attitude dem-
onstrated by Mexico, Argentina, and to some extent
the U.K. There was optimism that the U.S. by care-
fully preparing the groundwork, particularly by in-
ducing some of the non-whaling countries who voted
for the moratorium at Stockholm to join the Com-
mission and thus provide the votes to override Japanese
and Soviet intractability, and through fielding a less
mediocre panel of scientists, who are less willing to
extrapolate from Japanese and Russian data and who
have no record of collaboration with previous policies
of the IWC. There is considerable optimism that the
strong tide of worldwide public opinion may, by next
year, have affected the policies of more member gov-
ernments.

In the meantime the appalling massacre continues.
Quotas have been established for the killing of over
35,000 whales next year. There are fewer whales be-
ing killed primarily because there are fewer whales to
be killed. The men controlling the Japanese and Rus—
sian fleets do not seem to have retreated at all from
their determination to extract the maximum possible
profit from the now aging factory ships, even if it
means the extirpation, or “commercial extinction” of
the great whales. There will never be any shortage of
arithmetical juggler's to talk of “surplus” and “sustain-

. able yield,” and thus obscure the tragedy in a sickly

patina of “scientific” justification.

What happens now may be to a great extent de-
pendent on the actions of conservationists. Last sum-
mer FOE joined with the Society for Animal Pro-
tective Legislation to force the ten year whaling mora-
torium resolution through Congress, in the face of hos-
tile government witnesses. scornful whaling scientists
who said the resolution Would make the U.S. “look
silly,” and a stoney silence on the part of most estab-
lished conservation organIZations. Now the seeking of
a moratorium is publicU.S. policy, and the policy of
numerous other governments, who endorsed the reso-
lution at Stockholm. The United Kingdbm, under the
prodding of FOE Ltd., is expected‘to announce a ban
on the importation of whale products.

We will sit down, in the near future with other
strong conservation groups to work out an effective
common strategy to keep up the pressure on whaling
this coming year. An economic boycott has‘been sug-
gested, and we certainly do not rule out this" tactic.

In an eloquent and scathing denunciation of the IWC,
Mexico’s commissioner told the London meeting that
Mexico does not accept the view that “in order to have
a meaningful voice” in determining the future of
whales, we must kill “what are probably the most
amazing of nature’s creatures, and kill them for profit.”

Neither does FOE !

 




C 6

January, February, March, 1973

Chairman Train with his daughter Alexandra after re-
ceiving the medal.

ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL
PRESENTED TO RUSSELL TRAIN

Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality,
Russell Train? was the Schweitzer Medallist at a
ceremony held in the Smithsonian Institution’s Hall of
Life in the Sea November 21, 1972. Secretary of the
Smithsonian, Dillon Ripley, made the presentation.

Chairman -' Train played a leading role in obtaining
the 53-0 vote at the Stockholm Conference in favor of
a ten-year international moratorium on commercial
killing of whales. At the International Whaling Com-
mission meeting which followed soon after in London,
he proposed that the press be admitted to the hitherto
secret sessions, but no country seconded his motion,
so, after the voting, Mr. Train called a press confer-
ence at the American Embassy and reported on how
,the representatives of the different countries voted on
the US. proposal for a moratorium.

Before turning his efforts to whales Russell Train
brought help to the land animals in Africa through the
African Wildlife Leadership Foundation. Later, as
Chairman of CEQ, he and his associates played a major
part in bringing about that most humane Executive
Order, the barring of poison for predator control on
the public lands. His achievements in the ﬁght against
ocean dumping and in the development of the World
Heritage Trust convention, will make it possible for
countless creatures to have a place where they can
SHI’VIVC.

*Now Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

 

WHALE TEETH SMUGGLER FINED
Reprinted from “The Province” Vancouver, Canada
January 12, 197 3
Special to The Province

SEATTLE -—- Donald Gordon Cochrane, 27, of Van-
couver was ﬁned $500 and ordered out of the United
States Friday after he pleaded guilty in US. District
Court to illegally transporting 168 pounds of whale
teeth into the US.

Cochrane was arrested Dec. 21 after US. customs
agents found two bags of the teeth, one under the seat
and one under the hood of Cochrane’s car, said Douglas
Graham, assistant US. attorney.

The teeth were from a sperm whale, which the US.
has declared an endangered species. This makes killing
the whales and transportation of any parts of such
whales illegal.

Graham said the teeth had not been declared to
customs by Cochrane. - .

District Court Judge William J. Beeks at ﬁrst sen-
tenced Cochrane to be deported, but later modiﬁed it
to an order to leave the country, said Graham.

Maximum penalty under the law which Cochrane was
charged under is one year in prison and a $10,000
ﬁne. It is a misdemeanor rather than the more serious
classiﬁcation of felony. Aliens convicted of felonies are
. barred from future entry into the U.S., said Graham.

Cochrane, unable to raise bail set ﬁrst at $5,000 and
then reduced to $1,500, had been held in custody in
Seattle since shortly after the incident.

Graham said court was told Cochrane had been ap-
proached by a person in Vancouver to take the teeth
to Blaine and at ﬁrst had refused. He later agreed to
make the trip to Blaine where he was to have met a
man, turn over the teeth and receive $200, Graham
said.

April, May, June, 1973

 

NEWS IN BRIEF
ON MARINE MAMMALS
A partial ban on imports of whale products to the
United Kingdom went into effect March 15th when The
Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food announced that,
with the exception of sperm oil, spermaceti wax, ambergris
and products incorporated abroad into manufactured goods,
no whale parts or derivatives would be permitted entry.
Friends of the Earth, .Ltd. is working for a total ban.
It * 3|:

Canada’s Minister of the Environment, Jack Davis, an-
nounced the closing of Canadian whaling stations beginning
December 21, 1972. On March 16, he announced that no
permits would be issued for spOrt hunting of beluga whales.

* t *

Shortly before the hearing scheduled in Washington on
the request by Bergner International Corporation for an
economic hardship exemption under the Marine Mammal
Protection Act to import approximately 10,000 sealskins
Bergner voluntarily withdrew its application. Blueback seals
the young of the rare hood seal which is normally defended
by both parents, were among those named in the application.

* it *
Australia has banned importation of whale products

from countries who do not belong to the International
Whaling Commission.

July, August, September, 1973

 

JAPANESE FIRM SELLING
CANNED WHALE MEAT

IN UNITED STATES

Not only is Japan continuing boldly in the face of
world opinion to kill thousands of the whales that have
been listed by the United States Department of the Interior
as endangered with extinction, but a Japanese Company,
the Diamary Trading Company, is reportedly the source of
the whale meat which was recently being offered for sale
illegally in New York.

Diamary sold smoked whale meat to an American outﬁt
known as “Reese Finer Foods,” a subsidiary of the com-
pany that produces Pet Milk. Macy’s Gourmet Foods Shop
was selling the illegal canned whale meat which has now
been conﬁscated by the Attorney General of New York
State, Louis J. Leﬂcowitz. Whale products may not be sold .
or offered for sale in New York under the State’s law pro-
tecting endangered species of animals. Attorney General
Leﬂ<owitz announced August 10, 1973 that his ofﬁce had
conﬁscated 17 cases of the Diamary Trading Company’s
whale meat. As the result of the investigation by Assistant
Attorney General Joel H. Sachs of the Environmental Pro- '
tection Bureau, a large supply of the illegal whale meat was

~ located at the warehouse of Reese Finer Foods, Inc. at

1325 Morris Park Avenue in the Bronx.

Under the terms of an assurance of discontinuance
signed by Reese Finer Foods, the company admitted its
violation of law and agreed to forfeit its existing supplies
of whale meat to the State and to refrain from selling any
products in New York State made from any species of en-
dangered wild life. In addition, Reese paid $800 in costs
to the State. Any evidence of further violation by Reese
will constitute prima facie proof of a violation of the laws
and will subject it to additional penalties.

The violation of New York State law points to possible
violation of at least one federal law. Federal investigation
is on the way. , .

Readers of the Information Report are urged to keep a
sharp lookout for any whale products on the shelves of
grocery stores or supermarkets and to report immediately
any such products they may ﬁnd. A sample of any product
suspected of being illegal should be purchased at ‘Once as
evidence. Please send the information to the Animal Wel-
fare Institute at the address on the masthead.

 




 

- - “ Everyday D
1’6qu Hm?7t

.3.
'4

CONSERVATIONISTS CALL FOR
WHALING MORATORIUM

Boycott of Japan proposed

Dear Prime Minister Tanaka,

Don’t let the greedy whaling industry ruin Japan’s inter-

national reputation. Lead your country to join the over-

whelming majority of world opinion for a ten-year mora-

torium on commercial killing of whales.

, Defenders of Wildlife The Fund for Animals
Friends of the Earth

Humane Society of the United States
Society for Animal Protective Legislation

These words on a six-foot-long sign were part of a demon-
stration held on the occasion of the Japanese Prime Minis-
ter’s State Visit, July 31, 1973. Gathered in Lafayette Park
opposite the White House, where the Prime Minister had
just been driven, was a crowd of whale protectors carrying a
variety of Save-The-Whale signs and accompanied by the
recorded songs of the humpback whale.

Cleveland Amory, President of The Fund for Animals,
addressed the gathering forcefully calling for a boycott of
Japanese goods till Japanese whaling stops. “We mean busi-
ness,” he said, “not Japanese business.”

Information on how to help the boycott is obtainable
from the Animal Welfare Institute. Free leaflets and re-
prints for distribution are available on request.

.‘ ‘ , 1..
Photos by R. Norman Matheny, staff photographer

Reprinted by permission from The Christian Science Monitor @1973,
The Christian Science Publishing Society. All rights reserved.

FIGHT TO SAVE WHALES
INTENSIFYING

The voice of the Japanese whaling industry was heard
loudly and persistently at the 1973 meeting of the Inter-
national Whaling Commission held in London June 25-29.
The IWC’s Scientiﬁc Committee, the super-secret arm of an
organization which denies the press entry even to its plen-
ary sessions, is a center of disagreement about the state of
whale populations. It is supposed to present “the best scien-
tiﬁc evidence” to the commissioners to help them in mak-
ing decisions, but as Sir Peter Scott pointed out, there are
differences of opinion up to 300% among the scientists
concerning the condition of whale stocks. Most serious are

the indications that expediency, not science, dictates cer-
tain statements expressed behind the closed doors by Japan-
ese scientists. A vote of 13 to 1 against Japan in the plenary
session when Japan sought to raise the Minke whale kill for
the ’73-’74 season, gave hope to conservationists that the
most blatant demands of the Japanese whaling industry,
under the leadership of Commissioner Fujita, erstwhile
vice-president of the commercial ﬁsheries association in
Japan, are ﬁnally under ﬁre, even by the other nations
that still kill whales.

The attempted increase in the kill of the small Minke
whales represented an effort to ﬁll oil barrels and meat
lockers left empty by reduction in the killing of the big
ﬁn whales whose stocks, in turn, began to be massively de-
pleted after the blue whale, biggest of all the world’s ani-
mals, had been decimated by the Whalers. When the blue
whale population fell from an estimated 200,000 to only
about 1,000 it was no longer of serious commercial interest
and it was at that point, and that point only, that the Inter-
national Whaling Commission listed it as a species not to be
killed by member nations.*

In an all-out effort to protect all species of cetaceans, the
United States proposed in 1972 and again this June, a ten-
year international moratorium on commercial whaling. Last
year the proposed moratorium was defeated by a vote of
4-6 with 4 abstentions. This year it won a majority; 8-5
with one abstention, but a 3Zi-majority under IWC rules is
required for a resolution to pass, thus it failed to be adopted.

The two major whaling countries, Japan and Russia, who
between them, kill some 85% of whales taken each year,
both threatened to disregard the majority decision even if
it had reached %. They continue to threaten to give up the
International Observer Scheme in the Antarctic which be-
gan only a year ago after having been unsuccessfully pro-
posed for 14 straight years. This scheme is designed to pre-
vent cheating by placing an observer from another country
on whaling ships and shore stations to check infractions.

The only voluntary concession by a major whaling coun-
try was the pledge of the Soviet Union to “phase out” kill-
ing of ﬁn whales in the Antarctic by the 1975-76 season.
It was this offer by the USSR. which made it possible
to pass, by a vote of 7-2 with 5 abstentions, a reduced quota
of 1,450 ﬁn whales in the Antarctic for the 1973 season,
with a complete phase-out within three years. The byzan-
tine relationships within the IWC are such that although
the USSR. volunteered the phase-out on ﬁn whales, it
voted “no” when the same proposal was made by the US.
stating that Soviet approval applied only when attached to
a previous Norwegian proposal!

Dr. Robert White, U.S. Commissioner, argued forcefully
for the moratorium. He cited the vote in Geneva the week
before, pointing out that it was the follow-up of the Stock-
holm Conference and that the governing council of 58 na-
tions considered the moratorium proposal and directed the
Executive Director again to urge the International Whaling
Commission to adopt a 10-year moratorium on commercial
whaling. Dr. White noted that Japan alone expressed reser-
vations; no other government among the remaining 57,
which includes the Soviet Union, expressed a reservation.

Dr. White, a scientist himself, spoke frankly about the
limitations of the scientiﬁc data available, characterizing
it as “highly uncertain and in many cases questionable.”
He pointed out that the views of the United States on the
moratorium were not capricious or hastily arrived at. He
asked unanswerable questions, for example, why have sei
whales off South Africa virtually disappeared? Is it because
the quotas are too high? Or is it because of what we do in
the Antarctic? Can the social structure of these animals
sustain catches based on maximum sustainable yield? Are

we justiﬁed in using the maximum sustainable yield concept
which has evolved from studies of ﬁsh?

Fujita speaks up for Whaling Industry

“What little scientiﬁc knowledge we have,” he warned,
“is cause for caution.” But Mr. Fujita complained that Dr.
White’s speech in defense of ﬁn whales “increases inter-
national tension,” and that he was exhausted by what he
called “dramatic, intense scenes.” He urged that “the indus-
try and their interests should also be taken into considera-
tion, or I should say, their interests should~not be disre-
garded” a suitable quotation for The New Yorker’s Depart-
ment of Understatement. The International Whaling Com-

*Non-member whaling nations such as Brazil and Peru whose whal—
ing industries are closely integrated with Japan’s, can still kill blue
whales if they can ﬁnd any to blast with explosive harpoons sup-
plied along with catcher boats from Japan.

 




e 0

mission, after it had rejected the moratorium, approved in
vote after vote on different species in different parts of the
ocean, a kill of 37,500 individual whales in the coming
season. ,

At the conclusion of the International Whaling Commis-
sion meeting, representatives of observer organizations who
had attended the plenary sessions agreed that a boycott
of Japanese goods was essential if the continued decimation
of whale populations were to be prevented.

“Of all our fellow mammals, the most remote and the
most difﬁcult to understand is the great whale,” wrote
Faith McNulty in a New Yorker proﬁle on whales, August
6, 1973.*

But whales are constantly commanding more attention
and more sympathy with their plight. As Time magazine
(July 16, 1973) put it, “The great gentle creatures need it.
Of an estimated original population of some 4.4 million
whales, no more than a few hundred thousand are left.”
The Japanese last year killed 14,477 whales. “Once every
17 minutes,” Time wrote, “a great whale is killed, its back
blown Open by a grenade-tipped harpoon, its blood spewing
into the ocean. The chief purpose: the manufacture of cos-
metics, margarine, transmission oil and pet food.”

Canada Urges Moratorium

The opening speech of the Canadian Commissionerwas
personally composed by the Canadian Minister of the En-
vironment, Jack Davis. The statement follows in full.

“Since the meeting of the Commission a year ago, Canada
has stopped its commercial whaling operations in the North
Atlantic. Two small land stations at Dildo and Williams-
port in Newfoundland have been closed as has another sta-
tion at Blandford in Nova Scotia. As a result, Canada’s pro-
duction of ﬁn and sei whales has ceased. The total ban,
which became effective before the whaling season opened
in 1973, will extend for an indeﬁnite period.

“Whaling on Canada’s West Coast ceased in 1967. So,
the latest developments on Canada’s East Coast takes
Canada out of commercial whaling altogether. With the
exception of a few whales which are killed by our Eskimo
and Indian people for their own use, there is no whaling
anywhere in Canada at the present time. Nor, is there any
intention‘ of starting up whaling operations again in the
foreseeable future.

“Canada’s decision to stop the taking of ﬁn and sei
whales off Nova Scotia and Newfoundland followed a close
analysis of whale population data and catch per unit of
effort information prepared by our scientists. The total
stock of ﬁn and sei whales had been reduced sharply as a
result of operations from the mid-1960’s onward. While
the industry, to remain ﬁnancially viable, required a catch
of the same order as that achieved in recent years, it was
estimated that the remaining stocks were only sufﬁcient
to support an operation of about one third that size.

“Had the Canadian industry been permitted in 1973 to
take the estimated sustainable yield of 143 ﬁn whales and
70 sei whales, the remaining stocks might have remained
at or about their present low level. However, uncertainty
as to the true size of the remaining stocks together with
information from the companies which indicated they were
already losing money led to a decision to close Canada’s
East Coast whaling operations altogether.

“Looking back over the past decade, it would appear
that the level of cropping of ﬁn and sei whales was too
high. It was much higher than the optimum sustainable
yield of whales of these types off Nova Scotia and New-
foundland. We have, therefore, decided to rebuild these
stocks to a point where there can be no doubt of their
survival now and in the long run.

“There has been some discussion, recently, of the kill-
ing of white or beluga whales for sport in Hudson’s Bay.

Our Minister of Fisheries, together with our Minister of
Indian and Northern Affairs, however, intervened and a
ban was instituted to ensure that a hunt of this kind
would not get under way in Canada.

“In closing, Mr. Chairman, I would like to say that the
Canadian Delegation hopes it will be able to make an effec-

*Due for publication in book form by Doubleday this fall.

tive contribution to the deliberations of this Comniis'sion.
While Canada is no longer engaged actively in commercial
whaling, it continues to be interested in whales. Our whale
research program will continue and we will maintain our
membership in the International Whaling Commission in
the belief that its future deliberations will help to rebuild
those whale stocks found off the coasts of Canada and oth-
ers found throughout the world’s oceans.”

 

October, November, December, 1973

U. S. GOVERNMENT,
CONSERVATION ORGANIZATIONS SCORE
JAPANESE AND RUSSIAN REPUDIATION

OF WHALE PROTECTION ‘

The Government of the United States has reSponded vig-
orously to the Diplomatic Note from the Government of
Japan which objected to conservation decisions taken at the
International Whaling Commission meeting in June and
stated that it would not adhere to them. A cable signed by
Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger, made a detailed re-
sponse and concluded with the following strongly-worded
paragraph: “Such wholesale disregard for views of all other
member nations with few exceptions leads to several ques-
tions. Why should there be a Commission if its decisions
can simply be ignored? Why. should scientiﬁc committee
prepare recommendations? And why should twelve of four-
teen member nations push for improvements in Interna-
tional Whaling Commission if progress made can be destroy-
ed by one or two nations? United States Government is
extremely disappointed with backward step occasioned by
Japanese objections and is hopeful that Japanese Govem-
ment will reconsider its decisions in the next ninety days
and make its plans regarding strengthened Secretariat
known and thereby indicate its intention to make IWC a

viable conservation organization.”

Not long after the Japanese rejection of three whale-pro-
tective measures, the Soviet Union joined in rejecting two
of them with the result that more whales can be expected
to be blasted with the explosive harpoon this year than in
1972 despite the overwhelming international support for a
moratorium on commercial whaling (See Information Re-
port, Vol. 22, No. 3)

Joining the AWI in the boycott of Japanese and Russian
goods are Friends of the Earth, Defenders of Wildlife, En-
vironmental Policy Center, Fund for Animals, Animal Pro-
tection Institute, Let Live, Inc., Society for Animal Pro-
tective Legislation, and the National Wildlife Federation

whose three and one-half million members makes it the big-
gest private conservation organization in the world.

An editorial in The New York Times, November 26,
1973, stated in part:

“Japan would have the world believe that it must elim-
inate the whales of this planet to satisfy the protein needs
of its people. There is every reason for the world to believe,
instead, that Japan’s declared refusal to abide by the quotas
set by the International Whaling Commission last June has
much more to do with greed than with need. _

“The ﬁn whale, the killing of which the commission vote
to phase out, is reported to have declined from 380,000 at
the end of World War II to some 77,000 today. Japan,
which belongs to the commission, objected to the phase-out
and has now served notice that it will not comply. . .

“If the singing humpback whale and the magniﬁcent blue
are not to be followed to the brink of extermination by
other whale species, Japan and Russia will have to be effec-
tively impressed with the fact that world opinion is against
them. It was not enough for them, apparently, that the
United Nations Conference on the Human Environment
went on record by an overwhelming vote of 53 to 0 for a
ten-year moratorium on the killing of all whales.

 

 




January, February, March, 1974

AF L-CIO VOTES TO SAVE WHALES

The American Federation of Labor and Congress of
Industrial Organizations passed a Resolution at its last

annual convention to Save the Whales. The full text of the
Resolution follows:

Preservation of World Whale Stocks

WHEREAS, With the passage of the Marine Mammal

Protection Act in 1972, the United States committed itself

to a major campaign to reduce the senseless and wasteful
killing of marine mammals. Many of these animals,
including seals, porpoises and whales, were considered to be
endangered and had been hunted to the point where stocks
were seriously depleted and in some instances exhausted,
and .

WHEREAS, Since the passage of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act, signiﬁcant snaps by the U.S., both
unilaterally and multilaterally, have succeeded in setting up
reasonable programs to preserve ocean mammlas, and

WHEREAS, However, one species of mammal, the
whale, continues to be hunted by several foreign nations,
and the future survival of this ocean creature is in jeopardy.
The major hunters of whales are the Japanese, and to a
lesser degree, the Soviet Union. Together, the two nations
account for over 90 percent of the whales killed throughout
the world, and

WHEREAS, The continuing desire of these two nations
to maximize their whale harvest runs contrary to the views
of the majority of the nations, including the United States,
represented on the International Whaling Commission, the
body which regulates the worldwide hunt for whales, and

WHEREAS, At a recent conference of the Commission
in London, Japan and Russia voted to continue to take
whales in the face of worldwide sentiment that all whale
killings should be halted, U.S. representatives pointed out
that forecasts of whale populations are unreliable and that
even with quotas, there is a grave risk of stock depletion.
They urged that all nations follow the US. lead in declaring
whales “endangered species” and prohibit either the

hunting or importation of whales or whale products, and

WHEREAS, Thus it is vital that if effective management

of this ocean resource is to take place, then the wholesale
killing of whales must be prohibited until there is sufficient
knowledge about the size and habits of whale stocks. This is
particularly true in light of the many other less depleted
ﬁsh stocks available to the Russians and Japanese that
could replace the whale’s limited role as food for humans
and animals; therefore, be it

RESOLVED: That the AFL—CIO calls upon Japan and
Russia to abide by world opinion expressed at the recent
London meeting of the International Whaling Commission,
and cease the hunting of whales in order that this important
sea mammal can be preserved and allowed to grow in
numbers, and also urges the Administration to bring
pressure on these nations to comply with world sentiment
that whales are endangered and must be preserved.

 

TALBOT PRESENTS MEDAL TO McVAY

The .1973 Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal
Welfare Institute was awarded to Scott McVay for his
distinguished service to the cause of the whales, tens of
thorisands of whose dwindling numbers are being painfully
killed byexplosive harpoons to satisfy commercial avarice.
The presentation was made by Dr. Lee M. Talbot, an
intensive“ fellow ﬁghter for the whales in his capacity as
Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental Quality.

Jason Robards, star of A Moon for the Misbegotten, and
of countless other plays and ﬁlms, spoke movingly at the
ceremony of his love for the gray whales he watches on
their annual migration as they pass his home on the coast of
California. Robards called for decisive action by Secretary
of State Henry Kissinger to halt the slaughter by Japan and
the Soviet Union.

Texts of the presentation and acceptance speeches
follow:

Remarks of Dr. Lee M. Talbot, Senior Scientist of the
Council on Environmental Quality, at the presentation of
the Albert Schweitzer Medal to Mr. Scott McVay. Kennedy
Center, Washington, DC. December 18, 1973

' .

It is a great pleasure and honor to have been invited by
the Animal Welfare Institute to make the 1973 Schweitzer
Medal presentation to Mr. Scott McVay. '

The Albert Schweitzer Medal is presented annually by
the Animal Welfare Institute to individuals who have made
an outstanding contribution to animal welfare. It is
particularly significant that both last year’s and this year’s
medals have been given to individuals involved with the
conservation ‘of whales.

In its early days, the Schweitzer Medal was awarded to
individuals who had contributed to animal welfare through
work involving humane handling of experimental animals.
The fourth Medalist, then Senator Hubert Humphrey,
authored the first humane slaughter bill introduced to
Congress. Subsequently, the basis for the award broadened
as our awareness of the ecological facts of life has increased.

We have gradually become aware that animals do not
exist in isolation, but that they must be considered to exist
at the center of a web of interrelationships — and that the
welfare of the animal depends upon the welfare of that
web.

More recently, yet, there has been broad recognition
that this factor applies as much to man as to any other
living thing with which we share the earth. We have come to
realize that our own welfare, indeed our own survival,
depends upon maintaining intact and healthy the
ecosystems on which we rely; and the surviVal of any of the
species which are components of these ecosystems is a part
of this. There has also been a growing international
component to this new environmentalism. This was
epitomized by the Stockholm Conference on Human
Environment where 113 nations to a large degree laid aside
their political differences to concentrate their efforts on the
world’s environmental problems.

The results of the Stockholm Conference included
agreement on over 100 specific actions, on United Nations
environmental institutions and a declaration of
environmental principles; yet the issue which became the
symbol of the Conference was the whale. There is probably
no living thing today that has come to be as representative
and symbolic of our environmental awareness as the whales.

Whales have become a focal point for international
conservation concern. They have represented a true tragedy
of the commons. They have been all-too exemplary of the
over-exploitation and abuse of the environment and its

resources by shortsighted human action. In the past they
represented a significant natural resource. With successful

conservation, they may again in the future. More than that,
they represent what is widely believed to be a high order of
intelligent being. The public responds to whales because of
their unique size, their social structure, their songs, and
from what many believe to be their kinship to us as
intelligent mammals, and their continuing plight and
endangerment at the hands of a handful of greedy
industries and peoples. Beyond all this, whales no longer
represent a truly significant economic or food resource. If
we prove unable to manage whales, it does not augur well
for our ability to manage any of the other species for which
there is so much greater incentive of exploitation. In other
words, if we cannot find a way to manage whales
successfully, it is unlikely we will be able to do so
successfully with any other component of our living
environment.

As a scientist, I cannot say it is more important to
conserve the whales than it is to conserve any other group
of living things; but as one concerned with conservation in
general and with the politics and policies of international
environmental concern, I can say that there is probably no
one group animal which has the signiﬁcance of whales to
world conservation.

Scott McVay is at once a most unlikely protagonist of
the whale issue and a most appropriate one. He is unlikely
because there is little in his background to suggest whales.
In Princeton he majored in English and wrote his senior
thesis on George Bernard Shaw. When he graduated, he
listed sculpture among his special interests and indicated he
planned an architectural career. He subsequently became,
among other things, recording secretary, assistant treasurer,
and assistant to the President of Princeton. He is currently
Executive Director of the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation
in New York. This I submit is a most unlikely background
for a champion of the whales.

Yet, at the same time, it is a highly appropriate
background. As I have described earlier, the whales have
become a symbol to a great many peOple in a great many
countries. Indeed they are doubtless more important to the
general public than they are to the scientiﬁc specialists.

 




' Scott says that his interest in whales was first aroused by
Melville’s Moby Dick. In any event following his work at
Princeton he went to the Communication Research
Institute at Coconut Grove, Florida, to work on a study of
the life and language of the bottle-nose dolphin, and by
1965, he wrote in his college year book that his intent was
to contribute to man’s understanding of the life and
language of the whales.

Since that time, he has made truly signiﬁcant
contributions to the public understanding and awareness of

'the problem of conservation of the whales. In 1966 his
article in Scientiﬁc American “The Last of the Great
Whales” provided one of the first definitive views the public
had received of the tragic results of modern whaling. His
subsequent articles, for example, in Natural History
Magazine, the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, National Parks,
Audubon, the American Scientist, and two op-ed pieces in
The New York Times have all contributed to a growing
'public awareness of the problem and concern with it.

In his role as spokesman for the public concern with
whales, he, has served as the lead witness invited from
outside government at the congressional hearing in 1971
which led to the congressional resolution calling for
a moratorium on whaling; he was an invited speaker
representing the conservation VieWpoint at the 1971
International Conference on Whale Biology, and further in
his role as a citizen spokesman, he was Observer to the
International Whaling Commission meeting in 1970, and a
full member of the US. delegation to the IWC in 1971 and
1972.

He made a significant contribution to the decision of the
Mexican Government to declare Scammon’s Lagoon in Baja,
California, as a permanent whale sanctuary.

In 1970, he traveled to Japan to encourage six leading
scientists to form a committee for preservation of whales
under the chairmanship of Dr. Seiji Kaya, former President
of the Tokyo University. _

Following his work on dolphin communications in
Florida, he expanded his interests to larger whales and has
organized two expeditions to the Arctic to study the
bowhead whale along the northwest coast of Alaska, one in
1971 and another this year. In conjunction with the
bowhead work he traveled with us to the Soviet Union in
January of this year as a member of the first working group
to be convened under the US-USSR Environment
Agreement. He is also co-author of “Songs of the Hump-

back Whale” which appeared in Sci'ence in 1971.

From this I believe it is clear that he had indeed
accomplished his aim of contributing to man’s

understanding of the life and language of whales, but — and ‘

this is somewhat heretical coming from a scientist — in my
Opinion far more important is his contribution to public
understanding and awareness of the plight of the whales
and as a citizen spokesman, his contribution to Government
actions on behalf of the whales.

Last year’s Schweitzer Award went to Russell Train
because of his key role personally in our Government’s
efforts to conserve whales, but he also symbolized the
efforts of our Government.

But in this as in other endeavors the Government and
the public represents an essential partnership. This year’s
Schweitzer Award is being presented to Scott McVay both
because of his personal key role in and contributions to
whale conservation and also because he is symbolic of the
citizen role in this endeavor which is so important to animal
welfare and welfare of our environment.

It therefore gives me very great pleasure to present to
you, Scott, the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal
Welfare. Institute.

- t, I
,. 5 13h. ,. . w: ..

Schweitzer Medalist Scott Mc Vay speaking on whales.

Remarks of Scott McVay Chairman, Committee on Whales,
Environmental Defense Fund

“WHAT ON EARTH WAS A WHALE?
THE CHILD ASKED US
IN AN INNOCENT VOICE”*

This occasion gives me a chance to mention Several
persons who have made substantial contributions to whale
conservation and acknowledge many more besides who may
be unrecognized, many whose contributions in the weeks
ahead will tell whether some species of whales will survive.
The crisis today is sharply deﬁned, carrying the unanimous
conviction of the United Nations conferences in Stockholm
and Geneva — and the principal conservation groups around
the world - the Killing of Whales Must Stop.

The scale of the whale tragedy may be senSed by the fact
that no one is working full-time on the conservation of the
whale, although two countries participate year around in
the continuing destruction of the whale, repudiating
recently even the moderate accords reached at the
International Whaling Commission meeting last June in
London. The time is ripe for sterner measures that may be
more keenly felt than the reason of science or a planetary
ethic that transcends terrible pockets of wastefulness,
aggression, and greed, or an obligation that reaches down
the centuries to leave as much of the natural world whole
and intact as we can.

To understand where we are going, we recall where we
have been. Conservation of the whale has had the
intermittent attention of a remarkable set of men and
women. At the top of the roster is the late Remington
Kellogg of the Smithsonian who worked toward
international regulation of whaling in the 1930’s and caused
the International Whaling Convention to meet in
Washington in December, 1946. With Johan Ruud of
Norway, Dr. Kellogg led efforts within the International
Whaling Commission in the 1950’s to curb unrestrained
whaling by ﬁve nations for, an annual quota of 16,000 blue
whale units which was no quota at all. Through the efforts
of Ruud and Kellogg, a Committee of Three Scientists was
appointed in 1960 to review the data and make
recommendations. In violation of the Commission’s pledge
to comply, the recommendations of the scientists were'
deferred and deferred again in 1963 and 1964.

I first met Dr. Kellogg in 1959 or 1960. On my third
visit to his ofﬁce at the Smithsonian within the next year or
two, I pressed this ﬁne old gentleman, who had high black
shoes propped up on his desk, why so little progress was
being made to conserve whales. His heavy mailbag as US.
Commissioner to the IWC suggested widespread concern.
He countered by saying the whale had no lobby, and only
one person came back three times. He said he was tired of
pounding his head against a stone wall and that others
would have to take up the cause.

As each of us in the conservation community and the;
Federal bureaucracy has learned, things which matter most
with us must be acted upon. You can not assume that
someone else is carrying the ball. With Dr. Kellogg’s
encouragement, “The Last of the Great Whales” was
written in 1964 and eventually appeared in Scientiﬁc
American in 1966.

A member of the Committee of Three Scientists who
saw beyond the data the true scale of the whale tragedy was
Sidney Holt, a biologist for 16 years with FAO, who
showed leadership, vision and good sense at the
International Conference on Whale Biology in June, 1971,
making a major contribution to the basic recommendations
of the conference.

In Japan, Dr. Teizo Ogawa, who is completing a history ..
of Japanese medicine, is an authority on the anatomy of T
the whale and in particular its brain. His work over four
decades testifies to the significance of the cetacean brain
and its importance in understanding the human brain. In
one paper he wrote,

The present author has often told his students a fable
of his own, imagining two high peaks in the realm of
Mammalia, namely, Mt. HOMO and Mt. CETACEA,
the latter boasting of a much greater height than the
former.

Dr. Ogawa is a member of our committee for the
preservation of whales in Japan, and he is especially upset
by the unchecked slaughter of dolphins and porpoises by
the Japanese. '

*from The Day the Whale Becomes Extinct, by Kcnzaburo Oe.

 




Another staunch advocate for the. whale is Rod
Cameron, Executive Director of the Environmental Defense
Fund, who approached me in 1969 to head up the EDF
whale effort. Among his contributions was testimony in
1970 in Washington at an Interior hearing to consider the
placement of the Sperm whale on the endangered list and
later in San Francisco at a Department of Commerce
hearing to consider closing down whaling operations in
California. If the whales have an attorney, it is Rod
Cameron.

One biologist exemplifies a new approach to the study
of the whale, Roger Payne. For five years he observed and
recorded the Humpback whale off Bermuda, working on
the assumption that you must spend extended periods of
time with whales in their ocean habitat to understand them.
Our joint discovery of the Song of the Humpback Whale
and its detailed analysis was published in Science in 1971,
and through Roger’s efforts a record was made which has
sold 100,000 copies. (The whale is still more eloquent than
any of ' his surrogates!) It was Roger’s idea to recommend
the great whales for Interior’s endangered species list. Payne
is now nearing the end of more than 18 months’ study of
the Southern Right whale off the Patagonian coast of
Argentina. When he returns, his films and reports will
contribute substantively to our future View of whales.

The first of a progression of events which have led to a
consolidated U.S. position on the whale problem, with a
close working relationship between the environmental
community and Federal agencies, was the designation by
Secretary of Interior Walter Hickel of eight Whale species as
endangered in the Federal Register of December 2, 1970,
following six months’ debate. “Buff” Bohlen ably sustained
this decision against heavy pressures within government and
from the importers of Sperm whale oil. Indeed, his role
cannot be overestimated.

The Secretary of Commerce followed in due course with
the closing of whaling operations in California in December,
1971.

Perhaps we should pause to acknowledge the leadership
of the next Secretary of Commerce, Peter Peterson, who
took steps to deal with the large-scale slaughter of porpoises
by the tuna fishery working out of southern California.
(This is usually referred to as “the incidentail slaughter of
porpoises.” The slaughter is not incidental. It is part and
parcel of the purse-seine technique since the pole and line
were put aside.)

A quarter million porpoises have been lost every year for
many years. How big a number is that? It is the number of
peOple in this room plus one thousand like gatherings. In
the early 1960’s as many as one million porpoises perished
every year. Secretary Peterson gave this problem high
priority, and substantial funds and personnel have been
committed to its resolution. Robert White, the
Administrator of NOAA (National Oceanic and
AtmOSpheric Administration), shares this commitment and
is seeing 'to its implementation. The tragedy is of staggering
proportions. Six to eight times as many porporises were lost
in tuna nets in the first three months of this year as there
were whales taken on the high seas last year (upwards of

300,000 against 37,000). This remains a National Tragedy,
and when an extension is sought for the two-year
exemption to the Marine Mammal Protection Act, the
appear warrents close scrutiny. (The Environmental
Defense Fund recently ﬁled a letter prior to the December
10, 1973 deadline for comment at this juncture.)

Perhaps we should pause to recognize another dimension
of the whale saga, the aesthetic one. Not only have
symphonies been composed using the song of the
Humpback whale, but the whale ’3 sounds and motions have
inspired performances of considerable diversity among
professional and college groups across the country.

An artist has emerged who has done a series of whale
works, major drawings and illuminated sculpture. He will be
regarded one day as an artist of the ﬁrst rank. William
Scoresby noted in 1820, “. . .the drawings hitherto given of
many of the whale tribe are so unlike, and so preposterous,
that they tend rather to mislead than to assist the practical
zoologist.” The comment still obtains today, but we are
fortunate that Larry Foster of Oakland, California is
contributing to an improved understanding of the shape,
markings, and motion of the whale. He is known for the
beauty and precision of his work, and to see his originals is
almost as exciting as seeing a great whale. . .

Philippe Cousteau’s underwater ﬁlm of the Humpback
whale showed a fantastic underwater ballet of a mother
swimming on her back with outstretched ﬂippers cradling,
but not touching, an infant breathing frequently at the
surface. . .

‘C

The image of the great Arctic whale, the Bowhead, is a
living one now — after our expeditions of 1971 and 1973 —
an image of a whale that breaches in Spring, a great whale
that may on occasion be surrounded by a “halo” of smaller
belugas, a whale that can rise before you in those frozen
seas like the fabled Atlantis, again and again as it spouts
nearer. (A one-hour ﬁlm documentary of this year’s
expedition will be completed in April). . .

Permit me to read a rough translation of a passage from
a recent book, The Day the Whale Becomes Extinct, by
Kenzaburo Oe, the leading writer in Japan today.

One desolate twilight evening

on a high tower overlooking a valley

deep in the woods where I grew up,

together with several adults

I stood looking toward the West.

The dream was unlike other dreams,

because I was no longer a child

but was now one of those adults,

and yet in the sense that

I had been included in the group

as the one who least understood what was going on,
this dream was after all like all the others,

it became like one of those daily nightmares,
as the western sky took on a dark red hue
without a sign of light,

and we all sunk into the darkness and

were buffeted by profuse winds which blew up.
One old man, bursting the silent atmosphere of
expectation, said: “Ah, ﬁnally, the last whale died.”
We pushed each other for the ﬁrst position,
pounding down the hill as if trying to crush
pebbles beneath our sandals with our feet,

we went down to the valley,

but as we were about to say,

“finally the last whale. . . ”

to the child who was standing

on the cobbled path in the dark valley,

“What on earth was a Whale?”

the child asked us in an innocent voice.

I tried to explain to him about whales,

but since I didn’t remember a thing about whales
myself, I clammed up.

And then I realized with a sense of fathomless
annihilation that the old man of just now

was the “me” of the past

and the child none other

than the “me” of the future.

The face of the child,

looking up silently at me,

distinct in the evening light,

was crumbling away.

Besides major literary contributions in Japan by
Kenzaburo Oe and Sakyo Komatsu, and others, six
distinguished scientists led by Dr. Seiji Kaya, former
president of Tokyo University, have been working for the
preservation of the whale through articles, appearances on
television, and meetings with top government ofﬁcials.

Also, the actions of our neighbors to the South and to
the North are encouraging. In response to a proposal we
submitted in June, 1971, to Eduardo Jimenez Qonzales of
the Mexican Embassy, President Luis ~Echeverria declared
Scammon’s Lagoon a permanent whale sanctuary. In
December, 1972, the Canadian Commissioner of Fisheries,
Jack Davies, closed their three remaining whale stations
(two in Newfoundland and one in Nova Scotia).

A year ago Russell Train’s formidable contribution was
recognized in this ceremony. Thanks to his interest and
leadership in June, 1972 the first resolution reported out of
the Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment
called for a ban on the killing of whales by a vote of 53 to
zero. (It is worth noting parenthetically that someone on
the periphery suggested a second somewhat similar
resolution be submitted substituting the words “human
being” for “whale”. Thus, a ban on the killing of human
beings for ten years was brieﬂy considered but quickly
abandoned since it would be such a departure from past
and current practices. . . And yet if we do achieve a
moratorium on the killing of whales, it may prove a useful
precedent.)

Chairman Train led the U. S. delegation to the
International Whaling Commission two weeks later,
providing inspired leadership, and he was ably followed by
Robert White, the new U. S. Commissioner, in June 1973.
(By the way tomorrow evenirg you may watch Dr. White
on the Dick Cavett show and sense the depth of
commitment within government to the whale problem; he
will speak about the follow-up to Secretary " of State
Kissinger’s tough cables recently to Tokyo and Moscow and
perhaps of the leverage in soybeans and wheat.)

 




Six monihs ago, the moratorium was approved by 8 of
the 14 delegations to the IWC, a majority but not the
necessary three-fourths vote required for ad0ption. As a
compromise three modest accords were reached. Fin
whaling was to be phased out in three years. A quota for
Minke whales of 5,000 was set, as was a by-area quota for
Sperm whales in the Antarctic. The Japanese have now
repudiated these three agreements, and the Russians the
last two. (The Russians have given up on the Fin Whale.)
The blatant disregard of the Commission means that we
have essentially an outlaw situation, and the imminent
collapse of the International Whaling Commission puts
other international negotiations, which also must proceed
on good faith, in jeopardy. We’ll come back to this shortly.

First, we should acknowledge four major books over a
five-year span written on this continent that have
contributed to the growing awareness about the plight of
the 'whale and our interconnected destiny. We will sample a
couple lines from each.

The Year of the Whale by Victor B. Scheffer (1969)
“Will the orbiting satellite speak through Space to tell the
hunter where to find the last whale?”

T he Blue Whale by George L. Small (1971)”Fhe tragedy of
the blue whale is the reflection of an even greater one, that
of man himself. What is the nature of a species that
knowingly and without good reason exterminates another?
How long will man persist in the belief that he is the master
of the Earth rather than one of its guests?”

A Whale for the Killing by Farley Mowat (1972) “(It
was) identified as a Fin whale, the second largest animal
ever to live on earth. We could see the marks of
bullets—holes and slashes—across the back from the
blowhole to the fin. It was just beyond me to even begin to
understand the mentality of men who would amuse
themselves ﬁlling such a majestic creature full of bullets.
Why try to kill it?”

Lord of the Fish by Faith McNulty .(1973) “Leaders of
the conservation ﬁght in this country talk of a United
States boycott of Japanese goods and an appeal to the
Common Market to close off Europe as a market for whale
products. . .such tactics, which reduce the issue to dollars,
rubles, and .yen, are the only ones likely to work where
appeals to humanity, ethics and pure reason have failed.”

One American scientist who has kept a low profile
(that’s how things get done) deserves our special thanks
today. He drafted U. S. policy for the 1971 IWC meeting in
Washington. He drafted the U. S. resolution at Stockholm
calling for a ten-year moratorium on the killing of whales.
He has 'been accessible to conservationists except when
behind the wheel of his sports car. Reminding all hands of
the shaky data base, he has contributed to the formulation
of U. S. policy for the past two IWC meetings in London,
and has been a skillful negotiator in the hour-by-hour
deliberations with the Russians and Japanese. Last January
in Russia, he showed a gift for working with the Russians
on the development of joint studies of endangered species.
Lee Talbot, we' are in your debt.

One of the perquisites of the pilgrimage for whales is
the people you meet along the way. Some join for a time
and are most welcome. Others are in for the duration. Such
is Christine Stevens, who if I could put her into one word,
and could pronounce it, it would be “indefatigable”. She
has stuck to the central issue -— to stop the killing of
whales. Singlehandedly, she pushed the moratorium
resolution through the Senate in 1971, and in due course,
following public hearings, it was adopted by the House of
Representatives. This step made possible the next step at
Stockholm where the consolidated U. S. view found the
support of 52 other countries. Mrs. Stevens has,
furthermore, been a prime mover behind the broadly
supported boycott of Japanese and Soviet goods in the
United States which will persist until the whaling irons rust-
in the racks. This gentle woman’s reverence for life and
tenacity for its preservation must become more widely
shared if we are going to make it.

Others making lasting contributions from the private
sector are known to you, the gentleman-from-Wyoming
Tom Garrett, journalist Michael Frome, biologist Steve
Seater, Lewis Regenstein of the Fund for Animals, and the
anonymous heroes of the’editorial pages of The New York

.1

Times and Washington Post. Joan MacIntyre is leading the
children’s crusade. Tom Kimball’s strong unequivocal stand
on the boycott commands respect, as he speaks for
three-and-one-half million members of the National Wildlife
Federation.

Tomorrow morning Senator Magnuson, a previous
Schweitzer medalist, and Senator Pell will introduce a
resolution expressing the concern of the United States
about the exploitation of certain marine resources, which
encompasses not only a condemnation of Japanese and
Soviet whaling malpractice but also deals with the depleted
salmon and halibut resource.

Finally, I wish to acknowledge my magniﬁcent wife,
Hella, who has made my participation in the whale effort
possible and much more besides.

Henry David Thoreau once wrote,

Can he who has discovered only some of the values of
whalebone and whale oil be said to have discovered
the true use of the whale? Can he who slays the
elephant for his ivory be said to have ‘seen the
elephant"? These are petty and accidental uses; just as
if a stronger race were to kill us in order to make
buttons and ﬂageolets of our bones...

We wonder, is our obituary scrawled in the fate of the
whale? Maybe. But we have made a beginning at
restitution. We are dimly sensing the outlines of whales,
when Spouting, breaching, courting, loving, nursing. We
know the True Use of the Whale transcends the marginal
uses of blubber, beef and bone. We sense that our own
humanity is inextricably wedded to the destiny of the
whale. We know that time is short, and the next few weeks
will spell the outcome of the struggle. Reluctantly, because
of other problems for the Japanese, we must carry the call
for the boycott of goods to the corners of the land and
beyond. These may be uncertain times, but of one thing we
may be certain. If the last whales die, something in us will
die, too. When the children ask later, “What on earth is a
whale?” — I hOpe we may answer, “THAR SHE BLOWS!”

 

April, May, June, 1974

THE IWC MEETS,
AND THE KILLING CONTINUES

Every day of the week beginning June 24th, delegates of
the 15 member nations of the International Whaling Com-
mission argued over and voted on the killing of whales. On
the opening day, the Japanese delegation told the press that
although their country was opposed to any blanket morato-
rium it would accept a reduction in the size of the catch. *
But the decrease in number of whales to be harpooned this
year is only about a half of one percent: 37,300 as com-
pared with last year’s quota of 37,500. The Japanese Com-
missioner, Mr. Iwao Fujita voted consistently for the high-
est quotas at every Opportunity.

The ten-year moratorium on commercial whaling, unan-
imously adopted at the Stockholm Conference on the Hu-
man Environment in ’72 and at the United Nations Envi-
ronment Program meetings in Geneva and Nairobi in ’73
and ’74, and prOposed by the United States for the third
successive year at the IWC, was amended by Australia to
provide a selective moratorium on species or populations of
whales when their numbers fall below optimum population
levels. Adopted by a vote of 13-2, the proposal is not due
to be put into practice till after the next IWC meeting, a
year from now. It is widely believed that this will result in
an end to the killing of fin whales for an indeterminate pe-
riod while this persecuted species tries to repopulate itself;
however, Japan and the USSR both voted against the selec-
tive moratorium. Although they have ninety days to lodge
objections and bow out of the whole scheme, under the
provisions of the loophole-ridden IWC treaty, it is obvious
that their vested interests are best served by a seeming com-
pliance while foot-dragging in all the time-honored ways
known to international negotiations.

An Asahi Evening News headline gave the Japanese
Government position: “Japan will not protest selective
whaling ban”. The Government “feels it would be more re-
alistic to present the Japanese case strongly during the pro-
cess of working out whaling curbs on the basis of the
London decision”. A few days earlier in Yomiuri, the Direc-
tor of the Ocean Fishery Department predicted the reaction
to the moratorium on killing fin whales which is expected
under the terms of the selective moratorium: “The Govern-
ment will not change its attitude of opposing it to the last”.

 




Clearly. there is no basis for optimism in saving the tin
whales or any other great whale from extinction. Izaclr one
of these animals is worth about $25,000. Commercial in-
stincts operate powerfully to fight for every last whale.

Even a discussion on develOpment of a humane killing
method for the thousands of whales whose deaths the IWC
formally approves, was blocked by the Japanese Commis-
sioner when the American Commissioner, Dr. Robert
White, asked that it be placed on the agenda. Because ofthe
Japanese action, another year must go by before humane
methods can even be talked about, much less implemented,
as the killing continues.

The ten-year moratorium is needed more than ever, and
the boycott of Japanese and Russian goods, combined with
a government embargo of as many of these goods as possi-
ble, is the only sure route to success in saving the whales.

Nearly all of the counter-argument offered by the J apa-
nese whaling industry is based on the use of whale meat for
human‘consumption in Japan. But if the industry were
genuinely concerned with providing the maximum amount
of protein to feed people, it would have to take a complete-
ly different point of View. Based simply on the amount of
tons of dead whale to be procured over a period of years, it
would have to stOp killing fin, sei and sperm whales now. In
a statement at the conclusion of the meeting John Burton
of Friends of the Earth, Ltd. said, “It is perhaps worth re-
minding the Commission of the price the world is being
asked to pay for the compromise which you have reached.
One way of looking at it is to calculate the loss of whale
catch in the future, if you continue to permit a catch of
1000 fin whales in the Antarctic instead of a zero quota, in
the recovery period. The figure is a loss of about one to one
and a half million tons over the recovery period.”

These figures lend credence to the belief of many con-
servationists that the whaling industry is quite prepared to
“kill the goose that laid the golden egg” so long as their
short-term proﬁts continue up to the cut-off point they
select, and that they have as little interest in the welfare of
their own species as they have in that of the whales.

23,000 sperm whales are scheduled to be slaughtered in
the coming season, but Mr. Burton continues, “If sperm
whales are calculated on the real basis of weight, they are
already far below maximum sustainable yield level. So in
terms of the Australian amendment, the sperm whale
should be classiﬁed as a ‘protected stock’ and have a zero
quota next year.”

As never before, scientists are in the forefront of the
battle over whales, for the action taken at the 1974 meeting
of the International Whaling Commission puts the burden
of proof squarely on their shoulders. With a data base so
uncertain that there is a range of disagreement among sci-
entists from 300 to 1000%, the decisions they take on the
symbol of the Stockholm Conference on the Human Envi-
ronment, the most enormous creature ever to exist, the
gentle, musical whale, cannot be casual.

The Japan Economic Journal (July 9, 1974) is crowing
over the “defeat of the US. which sought a 10-year ban on

whaling”. It is delighted that IWC action “revived the or-
thodox method of control of ﬁshing resources with regard

to ways and degree of restraint of ﬁsh (sic) catch”. It urges
that “Japan should keep asserting” that blue whales “are on
a steady rise”. This last recommendation suggests that Pro-
fessor George Small’s, “The Blue Whale,” winner of the Na-
tional Book Award for Science two years ago, hit home
with its incontrovertible analysis of the decimation of the
species.

To date, the economic has successfully dictated to the
scientiﬁc where whales are concerned. Scientists from whal-
ing nations have slavishly followed the recommendations
or, more likely, the orders of the captains of commerce. An
interesting example of this relationship was reported at the
1974 annual meeting of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science by Dr. Lee Talbot, Senior Scien-
tist of the Council on Environmental Quality. His paper
included this passage:

“The following incident from last year’s Scientiﬁc Com-
mittee meeting is illustrative of the way in which the Com-
mittee and through it, the IWC, has been used. There had
been considerable discussion about the recommended quo-
tas for Minke whales in the Antarctic. The Japanese had
come in with an estimate of the number of Minke whales
that was twice the previous year’s estimate. On that basis
they insisted that the Minke quota be increased from the
5,000 of last year — which in any case had been exceeded —
to 12,230. Since the data base was essentially the same as
last year, the Japanese conclusion was a statistical reshufﬂe
and was strongly challenged by various members of the
Committee from various nations. A rigorous reassessment

 

  

of the available figures by the Scientific \Committee failed
to support the Japanese ﬁgures and supported the 5,000
quota. In discussion it had been suggested that the reason
for the changed ﬁgures of the Japanese was that their in-
dustry required about 5,000 Minkes and that they had
agreed the previous year to a quota of 5,000 not realizing
that the Russians were also going to take Minkes. Con-
sequently, with the Russians involved, the only way to
assure that Japan got its 5,000 was to produce figures
which doubled the base population. With this in mind the
following interchange is instructive. It is as near to verbatim
as my notes taken at the time would allow:

“Japanese representative, obviously irritated and frus-
trated at the refusal of the rest of the Committee to accept
the higher population figures, ‘It is embarrassing for me to
say this, but my government plans to take this many Minke
whales and what does the Committee think about this?’

“Talbot: ‘Do you mean to tell this Committee that your
government has decided in advance what number of whales
they are going to catch this coming year, and that you are
asking this Scientiﬁc Committee to endorse your industry’s
prior decision?’

“Scientist from a southern hemisphere country, jump-
ing to his feet and hitting the table, ‘Why that’s criminal!’

“Scientist from another southern hemisphere country,
‘What do you think they have been doing in here allalong?’ ”

A recommendation to assert that the pitiful remnants of
the blue whale populations are steadily rising is of a piece
with the “scientific” findings about the Minke whales.

771a New York Times (July 15, 1974) editorialized in re-
sponse to a letter from the Japan Whaling Information
Center, remarking in part, “Other misinformation put for-
ward by the ‘Information’ Center is equally puzzling. If
‘meat is the prime reason’ for Japanese whaling, why is half
the catch composed of sperm whales, which are not eaten
at all?”

Perhaps we should look for that answer to a report on a
Japanese whaling company in Peru, Cia. Ballenera del
Kinkai S.A. In a ten-page report, Nelson Puch Chang in-
cludes the following information: “Crew: 16 seamen of
Japanese nationality, Captain, ofﬁcers and harpooners. The
former engaged directly by Cia. Victoria del Kinkai, and 9
Peruvian seamen taken on by Cia. Ballenera del Kinkai . . .
Whales are generally harpooned at the height of the thorac-
ic cavity. This is due to the fact that harpooning the sperm
whale in the head is avoided, as it is the head which con-
tains the spermaceti . . . the cable is let out gradually, in
synchrony with the tugs produced by the wounded animal
in its eagerness to get away . . . During the visit, both to the
processing plant and to one of the Ballenera del Kinkai’s
Whalers, it was possible to observe the following points:
Nervousness and reserve in the various tasks carried out by
the company. The employees, workmen and seamen work-
ing at the land station seemed to have their lips hermeti-
cally sealed, as if they had been given orders not to reply to
any type of question . . . The total number of whales and

sperm whales caught during the undersigned’s visit to the
Colorada Paita installations by the Whalers operating for the

company was 46 specimens in all . . . Of these 24 specimens
were not of the minimum size stipulated in Articles 11 and
12 of the South Paciﬁc regulations . . . The Kinkai Whaling
Co. does not intend the ﬂesh of the sperm whale to be used
for direct consumption by persons or animals . . . The
Union Secretary also said that one of the members of the
crew of the whaler Victoria 8 had told him that two whales
were hunted which were measured by the whaler’s crew,
and as the size of these whales was much smaller than the
stipulated minimum given in Article llof the Regulations,
they were thrown back . . . No strict control exists, as there
is no permanent staff either in the factory or on the Whalers
. . . a kilo of sperm whale tooth costs $155 to 160 delivered
to Paita. The cost is high considering the means of the Peru-
vian artisan . . . The export of sperm whale teeth should be
prohibited.”

Mr. Chang concludes his damning report with a recital of
the penalties to which the Japanese whaling company,
Kinkai, should be liable including conﬁscation and ﬁnes
(for a repeated offense), up to “the market value of the
ships perpetrating the infringement,” and also ten times the
value of the product. To date, Peru, which collected a three
million dollar ﬁne from Onassis in 1954, has looked the
other way with respect to the Japanese violations.

It is interesting that release of the report on the high
cost of sperm whale teeth reported by Mr. Chang should
coincide with introduction of bills in the Senate and House
of Representatives to amend the US. Endangered Species
Act to provided an exemption for the merchants of whales’
teeth and scrimshaw. The difﬁculty of discriminating be-
tween the teeth of whales long gone and that of recently

 

 

  




killed ones poses difficult questions of enforcement. Hear-
ings were held on the Studds bill, HR. 16079 (similar to
Senator Kennedy’s bill, 8.3751) on July 29th. One supplier
states (New Bedford Standard Times, June 24, 1974) he has
“about $30-40,000 invested in whale ivory and can’t afford
to write that investment off”. Commercial profit at every
level is the enemy of the whale.

The essence of the International Whaling Commission
meeting was captured by the Mexican Commissioner, a
veteran of three meetings. Her closing statement is quoted
below in full:

STATEMENT BY MEXICO
by Miss S. Fuentes-Berain

“It is for three years now that I have sat on this Commis-
sion as the representative from Mexico and my statement of
disappointment at the end of our discussion has become,
sadly, almost an item of the agenda. I have hOped that with
patience and understanding we would see the Commission
assume its global responsibility to adequately protect en-
dangered species of whales. The Stockholm’s UN recom-
mendation for a world wide moratorium on commercial
whaling was greeted by my Government as a serious sign
that the time had come to take decisive steps to fulﬁll our

, commitment to protect and conserve whale stocks —— not
only for present utilization, but for the future needs of un-
born generations. As you may recall, my Government, in
recognition of this need, declared the ﬁrst international
whale haven in Baja California in 1972. We have, as you
also know, consistently and hopefully supported the pro-
posed moratorium. We feel it is still the most effective way
to insure the survival of stocks in questionable condition,
and insure adequate understanding of the status of all
stocks through an intensified scientiﬁc programme.

“We must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that this recent
meeting causes us little optimism. Unlike Mr. Rindal, we see
no essential change in either heart or policy concerning our
basic responsibilities. We are deeply concerned over the ac-
tion of those delegations which support the ten year mora-
torium on all commercial hunting, and yet, consistently
vote for high quotas on individual species. We are also deep-
ly concerned over the failure of the Commission as a whole
to recognize the serious danger to Antarctic and North
Paciﬁc ﬁn whales and to put conservation considerations
ahead of economic considerations at this critical juncture.
It is difﬁcult for us to understand how delegations can sup-
port a total moratorium, and then abstain from, or vote for
high quotas on fin whales.

“Perhaps the most encouraging sign at this year’s meet-
ing is the Commission’s willingness to not only strengthen,
but to broaden the scientiﬁc basis of its management poli-
cies. We feel that attention should be paid to obtaining data
on the breeding behaviour of whales as it inﬂuences repro~
duction; as well as making allowances for behavioural in-
ﬂuences on sighting data. We hope that there will be a more
complete flow of scientiﬁc information on the subject and
welcome the increased input of scientific information from
FAO and the United Nations Environment Programme.

“In conclusion I would like to say, somewhat sadly, that
if the immediate future does not bring signiﬁcant protec-
tion for the whales where they are endangered, and the ten
year moratorium with a broadened and deepened interna-
tional research effort, is not approved, this Commission will
be known to history as a small body of men who failed to
act responsibly in the terms of avery large commitment to
the world and who protected the interests of a few Whalers
and not the future of thousands of whales.”

 

October, November, December, 1974

 

THE BOYCOTT CAMPAIGN
TO SAVE THE WHALES
News from Foreign Correspondents

From Norfolk, England a page of signatures on the boy-
cott petition which reads: “To the Governments of Japan
and the Soviet Union: We the undersigned, deplore and
detest the thoughtless commercial slaughter of the world’s
whale populations, and we demand that this barbaric
practice cease immediately. We hereby pledge that until
you cease the killing of the great whales, we shall not
knowingly purchase any product from, travel to, or have
any trafﬁc with your countries.”

The accompanying letter notes, “I might mention all
listed herein are commercial divers presently working the
North Sea. We wish to congratulate you on your efforts
and hope your energy in these matters continues with the
same gusto. Very truly yours, R.D. Kross.” The names
include British, Canadian and American addresses for the
divers.

From Athens, Greece, a page of signatures to the peti-
tion from medical and veterinary medical practitioners.

From Toronto and Vancouver, Canada, a series of
clippings on demonstrations held at the time of Prime
Minister Tanaka’s visit in late September. “Chanting
Demonstrators Urge Japanese Leader to End Whaling,”
read a banner headline in The Toronto Star, September
26th. Under a subheading, “Closeted With Barrett,” the

article stated. “Later in Vancouver, he was closeted in a
20-minute closed-door session with British Columbia
Premier David Barrett. Barrett would not comment on the
subject ofthe discussions, but an ofﬁcial in Barrett’s ofﬁce
said afterward Tanaka was given a statement suggesting a
10-year moratorium on whaling.”

Under the headline, “Tanaka Gets Call ‘Save the
Whales’ ” The Vancouver Sun, September 26th, stated:
“Demonstrators demanding an end to Japanese whaling,
hounded the footsteps of Premier Kakuei Tanaka on his
ofﬁcial visit to Vancouver Wednesday.

“At the University of British Columbia where Tanaka
unveiled a plaque on the site of the New Asian Centre,
protestors from the Greenpeace Foundation picketed him
with signs saying, ‘Spare the Whales’ . . .”

In The Varsity, September 27th, we are informed, “The
visit was also marked with a demonstration outside Con-
vocation Hall by people urging a boycott of Japanese
goods in light of continued Japanese whaling. Japan has
ignored calls for an international moratorium to preserve
the endangered species.

“As he left the Convocation Hall, Tanaka accepted a
copy of The Varsity which printed an article on whaling.
The paper was thrust into his hand by demonstrators.

“After Tanaka left, University of Toronto President
John Evans told the group he had explained their concern
to Tanaka. According to Evans, the Japanese Prime
Minister promised to look into it.”

 

April, May, June, 1975

SCIENTIST EXPLAINS WHY WHALERS CAN
MAKE MORE MONEY BY KILLING WHALES
TO EXTINCTION

In the modern world it does pay to kill the goose that
laid the golden egg. Dr. Colin W. Clark, University of
British Columbia mathematician, explained to a
scientific conference held at Airlie in early April the basic
facts behind the destruction of the great whales.

An article by John H. Douglas in the April 19, 1975,
issue of Science News states in part: “...the argument
that diminishing returns will halt overexploitation before
the point of extinction is reached is incorrect, he [Clark]
says; and he derives a formula to predict when extinction
will be economically profitable. The results fit the case of

presently endangered whale species with foreboding
accuracy.

“At the heart of Clark’s arguments is the fact that fish-
ermen (or hunters or foresters) must invest large amounts
of money, at high risk, into equipment, in hopes of large
profit, rather than socking it away more securely in a
bank, and settling for a smaller rate of return. The index
a commercial fisherman would use to make this
judgment is called the ‘discount rate’ - simply the rate of
return his boat must give him each year in order to have
paid for itself by the time it wears out, while yielding
more profit than would have been gained by investing the
money elsewhere. Since fishing is a risky business (the
boat may sink before it wears out), discount rates of 20
percent a year are not unreasonable.

“Expressed in these terms, the higher the discount
rate, the more fish a man has to take to stay solvent; and
if he is in competition with many other fishermen who
feel the same way, overfishing eventually results. But
what happens when this overfishing causes a decline in
the fish population? 50 long as one can make more
money from sale of a fish than it cost to catch it,
economic considerations alone offer no reason to slow
down the fishing effort. Indeed, even if one owned all the
fish, faced no competition, and could take them
at leisure, Clark has derived a theorem that says over-
fishing to the point of extinction remains profitable so
long as the discount rate is more than twice the annual
reproduction rate of the species in question.

“Thus, a whale herd, which has a reproduction rate of
about 10 percent a year, will be placed in jeopardy of
extinction whenever the discount rate rises above 20
percent -- which explains why all eight of the world’s
great whales are now on the endangered species list.
Similar arguments can be used to explain why several
terrestrial animals are in danger of extinction and why
foresters continue to clear-cut vast stretches of virgin
jungle without concern over whether it can ever be
regenerated.”

A Louis XIV mentality survives in the attitudes of.
international businessmen who profit from the destruc-
tion of whales and of forests. “After us, the deluge”
would seem to be their motto.

 

 




July, August, September 1975

MIKI DODGES PRESS CLUB
QUESTION ON WHALES

' Japanese Whaling Fleets will Not Be Scaled Down

Twenty-seven conservation, environmental and .hu-
mane groups presented a petition to Prime Minister
Takeo Miki of Japan August fourth, calling for an end to
whaling by Japan and requesting assurance that excess
whaling ships not be sold or transferred for further
whaling. The tragic history of whales has seen transfer of
whaling vessels and equipment from country to country.
In the past the Japanese whaling industry has entered
into joint ventures with other countries and currently
operates such subsidiaries in Peru, Chile and Brazil and
supports whaling operations in Iceland and Korea
through technical assistance and purchase of whale
products.

At the National Press Club Luncheon in Washington
where Miki spoke August sixth, Club President William
Broom noted that the largest numbers of questions
received were on the subject of whales. Stating that he
would condense the questions, he noted that the world
catch of whales was declining, inquired about a possible
end to whaling and asked specifically about the fleet
which The Japan Times had reported would be dropped
from this year’s antarctic voyage: “What are the plans
for disposition of the fleet? Will it be converted or sold to
other countries for continued whaling?”

The Prime Minister did not address these questions at
all. Instead he said the Japanese government would abide
by, without any reservations, the conclusions reached by
the International Whaling Commission in June in
London (a fact already disseminated to the press a week
before by the Japan Whaling Information Center). The
Prime Minister added that “we are going to abide by any
responsible scientific research findings.” He did not
mention, of course, that the recommendations of the
Scientific Committee of the International Whaling
Commission (IWC) were repeatedly, strongly, and
sometimes successfully opposed by the Japanese
Commissioner at the IWC meeting.

A particularly outrageous example occurred with
regard to sei whales in one of the antarctic areas when
Japan rather than following the recommendation of the

Scientific Committee for a quota of zero. In this area, 540
sei whales are now scheduled for slaughter. In another
area 110 additional seis will be available for harpooning.
At an estimated $7,000 per sei whale, that amounts to
$4,550,000. The head of one of the “big three” Japanese
whaling companies, who regularly attends the IWC
meetings, confirmed the estimate of value per sei whale.

Conservationists are asking whether it is these
additional millions going into Japanese whaling industry
pockets that make it possible to send all four whaling
fleets to the antarctic again this year, contrary to the
previous reports. Before the IWC meeting The Japan
Times, June 17, 1975, stated that either one or two of the
ﬂeets would be dropped from the coming season’s voyage
“depending on catch quotas to be decided by the IWC,
based on the new whaling control method.” Now,
however, The Japan Economic Journal, August 5, 1975,
reports: “Three Japanese whaling companies have
decided to maintain the past scale of operations in the
forthcoming Antarctic whaling season, starting next
October, despite the International Whaling Commis-
sion’s vote to cut sharply Japan’s catch quota.* They are
Taiyo Fishery Co, Nippon Suisan Kaisha, Ltd. and
Kyokuyo Co.

“The companies will send four whaling fleets, of which
one is specialized in catching minke whales.”

Meanwhile a significant footnote has been added to
the April 19th San Diego Tribune report “Japan Firm

‘ Seeks Baja Whaling Rights” which stated in part:
“Japanese whaling interests are checking into the
possibility of commercially harvesting gray whale off the
Baja California coast...The proposal to harvest gray
whales off the Mexican coast was made by the Los
Angeles office of Y.M. Pacific company, a Japanese firm
representing the Taiyo Company of Japan, that country’s
leading whaling firm. Under the proposal, Japanese
whaling ships and porcessing vessels would establish
offshore stations to harvest whales on a regular basis.

:9

“Motosuki Yuri, of the Y.M. Pacific Co., said he is
aware that whaling is a very sensitive issue, and that it
will not be easy to get permission from the Mexican
government.”

The new report indicates that the proposal was
accompained by an offer to “invest millions” if the
necessary permits could be obtained. Taiyo has denied
that they were trying to get permission to kill gray whales
in the Mexican whale sanctuary, but the memory lingers
on since Mitsubishi, a giant Japanese conglomerate, has
a salt producing operation at Guerrero Negro in
Scammon’s Lagoon, where the whales congregate each
year.

Mitsubishi also owns a substantial part of Ballenera
del Kinkai in Peru, a whaling operation noteworthy for
its total disregard for conservation principles. After
Peru’s leading wildlife protector, Felipe Benavides,
finally succeeded in having this whaling station inspect-
ed, it was found that half the whales the inspector saw
were undersized. The inspector wrote that everyone
“Seemed to have his lips hermetically sealed.” Peru
refuses to join or adhere to quotas set by the IWC, thus
Japanese whaling in Peru “doesn’t count” in IWC catch
limits. Approximately 2,000 whales are killed off
Peruvian shores each year.

Will excess catcher boats from Japan’s antarctic ﬂeets
be transferred to Peru or other coastal nations to increase
the total whale catch even further? The Japan Economic
Journal report referred to earlier states that “the three
fishing companies are expected to decrease the number
of catcher boats and crew members” going to the
antarctic even though all four fleets will sail as usual.

George Small’s The Blue Whale, winner of the 1972
National Book Award for Science, describes earlier
Japanese government policy on whaling outside the IWC
as follows:

“In October, 1967, Japan granted licenses to 2
companies to engage in whaling off the coast of Chile in
1968. It made no stipulation against the killing of blue
whales although it had the power to do so as a member of
the International Whaling Commission. Under the
Chilean flag they could kill blue whales, ship the whale
products to Japan, and remain exempt from any of the
regulations of the Whaling Commission.”

*Note: This year’s I WC quotas total 32,578 whales, a
reduction of approximately 8,500 from last year.

/ %_\ ...

R \ , 7'.» «rt,

6 \ .; , ,\m,-.a
I

.\ . -_ ’o:~T\‘l\\\

. ,W/V/Z, ”M W/””'H””///////ll/ll'
/ \X W ,. , ,, ,

This picture, courtesy of Friends of the Earth, Ltd., shows
the cruel war on whales still carried out by Japan and the
U.S.S.R. with helicopters, airplanes, ships, radar, ASDIC, and
bombs that detonate inside the whale.

 




October, November, December 1975

PERSECUTION OF DOLPHIN S BY THE
TUNA INDUSTRY TO CONTINUE

Final regulations promulgated December 2nd by the
Secretary of Commerce reverse the strong proposed
regulations published in the Federal Register in
September to reduce the numbers of dolphins* killed by
the tuna industry when it pursues the playful mammals
and encircles them in its gigantic purse seines in order to
capture the schools of tuna fish that swim beneath the
dolphins.

The following excerpts from 1975 government observer
reports, copied by representatives of the Environmental
Defense Fund under the Freedom of Information Act,
exemplify the flouting of the modest National Marine
Fisheries Service regulations, in effect during the past
fishing season, to protect dolphins. The regulations have
yet to be enforced, although the Marine Mammal
Protection Act provides for penalties up to $20,000 fine
and a year in prison for wilful violations.

The regulations require tunaboat captains to “take
every possible step to minimize the incidental mortality
and serious injury of marine mammals.” Conditions of
wind, sea and visibility are specifically mentioned. Yet
observer reports include:

0 “The captain backed down in complete darkness.”
(60 killed)

0 “The usual panicking after dark coupled with poor
visibility and sharks contributed to large mortality.” (123
killed)

0 “Sun was almost down when set began. Lots of
spinners. l was surprised the set was even made.” (16
killed)

0 “The primary cause of mortality was definitely the
extremely strong current. The net collapsed and many
porpoise were trapped in canopies.” (64 killed)

The regulations also specify that the purse seine
should not be set when the number of dolphins or tuna
are likely to cause mortality. Yet observers noted:

0 “Most of the porpoise not caught in the net are
packed tightly together.” (120 killed)

0 “Backdown after disaster. Too many porpoise -
several deaths before backdown, entanglement in 2” and
4” webbing - mass entrapment - just too many porpoise.
They were packed like sardines.” (133 killed)

0 “Porpoise set more than I ever thought possible.
About one mile long by 1/2 mile - solid...Now that they are
caught it looks unreal. Where do they come from? They
almost fill up the net completely. Skipper says at least
150 tons of tuna...Wind is gusty at 20 knots. It’s getting
rough and a frightening rip current. The rip current is
making this set a disaster.” (738 killed)

The regulations require that “backdown and other
release procedures be continued until all live animals

have been released from the net.” But observers report:

0 “Skipper reluctant to prolong backdown to extradite
those unfortunate remaining spotted porpoise.” (12
killed)

0 “There was no backdown; contents of net (9 porpoise)
was sacked and dumped out.”

0 “When backdown was terminated I counted at least
50 porpoise alive in the net.” (66 killed)

0 “Skipper ended backdown when there was still a
good number in net and cork tenders didn’t reach them
in time.” (5 killed) -

0 “During backdown 30 left in net. Captain sai
—-—————-— and ended backdown. All died being sacked up
except one went through powerblock alive.”

The regulations specify: “During and after backing
down operation at least two men shall remain at the
corkline in a boat suitable to extricate live entangled
porpoises, where possible, and release them over the
corkline.” Yet observers report:

0 “I went out there believing that the fishermen would
do anything, even risk their life, to save porpoise. This
was a complete fallacy on my boat. First of all, there was
only one rescuer at corks (I assumed that there would be
2 or more). Secondly, he not only did not risk his life for
porpoise, he did very little to help them at all, and

Vol. 24 No. 4

thirdly, I was surprised when I saw him using a big gaff .
(which he used throughout the entire trip) to remove live
porpoise from the backdown area. Also, the net tender in
this boat stayed tied to the side of the backdown area
during backdowns, not going to help porpoise until
backdown was almost completed.” '

0 “No fish in net, just porpoise. Tender watched
porpoise die - no effort was made to reach them until too
late. If you are not going to try to release porpoise, why
have a man in the backdown area?”

0 “One of the tagged ones was injured seriously; he
thrashed around on deck like he had internal injuries,
bleeding out of the mouth. Once released, he found it
difficult to swim and disappeared. I think he probably
died.” (15 killed)

0 “About 30% of these porpoise were babies, some of
them aborted.” (40 killed)

0 “One newborn went through the powerblock and was
dumped dead.”

0 “Because net collapsed and malfunctions occurred,
mass mortality occurred. Large number of porpoise
caught in folds of net suffocated.” (183 killed)

0 “One problem occurred when the skipper had me
removed from deck during a set because I would not say
that I would falsify my tally sheets (number porpoise
killed)”

Reports like these stand in stark contrast to the
promises made by the tuna industry during hearings held
prior to the enactment of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act. Back in 1971 the Congress and the public
were assured that the industry had the problem “licked.”
Captain Joe Medina stated, “One point I am trying to
make, the fishermen will do anything to save the
porpoise. We always have and always will, but I think
this new net has been the salvation for us and I think we
have the problem licked...in a year the whole ﬂeet will
convert over and everybody will have the new net...we
have the problem licked. I say this is one thing fishermen
always try to do is save the porpoise caught because with-
out them we would not be in business.”

So much for the gratitude of the tuna industry.
Hundreds of thousands of dolphins have died in the
purse seines or been mangled in the powerblocks since
the 1971 hearings, but the Tuna Research Foundation
has just created a new film intended to convince viewers
that crewmen constantly risk their lives jumping into
shark-infested waters to help the dolphins out of the net!
The film was shown to key members of Congress to gain
their support in the industry’s successful campaign to
weaken proposed regulations.

Public protest against the cruelty and against the
misrepresentation, which is designed to cover up the
cruelty, may move a greedy industry, deaf to the pleas of
conservation and humane groups. We suggest you
express your views to the presidents of the following
major tuna canners. Van Camp has just had three huge
new purse seiners, costing approximately five million
dollars each, built for it. The larger the vessel the more
dolphins it kills.

Del Monte Corp.

215 Freemont St.

P.O. Box 3575

San Francisco, CA 94119

Bumble Bee Seafoods Star-Kist Foods, Inc.
50 California Street 582 Tuna Street
San Francisco, CA 94111 Terminal Island, CA 90731

H. J. Heinz Co.
PO. Box 57
Pittsburgh, PA 15230

Van Camp Sea Food Co.
PO. Box 82568
San Diego, CA 92138

Ralston-Purina
Checkerboard Square
St. Louis, MO 63188

*Editor's Note: For all practical purposes, the words “dolphin" and “porpoise”
are interchangeable. "Dolphin" is derived from the Creek. The ancient Greeks
admired and cooperated with the dolphins and never killed them. but rather
rewarded them for their assistance in ﬁshing. The word ”porpoise" derives from
the Latin “porcus” (pig) “piscis” (fish). a derogatory description by sailors who
killed these beautiful intelligent creatures for their oil. The AWI prefers to use the
word “dolphin," but in quotations the word “porpoise" will be found since it is
the term adopted by the National Marine Fisheries Service and the tuna industry.

 

 




IN PRAISE OF WHALES

The National Whale Symposium held at the University
of Indiana in Bloomington, November 9-12, drew great
audiences including save the whale activists, marine
biologists, artists, teachers and students from across the
COuntry and even across the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
Envisioned by John Jay Goodman, an undergraduate
who spent a year planning and organizing it, the series of
musical, artistic, scientific, and political events, many of
them taking place simultaneously in numerous auditoria
and halls of the University, surpassed all expectations.

A huge sculpture by Larry Foster on a level green lawn
gave the impression of a whale surfacing. It was
constantly surrounded by fascinated children. The
children’s own exhibition arranged by Tamar Griggs who
edited There ’s A Sound in the Sea (The Scrimsha'w Press,
. 1975) consisted of the original drawings and paintings,
poems and statements she selected from thousands of
youthful expressions on whales. Eight foot long paper
sculptures made by children of the major whale species
floated above the heads of the viewers.

The New York Camerata played two new musical
compositions commissioned for the event. ROger Payne’s
“Songs of the Humpback Whale” were beautifully
interwoven in “Elegy for a Whale”. Dr. Payne himself
took an active part in the symposium as did Dr. Sidney
Holt of the United Nations Food and Agriculture
Organization who has brought his scientific expertise to
bear in efforts to control whaling nations.

Dr. Edward Mitchell of the Fisheries Research Board
of Canada gave his audience a glimpse at the unscientific
methods of the International Whaling Commission’s
Scientific Committee where papers may be submitted,
used as arguments with respect to the state of whale
stocks and permissible quotas, then withdrawn and never
published. Dr. Mitchell’s scholarly reporting on the
small whales, whose capture is not even subject to weak
IWC controls, raised great concern about the future of
these creatures being killed in large numbers for their oil
and meat.

Felipe Benavides, Peru’s leading conservationist,
concluded the conference with a ringing call to protect
the whales. Resolutions adopted at the close of the
symposium included support of a consumer boycott of all
products from the Soviet Union and Japan until a
ten-year moratorium on whaling is achieved, support of
Congressional bills calling for an embargo on products of
commercial whaling companies, establishment of a killer
whale sanctuary in Puget Sound, and establishment of a
limit on the number of dolphins that may be killed by the
tuna industry in the coming fishing season.

“EMPEROR HIROHITO PLEASE
SAVE THE WHALES”

Demonstrations pleading with Emperor Hirohito to
use his influence to end commercial whaling by Japan
took place in most of the cities that the Emperor visited,
October 2nd to 13th.

A report in The Washington Star, October 3, 1975,
headed “Terribly, Terribly Polite...But a Whale of a
Protest” by Lee Flor read in part, “The lawn was rain
lush green and the sun pushing through overcast skies as
Hirohito, the 124th emperor of Japan and the first of his
line to visit the continental United States, alighted from
his limousine at the White House South Portico and
President Ford walked forward to shake hands. Suddenly
a loud buzz pierced the decorous calm and a tiny plane
trailing a 100-foot long banner flew through the northern
sky. ‘Emperor Hirohito Please Save the Whales’ said the
banner.

“The message from the Animal Welfare Institute, a
leader in the fight to preserve the world’s dwindling
whale population, was one of a surprisingly few
unanticipated events to challenge security forces during
the Emperor’s first day in Washington...The tiny plane
never flew closer than three blocks north of the White
House and did not violate its air space according to the
Federal Aviation Administration.”

Reports on the flight appeared world wide - even in
China and received front page notice in The New York
Times, The Wall Street Journal and The Washington
Post. The United Press reported on the demonstration at
Woods Hole, Massachusetts, organized by Carol Koury,
where a thirty foot banner stretched between two boats
reading “Your Imperial Majesty, The Whole World
Looks To You As Emperor Of A Great Maritime Nation
And As A Distinguished Marine Biologist To End The
Commercial Killing Of Whales.”

In Tokyo, The Yomiuri Shimbun, October 4, 1975,
headlined its report “Direct Appeal Using Cessna
Airplane - Demonstrations for Protection of Whale Will
Be Still Continued,” and began, “Associations for the
Protection of the Whale waited for the Emperor and
Empress, preparing a big placard on which Fuji-Yama
mountain was drawn just like “Fugakuzu” by Hokusai.”
(The print by Katusushika Hokusai (1760-1849) is one of
the most famous of the Ukiyoe school. Fuji-Yama
appears in the distance behind an enormous curved
ocean wave.)

The demonstrations were carried on Japanese
television via satellite to Japan.

Current Status of Japanese and Russian Whaling

According to press reports, the minke whale fleet was
dropped from Japan’s antarctic whaling expedition this
year, and a further cut-back is anticipated in March
when consolidation of the whaling companies is expected
to be worked out. However, no final report is available
yet.

The Novosti Press Agency of Moscow reported,
November 3, 1975, “It is not merely in words but also in
deeds that the Soviet Union is considerably reducing
whaling in the antarctic,” Mr. Vladimir Tverjanovich,
chief specialist of the USSR Ministry of Fisheries, said in
a Soviet press interview in connection with the
forthcoming whaling season. “The Soviet Union would
not be sending this year one of its three fleets, the Yuri
Dolgoruki, which is based in the Baltic, and had reduced
the total number of its whaling vessels.”

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

S cientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.
Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.

Paul Kiernan. M.D.
F. Barbara Orlans. Ph.D.

Samuel Peacock. MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.-—Greece

David Ricardo—Canada

N. E. Wernberg—Denmark

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.l. Biol.—-United Kingdom

Christine Stevens, President

Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Cynthia Wilson, Vice—President Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

Marilyn Chamberlain, Publications Secretary
Kristina Harper. Administrative Assistant
Janet Keyes. Whale Campaign Secretary

 




January, February, March, 1976

GOVERNOR LAMM URGES COLORADOAN S
NOT TO BUY GOODS FROM JAPAN OR
RUSSIA TILL THEY STOP WHALING

Colorado Save the Whales Symposium Precedes
Whale Week

In an Executive Order issued March 1, 1976, Hon.
Richard D. Lamm of Colorado proclaimed save the
Whale Week March 7-13. The Proclamation reads as
follows:

“Whereas, the complexity and variety of life forms
that inhabit this planet with us add to the beauty and
quality of our lives; and

“Whereas, whales are just now being recognized as
gentle, social and perhaps next to the human race, the
most intelligent animal on earth; and

“Whereas, modern expensive whaling fleets have
systematically driven the larger species of whales to near
extinction and are turning to smaller species as well as
smaller and younger members within each species; and

“Whereas, Japan and Russia account for over 85% of
the 30,000 whales killed each year; and

“Whereas, the only justification for continuation of
this practice is short term economic profit since virtually
all products which are derived from whales have
substitutes which don’t require the extermination of a
species; and

“Whereas, Colorado, being at such altitudes where
oxygen is in much more limited supply than along the
coasts, is tied very closely to the delicate balance of the
ocean where 70% of our oxygen is photosynthetically
produced; and

“Whereas, it is felt that as the whales go so go the
oceans, and as the oceans go so goes the environment,
causing the whale to become the symbol of the inter-
national environmental movement;

“Now, therefore, 1, Richard D. Lamm, Governor of the
State of Colorado, do hereby proclaim the week of March
7-13, 1976, as Save the Whale Week in the State of
Colorado, and urge all citizens of Colorado to join with
the five million Americans who have pledged to refrain
from purchasing Japanese and Russian goods and
services until these countries agree to stop whaling.”

 

“Whales in the Rockies”

A Colorado Save the Whales Symposium was held at
the University of Colorado at Fort Collins, March 5, 6,
and 7, 1976. Coordinated by Steve Smith and Bruce
Imfeld of the Colorado Student Coalition, the sympo-
sium featured a talk entitled “The Bloody Whaling
Business” by Rex Weyler of the Greenpeace Foundation
following a film of last summer’s confrontation with the

Greenpeace Photo

Russians 150 miles off the California coast where sperm .
whales were being harpooned. After a send-off by some
25,000 well-wishers in Vancouver, British Columbia, the
Phyllis Cormack, manned by a Greenpeace crew, went to
sea to find whales and whalers and to attempt to put a
human shield between the two by 10wering two Zodiacs at
the site of the harpooning.

The photograph shows one of the two zodiacs with the
Russian factory ship and two catcher boats. Weyler
described how the harpoon gun shot just over the zodiac
killing a female sperm whale. A male sperm whale
attacked the Russian catcher boat, but his brave attempt
was ended when he was blasted by another explosive
harpoon. The Russian vessel then left the area. and eight
whales escaped. at least from that attack.

Tom Garrett, Conservation Director of Friends of the
Earth and a US. delegate to the IWC spoke on “The
International Whaling Commission - Past, Present and
Future” describing his experiences in trying to get the
Commission to adopt a ten-year moratorium on
commercial whale killing.

Tamar Griggs’ show of childrens paintings, poems and
stories of whales (now being handled by the Smithsonian
Institution) formed the pictorial framework in which
whale films, speeches and discussions took place.
Paintings by local children were also included.

“Boycott” was the title of the speech by Christine
Stevens. President of the Animal Welfare Institute.

It was the organizers of the symposium who
approached Governor Lamm with the idea of the
proclamation. They found the Governor, a well known
environmentalist, very receptive. He had read A Whale
for the Killing by Farley Mowat and had been deeply
moved by the book. Great appreciation of the Governor’s
actiOn was expressed at the conclusion of the program.

 

SEA WORLD RELINQUISHES FIVE
KILLER WHALES

Orcinus orca, the killer whale, is now worth $100,000
to $125,000 each. Sea World, Inc., possessor of a permit
issued by the National Marine Fisheries Service (US.
Department of Commerce), authorizing it to capture four
of these small. toothed whales before the end of the year,
pursued a pod with a fast boat and aircraft for some “.5
miles down Puget Sound before capturing five. Several
hundred people saw the maneuvers and their reaction
was one of widespread anger.

Senator Warren Magnuson, who has been pressing for
a killer whale sanctuary in Puget Sound, had just
reiterated his request to Governor Dan Evans when the
Sea World capture crew made headlines on their whale
round—up.

The Attorney General instituted legal proceedings on
behalf of the Governor for release of the whales and
revocation of Sea World’s permit on the grounds of
extreme harassment and inhumane treatment of the
whales which had not been revealed in the application

 




Photo by George Bryant

for the permit. While Sea World was appealing the
injunction issued by Judge Sharp which would have
required release of the whales, two of them escaped from
the net which imprisoned them. A third was released
because it was larger than the size designated in the
permit. But two of the whales were removed to Sea
World’s tank on the Seattle waterfront where the whales
were measured and remeasured. One was determined to
be 17’ 11%” long - just one quarter inch short of being
oversize for the permit limitation.

A further two days in court, March 22 and 23, brought
about a settlement in which the whales were released to
Dr. Albert W. Erickson of the University of Washington
for a period not to exceed 60 days. Erickson holds a
permit for attaching radio transmitters to whales in order
to trace their movements. Sea World agreed never to
attempt another capture of killer whales in State of
Washington waters. (British Columbia has taken
separate action to prohibit taking in its waters). However,
Sea World still holds a valid permit to catch four whales
elsewhere.

Although the world population of this remarkable
species has never been accurately determined, scientific
data recently developed suggests that such estimates as
have been made are overestimates. Work by Dr. Michael
Bigg, using new photographic methods, indicates a
population of resident and transient orcas in the Puget
Sound area of about 65 to 70 in four pods. Previously it
had been thought that there were as many as 300.
Even the highest estimate of the world population is only
10,000 animals.* Great whales whose estimated
populations are at this level are on the Endangered
Species List. While evidence has not yet been put forward
to require listing of killer whales, this may soon become
necessary, especially since the species’ habits cause those
outside the antarctic to spend much time in waters not
far removed from shore. It is thus subject to danger from
pollution to a greater extent than species spending more
time in the open ocean.

Estimates of the world wide population vary widely
with estimates at 2,500, 3,000, 4,000 and 10,000 with the
assumption that most of them live in the antarctic.

When killer whales are captured it is not at all unusual
for one or more to die.

Senator Magnuson introduced a bill, 5.3130, to amend
the Marine Mammal Protection Act to establish a

permanent moratorium on the capture of killer whales.
The bill has passed the US. Senate.

An identical bill was introduced in the House by
Congressman Don Bonker.

 

, A WHALE MAKES FRIENDS

According to George Bryant, Associate Travel Editor
for the Toronto Star, who took the photograph of the
playful young gray whale, “The first friendly encounter
between whale and human ever recorded took place this
week. A young 30-foot seven-ton gray whale dubbed
Nacho made history by seeking out the company of man,
using a rubber dingy as a plaything and allowing himself
to be petted and scratched...

“Estimated to be 2 years old and to weigh nearly as
much as two full—grown elephants, he played like a
boisterous youngster, rolling and splashing and diving,

nudging and butting the raft and obviously enjoying the
human attention.

“At frequent intervals he would suspend himself in a
vertical position and slide his giant head from the water
to see what his audience was doing and to be scratched
and petted.

“At no time did he make an aggressive move. In fact,
his every action was surprisingly gentle, moving his
gigantic body only inches at a time when being handled
by humans.

“He appeared beside the ship in the afternoon while
the three dinghies were away from the ship and
played about the hull for an hour, once seizing the
anchor rope in his mouth and starting to tow it away.

“Then the dinghies returned and he went off to meet
them.

“He followed the rubber craft back to the ship and
then. apparently enchanted by the texture of the rafts,
began nuzzling and playing around one that had been
trailed from the stern.

“He pushed it and rubbed it, bounced it on his nose,
lifted it on his back, dove beneath it and generally acted
like a mammoth pup with a new toy.

“Periodically he would slide his great head from the
sea to allow a jet of water from the stern of the Salado to
play on his face or let the ship’s 33 passengers stroke his
nose and scratch his cheeks.”

The young whale left at nine pm. but was back before
six the next morning and played through the day. “At
one point the skipper of the Salado, John Koehler, went
into the raft to repair a line broken by the playful toss of
the whale and Nacho (the Spanish diminutive for the
name of the lagoon) slid the forward part of his head into
the air beside the craft — towering above both it and John
- in an obvious attempt to see what had changed the
weight of his plaything.

“This projection of the head vertically above the water
by whales is known as spy hopping and there has been
argument about its purpose.

“Some cetologists (whale experts) maintain it is done
to assist digestion while others say that it is dbne to bring
the eyes, which are well back on the head, above the
water.

“Well, there was no doubt about what Nacho was
doing. He was taking a look into the dinghy. And having
satisfied his curiosity, he began to play again with the
craft and John, lifting both in the air and obviously
enjoying the whole thing.

“But with all his weight and power he never once
turned the raft over.“

(Readers who wish a complete reprint of the article may
write to AWl to request a free copy.)

 

NEW ZEALAND BANS COMMERCE
IN WHALES

The government of New Zealand has banned
importation of whale products. The action was prompted
by the government’s concern about the depletion of
world whale stocks, and the fact that some species are
faced with extinction.

The import prohibition covers whales, live or dead,
meat and edible meat offals of whales, whalebone,

 




ambergris, whale oil, whale fat, sperm oil and train oil,
and spermaceti.

The Minister of Overseas Trade stated that in
introducing this restriction, New Zealand was following
the lead of the United States which operates a total ban
and other nations such as Australia and the United
Kingdom which have partial bans on the importation of
whale products. Recent evidence suggested that this type
of action has been successful in bringing moral pressure
to bear on those nations still involved in large scale
whaling to review their operations. It was hoped that New
Zealand’s action would add to this pressure.

 

FUJITA HEADS NEW CONSOLIDATED
COMMERCIAL WHALING COMPANY

The Japanese whaling industry has undergone a major
reduction in vessels and personnel. A new company, the
Japan Joint Whaling Company, was formed February
16th. According to The Japan Times of that date, it “will
begin operation in northern Pacific waters in May.” The
three big fishing companies, Taiyo, Nippon Suisan and
Kyokuyo, each put up 32% of the capitalnand three small
ones added one or one and a half per cent. Whaling
department personnel will be reduced from about 3000
to 1500. Head of the new Japan Joint Whaling Company
is lwao Fujita, former director of the government
fisheries agency, Japanese Commissioner last year to the
International Whaling Commission, and head of the
Japan Whaling Association.

According to the Tokyo Shimbun (February 15, 1976)
Japan has 34 whaling vessels, but the new joint whaling
company is buying only three factory ships and 20
catcher boats. That leaves 11 vessels unaccounted for. A
short term regulation has prevented sale of these vessels
outside the country but such temporary measures cannot
be relied upon in the future especially since the Japanese
press uniformly reports that the new Japan Joint
Whaling Company faces serious financial problems. As
The Japan Times (March 3, 1976) stated, “...Japan, the
largest whaling nation in the world, found itself
increasingly isolated at International Whaling Commis-
sion meetings and other related international confer-
ences despite its vigorous campaign to defend its
position. The country came under pressure particularly
from animal protection and environmentalist groups in
the U.S. and other advanced Western nations which
claimed that Japan was hunting the whales to
extinction.”

The Japan Times explains that Mr. Fujita is.“less
than confident, however, when it comes to the immediate
business prospects of his fledgling company. He expects
that operations will remain in the red or stay barely at
break-even point ‘for the time being’ partly because the
market is limited and partly because production costs,
particularly payrolls, have risen. Demand is a critical
factor in the continued operation of the whaling industry.
Some people raise the possibility that demand for the
whale meat may diminish as the Japanese dietary
standard improves. As an official of the Fisheries Agency
points out, whale meat does not taste particularly good,
and housewives buy it because it is cheap.

“Japan consumes about 100,000 tons of whale meat a
year (in 1973, according to the Japanese Whaling

Association, one fourth of it was imported from the
Soviet Union). That represents one per cent of the
nation’s total annual fish catch.”

Conservationists have expressed concern lest the
excess whaling equipment be merely shifted to nations
such as Peru or Chile which are not even subject to
International Whaling Commission restrictions. Kinkai,
the whaling company in Peru, is owned by major
Japanese business concerns and ships whale products to
Japan.

The Far Eastern Economic Review (March 26, 1976)
states, “The Japanese are also reported to have been
negotiating the sale of these additional boats to Third
World Countries which are interested in whaling but are
not members of the AWI and so not bound by quota
restrictions.”

 

April, May, June, 1976

 

1976 MEETING OF THE INTERNATIONAL
WHALING COMMISSION

The two major whaling nations, Russia and Japan,
again demonstrated in unmistakable terms at the 1976
meeting of the International Whaling Commission their
unwillingness to acCept scientific assessment of the
populations of whales in setting limits to the killing.

The Scientific Committee of the International
Whaling Commission recommended major reductions in
the harpooning of sperm whales. In one area, for
example, Japan proposed that 3188 should be killed,
while the IWC Committee said the number should be
reduced to 826. Although Japan, in. the person of Mr.
Yonezawa, a fisheries scientist who has long advocated
maximum whale killing, led the fight, it is the Soviet
Union that is most interested in sperm whales. Sperm oil
is used in Russian missiles and submarines.

Six separate votes were recorded as the hard-core
whaling countries confronted the whale conservation
countries on the sperm whale question. Dr. Robert
White, U.S. Commissioner, stated ﬂatly: “The United
States made its compromise with the whaling nations last
year. We won’t compromise on the compromise. The
U.S. intends to stick with the recommendations of the
Scientific Committee even if we leave without a quota.”
Dr. Andreas Rozental, Mexican Commissioner, said that
if one more whale than the Scientific Committee allowed

.were placed on the quota it would show that the New

Management Procedure had failed, and if the whaling
nations were going back to the whole system of political
bartering, Mexico would demand the total moratorium
which, he predicted, could pass in 1977. The
Commissioner for New Zealand which has just rejoined
the Commission, pronounced himself stunned by the
whaling nations’ effort to double the sperm whale quota.
He said the whale has become a symbol for
environmental pressure the world over, and that there
were very real political pressures in his country for its
protection.

Despite all pleas, however, Japan, Russia, South
Africa, Norway and Denmark formed a block against
conservationist votes till the very end of the meeting
when, after a long filibuster by Mr. Yonezawa who made
lengthy appeals to what he characterized as an
“unwritten law” of the IWC against a second vote on the
same numbers, the fifteen commissioners voted 10 to 3
with 2 abstentions to accept the Scientific Committee
recommendations on sperm whales in the Southern
Hemisphere. South Africa and Norway abstained, while
the Danish Commissioner followed the lead of Japan and
Russia to the very end. ,

If either or both of these countries decide to take an
objection to the decisions reached by the 3A majority of
the International Whaling Commission they can do so
up to September 25, and in that case they will not be
bound by the terms of the treaty. If they adhere, it is
expected that a further reduction in whaling equipment
and personnel will be made this year. Japan reduced
industry employees from 3000 to 1500 last year, and
Russia dropped one of its three antarctic ﬂeets.

The reduction of Japanese and Russian fleets will not
prevent extinction of the whales, however, if excess
whaling vessels and equipment are transferred to other
nations for more whale killing. The United States was
defeated in its attempt to amend the Schedule of the
IWC so that member nations would be bound by treaty
obligations not to transfer whaling vessels. Japan led the
fight against it and even opposed a nonbinding
resolution on the same subject. This resolution passed
but its ineffectiveness was made clear by the Chairman of
the Technical Committee who sought to win the Japanese
vote by pointing out, “A resolution is not binding on
anyone.”

A second resolution against purchase of whale
products from countries that do not adhere to IWC
quotas was also opposed by the whaling nations. Only
Argentina, France, Mexico and New Zealand supported
this U.S. proposal. Meantime, the pirate whaler MV
Sierra plies its trade, killing hundreds of endangered sei
and Bryde’s whales and throwing most of their bodies

 




back into the sea, keeping only the choicer cuts for sale in
the Japanese whale meat market. Registered in
Lichtenstein with a South African captain, ﬂying the
Angolan ﬂag, and labelling the meat “Product of Spain”
it pays no attention to the IWC quotas or regulations -
and the IWC refuses to adopt so much as a resolution to
discourage purchase of its products.

Although both Russia and Japan must take a part of
the responsibility, it has recently been charged that
South Korea is guilty of driving the gray whales on the
Asian side of the Pacific to extinction, yet Japan buys
whalemeat from South Korea and insists that the whales
killed by that country not be included in the IWC quota.
Mr. Uchimura, the Japanese Commissioner, said South
Korea would demand compensation if Japan ceased
buying whale meat from her.

Repeated efforts have been made by the United States
to persuade South Korea to join the IWC, but these
efforts have failed, and South Korea is free to kill as
many whales as she can of any species, age or condition
without so much as accounting for them.

It may seem contradictory to readers of this report that
efforts are made to bring nations into the IWC when it is
so weak an organization, so weighted in favor of
commercial whalers. If there were another forum, the
IWC should be disbanded. But so long as even small
reforms can be made through its quotas and regulations
it is better that all whaling fall within its regulations,
however feeble. But the big whaling nations want to keep
the IWC weak. For example, Japan threatened to “take a
reservation” (that is, refuse to adhere to the decision) if it
had to increase its contribution to the IWC in a
substantial manner.

The Soviet Union reacted violently to a proposal that
the quotas be based on weight rather than on numbers of
whales. (The weight per whale of sperm whales has been
going down steadily under the fierce hunting pressure).
Mr. Nikoronov, the Soviet Commissioner, called the
weight criteria “worse than the global moratorium.” He
said that “actual operations will become impossible
under such drastic measures.” Again the conﬂict
between whaling and scientific analysis came to the
surface.

Sometimes the scientific analysis is stymied within the
Scientific Committee itself. Dr. Sidney Holt was called
upon in the meeting of the Commissioner to tell of a
miscalculation on sei whales in the antarctic, two stocks
of which he characterized as “extremely depleted.” In
Area II they are down to 30% or less of their original
population because they were left open to exploitation.
The Chairman of the Scientific Committee spoke of a
lack of data at the beginning of the meeting - yet no
corrective action was taken by the Commissioners. The
whales are far from safe under the jurisdiction of the
IWC.

Quotas set for 1976 total 27,939 whales, and, of course,
this does not take into account the whales killed by
countries that don’t belong to the IWC. Last year whalers
were unable to meet all the quotas allowed them even
though these were reduced by about 8,500. The results of
the further quota reduction of about 5,000 this year
remain to be seen but they are not likely to make much
difference to the whales since the bulk of the reduction
comes in quotas for sperm whales in the Southern
Hemisphere where whalers missed reaching last year’s
quota by about 4,000 whales.

In short, reductions in quotas sound like much more
substantial progress than they really are, for where they
merely reflect the whalers’ inability to find the whales to
kill such progress is illusory. What is needed is the ten
year moratorium on commercial whaling unanimously
adopted at the Stockholm Conference on the Human
Environment and called for by conservation and humane
groups world-wide. Dr. Kai Curry-Lindahl, spokesman
for the United Nations Environment Programme,
emphasized that UNEP is committed to the ten year
moratorium. The United States and France restated
their desire for the moratorium. Mexico cited Mexican
law as “totally prohibiting exploitation of all marine
mammals, especially whales.” New Zealand and France
referred to legislation in preparation in their countries
for further protection of marine mammals. New Zealand
recently prohibited imports of whale products and
France expects to do so soon. But these are only a few
countries.

Australia still kills sperm whales and her nationals
chair both the IWC itself and its Scientific Committee.
Conservation moves were more than once ruled out of
order from the chair.

Next year’s IWC meeting will be held in Canberra,
Australia June 20-25.

 

July, August, September, 1976

 

WHALING FLEETS ON THE DECLINE

The public outcry against commercial whaling is taking a steady
toll of the Japanese and Soviet whaling ﬂeets. \These marauding
factories for whale butchery may soon disappear from the high
seas if the present trend continues.

Japan has just announced a 50% reduction in its pelagic

whaling operations for the upcoming whaling season. Just two
fleets will sail to the Antarctic. Last year there were three, the year
before there were four Japanese fleets. Only one Japanese fleet
will work the North Pacific next summer.

The Japan Joint Whaling Company, formed last spring when
the six Japanese whaling companies consolidated their operations,
now has just three factory ships and 20 catcher boats. Only two
years ago, there were at least six factory ships and more than 80
catcher boats sailing under the Japanese flag. The new company is
poorly capitalized and is reportedly suffering huge losses in its
attempt to keep the whaling industry alive. Before the
consolidation, one of the major whaling companies, Nippon
Suisan, reported a $5 million loss on its Antarctic fleet.

The total Japanese Antarctic whale catch this year was just 5%
of the Japanese catch in 1964. The declining catches and
international pressure forced a 50% reduction in the whaling'
workforce last year, from 3000 to 1500. The recent
announcement means a further reduction to 750 workers.

Bowing to intense pressure, the Soviets announced September
30 that they would not file an objection to the new sperm whale
quotas set in June by the International Whaling Commission. The
Soviets had bitterly fought the 55% reduction in Southern Ocean
sperm whales, their principal quarry. Last season the two Soviet
fleets killed more than 6400 sperm whales in the Antarctic. This
winter it looks as if they will be allowed only 4500. It is
questionable whether the Soviets can afford to send two fleets
again for such a reduced quota.

The Soviets apparently divulged their long-range whaling plans
when a Russian diplomat inadvertently stated that they would end
whaling within two years. The incident occurred in Vancouver on
August 25 when a press conference was held aboard a visiting
Russian warship.

Nikolai Makarov, charge d’affaires at the Soviet embassy in
Ottawa, was asked to comment on the activities of the Greenpeace
anti-whaling expedition. Makarov replied that the whaling
controversy had become “a political matter” to the Soviet Union
and that they would end commercial whaling “in a year or two.”

The Soviet diplomat wasn’t supposed to disclose his country’s
whaling plans, because the Ministry of Fisheries in Moscow
promptly denied Makarov’s statement. The fisheries ministry
spokesman did say, however, that the Soviets will not be doing
“much” whaling by 1980 because of the dwindling whale
population.

It in fact the Soviets do go out of whaling soon, the pressure will
intensify enormously on the Japanese to do the same. Both
countries have acted in concert in whaling strategy for many years.

Japan is already deeply concerned about the international
outcry against her whaling operations. The Japanese business
community has begun to speak out against whaling in the
corporate boardrooms of Tokyo. The boycott has done
considerable damage to Japanese sales in the US. and to the
image of Japanese business overseas. The government of Prime
Minister Miki is also moving to put an end to the dying whaling
industry. Only labor union opposition to job cuts is keeping the
whaling ships on the ocean.

On July 28 the New York Times editorialized: “The boycott of
Japanese products by private American groups—and the threat of
its spread—persuaded the Tokyo Government that a sentiment it
may have thought was quixotic was nonetheless real and deeply
felt. The Soviet Union perhaps can be persuaded as the Japanese
have been, that survival of the fabulous whale is not a passing flight
of fancy but a matter of continuing deep and serious world
concern."

Now is the time to redouble our pressure on Japan and the
Soviet Union to finally convince them to put a quick end to their
dying whaling industries. Write to the leaders of these countries
and demand that they heed the outcry of the international
community. Their addresses are:

Prime Minister Takeo Miki, Embassy of Japan,

2520 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Washington, DC. 20008

General Secretary Leonid Brezhnev, Embassy of USSR,
1125 16th St NW, Washington, DC. 20036

 




October, November, December, 1976

 

GOVERNOR BROWN FOCUSES ON WHALES

“California Celebrates The Whale” was the title of Governor
Jerry Brown’s hommage to the largest animals ever to live on
earth. Speeches, films, music, and exhibits, featuring Roger
Payne’s narration of his observations of the lives of the Southern
Right whales, drew huge ‘crowds to Sacramento, November 20th.
Many organizations, including the AWI, had booths for the public.
Volunteers Nancy Motz, George and Harriet Powell, and others
distributed AWI fliers and bumper stickers urging the boycott of
Japanese and Russian goods. AWI helped make possible the
appearance of the celebration’s most knowledgable historian of the
destruction of the great whales, Tom Garrett, Conservation
Director of Friends of the Earth, whose comprehensive analysis of
the plight of the whales brought home the extreme urgency for
action to his listeners. His address appears in full below:

A TIME OF MAXIMUM PERIL
by Tom Garrett

Ladies and Gentlemen, for 50 million years since early in the
Eocene epoch the lines of mammals leading to moden whales
evolved and flourished in the oceans, entirely free of direct
influence of terrestrial animals.

In the past 1000 years, hardly an evolutionary flick of an
eyelash, an entire suborder of unique and magnificent mammals,

the whalebone whales, and several species of toothed whales as
well, have been pushed within sight of the awful vertex of
biological extinction by human whalers. Most of this has occurred
within the past 300 years, much of it within our lifetimes.

There have been many thousands of humans over the years;
investors, inventors and engineers; sailors down on their luck, or
too drunk to know better, who signed aboard a yankee whaler;
laborers toiling in the stench and steam of a modern factory ship,
who.have worked—knowingly or haplessly—toward the destruc-
tion of the great whales.

Compensation has ranged from the merest pittance to an
average 50% return on investment during the humpback phase of
modern whaling from 1908 to 1914. But whaling has, by and
large, been unusually profitable, reflecting the vulnerability of its
victims. The city of Sandefjord, seat of Vestfold county Norway,
which served for 70 years as the human womb for the growth of
modern whaling, enjoyed during much of that period the highest
per capita income of any city in the world.

The employment peak for modern whaling occurred in
1960-61, when 19,641 men (9748 Japanese) worked aboard the
expeditions engaged in antarctic whaling. This occurred 30 years
after the peak kill in antarctic whaling, when 10,691 men, virtually
all Norwegian took 21/2 times the biomass of whales taken in 1961,
with a ﬂeet of catcher boats having less than 1/3 the total
horsepower. It occurred when the antarctic Humpback stocks were
gone, the Blue whales virtually gone, the collapse of the fin whale
stocks imminent and in clear view. It occurred 32 years after Lars
Christensen, President of A/ S Thor Dahl, Norway’s largest whaling
company began reinvesting profits from whaling into shipping on
the theory that the destruction of the whales had become
inevitable. The great surprise to the Norwegian and British in-
vestors and to most scientists was not that the stocks collapsed, but
that they lasted as long as they did.

No whaling ship has left Sandefjord in nine years. This coming
antarctic season with an expected Japanese workforce at under
1500, and a slightly larger Soviet contingent, the pelagic work-
force will total between 3000 and 3500.

It is only now, with the ability of whales to sustain the death tech-
nology unleashed against them nearing its end, that the effort
being expended to save whales has risen toward parity with the
pressure for their destruction. It is only now that we have some
basis for hoping that at least some species of commercially exploit-
able whales will not share the earlier fate of stocks and species
more vulnerable, and that the tragedy of the great whales will not
progress to the macabre conclusion so long predicted.

During the past two years, the IWC has adopted quotas under a
scheme called the “New Management Procedure” which have
led to complete protection for Fin whales in all oceans except the
North Atlantic, for Sei whales in one area of the antarctic and in
the Pacific. The baleen whale biomass available to the whaling
industry under IWC quotas has been halved in this period. Sperm
whale quotas were this year reduced, and assigned on an area by
area basis, in a manner which imposes severe operating restraints.
Under these strictures, pelagic whaling has changed from a highly
profitable activity, to an activity which is in the classic economic
sense, unprofitable.

But if this is a time of hope, with the drastic consolidation and
retrenchment now occurring within the whaling industry, it is also a

time of maximum peril. If the major whaling nations are permitted
to sell equipment to entrepreneurs operating under ﬂags of
nations not subject to IWC regulations, and if nationals from
whaling nations who possess the necessary expertise to operate
this equipment are permitted to do so, the recent modest “victory”
within the IWC will prove to have been Pyrrhic indeed.

Certain stocks of baleen whales are, indeed, “commercially
extinct”. The Right whales which wintered along the European
coast, and which supplied victims for the first open boat
commercial whaling, begun by the Basques before the year 1000,
are gone. The Humpbacks which migrated south along the
European coast are gone also, as are the‘blue whales. The Atlantic
Bowhead, or Greenland whale, which sustained 200 years of
Dutch and British whaling, hangs to existence by an eyelash west
of the Davis Strait, at the mercy of marauding natives, but of no
commercial interest. The right whales which once migrated along
the North American coast, and sustained the first American
whaling industry exist as a tiny and unrecovering remnant. The
Humpback stocks which wintered along our Pacific coast were
destroyed in their summering grounds off Alaska by the Soviet
fleet in the late 1950's and early 1960’s, and progressively
exterminated in their wintering grounds by two US shore stations
while the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries watched benignly. They
are gone.

The Korean stock of Grey whales is gone. The north Pacific
Right whales may be gone.

Other relict populations, now under IWC protection, remain of
potential commercial value. These whales, despite their small
numbers, are critically vulnerable because of the regular migratory
pathways they follow, and because of their wintering concentration
in discrete breeding and calving grounds. Examples are the
southern Right whale stock which Dr. Roger Payne has studied off
Patagonia, and the Humpbacks which Dr. Winn has found
wintering in three concentrations in the Caribbean. Surplus
whaling equipment in the hands of criminals such as the owners
and operators of the ship “Sierra” could readily be amortized in a
single season by raids on these evidently recovering remnants.

Moreover, there are enough Sperm whales in the wintering
areas of IWC protected stocks, such as the few southern
Humpbacks which return to ancestral wintering grounds off
Angola and Zaire, off Madagascar, off Tonga and off the west coast
of South America; or northern Humpbacks who winter off China,
to subsidize their total destruction. This is, in fact, doubtless
happening off Peru where a Japanese owned company whales
without. restriction, off Africa where the “Sierra” is operating, and
off Korea.

The subsidization of the complete, or nearly complete
destruction of one stock of whales by simultaneous exploitation of
another, more numerous stock has been a consistent motif in the
death symphony of whaling, and there is every reason to expect
that it will operate to destroy the last Right and Humpback, and in
good time Fin and Set stocks, if we permit it to do so.

The International Whaling commission this .‘Jne in London
passed a comparatively weak recommendation, requesting that
member governments “to the best of their ability” act to prevent
the transfer of whaling equipment supplies or expertise to nations
not members of the IWC.

A second resolution, sponsored by the US, providing that no
member nation of the IWC should import whale products from
nations which are not IWC members was beaten when Canada
and several European members sided with Japan, which provides
the major market, and much of the capital, for unregulated
enterprises. The text of the defeated resolution was taken,
incidentally, from a resolution passed in 1938 by a meeting of the
International Agreement for the Regulation of Whaling.

Until the whaling commission adopts provisions for economic
sanctions against non complying members, and non members, its
function will be largely dependent on the willingness of member
nations to act unilaterally.

There have, in fact, been only two successful international con-
ventions for the protection of Marine Resources: The Fur Seal
Convention signed in 1911, and the North Pacific Halibut
Convention concluded with Great Britain in 1923. Both conven-
tions were established to deal with stocks decimated below the
point of major commercial significance. The Halibut stocks were
painfully rebuilt, only to be scooped up as incidental catch to
Japanese ground fishing. The restored fur seal herds are also
declining, with the disappearance of food fish in the Bering Sea.
Beyond these two isolated, and rather anomalous instances, the
only actions which have significantly altered the fate of whales or
other marine creatures, either within or outside an international
regulatory framework, have been unilateral.

In the case of the whales, Norway possessed the power to halt
expansion of whaling until the late 1930’s. This was because the
specialized expertise which made whaling operations succeed was
Norwegian. Until Japan entered the antartic in 1936, Norwegians
manned each and every ship, regardless of flag, involved in pelagic
whaling. Even then, the first factory ship was sold to Japan by a
Norwegian company, and managed by Norway during its initial
season. The German fleet was manned largely by Norwegians, and

 




A TIME OF PERIL

conﬁnued

was developed and partially financed through the complicity of
both the Norwegian and British industries. Two US. flag factory
ships which engaged in the infamous massacre of humpbacks in
their calving grounds at Shark Bay off the west coast of Australia in
the late 1930’s, were Norwegian flag of convenience operations
mounted to get behind the US. tariff wall.

The Norwegian government, through its whaling Act of 1939,
finally cracked down on its industry by assuming control over the
transfer of any Norwegian flag ships for the purposes of whaling,
and by restricting its citizens from working aboard vessels of
nations with whaling regulations less strict than those of Norway. In
1946, the Crown decreed that Norwegian citizens could not serve
aboard expeditions which were not operating before World War II,
except by special dispensation. Such dispensation was, unhappily,
granted the ship “Slava”, ex German “Wickenger” given the
Soviet Union by the war reparations commission, manned and
operated by Norwegians during the first seasons. Norway’s action
to protect its industry was too little and too late to stop the larva
from devouring the parent, along with their mutual prey. But it did
prevent Australia, Italy and Argentina from entering pelagic
whaling. and made ventures by the Dutch and Onassis operated
by rouge Norwegians and by Germans trained prior to World War
II. markedly unprofitable.

Unilateral action, in the form of a citizens’ economic boycott,
taken by the US. conservation community, and the threat of
economic action posed by the US. Congress, and by the
administration through the Pelly amendment to the Fishermen’s
Protective Act which permits the embargo of fish products from
nations “acting to diminish the effectiveness of an international
agreement for the conservation of marine resources,” have been
largely resposible for the gains which have been made within the

 

SOUTH AFRICA GOES OUT OF THE
WHALING BUSINESS

The Union Whaling Company of South Africa announced in
October that it “has ceased operations and is disposing of its
whalers, machinery and other equipment.” (Mainichi, Tokyo,
Japan, October 21, 1976).

According to the report, L.C. SUrmon, Managing Director of the
company, which is the largest landbased whaling operation in the
world, said it had become uneconomic “as a result of a drastic
reduction in whaling quotas worldwide.”

Surmon is quoted as saying, “A quota of 500 whales is simply
not enough to allow for a profit.”

The Union Whaling Company killed mainly sperm whales,
quotas‘ for which were reduced this year by some 4,000. In 1967
the kill from the Durban Shore Station was 2,847 sperm whales
and 236 baleen whales.

 

JAPANESE WHALERS HAULING IN $3,600,000
ON A “SCIENTIFIC PERMIT”

Bryde’s whales are worth about $15,000 each according to

industry representatives at the last meeting of the International
Whaling Commission. At that price, the 240 Bryde’s whales that
Japan has just assigned itself under a “Scientific Permit” are worth

$3,600,000.

The International Whaling Commission allows for the issuance

of such permits by contracting governments without any
consultation with other IWC members, although there was once a
desultory discussion in the IWC’s Scientific Committee about the
desirability of consultation. Had Japanese scientists at the last
meeting proposed to take 240 Bryde’s whales there would
certainly have been opposition.

The sudden announcement in the wake of major IWC quota
reductions in 1975 and 1976 suggests a desperate move by the
Japanese whaling industry to revivify itself by opening up new
whaling areas. There is a zero quota on Bryde’s whales in those
parts of the Southern ocean where Japanese catcher boats will
now pursue and harpoon these endangered whales. The permit
issued by the Government of Japan to Yoshio Fukuda, Director of
Japan’s Far Seas Fisheries Research Laboratory, states the
purpose to be to estimate “the population size and structure of this
stock for rational exploitation.”

Previous to this venture the only recently permitted killing of
Bryde’s whales in the Southern hemisphere were nine in 1974
taken by South Africa. A pirate whaler, the Sierra, has been taking
over four hundred whales a year in the area, however. It is
uncertain whether they were sei or Bryde’s whales. The two
species are sufficiently difficult to distinguish one from the other
that they used to be counted together under the designation
sei/Bryde’s. Baleen whales, both enter the Japanese whale meat
market, whether taken under the new scientific permit or by the
outlaw Sierra which is registered in Lichtenstein but sells her
produce to Japan.

Until 1970 when Secretary of the Interior, Walter Hickel, placed
the great whales on the US. Endangered Species List, the last US.
whaling company killed and processed 60 gray whales each year
the spirit of free enterprise”. It will come as no great surprise for under a “scientific permit.” The US. Government put a stop to this

you to learn that certain American investors were at that time commercial operation. The Government of Japan should do the
negotiating with Aristotle Onassis for a revival of US. flag whaling. same.

A second egregious action of US, vigorously but unavailingly
opposed by other allied nations was taken by Supreme Command
Allied Powers (SCAP) in Tokyo, also in 1946, also with the
concurrence of the State Department. This was to deliberately
sponsor renewed Japanese involvement in pelagic whaling. It is
most ironic that the commercial and operational modes which
provided Japanese post war whaling with its celebrated “meat

margin”, and made Japanese soperations far more profitable than the new move to increase the kill by unilateral action. He may be
whaling for oil conducted by European nations, were imposed by addressed as follows:

SCAP- Prime Minister Takeo Miki *

Indeed, since SCAP took the whale oil in return for helping Embassy of Japan

finance the expeditions, the Japanese companies had no choice 2520 Massachusetts Avenue, NW
but to concentrate on efficiently producing and marketing whale Washington, DC. 20008
meat.

The campaign to save the great whales, begun modestly by a
few persons a few years ago, has swept this nation and the world. It
has achieved important success. But it can still fail.

If we falter now, if we fail to pass necessary legislation which is
still pending in the US. Congress, if we fail to leave behind us the
cynicism and timidity, the genuflection to transient pressures and
bureaucratic penates, which has often characterized US. policy
toward whales in the past both in government and among conser-
vationists, we may still be remembered, as the generation which
went to Mars looking for algae, while the last great whales, with
immense brains unplumbed and unfathomed were destroyed in
the world’s oceans.

Having said that, I am bound to note that the US, contrary to
conventional wisdom, does not have hands clean of responsibility.
If it had not been for US. State Department, the whaling
convention of 1946 would have been a good deal stronger than it
was, and there is an outside chance that it might have worked to
halt the precipitous destruction of the whales. The fact is the 1946
Convention represented a considerable recidivism from the 1945
protocol to the 1937 International agreement for the Regulation of
Whaling, and a truncation of favorable trends running within that
agreement toward establishment of economic sanctions against
non-complying nations.

The extent to which the effort of the late Dr. Remington Kellogg
to achieve these goals was undercut by State Department
bureaucrats, may be appreciated by the following exchange, taken
from the Transcript of the 1946 Convention.

Mr. Dobson, for the United Kingdom: “We are not interested in
the 1945 US. proposal restricting sale, loan or delivery of vessels,
equipment or supplies designed especially to whaling operations
to countries who are not parties to the Agreement”. Mr. Flory for
the United States: “We now, with somewhat more mature con-
sideration, believe that in preparation for this document, economic
sanctions of this nature might be quite inappropriate in a longer
range agreement. It might very well be appropriate to eliminate the
quest of economic sanctions at this point and resort to the usual
procedure of using persuasion and such diplomatic representation
as may be necessary in order to get any refractory governments to
concede the principles set forth in this agreement”.

Mr. Flory later characterized “this sort of thing” as “contrary to

Please write to Prime Minister Miki urging an end to commercial
whaling and an immediate cancellation of the permit his
Government has issued to’kill 240 endangered Bryde’s whales in
excess of the quotas established this June by the International
Whaling Commission. Let the Prime Minister know you are
boycotting Japanese and Russian goods till these nations end their
massive pelagic whaling and that you are gravely disappointed in

 

* Note: Prime Minister Takeo Fukuda
has succeeded Mr. Miki in
office. Please write him
at the same address.

 




