SUMMARY ON THE NEED FOR
A MODEL STATE REGULATION EOR CONTROL OF ZOOLOGICAL ANIMALS

INTRODUCTION
Zoological animals can be broadly defined as recently captured native and
nonnative (exotic) wild animals, native and nonnative wild animals raised in

captivity, and wild forms of domesticated species. Conventional domesticated

animals and some laboratory-adapted strains of wild animals are not included in

this definition. During recent years, increased trade in zoological animals,
and hence an increase in interstate movement, has magnified the potential for
disease dissemination. Past experiences with tuberculosis in bison and elk,
exotic Newcastle disease in pet birds, lethal avian influenza in fancy poultry
and game birds,_and foreign ticks on imported rhinoceroses have caused
livestock and poultry health officials considerable anxiety. In addition,
zoological animals may present problems relative to environmental damage, crop
depredation, public safety, and animal welfare.

Primarily because of disease ramifications, the United States Animal Health
Association (USAHA) formally requested that the Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service (APHIS), United States Department of Agriculture (USDA),
investigate the trade in zoological animals and consider the development of a
Model State Regulation for Control of Zoological Animals. Through a Cooperative
Agreement, APHIS enlisted the help of the Southeastern Cooperative Wildlife
Disease Study (SCNDS), College of Veterinary Medicine, The University of

Georgia, to evaluate the current situation and prepare a draft of a Model State

Regulation.

 




TRADE IN ZOOLOGICAL ANIMALS

Much of the trade in zoological animals is done through the format of
consignment sales at animal auctions which are held 15 to 20 times a year
throughout the United States. At the request of APHIS, visits to auctions
were made by SCNDS personnel to evaluate the zoological animal industry. In
addition, a survey of existing regulations from selected state and federal
agencies was conducted to clarify the legal basis for control of zoological
animals.

During October 1985, three zoological animal auctions were attended in Ohio,

h

Missouri, and Texas. About 500 animals were present at the smallest auction and

over 4,000 at the largest. Approximately 75 species of mammals, 100 species
of birds, and 3 species of reptiles were recorded at one or more of the
auctions. Major types of animals, in'descending magnitude, were hoofed stock
(mostly deer, African and Indian antelope, sheep, and goats); birds (mostly
psittacines, fancy chickens, exotic pheaSants, and ducks); carnivores (mostly
small species such as mink, ferrets, and foxes); and primates. Sicilian
donkeys, miniature horses, longhorn cattle, and various crosses of African and
other standard breeds of cattle also were sold.

A variety of people attended the auctions, and it was apparent that the
zoological animal industry is diverse and includes zoos, animal breeders, animal
dealers, pet owners, animal hobbyists, hunting preserves, drive-through animal
parks, circuses, etc. About 2,000 people from 40 states and 3 foreign countries
attended the largest auction.

From these investigations, it was concluded that zoological animal auctions
provide the mechanism for the assembly of thousands of animals representing

hundreds of species. 0n-site observations revealed that native animals,

 




3
nonnative animals, and domestic animals came in direct and indirect contact with
each other and then were dispersed to as many as 30 or 40 states. Although
records of buyers and sellers were kept, many Species of animals were not
permanently identified and epidemiological tracebacks would be difficult or
impossible.

It also was disturbing to learn that existing regulations concerning the
ownership, sale, and transportation of zoological animals are generally
inadequate and are fragmented among 50 State Agricultural Agencies, 50 State
Departments of Natural Resources, the USDA, and the U.S. Department of the
Interior. At the auctions visited, the only consistent’disease control
regulations were the requirements of a general health certificate for all
out-of—state animals and tuberculosis/brucellosis tests for bison.

From these findings, it was concluded that a Model State Regulation to
control ownership, sale,'transportation, and release of zoological animals would
indeed be useful as a guideline for states that wish to upgrade their current

regulations where deficiencies exist.

THE DRAFT MODEL STATE REGULATION

A draft copy of the Model State Regulation has been prepared that addresses
ownership, sale, transportation, and release of zoological animals. In
formulating this working copy, numerous facets including disease prevention,
public safety, environmental protection, and animal welfare were considered.
The State Department of Natural Resources has been given primary responsibility
for permitting and licensing of zoological animals; however, cooperation among
State Departments of Natural Resources, Agriculture, and Public Health will

be vital in formulation of this regulation. The current draft Model State

Regulation contains the following elements:

 




A STATEMENT OF MUTUAL INTENT AMONG THE STATE DEPARTMENTS OF NATURAL
RESOURCES, AGRICULTURE, AND PUBLIC HEALTH THAT IT IS IN THE PUBLIC
INTEREST TO REGULATE ZOOLOGICAL ANIMALS.

A DEFINITION OF ZOOLOGICAL ANIMALS AND A LIST OF THOSE SPECIES NOT
CONSIDERED ZOOLOGICAL ANIMALS.

A PROVISION THAT JURISDICTION OVER NATIVE WILD ANIMALS WOULD REMAIN
WITH THE STATE DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES. However the State
Departments of Agriculture and Public Health could make recommendations

concerning ownership, sale, transportation, and release of these animals.

A PROVISION THAT THE STATE DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES WOULD HAVE

JURISDICTION OVER NONNATIVE WILD ANIMALS. However the State Departments
of Agriculture and Public Health would have power to independently
prohibit the ownership, sale, transportation, and release of these
animals if adverse consequences were likely to occur in their areas of
concern.

AN ARRANGEMENT WHEREBY THE DIRECTOR OF THE STATE DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL
RESOURCES WOULD ASSEMBLE A REGULATIONS BOARD TO DETERMINE REQUIREMENTS
FOR OWNERSHIP, SALE, TRANSPORTATION, AND RELEASE OF ZOOLOGICAL ANIMALS
FOR THE STATE IN QUESTION. Voting membership of the Regulations Board
would include representatives from the State Departments of Natural
Resources, Agriculture, and Public Health. Applicable interest groups
would be represented in an advisory capacity on the Regulations Board.
The Regulations Board would categorize zoological animals as Class I
(prohibited species), Class 11 (species requiring permits or licenses),
and Class III (unregulated species). A classification list is provided

in the draft Model State Regulation.

 




A CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR VARIOUS PERMITS AND LICENSES FOR ZOOLOGICAL
ANIMALS INCLUDING THE FOLLOWING: PERSONAL POSSESSION; ANIMAL DEALER;
COMMERCIAL EXHIBITION; NON-PROFIT EXHIBITION; HUNTING PRESERVE;
REHABILITATION; SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH; FALCONRY; AND IMPORTATION. All
permits and licenses except importation would be issued solely by the
State Department of Natural Resources.

A PROVISION WHEREBY ZOOLOGICAL ANIMALS ENTERING THE STATE IN QUESTION
FOR OWNERSHIP, SALE, DISPLAY, OR RELEASE WOULD BE REQUIRED TO HAVE A
PERMIT ISSUED BY THE STATE DEPARTMENT OF NATURALrRESOURCES. Two
exceptions to this provision would be pen-raised game birds and pet
birds, which would be permitted for importation by the State Department

of Agriculture.

A SET OF GUIDELINES FOR HEALTH CERTIFICATES AND SPECIFIC DISEASE

TESTING TO BE REQUIRED FOR ZOOLOGICAL ANIMALS BEING IMPORTED UNDER
PERMIT. Primates and ungulates must have a negative tuberculosis

test prior to interstate shipment. In addition, ruminants and wild
swine must have a negative brucellosis test, and hartebeests and
wildebeests must have a negative malignant catarrhal fever test.
Pen-raised game birds destined for interstate shipment would be
required to meet the standards of the National Poultry Improvement
Plan for infectious diseases.

A SET OF STANDARDS FOR THE HUMANE HANDLING, CARE, CONFINEMENT, AND
TRANSPORTATION OF ZOOLOGICAL ANIMALS TO ADDRESS ALL SPECIES, INCLUDING

MANY SITUATIONS NOT CURRENTLY REGULATED BY THE FEDERAL ANIMAL WELFARE
ACT.

 




REVIEW OF THE DRAFT MODEL STATE REGULATION

Copies of the draft Model State Regulation were submitted to Veterinary
Services, APHIS, USDA on October 7, 1986, for review. At that time, APHIS
officials requested that the Model State Regulation also be made available for
review to interested committees within the USAHA at the Annual Meeting in
Louisville, Kentucky. In addition, instructions were given to submit copies of
the draft Model State Regulation to organizations outside the USAHA that should
be involved in the initial review, particularly the International Association of
Fish and Wildlife Agencies (IAFMA) and the National Association of State Public

9'

Health Veterinarians (NASPHV). .’

Comments and suggestions from all reviewers will be considered in the

revised draft which should be accomplished by early 1987. It is anticipated
that the revised draft Model State Regulation will be offered for endorsement to
the USAHA, IAFWA, and NASPHV. An endorsed Model State Regulation would then be
distributed to State Departments of Natural Resources, Agriculture, and Public

Health for their use.

 




‘ ,fﬁMODEL STATE REGULATION FOR CONTROL OF ZOOLOGICAL ANIMALS

Section . Intent and Findings

Section . Definitions

 

Section . Prohibitions
Section . Jurisdiction
Section . Intrastate Control
Section . Interstate Control

Section . Animal Welfare

QM/ﬂﬁ'ﬂ/flf (Flu Wdorc
. @560447rd/v

56/0 (tam/r _7¢,-_;_., *

Tm,» 7%7C // fwaé/e 4
._ a Dr - %<«sz f ”5 (£1?

A \S‘oa7’Kea-sg7fem~ ._ V4 “/21 _ 4/ 4/4
DJer/za %a/ ‘

._w!::2Y1?/ sgéaég7r/l/ rv1:/’__ww,m.r
waif/x 0 / 6;..ng

if ﬂzga/ MGM/ﬂ.” “30 (a L
§1<§¥éfy2 f/75/7/

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




   

DRAEF

MODEL STATE REGULATION

    
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 

FOR
- CONTROL OF ZOOLOGICAL ANIMALS

Section I. :Intent and Findings
I (A) The State Department of Natural Resources, the State

Department of Agriculture, and the State Department of

 

‘Public Health-find and declare that it is in the public _
interest to regulate the importation, transportation, sale,
'transfer, possession, and release of those zoological animals

which may: ‘

(1)'Introduce a disease or parasite harmful to domestic
'livestock and poultry;

(2) Introduce a disease or parasite harmful to man;

.(3) Endanger the physical safety of man;

(4) Be injurious to or competitive with agricultural,
horticultural, forestry, or native wildlife interests,

(B) The State Department of Natural Resources, the State

 

S Department of Agriculture, and the State Department of Public

 

 

ﬂgalth furtherfindand declare that: zoological animals
have specific biological requirements and, if not handled by
skilled, knowledgeable owners, are subject_to be treated
inhumanely and forced to live in unnatural, unhealthy

situations predisposing them to sickness and diseases.

 




Section 11. Definitions
(A) Zoological animals are defined as recently captured native
and nonnative wild animals, native and nonnative wild
animals raised in captivity, and wild forms or races of
domesticated animals.

Nonnative wild animals are further defined as animals that

are considered foreign or exotic to North America, including

those species that have become domesticated in other
countries (i.e., camels, llamas) but not in North America.
Native wild animals are further defined as those animals that
are indigenous to North America. Native wild animals include
a limited number of animals introduced into North America
that have become widespread and commonly accepted as native
animals. These animals are limited to the following:

Ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus)

Chukar (Alectoris chukar)

Hungarian partridge (Perdix perdix)

European starling (Sturnus vulgaris)

English or house sparrow (Passer domesticus)

European carp (Cyprinus carpio)
Rock dove (pigeon) (Columba livia)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Domestic animals are defined as those taxa of animals in
North America which have traditionally lived‘in a state of
dependence on and/or under the dominion and control of man
and have been kept as tame pets, raised as livestock, or used
for commercial breeding purposes.

Domestic animals and categories of animals not considered
zoological animals that are not addressed in this regulation

are limited to the following:

 




Section II.

Section III.

Definitions (continued)
(E) (continued)

The species Canis familiaris (domestic dog, excluding
hybrids with wild canids)

The species Felis catus (domestic cats, excluding hybrids
with wild felines)

The species Equus caballus (domestic horses)

The species Equus asinus (domestic asses and donkeys)

The species Bos taurus (domestic cattle)

The species Ovis aries (domestic sheep)

The species Capra hircus (domestic goats)

The subspecies Sus scrofa domestica (domestic swine)

Domesticated races of the species Mesocricetus auratus and
Mesocricetus brandti (Syrian or golden hamsters)

Domesticated races of the species Cavia porcellus (guinea
p1gs

Domesticated races of rats (Rattus norvegicus) and mice
(Mus musculus)

Domesticated races of the species Oryctologus cuniculus
(European rabbits)

Domesticated races of ducks and geese (Anatidae)

Domesticated races of pigeons and doves (Columbidae)

Domesticated races of the species Gallus allus (chickens)

Domesticated races of the species Meleag ris gallopavo
(turkeys)

All species of the Class Insecta

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Prohibitions

 

The importation, transportation, sale, transfer, possession, and

release of zoological animals are privileges not to be granted
unless it can be clearly demonstrated that such actions can be
accomplished in a manner that does not pose unnecessary risk to
this state‘s natural resources, agricultural interests, or to man.
For these reasons, zoological animals may only be lawfully held
when the requirements of this regulation are met. Zoological
animals for which a license or permit, or both, are required
under the provisions of this regulation and for which no such
license or permit has been obtained are a nuisance, contraband,
and subject to seizure by any peace officer authorized to enforce

this regulation.

 




Section IV. Jurisdiction

 

(A) Native Wild Animals

 

(1) The State Department of Natural Resources will be the

permitting and licensing agency for importation,
transportation, sale, transfer, possession, and release
of native wild animals unless indicated otherwise in
this regulation.

The State Department of Agriculture, at its discretion,

 

 

can make recommendations to the State Department of

 

Natural Resources concerning the importation,
transportation, sale, transfer, possession, and release
of native wild animals when a disease is suspected of
endangering domestic livestock or poultry.

The State Department of Public Health, at its discretion,

 

 

can make recommendations to the State Department of

 

Natural Resources concerning the importation,

 

transportation, sale, transfer, possession, and release
of native wild animals when a disease is suspected of
endangering public health.
(B) Nonnative Wild Animals

(1) The State Department of Natural Resources will be the
permitting agency for importation, transportation, sale,
transfer, possession, and release of nonnative animals
unless indicated otherwise in this regulation.
Determination of adverse environmental and disease
consequences posed by zoological animals to native wild
animals is the responsibility of the State Department of

Natural Resources.

 




Section IV.

Section V.

    

Jurisdiction (continued)

(B) (continued)

(2) The State Department 9f Agriculture can prohibit the

(3)

(4)

importation, transportation, sale, transfer, possession,
and release of nonnative animals if adverse consequences
are likely to occur to domestic livestock or poultry due
to disease or parasites or if adverse consequences are
likely to occur to agricultural, horticultural, or
forestry interests.

The State Department 2f Public Health can prohibit the
importation, transportation, sale, transfer, possession,
and release of nonnative animals if adverse consequences
are likely to occur to humans due to disease or to
physical injury.

The State Department 9f Natural Resources will consult

with the State Department of Agriculture and the State

 

Department 9: Public Health prior to issuing approval
for importation or release of nonnative animals. The

State Department 9: Agriculture and the State Department

 

 

9f Public Health will have 7 working days to respond if
inspection, further testing, quarantine, or other action

is desired.

Intrastate Control

(A) The Director of the State Department gj Natural Resources

 

shall appoint a Regulations Board to determine requirements

for

possession, importation, and sale of zoological animals

within their state. Membership of the Regulations Board

 

  




Section V. Intrastate Control (continued)

(A) (continued)

shall include representatives from the law enforcement

division and biological sections for fisheries and wildlife
of the State Department of Natural Resources, a represen-
tative from the animal health section and plant industry

section of the State Department of Agriculture, and a

 

 

representative from the State Department of Public Health.

 

 

Nonvoting advisors to the Regulations Board can be appointed

by the Director of the State Department of Natural Resources

 

 

from applicable interest groups such as zoological animal

associations, animal breeders, sportsmens groups, etc.

Mammals, birds, reptiles, fish, amphibians, and invertebrates

believed to be harmful to native wildlife, to agricultural

interests of the state, or to public health or safety shall
be determined by the Regulations Board. Consideration may be
given to categorizing zoological animals as follows:

(1) Class 1: Those zoological animals that shall be
prohibited from the state because they pose unacceptable
disease, environmental, or human health or safety risks.
Exemptions may be allowed only under special permit for
public 2005, research organizations, or other purposes
as deemed appropriate by the Regulations Board.

Class 11: Those zoological animals that the state
agencies shall desire to control the possession,
importation, transportation, or sale of due to potential
disease, environmental, or human health or safety risks.

Permits and/or licenses are required to maintain Class II

 




Section V.

 

    

Intrastate Control (continued)
(A) (continued)

(2) (continued)
animals in captivity but only for specified purposes as
set forth by the Regulations Board. Purposes listed in
part (C) of this Section may be considered.

(3) Class III: Those zoological animals that are believed to
be of minimal disease, environmental, or human safety or
health risks may be kept for any purpose to include
personal possession as pets. No permits or licenses are
required, except for commercial enterprise.

(B) The species listed below are presented for consideration for
inclusion in the following classes:

(1) Class I
(a) Class Mammalia
Order Artiodactyla

Family Bovidae
Syncerus caffer (African buffalo)

 

Family Hippopotamidae
Hippopotamus amphibius (hippopotamus)

 

Order Carnivora

Family Canidae
(wolves, dingos, jackals, etc.)
\ All species except red fox (Vulpes fulva) and
E? gray fox (Urocyon cinereorgenteus)

Family Hyaenidae (hyenas and aardwolves)---
All species

Family Procyonidae
Procyon lotor (raccoon)

 

Family Mustelidae
Gulo gulo (wolverine)
Mellivora campensis (honey badger or ratel)
Meles meles (old world badger)
Taxidea taxus (American badger)

Genera Spilogale, Putoris, gonepatus (skunks)---
All species

 

 

 

  




Section V.

 

Intrastate Control (continued)
(B) (continued)
(1) (continued)
(a) Class Mammalia (continued)
Order Carnivora
Family Ursidae (bears)---All species

Family Viverridae (civets and mongooses)---
All species

Family Felidae
Genus Panthera (lions, tigers, etc.)---All species
Neofelis nebulosa (clouded leopard)
Acinonyx jubatus (cheetah)
Felis concolor (cougar and mountain lion)

 

Order Proboscidae

Family Elephontidae (elephants)---All species
Order Perissodactyla

Family Rhinocerotiade (rhinoceroses)---All species

Order Primates

Family Pongidae (gibbons, orangutans, chimpanzees,
siamangs, gorillas)---All species

Family Cercopithecidae
Genus Papio (baboons, drills, mandrills)---
All species
Genus Macaca (macaques)---All species
Theropithecus gelada (Gelada baboon)
(b) Class Aves*
Order Psittaciformes

Family Psittacidae
ﬂyiopsitta monachus (monk or quaker parakeet)

Order Cuculiformes

Family Cuculidae (cuckoos)---All species

*All reference is to nonnative birds

 




     
   
   
   
   
  
   
     
  
 
        
  
   
 
 
        
   
  
     
  
    
   
  
  
  
   

  

Section V. Intrastate Control (continued)
(B) (continued)

(1) (continued)

(b) Class Aves (continued)

Order Passeriformes

 
 

Family Alaudidae
Alauda arvensis (sky larks)

Family Pycnonotidae (fruit thrushes or bulbuls)---
All species

 
 

Family Muscicapidae
Turdus merula (European blackbird)
Turdus viscivorus (Missel thrush)
Turdus pjlaris (Fieldfare)

Turdus musicus (song thrush)

 

 

 
 

Family Zosteropidae
Genus Zosterops (white eyes)---All species

 
 

Family Passeridae'
Ploceus capensis (cape sparrow)
Ploceus baya (baya weaver)
Foudia madagascariensis (madagascar weaver)
Genus Passer---All species
Genus Quelea---All species

 

 
 

Family Emberizidae
Genus Molothrus (cowbirds)---All species
Genus Agelaius (blackbirds)---All species
Emberiza citrinella (yellowhammer)

Family Estrildidae
Padda oryzivora (Java sparrow)
Munia nisoria—(Hawaiian rice bird)

Family Sturnidae (starlings, mynahs)---All species
prohibited except Gracula relgjosa or Eulobes
religiosa (hill mynahs)

Order Struthioniformes

 

Struthio spp. (ostrich)---All species

Order Casuariformes

 

Casuaris spp. (cassowary)---All species




Section V.

Intrastate Control (continued)
(B) (continued)
(1) (continued)
(c) Class Amphibia
Order Anura
Family Bufonidae (toads)

Bufo marinus, Bufo paracnemnis, Bufo horribilis,
etc. (giant or marine toad group)L--All species

 

Family Pipidae (tongueless frogs)---All species

(d) Class Reptilia
Order Crocodylia
Family Crocodylidae (crocodiles)-é-All species

Family Alligatoridae (alligators and caimans)---
All species

Order Squamata
Suborder Serpentes

Family Elapidae (cobras, coral snakes)---
All species

Family Viperidae (adders, vipers)---All Species

Family Colubridae (all poisonous rear-fanged
species)

Family Crotalidae (pit vipers)---All species
Suborder Lacertilia

Family Helodermatidae (Gila monsters and
beaded lizards)---All species

Family Varanidae (Komodo dragons, monitor lizards)
(e) Class Osteichthyes
Order Cypriniformes
Family Characidae (piranah)---All species

Astyanax fasciatus (banded tetra)
Hoplias malabaricus (tiger fish)

 

 

 




Section V.

Intrastate Control (continued)
(B) (continued)
(1) (continued)
(e) Class Osteichthyes (continued)
'Order Cypriniformes (continued)
Family Cyprinidae
Ctenopharyngodon idella (grass carp)

Hypophthalmichthys molitrix (silver carp)
Aristichthys nobilis (bighead carp)

 

 

Order Siluriformes

Family Clariidae (air-breathing catfishes)---
All species

Family Trichomycteridae (parasitic or candiru
catfishes)-—-All species

Family Heteropneustidae (giant walking
catfishes)--—All species

Order Perciformes

Family Channidae (snakeheads)

All other exotic fish not held in aquaria or
tanks. Aquaria or tanks mean containers for
holding fish from which no water is discharged,
except during periodic cleaning, and which
discharged water is passed through a filtering
system capable of removing all fish and fish
eggs and is disposed of only in a septic tank
permitted by the county or in a waste-water
treatment system permitted by the State
Environmental Protection Division.

(f) Class Gastropoda

All species of slugs and land snails not held in

aquaria or tanks

 




Section V. Intrastate Control (continued)

(B) (continued)

(2) Class II contains all those species not included in
Class I or Class III
(3) Class III

(a) Native animals that may be taken from the wild state
and kept in captivity except for those species
protected by law or otherwise regulated.

Mice

Rats

Pigeons or rock dove (Columba livia)
English sparrow (Passer domesticuS)
European starling (Sturnus vulgaris)
Freshwater turtles

Nonpoisonous snakes

Lizards

Amphibians

Invertebrates

 

 

 

(b) Nonnative (exotic) animals that may be kept in

captivity except for those species protected by law
or otherwise regulated.

Domesticated gerbils (Meriones unguiculatus)

Domesticated chinchillas (Chinchilla lani er)

Pheasants, peafowl, guinea, and other galiiiorms

Ducks, geese, and other anseriforms

Parrots, parakeets, conures, cockatiels, and related
birds (Psittacidae)

Finches (Fringillidae)

Doves, pigeons (Columbidae)

Hill mynahs (Gracula religiosa or Eulabes religiosa)

Canaries (Serinius canaria)

 

 

 

 

 

Fish not listed in Class I
Reptiles not listed in Class I
Amphibians not listed in Class I

Invertebrates not listed in Class I

 




  

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(D) The
and

(1)

    
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 

13

Section V. Intrastate Control (continued) .5 p
(c) Permits and licenses for zoologlaei animals shall be obtained
through application to the State Department of Natural
Resources. A list of categories for permits/licenses is
presented for consideration:

(1) Personal possession (pet, hobby). Generally Class 11'

animals are not recommended as pets.

Animal dealer (selling, transporting, or propagating
zoological animals for commercial purposes)

Permanent and temporary commercial exhibitions
(circuses, carnivals)

Permanent and temporary non-profit exhibitions (public
zoos and aquariums, nature centers, educational exhibits)
Hunting preserves

Rehabilitators

Scientific research (collection, bird banding)

Falconry

Importation (see Section VI)

following persons/agencies are exempt from state permit

license requirements:

 

The State Department of Natural Resources or other state

agency and any agent or official thereof acting in his or
her official capacity.

Any person or agency having possession or custody of the
offspring of a zoological animal for which that person
has a valid permit issued under this regulation, provided

that the State Department of Natural Resources is

 

notified within 10 days of the birth of the offspring.

  




J
Section V. Intrastate Control (continued) ),J'

(D) continued)

(3) A person possessing or having custody of a sick or
injured zoological animal solely for the purpose of
transporting the animal to a licensed veterinarian,
rehabilitator, or incorporated humane society or animal
shelter or other person or agency with authority or
apparent authority to handle the animal.

(E) Zoological animals in personal possession prior to (date
of enactment of this regulatiOn) shall only be possessed
provided that a permit be issued prior to (future cut off
date) and under the condition that animal welfare standards
and other requirements of this regulation are met.

Animals requiring permits or licenses and the facilities in.

which they are held shall be subject to inspection by §tatg

Department of Natural Resources officers or other state

enforcing officers without necessity of a search warrant

to determine if animals are being held and maintained in

accordance with the provisions of this regulation.

Permit and license holders shall:

(1) Control zoological animals in such a manner so as to
prevent direct exposure or contact between native
wildlife or the public.

(2) Provide a plan for the quick and safe recapture of the
animals or, if recapture is impossible, for the

destruction of the animals.

 




Section V. Intrastate Control (continued)

(G) (continued)

(3) Report promptly the escape of any such animals to the

loCal law enforcement agency and the State Department of

Natural Resources.

 

(4) Agree in writing to hold harmless and endemnify the State
Department of Natural Resources or the applicable state
agency for any claim or expense including litigation
costs and attorney fees due to harm, damage, or injury
caused by zoological animals.

(H) Release into the wild of individuals of any species shall be
prohibited without written authorization from the State
Department of Natural Resources.

(1) All permits and licenses issued under this regulation shall
comply with all provisions of the United States Code and the
Code of Federal Regulations relating to the care, propagation,

importation, and sale of wild animals.

Section VI. Interstate Control
(A) General
(1) An official interstate health certificate is a legible
record accomplished on an official form of the state of
origin, issued by an accredited veterinarian, and approved
by the livestock sanitary official of the state of
origin. Such certificate shall contain (a) common names
and scientific names of animals, (b) name and address of
the consignor and consignee, (c) origin of shipment,

(d) final destination, (e) accurate description or

 




Section VI. Interstate Control (continued)
(A) (continued)
(1) (continuted)
identification of animals, (f) purpose for which they are
shipped, (9) method of transportation. A certificate of
veterinary inspection will be synonmous with an official
health certificate.

Zoological animals may be transported through this state

without permit or license provided the animals remain in

this state no more than 24 hours and are not sold or
transferred while in this state. An official interstate
health certificate, however, is required for each animal
and must be in possession of the transporter.

Game birds and certain other zoological animals (where
legal) being transported into the state for slaughter at
a state approved facility may be shipped without a
license or permit from this state and without an official
health certificate provided the waybill or other
documents accompanying the shipment provide adequate
description of the animals and that such animals are
destined for immediate slaughter and indicate the name
and address of the slaughtering establishment.

In all other situations, zoological animals entering this
state must be shipped in accordance with health and
permit requirements as described in this regulation
before crossing the state line. Prior approval for entry

must be obtained from the appropriate state agency as

 




 

Section VI. Interstate Control (continued)

(A) (continued)
(4) (continuted)

described in this section. Specific disease testing as
described in this section must be conducted and recorded
on an official interstate health certificate. Testing
should be conducted and test results obtained before
shipment. However, in cases involving endangered
species, pregnant animals, etc. where drug immobilization
is required for blood collection and for shipment and
where double-immobilization and/or repeated handling
would jeopardize the health and well-being of the animal,
and the animal is originating from a herd or flock free
of infectious diseases, exemptions may be allowed. If
the senior agriculture official or his representative of
this state approves, a permit may be issued to ship a
tested animal before test results are obtained. Once the
animal has reached its destination, it will be placed in
isolation and/or quarantine until test results are
obtained.
A prior approval permit number from this state is not
required for public zoos during interstate shipment to
another public zoo, to research facilities registered

under the Animal Welfare Act, or to the State Department

 

of Natural Resources or any official thereof acting in

his or her official capacity.

 




Section VI. Interstate Control (continued)

(A) (continued)

(6) If this state or the state of origin is under quarantine

for a specific disease, written authorization from the
senior agriculture official or his representative of this
state shall be required for the movement into or out of
this state of the species of zoological animals affected
by said quarantine. Written authorization will be
required for all persons/agencies including those
normally exempted from prior approval as stated above.
Circuses, carnivals, and other transient entities
handling or exhibiting zoological animals must obtain

an approval permit number from the State Department of

 

Natural Resources prior to entry into this state.

 

Official interstate health certificates and required
disease testing as specified in this section must be
accomplished within 1 year prior to entry.
(B) Mammals
(1) Requests for importation of zoological mammals, both
native and nonnative, will be made through the §tgtg

Department of Natural Resources. Upon approval, the

 

State Department of Natural Resources will assign a
permit number to that particular shipment and the permit
number will be annotated on each official interstate
health certificate for each animal in that shipment.
Health certificates must be issued within 30 days prior

to entry.

 




Section VI. Interstate Control (continued)
(B) (continued)

(2) As part of the examination, the veterinarian completing
the official interstate health certificate will inquire
into the history of diseases at the premise and/or in
the herd from which the animal or animals in question
originate. The case history will be recorded on the
health certificate. Regardless of a negative test result,
those mammals specified in this section originating
from a herd or premise that has a history of those
diseases specified in this section will not enter this
state without approval from the senior agriculture
official or his representative of this state. Test
negative animals from an infected herd or premise are
not eligible to enter this state.

All test eligible mammals will be identified by any
suitable means (ear tag, brand, tattoo, etc.) and will
remain identified as long as they remain in this state.
During interstate shipment the following definitions will
apply:
(a) Wild cattle include:

Guar (Bos gaurus)

Banteng (Bos javanicus)

Kouprey (Bos sauveli)
Yak (Bos grunniens)’

 

 

 

 

Wild cattle shall meet the interstate health
requirements of this section and any other applicable

requirements of the State Department of Agriculture

 

 

for domestic cattle. All breeds of ﬁgs taurus such

 




Section VI. Interstate Control (continued)
(B) (continued)
(4) (continued)
(a) (continued)
as Ankole and Zebu cattle shall meet the interstate
health requirements for domestic cattle of the §tatg
Department 9f Agriculture and will be under the
jurisdiction of that agency.
Bison include:

American bison (Bison bison)
European bison (Bison bonasus)

 

 

Bison shall meet the health requirements of this
section and any other applicable requirements of the

State Department 9: Agriculture for domestic cattle.

 

Buffalo include:

Asian water buffalo or caraboo (Bubalus bubalis)
Tamaraw (Bubalus mindorensis)

Lowland anoa (Bubalus depressicornis)

Mountain anoa (Bubalus quarlesi)

African buffalo (Syncerus caffer)

 

Buffalo shall meet the health requirements of this

section and any other applicable requirements of the

State Department 9f Agriculture for domestic cattle.

 

 

(d) Wild sheep and related species include:

Bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis)

Dall's sheep (Ovis dalli)

Mouflon (Ovis musimon

Argali (Ovis ammon)

Urial (Ovis vignei)

Blue sheep, Bharals (Pseudois nayaur and E. schaeferi)
Aoudad, Barbary sheep (Ammotragus TErvia)

 

 

 




Section VI. Interstate Control (continued)

(B) (continued)

    

  
 

(4) (continued)

(d) (continued)

Wild sheep and hybrids or crosses between wild sheep
and domestic sheep shall meet the interstate health
requirements of this section and any other applicable

requirements of the State Department of Agriculture

 

for domestic sheep. Breeds of Ovis aries such as
barbado sheep shall meet the interstate health

requirements of the State Department of Agriculture

 

 

for domestic sheep and will be under the

jurisdiction of that agency.

(e) Wild goats include:

(f)

 

Wild goat (Capra aegagrus)

Ibex (Capra ibex)

Nalia ibex (Capra walie)

Nest Caucasian tur (Capra caucasica)

East Caucasian tur (Capra cylindrichornis)
Spanish ibex (Capra pyrenaica)

Markhor (Capra falconeri)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wild goats and hybrids or crosses between wild goats

and domestic goats (Capra hircus) shall meet the

 

interstate health requirements of this section and
any other applicable requirements of the State

Department of Agriculture for domestic goats.

 

Wild horses (Equus caballus); donkeys, burros, and

 

African wild asses (Equus asinus); kulans (Equus
hemionus); kiangs (Equus kiang); and all species of

zebras (Equus spp.) shall meet the interstate health

 




Section VI. Interstate Control (continued)

 

(B) (continued)

(4) (continued)
(f) (continued)

requirements of this section and any applicable

requirements of the State Department 2: Agriculture

 

for equids.
(9) Wild swine include:

Feral domestic swine (§u§ scrofa)

European wild boar (§g§'scrofa) and crosses with feral
domestic swine

Bearded pig (Sus barbatus)

Javan pig (Sus verrucosus)

Pygmy hog (Sus salvanius)

Wart hog (Phacochoerus aethiopicus)

Giant forest pig (Hylochoerus meinertzhaggni)

Babirusa (Babyrousa babyrussa)

African bush pig (Potamochoerus porcus)

 

 

Wild swine shall meet the interstate health

requirements of this section and any other applicable

requirements of the State Department of Agriculture

for domestic swine.
(C) Required testing for mammals prior to interstate shipment
(1) Brucellosis
Serologic testing must be conducted in accordance with
federal brucellosis protocol within 30 days prior to
entry for the following categories of wild animals:
(a) Order: Artiodactyla
Suborder: Ruminanta
Family:

Camelidae: Camels, Llamas, Alpaca, Vicuna
Tragulidae: Chevrotains or Mouse Deer

 




Section VI. Interstate Control (continued)
(C) (continued)
(1) (continued)
(a) (continued)

Suborder: (continued)

Family: (continued)

Cervidae: Elk, Caribou, Moose, Deer (all
species except white-tailed deer, mule
deer, and black-tailed deer)

Giraffidae: Giraffe, Okapi

Bovidae: Antelopes, Wild Cattle, Bison,
Buffalo, Wild Goats, Wild Sheep

Antilocapridae: Pronghorn Antelope

Family:
Suidae: Wild swine

(2) Tuberculosis
A skin test must be conducted in accordance with federal
tuberculosis protocol within 30 days prior to entry for
the following categories of wild animals:
(a) Order: Primates:

Family:

' Tupaiidae: Tree Shrews
Lorisidae: Lorises, Pottos, and Galagos
Cheirogaleidae: Dwarf Lemurs and Mouse Lemurs
Lemuridae: Lemurs
Lepilemuridae: Sportive and Weasel Lemurs
Indriidae: Avahi, Sifakas, and Indri
Daubentoniidae: Aye—aye
Tarsiidae: Tarsiers
Callitrichidae: Marmosets or Tamarins
Callimiconidae: Goeldi's Marmoset
Cebidae: New World Monkeys
Cercopithecidae: Old World Monkeys
Hylobatidae: Gibbons or Lesser Apes
Pongidae: Great Apes

(b) Order: Artiodactyla

Family:
Hippopotamidae: Hippopotamuses
Camelidae: Camels, Guanaco, Llama, Alpaca, and
Vicuna
Tragulidae: Chevrotains or Mouse Deer
Cervidae: Elk, Caribou, Moose, Deer (all species)

 




Section VI.

Interstate Control (continued)

 

(C) (continued)
(2) (continued)
(b) (continued)
Giraffidae: Okapi and Giraffe
Antilocapridae: Pronghorn Antelope
Bovidae: Antelopes, Wild Cattle, Bison, Buffalo,
Wild Goats, and Wild Sheep
(c) Order: Perissodactyla
Family:
Equidae: Zebras, Wild Horses, Wild Asses,
Kiangs, Kulans, Burros
Tapiridae: Tapirs
Rhinocerotidae: Rhinoceroses
(3) Malignant Catarrhal Fever
Serologic testing will be by the serum neutralization
test conducted within 30 days prior to entry. Animals

seropositive for antibodies (31:4 dilution) will not be

shipped into this state unless the consignee and the

senior agricultural official or his representative are
informed of the seropositive status of the animal and
.written approval for shipment has been obtained.
Serologic testing must be conducted on the following
categories of wild animals:
Order: Artiodactyla
Family: Bovidae
Subfamily:
Alcelophinae: Hartebeests
Caprinae: Gnus, Wildebeests
(4) Bluetongue/Epizootic Hemorrhagic Disease

Serologic testing must be conducted in accordance with

federal bluetongue/epizootic hemorrhagic disease protocol

 




    

Section VI. Interstate Control (continued)

(C) (continued)

(4) (continued)

(5)

(6)

 

within 30 days prior to entry. Seropositive animals can

be shipped provided a blood virus isolation is performed

. and found to be negative for bluetongue/epizootic

hemorrhagic disease virus. The following categories of
wild animals will be tested:
Order: Artiodactyla
Suborder: Ruminanta
Family:

Camelidae: Camels, Llamas, Alpaca

Trasgulidae: Chevrotains or Mouse Deer

Cervidae: Elk, Caribou, Moose, Deer (all species)

Giraffidae: Giraffe and Okapi

Bovidae: Antelopes, Wild Cattle, Bison, Buffalo,

Wild Goats, and Wild Sheep

Antilocapridae: Pronghorn Antelope
Pseudorabies
Serologic testing must be conducted in accordance with
federal pseudorabies protocol within 30 days prior to
entry for the following categories of wild animals:
Order: Artiodactyla

Family:
Suidae: Wild Swine

Equine Infectious Anemia

Serologic testing must be conducted in accordance with
state equine infectious anemia protocol within 12 months
prior to entry for the following category of wild

animals:

 




Section VI. Interstate Control (continued)
(C) (continued)
(6) (continued)

Order: Perissodactyla
Family:
Equidae: Zebras, Wild Horses, Wild Asses, Kiangs,
Kulons, Burros
(D) Birds
(I) Game Birds

(a) For purposes of interstate shipment game birds are
defined as any of the following: quail, turkeys,
grouse, pheasants, partridges, francolins, chukar,
guinea, and other galliforms, and ducks, geese, and
other anseriformes.
It shall be unlawful to ship native or nonnative
game birds into this state for purposes other than
going directly to slaughter without meeting the
requirements of the National Poultry Improvement Plan
(NPIP) or equivalent as specified in this section.
All game birds, including hatching eggs, immature
birds, and breeding stock, except as otherwise

specified in this section, shipped into this state

shall be reported by the shipper to the State

Department of Agriculture through the State Poultry

 

 

Laboratory by one of the following methods:

(1) Reported on an official National Poultry
Improvement Plan form (NPIP Form 15) if produced
under a pullorum-typhoid control phase of the

NPIP and an approval number has been obtained

 




Section VI.

Interstate Control (continued)

 

(D) (continued)

(1) (continued)

(c) (continued)

(1)

(continued)

prior to shipment from the State Department 2:

 

Agriculture through the State Poultry Laboratory.

 

A duplicate copy of the NPIP Form 15 shall be
attached to the waybill for each shipment and the
appropriate copy shall be sent to the Stat;
Department gj Agriculture through the State
Poultry Laboratory. The approval number must
appear on the shipping label of each container.
Reported on a health certificate signed by the
livestock sanitary official of the state of
origin certifying that the shipment has met
requirements equivalent to the state's
regulations for control of pullorum-typhoid
disease and other contagious and infectious
diseases of poultry.

Reported on a health certificate signed by the
livestock sanitary official of the state of
origin certifying that the shipment was tested
for pullorum-typhoid disease within the past

30 days and found to be negative or in case of
hatching eggs or unfed and unwatered poultry, the

breeder flock from which they originated was

tested for pullorum-typhoid disease within the

 




Section VI. Interstate Control (continued)
(D) (continued)
(1) (continued)
(t) (continued)
(3) (continued)
past 30 days and found to be negative. They must
also meet this state's requirements for other
contagious and infectious diseases of poultry.
Game birds brought into this state for a period
not exceeding 5 days for shows, fairs, and
exhibitions and then returning to the state of
origin must be tested for pullorum-typhoid within
90 days prior to entry and found to be negative.
Each game bird must be identified with a leg band
or by other suitable means.

(d) It shall be unlawful to ship captive-bred game birds
into this state for release into the wild without
first obtaining a permit number from the §tatg
Department 2: Natural Resources.

Cage or Companion Birds

Prior to entry of cage or companion birds into this

state, a permit number must be obtained through the State

Department 9f Agriculture. This permit number must be

annotated on the official interstate health certificate.
Official interstate health certificates must be issued
within 10 days prior to entry and a copy must be in
possession of the transporter during transit. All

psittacine birds entering this state must be identified

 




Section VI. Interstate Control (continued)
(D) (continued)
(2) (continued)
with a numbered leg band. Within 5 days of arrival of

the shipment at its destination in this state, the State

Department of Agriculture must be notified, except for

cage or companion birds brought into the state for a
period not exceeding 5 days for shows, fairs, or
exhibition and then returning to the state of origin.
The permit number must be given and all information on
the health certificate verified.

Other Birds

The State Department of Natural Resources has permitting

 

authority for interstate movement of birds except those
addressed in parts 1 and 2 of this section. A permit
number must be obtained through the State Department of

Natural Resources before interstate shipment can occur

 

except for birds being shipped directly through the state
as described previously. This permit number must be
annotated on the official interstate health certificate.
Health certificates must be issued within 10 days prior

to entry.

Section VII. Animal Welfare

 

It shall be unlawful to import, transport, sell, transfer, or
possess any zoological animal in this state without meeting the
specifications expressed in this section or the Animal Welfare
Act, where applicable, for the humane handling, care,

confinement, and transportation of such animals.

 




'Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)

 

(A) Facilities in General:

(1) The facility must be constructed of such material and of
such strength as appropriate for the animals involved.
The housing facilities shall be structurally sound and
shall be maintained in good repair to protect and contain
the animals. The facilities shall be designed in such
manner, including the inclusion of barriers of sufficient
dimensions and conformation, to safeguard both the
animals and the public against injury by direct contact.
Reliable and adequate electric power, if required to
comply with other provisions of this section, and
adequate potable water shall be available on the
premises.

Supplies of food and bedding shall be stored in
facilities which adequately protect the supplies against
deterioration, molding, or contamination by vermin.
Refrigeration shall be provided for supplies of
perishable food.

Provision shall be made for the removal and disposal of
animal and food wastes, bedding, dead animals, trash, and
debris. Disposal facilities shall be so provided and
operated so as to minimize vermin infestation, odors,
and disease hazards. The disposal facilities and any
disposal of animal and food wastes, bedding, dead
animals, trash, and debris shall comply with applicable

federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating

to pollution control or the protection of the environment.

 




    

Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)

(A) (continued)

(5) Facilities such as washrooms, basins, showers, or sinks

shall be provided to maintain cleanliness among animal

caretakers.

(B) Space Requirements:

Enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to

provide sufficient space to allow each animal to make normal

poStural and social adjustments with adequate freedom of

movement. Enclosure requirements will meet specifications in

Section VII (N, 0, P).

(C) Feeding:

(1) The food shall be wholesome, palatable, and free from

(2)

 

contamination and of sufficient quantity and nutritive
value to maintain all animals in good health. The diet
shall be prepared with consideration for the age,
species, condition, size, and sex of animal. Animals
shall be fed at least once a day except as dictated by
hibernation, veterinary treatment, normal fasts, or other
professionally accepted practices.

Food and food receptacles, if used, shall be sufficient
in quantity and located so as to be accessible to all
animals in the enclosure and shall be placed so as to
minimize contamination. Food receptacles shall be kept
clean and sanitary at all times. If self-feeders are
used, adequate measures shall be taken to prevent

molding, contamination, and deterioration or caking of

  

food.




Section VII.

Animal Welfare (continued)
(D) Watering:
If potable water is not accessible to the animals at all
times, it must be provided as often as necessary for the
health and comfort of the animal but at least twice a day.
Frequency of watering shall take into consideration the age,
species, condition, size, and sex of animal. All water
receptacles shall be kept clean and sanitary.
Sanitation:
(1) Excreta shall be removed from primary enclosures as often
as necessary to prevent contamination of the animals
contained therein and to minimize disease hazards and to

reduce odor. When enclosures are cleaned by hosing or

flushing, adequate measures shall be taken to protect the

animals confined in such enclosures from being directly
sprayed with the stream of water or wetted

involuntarily.

Subsequent to the presence of an animal with an
infectious or transmissible disease, cages, rooms, and
hard-surfaced pens or runs shall be sanitized either by
washing them with hot water (180'F at source) and soap or
detergent, as in a mechanical washer, or by washing all
soiled surfaces with a detergent solution followed by a
safe and effective disinfectant, or by cleaning all
soiled surfaces with saturated live steam under pressure.
Pens or runs using gravel, sand, or dirt shall be

sanitized when necessary.

 




Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)

 

(E) Sanitation:

(3) Premises (buildings and grounds) shall be kept clean and
in good repair in order to protect the animals from
injury and to facilitate the prescribed husbandry
practices set forth in this section. Accumulations of
trash shall be placed in designated areas and cleared as
necessary to protect the health of the animals.

(4) A safe and effective program for the control of insects,

ectoparasites, and avian and mammalian pests shall be

established and maintained.

Employees:

A sufficient number of adequately trained employees shall

be utilized to maintain the professionally acceptable level

of husbandry practices set forth in this section. Such

employees shall be under a supervisor who has a background

in animal care.

Separation:

Animals housed in the same primary enclosure must be

compatible. Animals shall not be housed near animals

that interfere with their health or cause them

discomfort.

Veterinary Care:

(1) Programs of disease prevention, parasite control,
euthanasia, and adequate veterinary care shall be
established and maintained. The pest control programs

shall be reviewed for the safe use of materials and

methods.

 




Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)

 

(H) (continued)

(2) Animals shall be observed every day by the person in
charge of the care of the animals or by someone
working under his direct supervision. Sick, diseased,
stressed, injured, or lame animals shall be provided
with veterinary care or humanely destroyed unless such
action is inconsistent with the purposes for which the
animal was obtained and is being held.

(I) Handling:

(1) Handling of animals shall be done expeditiously and
carefully so as not to cause unnecessary discomfort,
behavioral stress, or physical harm to the animal.
Care should be exercised also to avoid harm to the
handler.

Animals to which the public is afforded direct contact
shall only be displayed for periods of time and under
conditions consistent with the animals' health and not
leading to their discomfort.

During public display, the animals must be handled so
there is minimal risk of harm to the public with
sufficient distance allowed between the animals and
the viewing public to assure safety to both the public
and the animals. Performing animals shall be allowed

a rest period between performances equal to the time

for one performance.

 




    

Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued) ).

 

    
    
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 

(J) Vehicles:

(1) Vehicles used in transporting animals shall be
mechanically sound and equipped to provide the animals
adequate fresh air, both when moving and stationary,
without injuriOus drafts or discomfort.

(2) The animal cargo space shall be constructed and
maintained so as to prevent the ingress of the
vehicle's exhaust gases.

(3) The interior of the animal cargo space shall be kept
physically clean.

(4) The ambient temperature shall be sufficiently regulated
by heating or cooling to protect the animals from the
extremes of temperature and to provide for their health
and to prevent their discomfort. The ambient temperature
shall not be allowed to fall below or rise above
temperatures compatible with the health and comfort of
the animals.

(K) Primary Enclosures Used to Transport Animals:

(1) Primary enclosures, such as compartments used to
transport animals, shall be well constructed, well
ventilated, and designed to protect the health and assure
the safety of the animals. Such enclosures shall be
constructed or positioned in the vehicle in such a manner
that each animal in the vehicle has access to sufficient

air for normal breathing, the openings of such enclosures

 

are easily accessible at all times for emergency removal

 




    

Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)

 

(K) (continued)

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

 

(continued)

of the animals, and the animals are afforded adequate
protection from the elements.

Animals transported in the same primary enclosure shall
be compatible. Socially dependent animals (e.g.,
siblings, dams, and young cagemates) must be allowed
visual and olfactory contact.

Primary enclosures used to transport animals shall be
large enough to insure that each animal contained therein
has sufficient space to turn about freely and to make
normal postural adjustments; however, certain species
may be restricted in their movements according to
professionally acceptable standards when Such freedom of
movement would constitute a danger to the animals or
their handlers.

Animals shall not be placed in primary enclosures over
other animals in transit unless each enclosure is fitted
with a floor of a material which prevents animal excreta
or other wastes from entering lower enclosures.

Primary enclosures used to transport animals shall be
cleansed and sanitized before and after each shipment.
All bedding in the vehicle shall be clean at the

beginning of each trip.

 




Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)

 

(L) Food and Water Requirements:

. (1) Potable water shall be provided to each animal at least
once in each 12 hour period except as directed by
hibernation, veterinary treatment, or other
professionally accepted practices. Those animals which,
by commonly accepted practice, require watering more
frequently shall be so watered.

Each animal shall be fed at least once in each 24 hour
period except as directed by hibernation, veterinary
treatment, normal fasts, or other professionally accepted
practices. Those animals which, by commonly accepted
practice, require feeding more frequently shall be so fed.
(3) A sufficient quantity of food and water shall accompany

the animal to provide food and water for the animal for

a period of at least 24 hours, except as directed by

hibernation, veterinary treatment, normal fasts, or other
professionally accepted practices. x
(M) Care in Transit: I

(1) It shall be the responsibility of the attendant or driver
to inspect the animals frequently to assure the health
and comfort of the animals.
In the event of a breakdown or delay of the vehicle, it
is the responsibility of the caretaker or vehicle
operator to assure that the animals get adequate
ventilation and protection from fumes, vehicle exhaust,
and extremes in temperature and to assure that the

animals are not subject to undue discomfort.

 




Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)
(M) (continued)
(3) In an emergency concerning the health and welfare of the
animals, adequate veterinary care shall be provided

without delay.

(N) Enclosure requirements for animals considered inherently

dangerous to man shall be as follows:
(1) Group 1 - Chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans

(a) Outdoor facilities - Cage construction materials
shall consist of steel bars, 2 inch galvanized pipe,
masonry block, or their strength equivalent.

(b) Indoor facilities - Potential escape routes shall be
equipped with steel bars, 2 inch galvanized pipe, or
equivalent in rooms where the animals are maintained.

(2) Group 2 - Drills and mandrills, baboons, gelada baboons,
gibbons, siamangs, snow leopards, jaguars, tigers, lions,
bears

(a) Outdoor facilities - Cage construction materials
shall consist of not less than 9 gauge chain link or
equivalent.

(b) Indoor facilities - Potential escape routes shall be
equipped with wire or grating of not less than
9 gauge or equivalent.

(3) Group 3 - Rhinoceros, elephants, hippopotamus, cape
buffalos

(a) Indoor and outdoor facilities - Construction material
shall consist of steel bars, masonary block, or

equivalent.

 




Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)

(N) (continued)

(4) Group 4 - Crocodiles, gavials, alligators, caimans,
komodo dragons.

(a) Outdoor facilities - Bounded by a fence at least
5 feet in height of not less than 11% gauge chain
link or equivalent.

(5) Group 5 - leopards, cougars, clouded leopards, Cheetahs,
wolves, jackals, dholes, and African hunting dogs.

(a) Outdoor facilities - Construction material shall
consist of not less than 11% gauge chain link or
equivalent.

(b) Indoor facilities - Potential escape routes shall be
equipped with wire or grating not less than 11% gauge
or equivalent.

(6) Group 6 - Wolverines, honey badgers, Old World badgers,

American badgers, hyenas

(a) Outdoor facilities - Cage construction materials
shall consist of not less than 9 gauge chain link or
equivalent.

(b) Indoor facilities - Potential escape routes shall be
equipped with wire or grating of not less than
9 gauge chain link or equivalent.

(7) Group 7 - Ostriches, cassowaries

(a) Outdoor facilities - Bounded by a fence of at least

6 feet in height of not less than 11% gauge chain

link or equivalent.

 




Section VII.

Animal Welfare (continued)

(0) Additional enclosure requirements for wild animals considered .

inherently dangerous to man:

(1) A fence sufficient to deter entry by the public shall be
present around the premises wherein animals are housed or
exercised outdoors.

(2) All cages or enclosures of animals except paddocks,
corrals, or reptile pits shall be equipped with a safety
entrance.

All animal cages constructed of chain link or wire shall
be well braced and securely anchored at ground level and
shall utilize metal clamps, ties, or braces of equivalent
strength as that prescribed for cage construction for
that particular species.
(P) Pen specifications and caging requirements for captive wild
animals:

(1) Captive wild animals shall not be confined in any cage or
other enclosure which contains more individual animals;
or is smaller in dimension; or is not equipped as
described in this section, except at the discretion of
the law enforcement officer some minor discrepancies may
be allowed.

(a) New World Monkeys

1. Marmosets

a. For two adults, a cage 3 feet by 2 feet,
4 feet high, with two perching branches and a
nest box.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage size
25 percent of floor area.

 




Section VII.

Animal Welfare (continued)

 

(P) (continued)

(1) (continued)

(a) (continued)

2.

Squirrel, titis, owl, and other similar-sized
monkeys

a. For three adults, a cage 4 feet by 5 feet,
5 feet high, with two perching branches and a
nest box.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage size
by 10 percent of floor area.

Medium-sized South American monkeys (capuchins,
sakis, etc.)

a. For two adults, a cage 5 feet by 5 feet,
'6 feet high, with three parallel swinging
bars.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage size
25 percent of floor area.

. Large South American monkeys (spiders, wooleys,

howlers, etc.)

a. For two adults, a cage 6 feet by 6 feet,'
8 feet high, with three parallel swinging bars
and two perching areas.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage size
by 25 percent of floor area.

World Monkeys

. Macaques, genunons, mangabys, langurs, etc.

a. For two adults, a cage 6 feet by 5 feet,
6 feet high, with three perching areas.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage
size 25 percent of floor area.

Baboons (mandrills, dog-faced, etc.)

a. For two adults, a cage 10 feet by 6 feet,
6 feet high, with two 1 foot wide resting
shelves.

b. For additional animals, increase cage length
3 feet per animal.

 




Section VII.

Animal Welfare (continued)

 

(P) (continued)
(1) (continued)
(c) Apes
1. Gibbons

a. For a family group of four, a cage 12 feet by
6 feet, 8 feet high, with three parallel
swinging bars at 4 foot intervals in the top
third of the cage.

. Chimpanzees and orangutans

a. For a juvenile under 50 pounds, a cage 8 feet
by 6 feet, 6 feet high. For an adult over
50 pounds, a cage 10 feet by 6 feet, 8 feet
high.

b. For each additional animal, double floor area.
. Gorillas

a. For one animal, a cage 14 feet by 12 feet,
8 feet high.

b. For each additional animal, double the floor
area.

(d) Carnivores and certain omnivores with similar
requirements

1. African lions and Asian tigers

a. For each animal, a cage 15 feet by 10 feet,
8 feet high, with a 3 feet by 10 feet shelf,
elevated 3 feet, and two claw logs.

. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 5 feet.
2. Jaguars, leopards, pumas

a. For each cat, a cage 10 feet by 8 feet,
8 feet high, with a 2 feet by 8 feet shelf,
elevated 3 feet, and two claw logs.

. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 5 feet.

 




    

Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)

 

(P) (continued)

(1) (continued)

(d) (continued)

3.

4.

 

Lesser cats (bobcats, lynx, ocelots, margay, etc.)

a. For each cat, a cage 8 feet by 4 feet,
6 feet high, with a shelf 14 inches by 4 feet,
elevated 3 feet, and two claw logs and a den.

b. For each additional cat, increase cage
length 2 feet.

Geoffroy's cats, leopard cats, and other wild cats
which average 5 pounds adult weight

a. For each cat, a cage 4 feet by 4 feet, 6 feet
high, with a shelf 6 inches by 3 feet, elevated
3 feet, and two claw logs.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 1 foot.

. Cheetahs

a. For one cheetah, a cage 40 feet by 20 feet,
8 feet high, with a shelf 30 inches by 6 feet,
elevated 3 feet.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 2 feet.

Bears, 6 feet or more from rump to snout

a. For one bear, a cage 25 feet by 12 feet,
12 feet high, with a 6 feet by 10 feet pool
4 feet deep for polar bears; or a 2 feet by
2 feet pool 18 inches deep accompanied with
water spraying facilities for other bears.

b. For each additional bear, increase cage
length 12 feet.

. Bears up to 6 feet from rump to snout

a. For one bear, a cage 20 feet by 10 feet,
10 feet high, with a 4 feet by 6 feet pool
3 feet deep.

b. For each additional bear, increase cage length
10 feet.

 

 




Section VII.

Animal Welfare (continued)

 

(P) (continued)

(1) (continued)

(d) (continued)

8. Sun bears

a. For each bear, a cage 12 feet by 8 feet, 6 feet
high, with a 3 feet by 4 feet pool 2 feet deep.

b. For each additional bear, increase cage length
3 feet.

Raccoons, coatimundi, sloth, tayra, and others of r
smiliar size and habits, including North and South
American porcupines and hyraxes

a. For each animal, a cage 6 feet by 5 feet,
6 feet high, with two climbing limbs and a
resting shelf.

. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 2 feet.

Kinkajous, opossums, pottos, grissons, gallagos,
tamanduas, slow loris, genets, etc. (small
climbing animals)

a. For each animal, a cage 4 feet by 4 feet,
6 feet high, with three climbing limbs.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 1 foot.

Squirrels, tree shrews, etc.

a. For two animals, a cage 3 feet by 2 feet,
6 feet high, with a nest box and three climbing
limbs.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 6 inches.

. Agouti, pacas, wild rabbits, acushi, skunks, and

other rabbit-sized ground animals
a. For each animal, a cage 6 feet by 3 feet,
3 feet high, with two gnawing logs.

. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 1 foot.

 




Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)

 

(P) (continued)

(1) (continued)

(d) (continued)

13. Badger, large-crested porcupine, and similar-sized
ground animals

a. For each animal, a cage 8 feet by 4 feet,
5 feet high, with two gnawing logs.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 3 feet.

Beavers, muskrats, and other semi-aquatic small
animals

a. For up to three animals, a cage 8 feet by
4 feet, 5 feet high, with a 4 feet by 14 inch
pool 2 feet deep with a nest box and two
gnawing logs.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 2 feet.

. Otters

a. For two otters, a cage 10 feet by 6 feet,
6 feet high, with a 4 feet by 6 feet pool
3 feet deep; a slide; and a dry retreat box

b. For each additional otter, increase cage
floor area by 25 percent.

. Pygmy hippopotamus, tapirs, capybaras, giant
anteaters, etc.

a. For each animal, a cage 24 feet by 15 feet,
6 feet high, with a 6 feet by 8 feet pool
4 feet deep, with a ramp exit. Pool not
required for anteaters.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage
and pool area by 30 percent.
. Foxes, jackals, etc.

a. For two animals, a cage 8 feet by 4 feet,
6 feet high, with a den or nest box and a
shelf 18 inches by 4 feet, elevated 3 feet.

. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 6 feet.

 




Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)

 

(P) (continued)
(1) (continued)
(d) (continued)
18. Wolves, hyenas

a. For each animal, a cage 15 feet by 8 feet,
6 feet high, with a 4 feet by 4 feet den.
b. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 10 feet and den length 3 feet.
. Coyotes, cape hunting dogs, dingos, wolverines, etc.
a. For each animal, a cage 10 feet by 8 feet,
6 feet high, with a 4 feet by 4 feet den.
b. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 10 feet and den length 3 feet.
. Weasels, minks, martens, polecats, ferrets
a. For two animals, a cage 6 feet by 3 feet,
3 feet high, with a den

. For each additional animal, increase cage
length 3 feet.

(e) Marsupials and others

1. Kangaroos (large wallaby, walleroo, etc.)

a. For one animal, a cage or paddock 20 feet
by 12 feet, 8 feet high, having a non-skid
surface, with shade and a refuge area.

. For each additional animal, increase cage
floor area by 25 percent.
2. Small wallaby

a. For two wallabies, a cage or paddock 12 feet
by 4 feet, 6 feet high, having a non-skid
surface with shade, and a refuge area.

. For each additional wallaby, increase cage
floor area 25 percent.
3. Hedgehogs
a. For two hedgehogs, a cage 2 feet by 2 feet,
2 feet high, with a dirt floor over wire.

. For each additional hedgehog, increase cage
length 1 foot.

 




Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)

 

(P) (continued)
(1) (continued)
(e) (continued)
4. Armadillos

a. For each armadillo, a circular cage with a
6 foot diameter or one having gently rounded
corners with the same area and a dirt floor
over wire.

b. For each additional armadillo, increase cage
diameter 2 feet.

(f) Ungulates, ostriches, and other large running birds

1. Large-sized (zebras, elk, giraffes, asses,
wildebeests, camels, elands, buffalos, bison, etc.)

a. For one animal, a paddock or corral enclosing
1,000 square feet, with an attached shaded,
protected area.

. For each additional animal, increase cage area
by 25 percent.

. Medium-sized (ostriches, white-tailed deer, fallow
deer, llamas, aoudads, wild goats and sheep-type
animals, emus, cassowary, and rheas)

a. For one animal, a paddock or corral enclosing
500 square feet, with an attached shaded,
protected area.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage area
by 25 percent.

3. Small-sized (dikdiks, small gazelles, peccary)

a. For one animal, a paddock or corral enclosing
300 square feet, with an attached shaded,
protected area.

. For each additional animal, increase cage area
by 25 percent.

4. Rhinoceros or elephants

a. For one animal, a paddock or corral enclosing
1,000 square feet, with an attached shaded,
heated area.

b. For each additional animal, increase cage area
by 50 percent.

 




    

Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)

  
   
   
  

  

(P) (continued)
(1) (continued)

(f) (continued)

 
      

5. Hippopotamus, Nile

    

a. For one animal, a cage enclosing 600 square
feet of land area, with a pool of 300 square
feet, 5 feet in depth having a ramp exist.

     
 

b. For each additional animal, increase both land
and pool area by 25 percent.

    
   
  

(g) Reptiles

     
   
 

1. Snakes

 
 

a. For four snakes, a cage having a perimeter
1% times the length of the longest confined
snake, with a resting limb or ledge, a large
rock, shade, and a pool of sufficient dimension
to permit submersion.

 
   
     
 

b. For each additional snake, increase cage size
25 percent of floor area.

 
   
   
 
 

Lizards (anoles, fence lizards and skinks, and
other lizards 2 to 6 inches in length)

 
       

a. For two lizards, a cage 12 inches by 8 inches,
10 inches high, with branches and access to sun
or ultraviolet light.

     
   
  
 
 
  
  
    
 
 
 
 

b. For each two additional lizards, increase cage
size by 2 inches in length and width.

3. Lizards 7 to 12 inches in length

a. For two lizards, a cage 20 inches by 10 inches,
15 inches high, with branches and access to sun
or ultraviolet light.

b. For each two additional lizards, increase cage
size by 4 inches in length and width.
4. Lizards 13 to 24 inches in length

a. For two lizards, a cage 30 inches by 15 inches,
12 inches high, with branches and access to sun
or ultraviolet light.

b. For each two additional lizards, increase cage
size by 6 inches in length and width.

  




Section VII.

Animal Welfare (continued)

(P) (continued)

(1) (continued)

(9) (continued)

5.

Lizards 2 to 4 feet in length

a. For two lizards, a cage 36 inches by 15 inches,
18 inches high, with branches and access to sun
or ultraviolet light.

b. For each two additional lizards, increase cage
size by 10 inches in length and width.

. Lizards 4 to 6 feet in length

8.

9.

a. For two lizards, a cage 6 feet by 3 feet,
4 feet high, with branches and access to sun
or ultraviolet light.

b. For each two additional lizards, increase
cage size by 1 foot in length and width.

Gila monster and beaded lizards

a. For each lizard, a cage 24 inches by 18 inches,
15 inches high having rounded corners, with two
rocks and access to sun or ultraviolet light.

b. For each additional lizard, increase cage size
by 4 inches in length and width.

Turtles and terrapins

a. For one turtle, a cage with an area five times
body size of which 50 percent shall be a pool,
with sun and shade. For soft-shelled turtles,
a non-abrasive pool bottom is required. The
water area shall permit submersion of the
largest turtles.

b. For each additional turtle, increase cage area
by five times body size.

Tortoises

a. For one tortoise, a cage with a land area
10 times body size, with sun and shade, and a
sloped pool for immersion.

b. For each additional tortoise, increase cage
area by 7 times body size.

 




      

Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)

   

(P) (continued)

  
  

(1) (continued)

  

(9) (continued)

   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
  

10. Alligators and crocodiles

a. For one animal, a cage of sufficient size to
permit moving and turning both on land and in a
pool of sufficient depth to permit submersion.

b. For additional animals, the combined area
covered by their bodies shall not exceed
50 percent of cage area.

(h) Birds

1. General requirements - Enclosures for flying birds
shall be small enough to prevent flight or large
enough to permit aerial maneuvering within the
enclosure. Perching birds shall be provided with
a perch of a diameter sufficient to prevent the
meeting of the bird's claws and of sufficient
height to prevent floor contact.

2. Parrots, large cockatoos

a. For each bird, a cage providing space
sufficient to permit perching without
touching cage sides.

b. For additional birds, one perch for each bird.
Community cages shall provide flight space.
3. Medium-sized parrots
a. For two birds, a cage 18 inches by 18 inches,
2 feet high, with a perch for each bird.
b. For additional birds, one perch for each bird.
Community cages shall provide flight space.
4. Small parrots, parakeets
a. For two birds, a cage 1 foot by 2 feet,
10 inches high.

b. For additional birds, community cages shall
be sufficient to provide flight space.

 




Section VII.

Animal Welfare (continued)

 

(P) (continued)

(1) (continued) ‘

(h) (continued)

5. Waterfowl

a.

For four birds, a cage with 75 square feet of
land area and 25 square feet of water area.

. For each additional bird, increase cage and

water areas by 20 percent.

Eagles, hawks, owls, vultures, toucans, and
toucanets

a.

For each bird, a cage two wing-spreads by three
wing—spreads, with a perch one wing-spread
above floor. Cage roof to be of sufficient
height to permit bird to sit erect on highest
perch.

. Wild turkeys, peafowl, and curassows

a.

For three birds, a cage having 144 square feet
of floor, 6 feet high, with the perch elevated
4 feet above the floor.

. For additional birds, increase cage area by

50 percent.

. Lesser game birds, pheasants, etc.

a.

For five birds, a cage having 100 square feet
of floor, 6 feet high, with the perch elevated
30 inches.

. For each additional bird, increase cage area

20 square feet.

Community groups of finches and seedeaters

a. For 25 birds, a cage 4 feet by 8 feet, 8 feet

high.

. Medium-size, flight birds (jays, starlings, doves,
pigeons, etc.)

a.

b.

For two birds, a cage 3 feet by 2 feet, 5 feet
high.

For community groups, a cage at least 8 feet in
diameter of sufficient size to permit flight.

 




Section VII. Animal Welfare (continued)
(P) (continued)
(1) (continued)

(h) (continued)

11. Wading birds (flamingos, ibises, spoonbills,
herons, egrets, cranes)

a. For five birds, a cage having 144 square feet
with a wading pool.

b. For additional birds, increase cage area by
30 percent.

12. Pelicans, cormorants, and swans

a. For two birds, a cage having 144 square feet,
one-half of which shall be a pool 18 inches
deep.

. For each additional birds, increase cage area
25 square feet.

13. Penguins

a. For two birds, a cage of 100 square feet,
one-half of which shall be a pool 3 feet deep
with flowing 55 degree Fahrenheit water.
Chilled water not required for Humboldt's
penguin.

. For each additional bird, increase cage area by
10 percent.

 




S TETDYIN G THE
DOUROUCOULI MONKEY LANGUAGE
by
Ernest P., Walker, Assistant Director

National Zoological Park

2. __ M501x1’ .‘VO -
When i steeped in the Small Mammal house of the

4

National Zoological Park Hav lf, l9h9, and heard the
pitiful cries of a little animal in distress, I had no
idea that it wodld lead to a series of far reaching
events. 41 followed up the calls and found a littl
baby douroucouli monkey that had just arrived from
Panama, scared, lonesome, hungry, cold, and sick.

She was too small a baby to survive routine zoo care.
The instant I opened the cage and put my hand in to

1,1 3 _: ‘ ~ _1 ‘1
pica ner up, sae climbed « -, ugh no

where 5.. F; . H - I ""- for me.
I could not drive with the little creature on my arm,
so I put her on my wife's arm and she again clung to
nrospective protect r. From that
Mrs. Walker named her MUR"I
quick v learned her name.

As nearly as I can estimate, MURIEL was born in
December 19h8, so we celebrate her birthday on Christmas
Day. When about four years old she was apparently at an
age development that would correspond to sixteen to

D! ~ * ’ Q
owent} years for humanS.

 




- 2 _

After MURIEL had been with us a while and we de-
tected several different words that she used, we ob-

tained a sound tape recording machine in order that

we might record her voice. This was the beginning of

mph?
recordings of her words. In connection with this we made
careful observation of the circumStances under which she
uttered sounds that were recorded. Finally, I went
through the tape and took out words and spliced them
into another tape, interspersed with my explanations,
thus producing what I called the First Douroucouli-
English Dictionary. As MWRIEL grew up her voice changed
slightly so I made a Second Edition of the Dictionary.
The sounds as uttered by the little monk and as played
back on the sound machine are usually of such short
duration and occasionally so faint that it is diffi-
cult for the human ear to catch them accurately. Ac—
cordingly, I sought the assistance of the Bell Telephone
Laboratories for the making of word spectrograms on a
machine invented by them which is commonly called the
visible speech machine. This method produces a character-
istic picture for every sound and greatly facilitates such
ashﬂy.

You have probably never thought about it, butrl am

certain that you know some words of some animal language.

 




-3...

Almost everyone-has observed that most animals produce
different sounds for different situations. Most pet
owners know when their pet is expressing a friendly
greeting, asking for food, warning of danger, and
voicing many other expressions. Fractically all vertebrates-
express their feelings to some extent to others of their
kind; and different kinds of animals as well as some
humans understand the idea the animal is attempting

to convey.

Some people argue that such messages are not part
of a language because the animals do not learn them as
we do from another person. I call it their natural,
basic or built-in language. Regardless of What we call
this communication, it is effective and adequate for
the needs of the animals. it is a fascinating field
of study which has been made much easier and more fruit-
ful with the advent of sound recording tape and sound
spectrographic.pictures.

The sound spectrograms can be read like music.

When I was at the Bell Laboratories making a series

of douroucouli wOrd pictures, a young sound scientist

who had not heard my sound tape recording stopped to

watch me. He took a quick look at a sound spectrogram
I had just made, then by a gretesqae combination of
whistling, singing and use of his hands, produced a

close imitation of the sound that was recorded on the

tape from which the picture had been made. Perhaps

 

 




    
    
    
  
   
  
  
  
     
   
    
  
 

-u-

some day we will learn our animal languages from pictures

of the sounds.
The sound spectrograms often show that two words
that sound very much alike are definitely different.

q...

l have concluded that NWFTEL used about 50 words.

 

Many attempts have been made to teaCh Primates,
other than humans, to talk human language but results
were generally disappointing. Perhaps the subjects
were smart enough to see that there was no reason why
they should use the human languages. Garner ( )
pointed out that if animals learned to speak the
languages of other animals the distinctions between

their respective languages would have vanished long

Ny familiarity with the ways of animals convinced
me that other douroucoulis would use essentially the
same sounds for the same meanings, but as a means of
double checking my observations and conclusions I made
efforts to learn from other douroucoulis. Those from
whom we learned douroucouli ways and words were: .

SPIRITA is a female living in the home of Dr. and
Mrs. Robert Brandt of Cincinnati, Ohio. Mrs. Brandt

has very kindly used a sound tape recorder to record

 
 

SPIRITA'S words, then has sent them to me with her'

   

interpretations. As would be anticipated, they are

   
       

very similar to NﬁﬁlEL'S.

     




-5...

SMOKEY is a male who was a pet of a lady in the
Washington region who became allergic to his fur, so
she gave him to me to do the best I could for him.
Smokey spent a week in our home in l95h then I turned
him over to she zone —

SKINNY is a {57.6” who was gven to the National

Zoological Park in June 1955, whenghe‘was extremely

‘ a. lie},
emaciated. I have observed.him’only when.hQ—er she

has been with_§mokey and Moonlight.

MOONLIGH'E, a female , has been in the zoo col-

 

lection for at least 3 years. I have studied her but
very little, and then only in the cage with others.

.RUSTY was in the zoo collection for at least four
years, then began to fail in health so badly that he
was no longer tolerated by two others of his kin in
his cage. When he was removed from the others he
such a bad case of cage paralysis, spinal curvature,
and fear, that he could not have survived much longer.
I took him home and gave him plenty of loving care,
good food, vitamins, massaged his back and legs and
he made a remarkable recovery.

Mental stimulus of a cultural type was so scarce
in Rusty's life before he joined us that he was definitely
subnormal, perhaps almost morose at first. Gradually
as his physical condition made a great improvement, his

mental attitude and ability began improving. Within

 




 

.,..5..

‘about seven months he was taking an interest in what

we were doing and showed some slight desire to partici- V, g
pate. But even before this he showed a marked fondness for %
Nbs. Walker and cuddled with her at every opportunity.

He gradually began to want to be with me also.

Rusty gradually began to make simple motions of
playing by himself and with Mrs. Walker. Finally after
more than four months he inflated his throat sac slightly
and gave a slight gurgle to express happiness in the
same manner that it is expressed by MURIEL, Spirits and
Smokey. Later he did it even more often than MURIEL but
not so loud.

Rusty died July 30, 1955, in our home after an ill-
ness of about a week. An autopsy failed to reveal cause
of death.

Baby 1 and Baby 2 were perhaps four months old when
they arrived at the zoo in bad condition as a result of
having been too long away from their mothers without
proper care. I took them home in an effort to save them.

One survived for a few days and the other one gradually

 

improved so that I was able to return it to the zoo.
While with us, I took note of what they said and the
circumstances)the same way that I had been studying
NURIEL'S language.

Several other douroucoulis, both young and adult
h ~n observed and heard. Their voices and words

(#17:: k3
CA \ '4 I'L/V

W

(

so far as occasion required, were the same as used by

MURIEL and others mentioned.

 




- 7 -

Recently Mr. Bates Littlehale, National Geographic

d

photographer, and I were in the cage with Smokey and
his two companions to take pictures. Smokey was much
excited and talked considerably. Littlehale observed

he sliah ly J- doorway of .h;

" U"

Smlkev s andina at
U *“"‘o

cage looking out and "Hooking", so he asked me what

Smokey was saying. I assured him Smokey was telling

of danger. Soon Littlehale heard Smokey express ap-

proval of him with the "Chrrr". Littlehale had quali-
fied as a friend of douroucoulis, and before we left
the cage he was a lover of them. The food I gave
Smokey was also good. He said so with "Chrrr". At
another time during the session he asked a question,
"Ehu". I presume it meant what are you doing, or like
many spectators auk: "Are you taking p7
was forced to leave his question unanswered as I do not
know the douroucouli words needed to make the explanation.
He also gave the excited note of worry "Uhn" and there
were o’hers that i can not explain. in all, Littlehale
had a most intensive course in the douroucouli language.
By far the greatest portion of our studies have
been of MURIEL'S talking. The other douroucoulis have
verified in almost every instance what we learned from

her and in a few instances they elaborated slightly on

what she said, or at least helped us to understand it.

 




-3-

Anything like a complete account of MURIEL'S
part in our family activities would be long and bor-
ing, so the best compromise we can make is to touch on a
few of the highlights of her ways and let these suffice

to show that she‘is'a fascinating little personality Who

.ed . .
is ShOWLHg us the ways of her'kind and perhaps something

of the ways of others of our relatives, the PRIMATES.

From our explanations of the circumstances described
perhaps the reader may be able to draw his own conclusions
of the accuracy of our interpretation of her talking.

When she was a baby her first interest in life was
to be with her folks. It was even more important than
eating. If a helpless little one becomes separated from
its parents in the jungle, death is practically certain,

.5"

but i: you remain with 3 a- l =,. ,~' at least stand a
chance of survival. She showed ”’ when she was

her milk from a bottle. She would not eat unless

was clinging to one or the other of.us. When she

eating rom the bottle, if we tried to remove the

or arm to which she was clinging, she quit eating

devoted her entire efforts to holding on to us. She
would resume eating only when she was assured of security
by clinging to us. It was not until she was considerably
older, and able to get about on her own fairly well, that
she was willing to eat without holding on to us.

Throughout her entire childhood, MURIEL'S greatest

joy was to sit astride of my neck with her long tail

 




hanging down the middle of my back while she held onto
my hair or ears. This was just.a variation of riding
on the back of her parents, the principal difference
being that there was not much hair to hold onto. If
I leaned back or made a sudden movement that made her
feel that she might fall she gave a slight "EE"} if I
did the same thing again at once she made the "BE" with
considerably more emphasis, and if I did it a third time
she growled and bit my ear slightly. This was an un-
varying routine that happened many times, 1h fact it
happened more than necessary as I was alﬁys greatly
amused by her action.
'Riding astride of my neck not only gave her a
of security, but it was also a choice vantage
to watch whatever I was doing. Whether
I was at my desk typing, moving about the den, photo-
graphing or even going to the bathroom, she wanted to
be present and observe everything., When she could not
see w? ’ ” doi n; - y ' fro of me, she
would lean far to one side and hold onto my ear so she
could look around my head.
As she grew older, she would leave me for short
periods to explore the immediat Vic nit , but she was

never far from me and at my first movement to leave the

1 o .----.-—\I»V 1.1:. .1 ‘? T ' "
room she raced to me, calling "SEEN, wJEx, 413%, 'HE¥

in raoi. succes ion ard leaned to my shouldVi- s-e ld.

 




- 10 -

Most of the time she leaped onto a couch that was near
the door, ran to the end of it just as I reached the
door and leaped from it to my shoulder or onto my arm

if I extended it toward her to use as a runway.,

“I b

'1 ader occasiona 1y se decide

As she became Sti
it might be fun to travel.under her own power and de-

viate from my route to explore nearby articles in the

3.

apartment, However, she never let me get more than a

few steps away before she came racing to be with me.

i often remarked that she was with me more than my

shadow as she would accompany me in the dark as well as

1 0

th - ’t. Finally she 50‘ up a to go on explor-
nn , - own about the apartment in the evening,
but ‘ ayed away from us for long. And, of course,
the den or her room in full day-
light, as she was not comfortable in either mind or
vision in bright light.
While living together in such int mate associa-
se learned Considerable about each other. I
wish I knew what MURIEL observed regarding us. However:
we do not know her language well enough to attempt to
give her analysis of us. In fact at times I suspect she
' thought about us.
ionally in our life about the home either Mrso
will use a Douroucouli word to express our
other GTSOL invariably recognizes it any

5‘
' d
understands. It serves the purpose quite‘well as phrases

 




- 11 -

from_French or other languages. If our vocal apparatus
would reproduce some of her other words, we would pro—
bably use them also.

MURIEL was very conventional and wanted to conform
to the ways of her family. he doubt this is associated
with the close-knit family group pattern, in which the
nonconformist and unconventional individual does not
fit. It is obvious that she wanted to do the right thing;
that is, what is right from.our viewpoint.

The slightest intimation on our part of our wishes,
if she understood, was often sufficient, particularly if
it was reprozf or restraint. Sometimes she was insis-
tent to win her point, but when she did, it was usually
because she was having fun resisting me to geTmy atten-
tion. A good example of this was when she grabbed my
pencil or pen from.my hand, the desk or from my pocket.
If I grabbed for her and made a pretense of catching
her she ran and made great efforts to avoid me and keep
the object, but if I ignored her she quickly lost inter—
rest and dropped the object.

Whatever I was doing was of great interest to her.
Usually she wanted to have a hand in it or observe the
operation closely. Small animals that I brought home
to photograph must always be carefully examined. She'

never tried to harm or frighten them and she showed no

jealousy. Presently after she had learned enough about

 




'them ahewproceeded to amuse herself, but kept close watch

on what was going on. Caution was her watchword so she
never got into danger in spite of her great curiosity.

When a new object was brought in she often expressed her

.1.
l
u

or some other

n~o

with o
u

L4.

4 +.1.r9c
*V V'Mu,

question regarding it. Until she was certain that it was
not dangerous she usually gave the danger or warning note
of "BOOK" uttered gently and rather low or the warning of
serious or_imminent danger "WOOK", given louder and with
emphasis.

I am certain that MURIEL looked on me as merely the
big boss monk of the family group. As a member of the clan
she had a certain loyalty and respect for the leadership,
but as merely another monk my judgment or actions were
perhaps to be seriously questioned at ime .

I wanted to examine her teeth to see

not suffered from what I feared might have been an excess—

ive amount of sweets in her diet. She was sitting on a

._..

radiator cover in the bathroom in a good light so i pu’
my left hand behind her head and with the fingers of my
right hand very gently opened her mouth a little. I
could see that the front teeth were in good shape, but ‘
I could not see the back teeth so I opened her mouth con—
siderably more and had a good look at all the teeth. She
offered not the slightest resistance, and I had not restrain-
d her in any way.
If I had tried to hold her firmly she would certainly

have struggled, as physical restraint terrorizes animals

 




- 13 -

into the utmost violence. Even humans resent being so re-
strained that they feel they cannot help themselves. This
is, of course, a trait carried down to us from our earliest
ancestry when restraint usually resulted in death.

Her very large eyes shewed 6 early that she was s
ly nocturnal, and her behavior showed this very strongly.
If she happened to look towards the window when there was
bright daylight outside she looked away almost instantly
and blinked her eyes as if in discomfort. She did not.
seriously object to normal artificial lighting in our home
but felt protected and slightly more comfortable if she was
in subdued light under a couch, desk or in her room.

Cameras and eyes are so similar in their basic prin-
ciples that we can compare them in considering MURIELVS‘
very large eyes° K 2, ,l'( » fenerally have very
large eyes to admit the greatest possible amount of the
scant light that is available in their period of activities.
It was amusing to see her pick up an object and hold it at
arm's length to look at it or back up to that or a greater
distance to look at something because her eyes did not
focus closer than about three or four inches. This makes
one think of many people, particularly elderly folks with-
out their glasses whose eyes will no longer focus at short

.1.

disbanceso

It is obvious that she considered the outside world in

nvlight a ’erribly dangerous place, ant if she was held so

. , $3 ‘0‘ ‘9
that sne feels she might encounter it, shvwooked, to warn

v
L4

of danger.

 

 




   
 
  

-114-

At night she sometimes got behind the venetian blinds

 
   
   
   
 

and sat on the upper edge of the lower sash and looked at
the surroundings, but there are so many activities out

there that might be dangerous she did not stay long and

   
    
     
   
     
     
   
    
   
   
   
    
    
  
  
  
     
  

.—

plainly she had little intertst i“ the on
the other hand she had such a strong family group attach-
ment and interests that she definitely felt that she had
a part in all that we did, and she was greatly interested

in persons, and animals that came to the apartment.

her up she cooperated

   

When I reached for her to pick

by swinging around so that her hind legs straddled my upper

   

 

. A
i‘

forearm, her tail hung down an her chest rested in the
palm of my hand. It had to be done just that way, because
that was the best way she could hold onto me and I could

1 I . J. 1 ‘ A ‘7 * T‘ -. .7.‘ - J. 1 A - _ - 1- _« 0 _0
hold OHLO her, and anyway that was the Még we SbaPCed it

[L

when she was a baby so it had to be continue in keeping

with her firm belief in regular routine procedure. 3
Baths were not particularly enjOyed nor seriously

objected too 'She was not bathed regularly so she could 'T f?

assume it was time for a bath. Nevertheless, she detected

the very first signs of preparation for her bath so would

go to some place she hoped would be a safe retreat and ‘

ignortmy call. When I caught her and started towards the

 

bathroom sheﬂwookedﬁgently and strucvled a little. Then

“QL:

   

when I turned her over to Mrs. Walker for the bath she

     
  

.1

1' ‘_ '! ,. " °, " ‘ A ‘ , '-7-_ 1\ y 7 ~ "- r’:
booked and wooked, when she 881 the soap powder anu

    

other preparations, but when she was actually in the basin




-15..

she offered no real objections. Wrapping her in a towel
to dry her fur thoroughly and the gentle rubbing was not
enjoyed and called for considerable objecting,"ﬂlaooking,"a

V
”wooking>and some struggling that was objecting to

straint incident to the operations. When she was

she was so happy. She scampered a short distance
looked back in a happy manner and laughed or talked, and
shook herself or rolled to adjust her fur. Plainly she
felt good and hag probably enjoyed her bath. Some monks
like to have baths and do so voluntarily.

It seemed as though MURIEL enjoyed Mrs. Walker being

1». At least then she went to her bed, ried to under-

Mvj. Walk n

why she was not up about the usual activities, talked

and usually cuddled down alongside under the covers

.7 Q
t

I 1 " o a o I 1
A .. A7“. 7.. g. -, . i ‘A A .-\ V1 7* v \ 7 #0 w. ." "z 7 TC
,_ 5 ;\ Lil») ' (,Q . ‘ Tl’p-Jdl U1). L...L k7) ari\‘ Weir- VIA. V\'(—‘-S
.. v V *‘ _.

V4

sick the procedure was much the same but not so unusual,
she always wanted to be with me anyway. She had lots

fun being under the covers, warm, cozy and protected

not she kett the situation 'nteresting

imagining there might be danger so she would peep out

see What might be going on in the vicinity and sometimes

when she heard a sound and did not know its cause, she
“ 1" ..
wooked. but it was all in fun.

‘NWRIEL had to a marked degree the sense of politeness

T have also observed in many other animals in a lesser

, 9‘ - r 7‘ .04?- L 4 n; -T‘ L ‘-
-ree on many occaSions l oiiered her somethinQ gnat 549

(.J“ .

did not want; sometimes I knew she did not want it, but

 




~16-

usually she would.take it. Frequently she will expresslfdf
her thanks by using the word that means good "GRRRRRR".
It is the same sort of conventionality as we_often see
people use when they thank you for something or for somel
act you have done for them
for.

Ever watchfulness for danger cardinal virtue and

prime requisite for survival in the wild. This instinct

was the second dominant trait in MUEIEL when she was a

I
little girl, and as she became older it became the gominant

n She was always alert to any unusual
sound or movement or objeC‘ ter 7 air ,ve heel placed n

Since the welfare of

 

t was her
e might
be danger. ’3 = not necessary ’x‘? -7 to prove
and apparently it does not count against douroucoulis
alarm. The only penalty is to fail to
is a gentle "book" note;

"
or "wook somewhat

»O'K" with great

 




_ 17 -

Major E. A. Goldman was probably the first person to
write a douroucouli word, but he did not know its meaning.
He wrote: "I did not hear the voice of the animal which
was described to me by native hunters as Who-Who, given
in a low monotonous tone”.

Obviously it was the worried, suspicious moan.

Naturally when humans are about in the jungle the

.
animals are going to give:the alarm, so the douroucoulis
do their part by calling "HOOK", or giving the moan of
warning.
One incidentcif this character that occurred in
follows:
in the bathroon 1 3h the door open. Mrs.

bathroon.

wash cloth rod.
‘ . *5
of the bathroom, WRIEL growled/’WOOked lightly’

J "3,
on o the lower curtain rod and rushed to re-

ful", our pet flying s iirrel, was at

the bathroom. She heard MURIEL‘S alarm note,

. V 1‘ .
realized danger and froze for some time.

 




- 18 _

Not only is it necessary to be alert to detect danger

and give the alarm, but sometimes it is necessar

invaders. MURIEL has showed us how this is done. It began

as a game that she started, which she made so real that she

became excited as though she confr onte ed a real enem7.8i1e

if there was a slight or rovocation by the rMrs.

'aljer or myself in a gesture as though we were about to

&

threaten her, or other movement that she construed as threat—

She leaped to a high place or took shelter under the

table, chair or other shelter, arched her back and

out her tail like an angry cat, giving moaning sounds,
va ta e
l

I”

”T
int? 33.08717.-

enecj was vanquishe

inflated her throat

1,‘ -
whole SlX

probablv be heard by humans at a

L1 Q
v

To keep properly posted on changes she liked to make

exploring rips aboit the apartmen , and of course

must receive special attention.

 




- 19 -

She liked to gently touch the houSe plants, and some-
times she pulled off, or bit off, a leaf slightly, but it
was all a gentle, perhaps loving way, and was never destruc-
tive. I suspedt she had an instinctive liking for plants
so we provided her with plants of her own to see what she

would do with them.

In keeping with her great curiosity and interest in.

i

all her surroundings, she has, what seems to a human, an

incredible memory of arrangement of things in the apartment.
If even a slicht change was made in the arrangement of the

furniture or a package was brought in, it was approached

' , J ‘ ‘ v 3"
examined '4 » :new enough

future we found
her mind . - ' her surroundings,

a change was made she noted it instantly and had to make

i‘e~ ‘ i~r .. ”loring about the apartment, she

A;

frequently returned direct to Mrs. Walker and talked to

her at some length. It seemed to us as though it may have

been an explanation that she did no harm, for she knew Mrs.
Walker had some prejudice about her extended investigations

in the apartment beyond the den and her room.

lt.is possible, however, that some or even all of her

talk rev h ve been commenting on what she had seen anr done.

L 1-”... ".
U

On at least one occasion we were convinced this was the trend
d

of her talking to us. Unfortunately these and may other

 




- 20 -

outbreaks of her talking come so unexpectedly that we did
not get them on tape.

When MUEIEL was a teen—ager, Mrs. Walker sometimes
0 hewed gum, this was a never-ending source of interest.
If it was 9 go ood why could not she have some? MURIEL
~would sit for minutes on the arm of Mrs. Walker's chair

or on her shoulder applying the silent request, and if

this failed she would‘make her coaxing request. Of course,

Mr. Walker could not resist having some fun by opening her

mouth slightly to give MURIEL a glimpse of the gum. This,
of course, stimulated her interest, so she watched very
intently at close range and tried _ reach in and grab the
gum. I got ' t t ‘ » ' c>f it the time
ﬁfIIEh vapie ‘ ; .7 . .- ~ ” i a t k the
"'TLVL was

deli: ’ . at her victory,
was an indication of her state she was surprised beyond
words.

Small amounts of the gum and candy were kept 'n filing

and desk drawers which could not be opened so uietly

'hat MU? IEL did not detect the sound and come for her tiny

I

had a peculiar appetite for sweets. Chocolate
bars were prime favorites, cocoanut candy was not liked,

Some

 




-21..

'Tri; Fruits and such green material as lettuce, spinach,
Aendive, chicory, and thinly sliced carrots were her basic
diet. Grapes were first choice most of the time; other
very acceptable fruits were pears, peaches, bananas, mango,

U
persimmons, blueberries, red raspberries and a few others

which would be taken occasionally in limited amounts. The

i

yolk of boiled,_. ed or scrambled eggs and cottage cheese

were relished much of the time. Meats she would scarcely
touch, but she liked some insects just as they do in the
wild. Such materials as bread, cake and cookies were only
occasionally acceptable. Sometimes she would take a little
cooked breakfast food mixed with cream and sugar. Butter
Nut meats such as

some of the time,

chips.

Peanuts in the shell were kept in a small box on top
of a .1 731 chi .! ’ tr? _ . t) ' she could help he -
self to . , a
hear her give the gurgle "GRRRRRR" that said that food was
good or that she wanted the food, and we would see her climb—

ing up to get a peanut that she had thought about as being

the next thing she wanted. In spite of the peanutsalways

 




‘

being readily accessible she never made a muss with them.
b

She climed up, looked into the box, picked up one, put it
in her mouth, climbed down, then went to a cozy corner to
eat it. “

Jike_many p_o,le MURIEL tired quickly of any food,

even her favorite ones, so it was necessary to vary her

diet constantly; In fact, I tried not to give her the

same combination two days in succession, and 04—aaaree-

she received about ten different kinds of food each day.
When MURIEL was just a little girl she learned that

bottles often contained something that was good to eat or
drink. Therefore, every bottle must be examined, and in
some manner she learned how to unscrew the tops. She

O
7'

apparently amused herself quite often

‘- w . D. -- 1,‘ .'- 7'-

~ A \C‘ W’)‘.VV1, 1".){3 . .1r'\vr YnQV] x

UK} w" J .; V -9 v‘ V V ‘ l v . :Al ‘5, LJO L; L w e ‘.
‘ L

size, until i learned to .u’ h
could not take them off.

She was oersistent in trying to get me to give her
vitamin capsules and tablets when I took them, When she
knew I was going to the medicine cabinet to get them for
myself, she dashed into the bathroom and would land on my
shoulder to wait for me to go through the regular routine
of taking ‘~ ‘ ”' out of the medicine cabinet, open it,
pour the proper number into my hand for myself and one for
Then i nut the can back on the bottle and return

fedicine cabins” As I did

..._ -1\J .

gentle warning growl and admonition not to forget

her and that she was in a hurry. Then I would put one of

 




-23..

the wheat germ capsules in an mpty bottle, screw the cap
on and present it to her. She promptly unscrewed the cap
her hands, always urnina it the right way, drop the cap,
reach into the bottle to get the capsule and then eat it.
uld then take mine before she tried to
grab them out of my hand. If I acted as though I was not
going ‘0 give her a capsule, she would bite me on the ear
gently, when she sawkme put the bottle away. This, like
almost everything she did, followed a remarkably uniform
patte n 0' routine with very little variation.

I often wished I had seen her learning how to open

tops. It would have been interest-

she tried to turn the top

'. \ 1.“) A" '1‘
' V \’

Chr~u ed pieces the wrong way.
MURIEL unscrew the caps from waveset bottles or other cos-

metics, and occasionally MURIEL helped herself to waveset

,'
1

l C
'l —' .4 C‘ 1 W - f.) “T 7' ‘ \ " Y“
x '3‘ L.: - 3 ‘w‘ ... \I' .~ 8' .i— 0 .. i .

Anything that I put into my mouth or took out of my

$.le

mouth required special attention by MURIEL. Long ago she
began taking great interest in my brushing of my teeth. She
would come onto the wash basin, or any other place that would
be close and'try to observe the operation, take hold of the

tooth brush and catch the foam. Sometimes I did t cooper—

Ql‘“ 17011335 like. lrldnehe won

in. ‘7‘ .J

 




 

-211“.

m

ut often she tried the silent method or proceeded to try
to take over by pulling on my face, hand or toothbrush as

though the routine should be followed for her special bene-

swab, di£>it in mercurochrome and swab my throat. I put

the material in my mouth and it was her favorite color so

)
it must be the best food in the world. She tried every

get it, but I always defeated her, until one time

w
H o
S
(D
C1-
0

sne sat quietly on my shoulder without making much effort
to get it. She had her own strategy figured out. After

:. 4-1 . L T - * '
diapea bﬂe saan i followed my usual oractice and held 1

 

distance while I opened the door to the medicine cabins,

in
('1'
, 3
I

 

m3‘m3t Ede bottle away} ”€7813L chose tcAS'iun=cart to cw‘n:

o c L fPDTJ of 1e, 315:“ *i i “:n :ee; on C 2” n'-:,

bracing ﬂSPS“lf wit; nor left hand against my cb=st and ,
grabbed the swab with her right hand. Instantly it was in g

"*7§‘.f:‘50 Paco
‘ga‘- ‘11 V‘

~ ‘1 .1-

r the bad taste while i tried to get mercuro—

m
0
<
(D

chrome stains off of my front, the wash basin, and the floor.

5

7 7 ' o o o
e had a grand time, but never again did she try for the

CT

beau iful red liquid.

Without intending to do so, I played a trick of magic

.,

I a

"1“ Q "’ .‘ 934‘; m1 r3 7‘1 T ‘QT-‘T- ' > ‘ I" ‘. ' L . ‘
that lb rigged fthlnh more than l even saw a oaild lnbrlgddd
he '-- : 7, C‘ 1, . P -. :s .-_ l -. a * . - a

~g , LPLCmJ ioje cnnmloes {A} See one rerfnna a $8 «ﬁx-.¢3;d;:

I i

that carries only one tooth. ltwas a most amazing tric:,

 




-25-

and she just had to see inside my mouth, and see the bridge,
and watch me to see if anything else might happen. She used
her hands in her investigations, so wanted to put them in-

side my mouth to assist in the study. I never saw her so

If I withheld some article that she especially wanted,
such as a brightly colored pencil, a little box of pencil

it
leads, or other objects that were of convenient elze for

her hands, she would sometimes put up quite a fight for it,

with much growling "UKK,UKK, UKT", to show that she was
displeased, and some biting of me to make me let go. It
was all in good humor and we had grand fun at it. If I
gave the slightest indication that I really disapproved
of her having the object, she ceased at once.

During
minute of “1‘ time, she accompanied
she watched me prepare her food dish in the evening or she
watched Mrs. Walker prepare breakfast and sometimes do
oiher acTivi‘ies. “hi enjoyed sittinb bac; of the stove
on a pipe that was high enough for her to be able to see
over the top of the stove and all of the room. Sometimes
she moved over to the ledge of the kitchen window, if it
was dark outside or if the light was subdued. Then she
would look out some or look over to the kitchen window of
an apartment at right angles which provided another source

bird su denlv flew to the window

‘3‘ t,

D 3 J. a " s .2
o, intereSL. however, if a

sill outside, she leaped away with a "WOOK". Most of her

 

 




-25..

attention was directed to operations going on in the kitchen
as she liked to see activity, and sometimes kitchen activities

rovided tidbits of food. However, she almost never attempted

h
to take food without permission or at least withoour know-

edges
When she was in the kitchen window and our delightful
neighbor was in her kitchen MURIEL would occasionally catch
her attention, and almﬁgt invariably MURIEL would look to
us then back to the window and give a faint note, like

to call our attention that there was

 

some one in the neighbor's kitchen.
She was such a cheerful comaanion that Mrs. walker
was much disappointed when MURIEL finally gave up the visits
to the kitchen as
*1";- ‘5: 1.40
her room, ” ts y went to the living room door she dares
not pass that entrance to get home so she felt that she was
in great danger so far from home with potential enemies in
The situation was made even more critical because
some'ines opened the kitchen door and went out
n o the corridor to the incinerator, and sometimes met and
talked with enemies. All of this was just too much, so
had to give up the delightful kitchen visits as too
dangerous.
“Vi iti u
pleasure ,o'W ' her and

up for the same reason. There were just too many hazards

 

 




-27...

to risk being so far from home. Nest of the time when she

was at the dining table she would be under the table, on a

chair or on our laps. Of course, to see what interesting

food there might be she liked to sit or stand on our lap. and.

:ook over the table. If she saw something she wanted, she
swould look at it intently or make a tentative gesture with

her hands. If we made a movement to give it to her, she

.

waited with fair patience for a monkey, while we took a

little piece for her. Usually I separated a small piece

for her and %5e it directly to her or put it on the edge

of my plate nearest her from which she picked it up. If
of givirg

.5 al p

’ a 3 - 7 ‘, _A v : ~ Jr I ,'__ I_ . J.
SO @0001, v.23; LAOSSEL’ L- it pegbe

question she never solved to her sa isfac ion of some of

the cosmetics and medicines. Her reasoning appeared to be

1

that anything that smells so good must be good to eat.
however, even though something smells good, she rarely
was hasty in taking a big bite of it without first tasting
it carefully. Once she hastily took a big bite of something
she was certain must be good, but at once regretted it with
a wry face and much effort to g3t:it out of her mouth.
Usually, however, even when we offered her something
safe in assuming was good she sniffed
B

face and eyes squinted, than tasted it

carefully before reaching a conclusion.

 




Why ladies put on their faces and hair materials that
‘smell so good but are not good to eat was as much beyond

her comprehension as it is to most men. However, she tried
repeatedly to convince herself that it was good by dipping

her fingers into the wave set bottle, powder box or other

container, then tasting her fingers. Or she buried her face

in the lady's hair and enjoyed the fragrance and sometimes
tried to lick the nice material from her face and hair. It

was indeed a puzzling world.

If she found the containers in her explorations, she
tried to open them without help and sometimes succeeded.

Some of the results required a bit of'wiping up afterwards,
but -- if 1 ’L,’ she a n real damage. Certainly

C
-nc;a value.

-'— p T n T“ I—T—ZT ”‘ ‘ v . M '0 ' 1 . V Y .3 ‘ ‘a I.
it o; {Kniah'b askinb Lor something was in - lorm

of gentle requests, as when she asked that I give vita—

mins, food or objects that we were handling which wanted.
5
’0 her next in the evening and wanted us to

Y

door to her room, sh‘ firSt made
the gentle request; then if we did not heed her, she would

make more emphatic demands and as a last resort she would

variation from the oral request is the silent re-

. n l o _I
~ ‘ -- ‘ ‘ ‘ , 1 ' .I‘ - 7
ts Olb6h used he .ze; lo -ega—

1.

a (‘1 _:

.7; _‘

1a an

.LJ.‘

1

she wanted to

or stand on my lap

 

 

 




’39"

and putﬂ‘her mouth up to mine or snifﬁi at my breath.

Sometimes she merely sat and watched with a very intent
expression that plainly showed her interest and want.
No doubt, she and other animals who are adepts at the

'"silent communication" -. » 3 .hey are reg sber ng
their wants as clearly as though they had spoken, and
certainly any intelligent person should understand them.
MURIEL was an expert in picking my pockets and some—
times those of visitors. She particularly liked to take
pencils, pens, ciea ettes and cough drops. I have some-

0

times failed to find my keys, purse, and handkerchief

3r

wanted then. Finally I learned to tak. quic

inventorv of important items

POO ”’1 0:” ill-

hidden.

arui a. fili’
They were t ’ ’f‘V ’ for her hands.
more than the usual number of

to them unless I was ha,

vere suddenly very desirabl—

resistance were freQWent occasions

 

 

 

 




else should anyone be handling them? She wants to try every

. ’m TM ‘3
food we ate and perSistent

A

nave up, as her tastes were not so wide as ours. When I

'H A.

but often

(0
CT
0
[.4
P.
x!
(D
('1
D
(D
A

ffort

(D

was making photographic printsi.n the darkened den she
regularly tried to sample the photographic solutions. At
first she tried to drink them from the trays, but some
did not taste good, nd sometimes i gentlv showed her

that I did not want her to do so or I bald her in Dourou-

couli that they were dangerous ("WOOK"). Finally she developed

C‘I
!

)—
(D
t r

, . 3 r .0 A .. .’- ,. 3 “ . ‘ ~n‘ ,. . ‘ r v. \
-rlck oi gently sidling LB anc wile lOOLLLS away from
a

Cl:
Ho
5
C:
O
Ho
('1
H'
S
C!
U
m
U
0
II)
(D
U)
0
*5
c:-
O
C
O
5'
H.
p
P
V}

e
~rar reaching her han

b

8:.
(0
C—l‘

()
3

‘2'}..A' b! ‘” ‘ :‘ 1" 1"" . w J" . "- vw ‘."' f" .‘ ’V‘ ““- .1 'V ‘3
lin‘gef’s ii.- the SOlQL/lOn, mien Liana/4.1.: the SOL--13 tion 01-".

'er fingers. She knew it was not good, so often it was

”inward ”' “ Q ‘ ms: {2 " 3 0" r: .3 Ywﬁ - -rv ya «'2. ‘ h w P: 'x W." 'n V“ "
U " kc ’ “13‘- ‘;3 »# 4 a .18 A4“ w‘d L2 9‘ '34.- »‘V L .0 $11.. .13.; 8 .LL; L10
-3“ a. P, ‘1, - A. ’7 ~ - h
c __ : i... ._ t-JL-. " C '3'89-‘ 0
x“ 31-)“ v: O n 'x wan, a awnoqﬁ (A b1 v: AQQW' V'UC
“L” _. " J _i “vi. a. _. VK‘*AL L18 8, 0,. ukki «'«L.

£74
if)
3
Q1
}.
(D
t”

ancrth she reached for it or she reacae in
about in an exoloratory manner. ‘Of course, anything she
could grasp must be pulled out to be examined. It night
be just the treasure she had been looking for. Sometimes
the crack was large enough to permit her to reach in but

not large enough to enable her to bring out the object in

her hand; then she had a problem that tested her patience

and ingenuity. She would work for some minutes to accomplish

ner purpose, and often she succeeded. §he did not show

as much ingenuity as I expected to change the position of

7
~-\

 

;
g
;

 

 

 




- 31 -

the object or her hand, but her deftness with her hands
and her persistence accomplished much.
When people came to visit us, particularly in the

evening MURIEL remained in her room.or the den until she

1.-.: 1.2.. -“-A 1 ....... L. 4-
nuu. LL13 Ginsu .1;qu cﬁGuEu uG appar

sion about them from their voices. they were low and

there was not too much excitement, she finally made a

cautious approach from the den to the telephone table in

a small hallway, and from.there she further sized up the
situation. If there were sudden movements or increased
voices, she retreated, but if the situation did not get
worse, she usually cautiously came into the living room
and slipped around behind or under any chairs or tables
that might give shelter, as she approached the more in-
teresting of the visitors. Then she usually went to their
legs, touched them.gently and smelled of them, and if the
people were perfectly quiet and she still thought they
might be interesting, she usually got up-onto the chair
or arm or back of the davenport by them and soon touched
and smelled their shoulders and head. By this time she
knew they were nice people, and soon she stepped onto
their shoulder. If they were very nice, she then said
they were good by "GRRRRRR", her word for good.

If the people were taken directly into the den, the
procedure was similar but somewhat more rapid, because

we rarely took anyone in there unless they had a real

 

 




- 32) g
5

interest in live little creatures, and MURIEL seemed to
sense the difference between the average run of peOple
and such special people. '

Her voice underwent the change one would expect from
babyhood to that of an adult. This is clearly evident
in the sound tape. For this reason 1 limited the first
Edition of the Douroucouli-English Dictionary to the re-
cordings on the first nine reels, covering the period
October 19h9 to October 1951. The Second Edition pro-
nunciations are more uniform as her voice did not change
much after 1951. Along with the change in her voice and
the changes in her ways she discontinued the coaxing for
food and attention that was done so much when she was a
baby and very little girl.

It is surprising how many of her words had a close
resemblance to some of the sounds that humans use to ex-

press some of their feelings. For example, to express

something that is slightly surprising or disconcerting ‘ﬁ:

us we say UHUH and she use% the same word for the same
circumstance.

When she unexpectedly fell out of my shirt she said
"COP" like people sometimes do for a small accident.
"UMMNN" in a relaxing way tells of her settling down to
rest or sleep, like we sometimes use the sound.

Exclamations, giggling and laughinghggg very deﬁinite

parts of her voice-produced sounds. An explosive "EX?

was an exclamation often used. It was usually used when

 




-33..

she suddenly thought of something that she wanted to do
or given as she made a little jump or start to do whatever
she thought about. Almost invariably she uttered an ex—

clamation when I gave one of my sudden and rather violent

sneezes. This exclamation was really a little scream of

"wHEE" .

She was far more vocal towards Mrs. Walker than she
was towards me. They had long sessions of chattering
back and forth. I could get the general drift of the
"conversation" in that they were amusing each other, but
I am inclined to think that most of MURIEL'S expressions
were laughing and giggling at the funny faces and happy,
friendly attitude Mrs. Walker showed towards her.

Of the many occasions when we cannot be certain of
the meaning of MURIEL'S talking, the following incident
is related. we must leave it to the reader to decide
whether or not our conclusion is correct.

We were in the den and MURIEL had been about. I
called to her to give her a bite of bat food. I did not
hear her reply, so I called again, but still did not hear
her. Mrs. Walker then called. We at once heard a faint
reply from MURIEL, and almost immediately after)she came
running from the sun room or living room. When she came
alongside Mrs. Walker's chair she stopped, turned at
right angles to face her, stood up on her hind legs and

talked to Mrs. Walker for perhaps five seconds. There

 




,-m-

appeared to be several sentences. No doubt she was saying
something to the effect that she had merely been exploring
and had not done any harm. Also perhaps, "what do you

want with me?".

One evening Mrs. Walker and I had been sitting quietly

in the den for some time when MURIEL came scampering in
from.some other part of the apartment. As she came, she
was chattering rapidly in a cheerful note; she landed in
the chair beside me and proceeded to tell me something

of which I did not understand the words, but I am con-
vinced she was telling me that she had just had a wonder-
ful time exploring somewhere about the apartment, where
she does not usually go except on our invitation to be
there with us.

Again, MURIEL was in her cage eating; I was at the

desk; Mrs. Walker was in the kitchen. She had been out

to the incinerator and, returning, closed the door.
MURIEL immediately ran under the desk, then under the
couch and said "WEE", perhaps a question or exclamation.
Certainly it related to the sound she had just heard. In
general any sound that occurred at a distance might be
associated with danger, so special heed should be given
to them. Perhaps an enemy came in the front door.

who

[were enemies until they were carefully screened,

examined and approved, regularly CCme in the front door,

Strangers,

so one should always be suspicious until you knew definitely

 




- 35 -

it was a friend who had come in.
During the day when she was sleeping on the top shelf

of the closet that we call her room I frequently went to

' 7N?
the closet to get some of16y belongings. I usually tried

to be uiet so as not to waken er, but if _app ned

to make too much noise she would give a muffled "AK, AK,
AK," plainly a word of annoyance at being disturbed. Once
in a while she would use the same word to express dis-
approval or anger at something that has happened, as for
example, when a bat flew too close to her or a flying
squirrel, who might nip her tail, came to close. She
Vend'"BR0THEa", flying squirrel, used to play in the bath—
room together very nicely, but every now and then we would
hear her give the "AK, AK, AK", of warning and annoyance.
She also gave this when she suffered pain, as the time

she put her fingers in the electric outlet; also when she
had a pain in her side and held her side.

When MURIEL was just a little girl and followed me
wherever I went about the apartment, she gave the call
"WEE, WHE, WEE", rapidly as she ran, perhaps in unison
with her rate of running. It was plainly a calling to
me to wait, that she wanted to go with me. This is probably
a call used by members of the family or tribe to keep to-
gether as they travel through the forest. MURIEL used it
quite frequently when she was following me from room to

room. Occasionally she used it to call to me when I was

leaving and she was in her cage and could not go with me.

 




.. 35..

The gurgle "GRRRRRRRR",‘MURIEL'S word for good, had

about as many uses as we have for our word good. When
she was eating any foOd that she liked she was constantly
giving the gurgle; then when she saw food that she did
not possess but would l‘ke to have, she gave the gurgle,
just as a child will ask for food in an indirect way by
saying "that looks good". When a stranger passed her
inspection and was approved, MURIEL usually sat on his

or her Shoulder or touched them and gave the gurgle, to
say, "You are good". The gurgle she gave when sleepy
was probably the same word basicly, but was said in such
a sleepy manner that it sounded somewhat different. It
probably meant, "All is well with me" in the douroucouli
family. A slight variation that might have been a sen-
tence was her greeting to Mrs. Walker or me when we had
been away for a short or long time. This is "TSI GERRRRR"
in which we interpreted the "T81" as a personal greeting
to us. Perhaps, she was saying, "To you, good day" or
"hello, it is good to have you back".

Almost every morning I was amused at MURIEL'S gloomy
outlook on life. When any animal first awakens, other
than to a threat of danger, it likes to do just as we
would like to do, stretch and yawn and lie or sit awhile
to build up our energy. She did this, and like many humans
her outlook on life for a period mu§§i§e£§§E§ gloomy for

she often uttered low moans as she thought of her many

troubles. Later she was invariably cheerful unless danger

 




- 37 -
4&3

threatens or she had real cause for worry. Two perfectly
behaved boxer dogs visited us one time and were brought
close to MURIEL'S cage. This worried her greatly and

for several days she would sit and give her worried moan,

be the result of having had a bad dream.

On Several dccasions we have gone to the front door
because MURIEL had told us there had been a knock that
we had not heard, and of course she was right. Her method

was a sudden alertness as though to run away and looking

- as?
towards us as though to see what we what we th “L of the

alarm, and sometimes she gave a note or word of uncertainty
or warning, but not the "WOOK".

When the potential enemy at the door entered, she
went to her room, or to a safe shelter close by, so that
she could get there without danger if the need arose.

Once I saw MURIEL try three or four times to pick
up grapes that were pictured in black and white in a news-
paper. It is the only time I have seen her give recog-
nition of a picture, but this time it was obvious that
she recognized grapes in the picture. She learned so
quickly that I doubt that she was ever mistaken after
that.

Of course, she was always interested in the monkey

in a mirror, and she never tired of looking in polished

surfaces. I think she was well aware that it was her re-

 




-38-

flection that she saw and that she was not mistaken in
believing it was another monk.

A favorite way in which she showed me how much she
loved me was to sit on the back of my chair with her
back to me, then lean back until she was lying on her

back across my right shoulder with her head in front of

my shoulder. In this perfectly relaxed pose she gave her

supremely happy expression "UHU", "UHU", low and resonant
with the inflated throat sac. I could play with her hand
and could pull her off my shoulder in a perfectly relaxed
state so that she would slide on her back down my front
and into my lap.

Her almost unfailing courtesy in answering when
spoken to or when we called her, if she was not in sight,
was most gratifying. Were she given to silence and
secretiveness it might have been quite a task to keep
track of her when she was at liberty.

Quite often when Mrs. Walker and I were in the den,
perhaps carrying on a conversation, one or the other of
us would ask the other where MURIEL was. Usually we
heard a faint little voice speak up to tell that she
was there. We do not believe it was merely because she
had heard her name mentioned, as we may have used her
name in the conversations without inquiring as to her
whereabouts and she did not speak up. We are firmly
convinced that she not only knew when we called her but
also that she knew when we were enquiring as to where she

might be.

 




-‘39 -

we used various pet names fbr her, all of which
she knew. In addition to MURIEL she responded to Little
Girl, Wookie and Patter-Patter, this last because of the
sound of her feet when scampering along with me. I
often called her ””ﬁbokie” because she was so free with
her "Nook" of danger.

Many times when MURIEL was occupied with her own

it

interests and I started to pick her up or touch her,

she very definitely said "No, no, no," or"Don't, don't,

don't", in douroucoli language. Her words are: "Wit,
Wit, Wit".

Even with my limited knowledge of Douroucouli I
could construct a simple dialogue between two Dourou-
coulis, and if they happened to be of different sexes,
I could add some authentic courtship. It might be some-
thing like this:

"Grrrrr" — The food is good.

"we, we" - Give me some of it.
"Uhn, Uhn" - I love you so much.
"Book" - I think I hear danger.
"HOOK" — There is serious danger.

The question is often asked how could she know the
Douroucouli language when she was separated from others
of her kind when she was still a helpless baby. I have
no satisfactory answer for this, but I have a theory
that perhaps different stimuli in animals tend to cause

them to produce a fairly definite type of sound for each

 




-uo-

type of stimulus, which leads me to tentatively propose
the idea that there may be such a thing as a more or

less "basic language" in which the different sounds
produced by different animals of the same kind, and
‘perhaps by different animals, may be understood by

others of the kind or other kinds. I think of this as
perhaps a stage that is comparable to a step in human
development just before the tribal stage in which, per-
haps, development and teaching of more or less formalized
language began. The African guenons use the same "Chrrr"
for greeting that MURIEL used.

MURIEL may not have been clothes conscious in the
same sense that humans are, but whenever either Mrs.
Walker or I appeared in clothing that was unusual to
her she gave us very careful examination by looking us
up and down at some length and then coming close to take
a sniff. This, you see, is merely more of the watchful-
ness that she and other animals always practice as part
of their struggle for survival. They must know what

friends and enemies look like, and when a friend changes

his appearance so suddenly, it calls for a careful study
to be certain not to make a mistake.

Soaps, soap powders and some other powders and dusts

hold her attention longer than other types of material,

Her reactions to them were remarkable. When she was
shown a box of soap powder or a cake of soap, she usually

bent far forward, squinted up her eyes and wrinkled her

 




face and put both hands back onto the middle of her back.

Or she sat and pulled her tail around in front of her
and held her tail with one or both feet, and one hand,
and rapidly scratched the terminal two or three inches
of her tail with the other hand. Small pieces of soap

A“ “1

113...]...1.’ llULu .Lll U 15 115.111.;

lat sue e uid
against the middle of her back, and she often tried to
do the same with full size cakes of soap. If she had an
opportunity, she took handfuls of soap powder out of the
box, put them on her back and tail, put handfuls of it
up to her face and laid down and rolled in any that she
spilled so generously. During this activity she was
silent. There was often some variation in this activity,
but basically it was essentially as described. Face powder
and talcum powder were equally enjoyable, if she could get
the tops off the boxes when Mrs. Walker was not abouto
Lipstick is so nice and red, it is fun to play with it
also. ‘

A study of the sensations back of her actions would
be material for a thesis in itself that I will not attempt
as I have only the dimmest conception of her sensations
with such materials.

Obviously MURIEL had a very definite sense of beauty.
This was best shown with large, brightly colored fruits.
She was not only a great fruit eater, but she often and
repeatedly admired the beauty of some fruits that she

did not like to eat. She did not like to eat tomatoes,

but big, yellow or red tomatoes invariably were approached,

 




-ug-

looked at, touched, smelled, and often she gave the
"GERBER", a gurgle meaning good. Colorful apples,
mangoes and, indeed, almost any fruit was admired even
though she might make no effort to eat it.

Almost all flowers received much
at them very gently and smelling.them. Frequently she
she would take a tenative bite of a petal or a leaf.

Such inquiries were not entirely to ascertain if they

were good to eat, as could be seen by her approach and

the fact that she would repeatedly go through the pro-

cess when she knew they were the same objects she had
previously examined and found not suitable for food.

MURIEL wee-in her teen-age period, about 2 to h years
.old, aha often quietly crawled up onto Mrs. Walker‘s lap
while she was playing solitaire on a lap table. Present-
ly MURIEL would carefully reach a long, slender hand up
onto the table and take a card, if she was not stopped.
If she obtained the card she usually scampered away in
hopes she would be chased and receive attention. If no
attention was paid to her, the card had no lasting
interest, but sometimes she made up her own game of
solitaire by tearing it to pieces. By taking things
apart you find how they are made and Whether or not they
are good to eat.

Still earlier she often leaped from Mrs. Walker‘s

shoulder, or mine, onto the top of the table where the

solitaire game was in progress, It then ceased to be

 




-15...

a solitary game, and became good fun for both, as well
as amusing to me.

Mrs. Walker's purses usually contained chewing gum,
lipstick, powder and interesting trinkets, so they re;

ceived special attention whenever they were left where

MURIEL had access to them. She was rather skillful at

opening them and had very enjoyable times with the con-
tents. The onIy damages were losses of a few sticks
of gum, some cigarettes and a few bites of lipstick
missing. The lipstick cases became favorite toys to
carry about the den and her room.

The middle drawer of my desk at home has consider—
ably more than the usual array of pens, pencilSJboxes
of pencil leads, and innumerable other little, and some-
times colorful objects. Whenever I opened this drawer MUREEL
appeared almost as though by magic, and usually sat or stood
in my chair or on my lap and tried to take trinkets that
appealed to her. Before the drawer became so full she
usually made a quick grab for little colored boxe; of
pencil leads or brightly colored pencils or pens. This
led to many struggles between us in which I let her win
often enough to keep up her interest, or sometimes she
was just too quick for me and won by superior skill.
Later there were so many trinkets in the drawer that she liked
to take time to look them over carefully and select the
most appealing one.

Sometimes MURIEL got possession of something we

thought she should not have, but she had other ideas

 




-m-

on the subject. However, by approaching her very quietly
and talking gently to her she would usually relinquish
her hold on the object, so I had no difficulty. It was
surprising how well she demonstrated a cooperativeness

in this and other matters.

Twice MURIEL picked up razor blades. If I had tried

to take them away from her abruptly one of us would cer-
tainly have been hurt, as she would have struggled to
keep them in play. Instead, I said "HOOK" sharply, and
both times she dropped the blades instantly. "WOok"
‘means danger, so she responded.

Regardless of what kind of animal I brought into the
apartment, she took a great interest in it. Of course,
fir t she satisfied herself it was not dangerous, but
this was usually quickly decided unless the animal was
especially vigorous in trying to get out of the carrying
cage or was noisy. With this essential formality over,
she then wanted to look at it closely, touch it, at first
cautiously, then almost lovingly, and finally put her
nose against it to sniff of it. If it was a furry crea—
ture, she seemed to enjoy putting her hands on it and her
nose in its fur. She had become so accustomed to differ-
ent kinds of little creatures being brought in that she
finally acted quite sophisticated. If it was about time
for her to sleep, she made a very brief examination, then
apparently decided it was just another mouse, squirrel ,

frog, salamander or lizard and that it was not of sufficient

 




_—m-

interest to justify losing sleep to watch it or the
photographing operations. If the little creature was
kept~f9r‘§h§¥€tfor study she took more interest and
quickly accepted it as one of our tribe. With some
h r h ad m -

a n Alt? (5 136
D 15 CV61). CLULUD.

She was a great helper if some little animal got

loose in the den or apartment and I did not know where
it was. She had an uncanny way of keeping track of them
and knowing where they were even though she was not
actually following them. When I wanted to know where
they were, I usually ask her, "Where is batty?" or
"where is the little squirrel?", and almost invariably
she would soon go to them or look directly where they
were hidden. She did it so easily and naturally that
I have never convinced myself just how much of her
help was intentional and how much was due to her nat—
ural interest in the little creatures.

The promptness with which she usually pointed out
the animals to us makes me believe that she at least
knew we were looking for them and perhaps she was glad
to show us that she knew where they were. At any rate,
the system worked.

In view of the reputation monkeys generally have for
roughness and destructiveness, we were constantly amazed
at the gentle ways of MURIEL with us, other little ani-

male that we had in the home for study or photographingf’

lants and inanimate dob ects with whi h she la 0
gmong Which she moved. ﬁe never played roughRy Eigh her

 




- us -

which may account in some degree for her gentle ways but
when we watched the very light touch with her long, slen-
der fingers it appears probable that such gentleness may
be a trait of her kind.' She frequently moved about on
the dresser or dressing ta "* “. there were the custom-
ary topheavy, poorly balanced lamps, bottles and other
objects women like to have in such places. About the
only times she eyer upset these objects was when we
startled her or were making her hurry, then sometimes,
but not often, she knocked over something.

And now a glimpse into the secret iniquitous lives
of MURIEL and me. MURIEL was so well aware of the jealous
viewpoint of the other female that she was rather circum-
spect around me when Mrs. Walker was about, but often as
soon as Mrs. Walker left the room MURIEL would come to
me to sit in the chair with.me or to be on the floor
under the desk with her hand on my foot, or even to sit
on my footo If I was lying on the couch with a light
blanket over me, she liked to come and cuddle under the
blanket or play with my hand, or raise the blanket to
peep out to see that no danger was threatening. When
the other woman returned she usually slipped away so as
not to incur dangerous enmity or even wrath. If time
permitted, and she was sleepy, she liked to cuddle down
and take a nap.

MURIEL did not pay much attention to the radio, but

once in a while she would make some response to something

 




- u7 -

that came over it, or if it produced some sound that

suggested danger, she looked at it, made a quick ges-

ture, or rarely a low "Nook".

A friend with whom MURIEL stayed a week had tele-
vision, which fascinated her. The friend said MURIEL
would sit or stand in front of it for some time and

would frequently try to touch the figures moving on the

k

screen.

When either of us were talking on the phone, she

would often come and want to take part in the conversa—
tion. Usually she leaped or scrambled onto our shoulder,
talked gently into the phone or bit gently at it. For ‘
a period she would go to the phone even though it had
not rung and would try to take the receiver off of the
cradle, and sometimes she succeeded.

When she was a youngster she enjoyed leaping down
from an elevation just for the fun, and later she en-
joyed it, but she did not do it so much. Most animals
in leaping bring their feet together in front of them
Ito act as shock absorbers and have a rather definite
objective on which to land. MURIEL had a very different
way that may be associated with leaping in dark jungles
at night when there is not enough light for even dourou—
couli eyes to choose a landing place. When she leaped,
she spread her arms and legs as though she trusted to
luck to encounter some branch on the way down to which

she might cling to stop the drop. Perhaps it was her

 




-us-

own peculiarity or it may be a well formed method of

leaping by some nocturnal jungle creatures. ,ItearvlﬁS

45
easiiy‘seeh.that she got a thrill from leaping from

my shoulder or other perch.

The minimum temperature at which she was comfortable,
was about 80 degrees Fahrenheit. Below this her hands
and feet were cold. We noticed many evidences that she
wanted warm.surrbundings.

My first acknowledgment of indebtedness for assist-
ance in this study of the douroucouli language must go
to the very loveable little monk MURIEL, then to human
friends whose special training fitted them to advise and
give me physical assistance, and to friends, or people
who were my friends before I began talking to them about
my studies in an effort to try out my ideas on the sub-
ject and ascertain their reactions. First is Mr. Peter
Chrzanowski, of the Sound Section of the U. S. Bureau of
Standards whom I first consulted regarding the problem
of recording sounds produced by animals and who gave me
much assistance in learning sound recording and working
with sound tape. Also he explained to me some of the
difficulties of human perception, memory, and reproduc—
tion of animal sounds. Dr. Richard K. Cook, Chief of
the Sound Section of the Bureau of Standards, is to be
thanked for listening to some of my early problems and
permitting members of his organization to assist me with
their technical knowledge and equipment. Dr. Aram Glorig,

of the Speech Center, Walter Reed Hospital, very kindly

 




-149-

listened to some of my early recordings of the dourou-
couli words and encouraged me to go ahead with my studies,
and offered further assistance.

Mere words are entirely inadequate to express my
appreciation to the Bell Telephone Laboratories and all
the members thereof, with whom I had contact, for their
great assistance and encouragement in the making of the
word pictures on the machines invented by them and used
in their laboratories. Without such assistance the
study could not have been made clear or convincing.

wa much English did she know?, is a question regularly
asked us. I usually answerd that she knew English.much
better than I know douroucouli.* we were often surprised to
see or hear that she had taken note of some of the con-
versation between Mrs. Walker and me when we had no idea
she was even listening, Finally we have come to believe

that when she was awake she listened to all that we said,

and we saw by her reactions that she often understood.

Only a few moments before this was written, Mrs. Walker
and I were carrying on miscellaneous inconsequential
conversation, and in the midst of it Mrs. Walker said
without change in tone, "Has she gone to bed"! Instantly
HURIEL spoke from where she was on a shelf high up in

her room. This and similar instances have occurred too
many times to be ascribed to coincidence, so we are con-
stantly reminded of the considerable extent of her under-

standing of us. A study of how much English she did

 




-50..

understand would be interesting, but to do this would
be too much of a tax on my ability in addition to my
efforts to study douroucouli.

With such a fascinating little creature about, you
can forget all r_serious warries, Of course, I

often shook cracker crumbs and small pieces of cracker

out of my shoes before I put them on, but cracker mater-

ial comes out easier than the skins of grapes which I
sometimes found in places they would not be if we did
not have Our little house guest. Then too, I learned
years ago to shake my shoes to remove acorns that our
pet flying squirrels had cached there. We pay for
everything we get in this world, and I consider such
prices very insignificant payment for the enjoyment
she brought to us as well as being the unpaid subject
for my more serious studies of animal behavior.

I greatly regret that I have been unable to give
even a faint picture of the charm and delightful dis—
position of our little girl. her uniformly pleasant
disposition was usually shown by her smiles, except
when she thought danger threatened or when she had
more than enough pictures taken of her. Her charming
ways are most like those of an unusually good dis-
positioned human child.

The study of MURIEL'S talking was terminated sud—
denly. She became ill the evening of September 1h,

lQSh, became worse quite rapidly and died at noon.£éees

 




-51..

September 15th. Autopsy revealed a condition of the

pancreas that is sometimes quickly fatal to humans.

She had previously been in unusually good spirits and

companionable. Her weight was 2% pounds. Her skin

wws preserved at the U2 S. National Museum.in such
condition that it can be mounted should such be desired.
The autopsy was performed by Dr. W. H. Eyestone, Veteri-
narian of the Cancer Institute of the National Institutes
of Health.

I have not seen all of the living gray squirrels,
nor all of the living crows, nor all of the living
robins, but I am reasonably certain that the next one
that I meet will bear such a close resemblance to others
that I have seen that I can safely predict what it will
looK like. The exceedingly complicated pattern that is
part of their appearance and actions is well estab-
lished nerbniy with the species mentioned but with all
species, and it is this continuity of appearance and
anatomy that enables us to have a scheme of zoological
classification, Behavior is also almost as rigidly
fixed, perhaps within somewhat wider margins of variation,
but nevertheless we know that the next.individual of a
species with which we are well acquainted will almost
certainly behave in a very similar manner to those indi-
viduals with which we are already acquainted. The
voices of individuals of any given species are almost

as uniform as their form and color pattern. Those persons

 




._52-

who are well acquainted with animals know that the next
individual they will meet of any given species will al—
most certainly make practically the same types of noises_
as other individuals that they have known of the same
species. I think it reasonable to suppose that this
uniformity of vocal expression may readily be as defin-
itely fixed by heredity as the physical characters.

_ . accept
Therefore, I think we may safely/their uniformity of voice
as axiomatic. At least to persons who are thoroughly
familiar with the species it requires no proof. Such
uniformity, therefore, facilitates the study of what the
sounds mean and I think we can safely assume another
axiom, that the sounds do have definite and constant
meanings. Hith such a premise, the study of what I see
fit to call the talking of animal; is considerably facili—
tated and the problem becomes entirely that of inter—
pretation, which calls for an intimate, sympathetic

acquaintance with the animal if its full range of vocal

expressions is to be studies and interpreted.

 




,‘Rg'lf" 13111311111111»?! 1'1“!!qu

Tuesday, Namember 4

a» (“I a. ”can

"'Lml'mn 71!?“le

Wholesaler sqw 1119 a

By WAYNE A. HALL
Ulster Bureau Chief
ALBANY ~ Three Of the wholesalers

who supply upstate New Yorkand the

Northeast with large, exotic parrots and
macaws are trying to stop the state from
legislatipg against wild capture.

In an Oct. 24 lawsuit filed last week in
federal court, 1,-
Bronx, Long ‘ ,
charged the state wi
that has severely affected pet sto s.

bunt" Vernon,

One local pet shop owner, Jack Gavisli of :1
Breezyway in Middletown, said yesterday

that some of the big- -ticket jungle birds that
sold for $800 to $900 a year ago are now
going for $1, 000 more because they are
being supplied from higher-priced breeders
in Florida and Texas and not from collec-
tors 1n the jungles.

"But peeple are buying them,” said
Gavish of the domestically raised parrots

a restrai t of trade ’

1m , M . .. 1.11; inks; H1111 313%.?"

—

and macaws that very often have been. 7

shipped from the jungle to New York or
Florida. The law banning the sale in New
York of wild~caught birds, called the Wild
Bird Law, was proposed two years ago It
went into effect Saturday.

Gavish, one of the leaders in the fight a.
year ago against the legislation, said the
public was buying more of the smaller spe-
cies originally from Africa and South
America that have been raised in captivity
for years. ,

Some of the smaller stores were not so
hard hit by the law because they had not
relied on the big imported exotics for a lot
of profit, said Andy McGuire, co-owner of
Sue’s Zoo in New Paltz. “It’s uncomfortable
being restrained from doing business, ”
McGuire said. “They’ re telling me what I
can and can’t do It’s not a good sign.”

State Assemblyman Robert J. Connor of .

New City, the legislation’s co—sponsor, said
the law exempts 80 percent of the trade
because it allows the sale of birds bred in
captivity. And that includes the familiar
Zebra finches, canaries, Javasparrows, and
many others kinds of birds, Connor said.

Many of those have been successfully
bred in captivity for years. '

It was the crueltv of the larger birds’

capture in the jungles of. South and Central.
:‘12'nerica and the number that died while.

being shipped to New York that led to the
legislation, the‘ iaw’s supporters inSist.

In September 1982, 468 in a single‘ship- -

meat of 750 African Gray Parrots died en

route, according to the national Society for .

.“

l - . _

1,...“ ﬁ‘VKW’i: "125 N

(; 1'19”"? 1‘

m
.'. ’

Susan McBride of Sue’ 5 Zoo, a pet store in New Pallz, lets Gwen, a blue and gold macaw, perch on her arm; yesterday

Animal Protective Legislation in Washing-
ton, D. C.

“If it only costs me $50 to capture 70
birds and all I have is seven (when they get
to the United States), ” Conn01 said, “s
what. I’ve made $7,000. That's why there
was so much cruelty.”

But Highland Mills breeder John Barth
said the law was a “waste of taxpayers
time and money” because it was not
enforceable and was aimed at a few pet
dealers who break the law

New Jersey does not have a law like New
York’s, and any unscrupulous dealer can
cross the border and bring back a bird cap-

‘r .
'11 711‘

”angler.

, - _,~, '-»'—;.. :y:
. ,

 

tured in the wild, Barth added. But Eugene--
McCaffrey, a state Department of Environ-’

mental Conservation (DEC) biologist who

shepherded the regulations for his depart-.

ment, said, “like any law it can be broken
and gotten around. ”

Breaking the law' is punishable by $250 or ”

15 days in jail or both, and can carry a civil
penalty of $60 and $25 for each bird
involved.

As for the shipment deaths, Barth said he

has seen “5, 000 parrots come in and only 9 ;

dead after quarantine.”

But Barth did agree with Connor that. '

domestically raised big exotics are better

‘ pets. The wild birds, said Connor, bite '7 .
'- are usually unruly forever. ’ ‘1

~.g~p~p~-. w...-w-'ovcm'?v-q;~v§

5-9} : Record photo by Eric “Manor

1? “'53“

On the other hand, said Jane Could, a
lawyer for. the pet wholesalers suing the:
state, the law really does not exempt many
commercially saleable-birds. "fThe
exempted birds are meaningless," she

I 'added,‘in the rmulti-million-dollare bird;

trade. There is also the question, the law-'
suit says, of the state DEC’s legality «inisetL’i
ing four or five pages of regulations basedi.

2. on aonesentence law. Too much discretion

was given to the DEC commissioner, violate)
ing the buinessmen’ s constitutional rights;

“ l5! ‘5

 




  
 
 

... .

.....

.......
.................
.........

W VOL. 3, #6
El

JUNE, 1991

 

ANIMAL‘RIGHT..INFORMATION AND EDUCATION SERVICE, INC. (ARIES)

PHONE/FAX: 203-866-0523

 

 

ARIES is a non—profit, tax-exempt (501 -C-3) educational service organization dedicated to promoting
respect for animals and the promotion of a vegetarian lifestyle by disseminating information through its
monthly newsletter and computerdata base, as well as networking with individuals and other animal
advocacy. groups. The contents ofthis newsletter are taken from other sources. Therefore, ARIES cannot , :

guarantee the accuracy of, nor does itnecessarily agree with, the contents of this newsletter. Subscrip-” : .
tions are tax deductible donations of $12 a year, $6 for students and senior citizens, or a donation of .

whatever you can afford. The ARIES Newsletter can also be “exchanged” with othergroups’ newsletters. ‘

 

J. Peter Hermance, Editor.

 

 

SPECIAL EVENTS:

0 June 9-16: First Annual International Animals Rights
Awareness Week, sponsored by In Defense of Animals,
816 W. Francisco Blvd., San Rafael, CA 94901, (415)453-
9984.

0 June 21-24: National Alliance for Animals 6th Annual
Animal Rights Symposium, Washington, DC, with over
50 environmental / animal rights speakers and over 45
~ workshops and panels along with displays, updates on
issues and legislation, videos and much more. Contact
Lesley Van Voorhees, Coordinator, NAA, PO Box 2978,
Washington, DC20013—2978, (703)684-0688. 0 And if you’re
in Washington for this event, don’t forget to stop in to
The Magical Animal, the Giftshop for People Who Love
Animals, an engaging selection of birthday, wedding,
anniversary, house-warming and other special occasion
gifts—hand—crafted with images of different animals
along with contemporary, elegant, romantic and
whimsical works from over 100 American artisans, 2409
18th St., NW; (202)265-5459; hours: Tue-Fri: 2-9pm; Sat:
Noon-10pm, Sun: noon-5pm, closed Mondays.

 

 

THEPOLLOW'ING ISA SLMMARY OE CUR-
RENT FEDERAL LEGISLATION HAVING TO
DO WITH ANIIWALS. Let’ 5 make June 24 National
Lobby for Animals Day. If you can’t be in Washington on
Mon., June 24, to lobby your Senator or Congressman,
then call or write concerning at least one of the following,
much of which was taken from the National Alliance for
Animals Legislative Summary, 4/11/91:

0 HR 61: ENDANGERED SPECIES PROTECTION ACT
OF 1991 -Bennett (D-FL): Improves the protection of en-
dangered species of wildlife in the National Forest System,
the National Park System, and the National Wildlife Refuge
System by increasing the maximum fine that may be
imposed for violating posted speed limits.

 

, - HR 251: WETLANDS NO NET LOSS ACT OF 1991-

Bennett (D—FL): Promotes the conservation and enhance—
ment of wetlands; prevents the 1053 of wetlands.

0 HR 252: A BILL TO PROVIDE PROTECTION FOR
VEAL CALVES—Bennett (D—FL): Requires that calves raised
for veal be free to turn around without difﬁculty, lie with
legs outstretched, and groom without impediment. Also
requires calves to be fed a diet containing sufficient iron
and, if the calf is more than 14 days old, digestible fiber to
prevent anemia and sustain full health.

0 HR 261 : DOLPHIN PROTECTION AND FAIR FISHING
ACT OF1991-Boxer (D—CA): Amends the Marine Mammal ’
Protection Act to phase out netting on dolphins by the end
of 1992; requires the same of foreign nations that sell tuna
products in the US; requires all foreign tuna vessels to
carry observers or face embargo.

0 HR 318: ANTI-LIVE ANIMAL LURE ACT OF 1991-
Dornan (R-CA): Amends the Animal Welfare Act to pro-
hibit dog racing and training involving the use of live
animal lures. Would also ban dog ﬁghting. ,Exempts
hunting dogs. '

0 HR 330: REFUGE WILDLIFE PROTECTION ACT OF
1991~Green (R-NY): Limits the killing of wildlife in the
National Wildlife Refuge System.

0 HR 371: SPORT HUNTING SAFETY AND PRESER- .
VATION 'ACT OF 1991-Marlenee (R—MT): Establishes a
civil remedy against individuals or groups that inten-
tionally obstruct, impede or interfere with a lawful hunt
within national forests. Animal rights groups oppose this ‘
bill, which WOuld have impact on free speech in that it
would prohibit people from even talking to hunters on
federal land. ‘

0 S 544-ANIMAL RESEARCHLFACILITIES PROTECTION
ACT OF 1991-Heflin (D-AL): Amends the Food, Agricul-
ture, ConservatiOn and Trade Act of 1990 to provide
protection to animal research facilities from illegal acts. .-

 

 
     

     

 




 
 

Would make Won of unauthorized copks of labora-
* tory records a federal offense, including copies made to
serve as proof of wrongdoing.

0 HR 585: NATIONAL BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY
CONSERVATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL RE-
SEARCH ACT-Scheuer (D-NY): Establishes a national
policy for the conservation of biological diversity.

0 S 58-Moynihan (D-NY): Companion bill to HR. 585.

' . HR 744-KANGAROO PROTECTION ACT-Mrazek (D-
NY): Prohibits the importation of kangaroo andkangaroo
products. ~

0 HR 759-ARCTIC COASTAL PLAIN DOMESTIC EN-
ERGY LEASING ACT OF I991-Young (R-AK): Authorizes
the Secretary of the Interior tolease lands in the Coastal
Plain Study Area of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
for oil and gas exploration, development and production.

0 HR I354-Scheuer (D—NY): Ends use of the steel jaw
leghold trap.

0 HR 1389: INFORMATION DISSEMINATION AND
RESEARCH ACCOUNTABILITY ACT -Torricelli (D-NI):
EstablishaNational Center for Research Accountability to
conduct full-text literature searches, both current and
archival, of the biomedical literature to prevent the funding
of research proposals involving the use of live animals
that duplicate experiments already performed; and require
the National Library of Medicine to make the full-text
results of research available in all the nation’s libraries, to
enable scientists to readily and economically find out
what has been done before.

0 H CON RES 63-]acobs (D-IN): Condemns the use of
rapid decompression as a method of euthanasia.

0 H CON RES 65-Jacobs (D—IN): Expresses sense of Con-
gress that any Federal agency that uses the Draize rabbit
eye test should develop and validate alternative oph-
thalmic testing procedures that do not require the use of
animal test subjects. .

0 H CON RES 105-Yatron (D-PA): Calls for a US policy of
strengthening and maintaining indeﬁnitely the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission moratorium on killing of
whales. Also expresses the sense of Congress that the
world’s whale, dolphin and porpoise populations should
be conserved and protected.

 

 

STATE NEWS

0 AR: The Hunter Harassment Bill was recently passed.
Also, HBI 695 which makes it a felony to interfere with a
farm or research laboratory in any way received a ”DoPass”
in committee. Arkansans for Animals News, [IE ’91.

0 CA: Peninsula Humane Society has set up the first
statewide Western Union hotline 1800-3256000 and ask
for Hotline Operator #9856 before June 10 to have a
preprogrammed, personalized message sent to Gov. Wil-
son to urge him to support the Draize Ban Bill, A8110,

TH! ARIII NEWSLETTER

6

  

which was originally introduced as AB2461 in 1989 and ,
vetoed by GOV. Deukmejian in June, 1990. PHS News
Release, 5/3/91. 0 SB719 wouldbanthe veal crate. AB1000
would add poultry to the list of animals that must be
slaughtered humanelyincommercial facilities under CA’s
Humane Slaughter Act. CA Animal Defense 8 Anit-
Vivisection League Newsletter, 4/15/91. 0 Sen. Markshas
re-introduced SB 719, to outlaw the veal crate. Action for
Animal Rights (CA) Newsletter, May, ’91. - Jack O’Con-
nell introduced AB1900 to help prevent horse theft after
hearing about a woman who traced her stolen horses to a
Texas slaughter house and had to pay $3,000 to get her
underweight and badly traumatized horses back. CA .
Animal Defense and Anti-Vivisection League Letter,
4/18/91. . -

0 CT: The operators of the Bridgeport jai alai fronton won
committee apprOval of their plan to replace the business
with a dog track, but opponents of the switch were already
plotting new strategies to stop it. The Hour, 5/3/91.

' FL: The Animal Rights Foundation of FL was successful
in getting a supermarket to cancel its plans to rafﬂe off 5
live rabbits for Easter. ARI-"F News, Apr;, ’91. 0 The Gover-
nor and Cabinet unanimously adopted an emergency
speed zone rule for portions of the St. Johns River system
in Volusia and neighboring counties for the protection of
manatees. Save the Manatee Club Letter, 4/9/91.

0 MD: Two bills were introduced to the MD General
Assembly to ban testing on animals for household prod-
ucts and cosmetics. H3455 would ban toxicity testing
including the LD50 and H8749 would ban eye irritancy
testing including the Draize eye test. MD Forum for Ani-
mals Newsletter, A/M/ I, ’91.

0 NY: A—4333 would make it mandatory for people
adopting cats and dogs from shelters or purchasing them
from pet shops to have the animals spayed or neutered
within 45 days (longer for puppies and kittens). Persons
will be required to show proof of compliance or pay a fine
of up to $250. Friends of Animals (NY Office) Newsletter,
Apr., ’91. 0 54739 would ban the Draize test for cosmetic
products.Animal WelfareAlliance‘Pamphlet. 0 Chanting
slogans such as ”The Moscow Circus: The Cruelest Show
on Earth,” more than 60 animal rights activists protested
in Albany yesterday, charging that the circus is-cruel to its
bears and urging people to boycott the performances.
Schenectady Daily Gazette, 2/14/91; ASPCA Press Clip-
pings, 3/25/91.

0 OH: The Network for OH Animal Action are trying to
derail a planned donkeyball fundraiser in Stow Sunday.
Jack Spicer, co-owner of Buckeye Donkeyball Inc. of
Westerville, said the abuse claims were nonsense, although
they are a growing problem. His family has been in the
business since 1 934, and apparently his and Shaw Brothers
Donkeyball of Sayre, PA, are the only two donkeyball
franchises east of the Mississippi. The Plain Dealer, 4/16/
91. 0 Two years after rejecting the idea of gambling ca-
sinos in OH, the General Assembly is being asked to
approve greyhound racing. A bill would allow up to 5 dog
racrng tracks in OH. The News Herald, 4/5/9.
0 ‘MetroHealth Medical Center officials accepted a man-

V3, #6 JUNE

 

 




nequin from animal rights activists (NCAA) yesterday,
a but declined to discuss using it instead of live cats for
intubation training. The Plain Dealer, 4/24/91. All of the
_ . above from NOAA, 4/30/91. ,

0 PA: More than a hundred animal rights activists rallied
at the Capitol in Harrisburg to boost legislation having to
do with classroom dissection, pet spay/ neuter programs
and live pigeon shoots. People Living Eth ically with
Animals Newsletter, Apr., ’91. .

0 SC: H33027 would ban the capture and captivity of
whales and dolphins in SC. Peaceable Kingdom Quar-
terly, Mar., ’91. '

- VT: Two recent developments have significantly ad-
vanced the cause of animal rights in VT. One, the VT
House of Rep. recently passed a bill that will protect
animals against the testing of cosmetics and household
products. The bill specifically, prohibits the LDSO test and
all skin and eye irritancy tests (including the Draize). Two,
the first statewide meeting to promote animals rights was
held during March, 1991. Coalition for Animal Rights
and Ethics News Release, 3/27/91.

0 WI: Alliance for Animals was invited to a meeting
between animal advocacy groups and members of the
International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies.
”The purpose of the workshops will be to thoroughly
analyze perspectives on animal welfare and animal rights
issues related to wildlife management.” First item of
discussion: ”Do animals have the same rights as people?”
Some consensus was reached and the group felt that
modest progress was made. Alliance News, Apr., ’91.
0 Dr. Thomas Eveland, ecology consultant for the Fund
for Animals, will be in Madison, WI on May 10, 1991, to
demonstrate two commonly used beaver management
devices; the culvert bafﬂer and the beaver dam ﬂume. The
demonstration is part of a two-year project to challenge
the DN R to promote positive and humane control meth-
ods instead of lethal devices that now kill thousands of
beaver annually in WI. Alliance for Animals Press Re-
lease, 5/6/90.

 

 

US SURGICAL UPDATE

(The Norwalk, CT -based US Surgical Corporation [USSC]
uses live dogs to demonstrate the use of its surgical
staplers.)

0 US Surgical won a victory when a federal judge dismissed
a competitor’ s plea to prevent the company from selling a
highly successful medical instrument. The instrument is
the subject of an ongoing patent infringement suit by the
Ethican Division of Johnson & Johnson against USSC.

0 Animal Rights supporters protested outside US Surgical
Friday, April 1 9, in what hasbecome an annual bashing of
the Norwalk company. Carrying signs and, in some cases,
wearing plastic dog noses, an estimated crowd of more
than 400 people chanted and yelled at Surgical head-
quarters. ”I’m here today to protest the use of animals in
marketing a product,” said Dr. Marjorie Cramer, a NY

THE ARIES NEWSLETTER'

plastic surgeon who addressed the demonstrators. US
Surgical denies it uses animals for sales purposes, saying
instead that they areused for training doctors after a sale
is made. The protest, which has been held for 10 years
every spring, was arranged by Friends of Animals. FOA
President Priscilla Feral warned the cmwd to be wary for
anyone suggesting violence or other illegal activities since
they might be ”agent provocateurs” of US Surgical. Feral
is currently suing the company for surveillance activities
allegedly conducted on its behalfby a securityfirm. Hours
before the protest, US Surgical hosted their own press
conference by presenting a panel of doctors defending the
use of animals in medical research. ”Man’s partnership
with animals must continue if we want... medical break.
throughs,” said Dr. M. Roy Schwarz, senior VP for medical
education and science at the American Medical Associa-
tion. USSC chairman Leon Hirsch said the panel and a
company sponsored public relations campaign were de-
signed to counter the "lies, distortions, and misrepresen— ‘
tation of animal—rights groups. Also on the panel for USSC
was Dr. Adrian R. Morrison, who has come under attack
for his neurophysiological and neuroanatomical experi-
ments with cats in which he implanted wire electrodes
that recorded brain activity onto the skull of each cat. The
Hour, 4/20/91. [see also, Journal of the American Anti-
Vivisection Society, Mar., Apr., ’91 ; for more on Adrian
Morrison, contact AAVS, Ste. 204 Noble Plaza, 801 Old
York Road, Jenkintown, PA 19046-1687, (215)887-0816]

 

 

HEGINS, PA, PIGEON SHOOT

Once again, on Labor Day, Sept. 2, 1991, thousands of
pigeons will be murdered at Hegins, PA. More than 300
persons demonstrated last year. The event was marred by
violence, directed mainly against many of those protest-
ing. Protesters were subjected to threats, verbal abuse,
spitting and projectiles. Of great concern were the
threatening gestures being made with loaded weapons by
some of the spectators and shootists, many of whom had

been drinking heavily for hours before and during the

event. With this in mind, Dr. Marc Wessels of the Inter-
national Network for Religion and Animals (INRA) helped
organize the first of a series of non—violence training
sessions for those planning to continue the struggle at
Hegins on Labor Day, ’91. For more info, contact IN RA,
PO Box 1335, North Wales, PA 1 9454-0335. INRA I nroads,
Spring, ’91. -

 

 

WHAT BETTER PLACE FOR AN ARIES
QUOTE OF THE MONTH:

”Custom will reconcile people '

to any atrocity...” '
George Bernard Shaw

 

‘9‘

JUNE 1991

 




 

 

ANIMAL RESEARCH, PRODUCT TESTING
a DISSECTION‘

0 OFFICIALS AT THE PENTAGON have revealed that
' the controversial Army-funded cat—shooting experiments
at Louisiana State U. (LSU) will be ently banned.
In the $2.1 million experiments conducted at LSU by
Michael Carey, approximately 700 cats were shot through
the head in an attempt to simulate combat Wounds.
. Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine Release,
Apr., ’91.

'0 ALLIANCE FOR ANIMALS held a march and rally on
April 27, 1991, to protest the nearly one million dollar
NASA grant to the-U. of WI.-Madison Primate Lab to
provide Ames Research Center in CA with squirrel
monkeys for space research. APA Press Release, 4/22/91.

0 THE AMERICAN FUND FOR ALTHERNATIVES TO
ANIMAL RESEARCH is supporting a one-week course
entitled Introduction to Tissue Culture and In Vitro Toxicity
Testing at the Center for Advanced Training in Cell and
Molecular Biology at the Catholic U. of America, Wash-
ington, DC with three session running in July, 1991. There
is no cost for tuition and the course is open to biology
teachers, biology/pre—med students and high school se-
niors. AFAAR also funds CELLSERVE (cell culture kits
for Students) and is looking to raise money to get them
into as many schools as possible. For more info, contact
AFAAR, 175 W. 12th St., Ste. 166, New York, NY 10011.
AFAAR letter, 4/12/91. ARIES will match donations to
AFAAR. Simply make outyour check to AFAAR and mail
t; AflES and we will forward to AFAAR with matching
c ec .

0 CAN HUMAN SOCIETY afford the assumption that the
current level of animal research and sacrifice is worthy of
our continued support? My conclusion is no. The atroci-
ties we persist in perpetrating within our laboratories,

where scientists are paid to perform painful rituals on '
other lifeforms based on blind faith that human suffering ’

might be driven away, should increasingly be questioned
and discontinued. They are not reducing the suffering we
so often feel and see around us in the real-life laboratory.
Our scientific addiction to animal research must be given
up and replaced with the observation of natural phe-
nomena. What B.F. Skinner said in his novel Walden Two

about ”the need for us to experiment with our own lives

and not just sit back in an ivory tower somewhere—as if
your own life weren’t all mixed up in it,” overshadows in
importance every other point he ever made. If Skinner is
to be remembered as an important voice in the history of
. science, it will be for his call to reconnect research with that
which is'relevant. Roger E. Ulrich, PhD, research profes-
sor at Western Michigan ll (Kalamazoo) and former
animal researcher, Animals’ Agenda, May, ’91.

0 THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF HEALTH (NIH) and
the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Adminis-
tration invites grant applications for investigations into
research methods that do not use vertebrate animals or
produces less pain and distress in vertebrate animals used

for research Alternatives to Animals Newsletter, I/F/M, ’91. . .

0

THE ARIES NEWSLETTER

5 NEW ' YORK CITY SCHOOL CHANCELLOR Joseph ~
Fernandez, sent the following circular to all NYC School
officials on Dec. 3, 1990: ”To accommodate students Who
objecttothedissection of animalsinthe classroom, schools "~
must be prepared to provide meaningful assignments
which will serve as effective alternatives to dissection. All
schools must develop procedures to inform students and
their parents of the student’ s right to choose alternatives
to dissection in the classroom.” Humane Education
Committee Letter, May, ’91. '

0 CRUELTY-FREE UPDATE: The following companies
have announced that they have stopped testing on animals,
though they continue to support the CTFA campaign
against animal defense, rather than engage in mutually
respectful discussion: Amway, Avon, Estee Lauder (and
subsidiaries Aramis, Clinique, Origins, Prescriptives),
Faberge, Jaffra, Merle Norman, Redken, Revlon (inc. New
Age Naturals) and Shaklee. Dial, Mary Kay, Murphy
Phoenix and Noxell continue moratoria. For more info,
contact BWC, 1 75 W. 12th St., NY, NY 1001 1-8275. Beauty
Without Cruelty’s Compassionate Shopper, Spring, ’91.

0 THE MAKER OF A BREAST IMPLANT that the Food
and Drug Administration has linked to cancer in animals
asked yesterday that doctors refrain from using the device
until the agency reviews data on its safety. Doctors fielding
inquiries from patients said they should not rush to have
the implants removed. Dr. Melvin Silverstein, a cancer
expert who directs the Breast Center in Van Nuys, CA,
said, ”W e told them the concern is over data from laboratory
rats and it is not necessarily transposable into human
terms. No one can prove they’re safe and no one can prove
they’re not safe.” NY Times, 4/18/91;Sue van Wyck,
Washington, CT, 4/15/91. ,

0 WHEN ASKED if he thought his statement that some
animal research had been useful could be destructive to
the anti-vivisection movement, Stephen R. Kaufman, MD,
of the Medical Research Modernization Committee wrote:
”My knowledge of medical history leads me to believe
that animal research has assisted medical science, albeit to t
a very limited degree. Considering the time and vast
resources that have been devoted to animal experimen-
tation, it is extremely unlikely that no useful information
should have resulted. Nevertheless, it seems clear (as
many members of the scientific community and many
animal advocates have argued) that animal research is not
the most efﬁcient, reliable, or ethical means of medical
progress.” MRMC Report, Apr., ’91.

0 THE WISCONSIN ASSEMBLY COMMITTEE ON AG—
RICULTURE unanimously passed legislation (AB33)
March 13, 1991, setting criminal penalties for the unau-
thorized release of any animal lawfully confined for sci-
entific, research, agriculture, commercial, education, or

. exhibition purposes. If passed and signed into law, the bill

woiﬂd make Wisconsin the 1 4th state to pass unauthorized
release legislation. WI Assoc. for Biomedical Research 8
Education View, V4#3; An imal Rights Forum Letter, 4/12/
91.

. THE 11/3/90 ISSUE OF SCIENCE NEWS contains an
interesting article on the ways animals utilize plants for

V3, #6 JUNE 1991

 




medicinal purposes, entitled, Medicine on the Wild Side:
. Animals mayrelyona natural , cy. Accordingtoaplarit
chemist at the U. of CA, Irvine, ”Studies of animal self,-
medication may help confirm the wisdom of traditional
cultures in which these same compounds have held
thera utic status for centuries.” He suggests that taking
a m icinal cue from animals may be one way to identify
potential drugs for humans. Alternatives to Animals
Newsletter, I/P/IVI, ’91.

0 THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT told Stanford U. today
that it would sharply reduce payments to the university
for research ormed on its campusandwould cancel all
contracts that Stanford and the Government had for cal-
culating those payments. In cutting Stanford’s payments,
Federal research officials are in effect confirming charges
made by Federal auditors and some members of Congress
that the prestigious university has over billed the Gov-
ermnent by as much as $200 million over the last decade
for overhead on research. These bills included items like
a yacht, antique furniture and a Lake Tahoe retreat for
university trustees. For more on Stanford, see The ARIES
Newsletter [Vol. 3, #5], May.,1 991. NY Times, 4/26/91;Sue
van Wyck, Washington, CT, 4/15/91.

0 A SCIENTIST AT GEORGETOWN U. MEDICAL
CENTER has been accused of scientiﬁc ‘misconduct in
applications for two research grants from the National
Institutes of Health. A draft report of the investigation
said Dr. Margit Hamosh claimed in a grant application to
have obtained results from a nutrition study using im-
mature dogs. But the scientist later testified she had no
record ’of the data and had submitted the information
based on memory. “T he data are worthless and appear to
have been fabricated or falsiﬁed,” the report said. NY Times,
3/23/91; Sue van Wyck, Washington, CT, 4/15/91.

0 CALL IN THE ”SCIENCE POLICE”: They neither like
the name nor the implication, but a group of investigators
working in cramped quarters at the National Institutes of
Health are know to some as the ”science police.” The
sprawling NIH campus, where research teams study
cancer, aids, heart disease and other maladies, is also the
home of the Office of Scientific Integrity. For more than
two years, this Government office has been looking into
an ailment in research itself: scientific misconduct and
fraud. NY Times, 3/23591;Sue van Wyck, Washington, CT,
4/15/91. *

0 OPPONENTS OF ANIMAL TESTING are urging com-
panies that do not use animals in testing new products to
say so on product packages. Two national groups are
involved in the effort, the HSUS and PETA. The groups
have somewhat different philosophies: PETA, for example,
'is a vegetarian organization; the HSUS is not. But both
groups hope to end all use of animals in tests of cosmetics
and other personal-care products. NY Times, 4/13/91; Sue
van Wyck, Washington, CT, 4/15/91.

0 A JURY IN US DISTRICT COURT in Manhattan has
awarded $4.45 million in damages to a NY woman after
finding that a chemical (TDA) released from a breast
implant caused breast cancer. The Environmental Pro-
tection Agency has said thatTDA causes cancer in animals,

THE A‘RIES NEWSLETTER

‘6'

but thatits effect in humans is undetermined. NY Times,
3/24/91; Sue van Wyck, Washington, CT, 4/15/91. ..

0 UNDER THE GUISE OF PREPARING FOR COMBAT,
53 military facilities are routinely subjecting animals to
radiation, burns, starvation, gunshot wounds, extreme
isolation and other forms of physical and psychological
deprivation. The road to stop these cruel and unnecessary

. experiments is made all the more difficult because the

military is exempt from even the nominal lab animal
inspections provided undertheAnirnal Welfare Act (which
excludes many animals tested in laboratories to begin V
with, such as farm animals and rodents). Leaving the
military researchers responsible for self-inspection is like
leaving Dracula to guard the blood bank. In 1988, according
to estimates based upon governrhent documents, our _‘
nations military experimented upon more than 500,000
animals at a cost to taxpayers of almost $1 10 million. And
this only counts experiments the military did themselves,
not military-funded research at universities and private
facilities. Dr. Greenwold, a staff physician in a Boston
teaching hospital, is appalled that the military is wasting
valuable money doing nuclear experiments on animals
when this money could be better spent on patient care. He
points out that there is a potentially tremendous data base
derivable from the large population of human subjects
who have been exposed to significant doses of radiation
during the course of their lives. NEAVS Research Mod-
ernization and Animal Rights Quarterly, Spring, ’91. For
more on the Military’ 8 animal experiments, contact Phy-
sicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, PO Box
6322, Washington, DC 20015. PCRM Update, M/A, {91.

 

 

WHAT BETTER PLACE FOR ANOTHER

IARIES’ QUOTE OF THE MONTH:

”We cannot have peace among men
whose hearts find delight. in killing
any. living creature.”

Rachel Carson

 

 

HLlNTING/TRAPPING/FUR

0 THE OWNER OF P‘LIRS BY ANTHONY has voluntarily
turned over his Main Street business to Johnstown Bank &
Trust Co.’ for liquidation. People Living Ethically with
Animals Newsletter, Apr., ’91. ' -

0 MORE AND MORE FASHION MODELS are refusing to
walk down the runways in fur. Karen Alexander, a model
who had been booked for a fashion show, was canceled at

the last minute When she refused to mOdel a fur-trimmed

dress. At some agencies, model’s preferences on wearing
fur are listed on their photo composites along with their
measurements, hair color and show size. NY Times, 4/16/
91; leslie Martin, NYC, 4/17/91.

0 SNAGGED! Ron Dodd, an instructOr teaching classes in
J u n a

V3, #6 1991'

 




  

trapping for the Town of Camden, ME, and recently
elected as president of the local chapter of the Maine

Trappers Association, pleaded guilty to an illegal trap- ,

ping charge. Mr. Dodd’s punishment was a fine of $125.
Camden Reporter,11/8/90; Iohn Garth, Glen Cove, ME,
4/14/91. ' .

0 WHAT’S WRONG WITH HUNTING? 1) Hunters enjoy
killing wildlife. 2) Hunting is not effective and humane. 3)
Hunting is not safe. 4) Hunters ignore the law. 5) Hunters
are slobs who ignore private property rights. 6) Hunting
is not a sporting activity. 7) Wildlife does not exist for
human use. 8) Hunters are not conservationists. 9) Hunting
does not prevent deer from starving. 10) Hunters do not
replace predators which generally kill the weak or surplus
' animals. 1 1) Hunters do not pay for wildlife conservation.
12) Hunters pollute the environment with lead poisoning.
13) Hunting increases endangered species. 14) Game
management is not a scientific study. Wildlife Informa-
tion Center Wildlife Activist, Apr., ’91.

0 20 NORTHWEST ANIMAL RIGHTS NETWORK
(NARN) activists were on hand for Opening Night at the
Seattle Opera March 2nd. Fur wearers were aggressively
confronted from positions near the building. Opera House
employees were escorting those insensitivefew who persist
in wearing outmoded hair shirts through a back door. This
ripe opportunity to characterize the vain few as unfit to
walk among decent folk did not go wanting for our
attention. The back-door people entered amid shouts of
”Exploiters through the back door.” NARN Newsletter,
Apt, ’91.

0 ANIMAL RIGHTS ACT IVISTS WERE GROWLING
over a plan by NY Gov. Cuomo’s Environmental Con-
servation Dept. to legalize—for the ﬁrst time in almost 90
years—the use of packs of aggressive dogs to. hunt bears.
"Hunting bear with dogs permits the hunter to exercise
judgement because once the bear goes up a tree the hunter
can decide whether or not to shoot,” said department
spokesman Edward Feldman. NY Post, 4/25/91; Sue van
Wyck, Washington, CT, 4/15/91. ‘

0 HOOP BEATS OF A WOLFER; THE O’GORMAN STYLE
OP COYOTE TRAPPING by L. Craig O’Gorman. This book
was written to share what I’ve learned from taking 19,000
predators in almost 30 years. Learn how to catch and hold
coyotes by elbows, side legs and hind hocks. Do it right the
first time, then there are no smart coyotes. $15.95 postpaid
to O’Gorman Enterprises, PO Box 491 , Dept. ”T”, Broadus,
MT 59317, (406)436-2234. Pat Cheney, Bozeman, MT, 3/12/
91. [Ed. note: Maybe Mr. O’Gorman would like to hear
from some of you wily coyotes]

0 KANSAS CITY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT had is-
sued orders to trap and club to death any coyote captured
on KCI property. After meeting with People for Animal
Rights, they announced they would abandon the trap and
club policy until a study could be conducted. As a result
of the study, the runway’ s fence lines were graded with
gravel and injected with an asphalt emulsion to keep the
coyotes away. PAR (KS), For the Animals, I/F, ’91.

0 A" LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEE has killed a bill to ban
hunting within 1,000 feet of houses, a proposal hunters

TH! ARIES NIWILITTIR

'6‘

    

said would eliminate opportunities to hunt in many parts
of Maine. The Burlington (VT) Free Press, 4/5/91; Animal .
Rights Forum Letter, 4/23/91.

  

 

 

WHAT BETTER PLACE PORA VILLANELLE ’

(A villanelle is a chieﬂy French verse form running on two
rhymes and consisting typically of five tercets and a
uquatrum in which the first and third lines of the opening
tercet recur alternately at the end of the other tercets and
together as the last two lines of the quatrum):

I don’t understand why they’ re taking my life
But I know that their lust for my skin is my curse.
Why must my beauty sentence me to die?

My brothers and sisters before me have died,
And for no better reason than greed, I unsure.
I don’t understand why they’re taking my life.

I’ve done them no harm, yet they’re claiming my life.
They covet the texture and warmth of my fur.
Why must my beauty sentence me to die?

They seem to assume that God gave them the right
To slaughter His young who are meek and emure.
I don’t understand why they’ re taking my life.

My birth in itself has become my demise.
The result of my death will entice and lure.
Why must my beauty sentence me to die.

I If only their ears could hear my cry,

And instead of my death their own hearts they would cure.
I don’t understand why they’ re taking my life.

Why must my beauty sentence me to die?

Copyrighted March, .1990, by Kitty Burns. Kitty also has
written a play entitled Blobd Money which will be per-
formed in Marin County, CA, in June as part of National
Animal Rights Week. For more info, contact Kitty at 610
Wessex Way #2, Belmont, CA 94002. (IQ Letter, 4/10/91)

 

 

VEGETARIANISM/HEAL’IH

. ”THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE OVER-MEDICATED
and more Americans are hooked on drugs by their phy-
sicians than by all the pushers on the street,” says Dr.
Robert Mendelsohn in his new book Male Practice. the
doctor reports that all drugs are toxic and quotes Eli Lilly
as saying, ”A drug without side effects is no drug at all.”
It is not uncommon for a patient to suffer side effects from
a drug that are more discomforting and dangerous than

   
  
 

V3, #6 JUNE 1991




the‘ailment mm drug is supposed to cure. Traditional
' medicine only addressesthesymptoms;itonly suppresses
V the symptoms instead of reaching the root cause of the
. illness. People for Reason in Science and Medicine, Spec-
trum Newsletter, Mar., ’91.

0 THE RESPONSE to the Physicians Committee for Re-
sponsible Medicines suggestion for a new ”four food
groups” to includefruits, grains, vegetables and legumes
, has met with mixed reviews. Former Sec. of Agriculture
John Block, President oftheNation‘al American Wholesale
Grocers’ Association and a pig farmer, called the recom-
mendations ”the height of irresponsibility.” Many nutri-
tionists agree that the focus of the American diet should be
shifted from one centered on anirml protein to one in
which it plays a peripheral role. Nutritionists seem gen-
erally supportive of the thrust of the Physicians
Committee’s proposed food groups but see it as too lim-
ited. They worry that an all plant-based diet could cause
calcium, iron, riboﬂavin and vitamin B1 2 deficiencies. The
Physicians Committee disagrees. In cultures with very
little animal protein, they say, such deficiencies do not
exist, and besides, the risks associated with plant-based
diets are quite small compared with the great beneﬁt to be
gained in terms of reduced risk of cancer, heart disease,
diabetes and obesity. NY Times, 4/10/91. Leslie Martin,
NYC, 4/17/91.

0 COW ANTIBODIES are a likely cause of infant colic, and
mothers who consume dairy products can pass them on in
breast milk, a new study says. NY Times, 3/30/91; Sue van
Wyck, 4/ 15/91.

0 OSTEOPOROSIS is a weakening of the bones and the
word strikes fear in the minds of thousands. They read
about the need for calcium and hear the importance of
meat and milk products in the diet. But calcium is abun-
dant in many natural foods in smaller quantities. These
include most fruits and vegetables, most dark green and
leafy vegetables, almonds, legumes (beans), and grains.
The adequacy of an all-natural diet Was demonstrated in
a recent study which evaluated the bone density of lacto-
ovo vegetarians and non-vegetarians, and found that the
vegetarians had greater b0ne density than meat eaters.
' Natural Lifestyle and Your Health, Aug., ’91. ‘

0 TOXOPLASMOSIS is a protozoan that lives inside the
cells of many humans and nonhuman animals. Pregnant
women are often told that cats can spread the disease that
is dangerous to the developing baby. Some give their cats
up for adoption or to be killed. Although cats are blamed
for shedding toxoplasma in their feces, they rarely do so.
If the litter from anindoor cat’ 5 box is not discarded within
two to three days after cats have discharged oocysts, these

oocysts can change to a form that can infect humans. But .

by far, the most common source of toxoplasma is raw and
undercooked meat. The moral for pregnant women is this:
Have your husband clean the litter box; and, more im-
portantly, when either of you shop for groceries, skip the
meat counter. But don’t get rid of the cat. Neal Barnard,
MD, Animals’ Agenda, May, ’91.

0 TASTE TESTS of new low-fat (10%) beef patties are
underway in schools in 6 states, according to the USDA.

THE A'RIES NEWSLETTER

Currently, beef patties provided for school lunch pro.—
grams average 20-22% fat, wluch is comparable to lean
ground beef available at supermarkets. ”No one is more
concerned than we are with healthful nutrition for the
nation’s school children,” said Betty Jo Nelson, adminis-
trator of USDA’s Food and Nutrition Service, which ad-
ministers the National School Lunch Program. USDA
Selected Speeches 8' News Releases, 3/21-27/91.

0 WHAT ELSE IS NEW? The Agriculture Dept. put meat
and dairy industry interests ahead of those of consumers
in abandoning a new ”pyramid” guideline to a healthy
balanced diet. It was to have replaced the traditional
”whee ” charts distributed to schOols showing the ”basic
four” food groups: meats, fish and legumes; fruits and
vegetables; grains; and dairy products. The wheel gave
the same space to each group, which consumer groups
contend does not reﬂect nutritionist’ s conclusions that
people need to have more grains and vegetables—and less
fat—in their diets. Hartford Courant, 4/28/91; Sue van
Wyck, Washington, CT, 4/29/91.

0 THE PSYCHOLOGY OF VEGANISM: FIVE CASE
STUDIES is the title of a thesis towards a master’ 5 degree
in psychology and counseling at the Boulder (CO) Gradu-
ate School by Caroline Constantine. Caroline wondered
about other vegans; did they have similar experiences,
and did they feel that their choice had made a profound
impact on their lives, as she did. Did they feel their growth
had been enhanced as a result of being vegan? That
curiosity was the inspiration for the topic of her thesis. For
more info, contact Caroline at 3788 Orange Lane, Boulder,
CA 80304; (303)440-9095. Vegetarian Society of C0 Veg-
etarian Living, M/A, '91.

0 WITHOUT QUESTION, refined carbohydrates, par-
ticularly sugars, are one of the biggest problems in this
country today. Sugar is a major cause of emotional de-
pression, hyperactivity, anxiety, and tension. It depresses
the immune system and predisposes us to a lot of other

‘ problems. Sugar is easily obtained and relatively inex-

pensive now and has become a signiﬁcant part of the
average person’s diet. To illustrate, note the consumption
rate per person as given as follows: 192 - 8.9 lbs. refined
sugar/ year; 1975 - 120 lbs. refined sugar/ year; 1985 - 129
lbs. refined sugar / year plus 30-40 lbs. of corn sweetener/
year. And if you don’t thinkyou eat that much sugar, read
the sugar content on the labels of some foods you buy: Ice
cream-21%; Jello-84%; Heinz Ketchup—29%; Vicks Medi-
cated Cough Drops-66%; Wishbone Russian Dressing-
30%. Natural Lifestyle and Your Health, Mar., ’91.

0 ARECENT REPORT paid for by the National Cattlemen’s
Association, at a reported cost of $50,000, and written by
staff members at Texas A&M has attempted to refute the
conclusions in Diet for a New America. These agricultural
teachers were hired by the meat indusz to deﬂect the
avidness preSented in the book. The frequent statistical
manipulations or factual omissions contained in the re-

port cannot obscure the massive damage to the environ-

ment caused by large scale animal agriculture and to our
national health from our meat centered diets as John

. Robbin’s book points out. Earth Save Special Report, 4/91.

'6

V3, #8 JUNE 1991

 




  

 

 

THE ENVIRONMENT s ENDANGERED
SPECIES ~

0 SMOG IN THE SAN JOAQUIN (CA) VALLEY is pro-
ducing lower crop yields and higher consumer prices. A

few farmers have emer ed as activists. LA Times, 4/22/91; .

Marc Ries, Anaheim, 4/24/91.

- OILY SOOT AND BLACK RAIN from fires raging at
hundreds of oil wells in Kuwait are beginning toclaim the
lives of large numbers of birds, and the toll may reach into
the tens of thousands as the Spring migration passes

through the region. World Society for the Protection of ,

Animals News Alert, 3/26/91.

0 LIKE FATHER LIKE SON: Just when you thought you’d
never hang another banner, an activist calls you and tells
you that Manual Lujan, Sec. of Interior, is coming to town
to head up a conference on oil and gas development in
New Mexico. Then, because his son was recently convicted
for raping a woman, the thought ﬂashes through your
mind, ”yeah, like father, like son...” ‘Who (of our ilk
anyway) could pass up an opportunity like that? This is a
chance to be really crass. You begin to visualize a banner
, saying exactly that. And, in case some people might not
get it, you visualize another one saying, Lujan raped my
mother,” with a picture of the earth (for the really dense).
You visualize Manuel’s face turning red, his blOod pres-
sure rising as he tries to mask his embarrassment. Gosh,
hope he doesn’t have another heart attack... So, we arrived
at the Marriott Hotel, banners waving to welcome Manuel
. back to Albuquerque. Our day was made when we saw
Lujan himself looking at us. Mission accomplished. If
you’d like to borrow our banners, write us at NMEFl, POB
12896, Albuquerque, NM 87195. A few bucks for postage
would be appreciated. '

0 MT. GRAHAM CAMPAIGN IS ALIVE AND WELL:
Since a law was passed allowing construction of telescopes
on the unique biological treasure that is Mt. Graham two
and a half years ago, a 2-mile road has been built, and two
pad sites have been cleared for two small scopes. No
concrete has been poured. This work was supposed to
have been completed by the end of the Fall of 1989. Why?
Because we have not quit. The law was deemed necessary
because developing in Mt. Graham would otherwise
‘ violate the National Environmental Policy and the En-
dangered Species Act. It violates NEPA primarily because
less destructive locations are available for the project and
because it would desecrate the sacred grounds of traditional
Apache people. There have been more than 30 arrests for
acts of civil disobedience by citizens concerned by the
blatant fraud used to pass the law and the failure of the
State U. of AZ and the Justice Dept. to respect the 1988
congressional a83urances that ESA safeguards would
continue to apply to the project. The situation is now in the
courts. Meanwhile, the partnersinthisproject have become
a shaky lot recently. The rumor has the Smithsonian
Institution pulling out. Also, the board of Trustees at Ohio
State U. pulled Mt. Graham from their agenda, probably
due to the great job being done by the grassroots activists
in the Ohio area. For what you can do, see Letters to Write.
Earth First!, 3/20/91.

Tu: ARIES NEWSLETTER

6'

  

0 AFTER3 MONTHS OF RESEARCH AND ORGANIZ-
lNG,ﬁreAlltl’eDeadCritterMaspoofonAnimalMage .-
Control prOgram in which « thousands~ of animals are
”controlled by being killed, lest they interfere with cattle, ‘
etc”) campaign was activated on June 4, 1990. The cam-
paign has helped spur a tremendous groundswell of
grassroots involvement in reforming the program, and
the result has been a significant increase in the public’ 5
knowledge of the program and its policies. For more'info,
contact Predator Project, POB 6733, Bozeman, MT 59771-
6733, (406)585-9607. The Predator Project Report,
Feb., ’91. . .

0 SOME MANUFACTURERS of musical instruments may
not be aware of this decade’s elephant tragedies or may
not be informed that 90% of supposedly ”legal” ivory has
been poached in another country and passed as legal.
Beauty Without Cruelty is writing to a large list of
manufacturers: first to find out which non-ivory alterna-
tives are satisfactory for what uses—one may be better for
keys and another for rings, for instance. Then the manu-
facturers can be informed where these alternatives are
available and why real ivory should not be used. Any
technical information on this subject willbe very much
appreciated by BWC, 1 75 W. 12th St., NY, NY 1001 1-8275.
BWC Action Alert, Spring, ’91.

0 DEAR ARIES: We certainly empathize with your feel—
ings concerning ournon-toxic recipelistedinour Greenpeace
Guide to Toxics for disposing of mice and understand how
you may see it as a cruel form of extermination (ie., that
rodents be poisoned by mixing dry plaster of paris with an
attractive bait). It was our intention to encourage a toxics
free environment. We have taken your comments seriously
and have revised our brochure which I have enclosed
(Revised suggestion: Keep storage areas clean and tidy,
and seal holes in walls. Use traps or a cat). Peter Bahouth,
Ex. Dir., Greenpeace, 3/19/91.

0 THE FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE proposed logging

restrictions today for 11.6 million acres of forests in the

Pacific Northwest, saying large areas of CA, OR and WA
provide ”critical habitat’ ’ for the threatened northern
spotted owl. NY Times, 4/27/91; Sue van Wyck, Wash-
ington, CT, 4/29/91.

0 A FEDERAL JUDGE ruled yesterday that Exxon got off
cheap and should pay a larger criminal fine for the Exxon
Valdez oil spill in AlaSka two, years ago. In rejecting
Exxon’s $100 million, Judge Holland in Anchorage said
the criminal fines didn’t reﬂect the environmental damage
done to Prince William Sound. NY Post, 4/25/91; Sue van
Wyck, Washington, CT, 4/15/91.

 

 

SHELTER 6* COMPANION ANIIVIAL NEWS

0 A DOG BREEDER, who had experienced a number of
shocking tragedies with her dogs, and after doing‘a great
deal of research ,discovered that the common denominator
was a preservative ETHOXYQUIN that is used in almost
every pet food. Ethoxyquin (aka santoquin) is a chemical
compound used as a feed preservative. In the Monsanto

V3,

#6 JUNE 1991

 

 




,. Material Safety Data it says: "The substance listed below
is identiﬁed as a hazardous chemical under the criteriaof
., the OSHA HAZARD COMMUNICATION STANDARD
(29 CFR 1910, 1220).” The Farm Chemical Handbook lists
Ethoxyquin as a pesticide. Hawley' s Condensed Chemi-
cal Dictionary 11th Ed., lists Ethoxyquin‘ as ”HAZARD:
Toxic by in gestion.” For more on this subject, contact June
Wholley, 227 Norfolk St., Quincy, MA 02170, (617)471-
5988. Report to the Consumer, Peb., ’91;Io Willard, Natural
Hygiene, Shelton, CT, 3/18/91. ' ‘

0 IT IS SAID IN RANCH COUNTRY that Westerners roll
the brims of their Stetsons so three can fit into the cab of a
pickup and that folks drive pickups so their hounds have
a place to run in between rodeos. This week the Denver
City Council will begin debate on an omnibus pet control

ordinance that not only will require Old Blue to be in a .

cage when riding shotgun on a pickup but will be the
second in the nation to force pet owners to have their
animals sterilized. According to the city’ 3 environmental
health directory, 44,000 unclaimed cats and dogs are put
to death each year in animal shelters in the Denver area, a
statistic that works out to one every 12 minutes. The
American Humane Association estimates 21.7 million
pets are destroyed annually throughout the US which
works out to 41 animals destroyed every minute of the
year. News-Times, 4/ 7/91.

0 VETERINARY MEDICINE HAS ENTERED THE HIGH-
TECH AGE, and a clinic at Auburn U. is giving dogs and
cats access to some of the glitziest gadgetry available. Two
devices at the $1 million Ware Diagnostic Imaging Center
allow vets to look inside animals Without picking up a
scalpel. The combination of a magnetic resonance imag-
ing machine and CT scan equipment on a veterinary school
campus is a first in North America, Auburn officials say.
Humane Society of Southern Nevada, The SPCA News,
Winter, 90.

0 HANGING IN THERE: A dog named Bonzo leaped a
farm fence, caught his foot and dangled upside down for
9 days, living on snow while awaiting rescue. Alerted by
a soft whine, a passerby discovered the 7-year—old border
collie hanging upside down with his head in the snow. Pet
_ Lovers Protective League, May, ’91.

 

 

OTHER NEWS

0 AN ARMEDREBELLION IN THE RAIN FOREST IN
RWANDA where ”Gorillas in the Mist” was filmed has
led to the disappearance of some of the endangered gorillas
and increased poaching, conservationists say. The Hour,
4/27/91. '

0 THE LATEST IN FOOD RAGES IN JAPAN is to eat fish
live. Waiters bring the fish in wiggling, their eyes and
mouths moving, then quickly slice open the midsection
and gut it, so the fish is ready to eat. Lobster is served belly
up, with an incision made along the length of the tail so
diners can get at the meat. Small squid and eels are eaten
whole. The Hour, 4/27/91.

THE ARIES NEWSLETTER‘

0 TODAY’S NEWS COULD BE TOMORROW’S CATLE
FEED if U. of IL researchers are able to make shredded
newsprint digestible and appealing. Initial tests indicated
newspaper inks, especially those made 'with soy oil,-are

esstolivestock. Theresearchersplantoadd molasses
and mix it with hay, grain, and soybean meal. The Hour,
4/26/91. '

0 THE NORWGIAN GOVERNMENT has announced
that it will not hunt any whales this year. The International
Whaling Commission has banned Norway and other .,
countries from commercial whale hunting, but allowed
them tokillafew whales each yearfor"scientific purposes.”
The Hour, 4/18/91. *

0 THE ANNOUNCEMENT by the Minister of Environ-
ment of South Africa that commercial seal ”harvesting”
and culling is to be suspended until further scientific
research has been completed is regarded by the Seal .
Action Group as a major victory for animal rights and
environmental pressure groups. In a press statement the
Minister states that this research will take at least two
years to complete. Seal Action Group Newsletter, Apr. ’91.

0 TEXAS INSTRUMENTS has entered the automatic
identiﬁcation systems market with worldwide introduc-
tion of the TI Registration and, Identification System, or
TIRIS. Applications of TIRIS are varied. For example,
transpOnders can be encapsulated in biocompatible mate—
rial and injected beneath an animal’s skin, becoming an

integral part of farm management systems. Texas In- .
struments Dallas Site Paper, Apr., ’91; from a Hemployee '
who writes: ”Oh great! Now the farmers will be able to .

track them from the womb to the plate! 4/5/91.

. TO THE MACMILLAN PUBLISHING COMPANY [3/
9/ 91]: Gentlemen: We understand that your company is
currently selling an elementary reading text and workbook
called Winning Moments, on the cover of which is a photo
of a man on a bucking bronco rodeo horse. We ask that an

_ alternate cover photo be used in future editions of this

book. Please do not be a part of the desensitization of our
children to cruelty. Sincerely, Mr. and Mrs. van Wyck.
Dear Mr. and Mrs van Wyck, Thank you for your corre—
spondence. I can assure you that we take your concern
seriously and, as a result of your letter, we will be more
vigilant in the future. Sincerely, Linda Kucan, VP, Edito—
rial Director, Reading, 3/ 26/91. Sue van Wyck, Wash-
ington, CT, 4/15/91. '

0 BECAUSE OF THEIR NEED TO BITE IN ORDER TO
LIVE, vampire bats have become the ”black sheep” of the
bat world, a reputation that unfortunately" affects our

‘ attitudes toward other bats. What few people know is that

of the nearly 1,000 bat species known, only one—the
common vampire bat—really feeds on the blood of other
animals. In reality, the vampire bat is one of the most
fascinating—even altruistic—animals on earth. Moreover,
recent discoveries about its biology also. show that it may
prove to be of great importance to our own health and
well-being. Bat Conservation International works to edu-
catepeople aboutbats. They canbereached atPOBox162603,

Austin, TX 78716-2603, (512)327-9721. BCI Bats, Spring, 91.

,9.

V3, #6 JUNE 1991

 




0 HERE ARE JUST A FEW OF THE NOMINEES for
Council on Economic Priorities’ (CEP) 1991 America’s
Corporate Conscience Awards: 1) The Body Shop, Inc. -‘
The Body Shop sells personal-care products and cosmet-
ics using minimal packaging and natural ingredients that
have not been tested on animals; 2) H] Heinz Co. -— On
April 1 2, 1 990, Starkist, a Heinz subsidiary, pledged never
to purchase, process, or sell any tuna caught with nets that
snare dolphins; 3) Herman Miller Inc. - This furniture
maker Was the ﬁrst to ban the use of wood from tropical
rain forests; 4) Aveda Corp. - This Minneapolis beauty-
products manufacturer develops all its hair and skin
products from organically grown plants and ﬂowers.
None of its products are tested on animals; 5) Food 2000,
Inc. - Based in Montpelier, VT, this small vegetarian chili—
maker has dedicated itself to the cause of ending world
hunger. 8% of the company’ 5 sales is donated to organi-
zations working to end world hunger. CEP Research

Report, Apr, ’91. -

0 IN DELHI, INDIA, ON APRIL 18, 1991, Ms. Maneka
Gandhi, Minister of State for Environment and Forests, set
the torch to $350,000 worth of animal furs and skins. The
bonﬁre was organized by Beauty Without Cruelty in
collaboration with the Chief Wildlife Warden. Now for
the very first time in India, usable, confiscated, wildlife
items went up in smoke. BWC International Press Re-
lease, April, ’91.

0 MONKEYS, BEARS, TIGERS, panthers and dogs will no
longer be seen in Indian circuses. Because of their serious
mistreatment by traveling shows, Environment Minister
Maneka Gandhi enforced Section 22 of the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals Act. Her fierce animal-rights policies
are especially not appreciated by India’s thousands of
street artists who depend on dancing bears, snakes and
monkeys for their livelihood. Hinduism Today, May, ’91;
Trisha Feuerstein, Lower Lake, CA, 4/26/91.

0 A PET BIRD BOUGHT NEAR A SWAP MARKET in
Spring Valley, CA, last month was confirmed today-as
infected with exotic Newcastle disease, prompting the US
Dept. of Agriculture to repeat a warning against buying
smuggled birds. USDA Selected Speeches 8 News Re-
leases, 4/11-17/91. ~

‘ 0 PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANI-
MA IS, the animal-rights group that has led a long-running
battle against government researchers over their treatment
of the so-called Silver Spring monkeys, killed 32animals at its
Aspen Hill, MD sanctuary in the last year after it could not
find homes for them. The animals included 18 rabbits and 14
roosters. The Press Democrat, 4/13/91;Marc Ries, Anaheim,
0 CA. 4/24/91. 0 In response to criticism by animal rights
opponents, Ingrid Newkirk, PETA’s National Director, said
that the 18 rabbits were part of 70 rabbits rescued from a
school basement and “were euthanized because they were
either suffering with no end in sight or because we had
exhausted all leads for homes." The roosters were part of a
group of animals removed during a raid on Santeria cult
slaughter operations ”The roosters that wefinallydecided to
euthanize were so aggressive we could not integrate them
into our ﬂocls, although we really tried. Again, it was either
that or life in a box," Newkirk said. PETA Letter, 4/17/91.

TH! RRII.‘NIWILITTIR

0 MORE THAN 80% of Kuwait’ s livestock and other large
domestic animals were killed during the Occupation by
Iraq and the subsequent war in the Persian Gulf, accord- . 4 .
ing to figures released today by the World Society for the “
Protection . of Animals (W SPA). WSPA News Alert, ‘
4/23/91. . -

0 TAKES ONE TO KNOW ONE: National radio talk show
host Rush Limbaugh, during a speech in Wichita, KS, said
that farm. animals are too stupid to be unhappy. "They’ re
idiots,” he told an audience of 4,700 at Wichita State U.
Union-News, 4/8/91; Debra LaBruzzo, Springfield, MA
4/22/91. »

0 THE AMERICAN HORSE PROTECTION ASSOCIA-
TION (AHPA) testified before the .CA State Assembly’s
Committee on Transportation in support of AB500, a bill
which would provide for the humane transport of horses
for slaughter. AHPA Release, 4/22/91.

 

 

ARIES GUEST EDITORIALS

0 NO MORE MARCHES, PLEASE... I estimated that if the
number of people at the March was 24,000, the amount of
money given to airlines and hotels (averaging $500 per
person more or less) would amount to $12 million. And for
what? The media showed it brieﬂy and then cut to inter-
views with doctors and people whose lives were ”saved”
by animal experiments. The columnists and radio talk
show hosts had a great time condemning or making fun of
quotes comparing broiler chickens with victims of the
holocaust. I sure hope there won’t be any more marches,
and that, instead, there will be a huge outpouring of
money to help the organizations which know the scientific
facts about whatharrnis done by vivisection to the animals,
our health, and the environment. Let’ s forget what makes
us feel high, and think about what is best for the animals,
as Well as our long term survival. Lou Fireson, Alhambra,

- CA; S UPPRESS Newsletter, Spring, 91.

0 THE TIME IS OVER-RIPE for the ”animal rights” movement
to do some true merging of ideas, processes, and essences. We
can no longer merely ”ally” with other movements We have to
becomepartofothermovements.Weareheadedforaverylarge
merging nature movement which as yethas no name. It synthe
sizes the movements of peace, deep ecology, environmental,
alternative lealing,G1een Politics, vegetarian,post-modem,old
ardnewspiritual,ancientprimitive,newage,animalsrightsard
feminist It is a new world order, a body-nﬁrd—spirit re-tmion
with nature. Rights granted by men in power, no matter how
cunningly argued, have absolutely nothing to do with natural
empowerment or a nature movement. Affirmation of the natu-
ralworldcomesbyﬁrstpolicing yourself init. A verysimple way
of seeing then happens—you notice that all beings have equal
immanent,intrinsic,inherentvalue,mt1ights,and thatbecomes

' your guide. The simple, profound belief that all phenomena

have equal value in a total environmental system is a mainstay

of the deep ecology movement and of primitive and primal '
peoples and women. We understand the connecting web of life.
Connie Salamone, founderof World Women for-Animal Rights/

Empowerment Women ofPower, Spring, ’88;Connie Salamone,
NY, 4/9/91.

V3.#6 Jun: 1991

 




 

 

WHAT BETTER PLACE FOR YETANOTHER

I ARIES’ QUOTE:

”In the relations of humans with the
animals, with the ﬂowers, with all the
Objects of creation, there is a whole great
ethic scarcely seen as yet.” '

Victor Hugo

(Compassionate Friend, Iournal of Beauty Without
Cruelty, India, Ill-7M, ’91.)

 

 

I'VHAT’S NEW?

0Alternatives to laboratory Animals (V19#1 , Feb. ’91) covers
all aspects of the development, validation, introduction
and use of alternatives to laboratory animals in biomedical

research and toxicity testing and is available from the .

Fund for Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments,
Eastgate House, 34 Stoney Street, Nottingham NG1 1NB,
England.

0 ”Speaking of Animals...” (formerly ”Animal Rights
Forum”), a weekly cable tv program produced and dis-

tributed by Animal Rights Information Service, Inc. (ARIS,
not ARIES) celebrates its sixth year of providing educa-

tional tv programming concerning animals rights issues.

ARIS produces numerous animal issue documentaries
and actively distributes them for broadcast. If you would
like to help put ”Speaking of Animals...” on tv in your
community, or make a tax deductible contribution to help
cover costs, contact ARIS, PO Box 20672, Columbus Circle
Station, New York, NY 10023. ARIES will match dona-
tions to ARIS. Simply send your donation to ARIES and
we will forward it to ARIS along with our matching
check.

0 Bullfrog Films offers animal rights videos including
”Tools for Research: Questions About Animals Rights” to
concerned citizens by special arrangement. Purchase in-
quiries are encouraged by writing or calling BF, Oley, PA
19547 (215)779-8226. .

0 United Poultry Concerns has been formed to educate
people about the miserable life of factory chickens raised
for meat and eggs. The meat birds suffer routinely from

. severe skeletal deformities causing them to crouch and

hobble in pain, from gastrointestinal and blood diseases,

and chronic respiratory infections. The egg-producing

birds are a high strung, anxious laboratory strain, forced
to live for 1 8 months squeezed inside a tiny indoor battery
cage with 2—4 other hens in sheds holding 50,000 or more
debeaked, terrified, bewildered birds. The catching,
transport and slaughter of the chickens is also not a pretty
picture. There are no federal laws regulating poultry
raising, transport or slaughter. For what you can do and
for more info, contact Karen Davis, UPC, PO Box 59367,
Potomic, MD 20859, (301)948-2406.

TH: A'RIES NEWSLETTER.

0.

0 The Marine Mammal Stranding Center has reopened its
Sea Life EduCational Center for the summer seven days a
week. For hOurs and/ or more info, contact MMSC, PO
Box 773, Brigantine, N] 08203, (609)266—0538. W5C
Blowhole, Spring, ’91. . '

0 Last Chance for Animals has produced a 19-page pam-
phlet listing direct quotes from physicians around the
world on vivisection, research, etc. This information lays
to rest the pro-experiment position that antivi'visectionists
lack scientific ar ents. Contact LCA, 18653 Ventura
Blvd., Ste. 356, Tarzana, CA 91356; (213)271-1409.

0 The Humane Education Committee (HEC) of NY City
has used a process of collaborating and negotiating with
the NY City Board of Ed. and teachers’ union (UFT) in
order to help institutionalize humane educationprograms
in NYC schools. Although we have a long way to go to
make humane education a meaningful, operational real-
ity in every classroom in NYC, some important advances
have been made here. We are presently working to du-
plicate programs in NJ and NY State. Educators and
activists are needed to duplicate the process elsewhere.
For more info, contact HEC, PO Box 445, New York, NY
10028; (212)410-3095. HEC Newsletter, May, ’91. ,

0 Animals are still sometimes used to teach intubation, the
insertion ofa hollow tube into the trachea for administering ,
anesthesia, but they are not the best training models
available. Other methods, such as the use of mannequins,
have long been available and are preferable to the use of
animals. Moreover, animal use raises serious ethical is-
sues. Our intubation kit contains sample letters to the
editor, a sample news release, and guidelines for con-
ducting your own campaign. For more info, contact Na-
tional Association of Nurses Against Vivisection, PO Box
42110, Washington, DC 20015—0110. NAN AV has estab-
lished a nurse contact system that lets you put your
experience and enthusiasm to work for animals in need. If
you would like to become a nurse contact, contact N ANAV.

’ NANAVNews, Summer/Fall, ’91.

 

 

LETTERS TO WRITE/BOYCOITS -

0 On Sunday, Mar. 17, 1991, the Fox Broadcasting tv show
”In Living Color” aired a skit in whiCh live chickens were
thrown to the audience and chased around on the set as a
joke before millions of viewers. Please contact the show’ 5
producer, Ms. Tamara Rawitt at ”In Living Color”,PO Box
900, Beverly Hills, CA 90213, (213)856—1190 to voice your
objection to this program, urging that such ”fowl” enter—
tainment not be repeated in future programs. Please send
a copy of your letter to the Directory, Fox Broadcasting,

_ 10201 W. Pico 'Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90035, (213)277—

2211. Karen Davis, United Poultry Concerns, 4/1/91.

0 Ask” airlines to stop transporting wild-caught birds
because of the high mortality. Explain that of over 8
million birds "taken from the wild each year for the pet
markets, 50—80% may die before being sold. The commercial
trade of wild-caught birds threatens to drive some species
to extinction. Hundreds of birds are crammed into small
v 3 , # 5

Jun: 1991

 




 

crates without enough food, water, space, or ventilation to
survive the triptothe US. Please write: Pieter Bouw,Pres.,
KLM Head Office, Amsterdamsewag 55, Amstelveen,
The Netherlands; Arturo M. Muzzi,Gen. Mngr., Aerolinas
Argentinas, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, NY 10020;
Ronald W. Allen, CEO, Delta Air Lines, Inc., 1030 Delta
Blvd., Atlanta, GA 30320; Steven G. Rothmeier, CEO,
Northwest Airlines, 5101 Northwest Drive Airport, St.
Paul, MN 55111—3034; and Frederick W. Smith, CEO,
Federal Express Corp., PO Box 727, Memphis, TN 38194.
Defenders of Wildlife, Action Alert, 2/15/91.

0 See the Environment section for background informa-
tion. Write or call the U. of AZ and its partners and tell
them what you think of their project! Pres. Henry Kofﬂer,
U of AZ, Tuscon, AZ 85721, (602)621-5511; Dr. Robert
Adams, Smithsonian Institution, 1000 Jefferson, SW,
Washington, DC 20560, (202)357-1840; Pres. Gee, Ohio St.
U., 190 N. Oval Hall, Columbus, OH 4321 0, (61 4)292-2424;
Pope John Paul II, Vatican City, 00187, Rome, Italy; Dr.
Heinz Staab, Max Planck Institute, MP1 Residence—Str.
#A, 8000 Munich, Germany; and Franco Pacini, Dir.,
Arcetri Astrophysical Observatory, Laego E. Fermi 5, I-
50125, Firenzi, Italy. Earth First!, 3/20/91. '

0 The City Council of Figueres, Spain (the city of Salvador
Dali’s museum), wants to continue to permit bullfights.
The Spanish animal rights group protesting this has
suggested the following letter addressed to
AYUNTAMIENTO DE FIGUERES, Att. Mr. Maria Lorca,
17600—Figueres, Spain. ”Dear Mayor, We give support to
the initiative of catalan green party Alternativa Verda to
stop corridas in Figueres. We are against all cruelty to
animals and since Spain is a hell for them, we are boycott-
ing you, especially tourism, Salvador Dali’s Museum,
Spanish oranges, the Olympic Games and Expo-Sevilla.
And we will only visit those places that have declared to
be anti-bullfights, such as Tossa de Mar.” You can write in
any language. Please send a copy of your letter and any
response to ARIES who will pass these on the Altemativa
Verda-Movement Ecologiste de Catalogne or you can
write them direct at Passeig del Mar, 2, 17130—1‘Escala,
Spain. A first class letter to Spain is 50 cents. Alternativa
Verda Letter, 1/15/91.

0 According to the S/ O ’88 issue of The Christian
Outdoorsman, a ”big-game” hunter and self-professed
Christian named Jim Morgan has accumulated a trophy
collection of more than 40 animals that he calls an "epitome
of God’s art.” He hauls these ”trophies” around the country
in a 30-foot truck towing a trailer and presents this barbaric
display at outdoor shows, and, of all places, churches.
. According to Morgan, more than 50,000 people viewed
the creatures’ carcasses in 1987. Why not write to Morgan
J and express your thoughts? Address your letters to him c/

0 Master’ 3 Trophy Collection, PO Box 4395, Houston, TX
77210-4395. INRA Inroads, Spring, ’91.

0 NEAVS urges people to kick—off ”The Letter-Writers’
Crusade” (1" LC) by writing to each of ”The Foul Five” to
tell them you won’t buy their products until they stop
testing on animals. Address your message to their Cus-
' tomer Relations Departments: Gillette, The Prudential
Tower Bldg.,Box61,Boston,MA 02119;Johnson&Johnson,

{Tl-IE ARIES NEWSLETTER

<9

  

1 Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, NJ 08933; t.
L’Oreal, 222‘Terminal Ave., Clark, NJ 07066; Proctor 8: .
Gamble, BoX599, Cincinnati, OH 45201 ;andVidal SaSsOon, .
405N. Rodeo Drive, BeverlyHills, CO90210.NEAVS News, "‘
4th Quarter, ’90.

0 The Dept. of Agriculture must have adequate funds to
enforce the Animal Welfare Act. At present, there are only
24 animal care inspectors in the entire country. Please
write to the following and ask them to approve an ap-
prOpriation of at least $20 million: Sen. Quentin B. Burdick,
Chairman, Senate Appropriations Committee Subcom-
mittee on Agriculture 8: Development, Senate Office Bldg.,
Washington, DC 20510 and Rep. Jamie L. Whittten,
Chairman, House Appropriations Committee Subcom—
mittee on Rural Development 8: Agriculture, House Of-
fice Bldg., Washington, DC 20515. Joan Ienrich, Sample
Animal Rights Letter, May, ’91.

0 Responding to a 2—year old petition by a coalition of
conservation andanimal welfare groups to put the Afri-
can elephant on the US Endangered Species List, the
Interior Dept. rejected the petition and instead is proposing
a split-listing. Some would remain on the Threatened List
and therest would be classiﬁed endangered. Please write
Manuel Lujan, Secretary, US Dept. of Interior, Interior
Bldg., 18th and C Streets, NW, Washington, DC 20240.
Urge them to reject split-listing and to place the African
elephant on the US Endangered Species List. You can ask
your representatives and Senators for help on this issue.
Performing Animal Welfare Society Newsletter Update,
Apr., ’91.

 

 

SPECIAL APPEAL

0 Cetacean Society International (CSI) needs contributions
to fund its International Whaling Commission (IW C)
Campaign to help stave off assaults against the current
IWC moratorium on commercial whaling and to continue
to promOte the extension of IWC protection to small
cetaceans such as dolphins and porpoises. CSI will mail to
each contributor a remarkable 8-page portfolio of black—
and-white sperm whale drawings. CSI—IWC Campaign,
190 Stillwold Drive, Wethersfield,CT 06109. CSI CT Whale,
4/15/91. .

0 During Lab Animal Liberation Week, Last Chance for
Animals spent a lot of money on billboards, signs, etc. and
could use some donations to help pay for this. ARIES will
match any donation to LCA. Simply make out the check to
LCA and send to ARIES, PO Box 332, Rowayton, CT 06853
and we will forward to LCA with our matching check.

 

 

UPCOMING EVENTS .
(all in ’91 unless otherwise noted)

0 June 1: Animal Rights 8: the Environment Panel (inc.
Tom Regan, Carol Adams, Gary Francione, Patrice
Greanville), NY City, sponsored by the Learning Alliance,
494 B’way, NYC, NY 10012, (212)226-7171.

1

V3, #6 JUNE

1991

  




0 June 1: Deadline for nominations for the 1992 American

. Veterinarian Medical Association Humane Award, to

VJ

recognize a non-veterinarian or non-veterinary organiza-

~ tion that has demonstrated exceptional compassion for

the welfare of animals. For more info, contact ARIES or
AVMA, Public Inf. Div.,930N . Meacham Rd.,Schaumburg,
IL 60196. AVMA Letter, 2/91.

0 June 1: First Annual ”Cruelty-Free Products Day.” March
beginning at 5th Ave. and 59th St. beginning at 12:30 pm.
For info, contact Coalition to Liberate Animals World-
wide, (718)370-1736.

0 June 2: Scientists Center for Animal Welfare (SCAW)
sponsors a conference on ”Selected Issues on the Well-
being of Animals Used in Research, Testing and Educa-
tion,” Philadelphia, PA. For more info, contact SCAW,
4805 St. Elmo Ave., Bethesda, MD 20814, (301 )654—6390.

0 June 2-8: The 17th annual Intensive Bioethics Course,
sponsored by the Kennedy Institute of Ethics, Georgetown
U., Washington, DC. The course is an in-depth study of
ethical theory and the application of ethical principles to
selected problems in health care and biomedical research.
Contact the Kennedy Institute of Ethics, Georgetown U.,
1437 P St., NW, Washington, DC 20057, (202)687-6766.

0 June 6-8: National Animal Control Association Confer-
ence, Chicago, IL. Contact NACA, PO Box 154, Indianola,
WA 98342, (800)828-6474. NACA News, J/F, ’91.

0 June 7-9: ”Creation Spirituality: Toward Wholeness,
Harmony and a Thriving Earth,” Casenovia College,
Casenovia, NY. Contact Kim Conner, Eco-Justice, Anabel
Taylor Hall, Cornell U., Ithaca, NY 14853, (607)255-9240 /

- 4225. The Egg, an Eco-Justice Quarterly, Winter ’90-’91.

- June 8: PETA 101 Seminar, Saginaw, MI.

0 Ju ne 9-16: The First Annual International Animals Rights
Awareness Week includes the First Annual San Francisco
Festival for the Animals. Contact In Defense of Animals,
816 W. Franciso Blvd., San Rafael, CA 94901, (415)453-
9984.

0 June 12: Animal Rights Conference on Compuserve
computer network, features guest Tom Regan to discuss
Animal Rights Awareness Week. Sponsored by Animal
Rights Computer Network, PO Box 17521, Raleigh, NC
27619-7521, (919)839-0423. To join Compuserve, call
(800)848-8199. _

- June 15: NJ Animal Rights Alliance Park Festival, Coo-
per River Park, Pennsauken, NJ. For more info, call
(609)582-0664. ‘

0 June 21-24:. National Alliance for Animals 6th Annual
Animal Rights Symposium, Washington, DC, with over
50 environmental/ animal rights speakers and over 45
workshops and panels along with displays, updates on
issues and legislation, videos and much more. Contact
Lesley Van Voorhees, Coordinator, NAA, PO Box 2978,
Washington, DC 20013-2978, (703)684-0688.

- July 4-7: North American Vegetarian Society Confer-

THI ARIES NIWILITTER

'6’

enee, Bucknell U., PA. Contact NAVS, Po Box 72,
Dolgeville, NY 13329, (518)568-7970. . '

0 July 6: PETA 101’ Seminar, Ottawa, Canada. .
0 July 20: PETA 101 Seminar, Binghamton, NY.

a July 25-30: European Vegetarian Union Congress,
sponsored by the Vegetarian Society of the United King-
dom, London. Contact VSUK, Parkdale, Dunham Rd,
Altrincham, Cheshire, England WA 14 4QG.

0 July 26-29: Teen Vegetarian Conference (ages 13-18),
New Windsor, MD. For more info,’contact Veg. Resource
Group, PO Box1463, BaltimOre, MD 21203, (301 )876-7882.
VRG Journal, N/D, ’90. , .

0 Aug. 3: PETA 101 Seminar, Missoula, MT.

0 Aug. 7-11: 31 st Annual Vegetarian Convention of the
American Vegan Society (AVS), Regis College, Denver,
CO. Contact AVS, 501 Old Harding Hwy., Malaga, NJ
08328.

0 Aug. 14-18: 3rd Annual Vegetarian Beach Gathering at
the NJ Shore, Spring Lake, NJ. Contact VRG, PO Box 1463,
Baltimore, MD 21203, (301 )366-VEGE.

, 0 Aug. 31: Deadline for entry into the National Society of
Musicians for Animals Contest, open to singers or instru-
mentalists up to age 13 who have given one or more
performances on behalf of the animals and / or the envi-
ronment. For more info, contact NSMA Music Contest,
457 Black Rock Turnpike, W. Reddin g, CT 06896, (203) 938-
3815.

' Sept. 2: Labor Day. Once again, thousands of
pigeons will be murdered at Hegins, PA. You are
needed to work to end this slaughter. Contact '
Animal Rights Mobilization, PO Box 1553,
Williamsport, PA 17703, (717)322-3252.

. Sept. 7: PETA 101 Seminar, St. Louis, MO.

0 Sept. 20-21: ”Killing the Crisis, Not the Animals,” An
International Symposium on Dog 8: Cat Overpopulation,
an educational and tactics forum, Washington, DC. Con-
tact International Society for Animal Rights, 421 S. State
St., Clarks Summit, PA 18411.

. Sept. 21: PETA 101 Seminar, Pittsburgh, PA.

' Sept. 21-23: F.A.L.L. campaign [Furs Are LethaL]. Dem-
onstrations, protests, cultural events, funeral processions,

. etc. Materials available. Contact EventCoordinator Michael

Budkie, In Defense of Animals, Midwest Office, 7294
Richmond Ave., Cincinnati, OH 45236, (513)793-2146.

0 Sept. 24-27: First International Conference on Comput-
ers in Biomedicine, U. of Southampton, Southampton,
UK. Alternatives to Animals, A/S/O, ’90.

0 Sept. 27: Deadline for nominations for the ”Bill ROSenberg
Award,” to be presented annually to a person who has
made a substantial contribution to ending farm animal
abuse before his / her 1 8th birthday. Contact Farm Animal
v 3 , n 6

JUNE 1991

 




Reform Movement, 10101 AshburtonLane, BetheSda,MD
20817, (301)530—1737. '. .

0 Sept. 29: Campaign for a Vegetarian America March on. ».

Washington, for the abolition of factory farnung and the
promotion of a vegetarian society. For more info, contact
Coalition to Liberate Animals Worldwide (CLAW), PO
Box 81, Staten Island, NY, 10312, (718)317T5303.

0 Oct. 1: World Vegetarian Day. Contact North American
. Vegetarian Society, PO Box 72, Dolgeville, NY 13329,
(518)568-7970.

0 Oct. 2: World Farm Animals Day (Gandhi’s Birthday).
Contact Farm Animal Reform Movement (FARM), 10101
Asburton Lane, Bethesda, MD 20817, (301)530—1737.

0 Oct. 4-5: 2nd Annual Animal Rights Conference, Iowa
City, Iowa. Contact Iowa Alliance for Animals, PO Box
1263, Welch Ave. Station, Ames, IA 50010.

0 Oct. 5: The Vegetarian Resource Group is having a 1 day
conference in New York City. Contact VRG, PO Box 1463,
Baltimore, MD 21203, (301 )366-VEGE.

0 Oct. 11-12: HSUS Symposium and Annual Meeting,
Animals in Research: Challenging the Status Quo, Washing-
ton, DC. For more info, contact HSUS, 2100 L St., NW,
Washington, DC 20037; (202)452-1100.

(iWRC) 14th Annual Conference, ”Handle With
Vancouver, BritishColumbia,Canada Contact IWRC, 4437
Central Place, B-4; Suisun, CA 94585.1WRC Wildlife

' Iournal, Summer, ’90.

° Oct. 19-23: Scientists Center for Animal Welfare (SCAW)
sponsors a workshop entitled ”U S Regulations and Cana-
dian Guidelmesfor Research Animal Welfare,” Vancouver,
Canada. For mOﬁe info, contact SCAW, 4805 St. Elmo Ave. .,
Bethesda, MD 20814, (301 )654-6390.

0 Nov. 28: Have a cruelty-free thanksgiving!
0 Nov. 29: FUR-FREE FRIDAY!

Design 8' Typography by: . V I

A Consultation, Design and Production Source
for the Animal Rights Community

int

SUSAN E. GAINES
203064304125

 

Video
Slides 8: Multi-image
Desktop Publishing

Graphic Design

 

 

 

 

Animal Rights Information &
. Education Service, Inc. (ARIES)
: ‘ . .5 P.O. BOX 332

Address Correction Requested
Forwarding & Return Postage Guaranteed

 

Non-Profit Org.
U. S. Postage
P A l D
‘ DARIEN, CT 06820
PERMIT NO. 35

 

 

 

e. . Oct. "17-20: International Wildlife Rehabilitation Council

p
bf.

Society
PB Box
Washington

for Animal Protective Legis.

1371? Georgetown Station

, DC 2000'?

 

WOW-BOW Biscuits Are Here!

The finest freshly baked. hand cut. gourmet

vegetarian or vegan Dog Biscuit available

for lurthet assistance contact:

WOW-BOW DISTRIBUTORS LTD.

309 BURR ROAD

EAST NORTHPORT. NY. 11731

Jar. Saltmbene (516) 499-8572

 

Biscuits
ior Dogs

 

 

RECYCLED PAPER

 

PRINTED ON 1 00%

 




, 14:”
“‘1

Sheraton

Summer 1991

 

’0

YOUR outstanding gen-
erosity has helped ITT
Sheraton’s pioneering
Going Green pro'ect,
operating throug out
its Africa and Indian
Ocean region hotels, to
achieve a remarkable
success in its first year.

With contributions for the
final quarter now counted, we
know that a bumper US$153,000
was raised during the year, giv-
ing a major financial boost to
vital conservation schemes.

Terrific support

The key to this success has
been the terrific support that
you, our guests, have given to
the unique Optional Dollar
scheme in operation at our nine
African and Indian Ocean pro-

perties. Thousands of you have“

taken up the invitation to add
the equivalent of one dollar to
your bills when checking out —
which Sheraton then matches!

Said Mike Prager, Sheraton’s
Vice-President and Director of
Marketing Africa and Indian
Ocean region: ‘We are delighted
with this tremendous first-year
result. It reﬂects not only the
generosity of our guests but also
a growing awareness of the need
for responsible tourism, which
we hope to increasingly cultivate
among travellers to this region.’

‘ Money raised from the

Optional Dollar scheme benefits
local conservation projects
identified by the World Society
for the Protection of Animals.
Sheraton recently donated
two Land-Rovers and anti-poach-
ing equipment to the adopted
project in the Yankari National

Park in Nigeria. And in the Sey-
chelles, funds have been chan-
nelled into building a tortoise
nursery to encourage breeding
and care of the young tortoises.

Details of all Going
Green projects are listed
on page 2

 

Gordon Walwyn, Director
General of the World Society for
the Protection of Animals, sends
a personal message to Sheraton

guests — see back page

 

 

 

First stop, Trafalgar: African schoolchildren attending the final judging of the
World Society for the Protection of Animals (WSPA) and ITT Sheraton’s
African Art Competition with the lions at Trafalgar Square and one of the
judges, international artist David Shepherd.

0 Full story and more pictures, page 3

 

 

 

' r /I _/, , ,
52, a: r 7/ «’xx/ ”3% a , ,

/

/

/

,¢ ‘u’l .
..,/¢'/////

, /'//
K /%V

/.’

/
/
z

2/
{ye

 

by Mike Prager, Vice-President,
Director of Marketing, ITT
Sheraton Corporation Africa &
Indian Ocean

 

 

Having so successfully
completed the first year of our
‘Going Green’ campaign,
Sheraton Africa and Indian
Ocean is looking forward to
pushing the conservation efforts
even further forward.

The tangible benefits of the
US$153,000 raised through
your generosity in supporting
our Optional Dollar scheme
include two Land-Rovers
presented to game wardens to
help them in the fight against
poachers, a ‘nursery’ for the
giant tortoise and much more. I
want you to know that every
cent you donate in this way
goes to the local project.
Nothing is removed for.
administration overheads.

Now, as you will read in this
edition of our Going Green
Magazine, we are extending our
work to ensure all our hotels are
as ‘environmentally-friendly’ as
possible. In addition, we are

continued on page 2

 

 




 

 

 

 

Artistic talents of six African teen-
agers brought them jetting into
London as part of their prize in a
‘Going Green ’ art competition orga-
nised by ITT Sheraton’sAfrica and
Indian Ocean region.

The six, most of whom were tra-
velling abroad for the first time,
were finalists in the competition

Teenagers paint an encou

which attracted more than 1,000
entries.

Their work was judged by
internationally-acclaimed wildlife
artist and conservationist David

 

Continued from page 1

Green work goes on

involved in a number of schemes
to help local communities.

Sheraton’s business is, of
course, to provide the highest _
standards of accommodation for
local and international visitors,
be they business travellers or
holiday-makers. We also
accommodate many groups, and
in all cases we stress to them our
environmental charter: ‘Take
nothing but a photograph, leave
nothing but a footprint.’

To our guests who have
contributed so much financially
under the Optional Dollar
scheme, we thank you most
warmly. The scheme continues
and we hope, with your help, to
raise much, much more to assist
with vital conservation work in
Africa and the Indian Ocean.

Le projet écologique
se poursuit

 

par Mike Prager, Vice-presi-
dent, Directeur du marketing,
ITT Sheraton Corporation,
Afrique et l’Océan Indien

 

 

 

Apres avoir bouclé avec succes
la premiere année de notre
campagne ‘Going Green’,
Sheraton Africa et Indien Ocean
s’apprete a intensifier encore
plus ses efforts de protection de
la nature. _
Les 153,000 dollars
américains rassemblés grace a
votre générosité dans le cadre
de notre programme ‘Optional
Dollar’ ont permis d’offrir deux

Land-Rovers aux gardiens des
reserves naturelles afin de les
aider a poursuivre les
braconniers, d’ériger une
‘nursery’ pour les tortues
géantes, etc. Une fois de plus, je
souligne que chaque centime
que vous offrez est consacré au
projet local. Rien n’est distrait
pour les frais administratifs.

Comme vous la lirez par
ailleurs dans Going Green
Magazine, nous poursuivons nos
efforts pour rendre nos hOtels
aussi ‘écologiques’ que possible.
En outre, nous sommes engages
dans une série de projets en
collaboration avec des
collectivités locales.

L’objectif de Sheraton, bien
entendu, consiste a offrir 1a
meilleure qualité d’hébérgement
a nos visiteurs nationaux et
internationaux, qu’ils soient en
voyage d’affaire ou d’agrément.
Nous accueillons également de
nombreux groupes eta chaque
occasion nous leurs proposons
d’adhérer a notre devise;
‘Prenez uniquement une photo,
laissez uniquement vos
empreintes de pied.’

A tous nos clients qui ont
tant contribué financierement a
notre Optional Dollar Scheme,
nous désirons exprimer nos plus
vifs remerciements. Le
programme se poursuit et nous
espérons, avec votre aide,
rassembler beaucoup d’argent
encore afin de soutenir les
programmes de protection de la
nature en Afrique et dans
l’Océan Indien.

 

7 suite page 4
Thanks!

Je désire transmettre aux
clients de Sheraton qui ont parti-
cipé ou qui participent encore a
ce programme de la profonde
gratitude de la SMPA; sans vous,
ces projets n’auraient jamais vu
lejour

Aussi longtemps que vous

tion avec tant de générosité,
nous continuerons a oeuvrer a la
preservation des especes mena-
cées.

Qu’il s’agisse de la tortue
géante des Seychelles ou du go-
rille des montagnes en Ouganda,
du rhinoceros au Zimbabwe ou
du zebre au Botswana, l’avenir
sera temoin de votre aide a leur
survie. A juste titre, vous pourrez

Shepherd at the Sheraton Park
Tower Hotel in London. The child-
ren travelled with their parents
and enjoyed sightseeing trips of
London, as well as Sheraton
hospitality.

Gold award winner was 18-year-
old Jerry Chetty, of Mahé, Sey-
chelles, whose picture ‘Caring for
the River’ clearly caught the judge ’5
eye. Silver Award winner was
Abiola Akere, aged 15, of Lagos,
Nigeria, who submitted his picture
‘Caring for the Dog’. The Bronze
Award went to Jose Antonio Te‘,

aged 18, with his entry ‘Flora and

Fauna’ and a special commenda-
tion was awarded to SergeMondon,
also 18, of Mahé, Seychelles, with
‘Cultivating Crops’.

Launched in 1989 in association
with the World Society for the Pro-
tection of Animals, the children’s
art competition has been an import-
ant part of Sheraton’s on-going

environmental campaign. Using
environmental and humane
themes, schoolchildren were in-
vited to submit paintings onAfrican
landscape, people or ecology.

The competition was organised
in regional heats, with entries dis-
played in the lobbies of Sheraton
hotels throughout the Africa and
Indian Ocean region.

Commenting on the campaign,
Mike Blackall, Sheraton ’5 Vice-
President, Director of Operations
Africa and Indian Ocean said: ‘I

  
   

can, 074 “the Dog "by 15 ragga
Abiola Akere.

 

 

 

Where we’re helping

 

 

Conservation work being supported under Sheraton’s Going Green

initiative include:

Sheraton Benin, Benin

Enquete sur les especes rares et menacées dans les parcs
nationaux et les reserves d’animaux.

Sheraton Gaborone, Botswana

Support for Operation Zebrawatch, a study of zebra migration to
prevent overgrazing in the Chobe National Park.

Sheraton Djibouti, Djibouti
Operation préparatoire a la future gestion des sites d’importance

biologique.

Sheraton Bissau, Guinée Bissau
Soutien de la campagne ‘Let Coral Reefs Live’ de la Marine

Conservation Society.

Sheraton Lagos, Nigeria

Assistance for schemes at the Yankari National Park, including the
study of the elephant and small mammal populations.

Sheraton Seychelles, Seychelles

Soutien de l’Opération Curieuse. Projet pour la reintroduction de
la tortue géante Aldabra sur l’ile de Curieuse.

Sheraton Kampala, Uganda

Support to improve the conservation of the impenetrable Bwindi
Forest and to study the rare mountain gorilla.

HOtel Karavia, Zaire

Operation conservation et anti-braconnage dans le parc national de

Selonga.

Sheraton Harare, Zimbabwe
Backing for Operation Stronghold to protect the endangered black

 

nous apporterez votre contribu- en etre fiers. rhino in the Kariba National Park.

 

“' ‘J‘

k I X 7
2 Sheraton Going Green Summer 1991 3; SE, Printed on % I
a)“; '

VI b

 




 

)uraging picture

A
:l

was most impressed with the stand-
ard of entries. It showed the child-
ren’s concern for the environment
and endorsed Sheraton’s commit-
ment to local conservation schemes
in Africa.’ '

Other finalists were: Marius V.
Sokoka, .16, Cotonou, Benin;
Moussa Kayad Ali, 13, Djibouti;
Tennyson Taperenva, J4, Harare,
Zimbabwe; Edna Tinkasimire, J8,
Kampala, Uganda; and Arlette
Munung, 13, Lubumbashi, Zaire.

Les talents artistiques de six jeunes
afn'cains les a conduit a visiterLon-
dres suite au concours de dessins
organise’parlTTSheratonAfrique et
l’Oce‘an [ndien dans le cadre de son
programme ‘Going Green’.

Ces six enfants, dont la plupart
voyageaient a l’e‘tranger pour la
premiere fois, e’taient les finalistes
d’un concours qui avait rassemble‘
plus de 1.000 participants.

Au Sheraton Park Tower de Lon-
dres, leurtravail a e‘te’juge‘ parDavid
Shepherd, peintre de la vie sauvage

et protecteur de la nature reconnu
dans le monde entier. Les enfants
étaient accompagnés de leurs
parents etontpu appre‘cierles excur-
sions dans Londres et l’hospitalite‘
de Sheraton.

La me‘daille d’or fut de‘cerne‘e a
Jerry Chetty, 18 ans, de Mahé aux
Seychelles, pour son dessin ‘Proté-
ger la n'viere’qui a retenu l’attention
évidente du jury. Abiola Akere, 15
ans, de Lagos, Nigeria, s’est vu attri-
buer la recompense d’argent pour
son dessin ‘Soigner son chien’. Le
bronse est allé a Jose’Antonio T e, I 8
ans, pourson envoi ‘Flore atFaune’
et une mention spéciale a été décer—
née a Serge Mondon, e‘galementagé
de 18 ans, de Mahé aux Seychelles
pour ‘Champs Cultivés.’

Lance‘ en 1989 en association
avec la Socie‘te‘ mondiale de protec-
tion des animaux, le concours de
dessins d’enfants a pris une place
importante dans la campagne de
protection de l’environnement
menee‘ par Sheraton. Les enfants
des écoles e‘taient invites a envoyer

 

Thl entry fromiMarzusVSokoka, aged 16, Caring for the Animals

un dessin illustrant leur vision des
paysages, des gens et de l’e‘cologie
en Afrique.

Le concours e‘tait organise sur
une base re‘gionale et les dessins ont
été exposes dans les couloirs des
ho‘tels Sheraton a travers toute
l’Afrz'que et l’Océan Indien.

Commentant la campagne, Mike
Blackall, Vice-president de She-
raton et Directeur des operations
pour l’Afrique et l’Océan Indien, a
déclaré: “J’ai été particulierement
frappe‘ parla qualité des envois. Elle

 

prouve que les enfants prennent a
coeur la protection de l’environne-
ment et qu’ils adherent a l’engage-
ment de Sheraton dans les pro-
grammes de conservation locaux en
Afrique. ”

Les autres finalistes e‘taient Mar-
ius V. Sokoka, 16 ans, de Cotonou
auBe‘nin;MoussaKayadAli, Bans,
de Djibouti, Tennyson T apererwa,
14 ans, d’Harare au Zimbabwe,
Edna Tinkasimire, 18 ans, de Kam-
pala en Ouganda etArletteMun ung,
13 ans de Lubumbashi au Zaire.

 

Conservation for the community ‘

OLD tin cans will soon be paying
for a tree planting scheme in
Gaborone under new initiatives
launched by ITT Sheraton in its
Africa and Indian Ocean region.

Elsewhere, in Shaba province, Zaire, villag-
ers will soon have a ready supply of drinking
water, thanks to a borehole constructed with
Sheraton’s help.

These projects are underway following
Sheraton’s decision to extend its already-
successful ‘Going Green’ campaign and ask
its nine hotels in sub-Saharan Africa to intro-
duce ‘green engineering’ schemes and ident-
ify ways in which they can help local commu-
nities.

Technical expertise

Mandatory Resource Conservation Pro-
jects — not forming part of the hotels’ normal
engineering duties — have as their aim: a
reduction in external pollution; a reduction
of dependence on non—renewable resources;
energy conservation; improvement of the

environment; and minimising the creation

of waste products or starting a recycling
programme.

At the same time, under Optional Com-
munity Projects participating hotels will offer
technical expertise and labour to their
adopted local community project from launch
through to completion of the project.

All work undertaken for the Optional Com-

munity Project will be outside normal work-
ing hours. The winning team will receive
US$2,500 to buy supplies and equipment for
their adopted community project. There will
also be two runners-up prizes of US$500.
Projects being undertaken with the
resource conservation plan include the
recycling of tin cans at the Sheraton Gabo-
rone Hotel & Towers to pay for tree planting.

 

Community aid projects include the work
in Zaire, where the Sheraton Karavia Hotel is
working with World Vision, local Specialists in
rural projects to construct a borehole to pro-
vide drinking water for Kawana, a village in
Shaba province.

The Sheraton Harare is helping with the
education of schoolchildren with organised
tours of local woodlands. Tree planting and
other improvements are also being under-
taken by the Sheraton Lagos at the Bola Mem-
orial Primary School.

Daniel Minne, Sheraton’s Director of
Engineering for the region commented: ‘The
introduction of these two fresh approaches in
1991 underlines our long-term commitment
to address our concerns towards conservation
of the local environment.

‘With Sheraton providing technical exper-
tise and labour, we are confident both these
projects will benefit our partners in the com—
munities and at the same time excite and
motivate our staff.’

Project details:

Sheraton Harare, Zimbabwe. —
Resource conservation: Savings in energy
and water; Community project: Education
of schoolchildren through woodland tours.
Sheraton Bissau, Guinea Bissau —
Resource conservation: Grease collector in
kitchen sewer system. .
Sheraton Karavia, Zaire — Community
project: Construction of borehole to provide
drinking water for village of Kawana.
Sheraton Gaborone, Botswana ——
Resource conservation: Collection of tin
cans for recycling to finance tree planting.
Sheraton Djibouti, Djibouti — Resource
conservation: Savings in energy and water.
Sheraton Lagos, Nigeria — Resource
conservation: Tree planting and
beautification of hotel surroundings;
Community project: Tree planting and
beautification of the Bola Memorial Primary
School surroundings.

 

’ <9 recycled paper

s" "A

“<f‘
\‘((1!

4):“' .

Sheraton Going Green Summer 1991 3

 




 

 

I Game wardens’ drive to
stamp out poaching in
Nigeria is gearing up, thanks
to two Land-Rovers delivered
by ITT Sheraton’s Africa and
Indian Ocean region.

The two vehicles have
been handed over by
Sheraton to the World
Society for the Protection of
Animals, who will send them
to Nigeria’s Yankari Game
Reserve to help the Game
Protection Unit in its vital
ﬁght.

The Land-Rovers are just
one example of the beneﬁts
generated by Sheraton’s
Going Green campaign.
Guests at Sheraton’s nine
hotels throughout the region
are helping to raise funds
through the Optional Dollar
scheme, under which they
are invited to add one US
dollar to their final bill on
check-out. Sheraton then

 

Operations Africa & Indian
Ocean; and Victor Watkins,
WSPA’s Regional Director
—Central and Eastern

and Indian Ocean; actress
and wildlife campaigner
Virginia McKenna; Mike
Blackall, Sheraton Vice-

Pictured at the handover
of the Land-Rovers are, left
to right: Mike Prager,
Sheraton Vice-President,

 

matches it in local currency.

Director of Marketing Africa

President, Director of

Hemisphere.

 

nks!

 

By Gordon Walwyn
Director General World
Society for the
Protection of Animals

 

 

 

Sheraton’s ‘Going

Green’ project has,

to date, raised
US$153, 000 through

its nine African hotels
under the Optional
Dollar Scheme.

This scheme not only draws
attention to the WSPA wildlife
projects in respective countries
but enables tourists to contribute
to support projects in the country
they are visiting.

This illustrates the perfect
match between tourism,
commerce and conservation. The
success of this project brings
home the message that
compatibility in~ these areas can
and does exist.

To all Sheraton guests who
' have or who are contributing to
this scheme, 1 wish to send you
WSPA’s heartfelt thanks, but for
you these projects could not have
been undertaken.

As long as you support us in
this manner with such generos-

ity, so we shall continue to do our
work in the preservation of
endangered species.

So whether it is the giant
tortoise of the Seychelles or the
mountain gorilla of Uganda, the
rhino of Zimbabwe or the zebra of
Botswana, in years to come you
will be able to say that you helped
to ensure their survival — and you
should be justly proud.

A ce jour, le projet ‘Going
Green’ de Sheraton a
collecté 153,000 dollars
americains dans ses neufs
hotels africains dans le
cadre du Optional Dollar
Scheme.

Ce plan n’attire pas
uniquement l’attention du
public sur les projets de la SMPA
dans chaque pays mais i1 permet
également aux touristes de
participer activement aux
campagnes en cours dans le pays
qu’ils visitent

Il illustre a merveille la relation
ideale entre le tourisme, 1e
commerce et la protection de la
nature. Le succes rencontre par
ce programme véhicule l’idee que
la coordination dans ces
domaines peut et doit exister.

suite page 2

 

4 Sheraton Going Green Summer 1991

 

Produced on behalfof lTT Sheraton Corporation Africa & Indian Ocean by Bevan Public Relations

 

 

WEEWNQ WSPA; HEM?

Since its foundation in the 19505, the World Society for the
Protection of Animals has been dedicated to the relief of animal
suffering, wherever it exists.

With offices around the world, WSPA can reach millions of people
and it is involved in a wide range of animal welfare-related issues.
The organisation’s activities include legislative action, field work
and humane education.

When disaster strikes, animals as well as people are innocent
victims and WSPA provides relief wherever and whenever it is
needed through its Disaster Relief Network. This gives not only
financial help but also mobilises expert field staff, veterinary
supplies, medication and food aid to animals 1n the affected region.

WSPA is a non profit- -making charity, relying entirely on
donations to enable us to continue to help animals in distress
throughout the world.

1 you sorrow? 119:1

Please complete details below if you wish to help us.

To: WSPA Membership,
Park Place,

Lawn Lane,

London, SW8 lUD,
England

,, ..._.. v
.l’llg'lt:;1JII
\‘\‘\ “\\\\\ “5'1”; 2;)

World Society for the
Protection of Animals

Yes, I want to help WSPA care for animals worldwide.

D I enclose the sum of o€10 as my membership fee

Cl I enclose a donation of ....... i ....... to help WSPA in its work

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INSTITUTE OF LABORATORY ANIMAL RESOURCES

Volume 31 Number4 V. , ' 7 Fall 1989 , . _ ' Natnonal Research C0uncil '

Perspectives on Animal Use

Biological Effects of Blood Loss:
Implications for Sampling Volumes
and Techniques

Special Article

A Medical Ethics Primer

Principles and Guidelines

World Veterinary Association
Policy Statement on
Animal Welfare, Well-Being, and Ethology

A um sly; nubli: azionfo: hormd cal imam gilt}? iabui 3n 11m ll Skill. mists
in: mimic nal slim is forr res m1 andnm eztlbersof anin a?» Cc we. and us «as. mmittees

 




. \t
.- \. a
\k ._

it”,
all

 

ILAR .'

Steven P. Pakes, Chairman

Thomas L. Wolﬂe, Director

Dorothy D. Greenhouse, Senior Program Ofﬁcer
Andrea L. Cohen, Program Associate

ILAR News Editorial Panel:
Fred W. Quimby, Chairman
Donald V. Cramer
Andrew N. Rowan

Editor:
Judith Grumstrup-Scott

The Institute of Laboratory Animal
NAS Resources (ILAR) was founded in 1952

NAE under the auspices of the National

Research Council, which serves as an
10M independent adviser to the federal

. government on scientiﬁc and technical

questions of national importance. Jointly administered by
the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy
of Engineering, and the Institute of Medicine, the National
Research Council brings the resources of the entire

scientiﬁc and technical community to bear on national
problems through its volunteer advisory committees.

 

 

ILAR is a component of the Commission on Life
Sciences. Among its goals are to develop and make
available scientiﬁc and technical information on laboratory
animals and other biologic research resources to the
federal government, the laboratory animal science and
biomedical research communities, and the public.
Guidelines developed by ILAR form a foundation for
institutional and governmental policies on animal care and
use.

ILAR News is published quarterly by the Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources, National Research Council, 2101
Constitution Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20418. It is circulated by request to investigators in biomedical and related
research, to institutional ofﬁcials for research, and to members of animal care and use committees.

Publication of ILAR News is supported by grants from the Division of Research Resources, National Institutes of Health;
National Science Foundation; American Cancer Society, Inc.; and US. Army Medical Research and Development
Command, which is the lead agency for combined Department of Defense funding also received from the Human Systems
Division, Air Force Systems Command; Armed Forces Radiobiology Research Institute; Uniformed Services University of
the Health Sciences; and US. Naval Medical Research and Development Command.

ILAR News reserves the right to make additions, corrections, or deletions in submitted copy in conformity with the policies
of the journal and the National Research Council. Opinions expressed in “Letters.” “Perspectives on Animal Use,” and
“Commentary” are strictly those of the authors and should not be considered endorsements by ILAR or the National
Research Council.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ILAR NEWS

INSTITUTE OF LABORATORY ANIMAL RESOURCES

VOLUME 31, NUMBER 4 FALL 1989

 

 

CONTENTS

Letters 2

, ILAR Council and Committee Membership,
Fiscal Year 1990 3

Perspectives on Animal Use 5

0 Biological Effects of Blood Loss: Implications
for Sampling Volumes and Techniques 5
Michael W. McGuill and Andrew N. Rowan

0 Commentary 19
H. Richard Adams

Special Article 21

O A Medical Ethics Primer 21
J. Wesley Robb

Principles and Guidelines 29

0 World Veterinary Association Policy Statement
on Animal Welfare, Well—Being, and Ethology 29

In the News 31

Educational and Training Programs 33
Coming Meetings 33

Publications Available 36

New Books 37

 




 

Letters

Animal Research Necessary for Continued
Improvements in Human Health

Virtually every major achievement in medical research
in the past century has depended, in one way or
another, upon the 'use of animals. I cannot envision
how progress in our successful research efforts to
improve human health could be maintained without
continued reliance upon experimental animals. This is
why I feel a sense of deep outrage that the biomedical
research community is being harassed and threatened
by a small segment of society that is opposed to the
use of laboratory animals.

The NIH deplores the theft of research animals and
records, the destruction of equipment, and other ter-
rorist acts such as arson. The disruptions of research
which have been occurring with increasing frequency
are criminally wasteful in terms of time, money, and
in animal lives as well. As costly as acts of vigilante
vandalism already have been, their effects will be
increased manyfold if we as members of the biomedical
research community permit ourselves to be intimidated
and fail to carry out urgent research because animals
are required. For the Victims of the illegal acts of
terrorism are not only research institutions and staff,
but all members of society. The ultimate cost is levied
against those who wait for better treatments or pre—
ventive measures for disease and disability—whose
very lives may be at stake.

We believe in the appropriate care of research
animals, the avoidance of unnecessary pain, use of the
minimal number of animals, use of the most appropriate
species, avoidance of unnecessary duplication of re-
search, and use of model systems instead of intact
animals where possible.

But we know that there is a point in much of
biomedical research beyond which we cannot go unless
we can use intact animals for our studies. This is
particularly true of research in neurobiology and in
behavioral studies.

We do not believe the American people are willing
for us to abandon the use of animals in medical

 

James B. Wyngaarden (now former director of NIH) presented this
statement at New York University on April 21, 1989. It represents
the position of NIH on research with animals. Reprinted with
permission.

 

research. To halt research with animals would mean
that we must settle for today’s level of health care and
for the indeﬁnite persistence of suffering and premature
death.

James B. Wyngaarden, Director
National Institutes of Health
Bethesda, Maryland

  
   

5:0 mm, ILAR News. 21016 .
Washington. DC 20418- Letters m
and telephone number and are sub.)

  
  

 

 

Rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). Courtesy Division of Research
Resources, National Institutes of Health.

ILAR NEWS

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ILAR Council and

Committee Membership,

Fiscal Year 1990

/

Council

Function: To review and provide guidance on all
aspects of the ILAR program.

Steven P. Pakes (Chair-
man), Division of Com—
parative Medicine,
Southwestern Medical

A '7

[:| Individual subscription
|:| Departmental or library subscription

Area of research interest

 

New Subscriber? Please use this card.
Change of address? See instructions on back cover.

ILAR News is a quarterly publication of the Institute of Laboratory Animal
Resources, National Research Council. It is circulated free of charge to
investigators in biomedical and related research, to institutional ofﬁcials for
research, and to members of animal care and use committees.

YES. Please begin my subscription to ILAR News.

Committee on Pain and Distress in
Laboratory Animals

Function: To write a brief handbook suitable to a
broad, multidisciplinary audience, including investi-
gators, technicians, institutional animal care and use
committees, veterinarians, and institutional ofﬁcials
for research. The handbook will provide a formulary
of anesthetic, analgesic, and tranquilizing drugs for
each species of laboratory animal, as well as non-
pharmacological considerations for recognition and
alleviation of distress.

Arthur L. Aronson ( C hair-
man), Department of
Anatomy, Physiological
Sciences, and Radiology,
College of Veterinary
Medicine, North Caro-

limn C4A4A IT‘S-.A..AZ4-.

 

rthur L. Aronson

tes of Health, Bethesda,
f Medicine, University

>ratory Animal Science
1d French Laboratories,

 

Name

at of Psychology, Uni-

 

(please print)

Address

ent of Psychiatry, New

 

4x§______________________-

City

3r Animals, School of

 

State

University, Boston
ersity Medical College,

 

 

Michael D. Kastello, Laboratory Animal Resources,
Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories,
Rahway, New Jersey

Robert Purcell, National Institute of Allergy & Infec—
tious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Be—
thesda, Maryland

Fred W. Quimby, New York State College of Veteri—
nary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca

J. Wesley Robb, School of Medicine, University of
Southern California, Los Angeles

John L. VandeBerg, Department of Genetics, South-
west Foundation for Biomedical Research, San An—
tonio, Texas

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

2'
1p ne Laboratory, White

 

Lawrence n. 0011121, ocuuur uf Veterinary Medicine,
University of Pennsylvania, Kennet Square

Committee on Education Programs in
Laboratory Animal Science

Function: To prepare an annotated syllabus for a
course in humane practices of animal care and use.
The syllabus will assist institutions in complying with
recently enacted federal laws that mandate the estab-
lishment of educational programs for personnel who

3

 




 

 

Letters

Animal Research Necessary for Continued
Improvements in Human Health

Virtually every major achievement in medical research
in the past century has depended, in one way or
another, upon the 'use of animals. I cannot envision
how progress in our successful research efforts to
improve human health could be maintained without
continued reliance upon experimental animals. This is
why I feel a sense of deep outrage that the biomedical
research community is being harassed and threatened
by a small segment of society that is opposed to the
use of laboratory animals.
The NIH deplores ti
records, the destructii
rorist acts such as ars‘,
which have been occd
are criminally wastefli
in animal lives as wel

research. To halt research with animals would mean
that we must settle for today’s level of health care and
for the indeﬁnite persistence of suffering and premature
death.

James B. Wyngaarden, Director
National Institutes ofHealth
Bethesda, Maryland

 

 

 

No Postage
Necessary
it Mailed
in the
United States

Hi“

 

 

vandalism already h
increased manyfold if
research community p
and fail to carry out u

 

BUSINESS REPLY MAIL

FIRST CLASS PERMIT NO. 10207 WASHINGTON. DC.

 

 

are required. For the
terrorism are not only
but all members of soc
against those who wa
ventive measures fOI'i
very lives may be at s"

We believe in theg
animals, the avoidance:
minimal number of anirri
species, avoidance of I
search, and use of mi
animals where possible“1

But we know that}
biomedical research bey \
we can use intact animals for our studies. This is
particularly true of research in neurobiology and in
behavioral studies.

We do not believe the American people are willing
for us to abandon the use of animals in medical

 

James B. Wyngaarden (now former director of NIH) presented this
statement at New York University on April 21, 1989. It represents
the position of NIH on research with animals. Reprinted with
permission.

POSTAGE WILL BE PAID BY:

l
I
I
l
I
I
l
l
I
l
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources :
2101 Constitution Avenue, NW I
I
I

X

||||||||||

Washington, DC 20077-5576

I
l
l
I
l
l

 

Rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). Courtesy Division of Research
Resources, National Institutes of Health.

ILAR NEWS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ILAR Council and

Committee Membership,

Fiscal Year 1990

Council

Function: To review and provide guidance on all
aspects of the ILAR program.

Steven P. Pakes (Chair—
man), Division of Com-
parative Medicine,
Southwestern Medical
Center, University of
Texas, Dallas

June R. Aprille, Depart-
ment of Biology, Tufts
University, Medford,
Massachusetts

Melvin W. Balk, Charles
River Laboratories, Wil—
mington, Massachusetts

Douglas M. Bowden, Wash—
ington Regional Primate
Research Center, University of Washington, Seattle

Lester M. Crawford, Food Safety and Inspection
Service, US. Department of Agriculture, Washing-
ton, D.C.

Thomas J. Gill III, Department of Pathology, School
of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Alan M. Goldberg, Department of Environmental Health
Sciences, School of Hygiene and Public Health,
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland

Jon W. Gordon, Department of Obstetrics and Gyne-
cology, Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, New York

Margaret Z. Jones, Department of Pathology, Michigan
State University, East Lansing, Michigan

Michael D. Kastello, Laboratory Animal Resources,
Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories,
Rahway, New Jersey

Robert Purcell, National Institute of Allergy & Infec—
tious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Be-
thesda, Maryland

Fred W. Quimby, New York State College of Veteri-
nary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca

J. Wesley Robb, School of Medicine, University of
Southern California, Los Angeles

John L. VandeBerg, Department of Genetics, South-
west Foundation for Biomedical Research, San An-
tonio, Texas

Steven P. Pakes

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

 

Committee on Pain and Distress in
Laboratory Animals

Function: To write a brief handbook suitable to a
broad, multidisciplinary audience, including investi-
gators, technicians, institutional animal care and use
committees, veterinarians, and institutional ofﬁcials
for research. The handbook will provide a formulary
of anesthetic, analgesic, and tranquilizing drugs for
each species of laboratory animal, as well as non-
pharmacological considerations for recognition and
alleviation of distress.

Arthur L. Aronson ( C hair—
man), Department of
Anatomy, Physiological
Sciences, and Radiology,
College of Veterinary
Medicine, North Caro—

lina State University,
Raleigh

J. Derrell Clark, College of
Veterinary Medicine,

University of Georgia,
Athens

Ronald Dubner, Neurobiol-
ogy and Anesthesiol—
ogy Branch, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland

Gerald F. Gebhart, College of Medicine, University
of Iowa, Iowa City

Howard C. Hughes, Jr., Laboratory Animal Science
Department, Smith, Kline and French Laboratories,
Swedeland, Pennsylvania

William A. Mason, Department of Psychology, Uni—
versity of California, Davis

J. Anthony Movshon, Department of Psychiatry, New
York University, New York

Andrew N. Rowan, Center for Animals, School of
Veterinary Medicine, Tufts University, Boston

Jeri A. Sechzer, Cornell University Medical College,
New York Hospital, Bourne Laboratory, White
Plains

Lawrence R. Soma, School of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Pennsylvania, Kennet Square

 

Arthur L. Aronson

Committee on Education Programs in
Laboratory Animal Science

Function: To prepare an annotated syllabus for a
course in humane practices of animal care and use.
The syllabus will assist institutions in complying with
recently enacted federal laws that mandate the estab-
lishment of educational programs for personnel who

3

 




 

 

 

 

use animals in research, testing, and teaching. The
committee report will provide a standardized course
outline, a directory of audiovisual resources, and a
bibliography of classic and recent works to supplement
topic areas covered in the syllabus.

'\

Gale D. Taylor (Chairman),
Program in Laboratory
Animal Science, Ofﬁce
of Vice Chancellor for
Research, University of
Illinois, Urbana

Lynn C. Anderson, Merck
Sharp & Dohme Re-
search Laboratories,
Rahway, New Jersey

David A. Blake, School of
Medicine, Johns Hop- ,,
kins University, Balti- Gale D. Taylor
more, Maryland

Thomas E. Darby, University of Texas Southwestern
Medical Center, Dallas

John E. Harkness, College of Veterinary Medicine,
Mississippi State University, Mississippi State

James F. Harwell, Division of Research Services,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland

Committee on Infectious Diseases of
Mice and Rats

Function: To revise the 1971 publication A Guide to
Infectious Diseases of Mice and Rats. Funded by the
National Cancer Institute.

J. Russell Lindsey (Chair-
man), Department of
Comparative Medicine,
Schools of Medicine and
Dentistry, University of
Alabama at Birmingham

Gary A. Boorman, Chemi-
cal Pathology Branch,
Toxicological Research
and Testing Program,
National Institute of En—
vironmental Health Sci-
ences, Research Triangle
Park, North Carolina

Michael J. Collins, Jr., An—
imal Health Diagnostic Laboratory, NCI/Frederick
Cancer Research Facility, Frederick, Maryland

Chao Kuang Hsu, Smith Kline Animal Health Products,
West Chester, Pennsylvania

J. Russell Lindsey

 

Gerald L. Van Hoosier, Jr., Division of Animal Med-
icine, University of Washington, Seattle

Joseph E. Wagner, Veterinary Medical Diagnostic
Laboratory, College of Veterinary Medicine. Uni-
versity of Missouri—Columbia

Committee on Preservation of
Laboratory Animal Resources

Function: To study the current situation for maintain-
ing colonies of genetically unique animals that are
potentially useful in biomedical research, document
any models lost as a result of decreased funding or for
other reasons, evaluate the long-term effects of such
losses on the biomedical research effort, and recom—
mend procedures by which genetic stocks might be
maintained in a cost—effective manner.

Dorothea Bennett (Chair-
man), Department of Zo-
ology, University of
Texas, Austin

Linda C. Cork, Division of
Comparative Medicine,
Department of Pathol-
ogy, School of Medicine,
Johns Hopkins Univer—
sity, Baltimore, Mary—
land

Thomas J. Gill III, Depart-
ment of Pathology,
School of Medicine, Uni— Dorothea Bennett
versity of Pittsburgh,

Pennsylvania

Jon W. Gordon, Department of Obstetrics and Gyne-
cology, Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, New York

Andrew G. Hendrickx, California Primate Research
Center, University of California, Davis

Larry E. Mobraaten, Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor.
Maine

Donald C. Shrefﬂer, Department of Genetics, Wash-
ington University School of Medicine, St. Louis.
Missouri

John L. VandeBerg, Department of Genetics, South-
west Foundation for Biomedical Research, San An-
tonio, Texas

 

ILAR NEWS

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Perspectives on Animal Use

Biological Effects of Blood Loss:
Implications for Sampling Volumes and Techniques

Michael W. McGuill and Andrew N. Rowan

INTRODUCTION

The purpose of this paper is to review the literature
on the effects of acute and chronic blood loss and
techniques of blood sampling in laboratory animals.
When possible, recommendations regarding limits on
single and multiple blood samplings in laboratory
animals are offered.

Although blood sampling is a common laboratory
procedure, it is nonetheless problematic, especially
for techniques that attempt to set up protocols for
chronic blood taking. In a letter to The American
Journal of Physiology, Giner et a1. (1987) announced
their failure to reproduce an experimental protocol on
rats that involved repeated blood sampling by means
of an arterial catheter described in an earlier article in
the same publication (Burt et al., 1980). Giner and
associates attempted the described procedure on eight
rats with no success. They then modiﬁed the technique
by increasing the heparin concentrations, by using
larger catheters, by ﬂushing the cannula frequently,
and ﬁnally by using a Teﬂon cannula. They succeeded
in obtaining blood samples, but not without causing
renal or intestinal infarctions and ischemia to the hind
limbs. According to the authors, “after three months
of work in attempting to emulate Burt’s work and the
death of a large number of rats, we were left with an
excellent model for arterial embolism.”

Giner’s letter highlights a problem basic to many
vascular sampling techniques: their successful exe-
cution requires considerable skill. The difference be-
tween one experimenter’s success with a technique

 

Michael W. McGuill is a third—year veterinary student at Tufts
University School of Medicine. Andrew N. Rowan is associate
professor in the Department of Environmental Studies and director
of the Tufts Center for Animals and Public Policy at the Tufts
University School of Veterinary Medicine. He is a member of the
ILAR News Editorial Panel and the lLAR Committee on Pain and
Distress in Laboratory Animals.

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

and another’s failure may have as much to do with
differences in the experimenter’s technical skill as with
any ﬂaw inherent in the technique. I

The questionable reproducibility of the many tech-
niques, for whatever reasons, is not the only problem
facing the researcher making decisions about blood
sampling. Another problem concerns the amount of
blood that can be withdrawn from laboratory animals
without causing injury or stress, either in a single
sampling or in multiple samplings. Most facilities have
their own rules of thumb. For example, many animal
care and use committees recommend a limit of
1 percent of the total body weight for a single sampling.
However, such guidelines may be based more on
custom than on scientiﬁc studies describing blood
volume losses that cause minor to signiﬁcant physio-
logical and psychological stress.

The issue is complicated further by the problems of
judging an animal’s psychophysiological state. Anal-
ogies from human experience may be of limited help.
For instance, after a loss of 15—20 percent of the total
blood volume, a man or woman will probably feel
nausea, experience dizziness, have blurred vision, and
is likely to faint. However, laboratory animals have
not been reported to lose consciousness after a blood
loss of 15—20 percent. Nevertheless, laboratory animals
may conceivably experience some symptoms of the
vasovagal response, such as nausea. At this point we
do not know.

EFFECTS OF BLOOD LOSS AND BLOOD
SAMPLING ON RESEARCH DATA

In this section we look at a number of experimental
variables associated with blood sampling and blood
loss. Each of the variables has the potential simulta-
neously to affect research data and to cause distress
in research animals (Rose, 1987).

 




 

 

 

 

Overview of Physiological Responses to
Hemorrhage

With minor blood losses, animals may be asymp-
tomatic. With losses of approximately 10 percent or
less of the total blood volume, baroreceptor-initiated
reﬂexes cause release of cholinergics from the adrenal
medulla and sympathetic nerve endings. As a result,
(1) heart rate increases, (2) arteriolar beds in muscle
and skin constrict, and (3) veins and venous reservoirs
constrict. Thus arterial pressure, venous return, and
cardiac output are maintained or minimally affected.
Slower-acting compensatory mechanisms that help
replace lost volume include secretion of antidiuretic
hormone and activation of the renin-angiotensin al-
dosterone system.

With moderate blood losses the animal will suffer
drops in arterial pressure and cardiac output despite
compensatory mechanisms. Losses of approximately
15-20 percent of the total blood volume cause massive
cholinergic release with tachycardia and intense arter-
iolar constriction with further redistribution of blood
away from the gut and skin. Venous constriction
partially sustains venous return, and mobilization of
interstitial ﬂuid to the intravascular compartment over
time restores some of the lost ﬂuid volume. Anaerobic
glycolysis occurs due to the lack of oxygen. The
increased plasma lactate causes metabolic acidosis,
and a compensatory tachypnea ensues.

With further blood losses, drops in cardiac output,
blood pressure, and tissue perfusion become life threat-
ening. Tissue anoxia, hypercapnia, and acidosis can
lead to widespread cell injury and irreversible tissue
damage, organ compromise, and death. With severe
blood losses, cardiac function is limited by decreased
cardiac perfusion as well as myocardial depressant
factor, which is released by the poorly perfused pan-
creas. Late in shock, decreased perfusion of the
medullary vasomotor center causes diminished com-
pensatory reﬂexes.

Researchers should plan and execute each sampling
protocol with an appreciation for the stresses associ-
ated with blood loss to the animal and do whatever
they can to minimize the animal’s reaction to the
stress. Careful planning and control of blood sampling
and all experimental variables associated with it should
not only improve the state of the animal, but also
minimize confounding inﬂuences on research data.

Dodds (1987) has four suggestions to researchers
wishing to minimize changes in blood components
while sampling blood: (1) select a more tractable
species or calm individuals, (2) precondition the ani-
mals to adapt them to handlers and procedures, (3)
use a sampling technique that minimizes changes in
blood values, and (4) note and control the use of
anesthetics, because these may change blood values.

Because all of these suggestions are associated with
stress reduction, following them will beneﬁt the animal
as well as the scientiﬁc results.

Manipulation and Acclimatization

Not only is the trauma of blood loss stressful to the
animal, but manipulation alone is stressful. Handling
for as little as ﬁve seconds has been shown to cause
signiﬁcant increases in corticosterone levels (Seggie
and Brown, 1975). Besch and Chou (1971) reported
that decreases in plasma glucose levels are directly
related to handling time. (Plasma glucose changes
reﬂect stress because stress—released epinephrine raises
blood sugar by its hyperglycemic action on the liver.)
Mattheij and van Pijkeren (1977) observed that simply
handling rats and placing them in an empty jar for 45
seconds or transferring them to another cage in the
same room induced signiﬁcant increases in prolactin
levels.

Few studies speciﬁcally contrast stress levels of
tamed, acclimated animals undergoing blood sampling
with those of untamed, unacclimated animals. How-
ever, several studies have described how stress ex-
perienced by untamed or unacclimated animals con-
founds experimental results. For example. responses
to toxins are adversely affected if the animals are not
acclimated to experimental conditions (Damon et al.,
1986); likewise, animals not tamed by handling react
to euthanasia with signiﬁcant changes in blood values
that are not seen in tamed animals (Uphouse et al.,
1982'). Researchers who wish to reduce the stress of
blood sampling, therefore, will need to habituate the
animals to gentle handling and must reduce handling
time as much as possible. Furthermore, they must
consider the time required for various sampling tech-
niques as an important element in deciding which is
least stressful.

Puncture

All blood-sampling techniques are invasive. Vessel
puncture, appendage amputation (tail transection, toe
clipping), or vessel incision all presumably cause at
least some pain and stress if used without anesthesia.
One study of humans suggests that stress caused by
venipuncture accompanied by minor blood volume
sampling is not sufﬁcient to change prolactin levels,
at least in pregnant women (Ferriani and De sa Silva.
1985). However, in a study on rhesus monkeys by
Heindon et a1. (1984), stresses associated with capture
and venipuncture were shown to increase levels of
growth hormone (GH) and cortisol, but not testoster-
one or prolactin. Another study, by Calligaris and

lLAR NEWS

 

 

 




 

 

 

Taleisnik (1983), used heart puncture by itself as a
stressor to measure prolactin release under the inﬂu-
ence of variables such as time of day.

Anesthesia

Often, anesthesia can increase the stress of a sam-
pling procedure. Wiersma reported that taking blood
samples from an atrial cannula in the rat was more
stressful when light ether was used because prolactin
levels were signiﬁcantly elevated only when ether was
used (Wiersma and Kastelijn, 1985). Mattheij and van
Pijkeren (1977) observed an increase in prolactin levels
after a 45-second ether stress.

Furthermore, some anesthesias cause more stress
than others. Rats subjected to a 2.5—2.7 ml/100 g
hemorrhage over 10 minutes had a much lower survival
rate when anesthetized with intramuscular sodium
pentobarbital than with inhalant methoxyﬁurane (Yale
and Torhorst, I972). Upton and Morgan (1975) found
little difference in blood parameters from the effects
of ether, pentobarbitone sodium, and fentanyl-droper—
idol while obtaining cardiac blood, although the use
of manual restraint signiﬁcantly increased blood acidity
and raised the levels of hemoglobin, hematocrit, and
plasma protein, presumably because of stress. Lawson
and Gala ( 1974) observed prolonged increases in plasma
prolactin following ether and intraperitoneal injection
of sodium pentobarbitone, but no change in plasma
prolactin following ketamine or intraarterial sodium
pentobarbitone. (Refer also to “Mortality” on page 13
for references to studies on anesthesia effects in pigs.)

Catheter

Sampling blood through an indwelling catheter is
generally considered to be less stressful and to cause
fewer changes in blood variables than sampling with
a needle and syringe (Flynn and Guilloud, 1988).
Catheter sampling is particularly useful in studies
requiring multiple blood collections. However, some
research indicates that indwelling catheters can affect
basal levels of hormones. For instance, Fagin et al.
(1983) reported that individually housed rats with
external carotid artery cannulas had slightly elevated
morning levels of plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone
and corticosterone. After intravenous (IV) injection of
saline in rats via femoral artery or vein cannulas,
Lestage et al. (1985) found that plasma corticosterone
levels were 24—fold lower than in restrained rats, but
levels still indicated moderate stress.

Richman et al. (1980) noted that platelet counts fell
64 percent in dogs after 48 hours of catheterization
with Swan-Ganz pulmonary artery catheters.

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

Rate of Bleeding

With a slower rate of sampling, a greater volume
can be removed without stressing the animal. In fact,
Jain (1986) reported that a 50-percent blood volume
loss, if slow, will not be accompanied by clinical signs
of shock. Mattheij and van Pijkeren (1977) observed
that a loss of up to 3.0 ml withdrawn over ﬁve hours
from rats weighing at least 400 g, or roughly 13 percent
of the total blood volume, did not cause a change in
serum prolactin.

BIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF A SINGLE
HEMORRHAGE

Problems in Estimating Blood Volumes and
Losses

We recommend estimating blood volumes based on
body weight to determine guidelines for blood-sampling
volumes in research animals (Table 1). This is ob-
viously more practical than measuring the blood vol-
ume of each individual animal, but there are limits to
making such estimates. For instance, a blood volume
estimate for a single species may not reﬂect differences
among individual breeds or variations due to age, size,
or illness. According to standard texts, estimates of
blood volume based on surface area or lean body mass
tend to be closer to actual determined volumes, but
are impractical for standard laboratory purposes.

Our discussions of the literature report the percent-
age of total blood removed from an animal when the
data have been provided in the original source. If such
data have not been provided, we have estimated
percentage of blood volume removed based on body
weight. However, sometimes only absolute volumes
of blood removed are reported. In such cases it is
impossible to know what percentage of total blood

TABLE 1 Average Blood Volumes of Research Animals Based
on Body Weight

 

 

Whole Blood % Plasma Approximate Absolute
Volume Body Volume Blood Volumes of Animals
Species (ml/kg) Weight (ml/kg) of Described Weight
Dog 86 8.6 50 l4—kg (30 lb) dog: 1200 ml
Cat 56 (47—66) 41 (35—52) 4.5—kg (10 lb) cat: 252 ml

67 “ 6.7“ 48“ 4.5—kg (l0 lb) cat: 300 ml“
43” 4.3” 4.5-kg (10 lb) cat: I94 ml”
Rat 64 (58—70) 6.4 40 (36—45) 300-g rat: 20 ml
Guinea pig 75 (67—92) 7.5 40 (35—48) 90—g guinea pig: 68 ml
Rabbit 56 (44—70) 5.5 39 (28~5l) 3.2-kg rabbit: 180 ml

 

NOTE: All values from Altman and Dittmer ( 1974) unless otherwise speciﬁed.

”Jain (I986).
hBreznock and Strack (1982).

 




 

 

Unfortunately, the data published on these experi-
ments do not include total blood loss and body weight,
so we cannot know what percentage of blood these
animals lost.

Furneaux (1969) observed that arterial pressure in
dogs who were bled 46 percent of their total volume
fell to 29.5 percent of the control just after the hem—
orrhage, rose to 45.3 percent of the control after two
hours, and then fell again as death approached. All
dogs in this study died.

According to one human study, when a drop in
blood pressure of 20 mm Hg or more corresponds with
a pulse greater than 100, blood loss is estimated to be
at least 30 percent of the total blood volume (Tovey
and Lennon, 1962).

Residual Blood Volume A number of blood loss
studies in dogs have focused on residual blood volume,
that is, the volume of blood remaining one to two
hours after hemorrhage. This value takes into account
the body’s ability to respond to blood volume loss by
mobilizing reserve blood from the spleen and ﬂuid
from the interstitium. One study of dogs showed a 50-
percent survival rate associated with a residual blood
volume of 62.6 percent of the prehemorrhagic blood
volume and an 80—percent survival rate associated with
a residual blood volume of 70.3 ml per kg of body
weight, or about 72 percent of the prehemorrhagic
volume (Wang et al., 1947).

Walcott (1945) showed a residual blood volume of
60 percent to be the irreducible minimum compatible
with survival. Each dog in Walcott’s study underwent
a single massive bleeding with a loss of about one-half
its total blood volume. In the group that survived,
residual blood volumes one hour after hemorrhage
averaged 65.5 percent of the prehemorrhagic volume,
and in the group that died, residual blood volumes
averaged 57 percent of the prehemorrhagic volume.
Thus, survival in this study correlated with the indi-
vidual’s ability to mobilize reserve plasma and cell
volumes.

Another study, done on splenectomized dogs, showed
a 50-percent survival rate to occur at a residual blood
volume of 66 percent (Rawson et al., 1959). All dogs
with residual volumes greater than 74 percent survived,
and all dogs with residual volumes of less than 62
percent died. Seven of 13 animals within the 62- to
74-percent range died. Incidentally, only in some
species does the spleen serve as a blood storage organ;
in others, such as mice and rats, the situation would
be more comparable to splenectomized dogs.

Mortality One study on germ—free rats focused on
critical bleeding volumes, that is, the critical blood
volume loss below which mortality increased sharply
(Yale and Torhorst, 1972). The critical bleeding volume
for blood withdrawn at a steady rate over 10 minutes

10

was 2.6 ml per 100 g or, by our calculations, roughly
40 percent of total blood volume. For blood withdrawn
over 60 minutes, the critical bleeding volume was 3.0
ml per 100 g, or roughly 47 percent of the total blood
volume. This study concluded that rate of blood loss
as well as amount of blood loss affects mortality.

Blood Values In dogs, a hemorrhage equal to 1/30 of
the dog’s body weight, or according to the authors a
43.6-percent blood loss, caused increased activity of
aminotransferases and phosphatases, changes that are
due to hypotension and impaired tissue and organ
metabolism, and a transient decrease in blood pro-
thrombin levels (Glowinski et al., 1972). Parentheti-
cally, if we assume the total blood volume of a dog to
be 8.6 percent of body weight (Table 1), a loss of
blood equivalent to 1/30 of the body weight would be
38 percent of the total blood volume, a 5.6-percent
difference from the authors” calculation.

Moderate or Small Blood Losses

Table 5 summarizes results from the literature on
blood losses of 30 percent of total blood volume or
less. Like the last section, this one is organized
according to the various research parameters used to
evaluate blood loss. None of the studies described in
this section concern sustained hypotension; all deal
with absolute volume removal.

Cardiac Output

Saperstein et a1. (1960) reported that a hemorrhage
of 10 ml/kg in rats caused a 50—percent reduction in
cardiac output. By our calculations, this loss is roughly
15 percent of the total blood volume.

Ploucha and Fink (1986) contrasted the effects of a
4—ml hemorrhage on 309-g rats and 233-g chickens.
This loss, about 20 percent of the rat‘s volume by our
calculations, reduced cardiac output in the rats by 43
percent, but reduced cardiac output in the smaller
chickens by only 4 percent. The authors explain the
chicken’s superior ability to endure massive hemor-
rhage by its ability to mobilize extravascular ﬂuids
twice as rapidly as the rat. This occurs despite the
fact that hemorrhage decreases, rather than increases,
peripheral resistance in the chicken.

Arterial Blood Pressure

In men who were bled 15 percent of their total blood
volume, arterial pressure dropped from an average of
92 mm Hg before hemorrhage to 76 mm Hg one minute

after hemorrhage. Arterial pressure then rose again to

lLAR NEWS

 

 

 




 

 

 

82 mm Hg after 90 minutes (Skillman et al., 1971).
Ploucha and Fink (1986) reported that in rats, a 4-

ml hemorrhage, roughly 20 percent of the total blood

volume by our calculations, decreases arterial pressure

by 25 percent. According to Furneaux (1969), dogs
that were bled 27 percent of their total blood volume
showed a return of arterial pressure to normal in less
than two hours.

 

 

TABLE 5 Effects on Animals and Humans of Blood Loss Less than 30 Percent of Total Blood Volume
gé'Total
Vohune [Mood
Species Removed Volume Sample Site and Method Results References
Rat 20 ml 30“ Inferior vena cava Severe gastric necrosis Menguy et al., 1974
puncune
Rat 1-2 ml at l. 5—11 .” No change in plasma Wiersma and Kastelijn,
ml/7.5 mm corticosterone/prolactin 1985 ‘
Rat 3 ml at 1 ml/ 16“ Increased plasma Wiersma and Kastelijn,
7.5rnn1 corﬁcomerone 1985
Rat l5“ 50% reduction in cardiac Saperstein et al., 1960
output
Rat 3 nﬂ over5 h 13” bk)changeiniﬂasnu1 Adanheﬁ and van Pﬁkeren,
prolactin (attributed to 1977
slow sampling method)
Rat 1.2 ml over 6—7 Arterial catheter Signiﬁcant change in Lawson and Gala, 1974
20 “1“] plasnia prolacthi;iio
change\vhen vohnne
replaced by saline
Rat 4 ml 20" Femoral artery catheter Mean art. press. decr. Ploucha and Fink, 1986
(unanesthenzed) 259%,cardnu:output
decr.439€,total
peripheral resistance
decr.659%
(ﬁncken 4tnl lschnuk3arunw'cadmner h4eanznt.press.decr. Idoucha.and Fink,l986
(unanestheﬁzed) 159%,carduuzoutput
decr.49é,peﬁpheral
reskuance decr.l39%
l)og 26 nﬂ/kg 30” 'Tygoncxuheterinjuguku‘ Susuuned.decr.in1nean Vﬁnner,l974
(unanesthetized) vein art. press. of 23 mm Hg,
heartraueincr.by 89/
ninL cardiac outputlell
[Dog 10 [Arunialand venous Furneaux,l969
pressures returneclto
normal within 2 h
Dog 27 lAnernﬂanlvenous Furneaux,l969
pressuresrnnmnal\vnhin
24lL bkxxlvohune
nonnalaﬁer901nhi
Swdne kalover30 10 1T%Inmwuﬂﬁy lhﬂﬂerand Napodano,
min: after 20 66% mortality 1974
2 h.lost 30 669? nnntahty
vmume
reinfused
Sudne lSthkg. 20 Supeﬁorvenacava iNo:ﬂgnﬁ.changein ShnonzuKiCHsen,l969
raphj catheter carnHary pressure u)2u1y
\vnhdraaau nsmuzexceptsunnach
Baboon l4rndg 'Tygon caﬂuﬁerinjuguku‘ l)ecreasein1nean anerkﬂ Vkuner,1974
(unanesthenzed) vent pressuretn‘23rnn111g,
heartitne rose by
67/n1ni
Hinnan 8001nl 15 “Venousremoval’~ suynf.decn nicanﬁac Skﬂhnantﬁ aL,l971
(nudes) average index,snroke voL,leﬁ
overl5.5 vennic.\vork,arL
nun press” centnﬂ venous

press.

 

“Data not available.

”Estimated values based on Table 1 and/or experimental data.

Volume 31, Number 4

Fall 1989

11

 




 

 

 

Ulcers

In studies of hemorrhage in rats, Menguy et al.
(1974) reported that a hemorrhage equal to 2 percent
of the animal’s body weight caused severe gastric
epithelial necrosis within 15 minutes and gross erosions
within 45 minutes. By our estimate, assuming the total

blood volume of a 300-g rat to be about 20 ml, a 2- ‘

percent loss of body weight, or about 6 ml of blood,
is about 30 percent of the total blood volume.

Vasovagal Response

Many studies of blood loss in humans focus on the
vasovagal fainting response (Barcroft et al., 1941 ; Ebert
et al., 1941; Grindon, 1982; Howarth and Sharpey-
Schafer, 194.7; Poles and Boycott, 1942), although the
literature does not address whether this response is
important to nonhuman animals or even occurs in
them.

Blood Values

Attempts to measure a distress response in animals
have been frustrated by the lack of a single predictable
measure of stress. The three systems activated in
response to stress—behavior, autonomic nervous sys-
tem, and neuroendocrine system—all have been eval-
uated for use as measures of the stress response.
Unfortunately, indicators of an autonomic response,
such as plasma catecholamines. ﬂuctuate too rapidly
and unpredictably to be of much help.

Behavioral responses are complex and vary from
one species to another, although studies of changes in
grooming and exploratory behaviors indicate that they
might be useful as distress indicators. Antin et al.
(1975) reported that grooming behavior is a normal
and predictable sequel of feeding. More recently.
Barclay et al. (1988) reported that they have developed
a reproducible and sensitive index of an animal’s
reaction to various experimental procedures based on
exploratory behavior. They demonstrated that both
mice and rats explore a new cage and that the amount
of exploratory behavior is reasonably predictable in
the absence of disturbance. The state of the animal
following a particular procedure can then be assessed
by observing the departure (either excitation or de-
pression) from the normal levels of exploratory be-
havior. The method is sufﬁciently sensitive to discrim-
inate between the handling of mice by experienced or
inexperienced handlers. However, injections of non-
irritant substances in modest amounts did not change
the behavioral response. Although the authors did not
assess the effects of various blood—sampling techniques

12

or regimens, the experiment would be an easy one to
do.

At present, a popular indicator of stress is ﬂuctuation
in plasma concentrations of adrenal and hypophyseal
hormones. Unfortunately, not all stresses initiate a
change in corticosteroid levels (Breazile', 1987; Mob-
erg, ‘1987), so these hormones may be overused as
indicators. However, a change does occur predictably
inresponse to certain stressors, such as injury, physical
restraint, and electric shock (Moberg, 1987). Krulich
et al. (1974) reported that of a variety of hormone
serum concentrations responsive to stress, including
prolactin, GH, luteinizing hormone, and follicle-stim-
ulating hormone, prolactin concentrations are most
susceptible, because a signiﬁcant response is consis-
tently observed, even following very mild stimulation.

In one study, corticosterone and prolactin changes
appeared after roughly 15 or 16 percent of total blood
loss. The study concluded that rats bled l or 2 ml at
a rate of 1 ml per 7.5 minutes from an atrial cannula
(shown in the study to be a stress-free method of blood
sampling) were not stressed by the blood loss. How-
ever. those bled 3 or more ml at the same rate did
experience stress, because corticosterone levels in-
creased signiﬁcantly as one reached and exceeded the
3-ml level (Wiersma and Kastelijn. 1986). The study
offered no data on percentage of blood volume re—
moved. The rats used in the study ranged in weight
from 180 to 430 g; therefore based on Table l, we
estimate that a 3-ml blood loss would equate with a 9-
to 23—percent reduction of total blood volume, or a
mean value of 16 percent.

In another study, stress indicators appeared after as
little as a 6- to 7—percent blood loss. Lawson and Gala
(1974) reported signiﬁcant responses of plasma prolac—
tin concentrations after removal of only 1.2 ml of
blood from 225- to 300—g rats, or 6—7 percent of total
blood volume, within 20 minutes. and no changes in
prolactin concentrations when the lost blood was
replaced by saline. In the study. an indwelling arterial
catheter was used to eliminate stresses associated with
sampling technique.

Hematocrit has not proven to be a helpful indicator
of blood loss or physiological stress. Although a low
initial hematocrit predisposes an animal to early onset
of irreversible shock (Crowell et al.. 1958). hematocrit
may not accurately reﬂect true red cell losses for up
to 72 hours because plasma and red cell volumes are
reduced proportionally during hemorrhage (Wintrobe
et al.. 1981).

Some studies of humans donating a standard 400-ml
unit (about 8 percent of total blood volume) have
focused on length and magnitude ofdepletion ofcritical
factors. One study of iron deﬁciency concluded that,
after a single 400—ml (8 percent) loss. normal dietary
intake of iron may not return iron values to normal

ILAR NEWS

 

 




 

 

until after 4 months in men and 8—12 months in women
(Finch, 1972). Another study reported that hemoglobin
concentration is lowest one to two weeks after donation
and reaches predonation levels three to four weeks
after donation (Wadsworth, 1955).

Physical Performance

A 1982 article by Grindon surveys studies on blood
donation in humans. One study cited by Grindon on
physical performance following blood donation in hu-
mans indicated a deterioration in performance lasting
a few days, particularly for activities requiring sus—
tained endurance. According to a second study cited
by Grindon, maximum oxygen uptake levels, ﬁve days
after bleeding, were only 6 percent lower than pre-
donation levels, which is probably due to the improved
oxygen unloading of hemoglobin. A third study con-
cluded that performance and endurance levels com-
pletely return to normal only after 28 days.

Mortality

Surprisingly, in studies on anesthetized pigs, a 20-
to 30—percent blood loss is associated with signiﬁcant
mortality. In one study, a 30-percent blood loss caused
66 percent mortality (Hobler and Napodano, 1974). In
the same study. a 20-percent loss also caused 66 percent
mortality, while a 1()—percent loss caused 17 percent
mortality. These results should be interpreted in the
light of comparative studies of hemorrhage in anes-
thetized and unanesthetized pigs. One such study
demonstrated that a 20-percent blood loss in a pen-
tobarb-anesthetized pig has biological effects similar
to a 40-percent blood loss in a nonanesthetized pig
(Simon and Olsen. 1969). In none of the studies on
animals other than pigs was mortality a factor with
volume losses of 30 percent or less.

Biotransformation

Dogs bled as little as 5 ml/kg. or about 6 percent of
their total volume, showed a measurable decrease in
the rate at which IV-administered hexobarbital was
biotransformed (Cumming et al., 1971). This effect is
due to decreased perfusion of the liver.

Recommendations for Single Blood Samples

From the literature on acute blood loss, one can
suggest that a 30— to 40-percent loss is too great: a 40-

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

percent blood loss is, at least for germ-free rats, the
critical bleeding volume (causing 50 percent mortality),
and a 30- to 40-percent loss corresponds with hemor-
rhagic shock. Because of a lack of data on stress
indicators below a 30-percent blood loss, we cannot
make absolute recommendations about smaller losses.
However, in one study, corticosterone levels may be
elevated in rats that undergo approximately a 16—
percent blood loss, while in another study, levels rise
after as little as a 6—percent blood loss. We tentatively
recommend that investigators limit blood sampling to
15 percent of total blood volume for a single sampling
and provide special justiﬁcation for taking volumes
greater than 15 percent.

The Department of Laboratory Animal Medicine at
Cornell University recommends a 15- to 20—percent
limit with a 30-day recovery period. Given the absence
of reliable data in the literature, there is some danger
that the 20—percent limit may be too high because of
the potential errors described above in estimating blood
volume based on body weight.

How do our recommended limits compare with other
rules of thumb currently used by investigators? One
commonly used rule of thumb is referred to as the 10
percent—10 percent rule. This approach assumes that
a safe sampling volume is 10 percent of the total blood
volume, which is estimated to be 10 percent of the
animal’s body weight. On the surface, the approach
seems more conservative than our own because it
recommends a 10—percent sampling limit. Actually, the
approach signiﬁcantly overestimates the blood volume
of laboratory animals, so that calculated bleeding
volumes based on the 10 percent—10 percent rule are
equal to or greater than volumes calculated using blood
volume tables and our own 15-percent maximum sam-
pling volume. For example, according to the 10 per—
cent—10 percent rule, an investigator may take 2.5 ml
of blood in one sampling from a 250-g rat. Actually, a
rat’s blood volume is closer to 6 percent of its body
weight (Table 1) than 10 percent. Applying our own

15 percent maximum recommended bleeding volume,
an investigator may take 2.4 ml from a 250—g rat, a

volume slightly less than the one reached with the 10
percent—10 percent rule.

Investigators might consider replacing lost blood
volume with saline to reduce the stress of blood volume
loss. Lawson and Gala (1974) reported that plasma
prolactin concentrations in ovariectomized rats de-
creased signiﬁcantly after removal of only 1.2 ml of
blood within 20 minutes. However, when the lost
blood was replaced with saline, no change in prolactin
levels occurred. Also, Rocha e Silva et al. (1987) found
that severe hemorrhagic shock (44.5 ml/kg, or about
50 percent of total blood volume) was reversed by
intravenous administration of a small volume (4 ml/kg)
of NaCl solution.

13

 

 




 

 

BIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF MULTIPLE
HEMORRHAGES

The data on multiple hemorrhages or samplings are
more sketchy, and thus recommendations for multiple
samplings are more difﬁcult to offer.

Single Day

Agrelo and Miliozzi (1974) reported taking 6 ml of
blood, roughly 50 percent of the total blood volume
ofa l75-g rat, over ﬁve to six hours in l-ml samplings.
The authors reported no changes in biodegradation of
drugs if each l-ml blood sample is replaced by blood
or saline. They also noted that their use of a caudal
artery cannula caused no tail necrosis. Upton (1975),
using ajugular canula, reported taking 15 blood samples
of 0.2 ml, or 3 ml total, over six hours from rats
without the rats showing ill effects.

More Than One Day

Cardy and Warner (1979) reported that a monthly
sampling of 1.25—2.0 ml of blood from young mature
Fischer 344 rats caused no effect on common blood
values (hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cell count.
mean corpuscular volume [MCV], mean corpuscular
hemoglobin, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentra-
tion [MCHC], total leukocyte count). However. the
protocol caused a decrease in the rate of body weight
gain. This difference was noted as early as 3 weeks
after the study began, was apparent in both sexes, and
persisted throughout the 23—week study. In the pro-
tocol, each rat was bled by orbital puncture less than
1 ml every two weeks. An average of 1.6 ml was taken
from each rat per month. This volume constitutes
roughly 25 percent of the total blood volume at the
beginning of the study, when all rats weighed about
100 g, and constitutes 7 percent of the total blood
volume of males (350 g) and 13 percent of the total
blood volume of females (200 g) at the study’s end.
The authors concluded that “the regular withdrawal
of amounts of blood small enough not to induce
abnormal hematologic values can affect other param-
eters of physiologic status.”

In one study of repeated blood withdrawal, six 4-
ml samples of blood were taken from rats at one- or
two-week intervals (Wiersma and Kastelijn, 1986).
Blood parameters in the ﬁrst group (weekly blood
withdrawal) were signiﬁcantly affected, while those in
the second were not. In the rats in the ﬁrst group,
hemoglobin and MCHC values decreased steadily
while blood sedimentation values and osmotic resis-
tance increased steadily. It should be noted that some

14

of the indicators used in. this study, such as MCHC
and hemoglobin, are relatively insensitive indicators
of stress. The researchers provided no data on per-
centage of blood volume lost, so we can only estimate
from the average weights of the rats (225 g for females
and 375 g for males) that between 17 and 28 percent
of the blood volume, or a median value of 23 percent,
was removed.

A study on rabbits by Nerenberg et al. (1978) focused
on the effects of chronic bleeding on several blood
components. For a period of eight weeks, rabbits in
the study were bled 1.5 percent of their body weight
three times a week, or about 50 percent of their total
blood volume per week. Parameters were measured
at the end of the 8-week period and again after a 45-
day rest period. At the end ofthe experimental period,
red blood cell, hemoglobin, and hematocrit levels were
low. After the rest period, all ofthese parameters were
higher than before the bleedings were begun, which
suggests overcompensation. Based on MCV and MCHC
values, all rabbits bled according to this protocol
developed macrocytic hypochromic anemia. Never-
theless, the authors recommended the protocol for the
production of large amounts of antisera.

A study of women who donated a standard unit
(about 400 ml, or 8 percent of total blood volume)
every two months without iron therapy found that,
after four donations, one-third of the women had no
stainable iron in the marrow—that is, their iron stores
had been depleted (Lieden, 1975).

One study that looked at hemoglobin as an indicator
of blood status concluded that improved oxygen un-
loading by hemoglobin in the weeks following bleeding
more than compensates for the reduced hemoglobin
concentration (Edwards and Cannon, 1972). This im-
proved oxygen unloading seems to be due to the
increased number of young erythrocytes following
bleeding. However, it is uncertain from this study of
men who had donated 250 ml weekly for two weeks
or a single 5()()—ml unit, what effect multiple bleedings
beyond a period of a few weeks would have on oxygen
unloading and hemoglobin concentrations.

Recommendations for Multiple Samplings

We can offer very little in the way of conclusive
recommendations for multiple bleedings. The Wiersma
study made it clear that a loss of about 20 percent or
slightly more per week is too much, but studies of
acute bleeding discussed in the previous section sug-
gest that these limits may be too great for even a single
sampling. The monthly sampling study by Cardy and
Warner (1979) resulted in signiﬁcant growth depres-
sion, although it is difﬁcult to identify this effect with
a speciﬁc percentage of blood volume removal because

ILAR NEWS

 

”Li; .4.

 




 

 

 

the animals were gaining weight throughout the study.
During the initial stages, approximately 25 percent of
the bloOd volume was being removed. Cornell Uni-
versity recommends a lO-percent weekly limit, but
perhaps a 7.5-percent weekly limit would be more
prudent given the evidence that hemoglobin concen-
trations may take many weeks to return to normal
following a loss as small as 8 percent. In written
correspondence. W. J. Dodds (New York State De-
partment of Health. personal communication, 1988)
concurred with a 7.5-percent weekly limit. Dodds”
own research on platelet and coagulation requires
measurement of very sensitive blood parameters, so
that stress and physiological variables must be con-
trolled. Her own bleeding limits are 10 percent of total
blood volume followed by a rest of at least two weeks.

SAMPLING TECHNIQUES

A 1983 article, with over 500 references, reviews
the literature from I952 to 1982 on techniques for
vascular access in the rat (Cocchetto and Bjornsson,
1983). The article describes 39 procedures for arterial
samplings from 7 sites. 81 procedures for venous
sampling from 19 sites. and 4 “miscellaneous” pro—
cedures that yield a mixture of arterial and venous
blood. The article includes expected blood yields from
some of the more common procedures. For instance,
retroorbital plexus collection is described as yielding
about 0.5 ml of venous blood, tail amputation as
yielding up to 4 ml of mixed venous—arterial blood,
and cardiac puncture as yielding up to 5 ml of mixed
blood.

Our intention in writing this section was not to sift
through the vast body of literature on sampling tech-
niques for the purpose of offering absolute recommen-
dations on which technique to use on each animal.
Researchers have at least as many reasons for col-
lecting blood as there are sampling techniques, and
each technique is more suited to some purposes than
others. Furthermore, in the judgment of some re-
searchers whose opinions we solicited, sampling tech-
niques considered stressful by some (e.g., retroorbital
puncture) in fact cause minimal stress in the hands of
technically adept handlers.

The brief survey of sampling techniques below aims
to report facts and opinions regarding sampling tech-
niques, particularly those concerned with stresses to
animals. We hope it will serve as a helpful resource.

Rats

In the rat, many techniques are used for sampling
blood. The three most common are retroorbital plexus

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

puncture, tail amputation. and heart puncture.

Retroorbital plexus puncture yields an average of
0.5 ml of venous blood in the rat (Cocchetto and
Bjornsson. I983). Grice (1964) described a procedure
for bleeding the medial canthus that yields 1—2 ml of
blood. When the technique was ﬁrst described. yields
of up to 1 ml were sampled from the anterior (medial)
canthus (Stone, 1954). According to Sorg and Buckner
(1964). sampling from the posterior (lateral) canthus
causes fewer nose bleeds and less trauma to the eye
and is useful for repeated samplings in rats, mice.
guinea pigs, rabbits, and hamsters. However, these
same authors reported success in taking up to 8 ml of
blood from a rat with retroorbital plexus puncture
without killing the rat. Even in a 400-g rat. 8 ml of
blood—about 36 percent of the total blood volume-—
exceeds limits we would recommend for a single
nonterminal bleeding.

Descriptions of the retroorbital puncture method
commonly include the following steps: making the eye
protrude by retracting the skin adjacent to the eye.
causing constriction of venous return by applying
thumb pressure behind the angle of the jaw. and
inserting a pipette gently through the canthus into the
retroorbital plexus, gently rotating the pipette as it is
advanced (Kraus, 1980). However, it has been reported
that these steps are sometimes not practiced. and
instead the pipette is more or less inserted behind the
orbit and scraped through the orbital plexus. a pro-
cedure that probably causes serious hemorrhage but
is likely to yield larger blood volumes.

An article by Timm (1979) challenges the conven-
tional assumption that the rat has an orbital plexus.
Instead, Timm’s study suggests that rats have a venous
plexus. The paper has several implications for orbital
bleeding:

0 The medial canthus is not a proper site for orbital
bleeding because it is occupied largely by the Harderian
gland and has only small anastomotic veins.

0 The area ventral to the orbit is also not an
appropriate site since it has a variable anastomotic
vein.

0 The ophthalmic venous plexus is difﬁcult to reach
with a capillary tube because it lies deep in the orbit.

O The area dorsal to the orbit is the most appropriate
site for sampling because it is occupied by the caudal-
dorsal anastomotic vein. The article describes a pro—
cedure for sampling from this site.

Using cardiac puncture, Burhoe was able to collect
5 ml of blood from rats weekly for three months
(Burhoe, 1940). Another study reported 12 percent
fatality for heart puncture (Stuhlman et al.. 1972).
Incidentally, it is becoming a standard requirement of
many institutional animal care and use committees
that cardiac puncture be used under anesthesia and

15

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

only as a terminal sampling procedure in all laboratory
species.

Bober (1988) noted that tail amputation has “fallen
from favor due to the traumatic nature 'of the proce-
dure.” Bober described a technique for sampling from
3 to 6 ml of arterial tail blood under general anesthesia
using a 22-gauge syringe. .

Golba et al. (1974) concluded that sampling blood
from the retroorbital plexus of the rat is much more
stressful than sampling blood by tail amputation. Ret—
roorbital sampling, but not tail amputation. caused a
signiﬁcant decrease in white blood cell count for several
weeks. According to the authors. the decreased white
blood cell count indicates a general adaptation stress
response. This response to internal and external factors
results in lymph system atrophy and decreased mitotic
activity in bone marrow.

In another study comparing stresses of different
sampling techniques. Horton et al. (1986) observed
.serum creatine kinase to be signiﬁcantly higher follow-
' ing retroorbital plexus puncture but not following heart
puncture. The increase in creatine kinase levels could
be due to either tissue destruction or stress.

According to the studies above. retroorbital plexus
puncture seems to be the most stressful of the three
techniques discussed. although the high rate of fatality
reported for heart puncture does not recommend that
technique for nonterminal procedure either. Also.
repeated samplings from the retroorbital plexus should
be avoided because they cause local tissue damage
involving the Harderian gland (Canadian Council on
Animal Care. 1984).

Toe clipping under anesthesia has been used to
obtain small yields of blood. up to 0.3 ml. in the rat.
However. due to pain in the rat following the proce-
dure. Cocchetto and Bjornsson (1983) did not recom-
mend toe clipping.

Mice

In the mouse. retroorbital sinus puncture and heart
puncture are the most common sampling techniques.
although success has been reported with other meth—
ods. including severing brachial vessels. jugular vein.
carotids. femoral vessels. and abdominal aorta. as well
as venipuncture of the caudal vena cava and tail
vessels.

Cardiac puncture in the mouse yields variable blood
volumes. and the blood is likely to be hemolyzed and
contaminated by tissue ﬂuids (Adeghe and Cohen.
1986). Anesthesia is required for cardiac puncture
(Moreland. 1965).

Retroorbital sinus puncture can yield up to 1 ml of
venous blood in the mouse (Moreland. 1965). Adeghe
and Cohen ( 1986) reported that many trials are required

16

for acquisition of an appropriate level of skill, that the
blood is likely to be hemolyzed, and that “the pro-
cedure is distasteful to many workers.”

Cate (1969) described an orbital sinus sampling
technique for unanesthetized mice that yields about
50 percent of total blood volume. The procedure was
developed as an alternative to standard orbital sinus
sampling techniques, which typically yield small blood
volumes. The described technique. which involves
inserting polyethylene tubing in the medial canthus.
yields about 3 percent of total body weight, or 50
percent of total blood volume. in less than one minute.

Two recent letters to the AC LAM Newsletter argued
that orbital bleeding in the mouse is obviously painful.
and therefore. the technique should be accompanied
by anesthesia (Letscher. 1987) or avoided altogether
(Farnell. 1987).

Rabbﬁs

In rabbits. the most common sites for blood sampling
are the marginal ear vein. the central artery of the ear.
and the heart.

Marginal ear venipuncture frequently is followed by
vascular spasm (Fick and Schalm. 1986: Tillman and
Norman. 1983). Incision of the marginal ear vein or
the central artery of the ear can yield up to 50 ml of
blood (Moreland. 1965). According to Moreland. anes—
thesia is not required for either procedure. It has been
fairly common to swab the marginal ear vein with
xylene to facilitate blood ﬂow and collection. but
xylene can cause serious inﬂammation if not carefully
washed off. The policy set by the Department of
Laboratory Animal Medicine at Tufts/New England
Medical Center is to give the rabbit a dose of ace—
promazine 1V in the marginal ear vein and collect the
blood from the central ear artery (M. Ellenberger.
personal communication. 1989). Grice (1964) reported
that 25 ml of blood. about 14 percent of total blood
volume. can be readily obtained from one auricular
artery.

Hoppe et al. (1969) described a technique for bleed-
ing the marginal ear vein that can yield from 30 to 50
ml of blood (roughly 17-28 percent of total blood
volume) in four or ﬁve minutes. The technique. which
uses a vacuum reservoir and centrifuge tube to increase
sampling volume. is recommended for repeated sam-
plings. 1n the author’s words. “the technique of bleed—
ing rabbits described here does not endanger the life
of the donor provided the animal is not excessively
exsanguinated.”

Lumsden et al. (1974) described a modiﬁed technique
for orbital sinus sampling in the rabbit. Rather than
using as a sampling site the medial or lateral canthus,
which failed to yield consistent samples. the authors

ILAR NEWS

 

 




 

 

 

described a technique involving capillary tube insertion
thrOUgh the conjunctiva dorsal to the orbit. Studies
showed that weekly blood withdrawal over a 13-week
period caused some transient subconjunctival hemor-
rhage and some degenerative changes in retroorbital
muscles. However, the authors concluded that the
technique, which requires neither topical nor general
anesthesia, results in minimal discomfort, is “as hu-
mane as some other methods used for sampling the
rabbit,” and can yield 6 ml in 15—30 seconds.

Heart puncture in the rabbit carries risks of hemo-
pericardium and cardiac tamponade (Fick and Schalm,
1986; Tillman and Norman, 1983). According to Mo-
reland (I965), heart puncture should always be per-
formed under anesthesia.

REFERENCES

Adeghe A. J. H.. and J. Cohen. 1986. A better method for terminal
bleeding of mice. Lab. Anim. (London) 20:70—72.

Agrelo C. E. and J. O. Miliozzi. l974. A technique for repeated
blood sampling with transfusion in the conscious rat. J. Pharm.
Pharmacol. 26:207—208.

Aikawa. J. K. I950. Fluid volumes and electrolyte concentrations
in normal rabbits. Am. J. Physiol. 162:695—702.

Altman P. L.. and l). S. Dittmer. eds. 1974. Biology Data Book.
2d ed.. vol. 3. Bethesda, Maryland: Federation of American
Societies for Experimental Biology.

Antin. J.. J. Gibbs. R. Holt. R. C. Young. and G. P. Smith. 1975.
Cholecystokinin elicits the complete behavioral sequence of
satiety in rats. J. Comp. Physiol. Psychol. 89:784—790.

Armin J.. R. '1‘. Grant. H. Pcls. E. B. Reeve. 1952. The plasma.
cell and blood volumes of albino rabbits as estimated by the dye
(T1824) and 32P marked cell methods. J. Physiol. (London) 59—
73.

Barclay. R. J.. W. J. Herbert. and T. B. Poole. I988. The Disturbance
Index: A Behavioral Method of Assessing the Severity of Com-
mon Laboratory Procedures on Rodents. Potters Bar. UK:
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare.

Barcroft H.. O. G. Edholm. J. McMichael. J. Sharpey-Schafer. and
E. P. Sharpey—Schafer. l94l. Post haemorrhagic fainting: Study
by cardiac output and forearm ﬂow. Lancet i2489—49l.

Bassin R.. B. C. Vladeck. S. 1. Kim. W. C. Shoemaker. 1971.
Comparison of hemodynamic responses of two experimental
shock models with clinical hemorrhage. Surgery 69(5):722-729.

Besch E. l... and B. J. Chou. l97l. Physiological responses to blood
collection methods in rats. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. I381l019—
1021.

Bober. R. 1988. Drawing blood from the tail artery of a rat. Lab
Anim. l7(5):33—34.

Breazile. J. E. 1987. Physiologic basis and consequences of distress
in animals. J. Am. Vet. Med. Assoc. l9l(l()):l2l2—1215.

Breznock. E. M.. and D. Strack. 1982. Blood volume of nonsple-
nectomized and splenectomixed cats before and after acute
hemorrhage. Am. J. Vet. Res. 43(l()):l8l l—l8l4.

Burhoe. S. O. I940. Methods ofsecuring blood from rats as described
in study of blood groups and their inheritance. J. Hered. 31:445—
448.

Burt M. E.. J. Arbeit. and M. F. Brennan. 1980. Chronic arterial
and venous access in the unrestrained rat. Am. J. Physiol.
238zH599—H603.

Calligaris, L.. and S. Taleisnik. I983. Prolactin release induced by
stress and the inﬂuence ofestrogen and progesterone treatments.
:ex. and daily rhythm. Acta Endocrinol. (Copenhagen) 103(4)3505‘
- [0.

Canadian Council on Animal Care. 1984. Guide to the Care and
Use of Experimental Animals. vol. 2. Ottawa: Canadian Council
on Animal Care.

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

Cardy, R. H., and J. W. Warner. 1979. Effect of sequential bleeding
on body weight gain in rats. Lab. Anim. Sci. 29(2):l79—l8l.

Cate, C. C. 1969. A successful method for exsanguinating unanes—
thettzed mice. Lab. Anim. Care 19(2):256—258.

Cocchetto, D. M., and T. D. Bjornsson. 1983. Methods for vascular
access and collection of body ﬂuids from the laboratory rat. J.
Pharm. Sci. 72:465—492.

Courtice. F. C. 1943. The blood volume of normal animals. J.
Physiol. 1022290—305.

Courtice. F. C., E. P. Adams, A. D. Shannon. and D. N. BishOp.
1974. Acid hydrolases in the rabbit in hemorrhagic shock. J. Exp.
Physiol. 59:31—42.

Crowell, J. W., S. H. Bounds, and W. W. Johnson. 1958. Effect of
varying hematocrit ratio on the susceptibility to hemorrhagic
shock. Am. J. Physiol. l92(l):l7l—174.

Cumming, J. F.. H. W. McClung. and G. J. Mannering. 1971. The
effect of hemorrhage on the rate of hexobarbital biotransformation
in the dog. J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 1782595—60].

Damon, E. G. A. F. Eidson, C. H. Hobbs. and F. F. Hahn. 1986.
Effect of acclimation to caging on nephrotoxic response of rats
to uranium. Lab. Anim. Sci. 36:24—27.

Dodds, W. J. 1987. Animal models for the evolution of thrombotic
disease. Ann. NY. Acad. Sci. 516:631—635.

Ebert. R. V.. E. A. Stead. and J. G. Gibson. 1941. Response of
normal subjects to acute blood loss. Arch. Intern. Med. 68:578—
592.

Edwards, M. J.. and B. Cannon. 1972. Oxygen transport during
erythropoietic response to moderate blood loss. N. Engl. J. Med.
287:115—119.

Fagin. K. D.. J. Shinsako. and M. F. Dallman. 1983. Effects of
housing and chronic cannulation on plasma ACTH and cortico-
sterone in the rat. Am. J. Physiol. 245:E515—E520.

Farnell. D. R. 1987. Letter to the editor. ACLAM News]. 17:3.

Ferriani. R. A.. and M. De sa Silva. 1985. Effect of venipuncture
stress on plasma prolactin levels. Int. J. Gynaecol. Obstet.
23(6):459—62.

Fick. T. E.. and S. W. Schalm. 1986. A procedure for arterial blood
sampling in the rabbit. Lab. Anim. (London) 20(2): l38—l39.

Finch. C. A. I972. In International Forum. Which measures should
be taken in order to prevent iron deﬁciency in blood donors?
Vox Sang. 23:238—239.

Flynn, L. A.. and R. B. Guilloud. 1988. Vascular catheterization:
Advantages over venipuncture for multiple blood collection. Lab
Anim. 17(6):29—35.

Furneaux, R. W. 1969. Graded hemorrhage in the dog. Ph.D.
dissertation. University of New South Wales. Australia.

Giner, M., K. Snyder. and M. M. Meguid. 1987. Chronic vascular
access for repeated blood sampling in the unrestrained rat (letter).
Am. J. Physiol. 253(4):H992.

Glowinski. S.. K. Worowski. and R. Farbiszewski. 1972. Activity
of serum aminotransferases and phosphatases. and prothrombin
level after experimental hemorrhage. Pol. Med. J. [1:962—967.

Golba. S.. M. Golba. and T. Wilczok. I974. The effect of trauma.
in the form of intraperitoneal injections or puncture of the orbital
venous plexus. on peripheral white blood cell count in rats. Acta
Physiol. Pol. 25(4):339—345.

Grice. H. C. 1964. Methods for obtaining blood and for intravenous
injections in laboratory animals. Lab. Anim. Care l4(6):483—493.

Grindon. A. J. 1982. Adverse reactions to whole blood donation
and plasmapheresis. CRC Crit. Rev. Clin. Lab. Sci. l7(l):51—75.

Guyton. A. C. 1963. Circulatory Physiology: Cardiac Output and
its Regulation. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders.

Heindon. J. G.. J. J. Turner. A. A. Perachio. M. S. Blank. and
D. C. Collins. 1984. Endocrine changes induced by venipuncture
in rhesus monkeys. Physiol. Behav. 32(4):673—676.

Hobler, K. E.. and R. J. Napodano. l974. Tolerance of swine to
acute blood volume deﬁcits. J. Trauma l4(8):7lo—7l8.

Hoppe, P.C., C. W. Laird. and R. R. Fox. 1969. A simple technique
for bleeding the rabbit ear vein. Lab. Anim. Care l9(4):524—525.

Horton. M. L., C. T. Olson. and D. W. Hobson. 1986. Femoral
venipuncture for collection of multiple blood samples in the
nonanesthetized rat. Am. J. Vet. Res. 47(8):]78l—l782.

Howarth. S.. and E. P. Sharpey—Schafer. 1947. Low blood pressure
phases following hemorrhage. Lancet i: 19.

17

 

 




 

 

 

 

Jain, N. C. 1986. Schalm’s Veterinary Hematology, 4th ed. Phila-
delphia: Lea & Febiger.

Kraus, A. L. 1980. Research Methodology. P. 7 in The Laboratory
Rat, vol. 2, Research Applications, H. J. Baker. J. R. Lindsey,
and S. H. Weisbroth, eds. New York: Academic.

Krulich, L.. E. Hefco, P. Illner, and C. B. Read. 1974. The effects
of acute stress on the secretion of LH. FSH. prolactin and GH
in the normal male rat with comments on their statistical evalu-
ation. Neuroendocrinology 16:293—31 1.

Lawson, D. M.. and R. R. Gala. 1974. The inﬂuence of surgery.
time of day, blood volume reduction and anaesthetics on plasma
prolactin in ovariectomized rats. J. Endocrinol. 62:75—83.

Lestage. P., P. A. Vitte, J. P. Rolinat. R. Minot. and E. Brousolle.
1985. A chronic arterial and venous cannulation method for freely
moving rats. J. Neurosci. Methods 13:223-229.

Letscher, R. M. 1987. Letter to the editor. ACLAM Newsl. 17:
3—4.

Lieden. G. 1975. Iron supplement to blood donors. 1. Trials with
intermittent iron supply. Acta Med. Scand. 197:31.

Linderkamp, O., O. Butenand. and K. P. Riegel. 1977. Plasma-
volume estimation in severely ill infants and children using a
simpliﬁed Evans blue method. Eur. J. Ped. 125(2):]35—141.

Loegering. D. J., and F. K. Carr. 1978. Plasma cathepsin activity
and reticuloendothelial phagocytic function during hemorrhagic
shock. Circ. Shock 5:61—71.

Lumsden, J. H., P. J. A. Presidente. and P. J. Quinn. 1974.
Modiﬁcation of the orbital sinus bleeding technique for rabbits.
Lab. Anim. Sci. 24(2):345—348.

Mattheij. J. A. M., and T. A. van Pijkeren. 1977. Plasma prolactin
in undisturbed cannulated male rats: effects of perphenazine.
frequent sampling. stress and castration plus oestrone treatment.
Acta Endocrinol. 84:51—61.

Menguy, R.. L. Desbaillets, and Y. F. Masters. 1974. Mechanism
of stress ulcer: Inﬂuence of hypovolemic shock on energy
metabolism in the gastric mucosa. Gastroenterology 66:46—55.

Moberg. G. P. 1987. Problems in deﬁning stress and distress in
animals. J. Am. Vet. Med. Assoc. 191(10111207—1211.

Moreland. A. F. 1965. Collection and withdrawal of body ﬂuids.
Pp. 18—19 in Methods of Animal Experimentation. vol. 1. W. 1.
Gay. ed. New York: Academic.

Nerenberg. S. T.. P. Zedler. R. Prasad. N. S. Biskup. and L.
Pedersen. 1978. Hematological response of rabbits to chronic.
repetitive. severe bleedings for the production of antisera. J.
lmmunol. Methods 24:19—24.

Noble, D.. and M. 1. Gregerson. 1946. Blood volume in clinical
shock. 11. The extent and cause of blood volume reduction in
traumatic hemorrhage and burn shock. J. Clin. Invest. 25:172—
183.

Ploucha. J. M.. and G. D. Fink. 1986. Hemodynamics ofhemorrhage
in the conscious rat and chicken. Am. J. Physiol. 2512R846—
R850.

Poles. F. C.. and M. Boycott. 1942. Syncope in blood donors.
Lancet ii:53l.

Rawson. R. A.. S. Schien. M. T. Peng. and R. J. Dellenback. 1959.
Determination of residual blood volume required for survival in
rapidly hemorrhaged splenectomized dogs. Am. J. Physiol. 1962179—
183.

Richman. K. A., Y. L. Kun. and B. E. Marshall. 1980. Thrombo-
cytopenia and altered platelet kinetics associated with prolonged
pulmonary artery catheterization in the dog. Anesthesiology
53:101—105.

Rocha e Silva. M.. I. T. Velasco. R. l. Nogueira da Silva. M. A.
Oliveira. G. A. Negraes. and M. A. Oliveira. 1987. Hyperosmotic
sodium salts reverse severe hemorrhagic shock: Other solutes
do not. Am. J. Physiol. 2531H751—H762.

Rose. M. 1987. Quality control in the collection of samples. Paper
presented at meeting. “Animal Experimentation Management: A
Role for the Veterinary Profession.” University of Melbourne.
May 8—9. 1987.

18

Saperstein, L. A., E. H. Saperstein, and A. Bredemeyer. 1960,
Effect of hemorrhage on the cardiac output and its distribution
in the rat. Circ. Res. 8:135.

Sato, T., Y. Kamiyama, T. Damano, J. Rutkowski, R. A. Cowley,
B. F. Trump, and R. T. Jones. 1985. Pathophysiology of hem—
orrhagic shock. A model for studying the effects of acute blood
loss in the rat. Virchows Arch. B [Cell Path] 48(4):361—375,

Seggie, J. A., and G. M. Brown. 1975. Stress response patterns of
plasma corticosterone, prolactin, and growth hormone in the rat,
following handling or exposure to a novel environment. Can. J.
Physiol. Pharmacol. 53:629—637.

Simon, M. A., and W. R. Olsen. 1969. Capillary ﬂow in hemorrhagic
shock. Arch. Surg. 99:631—640.

Skillman. J. J., J. Hedley—Whyte, and J. A. Pallotta. 1971. Car-
diorespiratory, metabolic and endocrine changes after hemor-
rhage in man. Ann. Surg. 174:911—922.

Sorg. D. A., and B. Buckner. 1964. A simple method of obtaining
venous blood from small laboratory animals. Proc. Soc. Exp.
Biol. Med. 115:1131—1132.

Stone. S. H. 1954. Method for obtaining venous blood from the
orbital sinus of the rat or mouse. Science 1192100.

Stuhlman. R. A., J. T. Packer. and S. D. Rose. 1972. Repeated
blood sampling of Mystromys albicaudaius. Lab. Anim. Sci.
22:268—270.

Tillman, P., and C. Norman. 1983. Droperidol—fentanyl as an aid to
blood collection in rabbits. Lab. Anim. Sci. 33(2):181—182.

Timm, K. 1. 1979. Orbital venous anatomy of the rat. Lab. Anim.
Sci. 29:636—638.

Tovey. G. H.. and G. G. Lennon. 1962. Blood volume studies in
accidental hemorrhage. J. Obstet. Gynaecol. Brit. Commonw.
5:749.

Uphouse, L. L.. C. B. Nemeroff. G. Mason. A. J. Prange. and
S. C. Bondy. 1982. Interactions between “handling" and acry-
limide on endocrine responses in rats. Neurotoxicology 3:
121—125.

Upton. P. K.. and D. J. Morgan. 1975. The effect of sampling
technique on some blood parameters in the rat. Lab. Anim.
(London) 9(2):85—91.

Upton. R. A. 1975. Simple and reliable method for serial sampling
of blood from rats. J. Pharm. Sci. 64: 1 12—1 14.

Vatner. F. F. 1974. Effects of hemorrhage on regional blood ﬂow
distribution in dogs and primates. J. Clin. Invest. 54:225—235.
Wadsworth. G. R. 1955. Recovery from acute hemorrhage in normal

men and women. J. Physiol. (London) 129:583—593.

Walcott. W. W. 1945. Blood volume in experimental hemorrhagic
shock. Am. J. Physiol. 143:247—253.

Wang. S. C.. R. R. Overman. J. W. Fertig. W. S. Root. and M. 1.
Gregersen. 1947. The relation of blood volume reduction to
mortality rate in hemorrhagic and traumatic shock in dogs. Am.
J. Physiol. 148:164—173.

Wiersma. J.. and J. Kastelijn. 1985. A chronic technique for high
frequency blood sampling/transfusion in the freely behaving rat
which does not affect prolactin and corticosterone secretion. J.
Endocrinol. 107(2):285—292.

Wiersma. J.. and J. Kastelijn. 1986. Haematological. immunological
and endocrinological aspects of chronic high frequency blood
sampling in rats with replacement by fresh or preserved blood.
Lab. Anim. (London) 20(1):57—66.

Wiggers. C. J. 1950. Physiology of Shock. New York: Common—
wealth Fund.

Williams. W. J.. E. Beutler. A. J. Erslev. and M. A. Lichtman.
1983. Hematology. 3d ed. New York: McGraw-Hill

Wintrobe. M. W.. G. R. Lee, D. R. Boggs. T. C. Bithe11.J. Foerster.
J. W. Athens. and J. N. Lukens. 1981. Clinical Hematology. 8th
ed. Philadelphia: Lea & Febiger.

Yale. C. E.. and J. B. Torhorst. 1972. Critical bleeding and plasma
volumes of the adult germfree rat. Lab. Anim. Sci. 22:497—502.

ILAR NEWS

 




‘Mig'; _,

 

Courtesy Orin B. Mock, Kirksville College of Osteopathic Medicine, Kirksville, Missouri.

Commentary: H. Richard Adams

The article by McGuill and Rowan provides a good
overview of what seems to represent, at ﬁrst glance,
a rather straightforward and biologically unambiguous
topic about blood sampling in laboratory animals.
However, as is quickly emphasized, the issue of
sampling for hematologic assay in biomedical research
is far from simplistic and demands greater considera-
tion thanjust the dexterity ofvenipuncture technicians.

One aspect of particular importance is the underlying
theme that blood—sampling techniques can evoke rather
substantial biologic reactions in the experimental an—
imal. Such reactions alter the basal homeostasis ofthe
SUbject and thereby comprise yet another variable in
a research protocol. The sympathetic division of the
autonomic nervous system is especially reactive to

N

H“. Richard Adams is chairman of the Department of Veterinary
Biomedical Sciences. College ofVeterinary Medicine, and professor
in the Department of Pharmacology. School of Medicine, University
Of Missouri-Columbia.

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

stressful environmental stimuli, and its activation dur-
ing blood sampling can rapidly modify cardiovascular
dynamics and also inﬂuence metabolic functions of
other tissues and organ systems. Blood and its various
components themselves can be altered by blood col-
lection procedures and associated paraphernalia,
whether sampling is acute or chronic. Some of the
resulting inﬂuences may well alter the precise hema-
tologic variable undergoing study, some represent
general systemic stress factors that seem mostly un-
avoidable owing to the fact that blood sampling is
inherently invasive and traumatic, some are simply
not known or recognized, and some can be catastrophic
to the experimental study. Indeed, McGuill and Rowan
poignantly point out that one attempt to develop an
arterial catheter for chronic blood sampling in rats
actually yielded “an excellent model for arterial em-
bolism” with intestinal and renal infarctions! The
importance of such confounding influences to certain
studies, especially if they remain unrecognized and
uncontrolled, can hardly be overemphasized.

Many blood-sampling factors now are known to hold
real potential for altering hematologic and other phys-

19

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iologic variables. These factors include methods of
physical restraint, types of chemical restraint drugs.
blood volume removed, subject experience, and in—
vestigator experience. These and other related and
unrelated inﬂuences are addressed by McGuill and
Rowan. A strength of their review is that it tabulates
a selected sampling of a broad topic entailing even
more complexity than could be assembled in this
setting. Another value of this article is that it incor-
porates related animal care and welfare issues the
biomedical community must consider. Thus, on the
one hand, this article is an appropriate starting point
for investigators and laboratory animal veterinarians
needing a literature resource for information about
blood-sampling technology and its afﬁliated intricacies.

On the other hand, this review should not be mis-
construed as a deﬁnitive treatise or policy directive
about precise blood—sampling techniques and resulting
biologic reactions. The authors make no such claim,
and it would be a mistake for readers to rely on such
an assumption. This topic is too complex to justify
such a universal application, as revealed by the paper
itself. The sections dealing with hemorrhagic shock,
for instance, are superﬁcial relative to the data base
in this ﬁeld, and they actually are somewhat tangential
to the main points of the article. Readers could be
mislead by the comment that severe hemorrhagic shock
evoked by removal of 50 percent of total blood volume
in dogs is reversible by a small volume (4 ml/kg) of
”NaCl solution.” The study in question actually used
a highly hyperosmolar solution of NaCl, a major
distinction from isotonic NaCl solution. Responses of
the sympathetic nervous system to hemorrhage or
other stressors are mediated not by “cholinergics,”
but by the adrenergic mediators norepinephrine and
epinephrine. Review/advisory committees or consul-
tants could ﬁnd themselves in a rather untenable
position if they relied solely on this article for detailed
information about saline resuscitation or nervous sys-
tem responses to hemorrhage. These points reﬂect

20

subsidiary elements of the entirety of this article, but
they illustrate two important caveats:

1. Judiciousness should be employed when single
literature sources are used to build speciﬁc policy
dealing with complex biologic problems.

2. Hemorrhage and blood-sampling procedures do
not constitute a trivial biologic problem.

The inﬂuence of chemical restraint during hemam-
logic sampling is introduced relatively early in the
paper. Yet in later discussions of hematologic varia-
bles, the reader is not informed if the data originated
from anesthetized, sedated, or conscious animals.
Acclimation to handling and environmental conditions
are addressed as important issues in all species, and
yet, later comments about pertinent data in the liter-
ature do not distinguish between trained versus naive
subjects. These limitations should not be criticized as
weaknesses unique to this review. Rather, they serve
to substantiate the dearth ofinformation available from
some of the original reports and the resulting lack of
historical background on precise biologic conse-
quences of blood loss and sampling. ln relevant liter-
ature about hematologic sampling in the past, details
that are now deemed important were not always
recognized as salient features at that time. It seems
quite likely that currently undiscovered sequelae of
blood loss will turn out to be important considerations
in the future.

In summary, the article by McGuill and Rowan
contains important generic and starting—point infor-
mation about blood—sampling techniques, as well as
relevant guidelines about total blood volumes versus
volumes withdrawn for hematologic samples in differ—
ent species. This information should guide investiga—
tors about this issue. but it does not absolve them
from the responsibility to validate and justify the
appropriateness of their own hematologic assay pro-
cedures relative to their own particular experimental
objectives.

ILAR NEWS




 

Special Article

A Medical Ethics Primer

‘ J. Wesley Robb

 

  
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 

the past several years, the”:
Libecome increasingly involved i
115) the ethical use of animals
ed that the terminology used b

is often unfamiliar to screntzst
ustomed to its use rarely engage-
ethical issues. As a result" Council "
aftts members, Dr. J. Wesley Robb to
fii‘CounciI a ‘Primer on Medical Ethics
rig this presentation on January 10 19
‘unczl urged Dr. Robb to prepare a manu
he same subject, for publication in
8 Although the article does no La
ress ethical concerns for the use a
eseatch Council recogniZed that,
used in making ethical judgmeni
e whether they concern medicalvpr
arch or public policy We hope ya H
i]? both useful and informative

ILAR. News Ed: ,

 

 

 

 

 

Introduction

Ethical issues are high on the agenda of almost all
levels of society. Watergate, Pentagongate, Irangate,
and now Wrightgate have alerted the public to the
facile manner in which public ofﬁcials have viewed
their duties and responsibilities. Inside trading and
other improprieties within the ﬁnancial community
have surfaced and demonstrated an equal indifference
to professional and personal standards of conduct.
Whether these behavioral patterns of men and women
in positions of power and trust will change is prob—

 

J Wesley Robb 1s adjunct professor of bioethics School of Medicine
and Professor emeritus School of Religion at the University of

Southern California in Los Angeles. He is a member of the lLAR
Council.

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

  
    
  
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

lematic, particularly when personal gain and self-
interest seem to dominate all segments of society.

It is ironic that everyone seems to know what is
ethical and what is not. For the most part, these ethical
canons of propriety have been uncritically accepted
as a part of the moral fabric of traditional societal
standards inculcated by the home, church, and other
socially inﬂuential institutions. They are intuitively felt
to be right, and although they may not be consistently
demonstrated within the individual’s personal life and
not arrived at through critical reﬂection, they serve as
guides especially in judging the behavior of others.
These ethical attitudes are often primarily emotional
and convictional responses that are simply true for the
individual as uncritically accepted norms. For exam-
ple, one’s attitudes and sense of duty about another
race of people would be a case in point. They are
often ﬂawed by prejudice and ignorance and are all
too often supported by peer groups from which the
individual seeks approval. Hence, these attitudes are
deeply rooted and difﬁcult to alter.

As a consequence, ethical judgments are viewed by
many people as emotive and irrational claims that
reﬂect the subjective prejudices of the individual and
have little or no objective truth—value. From this
perspective, one ethical judgment is as good as another
because, in the ﬁnal analysis, ethical pronouncements
merely indicate the preferences of the proclaimer.
Only judgments of fact that are empirically veriﬁable
are those that have any truth or objective value. The
implication is that normative judgments of value have,
in reality, little or no rational basis, and any serious
discussion of ethical issues becomes a stalemate—“no
hits, no runs, no errors.”

It is true that subjective elements do affect our
ethical judgments, but it is likewise true of almost any
claim we make. We all make assumptions regardless
of what we are considering to be true. If we are at all
reﬂective, we begin our inquiry with assumptions that
must be examined and reexamined; nonetheless we
must begin somewhere. The western bias for scientiﬁc
and empirical methodologies, in contrast to the tradi-

21

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

tional eastern preference for the primacy of the intuitive
approach to reality, is illustrative of this fact.

The purpose of this essay is to examine the devel-
oping ﬁeld of biomedical ethics and to suggest a way
of doing ethics in one professional area that might
serve as a model for making ethical judgments in other
ﬁelds.

What is Ethics?

Ethics is one of ﬁve classical disciplines within
western philosophy that harks back to the beginning
of ancient Greek philosophy. These are:

l. Metaphysics—What is the nature of reality?

2. Epistemology—How do we know and what are
the criteria for knowledge?

3. Logic—Examination of the internal consistency
of an argument and the relationship between the
reasons offered and the conclusions drawn from those
reasons.

4. Aesthetics—The nature and beauty of art and
what is ﬁtting.

5. Ethics.

As a branch of philosophy, ethics is concerned with
evaluating and establishing the criteria for normative
judgments of value (good and bad) and judgments of
responsibility and duty (right and wrong). Medical
ethics is a subset of concerns that involves ethical
reflection about decisions and actions in health care
and an attempt to resolve the conﬂict between the
ideal and the real in rational and responsible ways.
Biomedical ethics is a more inclusive term that ex-
presses concern about the application of new devel-
opments in medical science that impinge upon the care
of patients as well as other issues. The role of the
medical ethicist is to be a catalytic agent in the decision-
making process—examining assumptions and facilitat—
ing critical dialogue and analysis (linguistic and logical).
His or her function is not to make ethical decisions,
but as a member of the medical team, to be a resource
person applying professional skills to the questions at
hand. The job description for the position of “philos-
opher in residence” at one medical center describes
the role ofthe ethicist well, . . encouraging dialogue,
critical reﬂection, and the assessment of underlying
value judgments.”

Ethics and the Practice of Medicine

From the Hippocratic corpus to the present. ethics
has been an integral part of medicine. It is interesting

22

that the traditional Hippocratic oath (Edelstein, 1967)
stressed many of the ethical precepts that are accepted
in medical practice to this day. For example,

I will apply dietetic measures for the beneﬁt of the
sick according to my ability and judgment: I will
keep them from harm and injustice. [Do no harm]

I will neither give a deadly drug to anybody if asked
for it, nor will I make a suggestion to this effect.
Whatever houses I may visit. I will come for the
beneﬁt of the sick, remaining free of all intentional
injustice. [beneﬁcence]

What 1 may see or hear in the course ofthe treatment
or even outside of the treatment in regard to the life
of men. which on account one must spread abroad,
I will keep to myself holding such things shameful
to be spoken about. [conﬁdentiality]

I will fulﬁll this oath and do not violate it, may it be
granted to me to enjoy life and art, being honored
with fame among all men for all time to come; ifl
transgress it and swear falsely. may the opposite of
all this be my lot. [quality assurance]

These ethical standards have been widely accepted by
physicians in the West, particularly the dictum, “Do
no harm.” The ﬁrst American Code of Medical Ethics
was formulated in 1849 and. by and large, was based
upon the code of Thomas Percival. an English physi-
cian of the early 19th century. The AMA (American
Medical Association) Code was a comprehensive state-
ment and included a list of duties of both the physician
and the patient. It is interesting that emphasis was
placed upon the latter. while today medical ethics
codes say very little about the patient’s responsibilities.
Duties of the physician included responsibility of the
physician to other physicians and to the profession at
large and duties of the profession to the public and
the obligations of the public to the profession. Here
again the latter obligation is seldom cited in current
statements about medical ethics.l

The most recent “AMA Principles of Medical Eth-
ics” (see Appendix A) was revised in I980 and states
seven general ethical principles along the traditional
lines ofthe responsibility ofthe physician to the patient,
society. and the profession and to the professional
betterment of one‘s self. The AMA also periodically
publishes Current Opinions oft/1c Council on Ethical
and Judicial Affairs, which provides more compl€t€
guidelines than the principles cover. In addition, the
American College of Physicians publishes an Ethics

 

' See Reiser et al. (I977. pp. 3—76) for an excellent discussion of
the “ethical dimensions ofthe physician—patient relationship through
history.“

ILAR NEWS




 

Manual, which is a comprehensive statement of the

hysician’s responsibilities, as well as comments about
such ethical issues as patient autonomy, quality of
life, care for the hopelessly ill, genetic counseling,
resource allocation, transplantation, and the relation-
Ship between medicine and the law.2

During the Carter administration, the President’s
Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in
Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research
was appointed. This distinguished body of appointees,
representing a wide segment ofthe lay and professional
community, held hearings throughout the nation and
consulted with leading persons within the professions.
As a result of their study. 16 volumes were published
that covered a wide range ofethical issues in medicine
and biomedical and behavioral research.3 Research
study centers focusing on ethical issues in the whole
area of new developments in biomedicine have emerged
within the past 20 years (see Appendix B), and many
universities throughout the nation offer advanced de-
grees in medical ethics. As a result, biomedical ethics
has become a recognized ﬁeld of research and study
and is considered a legitimate academic discipline.

The current interest in medical ethics, as a discipline
in its own right, was prompted by a number of events:

0 The atrocities by the Nazis during World War II
of experimenting with human subjects gave rise to the
Nuremberg Code after the war and later to the Dec-
laration of Helsinki, which was revised in 1975. These
statements unequivocally afﬁrmed the principle of
voluntary consent and that all experimentation with
human subjects be conducted by scientiﬁcally qualiﬁed
persons yielding fruitful results for the good of society.
By federal mandate, all institutions today conducting
experimental work with human subjects must establish
an institutional review board that reviews all protocol
in accord with federal and state guidelines.

0 With the development of medical technology and
the ability to transplant organs, particularly the trans—
plantation of kidneys, the question of when is a human
person dead raised serious philosophical questions
regarding what constitutes the essence of our human-
ness. Life support systems can keep a physical body
alive for an indeﬁnite period of time. Is a body that is
in a persistent vegetative state a person or is it a
“living corpse?” 1n the novel Coma (Cook, 1977),
which portrays the dilemma well, bodies theoretically
could be kept organically alive for an extended period
Of time and would provide a ready organ bank for

\M

2 Copies ofthese publications may be obtained from the Subscriber
Service Division. American College of Physicians, 4200 Pine Street,
Philadelphia, PA 19104.
70” Order from US. Government Printing Ofﬁce, Washingt0n~ DC
,_ 402.

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

needy patients. But would this be ethical, and does it
Violate our ethical sensitivity about what is appropriate
for the sustenance of what was formerly a human
person with his/her own identity and personality?

The recent Karen Quinlan case illustrates the phil-
osophical issues. I will not go into the details of this
issue, but rather raise, in this connection, serious
philosophical issues that are not answered from purely
a medical perspective.

A turning point in the attempt to establish a criteria
for irreversible coma came in 1968 when the report,
“A Deﬁnition Of Irreversible Coma,” appeared. This
document was prepared by the Ad Hoc Committee of
the Harvard Medical School (1968) and became a
widely accepted standard. Presently, most states have
“brain death” laws that provide legal guidance for
health care providers and family. The legal decisions
that are made in speciﬁc cases vary from state to state.
which often confuses the issue for those who are
responsible for the terminally ill (See Society for the
Right to Die [1989] for conﬂicting decisions by the
courts. See Hastings Center Report [1987] for ethical
guidelines).

0 The abortion issue, in particular, the Roe v. Wade
decision of the Supreme Court in 1973, has prompted
widespread interest in ethical questions. As in the case
of determining what constitutes the essence of human
life, the issue here is philosophical and for many people
religious. When does human life begin? Both camps
begin with a deﬁnition of what it means to be a human
person and then marshal data to support their claim.

One sentence in the Court’s 1973 decision has been
of special interest to me for some time, to wit: “When
those trained in the respective disciplines of medicine,
philosophy, and theology are unable to arrive at any
consensus, the judiciary, at this point in the develop-
ment of man’s knowledge, is not in a position to
speculate as to the answer.” However, the Court did
decide that “the word ‘person,’ as used in the Four-
teenth Amendment, does not include the unborn.” In
any event, this ongoing issue has and will continue to
dominate public thinking regarding what is essentially
a philosophical question. In the Court’s decision,
person/100d became the focus of the debate regarding
the question of the rights of the fetus.

Other events could be mentioned as influencing the
increasing emphasis upon the ethical aspects of health
care, such as the increasing cost of health care,
allocation of limited medical resources and the criteria
upon which these decisions are made, new develop—
ments in genetic medicine, and possible alteration of
the germ line in species. All of these and many more
events have focused our attention more and more on
ethical issues. Almost all US. medical schools have
programs in medical ethics, and approximately one—

23

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

third to one-half have one or more full-time persons
teaching courses and consulting in the ﬁeld.

The Need for a Conceptual Framework

One of the problems in discussing ethical questions
with those not trained in philosophy is to keep the
discussion on a high level of analysis. There is a
tendency to fall into the anecdotal trap in which one
case elicits the citing of another and another, and
supposedly out of this exchange there would come a
decision for judgment that was closely reasoned and
could bear the weight of argument.

I do not want to be misunderstood. Experience and
case studies are helpful in determining a preferred
choice of therapy for a patient. but ethical reﬂection
involves more than a kind of free association from
which conclusions are drawn. Also. there is a tendency
within the medical community to reduce ethical ques-
tions to clinical questions. A few years back I inter-
viewed a prominent neurosurgeon at the University of
London about a research project in which I was
engaged. At the close of our session I asked. “Would
it be possible to make rounds with you tomorrow?”
Thereupon he replied. “We are not going to discuss
ethics.” I reminded him that he would be making value
judgments about one form oftherapy being better than
another. and that these judgments involved the lan-
guage of ethical discourse. He saw my point immedi-
ately and said. “Meet me at 9:30 in the morning.” I
spent a delightful three hours with him and his staff.

In my view. what is needed in the formulation of
ethicaljudgments is a conceptual framework and some
formal structure for making medical decisions that
would provide decision makers with conceptual tools
by which they can evaluate their own thought pro-
cesses. If one believes that one ethical judgment is as
good as another (a popular notion today). then any
reference to ethics as a rational discipline becomes
irrelevant. One of my colleagues was asked by a
student. “Why should I read Kant?” My colleague
replied. “Because he is smarter than you are.”

On a more serious note. I am suggesting that a
knowledge of classical ethical theories enables one to
test one’s own thinking against what scholars in the
ﬁeld have thought about what constitutes our duty and
how we determine right from wrong. In educating
medical students. we do not shy away from theories
that relate to a better understanding of medical prac-
tice: there is a body of knowledge that we assume is
important for the student to know. Why should not
the same be true in the ﬁeld of medical ethics? We all
function within implied theoretical structures that are
often in conﬂict. In one situation we may be very
pragmatic. bordering on the opportunistic. while at

24

another time we are very principled and in another
context very legalistic. Consistency in making om
moral judgments. it seems to me. is a virtue and is a
part of what we mean by being responsible. Let us
now look at a framework for making our decisions,

An Ethical Work-Up

It must be assumed that before there can be any
serious consideration of speciﬁc ethical issues in health
care. a thorough clinical workup must be done. There
is no substitute for an adequate data base. Such
information makes possible the responsible pursuit of
modes of therapy that will be most beneﬁcial to the
patient. Herein lie many ethical issues concerning
what constitutes adequate data: How many tests should
be given. do the costs of these tests have a bearing
upon the rationale for requesting these data. and so
on? As the reﬁnement of diagnostic techniques in—
creases. the physician is faced with greater responsi—
bility for selecting those tests that will be most fruitful
in choosing the appropriate mode of therapy for the
patient. Beyond this primary element. in what consti-
tutes a physician’s clinical responsibility. are other
factors that are involved in making ethical judgments.

Risks/ Benefits

A consideration of these factors is essentially a
utilitarian or teleological ethical approach to the de-
cision-making process. By and large. this is the ﬁrst
question that is posed in making a judgment about the
most desirable mode of therapy for the patient. Utili—
tarian theories fall broadly into two types:

I. Act utilitarianism insists that the right action is
determined by the effects ofthe action in this particular
circumstance. This is often called situation ethics and
afﬁrms that each situation must be evaluated on its
own terms and that no general moral principle is
equally applicable in all circumstances.

2. Rule utilitarianism holds that acting in the best
interests of all concerned is a moral mandate that is
not determined solely by each particular circumstance.
Rather. actions must be judged by the principle of
social utility and the effect ofthat action upon society.

The justiﬁcation for mercy killing might be argued
on an act utilitarian basis in that it would relieve the
intolerable suffering for the terminally ill patient. The
rule utilitarian would emphasize the effect of such
action upon society as a whole and the precedent it
would set for the future. Most of us think primarily in
terms ofthe effect that our actions have upon ourselves

lLAR NEWS

 




 

 

(egoistic utilitarianism) and the effect that our actions
might have upon other persons (universalistic utilitar-
ianism)-

Personal interests are often in conﬂict with our sense
of professional responsibility and duty. The western
tradition in medicine has stressed that the interests of
the individual patient are primary, but now that we
are faced with limited medical resources, particularly
in the case of the terminally ill, we are confronted
with the dilemma of the needs of others who might
beneﬁt more than those whose death is imminent. By
and large, physicians have resisted thinking in these
terms and have resisted the rationing of health care.
They have viewed their role as being the individual
patient’s advocate and have left the larger societal
question for the legislator and politician. These prac-
tical questions are unavoidable if we are to make an
adequate ethical assessment of the health care needs
ofthe society. The application of utilitarian principles
is helpful in clarifying our own position regarding these
matters. Of course there are weaknesses in the use of
utilitarian criteria for our choices. All too frequently,
decisions are predicated upon short—term effects. which
when viewed in the long term, may neither be in the
interests of the individual nor society. Therefore,
monitoring our choices by a consideration of alterna-
tive ethical postures is helpful as we attempt to be as
responsible as possible in choosing one form of action
over another (see Smart and Williams. I973).

Moral Duty

In its more radical form. this approach to ethical
choice stresses those moral principles that constitute
our highest duty and to which there are no exceptions.
Therefore. a consideration ofconsequences should not
be a factor in making moral decisions. This is called
deontological ei/u’r-s. There are elements of this em-
phasis in our western religious tradition in its stress
on our absolute duty to God and his commandments—-
a divine command ethic.

The classical expression of deontological ethics is
in the moral philosophy of Immanuel Kant. He believed
that there were universal moral obligations that were
binding on everyone and that were an “inexplicable
fact of experience” (Kant. 1956). This sense of our
highest duty (the categorical imperative: see Kant.
1959) was in contrast to sensate or affective experi-
ences. including desire and impulse. His familiar state-
ment regarding the primary nature of this experience
bears repeating: "Two things fill the mind with ever
new and increasing admiration and awe . . . the starry
heavens above me and the moral law within me”
(Kant, I956. p. 1%). ln fact. the primacy of moral
experience formed the basis for his beliefs about the

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

nature of the self, the existence of God, and the
immortality of the soul.

Two formulations of the categorical imperative are
particularly relevant to our discussion: (1) the principle
of respect for persons as ends in themselves and not
as mere means and (2) the principle of universaliza—
bility, which insists that all similar cases should be
treated in similar ways. A derivative of the former
principle is a respect for all persons and their autonomy
translated into medical ethics as the right of giving
informed consent and the principle of patient auton-
omy. The latter principle expresses a concern for
justice and equity in decisions about health care.

It is interesting to note that when the US. National
Commission was established in the 19705 to study
ethical issues related to research with human subjects.
they agreed that three ethical principles—which reﬂect
a deontological ethical stance—should guide their de—
liberations: (I) respect for the dignity of other persons.
(2) beneﬁcence, and (3)justice. These same principles
are reﬂected in the undergirding moral assumptions
that constitute responsible medical practice. As Charles
Bosk (1979) points out, the norms of clinical respon-
sibility are a part ofthe character of responsible medical
practice, such as honest interpretation of reliable data,
keeping the patient’s interests foremost in the decision-
making process, openness and candor and the duty
for full and honest disclosure, and the right of the
patient to know. Thus deontological ethics and the
duties of the physician are not based necessarily upon
the good consequences such actions might bring. but
rather upon the inherent nature ofthese duties as being
the right and good thing to do in and of themselves.

Take truth telling as an example. This principle is
based upon the assumption that the patient has a right
to know about his or her condition, the mode of
therapy that is deemed appropriate, the attendant risks
and beneﬁts, as well as the right to refuse the rec-
ommended treatment. In other words, deception is a
violation of the principle of the physician's obligation
to tell the truth and the patient’s right to know. Let
us suppose that a physician decides—based on his or
her fear that the patient will become addicted if given
a pain relief medication—to give a placebo for the
pain. The physician’s intentions are, it could be argued,
what he or she believes to be in the best interests of
the patient, so the patient is told that “this pill will
help you.” The physician fails to identify that the
antecedent to the words “this pill” is “placebo" and
may even tell the patient there is evidence to show
that this remedy has been effective in many previous
similar cases. (The latter statement would be true.
because placebos are 30—40 percent effective.) The
patient, of course, assumes that it is some form of
pain medication or drug, while the doctor knows that
it has no medicinal effect other than possibly releasing

25

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

a chemical agent produced by the body itself (endor-
phin). Is such an action ethically justiﬁable?

From the deontological point of view, the answer is
no because a fundamental ethical duty to tell the truth
has been negated by deception. Kant would point out
that lying is never justiﬁed because it violates the
principle of respect for persons as ends in themselves.
The context for his argument is in regard to our duty
to keep a promise. Within the medical setting, decep-
tion is a violation ofthe ﬁduciary relationship assumed
to exist between the physician and the patient.

In contrast, the consequentialist might argue that
the physician has acted in the patient’s best interests
and that because the results are salutary, the physi-
cian’s decision is justiﬁed. Or one might argue—from
the same ethical position—that the risk of deception
is greater than the beneﬁt derived because of the
danger that the patient might sometime in the future
know that it was a placebo, and as a result, the
physician would lose his or her credibility and the
patient’s conﬁdence. Thus the effect upon the doctor-
patient relationship would not be worth jeopardizing.
Both are forms of utilitarian arguments, although the
conclusions regarding the ethics of such an action are
different. The obvious danger of defending the use of
a placebo is that, more often than not, the decision is
based upon expediency: “It might work—let’s try it.”
Such superﬁcial thinking is unwarranted if we are
concerned about our duty to take our moral judgments
seriously.

Does a deontological ethical approach make any
exceptions concerning what constitutes our highest
duty? On one hand, if we accept the Kantian model,
his formulation of our duty consists of absolutes. On
the other hand, W. D. Ross, a British contemporary
philosopher, speaks of a prima facie duty and one’s
actual duty. The former is a self—evident duty, other
things being equal, such as ﬁdelity, keeping a promise,
gratitude, justice, and so on. However, because we
experience a conﬂict between our prima facie duties,
our actual duties may be determinative as we weigh
the merits of one duty over another. It is clear that in
actual experience it is impossible to claim that there
can be no exception to moral rules or principles because
of the complexities of moral choice.4 In Sissela Bok’s
(1978) book Lying (which is a discussion of moral
choice in private and public life), she holds that if one
chooses to deceive, the responsibility for defending
that choice of breaking the duty of truth telling rests
with the person who elects to deceive.

 

4 See Beauchamp and Walters (1989, pol—72) for an excellent
survey of ethical theories as they impinge upon biomedical ethical
analysis. I found this a very helpful source in preparing this essay.
Also see Frankena (1973) for helpful interpretations of classical
ethical theories.

26

As I view it, the problem is to keep a balance in our
ethical judgments. To forget the relevance of our moral
duty, or to think only of consequences, would be
overly simplistic and would short-circuit the difﬁcult
process of making responsible decisions. Some years
ago, after a lecture on professional €thiCS to a public
audience, the head of one of the nation’s large cor-
porations said to me, “You will ﬁnd that the greater
the responsibility, the more difﬁcult it is to make the
right decision.” The process of making responsible
choices is often agonizing, particularly in health care
when life and death decisions often have to be made
in concert with the wishes of the patient, the desires
of the family, and the professional standards the
physician believes should be maintained.

Civil and Criminal Law

Laws reﬂect the prevailing will of society regarding
actions that are believed to protect the rights of the
individual and the interests of society. Any adequate
approach to moral choice must include a consideration
of law. With regard to difﬁcult health care decisions,
the physician is confronted by conﬂicting court deci-
sions. For example, a New York Court of appeals
ruled that nasogastric feeding of a 77—year-old patient
who was severely demented and bedridden for 3 years
had to be continued over the protestations of her
daughters and the patient’s consistent opposition,
when she was well, to continuing care under such
circumstances. In contrast, the federal district court
in Rhode Island approved removing a gastrostomy
tube that had sustained a patient for over two years.
This was a precedent-setting case because she was in
a state facility—the ﬁrst decision ofits kind by a federal
court (Society for the Right to Die. 1988).

Many similar conﬂicting decisions could be cited.
The physician is in an untenable position when the
courts are not clear in theirjudgments or are in conﬂict
with each other at various levels of the court’s super—
vision. A physician in California requested that the
district attorney assure her that she would not be
prosecuted if she removed the respirator from a com—
atose patient; he replied that he would not make any
judgment before the fact. She removed the respirator
and no charge was made against her.

Barber v. Stripe/‘11))" Cour! (1983) is the only case on
record in which physicians were charged with homicide
after removing all life-sustaining measures. including
nutrition and ﬂuids at the request of the family. The
physicians involved were ﬁnally cleared of these charges
by the court of appeals, but only after an agonizing
experience on the part of all involved.

The patient has the moral and legal right to decide

lLAR NEWS

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

the extent and type of care he or she desires. In the
event the patient is incompetent to make this decision,
the physician in consultation with the family should
make the best professionaljudgment possible with the
patient’s best interests foremost in their minds. Being
overly cautious often is an attempt to avoid the best
ethical choice. Malpractice suits are on the increase,
in part because of specialization within the medical
profession. Specialization often prevents long associ—
ations between the “family doctor” and patients,
associations that in the past nurtured the traditional
ﬁduciary relationship. Also, the litigious climate of our
society has fostered the plethora of lawsuits against
health care providers. (In England it is unlawful for
an attorney to take a case on a contingency basis.
Patient grievances, for the most part, are adjudicated
by an appointed body of arbitrators outside of the
normal setting of the courts.)

This litigious climate is a reality, but it should not
paralyze members of any profession from following
the best professional standards they know. Journalists
who have not revealed their sources under the threat
of imprisonment have demonstrated great moral cour-
age in their ﬁdelity to the highest standards in their
profession and serve as role models for what it means
to be a professional.

Intention/Motive

It is difﬁcult to discern our own motives behind any
given action, let alone determine the intentions of
another person. Perhaps the biblical maxim, “Judge
not that you be not judged,” is applicable in this
regard. However, the examination of our own motives
is fundamental if we are to appraise adequately the
ethical dimensions of our choices. The view is com—
monly held that the primary motivation for every
individual is self-interest that is somehow rooted in
our biological and psychological nature. Freud’s skep—
ticism about any action being primarily altruistic has
inﬂuenced, in a negative way. our present attitudes.
It is doubtless true that mixed motives motivate our
behavior and our choices. It is not my intention to get
into the quagmire of this debate, only to make the
point that a responsible analysis of what constitutes
our ethical responsibility includes taking an honest and
serious look at our motives. In biblical Greek, the
word kardia refers to the seat of emotions, desires.
and basic wants.

The primacy of the duty to serve humankind has
been a long-standing tradition in the profession of

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

medicine. The complexities of modern life and the
social as well as ﬁnancial pressures that impinge upon
the lives of physicians add to their burdens. This is
likewise true of other service professions, such as
teaching and the ministry. Physicians are in a unique
position, however, because they are dealing with not
only life-and-death matters, but also with the intimate
lives of people, which affect innumerable other aspects
of their lives.

A Concluding Word

This essay has examined at least ﬁve aspects of the
anatomy of an ethical situation and reviewed, although
superﬁcially and brieﬂy,some of the ethical theories
that should be considered in making our choices. No
one perspective is adequate. No one view of what
constitutes our duty is adequate; rather, responsible
ethical judgment considers the many—and often con—
ﬂicting—duties we have. Therefore, we must weigh
the merits of these responsibilities in the light of the
highest ethical standards we know. The conceptual
ethical framework I have suggested, I believe, is helpful
in this process.

References

Beauchamp, T. L., and L. Walters. 1989. Contemporary Issues in
Bioethics, 3d ed. Belmont, California: Wadsworth.

Bok, S. 1978. Lying. New York: Random House.

Bosk, C. 1979. Forgive and Remember. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.

Cook, R. 1977. Coma. Boston: Little.

Edelstein, L. 1967. Ancient Medicine, 0. Temkin and C. L. Temkin.
eds. Baltimore. Maryland: Johns Hopkins University Press.

Frankena, F. I973. Ethics, 2d ed. Englewood Cliffs: Prentice—Hall.

Harvard Medical School. 1968. A deﬁnition of irreversible coma:
Report of the Ad Hoc Committee of the Harvard Medical School
to examine the deﬁnition of brain death. J. Am. Med. Assoc.
205:337—340.

Hastings Center. 1987. Guidelines on the Termination of Life-
Sustaining Treatment and the Care of the Dying. A Hastings
Center Report. Bloomington: Indiana University Press.

Kant, I. [1788'] I956. Critique of Practical Reason. Tr. by L. W.
Beck. Indianapolis, Indiana: Bobbs—Merrill.

Kant, I. [I785] 1959. Foundations of the Metaphysic of Morals. Tr.
by L. W. Beck. New York: Bobbs—Merrill.

Reiser, J., A. J. Dyck. and W. J. Curran. eds. 1977. Ethics in
Medicine. Cambridge: MIT Press.

Smart, J. J. C., and B. Williams. I973. Utilitarianism For and
Against. Cambridge: Cambridge at the University Press.

Society for the Right to Die. 1988. Conﬂicting decisions on tube-
feeding: N.Y. High Court and RI Federal Court. Soc. Right to
Die News]. Winter:l, 4.

Society for the Right to Die. 1989. Patients” rights in the courts.
Soc. Right to Die Newsl. Springzl, 4—5.

27

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX A

American Medical Association
Principles of Medical Ethics*

Preamble

The medical profession has long subscribed to a body
of ethical statements developed primarily for the ben-
eﬁt of the patient. As a member of this profession. a
physician must recognize responsibility not only to
patients. but also to society. to other health profes-
sionals. and to self. The following principles adopted
by the American Medical Association are not laws.
but standards of conduct which deﬁne the essentials
of honorable behavior for the physician.

1. A physician shall be dedicated to providing com-
petent medical service with compassion and respect
for human dignity.

2. A physician shall deal honestly with patients and
colleagues. and strive to expose those physicians
deficient in character or competence or who engage in
fraud or deception.

3. A physician shall respect the law and also rec—
ognize a responsibility to seek changes in those re—
quirements which are contrary to the best interests of
the patient.

4. A physician shall respect the rights of patients.
of colleagues. and of other health professionals. and
shall safeguard patient conﬁdences within the con-
straints of the law.

5. A physician shall continue to study. apply. and
advance scientiﬁc knowledge. make relevant infor—
mation available to patients. colleagues. and the public.
obtain consultation. and use the talents of other health
professionals when indicated.

"6. A physician shall. in the provision ofappropriate
patient care. except in emergencies. be free to choose
whom to serve. with whom to associate. and the
environment in which to provide medical services.

7. A physician shall recognize a responsibility to

participate in activities contributing to an improved
community.

 

“ American Medical Association. Chicago. I980. All rights reserved.
Reprinted by permission.

28

APPENDIX B

Bioethics Research Centers‘r

American Society of Law & Medicine

765 Commonwealth Avenue
Boston. MA 022l5

Pubhcaﬁons:
American Journal ofLaw & Medicine
Law. Medicine & Health Care

The Hastings Center
360 Broadway
Hastings-on—Hudson. NY I070o

Pub“caﬁons:
The Hastings Center Report
IRB: A Review oflluntan .S'uh/ects I\’esearch

The Institute for the Medical Humanities
The University of Texas Medical Branch
Galveston. TX 77550
Publication:
The Institute/or the Medical Humanities Chronicle

The Kennedy Institute

Georgetown University

Washington. DC 20057
Publications:
Kennedy Institute Newsletter
Journal ol'Medicine and Philosophy

Center for Christian Bioethics
Division of Religion
Loma Linda University
Loma Linda. CA 92350
Publication:
Update

Center for Biomedical lithics
Rose Medical Center
4567 East Ninth Avenue
Denver. CO 80220
Publication:
Front Lines

a

Prepared by Alexander M. Capron and .l. Wesley Robb.

ILAR NEWS

 

 

 




 

 

 

Center for Biomedical Ethics
University of Minnesota

Box 33 UMHC

Harvard Street at East River Road
Minneapolis, MN 55455

Pubhcauons:
Bimonthly newsletter
Reading packets: “Topics in Biomedical Ethics”

Center for Bioethics

St. Joseph Health System
440 South Batavia Street
Orange, CA 92668

Pubhcaﬁon:
Ethical Currents

Society for Health and Human Values
925 Chestnut Street
Philadelphia, PA 19107

Publication:
Notes

Journal of Medical Humanities and Bioethics

Published by Human Sciences Press

Bioethics Reporter

Published by University Publications of America

 

Principles and Guidelines

World Veterinary Association Policy Statement on
Animal Welfare, Well-Being, and Ethology

The World Veterinary Association (WVA), knowing
that the veterinary profession is the only qualiﬁed
group of specialists able to both diagnose and licensed
to treat diseased. suffering, and distressed animals, as
well as apply all possible preventive measures, has
decided to claim its rightful place as the leading
authority in the ﬁeld of animal ethology, welfare, and
well-being.

It has therefore created within its framework an
international body of veterinary specialists in these
ﬁelds, representing all the continents, in order to deﬁne
a suitable policy. This is approved as follows.

 

ILAR News invites your comments on this policy statement. which
was submitted by the World Veterinary Association (WVA) Exec-
utive Committee on Animal Welfare (Eli Mayer. chairman). The
committee comprised six veterinarians from Israel. Canada. Aus—
tralia. Brazil. South Africa. and the Federal Republic of Germany:
a member from the United States was added in September 1989.
The policy statement was approved by the WVA General Council
On May 27. 1989 in Paris.

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

A. Animal Ethology and Welfare

In accordance with worldwide sensitivity regarding
the use of animals, the veterinary profession fully
embraces the two disciplines of ethology and welfare.
The veterinary philosophy relating to the two ﬁelds
can be stated as follows.

Ethology puts the emphasis on knowledge which is
scientiﬁcally based. Its aim is to clarify (a) needs that
can be fulﬁlled and (b) harm that can be avoided. With
this knowledge animals can be cared for in the best
manner. Only with optimum management and care
(animal welfare) can the animal live and produce to
its potential. This is also an ethical approach.

Clearly man is the species responsible for the en—
vironment and for other species. The veterinary profes—
sion is preeminent in this work. We do not accept the
view that animals have specialized rights as an entity
on their own. We believe that animals can beneﬁt more
from the point of view that man is responsible for the
provision of animal welfare than from the view which
promotes animal rights alone.

29

 

 

 

 




 

B. Freedoms of Animals

It is recognized that certain provisions of care are
essential to welfare in the form of ﬁve freedoms.
Modiﬁed from various sources in applied ethology,
these can be stated as follows:

1. freedom from hunger and thirst

freedom from physical discomfort and pain
freedom from injury and disease

freedom from fear and distress

freedom to conform to essential behavior patterns

MAWN

C. Animal Welfare in Veterinary Education

In order to establish an informed position on animal
welfare, appropriate to the veterinary profession, it is
considered essential to have this subject dealt with in
undergraduate education. For this purpose the follow-
ing principles should be adopted.

1. The subject of animal welfare should be incor-
porated as [an] independent discipline in the veterinary
curriculum.

2. The overall scientiﬁc discipline of animal welfare
should incorporate applied aspects of ethology, bioeth-
ics, and the concepts of suffering and well-being.

3. The subject should be given at the preclinical
level of veterinary education, although it is recognized
that it would have extensions into the clinical level.

 

Courtesy Anne Gummerson, Baltimore, Maryland.

30

It is also conSidered necessary for postgraduate
opportunities in education to be available to veteri-
narians wishing to specialize in ethology and welfare.

D. Animal Experimentation

According to our present knowledge in our increas-
ing struggle to control diseases of both humans or
animals, we must accept that experimentation with
animals, in certain cases, is unavoidable. However,
every effort should be made to discover or utilize
alternatives to animal experimentation. There should
be legislation to control all institutions, their functions
where animal experiments are carried out. Experi-
mental animals must be kept under optimal conditions
at all times. The experiment must be thoroughly,
scientiﬁcally planned and not unnecessarily duplicated.
All animal colonies used for experimentation must be
under the control and responsibility of a veterinarian,
suitably qualiﬁed.

E. Conservation of Wildlife

We endorse all the efforts of veterinarians or others
to conserve our wild animals and protect endangered
species. In all aspects of the control, capture, trans-
locations, and the housing (if necessary) of wild ani-
mals, their welfare and care should be paramount and
under veterinary responsibility.

ILAR NEWS

 

 

 




 

 

 

In the News

ILAR Publishes Guide to lmmunodeficient Rodents

The ILAR Committee on Immunologically Compro-
mised Rodents has completed and recently published
through the National Academy Press Immanodeﬁcient
Rodents: A Guide to their lrnmunobiology, Husbandry,
and Use. The report provides information on the nature
ofimmune defects in rodents and the special techniques
necessary to maintain and breed immunodeﬁcient an-
imals. It summarizes the genetics, pathophysiology,
husbandry, and reproduction of 64 inbred, hybrid, and
mutant strains of rodents known to have hereditary
immunodeﬁciencies.

Eight experts in immunology and laboratory animal
medicine made up the committee and wrote the doc—
ument:

Fred W. Quimby, chairman, Cornell University,
Ithaca

Melvin J. Bosma, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Phila—
delphia

Robert A. Good, All Children’s Hospital, St. Pe—
tersburg, Florida

Carl T. Hansen, National Institutes of Health

David D. Myers, Memorial Sloan—Kettering Cancer
Center, New York

Conrad B. Richter, Duke University, Chapel Hill,
North Carolina

John B. Roths, Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor,
Maine

Henry H. Wortis, Tufts University, Boston

Sixteen invited participants from institutions in the
United States, Federal Republic of Germany, and
Japan also contributed to the document.

Immunode ‘eient Rodents is available for $29.95
from the National Academy Press. See ordering in—
formation on page 36.

NIH Grants Available for Improving Animal
Resources

The Animal Resources Program of the Division of
Research Resources (DRR), National Institutes of
Health (NIH), assists institutions in developing and
improving animal resources for biomedical research
and research training through the award of research
and resource grants. Institutional animal resource
improvement grants are awarded to assist biomedical
research and educational institutions in upgrading their
animal facilities and in developing centralized programs
of animal care. Another major objective is to enable

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

institutions to comply with the US. Department of
Agriculture Animal Welfare Act and the Department
of Health and Human Services (DHHS) policies related
to the care and use of laboratory animals. Requests
should be limited to alterations and renovations to
improve laboratory animal facilities and major resource
equipment related to the improvement. (General op-
erational support, such as funding for personnel, should
not be requested.) Funding is for DHHS ﬁscal year
1990.

The deadline for application is December 4, 1989.
For further information, contact the Animal Resources
Program, DRR, Westwood Building, Room 853, NIH,
5333 Westbard Avenue, Bethesda, MD 20892 (301/496-
5175).

Histologic Slides of Rodent Tumors Available on
Loan from NCI

The National Cancer Institute (NCI), Registry of
Experimental Cancers, World Health Organization
Collaborating Centre for Reference on Tumours of
Laboratory Animals, will loan without charge, 15 study
sets with accompanying syllabi. These sets consist of
histologic slides of spontaneous and induced tumors
of laboratory animals, chieﬂy rats, mice, and masto—
mys. Each study set is available for two-month loan
to cancer investigators worldwide. Available study
sets include the following:

Comparative Pathology of Hematopoietic and Lym-
phoreticular Neoplasms

Induced and Spontaneous Tumors of Small Intestine
and Peritoneum in Mice

Neoplastic and Nonneoplastic Lesions of the Lym-
phoreticular Tissue in Mice

Induced Tumors of the Liver in Rats

Tumors and Nonneoplastic Proliferative Lesions of
the Lungs of Mice

Mammary Tumors in Mice

Pulmonary Metastases in Mice

Neoplasms and Other Lesions of Praomys (Masto—
mys) natalensis

Malignant Schwannomas of Rats

Tumors of the Harderian Gland of Mice

Induced Tumors of Kidney of Rats

Spontaneous Gastric Adenomatosis, Polyps, and
Diverticula; Duodenal Plaques of Mice

Tumors of Adrenal Gland of the Rat

Malignant Schwannomas of Mice

Comparative Pathology of Malignant Tumors of the
Soft Tissues and a Few Miscellaneous Tumors of
Several Animal Species

For further information. contact Registry of Exper-
imental Cancers, NCI, NIH, Building 41, Room D31],
Bethesda, MD 20892.

31

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Robert A. Whitney Awarded Charles River Prize

Robert A. Whitney re-
ceived the 12th Charles
River Prize on July 18, 1989
at the 126th annual meeting
of the American Veterin—
ary Medical Association
(AVMA) in Orlando, Flor-
ida. The annual award is
presented by the Charles
River Foundation to a vet-
erinarian selected by the
AVMA in recognition of
distinguished contributions
to the ﬁeld of laboratory
animal science. ' ' Robert A- Whitney

Dr. Whitney is the US. Public Health Service’s
chief veterinary ofﬁcer. He is also director of the
Division of Research Services and acting director of
the Division of Research Resources. National Insti-
tutes of Health, Bethesda. Maryland. Dr. Whitney
formerly served on the ILAR Council and Executive
Committee.

Hale-Stoner Mouse Breeding Stock Available

The Department of Veterinary Resources at the Uni-
versity of Texas Cancer Center. Science Park. is
offering breeding stock of the outbred Hale—Stoner
mouse stock (formerly Yale—Swiss) to interested par-
ties prior to dissolution of the departmental breeding
colony. Current colony health proﬁle. isozyme proﬁle.
or additional information can be obtained from Dr.
Leslie Coghlan. U.T. Science Park. Department of
Veterinary Resources. Route 2. Box lSl-Bl. Bastrop.
TX 78602 (512/321-3991).

Primate Foundation Publishes Chimpanzee
Newsletter

The Primate Foundation of Arizona has begun pub—
lishing The Newsletter. a quarterly publication dedi—
cated entirely to the chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes).
The newsletter will publish information. announce-
ments. anecdotes. and questions that will aid in better
understanding and care of captive chimpanzees. Sub-
missions and correspondence should be sent to Susan
Menkhus and Cindy Knapp. Coeditors. The Newslet—
ter, Primate Foundation of Arizona. PO. Box 86.
Tempe. AZ 85280.

32

 

UK Medical School Establishes Academic
Program in Biomedical Science and Ethics

The University of Birmingham Medical School. United
Kingdom. recently established a Department of
Biomedical Science and Ethics to provide research
and teaching programs. as well as support services to
research scientists. This is the ﬁrst department in the
United Kingdom to deal with both the science and
ethics of laboratory animal use.

Chaired by Dr. David B. Morton. the department’s
research program will be aimed at improving animal
welfare. Primary research interests will be the recog-
nition and assessment of pain. distress. and discomfort
in animals; the use of DNA probes for the detection
of disease and carrier states; and the comparative
assessment of physiological norms in free—ranging and
caged animals (especially rabbits). Other research
interests will be determined by ongoing projects using
animals within the university. Where such projects
create concern for the welfare of animals. alternative
methods will be considered.

A vigorous teaching program will provide opportu-
nities for researchers. undergraduate students. and
others to gain both practical training in laboratory
animal science and an understanding of the complex
ethical issues involved in using animals in research.

For further information. contact D. B. Morton.
Department of Biomedical Science & Ethics. The
Medical School. University of Birmingham. Birming-
ham. BIS 2T]. UK (telephone: 0533—522989. fax: 0533
523013).

Charles River Names Vice President of Primate
Operations

Joe R. Held has been named
Vice President of Primate
Operations for Charles
River Laboratories. a po—
sition in which he will direct
the company’s world-wide
primate business.

Dr. Held has participated
in veterinary medical and
public health activities
around the world. He is
presently the coordinator
of the Veterinary Public
Health Program of the Pan

 

Joe R. Held

American Health Organization. In his new position
with Charles River Laboratories. he will continue to
have his headquarters in the Washington. DC. area.
Dr. Held is a past member of several ILAR committees
and of the ILAR Council and Executive Committee.

ILAR NEWS

 

 

 




  
 

 

 

 

i9ff»20879

 

 

 

 

materials to instructors designing course plans.

or to technicians preparing for AALAS technoL _.
ogist certiﬁcation. Registration at any time- Conefé
tact Dr. D M Stark Box 23A 500E 63d Street

New York NY 1002]

Coming; ' ~ °

March 1990

New York Metropolitan Branch of the American
AssociatiOn for Laboratory Animal Seience;

 

 

December 1989

*7—8 Implementation of Public Health Service 1'
. ijohcy on Laboratory Animals, Honolulu SpOn-r '
(AALAS) offers self~testing exams and coursef;7_’*sored by Ofﬁce fer ProtectiOn from Research
”7.17:“:fR1sks NIH. Contact Ms. Liana Nakmura or Ms. , 7 7
Becky Mak1zuru Universny 0f Hawaii Labo-V.
ratory Animal Serv1ce 2583 The Mall Snyder:
11311 5th F1001» Honolulu HI96822 ‘ ’ :

 

 

 

*5- 7 Biological Effects of Dietary Restrictmn A11
International Conference, sponsored by Internaw

tional Life Sciences Institute (ILSI.

 

ILSI.
20036.

W " '1 a filifContact Mr
Animal Maids Of Human ﬁii'Meaeham Road Schaumburg IL 60196
Viral Diseases: Relevance to Developmental Ther. .
apeutics (UCLA Symposia on Molecular and .
Cellula1 Biology) Keystone Colorado Contact —

UCI A Symp0313 2032 Armacost Avenue LOST" '."*'7'r-Eilvzfi.*13-19 American Assouation for Laboratory An-

‘ 1,1,:fiéiimal Selence (AALAS) 4lst Annual Meeting, Mil-
"IQJ;.f;}7j7jv_1waukee Wlsconsin Contact AALAS 70 Timber .

>1‘31 March-5 April

Angles CA 90025.

 

May 1990 I V

13-18 American Society for Microbiology (ASM) _' 22 24
90th Annual Meeting, Anaheim Califbrnia Con~

tact Richaid A. Bray Meetings Depérgggg; ivRIChdi‘d A. Bray Meetings Department Ameri-
ASM 19lBlStreet NW Washington D .‘j)f*‘-can Society for MiCrObiolOgy, l9l3lStreet. NW '

if;‘f,'{iﬁj,:v:;.‘w.1shmgton DC 20006

10- 13 T issue Culture Association ‘4lst' Annual ’ ’ .
Meeting, HOuSton Contact Program Chairman 1532122094 Joint Meeting Of American Association 1111. 1 7 L.
. Tissue Culture ASSOCIdIlOI} 19110 Montgomery”_'1.."'..._93S'f'fLaboratory Animal Science (AALAS) and lnter—
2'“lgnat1onal Council for? LabOratory Animal Seiencei'v‘ _ .1'
...._.V.:(TICLAS), Buffalo. New York Contact AALAS 2 ’:
.. 70 Tnnber Creek Drive. Suite 5 CordOVa TN’

 

Village Ayenue Suite 300 ffi'arthersburg.MD

 

if}i"f.;;_New11811113.?"   7. _ .3

 

 

    

 

Volume 31, Number 4

 

Fall 1989

luly 1990

"gﬂgy;_'*21 25 Amenean Veterinary MedicalAssomation
*3_"“,§;ﬁy7?;(AVMA) Annual Meeting, San Antonio Texas ’

Robert Schlax AVMA 930 N.

October 1990

Cieek Drwe Suite 5). Cordova TN 38018

Ant1m1croblal Agents and Chemotherapy

1-1;230th Intersc1ence Conference, Atlanta Contact

October 1991

 

 

 

~ v- y :10 15 Federatmn of European Laboratory Am- if.__ ;
:35:maI Seience (FELASA) Fourth Symposmm, Lyon . 7
"‘7“"“France Contact Secretariat Fourth FELASA
'[JLSymposmm BP 109 69210 L Arbresle France "”
National _ , .. . . . .7 , , 7 ., ,.
Center for Toxicological Research“. and National 57;? ;_?j7;,5
Institute on Aging. Contact Ms. Karen Taylor. '35 9
1126 16th Street, NW. Washington;DC]...

 

 

 

33

 

 

 




 

Educational Packets Available from PRIM&R

PRIM&R (Public Responsibility in Medicine and Re—
search) is offering a clearance sale of education packets
consisting of regulatory excerpts and articles from past
conferences. The cost of each packet is $10. Among
the packets are the following:

0 Administration, Education, and the Animal Care
Committee, March 9—10, 1989, Boston

0 Institutional Responsibility Versus Public Account-
ability in Animal Care and Research, March 24—25,
1988, Boston

0 Making Your Animal Care Committee Work: Cur-
rent Issues and Practical Problems, March 16—17, 1987,
Boston

To order or for further information, contact PRIM&R,
132 Boylston Street, 4th Floor, Boston, MA 02116
(617/423—4112).

Introducing INVITTOX: the ERGATT/FRAME In
Vitro Toxicology Data Bank

ERGATT (European Research Group for Alternatives
to Testing) and FRAME (Fund for the Replacement
of Animals in Medical Experiments) have established
INVITTOX, a unique data bank on the use of in vitro
techniques in toxicology and toxicity testing. The
principal aim of INVITTOX is to provide state-of—the—
art. in-depth technical information on the performance
and application of in vitro methods, which is gained
directly from scientists working in this ﬁeld.

Information will also be recorded on the history of
the development of each method and on its current
status with regard to interlaboratory validation, inde-
pendent evaluation, and recognized acceptability for
use in toxicology and toxicity testing. For further
information, contact INVITTOX. 34 Stoney Street,
Nottingham NG1 1NB, UK (telephone: 0602-584740.
fax: 0602-503570.)

Ecological Library in Poland Seeks Books

A foundation called Ecological Library has been es-
tablished in Poznan, Poland to collect books, maga-
zines, and periodicals on a number of topics, including
biology and medicine. The foundation intends to create
sections devoted to industry, energy technology, ref—
erence, computer science. and a special section con-
cerning pets.

The foundation would be grateful to receive any
donations of books and periodicals. For further infor-
mation, contact Fundacja “Biblioteka Ekologiczna,”
skr.poczt. 76, 60-340 Poznan 38, Poland.

34

 

Technician Training Program Announced

Madison Area Technical College, Madison, Wisconsin,
is recruiting students for its new Laboratory Animal
Technician Training Program. Upon completion of the
two—year program, students receive an associate degree
in applied sciences.

The program emphasizes acquisition of skills and
technical information necessary for entry-level posi-
tions in laboratories at those companies and institutions
producing or using laboratory animals. Graduates will
be competent in the humane care, handling. and
restraint of animals; maintenance of supplies and
equipment; and collection and processing of data.
Training will include such routine procedures as col-
lecting and processing samples, performing laboratory
tests, administering anesthetics, assisting with surgical
procedures, and performing surgery under the direction
of a veterinarian or qualiﬁed scientist.

For further information, contact Agribusiness Di-
vision Ofﬁce, Madison Area Technical College, 3550
Anderson Street, Madison, WI 53704 (608/246—6101).

Bibliographies Available on Alternatives to Use
of Live Vertebrates in Research

The fall 1989 bibliography on “Alternatives to the Use
of Live Vertebrates in Biomedical Research and Test—
ing" is now available. Compiled from the National
Library of Medicine’s (NLM) databases, it includes
citations added to the database during the months of
April, May, and June 1989, followed by brief annota-
tions.

The goal of the NLM’s bibliographic search is to
alert researchers to references on in vitro methodology
and other alternatives to the use of live vertebrates,
including methods using invertebrates, lower verte—
brates, microorganisms, cell and tissue culture sys—
tems, and mathematical approaches. For situations
where intact vertebrates must be used, citations are
also provided on methods that reduce the number of
animals required in a procedure or that reﬁne a pro-
cedure so that it produces less pain and distress.

The fall 1989 bibliography was compiled by NLM-
supported staff at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
To receive a complimentary copy and to be placed on
the mailing list for future quarterly bibliographies.
contact Dr. Po-Yung Lu, Toxicology Information Re—
sponse Center, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, PO.
Box 2008, MS6050, Oak Ridge, TN 37831—6050 (615/
574-7587).

Questions or comments about the bibliographies
should be directed to Dr. George J. Cosmides, National
Library of Medicine, Bethesda, MD 20894 (301/496—
3147).

lLAR NEWS

 

 

 




 

 

Italian Group for Laboratory Animal Science
Formed

Italian researchers from public and private research
institutions belonging to the Society for Applied Phar-
macological Sciences have set up the Italian Group
for Laboratory Animal Science (GISAL). The group’s
practical aims are to bring Italy into line with other
developed countries with regard to the use of animals
in biomedical research, to encourage application of
international regulations concerning the use of animals
in experiments, to offer educational opportunities for
biomedical students and researchers in Italy, and to
disseminate information on laboratory animal science
through pertinent reference lists.

GISAL is developing an educational program through
which it hopes to reduce the use of animals by
optimizing experimental conditions and searching for
valid alternative methods. In conjunction with the
G. A. Pfeiffer Memorial Library in Milano, Italy,
GISAL also has developed a bibliography that includes
books, monographs, and pamphlets on animal care.

To order the bibliography or for further information
on GISAL, contact Dr. Amalia Guaitani, Coordinator,
GISAL, Society for Applied Pharmacological Sci-
ences, Casclla Postale 10741, 20110 Milano, Italy.

SCAW Names New Director

Lee Krulisch was appointed executive director of the
Scientists Center for Animal Welfare (SCAW) in March
1989 after the resignation of Gerald Schneider. Ms.
Krulisch has been active in the rapid development of
SCAW during the past four years. She has held the
administrative positions of coordinator and assistant
to the executive director and has specialized in program
planning and development.

Volume 31, Number 4 Fall 1989

According to Ms. Krulisch, “SCAW has grown to
meet the demands of researchers for information about
current issues of research animal well—being.” She
sees SCAW as “a source of information and a center
of learning and education for researchers worldwide.
Through conferences, seminars, and publications.
SCAW will endeavor to meet the needs of scientists,
research administrators, and educators in reﬁning,
reducing, and replacing animals presently being used
in the areas of biomedical, agricultural, and wildlife
research.” SCAW’s ofﬁces are located at 4805 St.
Elmo Avenue, Bethesda, MD 20814.

SCAW Speakers’ Bureau

The Scientists Center for Animal Welfare (SCAW) can
provide speakers on the following topics (subject to
approval of speakers and, in some cases, availability
of honoraria and expense reimbursements):

Federal Laws Covering Research with Animals

Facility Management and Care of Laboratory and
Experimental Animals

Bioethics

Research Using Wildlife

Animal Behavior

The Case for Humane Vivisection

Biomedical and Other Research Requiring Use of
Animals

Noninvasive Animal Models Development and Re—
ﬁnement of Existing Models

Operation of Institutional Animal Care and Use
Committees

Animal Protocol Review Issues

Animal Suffering

On request, SCAW will ﬁnd speakers on other
relevant topics not listed above. For further informa-
tion, contact SCAW, 4805 St. Elmo Avenue, Bethesda,
MD 20814 (202/654—6390).

35

 




 

 

 

 

Publications Available

Single copies of the following publications are available
without charge from the Institute of Laboratory Animal
Resources, National Research Council, 2101 Constitution
Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20418.

Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. Rev.
1985. (Obtain multiple copies from the Government Print-
ing Ofﬁce. Cost is $2.25 per copy; 25% discount for orders
of 100 or more. Contact Superintendent of Documents.
US. Government Printing Ofﬁce, Washington, DC 20402.
Telephone orders accepted when charged to MasterCard
or Visa at 202/783-3238. Refer to pub. no. 017—040—
00498—2.) -

Animal Models of Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases.
1976 '

Animal Technician Certiﬁcation Program. AALAS pub.
83—1. Rev. 1986

Control of Diets in Laboratory Animal Experimentation. 1978

Future of Animals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Research,
Development, Education, and Testing. 1977

Guide to Infectious Diseases of Guinea Pigs, Gerbils, Hamsters,
and Rabbits. 1974

Histologic Typing of Liver Tumors of the Rat. 1980

Holders of Inbred and Mutant Mice in the United States.
Including the Rules for Standardized Nomenclature of
Inbred Strains, Gene Loci. and Biochemical Variants.
1984

International Standardized Nomenclature for Outbred Stocks
of Laboratory Animals. ICLA bull. no. 30. 1972

Laboratory Animal Management—Cats. 1978

Laboratory Animal Management: Genetics. 1979

Laboratory Animal Management: Nonhuman Primates. 1980

Laboratory Animal Management: Rodents. 1977

Laboratory Animal Management: Wild Birds. 1977

Laboratory Animal Medicine: Guidelines for Education and
Training. 1979

Laboratory Animal Records. 1979

Long-Term Holding of Laboratory Rodents. 1976

Principles and Guidelines for the Use of Animals in Precollege
Education. 1989

Second International Registry of Animal Models of Thrombosis
and Hemorrhagic Diseases. 1981

Supplement to Animals for Research—A Directory of Sources.
10th ed. 1980

Third International Registry of Animal Models of Thrombosis
and Hemorrhagic Diseases. 1988

Today’s Veterinarian. AVMA brochure. Updated 1985

Your Career in Animal Technology. AVMA brochure. Up-
dated 1984

The following publications (sponsored by ILAR, Board on
Agriculture. or Commission on Life Sciences). for which
there is a charge. may be ordered from the National Academy
Press. 2101 Constitution Avenue. NW. Washington. DC

36

 

20418. All orders must be prepaid by check, money order,
or credit card unless accompanied by a bona ﬁde purchase
order. Publisher pays shipping and handling charges only on
prepaid orders. Purchase orders of $20 or less must be
accompanied by a check or money order. Quantity discounts
are as follows: 5—24 copies of one title—15%; 25—499 c0pies
of one title—25%. To be eligible for a discount, all copies
must be shipped and billed to one address. Prices apply only
in the United States, Canada, and Mexico and are subject
to change without notice.

Amphibians. Guidelines for the Breeding, Care, and Man-
agement of Laboratory Animals. 1984. $16 (photocopy of
original, bound in paper cover). ISBN 0—309-02210-X

Animals as Monitors of Environmental Pollutants. 1979.
$21.95. ISBN 0—309-02871—X

Animals for Research—A Directory of Sources. 10th ed. 1979.
$7.75. ISBN 0—309-02920-1. (Supplement to Animals for
Researeh——A Directory ofSourees. 10th Cd. is included
with each copy purchased.)

Immunodeﬁcient Rodents: A Guide to their Immunobiology,
Husbandry, and Use. 1989. $29.95. ISBN 0—309—03796-4
Laboratory Animal Housing. 1979. $13.50. ISBN 0-309-

02790—X

Laboratory Animal Medical Subject Headings. 1972. $19
(photocopy of original. bound in paper cover). ISBN
0—309—01933—8

Mammalian Models for Research on Aging. 1981. $19.95.
ISBN 0-309—03094—3

Nutrient Requirements of Cats. Rev. ed. 1986. $9.50. ISBN
0—309-03682-8

Nutrient Requirements of Dairy Cattle. 6th rev. ed. 1989
update. $14.95. ISBN 0-309—03826-X

Nutrient Requirements of Dogs. Rev. 1985. $10.25. ISBN
0-309—03496—5

Nutrient Requirements of Laboratory Animals. 3d rev. ed.
1978. $10.95. ISBN 0-309-02767-5

Nutrient Requirements of Nonhuman Primates. 1978. $6.50.
ISBN 0-309—02786—1

Nutrient Requirements of Poultry. 8th rev. ed. 1984. $10.25.
ISBN 0—309-03486-8

Nutrient Requirements of Rabbits. 2d rev. ed. 1977. $5.95.
ISBN 0~309~02607—5

Nutrient Requirements of Swine. 9th rev. ed. 1988. $14.95.
ISBN 0-309—03779-4

Use of Laboratory Animals in Biomedical and Behavioral
Research. 1988. $11.95. ISBN 0—309-03839—1

The following ILAR publications are available from the
National Technical Information Service. 5282 Port Royal
Road, Springﬁeld. VA 22161. Add $3 to each price for
shipping and handling.

National Survey of Laboratory Animal Facilities and Re—
sources, Fiscal Year 1978. 1980. Paper cover $11.50.
microﬁche $4.50. Accession no. PB83 181347

Techniques for the Study of Primate Population Ecology. 1981 .
Paper cover $24.95. Accession no. PB82 183120

ILAR NEWS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

New Books

Veterinary Endocrinology and Reproduction, 4th ed—L. E,
McDonald and M. H. Pineda, eds. A basic text for veterinary
and animal science students. Includes concise and practical
presentations on endocrinology and reproduction of farm
and companion animals. Fourth edition is revised with
updated information on reproduction of cattle, horses, swine,
sheep, dogs, and cats and function of the thyroid and
pituitary. Lea & Febiger, Philadelphia, 1989, 571 pp., illus.,
hardcover, $48.50, ISBN 0—812—11134-6.

Systemic Pathology of Fish: A Text and Atlas of Comparative
Tissue Responses in Diseases of Teleosts——H. W. Ferguson.
Compares the responses ofﬁsh tissues with those of mammals
and highlights the differences. Not an exhaustive list of
etiologies, rather an illustration of some mechanisms of
disease and pathophysiology in ﬁsh organs and tissues.
Aimed primarily at diagnostic pathologists whose interest is
the disease-causing agent. Examples of diseases in farmed.
wild, and aquarium ﬁsh are presented. Iowa State University
Press, Ames. 1989, 276 pp., illus., hardcover, $54.95, ISBN
0-813-80147-8.

Science and Animals: Addressing Contemporary Issues—H.
N. Guttman. J. A. Mench, and R. C. Simmonds, eds. Based
on the proceedings of an international conference held at
Scientists Center for Animal Welfare (SCAW), Washington,
DC. in June 1988. Contains information on current issues
of animal experimentation at the institutional level, including
well-being and ethics. environmental considerations for fos—
tering animal well-being, animal care and use committees
(IACUCs). industry. agriculture, and community and lay
members of lACUCs. SCAW. 1989. paper COVer, $25. To
order, write SCAW. 4805 St. Elmo Avenue, Bethesda. MD
20814.

Housing, Care and Psychological Well-being of Captive and

Laboratory Primates—E. F. Segal, ed. A multiauthored book,

on housing. care, and psychological well-being of captive
and laboratory primates. Covers various aspects of the
meaning of “psychological well—being,” details the mainte-
nance of primates in naturalistic environments, and describes
methods for providing environmental enrichment. Contri-
butions from 50 authorities in the ﬁeld. Noyes, Park Ridge.
New Jersey, 1989. 484 pp., illus., hardcover, $64, ISBN
0-815-51201—5.

Developmental Biology of the Axolotl—J. B. Armstrong and
G. M. Malacinski, eds. A short. comprehensive survey of

basic developmental research using the axolotl, or Mexican
salamander, which is used in a wide range of biological
research, from the study of the regulation of gene expression
to pattern formation, neurobiology, and regeneration. In-
cludes practical information for rearing and maintaining the
axolotl in a laboratory environment. Oxford University
Press, New York, 1989, 320 pp., illus., hardcover, $65,
ISBN 0—195-05073-8.

The Molecular Biology of the Major Histocompatibility Com-
plex of Domestic Animal Species—C. M. Warner, M. F.
Rothschild, and S. J. Lamont, eds. Contains the complete
text of plenary talks and abstracts presented during the
October 23—24, 1987 international conference at Iowa State
University. Focuses on gene cloning and molecular analysis
of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). Articles
present the latest knowledge on the MHC of four domestic
species: pig, cow, horse, and chicken. Abstracts also present
information on four other species: dog, cat, sheep. and
pheasant. Iowa State University Press. Ames, 1989. 202 pp..
illus., hardcover, $24.95, ISBN 0—813-80304-7,

Handbook: Animal Models of Human Disease, 17th Fascicle—
Registry of Comparative Pathology, Armed FOrces Institute
of Pathology (AFIP). Sixteen new studies reprinted from the
Comparative Pathology Bulletin and the American Journal
of Pathology. Includes supplemental updates of models
published earlier, a cumulative subject index. and an author
index. Cost is $7 unbound or $10 in a three—ring vinyl binder
that holds three fascicles. To order contact Registry of
Comparative Pathology, AFIP, Washington. DC 20306.

Animal Consciousness—D. Radner and M. Radner. Confronts
the prejudices against understanding the animal mind and
behavior and challenges the doctrine that the mental pro—
cesses of animals cannot be given a cognitive description.
Traces the historical development of the debate on animal
consciousness and concludes with an exploration of the
ethical implications oftaking animal consciousness seriously.
Prometheus Books, Buffalo. New York. 1989. 253 pp..
$39.95, hardcover, ISBN 0-879-75459—1.

The Unheeded Cry: Animal Consciousness, Animal Pain and
Science——B. E. Rollin. Fifth in the series Studies in Bioethics.
which is aimed at introducing more rigorous argument into
the discussion of ethical issues in medicine and the biological
sciences. This book examines the position of science in the
20th century regarding whether animals can think, feel, and
suffer and how that position has affected the treatment of
animals. Traces the development of changing attitudes to-
ward animals and shows how growing social concern about
the way animals are treated is affecting science. Foreword
by Jane Goodall. Oxford University Press. New York,
308 pp.. $29.95, hardcover, ISBN 0-192-17765-6.

 




ILAR NEWS

INSTITUTE OF LABORATORY ANIMAL RESOURCES

 

 

2101 Constitution Avenue, NW
Washington, DC 20418

j Address Correction Req‘z‘i‘ested
" [:1 Remove from list '
1:] Change as shown 1 " .
. Detach corrected address labei and
[mall to ILAR at: address above

. V

 

 

 

 

Non Proﬁt Org.
US. Postage
PAID
Washington. DC
Permit 7765

 

 

 




News etter

QUARTERLY

 

VOLUME 11, NUMBER 3

FALL 1989

BETHESDA, MARYLAND

 

Changes in the Animal
Welfare Act (AWA)

The following highlights are drawn
from comments made by Dale
Schwindaman, DVM (Regulatory
Enforcement and Animal Care,
APHIS/USDA) at the Annual
Seminar of the National Capital
Area Branch, American Associa-
tion for Laboratory Animal
Science and editorial review of the
Final Rules for Part 1 of the
Animal Welfare Act (AWA) (9
CFR Part 1 as published in the
Federal Register, Vol. 54, No. 168,
August 31, 1989 pp. 36112-36163)
and Dr. Schwindaman’s brief com-
ments about Part 3—Standards.
Review of Part 2 Subpart C (in-
cludes all material concerning
research facilities) will be reviewed
in the Winter Newsletter.

Part l—Definition of Terms:
This is a final rule, effective date
October 30, 1989. It provides
definitions of terms used in the
regulations in 9 CFR, Part 2 and
the Standards in 9 CFR, Part 3.
Terms not discussed in this sum-
mary are either (a) not revised,
replaced or added to the list of
definitions published in March,
1989 or (b) are not of special
interest.

0 Coverage of rodents by the
AWA: APHIS does not have
the authority to regulate
laboratory-bred rats and mice.
Wild rats and mice are
covered.

0 Definition of “animal”: The
statutory definition of

“animal” includes any warm- .

blooded animal other than

those specifically excepted
from the statute [that is the
genera Rattus (rats) and Mus

(mice) bred for use in research].

It includes guinea pigs and

hamsters as well as kangaroo

rats and other genera.

— Note that research involv-
ing animals studied in their
natural habitats and with-
out any invasive procedure
and without harming or
materially altering their
behavior is exempt from
IACUC review and inspec-
tion (as specified in Part 2,
Subpart C).

0 Coverage of Farm Animals by
the AWA: APHIS has the
authority under the AWA to

Continued on page 2

 

Inside This Issue

Changes in the Animal
Welfare Act (AWA) ............... 1

Physiological Perspectives on
N onhuman Primate Well-being
by Robert Sapolsky, Ph.D .......... 4

ACUC Section ................... 8
IUCN Policy Statement ........... 8
Legislative Update ............... 10
Upcoming Meetings .............. 12

Current Policies on the
Classical “LD50” ................. 12

Reviews ......................... 14

 

 

 

Report on December
SCAW Conference

The next issue of the SCAW
Newsletter will contain a report of
the two SCAW conferences held in
the Research Triangle Park area
on December 7 and 8. Both
meetings, “Effective Animal Care

and Use Committees” and “Guide-

lines for the Well-being ‘of Rodents
in Research,” were very infor-
mative. The proceedings of the
conference about rodents will be

published by SCAW.

 

 

Bill Introduced to Include
Rats, Mice and Birds in
Animal Welfare Act

Rep. Edolphus Towns (D-NY) in-
troduced a Bill (HR27 66) that
would amend the Animal Welfare
Act to include rats, mice and birds
under the definition of animals us-
ed by the Act. The proposed
amendment had nine co-sponsors
when introduced on June 27th and
has been referred to the House
Committee on Agriculture. The
major concern posed by this
amendment is that the regulatory
and enforcement agency, the
Animal and Plant Health Inspec-
tion Service, USDA, would receive
no additional funds for what would
represent a large expansion of its
duties. The additional cost has
been estimated at $10M.

 




2

Board of Trustees

Richard J. Traystman, PhD

President

Professor and Director of

Anesthes. & Critical Care Medicine
Research Laboratories

The Johns Hopkins Hospital

Baltimore, Maryland

Andrew N. Rowan, PhD

Vice President

Director

Tuffs Center for Animals and Public Policy
School of Veterinary Medicine

Tufts University

North Grafton, Massachusetts

Joy A. Mench, DPhil
Secretary

Assistant Professor
Department of Poultry Science
University of Maryland
College Park, Maryland

Richard A. Murphy, PhD

Treasurer

Professor, Department of Physiology
University of Virginia

School of Medicine

Charlottesville, Virginia

Jeanne Altmann, PhD

Research Curator & Associate Curator
of Primates for the Chicago
Zoological Society, and

Associate Professor

Department of Biology

University of Chicago

Chicago, Illinois

Sherman Bloom, MD

Past President

Chairman, Department of Pathology
University of Mississippi Medical Center
Jackson, Mississippi

J. Fredrick Cornhill, DPhil

Director and Chair, Biomedical
Engineering Center, and

Professor of Surgery

The Ohio State University

Columbus, Ohio

Steven M. Niemi, DVM

Vice President

Operations

TSI Mason Research Institute
Worcester, Massachusetts

J. Wesley Robb, PhD

Adjunct Professor of Clinical Medicine
School of Medicine

University of Southern California, and
Consultant in Biomedical Ethics

USC Medical Center

Los Angeles, California

Robert T. Smeby, PhD
Professor Emeritus

Staff, Research Division
Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Cleveland, Ohio

Lee Krulisch
Executive Director

AWA continued from page 1
regulate farm animals used
for biomedical research and
testing BUT DOES NOT
have the authority to regulate
farm animals used or intended
for use as food or fiber or
when used or intended for use
in agricultural research (e.g.,
improving animal nutrition,
breeding, management or pro-
duction efficiency, or for im-
proving the quality of food or
fiber).
— APHIS is considering exer-
cising their authority to en-
force the regulations with

 

SCAW Newsletter

regard to farm animals in
biomedical research. If it
does, an advance notice of
proposed rulemaking will
be published in the Federal
Register.

0 Animal Care and Use Proce-
dure (previously called “pro-
tocol”): To harmonize with
PHS Policy this term is chang-
ed to “activity” and is defined
to mean “those elements of
research, testing, or teaching
procedures that involve care
and use of animals” and is
statutorily limited in scope in
that it does NOT involve the

 

 

Guidelines on Immunological Procedures

The following guidelines have been
accepted by the Canadian Council
on Animal Care (CCAC) and have
been distributed to users through-
out Canada for their input and edi-
torial comment. Regulation of ani-
mal care in Canada is by a volun-
tary control system in which input
from users inﬂuences the content of
various guidance documents.

SCA W Newsletter readers who
wish to comment on the I mmuno-
logical Procedures that follow may
address their comments to:

Dr. H.C. Rowsell
Executive Director
Canadian Council on Animal Care
1000-151 Slater
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
KIP 5H3

When beginning an immunization,
choosing the correct adj uvant may
be difficult. As a general sugges-
tion, Freund’s Complete Adj uvant
(FCA) may be used when only
small amounts of soluble immuno-
gens are available. If large amounts
of particulate, or highly immuno-
genic immunogens are available,
other adj uvants should be
considered.

Freund’s Complete Adjuvant
must never be given either intra-
venously for purposes of immuniza-

tion or in repeated doses. It should
be used only for the most proble-
matic immunization situations.

Intradermal Route

Sound scientific evidence and justi-
fication must be available if the
intradermal route of injection of
FCA is to be used, because of the
frequent ulceration and infections
that occur at the site of such injec-
tions. The use of the intradermal
route may be justified only when
the purpose is to induce cell-
mediated response.

In rabbits, volumes of inocula in
excess of 0.05 mls (50 microliters)
per site should not be used. The
location of the site should be
carefully selected so as to prevent
mutilation. A minimal number of
sites should be selected, and the
distance between each site be max-
imized.

The intradermal route is inap-
propriate in the mouse, nor is it
recommended in other rodents.
FCA must not be used in horses.

Subcutaneous Route

In guinea pigs, 0.4 ml (400 micro-
liters) of inoculum is injected sub-
cutaneously dorsally in the neck. In
rabbits, the site of choice is the

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Volume 11, Number 3

evaluation of the design,
outlines, guidelines, and scien-
tific merit of proposed
research. It does cover how the
research will treat or affect an
animal, the condition of an
animal, and the circumstances
under which an animal is
maintained

0 Committee: The best known
synonym is the Institutional
Animal Care and Use Com-
mittee (IACUC). A facility
can identify its Committee by
any name that it chooses. One
change in Committee struc-
ture is to allow other veteri-

narians (instead of the attend-
ing veterinarian) to serve on
the Committee.

0 Euthanasia; The definition is
revised to mean the humane
destruction of an animal ac-
complished by a method that
produces rapid unconscious-
ness and subsequent death
without evidence of pain or
distress, or a method that
utilizes anesthesia produced
by an agent that causes pain-
less loss of consciousness and
subsequent death. Methods of
euthanasia consistent with
this definition may be used.

0 Housing Facility: These are
places where research animals
live and specifically exclude
natural habitats where
animals are not involved in in-
vasive procedures. Housing
facilities are living quarters
that are inspected under the
AWA.

— Study Areas is a new term
defined as any building,
room area, enclosure, or
other containment outside
of the core facility or cen-
trally designated or man-
aged area in which animals

Continued on page 4

 

inter-scapular region (between the '
shoulder blades) on the dorsum
(back), administering 0.25 ml of in-
oculum (250 microliters) per site. In
the mouse, 0.1 ml (100 microliters)
is administered in the neck region.

Intramuscular Route

In rabbits, intramusculaar inj ec-
tions of FCA may be administered
in the Bicepts femoris (thigh) mus-
cle; 0.5 ml (500 microliters) in one

Intraperitoneal Route

The intraperitoneal route for inj ec-
tion of FCA is permitted in mice
only; 0.1 ml (100 microliters).
Intravenous Route

Freund’s Complete Adjuvant is not

to be inj ected intravenously.

Footpad Injection

Footpad injection is not permissible
in the rabbit.

 

site. Intramuscular injection of
FCA is not recommended for small
rodents and mice. For large
rodents, 0.1 ml (100 microliters) in
the Bicepts femoris muscle is possi-
ble. In large animals, the in-
tramuscular route is acceptable 1
ml (1000 microliters) per site and
not more than two sites in the
Biceps femoris muscle.

Footpad injection of CFA in
rodents is not permissible, unless
there is scientific proof indicating
this route is essential as a specific
requirement for the production of
antibodies. In rats and mice, only
one footpad may be used. Animals
should be maintained on soft bed-
ding and not on Wire-bottomed
cages.

In avian species, the common
routes of injection of FCA are in-
tramuscular and subcutaneous.

Production of Monoclonal
Antibodies in the Mouse

Standard Operating Procedures
(SOPs) for the production of
monoclonal antibodies in the mouse
are shown below: More information
on this is available in ILAR News,
Vol 31, No. 1, p. 7.

Observation of Injection Sites

The injection site must be observed
by the investigator or his/ her desig-
nate, a minimum of three times per
week, for four weeks after each
injection.

If a lesion(s) develops at the in-
jection site, it must be reported
through established channels, e.g.,
the animal services supervisor or
the animal services veterinarian,
and the animal must receive ap-
propriate veterinary treatment.
Such lesions must be inspected at
least three times per week by the
investigator or his/her designate,
until all lesions are healed.

Hybridomas

The most important aspect of
hybridoma production is the utiliza-
tion of skilled, competent, technical
staff experienced in the handling of
Continued on page 6

 

 




4

AWA continued from page 3
are housed for more than 12
hours. Essentially, these
facilities must be maintain-
ed at a standard parallel to
those for core environment,
including temperature and
humidity (essentially, levels
consistent with those in the
NIH Guide for the Care
and Use of Laboratory
Animals are acceptable).
— Outdoor Housing Facility:
It is not appropriate to in-
clude temperature require-
ments in the definition sec-
] tion.
I

— Primary Enclosure: The
same requirements hold for
any primary enclosures, re-
gardless of whether it is
used on a short- or long-
term basis.

0 Institutional Official: The in-
dividual at a research facility
who is authorized to legally
commit on behalf of the re-
search facility that the AWA
requirements of 9 CRF Parts
1, 2, and 3 will be met.

0 Major Operative Experiment:
The AWA prohibits using an
animal for a second major
operative procedure.

 

SCAW Newsletter

0 Painful Procedure: Painful
procedure is defined in terms
of human standards of pain
(PHS Policy does this too). A
procedure in which pain is
relieved is still considered to
be a painful procedure. The at-
tending veterinarian must be
involved in planning any pain-
ful procedures.

0 Farm Animal: Any domestic
species of cattle, sheep, swine,
goats, llamas, or horses nor-
mally and historically raised
on farms in the United States
and used or intended for use
as food or fiber, or for improv-

 

Physiological Perspectives on
N onhuman Primate Well-being
Robert Sapolsky, PhD. *

(Edited from a transcript of a
presentation at a SCA W con-
ference, “Well-being of Nonhuman
Primates in Research. ”)

The theme of providing psycho-
logical well—being for nonhuman
primates recurred in several
presentations at this conference.
However, we all admit that we
haven’t a clue on how to ac-
complish it. We’re cautious about
an overreliance on design re-
quirements— the notion that we,
as complex primates, when dealing
with other complex primates, can
reduce their world and our interac-
tions with them to a cage require-
ment, a number, the amount of
space, etc. This is too simplistic.
We know intuitively that we need

performance design, i.e., endpoints.

But we also know that these are
complicated issues, and we’re not
sure how to determine when an
animal is performing well.

I can’t advise how to improve
the psychological well-being of a
primate because the answer is not
clear. The answer is very much
reliant on the individual animal
and its species. As a stress

physiologist I can be fairly sure
when an animal is not in a state of
psychological well-being because
the physiological systems I study
are extremely responsive to stress:
0 stress as an effect on
homeostasis
0 stress as an insult to an
animal or to a person
0 stress due to the anticipation
of an insult to an animal or
person.

There probably are a dozen differ-
ent hormones whose levels in the
bloodstream are increased in
response to stress-physical stress
or emotional stress. Probably
another dozen hormones or so are
decreased in the bloodstream as a
result of stress. The repetitive
theme at this conference is that no
single measure is very good.
Rather, a group of measures are re-
quired to tell you whether an
animal (or person) is in a state of
distress.

One of the main groups of hor-
mones that must be considered in
evaluating stress is the glucocorti-
coids since these adrenal steroid

hormones are secreted in response
to stress. A key glucocorticoid that
occurs in humans as well as in
nonhuman primates is cortisol
(hydrocortisone). Cortisol secretion
is exquisitely sensitive to stress. It
is part of a classic neuroendocrine
cascade where stress is perceived
at the level of the brain, leading
within seconds to secretion from
the hypothalamus of a hormone
called corticotropin releasing factor
(CRF), and a number of other hor-
mones. These hormones collectively
act at the level of the pituitary.
Within about 15 seconds they trig-
ger the release of adrenocor-
ticotropic hormone (ACTH), which
rapidly stimulates the adrenal
glands to secrete hydrocortisone.
Corticosterone is the variant of the
adrenal hormones secreted by ro-
dent species.

Glucocorticoids were recognized
as major stress hormones in the
classic study that delineated this
stress system. Other hormones
that we’re probably most familiar
with are sympathetic nervous
system stimulators: catechol-
amines, adrenalin, and noradren-
aline. Collectively the catechOla—
mines and glucocorticoids account
for about 80% of the hormonal
response of your body during a
stressful emergency.

The classic studies that describe

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Volume 11, Number 3

ing animal nutrition, breeding,
management, or production
efficiency or for improving the
quality of food or fiber. This
term also includes animals
such as rabbits, mink and
chincilla when they are used
solely for meat and fur and
animals such as horses and
llamas when used solely as
work and pack animals.

Part 3—Standards is dependent
upon Parts 1 and 2. Because Part
3 of the Initial Proposed Rule trig-
gered about 23,000 comments. It
is expected that finalization of

Part 3 will take in excess of one
year. Analysis of the 23,000 com-
ments began October 2. The por-
tions of Part 3 relating to well-
being of nonhuman primates and
to housing and exercise of canines
will be reproposed and followed by
a comment period of at least 120
days.

 

 

Newsletter Editor, Helene N.
Guttman, Ph.D., has been ap-
pointed to the newly-created
position of Animal Care Coor-
dinator, National Program
Staff in the Agricultural
Research Service (ARS)/
USDA. In this capacity, Dr.
Guttman also represents ARS
on the Interagency Research
Animal committee and is
Chair of the Beltsville Area
Research Animal Committee.

 

 

 

 

hormonal response to stress in-
volved physical stressors. Release
of these hormones is very respon-
sive to physical stress. What
became apparent more recently is
that these hormones are also ex-
quisitely responsive to psychologi-
cal stress. A human secretes the
same amount of cortisol in
response to major surgery or while
preparing for an examination.
Medical students (a classic popula-
tion that’s studied) preparing for
exams show major cortisol secre-
tion. Other studies show that air
traffic controllers during their
work period, parachutists practic-
ing for their first parachute jump,
' and nervous public speakers all ex-
perience elevated cortisol levels.
Likewise, nonhuman primates ex-
hibit elevated cortisol levels in an-
ticipation of physical stress or in
anticipation that psychological/
physiological stress is about to
come.

Stress and Social Rank in

N onhuman Primates

I study adrenocortical function in
relation to a change in social rank.
The stress system is stimulated by
any change in rank (increase or
decline in social rank). For exam-
ple, the glucocorticoid levels of a
male nonhuman primate trans-
ferred into a new troop rises

dramatically. Among rodent
species, as subtle an action as put-
ting a rat into a new cage will
stimulate the stress system. The
smell of a novel animal will also
cause the stress system of rats to
respond. Loss of control, loss of
predictability, or a perception that
events are getting worse rather
than better all initiate stress.

Classic studies show that the
physiological response will vary
enormously depending upon ability
to predict an impending adversity,
its intensity, and whether the sub-
ject can control it. Twenty-five
shocks an hour today compared
with 10 or 50 shocks an hour yes-
terday, elicit different responses.
For example if a human or a
nonhuman primate is going from
50 shocks yesterday to 25 today,
his life is getting a whole lot bet-
ter and the stress system is not
activated. Things are getting
much worse for the individual go-
ing from 10 to 25 shocks per hour
and this is an extremely potent
stimulant of the stress system.
Measuring stress hormone respon-
ses is a very good way of telling
whether or not an animal is in a
psychological state of well-being.

I would argue if you are secret-
ing a lot of stress hormones on a
regular basis (e. g., weeks or
months) you are not healthy. In

addition to compromising psycho-
logical well-being, physical well-
being also will be affected because
this system is designed for coping
with short-term physical stress. On
the other hand, if you are a gazelle
that has just had your stomach
ripped open by a lion and you
have to function in the next 30
minutes in order to escape, or if
you were that attacking lion who
is half starved to death, you have
to be able to chase down that
gazelle.

The stress-related hormones
mobilize energy. They increase
glucose in the bloodstream to be
transported to those muscles that
need to be mobilized. Stress hor-
mones increase cardiovascular tone
and blood pressure while reducing
long-term building projects-things
like reproduction, growth, diges-
tion, and the immune system. The
biological logic of turning off long—
term projects is that a disaster
needs concentration of action such
as running for your life. There is
no time to ovulate, no time to
grow antlers. If you survive, there
will be plenty of time to do non-
emergency activities. Only the ab-
solute essentials are done. This
stress system makes perfect sense
for that gazelle or that lion.
However, persistent activation of

Continued on page 6

 




6

Guidelines continued from page 3

the species being used and in the
conduct of the technique. They
must be knowledgeable and capable
of recognizing signs of distress in
all injected animals, and be respon-
sible for taking action when
necessary.

Example of Acceptable Standard
Operating Procedure for the
Production of Monoclonal An-
tibodies in the Mouse“

a. Primary immunization
0 the mouse is immunized with

antigen emulsified in FCA:
mix 0.1 ml of antigen with
CFA (equal parts)
0.1 ml :0.1 ml
0 inject 0.05 ml IP into the
mouse.
0 harvest the spleen, after
euthanasia, at the appropriate
time.

b. Pristane priming

0 inject 0.5 ml of pristane IP, 14
days before the injection of the
hybridoma.

c. Injection of the hybridoma
0 inject approximately 320>< 104
cells per mouse, IP.

 

SCAW Newsletter

0 mice will begin to produce
ascites ﬂuid approximately 4
to 8 days after injection and
will continue to do so for ap-
proximately 6 days.

0 The ascites ﬂuid is collected
by tapping the abdomen of the
mouse using a 22 g needle and
allowing the ﬂuid to drain into
a test tube through the hub of
the needle. (A small amount of
heparin may be added to the
collection tube to prevent clot-
ting—according to investigator
instructions.)

0 ascites ﬂuid must be collected
upon the recognition of ab-

 

Physiological Perspectives
Continued from page 5

the stress system invites stress-
related pathology and stress-
related disease. If you increase
your blood pressure to spring
across the Savannah, that’s not
pathologic. However, chronically
increased blood pressure can cause
stress-induced hypertension. Thus,
if an animal is under chronic
stress, then by definition that
animal cannot be in a state of
psychological well-being. An
animal is at risk for stress-related

disease if psychological stress per-
sists.

Physiological Framework for
Evaluating the Proposed
Part Three Animal Welfare
Act Rules

If we accept the hormonal-
physiological framework I just
described as a rational way to
assess whether an animal is in the
state of psychological well-being,
what do some of the proposed
rules (Part Three of the Animal
Welfare Act) tell us to do? A
theme in these regulations is the
intuitive sense that an animal in a
social group is better off than an
isolated animal. Intuitively this
makes sense. An animal in isola-
tion is nowhere near his normal
state. What does social housing do

to some of the physiological
measurements associated with the
stress system? It turns out that
some of the answers are counter-
intuitive.

Consequences of Moving
Singly-housed, Isolated
N onhuman Primates to
Group Housing

One characteristic response is a
great endocrine stress response to
group housing. Data from
Seymour Levine of Stanford show,
in general, robust increases in
blood cortisol levels in squirrel
monkeys moved into a social
group. There also is a great deal of
individual variability. Snowdon’s
data (The Well-being of Nonhuman
Primates in Research, 1989, in
press) clearly show that all
nonhuman primates across species
do not respond equally. In addi-
tion, there are very strong differ-
ences within a species. Who the
nonhuman primate is with regard
to the dynamics of the group
determines how the individual
responds. In general, group forma-
tion is a highly stressful event for
a pnmate.

Stress Markers During

Group Formation

What are the markers of stress
associated with group formation?

Cortisol levels go up. Blood pres-
sure goes up for long periods.
Reproductive hormones and repro-
ductive function are transiently
suppressed. The immune system is
transiently compromised, and
cholesterol levels are changed in
an adverse direction. Atheroscler-
osis becomes more common and
plaque deposition increases. In
fact the early part of group forma-
tion is an extremely stressful
period for a nonhuman primate as
shown by behavioral and physio-
logical measurements. Rates of ag-
gression and injury go up. These
behavioral events are recognized
immediately by students who
study primates in the natural set-
ting. The formation of the stable
dominance relationship with
another primate takes a long time.
It is a complex process, and
reﬂects the fact that these are ex-
tremely intelligent, subtle animals.
The literature shows that, once
you take into account the variabili-
ty between species, formation of
groups of captive nonhuman
primates from formally singly-
housed animals turns on many of
the markers of stress-related
arousal. It takes 12 to 15 months
for these stress markers to return
to a stable setting. Many studies
showed that 12 to 15 months are
required for behavioral indices to

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Volume 11, Number 3

dominal distension. Sedation
may be a useful adjunct to
ascites ﬂuid collection.
ascites ﬂuid may be collected
for as long as the mouse is not
experiencing pain or distress,
is in good body condition, and
does not show signs of debili-
tation or complication from
the procedure.
0 upon the recognition of loss of
condition, pain or distress, the

mouse must be euthanized.
d. Animal model

0 often the male BALB/c mouse
of 43 to 78 days of age.

* Courtesy University of Ottawa
July 5, 1989

 

 

The Australian Federation for the
Welfare of Animals (AFWA) was
formed in 1985 to promote animal
welfare among animal users.
AFWA takes the View that
animal-related research activities
are legitimate, provided that a
high standard of animal care is
maintained. There is a six-point
code of ethics for members. Their

 

News From Australia

Newsletter publishes items and
journal news clippings from
Australia and other countries. It is
possible to subscribe to the
Newsletter without becoming a
member of the Federation. For fur-
ther information write to AFWA,
PO. Box 114, Walkerville, SA.
5081, Australia.

 

 

return to stability when the
dominance pattern in a pair
becomes stable and asymmetric.
There is a fairly rapid cessation of
glucocorticoid mobilization in
squirrel monkeys. In other species
adaptation is far slower. These
data show that if you are going to
form a group of primates, you
have to be prepared to let them sit
there with each other and work
out dominance relationships for a
long time (and I would say that in
some species at least a year is re-
quired). During that year-long in-
terim period, when the nonhuman
primates are still going through
group formation, stress-related
pathology is much more of a risk
than if you keep them singly-
housed. I would add that
psychological well-being is also
compromised during that initial
period. Short-term research pro-
jects probably do not benefit
animals by subjecting them to
stressful formation.

Levine’s findings are similar to
my observations with baboons in
East Africa. I observed periods
where baboons spontaneously
reorganized their dominance
hierarchy. During those periods
cortisol levels were high, choles-
terol increased, metabolism was
impaired, etc. Both captive
primates and primates in the wild

show the same pattern: it is a
highly stressful event for them to
work out a new social relationship
with another member of their own
species.

Once social relationships
stabilize, if a nonhuman primate
had a choice in the matter, it
would like to be high ranking.
Every physiological measure in a
stable social setting suggests that
socially-subordinate nonhuman
primates are more at risk for
stress-related pathology. The level
of plasma glucocorticoids and
catecholamines, cholesterol metab-
olism, immune function, cardiovas-
cular tone, and reproductive func-
tion demonstrate that subor-
dinates in a stable social group are
stressed.

Studies by Keverne and col-
leagues on talapoin monkeys show-
ed that cortisol levels go down in
the dominant animal about six
months after group formation.
This demonstrates the sort of
thing that occurs during group for-
mation. Dominant animals show
fewer markers of stress-related
pathology. The proﬁle for the
subordinate animals with time
show more markers of stress-
related pathology as the social
structures stabilized.

Let me give you one very
dramatic version of stress

pathology: brains from vervet
monkeys that came from a
primate center in Nairobi, East
Africa. These wild vervet monkeys
were brought to the Primate
Center and put into social group
housing. A population of these
animals were dying of what ap-
peared to be a stress-related syn-
drome: multiple gastric ulcers, im-
mune collapse, and enlarged
adrenal glands, which is always a
marker of excess glucocorticoids in
the bloodstream. There were high
incidences of bite wounds (canine
punctures). Neuropathology on
these nonhuman primates, com-
pared to controls, showed marked
neurodegeneration (a marker of
chronic glucocorticoid exposure in
rodents). Apparently it occurs in
primates as well. The hippocampus
was preferentially targeted in this
case because it is an area of the
brain with tremendous numbers of
receptors for glucocorticoids.
What does this study on vervet
monkeys tell us? This tells us that
social housing is not always an op-
timal arrangement for a nonhuman
primate to the extent that you can
use these passive physiological
markers as endpoints. Social hous-
ing does not necessarily insure
psychological well-being. I con-
clude that most primates have
Continued on page 8

 

 




 

:ACUC Section

Case Study: Effect of Malnutrition
on Recovery from Surgical Repair
of a Herniated Diaphragm

Background

The principal investigator is a
surgeon who proposes to use ran-
dom source dogs as a model for
determining whether malnutrition
inﬂuences surgical repair of a torn
diaphragm. This investigator’s
surgical practice includes repair of
hiatal and gastroesophagial
hernias.

Proposed Experiment

Twelve healthy random source
dogs will be acquired through the
institution’s normal procurement
process. After the usual physical
examinations, the dogs will be
divided into two groups.

Group 1 (n=6)’ dogs will be fed a
diet restricted to 50% of the pro-
tein calories calculated for normal
nutrition for their size for three
weeks.

Group 2 (n=6) dogs will be fed
ad lib for three weeks. \

SCAW Newsletter

After the three week nutritional
stabilization period, the groups are
further divided into a total of four
groups (n=3 each):

Group 1A Malnourished:
surgical shams.

Group 1B Malnourished: surgery
to separate and then repair
diaphragm.

Group 2A Normally nourished:
surgical shams.

Group 2B Normally nourished:
surgery to separate and then
repair diaphragm.

In all cases, anesthesia is by i.v.
thiopental followed by gaseous

anesthesia.

Diaphragm function is to be

 

Physiological Perspectives
Continued from page 7

their psychological well-being im-
paired by the stressfulness of
working out dominance relations
during the early phase of new
group housing . In the long run
(and it may be a lot longer than '
any of us would have guessed in-
itially) that period of stress
resolves and a period of stable
social actions takes place.

The second message seems to be
that even after that period of
stable social interaction is reached,
rank in that stable social setting
has a lot to do with whether or not
a particular nonhuman primate
has a sense of psychological well-
being. ’

These data suggest that human
intuition is not a good guide as to
what is ideal for an animal. I think
these proposed USDA regulations
fail to take that into account. One
of my favorite definitions of
ethology is that ethology is the
processof interviewing an animal,
using its language rather than
your own. The proposed regula-
tions may be based on interviews,
but the interviews used our

language.

Dr. Sapolsky is a Professor in the
Department of Biological Sciences
at Stanford University. [1

 

IUCN Policy Statement

Research Involving
Species at Risk of Extinction

Prologue

The International Union for the
Conservation of Nature (IUCN)
holds that all research on, or affec-
ting, a threatened species carries a
moral responsibility for the preser-
vation or enhancement of the sur-
vival of that species. Conservation
of the research resource is clearly
in the interest of the researchers.

IUCN recognizes that the taking
and trading of specimens of
threatened species are covered by
international agreements and are
normally included in national legis-
lation which provide exemptions
for the purpose of scientific
research.

Basic and applied research is
critically needed on many aspects
of the biology of animal and plant
species at risk of extinction (e.g.,
those listed by IUCN as Vulner-
able, Rare, Endangered, or Inde-
terminate) to provide knowledge
Vital to their conservation.

Other scientific interests may in-
volve the use of threatened species
in a wide variety of studies. Tak-
ing into account the importance of
many kinds of research, as well as

potential threats such species '
could be subject to in such activi-
ties, IUCN, after careful consider-
ation, adopts the following
statements as policy.

Policy

IUCN encourages basic and ap-
plied research on threatened
species that contributes to the
likelihood of survival of those
species.

When a choice is available
among captive bred or propagated,
wild-caught or taken, or free-living
stock for research not detrimental
to the survival of a threatened
species, IUCN recommends the op-
tion contributing most positively
to sustaining viable wild popula-
tions of the species.

IUCN recommends that research
programs on threatened species
that do not directly contribute to
conservation of the species should
acknowledge an obligation to the
species by devoting monetary or
other substantial resources to their
conservation, preferably to sus-
taining populations in their
natural environment.

régg




ﬁh .
$2

:5

5é%

Volume 11, Number 3

tested prior to surgery and on
postsurgery days 7, 14 and 21
after which the dogs are to be
euthanized under anesthesia with

KI.
ACUC Concerns

1. Under the new amendments to
the Animal Welfare Act, the
Animal Care and Use Commit-
tee (ACUC) can ask about un-
necessary duplication. The
general surgical literature is
replete with human case
studies in which adequate
presurgical and postsurgical
nutrition support increases the
chance of a positive outcome

. If better justification is pro— .

‘ Study Institutional Review

. There are several problems

(reduced in-hospital infection
and better healing).

evaluating normal dia-
phragm operation.

— N 0 details on postoperative
care including: frequency
that principal investigator
visits the animals, whether
or not analgesics will be re-
quired and, if so, what kind
and under what cir-
cumstances?

— Insufficient justification of

Board (IRB) see a human ver- scientific merit.

sion of this proposed experi- — Insufficient description of

ment? experimental rationale and
background.

— Very questionable statistical
design with 3
animals/ group.

vided for the effects of malnu-
trition on this type of surgery,
why was a canine model
chosen? Were alternatives con-
sidered? Was a study on
malnourished humans con-
sidered? Did the Human

with the experiment itself,
namely:
— N 0 details on the method of .

 

Whether animals involved are
captive bred, wild-caught, or free-
living, or whether plants involved
are propagated, taken from the
wild, or in their natural habitat,
IUCN opposes research that
directly or indirectly impairs the
survival of threatened species and
urges that such research not be
undertaken.

Protocol

In this context IUCN urges
researchers to accept a personal
obligation to satisfy themselves
that the processes by which re-
search specimens are acquired (in-
cluding transportation) conform
scrupulously to procedures and
regulations adopted under interna-
tional legal agreements. Further,
researchers should adopt applic-
able professional standards for
humane treatment of animal speci-
mens, including their capture and
use in research.

IUCN urges that any research
on threatened species be con-
ducted in conformity with all ap-
plicable laws, regulations and
veterinary professional standards
governing animal acquisition,
health and welfare, and with all
applicable agricultural and genetic
resource laws and regulations
governing acquisition, transport,
and management of plants. [:1

i

 

 

/

How to support the
Scientists Center for

Animal Welfare ‘ (SCAW)

Individual Member hi

Membership privileges include: Newsletter, noticesof events and publications,
participation in conferences,and opportunities to vote on matters determined by
SC AW’s Board of Trustees. Choose the highest category that applies, and enclose
your tax-deductible dues (made payable on a US. bank or provide money order
in US. funds).

 

 

[] *Patron $200 or more
[ l **Contributor $100
[ ] Regular $ 35
[ l Student 35 15

Institutional Member [:1 Check here to receive information

Name

 

Address

 

City State Zip
*lncludes free copy of Effective ACUCs, and free copy of Field Research Guidelines.

**Inc1udes free copy of Field Research Guidelines.

Mark off appropriate box above and return
the completed form with payment to:

Scientists Center for Animal Welfare
4805 St. Elmo Avenue
Bethesda, MD 208144805

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

10

Introducing the
Veterinary Nurse

The following are amended com-
ments developed by Ms. Judy
Hoffman, University of California,
San Francisco ( U CSF), in response
to a request by the Editor of the
SCAW Newsletter to describe her
profession as a Veterinary Nurse.

In California, we are officially
called licensed Animal Health
Technicians (AHT). However, dif-
ferent states use other names, e.g.,

Veterinary Technician, Animal
Technician, etc. At UCSF the en-
tire animal husbandry staff is
referred to as “Animal Techni-
cians.” Use of this title for the en-
tire staff leads to confusion in dif-
ferentiating between those people
who function as Animal Techni-
cians and others who function as
Animal Health Technicians. We
call ourselves Veterinary Nurses
and believe that this term best
describes what we do. It makes it
very clear that we are nurses, not
veterinarians. This title parallels
that used in human medical care—
nurses. The actual work that a

SCAW Newsletter

Veterinary Nurse does is varied.
For example, we may assist in
surgery, medicate and treat
animals, process radiographs, do
laboratory work, and manage the
animal care facility itself.

Several U.S. schools offer Ani-
mal Health Technician licensing
programs that vary from two to
four years in length. A State
Board Examination must be
passed before an individual can
practice as a Licensed AHT. There
is a national professional organiza-
tion, the North American
Veterinary Technician Association
(N AVTA), and in California, the

 

Legislative Update

 

Federal

Two new animal facility
“break-in” bills (HR 3223 and HR
3270) have been introduced in the
House of Representatives addres-
sing the destruction of property
and equipment by individuals who
break into a research or farm facil-
ity. Both bills make it a Federal
crime to break into research facili-
ties, but HR 3223 contains excep-
tions that could exonerate the per-
son who broke in. The two bills are
compared in the following
paragraphs.

HR 3223: The Animal Welfare
Improvements Act of 1989 was in-
troduced on September 6, 1989 by
Rep. Charles Rose (D-NC). The bill
has five co-sponsors and has been
referred to the House Committee
on Agriculture, of which Rep. Rose
is a member.

This bill would amend the Ani-
mal Welfare Act to make it a Fed-
eral crime for a person to break
into a research facility with an in-
tent to harm property or to steal
an animal. However, an exception
is made for causing the loss of an

animal “temporarily, for the pur-
pose of documenting that viola-
tions of Federal regulations
relating to the handling, care,
treatment or transportation of
animals by such facility have
occurred.”

A person who has broken into a
facility could be fined up to
$5,000, unless proof was obtained
showing that the facility had com-
mitted a violation of any regula-
tion under the Animal Welfare
Act. In that case, the person who
stole the animal would not be
fined, would not have to make
restitution to the facility for
damages, and would recover court
costs from the facility.

The Bill would provide legal
“standing” for any person to sue
USDA on his own behalf or on the
behalf of any animal covered by
the Animal Welfare Act, if the
person felt that the USDA had
failed to enforce the Animal Wel-
fare Act. (This provision resembles
one in HR 2345, introduced by
Rep. Rose in May, 1989). The bill

also calls for a study of fraud,
waste, and duplication in
Federally-funded research using
animals.

HR 3270: The Farm Animal and
Research Facilities Protection Act
of 1989 was introduced on Septem-
ber 13, 1989 by Rep. Charles
Stenholm (D-TX). There are 45 co-
sponsors. The bill was referred to
the House Committee on
Agriculture.

This bill would amend the Food
Security Acts of 1985 to make it a
Federal crime to enter an animal
facility to commit various of-
fenses, including stealing or
damaging animals or property, or
otherwise disrupting the facility’s
activities. A guilty person could be
fined up to $10,000, or imprisoned
for up to three years or both. For
entering with the intent to commit
an offense, a guilty person could
be fined up to $1,000 or imprison-
ed for a year, or both. Any person
who incurs damages as a result of
an offense can recover them and
court costs from the offender.
There are no exceptions from pro-
secution for any persons who
break in or intend to break into
animal facilities. The bill does not
give legal standing to people who
wish to sue USDA on their own
behalf or in behalf of any animal




Volume 11, Number 3

California Veterinary Medical
Association (CVMA). With our '
ever-increasing awareness of im-
provements in animal welfare, it
makes good sense to have well-
trained and knowledgeable
Veterinary Nurses on the staff.
My own animal care experience
covers 12 years and includes vol-
unteering at the University of
California, Davis, Veterinary
School and working at small
animal emergency clinics before
transferring to Laboratory Animal
Medicine at UCSF. I am not part
of the Veterinary Staff of the
UCSF Animal Care Facility (that

facility has a separate staff of
three veterinarians and five

, veterinary nurses). Currently, I am

in the Department of Obstetrics
and Gynecology. I manage their
N onhuman Primate Facility and
coordinate and help run experi-
ments on different aspects of
pregnancy in rhesus monkeys. I
am also a member of the UCSF
Committee on Animal Research
(our IACUC), filling two roles:
(a) nonhuman primate consultant
and (b) veterinary nurse.

D

11

 

 

covered by the Animal Welfare
Act.

Enforcement authorization for
HR 3270 would rest with the
Secretary of Agriculture to in-
vestigate any offense and seek
assistance of Federal, state and
local law enforcement agencies.

HR 2975: Introduced by Rep.
W.J. Tauzin (D-LA) on July 21,
1989 to amend the Endangered
Species Act in order to establish
programs for the propagation of
endangered or threatened species.
Referred to the Merchant Marines
and Fisheries Committees.

HR 3072: Introduced by Rep. J.
Murtha (D-PA) added language to
Section 9023 of the Department of
Defense (DOD) Appropriations bill
that restates the purchase of dogs
and cats for use in surgical or
other medical treatment of
wounds. Introduced and reported
out of the House Appropriations
Committee on August 1, 1989 and
Passed by the House on August 4.

HR 3091: Introduced by Rep.
Olympia Snow (R-ME) on August
2, 1989 for the construction of a
facility to develop, produce, and
distribute mice needed for
biomedical research. Referred to
the Energy and Commerce Com-

mittee. (See also 81390 for further
details.)

S727: Introduced by Senator H.
Heflin (D-AL) on April 7, 1989 to
amend the Animal Welfare Act to
protect animal research facilities
from various illegal acts of break-
ing, entering and destruction,
stealing animals, records, etc., by
making these illegal acts Federal
offenses. The bill now has 20 co-
sponsors (12 republicans and 8
democrats). Referred to the
Agriculture, Nutrition and
Forestry Committee. (Passed in
amended form.)

S1330: Introduced by Senator J.
Helms (R—NC) on July 17, 1989.
The Farm Animal Facilities Pro-
tection act would make unlawful
any act that disrupts or damages
the conduct of normal activities of
US. farmers, researchers, food
processors, and agricultural re-
searchers. The bill has six co-
sponsors. Referred to Agriculture,
Nutrition and Forestry Commit-
tee.

S1390: Introduced by Senator E.

Kennedy on July 24, 1989 to pro-
vide $25 million for the construc-
tion of a facility to develop, pro-
duce, and distribute mice needed
for biomedical research. The facili-
ty would restore the supply of

research mice destroyed in the
May, 1989 fire at the Jackson
Laboratory in Maine. Passed by
the Senate August 4, 1989 with
only minor technical amendments.

State

A task force appointed by
Maryland Governor Shaefer
recommended that Maryland not
prohibit animal testing, but should
encourage the use of alternatives,
and that the state provide
economic incentives to companies
to develop alternatives to animal
testing.

 

The Scientists Center for Animal Welfare
(SCAW), founded in 1979, is a unique, nonv
profit organization of scientists and others
who care about the well—being of research
animals. SCAW seeks the best possible rec’
onciliatfon ofhuman needs with requirements
for the well—being of all animals, and provides
a constructive forum for exploration of issues
related to animal welfare.

Lee Krulisch
Helene N. Guttman

Jane Rogers

Editor—in—Chief
Newsletter Editor
Production

The Newsletter is published four times a year.
Regular dues for individuals is a tax—deductible
$35 per year. Other membership categories
exist. Multiple copies also are available to ln'
stitutional Members. Address inquiries to:

Scientists Center for Animal Welfare
4805 St. Elmo Avenue
Bethesda, MD 20814

 

ISSN 0742—5260

 

 

 




 

12

Upcoming Meetings

 

SCAW Conference on
ACUCS

Date: Spring 1990

Location: Western US.

SCAW will hold a one-day confer-
ence on current issues of interest
to ACUC’s. More information will
be available in the next issue of
the newsletter or contact the
SCAW office.

SCAW Conference on
Agricultural Animals

Date: Fall 1990

Location: Washington, DC. area
SCAW is planning a two-day con-
ference on the use of agricultural
animals in research, testing, and
education. More information will
be in future newsletters or contact
the SCAW office.

 

SCAW Newsletter

PRIM&R Meeting

March 19-20, 1990, Boston
PRIM&R and Tufts University
School of Medicine will sponsor a
meeting on “The new USDA
Regulations and How They Affect
Animal Care, Animal Research,
and IACUC Operation.”

For more information contact:
PRIM&R

132 Boylston Street, 4th Floor
Boston, MA 02116

Tel: (617) 423-4112

Fax: (617) 423-1185

 

Current Policies on the
Classical “LDso”

Considerable attention has been
given to altering regulatory re-
quirements for assuring the safety
of drugs and consumer products
by doing tests with animals in
which the endpoint of the test is
death of the test animal. One such
test is the classical LD50 (median
lethal dose), a statistically derived
dose, with specified confidence
limits, that is expected to cause
death in 50% of the treated ani-
mals in a specified time period. In
the classical LD50 test, death is the
only endpoint. At least three (usu-
ally more) dose levels must be
used in which mortality at the
lowest dose is greater than 0%
and mortality at the highest dose
is less than 100%. Separate tests
are done for male and female
animals. Usually 60 or more
animals are required to acquire
data of the requisite statistical
confidence level. It is common to
utilize rodents in preliminary LD50
screening tests.

Four US. Federal agencies have
current policies on safety tests.
Some refer to the classical LD50

test (described above) specifically.
All of these agencies mention
utilization of the Limit Test. The
limit test specifies a particular top
dose level (expressed in mg or
g/kg) i. e., the limit: if the limit
dose is not lethal (0% lethality),
then no further test is needed to
assure safety.

Food and Drug Administration
0 Does NOT require use of the
classical LD50.
0 Accepts alternatives to the
classical LD50.
0 Refers to use of the limit test.

Environmental Protection Agency

0 Discourages use of the classi-
cal LD50.

0 Uses Structurally Related Ac-
tivities (SAR) to eliminate the
need for testing on animals.

0 Recommends use of the limit
test. N 0 further testing is
necessary in the absence of
lethality at a 2g/kg dose.

0 When testing after the limit
test, use of several methods
are recommended. The agency

stresses the need for multiple
endpoint evaluations such as
onset of the effect, nature of

the effect, reversibility of the
effect and gross necropsy.

Consumer Product Safety
Commission

0 Strongly discourages use of
the classical LD50.

0 Recommends use of the limit
test.

0 Recommends use of alter-
natives to the classical LD50
such as existing animal data,
prior human experience, ex-
pert opinion.

Department of Transportation

0 Discourages use of the
classical LD50.

0 Recommends use of the limit
test.

0 Recommends use of existing
animal data and human
experience.

Three European organizations
have policies concerning safety
testing.

British Toxicology Society
0 The LD50 only should be used
when scientifically and ethi-
cally justified. Such cases are
relatively rare.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Volume 11, Number 3 13

 

American Association for the
Advancement of Science

(AAAS) SCAW

ORDER FORM

Date: February 15-20, 1990
Location: New Orleans, LA
Contact: Jean Wrather, AAAS,

 

 

 

1333 H Street, N .W. Washington, No. of Total
DC” Tel; (202) 326-6440. Copies Title Price Price
D __ “Canine Research Environment” $ 30.00* ______
Joy A. Mench and Lee Krulisch, eds.
__ “Well-being of Nonhuman Primates $ 30.00* __
in Research”
Joy A. Mench and Lee Krulisch, eds.
Sold as a set $ 50.00* ..___
__ “Science and Animals: Addressing $ 25.00*

Contemporary Issues”
Helene N. Guttman, Joy A. Mench, and
Richard C. Simmonds, eds.

 

 

 

__ “Effective Animal Care and Use 35 25.00* __
. _ Committees”
0 lell: test could be used, pI‘O- F.B. Orlans, R.S. Simmonds, and
viding that animals in dis- W-J- DOdds’ ed3-
tress are killed humanely, if __ “Field Research Guidelines” $ 5.00 __
this would not interfere with F - Barbara (Mans: ed-
the objectives.
. . . 1 “ ° FREE w/an order
0 Exarmnatlon of few ammals Laboratory f‘mmal Welfare y
. . Bibhography
1n detall, rather than. many for (while they last!)
stat1st1cal purposes, 15 TOTAL
suggested.
' For ClaSSification Of All costs include shipping and handling. ‘ .
substances and preparations, Make checks payable to Scientists Center for Anlmal Welfare or SCAW.
a fixed-dose procedure Payment must be in US. funds.
targeted at acute Signs c9u’d Mail to: SCAW, 4805 St. Elmo Avenue, Bethesda, MD 20814
replace the current practlce of
LDso determination. * Inquire about discounts for six or more copies.
Name ”

 

European Chemical Industry
Ecology and Toxicology Center
0 The classical LD50 test is Company/Institution
seldom necessary.

Title t - ,.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0 Acute toxicity profiles are Address
important. City State Zip

0 An LD50 above 2g/kg is
irrelevant.

0 Protocols exist for estimating
lethal doses.

' Regulations should not
specify use Of, a minimum lection should be encouraged. compound-related mortality
number 0f ammals. . . , occurs, then a follow-up is re-

. Acute toxicity data may be Organization for Economic quired using 5 animals/dose at
necessary for the protection of Cooperation and Development least three dose levels in order
human health from some 0 Discourages use of the clas- to produce a range of toxic ef-
PrOdUCtS- s1cal LD50' , , fects and mortality rates.

0 Predictions based on alter— ' Recommends the hmlt test

natives as an aid to dose se- (2g/kg highest dose). When D

 




 

 

14

Grants for Methods that
Replace or Reduce Use
of Vertebrate Animals in
Research

The National Institutes of Health
(NIH) and the National Institutes
of Mental Health (NIMH) have an-
nounced an ongoing program for
investigations into methods that
replace or reduce use of vertebrate
animals in research, or lessen their
pain and distress. Application
receipt dates are February 1, June
1, and October 1 of each year.

Specific information can be ob-
tained from:

Dr. Louise Ram

Biological Models and
Materials Resources Section

DRR/NIH

Building 31, Room 5B54

Bethesda, MD 20892

(301) 496-5507

The research goals of the pro-
gram are projects that will in-
crease the extent and depth of
knowledge needed to develop
methods of biomedical research
that:

0 Do not require the use of

SCAW Newsletter

vertebrate animals.

0 Reduce the number of verte-
brate animals used in
research.

0 Produce less pain and distress
in vertebrate animals than
methods currently used.

0 Validate or demonstrate the
reliability of non-animal
methods.

0 Develop non-vertebrate
animal research methods that
have been found valid and
reliable.

Grant applications may be sub-

mitted by both non-profit and
profit-making organizations and

 

Reviews

 

Training Manual Series
Volume 1

Assistant Laboratory
Animal Technician

This manual is the first of three
training manuals published by the
American Association for Animal
Science (AALAS), revised in July
1989, reference number 89-1. It is
designed for the beginning level of
the three technical levels of
AALAS certification. It is a
significant improvement over the
previous publication.

Unlike the previous manual the
presentation of animal anatomy,
physiology, nutrition and other
scientific information has been
simplified for the beginning techni-
cian. Subjects important to the
beginning technician such as
animal care philosophy, govern-
mental regulations, facility design
and operation, hygiene, equipment
and sanitation have been better
explained and properly
emphasized.

The animals used commonly in
the laboratory are discussed in-
dividually with appropriate review
and emphasis on species variations
and requirements.

The final portions of the manual

cover the diseases and their pre-
vention, drugs and their use, and
an overview of the surgery and
related pre- and post-surgical care,
anesthesia, and pain control. The
manual ends with chapter discus-
sing experimental design and
methodology.

This is a welcome improvement
for the animal care training pro-
grams. It is nicely illustrated and
presented in easy to read well
organized fashion and will be a
valuable text and refernce for all
students in animal care programs
as well as those studying for
AALAS certification.

Reviewed by Richard M Carpenter,

DVM University of Virginia Health
Sciences Center.

An Index for Assessing
Severity of Procedures in
Rodents

The Universities Federation for
Animal Welfare (UFAW) in the
United Kingdom recently issued a
report entitled, “Disturbance In-
dex Method for Assessing Severi-
ty of Procedures in Rodents” by
R.J. Barclay, W.J. Herbert and
TB. Poole. Copies of the report
may be obtained from UFAW, 8

Hamilton Close, South Mimms,
Potters Bar, Herts EN 6 3QD,
United Kingdom.

These investigators set out to
develop an objective method to
assess animal distress and/or dis-
comfort. The report records the
results of their research. They
noted that departures from normal
behavior could be produced by
relatively minor procedures. They
further assumed that the extent of
behavioral change relates directly
to the severity of pain and distress
which the animal experienced.
They noted that exploration of the
novel environment followed plac-
ing a rodent in a strange cage. The
amount of exploratory behavior in
a set time period proved to be
very predictable: they converted
increases or decreases in the
amount of behavior for a given
period of time into a disturbance
index (DI) and used D1 to evaluate
the animals’ reactions to particular
procedures. Animal activity was
measured using an electronic
monitor that was calibrated to re-
spond to rearing and grooming,
and ignore movement due to
respiration and twitching.

The DI concept and experiment-
al set-up was tested using a double
blind procedure involving sub-
cutaneous injections of haloperidol,
amphetamine or 0.9% saline into
rats. Amphetamine caused a sig-

 

 

 




 

 

 

Volume 11, Number 3

institutions, state or local govern-
ments and their agencies, and
eligible agencies of the Federal
government. [:1

Topics for 1989 and 1990
Zbinden Scientific Award
Competitors

The Hildegard Doerenkamp-
Gerard Zbinden Foundation for
Realistic Animal Protection in
Scientific Research has announced
the subjects for their 1989 and
1990 award competitions. Prizes

are approximately DM 50,000
($25,000) and are for scientific
contributions to specific subjects
related to reduction of animal use
in biomedical research and im-
provement of experimental techni-
ques aimed at alleviating pain and

15

Freie Universitat Berlin
Garystrasse 5
D-1000 Berlin 33, F RG

0 1990 Award title Anesthesia
in Laboratory Animals—Man-
agement of Chronic Pain in

stress in laboratory animals used
in scientific studies.

0 1989 Award title Alternatives

for Animal Experimentation
in the Neurosciences and in
Epilepsy Research

For further information:
Prof. Dr. Dieter Neubert
Institute for Toxikologie

Laboratory Animals

For further information:

Prof. Kay Brune

Institute of Pharmacology

University of Erlangen-
Nurnberg

Universitatsstrasse 22

D-8520 Erlangen, FRG

D

 

nificant increase in activity (DI at
30 minutes after the animal was
placed in the novel environment
was significant (P=.06)) while the
haloperidol caused a significant
decrease in activity.

The authors developed DIs for
the following categories of com-
mon experimental procedures:

Mice—handling, injecting with

various materials and volumes.

Rats—handling, injecting with

various materials and volumes,

feeding per OS.

Some techniques that might
have been considered to be a pro-
blem (e.g., use of a 1.1 mm
diameter needle in mice) probably
do not cause significant distress.
Some differences between rats and
mice are evident in that rats
tolerate an intraperitoneal dose of
25 ml/kg without apparent distur-
bance while a mouse does not.
Finally, the potential sensitivity of
the technique is demonstrated by
the ability to distinguish between
the effects of experienced versus
inexperienced handlers.

This report identifies procedures
that need to be more closely
evaluated by other investigators
before recommending wholesale
adoption as a way of grading the
stressfulness of experimental tech-
niques. Nonetheless, the approach
is innovative and very interesting

 

An American won the 1988 scien-
tific award of the Hildegard
Doerenkamp-Gerhard Zbindin
Foundation, Zurich Switzerland, in
the amount of DM 50,000 (approx-
imately $25,000) for a scientific
contribution to Reduction of
Animal Use in Biomedical
Research by Computer Modeling.
The winning contribution was
entitled, Interactive Video As An
Alternative to Live Animal Exper-
imentation in Biomedical Educa-
tion by Charles E. Branch, Depart-
ment of Physiology and Pharma-
cology, College of Veterinary
Medicine, Auburn University. Dr.

 

1988 Award for Reduction of Animal Use

Branch’s teaching system consists
of a PC equipped with a laser disk
on which are stored the results of
a large number of cardiovascular
experiments on dogs. Accessory
material contains instructions for
the performance of experiments.
Students can perform exper-
riments independently, drawing on
the data provided by the program.
The Foundation commented that,
“The system represents a near
perfect simulation of experimental
pharmacological studies and can
easily be applied to many other
types of animal experimentation.”

 

and supports the reputation of
UFAW as an organization that
can apply research and scholarship
to produce significant advances in
the debate on animal care and
welfare.

Euthanasia of
Amphibians and Reptiles

A joint report of the Universities
Federation for Animal Welfare

'(UFAW) and the World Society

for the Protection of Animals
(WSPA), 1989, 35 pp. UFAW, 8
Hamilton Close, South Mimms,

Potters Bar, Herts EN 6 3 QD, UK
or WSPA, 106 J ermyn Street,
London SW1Y GEE, UK.

This is a concise, illustrated
handbook that is a must for people
contemplating using amphibians
and reptiles in research and who
desire a brief introduction to
humane methods of euthanasia
that minimize pain and distress.
In addition to introductory
material, the booklet contains sec-
tions on biological considerations,
practical considerations, references

and further readings. E]

 

 




 

 

 

 

MARCHIG Animal Welfare Awards

Research into animal-free ex— work in one or more of the follow- This award is administered by
periments has been encouraged in ing categories: W.S.P.A., who are now accepting
recent years by the Marchig 1. The development of new applications for nomination in any
Animal Welfare Award establish- alternative methods to the use of of the above-mentioned three cate-
ed in 1986 by Madame Jeanne animals in experimental situations; gories. Applicants are asked to
Marchig, in memory of her late 2. The practical implementation write to:
husband, the Italian artist Gian- of an alternative method to the The Administrator
'nino. use of animals in a scientific or Marchig Animal Welfare

For 1990 the World Society for manufacturing procedure; Awards
the Protection of Animals 3. For practical work in the field c/o W.S.P.A.
(W.S.P.A.) has announced that of Animal Welfare by a Society or 106, J ermyn Street ‘
40,000 Swiss francs in prize money individual deserving of support London SW1Y GEE, UK.
will be awarded for outstanding anywhere in the world.

 

—

Scientists Center for Animal Welfare .. _.\‘<>i\i1‘>izc/>T1r1iﬂ

4805 St. Elmo Avenue U s POSTAGE
Bethesda, MD 20814 PAID

Washmgton, DC :
| PerrmL‘N01587 J

D CHANGE OF ADDRESS. PLEASE CLlP THE ADDRESS LABEL

BELOW AND RETURN TO US ALONG WITH YOUR NEW
ADDRESS.

 

 




January 3%, 1982

Prﬂfﬁsgar Rabart M. Narﬁm
Dayartmﬁnt 3f Maahanical Engineering
Univaraity af Heuatmn

Central ﬁampug

ﬁaugtcn, @axas ?79§4

ﬁﬁag Prafaﬁscx Waram:

Thiﬁ ig a lang ﬁélayaﬁ thank yam far year latter af June 3
analosing tha article Exam Science. It is ancnuraging t0
3am th; rasmltg of an @xpariment shawing thg banefiaial
affects 0f kinﬁngsg. Perhapﬁ it weuia ha apyragziaha fur
mg :3 run a briaf artiﬁla in tha §NI Quartarly cancerning
yum: work and, sinee yam indicatﬁ tﬁat it Qﬁgoing. I
wanted ta chaCR with yau bafara writing aﬂything at thig
timag '

Far ymur infarmatian‘ 1 am aneloaing a cayy sf aux last
igaue and %nu1& &§praciate yaur-thaughts.

Sinaaraly,

Christina Stavgns
?ra$idant

Eﬁclosura

 




«Ym?
<29 W, ’90
time (a
3

K‘ ’\
q%mm€&

S“
2
=2

University of Houston

Central Campus
Houston, Texas 77004

Department of Mechanical Engineering
June 3, 1981

Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650

Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Ms. Christine Stevens:

Thank you for your letter of May 4 in which you express interest
in our research work here at the University of Houston. We have
been continuing our work on the effects of social environment on
diet induced athersclerosis. Our new results support the earlier
results, and thus are a further indication of the importance of
such a factor in carrying out meaningful animal experiments.

You asked for me to elaborate on my earlier comments. This is
somewhat difficult to do; however, it is clear to us that if an
animal is to be a good model of human disease, then that animal
should be susceptive to all of the same influences as a human
being is. Certainly stress is a factor in human disease, and thus
if an animal is to serve as a good model for human disease, then
stress should be a factor in disease as it occurs in that animal.
There is much we still need to learn about this; however, it is
important that, when experimenters plan their research, they are
sensitive to the totality of the environmental factors that may
be important and not just to diet, drugs, and other physical/
chemical variables.

Enclosed is a reprint of the Science article which reported our
earlier results. We are now writing additional articles and
when these are available I will send you a reprint. I do
appreciate your interest.

Yours truly,

@M.MJ~L~>

Robert M. Nerem
Professor and Chairman

RMN: ts
Enclosure

 




Reprint ’Series

27 June 1980, Volume 208, pp. 1475—1476

SCIENCE

Social Environment as a Factor in Diet-Induced Atherosclerosis

Abstract. Rabbits on a 2 percent cholesterol diet were individually petted, held,
talked to, and played with on a regular basis. Measurements of aortic aﬁﬁnity for (1
Sudan stain, serum cholesterol levels, heart rate, and blood pressure were made at
the end of the experimental period. Compared to control groups, which were given
the same diet and normal laboratory animal care, the experimental groups showed
more than a 60 percent reduction in the percentage ofaortic surface area exhibiting
sudanophilic lesions, even though serum cholesterol levels, heart rate, and blood

pressure were comparable.

The apparent relation between stress
and cardiovascular disease is based on a
variety of evidence implicating physical,
emotional, and behavioral factors (1-6).
Data from animal studies link psycho-
social disruption to pathological changes
in the cardiovascular system (7—14).
These studies include several in which
states of severe emotional disturbance
were produced with negative stressors.
To our knowledge, however, there have
not been any studies in which the effects
of positive factors were investigated.

We designed a series of studies to in-
vestigate the inﬂuence of social environ-
ment on diet-induced atherosclerosis in
rabbits. In the experimental groups
(groups A, B, and D), the animals experi-
enced social interaction with an experi-
menter (M.J.L.). In- the control groups
(groups C and E), the animals received
normal laboratory animal care. Group A
was studied during late 1977 without a
concurrent control, although earlier COD".
trol studies had been carried out. The re—
sults for group A, although initially con-
sidered anomalous, ultimately led us to
conduct two additional studies. One was
carried out in early 1978 and involved ex-

perimental group B and control group C.
The other was carried out in late 1978
and involved experimental group D and
control group B.

It should be noted that the essence of
the experimental environment studied
here was to establish a one—to-one rela-
tionship between each animal and the ex-
perimenter. This was achieved through
an early morning, half-hour visit during
which each animal was handled, stroked,
talked to, and played with; an hour-long
feeding period during which the animal
was also touched and talked to; and a
number of 5-minute visits during the day.
Through this daily process, the animals
quickly learned to recognize the experi-
menter, and when present, many even
sought her personal attention. They
were left alone for 10 hours each night.

The animals used in this study were
young male New Zealand White rabbits.
Upon being received, they were sepa—
rated and subjected to a 2—week adapta-
tion period during which they and the ex-
perimenter became acquainted. All ex-
periments were carried out by the same
experimenter with the same protocol.

After the adaptation period, the ani-

0036-8075/80/0627-l475$00.50/0 Copyright © 1980 AAAS

 




,////////

//

s 1

Fig. 1. Photographs of rabbit aortas stained with Sudan IV. (a) Experimental group B; (b) con-

trol group C.

mals were fed a regular rabbit diet sup-
plemented with 2 percent cholesterol.
The members of groups A, B, and C
were killed after 5 weeks, and those of
groups D and E were killed after 6
weeks. For blood chemistry analysis,
blood samples were withdrawn after a
12-hour fast; total serum cholesterol lev-
els were determined weekly. Indirect
blood pressure was determined weekly
by using an ear cuff in groups A, D, and
E. Immediately before groups D and E
were killed, direct blood pressure mea-
surements were made through catheteri-
zation of the left carotid artery and the
heart rate was determined.

At the end of the experimental period,
the aorta was perfused in situ at physio-
logical pressure (95 mm-Hg) with 10 per-
cent isotonic Formalin for 3 hours. The
specimens were then stained with Sudan
IV and photographed (Fig. 1). Sudano-
philia, as evidence by dark regions corre-
sponding to the uptake of Sudan IV, was
determined quantitatively with point
counting by independent investigators.

Figure 2 shows the percentage of total
aortic surface area exhibiting sudano-
philia for each of the ﬁve groups. Su-
danophilia in the experimental groups
was more than 60 percent less than in the
control groups. The results for group B,
compared to those for its control, group
C, are signiﬁcant at P = .015 (Student’s
t-test); those for group D, compared to
those for group E, are signiﬁcant at
P = .034.

For groups B and C, the mean ﬁnal

Experimental
- Control

Aortic surface
with sudanophilic lesions (%)

 

0.

Fig. 2. Average percentage of aortic surface
area exhibiting sudanophilia in experimental
and control groups; bars show standard error
of the mean.

serum cholesterol levels were 1527 i
125 and 1426 i 298 trig/d1, and for
groups D and E, 1980 i 419 and 1881
i 214 mg/dl. For groups D and E,
the direct blood pressure levels were
72 i 9 and 74 :14 mm-Hg, and the heart
rates were 191 i 35 and 219 i 19 beats
per minute. None of these differences is
statistically signiﬁcant.

These studies indicate that the estab-
lishment of a pet relationship has a dra-
matic effect on diet-induced aortic ath-
erosclerosis in rabbits. Having, in effect,
conducted three separate experiments,
we feel that our results are reproducible
in spite of the fact that the social inter-
ventions we employed are less quan-
tiﬁable than physical or biochemical in-
terventions. However, the mechanisms
behind this demonstrated effect of a par-
ticular social environment on athero-

C

genesis remain to be discovered. With
regard to this, measurements should be
made of the effect of social environment
on blood hormonal levels, arterial wall
permeability, endothelial regeneration
rates, and many other factors.

It is possible that the results obtained
by different laboratories for essentially
the same experiment are contradictory
solely because of a difference in socio-
psychological environment. if this is
true, then it may also explain anomalous
results within a single laboratory. For
example, the differences reported here
are as great as or greater than those ob-
tained in many studies in which the ef-
fect of a particular intervention on ath—
erosclerosis was investigated with the
hypercholesterolemic rabbit used as an
animal model. If no attention was given
to social environment in the experimen-
tal protocol, what was the real effect ob-
served? Clearly, more must be learned
about the effects of social environment in
animal studies of disease. If nothing else,
our results suggest that, in specifying the
protocol for an animal study, careful
consideration should be given to socio-
psychological factors.

ROBERT M. NEREM
Department ofMechanical Engineering,
University of Houston,
Houston, Texas 77004
MURINA J. LEVESQUE
Department of Veterinary Physiology
and Pharmacology, Ohio State
University, Columbus 43210
J. FREDRICK CORNHILL
Division of Thoracic Surgery,
Department ofSurgery,
Ohio State University

References and Notes

. S. L. Syme, Mod. Concepts Cardiovasc. Dis.
34, 17 (1975).

. C. D. Jenkins, N. Engl. J. Med. 294, 987 (1976).

. J. E. Dimsdale, Am. J. Psychiatry 134, 1361
(1977).

. R. S. Eliot, Eur. J. Cardiol. 5, 97 (1977).

. J. J. Lynch, D. A. Paskewitz, K. S. Gimbel, S.
A. Thomas, Am. Heart J. 93, 645 (1977).

. J. C. Buell and R. S. Eliot, Mod. Concepts Car-
diovasc. Dis. 48, 10 (1979).

. J. P. Henry, D. L. Ely, F. M. C. Watson, P. M.
Stevens, in Emotions: Their Parameters and
Measurement, L. Leir, Ed. (Raven, New York,
1975), p. 469.

. K. C. Corley, F. M. Shiel, M. R. C. Path, H. P.
Mauck, J. Greenhort, Psychosom. Med. 35, 361
(1973).

. B. A. Lapin and G. M. Cherkovitch, in Society,
Stress and Disease: The Psychosocial Environ-
ment and Psychosomatic Diseases, L. Levi, Ed.
(Zggdord Univ. Press, London, 1971), vol. 1, p.

. H. L. Ratclilfe, in Progress in Physiological
Psychology, L. Steller and J. M. Sprague, Eds.
(Academic Press, New York, 1969), p. 161.

, H. Lugenbrehl, W. R. Schnan, K.
Chacko, J. Comp. Psychol. 68, 385 (1969).

. W. F. Greber and T. A. Anderson, Comp. Bio-
chem. Physiol. 21, 273 (1967).

. W. Raab, J. P. Chaplin, E. Bajisz, Proc. Soc.
Exp. Biol. Med. 116, 665 (1964).

. M. Friedman, S. D. Byers, A. E. Brown, Am. J.
Physiol. 212, 1174 (1967).

. Supported in part by Air Force Ofﬁce of Scien-
tiﬁc Research grant 77-3411.

3 December 1979; revised 4 April 1980

 




May 4, 1981

Dr. Robert M. Nerem

Department of Machanioal Engineering
university of Houston

.Central Campus

Houston. Texas 77004

Dear Dr. Nerem:

Referring to your commont in an interviow with Jon Van in August
of last year, we woulo be interested in expanded remarks from you
on basic requirements for the care and handling of laboratory
animals.

The conclusion of the article stated: “'It's not enough to Specify
that diet. exercise and all those other physical variables are
controlled in animal experiments,’ he said. ‘YOu mmst be oonoi~
tive to the socialwpaychologioal environment as well.'" It is

this point whidh should be elaborataﬁ on for use by others who
work with laboratory animals. '

For your information I enclose an ordex blank for one of our pdb~
lications, Comfortgyle Quarters for ggboratory Animalg, and a
listing of other eduoational materials availablo from the Animal
Welfaro Institute.

Looking forward to hearing from you. I am

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President
CS:lh

Enclosureo

 




i .
‘f .l
f I

gig; Wharf 552mm
MIAMI, ELA‘,
D. 392,323 SUN. 506,990

'AUB 2 5 980. a“

 

u w» :- wrars‘ ‘

Will ‘Rabl‘iit Test"“”"‘W'orIc on Man? 1

l

 

l By JON VAN
‘ Chicago Tribune Service

CHICAGO —- A kind word and a
scratch behind the ears has proven
effective therapy against hardening
of the arteries, at least in rabbits.

Scientists wonder if the same is
true for humans.

Atherosclerosis, the thickening of
artery walls that can clog blood
flow and trigger heart attacks and
strokes, was dramatically reduced.
in rabbits who were regularly pat—
ted and spoken to by laboratory
workers.

ALTHOUGH the group of cud-

dled bunnies was fed the same high.

cholesterol diet as another group of
lab rabbits that received no petting
and affection, they developed only a
third as many atherosclerotic le-
sions.

“Our idea is that the social-psy-
chological environment a person is
in can influence his blood chemis-
try,” said Dr. Robert M. Nerem, a
researcher at the University of

Houston.

Nerem and two colleagues at
Ohio State University, Murina Lev-
esque and'J. Fredrick Cornhill, pub-
lished their findings in a recent
issue of the journal, Science. It con-
firms earlier work linking stress
and atherosclerosis.

I

“In general, laboratory animals
are under strawﬁmrem
“They’re in a strange environment,
and they don’t know what’s going
to happen to them next. In our ex-
periment, we befriended some of
the animals, reducing their stress.

“Other experiments have in-
creased animal stress by using
acute noise or electric shocks, and
they’ve found an increase in ather-
osclerotic lesions. We think this is
all part of the same thing.”

THE RESEARCHERS speculate ‘?
that some change in body chemis-- j
try, perhaps release of a hormone ,
into the blood stream, is related to 1
changing levels of stress. Even min- %

ute changes in blood chemistry“

could theoretically influence the

ability of artery walls to resist the ;

thickening process, Nerem said.
The researchers

their work with rabbits, paying

special attention to any changes in
blood chemistry between those that
are stroked and held and those who

just sit around in their cages.
Even if they don’t produce results

that apply directly to the human ex- .
perience, Nerem says the findings 1 I

are significant for all researchers

who use laboratory animals in their '3 3

work.

“It’s not enough to specify that 3

diet, exercise and all those other

physical variables are controlled in ,
animal experiments,” he said. “You
must be sensitive to the social-psy- ¥
chological environmenthas well.ﬂ,.._.,,..~.-

are continuing ;

l

 




News etter

QUARTERLY

 

VOLUME 11, NUMBER 2

SUMMER 1989

BETHESDA, MARYLAND

 

Highlights of
SCAW Conferences

More than 200 participants
gathered in Bethesda on June 22
and 23, 1989 for two conferences
prompted by the publication of
proposed changes in the Animal
Welfare Act concerning standards
for canine and primate research.
The participants included
veterinarians from academe, in-
dustry and private practice,
research scientists from academic,
private and government lab-
oratories, members of Animal
Care and Use Committees, repre-
sentatives of animal advocacy
groups, the press and the public.

Andrew N. Rowan, Ph.D.,
Assistant Dean of New Programs,
Tufts University School of Veteri-
nary Medicine and Howard C.
Hughes, VMD, Worldwide Group
Director, Department of Lab-
oratory Animal Science, Smith,
Kline & French Laboratories,
chaired the canine conference.
Jeanne Altmann, Ph.D., Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolution,
and Research Curator, Biology
Department, Brookfield Zoo and
Steven M. Niemi, DVM, Vice
President, Commercial Opera-
tions, EG&G Mason Research
Institute, chaired the nonhuman
primate conference.

Both conferences began with
presentations of the proposed
APHIS/ USDA changes by Dale
S. Schwindaman, DVM, Assistant
Deputy Administrator for Regu-
latory Enforcement at APHIS/

continued on page 8

SCAW’s

The Scientists Center for Animal
Welfare (SCAW) was established
in 1978 as "a non—prof it, educa-
tional association of persons and
institutions who study, or are con-
cerned about their responsibilities
to, laboratory and all other ani-
mals." (SCAW Constitution, Ar-
ticle 111, Section 1).

For more than 11 years SCAW
has developed and implemented
programs to meet this general
purpose statement. SCAW serves
as a forum, through workshops,
conferences, publications, and
contact with scientists and the
general public, where current
issues pertaining to animal well-
being can be discussed. SCAW’s
approach is objective and based
on the presentation of scientific
evidence to optimize the well-
being of laboratory, wildlife and
agricultural research animals, and
animals used in education.

It would seem that the intent
of SCAW is simple. However,
throughout the years, the activities
of SCAW have been labeled as
either promoting "animal rights"
(a term that implies an activist
position in attributing absolute
legal rights to animals) or, on an
opposite pole, "a front for
industry". Of course, none of
these "labels" apply, but SCAW, as
an independent organization,
remains an elusive concept for
some. People seem more com-

f ortable if they can say that a
group is "for" or "against”.

Mission

By not taking a simplistic and
polarized position on specific cur-
rent issues, but by focusing its
concern on the well-being of
animals, SCAW provides a meet-
ing place where representatives

continued on page 2

Inside This Issue

Highlights of SCAW Conferences . . 1
SCAW’S Mission ................. l
AVMA Annual Meeting ........... 2

Land-Grant University
Conference Report
Richard C. Simmonds,DVM MS . 3

Environmental Variables
and Animal Care
Emerson L. Besch, Ph.D. .......... 5

Upcoming Meetings .............. 13

Reviews ......................... l4

 

The Scientists Center for Animal Welfare
(SCAW), founded in 1979, is a unique, non-
profit organization of scientists and others
who care about the well—being of research
animals. SCAW seeks the best possible rec—
onciliation ofhuman needs with requirements
for the well—being ofall animals, and provides
a constructive forum for exploration of issues
related to animal welfare.

Lee Krulisch
Helene N. Guttman
Jane Rogers

Editor’in'Chief
Newsletter Editor
Production

The Newsletter is published four times a year.
Regular dues for individuals is a tax—deductible
$35 per year. Other membership categories
exist. Multiple copies also are available to In—
stitutional Members. Address inquiries to:

Scientists Center for Animal Welfare
4805 St. Elmo Avenue
Bethesda, MD 20814

 

 

ISSN 0742—5 260

 

 




2

Board of Trustees

Richard J. Traystman, PhD

President

Professor and Director of

Anesthes. & Critical Care Medicine
Research Laboratories

The Johns Hopkins Hospital

Baltimore, Maryland

Andrew N. Rowan, PhD

Vice President

Assistant Dean, New Programs
School of Veterinary Medicine
Tufts University

Boston, Massachusetts

Joy A. Mench, DPhil
Secretary

Assistant Professor
Department of Poultry Science
University of Maryland
College Park, Maryland

Richard A. Murphy, PhD

Treasurer

Professor, Department of Physiology
University of Virginia
Charlottesville, Virginia

Jeanne Altman, PhD

Research Curator & Associate Curator
of Primates for the Chicago
Zoological Society, and

Associate Professor

Department of Biology

University of Chicago

Chicago, Illinois

Sherman Bloom, MD

Past President

Chairman, Department of Pathology
University of Mississippi Medical Center
Jackson, Mississippi

J. Fredrick Cornhill, DPhil

Director and Chair, Biomedical
Engineering Center, and

Professor of Surgery

The Ohio State University

Columbus, Ohio

Steven M. Niemi, DVM

Vice President

Commercial Operations

EG&G Mason Research Institute
Worcester, Massachusetts

J. Wesley Robb, PhD, LHD

Adjunct Professor of Clinical Medicine
School of Medicine

University of Southern California. and
Consultant in Biomedical Ethics

USC Medical Center

Los Angeles, California

Robert T. Smeby, PhD
Adjunct Professor

Department of Biology
Cleveland State University, and
Staff. Research Division
Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Cleveland, Ohio

Lee Krulisch
Executive Director

 

SCAW Mission, continued

from diverse and polarized groups
can meet and discuss the issues in
a calm and deliberate'manner.
SCAW encourages the exchange

of information, based on scientific
inquiry and empirical data, and
holds open the door rather than
shutting it.

By encouraging a balanced
presentation and scientific
analysis of the issues, SCAW
provides a meeting place for those
who are uncomfortable with
generalized statements and exag-
gerated claims, but who strongly
believe in maintaining the well-
being of animals.

Perhaps the best indication
that SCAW is fulfilling its mission
to be an educational, non-
adversarial organization is that
individuals and groups represent-
ing a wide variety of viewpoints
use SCAW as a source of inf or-
mation.

The purpose of SCAW is
clearly stated in its Constitution,

SCAW Newsletter

Article III:

Section 1. This organization shall
be a non-profit educational as—
sociation of persons and institu-
tions who study, or are concerned
about their responsibilities to,
laboratory and all other animals.

Section 2. The Center will engage
in scientific and ethical analysis of
issues pertaining to animal wel-
fare and will make known the
results of such analyses to the
public through publications or
open conferences.

Section 3. The Center will
develop and distribute educational
materials to foster the application
of scientific knowledge to animal
welfare.

Section 4. The Center will study
the implications of scientific, so—
cial, agricultural, commercial, or
ethical development that may en-
large or narrow legitimate limits
of human interaction with other
animal species.

AVMA Annual Meeting Highlights

SCAW’s booth at the
annual meeting of the
American Veterinary ‘
Medical Association
(AVMA) in Orlando,
Florida, July 16-17, 1989,
was visited by many of
the more than 5,000 at-
tendees. Both SCAW
and AVMA promote
animal welfare and the well-being
. of research animals.

In an address by Samuel
Strahm, DVM, President of
AVMA, there was emphasis on
the long—standing concern of
veterinarians for animal welfare.
He stated "... as veterinarians we
believe in the value of medical
research and are committed to
seeing that the animals involved

Scientists C
ent
for Animal Welfgrre

are treated humanely throughout,
and that all investigators are sen-
sitive to the welfare of the
research sub jects."

Dr. Strahm also emphasized
that one area for veterinarians to
be involved in is the issue of dif-
ferentiating animal welfare from
animal rights.

 




Volume 11, Number 2

Section 5. The Center will initiate
programs to raise the knowledge
and awareness of scientists and
the general public about ethical
issues regarding animals.

Section 6. The Center will
cooperate with other other or-
ganizations in achieving shared
goals.

Section 7. The Center upon re-
quest will provide to local and
state and federal authorities inf or-
mation relevant to their decisions
and policies regarding animal care
and use.

Section 8. The Center shall en-
deavor to make scientific con-
tributions to the evolving science
of animal welfar by supporting
such projects, efiorts, or programs
as the Board of Trustees 'shall ap-
prove.

Visit SCAW Booths at
1989 Upcoming Meetings

0 AALAS, National Capital
Area Branch
Hunt Valley, Maryland
September 13-14, 1989

Society of Research
Administrators

San Jose California
September 24-27, 1989

AALAS
Little Rock, Arkansas
October 30-November 3, 1989

American Heart Association
New Orleans, Louisiana
November 13-16, 1989

 

Conference on the Humane Care
and Use of Laboratory Animals at
Land-Grant Universities

by Richard C. Simmonds, DVM MS

More than 100 participants at-
tended the first NIH-sponsored
conference on Public Health Serv-
ice (PHS) Animal Care Policy
specifically targeted at animal
research in land-grant universities.
The conference, co-sponsored by
the University of California,
Davis, was held May 8-9, 1989 at
Lake Tahoe, Nevada.

Institutions are called land-
grant because they were originally
established by "grants of land" to
_

“As agricultural sciences
become more biomedical in
nature, the differences be-
tween agricultural and
biomedical research blur... ”

—
the states under the Morrill Act
(1862) for the creation of colleges
to promote higher education in
agriculture and vocational arts.
Further Federal legislation ex-
panded the agricultural education
and research system to establish
colleges for black students,
agricultural experiment stations, a
cooperative extension service, and
agricultural colleges in each state.
However, land-grant "colleges"
have, for the mOSt part, grown
into universities and have de-
veloped extensive academic pro—
grams in many disciplines other
than agriculture, e.g., medicine
and biology.

Animal research at land-grant
universities may involve institu-
tional oversight by USDA provi-
sions of the Federal Animal
Welfare Act (1966, et seq.), The
Public Health Service Policy,
other Federal regulations (e.g.,

Marine Mammal Protection Act),
and state regulations. Which
regulations apply depend on the
animal species used (e.g., cattle,
wild mammals, guinea pigs, etc.),
how the animals are being used
(e.g., cattle for livestock produc-
tion or calves for cardiovascular
research), and the funding source
(e.g., NIH, USDA or other
source). In many cases, trying to
determine which laws and regula-
tions pertain to any particular
research project is extremely com-
plex and confusing.

As agricultural sciences be-
come more biomedical in nature,
the differences between agricul-
tural and biomedical research
blur, and this increases confusion.
Agricultural sciences are involving
more and more cell and molecu-
lar biology, and biotechnology
using traditional laboratory
research species (e.g., rabbits and
rodents). The biomedical re-
search community is also increas-
ing the use of traditionally
"agricultural" species (e.g., pigs
and sheep). This conference was
designed to help resolve this con-
fusion.

The first session emphasized
major regulations and guidance
on animal care and use. Dr.
Charles McCarthy, Director of
NIH’s Office for Protection from
Research Risks (OPRR), sum-
marized PHS Policy and empha-
sized that institutions that
include agricultural components
in their assurance letters to
OPRR are expectedto include the
research agricultural animals in
their animal care and use
program. Dr. Dale Schwindaman,
Regulatory Enforcement, Animal
Care, Animal Health and Inspec-
tion Service/ USDA summarized

continued on page 4

 




Q

Spot, Puff, and Trigger are no longer
pets; they are “animal companions,”
who may make life happier and healthier
for their human friends. That, at least, is
one of the major premises that form the
basis for a new interdisciplinary endeav-
or, the study of relationships between
animals and people.

The University of Pennsylvania’s 4-
year-old Center for the Interaction of
Animals and Society was host this month
to the ﬁrst international conference on
the “human/companion animal bond.” It
was probably one of the few occasions at
which pet food manufacturers and psy-
chiatrists found themselves mingling.
Many veterinarians were in attendance,
as well as humane society oﬁ'icials, so-
cial workers, psychologists, philoso-
phers. ethologists, and pet store owners.
The master of ceremonies was Alan
Beck, head of the university center and
an animal ecologist who is author of The
Ecology of S tray Dogs.

Animals, and how people feel toward
them, were taken very seriously at this
conference. The assembled experts em-
phasized that the ﬁeld is so new that it is
not clear yet just What questions should
be pursued or what research methodolo—
gies will prove fruitful. Scientiﬁc ﬁnd-
ings that would appear to justify the
establishment of a new discipline are
sparse, consisting basically of two sepa-
rate studies that suggest that elderly or
inﬁrm people get along better if they
have pets than if they don’t. One com-
pelling justiﬁcation for pursuing research
in this area is statistical: by 2000. 50
million Americans will be over 65. Isola—
tion and loneliness are prominent among
the problems of old age, and pets are a
cost-effective way to supply old people
with emotional sustenance and a feeling
of being needed.

What was referred to as a pioneering
study in the ﬁeld was conducted in 1974
by Roger Mugford. a British consultant
on animal behavior problems. In a small
town in Yorkshire he selected a group of
48 old people—average age 73—who
lived alone. Half the group were given
begonias to care for, and half were given
budgerigars (a chatty variety of parakeet
very popular in England). Both groups
were assessed by social workers every 6
months on various factors having to do

’ Human-Animal Relationship Under Scrutiny

Veterinarians, psychologists, and others believe
time is ripe for a new interdisciplinary field

with personality and social adjustment.
At the end of 3 years it was found that
the “budgie” owners were distinctly bet-
ter off emotionally than the begonia own—
ers. They had more friends, more visi-
tors, and generally more links with their
community. Mugford also says there
were fewer deaths among the budgie
owners, a ﬁnding that was “not statisti-
cally signiﬁcant, but suggestive.”
Another oft-cited study, conducted at
the University of Pennsylvania by psy-

Irish Setter
Does a pet contribute to men-
tal and physical health?

chiatrist Aaron Katcher and two col-
leagues. was initiated in 1977 for the
purpose of identifying social factors that
affect the well-being of coronary pa-
tients. The original hypothesis had noth-
ing to do with animals, although the
investigators did ask questions about
pets. To their surprise, they found that
pet ownership among the 93 subjects was
the strongest social predictor of survival,
stronger even than human relationships.
Katcher says they surmised that dogs,
since they require walking, kept people
more active, but the effect also pertained
for owners of cats, ﬁsh, and an iguana. A
little more than half the group had ani-
mals; after I year a third of the non-pet
owners had died while only 3 animal
owners succumbed.

Katcher, one ofthe main ﬁgures at the
conference, says this was the study that

triggered his interest in the animal-hu-'

man bond. He and his colleagues. includ-
ing James Lynch, psychiatrist at the Uni-
versity of Maryland. and Erika Fried-
mann of the University of Pennsylvania,
went on to observe that pets may also
have a positive effect on blood pressure.
They found that a person’s blood pres-

418 0036-8075/8“1023-041880].0050 Copyright e 198] AAAS

sure goes down or stays the same when
he talks to an animal, whereas it invari—
ably rises during conversation with other
people. They found that just the pres—
ence of a dog in the room could lower
blood pressure, and that gazing at a
ankful of tropical ﬁsh also lowers it.
very like meditation.

So far, most of the research is obser—
vational. One graduate student, for ex—
ample, spends days at a time with fam-
ilies to observe their interactions with

their dogs. Another watched 42 people
on 100 dog walks and found that dogs
acted as a “social lubricant." Another
researcher videotapes interactions of el-
derly people and animals brought into
nursing homes. Examination of the tapes
generally reveals subtle positive changes
in patients, who develop better eye con-
tact with people, become more alert,
responsive, open, and inquisitive. Inves—
tigators are also trying to quantify other
aspects of the relationship between peo-
ple and pets such as the motivation for
having pets, the emotional role the ani-
mal plays for its owner, and so forth.
Bereavement over a lost pet is a big
subject of interest. There is no overesti-
mating the importance of pets to people.
it seems. Katcher reported that in one
questionnaire, on which people were giv-
en the opportunity to indicate whether
they thought their pet was an animal or
human member of the family, 48 percent
responded that the animal was a humar
family member.

One of the more interesting attempt:
at a laboratory study was done by Ran
dall Lockwood, a psychologist at Stat
University of New York at Stony Brook

SCIENCE. VOL. 2”. 23 OCTOBER 19?

 




. Using a test where subjects are shown
pictures and asked to make up a story
about each. he showed subjects pairs of
pictures of peOple that were identical
except for the presence or absence of an
animal. To the subjects. the relationships
between people portrayed generally ap-
peared more positive when an animal
was in the picture, and more positive
characteristics such as intelligence, in-
dustriousness, and happiness, were as-
cribed to the people.

Another angle that draws attention of
researchers is how animals yield clues to
problems of their owners.

A researcher from Britain reported
that cases of animal abuse may be used
as an alert to family pathology. Inter—
views with families who were known to
the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals revealed many bro-
ken families and persons prone to vio-
lence and child abuse.

Although the ﬁeld of animal-human
relationships embraces matters ranging
from ethics to “pooper scooper” laws.

4‘the chief application is in the therapeutic
use of animals. One of the earliest pet-
facilitated therapy projects was started
in 1975 at the Lima, Ohio. State Hospital
where a variety of animals, including
macaws and gerbils, have reportedly led
to improved morale and interaction
among the patients. Although institution-
al regulations make it difﬁcult to get
animals together with institutionalized
populations, the people at the meeting
saw a big future for animals in nursing
homes, hospitals, prisons, psychiatric
wards, and schools where there are re-
tarded, autistic, or handicapped children.

A French veterinarian, Ange Con-
doret,‘ is planning to establish a chil-
dren’s center for animal-human commu—
nication. He believes animals can supply
the bridge for autistic children eventually
to establish contacts with other humans.
He also says that childhood problems
such as bed-wetting and nightmares can
be alleviated by allowing a child to
choose a pet.

Animals are also being used in psycho-
therapy. Boris M. Levinson. emeritus
professor of psychology at Yeshiva Uni-
versity, said he met with a lukewarm
reception when he reported on his use of
a dog as co—therapist 20 years ago. "Un-
til comparatively recently academicians
have viewed interest in animal-human
relationships as a childish preoccupa-
tion,” he said. Now peOple are talking
about doing systematic research on just
what kinds of animals are best suited to
he needs of particular populations. One
speaker said he looked forward to the

' lay when one could “prescribe a petjust

SCIENCE. VOL. 214. 23 OCTOBER I98]

 

 

Reagan’s Plan for Nuclear Power

With a minimum of fanfare, President Reagan and Energy Secretary
James Edwards held a brieﬁng at the White House on 8 October to set out
their goals for rehabilitating the nuclear power industry. The statement.
which held few surprises, described the federal commitment in general
terms and gave no speciﬁc information about the legislation that will be
necessary to achieve the new objectives.

The Administration’s broad purpose, according to the President. is to
create a stable and supportive federal policy to make it easier for utilities to
raise capital for nuclear projects. The assumptions are that a growing
economy must have electrical power. and that power can be supplied most
efficiently by coal-ﬁred and nuclear generators.

The three basic goals of the plan, according to the President. are (i) to
accelerate the licensing of nuclear plants which have already been pro-
posed, increasing the number of licensees by 50 percent in 30 months. (ii) to
provide federal ﬁnancing for research and development on the equipment
required to sustain a system of breeder reactors. and (iii) to start operating a
federal disposal site for highly radioactive nuclear wastes.

The most controversial item in the package is the decision to reverse the
Carter Administration’s ban on private reprocessing of used reactor fuel.
Carter ordered the ban in 1977, closing the only functioning private plant in
Barnwell, South Carolina. The decision was based on foreign policy. In
order to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons technology. the Carter
Administration sought an international moratorium on fuel reprocessing. As
a gesture of good faith in negotiating the moratorium. the United States
sacriﬁced its own reprocessing industry.

The Reagan Administration is repealing this policy essentially for domes-
tic reasons. Reagan said he would like to create a private fuel—handling
industry to help dispose of nuclear wastes. This would simplify the federal
govemment’s waste disposal problems. Asked about the impact this change
would have on nonproliferation agreements. White House ofﬁcials simply
replied that the decision was a domestic, not a global. matter.

The President said that commercial reprocessing plants would be useful
not only in disposing of wastes but also as a source of plutonium for the
breeder reactor. Although- this President does not approve of federal
subsidies in general, one Administration ofﬁcial said the government may
promise to buy a certain amount of plutonium from private reprocessing
centers to help get them launched. It is not clear under this plan whether the
government would buy plutonium just for breeders or for bombs as well.
This is one of many controversial details the Administration will have to
discuss in coming months.

Reagan’s new program does not call for additional federal funding in the
next year. (Congress has already debated and agreed to fund the breeder
program.) However, the plan will eventually require additional legislation in
at least two areas: plant licensing and waste disposal.

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission may make itself somewhat more
efﬁcient by administrative ﬁat. But to achieve the long-term objective of
reducing licensing time from 14 to 8 years. the Administration will have to
propose new laws. Nothing is on the drawing board at the moment.

The brieﬁng paper also notes that. “The government accepts full respon-
sibility for permanent isolation of high-level radioactive wastes." And it
promises that the Administration will choose three permanent disposal sites
and construct exploratory shafts by 1985. By I988. according to this
forecast. a federal disposal center should be ready for licensing. All of this
will require new legislation. but as of nowthe Administration does not
know what form it will take.

The House, still controlled by Democrats. is likely to be far less
enthusiastic about this program than the Senate. At least one key repre-
sentative has declared his strong Opposition. This is why the parts of the

program requiring new law will be slow to take shape.
-—EL10T MARSHALL

 

0036-8075/81/l023~04|9$0l.00/0 Copyright ”S; I981 AAAS

 

 




as you would prescribe high blood pres-
sure medication.”

The use of animals as helpers also
appears to have a burgeoning future. The
American Humane Association recently
started a program to training “hearing-
ear dogs” for deaf people; the dogs alert
them to telephones, ﬁre alarms, and oth-
er meaningful noises. Dogs are being
trained to perform chores for wheel-
chair-bound people and specialized tasks
for people with particular disabilities.
There is also talk of training dogs as
“night nurses,” to be alert to signs indi—
cating a change in a patient’s condition.

Although many people intuitively be-
lieve that close bonds with animals will
prove to have measurable effects on peo-

ple’s health and happiness, long-term
large—scale studies will be required. One
such study is being conducted by epide-
miologists Marcia G. Ory, at the Nation-
al Institute on Aging, and Evelyn Gold-
berg of Johns Hopkins University.
Theirs is a 5-year study on the health
consequences of bereavement covering
1000 married women, aged 65 to 75. In
assessing the well-being of the subjects,
pet owning did not emerge as a signiﬁ-
cant factor. However, the researchers
did ﬁnd that women who felt close at—
tachments to their pets were also more
likely to have close relationships with
their husbands. Ory suggests that as
spouses die, valuable information about
the role of pets may emerge. “This is a

wonderful study, but morbid as hell."
she notes.

By the end of the conference. Beck
appeared excited about the prospect that
the study of animal-human relationships
(no oﬂicial name for it has been agreed
on) is becoming established as a legiti-
mate ﬁeld. He noted that the University
of Minnesota has just followed Pennsyl-
vania’s lead in setting up a Center to
Study Human-Animal Relationship and
Environments, cosponsored by the
schools of public health and veterinary
medicine. Pennsylvania has also estab—
lished a membership group, the Delta
Society, which eventually hopes to pub-
lish its own journal.

-—CONSTANCE HOLDEN

No Boost in Sight for Science Budgets

Two Administration ofﬁcials said re-
cently that scientists supported by the
government will continue to face tight
budgets as part of President Reagan’s
economic recovery program. This ﬁscal
austerity is spurring the government to
reevaluate priorities in scientiﬁc re-
search, according to the President’s sci-
ence adviser, George Keyworth, and
Health and Human Services assistant
secretary of health, Edward Brandt, Jr.

Although every government science
agency is confronted with the 12 percent
cut that Reagan announced recently,
across-the-board reductions would be
“irresponsible," Keyworth stated at a
recent meeting of the NIH director’s
advisory committee. "

Keyworth said, “The President recog-
nizes the importance of science and tech-
nology, but economic recovery is his
ﬁrst priority.” Neither he nor Brandt
spelled out any new areas where future
budget reductions might be made.

Keyworth presented a few examples
of the Administration’s concerns in sci-
ence. He went out of his way to deplore
the state of scientiﬁc instruments used
for teaching in universities in the United
States. “I will say it bluntly. The status
of [such] instrumentation is disgrace-
ful," he declared. It is in “crisis condi-
tion.” -

The Administration is trying to allevi-
ate the problem through changes in tax
law. One reform gives tax credit to busi-

Keyworth says economic recovery is

Marjorie Sun

Keyworth at NIH

nesses for donating instruments to uni-
versities. But an NIH committee mem—
ber took the Administration to task for
contradictions in the federal reforms.
New York University medical school
dean Ivan Bennett pointed out that the
tax policy also permits companies to
depreciate instruments more rapidly
than before. Bennett said this reduces
industry’s incentive to contribute instru-
ments to schools.

Since Reagan announced his plan to
cut the budget even more, Keyworth
said he is devoting most of his attention
to the broader issue of ironing out the
total science budget for the next ﬁscal
year. He emphasized that the federal
government has “primary responsibility
for basic research” and that industry’s
main role is to support applied research.

420 0036-8075/81/1023—0420501.00/0 Copyright © 1981 AAAS

the President’s first priority

In answer to a question about the elimi—
nation of the Department of Energy
(DOE), Keyworth said he was unsure
what would happen to research conduct—
ed by DOE scientists. In areas of re-
search where federal support is inade-
quate, industry may pick up the slack, he
said. Keyworth hailed recent collabora-
tive agreements reached between several
universities and corporations in biotech-
nology research as a “momentous step
and a critical element to strengthen sci-
entiﬁc research.”

He also mentioned that the Adminis-
tration is reexamining the controversial
time and effort accounting rules set up
under the Ofﬁce of Management and
Budget Circular A-21, that govemment-
supported researchers have complained
about (Science, 15 May, p. 760). Al-
though he acknowledges the need for
modiﬁcation, Keyworth, a former re-
search physicist, appears not to be as
troubled over the requirements. “A-21 is
not such a terrible ugly piece of legisla-
tion. It’s more that it was the straw that
broke the camel’s back.” Denis Prager.
an associate director in Keyworth’s of-
ﬁce, said later that the Administration is
considering the adoption of a different
accounting philosophy that would assess
scientists’ “performance levels” rathe.
than a log of their time spent in research
This approach would examine whethe
scientists have accomplished the goals r.-
their research. An oﬁicial of the Associz

SCIENCE. VOL. 214. 23 OCTOBER 1%

 




 

 

 

I've drawn a bird, says Moja the chimp

B) t’etei‘ \Vatsnu ..

'A ciiiiii ANZEE'S drawing of a
bird excited psychologists at an
international conference in Paris
last week. The few lines
scrawled on paper may not seem.
at ﬁrst glance. significant or
beautiful. but they are the ﬁrst
recorded example of an attempt
at representational art by an
animal other than a human
being. ‘

Moja, the artist chimp. is three
and a half years old and one of
several apes in an elaborate re-
search project run by Allen and
‘Beatricc Gardner at the Ultt\‘f‘l“
sity of Nevada, in the United
States. Each ape has lived since
birth with a human family and.
more important. has been trained
to " talk " by using a sign langu-
age similar to that used by deaf
people (see drawings before).

Moja, Swahili for “ One.” has
a vocabulary of 117 words and
a conversation in this silent
language between her and her
painting teacher revealed the
fact that. she had chosen to draw
a bird. ’

Usually, chimpanzee paintings
are a series of
squiggles and streaks. In April.
however. Moja suddenly made a
quite different drawing, a copy of
which is shown here. She was
asked to paint some more but
replied—in sign—that she was
“ finished", She was then gchn
another piece of paper and
carried on with her squiggles
and streaks. It seemed. then.

that she wasnt tired but meant

that she had ﬁnished a particular -

effort. The teacher therefore
asked her by signs what it was.
Withoutany apparent bother. or
surprise,. Moja signalled the
answer. “ Bird." f

The Gardners admit that the
drawing is not the best likeness
of a bird—that indeed it is some
what more likely to be taken for
a fish. “ But. alter all. she‘s only
three anda half." says Beatrice
Gardner. “You wouldn‘t expect
much better from a child of that

 

haphazard

‘have.’

 

What matters is that Moja
meant to draw a bird and did so:
Since April, in fact. she has
drawn -a bird several times and
a cat and, just three weeks ago,
a strawberiy

The drawings raise the contro-
versial issue as to whether the
chimps’ new language actually
helps them to think better. to be.
in effect. more intelligent. The
possibility has been intriguing
scientists since the first attempts
were made to teach languages to
chimps. whether by signs or by
pieces of coloured plastic which
other zoologists and psycholo-
gists have used.

The Gardners are extremely
cautious on this. Moja. they
emphasise, is not even into her
adolescence yet and not until
she is physically and mentally
mature will anyone really be
able to tell what difference
language makes.

It is perhaps unlikely that the
use of sign language. which has
provided Moja with a word for
bird. has in fact provided her
.wilh an idea she~didii't already
But what-is interesting
scientists is whether the signs
have made her realise that 'the
concept of a birdv-or a cat or a
strawberry-wan exist outside
these 'objects ‘themselves and
thus create in her the idea that
representative art is possible.

The Gardners had still more
discoveries to report last week.

 

___—

 

/
/

 

.-report to the

. is on y

__-‘

They hate lizsiieri sever!
chimps iii sign language an
have observed what the we
when left to themselves. “say
to each other. In effect. the
can eavesdrop" on the privati
animal, world of the chimp.

Two other chim s have fe:
lured in these exchanges. The
were Pili (Swahili for “ Se
end "i. aged two, and Tati
("third"), who is six month
They have smaller vocabularit
than Moja but many hrases an
sentences have now can reco
ded by the Gardners.

The words the animals kllO'
are used in surprisingly sophist
cated ways. A bandana, fc
example. may be referred to z
a handkerchief or as a “ peek.
boo " depeiidin on contex
Moja can use ” rink" for mill
water. broth, coffee. orange juic
and even the rain on the windo
pane. ' "

New creations are possibli
Thus. without any prompting
duek was suddenly labelled
“ water bird." Mustard bCCam
“hurt ,food.” 'The sign fr
“dirty " was used'at ﬁrst 0
for soiled objects and faeees ht
in time one o the chim;1
started applying it-eveu to t
experimenters when they refuse
any of the animal’s wishes.

To eachother, the chimps bar
so far " spoken " mainly childis
things. reflecting their young agi
They will ask the other chimp 1
come and tickle them, which a
chimps love, or to chase then
which manyseem to prefer me
to tickling.

Now that Moja at least seeir.
able to isolate concepts like
bird on paper. one- of th
Gardners’ next steps is to teae
the chimps to read.

A selection of Moja's be:
drawings will be published in
US Nation:
Science Foundation in a fe
months. The range and deta
may-reveal yet more talents (
Moja than are hidden in the on
exam le showrfhere. and whic
a human's cepy of th
original masterpiece.

 

d
J»
. 1"

I“. . T; V n'v
faayg-ﬁ; ’
are! ‘2-3
. .1 .

u

: I g s.
fwﬁuﬂr‘: J‘
it: 11‘ ‘~

 

 

 




 

SUMMER, 1931

Published by the Center for Environmental Education, Inc.

Vol.5, No.3

 

ANNUAL lWC MEETING

A Bittersweet Week of Compromise

The 33rd annual meeting of the International Whaling
Commission (lWC) is over. Once again, conservationists
came home with bittersweet news.

The meeting, held in Brighton, England from July 20-25,
was, as last year, marked by compromise and bartering. A
vote on an indefinite moratorium on commercial whaling
failed to get the 3A: majority vote needed as did the pro-
posal for a moratorium on whaling in the North Atlantic. A
ban on the use of the cold (noneXplosive) harpoon on
Minke whales was achieved but will not take effect until
the 198384 whaling season. A ban on the commercial kill-
ing of sperm whales in the Southern Hemisphere and
North Atlantic Oceans was passed, but the Commission
postponed the decision of setting a quota on sperm
whales in the western North Pacific until a special meeting
on this stock is held in March 1982, at Japan’s request.

The Moratoria

Three moratorium proposals were made this year: an
indefinite moratorium on all commercial whaling; an
indefinite moratorium on commercial whaling in the North
Atlantic; and a pelagic(open-seas) moratorium on Minke
whaling after the 198384 whaling season. All three propo-
sals passed in the Technical COmmittee where a simple
majority is needed but failed in Plenary where a 3A majority
is required. The final votes were 16 yes, 8 no, and 3 absten-
tions on the commercial whaling moratorium; 15 yes, 8 no,
and 4 abstentions on the North Atlantic whaling morator-
ium; and 13 yes, 9 no, and 5 abstentions on the pelagic
moratorium on Minke whaling. _

Conservationists were disappointed, though not par-
ticularly surprised, that these proposals failed. At the
beginning of the meeting, there was some hope that
because eight new non-whaling nations had become
members of the lWC there was a chance that at least one
of these proposals would pass. Of the eight new nations,
only four—Jamaica, India, China, and St. Lucia—were
present on the first few days of the meeting when the
moratorium came to a vote. All but China voted in favor of
all three moratorium proposals. China abstained on all
votes throughout the meeting. Three other nations arrived
later in the week—St. Vincent/Grenadines, Uruguay, and

Costa Rica. Dominica was absent for the entire meeting.
The Commissioner from India left the meeting early, appar-
ently frustrated at the workings of the Commission. (See
voting chart on page 3 for voting records of new nations et.
al.) -

The Cold Harpoon

At last year’s’ lWC meeting, members voted to ban the
use of the cold harpoon on all whales except the Minke.
This year, the ban was extended to cover the Minke though
it will take effect only after a one year phase-in period, i.e.
during the 1983-84 whaling season.

This ban is a major victory for conservationists. The
use of the_ cold harpoon on whales is considered to be
extremely inhumane. Since these weapons do not have
explosives a'ached, the death agony of a whale is pro-

(continued on page 3)

 

Non-Whaler Elected to Chair

For the first time in the history of the International
Whaling Commission (IWC), this multinational body
charged with the responsibility of regulating world-
wide whaling has elected as its chairperson, a repre-
sentative of a non-whaling nation.

Senor Eduardo H. lglesias, lWC commissioner
from Argentina, was unanimously elected to a three
year term as head of the IWC. Einar Lemche, commis-
sioner from Denmark, was unanimously elected vice-
chairperson. ‘

William Kardash, who represented the Whale Pro-
tection Fund at the IWC meeting, hailed Senor
lglesias’ election as “another major victory for
conservationists because this signals a definite shift
toward conservation on the part of this 31-member
assembly of whaling and non-whaling nations.”

Senor Iglesias replaces Mr. Thordur Asgeirsson,
IWC commissioner from Iceland, who has chaired
the Commission since 1979.

 

 

 

 




CEE WORKS TO PROMOTE
SANCTUARIES

In the last few issues of The Whale Report, issues
about offshore oil drilling and marine sanctuaries have
been described. The Center has been heavily involved in
these issues. Staff and interns at the Center have re-
searched the issues, presented testimony, worked with
other organizations and state and federal agencies in see-
ing that our coastal waters receive due protection.

Since coming to the Center, Michael Weber, Marine
Habitat Coordinator, has been devoting much of his time
to offshore oil drilling and marine sanctuaries. The Center
took the lead in gathering support for the four sanctuaries
which were designated during the last several months of
the Carter Administration. The Center also presented testi-
mony in support of the continuation of the program, which

 

 

5:.

Photo by John J Domont

Hundreds of thousands of plant and animal species rely on the
health of California ’3 beautiful Point Reyes/Fara/lon Islands
Marine Sanctuary. The CEE is working to prevent oil drilling
activities from threatening the ecosystem.

was under attack from the oil industry and the Department
of Interior, before Congressional committees. When the
Reagan Administration suspended the oil drilling prohibi-
tions at the Channel Islands and Point Reyes-Farallon
Islands Sanctuaries off the coast of California, the Center
argued against continuation of the suspension, in vain.
The Center has submitted a regulatory impact analysis of
the oil drilling prohibitions, conducted by Center legal con-
sultant Richard Tinney. This analysis amplifies the
Center’s position that the oil drilling prohibitions are
beneficial and that the current review by the Administra-
tion is misplaced. ‘

Paul Caldenivood, one of three interns from the Univer-
sity of California at Santa Barbara (UCSB), is currently pre-
paring the Center’s comments on a proposal for a Marine
Sanctuary off St. Thomas in the US. Virgin Islands. Paul’s
thorough review of all the issues surrOunding this proposal
will insure careful consideration of the proposal by the
federal government.

2 THE WHALE REPORT

 

Another UCSB intern, Ron Sissem, is evaluating‘a pro-
posed oil and gas lease sale, #68, in the Santa Barbara
Channel. The DOI is considering leasing those tracts with-
in the Channel lslands Sanctuary, which Secretary of the
Interior Andrus had deleted some years ago. Paul’s
research will buttress the Center’s work on the oil drilling

prohibitions.

Terry Leftgoff, also from UCSB, aided in the prepara-
tion of comments on Secretary Watt’s plans to accelerate
the leasing of coastal waters for oil drilling. Terry’s com-
ments also aided in the preparation of testimony
presented by CEE’s Director of Science and Policy, Dr.
Elliott A. Norse, to the DOI on July 24. Dr. Norse presented
to the DOI the results of an analysis of the capabilities of
the offshore oil and gas industry conducted by Center
legal consultant, Richard Tinney. This Center study found
that the lack of drill rigs, trained personnel, and adequate
technology in some areas of our coastal waters will
frustrate industry attempts to meet the goals outlined by
Secretary Watt and to provide for adequate protection of
sensitive marine resources. Together with federal budget
cuts in environmental studies, Secretary Watt’s accelera-
tion of offshore oil drilling places marine plants and
animals, including marine mammals, turtles, and multi-
billion dollar commercial fisheries, at considerable risk. A
sound plan for exploration of our coastal waters requires
the recognition of constraints on the industry and the lack
of environmental information on areas of exceptional
biological productivity. Secretary Watt’s plan fails to do
this.

The Whale Report will continue to keep you informed
of further developments in these important areas in com-
ingissues.

 

SUMMER, 1981 Vol. 5, No. 3

The Whale Report

Published by the
Center for Environmental Education
Whale Protection Fund
Executive Director: Thomas B. Grooms

Editor. Jann TeepIe-Hewes
Writers: James Sternberg, Michael Weber,
Lisa Wilcox

THE WHALE REPORT is published quarterly by the
Whale Protection Fund/Center for Environmental
Education, Inc., 1925 K. Street, NW, Suite 206,
Washington, DC 20006, for purposes of informing
and educating people about the importance of saving
the whale and protecting sensitive marine popula-
tions and areas. THE WHALE REPORT is sent free of
charge to all Whale Protection Fund supporters and
any other interested parties. lnforrnation may be
reprinted without permission.

 

 

 

 

 

1981 SUM MER

 

ra- ~J<ww1~4~yet<rn a 4r r , ~ ~

wrn. . nannywpz 4.

 

. .m.“ h‘.z.ﬁ3~‘v.. a. ,,

r ‘3‘” "U‘ M

 




lWC Meeting

(continued from page 1)

longed. Whalers have used the cold harpoon primarily on
Minke whales because grenade-tipped harpoons destroy
too much of the meat on these smaller whales.

By requiring the whaling industry to switch to a more
humane method oi killing, conservationists believe that
the economic value of Minke whaling will be diminished
and, hopefully, this still large-scale industry will collapse.
Over 12,000 Minkes will be killed during the 1982-83 whal-
ing season as a result of quotas set at this year’s IWC
meeting.

In the meantime, Japanese engineers will be working
on some serious technical problems associated with a
new type of explosive harpoon they developed for Minke
whaling. The new harpoon will apparently damage less
meat and will kill the whales more quickly. Currently, the
use of a more volatile explosive makes the new harpoon
too dangerous to use. If these technical problems'are not
solved before the ban on the use of the cold harpoon goes
into effeCt, Japan and other countries which kill Minke
whales could be forced out of business. Conservationists
are concerned that Japan and, perhaps, Norway, may soon
file an objection to this ban whiéh would release them
from its mandate.

A Ban on Sperm Whaling?

The lWC’s postponement of action on the killing of
sperm whales is an excellent example of how compro-
mises are made during these long international delibera-
tions. The Seychelles had proposed that the IWC approve
a “pause” in the killing of all sperm whales for three years
to allow scientists to do the population research needed to
make accurate recommendations. The proposal passed in
Technical Committee but it was clear that it would not
pass in Plenary session. Japan was against the proposal
since Japanese coastal whalers take nearly 1000 sperm
whales in the western North Pacific annually.

Because of the lack of adequate data, the Scientific
Committee of the IWC had not made a recommendation
on this stock. Consequently, in order to avoid a stalemate
on the issue and to gain the support of several waivering
nations, the pro-conservation countries agreed to accept
the request of the Japanese delegation for a “special”
Scientific Committee meeting to consider “new data”
which was not yet available to the Committee at this year’s
meeting. The proposal passed by an overwhelming vote of
25 yes, 1 no, and 3 abstentions.

Requests for special meetings are becoming quite
common. This is the third time in the last four years that
Japan has requested such a meeting. At the two previous
“special” meetings requested, conservationists lost many
of the gains they had originally made at the regular annual
meetings. .

For example, in 1977, the IWC set a quota for North
Pacific sperm whales at 800. Japan requested a special

(continued on page 5)

SUMMER 1981

HOW THEY VOTED ON THE MAJOR
ISSUES IN PLENARY SESSIONS

Commercial moratorium
Commercral moratorium

in North Atlantic

Pelagic moratorium

Minke atter 1983-84 season
Undetermined stock, western
N. Pacific sperm whales

phere
-8,102
East Greenland fin whale
stock-quota 194

Southern Hemis
Minke Quota

 

Member Nations

 

Argentina

..<

>
CT

 

Australia

.<

>
C’

 

Brazil

3;.
0'

.<

 

Canada°

 

Chile

 

Costa Rica*

 

Denmark

 

Dominica"

 

 

France

 

Iceland

 

lndia"

 

 

Jamaica*

 

Japan

 

Korea, Rep. of

Mexico

Netherlands

New Zealand

Norway

Oman

People’s Rep. of China"
Peru

Seychelles

South Africa

Spain

St. Lucia‘

St. Vincent/Grenadines*

.<

<zg-<z-<-<-<zz-<-<z-<|-<|z|c3;-<-<
>
U

<zg<z<<<zz<<z<|glzl

2%
2%;
-<zz-<Z

-<-<-<g|-<z|-<C>;-<|-<-<-<

 

 

Sweden

 

Switzerland

 

 

UK.
USA.
U.S.S.R.
Uruguay‘

z-<-<-<-<|

<g<<<<<<<<<<g<<<<<<z<ig<| -<-<-<|-<-<-<

 

. Key: Ab abstention

no
yes
absent

16/8 15/8 13/9 25/1
fail fail fail pass

currently engaged in commercial whaling
new member of lWC

Note: All resolutions considered in plenary sessions require a

3/4 majority vote.

°Canada’s recent withdrawal from the IWC is effective 682. She
attended this year’s meeting as an observer so did not vote.

 

 

 

THE WHALE REPORT

rx
4

x)

...,,,,....-.,,b”.~wn ,..,..... ..........,.. ..,.-...q ...

l‘ rv-vwriw—uur»

 




lWC Meeting
(continued from page 3)

meeting which was held in Tokyo where “new data” were
presented. They left the meeting with a heartbreaking
“revised quota” of 6,444. The following year witnessed a
similar occurrence.

Needless to say, conservationists are very concerned
about the special meeting and the admitted determination
of Japanese scientists to return with a sperm whale quota.
Because of the tremendous success achieved by the
Whale Protection Fund’s (WPF) ”Sperm Whale Review
Panel” in fighting off Japan’s request for even higher
quotas in 1979, the WPF has been asked again to take the
lead in preparing scientific arguments to be presented at
the special meeting scheduled for March, 1982. These
arguments will document and sustain scientific evidence
in support of establishing a zero quota for this stock.

The WPF’s initiative becomes all the more important
since efforts by US. government scientists will be severely
hampered by proposed federal budget cuts. Thus, the WPF
has undertaken a special effort to fund a large portion of
the research efforts to ensure that a zero quota on western
North Pacific sperm whales is, indeed, established.

Although the western North Pacific sperm whale quota
is still in question, it is reassuring to note that the quota for
this stock is effectiVely zero. If, as a result of the Special
Scientific Committee meeting in March, a quota is recom-
mended, a 3A majority will still be required to adopt that
quota in Plenary session next year. Conservationists are
optimistic that a “blocking vote” could prevent any quota
or compromise that would be unacceptable to them. While
the conservationists have temporarily prevailed, and the
ball is now in Japan’s court, there is still much hard work

a be done lest we find ourselves retreating come March.

Conservationists did have one clear victory, however.

rte lWC did set zero quotas on the North Atlantic and

southern Ocean stocks of sperm whales. Because of that,

430 sperm whales’ lives will be spared and another giant

step toward ending the commercial slaughter of whales
has been taken.

More Minkes

A real blow to conservationists this year is the quota
on Minke whales in the Southern Ocean. The lWC ap-
proved a quota of 8,102 whales in that region as compared
to the 7,072 quota last year. This increase of 1,030 Minkes
was, in essence, a compromise to placate Japan’s concern
about the sperm whale quotas and the ban on the use of
the cold harpoon on Minkes. The 8,102 quota is, however,
some 20% lower than the Scientific Committee’s recom-
mendation of just over 10,000 Minkes in the Southern
Ocean.

Fin Whale Compromise
It is clear from this year’s lWC meeting that compro-

mise has become the order of the day and Scientific Com-
mittee recommendations are of secondary importance.

SUMMER 1981

Another example of political compromising is the Com-
mission’s decision to allow Iceland 194 fin whales from the
East Greenland stock in the North Atlantic. Although the
total quota of fin whales in the North Atlantic is lower than
last year, the quota for the East Greenland stock is signifi-
cantly higher than the Scientific Committee recom-
mended.

This decision was made specifically to gain Iceland’s
support of the zero-quota on sperm whales in the North
Atlantic. A look at the voting chart on page 3 reveals that
19 nations actually abstained on this vote. Many nations
usually vote in accordance with the Scientific Committee.
Had these nations voted for this proposal, however, they
would have voted against the Scientific Committee. Had
they voted “no” on the proposal, the conservation coun-
tries would have lost the zero-quota on sperm whales.
Hence, they just abstained.

Room for Optimism

All of this “wheeling and dealing” has frustrated con-
servationists’ attempts‘ to significantly lower overall
quotas, but there is reason to be optimistic wiitth the results
of this year’s lWC meeting. 1) There is a goodl chance that
Japan will fail to get a quota on western North Pacific
sperm whales next year owing to the numbertof conserva-
tion—oriented nations that are members of the Commis-
sion. After Canada officially leaves the lWC, tthere will be
31 members of the Commission; 21 are non—whaling
nations. Assuming there are no abstentions,,tJapan would
have to get 23 nations behind a quota on smerm whales.
Conservationists will need only eight votes tto scuttle the
3A: majority required. If the proposal fails and Japan is left
with a zero quota afterall, Japan’s coastal whaling stations
would probably have to close.

2) Because the exploding harpoon damagjes too much
whale meat thus making Minke whaling less economically
attractive, the ban on the use of the cold l'narpnon is a
major blow to Japan and the U.S.S.R.’s pelagic: (open seas)
whaling operations, as well as Norway’s coaastai whaling
operations. 3) A commercial whaling morattoriurn in the
North Atlantic will have a fairly good chancze oi passing
next year. For the first time in lWC history, 'lcwnd, as' 1
Spain to a lesser extent, finally supplied tthe Scientis‘t:
Committee with current statistical informatiron mlating % a
North Atlantic whale stocks. if these statistics Show will i
the Scientific Committee has long suspecteed, hut cor]
not prove—Le. that certain stocks are severelly mletec' .1
the North Atlantic—the scientific argument fforamorator-
ium in the area would be significantly strenggthared.

So, conservationists are looking to the 19882 MC meet-
ing with a view toward success in effectiveb‘ly cmvincing
whaling nations that whaling is a totally umeomomical,
unsupportable business. Again, there is still a idof work
to be done but, combined with optimism amd (Hermina-
tion, our goals may finally be met.

THE WHALE REPORT 5

 




 

 

 

Southern

Minke ................

Sperm (male) ..........

(197719511)

29th
Meeting
(1977)

............ 5,690

771

............ 4,538

(female) .......... ' .......... 1,370

Bryde’s ...............

North Pacific

Minke ................

Sperm (male) ..........

............ 5,105

............ 400

0
524

(female) .................... 1,339

North Atlantic

Fin ..................
Minke ................

............ 459
............ 2,555

84
685

TOTAL COMM ERCIAL QUOTAS .......... 23,520

30th
Meeting
(1978)

6,221

0
3,820
1,055

455
2,552
84
685

19,526

31 st
Meeting
(1979)

8,102
0
580

264

Meeting

(1 980)

7,072
0
300

264

33rd
Meeting
(1981)

8,102
0
0

561
2,554
100

5

13,448

Aboriginal Quotas .
Bowhead (U.S. Eskimos) ........................ ‘ ........... 1 76
Gray (U.S.S.R. catcher vessels for Siberian Eskimos) ............. 179
Humpback (Greenland Eskimos) ............................ 107

TOTAL ABORIGINAL QUOTAS ................................. 197 206

TOTAL .............................. 23,520 19,526 15,853 14,107 13,654

‘Quotas established at the lWC annual meetings are for the Antarctic whaling season (December of the year of the meeting
through April of the following year) and all coastal seasons of the year after the meeting, in this case, 1982.

2Additional quotas were set for three other divisions in the Southern Ocean totaling 622. Because of the factory ship
moratorium passed in 1979, however, these quotas cannot be taken.

3This figure is based on an allowable catch of 940 Minke whales in the Sea of Japan and 421 in the Northwest 'Pacific as
established at the 1979 meeting of the lWC. This quota was given a five year duration. The 1982 whaling season IS Its third
yean

‘No whales may be taken from this stock until catch limits, including any limitations in size or sex, are established by the
lWC. A special meeting to consider this stock has been called for by Japan and will be held in March, 1982.

£5Iceland did not take all of its quota of 130 sperm whales during the 1981 whaling season. Iceland will be permitted to take
the remainder during the 1982 coastal whaling season.

“The Alaskan Eskimos were given a three-year block quota in 1980 of 45 whales landed or 65 struck, with an upper limit of 17
permitted in any one year.

7The Greenland Eskimos’ whalirzd interests are managed by Denmark.

 

 

 

 

4 THE WHALE REPORT 1981 SUMMER

 




‘ll

’7’ )N'GRESSIONAI. RECORD —- HOUSE
_‘ A‘

. Speakerton that I

. ' demand the ye and nays.

‘ The yeas and ays were ordered.

The SPEAKEJ protempore. Pursu-
ions of clause 5 of
' ’8 prior announce-

.proceedings on this

 

.. "1981

. BREAUX. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(HR. 1838) to provide for the control

of illegally twee. and
for other purposes, as amen ed.

The Clerk read as follows:

HR. 1638

Be it enacted by the Senate and Home of
Representatives of the United States w
America in Congress assembled. That this
Act may be cited as the “Lacey Act Amend-
ments of 1981".

Soc. 2. Dsrmmons.

For the purposes of this Act:

(a) The term “fish or wildlife" means any
wild animal. whether alive or dead, includ-

without limitation arry wild mammal.

, reptile, amphibian, fish, mollusk, crus-
tacean. arthropod. ooelenterate, or other in-
vertebrate, whether or not bred, hatched, or
bominmptivitxmdincludesampart,
product. m, or offspring thereof.

(b) The term “import” means to land on.
bring into, or introduce into. any place sub-
ject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
whether or not such landing. bringing, or in-
troduction constitutes an importation
within the meaning ‘of the customs laws of
the United States.

(c) The term “Indian tribal law” means
any regulation of. or other rule of conduct
enforceable by, any Indian tribe, band, or
group but only to the extent that the regu-
lation or rule applies within Indian country
as defined in section 1151 of title 18, United
States Code. ‘

(d) The terms “law,” ”treaty? “regula-

tion," and “Indian tribal law” mean laws, '

treaties, regulations, or Indian tribal laws
which regulate the taking, possession. im-
portation, exportation, transportation, or
sale of fish or wildlife or plants. .

(e) The term "person" includes any indi-
vidual, partnership. association. corpora-
tion, trust, or any officer. employee, agent,
department, or instrumentality of the Fed-
eral Government or of any State or political
. subdivision thereof, or any other entity sub-
ject to the Jurisdiction of the United States.

(f) The terms “plant" and “plants” mean
any wild member of the pIant kingdom, in-
cluding roots. seeds, and other parts thereof

(but excluding common food crops and‘cul-’

tivars) which is indigenous to any State'and
which is either (A) listed on an appendix to
the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora, or (B) listed pursuant to any State
law that provides for the "conservation of
species threatened with extinction.

(g) The term “Secretary” means, except as
otherwise provided in the Act, the Secretary
to the Interior or the Secretary of Com-
merce, as program responsiblities are vested
pursuant to the provisions of Reorganiza-
. tion Plan Numbered 4 of 1970 (84 Stat.

'2090); except that with respect to the provi-
sions of this Act which pertain to the impor-
tation or exportation of plants the term
means the Secretary of Agriculture.

(11) The term “State” means any of the
several States, the District'of Columbia. the
Commonwealth of ‘Puerto Rico, the "Virgin

November 4, 1981

Islands, Guam. Northern Mariana Islands.
American Samoa, and any other territory,
commonwealth, or possession of the United
States.

(i) The term “taken” means captured.
killed. or collected.

(1) The term “transport” means to move,
convey, carry. or ship by any means, or to
deliver or receive for the purpose of move
ment. conveyance, carriage, or shipment.

SEC. 3. Prohibited Acts.

fa) OFFENSES 01m ‘Tmuv MARKING Or-
msss.-—It is unlawful for any person—’

(1) to import, export. transport, sell, re-
ceive, acquire, or purchase any fish or wild-
life or plant taken or possessed in violation
of any law, treaty, or regulation of the
United States or in violation of any Indian
tribal law; .

(2) to import, export, transport, sell, re-
ceive. acquire, or purchase in interstate or
foreign commerce—

(A) any fish or wildlife taken, possessed,
transported, or sold in violation of any law
or regulation of any State or in violation of
any foreign law, or

(B) any plant taken. possessed, transport-

‘ cd, or sold in violation of any law or regula-

tion of any State; .

(3) within the special maritime and terri-
torial Jurisdiction of the United States (as
defined in section 7 of title 18, United States
Code)—

(A) to possess any fish or wildlife taken,
possessed. transmitted, or sold in violation -
ofanylaworregulation ofamStatenrin
violation of any foreign law or Indian tribal
law. or. «

(B) topossess any plant taken, possessed,
transported. or sold in violation of any law
or regulation of any State; ‘

(4) having imported, exported. transport-
ed, sold, purchased, or received any fish or
wildlife or plant hnported from any foreign
country or transported in interstate or for.
eign commerce, to make or submit any false
record, account, label, or identification
thereof; or

(5) to attempt to commit any act described
in paragraphs (1) through (4).

(b) MARKING Omsas.-—It is unlawful for

.any person to import, export, or transport

in interstate commerce any container or
package containing any fish or wildlife
unless the container or package has previ-
ously been plainly marked. labeled, or
tagged . in accordance with the regulations
issued pursuant to paragraph (2) of subsec-
tion 7(a) of this Act.

$30.4. PENALTIES AND Sanc'rms.

(a) CIVIL PENALTIES.—

(1) Any person who engages in conduct
prohibited by any provision of this Act
(other than subsection 3(b)) and in the ex-
ercise of due care should know that the fish
or Wildlife or plants were taken, possessed,
transported, or sold in violation of, or in a
manner unlawful under, any underlying
law, treaty, or regulation, may be assessed a
civil penalty by the Secretary of not more
than $10,000 for each such violation: Pro-
vided, That when the violation involves fish
or wildlife or plants with a market value of
less than $350, and involves only the trans-
portation, acquisition, or receipt of ﬁsh or
wildlife or plants taken or possessed in vio-
lation of any law, treaty, or regulation of
the United States, any Indian tribal law,
any foreign law, or any law or regulation of

«any State, the penalty assessed shall not

exceed the maximum provided for violation
of said law. treaty, or regulation. or $10,000,
whichever is less.

(2) Any person who violates subsection
3th) may be med a civil penalty by the
Secretary of not more than $250.

 




November 4, 1.981

(3) For purposes of paragraphs (1) and.(2),
any reference to a provision of this Act or to
a section of this Act shall be treated as in-
cluding any regulation issued to carry out
any such provision or section.

(4) No civil penalty may be assessed under
this subsection unless the person accused of
the violation is given notice and opportunity
for a hearing with respect to the violation.
Each violation shall be a separate offense
and the offense shall be deemed to have
been committed not only in the district
where the violation first occurred, but also
in any district in which a person may have
taken or been in possession of the said fish
or wildlife plants.

(5) Any civil penalty assessed under this
subsection may be remitted or mitigated by
the Secretary. '

(6) In determining the amount of any pen-
alty assessed pursuant to paragraphs (1)
and (2), the Secretary shall take into ac-
count the nature. circumstances, extent,
and gravity of the prohibited act commit-
ted. and with respect to the violator, the
degree of culpability, ability to pay, and
such other matters as justice may require.

(b) Hummus—Hearings held during pro-
ceedings for the assessment of civil penal-
ties shall be conducted in accordance with
section 554 of title 5, United States Code.
The administrative law judge may; issue sub.
penas for the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of relevant
papers, books, or documents, and may ad-
minister oaths. Witnesses summoned shall
be paid the same fees and mileage that are
paid to witnesses in the courts of the United
States. In case.of contumacy or refusal to
obey a subpena issued pursuant to this para-
graph and served upon any person, the dis-
trict court of the United States for any dis-
trict in which such person is found, resides,
or transacts business, upon application by
the United States and after notice to such
person, shall have jurisdiction to issue an
order requiring such person to appear and
give testimony before the administrative
law judge or to appear and produce docu-
ments before the administrative law judge,
or both. and any failure to obey such order
of the court may be punishedby such court
as a contempt thereof.

(c) REVIEW.—Any person against whom a
civil penalty is assessed under this section
may obtain review thereof in the appropri-

ate district court of the United States by ‘

filing a notice of appeal in such court within
thirty days from the date of such order and
by simultaneously sending a copy of such
notice by certified. mail to the Secretary.
The Secretary shall promptly file in such
court a certified copy of the record upon
which such violation was found or such pen-
alty imposed, as provided in section 2112 of
title 28. United States Code. If any person
fails to pay an assessment of a civil penalty
after it has become a final and unappealable
order or after the appropriate court has en-
tered final judgment in favor of the Secre-
tary, the Secretary may request the Attor-
ney General of the United States to insti-
tute a civil action in an appropriate court of
the United States to collect the penalty, and
such court shall have jurisdiction to hear
and decide any such action. In hearing such
action, the court shall have authority to
review the violation and the assessment of
the civil penalty de novo.
(d) CRIMINAL PENALTIES.—
(1) Any person who-

(A) knowingly imports or exports any ,fish.

or wildlife or plants in violation of any pro-
vision of this Act (other than subsection
3(b)). or

(B) violates any provision of this Act
(other than subsection 3(b)) by knowingly
engaging in conduct that involves the sale

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE

or purchase of, the offer of sale or purchase
of. or the intent to sell or purchase, fish or
wildlife or plants with a market value in
excess of $350.

knowing that the fish or wildlife or plants
were taken. possessed, transported. or sold
in violation of.. or in a manner unlawful
under. any underlying law. treaty or regula-
tion, shall be fined not more than $20,000,
or imprisoned for not more than five years.
or both. Each violation shall be a separate
offenserand the offense shall be deemed to
have been committed not only in the dis-
trict where the violation first occurred, but
also in any district in. which the defendant
may have taken or been in possession of the
said fish or wildlife or plants.

(2) Any person who knowingly engages in
conduct prohibited by any provision of this
Act (other than subsection 3(b)) and in the
exercise of -due care should know that the
fish and wildlife or plants were taken, pos-
sessed. transported. or sold in Violation of,

~ or in a manner unlawful under, any under-

lying law. treaty or regulation shall be fined
not more than $10,000. or imprisoned for
not more than one year. or both. Each viola-
tion shall be a separate offense and the of-
fense shall be deemed to have been commit-
ted not only in the district where the viola-
tion first occurred. but also in any district in
which the defendant may have taken or
been in possession of the said fish or wild-
life or plants.

(e) Pmrr Simmons—The Secretary
may also suspend. modify, or cancel any
Federal hunting -or fishing license, permit.
or stamp. or any license or permit author-
izing a person to import or export fish or

. wildlife or plants (other than a permit or li-

cense issued pursuant to the Fishery Con-
servation and Management Act of 1976 ), or
to operate a quarantine station or rescue
center for imported wildlife or plants, issued
to any person who is convicted of a criminal

' violation of any provision of this Act or any

regulation issued hereunder. The Secretary
shall not be liable for the payments of any
compensation, reimbursement, or damages
in connection with the modification. suspen-
sion, or revocation of any licenses, permits,
stamps, or, other agreements pursuant to
this section.

SEC. 5. Foam'mas.

(a) IN GENERAL.—

(1) All fish or wildlife or plants imported,
exported, transported, sold, received, ac-
quired, or purchased contrary to the provi-
sions of section 3 of this Act (other than
subsection 3(b)). or any regulation issued
pursuant thereto. shall be subject to forfeit-
ure to the United States notwithstanding
any culpability requirements for civil penal-
ty assessment or criminal prosecution in-
cluded in section 4 of this Act.

(2) All vessels, vehicles. aircraft, and other

equipment used to aid in the importing, ex- -

porting. transporting. selling, receiving, ac-
quiring, or purchasing of fish or wildlife or
plants in a criminal violation of this Act for
which a felony conviction is Obtained shall
be subject to forfeiture to the United States
if (A) the owner of such vessel, vehicle, air-
craft, or equipment was at the time of the
alleged illegal act a consenting party or
privy thereto or in the exercise of due care
should have known that such vessel, vehicle,
aircraft, or equipment would be used in a
criminal violation of this Act, and (B) the
violation involved the sale or purchase of,
the offer of sale or purchase of, or the
intent to sell or purchase, fish or wildlife or
plants.

(b) APPLICATION or Cusroms Laws-All
provisions of law relating to the seizure, for-
feiture. and condemnation of property for
violation of the customs laws. the disposi-

'a e: V.V 4 ”1981
(N

tion of such property or the proceeds from
the sale thereof, and the remission or miti-
gation of such forfeiture. shall apply to the
seizures and forfeitures incurred, or alleged
to have been incurred. under the provisions
of this Act. insofar as such provisions of law
are applicable and not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act; except that all
powers. rights. and duties conferred or im-
posed by the customs laws upon any officer
or employee of the Treasury Department
may, for the purposes of this Act, also be
exercised or performed by the Secretary or
by such persons as he may designate: Pro-
vided, That-any warrant for search or seiz-
ure shall be issued in awordance with rule
41 of the Federal Rules .of Criminal Proce-
dure.

(c) Sroaacs Coma—Any person convicted
of an offense, or assessed a civil penalty.
under section 4 shall be liable for the costs
incurred in the storage. care, and mainte-
nance of any fish or wildlife or plant seized
in connection with the violation concerned.

Sec. 6. Enroacmm.

(a) In Gaussian—The provisions of this
Act and any regulations issued pursuant
thereto shall be enforced by the Secretary,
the Secretary of Transportation, or the Sec-
retary of the Treasury: Such Secretary may
utilize by agreement, with or without reim-
bursement, the personnel, services. and
facilities of any other Federal agency or any
State agency or Indian tribe for purposes of
enforcing this Act. ,

(b) Poms—Any person authorized
under subsection (a) to enforce this Act may
carry firearms; may make an arrest without
a warrant for any felony violation of this
Act if he has reasonable grounds to believe
that the person to be arrested has commit-
ted or is committing such violation: Pro-
vided, That an arrest for a felony violation
of this Act that is not committed in the
presence or view of any such person and
that involves only the transportation, acqui-
sition, receipt. puchase, or sale of fish or
wildlife or plants taken or possessed in vio-
lation of any law or regulation of any State
shall require a warrant; may make an arrest
without a warrant for a misdemeanor viola-
tion of this Act if he has reasonable grounds
to believe that the person to be arrested is
committing a violation in his presence or
view; and may execute and serve any sub-
pena, arrest warrant. search warrant issued
in accordance with rule 41 of the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure, or other war-
rant of civil or criminal process issued by
any officer or court of competent jurisdic-
tion for enforcement of the Act. Any person
so authorized, in coordination with the Sec-
retary of the Treasury. may detain for in-
spection and inspect any vessel, vehicle. air-
craft, or other conveyance or any package,
crate. or other container, including its con-
tents. upon the arrival of such conveyance
or container in the United States or the cus-
toms waters of the United States from any
point outside the United States or such cus-
toms waters. or, if such conveyance or con-
tainer is being used for exportation pur-
poses, prior to departure from the United
States or the customs waters of the United
States. Such person may also inspect and
demand the production of any documents
and permits required by the country of
natal origin. birth, or reexport of the fish or
wildlife. Any fish. wildlife, plant, property,
or item seized shall be held by any person
authorized by the Secretary pending dispo-
sition of civil or criminal p or the
institution of an actionin rem for forfeiture

' of such fish. wildlife, plants. prOperty. or

item pursuant to section 5 of this Act:
except that the Secretary may. in lieu of

 

H 8033 ’ ‘35"




 

v“

.. vvw-.

holding such fish, wildlife," plant property.
or item. permit the owner or consignee to
post a bond or other surety satisfactory to
the Secretary.

(c) DISTRICT Com Juarsmcnom—The
several district courts of the United States.
including the courts enumerated in section
460 of title 28. United States Code. -shall
have jurisdiction over any actions arising
under this Act. The venue provisions of title
18 and title 28 of the United States Code
shall apply to any actions arising under this
Act. The judges of the district courts of the
United States and the United States magis-
trates may, within their respective jurisdic-
tions. upon proper oath or affirmation
showing probable cause. issue such warrants

or other process as may be required for en- -

forcement of this Act and any regulations
issued thereunder.

(d) REWARDS. —Beginning in fiscal year
1983, the Secretary or the Secretary of the
Treasury shall pay a reward from sums re-
ceived as penalties. fines, or forfeitures of
property for any violation of this Act or any
regulation issued hereunder to any person
who furnished information which leads to
an arrest. a criminal conviction, civil penalty
as§essment. or forfeiture of property for
any violation of this Act or any regulation
issued hereunder. The amount of the
reward. if "any, is to -be designated by the
Secretary'or the Secretary of the Treasury.
as appropriate. Any officer .or employee of
the United States or any- State or local gov-
ernment who furnished information or ren-
ders service in the performance of his offi-
cial duties is ineligible for payment under
this subsection.

Soc. 7. Anumrsmrron.

(a) Rmmnons.—-

(l) The Secretary. after consultation with
the Secretary of the Treasury. is authorized
to issue such regulations. except as provided
in paragraph (2). as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of section 4 and sec-
tion 5 of this Act.

(2) The Secretaries of the Interior and
Commerce shall jointly promulgate specific
regulations to implement the provisions of
subsection 3(b) of this Act for the marking
and labeling of containers or packages con-
taining fish or wildlife. These regulations
shall be in accordance with existing com-
mercial practices.

(b) CONTRACT Amount—Beginning in.

fiscal year 1983. to the extent and in the
amounts provided in advance in appropri-
ations Acts. the Secretary may enter into
such contracts, leases, cooperative agree-
ments. or other transactions with any Fed.
oral or State agency, Indian tribe. public or
private institution, or other person, as may
be necessary to carry out the purposes of
this Act.

See. 8. EXCEPTIONS.

(a) The provisions of paragraph (1) of sub-
section 3(a) of this Act shall not apply to
any activity regulated by a fishery manage-
ment plan in effect under the Fishery Con-
servation and Management Act of 1976 (16
U.S.C. 1801 et seq.).

(1)) The provisions of paragraphs (1).
(ZXA). and (3XA) of subsection 3(a) of this
Act shall not apply to—

(1) any activity regulated by the Tuna
Conventions Act of 1950 (16 0.6. C. 951-961)
or the Atlantic Tunas Convention Act of
1975 (16 US C. 971-971(h)); or

(2) any activity involving the harvesting
of highly migratory species (as defined in
paragraph (14) of section .3 of the Fishery
Conservation and Management Act of 1976)
taken on the high seas (as defined in para-
graph (13) of such section 3) if such species
are taken in violation of the laws of a for-
eign nation and the United States does not

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD -— HOUSE

recognize the jurisdiction of the foreign
nation over such species.

(c) The provisions of paragraph (2) of sub-
section 3(a) of this Act shall not apply‘to
the interstate shipment or transshipment
through Indian country as defined in sec-
tion 1151 of title 18, United States Code. or
a State of any fish or wildlife or plant legal-
ly taken if the shipment is en route to a

State in which the fish or wildlife or plant

may be legally possessed.
Sac. 9. Mrscscuxsous Paovrsrous.

(a) Errsc'r on Poms or Snrss.-,—Noth-
ing in this Act shall be construed to prevent
the several States or Indian tribes from
making or enforcing laws or regulations not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.

(b) Rm.—The following provisions of
law are repealed:

(1) The Act of May 20,1926 (commonly
known as the Black Bass Act;16 U. S..C 851-
856).

(2) Section 5 of the Act of May '25, 1900
(18 U.S.C. 667e), and sections 43 and 44 of
title 18, United States Code (commonly
known as provisions of the. Lacey Act).

(3) Sections 3054 and 3112 of title 18.
United States Code.

4(0) Drama-Nothing in this Act
shall be construed as—

(1) repealing, superseding, or modifying
any provision of Federal law other than
those specified in subsection (b);

(2) repealing. superseding, or modifying
any right. privilege. or immunity granted.
reserved, or established pursuant to treaty.
statute. or executive order pcrtainingto any
Indian tribe, band, or community; or

(3) enlaging or diminishing the authority
ofanyStateorIndian tribetoregulate the
activities of persons within Indian reserva-
tions. '

(d) Human 8mm.-Subsection 42w)
of title 18, United States Code, is amended
by striking “Secretary of the Treasm'y" and
inserting in lieu thereof “Secretary of the
Interior within one hundred and eighty
days of the enactment of the Lacey Act
Amendments of 1981”.

(e) Emma—Subsection '11(d) of the En-
dangered Species Act of 1973 ( 16 U.S.C.
1540) is amended to read as follows:

“(d) Emma—The Secretary or the Sec
retary of the Treasury shall pay a reward
from sums received as penalties, fines. or
forfeitures of property for any violation of
this Act or any regulation issued hereunder
to any person who furnishes information
whichleadstoanarrrestaaiminalconvic-
tion. civil penalty assessment, or forfeiture
of propertyforanyviolationof thisActor

any. regulation issued hereunder. The

amount of the reward, if any, is to be desig-
nated by the Secretary or the Secretary of
the Treasury, as appropriate. Any officer or
employee of the United States or any State
or local government who furnishes informa-
tion or renders service in the performance

of his official duties 3 ineligible for payo'

ment under this subsectionﬂ.

(f) The amendment specified in subsection
9(e) of this Act shall take effect beginning
in fiscal year 1983.

(g) The Secretary of the Interior is au-
thorized to pay from agency appropriations
the travel expense of newly appointed spe-
cial agents of the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service and the transportation ex-
pense of household goods and personal ef-
fects from place of residence at time of se-
lection to first duty station to the extent au-
thorized by section 5724 of title 5 for all
such special agents appointed after January
1, 1977.

(h) The Secretary shall identify the funds
utilizedtoenforcethisActandanyregulap

tions thereto as a specific appropriations/

 

November 4, 1981

item in the Department of the Interior ap-
propriations budget proposal to the Con-
gress.

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu—
ant to the rule. a second is not re-
quired on this motion. ,

The gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.
Banana), will be recognized for '20 min-
utes. and the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. Foam) will be recog-
nized for 20 minutes.

The Chair now recognizes the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. Banaux).

Mr. BREAUX. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, the bill we are now
considering. HR. 1638, would provide
tor the control of illegally taken f'mh
and wildlife. Known as the Lacey Act
Amendments of 1981, this legislation
represents a major effort to provide
for the effective enforcement of exist-
ing fish and wildlife conservation laws.

The Lacey and Black Bass Acts are
two of the oldest Federal wildlife con-
servation statutes. The lace-y Act was
first passed in 1900. Generally, the ex-
isting acts prohibit the importation,
exportation, or interstate commerce of
any ﬁsh or wildlife taken in violation
of Federal. State. or foreign laws.

Although these stamtes have been
an invaluable tool in the effort to pro-
vide for the long-term conservation of
our fish and wildlife resources, .the
simple fact of the matter is that‘these
acts have not 'kept pace with the
change in the nature of the commer-
cial trade in fish and wildlife products.
This track today is big business. It is
highly sophisticated. The level of wild-
life importations into the country in
recent years is truly staggering—esti-
mated at over 600 million items per
year. Although many of these items
were imported in an entirely legal
manner in full compliance with all rel-
evant conservation laws, the Fish and
Wildlife Service believes that the level
of illegal shipments may run as high
as 10 to 25 percent of the total wildlife
shipments _:entering and leavh1g the
United States.

It has become clear in the course of
hearings on this legislation that the
existing Lacey and Black Bass Acts no
longer provide an effective deterrent
to this level of illegal trade in fishand
wildlife. Simply stated. the penalties
provided in these acts are too low to
deter highly provitable illegal activity.
TheBlack Bass Act, for example, mo-
vides for a maximum fine of $200. This
fine cannot hope to deter, for exam-
ple, the documented extensive illegal
trade involving hundreds of tons of
salmon taken in western rivers and
marketed across the country.

HR. 1638, as reported by the Mer-
chant Marine and Fisheries Commit-
tee responds to many of the identiﬁed
problems with the existing acts. The
legislation proposes to make the fol- .
lowing major changes in the Lacey
and Black Bass Acts:

FirshitwillcombinetheLaccyand

Black Bass Acts into one statute to

 




 

 

November 4, 1.981

promote public understanding and
simplify administration and enforce-
ment. ,-

Second. it will raise both the civil
and criminal penalties of the current
laws and target commercial violators
and international traffickers.

‘ Third, HR. 1638 will permit relax-
ation of the current rigid provisions
for the marking of containers in which
fish and wildlife " are shipped. Under
this bill the Secretaries of the Interior
and Commerce shall promulgate joint
regulations regarding marking which
are consonant with the practices of in-
dustry and which satisfy the needs of
enforcement officers.

Fourth, the legislation will add the
regulations of Indian tribes to the sub-
stantive provisions of the LaceyxAct.
This will insure that the fish and wild-
life conservation regulations that are
applicable to Indian reservations will
A be subject to Federal enforcement.

. Fifth, the legislation adds rare
plants that are the subject of State
conservation laws to the coverage of
the Lacey Act. This provision would
provide Federal enforcement assist-
ance to States that have adopted laws
relating to the taking and sale of rare
plants. We have added this provision
in response to the well-documented
concern of several States that they are
unable to deal effectively with the

r massive illegal trade in many native
plants because of the interstate nature
of this trade. This provision has been
structured in such a way that it focus-
es attention on only those plants that
have been recognized as being in a spe-
cially precarious biological condition.

Sixth, the current Black Bass Act
does not prohibit interstate transpor-
tation of fish into a State that prohib-
its their entry. As an example, Califor-
nia strongly objects to shipments of
live white amur carp into. that State.
California has no remedy against the
shipper in another State, and the Fed‘
eral Government cannot intervene in
California’s behalf under the present
law. This problem is solved'by HR.
1638.

Finally, the legislation transfers
from the Secretary of the Treasury to
the Secretary of the Interior the au-
thority to prescribe regulations an
issue permits under the Lacey Act to
the transportation of wild animals an
birds under humane and healthf
conditions. In spite of historic prob
lems involving humane shipment 0
wild animals and birds, the Secretary
of the Treasury has not prescribed
any minimum requirements under this
provision although he has held the au-
thority since 1949. We fully intend
that the Department of Agriculture’s
Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service will provide support to the De-
partment of the Interior in preparing
these regulations.

Mr. Speaker. this bill has been
through substantial analysis and dis-
cussion by all of the various interest
groups and discussion by all of the
various interest groups potentially af-

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD -— HOUSE

fected by the legislation. We have pro-
vided an ample opportunity for every-
one to communicate their concerns to
us, and we have made a conscientious
effort to respond to those concerns.
There is now a consensus on the part
of all the groups that have taken an
interest in this legislation that this bill
now provides sufficient safeguards
against indiscriminate enforcement ef-
forts. while at the same time providing

much needed control over interstate _

and foreign commerce in illegally
taken fish and wildlife. ‘ .

Mr. FORSYTHE. Mr. Speaker. I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.

(Mr. FORSYTHE asked and was
given permission to revise and extend
his remarks.)

Mr. FORSYTHE. Mr. Speaker. the

purpose of ER. 1838 is to revise the
existing Lacey and Black Bass Acts in
order to provide for more effective en.
forcement of State, Federal. and for-
fign fish and wildlife conservation
aws.

Although the Lacey Act of 1900 and
the Black Bass Act of 1928 provided
the authority to enforce our fkh and
wildlife laws. recent investigations
would indicate that existing law is not
sufficient to contain the massive ll-

- legal trade in such species. In fact. in-
formation received during subcommi-
tee hearings would indicate these illic-
it activities are actually increasing

~ each year.

This h understandable. however, in
view Of the tremendous profits in-
volved in this kind of trade and the

fact that present penalties are mini- .

mal. Justice Department officials esti-
mate that 10 to 25 percent of the ship-
ments of wildlife into the United
States are in violation of wildlife laws.
They also estimate that the value of
such illegal trade is $50 to $100 million
or more every year, depending on the
species involved. These kinds of profits
are too high to be deterred by the cur-
rent penalties. ‘

In addition to the ultimate threat to
the species itself, this massive illegal
wilder trade can bring about other
negative impacts. For example, it en-
courages the introduction of exotic
diseaseswhich may threaten our agri-
culture and pet industries. One " out-
break of Newcastle disease in 1980 re-
sulted in the destruction of over 30,000
pet birds in 45 States, and the Federal
Government expended over $1 million
to bring the disease under control. En—
forcement officials have‘seized numer-
ous shipments of birds infected with
this disease. A 1975 Department of Ag-
riculture study estimated that the es-
tablishment of Newcastle disease in
this country would cost the Federal
Government over $250 million each

ear. -

Illegal trade also creates new mar-
kets for those species taken in viola-
tion' of the laws enacted to protect
them. All our efforts in Congress to
provide for the protection of those val-
uable species which are rapidly disap-

H 8035

peering—and which may ultimately
become extinct—are useless unless we
can effectively enforce these laws.
There is a need to increase the exist-
ing penalties for violations, lessen the

culpability standard to aid in prosecu- —

tions. relax the marking requirements
to provide more ﬂexibility for legal
commerce, and extend the enforce-
ment ,provisions to species not includ-
ed under the existing statutes.

HR. 1838 will accomplish these ob-
jectives while protecting the innocent.
If enacted, this legislation will in-
crease the maximum civil penalty
from $5,000 to $10,000, and the maxi-

mum criminal penalty from $10,000 to-

I want to assure my-.colleagues that
it is the intent of the committee to
crack down on the illegal commercial
activities involving fish. wildlife, and
plants. We do not expect-this legisla-
tion to be implemented in such a way
astoresuitintheabuseoftherights

of our citizens. Enforcement penalties '

sought should fit the nature~of the of-
fense. ‘ In no case should maximum

penalties be imposed for minor viala- .

tions. especially for those offenses
that do not involve commercial activi-
ties. For example, it would be more ap-
propriate to assess a civil penalty
against those individuals who have
violated the Migratory Bird Act by
carrying one or two birdsover the bag
limit across State lines, rather than

trying them for a misdemeanor of-_

fense. _ .
In addition to extending the cover-

age to those fish and wildlife species

not presently covered by the Lacey or
Black Bass Acts, HR. 1838 would
expand the law to include plants taken
in violation of those laws which pro-
vide. for the protection of plant species
which are indigenous to any State and
which are endangered or threatened
with extinction. A growing number of
States are enacting legislation to con-
trol the collection of 'their native
plants. However. they are limited in
their ability to enforce their laws once
the plants leave the State and are.
beyond the jurisdiction of that State.
The enactment of HR. 1638 will
enable Federal enforcement agents to
asisst the States in their efforts to
control this trade. ~

Mr. Speaker, if we are to provide an
effective method to arrest the growing
illegal trade in fish, wildlife, and
plants, enactment of the Lacey Act
Amendments of 1981 will be an impor-
tant first step in deterring those who
continually violate our important con-
servation laws. For these reasons, I
want to urge my colleagues to Join me
in supporting HR. 1638.

a Mr. HUGHES. Mr. Speaker, the .

House of Representatives has the op-
portunity today to approve legislation

- v . u umrl'vmdvr‘I-FIIY- ~Nu~. ngw.[vnmﬂ. 1.. ., ,.. . ,"_,_. .-, L

 

w an “Po«m‘r'u‘ym'wl‘rwrﬁL».r'/~"“W -'-'v’mr~r—< —-

 




II 8036

to tighten Federal control of the grow-
lng illegal trade in protected fish and
wildlife.

Passage of the Lacey Act amend-
ments will increase the penalties for il-

legal interstate and foreign commerce,
in fish and wildlife whose killing or ‘

possession violates State, Federal, or
international laws.

This legislation provides both the
ﬂexibility needed to make this law
practical and the penalties required to
deter those who would knowingly deal
in protected species by combining two
existing laws, the Lacey and Bass Acts,
into a single comprehensive statute. It
extends the provisions of the acts to
. apply to all fish and wildlife covered
by State, Federal, and foreign laws
and doubles the maximum ciVil penal-
. ty to $10,000. Criminal violations are
upgraded to a felony, with a maximum
fine of $20,000 and imprisonment of 5
years. »

These criminal penalties would
apply to members of a growing profes-
sional cl c

0 ve engaged in th e an
profitable business. In recent years,
loopholes in existing laws have al-
lowed well-organized, large volume op-
erations to develop at an alarmin
rate. ’

Persons who unlmowingly trade in
protected species would not be subject
to criminal penalties. The change in
law is primarily designed to address
the problem of the professional dealer
in the illegal trade of protected ani-
mals and plants.‘I urge my colleagues
to support this responsible reform,
HR. 1638.. '

Mr. FORSYTHE. Mr. Speaker, I
have no further requests for time, and
‘ I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. BREAUX. Mr. Speaker, I have
no further requests for time, and I
yield back the balance of my time.

The S pro tempore. The
question» is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.
Bamux) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, HR. 1638, as
amended.

The question was taken; and (two-
thirds having voted in favor thereof)
the rules were suspended, and the bill,
as amended, was passed.

A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.

Mr. BREAUX. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Commit-
tee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries
be discharged from further considera-
tion 'of the Senate bill (S. 736) to pro—
vide for the control of illegally taken
fish and wildlife, a similar bill to HR.
1638, which has just been adopted,
and ask for its immediate considera-
ion.

The Clerk read the title of the-

Senate bill.

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is
there objection to the request of the
gentleman from Louisiana?

There was no objection. ‘

The Clerk read the Senate bill, as
follows:

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE

8. 736

Be it enacted by the Senate and House af
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That this
Act may be cited as the “Lacey Act Amend-
ments of 1981”.

SEC. 2. Dmnmoxs.

For. the purposed of this Act:
(a). The term “fish or wildlife” means any

wild animal, whether alive or dead, includ-'

ing without limitation any wild mammal,
bird, reptile, amphibian, fish, mollusk, crus-
tacean, arthropod, coelenterate, or other in.
vertebrate, whether or not bred, hatched, or
born in capitivity, and includes any part,
product, egg, or offspring thereof.

(b) The term “import" means to land on,

bring into, or introduce into, any place sub-

ject to the jurisdiction of the United States,
whether or not such landing, bringing, or in-
troduction constitutes an importation
within the meaning of the customs laws of
the United States.

(c) The term “Indian tribal law" means
any regulation of, or other rule of conduct
enforceable by, any Indian tribe, band, or
group but only to the extent that the regu-
lation or rule applies within Indian country
as defined in section 1151 of title 18, United
States Code. ‘ ' '

(d) The terms “law,” “treaty,” “regula-
tion," and “Indian tribal law” mean laws,
treaties, regulations or Indian tribal laws
which regulate the taking, possession, im-

portation, exportation, transportation, or.

sale of fish or wildlife or plants. -

(e) The term “person” includes any indi-
vidual, partnership, association, corpora-
tion, trust, or any officer, employee, agent,
department, or instrumentality of the Fed-
eral Government or of any State or political
subdivision thereof, or any other entity sub-
ject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(I) The terms “plant" and “plants” mean
any wild member of the plant kingdom, in-
cluding roots, seeds, and other parts thereof
(but excluding common food crops and cul-
tivars) which is indigenous to any State and
which is either (A) listed on an appendix to
the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora, or (B) listed pursuant to any State
law that provides for the conservation of
species threatened with extinction.

(g) The term “Secretary" means, except as
otherwise provided in the Act, the Secretary
of Interior or the Secretary of Commerce,
as program responsibilities are vested pursu-
ant to the provisions of Reorganization Plan
Numbered 4 of 1970 (84 Stat. 2090); except
that with respect to the provisions of this
Act which pertain to the importation or ex-
portation of plants the term means the Sec-
retary of Agriculture.

(h),The term “State" means any of the
several States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin
Islands, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands,
American Samoa, and any other territory,
commonwealth, or possession of the United
States.

(i) The term “taken" means captured,
killed, or collected.

(j) The term “transport" means to move,
convey. carry, or ship by any means, or to
deliver or receive for the purpose of move-
ment, conveyance, carriage, or shipment.

SEC. 3. Pnomsrrsn Acrs.

(a) OFFENSES O'rm Tam MARKING Or.
senses—It is unlawful for any person—

(1) to import, export, transport, sell, re-
ceive, acquire, or purchase any fish or wild-
life or plant taken or possessed in violation
of . any law, treaty. or regulation of the
United States or in violation of any Indian
tribal law;

November 4, 1.981

(2) to import, export, transport, sell, re-
ceive, acquire, or purchase in interstate or
foreign commerce— -

(A) any fish or wildlife taken, possessed,
transported, or sold in violation of any law
or regulation of any State or in violation of
any foreign law, or '

(B) any plant taken, possessed. transport-
ed, or sold in violation of any law or regula-
tion of any State:

(3) within the special maritime and terri~
torial jurisdiction of the United States (as
defined in~ section 7 of title 18, United States
Code)— _

(A) to possess any fish or wilder taken,
possessed, transported, or sold in violation
of any law or regulation of any State or in
violation of any foreign law or Indian tribal
law, or . .

(B) to possess any plant taken, possessed,
transported, or sold in violation of any law
or regulation of any State; _

(4) having imported, exported, transport-
ed, sold, purchased, or received any fish or
wildlife or plant imported from any foreign
country or transported in interstate or for-
eign commerce, to make or submit any false
record, account, label, or identification
thereof; or -

(5) to attempt to commit any act described
in paragraphs (1) through (it

(b) Mums Omm—It is unlawful for
any person to import. export. or transport
in \interstate commerce any container or
package containing any fish or wildlife
unless the container or package has previ-
ously been plainly marked; labeled, or
tagged in accordance with the regulations
issued pursuant to paragraph (2) of subsec-
tion 7(a) of this Act.

Sac. 4. PENALTIES m SANCTIONS.

(a) Crvn. Pmsnrms.— .

_(1) Any person Who engages in conduct
prohibited by any provision of this Act .
(other than subsection 3(b)) and in the ex-
ercise of due care should know that the fish
or wildlife or plants were taken, possessed,
transported, or sold in violation of, or in a
manner unlawful under, any underlying
law, treaty, or regulation, may be assessed a
civil/ penalty by the Secretary of not more
than $10,000 for each such violation: Pro-
vided, That when the violation involves fish
or wildlife or plants with a market value of
less than $350, and involves only the trans-
portation, acquisition, or receipt of fish or
wildlife or plants taken or possessed in vio-
lation ,of any law, treaty, or regulation of
the United States, any Indian tribal law,
any foreign law, or any law or regulation of
any State, the penalty assessed shall not
exceed the maximum provided for violation
of said law, treaty, or regulation, or $10,000,
whichever is less. '

. (2) Any person who violates subsection
3(b) may be assessed a civil penalty by the
Secretary of not more than $250.

(3) For purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2),
any reference to a provision of this Act or to
a sectiomof this Act shall be treated as in-
cluding any regulation issued to carry out
any such provision or section. '

(4) No civil penalty may be assessed under
this subsection unless the person accused of
the violation is given notice and opportunity
for a hearing with respect to the violation.
Each violation shall be a separate offense
and the offense shall be deemed to have
been committed not only in the district
where the violation first occurred, but also
in any district in which a person may have
taken or been in possession of the said fish
or wildlife or plants.

(5) Any civil penalty assessed under this
subsection may be remitted or mitigated by
the Secretary.

 




November 4, 1.981

(6) In determining the amount of any pen-
alty assessed pursuant to paragraphs (1)
and (2), the Secretary shall take into ac-
count the natures circumstances. extent,
and gravity of the prohibited act commit-
ted, and with respect to the violator, the
degree of culpability, ability to pay, and
such other matters as Justice may require.

(b) Ramses—Hearings held during pro-
ceedings for the assessment of civil penal-
ties shall be conducted in accordance with
section 554 of title 5, United States Code.
The administrative law judge may issue sub-
penas for the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of relevant
papers, books, or documents. and may ad-
minister oaths. Witnesses summoned shall
be paid the same fees and mileage that are
paid to witnesses in the courts of the United

States. In case of contumacy or refusal to
obey a subpena issued pursuant to this para-
graph and served upon any person, the dis-
trict court of the United States for any dis-
trict in which such person is found, resides.
or transacts business, upon application by
the United States and after notice to such
person, shall have jurisdiction to issue an
order requiring such person to appear and
give testimony before the administrative
law judge or to appear and produce docu-
ments before the administrative law judge.
or both, and any failure to obey such order
of the court may be punished by such court
as a contempt thereof.

(c) REVIEW.—-Any person against whom a
civil penalty is assessed under this section
may obtain review thereof in the appropri-
ate district court of the United States by
filing a notice of appeal in such court within
thirty days from the date of such order and
by simultaneously sending a copy of such
notice by certified mail to the Secretary.
The Secretary shall promptly file in such
court a certified copy of the record upon
which such violation was fond or such pen-
alty imposed, as provided in section 2112 of
title 28, United States Code. If any person
fails to pay an assesment of a civil penalty
after it has become a final and unappealable
order or after the appropriate court has en-
tered final judgment in favor of the Secre-
tary, the Sedretary may request the Attor-
ney General of the United States to insti-
tute a civil action in an appropriate district
court of the United States to collect the
penalty, and such court shall have jurisdic-
. tion to hear and decide any such action. In
hearing such action, the court shall have
authority to review the violation and the as-
sessment of the civil penalty de novo.

(d) CRIMINAL Pmaurss.— ’

(1) Any person who— _ .

(A) knowingly imports or exports any fish
or wildlife or plants in violation of any pro-
vision of this Act (other than subsection
3(b)), or

(B) violates any provision of this Act
(other than subsection am» by knowingly
engaging in conduct that involves the sale
or purchase of, the offer of sale or purchase
of, or the intent to sell or purchase, fish or
wildlife or plants with a market value in
excess of $350. a.
knowing that the fish or wildlife or plants
were taken, possessed. tranported, or sold in
violation of, or in a manner unlawful under.
any underlying law, treaty or regulation,
shall be fined not more than $20,000, or im-
prisoned. for not more than five years, or
both. Each violation shall be a separate of-
fense and the offense shall be deemed to
have been committed not only in the dis-
trict where the violation first occurred, but
also in any district in which the defendant
may have taken or been in possession of the
said fish or wildlife or plants.

(2) Any person who knowingly engages in
conduct prohibited by any provision of this

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE

Act (other than subsection 3(b)) and in the
exercise of due care should know that the
fish or wildlife or plants were taken. pos-
sessed. transported. or sold in violation of.
or in a manner unlawful under, any under-
lying ‘law. treaty or regulation shall be fined

' not more than $10,000. or imprisoned for

not more than one year. or both. Each viola-
tion shall be a separate offense and the of-
fense shall be deemed to have been commit-
ted not only irrthe district where the viola-
tion first occurred. but also in any district in
which the defendant may have taken or
been in possession of the said fish or wild-
life or plants. '

(e) Psamr Summons—The Secretary
may also suspend. modify. or cancel any
Federal hunting or fishing license. permit,
or stamp, or any license or permit author-
izing a person to import or export fish or
wildlife or plants (other than a permit or ii-
cense issued pursuant to the Fishery Con-
servation and Management Act of 1976). or
to operate a quarantine station or rescue
center for imported wildlife or plants. issued
to any person who is convicted of a criminal
violation of any provision of this Act or any
regulation issued hereunder. The Secretary
shall not be liable for the payments of any
compensation. reimbursement. or damages
in connection with the modification, suspen-
sion. or revocation of any licenses, permits.
stamps. or other agreements pursuant to
this section.

Sec. 5. Fem

(9.) IN Gunman..—

(1) All fish or wildlife or plants imported.
exported. transported. sold. received. ac-
quired, or purchased contrary to the provi~
sions of section 3 of this Act (other than
subsection 3(b)), or any regulation issued
pursuant thereto. shall besubject to forfeit-
ure to the United States notwithstanding
any culpability requirements for civil penal-
ty assessment or criminal prosecution in-
cluded in section 4 of this Act.

(2) All vessels. vehicles. aircraft, and other
equipment used to aid in the importing. ex-
porting. transporting, selling. receiving, ac-

' quiring, or purchasing of fish or wildlife or

plants in a criminal violation of this Act for
which a felony conviction is obtained shall
be subject to forfeiture to the United States
if (A) the owner of such vessel, vehicle. air»

. craft, or equipment was at the time of the

alleged illegal act a consenting party or
privy thereto or in the exercise of due care
should have known that such vessel, vehicle.
aircraft, or equipment would be used in a

criminal violation of this Act, and (B) the'

violation involved the sale or, purchase of.

the offer of sale or purchase of, or the

intent to sell or purchase. fish or wildlife or
plants. ’

(b) Arrucanou or Cus'rous Laws-.411,
provisions of law relating to the seizure. for-
feiture, and condemnation of property for
violation of the customs laws. the disposi-
tion of such property or the proceeds from
the sale thereof, and the remission or miti-
gation of such forfeiture. shall apply to the
seizures and forfeitures incurred. or alleged
to have been incurred. under the provisions
of this Act. insofar as such provisions of law
are applicable and not inconsistent with the
provisions 'of this Act: except that all
powers, rights. and duties conferred or im-
posed by the customs laws upon any officer
or employee of the Treasury Department
may, for the purposes of this Act. also be
exercised or performed by the Secretary or

-by such persons as he may designate: Pro-

vided, That any warrant for search or sei-
zure shall be issued in accordance with rule
41 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Proce-
dure.

(c) Sroaacs Cosh—Any person convicted
of \an offense, or assessed a civil penalty.

H 8037

under section 4 shall be liable for the costs
incurred in the storage, care. and mainte-
nance of any fish or wildlife or plant seized
in connection with the violation concerned.

Sec. 6. maxim-r.

(a) In Gasman-The provisions of this
Act and any regulation issued pursuant
thereto shall be enforced by the Secretary.
the Secretary of Transportation, or the Sec-
retary of the Treasury. Such Secretary may
utilizeby agreement, with or without reim-
bursement, the personnel, services, and
facilities of any other Federal agency or any
State agency or Indian tribe for purposes of
enforcing this Act. '

(b) Poms—Any person authorized
under subsection (a) to enforce this Act may
carry firearms; may make an arrest without
a warrant for. any felony violation of this
Act if he has reasonable grounds to believe
that the person to be arrested has commit-
ted or is committing such violation: Pro-

aidedmtanarrestforafelonyviolation‘

of this Act-thatus not-committed in the
presermmvieWofanysuchpersouand
that involves only the transportation. acqui-
sition. receipt. purchase. or sale of fish or
wildlife orplants taken orpoasessed invin-
lation of any law or regulation of any State -
shallrequiieawarrant; maymakeanarrest
without a warrant for a misdemeanor viola-
tion of this Act if he has reasonable grounds
tohelievethatthepersontobearrestedis
committing a violation in his presence or
view; and may execute and serve any sub-
pena. arrest warrant, search warrant issued
in awordance with rule 41 of the Federal
RulesofCrimhanmcedm'e,orother war-
rant of civil or criminal procem issued by
any officer or court of competent jurisdic-
tion for enforcement of this Act. Any
person so authorized, in coordination with
the Secretary of the Treasury. may detain
for inspection and inspect any vessel, vehi-
cle. aircraft, or other conveyance or any
package. crate. or other container, including
its contents. upon the arrival of such con-
veyance or container in the United States or
the customs waters of the United States
from any point outside the United States or
such customs waters. or, if such conveyance
or container is being used for exportation
purposes. prior to departure from the
United States Or the customs waters of the

-' United States. Such person may also inspect

and demand the production of any docu-
ments and‘permits required by the country
of natal origin; birth. or reexport of the fish '
or wildlife. Any fish. wildlife. plant. proper-
ty.oritemseizedshallbeheldbyany
person authorized by the Secretary pending

. disposition of civil or criminal proceedings.

or the institution of an action in rem for
forfeiture of such fish. wildlife. plants. prop—
erty. or item pursuant to section 5 of this
Act; except that the Secretary may. in lieu
of holding such fish. wildlife. plant, proper-
ty, or item,‘ permit the owner or consignee
to post a bond or other surety satisfactory
to the Secretary.

(c) Drsmcr Comrr Juarsmcnox.--The
several district courts of the United States.
including the courts enumerated in section
460 of title 28. United States Code. shall
have jurisdiction over any actions arising
under this Act. The venue provisions of title
18 and title 28 of the United States Code
shall apply to any actions arising under this
Act. The judges of the district courts of the
United States and the United States magis-
trates may. within their respective Jurisdic-
tions, upon proper oath or affirmation
showing probable cause. issue such warrants
or other process as may be required for en-
forcement of this Act and any regulations
issued thereunder.

 

(M




H 8038

(d) Emacs—Beginning in fiscal year
1983. the Secretary or the Secretary of the
Treasury shall pay a reward from sums re-
ceived as penalties. fines. or forfeitures of
property for any violation of this Act or any
regulation issued hereunder to any person
who furnishes information which leads to

an arrest, a criminal conviction, civil penalty .

assessment. or forfeiture of property for

any violation of this Act or any regulation '

issued hereunder. The amount of the
reward. if any, is to be designated by the
Secretary or the Secretary of the Treasury,
as appropriate. Any officer or employee of
the United States or any State or local gov;-
emment who furnishes information or ren-
ders service in the performance Of his offi-
cial duties is ineligible for payment under
this subsection.

SEC. 7. ADMINISTRATION.

(a) REGULATIONS. —

.(1) The Secretary, after consultation with
the Secretary of the Treasury, is authorized
to issue such regulations. except as provided
in paragraph (2). as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of section 4 and sec-
tion Fof this Act.

(2) The Secretaries of the Interior and.

Commerce shall jointly promulgate specific

regulations to implement the provisions Of ,

subsection 3(b) of this Act for the marking
and labeling of containers or packages con-
taining fish or wildlife. These regulations
shall be in accordance with existing com-
mercial practices.

(b) CONTRAcr AUTHORITY. -—Beginning in
fiscal year 1983, to the extent and in the
amounts provided in advance in appropri-
ations Acts, the Secretary may enter into
such contracts leases, cooperative agree-

ments, or other transactions with any Fed- -

eral or State agency, Indian tribe, public or
private institution, or other person, as may
be necessary to carry out the purposes of
this Act.

SEC. 8 EXCEPTIONS.

(a) The provisions of paragraph (1) of sub-
section 3(a) of this Act shall not apply to
any activity regulated by a fishery manage-
~ment plan in effect under the Fishery Con-

servation and Management Act of 1976 (16 -

U.S.C. 1801 et seq.);

(b) The provisions Of paragraphs (1).
(2)(A), and 3(A) of subsection 3(a) of this
Act shall not apply to— g

(1) any activity regulated by the Tuna
Conventions Act of 1950 (16 U.S. C. 951— 961)
or the Atlantic Tunas Convention Act of
1975 (16 US. C. 971-971(h))ror

(2) any activity involving the harvesting
of highly migratory species (as defined in
paragraph (14) of Section 3 of the Fishery
Conservation and Management Act of 1976)
taken on the high seas (as defined in para-
graph (13) of such section 3) if such species
are taken in violation of the laws of a for-'
eign nation and the United States does not
recognize the jurisdiction Of the foreign
nation over such species;

(c) the provisions of paragraph (2) of sub-
section 3(a) of this Act shall not apply to
the interstate shipment or transshipment
through Indian country as defined in sec-
tion 1151 of title 18, United States Code, or
a State Of any fish or wildlife or plant legal-
ly taken if the shipment is en route to a
State in which the fish or wildlife or plant
‘may be legally possessed.

Sec. 9. Mumps PROVISIONS.

(a) Errnc-r ON Powsas or Sums—Noth-
ing in this Act shall be construed to prevent
the several States or Indian tribes from
making or enforcing laws or regulations not
inconsistent with the. provisions of this Act.

(b) RsrsALs. —The following provisions of
law are repealed: «

L...

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE

(1) The Act Of May 20,1926 (commonly
known as the Black Bass Act; 16 U. S. C. 851-
856).

(2) Section 5 of the Act of May 25. 1900
(16 U.S.C. 667e). and sections 43 and 44 of
title 18. United States Code (commonly
known as provisions of the Lacey Act).

(3) Sections 3054 and 3112 y'Of title 18.
United States Code.

(c) DISCLAIms.—Nothing in this Act
shall be construed as—

(1) repealing. superseding, or modifying
any provision .of Federal law other than
those specified in subsection (b);

(2) repealing, superseding, or modifying
any right. privilege, or immunity granted,
reserved, or established pursuant to treaty,
statute, or executive order pertaining to any
Indian tribe. band, or community: or

(3) enlarging or diminishing the authority
of any State or Indian tribe to regulatethe
activities of persons within Indian reserva-
tions.

((1) HUMAN: Smrmr. -Subsection 42(c)
of title 18. United States Code, is amended
by striking “Secretary of the Treasury" and
inserting in lieu thereof “Secretary of the
Interior within one hundred and eighty
days of the enactment of the Lacey Act
Amendments of 1981".

(e) stm.—Subsection 11(d) of the En-
dangered Species Act- of ‘1973 (16 U.S.C.
1540) is amended to read as follows:

“(d) stm. -'-The Secretary or the Sec-
retary of the Treasury shall pay a reward
from sums received as penalties. fines, or
forfeitures of property for any violation of
this Act or any regulation issued hereunder
to any person who furnishes information
which leads to an arrest. a criminal convic-
tion, civil penalty assessment, or forfeiture
of property for any violation Of this Act or
any regulation issued hereunder. The
amount of the reward. if any. is to be desig-
nated by the Secretary or the Secretary of
the Treasury. as appropriate. Any Officer or

employee Of the United States or any State

or local government who furnishes informa-
tion or renders service in the performance
of his official duties is ineligible for pay-
ment under this subsection. ”.

(f) The amendment specified in subsection
(9)(e) of this Act shall take effect beginning
in fiscal year 1983.

(g) The Secretary of the Interior is au-
thorized to pay from agency appropriations
the travel expense of newly appointed spe-
cial agents Of the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service and the transportation ex-

. pense of household goods and personal ef--

fects from place of residence t time of se
lection to first duty station to t e extent an-
thorized by section 5724 of title 5 for all
such special agents appointed after January
1,1977.

(h) The Secretary shall identify the funds
utilized to enforce this Act and any regula-
tions thereto as a specific appropriations
item in the Department of the Interior ap-
propriations budget proposal to the Con-
gress.

The Senate bill was ordered to be
read a third time. was read the third
time, and passed, and a motion to re-
consider was laid on the table.

A similar House bill (HR. 1638) was

laid on the table. i .

GENERAL LEAVE

Mr. BREAUX. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
who wish to do so may have 5 legisla-
tive days in which to revise and extend
their remarks on the Senate bill.- S.

. 736, as amended. just passed.

'\

November 4, 1981‘

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is
there objection to the request of the
gentleman from Louisiana?

There was no Objection.

COMMERCIAL FISHERIES RE
SEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
ACT AIKENDMENTS

Mr. BREAUX. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H. R. 3942) to amend the Commercial
Fisheries Research and Development
Act of 1964, as amended.

The Clerk read as follows:
HR. 3942

Be it enacted by the Senate and’House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled. That sec-
tion 2 of the Commercial Fisheries Re-
search and Development Act of 1964 (16
U. S. C. 779) is amended to read as follows:

“Sec. 2. For purposes (if this Act-— ~

“(1) the term ‘commercial fishery re-
source’ means any species. subspecies. geo- ‘
graphical grouping. or other category of
fish capable of management as a unit,
which are harvested or caught by domestic
commercial fishermen. including any such
resource which may be legally harvested or ‘
caught by both domestic commercial "and
recreational fishermen:

“(2) the term ‘commercial interjurisdic-
tional fishery resource’ means a commercial
fishery resource-—

“(A) which is harvested or caught by do-
mestic commercial fishermen in waters that
are under the jurisdiction of two or more
adjacent States or in the territorial sea of
the United States and an adjacent area of
the fishery conservation zone established by
section 101 of the Magnuson Fishery Con-
servation and Management Act of 1976 (16
U. S. C. 1811); and

“(B) which-—

“(1) migrates from waters which are under
the jurisdiction of one State to waters .
which are under the jurisdiction of a differ-
ent State.

“(ii) migrates between the territOrial sea
of the United States and such fishery con-
servation zone. or

“(iii) occurs in waters which are under the
jurisdiction of two or more adjacent States
or in the territorial sea of the United States
and an adjacent area of such fishery conser-
vation zone;

“(3) the term ‘fish’ means fin fish. mol-
lusks, crustaceans, and any other form of
aquatic animal other than marine mammals
and birds;

“(4) the term ‘fiscal year’ means the
period beginning October 1 and ending Sep-

tember 30;
‘interstate - commission’

“(5) the term
means-—

“(A) the compilation established by the
Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Compact
(as consented to and approved by Public
Law 77 of the Seventy-seventh Congress. ap-
proved May 4, 1942 (56 Stat. 267));

“(B) the commission established by the
Pacific Marine Fisheries Compact (as con-
sented to and approved by Public Law 232
of the Eightieth Congress, approved July
24. 1947 (61 Stat. 419)); and

“(C) the commission established by the
Gulf States Marine Fisheries Compact (as
consented to and approved by Public Law 66
of the Eighty-first Congress, approved May
19. 1949 (63 Stat. 70));

“(6)’the term ‘project' means a program
for research on. or the development or man-
agement of. a commercial fishery resource,
including the construction Of facilities for
the purpose of carrying out this Act;

 




C~i ,hisu f
, ..
1 8 66 ‘93

medea‘ in

 

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTiI‘JN D?" CRUELTY TO ﬁ-NiMALS I 441 EAST 92nd STREET NEW YORK, N. Y. 10028 I 876- 7700

 

.»..4.... .. . ._.....

Contact: Patricia Hinds (212) 876 7700
Howard J. Rubenstein Associates, Inc.

Public Relations - Tel: (212) 480- 900
Contact: Ronda Nager Ross '

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEAsr

 

TRAVELING lVITEwMAN'S BEST FRIEND AND OTHER FOUR LEGGED FRIEND§

 

 

If you want to take Fido to Fiji for fun in the sun, can it be
arranged? If you want Benji in Barbados, how do you prepare your not
for the trip?

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

(ASPCA) has answers to these and countless other questions in its

new travel guide, 'Traveling With ;;;;‘;Egkgwwmﬁ_iiwe~«m\7

 

 

The ASPCA has compiled a series of "pet travel tips"’and the

III
requirements of 177 nations and all 50 states regarding immunizatior

I
and health certificates and quarantine rules. The bookletJélso
describes other regulations which will guide travelers in planning

in advance for their pet's safe and approved passage on vacation.

The booklet is available from the ASPCA Education Department,

441 East 92nd Street, New York City.

For travelers who are taking a vacation or business trip away
from Fido rather than with him, the traveler's best friend is the
ASPCA Animalport at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport.
This facility is the western hemisphere's oldest and largest shelter
catering exclusively to boarding pets and animal air travelers. Over

the last 22 years the Animalport has provided shelter and care to over

one million animals of more the 150 species.

"more_
The first and the iargest private non- profit humane shelter society In America. Contributions, gratefully received, a. e tax deducti Ile

 




 

ASPCA ”2-

The Animalport is open 24 hours a day, everyday, and has special
accommodations for animals in transit, pets on stopovers, and
boarding pets. Services include exercising, special diets, a
fully equipped veterinary clinic, and pick-up and delivery service.

If Fido is flying too, the ASPCA offers tips on traveling
by air.

~ Health and rabies inoculation certificates are highly

recommended, and many countries and states require them.

,) ~ Feed a light meal six hours before departure, and do not
give water within two hours of éﬁg‘ light except in
extremely hot weather.

/r7) - Exercise a pet before placing him in a travel container.
/ 5) ~ Schedule your pet's trip with a minimum of stops and
transfers, and avoid holidays, weekends, or off hours.

- Place a supply of dry food in a cloth bag and attach it

to the outside of the container. Attach a water dish, but

do not put wate r into it before departure. ¢rm—w”’/

- Make sure the container is well constructed and well

,/

ventilﬂ”ww)w1th a lea.k— proof bottom and positive lock,

V

k and large enough for themanrmal—to standg)turn5and lyes

comfortably.

      
  
 

 

Allow your pet to adjust to the container by eating or
sleeping in it for several days prior to departure.
Include a familiar bedﬂlﬂg,or toy, or an article of

\
clothing with your scent.

"-more-

 




Make sure the animal is properly tagged, and mark the

container LIVE ANIMAL, with all identifying information

about the owner, animal and his destination. Place arrows
to indicate proper UP positioning of the container.
In order to travel by air, animals must be at least eight weeks
old, and weaned at least five days. Provide food and do not

deliver to the Animalport more than four hours in advance of the

flight.

 




*“A
((3
L

r53; If“.

n

7 \J’ A.)

,\ { lift/ix
‘ l _‘ x
L .‘

1"““
.374.“
»<;zt.«'

.m.
“5..
K ."

’Mz’ \v

I

{*1

(”E L,

‘

li"'\‘[

”if /¢~

»

“I;

 




i.

VOLUNTEER PROGRAMs

If you have a few hours to spare each week, volunteer
at the ASPCA. The Society always needs humane,
conscientious individuals to help out in our Adoptions,

Development, Education, Lost and Found, and Pet
Therapy programs. Call (212) 876-7700 Monday through
Friday, 9 am. to 5 pm, for more information.

 




 

(83113) 010/3 pun Dune—1 pum [0

sapadg paJaﬁunpug u; apoxl [ouoiwuxazul uo uouuanuog 3141 riq
pazoaoxd sapads am 01 aouaxa/ax Jolnoiupd qnm 'SJUDICI pup
slowiur) ppm am] [0 sxauodwi put) sxalpuoq ‘sxaddiqs 40f [unupw V

sweld pue slewguv ply“ 3A“ 10
luamdgqs J0 uonexedaxd pue
* nodsuexl Jo; sauuapgng

saioadg pataﬁuepug ui apexl [euoueuxaw] uo uouuanuog

uoibuiusem out to sxaqLuaW 1uawu13Aog 17/. out riq paidopv
" siueld pue S[QUJ!UV 10 nodsuexl an 10} sauilaping [euouewaiul

 

HildINO “101} maN

 

 

 

 

 

 

Owwnﬁmd IUOuJUOJIAua suoneN pawn om Aq pmosuoas uoneanqnd

086L
pueuansms ‘puelo 'N3nl
Norma/woo 3H1 so unawauoas

saueld pue slewgue
PllM am 10 zuawdgqs
Jo; uoneJedaJd pue

*I-Iodsue’ll _
Jo; saunapgnﬁ

 

 

ills

emu pue euned PI!M ;o
sagoads paJaﬁuepua u! spell leuonemawl uo
uogxuaAuoa

 

 

 

ORDER FORM
UNIPUB o 345 Park Avenue South 0 New York, NY 10010

 

Please send:

_________ copy(ies) of (0105-UP8100)
GUIDELINES FOR ANIMAL
TRANSPORT

________ copy(ies) of (0105—UPl3101)
DIRECTIVAS PARA EL
TRANSPORTE

__ copy(ies) of (0105—UP8102)
LIGNES DIRECTRICES POUR LE
TRANSPORT

available at the special pre-publication price of $10.00 each until
January 1, 1982. The price thereafter is $13.00

l3 Check enclosed. (Prepayment required when order not accom-
panied by authorized purchase order. Add 5% to subtotal of order
to cover postage and handling charges, minimum $1.00)

Please send invoice. (Applicable only when authorized purchase
order accompanies order. Terms net 30 days. Shipping and
handling charges will be added to your invoice.)

Tax exemption # ‘ (if applicable)

Prices subject to change without notice.

Name

 

Institution

Address

 

 

City

 

 

 

 

0105

 




 

 

CONSIGNOR VIA DESTINATI
N... N... 0” LIVE ANIMALS
Address Address

DATE OF DESPATCH

 

Tel No
Dale ol desoaich

CONTENTS

‘91 No

Carrier soiliclal Stamp FEEDING

 

 

 

 

Scienlillc name

Common name in exporting coUnlry

 

Common name m lmDOfllng country

Number ol animals

 

TEMPERATURE SEDATION ATTACHMENTS
RA R

NOE EOUIRED Duplicate details ol those given
on this label

Cop-es ol relevant export and
MAX 0C. import licences

Valid health ceriilicale

MIN 0C. Details ol any sedation or
treatment given

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DO NOT TIP

 

 

ANIMAL LABEL © IATA LIVE ANIMALS REGULATIONS

 

Minimum dimensions 10 x 15 cm Minimum dimensions 10 x i5 cm

 

The Conference of the 74 Governments which are parties to the Convention on Interna-
tional Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) meeting in New
Delhi (India) in March 1981 formally endorsed this revised version of Guidelines for the
Transport of Live Wild Animals and Plants, by Conference Resolution 3.16. The Conference
recommended that suitable measures be taken by governments to promote the full and ef-
fective use of the Guidelines by national authorities and that they be brought to the atten-
tion of carriers, freight forwarders and international organizations and conferences com-
petent to regulate conditions of carriage by air, land and sea or inland waterways.

The Conference further recommended that, in transmitting these Guidelines, an invitation
be extended to the above organizations and institutions to comment on and amplify these
Guidelines in order to promote their effectiveness, and that governments encourage all
traders, shippers, carriers, freight forwarders and handlers concerned with the transport
and preparation for shipment of live wild animals and plants, to comply with these
Guidelines to the extent applicable.

The Guidelines apply to all wild animals and plants, and cover all forms of transport. They
include 18 sets of illustrated Packer’s Guidelines, covering:

Terrestrial Mammals Except Elephants and Ungulates o Terrestrial Mammals: Elephants and
Ungulates o Sloths, Bats, Flying Lemurs a Marine Mammals: Whales, Dolphins, Porpoises,
Dungongs, Manatees 0 Marine Mammals: Seals o Mice, Rats, Cavies and Other Small Mammals
oWater Birds and Large Birds of Non-Perching Habit o Parrots, Pigeons, Passerines, Near-
Passerines 0 Birds of Prey and Owls o Freshwater Terrapins and Turtles, Marine Turtles 0
Crocodiles, Alligators, Caimans, Gavials o Tortoises and Land Turtles, Snakes, Lizards o Am—
phibians, Aquatic Forms 0 Amphibians,Terrestrial Forms o Fishes, Except Those Species That Can—
not Be Contained in Polythene Bags 0 Fishes That Would Damage Polythene Bags 0 Aquat-
ic Invertebrates o Terrestrial Invertebrates

Each set of Packer’s Guidelines is illustrated with drawings showing the type of containers
to be used for different animals and their proper labels based on the Live Animals Regulations
of the International Air Transport Association (IATA). Instructions are given for animal
welfare, feeding and treatment during transport, as well as for the packaging and treat-
ment of plants.

Guidelines for Transport, published by UNIPUB in 1981, 109 pp., is available at the
special pre-publication price of $10.00 until January 1, 1982. The price thereafter is
$13.00.

Also available in French and Spanish

 

 




THE FLORIDA SENATE

District Office Address:
Post Office Drawer 2600 COMMITTEE:
Daytona Beach, Florida 32015 Rules and Calendar,

Chairman

(904) 258‘1776 ' Appropriations, Sub. B

Commerce
SENATOR ”3101333,”; DUNN, JR- March 24, 1982 i?221.331.553.331?$82,333.35...
lS ric

\

JOINT COMMITTEES: .
Advisory Council on Intergovernmental Relations

Ms. Christine Stevens

Secretary '

Society for Animal
Protection Legislation

P. O. Box 3719

Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens:

Thank you for your letter of support for the legislation
I introduced relating to cruelty to animals. House Bill 328,
which was the companion measure to my bill, was the legislation
subsequently passed and sent to the Governor on March 11, 1982.

For your information and use, I have enclosed an enrolled
copy of House Bill 328 with an explanatory staff analysis.

Your support for this legislation is very much appreciated.
If you should need additional copies of the legislation or
further information, please contact my office.

Sincerely,
DGAR M. DUNN, JR.
Senator

EMD:paC:sd

Enclosures

W. D. CHILDERS CURTIS PETERSON JOE BROWN JOHN D. MELTON
President President Pro Tempore Secretary Sergeant at Arms

 




ENROLLED

1982 Legislature H8 328, 3rd Engrossed

An act relating to cruelty to animals; amending
s. 828.12, Florida Statutes; providing for an
increase in the minimum and maximum fines
assessable for cruelty to animals; amending s.
828.122(4), Florida Statutes; providing for an
increase in the maximum and minimum fines
assessable for fighting or baiting animals;
amending s. 828.13, Florida Statutes; providing
that it is a first degree misdemeanor to
confine an animal without sufficient food,
water, or exercise, or to abandon an animal;
providing for an increase in the maximum and
minimum fines assessable for such confinement

or abandonment; providing an effective date.

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Florida:

Section 1. Section 828.12, Florida Statutes, is
amended to read:

828.12 Cruelty to animals.-—Whoever unnecessarily
overloads, overdrives, tortures, torments, deprives of
necessary sustenance or shelter, or unnecessarily or cruelly
beats, mutilates, or kills any animal, or causes the same to
be done, or carries in or upon any vehicle, or otherwise, any
animal in a cruel or inhuman manner, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, punishable as provided in s.
775.082 or by a fine of not mo§g_thanm§§LQgQng£~bgth 61

??51983.

1

CODING: Words in struck through type are deletions from existing
law; words underlined are additions.

ENROLLED

1982 Legislature HB 328, 3rd Engrossed

Section 2. Subsection (4) of section 828.122, Florida
Statutes, as it exists now and after July 1, 1984, is amended
to read:

828.122 Fighting or baiting animals; penalties.--

(4) Any person who willfully commits any of the
following acts shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree, punishable as provided in s. 775.082, or by a fine of
not less than $599 and not more than §§LQQQ 617999, or both:

(a) Betting or wagering any money or other valuable
consideration on the fighting or baiting of animals; or

(b) Attending the fighting or baiting of animals.

Section 3. Section 828.13, Florida Statutes, is

amended to read:

828.13 Confinement of animals without sufficient food,
water or exercise; abandonment of animals.--

(1) As used in this section:

(a) "Abandon" means to forsake an animal entirely or
to neglect or refuse to provide or perform the legal
obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner.

(b) "Owner" includes any owner, custodian, or other
person in charge of an animal.

(2) Whoever:

(a) Impounds or confines any animal in any place and
fails to supply the animal during such confinement with a

sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and water,

(b) Keeps any animals in any enclosure without

wholesome exercise and change of air,

(6) Feeds sews on feed that preduees impure or
unwheleseme milk: or

(g)(d) Abandons to die any animal that is maimed,
sick, infirm, or diseased,

2.

CODING: Words in struek thseugh type are deletions from existing

law; words underlined are additions.

 




ENROLLED

1982 Legislature HB 328, 3rd Engrossed

is guilty of a misdemeanor of the girstugggrge second degree,

punishable as provided in s. 775.082, 9£”§l.§_£iﬂ§"9§_99£_99§§
thanm§§L0001 or by both imprisonment and a fine, as 77529837
or s. 775.084.

(3) Any person who is the owner or possessor, or has
charge or custody, of any animal who abandons such animal to
suffer injury or malnutrition or abandons any animal in a
street, road, or public place without providing for the care,
sustenance, protection, and shelter of such animal is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the £i£§£~dgg§e§ second degree, punishable
as provided in 8. 775.0827 51 77518837 or s. 775.084L~g£mby_3

gine of not more than $5,000, or by both imprisonment and a

 

£199.

Section 4. This act shall take effect July 1, 1982.

3

CODING: Words in struck through type are deletions from existing
law; words underlined are additions.

 




Florida Senate - 1982
CS for SB ’82.

By Committee on Agriculture and Senators Dunn and McClain-

303-1206-82 CS for SB 182

A bill to be entitled
An act relating to cruelty to animals; amending
s. 828.12, Florida Statutes; providing for an
increase in the minimum and maximum fines
assessable for cruelty to animals; amending s.

828.122(4), Florida Statutes; providing for an

I

increase in the maximum and minimum fines
assessable for fighting or baiting animals;
amending s. 828.13, Florida Statutes; providing
that it is a first degree misdemeanor to

confine an animal without sufficient food,

 

 

water, or exercise, or to abandon an animal;
providing for an increase in the maximum and

minimum fines assessable for such confinement

u
8
E
'U
0
U
C
'5
D.
5
no
W
10
ﬂ
5..
O
a
5
.
i

.d the public of proposed legislation.

or abandonment; providing an effective date.

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Florida:

\nt was promul
rm the legislat.

Section 1. Section 828.12, Florida Statutes, is
amended to read:

828.12 Cruelty to animals.--Whoever unnecessarily

This public dr
1200 copies tl

overloads, overdrives, tortures, torments, deprives of

 

 

necessary sustenance or shelter, or unnecessarily or cruelly
beats, mutilates, or kills any animal, or causes the same to
be done, or carries in or upon any vehicle, or otherwise, any
animal in a cruel or inhuman manner, shall be guilty of a

misdemeanor of the first degree, punishable as provided in s.

 

775.082 or by a fine of not more than $5,000, or both a,
1775-: 983 .

 

1

CODING: Watch in M M type on deluions hem existing law; wovds underlined are addihons.

 




303-1205-82 cs for SB 182 303-1206-82 cs for SB 182

H

Section 2. Subsection (4) of section 828.122, Florida

Statutes, as it exists now and after July 1, 1984, is amended is guilty °f a misdemeanor Of the £$E§£—§39£22 sesend d°VE°°'

to read: punishable as provided in s. 775.082, or by a fine of not more

828.122 Fighting or baiting animals; penalties.-- than $5,000, or by both imprisonment and a fine, s1 ?3518837

(4) Any person who willfully commits any of the or 3- 775-034-

following acts shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second (3) Any person who is the owner or possessor, or has
degree, punishable as provided in 3_ 775.082, or by a fine 2; charge or custody, of any animal who abandons such animal to

net i353 than $599 and not more than §5 000 $§7990, or both: suffer injury or malnutrition or abandons any animal in a

mmqmmpuw

(a) Betting or wagering any money or other valuable street, road, or public place without providing for the care,

H
O

consideration on the fighting or baiting of animals; or sustenance, protection, and shelter of such animal is guilty

H
H

(b) Attending the fighting or baiting of animals of a misdemeanor of the first degree sesend degree, punishable

H
N

as provided in s. 775.0827 s1 aasaoea7 or s. 775.084, or by a

Section 3. Section 828.13, Florida Statutes, is

H
is

amended to read: fine of not more than $5,000L or by both imprisonment and a

H
.p

828.13 Confinement of animals without sufficient food, ELEE-

H
U1

water or exercise; abandonment of animals.-- Section 4. This act shall take effect July 1, 1982.

STATEMENT OF SUBSTANTIAL CHANGES CONTAINED IN
COMMITTEE SUBSTITUTE FOR SENATE BILL 182

 

H
01

(1) As used in this section:

H
\3

(a) "Abandon" means to forsake an animal entirely or

p...-
(D

to neglect or refuse to provide or perform the legal The bill was amended by the Agriculture Committee in the form

of a committee substitute in the following manner:

H
\D

obligations for care and su ort of an animal b it .
pp y 8 owner l. The minimum fine of "not less than $1,000" for violating
the cruelty to animals promision (s. 828.12, F.S.) was
gliminated, leaving only a maximum fine nor "more than
5.000."

N
O

(b) "Owner" includes any owner, custodian, or other

N
H

person in charge of an animal.

N
N

(2) Whoever: The minimum fine of "not less than $l,000" for violating

the fighting or baiting animals provision (s. 828.l22.F.S.)
gas eliminated, leaving only a maximum fine "not more than
5,000.“ .

N
U

(a) Impounds or confines any animal in any place and

N
4:.

fails to supply the animal during such confinement with a

. The minimum fine of "not less than $l.000" for violating
sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and water, ‘ the provisions prohibiting confinement or abandonment of

animals without proper care (5. 828.13. F.S.) was elimi-
(b) Keeps any animals in any enclosure without nated, leaving only a maximum fine of ”not more than

$5,000."

NNN
\lO‘U‘I

wholesome exercise and change of air,

 

 

 

The minimum fine of "not less than $1,000“ for violating
the provision prohibiting the abandonment of animals to
suffer injury or malnutrition or abandonment of an animal
without proper protection or shelter (5. 828.l3 (3). F.S.)

was eliminated, leaving a maximum fine of “not more than.
§c1§d§ Abandons to die any animal that is maimed, $5,000.“

N
(I)

(e) Feeds sews on feed that predaees impure er

N
\O

unwheieseme milk7 or

(a)
O

 

U
5...:

sick, infirm, or diseased,

 

Strikes from current law the provision requiring penalties
for (whoever) "feeds cows on food that produces impure or
unwholesome milk" (5. 828.l3 (2)(c), F.S.). '

CODING; Words in M W W!" a" deletion: from existing ,0"; words underlined a" Oddlﬂons. CODING: Words in M M type are deletions from unsung low,- words undulmgd an addition.

2

 




Bill Analysis

FLORIDA HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

RALPH I'I. HABEN. JR.. Speaker/BARRY KUTUN. Speaker pro tempore
COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL JUSTICE

LawwenceJLSnﬁﬂh
Chairman
Robert Reynolds STAFF SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS

Vice Chairman

HB 328 by Rep. Wetherell DATE: January 15, 1982

relating to cruelty to
animals REVISED:

 

 

Other Committees of Reference: REVISED:
None

 

SENATE BILL: SB 182

 

SUMMARY

 

A. PRESENT SITUATION:

 

Section 828.12, Florida Statutes, provides that any
person who unnecessarily overloads, overdrives, tortures, tor—
ments, deprives of necessary sustenance or shelter, or unnecessarily
or cruelly beats, mutilates, or kills any animal or causes
the same to be done is guilty of a first degree misdemeanor.

Section 828.122(4), Florida Statutes, provides that
any person who bets or wagers money on the fighting or baiting
of animals or attends the fighting or baiting of animals is
guilty of a second degree misdemeanor and could also be sentenced
by a fine of not less than $500 and not more than $1,000.

Section 828.13, Florida Statutes, provides that any
person who confines an animal without sufficient food, water or
exercise; or abandons a sick animal is guilty of a second degree
misdemeanor.

B. EFFECT OF PROPOSED CHANGES:

This bill provides for a mandatory fine of $1000 for
any violation of s. 828.12, Florida Statutes.

Section 2 of this bill increases the sentence for
betting and wagering on the fighting of baiting of animals
to a first degree misdemeanor and provides for a mandatory fine
of not less than $1,000 and not more than $5,000.

Section 3 of this bill increases the sentence for
confining an animal without sufficient food, water, or exercise;
or abandoning such animal, to a first degree misdemeanor and
provides for a mandatory fine of $1,000. In addition, this
section of the bill provides that any person who willfully or
maliciously, or through gross neglect, causes pain or suffering
to, or death of, any animal in a cruel or inhuman manner is
guilty of a first degree misdemeanor and applies the mandatory
fine of $1,000.

 

James E. Eaton. Suﬁ Din-(tor

332 “can Ofﬁce Building. Tallahnuee. Florida 82301 (904) 488.0085

 




Staff Summary/Analysis - HB 328
January 15, 1982

Page Two

II. FISCAL IMPACT

The government should receive additional revenue from
the mandatory fines required by this bill. This revenue should
offset any increase in incarceration cost caused by increased
sentences.

III. COMMENTS

This bill provides a new section 828.12(2)(a), Florida
Statutes, which provides that any person who willfully or
maliciously, or through gross neglect, causes or allows to be
caused, in a cruel or inhuman manner, pain or suffering to,
or the death of any animal is guilty of a first degree
misdemeanor. This new section is repetitive and any
conduct which it will prohibit is already prohibited in
s. 838.13, and 828.12, Florida Statutes.

This bill simply increases sentences and provides
for mandatory fines for certain crimes involving cruelty to
animals. The introducer feels that this will deter such
conduct.

IV. AMENDMENTS

 

These amendments reduce the mandatory fine from $1,000
to $500.and deletes the requirement that one must "willfully"
cause pain, suffering or death to any animal. Additionally, the
amendment deletes the provision relating to the feeding of cows
(which causes impure milk) and removes it from the list of proscribed
acts.

ﬁeﬁ/Bra a)?“ <:__,, 5
Staff Director9<jiéﬁy4 / —»%C009<£Z42

Tom Teddastle

4; /47
Prepared by: ,,7’ ‘

 

 




