97/3?
Animal Welfare

Institute

“$.19“

 




 

,7»: Z“
Advisory Committee

Ky

DR. LEE R. DICE, Director, Institute of Human
Biology, University of Michigan

DR. ROBERT GESELL, Professor of Physiology,
University of Michigan ( ctr}. t. ; . t: l

DR. ERIC H. HANSEN, President, Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals

DR. PETER OKKELBERG, Emeritus Professor of
Zoology and Emeritus Associate Dean of the
Graduate School, University of Michigan

DAVID RICARDO, Secretary, British Columbia
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals
, x 5:4, a r
'- I , V
L/[éic L LJCL” , \«thv, C.k£
I ,ti.» 4 " I
/ / .r' i :r"\. c t I“ ‘ t
I [I ‘ ( I If; f: AX I '7 :13 (“I 5".“ 1g,.MiKZ/&-4JC )
. {f ,. ‘ 1...... ,5.
'“ {-1 - 4 l
I 2; ' ",V‘ ‘ :I‘ J 4; [ﬁx _I 2 'y,./.,_l'i'";{r .J
, 4 x , 7‘ “/3; W

\V ,
m
d

s.
sq. M7

‘8‘“

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The Animal Welfare Institute

AN ORGANIZATION founded by a
group of persons interested in the pro-

motion of humane treatment of animals.

' The Institute was incorporated as a
non-proﬁt organization under the laws

of Delaware.

Its interests and membership will be

nationwide.

Headquarters are located at i

Wnut New York 9, N. Y.
.34 .1 at? f / ’7‘t‘4e. >1" {3’

 

PURPOSE AND SCOPE
The aim 0 f the Institute will be:
0 To promote the welfare of all animals.

0 To reduce the total of pain and fear 7

inﬂicted on animals by man.

 




 

Justiﬁcation for pain-inﬂiction in every instance should
take into account the above factors as they relate to:

a) The ultimate value of the experiment.

b) The feasibility of using other less painful methods.

c) The extent and degree of mental suffering (fear,
anxiety, worry, loneliness, etc.) involved in the
procedures.

Study of all these factors should provide a means for de—
ciding upon the proper limitation of pain-inﬂiction.
These means should be based on the proposition that the
end justiﬁed the means only if these means fall within
reasonable limits.

. A hroader ethics is imperative.

The ethical principles that will guide the work of the
Institute have been well expressed by Dr. Albert Schweit-

zer, world-renowned physician, clergyman and philoso-
pher:

"Ethic: in oar western world ha: hitherto heen largely
limited to the relation of man to man. Bat that ii a

limited ethici‘. We need a hoandlen ethics which will
include the animal; ctlJO.”

And again: "What does reverence for life 5491 ahoat
the relations hetween men and the animal world?
Whenever I injare any hind of life I mast he qaite

certain that it i5 necei‘sary. I mart never go heyond the
anavoidahle. . .”

"Those who experiment apon animals hy Jargery and
drags, or inocalate them with direases in order to he
ahle to help mankind hy the reyalts ohtained, rhoald
never quiet their conscience; with the conviction that
their crael action may in general have a worthy par-
pore. In every single initance they mart conrider




whether it is really necessary to demand of an animal
this sacriﬁce for man, and they mast tahe anxions care
that the pain he mitigated as far as possihle . . .”

”By the very fact that animals throagh these painfitl
experiences have contrihated so mach of valve to saf-
fering manhind, a new and special hond of solidarity
has heen estahlished hetween them and as. From this
arises the ohligation for each of its to do every possihle
good to all animals everywhere.”

4. New developments may mitigate animal siiﬂering.

The Institute’s emphasis throughout will be on the needs
of animals and human beings.

While recognizing the importance of animal experimen-
tation in medical and other scientiﬁc research, the Insti-
tute will investigate and seek to foster developments in
experimentation whereby animal suffering may be mini-
mized.

Fields of investigation might include:

a) Practical replacement of the higher mammals by
much lower forms of life or life in lower stages of
embryonic development (such as chick embryos)
with a View to reducing the suffering undergone by
animals with highly developed nervous systems.

b) Practical replacement of chronic experiments in-
volving protracted physical or mental suffering by
properly conducted sacriﬁce experiments with a
View to reducing the number of painful experi-
ments.

c) The efﬁcient statistical design of experiments so as
to effect a systematic economy in sampling. For ex-
ample, methods whereby limitation of the number
of variables introduced in an experiment makes
possible the reduction of the number of animals
necessary.

.5.

 




 

c) Scientiﬁc and technical associations.

d) Conservation groups.

e) Livestock protection groups.

f) All other bodies interested in animal welfare.
Throughout the Institute will strive for professional and public

acceptance of the best in animal welfare, by providing a forum

and clearing house for the legitimate claims of scientists and
humanitarians alike.

The Institute believes that only by thus taking account of all
available related facts can valid and equitable solutions to com-
plex problems be attained.

.. . ___.—~..-.....— .,

 

 




The Animal Welfare Institute

Oﬂicers:

22'5” ti,” U/CV (:52
President ............ CHRISTINE STEVENS 3) méw‘f 0% J

Vice President ..... ALFRED R. GLANCY, JR.
Secretary. . . .ROBERT A. HENDRICKSON, JR.
T reassures ............. ROGER L. STEVENS

Ass’t. Treasure-r ....... HELEN HANZLICK

iii/42¢ L
Executive Secretary ...... ESTELLA DRAPER

Correspondence should be
addressed to:

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY
THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

7m22 8 ”5‘49
New Yorke-fl; N. Y.

OCTOBER 1, 195 l

 




Animal
Welfare
Act is in

Danger

Enforcement of America’s principal federal law
for the protection of animals is being
undermined by the National Association for
Biomedical Reseach. Essential regulations for
implementation of amendments passed by the
Congress in 1985, Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals, are being blocked. Efforts
are even being made to weaken regulations that
have been in place for many years to make them
impossible to enforce.

HOW LONG CAN THE LAW BE FLOUTED?

 




 

Ruth Fremson - Washington Times

 
 

Millions of animals
suffer needlessly
because the federal law
Congress passed to
protect them is being
eviscerated
by a
lobbyist and
the vested
interests she
represents.

 

Frankie Trull

When the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act was passed in
1966 it inspired enormous public support - more letters,
members of Congress reported, than even the Vietnam
War. And when it was broadened and strengthened in
1970, 1976 and 1985, the same public outpouring de-
manded protection for the animals. Now dealing behind
closed doors, the National Association for Biomedical
Research (N ABR), is dismantling the mandate of Con—
gress and circumventing the will of the American people.
NABR is trying to erode the existing standards and block
promulgation of the regulations for the Improved Stan-
dards for Laboratory Animals amendments. An objec—
tive analysis from the Government Information Insider
of OMB Watch details what is happening. It is reprinted
in full on the reverse of this leaﬂet.

Ernest Walker

How can a lobbyist manipulate government agencies
to stop a federal law in its tracks?

The NABR is the brainchild of the biggest supplier of
laboratory animals in the world, Charles River, Inc., now
owned by the industrial conglomerate, B ausch and Lomb.
The more animals are used the more money they make.
They are marketed with slick advertising techniques de—
signed to sell laboratories the maximum numbers. Frankie
Trull, the Executive Director, tells how NABR was cre-
ated in her living room when she was working for Char-
les River. Now, commercial animal dealer inﬂuence is a
driving force that has been able to dictate ofﬁcial corre-

This is a douroculi
monkey, the species
that ﬁgured in a
recent case of

go vernment fraud.
Bolivia, where the
monkeys were
captured, demanded
their return, but the
American dealer,
though his passport
had been conﬁscated,
ﬂed the country.

 

 

spondence from the Office of Science and Technology
Policy and policy at the National Institutes of Health.
Under NABR’s inﬂuence, the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB) not content with years of delay, has
even drawn up a schedule to waste 35 more months before
final regulations on the 1985 law are issued. The Depart-
ment of Agriculture cannot easily ignore the arrogant
“advice” of OMB. That would bring us to 1993, possibly
a record in delaying tactics to undermine the will of
Congress and ﬂout the wishes of the American people. ‘
Former OMB counsel Michael Horowitz has been
successful in gutting the regulations by changing the regu-
latory approach of the Department of Agriculture. NABR
has been insisting that the regulations be rewritten into
“performance standards”, vaguely worded regulations

 

which are generally unenforce-
able. The Ofﬁce of Science and
TechnologyPolicy fortheWhite
House, whose biomedical re-
search desk is manned by
Frankie Trull friend and former
NHi chief, James Wyngaarden,
issued a letter on the regulations
which repeats the arguments
which NABR has been using
since 1985, when the law was
passed. OMB ordered the regu—
lations withdrawn because of
this letter. The arguments have
all been answered years ago, but

Ernest Walker

 

the facts have been overridden M9ukringtzglgini
by N ABR’s clout. J p hitman
NABR claims to represent caregiver

the academic community and

many of the statements issued at

NABR events discuss academic freedom. However,
when a New York University professor was sued by Im-
muno AG, a huge multinational Austrian pharmaceutical
Company, because of a letter to the editor, published in
a scientiﬁc journal he edits, NABR submitted testimony
on behalf of Irnmuno AG. After a ﬁve year battle, the pro-
fessor was vindicated in the First District Court Appel—
late Division which found the suit to be without merit.
NABR then ﬁled an amicus brief for the New York State

Ernest Walker

Because primates are
our closest relatives
in the animal
kingdom, they are
used extensively in
laboratories. A
human hand and

that ofAﬂus
Was. the

dourocouli monkey.

 

  
 
  
  
 

Ernest Walker

Appeals Court which also dismissed

A “momma” the suit. When the need for larger

of psychological , , .
well-being. cage srzes for primates 1n laborato-
Douroculis love ries is being discussed, scientists are

to leap andfmliC- afraid to speak out because they fear
that their NIH grants will not be

continued if they disagree with the

 

 

  

party line that cage size is not im-
portant to the animal, which must
spend his or her life in it. NIH,
whose spectacular failure to pre-
vent cruelty to animals in grants
they funded led to enactment by
Congress of the Improved Stan-
dards for Laboratory Animals
amendments, is also fully behind
the use of the unenforceable per-
formance standards.

 

The animals who need the pro—
tection of the Improved Standards
for Laboratory Animals amendments do not yet have it.
There are no regulations for “an environment adequate to
promote the psychological well-bein g of non-human pri-
mates”, nor are there regulations for the exercise of labo-
ratory dogs. Non—human primates must have larger
cages, live in social groups and have a varied environ-
ment to interact Utetoroe-Peter Hamilton
with. Dogs must be ‘ '
released from their
cages for daily exer-
cise. The U.S.
Department of Ag-
riculture must pub-
lish clear enforce-
able standards for
the care and hous-
ing of laboratory
animals, and the
USDA must have
enough funding to
enforce those regu-
lations.

 

 

 

A dying rabbit denied the protection of
improved standards proposed by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. Increased cage
sizes were summarily withdrawn at the
insistence of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy.

 

 

Uteforoe - Peter Hamilton

 

Uletoroe - Peter Hamilton

 

This is not an
"environment
adequate to
promote
psychological
well-being. "
Primates in
laboratories still
wait for enforcable
regulations under
the Improved
Standards for
Laboratory Animals
amendments.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Congress mandated exercise for laboratory dogs in 1985.
But NABR lobbying has held up the regulations to this
day. Until the Oﬁice of Management and Budget releases
its vice-like grip on the regulations, dogs like him will
remain behind bars with no relief.

 

 

 

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
PO. Box 3719
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

 

 

 




For the Department of Agriculture's animal welfare
efforts, delay is a four-letter word: O-l-R-A.

Creature Dis com fo rts

by Gwen Rubinstein

Find one sentence in a relatively obscure 1983 report of a presidential task force. (“Health, safety and environmental regulations
should address ends rather than means.”) Add one former OMB (Office of Management and Budget) official hired by an interest
group. (Michael Horowrtz, once general counsel.) Stir. That’s the formula concocted by the biomedical research community

to scuttle federal regulation of how its members treat animals in their experiments.

At least 17 million animals are used in laboratory experiments each
year, according to Congress’s Office of Technology Assessment. About 85
percent are rats and mice; the other 15 percent are cats, dogs, monkeys,
hamsters, guinea pigs, and other common domestic animals.

Persistently bad conditions in laboratories led Congress to amend the
Animal Welfare Act in 1985 to instruct the United States Department of
Agriculture (USDA) to set minimum standards for the humane handling,
housing, care, treatment and transportation of those animals. But finalizing
regulationsto implement those changes has turned intoa Sisyphean task for
USDA. Each time the agency proceeds to a new level of review at OMB's
Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OlRA), the same issues
surface to send it back to square one.

The proposed regulations were first published, under court order, in
March, 1989. But they had languished for nearly eight months of review at
OlRA. While animal welfare advocates viewed the proposal as only the bare
minimum, they still wanted to see something implemented. So the Animal
Legal Defense Fund (ALDF) went to court to force release of the regulations.

But now USDA is back where it started - again. In mid-April, OlRA
returned a draft of the final rule to USDA for “reconsideration” - putting it on
hold. OIRA’s actions came on the heels of a letter from President Bush’s
science advisor, D. Allan Bromley, criticizing the proposal, as OlRA had
before, for taking the wrong approach.

The stumbling block USDA has hit head-on is well-organized opposi-
tion with inside-the-White-House connections and knowledge of how OlRA
works. Problems first surfaced in September, 1988, or about three months
after USDA submitted draft proposed regulations to OlRA for review.

Animal welfare groups say the playing field changed when Horowitz,
now an attorney with Myerson, Kuhn & Sterrett, was hired by the American
Council on Education on behalf of member universities that use animals in
experiments. Also a member in the firm is Robert Bedell, who left OlRA in
1986 after several years as deputy administrator.

While few could argue with the act's goals of more humane treatment
of laboratory animals, the research community, with Horowitz’s help, found
a way to deflect the discussion from that to something more bureaucratic -
the regulatory approach USDA chose. The successful tack taken by
research groups was to criticize the regulations as prescribing “engineering"
controls for compliance rather than describing the desired “performance"
and leaving it up to laboratories to determine their own way of complying.

The regulations “painta very detailed picture of laboratory animal care,"
complains an industry trade group, the National Association for Biomedical

Research (NABR), Washington, DC. “They tell you point by point - and that’s
what we object to."

To back up its point, industry often singles out the regulation’s require-
ments for exercise and socialization of dogs. The 1985 amendments stated
that regulations should set “minimum requirements for exercise of dogs, as
determined by an attending veterinarian in accordance with general stan-
dards promulgated by the Secretary.”

As a result, the proposed regulations set a minimum of 30 minutes a day
of exercise. To support that requirement, the proposed regulations noted
that “[t]he consensus of [agency] veterinarians with training and experience
in the care of dogs is that 30 minutes of daily exercise is a reasonable
minimum for maintenance of a dog's health and well-being." (Federal
Register, March 15, 1989, p. 10905)

Despite the language of the amendments, industry groups claim that
the regulations are too specific. The agency “is going about this in a way we
call engineering standards instead of giving us desired performance,”
complains the NABR. “Our whole objective is to maintain healthy, behavior-
ally normal dogs, but how this is accomplished should be left up to the
veterinarians responsible."

In truth, however, the regulations do leave the specifics up to laboratory
veterinarians. For example, the proposal does not specify how dogs are
supposed to be exercised - only the amount of time they are to exercise, or
have the option to exercise. In addition, the regulations give several exercise
options as examples, but generally leave the details up to the laboratories.
“[T]he method or type of exercise be determined by the attending veterinar-
ian and may consist of one or more methods," the proposed regulations
state. (p. 10905)

Nevertheless, both OlRA and the White House have echoed industry’s
complaints about the regulation being too prescriptive and detailed. Both
have also supported their position by quoting from the same page of Reagan
Administration Regulatory Achievements, on August, 1983, report of the
Presidential Task Force on Regulatory Relief.

In his April 16, 1990 letter to Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter,
Bromley wrote: “[T]he standards are engineering rather than perform-
ance-based standards and will be extraordinarily expensive. I am also
informed that there is no scientific evidence that the proposed standards will
improve animal welfare."

In the letter, Bromley urged Yeutter to reconsider the standards in light
of “the guidance of the President’s Regulatory Task Force, chaired by then
Vice-President Bush (Regulatory Policy Guideline No.5 at P 19) .. ‘Health,

safety, and environmental regulations should address ends rather than
means."

In reality, Bromley's comments did little more than reiterate complaints,
first raised by industry, then raised by OlRA more than a year earlier during
regulatory review. But they also halted the standard's progress.

In a letter dated the next day, Acting OlRA Administrator James B.
MacRae followed up on Bromley’s letter, noting “we agree with [Bromley's]
concerns.“ But MacRae’s letter also added: “With the apparent need to
obtain greater scientificjustification and validation for the regulatory alterna-
tive selected, it appears premature for [USDA] to have submitted this draft
rule for review.”

The whole turn of events completely frustrated USDA who have worked
on the regulations for more than two years, staff at the National Institutes of
Health (NIH) who were in close consultation over the regulation, and animal
welfare advocates. The events have also angered congressional sponsors
of the amendments. Forexample, former SenatorJohn Melcher (D-MT) told
Nature magazine that he had “never seen anything so misinformed aboutthe
legislative process" as Bromley’s letter.

The case is also a sterling example of what can go wrong during OlRA
regulatory review under Executive Order (E.O.) 12291:

Delay.

OlRA held the proposed animal welfare regulations under review for
228 days, or the better part of eight months. Because the order sets no
deadlines for OlRA regulatory review, OlRA can thwart agency regulatory
efforts simply by not acting on them quickly.

Substantive interference.

E.O. 12291 does not officially sanction OlRA to second guess other
agencies over their substantive review regulatory decisions. After all,
Congress delegates rulemaking authority to agencies, not OlRA. The 1985
Animal Welfare Act amendments give the Secretary of Agriculture, not the
OMB director, authority to write regulations to put them into effect.

Disguising qualitative analysis under cost-benefit analysis.

E.O. 12291 requires that a regulation’s benefits to society outweigh its
costs. This has allowed OlRA, in the guise of quantitative cost-benefit
analysis, to slow the progress of rules based on qualitative grounds,
including ideology.

One example is the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) now-in-
famous asbestos rulemaking. OlRA pressured EPA into discounting the
value of the human lives the rule would save to skew the cost-benefit
analysis and make the rule less likely to pass the test.

In this case, OlRA continued asking USDA for more information to
support the rulemaking, despite the fact that a September 5, 1988, letter from
OIRA’s MacRae to USDA made it clear OlRA’s bottom line - that it thought
the standards were too prescriptive. Yet, the letter directed USDA to
improve (i.e. change to OlRA’s liking) its cost-benefitanalysis by quantifying
“the indirect opportunity costs of the regulations on biomedical research.”

To do so, MacRae suggested that USDA “list the contributions of bi-
omedical research to human health safety that have resulted from animal
research and describe the potential losses to society when research costs
are increased by the regulations." But what he didn't ask and should have,

according to animal welfare advocates is “how much it costs society when
data are incorrect because of mistreatment of experimental animals.”

During the rulemaking, OlRA also went out of its way to solicitopinions
from other federal agencies, most notably the lnteragency Research Animal
Committee (IRAC, based at NIH). OlRA asked IRAC directly to criticize
USDA’s efforts, which also frustrated USDA staff.

USDA complained early- and often -to OlRA about the outside involve-
ment. “The comment filed in opposition to the regulations by the State
Department, which conducts and funds no [biomedical] research, dramati-
cally illustrates the kind of unhelpful reactions we can expect [this] to
provoke,” USDA wrote in a September, 1988, letter. “We think your letter to
IRAC was improper and inappropriate."

In a follow-up letter written in October, then Secretary of Agriculture
Richard Lyng made the same points to then OMB Director James C. Miller
lll. “We believe that this initiative was ill-advised and will not advance our
common objective of development of regulations to implement the amend-
ments," Lyng wrote. The letter also criticized how much time OIRA’s review
had taken.

Miller was quick to respond - and put Lyng in his place, making it clear
that OlRA, not USDA, controlled the future of the animal welfare standards.
“[C]urrent resistance to fulfilling your agency’s obligations presents the most
serious delay in the promulgation of these rules." Miller’s letter fumed. “I
would suggest you instruct your staff to cooperate with mine, so that we
might resolve any differences within the Executive Branch. Only then can
OMB clear these regulations for publication in the Federal Register.”

But OlRA wouldn't let up. It included IRAC in all the details of the
rulemaking. For example, in January, 1989, OlRA persuaded IRAC to
establish a subcommittee to “resolve issues in the proposed regulations that
are of concern to IRAC member agencies." Only later did OlRA inform USDA
of the meeting - and the decision.

The outcome of the final rule may also depend on legal action filed by
the Animal Legal Defense Fund (ALDF). In a complaint filed on March 14 in
the US. District Court for the District of Columbia, ALDF named OMB and
its director, Richard Darman, in a list of defendants responsible for illegal
delay of the standards. Also named in the complaint were the Departments
of Health and Human Services and Agriculture and their Secretaries, Louis
Sullivan and Clayton Yeutter.

In the complaint, ALDF charged that OMB, through EC. 12291, had
attempted to “thwart the will of Congress in enacting” the animal welfare
standards, as well as “delay the regulation’s promulgation and implementa-
tion." ALDF asserted that OMB’s actions violated the Constitution’s Separa-
tion of Powers clause by blocking “the express delegation of rulemaking
authority to the Secretary of [Agriculture]."

In early May, the Department of Justice, the government’s lawyer, pro-
posed to the court that the standards, at least for dogs and non-human
primates, be completed by February, 1991 . ALDF briefs in response are due
May 29.

From the Government information Insider, published by 0MB Watch 1731 Con-
necticut Ave, NW, Washington, D.C. 20009-1146, (202)234-8494.
Reprinted by permission.

 

 




... , nemies of the Animal Welfare Act have also sought to weaken the

resolve of the Department of Agriculture’s veterinary personnel
" '* to enforce the law. The straightforward law enforcement under
the aegis of Dr. John Atwell led to his demotion . Evidently the
National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR) resented
prosecutions of registered research facilities who were found guilty
of violating the minimum standards of the Animal Welfare Act.

Capable and dedicated Animal Care Specialists ended up out-
side the program when the reorganization of the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service (APHIS) took place. One, who holds a
degree of Doctor of Medicine as well as Doctor of Veterinary
Medicine, is suing the Department to enable her to return to the work
which she accomplished so conscientiously.

She testified in the Department of Agriculture’s successful
prosecution of SEMA, a contract laboratory for the National Insti-
tutes of Health ($1.5 million in 1989), where chimpanzees and mon-
keys were held in substandard conditions. SEMA was found guilty
of harassment of Agriculture’s inspectors, having prevented them
from decoding information about the animals and even trying to pre-
vent them from leaving the premises with photographic evidence.

APHIS Administrator Bert Hawkins, whose morale-build—
ing encouragement to enforce the Animal Welfare Act made him un-
popular with the regulated industry, was stripped of his authority and
replaced by a series of

 

 

. '1 officials acceptable to
‘ NABR.

Dr. James Glosser,
the current APHIS
1 administrator, asserts,
“We need to take away
. the enforcer concept.”

 

The staff of Regulatory

 

 




 

 

 

Enforcement and Animal Care (REAC) is supposed “to lead people
into compliance,” he says. He enthusiastically supported the agency’ 3
reorganization which reduced the number of animal welfare veteri-
nary inspectors for the whole country to only 42. The Animal
Welfare Act requires them to inspect 1,296 registered research facili-
ties, many of which have as many as ten or twenty separate locations.
They also, together with the 21 animal health technicians, must in-
spect premises of 4,415 dealers, 1,504 exhibitors, 282 intermediate
handlers, and 145 carriers. With the “enforcer concept” condemned
by their chief, the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
amendments and the basic Animal Welfare Act are doomed to tooth-
less inefficiency. How can a few modestly compensated veterinari-
ans and technicians be expected to “lead” an industry worth billions

of dollars “into compliance”?

 

’7 77.45 " ""D ﬁYOV'M
23222.56 2'2 2/2 2 ’7 2,222

VFW/“‘9’” JV”

 

‘2‘! 2

‘ vw )3 rura- 27/2 2 c , :‘x 92 ~. 4'

2' 22.; 2 2.2- 22' , 2.2,:
(1021 y {,5 2/.‘31'22' Jul luv/22.2 {v Hiro- ‘, 2‘ I LIL"

« 211p. ”ﬂ, ,2 9/2

I ‘-— 2 1.,2( , ,’ 222,22
.‘m/ «J»! J“ 3 ,k,
if)

2 ‘4‘ ﬁt"7" .‘ﬁVT' ~/;‘\'Vh:,“,2"'7 ,
(7.2 «272,272 «2:2 2222 22 2

 

, (~22
2222222222.

 
 
  

21.2. 22 222222222“:

  

2”
2

"72/32/2112)? 'v 2:1,

2,3,ij

       

 

 




 

 

W‘Ynf’r w

2%

L, _». _ V , ‘ ‘ ‘ 5“ ., a?" , ‘ . ,_ )' ' ', , "i .:
‘u , ' . -> .V V I‘ ‘ I a
aft 2' I

f ‘ ,1 i , , , n. «J . . _ ‘. ‘1 g
a! any . ,. ’ V ,_ . V ‘, \ , ,. .- . . , , ._ ,, )1 ' ,5“ A: i . 3'“. h

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Ernest P. Wa ker _  _

 




that Edition. 1955
Swnnd Edition. 1980

erated at the Suncoast

1 mmt «(k (m the beach. that recup
al of

}; ﬁrth ) the wild represents the purpose and Ultimate 90

I \‘
.\ '«.K

Printed in USA.

 

 

 

 




 

FIRST AID AND CARE

 

OF SMALL ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

 

by Ernest P. Walker, former Assistant Director
National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution

 

 

 

 

 

 

Published by Animal Welfare Institute PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

Price: $2.00

 




 

nternational

Photograph by United Press I

Red F
ox P
Uppy Raised on B
a 09910

 




 

  

 

An interest in and fondness for animal
life is apparently a part of every child and
it is during childhood and youth that the
greatest good can be accomplished in in-
stilling a knowledge of animals and an in-
terest in our interdependence with animals.
During this period much can be accom-
plished in guiding the student towards a
sympathetic understanding of all living
things as well as the humane and consid-
erate attitude which results from such un-
derstanding. Many valuable object lessons
can be taught during this time.

It should be borne in mind that children
and young people, however fondof animals
or interested in them, may through careless-
nessror ignorance cause the animal serious
harm. Also, there are individuals who wil-
fully try to injure an animal, and there are
those who have received erroneous informa-
tion at home or elsewhere that are disposed
to destroy every living thing. Therefore, in
teaching the handling of animals, one should
be careful to observe the peculiarities of the
individual student and not only show him
how to care fOr the animal properly, but
correct him should he be disposed to injure
the animal wilfully. This should be a partic-
ularly important phase because the spirit of
cruelty to animals and wilful disregard of
their rights and comforts can readily be a
fore-runner of antisocial behavior with seri-
ous consequences in later life.

There are few subjects as complex as biol-

 

g E ATTITUDES

ogy that are so simple to teach in the ele-
mentary form. Begun even in kindergarten,
it can well be studied to the highest college
course. One ﬁeld of biology teaching that
is altogether too often neglected is that of
correcting the innumerable misapprehensions
and superstitions that exist regarding ani-
mals. There appears to be an almost inﬁnite
number of these, and even old biologists
are constantly hearing of superstitions and
notions that are new to them. Some are
merely the erroneous use of an Old World
name applied to a New World form, such
as the error of calling the North American
skunks "pole cats,” when the term "pole
cat” is properly applicable to a weasel-like
creature in the Old World. The well-known
Ground Hog Day fable is as persistent as
if it were true. Regarding the reptiles and
amphibians, the percentage of superstitions
and groundless fears is much higher than
regarding the birds and mammals. By skill-
ful leadership, these superstitions and erro-
neous notions can be scrutinized and the
students disabused of the wrong notions,
perhaps with the result that they may help
to educate their elders. The prevalence of
such false beliefs leads to extensive destruc-
tion of valuable animals and on many oc-
casions to wanton cruelty. The teachers who
undertake to combat such remnants of the
dark ages will be pioneers indeed and the
most fertile ﬁeld for undertaking this is
with young people.

Childhood as well as early yOuth is a

 

  




 

valuable time for learning and yet no formal
laboratory is necessary for teaching. In every
community children come into possession of
little creatures that interest them. Some of
these creatures are in need of help and the

child can learn valuable lessons as to their
requirements by being taught how to Care fOr
them. Thus they develop their interest in ani-
mals and learn the basic principles of caring
for both the wild creatures and themselves.

 

t‘hv ‘.’—‘
g‘.‘ ‘
.p »

Phowgraph by United Press International

Young Hummingbird Being Fed from an Eye-Dropper

 

l




 

One of the easiest methods of stimulating
, interest, and satisfying children as well as
l adults, is to put out food for animals to at-

tract them to a given location where they can
i be readily observed. This can be done with
; a surprisingly simple array of food and is not
{ limited to birds and squirrels as many people
suppose. Food placed on a window ledge
in a city will almost invariably be found by
some animal if the food is suitable. Insects
can be attracted in this way in even the most
thickly populated areas. The window ledges
of inner city homes thereby become as
good feeding stations as suburban homes.
Sparrows, pigeons and other birds, squirrels
and insects are all fascinating creatures that
can be studied at close range by the observer
who will put out suitable food and water for
them and remain quietly inside the room.
Such feeding and watering need not be
limited to the winter but can properly be
carried on throughout the year. Birds that
are nesting are especially glad to have a
source of supply of such materials as raisins,
peanut hearts or crushed peanuts, bits of
meat and seeds.

 

Feeding and watering stations can also be
provided in back yards on the grOund, on
posts, or on other elevated places.

 

i In their active lives, children frequently
find baby birds that are just out of their nests
and learning to fly; sometimes, due to the
death of the parent birds, the young are
really in need of help. Baby squirrels are
sometimes found which have fallen out of
g their nests; they have become hungry when
I‘- the mother squirrel has met with some acci-

  

  

 

 

 

dent and failed to return. During drives in the
country, people frequently find small crea-
tures along the roadsides, particularly turtles,
and sometimes baby skunks, baby opossums,
and other young animals. Some are in need
of assistance; others are adults or are able to
care for themselves. Unless the people who
pick them up have a genuine interest in try-
ing to save them and will take the pains to
provide proper conditions for their survival,
the story is usually a short one—the animal
soon dies, most often through well-inten-
tioned ignorance or neglect. It is to focus
attention upon what can and should be done
for small wild creatures which either appear
to be, or actually are, in need of help that
this pamphlet is prepared. It is not intended
to stimulate or encourage the capture and
keeping of more wild creatures, but rather to
assist well-intentioned people to do the right
thing in the right way for the animals that
fall into their hands.

   

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

A Yellow Jacket Attracted to Meat on a
Window-Ledge

   




 

«

rm .3! .‘ in? 3!! ﬁx? his. {9: ix: xix‘. _ x s...

Phct

Injured Squirrel Rescued and Adopted by High School Senior
4

 

nal
cg’aph by United Press Internatlo




 

 

 

 

 

aaac } 51%}

I know of no better way to teach young
people the importance of their own proper
nutrition and care than to let them learn how
to care for animals properly. It can be a valu-
able object lesson. Indeed, to emphasize the
proper care of different kinds of animals gives
an even wider scope to teaching than is pos-
sible by some of the laboratory experiments

in which a single animal or groups of ani-
mals are mistreated by being fed deﬁcient
diets in order to show the results of such
deﬁciencies. Such laboratory experiments, if
carried on by qualiﬁed research workers, have

a place in scientiﬁc studies, but ordinarily
only a single phase of nutritional deﬁciency
can be shown. The yOung person who is
shown the numerous steps necessary to pro-
vide for the requirements of different kinds

1% W2“??? 1%

of little animals learns far more than he can
by trying to bring about one given deﬁciency.
He learns to take pride in his accomplish-
ment in raising each animal successfully and
in keeping it in good health. To do this he
must learn much regarding the requirements
of the animal in the wild—i.e., how it lives.
This involves consideration of the group to
which the animal belongs—whether bird,
mammal, reptile, fish, insect, etc. Consider-
ation must then be given to the age of the
animal, its temperature requirements, the fre-
quency with which it should be fed, whether
or not it is able to feed itself or must be
hand-fed, and the kinds of food —— whether
milk, meat, soft proteins, insects, fruit, or
green vegetable material —— and the type of
housing and exercise required.

Baby Opassums Eat Watermelon for a Change

 




 

 

The requirements of animals are almost as
varied as the number of different kinds of
animals. Obviously it would not be possible
in a small publication to go into details con-
cerning requirements for all species of ani-
mals that might be encountered, or concern-
ing all the afflictions and accidents to which
they may be subject. Therefore, the aim in
this is to outline a few general principles
for the care of wild things — a sort of an
abridged first-aid manual.

When a wild creature is found, the ﬁrst
question that should be considered is: Does
it really need help, or is it able to take care
of itself either at the location where found
or in some adjacent, more favorable location?
A baby bird just out of the nest, learning
to ﬂy, does not ordinarily require human
help. Indeed, it is much better to go quietly
away and leave it alone so that its parents
can attend to feeding it and so that it can
learn to ﬂy and take care of itself. Some-
times it is down on the ground where there
are cats or dogs or where it may be subject
to other dangers. Then a human can some-
times help it by putting it up on a.limb,
back in the nest, or in some protected place.
Or, if the cat or dog can be put under re-
straint or removed, the little creature can be
left where it is. Occasionally nestling birds
are found on the ground after a severe storm.
.Some of them can be saved by taking them
in, warming them and feeding them until
they are able to be released safely.

if a human being does decide to take an
animal into his possession because it is in-

jured or the parents are dead, he should at

NIMALS

once consider what it needs in the way of
food, warmth, and protection. A great many
people immediately think of feeding birds
bread and milk. But no wild bird ever re.
ceives milk in its normal life and there is
doubt as to whether the bird’s digestive sys-
tem is adapted to handle milk to gOOd ad-
vantage. The great majority of small birds
are fed worms, insects, spiders and fruit
when they are little. When they become
older, their food may he very different.

It is important that young birds have a
warm dry place to stay. A depression in a
mass of tissue paper in a cardboard box
makes a good temporary home for a young
bird.

Turtles, snakes, lizards, salamanders, frogs
and toads that are found along the roadside
ordinarily need no help; unless they are in
some situation from which they cannot eX-
tricate themselves, they are well able to take
care of themselves and most of them would
be far better off if left alone. Almost every
one of these groups has requirements pecu-
liar to its kind, so before a person takes them
into his possession he should make certain
that he knows how to care for them or has
a source of information that will enable him
to give them prOper care.

Baby opossums found in the pouch of the
mother or clinging to her after she has bee:
killed or injured on the road usually nee
help. But frequentl’ baby skunkS, raccoon}:
rabbits and other young animals are broug
in, and the person thinks that he has diff
an admirable rescue job whereas waa ly
the little creature could have done very we




U? K 93 93

for himself if he had been left alone. Perhaps
he has lost his mother, but by the time an
animal is old enough to be out following
mother through the woods he is usually able
to obtain food for himself.

Young furry creatures that require human
help and are taken home should be offered
warm milk, somewhat diluted in accordance
with the formula on page 22.

Anyone contemplating taking an animal
home should consider whether or not it will
be accepted by other members of the family.
Sometimes members of the family are so
strongly prejudiced against animals that they
will be seriously upset by its presence or will
do the animal harm. On the other hand, since
many such prejudices and notions are the re-
sult of ignorance, these persons often change
their viewpoint when they have an oppor-
tunity to see the animal at close range and
to come to understand something about it.
and may become interested and fond of the
animal.

Practically every wild creature is afraid of
humans, and until the human has demon-
strated his kindness to it and has convinced
it that he is not dangerous,. the little creature
will be fearful and will usually ﬁght to pro-
tect itself. Taming newly caught animals re-
quires varying lengths of time, but the basic
principles are the same: it should at ﬁrst be
allowed to be quiet, its food and water being
supplied by only one person who makes all
moves very gently and quietly and speaks

gently to it at frequent intervals. As the wild
thing gradually becomes accustomed to hu-
man presence, one can eventually touch it
and ﬁnally handle it; but caution should be
used that the animal is not injured, that it
does not bite one, escape, or hurt itself. Bear
in mind that the one thing above all others
feared most by wild creatures is to be re-
strained. If they are held ﬁrmly in the hand
before they are accustomed to human pres-
ence, they may injure themselves or become
so badly frightened that they are more difﬁ-
cult than ever to tame. Also, a person will
often injure the animal by holding it too
tightly in his efforts to prevent it from es-
caping.

Persons who render aid to animals that
are in difficulties and in need of help will
ordinarily have nothing to fear as to legal
consequences; but they should not intention-
ally capture them or keep birds or mammals
beyond the time necessary for them to re-
cover suﬂiciently to take care of themselves.

There are both Federal and State laws that
give protection to many of the wild creatures.
These laws were formulated because of the
great need to prevent excessive destruction
of the wild life; many of the laws also cover
taking animals into one’s possession even
though the animals are not killed. Informa-
tion regarding such matters can usually be
obtained from the local law enforcement
agencies, the Wildlife Department of each
State, or the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service, Washington, DC.

 




 

i

1

w

I

i

J

[

i

i

i

I

f L ‘b I
1 Photograph by United Press Internatxona

A You ‘ '
ng Crow which Engoys Human Companionship

8

 

 




 

 

Those of us who are engaged in 200 ad-
ministration become painfully aware that a
large proportion of the people who obtain
animals with great enthusiasm soon lose their
enthusiasm when they find that caring for
the animal involves regularity and some
work. We are constantly having offered to
us animals which people have picked up on
the assumption that they are rescuing them,
or which they have kept for a while until
they have tired of them. Sometimes the
owner has concluded that the animal is fail-
ing in health and he wishes to get rid of it
before it dies. This suggests that teachers
could well emphasize that children and adults
not take animals into their possession unless
they are certain that they know how to care
for them properly and are equally certain
that they are willing to devote the time and
effort to give them proper care.

Animals that have been captured as babies
and raised in captivity are poorly prepared
to make their own way if liberated without
a preliminary training period in the wild. If
people are so situated that they can permit
their pet to obtain a portion or much of its
food with them and go out into the surround-
ing region and gradually accustom itself to

Paﬁrawa’rmﬁ

 

a wild life, they can frequently give the pet
a good opportunity to establish itself in ad-
jacent regions with fair chances of survival.
It should be borne in mind that an animal
which is accustomed to receiving its food and
shelter from humans and has not had enough
exercise to ﬁt it for a strenuous life in the
wild requires such a preliminary training.
Many animals when liberated are afraid of
the wild and will come back to their homes,
but will gradually extend their explorations
as they gain confidence and eventually take
up their abode in the wild, often near by,
and will return occasionally to visit their
human friends. The preliminary try-out pe-
riod is of great importance for another rea-
son. If there are other animals of the same
kind living in the vicinity, they generally
have the feeling that they have a prior claim
on the surrounding territory and the pet is
likely to be attacked by them. Therefore,
the liberated pet should have the opportunity
to return to the shelter and food supply with
its human friends until it has gradually won
a place for itself in the surrounding territory
and is able to compete with the wild crea-
tures of that vicinity for both food and
shelter.

 




 

 

 

 

Photograph 'by United Press International

Baby Robin with Broken leg in Splint

i". ..
/// Z.
'1’; é’
/

g.
7.2 o:
7A 2,:

Injuries and sickness are of course proper-
ly subject for treatment by a veterinarian, but
often a veterinarian may not be available or
the person who ﬁnds the animal victim may
not feel that he can afford to pay for veteri-
nary services. Therefore a few brief sugges-
tions may be of some assistance, but it should
be borne in mind that they are not offered
in lieu of advice of a veterinarian or a physi-

 

cian but rather as tentative suggestions that
may be of some assistance if a veterinarian’s

10

ED OR ILL ANIMALS

Or physician’s advice cannot be obtained.

Injured animals that are most frequently
found are those that have been hit by a car
or occasionally those that have been {mured
by hunters. When they are hit by cars, they
may be only temporarily stunned. Sometimes
they recover fairly quickly and are able t0
continue on their way. On other occasronS,
they may have suffered serious internal 1n-
juries that cannot be determined from ex-
ternal examination. Still others may have

 




 

 

 

sustained broken wings or broken legs. The
ﬁrst rule, like that advocated by physicians
for humans, is to make sure the patient is
made as comfortable as possible and kept
quiet. If they are stunned or subject to shock,
they may make a fairly quick recovery and
require no treatment other than protection
from further injury. If possible, they should
be liberated at the same location that they
were found. If there are severe internal in-
juries, it is rarely possible to do anything
for them other than to keep them quiet and
provide food and water in the hope that they
may gradually recover. If there are broken
wings or legs, sometimes a simple splint de-
vice can be improvised with match stems,
stiff cardboard, adhesive tape, or other ma-
terials at hand. Such efforts of repair work
should, however, be done only by an adult
or an older child who will take pains to see
that the break is set properly. If there are
no other serious injuries, the natural rapid
healing of animals will sometimes permit a
satisfactory recovery and repair of the broken
member.

During the period of recovery, it is gen-
erally a good plan to keep the animal in sub-
dued light or a darkened room, and to screen
it from View in such a manner that it can feel
secluded so that it will not worry so much
regarding danger from humans, dogs, cats,
or other enemies. As it gradually recovers,
it may become somewhat tame and develop
into a pleasing pet, or it may remain fearful
of humans and their surroundings. Of those
that recover, some can resume their lives in
the wild. Others may be so handicapped that
they could not make their own living. In
that case, the animal must become the special
charge of one member of the class.

11

Sick animals are not found so often, but
they are occasionally picked up. Usually,
however, by the time they are so sick that
humans can take possession of them, they
are past recovery; about all that one can do
is to try to make them comfortable, provide
food and water, and hope for the best. Se-
verely injured animals should be painlessly
destroyed by the means described on page 12.

In handling and caring for animals, people
will frequently sustain scratches or bites, but
for the most part if reasonable precautions
are taken there is not much more danger to
the human than there would be from a sim-
ilar break in the skin or mutilation of the
flesh from some mechanical injury. Any such
breaks in the skin should be washed thor-
oroughly with plenty of soap and treated
promptly with iodine or other antiseptic
preparation.

The experience of zoologists and members
of the staffs of zoos who are frequently in-
jured by animals indicates that there is very
little danger from rabies or other diseases
carried by wild animals. However, reason-
able precaution should be taken in all cases
to avoid injuries and to care for wounds from
bites or scratches of such animals as foxes,
skunks, raccoons, and opossums, as in some
regions these may carry rabies. Other animals
also sometimes carry rabies. There are even
some records of North American bats having
rabies. An animal that has bitten a person
should be kept under observation for 14
days. If within this time it becomes ill or
dies, its brain should be examined by the
local health department. If it is still healthy
at the end of 14 days, it could not have
transmitted rabies.

 




 

 

FINAL DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS

Bear in mind that when ﬁrst captured,
almost all animals are scared and wish to
seek seclusion. Also, many of them through-
out their lives try to keep out of sight and
in protected locations. Indeed, some will fret
themselves to death if they cannot get out
of sight and be in the dark, or at least feel
that they are away from observation. Noc-
turnal animals must be able to get into
dark retreats.

Even animals that are often observed sun-
ning in the wild need to be able to get into
the shade at will. Turtles, amphibians, and
invertebrates have often been killed by hav-
ing their terrariums left on a window ledge
unprotected from hot, direct sunlight.

Good teaching of biology requires that
accidents such as these do not happen. Many
teachers have found that although a group
may join in caring for any animal or animals
in a classroom, the ﬁnal responsibility for
the animal’s health and well-being must
be placed with one individual who makes
a daily check on food, water, cleanliness of
housing, and health of the animal, and per-
forms any tasks which may have been for-
gotten or neglected. Care of animals over
week-ends or longer holidays must be care-
fully provided for. 80 must ﬁnal disposition

12

of animals at the end of the school term,
It should be the aim of the class to have
rehabilitated any wild creatures which may
have been cared for so that they have be-
come self-supporting by the end of the term.
Those which cannot be successfully rehab-
ilitated, and any domestic animals such as
mice, rats or guinea pigs which the class has
maintained might be adopted by members
of the class. The progeny of such animals
should not be allowed to increase beyond
that which can easily be provided with
homes. ~However, should this occur, the ani-
mals can be turned over to the local humane
society for placement or painless destruction,
or the teacher can destroy them painlessly
by putting them in a covered container in
one corner of which a chloroform-soaked
cloth has been placed. Animals should not
be put in direct contact with wet chloroform
because it burns; chloroform vapor, how-
ever, renders small animals and birds un-
conscious in a short time and they die
painlessly by a means which is easy to ad-
minister. The animals should be left in
the chloroform chamber for at least one
half hour to be sure that they have passed
from unconsciousness to death. Stiffness (rig-
or mortis) indicates that they are dead and
may be disposed of.




 

A Grasshopper Mouse (Onychomys leucogaster) Standing by the

13

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

Entrance to its Nest Box

 




 

 

 

Space does not permit a detailed discussion
of the many different kinds of cages, aquaria,
and enclosures that may be used to house
animals, for they are varied and depend on
the requirements of the different kinds of
animals, where they are to be kept, and the
expense if any that is to be incurred. Nice-
ly constructed cages, aquaria and yards are
desirable, but frequently the animal can be
cared for almost as well by the use of in-
genuity in adapting whatever may be at
hand or readily available to accommodate it.

Creatures that require water in which to
swim, or soil in which to burrow and live,
can often be accommodated in such aquaria
as are available at many stores. Also, it is
possible to use S-gallon oil cans, that have

been thoroughly cleaned, and other con-
tainers.

One type of cage that is inexpensive, easy
to construct, and adaptable to several dif-
ferent types of creatures is composed of a
pan about 12 by 18 inches, and two to three
inches deep, into which is set a Strip of one-
fourth or one-half inch wire mesh fabric.
The height of the cage is determined by the
width of the strip of fabric. Fifteen inches is
a good average height. The top can be con-
structed of wire fabric slightly larger than
the sides of the cage. If the portion projecting
beyond the sides of the cage is bent down-
ward, it overlaps the sides like the top of a
suitcase or trunk. The top is hinged to the

upper edge of the side of the cage with
soft wire.

This type of cage will accommodate such

14

small mammals as mice and rats and even
little creatures that need only shallow water
in which to swim or rest. A nest-box, such
as an empty rolled-oats or corn-meal box,
can be provided with a hole in the end
and soft paper furnished for nest material.
Fine clean soft sand in the bottom of the
pan helps furry creatures to keep their fur
clean.

Animals are naturally clean about their
persons so that those that are being kept in
captivity should have an opportunity to keep
clean. Their cages and nest boxes should
be carefully cleaned at regular intervals.

Most small mammals require a great deal
of exercise; therefore, if they are to be kept
in captivity for more than a few days, suit-
able provision should be made for them to
exercise. Such creatures as moles should have
earth in which to dig. The considerable array
of mouse-like creatures — squirrels, flying
squirrels and others —— should have one or
the other of two types of exercise wheels,
described as follows:

The {ems wheel type, similar to a drum
without the heads, should have a diameter
at least three times the head and bod}r length
of the animal. That is, an animal which 18
10 inches from the tip of its nose to the base
of its tail should have a wheel about 30
inches in diameter.

The width of the wheel is not important.
Even a 30rinch wheel need not be more. than
10 inches wide. Wheels may be very Simply
or elaborately made. The picture shows 3 WW
of construction that has been found (191“
satisfactory. A strip of wire fabric of fairly
small mesh is bent into a circle of the Proper
size for the wheel, and it is supported by




 

      

Phonemh by Ernest P. Waller
A Laboratory White Rat Carries into her Nest a Baby ”Flying” Squirrel that She Has Adopted

 

 

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

She Nurses the Squirrels on Top of Nest Box in her Cage

15

 




 

‘ Ferris Wheel Type Exercise Wheel. (The diameter should be Ph°t°9'aph by mm" P' wan‘"

at least three times the head and body length of the animal.)

      

\ Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

‘ Big-eared Cliﬂ' Mice (Perornyscus truei) Running on Inclined Disc
Exercise Wheel

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

Inclined Disc Exercise Wheel (See Text for size)

16

 




 

 

spokes on an axle held up by uprights at least
twice as far from the edges of the wheel as
the diameter of the body of the animal. That
is if the animal has a body diameter of two
inches, the supports should be four inches or
more from the sides of the wheel. This is to
prevent injury to the animal by being caught
between a spoke of the revolving wheel and
the support for the axle.

‘The inclined disc wheel is easier to make
and is satisfactory for mice, hamsters, and
shrews. It should be made of a disc 10 to 15
inches in diameter, of one-eighth inch mason-
ite, plywood, or other rigid material that can
be easily cleaned. On the bottom side of the
disc, at the center, a piece of sheet metal per
haps an inch square should be placed under
a block of wood two or three inches square
and one and one/fourth inches thick. In the
center of the hole in the block of wood,
there should be bored a hole of proper size
to fit freely over a nail or small rod that
projects upward through a wooden base that
is at least six inches square. This nail or rod
is bent slightly so that the disc stands in an
inclined position. The little square of metal
between the block and disc is to keep the axle
from wearing a hole in the disc. The wheel
must run very easily, as you will have only
one mouse’power to run it.

Such wheels give the animals a great deal
of pleasure and much needed exercise, and
in many instances they definitely contribute
to the animals’ health and longevity.

Digging and tree climbing animals are ac-
customed in the wild to a great deal of wear
on their toe nails. In captivity they do not
have the opportunity to keep the nails worn
down by climbing or digging so it some-
times becomes necessary to cut the nails

 

17

back. However, it is preferable to provide
tree-climbing creatures with rough limbs to
climb so that they can keep their claws worn
down to some extent; sometimes burrowing
animals can be induced to dig into holes in
lean concrete.

The front or incisor teeth of rodents grow
continuously throughout life and they must
be kept worn down or they will grow so
long that the animal cannot eat. Therefore
plenty of hard nuts should be made avail-
able, which the animals must gnaw into in
order to get the nut meat. Also, freshly cut
green limbs and roots will frequently be
gnawed by many animals such as porcupines.
Such woody material is particularly valuable
in helping them keep their teeth in proper
condition.

It should be borne in mind that close
physical restraint is the one thing that ani-
mals fear most. If they are held in the hand
before they are accustomed to contact with
humans they will often struggle so violently
they will injure themselves. Also if they are
put into a small container without a place
to hide they may injure themselves. One
method that will sometimes help them to
feel less exposed and frightened is to put
material in the container before they are
put into it, under which or behind which
they can hide. For example, small burrowing
creatures are greatly relieved if there is leaf
mold, soil, or sand in the cage or box. Other
small mammals will be best satisfied if there
is a mass of leaves or loose cloth.

 

 




 

 

 

OBSERVATIONS ON FEﬁDIMQ

To those of us who are somewhat familiar
with animals, the ignorance displayed by
many- people regarding them is incredible.
We receive many calls from people saying
that they have come into possession of an
animal. They usually, but not always, recog-
nize it as a bird or a mammal (they usually
say animal), but they rarely distinguish
between reptiles and amphibians. Many
think that bats are birds and few have the
slightest conception of whether or not the
animals are young or adult, and what they
would normally eat. Very few realize that
reptiles must be kept warm to be active. Still
fewer realize that the amphibians must be
kept moist. Very few have the slightest con-
ception of the various kinds of invertebrates
or their requirements.

It is therefore essential that the informa-
tion supplied be most elementary, simple,
readily understood, and speciﬁc.

Unfortunately, it is not possible to give
much of the needed information in written
form without assuming that the recipient of
the information has at least a fair knowledge
of the various kinds of animals. It therefore
appears advisable to adopt a method of feed-
ing that I have found over many years to
be helpful, without much danger of causing
speciﬁc harm or injury to the animals: I urge
people to offer the animal that falls into
their hands the widest possible variety of
foods and let it make the choice. I suggest
fruits, both fresh and frozen (thoroughly
thawed); fresh wholesome uncooked meat,
such as hamburger; worms and insects; eggs
in almost any form, both cooked and raw

18

(the yolk of hard-boiled eggs is relished by
many creatures); fresh milk or milk with
raw egg and hamburger mixed in it; such
fresh green material as lettuce, cabbage, kale,
spinach, and other leafy material including
lawn clippings, the leaves and twigs of
forest trees and shrubs, root vegetables such
as carrots, sweet potatoes, and Irish potatoes;
also grains, such as dry uncooked rolled oats,
sunflower seeds, and packaged bird seed.

The prepared commercial baby food called
Pablum is a nutritious combination that is
relished by many different animals, not only
in the dry form as it comes from the pack-
age, but also moistened or cooked.

People often ask whether or not the food
should be cooked. I have found that it will
stimulate their thinking to ask them who
cooks food for the animals in the wild, and
follow this up by an admonition that they
bear in mind how the animal lives in the
wild, that it will necessarily obtain its shelter
and food in the immediate vicinity in which
it is living. Since the availability of the foods
and the kinds will vary with the seasons,
the animal will normally vary its diet some-
what with the seasons, and it will have a
wide variety of plant and animal material
from which to select. In general, I believe it
safe to inform people that if an animal is
not suffering from some serious dietary d6-
ﬁciency, it is well to offer it a very wide
variety of foods so that the animal can make
its own selection. \With such a wide selection
before it, there is little or no danger that it
will take food which is not good for it.
This method of feeding animals has been

 




l‘

we .' 7%"

 

 

"(

32" , 3.75::
,7", ,7] ”5
5,". . .
l (5'1:

Ir I57],

311'
In I

. ~ Isr . I
912%79’ ”My , 31W" , 49,5“
4,, 571$ I3 , ’qulig 51a"
- . Flag“ 4? -' .

5

la
.67 a 4.7
ﬁﬁfgégggy '

‘ h
5&5 ”:1

M t

as 5
7" 241,-).
4 e

‘1’
‘sz ~

4‘!
:7».
‘Z .

L
[£13 1:16
ital”
a: a

7
17 I
,,_, .77: \

Photograph by United Press International

Recently Hatched Baby Bird in Cotton-wool Nest
(Although this bird is being fed with an eye-dropper, it needs solid food such as worms.
small bits of meat and fruit.)

A Glass Tube Made into a Feeder for Hummingbirds. (It is
provisioned with a liquid made up of sugar and water,
mixed one part sugar to four parts boiled, cooled water.)

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

19

 

 




 

given a thorough tryout with creatures re-
garding which little is known or which are
known to be very difficult to keep in cap-
tivity. Also this method has generally been
well accepted by thousands of people to
whom it has been given.

With such a wide variety of food offered
to the animals, it is then an easy matter
to observe what they like and also to offer
some prepared foods. Indeed, there are a
few foods, like sweet potatoes, that seem
to be more acceptable to the animals when
cooked. However, cooking often destroys the
vitamins or washes out valuable minerals
and it is obvious that in the long run the
tastes of the animals indicate a preference
for the natural raw foods.

It should be borne in mind that the car-
niVOrous animals, and others that eat animal
life, generally conSume the entire body of
their victim which includes the glands, blood,
hair, or feathers, and often the bones. The
whole animal is a complete food or bal-
anced diet for those creatures that live on
animal food, but red meat which humans
usually use lacks much that is essential.
Therefore it is desirable when feeding meat-
eating animals to let them have, at least at
intervals, dead whole mice, rats, pigeons, or
other animals.

Vitamins have been used with remarkable
success in many instances in building up
animals that were obviously failing and in
keeping others in good health. In general,
we do not know enough about the vitamin
requirements of animals to be able to pre-
scribe specifically, but fortunately un-needed
or excess vitamins apparently do no harm,

20

and if the animal needs any portion of the
vitamin mixture that is given, it may be
distinctly benefited. Therefore, it is some-
times a good plan to make a palatable vita-
min mixture available to animals. Such mix-
ture should be of types that can be mixed in
the milk or water or placed on food, or that
the animal will take voluntarily. Veterinari-
ans can give much good advice regarding vi-
tamin and mineral preparations for animals.
One should not attempt to force animals
to take food or medicine unless the person
prescribing and administering is well qual-
ified to determine what should be given and
how it should be administered. Fresh Clean
drinking water should be available at all
times, and while the addition of vitamins
to drinking water was mentioned above, it
should not be a regular practice. It should
be done only occasionally to facilitate the
animal in taking the vitamin mixture. Cod
liver oil is a valuable supplement to the
regular food.

In view of the foregoing discussion, it
will be seen that when an animal is to be
cared for, it is important first to determine
as nearly as possible the kind of animal——
whether it be a mammal, bird, reptile, am-
phibian, fish or invertebrate. If it is a qUitC
YOUﬂg mammal, its normal food would be
its mother’s milk. If it is past the baby stage,
it should have made available to it the type
of food it would obtain in the wild or as
close an approach to it as possible. If it i5
a young bird of the passerine type, which 15
the most plentiful, it will probably accept
worms of many different kinds or hamburg‘if
and small bits of fruit. If it is an adult 0f the
small bird type, it will probably thrive on




this, but may also take seeds. If it is a hawk
or an owl, it should have liver, and other
organs. If it is a sea coast type of bird, or
one of the herons, it will probably accept

fish—either small whole ones or strips of
larger fish. It should be released just as soon
as it can take care of itself in the same area
in which it was found.

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

A Baby Pipistrelle Bat Taking Milk from 0 Medicine Dropper
while it Rests on the Arm of the Author

21

 

 




 

 

This group includes the host of furry and
hairy creatures that range in size from the
tiny shrew—smaller than a mouse—to ele-
phants, and includes such spiny, scaled or
plate-covered creatures as the porcupines,
pangolins, and armadillos, also the otters
and seals that inhabit both fresh water and
salt water, and the whales and porpoises.

In this very abridged account we can con-
sider only the more common small land
forms. All of these young are nursed on
their mothers’ milk. Most of them are help-
less when born and must be kept warm and
be fed milk at frequent intervals. In general,
they can be kept warm by being placed in
a box or basket with plenty of clean, soft,
dry material such as woolen cloth or soft
cleansing tissue paper. If they are cold to
the touch, artificial heat can be supplied by
placing them near the pilot light of a gas
stove or an electric heating pad turned low,
or near a lamp bulb. Care shOuld be taken
in all such installations that there is no
danger of starting a fire and that the little
ones do not become too hot. In general,
they should be offered food at two-hour in-
tervals or even more frequently, from early
in the morning, until evening, and some
will probably thrive better if they are fed
occasionally through the night.

There are several good milk replacement
formulas on the market, such as Kitten Milk
Replacer (KMR), Esbilac (for dogs) and
Pet-Nip-lac, a general small animal milk
replacement. These are available from most
pet supply Stores and veterinarians. Consul-
tation with a veterinarian or humane society

22

specialist will help you to decide which is
best to use for the animal you are feeding.

For an emergency situation, a formula of
3 ounces whole milk
1 egg yolk
1 tablespoon baby cereal (if available)
has been used successfully.

Because some small .mammals don’t do
well on cow’s milk, it is preferable to use a
soybean protein milk substitute, or “Similac”,
found in most large grocery stores. Be sure
to warm the formula to body temperature
before feeding.

The length of time that the young should
be on milk varies greatly with the kind of
animal. With baby shrews it varies from a
few days to about two weeks. Baby "ﬂying”
squirrels and baby tree squirrels nurse about
two months. If one does not have speciﬁc in-
formation as to the period over which it
should be given milk, he can learn from

- the animal by making available to it various
y. kinds of solid food in addition to the milk.

When the animal has reached the proper
stage of development, it will naturally begin
to nibble on suitable foods if they are
offered. This is the beginning of a transition
period during which the animal will volun-
tarily reduce its consumption of milk and
increase the amount of solid food that it
takes. However, milk should be made avail-
able to it for as long as it will take it,.even
at irregular intervals.

Small nursing bortles can usually be ob-
tained from veterinarians and pet StOfeS-

 




 

 

 

 

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

lends,

” squirrels are not fr

t are Pots of the Author. (The but had entered a building
In the wild, bots and ”fly

Squirrel tlm
ts way out.
tolerated om anotho )

ing"
O
I

”Fly

and could not ﬁnd

but those

pot:

A Bot and a




 

 

 

These are fairly satisfactory for the feeding
of small animals. In selecting such bottles, it
is well to choose one that has the smallest
opening in the nipple; this will help to pre-
vent strangling the little creatures by giving
the milk too fast. Medicine droppers also can
be used on very small creatures. When giv-
ing milk to the helpless young, great care
should be taken to give it slowly so that
they do not strangle. Milk bubbling out of
the nose of the little creature is a certain
sign that the milk is being given too rapidly.

Such rats, rabbits,
squirrels and other rodents should be of-
fered dry oats, peanut hearts, peanuts, other
nut meats, green foods such as lettuce, car-
rots, kale, etc., and some fruit; some will
take bits of meat, cottage cheese, etc. As
soon as they are able to open the harder nuts,
such as acorns, pecans, walnuts, and hickory
nuts, they should be given plenty of these
nuts whole so that they must work for a
considerable time to open them. The front
or incisor teeth of these creatures grow rapid-
ly and continuously throughout life and must
be worn down by a great deal of gnawing.
Otherwise they will grow so long that the
animal cannot eat even though plenty of
food is available.

creatures as mice,

Young skunks, opossums, raccoons, foxes,
and other meat-eaters shOuld be offered ham-
burger and other meats, ﬁsh, uncooked eggs,
an assortment of fruits, green vegetables, and
table scraps. Some will eat considerable fruit
and vegetable material, while others will
take very little of this and will prefer the
meat, eggs, milk, etc. Shrews must have an
abundance of food constantly available. Their
preference is earth worms, other worms, in-

24

sects, meat and eggs, although some will
also eat many different kinds of food includ-
ing nut meats, sunflower seeds, and some
fruit and green material. Seals are mainly
fish eaters, but they should also be offered
crabs, crayﬁsh, and shrimp.

Fish will frequently be taken by many of
the mammals. Canned salmon and canned
tuna are often relished.

Rabbits can be kept either indoors or out-
doors. If outdoors, they should be securely
enclosed so that they will not be killed by
predators. They should have a snug shelter
in their hutch where they can get away from
inclement weather, and there should be am-
ple shade so that they can get out of the
in hot weather. They can be fed
rabbit pellets which are available at many
of the pet stores and feed stores; grains,

SUD

such as oats and wheat; green material, such
as grass, clover, some seeds, lettuce, carrots,
kale, etc. Perhaps the most important factor
for keeping rabbits successfully is cleanliness,
because they are far more susceptible than
most animals to digestive disturbance from
soiling of their quarters and food. Their food
should be clean and fresh.

Enclosures for rabbits should have a mini-
mum of 8 square feet for the smaller kinds
of rabbits and 15 square feet for the larger
breeds. There are many different types of
enclosures that can be provided -—— portable
ones with wire fabric bottoms so that they
can be moved onto clean grassy areas or
be permanently located. Any encldsure for
rabbits should be so constructed that it can
be kept thoroughly clean. Wire mesh bot-
toms are used in commercial rabbit raising.

 

4...,

 

A'ﬁ




 

 

l:

 

morv

v“

They should be protected with a roof over
at least a portion of the cage and there
should be a nest box with an end or side
opening in which the animal can take
shelter.

Small mammals should have a nest box

in which they can hide and feel secure away
from any disturbance, and many of them
will beneﬁt by having clean nest material
such as paper or dry leaves. Those from
desert regions should have clean dry sand
to help keep their fur in good condition.

 

Photograph by Unlted Press International

Motherless Baby Rabbits Being Fed Milk in Do" Nursing Bottles

 

25

 

 




 

 

 

by RALPH HEATH, Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary

The birds that most frequently fall into
the hands of humans are babies or juveniles
just out of the nest. If they have just left
the nest and are running around on the
ground, parents are usually around and still
caring for them, so it is well to let them
alone. If they have to be moved, place them
in a thick bush. Some birds that are injured,
usually by ﬂying into a building or being
struck by automobiles, can best be cared for
by being kept quiet in a somewhat darkened
box or cage for a short time.

Unfeathered babies should be put in a
small bowl, or cup lined with soft tissue
paper. Place the container on a heating pad
set on low, or you may attach a 71/4 watt
light bulb (night light) to the side of the
bowl container. Make sure the container is
not in a drafty place. The container with the
bird can be placed inside a cardboard box
with the top of the box covered by a bath
towel. This provides the bird with a make-
shift incubator. The towel allows air to get
to the bird and prevents drafts. The towel
also helps keep heat in the cardboard box.
Maintain the at 80-900.
Decrease the temperature gradually as the
baby gets feathers, but always keep the baby
warm. A small glass thermometer can be
placed in the container.

environment

Feathered babies should be placed in a box
or cage lined with newspaper. Place a small
stick or branch in for a perch. Take care
that the branch has no insecticides on it.

When feeding young Mockingbirds, Blue
Jays, Cardinals, Sparrows, Pigeons, and
Doves, an acceptable emergency formula is:

26

Mashed hard-boiled egg yolk
Warm water
Mix to the consistency of mush.
or
A commercial prepared baby food of
Strained cereal and egg yolk.

A Maintenance formula for small feath-
ered birds consists of

Mashed hard boiled egg yolks
or strained cereal and egg yolk
(baby food)
Equivalent amount of high protein
baby cereal (dry)
Mix with warm water until creamy
Add supplementary vitamins, one drop
per mixture.
(You may use parakeet liquid vitamins
if convenient.)

Mix the ingredients to a creamy consis-
tency. Only very young birds, Pigeons, and
Doves, before they are self-feeding, should be
fed with an eye dropper. Eye dropper feeding
must be done with great care or the baby
could drown or strangle. The eye dropper
should have a long tapering point, and the
formula should be warm. If the bird is active
and hungry, and they usually are, it will open
its mouth readily. If the baby does nOt open
its mouth, gently tap on the side of the beak
or gently tap the container holding the bird.
Insert the eye dropper as far back in the
throat as possible on the RIGHT SIDE OF
THE BIRD’S THROAT. Squeeze the for-
mula gently into the throat. On all birds,
except cloves and pigeons, you should see a
swelling on the RIGHT SIDE of the throat
as the crop ﬁlls. Stop feeding when the crop
appears full. It does not take much, so use
common sense. If you must force feed the




bird, (Doves and Pigeons must be force fed)
gently but ﬁrmly, pry open the bill with your
thumbnail, and hold the mouth open while
feeding it a couple of squirts from the eye
dropper.

Tiny Sparrows should be fed every ten
minutes, all day; Blue Jays, Mockingbirds,
As the
baby progresses, increase the time between
feedings.

and Cardinals every 20 minutes.

Doves and Pigeons are fed differently.
Since they do not open their mouths readily,
they must be fed with an eye dropper, pref-
erably one with a long tapering point. Insert
the eye dropper, down the throat on the
bird’s RIGHT side, hand squeeze the bulb
gently. The crop of Doves and Pigeons is
located at the base of the neck in front of
the chest. Tiny, downy Doves and Pigeons
should be fed approximately every 30 min-
utes from morning until dark for the ﬁrst
two weeks. The crop can store a lot of food,
so stop feeding before it’s too full and
swollen. Overfeeding in Doves and Pigeons
plugs the crop, and the bird dies. If the crop
does not empty, give the bird one or two
drops of warm mineral oil or olive oil.

When the bird begins feathering out,
becomes more active, and begins to hop
around, move it to a cage.

When caring for Mockingbirds, Jays, and
Cardinals, put the food on a swab stick, or
popsicle stick, if the mouth is large enough,
and place it well back in the throat. Alter-
nate feedings of formula (use less water to
make it more solid) with raw hamburger
(take care to keep it fresh), and dry dog food
pellets soaked in warm water.

Eventually add a small jar of moistened

27

dog food pellets and hamburger to the cage.
Dip the beak into the mixture. Continue
hand feeding, however, until you are certain
the bird is eating on its own.

Dover and Pigeons:

When the bird begins to peck at the bot-
tom of the cage, sprinkle wild bird seed on
the ﬂoor of the cage. Also place a container
of water (mayonnaise jar lid will do) in the
cage. Continue to feed with an eye dropper
until you are certain that the bird is eating on
its own (when you can feel the crop full of
seeds). This transition may take 1-2 weeks of
supplementary feeding.

Sparrows:

Alternate formula with moistened dog
food pellets, as above. When the bird is
pecking at the formula on a swab stick or
spoon, place the spoon in the cage, and watch
to make sure the bird is eating the formula
from the spoon by itself. When this hap-

pens, sprinkle parakeet seed over the for-
mula, and on the floor of the cage. Put a
small jar lid of water in the cage at this stage,
and add hamburger bits to the spoon. Grad-
ually decrease amount of formula until the
bird is entirely on seed and hamburger; then
gradually add wild bird seed, and decrease
the amount of parakeet seed.

Other birds such as hawks and owls feed
their young on small animal prey such as
mice and rats. Eagles and ospreys eat ﬁsh,
and large insects for the sparrow hawks.
Hawks and owls do well on meats, raw
chicken, and some liver. This is good food
to provide when it is necessary to keep them
captive in order to administer ﬁrst aid. These
birds should be released as soon as possible in
the locality where they were found, or a
well-protected wooded area.

 

 




 

The young of herons (long-legged, long-
necked birds that usually frequent the vicin-
ity of water) usually eat ﬁsh, frogs, and
crayﬁsh, and they will thrive best on such a
diet. However, comparatively few of these
birds fall into human hands.

Gulls, terns and their relatives, and such
sea-coast birds as murres, pufﬁns, and guil-
lemots, feed almost entirely on ﬁsh.

The young of quail, grouse, and pheasants
feed on a considerable assortment with em-
phasis on insects, but also seeds and plant
food. The diet of the adults is composed of
a considerable proportion of grain, seeds, and
insects, supplemented by green food and
fruit. In captivity, the young can be offered
hamburger, ground-up hard-boiled eggs, bits
of such green material as lettuce, fruit, seeds
and grain.

Parent birds do nOt carry water to their
young, but the food that they carry contains

a high proportion of moisture that is ordi-
narily adequate. However, it does no harm
to dip in water the food that one is going to
give to young birds so that they get some
additional moisture in this way. Raisins
soaked in water are often enjoyed. A small
water dish should be kept in the cage so that
they can drink when they want to do so.
(Caution—the container for water should be
shallow so the bird does not fall in and
drown.)

Do remember—our state and federal laws
do not permit the permanent possession of
wild birds. Before you assume the respon-
sibility of caring for the bird, be aware that
the task is time consuming and the mortality
rate is high. You are caring for the bird
TEMPORARILY for the sole purpose of
returning it to the wild.

More information on the feeding of wild
birds and mammals can be found in the
charts on the following pages.

 

PhOtOQraph by United Press International

A Friendly Dog Warm: Duckling:

28

 

 

 




FOOD SUBSTITUTION CHART: BIRDS

 

 

.4945!—

 

 

Category
WATER BIRDS

Loons, Grebes, Water Turkeys

Pelicans, Cormorants
Swans, Geese

Ducks, (surface feeding):
Mallards, Teals, Pintails,

Canvasbacks, Scaups

Ducks (diving): Sea ducks,

Eiders, Harlequins, Old Squaws

Gulls and other scavengers

Terns

MARSH AND SHORE BIRDS

Rails, Plovers, San dpipers,
Phalaropes

Herons, Egrets, Bitterns, Cranes

Woodcocks

LAND BIRDS

Cuckoos

Roadrunners

Hummingbirds

Kingbirds, Vireos, Nighthawks,
Whippoorwills, Swifts,
Flycatchers, Swallows

Kingfishers

Woodpeckers, Flickers,
Sapsuckers

 

Natural Wild Food

Animal Food only; fish, frogs, crabs,
aquatic insects

Fish, marine worms
Aquatic vegetation, some grains

Vegetation, grasses, wild celery,
aquatic animal food, worms

Shrimp, mollusks, crabs, small fish

Snails, shrimp, clams, insects, fish

Insects, dragonflies, shrimp, small
fish

Crayfish, shrimp, marine worms,
frogs, insects, mice, shrews, snails,
wild grasses, some grains

Mealworms, berries, beef strips

Mainly earthworms, some grains,
flies, beetles, spiders, caterpillars

Mainly tent caterpillars, worms,
bugs, grasshoppers,

Snakes, spiders, lizards, grasshoppers,
birds

Nectar from flowers, tiny insects

Entirely insectivorous, will have to
be handfed since they catch food
in the air

Fish, minnows, crabs, frogs, locust,
lizards

Grubs, ants, bores, beetles, berries
in the winter

 

Substitute

Whole fish only (herring)

Same as above

Intermediate chicken scratch, wild
bird seed, bread, lettuce, grass

Chicken meat scratch, bread,
grass, lettuce, ground beef, earth-
worms, kibble dog food

Bread, night crawlers, cut herring
tails or small whole fish

Beef, fish, bread, kibble dog food

Beef strips, fish, night crawlers,
shrimp

Beef strips, night crawlers, chicken
scratch, kibble, cut up fish, sand
shrimp

Fish, chicken necks, shrimp

Earthworms, night crawlers, beef
strips, mealworms, bone meal
added.

Lean ground beef, beef strips,
meal worms, bread,

Beef strips, lean ground beef, meal
worms

Honey, sugar or molasses in water
in small vials

Lean ground beef, very small
strips of raw beef, meal worms

(feed from stick, moving whiskers
around bill)

Fish, beef strips, night crawlers

Meal worms, beef strips, suet,
ground beef, raisins, dried apple

 

h;

29

 

 




 

 

 

 

Category
Larks

Magpies, Crows, Ravens
(Carrion eaters and scavengers)

Jays

Chats, Chickadees, Titmice,
Nuthatches, Towhees

Mockingbirds, Starlings, Brown
Thrashers, Warblers, Robins,
Thrushes, Catbirds, Bluebirds,
Cedar Waxwings

Cowbirds, Sparrows, Blackbirds,
Meadowlarks

Orioles, Tanagers

Grosbeaks, Purple Finches,
Cardinals, Buntings, Crossbills

Shrikes

PREDATORS ‘

Hawks: Red-tailed, Cooper’s

Sparrow Hawks (Kestrels)

Ospreys (Fish Hawks)

Kites

Bald Eagles

Golden Eagles

Large Owls

Barred Owls

Elf, Pigmy O'wls

 

Natural Wild Food

Seeds, grasshoppers, beetles, cat-
erpillars

Insects, acorns, fruit, small birds

Large insects, some frogs, mice,
acorns and sunflower seeds

Pine seeds, sunflower seeds,
acorns, poison ivy,beetles, weevils,
ants, other insects

Holly, grapes, cherries, sumac,
pokeweed, Virginia creeper, cedar
pyracantha, worms, ants, beetles
in fall and winter

Crickets, insects, weed seeds

Caterpillars, ants, spiders, wild
fruits

Insects, bugs, beetles, sunflower
seeds, dogwood, sumac, tree buds,
fruits

Grasshoppers, beetles, caterpillars,
wasps, small rodents, frogs

Mice, rats, rodents of all kinds,
birds

Grasshoppers, insects, wasps,

locusts, ‘very occasionally, small
birds

Fish

Lizards, snakes, frogs, grasshop-
pers, snails

Rodents, birds

Rodents, birds

Rodents of all kinds

Rodents of all kinds

Large insects, moths, beetles

 

Substitute

Meal worms, wild bird seed, bread,
lean ground beef

Ground beef, beef, chicken scratch,
bread, hard-boiled egg, kibble,
raisins, dried apple

Ground beef, hard-boiled egg,
sunflower seeds, peanuts, nuts,
kibble, raisins, dried apple

Shelled peanuts, nuts, blueberries,
apples, wild bird seed, sunflower
seeds, suet, kibble

Diced apples, raisins, sour cherries,
bread, suet, ground beef, fruits,
meal worms, earthworms, kibble

Wild bird seed, scratch, bread,
suet, ground beef, kibble

Apples, cherries, blueberries, bread,

ground beef, meal worms, suet,
kibble

Meal worms, suet, sunflower
seeds, cherries, wild bird seed,
bread, raisins, kibble

Meal worms, ground beef, shrimp,
chicken, bread, lettuce, earthworms,
kibble

Lean strips of beef or beef heart,
chicken, (bone meal and
vitamins added)

Beef strips, meal worms. grasshop—
pers, (bone meal and vitamins
added)

Fish, beef strips

Shrimp, beef strips, fish, chicken

Beef chunks, chicken, (bone meal
and vitamins added)

Beef chunks, chicken, (bone meal
and vitamins added)

Beef, chicken, (bone meal and
vitamins added)

Fish, beef, chicken

Meal worms, grasshoppers, moths,
beetles, beef strips, ground beef

 

*Require addition of roughage to diet —

fur, small feathers, and ground bone

30

/

 




FOOD SUBSTITUTION CHART: MAMMALS

 

 

Category

Squirrels, Chipmunks, Mice
Rabbits, Woodchucks, Ground
Squirrels

Opossums

Raccoons, Coatimundis, Muskrats,
Otters, Minks

Skunks

Foxes, Coyotes

Deer

Natural Wild Food

Nuts, dogwood, maple buds, oak,
acorns, corn, sunﬂower seeds, fruit

Grasses, herbaceous plants, twigs of
young trees, corn, oats, clover

Scavenger—will eat just about any-
thing

Frogs, crayfish, grasshoppers, sala-
manders, bird eggs, acorns, corn, fruit

Larval insects, frogs, toads, mice, fruit

Mice, rodents, small animals and birds

Vegetarian diet

Food Substitute‘

Apples, watermelons, bread, corn,
nuts, sunflower seed, chicken scratch,
quartered oranges

Grass, clover, lettuce, apples, carrots,
bread, commercial hamster or rabbit
food

Beetles, large insects, grubs, meat,
fish, fruit, milk, bread, you name it

Apples, grapes, corn, nuts, bread,
large grasshoppers, chicken, ground
beef, worms, grubs, beetles, oranges

Milk, bread, fruits, nuts, meal worms,
large grasshoppers, grubs, beetles,
ground beef, oranges

Beef, grapes, apples, dog food, chic-
ken. oranges

Grain, wild bird seed, lettuce, carrots,
cabbage, corn

 

 

'Moistened kibbled dogfood is pre-
ferable to beef in most cases.

 

 

Chart reprinted with permission from the book
Wildlife Handling and Care, by Unity Press, 23

 

experience, by Dianna King, staff member of the Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary.

31

CARE OF THE WILD FEATHERED AND FURRED, A Guide to
5 Hoover Road, Santa Cruz. CA 95065; with additions based on

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ME?%E%%

It should be borne in mind that reptiles
must be kept rather uniformly warm if they
are to remain active and eat. The North
American forms should not be subject to
temperatures much below 65° F. and they
stand the best chance of thriving if main-
tained at temperatures about 80° F. If they
are subject to chilling at night, even though
they may be warm enough during the day-
time, they will refuse to eat; but being some-
what active, they will be using up energy and
will starve to death. Therefore, persons who
have reptiles of any kind are confronted with
the problem of maintaining them at a con-
stant temperature that is acceptable to the
reptiles or letting them go into hibernation
during the colder period of the year.

Hibernation is a long winter sleep that is
enjoyed by practically all reptiles in the wild
state. During this period they are entirely
inactive, their temperature is lowered and
their breathing and heart beats are greatly
reduced. If they have gone into hibernation
in a good physical state and are kept under
favorable conditions, they regularly survive
for periods of six months Or more and some
have survived for much longer periods. The
aquatic forms usually hibernate in mud or
moist locations. The dry land forms usually
burrow into the soil or go into locations
where they will be protected from extremes
of temperatures and have some slight degree
of moisture about them.

Reptiles are generally much less active
physically than birds or mammals, so they
require much less food for their size. Fre-

32

quently they will eat only at intervals of
several days or longer.

Alligators, crocodiles and their relatives
eat fish and meat. It is essential that they
be kept warm, preferably not below 80°;
they should be in a well-lighted location but
should have an opportunity to get out of the
direct rays of the sun. They should have a
pan or pool in which to swim and there
should be ample space above the water level
for them to dry off and bask in the sun. If

kept warm, they will usually eat meat and

fish in small amounts; the young eat daily,
but as they become older, they need not be
fed so often. Caution should be exercised
not to be bitten by them.

Turtles

Turtles do not ordinarily require human
help. Indeed, they are generally better off
if left in their natural surroundings. How-
ever, they may be kept for a few days in a
school room without harm and then returned
to the locality where they were found. The
land forms, such as the box turtle, should
not be put into deep water but should be in
an enclosure in which there is a shallow pan
of water into which it can scramble to drink
or to soak when it wants to; there should be
a dry area, which can be sand, earth, boards,
or paper. The dry land forms eat worms.
insects and grubs, and will often take ham-
burger in captivity. They also eat some plant
material such as lettuce and kale, and some
fruit such as tomatoes, strawberries, applES,
grapes, etc. I have known a wild one that

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walkar

A Little Girl Fondles her Pat Green Snake

33

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

lived near a picnic area that would come to
get bread and butter and sugar. It is well
to put one or two drops of cod liver oil on
each feeding of hamburger for small and
medium size turtles and three or four dr0ps
on the hamburger or ﬁsh for the larger size
turtles.

The fresh water forms, such as are found
around our streams and lakes and which are
sold in stores, thrive in an aquarium but
must have a dry area above water where
they can come out, dry, and sun themselves.
They are particularly fond of worms and in-
sects and will take hamburger and bits of
ﬁsh, also small amounts of fruit and green
food. Care must be taken to keep the turtle’s
terrarium in a location which does not com-
pel the animal to remain in hot direct sun-
light for hours. Captive turtles and other
animals left on window ledges exposed to
the direct rays of the sun are sometimes

killed.

Snapping turtles (fresh water forms) reg-
ularly feed on ﬁsh and animal food. They
are aggressive and vicious, and give severe
bites. Anyone handling them should use
considerable caution not to be bitten, for
they draw their heads back and strike quick-
ly and at a surprising distance. They are
best 'left alone.

Marine turtles are not ordinarily taken
into captivity, except occasionally along the
sea coast. They rarely thrive in captivity un-
less one is particularly well equipped to care
for them. Their food consists of ﬁsh and
other kinds of animal life, and some eat
considerable vegetable material.

Snakes

Snakes hold a remarkable fascination for

34

many youngsters and very few children are
afraid of them. It is apparently the adults
who pass on from generation to generation
the strong aversions, erroneous beliefs and
superstitions regarding snakes which in most
cases have little or no foundation of truth.
In North America, poisonous snakes corn-
pose a very small percentage of the total
number of species and individuals. There
are only two grOups that are poisonous: the
pit-vipers, including the rattlesnakes, copper-
heads, and true water mocassins, and the
elapine snakes, including the coral snakes.
All other North American snakes are not
only non-poisonous but are generally beneﬁ-
cial in the balance of nature because they
prey upon rats and mice which are so de-
structive to our crops. Like turtles, they may
be brought to the classroom for a few days,
then returned to the place where they were
found. Most snakes can be kept in captivity
for short periods with only moderate facil-
ities and Without much difﬁculty. They do
not require much care nor elaborate cages. A
box with a glass front, and a few holes or
cracks in it to admit air, is usually adequate.
Water should be available at all times.

Snakes in general eat whole animals rang-
ing in size from worms, grubs, insects, mice,
rats and squirrels to larger creatures for the
larger snakes. Many snakes also eat eggs.
The non-poisonous North American snakes
——particularly the small ones and the young
—should be offered worms, grubs and in-
sects. The large kinds, if taken at all, should
be kept no more than a day or two, during
which time it is not necessary to feed them.
They should then be returned to the place
where they were found. Most snakes are
rather irregular in their feeding. After haV'

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

a Cage that Simulates Desert Conditions. (There are sand, a
There is also a small dish of

lass on the two sides and the

Horned and Other Lizards in
small cactus plant and stones under which they may hide.
water. The cage is well lighted, being made of pebble 9

back, while the front is of clear glass.)

35

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ing eaten a good meal, they may go for sev-
eral days or weeks without eating again. If
they are cold they will not eat at all. Fre-
quently they will refuse to eat when they
are preparing to shed their skins. At this
time they should have a slightly moist loca-
tion to facilitate the loosening of the skin,
and it is well for them to have rough objects
against which they can rub to help them
remove the old skin.

Lizards

Like other reptiles, lizards must be kept
warm; otherwise they become sluggish, will
not eat, and will want to go into hibernation.
Some lizards eat plant food such as fruits
and green leaves; others eat a mixture of
plant and animal foods, including insects and
worms. Practically all of the North Amer-
ican forms feed almost entirely on worms,
grubs and insects.

The little green or brown lizards sold as
”chameleons,” are really anolis, which inhabit
the southwestern United States. Purchasers
are sometimes told that they need be fed only
sweetened water. This, however, is erroneous.
They require living insects such as ﬂies,
moths, or meal worms, and they will eat
many other kinds. One good way of restrain-
ing them and giving them an opportunity to
get live food is to build a cage of mesh small
enough to keep the lizard from escaping but
large enough to admit insects. The cage can
have in it a growing plant so that the lizard
can climb about on the plant. The cage,
plant, and lizard can be kept on a window
ledge or Other location where insects can get
to it but it should not be constantly in the

36

 

direct rays of the sun. Insects can be induced
to come into the cage by placing water, bits
of fruit, syrup, or meat in the cage. When the
live insects come to these baits, the lizard
will have an opportunity to catch them. The
American anolis will sometimes eat some
very ripe banana, which helps to supplement
its diet.

Horned lizards of the southwestern United
States are frequently kept in captivity. They
feed most readily on ants and if one cannot
otherwise provide them with suitable food, a
small cage can be constructed of wire fabric
and placed on the ground in the vicinity of
an ant colony. With baits of sugar or other
food placed in the cage to attract the ants,
the horned lizard can be left there for a few
hours at a time to catch them.

All lizards require water but some will not
drink it freely. However, a shallow dish of
water should be made available to them. One
way of giving them water is to spray the
lizard and plant with lukewarm water at fre-
quent intervals, as lizards take up moisture
through the skin. The false chameleon 0r
anolis will rarely drink from a dish, although
occasionally one will drink from a teaspoon
held to its mouth. The best way to make cer—
tain that they are adequately supplied with
water is to sprinkle them, and the surface
on which they rest, with lukewarm water.
Another way that will sometimes help those
that appear to be drying up is to let them
stand brieﬂy in a shallow pan of warm
water. It is usually necessary to hold the
lizard, but keep its head out of the water;
you can sometimes see the skin absorbing
moisture like a blotter taking up ink.

 

 

 

 




 

AMPHIBIAN S

The best temperature range for amphib-
ians is from 65° to 80°, a temperature lower
than 65° will cause most of them to cease
to eat, become sluggish, and want to go into
hibernation

This group includes the toads, frogs and
salamanders and the immature forms of the
toads and frogs that are known as tadpoles.
They have relatively smooth, moist skin and
must be in fairly moist surroundings to
survrve.

The North American frogs and toads feed
almost exclusively on worms and insects, and
if they are to be kept in captivity, they should
be offered a good assortment of these until
the person learns deﬁnitely the kinds that
they will accept or refuse.

Very satisfactory containers are aquariums
partially filled with water and with some
area above the water level, perhaps covered
with moss. Also large cans containing water
and stones can be used, but the cans should
be discarded when they begin to rust.

Toads and Frogs

A terrarium can be arranged in an aqua-
rium, or in a box or big pan provided with
a dish of water large enough for the frog or
toad to get into. The terrarium should also
include an area, preferably with soil and per-
haps some moss or living plants, where the
animal can get out of water. Most toads and
frogs feed mainly on worms, grubs, and in-
sects, and they can often be kept with good
success. They lay their eggs in fresh water,
usually in pools in the spring time. The eggs

37

soon hatch into tadpoles that have a tail.
They grow for a period in this stage. Finally,
the tail is absorbed, legs are developed, and
they become fully formed little frogs or
toads. Tadpoles live entirely in the water
and breathe through gills, but by a gradual
transition they become air-breathing creatures
with lungs. This is a remarkable phenom-
enon of nature that is a fascinating study
for children.

Most tadpoles feed almost exclusively on
soft plant tissues such as algae and soft
green leaves. If they cannot be provided
with water, soil, and vegetation of the type
among which they would normally live, they
can sometimes be raised on very soft lettuce
leaves that are dropped in the water and
allowed to disintegrate still further. Tiny
pieces of meat or fresh bones or bone mar-
row should also be put in the water to take
the place of the minute animal life some of
them would .eat in the wild.

It is essential that tadpoles be in water
until they are ready to leave it voluntarily
to go on to adjacent drier areas after they
have absorbed their tails and gills and de-
veloped legs. At this time they are ready-
for small worms and insects such as their
parents consume, but of smaller size.

S alamanders

Salamanders have tails throughout their
lives, in addition to their arms and legs. In
their early stages they have gills which are
later absorbed in most forms; some breathe
through the skin. They feed mainly on mi-

 

 




nute animal life and should be offered small above water on which they can rest is ade-

worms, insects and grubs. Some will also quate for salamanders. Very attractive ex-
take bits of hamburger and ﬁsh if attached hibits can be provided by the use of aquatic
to a straw and moved slowly before them. plants, moss or other types of plants.

A terrarium or aquarium with some space

 

 

 

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

Two Argonrino Horned Frogs in a Cage that has a Shall P 1
Earth and Growing Plants ow °° °f Water,

38

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wﬁii

Children playing near shallow fresh and
salt water frequently capture small ﬁsh and
sometimes take them home alive. To care
for them, the ﬁrst requirement of course is
to provide either fresh or salt water, depend-
ing upon the kind of water from which they
are taken. The aquarium need not be elab-
orate. Indeed, almost any sort of a container
that will hold enough water can be used. But
it is important that there be a considerable
volume of water in order that the oxygen
necessary for the ﬁsh to survive will not be
quickly depleted. The larger the exposed
surface of water the better. Depth is not of
so much importance but the sides of the con-
tainer must be high enough above the water
level to prevent the ﬁsh from jumping out.

Without attempting to designate the kinds
of foods that are best for the many different
kinds of ﬁsh, it is suggested that the ﬁsh be
supplied with the widest possible variety of
insects, worms, and grubs and with bits of
hamburger, as well as small amounts of
such green foods as lettuce, cabbage, graSS,
clover, and tiny bits of fruit. Small amounts
of cooked cereal can also be oﬂ‘ered in the
water. Some satisfactory packaged ﬁsh foods
can be obtained at the better pet storeS.
From this array of material, the ﬁsh will
perhaps be able to obtain food that is suit-
able for its requirements. Bear in mind that
ﬁsh eat but small amounts, so be sparing in
the quantities given.

. Living aquatic plants growing in the aqua-
rium will assist in keeping the water in suit-
able condition for the welfare of the ﬁsh.

39

Indeed, if a suitable balance of plant and
animal life is provided, it will not be neces-
sary to change the water in the aquarium.
However, if there is not enough growing
plant life, and if an excess of food is left in
the water, it will be necessary to change the
water in the aquarium at fairly frequent in-
tervals or at least syphon off from the bottom
a portion of the water and add fresh water
to keep up the supply.

SALT WATER FORMULAS

Formula Formula
1 2
SALT % % Pounds Ounces
Sodium chloride 2.700 2.840 28 6
Potassium chloride 0.075 0.078 12%
Calcium chloride
(anhydrous) p.113 0.125 1 4
Magnesium chloride
(6H20) 0.295 0.547 5 7%
Magnesium sulphate
(7H20) 0.682 0.719 7 3
Potassium bromide 0.010 ........
Sodium carbonate
(10H20) 0.033 ........
Sodium bicarbonate 0.193 0.013 2
Potassium nitrate ........ 0.013 2
Sodium monohydrogen
phosphate ........ 0.001 1/6
Ferric chloride ........ 0.0005 1/12

The pounds and ounces in the last column are for
100 gallons of formula 2, using soft fresh water or
distilled water. The last three ingredients in the table
should be added after the ﬁrst group has dissolved.
The resulting solution should have a speciﬁc gravity
of about 1.025, and, since most marine species do very
well at 1.020, it may be diluted to that reading if re-
quired. Some queer and interesting effects, varying
greatly with species, are sometimes seen as a result
of such speciﬁc gravity changes. Fish obviously un—
happy at 1.030 may perk up and look ﬁne at 1.020,
yet others which are dashing around and eating well
at 1.030 may decline at 1.020. The majority seem to
prefer the rather more diluted water.

From “Culture Methods
for Invertebrate Animals”

 




 

 

 

 

 

IN VERTEBRATES

(Animals without backbones,
mainly small to minute creatures.)

There are many different kinds of inver-
tebrates, almost every one of which has its
own peculiar requirements, so it is not ad-
visable to do much more than outline a few
basic principles for their care.

Observe where they are found and the
conditions under which they are living, and
try to simulate the conditions that nature
would normally have maintained for them
at the location where they are found. That
is, are they living in fresh water? In salt
water? In moist earth? In dry sand? Among
the rocks at high altitudes, or low altitudes?
In a hot climate, or in a cold climate? Then
consider the type of food that would be
available in those locations. By such obser-
vations and the exercise of ingenuity, even
the novice can learn to maintain very attrac-
tive and successful exhibits of invertebrates.
Containers for such exhibits can range from
cans, jars, or inexpensive aquariums to elab-
orate cages and tanks. There are a number
of handbooks and manuals that tell how to
care for some invertebrates. A few are listed
in the bibliography.

Insects are particularly interesting subjects
that are usually readily available and can
provide attractive and fascinating exhibits,
in which one can witness the remarkable
changes in the form of an individual during
the course of its life.

Creatures of the sea coast are commonly
found. Perhaps the most frequently taken of
these are the crustaceans, such as the hermit
crabs, crayﬁsh, other little relatives of the
lobster, shrimp and edible crab. They breathe
through a gill type of apparatus and must

40

be kept moist if they are to survive. Those
that are accustomed to sea water should
have salt water.

There is no satisfactory substitute for sea
water, so if one intends to keep marine
forms he should make plans to obtain fresh
clear sea water regularly or to arrange to
filter and aerate his supply. Some forms of
life can be kept fairly well in a solution
consisting of either one of the two formulas
listed on Page 39.

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker
A [abomhry Jar Culture of Wax Maths and Wax Worms

 




 

 

Most of these creatures feed on a consid-
erable variety of animal and plant material
so they may well be offered bits of ﬁsh,
meat, worms, and insects, and small amounts
of green plant material—or, better yet, the
algae of the sea coast.

Clams, mussels, snails, and snail-like crea-
tures that frequent marine habitats, fresh
water streams and lakes, and dry land plants
are all found by children. Those native to
ocean beaches should be provided with salt
water and sand in which they can burrow,
or rocks on which they can climb or under
which they can hide. Sea weed and algae

and minute animal life native to the beaches
can be put into the aquarium. Such food
material as pieces of lettuce and other green
plant material and bits of fish and meat can
be supplied in the hope that some may be
suitable for the kinds of creatures being kept.

Fresh water forms should, of course, be
kept in fresh water aquariums with plants.
The minute animal life of fresh water
streams and ponds might also be introduced
in the hope that some of it might be suitable
food for the larger creatures in the aquarium.
In addition, such food material as was men-
tioned for the marine forms can be offered.

 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

A Pyramidal Fly Trap made of Finn Mesh Wire Fabric. (See tax! pay. 44).

41

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a a s
'1 i4, /
{/17 9;; 1/
‘a' 5" ,ﬁ 7
”4,. / ’a ,,

If it is not convenient to obtain live insects
and worms for food from pet stores or other
sources, it is possible to establish and main-
tain cultures for this purpose. A few of the
more important ones are as follows:

 

How to Rear Meal Worms

Meal worms (Tenebrio molitor or T. ob-
scurus) are greatly relished by many different
kinds of creatures. They can be raised easily
in pans, jars or cans that have smooth sides
and a depth of 8 inches or more. They are
generally given as food in the larval or
worms stage, which is about an inch long
and 1/8 inch in diameter. However, the bee-
tles are also relished by some animals, and
these insects are excellent food.

In the National Zoological Park, the meal
worm cultures are maintained in trays or
drawers about 40 inches long, 20 inches from
front to back, and 8 to 10 inches deep, with
metal bottoms and a metal overhang around
the edge at the top. Bran or corn meal is
put in the drawers to a depth of 2 to 3 inches
and two layers of burlap are placed on the
bran. The culture is occasionally sprinkled
lightly with water to supply moisture, and
pieces of potato, apple, and banana peel are
put into the bran to supplement the meal
worms’ diet. Do not make the bran or corn
moist, or it will mildew.

When the larvae are full grown, they con-
gregate between the two layers of the burlap.
It is then an easy matter to sc00p up quan-
tities of them. It is also possible to separate
them from the bran by sifting through a

@Zlifﬂl:

42

,,

coarse-mesh screen, allowing the bran with
the dusty residue and small worms and eggs
to fall back into the tray.

 

Small cultures can be kept in pound coffee
cans, or in almost any container that has
ventilation and will retain the insects.

Meal worms do not develop rapidly, so
one should have as much as 2 square feet
of ﬂoor space in the containers if he expects
to feed many worms to an animal. All stages
of the meal worm are relished. The worms
are preferred, but the beetles are probably
more valuable food as they are the mature
(sexual) form.

The original stock for starting a culture of
meal worms can be obtained from some pet
stores or animal dealers. Persons who do
not have access to such sources might be
able to obtain wild ones from granaries or
other places where the worms and beetles
have established themselves in grain, bran,
meal, or Hour.

How to Rear Wax Moths

Wax moths and wax worms (Galleria
mellonella) are relished by many animals,
though refused by some. These insects can be
raised easily and rapidly by establishing a
culture in a can or jar of at least one-gallon
capacity with a close-ﬁtting, ﬁne-mesh wire
screen top. Fill the container about half full
with beeswax from which the honey has
been extracted, leaving the wax looSely ar-
ranged, that is, not packed down in the jar.
If bee comb is not available, the insects will
thrive on the following mixture: 1 part ﬁne

 

 

 

 

 




 

corn meal, 2 parts whole-wheat ﬂour, 2 parts
skim milk powder, 1 part powdered dried
yeast, and 2 parts standard wheat middlings.
This should be thoroughly mixed. When
ready for use, it should be mixed with equal
parts of honey and glycerine until it is about
the consistency of wet sand.

Start the culture with a few newly-emerged
wax moths, or wax worms in any stage of
development, and put on the wire lid so it
ﬁts snugly. If humidity is low, a tablespoon-
ful of water should be sprinkled over the
wax about once a week. If the humidity is
high, no additional moisture is likely to be
needed. Keep the culture at room tempera-
ture, and within a week or two there should
be worms, and perhaps some moths. The
growth is very rapid and the food is quickly
consumed. If properly cared for, a can or jar
of about two gallon capacity should produce
almost a quarter of a pound of worms and
moths a week.

When the moths or worms are to be given
as food, take out masses of the cocoons or
wax with worms and moths on it, and let
the animal catch them. Replenish the wax,
and the culture will continue with the great
number of tiny worms that remain in the
jar. Be certain always to leave a few newly
emerged moths in the jar to lay eggs for the
next crop.

Don’t allow the worms to escape where
they can damage cloth, paper, books, or
wood. The moths do no damage by eating,
and apparently any eggs they lay in house-
furnishings do not hatch, or at least do not
survive. The worms can do considerable
damage.

The moths or worms for starting the cul-
ture might be obtainable from bee raisers,

43

who ﬁnd them to be serious pests in apiaries.

How to Rear Enchytraeid Worms

Enchytraeus are white worms only about
the size of a No. 20 thread and an inch long.
They are easy to raise and are particularly
good food for small ﬁsh and some other
small creatures such as crayﬁsh.

They can be raised in tight containers
such as a wooden box or dish pan? In the
container, place rich leaf mold and soil to
a depth of 3 to 4 inches. Stock the culture
soil with worms obtained from dealers in
aquarium or biological supplies or from
other sources. Rolled oats, cereals, cracker
crumbs or pieces of boiled potato can be
used as food. The soil should be kept
slightly moist; it is well to have a cover
that will rest on the soil and yet will pro-
vide some air around the edges of the cover.
This will keep out light and help to prevent
too rapid evaporation. The culture container
should be kept where the temperature is
about 60° F. and the culture should receive
almost daily attention to make certain that
food, moisture and temperature conditions
are maintained satisfactorily.

The worms breed rapidly, and after the
culture has been going a short time, it will
be found that the worms have collected in

groups like tangled string, for breeding. A.

portion of these can be used for food for
animals and the culture can be kept going
indeﬁnitely.

H ow to Rear Cockroaches

Cockroaches are relished by many different
kinds of animals and since they can often
be readily obtained in the wild and can be

 

 




 

 

 

 

reared easily, they are of considerable im~
portance for animal food. There are several
different kinds, all of which have their own
peculiarities of habits as well as form.

A simple way to maintain a culture for
supplying only a few cockroaches for pet
animals is to keep them in metal boxes. A
good size is 14 x 18 x 7 inches, with a
screen mesh wire top. Convenient shelters
for the insects can be provided in the cage
by notching the upper edge of round pint
ice-cream cartons and inverting them in the
cage so that the insects can get inside the
cartons for shelter. A cage of this size will
accommodate about 600 adult cockroaches,
if it has about 11 of the round pint cartons
inverted in it. Other boxes and devices can
also be used. The inside of the cage should
be smooth and about 2 inches of the upper
edge should be smoothly and evenly smeared
with vaseline to prevent the insects from
climbing up the edge of the cage. The in-
sects can be fed many different kinds of
food. Some laboratories have standardized on
some of the dry dog rations, but a variety
of table scraps will sufﬁce for maintaining
a small colony. Water must be provided.
This can be arranged in various ways. The
insects to start the culture can be obtained
from some biological laboratories, if they
cannot be caught locally. They thrive best
at a temperature of from 70° to 80° F.

How to Rear Flies

Common house ﬂies (Musca domestica)
and other ﬂies are relished by many different
kinds of creatures, particularly by insect-

44

 

eating lizards. If the lizards or other pets
are kept in cages with wire mesh large
enough to admit ﬂies, these insects can fre-
quently be enticed into the cage with food
that appeals to them so that the pet can
capture the ﬂies itself. However, during the
colder months of the year this method can.
not be followed.

A ﬂy culture can be started and maintained
without much difficulty. An excellent method
is to make a funnel-shaped device of wire
fabric, with a door in the side of it. Invert
the funnel in a pan, in which meat or ﬁsh
is placed, and leave the door on the side
of the funnel open so that ﬂies can enter
to feed on the meat or ﬁsh and to lay their
eggs. If one desires to use the ﬂies immedi-
ately, an empty milk bottle can be inverted
over the small end of the funnel and when
the ﬂies have laid their eggs, the door to the
funnel can be closed. By gentle tapping on
the cage, the ﬂies will be induced to go up
into the milk bottle which can then be
placed in the cage of the pet which is

to be fed.

The ﬂy eggs will hatch and the worms.
called maggots, will feed on the meat or
ﬁsh. When they have reached about their
full growth at this stage, they will want
to go downward into soil or sand. It is
therefore a good plan to have ﬁne sand
in the bottom of the pan into which the
maggots can go to pupate, that is, to go
into their inactive Chrysalis state. If the
weather is warm, they will remain in this
stage only a few days before emerging as
adult ﬂies. If one desires to provide for a
Supply during the winter period, the pupae
can be placed in a refrigerator or other cold

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

1

place and held dormant until ﬂies are re-
quired for food. Then as many pupae should
be taken out of the refrigerator as ﬂies are
needed; if they are kept warm (75° to 80°
F), the adult ﬂies will emerge within a
few days.

With careful attention and some practice,
it is possible to accumulate considerable
quantities of the ﬂy pupae during the sum-
mertime; if they are maintained within a
temperature range of 35° to 50°, and if the
sand or the surroundings are kept slightly
moist, they will be available to provide adult
ﬂies throughout the winter.

Another food mixture that was developed
by Henry H. Richardson for raising ﬂy lar-
vae throughout the year is as follows:

"Wheat bran ............... 31/4 lbs.
Alfalfa meal ............ 13/4 lbs.
Water .............................. 5000 cc Mix thoroughly
Yeast suspension ...... 300 cc
Diamalt .......................... 25 cc

Add the water mixture to the bran mixture
and stir thorOughly. The amount of water used
in the medium is of considerable importance
and depends to some extent on the type of rear-
ing jar used and the tightness of the cover.
Tall narrow-mouthed containers need less water
as evaporation from such jars is less. The
amount of water should be such that the me-
dium will dry out on top as incubation pro-
gresses, as the mature maggots pupate here.
If too much water is used, the top of the
medium remains wet and the larvae will tend
to migrate out. of the jar in their effort to ﬁnd
a dry place for pupation. Trouble with fungus
growths may also be experienced. The medium
may be used as soon as prepared.”

From “Culture Methods for Invertebrate Ania-1013”

[Maintaining Earl/9212mm Culture;

Earthworms can usually be obtained in

considerable numbers during or following

lght rains and they are most active in the

45

earlier portion of the night. If they are col-
lected at that time, they can be kept easily
under conditions that can ordinarily be pro-
vided in the home or small laboratory.
Boxes with 8 to 12 inches of rich loam,
leaf mold and dead leaves provide good
conditions for maintaining the worms. The
leaves and soil should be moistened at fre-
quent intervals but should not be saturated.
It is preferable that the temperature be
below 60° F.

Injured earthworms should not be put
into the culture but can be used for food
immediately if needed.

The earthworms commonly found around
manure piles are usually not acceptable to
animals, so while they are easily obtained
and easily raised, it is usually a waste of
effort to keep them.

While earthworms normally feed and
thrive on decaying vegetation such as leaves,
they appear to be benefited by the addition
of small amounts of corn meal or rolled oats
in the soil. Care should be taken not to
moisten the culture so much that it sours
or molds.

The larval and pupa forms (the quiet
stages in the bee comb) of honey bees are
relished by many animals. Cultures of honey
bees can be maintained by the same method
that bee raisers employ or the larvae can
sometimes be obtained from bee raisers.

.r .w .._._‘..~___..._.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BOOKS AND RECORDINGS FOR
STUDY, DISCUSSION OR DEBATE

 

ANIMAL BEHAVIOR AND OBSERVATIONS OF
ANIMALS IN THE WILD

Adamson, Joy. Born Free. New York: Random
House, 1974.

Burkhardt, Dietrich, Wolfgang Schliedt and Helmut
Altner. Signals in the Animal World. New York:
McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1967.

Crisler, Lois. Arctic Wild. Westminister,
Ballantine Press, 1973.

Douglas-Hamilton, Iain and Oria. Among the
Elephants. New York: The Viking Press, 1975.

Eckstein, Gustav. Everyday Miracle. New York:
Harper & Row, 1965.

Lives. New York and London: Harper and
Brothers, 1932.

Goodall, Jane Van Lawick. My Friends the Wild
Chimpanzees. Washington, DC: National Geo-
graphic Society, 1967.

Hancocks, David. Master Builders of the Animal
World. New York: Harper & Row, 1973.

Kieran, John. A Natural History of New York City.
Garden City, N.Y.: Natural History Press, 1971.

Linden, Eugene. Apes, Men and Language. New
York: Saturday Review Press/EP. Dutton and
Co., Inc., 1974.

Lorenz, Konrad. King Solomon’s Ring. New York:
New American Library, 1952.

Man Meets Dog. New York: Penguin, 1965.

Portmann, Adolf. Animal Camouflage. Ann Arbor,
Michigan: Univ. of Michigan Press, 1959.

Ryden, Hope. America’s Last Wild Horses. New
York: E.P. Dutton and Co., Inc., 1970.

God’s Dog. New York: Coward, McCann and
Geoghegan, Inc., 1975.

Schaller, George B. The Year of the Gorilla.
Chicago: The University of Chicago Press,
1964.

Schulberg, Budd. Swan Watch. New York: Delacoite
Press, 1975.

Tinbergen, Niko. The Animal in Its World. Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University
Press, 1973.

Curious Naturalists. New York: Basic Books,
1958.

Social Behavior in Animals.
Halstead Press, 1966.

Md.:

New York:

RECORDINGS OF ANIMAL VOICES

A Day in Algonquin Park, William W. H. Gunn,
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.

And God Created Great Whales, by Alan
Hovhaness, Andre Kostelanetz conducting

46

(Columbia M-30390), side one. An unusual
composition based on and including actual re-
cordings of humpback whales.

Antarctica, recordings of the sounds of several Ant-
arctic species, recorded by Edwin Mickleburgh,
Saydisc Specialized Recordings, Ltd., England.

Deep Voices, Roger Payne, Capitol Records.

Paul Horn: Inside II, Killer whale recordings with
flute accompaniment, side two, Epic KE 31600.

The Frog Pond. Providence, R.l.: Droll Yankees Inc.,
1969.

The Language and Music of the Wolves. Narrated by
Robert Redford, New York: American Museum
of Natural History, Tonsil Records, 1971.

The Sea at Castle Hill. Providence, R.l.: Droll
Yankees Inc.

Songs of the Humpback Whale, Roger Payne,
Capitol Records.

The Songs of Insects. Richard D. Alexander and

Donald J. Borror. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.

Swamp in June. Providence, R.l.: Droll

Yankees Inc., 1975.

Voices of the Night. (34 frogs and toads) Peter
Kellog and Arthur A. Allen. Boston: Houghton
Mifflin Co.

Voice of the Whale (Vox Balaenae) by George
Crumb. Played by the Aeolian Chamber Players
(Columbia N32739), side one. Inspired by the
songs of the humpback whales.

The

BASIC REFERENCES

Red Data Book. Morges, Switzerland: International
Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources, 1976.

Walker, Ernest P. Mammals of the World. Baltimore,
Md.: The Johns Hopkins Press, 3 volumes,
Third Edition, 1975.

Predator Control - 1971, Report to The Council on
Environmental Quality and The Department of
the Interior. Advisory Committee on Predator
Control, Institute for Environmental Quality,
Ann Arbor, Michigan: The University Of
Michigan.

US. Conservation and Environmental Laws, A
Compilation of Federal Laws Relating to Con-
servation and Development of Our Nation’s
Fish and Wildlife Resources, Environmental
Quality and Oceanography. Washington, DC.
US. Government Printing Office, 1975.

 

 

 




 

BIRDS

Austin, Oliver L. Jr., Families of Birds. Illustrated by
Authur Singer. New York: Golden Press; Racine,
Wisconsin: Western Publishing Co., 1971.

Bijleveld, Maarten. Birds of Prey in Europe. Lon-
don: The Macmillan Press, Inc., 1974.

Craighead, John J. and Frank C. Craighead, Jr.
Hawks, Owls and Wildlife. New York: Dover
Publications, 1969.

Dennis, J.V. A Complete Guide to Bird Feeding.
New York: Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1978.

Eckstein, Gustav. Canary. New York: Harpers, 1936.

Heilmann, Gerhard. The Origins of Birds. New York:
Dover Publishing Inc., 1972.

Hickey, Joseph J. A Guide to Bird Watching. New
York: Dover Publications, 1975.

Hyde, Dayton O. Sandy. New York: The Dial Press,
Inc., 1968.

Jacques, H.E. How to Know the Land Birds. Du-
buque, Iowa: William C. Brown Co., 1947. Pic-
tured Key Nature Series, (Valuable for Identifi-
cation).

Pasquier, Roger F. Watching Birds, An Introduction

to Ornithology. Boston: Houghton Mifﬂin Com-
pany,1977.

Pearson, T. Gilbert, Editor. Birds of America. New
York: Doubleday, 1936.

Pratt, Ambrose. The Lore of the Lyrebird. Sydney,
Australia: Endeavor Press, 1937.

Skutch, Alexander F. Illustrator, Author B. Singer.
The Life of the Hummingbird. New York: Vine-
yard Books, Crown Publishers, Inc., 1973.

Terres, J.K. How Birds Fly Under the Water and
Through the Air. New York: Hawthorn Books,
Inc., 1968.

Welty, Joel Carl. The Life of Birds. Philadelphia, Pa.:
W.B. Saunders Company, 1975.

Zeleny, Lawrence. The Bluebird, How You Can
Help Its Fight for Survival. Bloomington, Indi-
ana, University Press, 1976.

Zinn, Herbert S. and Gabrielson, Ira N. Birds. New
York: Simon and Schuster, 1949 (Golden
Nature Series).

Zinn, Herbert S. and Gabrielson, Ira N. A Golden
Guide to Birds. New York: Golden Press, 1949;
Racine, Wisconsin: Western Publishing Com-
Pany,1956.

The Care and Feeding of Orphan Song and Garden
Birds. Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary, Inc., 19328
Gulf Blvd., Indian Shores, FL 33535.

Helplfor Hooked Birds. Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary,
nc.

Homes for Birds. Fish and Wildlife Service, Conser-
vation Bulletin, No. 14, 1969 US. Department
of the Interior, Washington, DC. 20240.

ReCVCle for the Birds. National Wildlife Federation,
Reprint from Ranger Rick magazine; Dec.,

1975, 1412 16th Street, NW. Washington, DC.
20036.

47

RECORDINGS OF BIRD SONGS

Allen, Arthur A. and Peter Paul Kellog. America
Bird Songs, Vol I & II.
Bird Songs in Your Garden.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Song Birds of America.
Boston: Houghton, Mifflin Co.
Baird, James. The Edge of the Meadow. Providence,
Rhode Island: Droll Yankees, Inc., 1969.
Borror, Donald J. Common Bird Songs. New York:
Dover Publications.
Songs of Eastern Birds.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Songs of Western Birds.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Sounds of Nature, Finches.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Sounds of Nature, Prairie
Spring. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Sounds of Nature, Warblers.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Sounds of Nature, A Day at
F lores Moradas. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
Borror, Donald J. and William W.H. Gunn. Sounds
of Nature, Thrushes, Wrens, and Mockingbirds
of Eastern North America. Boston: Houghton
Mifflin Co.
Kilham, Peter. Songs of the Forest. Providence,
Rhode Island: Droll Yankees Inc., 1964.

Krutch, Joseph Wood and the Cornell Laboratory of
Ornithology. Bird Songs in Literature. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Co.

Peterson, Roger Tory. A Field Guide to Bird Songs.

Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.

Bird Songs of Dooryard, Field and Forest, Parts I, II,
and III, Ficker Records, Old Greenwich, Con-
necﬁcut

Birds on a May Morning, Droll Yankees, Inc.,
Providence, Rhode Island.

Sapsuckers and Flickers, Droll Yankees, Inc., Provi-
dence, Rhode Island.

Song Sparrow, Droll Yankees, Inc., Providence,
Rhode Island.

Spring Morning, Droll Yankees, Inc., Providence,
Rhode Island.

The Brook, Droll Yankees, Inc., Providence, Rhode
Island.

The Farm, Droll Yankees, Inc., Providence, Rhode
Island.

ENDANGERED SPECIES

Cox, James A. The Endangered Ones. New York:
Crown Publishing, Inc., 1975.

Green, Ivah. Wildlife in Danger. New York: Coward
McCann, Inc., 1959.

Inskipp, Tom and Sue Wells. International Trade in
Wildlife. London: 1979. Published by Earth-
scan, division of International Institute for Envir-
onment and Development and the Fauna Pre-
servation Society.

 

 




 

 

McNuIty, Faith. Must They Die? The Strange Case of
The Prairie Dog and the Black-Footed Ferret.

New York: Doubleday and Company, Inc.,
1971.

Moorehead, Alan. No Room in the Ark. New York:
Harper and Bros., 1960.

US. Department of the Interior. Endangered and
Threatened Wildlife and Plants. Washington,

chives and Records Service, General Services
Administration. 1976.

World Wildlife Conference: Efforts to Save Endang-
ered Species. US. Department of State Publica-
tion 8729. Washington, DC: US. Government
Printing Office, 1973.

INSECTS

Borror, DJ. and D.M. Delong. An Introduction to
The Study of Insects. New York; Holt Reinhart
& Winston, 1970.

Brues, Charles T. Insects, Food and Ecology. New
York: Dover Publications, 1972.

Butler, Colin G. The World of the Honey Bee. New
York: Taplinger, 1974.

Chu, P. How to Know the Immature Insects. Iowa:
Wm. C. Brown Co., 1949. (Pictured Key Nature
Series).

Comstock, John H. The Spider Book. New York:
Cornell University Press, 1940. (Comstock
Handbook Series).

Dadant & Sons. The Hive and the Honey Bee. Ham-
ilton, Ill.: Dadant & Sons, 1975.

Fabre, J. Henri. Unabridged Works. New York:
Dodd, Mead and Company.
Bramble Bees and Others.

The Glow-Worm and Other Beetles.
The Hunting Wasps.

The Insect World.

The Life of the Caterpillar.
The Life of the Fly.

The Life of the Scorpion.

The Life of the Spider.

The Life of the Weevil.

The Mason-Bees.

More Beetles.

More Mason-Bees.

The Sacred Beetle and Others.
Social Life in the Insect World.

Grzimek, Bernhard. Grzimek’s Animal Life Encyclo-
pedia, Insects. New York: Van Nostrand Rein-
hold Company, 1975.

Holland, W.J. The Butterfly Book. New York: Dou-
bleday & Co., 1947. The Moth Book. New
York: Dover Publications, 1969.

Huxley, Julian. Ants. New York: Jonathan Cape and
Harrison Smith, Inc., 1950.

Imms, A.D. Textbook of Entomology. New York:
E.P. Dutton & Co. 1948.

 

DC: Office of the Federal Register, National Ar-

 

Jacques, H.E. How to Know the Insects. Iowa: Wm.
C. Brown, Co., 1947 (Pictured Key Nature
Series).

Maeterlinck, Maurice. The Life of the Bee. Trans-
lated by Alfred Sutro. New York: Dodd Mead,
and Co., 1912.

The Life of The White Ant. Translated by Alfred
Sutro. New York: Dodd, Mead and Co., 1927.

Morse, Roger A. Bees and Beekeeping. Ithaca, New
York: Cornell University Press, 1975.

Sharp, David. Insects. (Cambridge Natural History).
New York: Dover Publications, Inc., 2 volumes,
1970.

Sudd, John H. An Introduction to the Behavior of
Ants. New York: St. Martins, paperback, 1967.

Teale, Edwin Way. The Golden Throng. New York:
Dodd, Mead and Co., 1945.

Tweedie, Michael. Atlas of Insects. New York: The
John Day Company, 1974.

von Frisch, Karl. The Dancing Bees. New York: Har-
court, Brace & Co., 1955.

Wilson, Edward O. The Insect Societies. Cambridge,
Massachusetts: Harvard University Press, 1971.

Zinn, Herbert S. and Clarence Cottam. Insects. New
York: Simon and Schuster: 1951 (Golden
Nature Guide Series).

INVITATION TO ACTION

Amory, Cleveland. Mankind? New York: Harper 8:
Row, 1974.

Batten, Peter. Living Trophies, A Shocking Look at
the Conditions in America’s Zoos. New York:
Thomas Y. Crowell Company, 1976.

Grzimek, Bernhard. Serengeti Shall Not Die,
London, Hamish Hamilton, 1960.

Harrison, Ruth. Animal Machines, The New Factory
Farming Industry. London, Vincent Stuart Ltd.,
1964.

Inskipp, T.P. and Thomas G.J. Airborne Birds.
Sandy, Bedfordshire, England: Royal Society
for the Protection of Birds. 1976.

Inskipp, T.P. All Heaven in a Rage. Royal Society for
the Protection of Birds, Sandy, Bedfordshire,
England, 1975.

Jordan, Bill and Ormrod, Stefan The Last Great
Wild Beast Show, A Discussion on the Failure
of British Animal Collections. London: Con-
stable and Co., Ltd. 1978.

Osborn, Fairfield. Our Crowded Planet. New York:
Doubleday, 1962.

Pratt, Dallas. Painful Experiments on Animals. New
York, Argus Archives, 1976.

Regan, Tom and Peter Singer. Animal Rights and
Human Obligation. Englewood Cliffs, New
Jersey: Prentice Hall, 1976.

Regenstein, Lewis. The Politics of Extinction. New
York: MacMillan, 1975.

 




 

Scheffer, Victor B. A Voice for Wildlife. New York:

Charles Scribner’s & Sons, 1974.

Singer, Peter. Animal Liberation. New York: The
New York Review, 1975.

OCEANS, LAKES AND STREAMS AND THEIR
INHABITANTS

Bishop, Sherman C. Handbook of Salamanders:
The Salamanders of the United States, of Can-
ada, and of Lower California. Ithaca, New York:
Cornell University Press, 1967.

Comstock, Anna B. Handbook of Nature Study.
Ithaca, New York: Comstock Publishing Asso-
ciates, Cornell University Press, 1941.

Burton, Maurice and Robert. The Encyclopedia of
Fish. London: BPC Publishing, Ltd., 1975.
Carson, Rachel. The Sea Around Us. Garden City,

New York: Natural History Press, 1954.

Carrighar, Sally. The Twilight Seas: A Blue Whale’s
Journey. Illustrated by Peter Parnell. New York:
Weybright & Talley, division of McKay, 1975.

Cousteau, Jacques-Yves. The Undersea Discoveries
of Jacques-Yves Cousteau. New York: Double-
day & Co. (series).

Hervery, G.F. and Jack Hems. The Goldfish. Levit-
town, New York: Transatlantic Arts, 1968.
Hoke, John. The First Book of Snakes. New York:

Franklin Watts, Inc., 1956.

Humane Society of the United States. “Care of Cold
Blooded Pets.” Reprint from Kind Magazine.
Washington, DC.

Innes, William T. Exotic Aquarium Fishes. New
Jersey: TFH Publishers, 1966.

Mann, Lucile Q. Tropical Fish. New York: Arco
Publishers, 1974.

McNulty, Faith. The Great Whales. New York:
Doubleday and Co., 1974.

Whales: Their Life in the Sea. New York: Har-
per and Row, 1975.

Mostert, Noel. Supership. New York: Alfred A.
Knopf, Inc., 1974.

Mowat, Farley. A Whale for the Killing. Boston: Little,
Brown & C0,, 1974.

Needham, James G. and Paul Needham. A Guide to
the Study of Fresh Water Biology: With Special
Reference to Aquatic Insects and Other Inver-
tebrate Animals and Phytoplankton. San Fran-
cisco, California: Holden-Day Publishers, 1962.

Payne, Roger S. and Scott McVay. Songs of Hump-
back Whales. Science, August 13, 1971.

Pickwell, Gayle. Amphibians and Reptiles of the
Pacific States. New York: Dover Press, 1972.

Reidman, Sarah R. and Elton T. Gustafson, Home is
the Sea: For Whales. New York: Abelard-Schu-
man Ltd., 1971.

SCheffer, Victor B. The Year of the Whale, illustrated
by Leonard Everett Fisher. New York: Charles
Scribner & Sons, 1969.

49

Small, George. The Blue Whale. New York: Colum-
bia University Press, 1971.

Stenuit, Robert. Dolphin: Cousin to Man. New YOrk:
Sterling Publishing Co., 1968.

Wright, Albert H. and Anna Allen Wright. Handbook
of Frogs and Toads of the United States and
Canada. Ithaca, New York: Cornell University
Press, 1949.

Zinn, Herbert S. and Robert M. Smith. Reptiles and

Amphibians. New York: Simon and Schuster,
1955.

PHOTOGRAPHY

Field Photography. Alfred A. Blaker. San Francisco:
Freeman Publishers, 1976.

Here’s How, “Nature Photography”, pp. 1—9,
Kodak Publication No. AE-81, Rochester, New
York: Kodak Consumer Markets Division.

Photographing Nature, (series). Herttordshire,
England: Fountain Press, 1975.

Trees
Insects
Seashore

Photographing Nature, Life Library of Photography.

New York: Time-Life Books, 1971.

PLANTS

Baylis, Maggie. Plant Parenthood. San Francisco:
101 Productions, paperback, 1975.

Better Homes and Gardens Books. Better Homes
and Gardens New Garden Book. New York,
1968.

Bush-Brown, James. American Gardening Book.
New York: Scribner, 1966.

Elbert, George. Indoor Light Gardening Book. New
York: Crown Publishing Company, 1974.

Faust, Joan Lee. The New York Times Book of
House Plants. New York: A & W Visual Library,
The New York Times Book Company, paper-
back, 1973.

Wyman, Donald. Gardening Encyclopedia. New
York: MacMillan, 1971.

WILD FAUNA AND FLORA AND THE LAND

Adams, Richard. Nature Through the Seasons. New
York: Simon and Schuster, 1975.

Adams, Richard. Nature Day and Night. New York:
Viking Press, 1978.

Allen, Durward L. Wolves of Minong, Their Vital
Role in a Wild Community. Boston: Houghton
Mifflin Company, 1979.

Bates Marston, The Forest and the Sea. A Look at
the Economy of Nature and the Ecology of
Man. New York: Random House, 1960.

Bigelow, Howard E. Mushroom Pocket Field Guide.
New York: Macmillan Press, 1974.

Burt W.H. and RP. Grossenheider. A Field Guide to
,the Mammals. Boston: Houghton Mifﬂin Com-
pany,1952.

...____.—>.._.__.___._, -.,,_....,.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Butcher, Devereux. Exploring Our National Parks
and Monuments. Boston: Houghton Mifﬂin Co.,
1969.

Bogue, Gary L. Caring for Wild Orphans. Reprint
from Defender’s magazine. Defender’s of Wild-
life, Washington, DC.

Carlquist, Sherwin. Island Biology. New York and
London. Columbia University Press, 1974.
Collett, Rosemary. My Orphan of the Wild. Phila-

delphia, Pa.: J.B. Lippencott Company, 1974.
Eckstein, Gustav. Lives. New York: Harpers, 1932.

Edwards, Mary Louise. In Woods and Meadows.
New York: Vantage Press, 1978.

Hamilton, William J. The Mammals of Eastern Uni-
ted States. New York: Hafner Press, 1963.

Hickman, Mae and Maxine Guy. Care of the Wild
Feathered and Furred. Santa Cruz, California:
Unity Press, 1973.

Krutch, Joseph Wood. Grand Canyon. New York:
Morrow & Co. 1971.
The Desert Year. New York: Viking Press,
1963.
The Great Chain of Life. Boston: Houghton
Mifﬂin Co., 1957.
The Twelve Seasons. Plainview, New York:
Books for Libraries, 1949.
The Voice of the Desert. New York: Morrow &
Co., 1955.

Leister, Mary. Wildlings. Maryland: Stemmer House,
1976.

Lyneborg, Leif. Mammals in Colour. Poule-Dorset,
England: Blandford Press, 1971.

McClintock, Drocas. Squirrels of North America.
New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold Company,
1970.

McIlvaine, Charles and Robert K. Macadam. One
Thousand American Fungi. New York: Dover
Publications, Inc. paperback. 1973.

Matthiessen, Peter. Wildlife in America. New York:
Viking Press, 1964.

Milne, Lorus and Margery. The Balance of Nature.
New York: Alfred Knopf. 1960.

Russell, H.R. A Teacher’s Guide; Ten Minute Field
Trips Using the School Grounds for Environ-
mental Studies. Chicago: J.G. Ferguson Pub-
lishing Co., 1973.

Smith, Hopbart M. Handbook of Lizards: Lizards of
the United States and Canada. Ithaca, New
York: Cornell University Press, 1946.

Snedigar, Robert. Our Small Native Animals, Their
Habits and Care. New York: Dover Press, 1939.

Teale, Edwin Way. Autumn Across America. New
York: Dodd, Mead and Co., 1969.
Journey Into Summer. New York: Dodd Mead
and Co., 1969.
North with the Spring. New York: Dodd Mead,
and Co., 1951.

Villiard, Paul. Wild Animals Around Your Home.
New York: Winchester Press, 1975.

50

 

Weber, William J., D.V.M. Wild Orphan Babies. New
York: Holt, Rinehart, and Winston. 1975.

Zinn, Herbert S. and Donald F. Hoffmeister. Mam-
mals. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1955.
(Golden Nature Guide Series.)

‘ A Field Guide to the Insects of America North of
Mexico Borror, Donald J. and White, Richard,
E. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1970.

(‘ Peterson Field Guide Series)

‘ Field Guide to the Atlantic Seashore, Bay of
Fundy to Cape Hatteras. Gosner, Kenneth, L.
Boston; Houghton Mifflin Company 1979.

' Field Guide to Western Reptiles and Amphi-
bians. Stebbins, Robert C. Boston; Houghton
Mifflin Company, 1966.

‘ Field Guide to the Mammals. Burt, W.H. and
Grossenheider, RP. Boston; Houghton-Mifﬂin
Company Third edition, 1976.

‘ Field Guide to Reptiles and Amphibians of East-
ern and Central N. America. Conant, Roger.
Boston; Houghton-Mifﬂin Company, 1975 (sec-
ond edition).

' Field Guide to the Birds Eastern Land and
Water Birds Peterson, R.T. Boston; Houghton-
Mifflin Company, 1939.

' Field Guide to Western Birds Peterson, R.T.
Boston; Houghton-Mifflin Company; 1961.

RECOMMENDED BIOLOGY PROJECT BOOKS
High School Level

Experiments in Animal Behavior, Marguerite D.
Hainsworth, Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston,
1968.

How to Follow the Adventures of Insects, Vin-
son Brown, Little Brown and Co., Boston, 1968.

Experiments with Microscopic Animals: Investi-
gations for the Amateur Scientist, Philip Gold-
stein and Jerome Metzner. Doubleday and Co.,
Inc., New York, 1971.

Manual of Field Biology and Ecology, A.H. Ben-
ton and WE. Werner, Jr., Burgess Publishing
Co., Minneapolis, 1972. 408 pp.

Experiments in Visual Science for Home and
School, James R. Gregg, The Ronald Press Co.,
New York, 1966.

Field Ecology, E.A. Phillips, BSCS Laboratory
Block, D.C. Heath and Co., Boston, 1964.

Air Pollution Experimentsfor Junior and Senior
High School Science Classes, Eds, D.C. Hunter
and HG. Wohlers. Published by Air Pollution
Control Association, 4400 Fifth Avenue, Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania 15213, 1969.

The Curious Mollusks, Marie M. Jenkins, Holi-
day House, 18 East 56th Street, New York,
N.Y. 10022, 1972, 224 pp.

Anti-Pollution Lab, Elliot H. Blaustein, Sentinel
Books Publishers, Inc., New York, 1972, 128 PP-

 




 

Insects in the Classroom, J.H. Borden, and 8D.
Herrin. British Columbia Teachers’ Federation,
105-2235 Burrard St., Vancouver 180, British
Columbia, 1972, 172 pp.

Humane Biology Projects

Animal Welfare Institute, Washington, DC, 1977,
57 pp.

Free or Inexpensive Materials Available From the
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE, PO. Box 3650,
Washington, DC. 20007

Animal Expressions
a photographic footnote to Charles Dar-
win’s Expression of the Emotions in Man
and Animals. Foreword by F.J. Mulhern,
D.V.M. 54 pages. 106 illustrations. Animal
Welfare Institute. Free on request to veteri-
narians and persons employed by research
institutions in the management of animal
colonies and care of animals. To others. . .$1.00

Animals and Their Legal Rights

by Emily Leavitt and other authors. Sum-
mary and history of laws affecting the wel-
fare of animals in the United States. Ani-
mal Welfare Institute, 1978. One copy free
upon request to libraries and humane so-
cieties. To others ....................... $2.00

The Neighbours

anthology of animal poems. Illustrated by
Fougasse, 11 7 pages. Published by
UFAW ................................ $2.00

The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion

by Major C.W. Hume, M.C., B.Sc., London,
Illustrated by Fougasse. 100 pages. UFAW.

....................................... $2.00
Let Us Live

leaflet on trapping, illustrated in full color

........................................ Free

Facts About Furs
by Greta Nilsson. Revised edition, 1980.
Over 250 pages on the way furs are
obtained throughout the world. 79 illustra-
tions, 48 charts, tables and maps. One
COpy free to humane societies and librar-

ies. To others .......................... $3.00

Federal Measures Against the Abuse of Wild Animals

by Nathaniel Reed, Assistant Secretary,
US. Department of the Interior. Reprint
from the American Biology Teacher, April
1974 ................................... Free

51

The Bird Business

by Greta Nilsson. A Study of the importa-
tion of birds into the United States. Animal
Welfare Institute, 1977 , 81 pages ........ $3.00

International Trade in Wildlife

by Tim Inskipp and Sue Wells. Published
by Earthscan, of the International Institute
for Environment and Development. 1979.
104 pages ............................. $3.00

Vanishing Wildlife
A Unit on Endangered Species for the Mid-

dle Grades. Boston, Endangered Species
Productions, 1974 ...................... $1.00

Humane Biology Projects
Animal Welfare Institute. Revised edition.
21 contributors, 57 pages, illustrated. De-
signed for use in secondary schools. One
copy free upon request to teachers, librar-
ians, humane societies. To others ........ $2.00

First Aid and Care of Small Animals

by Ernest P. Walker. Revised edition,
1980. One copy free upon request to
teachers, librarians, scout leaders, humane
societies. To others ..................... $2.00

Attitudes Toward Animals
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article
from the American Biology Teacher, 3
pages, November 1970 .................. Free

Biology Students as Experimental Subjects
by F. Barbara Orlans, PhD. Reprint of arti-
cle from the American Biology Teacher,
October 1974 ........................... Free

Good Kind Lion
for primary grades. 4 pages, UFAW, One

copy .................................... Free
additional copies ...................... 20c ea.

Kittens and Cats
for primary grades. 12 pages, with pictures
suitable for coloring. Humane Society of
Huron Valley. One copy free upon request
to teachers, librarians, humane societies.
To others ................................ 20c
Additional copies ..................... 20c ea.

You and Your Dog
for primary grades. 16 pages, with pictures
suitable for coloring. Humane Society of
Huron Valley. One copy free upon request
to teachers, librarians, humane societies.
To others ................................ 20c
Additional copies ......................... 20c

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Befriending Animals

by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article
from Childhood Education. For primary
grades, 4 pages .......................... Free

Articles published from 1971 to 1980 in the
AWI Information Report on national and
international efforts to prevent extinction
of whales .................... Single copy free

Vanishing Giants

The History, Biology and Fate of the Great
Whales. 24 pages ....................... $2.00

How to Liven Up Your Classroom with a Pod
of Whales.
For teachers, 2 pages .................... Free

A Whale of a Friend

an ocean giant and man play together in a
historic happening. 4 pages, Reprint from
Toronto Star, February 28, 1976 .......... Free

A Letter from a Whale

by Anthony Sandonato. For primary grades.
Animal Welfare Institute, 1977. 4 pages. . .Free

OTHER ORGANIZATIONS CONCERNED WITH
ANIMALS AND THE ENVIRONMENT

The Center for Action
On Endangered Species
175 West Main Street
Ayer, Mass. 01432

The Cousteau Society
c/o the Cousteau Group
777 Third Avenue

New York, NY. 10017

Defenders of Wildlife
1244 19th Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20036

Environmental Action Foundation
724 Dupont Circle Building
Washington, DC. 20036

Environmental Defense Fund
1525 18th Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20036

Environmental Policy Center
317 Pennsylvania Avenue, SE.
Washington, DC. 20003

Environment Liaison Center
PO. Box 72461
Nairobi, Kenya

52

Fauna Preservation Society

c/o Zoological Society of London
Regent’s Park

London, NW. 1, England

Friends of the Earth
620 C Street, SE.
Washington, DC. 20003

The Fund for Animals
1765 P Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20036

The Humane Society of the United States
2100 L Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20037

International Council for Bird Preservation
c/o British Museum of Natural History
Bloomsbury, London WC. 1, England

International Union for the Conservation of Nature
Avenue du Mont Blanc

CH - 1196

Gland, Switzerland

National Audubon Society
950 Third Avenue
New York, NY. 10022

National Parks and Conservation Association
1701 18th Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20036

Natural Resources Defense Council
917 15th Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20005

The Sierra Club
800 Second Avenue
New York, NY. 10017

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
PO. Box 3719

Washington, DC. 20007

Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary

18328 Gulf Blvd.

Indian Shores, FL 33535

The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds
The Lodge

Sandy, Bedfordshire

SG19 2DL

England

The Wilderness Society
1901 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW.
Washington, DC. 20006

World Wildlife Fund
1601 Connecticut Ave., NW.
Washington, DC. 20009

 

 

 




 

 

Alligators ....................................... 32
Amphibians ..................................... 37
Amphibians, temperature for ..................... 37
Aquaria ........................................ 39
Attracting wild animals ............................ 3
Baby animals in the wild .......................... 3
Bat and “ﬂying squirrel (picture) .................. 23
Bat, Pipistrelle, baby (picture) ....... . ............. 21
Bees, honey, for food ............................ 45
Bibliography .................................... 46
Birds, recently hatched (picture) .................. 19
Birds ........................................... 26
Birds, injured ................................... 26
Birds, emergency formula for .................... 26
Birds, feeding ................................ 26-30
Birds, legal protection for ........................ 28
Birds, nestlings, warmth for ...................... 26
Birds, water for .................................. 28
Bites on humans ................................ 11
Cages and housing .............................. 14
Care, responsibility for ........................... 12
“Chameleons” .................................. 36
Clams .......................................... 41
Claws .......................................... 17
Cockroaches, rearing ............................ 43
Cottontail rabbit, baby (picture) ................... 25
Crabs ........................................... 4O
Crayfish ........................................ 4O
Crocodiles ...................................... 32
Crow (picture) ................................... 8
Cruelty .......................................... 1
Duck, baby and dog (picture) .................... 28
Earthworm culture .............................. 45
Enchytraeid worms, rearing ...................... 43
Erroneous beliefs ................................. 1
Euthanasia ...................................... 12
Exercise ........................................ 14
Experiments, objectionable ........................ 5
Feeder, hummingbird (picture) ................... 19
Fish ............................................ 39
Feeding requirements ........................... 18
Feeding stations .................................. 3
Flies, rearing .................................... 44
Fly trap (picture) ................................ 41
“Flying” squirrel and bat (picture) ................ 23
Food cultures ................................... 42
Food, kinds of ............................ 18, 2631
Foster mother, picture ........................... 15
Fox, red, baby, picture. ................. Frontispiece
Frogs ........................................... 37
Grasshopper mouse (picture) .................... 13
Green snake, pet (picture) ....................... 33
Hibernation ..................................... 32
Horned frog in cage (picture) .................... 38
Humane death .................................. 12
Hummingbird (picture) ........................... 2

Hummingbird feeder (picture) .................... 19

Initial handling .................................. 12
Injured animals ................................. 10
Insects .......................................... 4O
Invertebrates .................................... 40
Laboratory rat (pictures) ......................... 15
Laws protecting wildlife ........................... 7
Lizards ......................................... 36
Lizards, horned ................................. 36
Lizards, in cage (picture) ......................... 35
Lizards, water for ................................ 36
Mammals ....................................... 22
Mammals, food for .......................... 24, 31
Meal worms, rearing ............................. 42
Mice, big-eared cliff (picture) ..................... 16
Milk formula .................................... 22
Misapprehensions ................................ 1
Mussels ......................................... 41
Nest boxes .................................. 14, 25
Nursing bottles .................................. 24
Opossums, baby (picture) ......................... 5
Rabbit, cottontail, babies (pictures) ................ 25
Rabbits, enclosures for ........................... 24
Rabies .......................................... 11
Releasing wild animals ............................ 9
Reptiles ......................................... 32
Reptiles, temperatures ........................... 32
Requirements of animals .......................... 6
Responsibility for care . -. ......................... 12
Robin, baby, (picture) ............................ 10
Salamanders .................................... 37
Salt water, formulas for .......................... 39
Scratches on humans ............................ 11
Shrimp ......................................... 40
Sick animals .................................... 1 1
Snakes ......................................... 34
Snakes, poisonous , t ............................ 34
Superstitions ..................................... 1
Sympathy ........................................ 1
Tadpoles ....................................... 37
Taming wild creatures ............................ 7
Teeth, care of ............................... 17, 24
Temperature for reptiles ......................... 32
Toads .......................................... 37
Toenails ........................................ 17
Turtles .......................................... 32
Turtles, marine .................................. 34
Turtles, snapping, caution ........................ 34
Veterinary care ................................. 10
Vitamins, use of ............. . .................... 20
Yellow jacket (picture) ............................ 3
Warmth ........................................ 22
Water, drinking ................................. 20
Wax moths and worms (picture) ................. 40
Wax moths, rearing ............................. 42
Wheels, exercise ................................ 14

Wheels, exercise (picture) ........................ 16

 

 




 

 

/\
O

 

 

 

Animal Welfare Institute PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 




Animal Welfare
Institute

Listing of free or

cost-priced books,
reports, pamphlets
and videos for
people interested
in animals

 

 

 




 

APPRECIATION AND PROTECTION
OF ANIMALS

Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly

Illustrated, full-color magazine. Explores current animal
welfare issues including treatment of animals in laboratories,
factory farms, commercial trade, and on traplines, as well as
conservation of endangered species; summarizes international
meetings, laws and treaties affecting animals, and the results of
undercover investigations; contains thought—provoking book
reviews. One year subscription ..................................... $25.00

Back issues free from 1990-1999, please call or email for availability

The Animal Dealers: Evidence of Abuse of Animals in the
Commercial Trade 1952—1997
A shocking exposé of cruelty, fraud and negligence in the
growing trade in animals—both in exotic animals and in
dogs and cats for research. Edited by Mary Ellen Drayer,
AWI, 430 pages, illustrated ....................................... $5.00

Animals and Their Legal Rights
A survey of American animal protection laws from 1641 to
1990, with appendices on important foreign laws, AWI, 1990,
fourth edition, 441 pages
One copy free to libraries, police and humane societies,
all others ............................................................................ $5.00

Childhood Cruelty Toward Animals Among Criminals and
Noncriminals
by Stephen Kellert, Ph.D. and Allen Felthouse. Study reprinted
from Human Relations, Vol. 38, No. 12. Documents a link
between childhood cruelty to animals and adult violent
crimes, 1985 ............................................................ Free

Man and Beast
by Major C.W. Hume. Essays on animal issues by the founder
of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare. This really
is the first animal rights book. UFAW, 1982, memorial edition,
222 pages, illustrated by Fougasse ............................ $5.00

The Neighbours
Anthology of animal poems, UFAW, 1954, 117 pages,
illustrated by Fougasse
Free to teachers, all others .................................................. $5.00

The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion
by Major C.W. Hume. UFAW, 1957, second edition,
100 pages, illustrated by Fougasse ............................ $5.00

Since Silent Spring: Our Debt to Albert Schweitzer and Rachel
Carson
A speech by Ann Cottrell Free. 1992,17 pages .......... $1.00

Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer
by Ann Cottrell Free. AWI and others, 1988, revised edition,
93 pages, illustrated........ .......................................... $2.50

The Schweitzer Medalists
The medal has been presented by AWI for outstanding
contributions to animal welfare since 1955 .............. Free

 

 




WILDLIFE UNDER THREAT

Corporate Power, Corruption & the Destruction of the World’s
Forests: the Case for a New Global Forest Agreement
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 1996,
52 pages, illustrated in color ..................................... $8.00

From Forest to Pharmacy: The Global Underground Trade in
Bear Parts
A report by the Investigative Network and The Humane
Society of the United States/Humane Society International,
1996, 56 pages, illustrated in color ........................ h ....... $ 10.00

The Political Wilderness: India’s Tiger Crisis
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 1996,
illustrated in color .................................................... $8.00

Russia’s Final Roar: Criminal Threats to the Siberian Tiger and
Local Communities: An Inside Look at a New Fight for Survival
A report by the Investigative Network, 1996, 24 pages,
illustrated in color ............................................................ $10.00

Slaughter of the Apes: How the Tropical Timber Industry is
Devouring Africa’s Great Apes
A report by the World Society for the Protection of Animals,
1996, 16 pages, illustrated in color ........................... $2.00

How to Save the World’s Forests
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 1995,
illustrated in color .................................................... $3.00

Why the World Must Kill the Trade to Save the Bears
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 1995,

12 pages, illustrated in color .................................... $3.00
America Leads the World in Preventing the Extinction of
Species

A report on Endangered Species Act success stories by AWI,

1994, 14 pages, illustrated in color ........................... Free

CITES: Enforcement Not Extinction
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 1994,
38 pages, illustrated in color ..................................... $5.00

Living Proof: African Elephants—The Success of the CITES
Appendix I Ban
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 1994,
18 pages, illustrated in color ..................................... $8.00

Flight to Extinction: The Wild- -Caught Bird Trade
Report by the Environmental Investigation Agency and AWI,
1992, 27 pages, 31 color photographs ......................... $2. 00

Importation of Birds into the United States in 1985
by Greta Nilsson. Discussion of developments and research
in the caged bird trade, AWI, 1989, 203 pages ......... $1.00

Importation of Birds into the United States 1986-1988
by Greta Nilsson. A continuation of the preceding report AWI,
1990, 287 pages including tables .............................. $1.00

 




 

SAVE THE WHALES AND DOLPHINS

The Continuing Global War Against Small Cetaceans
An update by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 1996,
46 pages, illustrated in color ..................................... $3.00

The Global War Against Small Cetaceans
Documentation of the hundreds of thousands of dolphins,
porpoises and small whales that are killed and exploited. A
second report by the Environmental Investigation Agency,
1991, 63 pages, illustrated in color ............................ $3.00

The Gray Zone: Industrial Threats to Gray Whales in Baja,
Mexico
A report by the Investigative Network, 1996, 18 pages,
illustrated ................................................................. $3.00

Under Fire: Environmental Threats and the Extinction of the
World’s Cetaceans
An update by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 1996,
46 pages, illustrated in color ..................................... $3.00

Whales vs. Whalers: A Continuing Commentary
Articles published from 1971 to 1995 in the AWI Quarterly
on national and international efforts to prevent the extinction
of whales .................................................................. Free

Strandings: Ways to Save Whales
by Frank Robson. Includes step—by—step instructions to assist
stranded marine mammals, Science Press, hardcover, 1984,
123 pages, over 70 illustrations ................................. $10.00

A Letter from a Whale
by Anthony Sandonato. For primary grades, AWI, 4 pages
One free to teachers only, extras .................................... $ .50

Save the Whales Poster
Richard Ellis illustrations of the Great Whales
One free to teachers only, extras .................................... $2.00

A Whale of a Friend
An ocean giant and man play together in an historic happening,
reprint from The Toronto Star, 4 pages ..................... Free

What Dolphins Are Teaching Us About Communication:
A New Age Interview with Frank Robson
by Jim Nollman. A five-page discussion with the author of
Strandings ................................................................. Free

TRAPPING

Alternative Traps: The Role of Cage and Box Traps in Modern
Trapping, The Role of Legsnares in Modern Trapping, and The
Role of Spring Powered Killing Traps in Modern Trapping
by Tom Garrett. AWI revised edition, 1999, 61 pages,
illustrated ................................................................. $3.00

Text of European Union Regulation regarding trapping and
importation of furs ....................................................... Free

Facts About Furs
by Greta Nilsson and others. Information on the way furs are
obtained throughout the world, AWI, 1980, revised edition,
257 pages, 18 appendices, 79 illustrations ................ $3.00

Ban Steel Jaw Leghold Traps
8 1/2” by 14” poster illustrating the cruelty of steel jaw traps,
Society for Animal Protective Legislation .................... Free

Leghold Traps Are Inhumane
11” by 17” poster separatingfact from fiction on leghold trapping
and European Union Regulation 3254/91, AWI ........... Free

Opposition to Steel Jaw Leghold Traps is Overwhelming
Results of an opinion poll conducted by Caravan Research
showing that 74% of Americans believe steel jaw leghold
traps should be prohibited ........................................ Free

Petition against the steel jaw leghold trap ..................... Free

Steel Jaw Traps Maim and Cripple Pets
A compilation of articles on pets caught in steel jaw traps,
Society for Animal Protective Legislation .................. Free

A Survey of Opinions of US. Citizens on the Use of the Steel
Jaw Leghold Trap
Conducted by Stephen Kellert, Ph.D., Yale School of Forestry
and Environmental Studies. Includes a list of the 88 nations
that prohibit use of this trap ...................................... Free

Trapping Agony
The views of Charles Darwin on the cruelty of the steel jaw
leghold trap, reprinted from Defenders magazine ...... Free

What is the Real Price of a Fur Coat?
Cruel methods of obtaining wild furs, Society for Animal
Protective Legislation, 4 pages .................................. Free

FACTORY FARMING

Factory Farming: The Experiment that Failed
Compilation ofAWI Quarterly articles showing intensive rearing
of calves, sows and hens and practical alternative methods,
AWI, 1987, 86 pages with updated supplement 2000

One copy free to libraries and humane societies, all others $2.00

The Pig Picture
Video detailing the cruelty of factory hog farm conditions,
Produced by the Humane Farming Association and AWI, 1995
................................................................................... $15.00

And On This Farm
Missouri family farmers struggling to survive as cruel
corporate hog farms spread across the countryside, Field
Pictures, 1998 .......................................................... $15.00

How Astrid Lindgren Achieved Enactment of the 1988 Law
Protecting Farm Animals in Sweden
A translation of articles and letters published in Expressen,
Stockholm, from 1985—1989, AWI, 27 pages ............ Free

Sc

Tl

E)




LABORATORY ANIMALS

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
Completely revised edition, edited by Dr. Viktor Reinhardt,
with text and illustrations provided by experts in the housing
and care of each individual species, AWI, 1997, 120 pages,

illustrated
One copy free to scientific institutions, veterinarians or architects,
all others .............................................................................. $5.00

Social Housing of Previously Single—Caged Macaques: What
Are the Options and the Risks?
by Dr. Viktor Reinhardt, Cathy Liss and Christine Stevens.
Reprinted from the journal Animal Welfare, UFAW, 1995, 20
pages, illustrated ........................................................ Free

Effective Feeding Enrichment for Non—Human Primates: A Brief
Review
by Dr. Viktor Reinhardt and Adam Roberts. Reprinted from
the journal Animal Welfare, UFAW, 1997, 8 pages Free

Use of Laboratory Animals in Research
Dissent by committee member Christine Stevens to the Report
of the National Research Council Committee on the Use of
Laboratory Animals in Biomedical and Behavioral Research,
1988, 2 pages ............................................................ Free

The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique
by W.M.S. Russell and R.L. Burch. A reprint 0 this classic
book, UFAW, 1992, 238 pages ................................. $25.00

Excerpts from: Housing, Care and Psychological Well—being of
Captive and Laboratory Primates
Edited by Evalyn F. Segal, Noyes Publications. Contains
quotations from 50 leading primatologists and other scientists,
1989, 3 pages ............................................................ Free

Humane Consideration for Animal Models
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Animal Models
of Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases, National Academy
of Sciences, 1976, 8 pages ......................................... Free

Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
Text of the 1985 amendments to the Animal Welfare Act from
The Congressional Record, Vol. 131, No. 175 ........... Free

Mistreatment of Laboratory Animals Endangers Biomedical
Research
Commentary by Christine Stevens, Nature, September 27,
1984 .......................................................................... Free

Protect Our Pets
How to stop pets from being taken by unscrupulous animal
dealers and sold to laboratories, Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, 4 pages ................................................... Free

Concentration Camps for Dogs
Reprinted from Life magazine, 1966, 8 pages ............ Free

Humane Perspectives
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The Future
of Animals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Research,
Development, Education, and Testing, National Academy of
Sciences, 1977 .......................................................... Free

A Bibliography for Members of Institutional Animal Care and
Use Committees
Annotated; Includes publications on alternatives to animals,
laws and regulations, training courses, and the psychological
well—being of primates, AWl ...................................... Free

Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals:
A Review of Scientific Literature from 1975-1978
by Jeff Diner with a foreword by Samuel Peacock, M.D. AWI,
1979, 195 pages ........................................................ $1.00

Beyond the Laboratory Door
Continues the above review, 1978—1984, and includes
two new sections: ”Unjustifiable by Any Standard” (citing
USDA reports of laboratory inspections) and ”Photographs of
Experimental Animals,” AWI, 1985, 266 pages .......... $1.00

HUMANE EDUCATION

Alternatives that Don’t Harm or Destroy Animals
Substitutes for dissection and invasive experiments... Free

Attitudes Towards Animals
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The American
Biology Teacher, 3 pages ........................................... Free

Biology Students as Experimental Subjects
by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Reprint of article from The
American Biology Teacher ......................................... Free

First Aid and Care of Small Animals
by Ernest P. Walker. For use by teachers in primary and
secondary schools, AWl, 52 pages, second edition
One copy free to teachers, librarians, humane societies and scout
leaders, all others ......................................... . ....................... $1.00

Good Kind Lion
For primary grades, UFAW, 4 pages, illustrated by Fougasse
.................... $ .50 or free with a self—addressed, stamped envelope

Humane Rules for Canadian Science Fairs
One page .................................................................. Free

Kittens and Cats and You and Your Dog
For primary grades, Humane Society of Huron Valley, 12 and
16 pages, with pictures suitable for coloring
One copy free to teachers, librarians and humane societies, all others
.................... $ .50 or free with a self-addressed, stamped envelope

Humane Science Teaching
A compilation of AWI Quarterly articles useful to primary and
secondary grade teachers ........................................... Free

 




Membership Application

I support your work and would like to become a member of
the Animal Welfare Institute (Subscription to AWI Quarterly
included).

Yearly dues are:

$1000 Benefactor

$500 Patron

$100 Friend

$50 Supporter

$25 Regular

$5 Student or Senior Citizen

Name
Address
City State Zip

 

 

Please send me the items marked, for which I enclose

35

(DC. Residents add 6% sales tax to all orders).

 

D Check or money order (payable to the Animal
Welfare Institute)

Cl Visa

D Mastercard

 

 

Expiration date:

 

Signature:

 

All orders should be accompanied by payment. To
lower expenses, an acknowledgment of your gift will be
sent only upon request. If you require, check here CI

Teachers, please use school letterhead and indicate
grade level. We regret that only reprints and leaflets
can be provided free to student teachers.

Listing as of May 2000.

Animal Welfare Institute

P.O. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007
@. phone: (202) 337-2332

www.anlmalwelfare.com

Printed with soy ink on recycled paper _®

 




r

7.
S
N
H
P
L
O
D

 




WHY DOLPHINS MARCH AT THE WTO

Dolphins have been revered for millennia as a uni-
versal symbol for the grace and freedom of nature
and for their apparent empathy for human beings.
Today, dolphins also symbolize the staggering loss
of biodiversity—millions die in fishing nets, from
intense sound and toxic pollution, and through vio-
lent captures to serve as captive entertainers for the
tourist trade.

The predecessor of the World Trade Organization
(WTO), the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT), twice ruled that animal protection laws such
as America’s prohibition against the importation of
canned tuna caught by injuring and killing dolphins
are illegal trade barriers.

Ministers attending the 1999 Seattle WTO meeting
were met by hundreds of demonstrators dressed
as sea turtles to protest WTO decisions against
laws designed to conserve highly endangered
sea turtles. Coverage of the demonstrations went
worldwide, carrying the Animal Welfare Institute’s
message that no treaty organization should have
the power to erase animal welfare laws enacted by
democratically-elected governments.

Hundreds of Mexican and international citizens
are marching as dolphins during September’s WTO
meeting to demand that, if there is going to be an in-
ternational trading system, it must embrace protec-
tion of the world’s creatures and their ecosystems.

Today, we march as dolphins. Dolphins symbolize
the freedom of wild animals and the freedom of
the people to enact laws to protect them. Dolphins
also symbolize the power of corporations and trade
pacts to demolish animal protection legislation. We
demand that the WTO allow protection ofthe world’s
wildlife and the humane treatment of animals.

In cooperation with Araceli Dominguez, Grupo Ecol-
ogista del Mayab a.c., gema@cancun.com.mx

 

 




William Rossiter/Cetacean Society International

FREE TRADE

':‘!IIIW':I-'illI-':I:I-Ix‘I-‘II--IIII

GOING GLOBAL

Your government should be able to stop products
from entering the marketplace if they are created by
causing animal suffering or decimating threatened
and endangered species. Unfortunately, multina-
tional corporations and complicit national govern-
ments have imposed a new set of international
trade rules that give companies unfettered access to
markets and threaten national protection of animals,
the environment, and workers. In our increasingly
“globalized” world, insufferably complex free trade
agreements encourage the adoption of the weak—
est global standards. Governments are forced to
cash in their “natural resources,” including forests,
rivers, and coastal habitats. When their homes are
eliminated and polluted, animals die. While corporate
CEOs grow rich, workers become increasingly impov-
erished, leading to a class of poor and frustrated
people who are forced to catch, consume, and sell
animals as fast as they can in order to survive. Truly
free trade would be fair trade, and that means fair for
the animals of the world, too.

FREE TRADE VS. ANIMAL PROTECTION

In I947, hoping to assist in European rebuilding after
World War II, the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT) was created to break down barriers and
make the sale of goods over international boundaries

Two GATT panels ruled against a US prohibition on import5
of canned tuna from nations that allow chasing and netting
of dolphins while tuna fishing. In 1997, Congress weakened
the law, again permitting imports of dolphin-deadly tuna.

m
E
‘52.
o
s.
O
t
2
on
v,
u
a
s
U;

easier. The basic premise of free trade is that one nation
should not arbitrarily prohibit the importation of goods
from another nation. Over the next 50 years, the origi-
nal GATT served as a model for numerous other trade
agreements including the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) and the new, ominous, World Trade
Organization (WTO), which incorporated the GATT.

Under the rules of the WTO and the NAFTA, member
states cannot control the traffic of any commodity
based solely on the way it is created—what is referred
to as “process and production methods.” Essentially,
nations should not discriminate against “like products.”
The most famous (perhaps infamous) case concerning
animals is related to canned tuna fish. In an effort to
protect dramatically declining populations of dolphins,
the United States prohibited importation of tuna that
was caught using nets that are cruelly set on dolphins.
A number of countries in Latin America objected to this
import ban. They argued that a can of tuna is a can of
tuna, regardless of the “process” by which the tuna was
obtained. In the world of the GATT, the NAFTA, and
the WTO, it doesn’t matter that one can contains tuna
caught by harassing and killing dolphins, while another
involved no harm to dolphins. The final product—the
canned tuna—is the same.

The tuna-dolphin dispute, though the defining case
of the impact of free trade agreements on animals, is
not the only example. The European Union has been
undermined in its efforts to prohibit the import of furs
from animals who were caught using the barbaric steel
jaw leghold trap. [A fur is a fur regardless of how the
animal was treated] The US had to undergo years of
international litigation to defend its policies regarding
the importation of shrimp from countries whose shrimp

 

The Eur0pean Union agreed to phase out cruel battery
cages for hens, despite the fact that this may directly COH‘
f lict with WTO rules. The WTO may even prevent labels 0"
eggs to let consumers know how the hens were treated.

Ursula Keuper-Bennett/turt/es.org

 

trawlers do not employ Turtle Excluder Devices,
which allow highly endangered sea turtles to escape
the shrimp nets that would otherwise drown the
turtles. [Shrimp is shrimp regardless of the fishing
method and its impact on other species.] Meanwhile,
the European Union is fighting to maintain its wise
ban on importation of beef from cows injected with
growth hormones, which are used in American animal
factories to increase beef and dairy production. [Meat
is meat whether potentially tainted or not by use of
these hormones]

We now live in a world where bans on eggs from
hens in cruel battery cages, cosmetics created by
animal testing, or the trade of certain parts of threat—
ened or endangered species, may never become law
because of the mere threat of a trade challenge.

In addition to the “like product” issue, these
trade agreements promote identical “national treat-
ment.” Under these pacts, it is unacceptable to treat
the products of one country different than those of
another country. So, if one country engages in a prac—
tice that is harmful to animals, nations cannot pro-
hibit the import of products from that country while
allowing similar products from other countries that
do not engage in the destructive activity.

When there is a conflict, one country can chal-
lenge another for having laws that limit the importa-
tion of a product, arguing that the law is just a trade
restriction in disguise. The loser can face retaliatory
sanctions, a fine, or be forced to change its law. In
I997, for instance, the US weakened its dolphin pro-
tection law because of the previous trade battles.

This “trade at all costs” mentality makes animal
protection extremely difficult. In joining the WTO, as

 

 

Because of WTO rules, the US faced years of international
litigation to enforce Endangered Species Act regulations
mandating use of Turtle Excluder Devices to protect high/y

endangered sea turtles .




the United States did in 1995, countries subordinate
enforcement of their own hard-won laws to decisions
rendered by unelected trade bureaucrats deliberating
behind closed doors in Geneva, Switzerland with vir-
tually no citizen input or public review. Undermining
democracies across the globe, the WTO, which has
been called the most effective tool ever devised for
shifting wealth from the poor to the rich, stealthily
has replaced the Constitution as the highest law of
theland.

Notably, the WTO incorporates language from
the GATT that allows for some exemptions from the
trade rules under these agreements. National laws
may contravene the WTO, for instance, if they are
“necessary to protect human, animal or plant life
or health,” or if they relate “to the conservation of
exhaustible natural resources...” In order for either
of these exemptions to apply, however, the measure
in question must not be “applied in a manner which
would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable
discrimination between countries where the same
conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on inter-
national trade.” This is where the trade lawyers come
in. Is a ban on furs from animals caught with vicious
steel jaw leghold traps “necessary” to protect the ani-
mals’ health? Are endangered sea turtles “exhaust-
ible natural resources?” Is it “discrimination” tojudge
one can of tuna differently than another? Animals

should get the benefit of the doubt, but it is terribly
difficult to convince powerful trade bureaucrats that
animal welfare and endangered species conservation
are important enough to result in limitations or out-
right bans of commercial trade in certain products.

 




L'PORQUE LOS DELFINES MARCHARAN
EN LA OMC?

Los delfines han sido reverenciados por milenios como un
simbolo universal de la gracia y la libertad de la naturaleza
y por su aparente empatia con los seres humanos. Hoy,
los delfines también simbolizan la impactante pérdida de
la biodiversidad, millones de ellos mueren en las redes
de los pescadores, otros por los intensos sonidos y los
contaminantes toxicos en el agua y otros a través de las
violentas capturas para servir como entretenimiento al
mercado turistico.

Con anterioridad la Organizacion Mundial del Comercio
(OMC), y de El Tratado General para Tarifas y Comercio
(GATT), en dos ocasiones, se pronunciaron contra Ieyes
de proteccion animal como la prohibicién de Estados
Unidos contra la importacion de atl'Jn enlatado capturado
que causa daﬁos y la muerte de delfines, como barreras
ilegales de comercio.

Atendiendo a la Reunién Ministerial de 1999 en Seattle
Ia OMC se encontro con una demostracion de cientos de
manifestatantes vestidos como tortugas para protestar
por la decisic’m de la OMC que atenta contra Ias Ieyes
que protegen a Ias tortugas marinas, especie en peligro
de extincion. Los medios de comunicacion, alrededor del
mundo cubrieron Ias demostraciones, llevando el mensaje
del Instituto de Bienestar para los Animales, que ninguna
organizacién o tratado debe tener el poder de borrar o
desaparecer Ias Ieyes que protegen a los animales pro-
mulgadas por gobiernos democraticamente electos en los
distintos paises.

Cientos de mexicanos y de organizaciones internacionales
estan marchando como “delfines” en la Reunion de la OMC
en septiembre para demandar esto. Si va a haber algi'Jn
sistema de comercio Internacional, este debe incluir la
proteccion de las criaturas del mundo y sus ecosistemas.

Hoy marchamos como “delfines.” Los delfines simbolizan
la libertad de la vida silvestre y la libertad de la gente para
promulgar Ieyes que los protejan. Los delfines también
simbolizan el poder de las corporaciones y los tratados co-
merciales para acabar con la legislacion para proteger ani-
males. Demandamos a la OMC que permita Ia proteccion
de la vida silvestre y del trato humanitario a los animales.

En el cooporation con Araceli Dominguez, Grupo Ecolo-
gista del Mayab a.c., gema@cancun.com.mx

 




Advertisement

 

Will Japan Honor Its Commitment
To End the Whale-Killing?

 

Sperm Whale _

Japan has committed to the

United States and to the lnterna~

tional Whaling Commission (IWC) to
phase out its whaling by early 1988.
Now, however, the powerful whaling
interests are demanding that the
government abandon those com-
mitments and continue the whale-
killing.

In December 1984, the Govern-
ment of Japan signed a bilateral
agreement with the Government of
the United States to resolve the
whaling issue that has divided the
two nations. Japan committed itself
to phasing out its whaling by March,
1988. In return, the US. agreed not
to apply sanctions established by
domestic law against nations defy-
ing the regulations of the IWC,
which is a 40-nation treaty body.

Japan committed itself to abide by
the cessation of commercial whaling
that had been adopted by the IWC.
Although the cessation was suppos-
ed to begin in January 1986, the
agreement with the US. allowed
more than two years of whaling
beyond that date. This averted heavy
penalties against the Japanese
ﬁshing ﬂeet in the North Paciﬁc,
which since 1984 has caught more
than a million tons of ﬁsh within the
US. ZOO-mile zone off Alaska. The
Packwood-Magnuson Amendment
to the US. Fisheries Conservation
and Management Act calls for
withdrawal of ﬁshing allocations
from nations diminishing the effec-
tiveness of IWC regulations.

While the Japanese ﬁshing in-
dustry has caught hundreds of
millions of dollars of fish, the dying
whaling industry has been allowed
to phase out over an extended
period. The Japanese government
must now honor its commitments to
the United States and to the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission. The
whale killing must end.

“Scientific” Whaling Fraud

In the agreement with the US.
and in a formal action with the IWC,

Japan stated it would end its Antarc- ‘

tic whaling early in 1987. Indeed,
when the ﬂeet sailed home in April,
it was publicized as the last voyage.
Unfortunately, the whaling industry
immediately announced they would
continue to whale—under the guise
of “scientific research."
Continuing commercial whaling
by calling it "research" has been de-
nounced by responsible scientists
worldwide. A review of the research
plan by the Scientific Committee of
the IWC was highly critical, and in
June the treaty organization adopted
a resolution condemning the Japa—
nese plan. "The commission adopts
the view that the proposed take of
Southern Hemisphere Minke Whales
and Sperm Whales under the pro-
posed research program does not
satisfy the criteria set out in the 1986
Resolution in Special Permits for
Scientific Research," stated the reso-
lution, which “Recommends the
Government of Japan to refrain from

issuing special permits to its natio-
nals for the taking of such whales.’.’
The IWC also condemned similar
schemes by South Korea and Iceland.

Prime Minister Nakasone, embar-
rassed by this blatant attempt to
subvert his government’s commit-
ments, asked the Fisheries Agency
to reconsider its ”research” plan be-
cause it gave “an unfavorable im-
pression" of “being in actuality a
continuation of commercial whal-
ing.” The whaling interests have
refused.

Will Japan's solemn commit-
ments to the United States and to
the International Whaling Commis-
sion be dishonored?

Duplicity

During a lengthy legal challenge
to the U.S.-Japan bilateral by conser—
vationists in the US. courts, the
Japan Whaling Association, seeking
to uphold the validity of the agree-
ment, repeatedly pledged—even
before the US. Supreme Court—that
it "will cease whaling...as of April
ist 1988."

The US. government is outraged
by the betrayal of the commitment
by the Japanese government and
the duplicity of the Japan Whaling
Association. If the whaling ﬂeet sails
for Antarctica this fall, immediate
sanctions against the Japanese
ﬁshing ﬂeet are likely. President
Reagan could embargo Japanese
ﬁshery products under provisions of
the Pelly Amendment to the Fisher-

men's Protective Act.

‘ ' Japan, already heavily criticized

internationally for its trade practices,
will be doubly condemned for its
doublecross on whaling. Japan is
also failing to comply with a ban on
trading in whale products establish-
ed by the Convention on Interna-
tional Trade in Endangered Species,
a 95-nation treaty organization. Con-
servationists worldwide are moun-
ting a campaign to boycott Japanese
ﬁsh and other products in order to
protest the practices of the Japanese
Whalers.

Already this year, the Soviet
Union, South Korea and Iceland
have halted their whaling. And Nor-
way is now considering compliance
with the IWC ban. Will Japan be the
last whaling nation, in deﬁance of
overwhelming international and
scientiﬁc opinion?

 

If you believe Japan should
honor its international
commitments to bring the whale—
killing to an end, please write your
support to: Prime Minister
Nakasone. His address is 1-6-1
Nagata-cho, Chiyoda-ku, 100
'Ibkyo.

 

Fbr more information about whales and
the whaling issue, please write to the
Animal Welfare Institute. AW] is a non—
profit organization that has worked since
1951 to prevent animal suffering and the
exploitation of endangered speCJes. All of
our support comes from concerned
individuals and groups. Contributions are
taxdeductible under US. law.

Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007
U.S.A.

 

 




.By CHRISTINE STEVENS

Befriending Animals

Christine Stevens, Animal Welfare Institute, gives a national
and international view of humane education and its relatedness to class-

room activities.
not diﬂicult to teach kindness to animals.

AS THE CHILD EXPERIENCES THE KINDLY
emotions which can be brought out in
such Simple ways as giving food to a
hungry animal or water to a thirsty one,
he naturally develops an attitude of mind
which is a basic need of civilized human
beings. The need for this gentle and
considerate point of view is greater today
than ever before in the history of the
world.

The abuse of strength and power by
any individual becomes more serious as
the numbers of human beings increase, as
scientiﬁc power increases and as the
natural world correspondingly shrinks.
It is essential that the children growing
up in the 1960’s be truly humane. They
can learn to become so through happy
experiences in befriending animals.

Many teachers haVe told me how much
they value the various humane educa-
tional materials supplied to them by ani-
mal protective organizations with which
I have worked. They point out that noth-
ing else is so effective in character de-
velopment and so much enjoyed by
children while they are learning.

This approach was initiated by George
T. Angell, founder of the American
Humane Education Society. He was
deeply impressed by the fact that none of
the inmates of a BOSton prison had ever
owned a dog or other pet as a child. By
the same token cruelty to animals often

426

Since children have a natural interest in animals, it is

forms a prelude to crimes against human
beings; for example, Francis H. Bloeth,
who murdered three people and who had
previously shown a liking for gruesome
methods of killing cats. Clearly, it is of
great importance that no school activity
should ever give encouragement to the
development of callous or sadistic atti-
tudes.

Kindness to Animals
Around the World

Our country is a leader in humane-
education, and recognition of its impor-
tance is reﬂected in the fact that twenty-
nine states have legislation requiring the
teaching of humane education in their
public schools. Others have followed our
lead and advance the teaching of humane
principles in different ways. In such
faraway countries as Japan and Tan-
ganyika, contests for the best paintings
and posters illustrating kindness to ani-
mals play an important part in the pro-
gram. A Christmas card published by
the Japan Animal Welfare Society and a
poster from the Tanganyika Branch of
the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals expreSs the spirit of
kindness and sympathy so well stated by
Dr. Albert Schweitzer: “We need a
boundless ethics that will include the
animals also.” It is in this spirit of

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

Reverence for Life that the Humane Edu-
cation Institute of Africa was recently
formed. Nearer home, in Canada, the
Kindness Club is ﬂourishing. Each
branch takes an animal name—raccoon,
beaver, chipmunk—but they stand for
kindness to all animals. The Kindness
Club was founded because of the demand
of the children of New Brunswick when
they learned how greatly animals need
such help. The information was gathered
in the course of an essay contest on the
protection of animals. The guide book

Frederic C. Matthaei,
president of

Matthaei Foundation
which last spring
built the Shelter of
the Humane Society
of Washtenaw County,
Michigan, with one

of the many

children who have
adopted an animal
from the “orphanage”

Esther Bublcy
MAY 1962

for leaders now being published may
prove useful in the United States, too.
(See Atlantic Advocate, December 1961.)

The Field Rangers, an English chil-
dren’s club, is in contact with some ﬁfteen
thousand school children. With three
regular weekly classes, monthly outings,
summer camp, “Information Bureau”
library of animal books and monthly ﬁlm
showings, the group is very active. A
special feature is the Pets Corner run for
mentally retarded children in Fountain
Hospital. Club members make two eve-

 

427




ning attendances at the hospital each
week as well as Sunday mornings.

Classroom Activities

Humane education through club activ-
ities ties in well with humane teaching in
the classroom. Here are some notes from
a teacher who visits classrooms for the
San Francisco SPCA: “The children are
enthusiastic . . . Teachers say that the
children apply these kindly feelings to
each other . . . There are always a few
children who do not have pets. I never
urge them to beg their parents to get
them one, because there may be condi-
tions at home making it undesirable to
have one. Instead I suggest special proj-
ects: collecting pictures and stories of
animals from newspapers to put in scrap-
books or visiting the zoo, then going to
the library to borrow books about the
animals they are most interested in.
When a child has just a goldﬁsh I try to
make him feel fortunate, and point out
that even a ﬁsh can be a pet if it is treated
as one. One little girl told me about her
four-year-old goldﬁsh: ‘He is a real pet.
When I feed him I put the food on my
ﬁnger and put my ﬁnger on top of the
water and he comes up to eat.’ I stress
the Golden Rule . . . ‘Treat pets and all
other animals the way you would like to
be treated if you had been born a pet or
any other kind of animal.’ I printed it
in largenlstterstpn-....,a, _. piece... of... cardboard
on which I pasted colored pictures of
animals, and I usually have one child
volunteer to read it to the class, then I
ask the entire class to read it in unison.”

For the teacher who lacks special
knowledge, manuals, books, leaflets and
posters which are available free or for a
small sum can be helpful. First Aid and
Care of Small Animals1 (free to
teachers) provides expert information on

helping all sorts of small creatures in
dlstress.

428

Visit Animal Shelter

A visit to the local humane society
shelter can be very rewarding, and basic
facts about the care and handling of pets
can be illustrated. Young children are
delighted with an opportunity to hold a
puppy or kitten and deeply impressed
when shown exactly how to do this: sup-
porting the animal’s weight with one
hand while holding his front legs with the
other and resting him against the child’s
chest. Respect for the feelings of the
animals is readily learned as each child
shows proudly how comfortably he can
hold a friendly pup. The principles on
which humane societies and SPCA’s are
founded are brieﬂy outlined, and even
the youngest child readily grasps the wish
of each animal for a good home.

Another excellent followup is to have
some calm and friendly pet spend a
morning in the classroom. Discussion on
his needs and care can be extended to
different subjects. Painting and drawing
him and writing about him may be tied in
with reading or storytelling, depending
on the children’s ages.

Science and Humane Education

Science teaching goes hand in hand
with humane education in the study of
nature. A class visit to a park, farm or
woodland opens up great opportunities
formobserving animals in their natural
surroundings and for developing the
careful and thorough observation that
every great scientist has demonstrated
and the respect and compassion for fellow
inhabitants of the earth that every truly
civilized human being must have.

Of paramount importance in science
teaching is the strict avoidance of any
activity which might cause distress to
animals either in or out of classroom.

1 Ernest P. Walker, First Aid and Care of Small Animals
Animal Welfare Institute,

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




”,3,
Y ‘ i
't <
.

fr .,

International New: Photo

A hummingbird gets a drink from an eye-dropper.

Some teachers have been persuaded to
starve small animals in the classroom to
demonstrate long-established facts about
nutrition. The gruesome symptoms of
these unfortunate captives are then ob-
served by the children who, it is assumed,
will thenceforward eat a balanced diet.
That they will have been hardened to the
sufferings of those weaker than they and
will have made a serious start toward the
stultification of all compassionate feel-
ings for the defenseless is brushed aside
as unimportant. This is the antithesis of
genuine education; and when it is carried
to surgery, poisons, cancer implants and
other painful procedures on living ani-
mals, its effects on impressionable young
people are likely to go beyond callous-
ness to sadism. We cannot afford to
accept such teaching practices in a

civilized nation, and ﬁrst-rate science
teaching neither needs nor uses them.

Humane education can be correlated
with the arts as effectively as it can be
with social studies and science. Original
plays by children, in which they act the
parts or in which they use hand puppets
representing animals, can be a great suc-
cess both with the producers and the
viewers. A play about Saint Francis of
Assisi written by a superintendent of
schools offers possibilities for young
actors.

Children have a natural interest in
animals, and it is not difficult to develop
feelings of sympathy and desire to help
living creatures who are smaller and
more helpless than the children them-
selves.

Reprinted from Cmumooo EDUCATION
MAY 1962
ASSOCIATION FOR CHILDHOOD EDUCATION INTERNATIONAL
615 Wisconsin Avenue Northwest
Washinnton 16, D. C.
Released through
DEPARTMENT or EDUCATION UUA
25 Beacon Street, Boston 8, Mass.
Five Cents

 




 

MAINICHI DAILY NEWS April 10, 1988

 

  

WorldPaper Page 11

 

A Whale of a Murder Story

International Community Condemns Japan’s Fraudulent “Research”

 

Japan now stands condemned before
the world as an outlaw whaling nation.
The Japanese government pledged to
the International Whaling Commission
(IWC) and to the United States govern-
ment that it would comp- '
ly with a worldwide ban on
commercial whaling. But
Japan has arrogantly con-
tinued to kill whales for
commercial purposes.

The Ministry of Agricul-
ture, Forestry and Fishe-
ries calls the whaling
"research. " But the rest of
the world knows what it is:
commercial whaling in the 2;:
guise of science. The
Scientific Committee of .
the IWC has twice found ' ‘ ' "
Japan's “research" fun-
damentally lacking in any ‘ ”
scientific validity. The full " . , .
IWC has twice overwhel- ~ _
mingly adopted resolu- - '
tions against Japan’s
“research" whaling. The '
minister of fisheries ﬁ-
flagrantly dissembled
when he claimed that the
distinguished scientists of the IWC had
expressed “no substantive opposition”
to the scheme. In fact, J apan's scientists
were humiliated by their peers when the
scheme was exposed at a special
meeting in England in December.

U.S. Retaliates

The United States has now imposed
heavy economic sanctions against
Japan's fishing industry for “conduc-
ting whaling operations that diminish
the effectiveness of the IWC conserva-
tion program." The Japanese fishing
fleet, which has caught billions of
dollars worth of fish within the US.
ZOO-mile zone over the past ten years, is
effectively barred by the Packwood-
Magnuson Amendment from any fur-
ther fishing. And President Reagan is
now empowered, under the Pelly
Amendment to embargo any or all
fishery products from Japan. Total US.
imports of marine products from Japan

totalled more than $500 million in 1987. »

In a February letter to President
Reagan certifying J apan's outlaw whal-
ing, US. Secretary of Commerce C.
William Verity declared that ”the report
of the Scientific Committee reveals that
Japan did not succeed in satisfying the
Committee that the defects in its
(research) program had been cured. " At
the same time, the full International
Whaling Commission voted to condemn
the “research" whaling. Twenty na-
tions supported the United Kingdom
resolution telling Japan to refrain from
killing whales, including the US,
China, West Germany, Sweden,
Switzerland, Finland, Spain, Brazil,
Argentina, New Zealand and Australia.
Just five nations supported Japan in
opposition.

Japan is not only practicing defiance
but deceit as well. In 1984, US.

Secretary of Commerce Malcolm
Baldrige signed an official agreement on
the whaling issue with the Foreign
Ministry of Japan. The bilateral agree-
ment required the US. to withhold

'Sperm Whale I

economic sanctions for three years
while Japan continued whaling in de-
fiance of the IWC cessation. In return,
Japan agreed to phase out its whaling
and to comply with the ban at the end
of the 1987 whaling season. When con-
servation groups challenged the
bilateral in US. courts, the lawyer for the
Japan Whaling Association and the
Japan Fisheries Association pledged
before the US. Supreme Court that
Japan “will cease whaling. "

Whalers’ Lles

Japan is being discredited by a hand-
ful of powerful politicians, ruthless in-
dustry executives and recalcitrant
bureaucrats who are willing to drag the
nation's image through the mud while
cynically killing off the last of the great
whales. These whaling interests spread
misinformation to justify the killing.
Their claim that there is justification for
the “research" whaling has made

Japan the subject of ridicule in the world
scientific community.

They claim that commercial whaling
will be allowed to resume in 1990. The
truth is that the IWC has adopted and

 

indefinite cessation of all commercial
whaling. It will last forever unless three
quarters of the IWC member nations
vote to resume whaling. The first year
that the cessation will be reconsidered
is 1990, but it is highly unlikely that
Japan will be allowed to resume a com-
mercial kill, particularly in light of its
total defiance of IWC directives.

The whaling interests claim that
there are “10,000 workers" engaged in
whaling and that another “50,000" are
dependent upon whaling to survive.
The fact is that there are fewer than 300
directly employed in whaling now—the
ﬂeet that sailed to Antarctica had less
than 160 men on board. The industry
only survives with massive government
subsidies—at least $5 million this
year—and protection from competing

meat imports. J apan's whaling industry-

is less than one percent (1 %) of its size
in the early 1960's.
The plain fact is that the Whalers are

 

tax-deductible under US. law.

 

Please Help Save the Whales

You can help protect the last of the whales by supporting the appeals by the In-
ternational Whaling Commission, the United Nations and tens of millions of con-
cerned citizens of the world who are working to halt the slaughter that has driven
the great whales to the brink of extinction. The great astronomer Carl Sagan
reflects upon the issue: ‘ ‘The cetaceans hold an important lesson for us. The lesson
is not about whales and dolphins but about ourselves. There is at least moderately
convincing evidence that there is another class of intelligent beings on Earth
besides ourselVes. They havebehaved benignly and in many cases affectionately
toward us. We have systematically slaughtered them."

Please wn' te a letter to Prime Minister Takeshi ta, urging him to bring Japanese
government policy into compliance with its obligations and agreements to ha] t
the whale-killing. His address is 1-6-1 Nagataclio, Chiyoda-ku 100, Tokyo.

For more information aboutwhales and the whaling issue, please writeto the
Animal Welfare Institute. AWI is a non-profit organization that has worked since
1951 to prevent animal suffering and the exploitation of endangered species. All
of our support comes from concerned individuals and groups. Contributions are

Anlmal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650

 

Washlngton, D.C. 20007 U.S.A.

 

responsible for the death of their in-
dustry. They cynically liquidated the
resource in the pursuit of quick profits.
On the high seas, Japan's huge ﬂeets
led the destruction of the mightly blue
whales. Japan only agreed
.; to halt the killing of the
,_ largest animal ever to live
" on Earth when its seven
fleets could not find a
' single whale to kill! Then
the other, smaller whale
. , species were systemati-

' * callywipedout.InJapan’s
coastal waters, the
Whalers drove the Korean
gray whale to extinction,
and all but exterminated
the humpback and right
whales.

Japan Dlshonored

The outlaw whaling has
brought shame upon
Japan. The United Na-
tions has repeatedly called
for a moratorium. In .
February, the Internatio-
nal Union for the Conser-
' vation of Nature adopted a
resolution calling for Japan to abide by
the rules and guidelines of the IWC.
Leading news papers in North America
have condemned the whaling and sup-
ported U.S. sanctions:

New York Times (3 January 1988):
“Japan’s willingness to engage in
scientific subterfuge to satisfy its
hunger for whale meat is deplor-
able;,defying the IWC's scientific
judgment compounds the offense."

Los Angeles Tim es (20 February
1988): "Japan's defiance of the inter-
national community on whaling is
the more to be regretted because so
many concessions had been granted
to Japan as commercial whaling was
phased out."

Vancouver Province (4 January 1988):
"Japan is fooling no one. The true
purpose of the hunt is commercial.
The scientific merits of Japan's pro-
posed research—the study of popula-
tion and reproductive cycles—have
been discredited. The research will
not be conclusive and, more telling-
ly, the data could as easily be col-
lected without killing any whales."

Miami Herald (28 December 1987):
”If world treaties on endangered
species are to have any meaning,
then those nations that adhere to
them must punish those that don't.
Period. No exceptions. And no
loopholes."

San Francisco Examiner (24 January
1988): Surely the Japanese do not
hope to carry on forever a discredited
hunt that other nations have quit.
Japan agreed to stop also, at the end
of the 1 986-87 season. and should do
so without any run-mounds."

  

 

 

 




Save the Whales and Dolphins
The Time Is Now

 

 

 

 

 

 

"... the people... are right in their impassioned insistence that we not resume commercial harvest
of whales..." Representative Gerry Studds speaking on the ﬂoor of the House of Representatives
before passage by a 382 to 0 vote on a resolution against commercial whaling.

In 1985, the nations that belong to the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission (IWC) voted for an
indefinite cessation of commercial whaling. Intense
public pressure served notice to whaling countries
that the hunts that drove the great whales to the brink
of extinction would no longer be tolerated. But the
_ cetaceans (whales, dolphins and porpoises) that have
survived face great environmental threats to their
survival. Pollution of the seas by toxic waste and
PCB's and the results of ozone depletion, climate
change, toxic algal blooms and mysterious diseases
are increasingly devastating whales and dolphins.

But despite these dangers, the IWC is considering
adoption of the Revised Management Procedure
(RMP). The RMP would end the current international
moratorium on the commercial hunting of whales. It
is based on unreliable data and out—dated ecological
principles. The government and whaling industry of
Japan demand a resumption of commercial whaling.
Norway has stated that it will slaughter hundreds of
minke whales in defiance of any IWC regulation.

The Japanese government and whaling industry
have continued to trade in pirated whale meat and to
overhunt Dall's porpoises and striped dolphins con-
trary to IWC resolutions. Dall's porpoises have suf—
fered significant decline and the striped dolphin is
near extinction. The carcasses of Dall's porpoises are
processed at the factory of one of Japan's biggest
whaling companies, New Nippo (formerly Nihon
Hogei which was owned by Taiyo Fisheries, impli-
cated in extensive pirate whaling operations world-
wide). The Dall's porpoise meat is being sold fraudu-
lently as "whale meat."

The Japanese government and whaling industry
have lost the support of the Japanese people. So
serious is this loss of support that the government is
spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to promote
the eating of whale meat. Whale watching has taken
root in many Japanese communities. Thousands of
Japanese people ﬂock to see whales around the J apa—
nese coastline, and the growing whale watching in-
dustry has provided a vital source of income for

 




depressed fishing communities. Operators of the new
whale watching industry complain that the govern—
ment is trying to discourage it because of pressure
from the big whaling companies.

A senior Japanese conservationist says "What is

needed is international pressure on the Japanese gov- .

ernment to stop whaling."

Japan and Norway are not alone in the assault
against the world’s cetaceans. A report by the Envi-
ronmental Investigation Agency, The Global War
Against Small Cetaceans, documents the killing of
over 1000 small cetaceans in Chile, to be used as crab
bait, and between 6000 and 7000 in Venezuela, for
shark bait. One of the largest and cruelest whale hunts

in the world occurs in the Faroe Islands. Over 1,000
extraordinarily gregarious and intelligent pilot whales
are slaughtered every year. Bottlenose whales, white
sided dolphins, harbor porpoises and orcas are some-
times killed as well. A Faroese official explained the
reasons for the slaughter as “sport, tradition and a way
of obtaining cheap food.”

For over 20 years, the Animal Welfare Institute
has labored to protect marine mammals. At this
crucial time, before the upcoming IWC meeting in
Japan, we ask for your help. We were instrumental in
the implementation of the current moratorium. With
your help, we can defeat the greedy whale killers
again.

 

WHAT YOU CAN DO

Write a letter to President Clinton.
Ask him to stop importation of ﬁsh products from Japan
and Norway. The Pelly Amendment provides the Presi-
dent with the power to impose certain economic sanctions
when it is determined that a country is undermining the
effectiveness of the IWC. Tell him you strongly oppose the
adoption of the Revised Management Procedure and that
you hope the US will stand ﬁrm to maintain the morato-
rium on commercial whaling. Tell him how glad you are
that his administration has expressed in such strong terms
its commitment to protecting the environment and the
animals who share it with us.

The President

The White House

Washington, DC. 20500

Write letters to the Ambassadors of Japan and Norway
Tell them their countries' slaughter of whales and dolphins
offends world opinion. Remind them that there is strong
demand for a boycott of products from any country which
hunts whales for commercial purposes. Tell them whale
watching will do more for their economies than whale
killing.

His Excellency

Takakazu Kuriyama

The Ambassador of Japan

2520 Massachusetts Ave., NW.
Washington, DC. 20008

His Excellency

Kjeld Vibe

The Ambassador of Norway
2720 34th St, N .W.
Washington, DC. 20008

And follow up on your convictions. Do not buy Japanese

and Norwegian products.

 

I want to help save the whales.
Please send me:

__ copies of this leaﬂet
__ posters (one free, extras $1.00)
_ "Sperm Whales" print
(a donation of $20 or more per print)

"Save the Whales" T—shirts

__ Adult's T-shirts ($6.00 each)

D Sm Cl Med D Lg Cl X-Lg
__ Children's T-shirts ($5.00 each)
[38m DMed DLg DX-Lg
__ Adult‘s sweatshirts ($15.00 each)
[38m DMed DLg DX-Lg

For more information:

CI Whales vs. Whalers: A Continuing Commentary.
Articles published from 1971 to the present in AW] Quar-
terly on efforts to prevent extinction of whales. ($6.00)
Cl The Global War Against Small Cetaceans. A report by
the Environmental Investigation Agency. ($15.00)

Enclosed please find $ to help save the whales
and $ for my order.

Please Print:
Name

 

Address

 

City, state, zip

 

 

 

 

 




“Is it not illogical to hunt
a species to extinction?”

—Mr. Spock
Star Trek IV:
The Voyage Home

THE
WHALES

 

 

 

 

 

“IS IT NOT ILLOGICAL T O HUNT A SPECIES T O EXTINCTION?” asks Mr. Spock in Star
Trele IV.- The Voyage Home. This question raised by the always logical Mr. Spock is ech-

oed by environmentalists worldwide.

 

BUT THE KILLING GOES ON

 

“In the light of our present
knowledge of these magniﬁcent

because a few nations cynically continue to liquidate the remain- mammals, no civilized person

ing whale stocks.

can contemplate whaling without
revulsion and shame at the

Hunted to the brink of extinction, the great whales now survive insensitivity of our own species.
in such few numbers that scientists fear several species may dis- Whaling is an “ﬁrm"; to human
appear forever. The slaughter continues, carried out by a handful dignity, a debasement of human
of nations defying the warnings of scientists and the appeals of values and sensitivities.”

millions of concerned citizens throughout the world.

-—Sir Peter Scott

Japan, Norway, and Iceland are sending their fast catcher boats “The moot point is, whether

to chase down the last of the whales.

They seek to extract the last yen and kroner from the slaughter of

the magniﬁcent whales.

 

 

 

 

Leviathan can long endure so
wide a chase, and so remorseless
a havoc . . . ”

—Herman Melville

 

WHALIN G MORATORIUM
DEFIED

In 1972, the United Nations Conference on
the Human Environment, meeting in Stock-
holm, unanimously called for a moratorium
on all commercial whaling. The whaling
nations deﬁantly ignored the appeal—and
have killed more than 350,000 of the great
creatures since. Then in 1982, the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission (W C) adopted
by 25 to 7 an indeﬁnite moratorium on all
commercial whaling. They found the num-
ber of whales so depleted that a total cessa-
tion is necessary to give the populations a
chance to recover. The majority of the whal-
ing nations have complied, but three arro-
gantly continue to hunt.

The United States has laws calling for economic sanctions against outlaw whaling nations, but the
Reagan Administration refuses to enforce them. The Packwood-Magnuson Amendment requires an auto-
matic loss of ﬁshing allocations within the US. ZOO-mile zone. But our State Department, yielding to
pressure from Japan made a deal to allow the illicit ﬁshing to continue until 1988.

Now Japan has announced its plan to sail to the Antarctic to kill 875 whales every year for the next ten
years! It plans to sell the meat and oil in the same old way, but instead of acknowledging this as commer-
cial whaling, it wants to rename it “research whaling” in order to get around the decisions of the Inter-
national Whaling Commission. This outrageous misuse of the Treaty’s provision for Scientiﬁc Permits
was tailored to avoid US. sanctions voted by the Congress to prevent just such duplicitous actions.

 




PLEASE HELP DECIDE THE FATE OF THE WHALES

What will future generations of humans say of us? Will they pay
us tribute for halting the greedy slaughter of the creatures with
the most complex brains on earth? Or will they condemn us for
callously allowing the extermination of an entire intelligent race,
one that evolved over 200 million years, for margarine and live-
stock feed.

 

“Can he who has discovered the
values of whalebone and whale
oil be said to have discovered the
true sense of the whale? Can he
who slays the elephant for his
ivory be said to have seen the
elephant? These are petty and
accidental uses; just as if a
stronger race were to kill us in
order to make buttons and
ﬂageolots of our bones.”
—Henry David Thoreau

Now, Japan and other whaling nations plan to continue their
whaling in the guise of scientiﬁc research. Iceland has taken over
100 endangered whales for “research”, even though the Scientiﬁc
Committee of the IWC refuses to endorse their program. Then,
this whale meat is sold to Japan for millions of dollars, revealing
the true purpose of the hunt. Responsible scientists throughout
the world are denouncing this manipulative maneuver.

 

PUBLIC PRESSURE IS CRUCIAL NOW ”

Please take these actions to help the whales. and addresses are:

Japan Norway

His Excellency His Excellency

Nobuo Matsunaga Kjell Eliassen
Ambassador of Japan Ambassador of Norway
2520 Massachusetts Avenue, NW 2720 34th Street, NW
Washington, DC 20008 Washington, DC 20008

1. Boycott all goods from Japan, Iceland and Nor-
way. Hit the whaling nations in the only place
they can understand, their pocketbooks. Ask
your friends to join the boycott. Particularly tar-
get ﬁsh from the whaling nations. Much of the
fresh salmon sold in the United States comes
from Norway. Many fast food restaurants use Ice-
landic cod for their ﬁsh sandwiches. Artiﬁcial
crab legs (surimi) are marketed by the Japanese.
Ask your local markets and restaurants to buy

Iceland

His Excellency

Ingvi S. Ingvarsson
Ambassador of Iceland

2022 Connecticut Avenue, NW
Washington, DC 20008

their ﬁsh elsewhere.

. Write a letter to President Reagan urging him to
enforce US. sanctions against the whaling na-
tions for their deﬁance of the moratorium. The
State Department must not be allowed to sell
out the great whales again. President Reagan’s
address is The White House, Washington, DC,
20500.

. Write letters to the Ambassadors of Japan, Ice-
land and Norway demanding that they halt the
needless slaughter of the whales. Their names

. Although the USSR announced in May, 1987

that they were halting commercial whaling, the
Soviets are refusing to withdraw their objection
to the WC moratorium and have indicated an
intention to resume commercial whaling some-
time in the future. Write the Soviet Ambassador
demanding that the Russian objection be with-
drawn.

Soviet Union

His Excellency

Yuri Dubinin

The Ambassador of the USSR

1125 16th Street, NW
Washington, DC 20036

 

The Animal Welfare Institute is anon-proﬁt, educa:
tional organization established in 1.951 to reduce}
animal suffering and protect ~. endangered speCies.
Funds contributed will be used to. infOrm the; pub: .5
lie of the problem of whale isurVival , and how to
help end the killing. We are proud of'thej Way we
manage your contributions. A copy ' 0f 'AWI’s . an?" I
nual report is available on written reqUest to AWI
or to the New York State Department of State,"
Ofﬁce of Charities Registration, Albany, NY 12251.5 "

You can help save the whales and publicize the
boycott campaign by making a TAX-DEDUCTI-
BLE CONTRIBUTION to the Save the Whales
Campaign. If you believe in this effort, please
give generously. For a donation of $15 or more,
you will receive a beautiful six-color print of
sperm whales by renowned marine life artist
Richard Ellis. Measuring 20” x 26", they are
printed on ﬁne art paper and are ready for
mounting. (See reverse side of ﬂyer.)

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007 Christine Stevens, President
IF THIS ORDER IS URGENT, PLEASE ADD $2.50 FOR PRIORITY MAIL, POSTAGE AND HANDLING.

I want to help save the whales. Please send me:

Copies of this leaﬂet
Petitions

“SAVE THE WHALES” T -shirts

Adult’s T-shirts ($6.00 each)
Posters (one free, extras 40¢) [j Sm [3 Med E] Lg

“Spderm Whalisgltgrgg . Children’s T-shirts ($5.00 each)
(a onation o . or more per print) El Sm [:1 Med [:1 Lg

to help SAVE THE WHALES Adult’s sweatshirts ($15.00 each)
and $_________ for my order. Cl Med [:1 Lg [:1 X~Lg

MAKE CHECK PAYABLE T O: Animal Welfare Institute (D.C. residents add 6% sales tax)
Name (please print)
Address

City

C] X-Lg

Enclosed please ﬁnd $

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




T: “4314:14ka \ W141, A;

1115‘” 441‘! iWJ

T \

 




Price $1.00

[\NIMAL \Vnmnuuc INSTITUTE
l’. (L [HDX 3K”5()

\VAHIIIN(."I‘()N. I). (‘. 1:000?

I:YC(T Ii» \ C(UrIILIriJils .llhi i” I\|Hl\ (iiiidiiViwi i»\‘ It'xiziiili IIINIIILIIH>IIS hi flic

I11.iii.ii:cmciit n! .iiiim.i| («Ilillll(‘\ (I! k.il(' ml .lHHH‘llg,‘

A N H M A 55

IEXPR E883 @N s,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pagc 44 Page 47
Page .26
')«l):(' 1‘)
Page 37
Pdgt‘ 7 Pagi' 5'
Page $2
P; v-
p32“ $6 Pagv .26 I“ ‘8
Page 41
My .41 _——-
Page 16
Page 42
Page 43

 

 

ANIMAL WEUFA EE HNSTHTUTE

 

Cldver piCturcs: 1116 CornfM>SiU2iS H1JLJC tinin snidiltJCtJilsiwt Fluit051rapdis \ViﬁCII
appear on Other Pilges of this hunk with the hiickgrmimi in \Vi‘liCh the animal
EXFWCSSEd HSelf.'Tins didgrdni mt ninnhered iﬁctures giyes Hie page ianﬂaer
On which the more complete PhotongPh .IPPCJL‘S.

 

 




 

 

AN II I\/\ AIL
J IEXPRIESSuoNS

A photographic footnote to Charles Darwin’s

Expression of the Emotions, in Man and Animal;

 

I Prepared by the
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

1967

 

 




TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

 

 

 

 

FOREWORD
INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................ 1
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS .................................................................................................................... 3
I. AFFECTION ....................................................................................................... 4
II. JOY
Expression of Exuberant Spirits; Playfulncss ................................................. H)
III. CONTENTMENT
Social Interactions Among Animals of the Same or
Different Species or Man ..................................................................................................... 20
VI. PAIN, ANGER, ANXIETY, AND DEPRESSION . .o .s 53
VI. TERROR ............................................................................................................... 53

Note: Titles of chapters mainly follow Darwin's distinctions as set

forth in his chapter on ”Special Expressions of Animals."

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

FOREWORD

A glance at the calendar tells me that it’s been
seven years since I had the honor to write the fore-
word for the ﬁrst printing of Animal Expressions.
Where has all this time gone so quickly.

In the interim, the original Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act of 1966 has been extensively broad—
ened, and many more animals and operations using
animals have been covered. We can look into la-
boratories and laboratory animal dealerships—and
now also into wholesale pet dealerships, exotic ani-
mal dealerships, zoos, and circuses—and see many
improvements over what existed when I wrote the
ﬁrst foreword.

Yes, today we can take more delight in the ex-
pressions of joy and contentment shown by animals
in this book. They remind all of those in the hu—
mane movement who have worked diligently that
the conditions of animals used in commerce have
signiﬁcantly improved. Also, these expressions should
give satisfaction to those responsible in research
laboratories, dealers, and exhibitors who have pro-
vided humane living conditions for the animals
involved.

Still, I am concerned about all the time that has
passed. We need to balance what has been accom-
plished by the great deal of work left to be done.
So I am reminded of the famous quote attributed
to Dr. Albert Schweitzer—that giant among human-
itarians—who said: “Time is the gift of life. Use it
carefully!”

Perhaps I am too impatient. Perhaps I should

August 22, 1974

lisren to the voices that try to temper the civil rights
movement in this country. ”Look at how much bet-
ter the disadvantaged minorities have it today,” is
their plea. And, indeed, like disadvantaged animals,
disadvantaged people have seen some real improve-
ments.

But then I hear the voices of the disadvantaged
themselves. They cry: ”Equality today!” They point
with alarm at all the time that has passed since key
court decisions and Federal legislation deﬁned their
rights. They want to be able to enjoy those rights
in their own lifetime. They don’t want to postpone
realization of those rights until a brighter tomorrow
that might come only in the lifetimes of their chil-
dren’s children.

So, when I took another look at some of the ex—
pressions of animals in this book, it were as if I
heard them also plead for realization of their legal
rights today. I looked at images of fear, anger, and
hate and felt them as accusations that we humans
are responsible for many of the conditions that bring
about animal expressions such as these.

We should place ourselves, at least mentally, in
the environment that these animals ﬁnd themselves.
Then, I believe, we would be able to hear them say
to us with their friend, Dr. Schweitzer: ”Time is the
gift of life. Use it carefully.”

To that motto, we who care about animal wel-
fare rededicate ourselves. And to that motto, I dedi-
cate this foreword.

F. J. MULHERN, D.V.M.
Administrator, Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service

U. S. Department of Agriculture

 




 

 

 

INTRODUCTION

When Charles Darwin wrote Expression of the
Emotions in Man and Animals, photography was
rigid in its techniques; and there was little possi-
bility of recording aymultitude of facial expressions
or expressive gestures and attitudes under a variety of
situations. The book was sparsely illustrated and to
a modern reader seems to call out for illustrations
to demonstrate its points. Darwin’s penetrating ob-
servations and his broad understanding of the way
that inward feelings may be expressed, especially
by the higher mammals, led the Animal Welfare
Institute to prepare this pictorial footnote to Dar-
win's original work.

The purpose is one which Darwin would have
approved, for he was outstandingly humane in his
attitude toward animals: it is to acquaint persons
whose scientific, professional, technical, or admin-
istrative work requires them to deal with animals,
with basic concepts of animal expression, and to
assist them in understanding and communicating in
some degree with those upon whom their work

depends.

Darwin listed in his chapter entitled "Special Ex-
pressions of Animals” the following: Joy, affection,
pain, anger, astonishment, and terror. In other chap-
ters he dealt also with subtler and more intermediate
emotional expressions; for example, ”perplexed dis-
comfort” caused by indecision. He was specific in
stating his disagreement with Sir C. Bell, who "evi-
dently wished to draw as broad a distinction as pos-
sible between man and the lower animals," a tend-
ency still prevalent today. Darwin wrote that Bell
”consequently asserts that with 'the lower creatures
there is no expression but what may be referred more
or less plainly, to their acts of volition or necessary
instincts.’ He further maintains that their faces ‘seem
chiefly capable of expressing rage and fear. But man
himself,” Darwin continues, "cannot express love
and humility by external signs, so plainly as does a
dog, when with drooping ears, hanging lips, flex-
uous body, and wagging tail, he meets his beloved
master. Nor can these movements in the dog be ex-
plained by acts of volition or necessary instincts, any
more than the beaming eyes and smiling cheeks of
a man when he meets an old friend. If Sir C. Bell
had been questioned about the expression of affec-
tion in the dog, he would no doubt have answered
that this animal had been created with special in-
- stincts, adapting him for association with man, and
that all further enquiry on the subject was super-

fluous.” Thus does Darwin dismiss an unscientific
and dogmatic approach, in which the capability of
animals to feel and to express themselves is belittled
thrOugh prejudice.

Darwin‘ shows the breadth of the field by em-
phasizing communication between animals. "With
the social animals," he writes, "the power of inter-
communication between the members of the same
community,-—and with other species, between the
opposite sexes, as well as between the young and the
old,——is of the highest importance to them. This is
generally effected by means of the voice, but it is cer-
tain that gestures and expressions are to a certain
extent mutually intelligible. Man not only uses in-
articulate cries, gestures and expressions, but has in-
vented articulate language; if, indeed, the word in-
vented can be applied to a process, completed by in-
numerable steps, half-consciously made. Any one who
has watched monkeys will not doubt that they per-
fectly understand each other’s gestures and expres-
sion, and to a large extent, as Rengger asserts, those
of man.”

Vivid examples of this are found in the experi-
ences of Baroness Jane van Lawick-Goodall (My
Friends tbe Wild Chimpanzeer, National Geographic
Society, 1967) and of Ernest Walker, who has re-
corded the vocal expressions of the douroucouli mon-
key, giving interpretations, some of which he has
tested by imitating them to strange douroucouli mon-
keys and obtaining an immediate friendly response.
(Studying Our Fellow Mammals, Animal Welfare
Institute, 1966.)

Though apparently less scientific in his approach,
Richard Burton kept a band of monkeys who dined
with him often and with whom he communicated
through their own language.

Clearly, the possibilities of communication with
other species are far greater than is generally sup-
posed; but it is not the purpose of this short book to
attempt highly complicated and demanding efforts
on the part of its readers. Rather, the clearest forms
of expression, those least ambiguous or inclined to
misinterpretation, are the ones we wish to stress.

To take the first in Darwin’s list of animal ex-
pression: Joy, he writes, "Under a transport of Joy
or of vivid Pleasure, there is a strong tendency to
various purposeless movements, and to the utterance
of various sounds. We see this in our young children,
in their loud laughter, clapping of hands and jump-

 




 

 

 

 

ing for joy; in the bounding and barking of a dog
when going out to walk with his master; and in the
frisking of a horse when turned out into an Open
field. Joy quickens the circulation, and this stimulates
the brain, which again reacts on the whole body.
He offers an interesting theory to explain these ex-
pressive movements, saying, “Now with animals of
all kinds the acquirement of almost all their pleas-
ures, with the exception of those of warmth and rest,
are associated and have long been associated With
active movements, as in the hunting or search for
food, and in their courtship. Moreover, the mere ex-
ertion of the muscles after long rest or confinement
is in itself a pleasure, as we ourselves feel, and as
we see in the play of young animals. Therefore, on
this latter principle alone we might perhaps expect,
that vivid pleasure would be apt to show itself con-
versely in muscular movements.” And commenting
on special expressions, he says, "A dog in cheerful
spirits and trotting before his master with high, elas-
tic steps, generally carries his tail aloft, thOugh it is
not held nearly, so stiffly as when he is angered. A
horse when first turned out into an open field, may
be seen to trot with long elastic strides, the head and
tail being held high aloft. Even cows when they frisk
about from pleasure, throw up their tails in a ridic-
ulous fashion.”

Having described a series of typical expressive
movements of dogs, Darwin notes that they are "in-
nate or instinctive, for they are common to all the
individuals, young and old of all the breeds. Most of
them are likewise common to the aboriginal parents
of the dog, namely the wolf and jackal; and some
of them to other species of the same group. Tamed
wolves and jackals, when caressed by their masters,
Jump about for joy, wag their tails, lower their ears,
lick their master’s hands, crouch down, and even
throw themselves on the ground, belly upwards."

The latter action has been fully described by Kon-
rad Lorenz both in King Solomon’s King (Thomas
Y. Crowell, 1952) and On Aggression (Harcourt
Brace and World, 1966), as a gesture of submission

which prevents the victorious wolf from killing the
vanquished.

The same gesture is seen among the least wolf-
like of dogs, chihuahuas, kept under observation by
Dr, Michael liox in a study of social interactions,
Photographs of these same dogs seeing a mirror for
the first time are also shown (page 23).

In this connection it is interesting to nOte Darwin’s
description of the reaction of primates to a mirror:
"Many years ago, in the 7mological Gardens, I placed
a looking-glass on the floor before two young or-
angs, who, as far as it was known, had never be-
fore seen one. At first they gazed at their own images
with the most steady surprise, and often changed
their point of \'lC\\'. They then approached close and
protruded their lips towards the image, as if to kiss
it, in exactly the same manner as they had previously
done towards each other, when first placed, a few
days before, in the same room. They next made all
sorts of grimaces, and put themselves in various atti-
tudes before the mirror; they pressed and rubbed the
surface; they placed their hands at different dis-
tances behind it; looked behind it; and finally seem-
ed almost frightened, started a little, became cross,
and refused to look any longer."

The reaction of animals to mirrors appears to be
a true distinction from man in that no reports exist
of animals developing an interest in their own re-
flection in a self-conscious manner. On the other
hand, smiling, often considered a purely human form
of expression, is reported by Darwin in 'primates:
"The Cebu; azame when rejoiced at again seeing
a beloved person, utters a peculiar tittering (kiCh-
ernden) sound. It also expresses agreeable sensa-
tions, by drawing back the corners of its mouth, with
out producing any sound. Rengger calls this move-
ment laughter, but it would be more appr0priately
called a smile.”

Photographs by Ernest Walker of a Chimpanzee
and a douroucouli monkey show the smiles of two
other species of non-human primates.

 

 

 




 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The Animal Welfare Institute acknowledges with
profound gratitude the generosity of the gifted pho-
tographers who have made this book possible: Erica
Anderson, known internationally for her photographs
of Dr. Albert Schweitzer and Lambardné, and who
has now founded the Schweitzer Friendship House
in Great Barrington, Massachusetts; Stan Wayman,
whose work is known to all readers of Life magazine
and whose prize-winning animal picture stories have
brought understanding of animals to millions; Baron
Hugo van Lawick, foremost photographer of wild
chimpanzees, whose wife, Baroness Jane van Law-
ick-Goodall, has acquired an unsurpassed knowledge
of these remarkable animals in their African homes;
and Ernest P. Walker, author of the classic three-
volume Mammals of Ilse World, whose skill in cap-
turing expressions is the result of a lifetime of sym-
pathetic study of the animals for whom he has such
great respect and admiration.

The Institute is greatly indebted. to those experts
whose experience and training combined with un-
usual "perceptiveness made their evaluation of photo-

graphs submitted to them of particular value in edit-
ing the book: Dr. Francis J. Mulhern, Deputy Ad-
ministrator of the Agricultural Research Service,
United States Department of Agriculture, who has
had broad experience with a wide variety of animals
and has an immediate response to significant animal
gestures and expressions; Dr. Michael W. Fox, some
of whose experimental work in animal behavior and
psychology is shown in the following pages and who
is the author of numerous scientific papers and books,
including Canine Be/mw'or and Canine Pediatrics;
and Ernest Bélanger, Superintendent of the Animal
House, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ottawa,
whose development of the Ottawa System, shown in
the film, ”Laboratory Dogs,” was based on under-
standing of animals and a direct, personal grasp of
their expressions and feelings.

Finally, the Institute wishes to thank Dr. Leonard
Carmichael and the National Geographic Society, of
which he is Vice President for Research and Explor-
ation,.for their quick response to an appeal for as-
sistance in obtaining certain photographs.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Photo by Baron Hugo van Lawick
(c) National Geographic Socuety

AFFECTION

Expressions of affection by the higher mammals for one another or for
human beings are among the easiest of the facial expressions to recoganC-
Companionship, whether with members of its own species or another, in wthh

amicable social relationships exist are basic to contentment among primRtCS,
dogs, and cats.

These pictures of wild chimpanzees in Africa show a completely natural
expressron of affection between mother and infant. Affection on the part of
an older SISter for her little brother is shown in the second photograph.

4

 

 




 

 

 

Photo by Baron Hugo van Lawick
(c) National Geographic Society

The National Geographic Society description of this scene states: "Fifi
(left) a chimpanzee in Africa’s Gombe Stream Game Reserve, nuzzles her bro-
ther, Flint, while their mother, Flo, holds the baby. Fifi succeeded in taking
the infant from Flo when he was 13 weeks old. Jealous of her charge, Fifi for
several months refused to let other young chimps approach her baby brother.
Then when Flint became too independent, Fifi left him to his mother. F10 and
her offspring are among the chimpanzees studied “in the wild by Baroness Jane

Van Lawick-Goodall under a National Geographic Society grant.”

5

 




 

 

 

 

Photograph by Marvin Ehlin, The Jewish Hospital of Brooklyn

 

l The affectionate expression conveyed by this dog's eyes, mouth, and tilt

l of head is readily recognizable. This laboratory pen is her home. Her OlaHCC,

. D
directed at the staff member who cares for her and her half-grown pup, plainly

1‘ shows her appreciation and devotion.

 

 




 

 

Photograph by Erica Anderson

The contented and relaxed
attitude of this dog who liv-
ed at Lambaréné with Dr.
Schweitzer demonstrates that
affection felt for the nurse
can be expressed even with
closed eyes. Eyes are usually
the most expressive and
should be looked at first
when assessing the emotional
state of an animal.

In the photograph of two
dogs, a monkey and a goat at
Lambaréné, a somewhat more
complex interplay of emo-
tions, all positive, are shown.
Erica Anderson, who took
hundreds of photographs and
two full-length films at Lam-
baréné, never saw any of the
animals there fight with each
other. She writes: "I have
seen the strangest combina-
tions, pelican with chimp, cat
with goat, dog with chicken.
They loved to play, to chase,
to eat together, to sleep next
to each other. They felt pro-
tected and sure of themselves
and among each other. The
dog, Catherine (shown in the
photograph below) who nurs-
ed a monkey and later gave
him rides on her back, was
always greeted by Schweitzer

with ‘Catherine, Catherine, when the good Lord created you, he outdid himself.’ He loved to
show his animals to his visitors and was proud of them.” The self-conscious expression on
Catherine’s face, eying the photographer while the other three animals pay no attention, may
have developed as a result of the attention focused on her by Dr. Schweitzer because she

mothered the orphan monkey.

 

Photograph by Erica Anderson

 




 

 

 

 

l’hotograph by Erica Anderson

Another intra-species friendship, in this case between a monkey and a
goat at Lambaréné, is illustrated in this photograph, in which the monkey

solicitously feeds the goat. Note the position of the monkey’s head, the atten-
tion and interest paid to the other animals.




     

Photograph by Ernest. P. Walker, (c) 1953 (1956), National Geographic Society

A gibbon, kept as a pet in Thailand (1951) by a family that returned to
Washington, had been given to a friend but later fell into the hands of an
animal dealer who sold her to the National Zoo. From a photograph in the
newspaper, the family recognized Bimbo; and when they went to the zoo and
were taken close to the bars of the cage, Bimbo came down from her perch
and put her arms through the bars and around her young mistress, Roberta,
whom she had not seen for eleven months. The photograph shows
her playing. with wild joy with Roberta.

The full account appears in The National Geograp/yz'c Magazine, July, 1953.

V-W%m;‘*

 




 

ity pet becomes excited nt
g seen the leash, he begs his

Playful 72655

)

in

i1

Expression of Exubemm Sp
10

Even at. the age of fifteen, this New York C

the prospect of going for a walk. Here, havin

owner to hurry.

 

 




 

Darwin refers frequently to the expression of joy in children and
animals through jumping for joy, dancing for joy, or simply ”purpose-
less movements.” These photographs show kids kicking up their heels
and taking a huge leap for joy.

 

Photograph by Stan Wayman—Life
11

Photograph by Stan

 

 

Wayman—Life

 




 

 

 

Photograph by Stan Wayman—va Photograph by Stan Wayman~Lifc

Photographs on these pages show a ritualized game, played by kids the world over, ”King of the
Mountain,” a mock battle in which they butt, pirouette, and spring into the air.

 

Photograph by 5‘3”

12




-_-_.-. A

Photograph by Stan Wayman—Lifc

The expressiOn of high spirits through play is characteristic of many
mammals. The young of goats and sheep have well-developed, innate forms
of play in which athletic prowess and infantine grace are combined.

 

13

 

Photograph by Stan W'ayman—L’ifc'wp

 

 

 

 




 

 

Photograph by Stan Wayman—Lz’fe

 




 

 

 

Photograph by Stan Wayman—Life

Adult, animals may continue to play throughout their lives if encouraged
to do so. Here an Abyssinian Ass owned by Vice President Hubert H. Hum-
phrey joins in tug-of-war and tag in a free, non-ritualized form of play with
his master. Note the mock aggression, frequently seen in play, in the expres-
sion caused by the laying back of the ears. Darwin speaks of the expression
of a savage frame of mind in ”those animals which fight with their teeth;
and the care which they take to prevent their ears being seized by their antag-
onists, accounts for this position. Consequently, through habit and associa-
tion, whenever they feel slightly savage, or pretend in t/aez'r play to be Jar/age,
their ears are drawn back.” (Emphasis supplied.)

 

15

 




 

 

Photographs by

Solitary play is possible, too. Here a douroucouli monkey indulges in a

favorite pastime pla ' '
. ’. ylng With soa owd . .
of fac1al expressmns of pleasurablepfeiling:infillfdiﬁgozﬁffliprrzilsgow a serles

16

 

Ernest P. Walker

 




 

Photographs by Ernest P. Walker
Facial expression of a dourouncouli monkey (Aotm trivirgatm):
A. The smile registers pleasure at being given attention.
B. The tightly set mouth and squinted eyes indicate thorough disapproval
at being given a bath.
C. Here she expresses her distaste for cigarette smoke, which was no

closer than 25 cm. 91/2 in.).
D. She pretends fear in a game with the photographer in which she is
lying on her back and he is making a gesture as though to grab her in a rude

manner.

17'

 




 

 

Animals of different species may also originate curious forms of play.
Though the game appears to be rough, the dog joined in it voluntarily and
repeatedly, according to Erica Anderson, who photographed the trio at

Lambaréné. The showing of teeth in the second photograph tells the chimps
not to go too far.

 

Photograph by Erica Anderson

18

 




 

19

 

Star Staff P

  

note by Randolph Routt, Copyright 1967

by The Washington Star; Reprinted with Permission.
Orangutans like to play with flowers and other objects. The orangutan

in the garden is Dennis, seized by officials of the United States Customs
when he was being smuggled in a small box on the pretense that he was a
monkey. The case is now pending in Federal Court. His demeanor is sub-
dued, but his enjoyment is evident.

 




 

I“

CONTENTMENT
Social Interaction Among Animals of t/ae Same or Different Specie; or Man

Between the pleasurable emotions of joy and affection, emphasized by
Darwin among those clearly expressed by animals, and the negative ones caused
by anxiety, pain, or fear, lies a broad area of contentment which is a natural
state for animals if basic minimum needs for emotional equilibrium are
met. Within this broad area, many interesting variations of facial expression

may be seen and may be used as guides to the general emotional state of the
animal.

As noted in the introduction, Darwin, Lorenz, and other authorities recog-
nize the many similarities in wolf and dog behavior. It is of interest to note
in the wolf below, taking a large, meaty bone, an expression of pleasure in the

closing of his eyes very similar to the expression of the dog (page 7) that has
just received affectionate attention from the nurse.

 

Photograph by Stan Wayman—Life-

20-

 

at
Photograph by Stan Wayman—Life

 




 

 

 

 

Photograph by Stan Wayman—Life

Photograph by Stan Wayman—Life

21

These wolves are maintained in a fenced
wood over two acres in size and assemble in
a compatible group. They are looking at the
photographer in the group picture. In the pho-
tograph of the running wolf, a doglike expres-
sion of pleasure is seen. The grin described by
Darwin as characteristic of some dogs may be
present in the foremost of the pair of wolves
shown. It is so interpreted by the photographer,
Stan Wayman, who has had wide experience
in photographing animals of many species
throughout the world.

 

Photograph by Stan Wayman—Life

 

 




In an atmosphere of general contentment, social interaction between dogsmay be ob.
served without confusion of variables caused by unrelated stress. The followmg series of
photographs and descriptions are by Dr. Michael Fox. (pages 22 through 25)

 

 

 

Social reactions in young pups when first introduced; D, facial-lingual approach, the
more submissive dog on the right showing flattening of the ears; E, the lateral approach,
with the dog in foreground leaving its flank exposed; note submissive ear carriage, but tail
is not in a submissive position; F, the posterior approach, dog in foreground stands and allows
others to investigate its hind quarters. Various approaches to a submissive and fearful pup; G,
dominant and positive approach of black dog elicits withdrawal and slight elevation of the
lip and baring of the teeth;H, more submissive approach by dog on right, with ears flattened,
elicits less defensive-withdrawal. I, facial-lingual approach by pup on left, a solicitOus gest-
ture, evoked the least withdrawal (note elevation of left ear).

 

 

Submissive (ears flattened)
play soliciting gestures in two
pups interacting with a with-
drawn and timid pup. This par-
ticular pup showed signs of tim-
idity as early as 31/2 weeks of
age; and as all these pups have
had similar experiences in early
life, a possibly inherited trait
may be involved.

 

22

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Many mammalian species show great tolerance, as mothers, for the off-
spring of others. A 3% week old pup is shown being nursed by a cat; and an
older pup, having been socialized with kittens for 3 weeks, interacts peaceably
with them. The bottom figures show the surprising lack of reaction of a cat-
raised dog (K) to its own mirror image, while normal dog-raised dogs interact
intensely. This suggests that the development of self image is in part deter-
mined by the species with which the animal is raised, although many of its
instinctive expressions or species-specific behavior patterns remain unchanged.

23

 

 




 

The kittens in this pho-
tograph have been raised
with one pup; and at 16
weeks of age, when first
introduced to pups that
have never seen cats be-
fore, playful interactions
soon follow. The effects of
early social experiences
can, therefore, greatly
modify subsequent behav-
ior. Cats of this age that
have never seen pups be-
fore normally withdraw
and avoid all contact.

24

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Crossbred Beagle pups enjoying exercise; from their expressions, one can
see, from left to right, inquisitiveness or exploratory behavior, the following
response, and the alert, ”ready to go” expression respectively. This illustrates
the phenomenon of socialization with man and the need for social interaction
and exploration.

All dogs need company, either human or with their own species, because
they are instinctively social animals, and they do respond to firm but gentle
handling and the human voice. Lack of handling and being kept in a kennel
for most of its life will cause a dog to become withdrawn, timid, a fear-biter,
and he may even develop stereotyped "neurotic” pacing movements and a
social autistic-like i.e., schizophrenic) reactions. Dogs need company, affec-
tion, and a "rich” environment, full of interesting stimuli and providing ade-
quate exercise. Without these, the dog will vegetate and, depending upon his
innate constitution, will become institutionalized or "kennelized” and may
deveIOp severe and incurable behavioral disorders, the symptoms of which may
or may not be revealed overtly in his ”expressions” as he lies or agitatedly moves

in his cage.

 




 

 

 

§g

 

Photograph by Erica Anderson

 

Photograph by Erica Anderson

In this series of four pictures taken in Lambaréné, general contentment (
of all the animals is seen. The different species interact in a friendly manner.
All the animals have confidence and show it in their general demeanor. The
cats and kids come for food from Dr. Schweitzer, the dog shown with the
chimpanzee has a typical confident stance with tail up and feet firmly planted.
The young gorilla’s casual atttitude with arm lying across the lap of the nurse
demonstrates how much at home he is with her. The only animal which does not
appear content is the dog walking with the nurse and two chimpanzees. With
tail down, ears back, and sideways glance, his attitude suggests that he is

somewhat jealous of the special attention being paid the chimps, some of which
he would like to get for himself.

26




 

 

 

Photograph by Erica Anderson




 

 

 

Photograph by Erica Anderson

Photograph by Erica Anderson

. The wistful expressions shown on the face of this young chimpanzee, who
18 basrcally happy, are caused by the absence of the English nurse who acted
as hlS foster mother. At the same time, she adopted an orphan baby; and the

child and chimp were brought up together in Lambaréné and were very fond
of one another.

28

 

 




 

 

 

The only white gorilla
known to science, the blue-
eyed Snowflake at the Barce-
lona Zoo, thoughtfully mun-
ches a banana. He was found
clinging to the dead body of
his mother, a black ape.

Photograph by iDck Snyder through the

A chimpanzee smile (dif-
fering from a chimpanzee
warning, in which teeth are
also shown). This is the small
chimpanzee.

(Pan troglodyter pmzircm).

  
  

 

San Diego Zoological Garden

 

Photo by Paul A. Zahl
(c) National Geographic Society

29

 




 

Photograph by Ernest P. Walker

Three diverse but generally contented chimpanzee expressions—-
placid, attentive, and greeting, are shown in individuals under com-
pletely different circumstances. The chimpanzee seated on the tire
swing is in an American research institution; the chimpanzee running
forward in greeting is in a zoo; the chimpanzee looking intently to
the left is a wild individual who came of his own volition to the Na-
tional Geographic Camp in Tanzania. The description notes: "This

 

(c) National Geographic Society

)

wild chimpanzee named 'David Graybeard interrupted his dinner to
listen to the call of more timid apes nearby. David was named by Jane
Goodall, a young English scientist who has spent five years alone mak-
ing history’s first comprehensive study of chimpanzees in their natural
environment. She has learned much about chimpanzee habits that was
unknown to science.”

Photo by Baron Hugo van Lawick

 

 

    




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(c) National Geographic Society

Shaking hands with a Pig-tailed Macaque gives the animal great satis-
faction, according to Ernest P. Walker, in whose article, "Portraits of My
Monkey Friends” (National Geographic Magazine, January, 1956), this pho-
tograph first appeared. ”Brace yourself for a handshake,” counsels Mr. Walk-
er- ”otherwise this powerful 35-pound joker will pull you against the bars.

,

Give him an audience, he makes faces, his way of saying 'Greetings!’ ”

31

 




 

 

 

 

 

These laboratory cats, alert and well fed
a secure attitude. The ex

that they are awaiting attention and play from their caretaker or the arrival

, not only show good health but
pectant attitude of the foremost four cats suggests

of food. The combination of space, companionship,

sunlight, resting shelves,
and scratching post contribute to the contentment ex

pressed by these cats.
The dog using a self-operating door to let himself out wears a cheerful

look not unlike that of the running wolf (page 21) and probably inspired by
the same enjoyment of active movement.

32

 

 

 




33

 

 

 

PAIN, ANGER, ANXIETY, AND DEPRESSION

All over the world the response of dogs to close confinement and ferent ways by different individuals; for example, in timidity and social

lack of care and attention, loneliness and lack of association with withdrawal, as shown in theseI dogs, one in an American, another in
others cause negative emotions, but these may be demonstrated in dif- a foreign research institution.

 




 

 

It may be expressed as fear and defensive aggression, as shown Faculty of Medicine, after examining their expressions, stated his opin-
in these two photographs from foreign laboratories. The expression ion that under conditions of comfort and kindness, they would almost
on these dogs’ faces warns that they may bite, though Ernest Bélanger, certainly respond in an entirely different manner.

Superintendent of the Animal House at the University of Ottawa

 

 




 

 

 

 

Some dogs lose all spirit. Their attitude expresses dejection, but their
faces become blank. They no longer even look at a person present
photographing them. -

 

Still others, though clearly suffering physical pain, are attentive. Those
above show submission (ears and head lowered) and post-Operative phy31cal-
emotional depression, which calls for gentle and affectionate handling as well
as medication.

35

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

The fact that a dog is housed in a laboratory does not mean that he cannot retain alertness, a contented
attitude, or even a happy, affectionate and cheerful disposition. The above two dogs, one in an American,
the other in a foreign laboratory, are kept in pens with resting boards which seem to please them. The lively,
expectant expressions suggest also that they are cared for by persons they like. In contrast to these expres-

sions, the series of sad faces on the right side of the front cover demonstrate the emotional response of dogs
to harsh treatment and neglect.

36




’

s barn where a thin dog considers the only food available—OHM.

This picture shows a dog dealer

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tied to the three-decker truck of an interstate dog dealer at whom she is
fearfully gazing, this dog tucks her tail between her legs in an innate gesture
of fear. The scene is a trade day, where many hundreds of dogs and cats are
sold to dealers for resale to research institutions.

 

 




 

 

 

fe

1'

Photograph by Stan Wayman—L

It shows

1011

auct
ical depress

3

dog purchased at a dealers

mg

Starv

10f}

1olog

psychophys

39

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dog tied in the rain at a dog
dealer’s farm.

 

Dog dealer jerks and kicks
dogs. Both animals' tails go as
far between their legs as pos-
sible, expressive of great fear.

40

 

   

Dogs in small dog dealer’s
truck at another trade day.

 

A___‘,_* r____




41

In a for
a

eign laboratory, this dog’s lung has been exteriorized.
painful death three days after this photograph was taken.

It died

 

 

This experimental dog displays sickness and

inanition: lack of expression

9

eyes sunk into

head, and temporal muscles wasted.

 




 

 

 

42

 

 

 

In a foreign laboratory, these dogs express desperation.

Like other dogs in this institution, this
individual expresses its need for social inter-
action and company, affection and exercise.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The desire to

escape thrOugh the bars
face and

's powerfully expressed in this dog’s
attitude.

 




 

 

44

 

Sadness is expressed in this dog’s
eyes and mouth. Housed in the room
shown in the inset photograph, it ap-

. pears to have little hope of release.

 

 

\

 




 

 

The living dog in this experimental surgery suite in Tokyo responds to
kindness and lifts his head in an imploring gesture.

45

 

 




 

“7“» W__ a

 

 

 

Anxiety and desire for release are expressed in this dog’s face as he looks
down from the top of the three-tiered bank of cages in an American laboratory.

46 l

 

 




 

 

47

The facial expressions of cats are not
so readily recognizable as those of dogs,
but their bodily attitudes tell a good
deal. For example, contrast these cats,
those in the round cage in a foreign
laboratory, those in the mesh-bottom
cage, through which their feet slip, in
an American laboratory, with the pho—
tograph on page 32 of contented cats
in a pleasant, roomy pen in another
American laboratory.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Three-toed sloth close to death
from hunger just after being rescued
from the flooded area in Surinam.
The expression is one of extreme de-
pression, suggesting both physical
and, mental suffering.

 

Photographs by Stan Wayman—Lifc‘

48

 

Two weeks later, after intensive
care and feeding, the sloths regained
their characteristic cheerful moon-
faced expressions. Note that the cor-
ners of the lips, instead of being
down, as in the first photograph,
now curve upward. The hair has re-
gained its smoothness, and the ani-
mals’ attitude has changed complete-

ly.

 




 

 

Sea Elephants in angry, defensive attitudes.

 

 

ife

Photograph by Stan Wayman—L

ions on their faces

id express

Sea Elephants at rest with plac

 

49




 

 

 

 

 

 

Photograph by Ernest. P. Walker, (c) 1953 (1956), National Geographic Society

A female Mustache Monkey warns the photographer away from her and

her infant. The hostile glance is accompanied by scolding sounds in which her
mate (not shown in the picture) joined.

50

 

 




 

ASTONISHMENT
A cat and a kid meet for the first time. The kid stops dead in its tracks,

never having seen a cat before. The cat advances, tail erect with a slight double

curve at the tip indicating tenseness.

51

 

 




 

kammw—W- m-.— W_- _____________7_ a,,

 

52

 

 

 

i Photographs by Stan V

As the kid leans for-
ward, the animal’s noses
nearly touch.

He is intrigued and
starts walking toward
the cat, who takes a
backward step,

and then hastens away
in an undignified man-
ner, ears back, tail as-
kew.

  

WaymanéLsze

 

 




 

 

 

‘1.

Photographs by Stan Wayman—Lr'fc

TERROR

Terror is plainly expressed on the face of this Howler monkey being res-
iued from starvation as the waters rise in the rain forest in Sorinam. The mon-
dey fell into the water and barely managed to climb out. Though the degree of

esPefatIOn expressed on the face of the second monkey is much less, fear
combined with bodily suffering is strongly expressed.

53

 

 




‘4‘
T
=
'3
E
>|
m
3
C
N
.J
m
>\
.0
S
Q
'5
L
3’
.‘J
O
.2
&

 




33%“?
M»:

IVORY: Secretariat
snared by Burundi

Burundi has long been known as an
entrepot state through which illegal ivory
is habitually channelled. At the 1985
CITES meeting in Buenos Aires, the
Parties passed the now notorious reso-
lution 5.12 which was intended to put
an end to international trade in un-
identiﬁed ivory by setting quotas and
requiring the marking of tusks with
punch dies. The Secretariat tried to per-
suade Burundi to join CITES and
seemingly thought this basic goal had
been achieved by interpreting resolu-
tion 5.12 to mean that Burundi’s stock—
pile of illegal ivory was ipso facto
amnestied.

But Burundi, once it had gained its
own ends, the selling off of this ivory,
refused to join. It no longer even both—
ers to answer letters from the CITES
Secretariat. In taking its ill-advised ac—
tion, the Secretariat failed to seek the
advice of its overseers, the CITES
Standing Committee, a point brought
home in no uncertain terms by West
Germany in both Plenary and Manage-
ment Committee sessions. Informed
sources report that the Secretariat’s
decision made millionaires of two or
three people.

The Secretariat’s account of this dis-
aster states in part, “The President of
Burundi instructed his Government to
establish full and proper CITES con—
trols on the ivory trade. The Burundi
Government made a formal commit-
ment in writing to that effect, and sub-
sequently, the existing stock of ivory
was registered, marked, and re-ex—
ported.” Later, however, “a shipment
of about 26 tons was re-exported by
air, from Bujumbura to Singapore, via
Oman.”

Mbaele Mankoto, head of Zaire’s
delegation made an impassioned state—
ment in support of Germany’s chal-
lenge to the Secretariat to explain how
resolution 5.12 had been used to intro-
duce Burundi’s illegal ivory into
“legal” international trade again.
Mankoto said this was the most impor—

tant part of the Ottawa conference. He
decried the legalizing of 91 tons of
ivory and suggested that the Secreta—
riat’s talks with Burundi had been
“carried out rather hastily . . . The

proof of this is that Burundi is not
here . . . The bird has flown. So traf—
fickers were favored and Parties were

penalized.”

M baele
M anhoto,
head of
Zaire’s
delegation

Mankoto spoke repeatedly of the ele-
phants themselves, characterizing them
as “those who are absent . . . We
should not forget that elephant popu-
lations are decreasing every day, mean-
while illegal trade continues at a gal-
lop. I put forward the idea ofa ﬁve-
year moratorium, but was told it was
utopian because of investments.” He
spoke of “gangsters like Al Capone”
and warned that what is called utopian
today will not be utopian soon.

The Tanzanian delegation wanted to
know what kind of measures the Secre-
tariat took to see that Burundi did not
double cross them. The Zambian dele—
gate said his country banned hunting
in 1982, but the decline in elephant
numbers continues.

IVORY: Wrongdoers
nailed by resolution

Dean of the African delegations, Perez
Olindo, ﬁrst referred to the plundering
of the elephants as “economic war-
fare” when the lengthy discussion of
CITES resolutions on the ivory trade
began. Olindo, who played an impor-
tant role in the drafting of the Conven-
tion itself at the 1978 Washington
meeting of 91 nations, is now Director

C ath)‘ Liss

 

Ivory poachers
decimate elephan
populations

African elephant populations are

still plunging. A new and immensely
depressing report * by Iain Douglas-
Hamilton and Anne Burrill tells of
catastrophic declines across most of

the continent brought about by the huge
illicit trade in ivory.

Poachers show little respect for national
parks; indeed they often kill the guards as
well as the elephants. A table of regional East
African trends, giving a sample of 10 Kenyan
districts that lack protection for elephants,
shows a decline of 91% between 1973 and
1987! In nine so—called protected areas the
decline was 72% during the same period. The
Ugandan sample combining protected and
unprotected areas gives 89%; estimated loss in
Somalia is 94% over 15 years, and in Sudan
77% in 10 years.

The report notes that in Southern Aﬁican
countries with little poaching elephant num-
bers are increasing by 0.7% a year; but in the
heavily poached countries of the region the
annual decline is 8.2%. It states: “Trend data
for the rest of Africa were fragmentary, but in
the northern savannahs elephants were mainly
decreasing in a band across the continent from
Somalia to Senegal, with a weighted mean of
minus 17.8% per annum.”

An appendix to the report by R.F.W. Barnes
entitled A Review of the Status of Ele-

 

 

,_ phants in the Rain Forests

of Central Africa contradicts

conventional explanations

of this appalling carnage.

Barnes notes, “In general

human densities and rates of

population growth are low in

the African rain forests. In

addition, there is a drift of

people to the towns, so the

rural population may even be

declining.” However; “the in-

creased availability of firearms and

improvements in roads have made poach-

ing easier. There are now large areas of forest

in Cameroon, Congo and Zaire where ele—

phants are no longer found. ” Commenting on

“recent reports of very heavy hunting, ” Barnes

says that “some of this is done by pygmies who

are being commissioned to hunt for ivory with
heavy rifles.”

Killing of elephants for meat, as pygmies
have done for centuries, or for protection of
crops has little effect on elephant populations.
Ivory poaching is the overriding cause of the
alarming collapse in numbers.

Who benefits from this massacre? The report
limits itself to presentation of data and trends
resulting from the illicit poaching, smuggling
and intense pressures exerted by this criminal
activity. However, African delegates to the
CITES meeting did not hesitate to single out
some of the chief villains (see main story).

*African Elephant Database Project, Global Be—
source Information Database, Nairobi, June
1987

 

 

of Kenya’s Wildlife Conservation and Man-
agement Department.

“Our people are dying at the hands of
poachers.” said Olindo during debate in the
CITES Management Committee.“The attack
on elephants and rhinos is an economic
attack. Kenya feels that most of its illiC1t ivory
goes in petrol tanks to Burundi. As a land—
locked state, Burundi’s viability depends on
its neighbors. An economic war can only b6
reciprocated.

“Burundi was a friend of CITES then went
underground again. The reason IS know?
only to Burundi and other perpetrators Q
theiillicit trade. The United Arab Emirates 15
in the process of denouncing CITES. There
is no alternative but to denounce the Unlte

Perez Olindo,
head of
Kenya ’s
delegation

Arab Emirates, and we appeal to the media
to convey this message by the fastest means
possible.”

Malawi and Somalia did their best to
undermine the formal recommendation “that

Cathy Lzss

HEIR TUSKS

IVORY:
the Wang
connection

A recent article (18 June) in New Scientist
quotes Ian Parker as saying that in
Burundi there are two Chinese dealers,
Mr. Wang and Mr. Poon, who not only
operate outside CITES’ regulations but
also would “like to get CITES discred-
ited.”

This is not the first time that the
name Wang has surfaced. Back in 1979
when the US House of Representatives
passed a bill to ban the bulk of ivory
shipments and to provide aid to African
countries in protecting elephants
against the ivory dealers and their min—
ions, Martin Howell, Chief Counsel of
the committee that approved the legis-
lation, travelled to Africa, Asia, and

Europe in order to obtain firsthand
information on the ivory trade.

In Antwerp he saw the largest single
collection of tusks, 80 tons of them.
The owner, Mr. K.T. Wang, when
reached by phone in Paris, at first
refused to allow Howell to visit the
warehouse. Only when told that

Howell would report to the Congres-
sional Committee that he was ex-
cluded, did Wang relent. Becoming
interested in the US legislation he vol—
unteered: “There should be exceptions
for countries that have good elephant
programs, like the Central African
Empire.”

According to Mr. Wang, he traded
with La Couronne, a company associ-
ate with ex-Emperor Bokassa. The con-
tents of the storehouse included ivory
held in bond for a Greek trader in
prison in Zambia.

 

 

“Cribs
....._;r:. r

infractions

Several infractions were reported by
the Secretariat. Two of the more nota-
ble were: “B4) In January 1986, Bel-
gium seized 1889 raw ivory tusks
weighing 9577 Kg in two 20-foot con-
tainers which had arrived at Antwerp
by sea. The consignments had been
declared as bees—wax and did not have
CITES documents.” The report con-
tinued that Belgium was “unable to
take action against the traders since
the shipment had been handled
throughout by apparently innocent

agents acting in good faith and the rel-
evant papers did not identify those
responsible. The Secretariat has not
been informed how Belgium will dis-
pose of the ivory.

“F20) At least 110 Tanzanian export
permits . . . were found to have been
altered . . . Destinations were Belgium,
japan, Singapore and the United Arab
Emirates. In early 1986 Belgium iden-
tified five of these permits with similar
types of apparent alterations, all des—
tined to enter Belgium via the same
transit agent. Tanzania confirmed that
the alterations were fraudulent.” How—
ever, two had already been declared by
the Secretariat to be valid on the basis
of a telex which itself was later discov—
ered to be fraudulent!

 

Parties use all possible means (includ-
ing economic, diplomatic and politi-
cal) to exert pressure on countries con-
tinuing to allow illegal trade in ivory, in
particular Burundi and the United
Arab Emirates (UAE), to take the nec—
essary action to prohibit such trade
and to become or remain Parties to
CITES.” Somalia proposed to remove
the words “exert pressure” and replace
them with “persuade” and to strike out
“economic, diplomatic and political”
means. But Olindo, citing the violence

of the wildlife criminals, responded,
“There is no persuasion in this mat—
ter.”

Somalia’s sabotaging efforts are ex-
plained by a section in the Secretariat’s
Infractions Report: “In May 1986 17,050
Kilogram of raw African elephant ivory
was air freighted from Mogadishu,
Somalia to Abu Dhabi, United Arab
Emirates (UAE). No CITES documents
or export permits accompanied the
shipment. Somalia confirmed that the

continued on page 13

 




CITES f-ﬁ’j'CoNvENTION” ON INTERNATIONAL-TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES . CITES .

 

IVORY: wrongdoers nailed by resolution continued from page 11

ivory was exported illegally and that an
investigation had been initiated. The
results of this investigation are un-
known to the Secretariat. The Secreta—
riat sent full details of this case to UAE.
UAE did not respond at all.”

Kenya and Tanzania, having suf—
fered the plundering of their elephants,
Spoke strongly against the entrepot
countries through which huge quan-
tities of poached ivory are being thrown
onto the international market. Clark
Bavin, head of Law Enforcement for
the US Fish and Wildlife Service, sup-
ported them. “We must work together
to save the African elephant so it does
not become endangered or, even worse,
extinct. Traders are Stealing from the
African people. The United States will

initiate diplomatic discussions with the 7

United Arab, Emirates. We are pre-
pared to use economic and political
means.” He asked that other countries
do the same. He also urged that
countries notify the Secretariat about
convicted illegal dealers and persistent
offenders. After some debate, it was
agreed that rewards should be offered
for the apprehension of violators. Tan—
zania stated that a reward system was
in operation in their country, and the
United States strongly endorsed this
approach.

Despite a full day of sometimes
heated discussion the Subcommittee
Chairman from Malawi offered weak—
ening amendments to his own report
to the full committee. He was sup-
ported by the japanese delegates who
were equally eager to remove any ref—

erence to the need for eco—
nomic and political pres—
sure on Burundi and the
United Arab Emirates. Tan—
zania fought back joined by
Kenya and Liberia, while
Esmond Bradley Martin,
Speaking for the Interna—
tional Union for the Con-
servation of Nature, stated,
“UAE has been importing
large quantities of illegal
ivory, and the Secretariat
confirmed that a few min—
utes ago.” The delegate from
Zimbabwe also supported
Tanzania and urged that the
text of the working groups
be retained. “It is our peo—
ple that are dying. It is our
countries that are being
plundered,” he said.

In View of the clear con-
sensus, Malawi was asked to
withdraw its amendments
and reluctantly consented. japan’s del-
egation saw there was no chance of win—
ning this issue so they said they would
not block the consensus but were not-
ing for the record that japan wished to
delete any reference to economic and
political measures against Burundi and
UAE. japan also objected strongly to
registration of ivory dealers within their
country. The representative of japan’s
Ministry of Industry and Trade claimed
flatly that “japan has no illegal trade.”
“Registration,” he said, “is too extreme
for japan.” However, he finally agreed
to a register of exporters and importers.

Twin baby elephants shelter beneath their mother.

Abetted by Hong Kong, japan suc-
ceeded in raising the Secretariat’s rec—
ommendation for marking any piece of
raw ivory of1/2 kilo and 20 cm in length,
to a whole kilo. This was the most seri-
ous weakening obtained by the ivory
trade.

The impact of the several resolutions
on African elephants remains to be
seen. At the very least, a solid basis for
action by each of the 92 nations who
are parties to CITES has been laid by
the recognition that the illegal ivory
trade, unless drastically curbed, will
destroy the African elephant.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

Cynthia Moss

 




x': ,
215541.11,

r/ "’J2 i,
, 4 ’h /’_

/ //4/. j..._"‘ ‘ '
/////ZA' "6 I

/
/4’..//L

‘5‘

‘ I
.“\
\

\\
>\>\\§

“: “’
‘ ‘\..~_-

. - _ “_
‘ ‘T ‘\ _ O
\““;\\\\
, \ “

I’ '/1
'

r7
/ /
7/1, /’ //

o
I

l
’ / J on
”I 2? 11/
.. / 1’1 ’//
, [W

lit/a,

I I
L I / I I
. .I / / / " I”
"l , , ,4 I
In,“ 9“...

r " «
H ..f(.,/'c.a’J/. /
W7” J/
’// .’ ‘, my}

1
I

'4

//
/

 




 

MM§A§§

§:§§ Skmﬁvkﬁ

NW§§§
RAK §:§\v\\ may“




 




(3%

Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

 




W A chfer From A Whﬁlé’. “’L’

Dear Frierds, . ‘

HeHO, I am a Hue, whale. I cm W bigjeﬁ' anima‘ “Hm? has war “mad
on EQY‘H‘W — bigger 4km even 4M; dinosaurs! You probably have never ochlaHy
seen me or my smaller cousins, Mk, because, we. \ive in W ocean. My 3mm}
wkaie relcﬁ'wcs indude %e Fm, Sperm, Sci, Bowhend, Rig‘f‘, Humpback ,Grny, Bryde'ﬁ
and Minke wha‘es. My smile? rdCHNes ihdude “we ddemS th porpoises. Beﬁnuﬁﬁ
we ﬁve in +5.2 ocean, maybc you 4kmk we are 95h, me we’re, mt We, are,
mammals jay} \ike you. Aral I guess 4N9: makcs us dis’ron’r Velcrﬁves.

A \ong, \ong Jrime ago» abou’r 50 or (go m'dhon years ago - my earliesw‘
, Ouncesjrors \ived on \Qnd. During “we 4ol\owir9 m'u\\io&15 Of‘years) hug h,’H’\€y
moved Jro ‘Hne ocean. Very, very s\owly 4W underwerﬁr changes Jr‘rrﬁvmde We
ivx 4N: Ocean easier. Their ‘frowf’ V535 developecl {n+0 ﬂippers. Their back 1895
disappearaimeir 4n“ developed Hukes. AH M1256, changes made movcmeh‘} in
“me wakr easier. A «Wick \ayerof blubbcr Under 'chir skin o\\owed +hem4o
We in Coki “Mar. S'mce, my ancesjrors were mammLS Omd breoJched aierney
QlSo had +0 devcbp a way 0‘; shying urderwoder ¥or long pariah q’r qhme.
WeH, my anceebrs adapx‘a’i Very weH +0 Hne'w‘ new ﬁnvironm. We preserﬁ'
Any whales are, Very Comﬁx-‘ﬂb‘e \‘wincj in «Hag ocean-

Uthrumkiy, you humans have never urrkfﬁrjrood us wkaks \Iexy well.

3mc we, We in HM; ocean, and you We on \and and don% have 4k:

chance Jro see us Very 0H6“, ’I 3u€s5 we, wha‘ﬁs have, a\wuy5 ’52de o bH’
mVererious, Would You behave, I'H'n+ You audit have 0. [0+ m conﬁrm“? We”,
Qrancje, as & may seem, Wedo! We whales c1150 \nappeh'Fo be very
lvﬁeuiaerﬁ credures. My brain, {or example) {5 (mt: CF 'HfrC mos’r Comp‘ex
bra'ms mC on“ EaV+Ws an°xmoLS.Iam sure, “of we whak’s ondyou humans

‘ have many Search 40 \eqrn ‘from one anc’r’ner. We are Ml, play/Q11,

 

 




 

....Z—-

Social animals, ()ch we/ room 43%; Suits in groups 0" poCLS - {rotiCkir‘g'tgdher’
""ralkir3"+o ow; another, and Somc’rimcs even singing JrogeHw-Er- My Cousins 4.4m:
Humpback whoks are Samous «Qor *kcir Songs. Some m‘us have. soc-id ardMly
Si’ruclrures simﬂar 4:0 your own, and more, compkx —Pnon4ho.sc 0? Why oH'cr
Omiwds. For 00mph, besides my moHtr, I have an "oun+ie" 40+qu caraof
me, wH‘CI am growing up. SH: {5 C1 SOP} 6f Quﬁ and §oby5ﬁ€r Combined-
We, are, a\so sens-Aim, Carina an'mnk. A mo’rher whole 15‘ very \oving and
pro’tcclrl've Jroww'd ‘hcr baby caPF. Indiv'xdud wkdes may Coma'b +he aid of
War member of Jrke, pod during “RV/hes 0'? "Y‘OLIHC. So, you SEE, CVZh 'Hmujk
we ADM \ook a’r a\\ alike, You and I aren‘Jr so d‘rHerem mum (1H!

\lour ameerors knew ev€n \ess aboult us whales Jdamn you do. They+houah1
we, were MOHSJrCrS 'Qrom «We, deep and Hwy hunkd us down wH‘n Heir boo’fs
andharpoons. Thcy mercﬂessty killed us So “HWY Cou\d make smkckSs candlcs, oil
4;“ “weir \amps, and dkher producb. During ”tine IBCO'SI a Oer’raln “Folklore,
grew Odom" us whakzs. Backin We doys,I guess men +kou3h+ ‘l’f was
advewhxrous +0 join up wk’rk a Whohng crew and Soil Jrkc high sang in
Search Of Jrhc largem‘ onimﬂ on EarJrk. ZDqukt Words at you humans, 'Hxasc
were +hc, “romahhc” days of your low] hisbry (SF wha‘c hurﬁing. Believe, me)
QHhOUSH WQ have, ’h‘ied +0 undershrd, we whoks see: mHmirﬂ Ybrvow’ric. (150% {Jr
1)!th yourse‘f in our p‘ace and I'M Sure You‘ \\ agree.

Nindeen’rk— €6er whamng Nash“; (mavx’dc, bud’ I'm w.|1\in3 +0 0AM} MT
3 my WM bah GAVQMurous Jm Some men- CmLching Ox Nth in’vkose, days
mquired Q (er-him (amouvfk dfski“. Once, 0N1 0‘? k5 WWRS was 513M) Mm
W09 “0 ﬂuomydce, +M ‘Hﬂc wholers Could CmLCh him. ‘Some, 65 us could 13w"m
“$061th ‘anm 4kcir boaJVS- Those of us who were SWCV kammevs somdimas
Cw‘d ovoid Mrpoomrs by S’my'ma undevwﬁer gor \orvj Pcriocis a’ra ‘Hme'

Na“, ”Mg“ bOCkarourd in‘FormahOn abou+ us Much. The TKO! reason




.3-

I am wrlllna you l5 +0 brlnj your allarllonql‘o ovary impor‘hqwl mallar—
whale, hunllncjr loda'y'. Whaliha ‘lDClay l5 al’Olally dilﬂcﬂenl Slot“)! 43mm
h'meleenllw cznlury whaling. Il l5 cle-Finllﬁly Hal mmanlio.I’l is ho‘l
even advem'umus. To pul ll Simply, whaling May is barbaric and
Cruel. your modem Skips equipped will/l sonar and explosive, harpoom
'l'ake away (my advan‘lcge, we, whales may have Once, had. As soon as
we, are localecl by Sonar) we, are, as 8000‘ as dead. There, is no we
wecmn escape. AS Q resuh‘, I live, in (,Owercn’nL leor of being 'gouncl by
Q whalincj skip. :DA hallj Cm hour, CL ”Paclory '31qu can charge mc ‘Frowx
ahappy, peacclhl whale inlo a bulchemd mass of blood, meal and bones
Willa your new space-age ‘lﬁclnnology, you Can kill as many 0? us '
whales lm owe day as your ounceslors did in one, year. We, blue whales
Omol our olher cousins hwuc been killed in such (areal numbers +hql
we, are in davrjer crl: begomlnj @cllm‘l. I’l— lnas ‘l‘QKER us whales
millions upon millions 036 years ‘lD evolve, inlo our preseh’r high ’Gorm
me llle- Yet m a period ol: a “FEW slnorl decades ,you humans
have, ’HﬂYCQlBWEOl l1) reduce, us all lo a mere, memory.

Forlunalely, “Cl all Coun’lries are involVEd lh Nlullhq . The, ma'm Nlﬂlqu
“aliens My are Japah,+h€ Sovicl Union , and Norway. We. do nol’
Wd‘arslmnd wlxx/ erse, Coum‘rias Conlinue’lchml us down owl slaucjlwler
“5 by llnc Jrlnousqnds every \{ear— especially since, caller nullons have.
Pro’vesled llxelr chicms . Maybe, 1+ 1'5. because of money. Bullhere,
YEW/ﬁlm “We, Pm—Fi-l' +0 be made, lV\ wlnlmg . All WlﬂlE PFOdqu can
already be replaced wkllw lncxpenslve, Commercial Subsli’rulcs. I‘Wnk
\{ou Shoulol wrilc +0 Ht “llxelgh mimslerS Cl Japan , ‘lhc USS-Ry.

and NDPWQ and ‘tell them ‘Hxal' you. wish ‘l'ne'lr‘ Counlrms

would slop killing} LLS whales. \lou can wrilc lo linen/x ml HA6,
OllOWlha addmesj

 




__. 4.... .

We Honombie The HonoraHe,

TQSUHWO NQKOSOUG Gro Hair/em «brunclfylancl.
Pﬂme Mimerer O? jagun Prime Minis+er 0? Norway
l—~(o—l Nogm— am Pos+b0ks 2001.~ DEP
Ckiyoda- ku OS‘O l

Tokyo IOO NORWAY
7A PAN

His Excellencv
Yuri Dub/min

The Ambassada' 09 ‘We USSR
“95— "0+“ 3+ree+
Washington, D. C. 2003b

Balicvp us, we wkaks are, POPPY bci who‘d. We c\ov\'+ WOW? +0 bC‘FOCEL cream,
gethzer, or mink «Food. We are physically de§€ns€kss Ogaind yowf “‘Ecknology. A”
we can do is ex’rcnd Jr0 you our Beshrcs o? ‘Hierdship and our p\cas ~E>r Compassion.
( Maybe you have heard 0‘; my Cwsin Nacho, '“AC CaMornia Gray WM‘C Who made
his‘rory by seeking human Companionship. Tm Ca\'r€omicx Gray whalé have. bath
prdtc’md (ram Nhakrs. Appole my Gray Cousins have) -’m a drama, overcome;
, *anir ‘Fcar of you \numcms and me, eXprcssina ‘quir £riadskip.) We ‘qu‘
decision Ycaardiv‘q ”WE'RE of us Woks “65 evﬁircly in your hards- 'P'QOSC
Show a Mile hummy. Aﬁtr 0J1, \Sh'4 “Mummy" SLlPPOM’d'kaCOheUF
your odswdm) “mun“ CharaCkirishca? We smuqmy of +11». m was
is no mere Coincidence. "Phase help Save, us w‘ralcs.‘
' Your ‘Friend,
x A Bum whale

* Amma\ welfare IMAM: 120.8“ 3&50 Wmhir‘j‘bh,D.C. 20007 4‘

 




 

ALL OVER THE UNITED STATES cherished companion animals, pets, and trained hunting dogs fall victim to steel
Jaws concealed by fur trappers under innocent looking leaves or loose earth. This compilation of a few of the increasingly
frequent news reports received by the Society for Animal Protective Legislation was prepared to acquaint citizens and
lawmakers with the most excruciating inﬂiction of pain and fear still permitted in our country. The sufferings of domestic
ammals are repeated many hundredfold on wild creatures, both those sought for fur and those birds and animals
designated as unmarketable “trash” by trappers.

Staff Photo by NEAL WILLIAMSON

Children at St. Mary’s Home Welcome Their New Pet, Polly

‘We have a great respect for life. We wanted this special dog
for our special kids because no one could better care for an

iniured'dog than our kids.’

— Sister Alvin

‘Special’ Kids Greet
Their ‘Special’ Dog

By CHERYL LAUER
Staff Writer

It was difﬁcult to decide who looked hap-
pier yesterday —— the wounded dog who had
just found a new home or those who made a
place for her.

Polly, the dog whose leg had to be ampu-
tated ThurSday because of wounds inﬂicted
by a leghold trap, was greeted with lots of
tender loving care when she arrived at St.
Mary’s Home yesterday afternoon.

.Polly’s tail never stopped wagging as the
children who live at the home for troubled
youths came in from school and stopped to
welcome their new pet. ‘

, St. Mary’s is a residential facility that
houses 35 children who have come from bro-~
ken homes, have been abused or have en.-
countered some other kind of difﬁculties.
The nuns and the children at St. Mary’s be-
lieve Polly will ﬁt in perfectly.

“Polly’s a let like us,” said one teen-age
girl, as she put her arms around the dog’s
neck and gave her a hug. “We’ve had a lot of
troubles so we know how to care for her.”

The dog, which is a cross between a shep-

herd and a Labrador retriever, was picked
up Monday night in the Ogeechee Farms
area by a Chatham County Animal Control
worker who found her with the trap still on
her right front leg. She was brought to the
Savannah Veterinary Emergency Clinic
Where the operation to remove her gang-
renous leg was performed. _

After a story asking for a home for the
dog ran in Wednesday’s Evening Press, the
clinic received about 20 calls from people
wanting to adopt her. But the nuns at St.
Mary’s were the ﬁrst callers and they were
convinced Polly would ﬁt in well at their
home.

“When a new child comes, we all try to
make them feel real comfortable and'we’re
doing the same with Polly,” said Sister Al-
vin, director of St. Mary’s.

And Polly certainly acted as though she
felt at home as she rested on the bed the nuns
had made for her. .

“We have a- great respect for life- We
wanted this special dog for our special kids
because no one could better care for an in-
jured dog than our kids,” Sister Alvin said.

 

 

 

 

 

It?” ’57.;

ﬁhiiiﬁiﬂ
M3

$ﬁﬁhtt
names a
tartan: e32: ..
“trusses; ,
flit W 2:54: ,
{mammary

House cat

from steel trap

Ernest Kiddy, Sherman’s chief animal con-
trol officer, holds a steel spring trap in
which a domestic cat wa‘g‘Taan'a’M’aﬁﬁéy' on
private land just south of the city’s Baker
Park. The cat, which Kiddy estimates was
held in the trap by three toes for a day and a
half, is under observation at the pound while

the injury heals.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Warm Blood vs. Cold Steel

Furn Price of Primos, Delaware County, and her maimedwgai.
“Lucky,” appear at the state Capitol yesterday on behalf of a bill to
ban steglmdotegngms in Pennsylvania. Lucky’s left leg was
amputated after it Was mangled and infected by a trap. Rep. Tho-
mas Murphy, D-Allegheny, said he proposed the bill because, in his
experience as an outdoorsman, he has come across animals, in-

cluding pets, that have died cruel deaths in the traps.

 

 

   

BOY’S BEST FRIEND. .

. Kyl Sperry, 5, sits with his dog,
Badger, after the animal had a leg removed followmg five

days in a trap in the South Fork area. Kyl’s father, Larry,

Dog survives five days in trap

by MARK MARYMEE

Larry and Terri Sperry
gave up hope that they
would ever see their son
Kyl’s dog again.

The Sperrys, who live in
the Diamond Basin area of
the South Fork, had last
seen Badger, a one and-a-
half year old Australian
Shepherd, on Jan. 19.

After searching the
nearby woods for several
days and contacting
neighbors for any word on
the dog’s whereabouts, the
couple ﬁgured Badger had
been shot and gave her .up
for dead.

She wasn’t.

On Saturday, Jan. 24,
Badger came limping
home, the dog’s paw dangl-
ing from her front leg.
They later found out
Badger had been left to die
in a steel trap for those five
days.

“When she got home, you
could see the bones in her

feet,” Larry said. “She
broke a tooth trying to
chew herself out.

“She was skinny as a
snake when she came
home,” he added. “You
could see the bones stick-
ing up through her side.”

At first, Sperry wanted
to take the injured dog to a
veterinarian and have it
destroyed.

“But Terri wouldn’t let
me,” he said.

The couple opted to take
Badger, whom they esti-
mated had lost 20 pounds
while in the trap, to local
veterinarian Thomas
Roberts to see what could
be done.

Roberts, according to the
Sperrys, figured the ani-
mal had been caught in
either a bobcat or coyote
trap.

The veterinarian also
decided to take Badger’s
leg off at the shoulder,
rather than cause her

 

balancing problems later
on. The Sperrys were told
animals usually have prob-
lems by trying to walk on
limbs that are only par-
tially amputated.

“She’s a good dog,”
Sperry said. “The doctor
says he thinks she’ll get
along fine now.”

The Sperrys figured
Badger was caught in the
trap and made it out only
after a trapper got around
to checking the device.

A check with Terry Kil-
lough, Wyoming Game and
Fish district supervisor,
found all traps should be
tagged with a metal tag
identifying the owner of
the device.

The trapper is also
charged with checking his
traps once every three
days.

Killough said catching
up with trappers who do
not follow that rule is not
easy.

 

 

 

Photo by Mark Ma‘rymee

believed it was either a coyote or bobcat trap that held the
dog captive.

“We make a few viola-
tions on it,” he said. “But
it’s a hard one to do. You
have to almost-go out and
sit on a suspicious trap for
72 hours.”

With the thousands of
traps in nearby woods, Kil-
lough said his officers don’t
have time to check upon all
of them.

“We do try to enforce it "
Killough said. “It’s not like
we don’t check. It’s just
that the traps are spread
out all over.”

The district supervisor
added failure to check a
trap within 72 hours is an
11th degree misdemeanor
which carries a fine up to
$100.

“Nothing should have to
sit in a trap that long,"
Mrs. Sperry said, “animal
or anything.

“It seems kind of un-
necessary that a dog has to
go through this,” she

added. . .
Sperry said his initial
reaction to Badger’s

spending five days in a trap '

was one of anger, but .agj
reed that the 72 hour regu-
lation would be a “pretty
hard law to enforce.

“People should just have
more of a conscience than
that,” he added.

As for Badger, Mrs.
Sperry said the dog has
been rer eiVing more atten-
tion now than when she
had four legs.

Sperry added Badger
has “turned from an out-
side dog to an inside dog.”

Both Sperrys said their
angerover the incident has
somewhat subsided. But
the need for checking traps
for injured animals is stili
ofserious concern to them.

“We just hope someone
who has a trap won’t let
this happen to another
kid’s dog,” Sperry said.

 

 

 

Three cats
trapped
illegally

By David Gordon
StaffRepo‘rter

Where is your cat tonight ?

If you live in the NOrth Ur-
ange Streetarea, you should
be sure you know. Thrge cats
in the neighborhood“ were
caught in 1e —hold traps in the
last week of éécemﬁr.

According to Bill Lloyd‘of
the Port Jervis-Deerpark
Humane Society, the cats
were caught in illegal traps,
which may have been withiii
the city limits of Port Jervis.
All trapping is illegal in'the
city. he said.

' Even if? the traps were is.“

 

This 3-year-old mole cat was 'found on North
Orange Street, dragging 0 10¢th imp.

outside the city line, they car-
ried no identification, Lloyd
said, adding that New York

state law requires that all
traps be tagged with the name
of the trapper.

Gazette pho o v Dovro' Gordon

effectoﬂhe device can be seen on his rearpaw.

The law requires regular
checking of traps, as well,
Lloyd said, and from the con-

ﬂ

dition of the cats this was

, p-rooably not done. The traps
can mangle a paw or break a
leg,henoted.

Of the three cats, two are
being treated by a veterin;
arian and will be returned to
their owners. The third is
listed as a stray and is at the
shelter. Lloyd said he will be
put up for adoption when his
paw, which was crushed by
the trap, heals

The cat at the shelter was
found ‘on North Orange Street.
The trap had come loose from
the peg that heldit. and the cat
was dragging it with him.
Lloyd said. There is thus no
.way to know where the trap
was set.

Although the traps~ were
found in the North Orange.
Street area, Lloyd said, pet
owners would be wise to avaid
letting their animals loose
anyxirhere.

 

 

WAYNE, PENNSYLVANIA — Suburban and Wayne Times, November 1, 1984

 

CODY, WYOMING — Enterprise, February 11, 1981

PORT jERVIS, NEW YORK — Tri-State Gazette, january 4. 1985

 




 

 

 

r________,

3-Ieggecl cat will ‘t
or ban on leg-hold traps

Associated Pfﬁ‘s

 

Tripod is scheduled to appear before House subcommittee in August
The cat’s leg was amputated after being caught in a leg-hold trap

GALAX -— Veterinarian Don
Fincher thinks his silver tabby has
been pretty influential for a eat, but
he never expected she’dgbe lobbying
members of Congress.

Tripod is to appear before a House,

subcommittee hearing tentatively
scheduled for later this summer. It’s
not that she has something other cats
lack; it’s what she doesn’t have —
her left front leg.

The House Subcommittee on
Health and the Environment plans to
consider legislation that would ban

es fify '

those traps suffer the least,” he said.
“It’s a rare animal that lies down
and dies of old age.”

Originally set for June 11, the
House subcommittee hearing has
been tentatively rescheduled for Aug.
3, officials said. Also to appear, said
Stevens, is a hawk from Maryland
which lost a leg after getting caught
in a steel leg-hold trap.

 

 

 

Fincher’s first encounter with Tri—
pod was in 1981 when her owner
brought her into his office to have

' her mangled leg treated. The cat had
been missing for a week, he said, and
he assumes she was caught in the
trap during most of that time. She
had been chewing on her leg in an
attempt to free herself from the met-
al jaws, Fincher said.

The owner agreed to allow Fincher
to amputate the leg, then decided she
didn’t want a threelegged cat. So
Fincher decided to keep her, re-
named her Tripod and gave her full
run of the animal clinic.

The absence of the front leg
.doesn’t appear to cause Tripod any
insurmountable problems. She
bounces from front to back when she
walks, and when she needs to race
down the clinic’s hallway, she leans
her unsupported shoulder on the
wall. She swats ﬂies and other bugs
and even leaps up to the top of the
clinic’s reception counter — one of
her favorite perches.

Tripod seldom goes outdoors, but
probably could fend for herself if she
did, Fincher said.

“She probably could catch a
mouse if she wanted to condescend
herself that way,” he said of Tripod,
who demands to have food in her
dish even if she isn’t hungry.

Fincher said Tripod’s presence at
the clinic has helped him convince
owners with injured animals thatjani-
mals can cope after a limb is ampu-
tated. And Fincher amputates many.
He said he treats about 25 to 50 dogs
and eats a year that have been
caught in steel leg-hold traps.

“A good many of them need ampu-

use of the steel leg-hold trap. Tripod,
whose leg was amputated after it got
caught in such a device, is to be
presented as an exhibit ofsorts.
“Some committee members don’t
have as much tiine as they’d like to
hear ever;y.,bit of information, so we
think it would be helpful to let them
see visually what these traps do,”
said Christine Stevens, secretary of
the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation. The group argues that
the traps are cruel, she said, and
would like to see them banned.

Don Hoyt, president of the Nation-
al Trappers Association, saidtaking
the devices away from ' trappers
would be like banning duck hunters
from using shotguns. Many states
have leash laws, he said, and if pet
owners took care of their animals,
there wouldn’t be a problem of them
getting caught in the traps.

A certain number of wild animals
are going to die anyway, he said — if
not because of trappers, at the hands
of Mother Nature.

“Of the many ways wildlife dies,

tation if they’ve been in a trap for.

any length of time,” Fincher said.
“The bad part about the trap busi-
ness to me is that you can bring one
in that has just been in a trap a very
short time, and you think you can
save it, but in a week or two you
start losing toes simply because of a
lack of blood supply.”

Steel leg-hold traps clamp down so
tightly that they act like a tourni-
quet, he said. Many animals will at-
tempt to chew off their own limbs to
get free, he said.

 

 

One back foot was gone

To the Editor:

We are writing this letter
to bring-to the attention of
trappers what terrible suf-
fering they can bring'to ani-
mals by putting out traps
and being negligent about
checking them. On April
2nd our beautiful 10-month~
old half collie, half German
Shepherd cow dog followed
a neighbour dog into the
woods- She didn’t come
home, and in spite of every
effort we made, we could
not find her. On June 5th
When we went into the barn,
this poor forlorn little dog
Was there. After speaking
her name, we realized that
It: truly was Gypsy} One

back foot was gone and the
dog was about half her ori-
ginal weight. How she had
survived two months we
will never know. Gypsy was
delighted to be home —
glad to see the whole fami-
*ly, even the cat. She has
been so brave that we will
do all we can tohelp herre
gain her strength, but we

 

also make every attempt to
keep traps away from our
surrounding woods.

We hope trappers will be
more careful as a result of
this letter. ’

Sincerely,

LOREN SHERRER
FAMILY

Sutton

 

 

 

Outlaw trapping

To the Editor:

The dog had been released from one of those
damnable lgg-,,hold traps. One leg. badly mangled,
was being dragged along. This puppy. which we
tried to comfort, was obviously exﬁaTisted. Within a
space of a few minutes, with a moan which sound-
ed like total resignation, the peace of death came to
another trap-injured animal.

How much terror did this animal know? We can
only Speculate on an anthropomorphic level. Sup-
pose, however, for better understanding of this suf-
fering, we substitute a human - any one of us.
Could this human. caught up in a device analogous
to an animal in one of these traps, after long suffer-
ing. including great thirst, chew off a limb in order
to get home to family? Trapped animals, including
pets, not infrequently do just that. ,

A decent respect for life, free from,avoidable ter-
ror, commands that ‘we cease being a nation which
permits this outrageously cruel practice. What can
we do? Plenty; if our hearts are in it.

Letters and telephone calls to the proper authori-
ties. expressing our indignation, would be helpful
to all living‘creatures. Local. state and federal rep-
resentatives have hearts. too. We just have to get
under their political skins. Let's outlaw leg-hold

trapping.
Kenneth Wade

 

 

 

 

 

Beacon Journal photo by Paul Toole

Leg-hold trap victim

Now, it’s a case of dog looking for its family. After Friday, this
Mil-pound mixed hound with an injured left front paw will be up
for adoption. “We’re just nursing him back to health andwaiting
for the owners to call,” said William Laughard of the Humane
Society of Greater Akron. The dog was found dragging a [emu
tra along East Lake Avenue in Barberton near the Ohio Canal
on day. The Humane Society’s number is 434315500.

 

 




 

4:3!“

Smashed foot and all

Bob Taylor Lee, Monroe County commissioner

stands with one of his prize fox dogs and the trap
the animal wandered into on a recent hunt. Lee
said similar illegal traps are scattered all
around Madisonville. Veterinarian bills for the
dog ran $65. MCA photo by Patrick Pennington.

”Later put to sleep

Grover ”Pap” Atkins, Notchey Creek com-
munity, poses with one of his tax dogs which
found its way into a steel-jawed trap not long
ago. The dog, valued at $100, was later put to
sleep after iniuries to the animal’s tact and leg
did not heal. MCA photo by Patrick Pennington.

 

 

 

By Patrick Pennington

Madisonvillearea fox hunters
are in an uproar over illegal
gro ind traps that have, in effect,
kill ad several high-priced
hunting dogs and badly maimed
a number of others.

The hunters, who have pleaded
with state officials and local
game wardens for help, said
Monday the situation was
worsening instead of getting
better.

Soaring prices for fox furs and
the coats of other animals such
as mink and muskrat have
brought about the influx of illegal
trapping, fox hunters believe.

Although it is strictly against
the law to trap the rare red fox.
the coats of some taxes are now
selling for as much as $50 apiece.

In open trails

The often-baited traps, ac-
cording to fax hunter Bob Taylor
Lee, are set in open trails for
grey foxes and other valuable
game animals to find. But in-
stead of foxes or mink stepping
into the traps, hunting dogs and
other domestic aminals are often
the prey.

To be legal, the traps must be
set in 12-inch deep holes or in
ankle-deep water.

“Listen, we’re not against
people trapping legally,” Lee
said “But we would like to stop
the illegal setting of these traps.

“Trappers and hunters have
got to work together.”

Lee said the traps were set all
around Madisonville, from
Hiwassee community to Rocky
Springs. The traps have done
hundreds of dollars worth of
damage to fox dogs, Lee ex-
plained.

“What happens if a cow steps
in one of those things?” Lee
asked. “I promise you it would be
enough to ruin her leg. ”-

Fox dogs find steel-jawed traps

The trappers often tie a live
chicken to a tree, then surround
the chicken with the strong-
jawed traps, hunters say. One
hunter, necently confronted with
the “bait trick,” found his dog
with traps on two legs.

Put to sleep

Grover Atkins, Notchy Creek
community, was forced to put
one of his fox dogs to sleep
recently after he found the
animal’s leg locked hopelessly in
a steel—jawed trap.

Atkins said the damage to the
dog‘s foot was so bad the animal
could never run again. His loss
was estimated at $100.

Lee said he luckily saved one of
his prize dogs, valued at over
$250. several weeks earlier. Lee
found the dog in the trap before
the device had time to crush the
young dog's foot.

The vetenarian bill still ran
over $65. .

“A fox dog is no good after it’s
caught in one of those traps,"
said Alvin Moses, himself a fox
hunter. “People'will never again
believe the dog can run a hunt
and still come in without lim-
ping.“

Fines are stiff

Fines for trapping illegally are
high, the hunters said.

Any person violating trapping
laws is subject to a $50 fine and
will be prohibited from trapping
or selling furs for at least one
year.

Any person caught hunting or
trapping while on probation will
be given a mandatory jail sen-
tence of at least 30 days.

To trap legally, trappers must
clearly mark their traps with
their names, and must have the
written permission of the
property owner when trapping on
another person’s private
property.

 

 

 

Trapped cat’s paw removed

 

GROTON-—- Caspar, a black

cat that tripped a leg-hold trap in
.- the woods behind Burger King
last-week, is recovering nicely
from recent paw-removal sur-
'> gery. ' '

The saga. of Caspar’s troubles

bega'n'Jan. 14 when a' Burger.

King employee responded to the
ﬂuffy, black, male cat’s --cries
from behind the restaurant,

where it appeared to have .been,

trapped for several days- '
Caspar’s owner, Deanna Chap-
man of Meridian Street Exten-

g sion,‘ claimed him and scheduled

an appointment at a local animal
Clinic..- The cat’s paw was not

broken by the trap, but the

mechan‘ism’s vise-like ’grip
squeezed "off circulation and

’ damaged tissue.

The day Caspar was due to go
under the knife, he took off. “He

wasn’t lost. He was out. I think
he’s got a girlfriend up behind
Leiser Sound,” said Ms. Chap-
man.

Thursday.,not only did Caspar
have his paw removed, he was
neutered. .

Friday, Caspar - dazed but,
awake and eating — came home
to Meridian Street.

His story has sparked the in-
terest of the Connecticut Coali-
tion to Abolish the Steel Jaw
Trap, which says the incident
well-illustrates its cause.

Ms: Chapman would still like
to know who set the trap. “I’d

askhim to pay the vet bill,” she

said. Caspar’s paw problems
cost nearly $300, but it’s worth it,
she said. . .

“He’s like my baby. I have no
kids,” said Ms. Chapman. “My
animals are my babies.”

 

 

Deanna Chapman with Caspar after surgery

For additional free information you may use this coupon
or write us a letter requesting information

ll. an . . 1‘!» - "

. ,. . l .,
,‘VV . . . 3, 1,, 'V'W' .m—a-i, (1H .1...'».:;, r ~ .,\., ,,,, -
. t‘» c i’ 'w',‘ z‘r'. .i.

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
l
I
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
l
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
.I

D Please send me information on
pending legislation

Cl Posters

D Trapping Agony

A Statement by
Charles Darwin

Name

 

El Petitions

D Copies of this
compilation

Address

 

 

 

(up to 5 copies of each without charge)

L___..______

 

 




The Steel Jaw Leghold Trap slams shut on the paw or leg of any
animal which steps on the pan of the trap. The remains of a
three-legged escape can be seen in this trap.

$1 ,4... £3. - ..

Many trapped pets lose a leg—if they haven’t lost their lives.

Approximately 40 raccoons are used to make one coat.

It causes intense pain and fear for its victim. The steel jaw leghold trap may catch your

Animals may chew off their own feet to escape. pet.

They may gnaw their teeth to the jawbone It catches songbirds, eagles, and other
trying to go free. wildlife.

Trap captives suffer days, even weeks, of thirst, It also catches pregnant animals, mother
hunger, and exposure to extreme temperatures animals, and their young.

and attack by predators.

w , l—r;, "~,“ ~. ‘ V
i ’-
; ‘« '

48 countries have already banned the trap.
Less cruel alternatives are available to the
trapper.

The steel jaw leghold trap has been used,
virtually unchanged, in the United States

since 1840.

For further information write: The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
at PO. Box 3719, Georgetown Station, Washington, DC. 20007

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

YOU CAN HELP WILD BIRDS
BY ENCOURAGING EFFECTIVE
LAW ENFORCEMENT

 

The Wild Bird Conserva—

tion Act was enacted in

1992. This monumental law

., protects imperiled birds the world
over and promotes their conserva—

tion. Till the law was passed, thousands

of beautiful birds trapped in the wilds of

Africa, Asia and South America were

crammed into small crates by big dealers in the

pet industry and flown to Europe, Japan and the

U.S. Thousands died, but the dealers made huge
i profits.

“Operation Renegade,” carried out by the US. Fish
and Wildlife Service, has fined and jailed the biggest
bird dealers for violations of the Smuggling Act, the
Endangered Species Act, and the Lacey Act. How—
ever, smuggling across the Mexican border is still oc-
curring, and parrots and wild birds are still being cap—
tured for sale to Japan and other Asian countries,
Russia, and European Union nations.

Never purchase a wild-caught bird. Be suspicious of
cheap exotic birds and birds that appear frightened
or aggressive. If you are buying a bird, make sure it
was raised in this country by a conscientious breeder.
If you are offered an exotic bird, in a pet shop or
elsewhere, that appears fearful rather than calm and
contented, or if other factors raise your suspicions,
you can help prevent smuggling by calling Division
of Law Enforcement, US. Fish and Wildlife Service,
at 703—358—1949. Give them the information that
can help to stop this cruel trade.

For more information contact:
Animal Welfare Institute
R0. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007
Phone: 202—337-2332; Fax: 202—338—9478;

c-mail: awi@animalwelfarecom

 

 

 




eath and Despair in the Wild Bird Trade

For each
wild bird
surviving
to be sold
in a pet
store, ﬁve
have died.

a
Q)
K
K
3
U
Q:
Q
U
Q
\
v;
N
CL]

 

Not so long ago these birds were capture Of Wlld Bll‘dS
flying free in the forests of West Africa. .
Now they are dead, victims 0f violent and Parrot and mynah chicks, still covered w1th
- down, may be stolen from the1r nests 1n tree holes.
inhumane capture and transport methods.
Their case is not unusual; it is appallingly
common. Every year millions of birds (20
million in Senegal alone) are trapped for
cage bird markets in the United States,
Europe and Japan. Half of them will die
before leaving their native soil. The
trauma of capture, brutal mishandling,
hunger and thirst, gross overcrowding, and
disease caused by stress claims a cruel toll
of victims. More die in the holds of
airlines, in quarantine stations of .
importing countries and in pet stores. Parrot chicks being sold illegally in Mexico.

 

 

 

 




 

C. Plowden/TERRA/HSUS

 

Peruvian conures on their way to holding stations before being
shipped to importing countries.

Sometimes an entire tree is cut down, and those
birds that survive are crammed into boxes to
begin the long and often fatal journey to pet
stores. Many parrots are smuggled into the
US. over the Mexican border, crowded into
car trunks with their beaks taped shut, and
drugged to keep them quiet—80% die in the
process.

 

This smuggled parrot, its feet bound and beak wrapped with masking
tape, was dead when it was seized with 259 others by Customs.

Adult birds are caught by cruel means, such
as “bird lime” placed on tree branches. This
adhesive sticks to their feet and they struggle

US. Customs

vainly to escape.
Large birds are
often shot at with
the intention of
“winging” them so
they can be cap-
tured. In the pro-
cess many are killed
or die later of lead
poisoning. The calls
of a live “decoy”
bird are used to
lure large parrots
and macaws to hid—
den snares on poles
and smaller birds to
nets. Because of
their close family
ties, mates and
young of the
entrapped birds
often try to rescue
them and

become trapped
themselves.

C. Plowden/TERRA/HSUS

 

Orange-backed Troupial, a decoy, at-
tracts other birds to a mist net in
Peru.

EIA/Dave Currey

A—HAAAA—L

 

Bird catcher prepares decoy Senegal parrot. After its
Wing feathers are cut, it will be tied to a peg in the
ground to lure other birds to a hidden trap.

gawk—IA




Whatever the method,
the capture is inhumane.

 

 

A bird catcher takes two finches to a cage. Some 15% of the birds die
from shock when first caged.

Transport of Wild Birds

Wild birds, often so tightly packed into crates
that they cannot move, are shipped long
distances to importing countries. Each year
over 400,000 birds are unloaded at US. ports
of entry—many dead on arrival—according to
ofﬁcial records. Aircraft holds in which the
birds are carried are often not properly
ventilated or pressurized. Temperatures may
vary from below freezing to above 1000 F.
Delays can result in days spent in airport
holding areas with the birds getting neither
food nor water.

EIA/Dave Currey

From 1980 to 1989, over 360,000
birds arrived dead at U.S. airport

Pb

EIA/Dave Currey

 

 

 

Senegal parrots crammed into an air transport case, 50 par-
rots to a case. When smaller birds are shipped, at least 200
must ﬁt.

The animal rescue center at London’s
Heathrow Airport examined crates of wild birds
destined for the US. They found many
shipments of birds in pathetic condition. A
consignment of African finches had been given
only a few hours supply of food and water for
a trip that can take days. Although
immediately given water, many of the birds
were too weak to be revived.

 




 

Export compounds in many countries are
crowded with hundreds of thousands of
birds—many with specialized dietary needs.
Birds die, fall off their perches and are swept

 

big}: ' -
K.
, ,

 

up in the morning. Diseases erupt and spread.
One shipment of African ﬁnches arriving at a
quarantine station in Illinois had over 12,000
birds dead on arrival; by the end of the 30-day
quarantine period, 70% of the remaining birds
were dead. Every year in the US. alone, over
50,000 birds are dead on arrival or die in
quarantine. Quarantine station
owners in the US. are not
required to have a knowledge of
birds or their care; they need
only provide a building with ade-
quate security where birds are
screened for Newcastle disease,
a virus lethal to poultry. One
quarantine station owner had
been feeding delicate lories, nec-
tar and fruit—eating Asian par-
rots, a diet of strawberry jam.
Almost all the lories died, even
after being given proper care by
a zoo which volunteered to help.

 

 

Red Bishops and other birds inside a Senagalese export compound.

EIA/Da ve Currey

 

,, .—1 ,7: ~.: _.—,—.-..

. - - fffN, - 'Tﬁ- _.L -‘

Some experts estimate that 100,000 birds are
smuggled into the US. each year—most from
Mexico. They are hidden in car door panels, suit-
cases or car trunks. One was even found in a cer-
amic vase Only slightly larger than the bird.

Many smuggled birds carry Newcastle disease
and, since they are not quarantined, they spread
this highly contagious disease to other birds nation-
wide. Over the past decade, millions of taxpayer
dollars have been spent to control these outbreaks.

Scarlet Macaws are an endangered species,
and commercial trade is prohibited under the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species (CITES). Yet these macaws which sell for
$2,000 each in pet stores are still being illegally
captured and smuggled into the United States.

Endangered birds are imported using false
documents obtained from corrupt ofﬁcials. The
proﬁts are enormous. Smugglers frequently hide
behind the facade of legal importation. N umer-
ous quarantine station owners in the US. have
been convicted of bird smuggling. In fact, many
birds sold in pet stores are actually smuggled
birds. Over 40 species of birds are already
threatened
with extinc-
tion as a re-
sult of the
trade, both
legal and
illegal.

These parrots,
hidden in a car and
wrapped in news-
papers, had suffo-
cated before being
found by Customs.
US. Customs




 

. . For those who have seen ﬂocks of wild birds
11v1ng 1n freedom, the sight of a wild-caught
macaw sitting forlornly on a wooden stand in a
pa store, 01“ a group of African finches ﬂying at
cage bars, is heartbreaking. So stressed by the
unnatural surroundings, thwarted in their instinct
3:11;, to seek wild food, to roost with others of
Spe01es and above all to escape danger,

many Wild-caught birds pluck out their own
feathers, or even bite off their own toes. The Wild
ﬂiirgéplaced in someone’s home is totally iso-
freedom? 1ts own world, and may have lived in
offer thn 0rb20 or more years. Pet stores may
little 0 ese . 1rds as . smgers” or “talkers” with
needs 1416110 mformatlon on their true behavioral
parrot owany ZOOS report calls from distraught
imported gears who offer to donate their
dawn as th 1rds after finding that they scream at
DBOple o :31 do in the wild, bite objects or

Ome ,f r a 1 pljey to a variety of diseases.

0 these dlseases such as psittacosis,

salmoneu
os1 le to
humans, S are transm1ss1b

US. Customs

 

 

' Spread the word. Visit your local pet store. If wild

birds are being sold, tell the owner that you will
boycott the store.

0 Ask your local TV and radio stations to discuss

the problem, and write a letter to the editor of
your local paper protesting the sale of wild-caught
exotic birds. Remember, it is illegal to capture
and sell native American birds, and it should be
illegal to sell all wild birds.

Contact your local humane and conservation
organizations. Ask for their help in informing the
public of this destructive trade.

 

For further
information
write to:

 

Animal
Welfare
Institute

P.O. Box 3650
Washington,
DC 20007, USA
(202) 337-2332

Up to 10 copies
of this leaﬂet are
available free.
Additional
copies are 25¢
each.

Cover photo:
C. Plowden/
T ERRA/HSUS
E
C
2
‘ C5
3
{S
S .
3; Back cover. .
:3 Helen Snyder

 

Bahama Amazon Parrot

 




A fur coat obtain-
ed with a steel
jaw trap is no
longer a status
symbol.

 

WAS Tl-1l5
THE TRAP __
THAT GAUGE}:

YOU!) GOA!

6?

6

 

 

 

Now that the public is learning of
the gruesome trapping and mar-
tyrdom of fur bearing animals in-
dividual buyers must consult their
consciences. They must decide it
they can still bear to buy or to wear
fur obtained with the steel jaw
Ieghold trap. Documented facts and
photographs demonstrate its cruelty.
They know that in rejecting fur from
animals caught in steel jaw traps,
they are opting for life — not for
agonizing death for animals.

 




 

Blood-spattered
snow provides a
nightmare setting
for the terror, pain,
and despair‘which
the implacable trap
elicits from its
small victim — a
barbaric drama of
suffering which has
been compared to
crucifixion.

Fear and pain inflicted by the Ieghold
trap is so intense that many animals
gnaw their paws off to escape.
Others die of thirst, hunger or Cold ’
before the trapper returns. Only 32
state laws require daily inspections
of trap lines, and such laws as'exist,
are not enforced. '

 

' as death
ﬂute!

Dozens of these little ermines are
necessary to make a single coat.

 

 

 

 

«4..

 

_,_,—~.4-.-.‘...

._ . ......Aq..»\..a A... «A

s...“ «.N‘.‘

 

~W- v7. \E‘~.. r— a.

 

v‘Ivj-I

 

 

 

 

 




 

This is an appeal to all good citizens
to ban the use of an outmoded
instrument of torture for mere com-
mercial gain. The leghold trap, in-
vented in Medieval England to catch
human beings who tried to poach on
the lands of the gentry, is still being
used unblushingly by the fur in-
duStry. It’s time to stop!

Frequently the trapped animals,
especially mother animals who at-
tempt the impossible in order to
return to their babies, gnaw off the
imprisoned foot. The fur trade calls
this “wring off”.

To prevent such escape, which
means loss of the pelt, some traps
are placed in or near water. Thus the
— struggle for life of the captured
animal ends in death by drowning.

Depending upon the amount of air in
its lungs, it can take twenty minutes
to drown a beaver.

 

 

r
l
t

 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

Looking at these photographs, what
does your conscience dictate? What
is your responsibility toward these
martyred creatures?

 

 

 

 




We need a boundless ethics
which will include the
animals also.

Albert Schweitzer

Let Us

Live .

The aim of this
appeal is to
awaken your con-
science to save
millions of ani-
mals from the in-
conceivable agony
of the steel-jaw
trap.

Arctic fox

(Photo Fred Bruenner, Montreal)

More than 25 mil-
lion wild animals,
so called because
they live in free-
dom, are trapped
most of them with
steel jaw traps
every year, vic-
tims of a greedy
and ruthless fur
trade that feeds
on human vanity.

The Animal Welfare Institute
protests against cruel trapping
of animals for fur.

Do Not Buy

Martyred Victims
of the Steeljaw
Traps

The Animal Welfare Institute in
collaboration with the World Fed-
eration for the Protection of
Animals fights against barbaric
methods of capture and killing.

Every year tens of millions of
animals are trapped, about 16 mil-
lion in the United States alone: in-
cluding beavers, lynx, squirrels,
wolves, arctic foxes, red foxes,
muskrats and raccoons. Struggling
for days and nights, sometimes for
weeks in the well hidden steeljaw
traps, they suffer unimaginable
anguish, thirst, hunger, freezing cold
and exhaustion. In their desperate
efforts to free the trapped leg, they
only succeed in most cases in tear-
ing the flesh, breaking the bone, or
breaking their teeth against the hard
steel of the trap.

How can the intensity of their
anguish be measured?

A Canadian survey of two traplines
over a 5-year period showed that for
561 animals caught whose fur was
saleable, there were 1350 additional
victims crushed in the steel jaws.

These were what trappers call
“trash”. Animals without value for
the trapper: geese, ducks, song birds,
eagles, owls, porcupines, squirrels,
and a host of other creatures in-
cluding family pets.

The Steeljaw
Trap, A Mortal
Peril for All
Animals

The screams of this little bird
brought no help. In the jargon of
the trapping industry, this delicate
singer is mere “trash” to be thrown

Thousands of traplines are laid
across the vast Canadian wilderness
and in every state of the United
States. The loss of sensitive crea-
tures useless to the fur trade, but
valuable to our ecosystem, attains in-
calculably monstrous figures.

This pamphlet has been prepared for
distribution in the United States and Canada.
Information from both countries is included.

 




 

 

For the majority of trappers, the
cruel business is merely a sideline,
and some states even encourage
children to trap by providing a
cheaper license for them than for
aduHs.

Documented

Testimony of a
trapper:

horror

“One day, I saw a large beaver, a
front paw caught in a Ieghold trap.
The paw was no longer covered with
skin or flesh, the bone was visible,
naked and white. At my approach, as
the beaver struggled desperately to
free itself, the bone broke with a.
sickening sound.”

Austria, Chile, Denmark, Norway,
Sweden, Switzerland, West Ger-
many, The United Kingdom and
more than fifty other countries have
outlawed the steel jaw trap. Only
traps that kill immediately or those
that hold the animal unharmed are
allowed. But in the United States
and Canada, there are no national
laws against these traps and only
New Jersey, Rhode Island, Florida
and MassachUsetts ban their use.

 

 

 

 

 




These photographs
were taken from a
film of the World
Society for the Pro-
tection of Animals
(WSPA).

(Photo Lay-out Courtesy of the European Committee
for the Protection of Seals and other Furbearlng
Animals)

Animal protective organizations
throughout the United States,
Canada and the whole world appeal
to all people of good will to aid them
in ending the torture of the
persecuted furbearers.

 

 
 

Copies of this leaflet are available
free on request for distribution from
the Animal Welfare Institute, P.O.
Box 3650, Washington D.C. 20007
(202) 337-2332

Name

 

Address

 

 

 

Please send me
copies of this leaflet for distribution.

Pnnted in U.S.A.

 

 




 

“Is it not illogical to hunt
a species to extinction?”

—Mr. Spock
Star Trek IV:
The Voyage Home

THE
WHALES

 

 

 

 

“IS IT NOT ILLOGICAL T O HUNT A SPECIES T O EXTINCTION. ” asks Mr. Spock in Star
Trele IV.- The Voyage Home. This question raised by the always logical Mr. Spock is ech-

oed by environmentalists worldwide.

 

BUT THE KILLING GOES ON

 

“In the light of our present
knowledge of these magniﬁcent

because a few nations cynically continue to liquidate the remain- mammals, no civilized person

ing whale stocks.

Hunted to the brink of extinction, the great whales now survive
in such few numbers that scientists fear several species may dis-

can contemplate whaling without
revulsion and shame at the
insensitivity of our own species.
Whaling is an aﬁ'ront to human

appear forever. The slaughter continues, carried out by a handful dignity, a dehasement of human
of nations defying the warnings of scientists and the appeals of . values and sensitivities.”

millions of concerned citizens throughout the world.

—Sir Peter Scott

Japan, Norway, and Iceland are sending their fast catcher boats “The moot point is, whether

to chase down the last of the whales.

They seek to extract the last yen and kroner from the slaughter of

the magniﬁcent whales.

 

 

 

 

Sperm Whales (Richard Ellis)

Leviathan can long endure so
wide a chase, and so remorseless
a havoc . . . ”

—Herman Melville

 

WHALIN G MORATORIUM
DEF IED

In 1972, the United Nations Conference on
the Human Environment, meeting in Stock-
holm, unanimously called for a moratorium
on all commercial whaling. The whaling
nations deﬁantly ignored the appeal—and
have killed more than 350,000 of the great
creatures since. Then in 1982, the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission (1W C) adopted
by 25 to 7 an indeﬁnite moratorium on all
commercial whaling. They found the num-
ber of whales so depleted that a total cessa-
tion is necessary to give the populations a
chance to recover. The majority of the whal-
ing nations have complied, but three arro-
gantly continue to hunt.

The United States has laws calling for economic sanctions against outlaw whaling nations, but the govern-
ment has been reluctant to enforce them. Indeed, it took a lawsuit by conservation and animal welfare
groups to force the administration to impose an automatic penalty against Japan. In February 1988, Japan
was formally barred from ﬁshing within the US. 200-mile zone under provisions of the Packwood-

Magnuson Amendment.

But State Department bureaucrats have, so far, prevented use of the much heavier sanctions provided by
the Pelly Amendment: embargo of some or all ﬁshery products from the offending nations. Japan, Iceland
and Norway export hundreds of millions of dollars of ﬁsh to the US. each year.

 




PLEASE HELP DECIDE THE FATE OF THE WHALES

What will future generations of humans say of us? Will they pay us
tribute for halting the greedy slaughter of the creatures with the
most complex brains on earth? Or will they condemn us for
callously allow1ng the extermination of an entire intelligent race, oil be said to have discovered the
one that evolved over 200 million years, for margarine, livestock true sense of the whale? Can he

f€€da and whale steaks. who stays the elephant for his

Whaling nations are now claiming they must kill whales for “sci- 1000’ be “ml to have seen the
entiﬁc research.” But it is the same Whalers and the same ships eleph ant? These {we 1’9“? and

. . acczdental uses; Just as if a
and the whale meat and 011 goes to the same markets. The SCien- stronger race were to kill us in
tiﬁc Committee of the IWC has refused to endorse these “re- order to make buttons and
search” whaling schemes, and the full commission has adopted ﬂageolots of 0m. bones.”
resolutions directing the whaling nations to refrain from killing _Hem.y David Thoreau
any more whales. Japan, Iceland and Norway have ignored all ap-
peals to end the slaughter.

 

“ an he who has discovered the
values of whalebone and whale

 

PUBLIC PRESSURE IS CRUCIAL NOW

Please take these actions to help the whales. be addressed: Senate Ofﬁce Building, Washing-

ton, D.C. 20510. Representatives may be

1. Boycott all goods from Japan, Iceland and Nor- a d dresse d: House Ofﬁce Building Washington
way. Hit the whaling nations in the only place DC. 20515. ’ ’

they can understand, their pocketbooks. Ask
your friends to join the boycott. Particularly tar-
get ﬁsh from the whaling nations. Much of the
fresh salmon sold in the United States comes
from Norway. Many fast food restaurants use Ice-
landic cod for their ﬁsh sandwiches. Artiﬁcial
crab legs (surimi) are marketed by the Japanese.
Japan Norway

Ask your local markets and restaurants to buy His Excellency His Excellency

thCiI‘ ﬁsh CISCWhCI‘C. Nobuo Matsunaga Kjell Eliassen
Ambassador of Japan Ambassador of Norway

. . . . 2520 Massachusetts Avenue, NW 2720 34th Street, NW
. Write a letter to PreSident Reagan urging him to Washington, DC 20008 Washington, DC 20008

enforce the US. Pelly Amendment against the 1 C e1 a n d
whaling nations for their deﬁance of the morato- His Excellency
rium. Ask him to embargo their ﬁshery products. Ingvi 5- Ingvafsson
The State Department must not be allowed to Ammssado" 0f. Edam
, , 2022 Connecticut Avenue, NW
sell out the great whales again. Pre31dent Washington, DC 20008
Reagan’s address is The White House, Washing-
ton, D.C., 20500. Send copies to your two

Senators and your Representative. Senators may

. Write letters to the Ambassadors of Japan, Ice-
land and Norway demanding that they halt the
needless slaughter of the whales. Their names
and addresses are:

 

You can help save the whales and publicize the
boycott compaign by making a TAX-DEDUCTI-
BLE CONTRIBUTION to the Save the Whales
Campaign. If you believe in this effort, please
give generously. For a donation of $20 or more,
you will receive a beautiful six-color print of
sperm whales by renowned marine life artist
Richard Ellis. Measuring 20" X 26”, they are
printed on ﬁne art paper and are ready for
mounting. (See reverse side of ﬂyer.)

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE PO. BOX 3650, Washington, DC. 20007 Christine Stevens, President
IF THIS ORDER IS URGENT, PLEASE ADD $2.50 FOR PRIORITY MAIL, POSTAGE AND HANDLING.

I want to help save the Whales. Please send me:
___ Copies of this leaﬂet “SAVE THE WHALES” T-shirts

—— Petitions Adult’s T-shirts ($6.00 each)
____ Posters (one free, extras $1.00) [I Sm [1 Med El Lg D X-Lg

___ “Sperm Whales” print
(a donation of $20.00 or more per print)

Enclosed please ﬁnd $ to help SAVE THE WHALES

__ Children’s T-shirts ($5.00 each)
C] Sm [:1 Med El Lg

__ Adult’s sweatshirts ($15.00 each)
and $_______ for my order. D Med El Lg E] X-Lg

MAKE CHECK PAYABLE TO: Animal Welfare Institute (D.C. residents add 6% sales tax)
Name (please print)
Address

City

 

 

 

 

 

 




