A

BILL

FOR THE

Abolition of Viviseotion.

 

 

ARRANGEMENT OF CLAUSES.

——-—+————

Clause.

1.

2
3.
4

Short title.

Deﬁnition of Vivisection.

Prohibition of Vivisection.

Penalty for Vivisection.

Entry on warrant by justice.

Prosecution of offences and recovery of penalties in England.

Power of offender in England to elect to be tried on indictment,
and not by Summary jurisdiction.

Form of appeal to quarter sessions.

Prosecution of offences and recovery of penalties in Scotland.

Prosecution of offences and recovery of penalties in Ireland.

Power of offender in Ireland to elect to be tried on indictment,
and not by summaryjurisdiction.

Repeal of Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Abolition of Vivisection. ‘ . 1'

A

BILL

FOR

The Abolition of Vivisection.-

WHEREAS it is expedient to amend the law relating to cruelty to
animals 1n the cases of animals which fo1 medical, physiological, or
other scientiﬁc puiposes, or with a View to the advanCement by new
discove1y of physiological knowledge which will be useful for saving
or p1 olon0‘1n0‘ life or alleviating suffering, 01 fo1 the purpose of testing
a pa1ticular b‘fo1mer discovery alleged to have been made for the
advancement of such knowledge, 01 for the illustration of lectures in
medical schools hospitals, colleges, o1 elsewhe1e, are subjected when
alive to inoculations or to other expeliments calculated to cause pain:

Be it enacted by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with
the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temp01al, and

Commons, in the present Parliament assembled, and by the authority
of the same, as follows:

I. This Act may be cited for all purposes as “The Vivisection Short Title
Abolition Act, 1903 ”

2. The Term “ Vivisection ” in the Act’shall mean every inoculation Dsﬁnitiqn of
. . . V1v1sect10n.
or other exper1ment, whether performed w1th or w1thout the use of
anaesthetics, p1oducing, 01 of a nature to produce pain in any
verteb1 ate animal, as well as the cutting Or wounding of any living
vertebrate an1mal whethe1 such animal 1s or is not under the inﬂuence
of an anaesthetic, otherwise than fo1 the purpose of Curing or allevi—
ating any injury or disease f1om which such animal is suffering, 01
for the pu1pose of self protection, or for the purpose of gelding any
domestic animal 01 fo1 the purpose of killing any animal.

3. It shall not be lawful to subject any verteb1 ate animal to vivi- 53:33:83“
section. Provided always that it shall be lawful. "

(1.) To cut or wound any living injured or diseased vertebrate
animal for the purpose of cu1ing or alleviating the injury or
disease from which such animal 1s suffering ,

(2.) To cut oz wound any living veitebrate animal for the purpose
of self protection,

(3.) To cut or wound any domestic animal for the purpose of
gelding the same;

(4.) To cut or wound any animal f01 the pu1pose of killing it.

 




 

Penalty for
Vivisection.

Entry on
Warrant by
Justice.

Prosecution
oi offences
and recovery
of penalties
:in England.

"“ Court of
Summary
jurisdiction.”

2 Abolition of Vivisection.

4:. Any person subjecting any vertebrate animal to Vivisection,
save as in this Act is provided shall be guilty of an offence against
the same and shall, if it be the ﬁrst offence be liable to a penalty not
exceeding ﬁfty pounds, and if it be the second or any subsequent
offence, be liable to imprisonment for a period not exceeding twelve
months.

Legal Proceedings.

5. A justice of the peace, on information on oath that there is

’ reasonable ground to believe that a Vivisection in contraventiOn of

this Act has been, is being, or is intended to be performed in any
place, shall issue his warrant authorizing any ofﬁcer or constable of
police either alone or accompanied by such person or persons as the
said justice shall direct to enter and search such place, and to take the
names and addresses of the persons found therein, and to seize and
take away any living vertebrate animal upon which a Vivisection has
been performed or is intended to be performed, together with all
materials and instruments which have been used, or are intended to
be used, in or about such Vivisection.

The police officer or constable so authorized may, if he ﬁnds in
such a place any living vertebrate animal upon which a Vivisection
has been performed, either kill it himself or cause some other person
to kill it in as painless a manner as possible.

Any person who refuses admission on demand to a police oﬁicer or
constable so authorized, or to any person so directed to accompany
him, or obstructs such ofﬁcer or constable in the execution of his
duty under this section, or who refuses on demand to disclose his
name and address, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding ﬁve
pounds.

6. In England, offences against this Act may be prosecuted and
penalties under this Act recovered before a court of summary

jurisdiction in manner directed by the Summary Jurisdiction Act.

In England “Summary Jurisdiction Act” means the Act of the
Session of the eleventh and twelfth years of the reign of Her
late Majesty, chapter forty-three, intituled “ An Act to facilitate
“the performance of the duties of justices of the peace out of
“ sessions within England and Wales with respect to summary
“ convictions and orders,” and any Act amending theisame.

“Court of summary jurisdiction ” means and includes any justice
or justices of the peace, metropolitan police magistrate,
stipendiary or other magistrate, or ofﬁcer, by whatever name
called, exercising jurisdiction in pursuance of the Summary
Jurisdiction Act: Provided that the court when hearing
and determining an information under this Act shall be
constituted either of two or more justices of the peace in petty

sessions, sitting at a place appointed for holding petty sessions,

 

l
l




Abolition of Vivisection. 3

01 of some magistiate o1 ofﬁcer sitting alone 01 with othe1s at
some cou1t or other place appointed fo1 the administ1ation of
justice, and for the time being empowered by law to do alone
any act authorized to be done by more than one justice of the
peace.

’7. In England, where a person is accused before a cou1t of fggﬁeffin
summary juiisdiction of any offence against this Act in 1espect of England to
which a penalty of more than ﬁve pounds can be imposed, the 5:63:22?
accused may, on appeaIing before the cou1t of summaryju1isdiction, dictment, and
' decla1e that he objects to being tried for such offence by a court of ‘S‘I‘J’rtnlr’g’ary
summa1yju1isdiction, and thereupon the court of summary jurisdic- jurisdiction.
tion may deal with the case in all 1espects as if the accused were
chaiged with an indictable offence and not an offence punishable on
summary conviction, and the offence may be prosecuted on indictment
accordingly.

8. In England, if any party thinks himself aggrieved by any Egggffo
conviction made by a cou1t of summa1y ju1isdiction on dete1mining quarter
any information unde1 this Act, the party so aggrieved may appeal 5653”“

therefrom, subject to the conditions and regulations fOllowing:

(1.) The appeal shall be made to the next court of general 01
qua1ter sessions for the county or place 1n which the cause of
appeal has arisen, bolden not less than twenty- -one days after
the decis1on of the court from which the appeal 1s made; and

(2) The appellant shall, within ten days after the cause of appeal
has a11sen, give notice to the other pa1ty and to the court of
summa1y Jurisdiction of his intention to appeal, and of the
ground thereof; and

(8.) The appellant shall, within th1ee days after such notice, enter
into a 1ecognizance before a Justice of the peace, with two
sufﬁcient sureties, conditioned personally to tiy such appeal,
and to abide the judgment of the court thereon, and to pay
such costs as may be awa1ded by the court, 01 give such othe1
security by deposit of money or othe1wise as the Justice may
allow; and

(4.) Where the appellant 1s in custody the Justice may, if he think
fit, on the appellant entering into such recognizance or giving
such othe1 security as aforesaid, 1elease him from custody;
and

(5.) The court of appeal may adjourn the appeal, and upon the
hearing thereof they may conﬁrm, reverse, or modify the
decision of the court of summary jurisdiction, or remit the
matter to the court of summary jurisdiction with the opinion
of the court of appeal thereon, or make such other order in the
matter as the court thinks just, and if the matter be remitted
to the court of summary jurisdiction the said last—mentioned
court shall thereupon re-hear and decide the information in

 




 

Prosecution
of offences
and recovery
of penalties
in Scotland.

ProsecutiOn
of offences
and recovery
of penalties
in Ireland.

Power of
offender in
Ireland to
elect to be
tried on in-
dictment,
and not by
summary
jurisdiction.

Repeal of
The Cruelty
to Animals
Act, 1876.

4 I Abolition of Vivisection.

accordance with the order of the said court of appeal. The '

court of appeal may also make such order as to costs to be
paid by either party as the court thinks just. "

9. In Scotland, offences against this Act may be prosecuted and
penalties under this Act recovered under the provisions of the
Summary Procedure Act, 1864, or if a person accused of any offence
against this Act in respect of which a penalty of more than ﬁve
pounds can be imposed, on appearing before a court of summary
jurisdiction, declare that he objects to being tried for such offence in the
court of summary jurisdiction, proceedings may be taken against him
on indictment in the Court ofjusticiary in Edinburgh or on circuit.

Every person found liable in any penalty or costs shall be liable in
default of. immediate payment to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding three months, or until such penalty or costs are sooner
paid. '

10. In Ireland, offences against this Act may be prosecuted and
penalties under this Act recovered in a summary manner, subject and
according to the provisions with‘respect to the prosecution of offences,
the recovery of penalties and to appeal of the Petty Sessions (Ireland)
Act, 1851, and any Act amending the same, and in Dublin of the
Acts regulatingthe powers of justices of the peace or of the police of
Dublin metropolis. All penalties recovered under this Act shall be
applied in manner directed by the Fines (Ireland) Act, 1871, and any
Act amending the same.

11. In Ireland, where a person is accused before a court of
summary jurisdiction of any offence against this Act in respect of
which a penalty of more than five pounds can be imposed, the
accused may, on appearing before the court of summary jurisdiction,
declare that he objects to being tried for such offence by a court of
summaryjurisdiction, and thereupon the court of summaryjurisdiction
may deal with the case in all respects as if the accused were charged
with an indictable offence and not an offence punishable on summary
conviction, and the offence may be prosecuted on indictment only.

12. “ The Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876,” is hereby repealed, and
all licenses and certiﬁcates granted thereunder are hereby revoked,
provided that any legal proceeding commenced under that Act before
the passing of this Act may be continued, prosecuted, and‘defended

. in all respects as if this Act had not been passed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

I 0.-.- ‘Ilvli‘nrtv I

 

 




 

 

A

B I L L
For the total Abolition of Vivisection.

_..____L

.1, 1,

Printed by PEWTRESS & Co., 28, Little Queen Street, London, W1?-

 




