 

 

 

 

Greatest

Shame

by

FRANK REGINALD NOLAN,

Holt. Secretary Ulstwr Branch of British Union ;
Hon. Vice—President of the Irish Esperanto Association;
Diplomist oft/16 British Esperanto A ssociattou ;
Ale/11001” of the: Royal Society of Literature, £130., (5%. ;

Author of “The Great Drama of Nature."

 

a / '
f

K

1
6‘
7%?

An Address delivered in Belfast, on February. 19th,
1926.

Also delivered in the Dufferin Hall,
Bangor, on April 7th, 1926

PRICE 3D.

17

 

 

 

 




 

-

 

 

 

 




 

“.137 :m

g.“— m ﬁningw A I'rw~‘.ﬁ-:\‘-'P|W:wv :‘l‘ , { ,, _E i .I. . Ii _.

 

 

 

 

 

 

SHAME.

B Y

MAN’S GREATEST -
[x
'

ﬂ ;' TX I". ‘4

FRANK REGINALD NOLAN, :;

Hon. Scrlv’r’taz’y His/(’2’ I‘liﬂ‘ll’lé‘rl’lx 0/ ljll’HII‘SIZ Union;
Hun. l'z‘re—l’z’esz‘dezzt of the Irish Esperanto 4830616111011
Diplomfsl of the British Esperanto Associalz'on;

- .\[emt>ur of the [royal Society of Literature, etc., etc.

AUTHOR OF
“THE magi-yr 1,)RAMA OF NATURE."

An Address delivered before the Church of Ireland
Young Men’s Literary and Debating Society in
Clarence Hall, Belfast, on February 19th, 1926.
Also delivered in. the Dufferin Hall, Bangor, on
April 7th, 1926"

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

INTRODUCTION.

 

Few pages in the history of our race are more revolting to the
moral sense than those which record the abhorrent practice of vivi-
section. All the horrors and devilish devices that the corrupt and
perverted mind has invented throughout the ages with intent to torture
lose some even of their repulsiveness when compared with the frightful
and gruesome horrors perpetrated on dumb and helpless animals by
men in whose hearts a perverted science has silenced the voice of
mercy; in whose breasts the panting for fame and honours has stiﬂed
the promptings of pity, and in whose minds a morbid curiosity seems
to have banished the last whisper of sympathy.

We were all shocked when, in 1914-, the then German Chancellor
spoke of “Germany hacking her way through Belgium,” but it is in
exactly the same spirit—the spirit in which it is declared that the
end justiﬁes the means—that the vivisector in his inferno, euphemisti-
cally named “laboratory,” hacks his way through the living tissues
of animals to morbid gratiﬁcation.

Atrocities such as a savage would hardly practise even to satisfy
a life-long enmity; scientiﬁcally inﬂicted agonies which might deter
even a Torquemada; outrages and horrors which revolt the heart and
shock the conscience, are recorded from time to time in Medical
Journals and Physiological publications, until one can only wonder
what difference there is between the modern ministry of the devilish
cult of vivisection and the hired torturers of the Inquisition.

One can read only with alarm the last Annual Return. of Experi-
ments on Living Animals under the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876. it
was published by the Home Ofﬁce on July 30th, 1925, and relates to
the experiments performed in 1924. The number of vivisectors who
held licences, allowing them to perform these experiments, was 1,042“
93 of these licencees being women! The number of experiments per-
formed is 177,815; that is, 43,032 more than in the previous year!
Of these experiments only 9.162 are stated to have been performed
with anaesthetics; and in no fewer than 4,555 of these cases the animal
after operation was allowed to recover consciousness!

 




 

 

 

 

 

Li WHAT IS VIVLSE JTIUN?

In vain do we search the writings and reports of the viviseetors,
descriptive of the most ghastly experiments, to ﬁnd a single expression
of regret, not to say sympathy, with the miserable Victims in their
laboratories, upon whose sensitive bodies they have perfornred their
foul work.

But when it is realised that experiments made upon animals were
afterwards made upon new—born infants, and that hospital patients
who had innocently confided themselves to the care of " an honourable
and illustrious profession” for the cure of their diseases or the allevia»
tion of their suﬂerings, afterwards found themselves to be the victims
of peculiarly loathsome and sliiameful diseases, the nature of which is
neither respectable to state nor edifying to listen to, it will surely be
conceded that we are faced with a menace that must be fought at all
costs. It is difﬁcult to portray in calm words the thoughts aroused
by the perusal of the following:

Dr. A. H. Wentworth, Senior Assistant Physician to the
Infants” Hospital, Boston, Mass, gives an account of how he per—
formed experimental punctures of the spinal canals of some
twenty—nine children, in an article entitled “ Some Experimental
\Vork on Lumbar Puncture.” The children were ﬁve years and

less of age, and some of them were punctured four times. Of
these twenty—nine children fourteen died on the day of the
puncture, others the next day, and all but two within a very few
days. . . . . ‘ After having performed the operation 45 times,’ he
says, ‘the results of lumbar puncture have thus far shown it to
have no therapeutic value.”

One can only wonder where legitimate experiment ends and the
criminal commences!

ilﬂxperiments designed to ascertain the effects of inoculations of
various virulent bacteria on men, women and children have been
conducted on, a colossal scale. Let me give a few exan'lples from many

CC 1

that are remrcletl by Dr. limdgeon in his pamphlet txperiments on

Human Beings.”1

Dr. A. Doederlein, in a monograph, relates how he inoculated a
young unmarried woman. with the microbe of pus. This seems to
have inspi red Dr. Menge, ,.-j\ssistant Physician in the University Hospital
for Women in Leipzic. with the idea of i'naking similar inoculations on-
non-pregnant women. His subjects were 35 women, who a fortnight
previously had undergone the formidable operation of laparotomy

 

*“Boston Medical and Surgical Journal.” August 6th. and 13th, 1896. Taken from a.
leaﬂet published by World League against Vivisection (English Branch).

1 Published by the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection.

 

 

 

 

 




WHAT IS VIVISE’O’TION? 5

tie. cutting open the abdomen). I-Iis experiments on these poor
women were 80 in number. The bacillus pyocyaneus was used 23
times; the staphylococcus pyogenes 30 times; the streptococcus pyo-
genes 27 times. He says:

“ The bacteria I used in my eighty experiments on thirty—ﬁve
different patients of. the Royal Institute were taken either from
diseased mammary glands; from the discharges of recently con-
” lined women suffering from puerperal fever; or from cultivations
i I had made from the pus in. the abdominal cavity of a person who
I had died of peritonitis. All. the bacteria planted. were capable of
taking root and ﬂourishing.”

 

 

lle also introduced into the bodies of new—born infants “ a large
of stapl'iylococci. To quote his own words:

3

number ’

“ My experiments on new-born babies (girls) disproved the
correctness of the professor’s deductions. Unfortunately I could
get only three babies to experiment on. These I took immediately
after birth. They were not bathed, but at once wrapped up in
sterile linens and carried to my laboratory. I inoculated these
subjects with very considerable quantities of staphylococci.”

Dr. C. Bumm, Professor of Gynaecology and Physician to the
Midwifery Hospital of the University of Basle, injected the nonococcus
virus into an incurable paralytic, with the “result that the defenceless
cripple got the disease.

 

Dr. Jansen, of the Charity Hospital in Stockholm, reported as
follows on the J2th May, 1891, in a letter to the Medical Society at
Stockholm :-—-

“ When I began my experiments with black small-pox pus, I
should, perhaps, have chosen animals for the purpose. But the
most ﬁt subjects, calves, were obtainable only at considerable cost.
There was besides, the cost of their keep, so I concluded to make '
my experiments upon the children of the Foundlings’ Home, and
obtained kind permission to do so from the head physician, Pro-
fessor Medin.”

 

“ I selected fourteen children who were inoculated day after
day. Afterwards I discontinued them, and used calves. .
I did not continue my experiments on calves long, ﬁrst because I
despaired of gaining my ends within a limited period, and again
because the calves were so expensive. I intend, however, to go
back to my experiments in the Foundling Asylum at some future

9 time.”

 

 




w...“ -«~-7~W~M..~ ~", ....... ,

6 WHAT IS VIVISEOTION?

Such examples of medical criminality are bad enough, but trans-
cending in heartless cruelty and depravity were the experiments of
Professor E. Finger, of Vienna, and Professor N eisser, of the University
of Breslau. The former inoculated three healthy women, recently
conﬁned, with the loathsome and shameful disease known as Syphilis,
which they contracted in its characteristic Virulence. Professor Neisser
inoculated eight healthy persons with the serum of the same disease

, ‘ and was not ashamed to publish an article in which he relates that
he had made experiments upon children with this loathsome virus
and gives an account of the cases. Neither the parents of the children
nor the little patients themselves were aware of what was being done !1

 

The foregoing examples of experiments on human beings, though
unjustiﬁable and useless, are the inevitable and logical outcome of
vivisection on animals. Professor Slosson, of one of the ;.\merican
Universities, says: “A human life is nothing compared with a new
fact in science . . . . the aim of science is the advancement of human
knowledge at any sacriﬁce of human life. If. cats and guinea pigs
can be put to any higher use than to advance science, we do not know

i what it is. We do not know of any higher use we can put a man to."
’ Dr. Preston King. of Bath, in a letter to the “ Lancet.” September 30th..
1905, advocated that criminals condemned to death should be given
the option of being handed over to vivisectors. “ Think for a moment
what this would mean. At present we are. wandering in the dark.
seeking vainly for the light that these experiments alone could give.”
and boldly stated that “direct experiment on man is what we want.”

 

 

When the scientiﬁc spirit of the age leads to such shameless senti~
ments and such diabolical practice, it is indeed time that universal
resentment should arise and all humane people acquaint themselves
with the foul system of: vivisection.

 

 

1Althfﬁ1gh this and other shocking outrages occurred on the Continent, there is
ev1dently very little objection to these methods in English medical circles, when one
reads that the West London Medic-o-Chirurgical Society invited the same Professor
' Nelsser to deliver the Cavendish Lecture on the Evolution of the Modern Treatment
0? SYQhII-IS at Kensmgton Town Hall, London, on June 27th, 191]. and presented
hnn Wlth the geld medal 0f the Society for “distinguished work in Medical Science"
part of which work consisted in inoculating young girls with syphilis. The consent

of the parents was not asked.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

What is Vivisection ?

 

 

An address delivered before the
Church of Ireland Young Men’s
Literary and Debating Society
in Clarence Hall, Belfast, on
—-——~ February 19th, 1926. —-—————
Also delivered in the Dufferin
Hall, Bangor, on April 7th, 1926.

 

 

Mr. NOLAN said: “ Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen. Vivi—
section means experimenting upon live aniniials by means of cutting
operations, starving, feeding with loathsome substances in order to
produce disease, inoculations, freezing, burning, drowning, etc. The
purpose professed for this horrible cruelty is that these experiments
furnish, or may furnish, knowledge which may possibly be useful in
treating the diseases of human patients. But n'iany eminent surgeons
have come forward to confess that such practices have led to no useful
results in the interests of medicine or surgery, but that, on the con-
trary, these practices have led investigators astray; have brought about
confusion and contradiction; have introduced dangerous methods into
medical practice, and have resulted in a truly deplorable waste of
public money, to the neglect of truly ameliorative measures. .Vivi-
section is in the hands of a small but inﬂuential body of men, who
must be carefully distinguished from the general body of medical
practitioners, few of whom have any acquaintance with it.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8 , WHAT 18 V1 l/lb'ldC'l’ltLV.’

“If such cruelties as I am about to relate were not prut‘lised, it
were to be desired they should not be conceived; but, .~~'ll1t‘t‘ amounts
of these cruelties have been published, let me mention some nl,’ them,
which I can only do with abhorrenee.

“ The experimental subjects used are, generally stun-thine, monkeys,
dogs, cats, rodents, rabbits, guinea-pigs, horses nml donkeys. When
the helpless dumb creature has been strapped tightly on :L board or
frame so that it cannot move (whether it be under unnutliesiu. ()1‘ not)
its body is ripped Open in order that the l)<)\\'t'l.\', lllll~~t'll'.4. nerves, etc.,
may be observed in the mutilated frame. of the still ll\ llILI' \ietini. A
revolting orgy is indulged in with knife. lire and puiswti: ,nul one run
imagine the plaintive cries, howls of suffering tun] grin-m»: or distress
that have gone up from the defeneeless \‘ietiins whose ;l‘l'.‘ll inisl'nrtune
is that they were ever born. The brain reels us HIH‘ tries to represent
to oneself some faint picture of the anmunt of lillysii‘nl min inllicted
by the piercing of a brain with hot wire; tilline' wins \\ llll Prussian
blue; causing inﬂammation of bones by inserting :1 lt‘tlwlltll needle as
deeply as possible; passing a needle into the liver: lllll.'lllllll‘_" the eye.

by paSSing thread through tllC COl‘llCﬂ; lvllt‘ Ulllllll‘; ;l{‘l't)\»; (.l' lllt‘ l()\\’(}1‘

end of the small intestine of cats and the elnsine ut' linlll ends: putting
mU‘Stard Oil into cats” eyes; Stitching up a (-nt‘s mouth. exeisino‘ its
claws With nippers close to the bone and then disseetine it : scraping
away the 1111100118 membrane of an animal‘s mouth and then t'mlflllll'lg
it in an atmosphere 0f phosphorous until hull it< bend rots away;
011%ng out organs Of the body and keeping nninml» alive to see, the
result; cutting off a dog’s epiglottis (the valve (if 11],, mm} l’ll‘l‘l w that
the creature cannot swallow without the food gimm- (1mm the wrong
passage and SO choking and starving it to death : euttinc' out a piece of
a dog’s bowel and then tUI‘ning it the wrong. “TIN w ”W the. aetiou
of the intestine is reversed and digogtiun ,1“me; giving a (7102. an
emetic and immediately tying Up the. oesophagus (the e‘ullett so that
It cannot vomit; also giVing it strong purgatix'es and then elmnping the
natural outlets so that no action can take pluee: clamping the muscles
Of a dog’s heart and keeping it for weeks with a ninvenble screw so
that the pressure may be increased; poisoning with snake—yenmn:
fastening animals together till they grow together: \x'orkine' dog‘s 811d
cats on treadmills (1) in their normal state, (Bl alter operations. l3l
after belng dosed with drugs; mangling of tho brain and creating
artiﬁcial tumours to press upon it; making (logs drunk to study the
effects 0f alcohol; fastening them helpless on a slab and then crushing
every bone in their paws with a mallet: (“riveting them with t 8,. (also
turpentine) and then setting ﬁre to them: with pincers. tearing lumps
of flesh from their quivering bodies: l’lDDinQ‘ ”mm {mm throat to
hellya dragglng out their entrails and then filling. 1h 0 own cavity with

 

 




 

 

WHAT IS VIVISEOTION? 9

boiling water; poking out the eyes and then with an instrument
working round the empty socket; crushing the testicles; holding the
Victims over Bunsen ﬂames; enclosing the animals in ovens and
slowly roasting them to death; deliberately driving a dog insane and
then, when it is raging mad, pushing red—hot irons through the bars
of the cage so that the unfortunate animal, in its ungovernable fury,
gnaws at the irons; submitting dogs, which have been previously
encased in ice, to powerful electric currents by which the temperature
rises to 112°, thereby boiling them. to death with their own blood;
the kidneys of fox—terriers cut out piecemeal, resulting in vomiting,
diarrhoea, fever and ulcerations which last for months; grafting dogs’
kidneys on their necks; tying dogs’ limbs over their backs, encasing
them. in plaster of paris, and keeping them thus up to six weeks;
slow drowning, testing poison gases and other diabolical and sickening
cruelties so revolting and frightful that consideration for the sensi~
bility of the audience forbids me to mention.

“ Surely there are few of us who do not burn with a strong desire
to rise up in righteous wrath and batter our way into such abominable,
torture dens, free the helpless animals, and atone to them—if this
were possible—for the awful cruelty of man!

“ I do not mean to assert that every one of the experiments I have
detailed is, to my certain knowledge, being performed now—still less,
in the laboratories of our own country. I merely give examples of
what has been acknowledged; but some of the most shocking of these
experiments such as joining animals together—are actually quite
recently reported experiments; the Vivisectors who performed others
in, the list (including British Doctors) are still most highly honoured
in society, and their work is recognised by the bestowal of titles, etc.
And many of these dreadful deeds are part of the common routine in
all laboratories.

 

“Claude Bernard, one of the cruellest and yet most honoured
Vivisectors who ever lived (honoured, I mean, among his own inhuman
fraternity) spoke the truth when he said ‘ He (the physiologist) does
not hear the animal’s cries of pain. He is blind to.the blood that
ﬂows. He sees nothing but his idea.’ Professor Klein told the Royal
Commission on Vivisection that ‘ A vivisector had no time, so to speak,
for thinking what the animal feels or suffers ’; and Metchnikoff-——whose
memory is adored by the vivisection fra‘ternity——wrote as follows in
Les Annalee: ‘A very large majority of learned men feel no scruples
in opening the bodies and submitting animals to cruel suffering in
the hope of throwing light upon some scientiﬁc problem.’

“ To many people utterly incapable of any act but one of kindness
and love to animals, the vivisector’s laboratory with its operating

 




 

 

 

 

10 WHAT IS VIVISECTION?

tables, straps, cords and gags, will ever remain inconceivable; and the
mind of the relentless coward who watches with gelid eyes the damnable
wounds he has made on an animal’s body will remain to such a one
utterly incomprehensible.

“It would be interesting to note the change that: would come
over such kindly souls were any of their lost: pets treated in the same
manner as the following:——

*‘ Vivisected Jackr—In Decemliier, Itlli}, an Irish terrier, Jack,
vanished from his home. Five weeks later he returned in a very
miserable state, with a healed wound in his leg. in which a metal
plate had been inserted and ﬁxed with screws. He had been the
subject of experiment at Edinburgh University. and lliltl managed
to escape.’

Or if. any of their donkeys were treated in the same manner as the
wretched animal experimented upon by Dr. Harrington Yorke, of
the Runcorn Research Laboratory, which was connected with the
Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine. J low many animals are sacri—
ﬁced, and most cruelly sacriﬁced, at this " School “ of 'l‘ropieal Medi-
cine, will probably never be known; bnt the curtain was raised a. little
when in 1913 proceedings were taken zrigainst this \'i\'isector by the
R.S.P.C.A. for unlawfully, cruelly and unnecessarily causing suffering
to an ass. Although the magistrates, with a. l'ulsome compliment to
Dr. Yorke, dismissed the case with costs against: the Society- «bowing
the abject submission of the Bench to this arrogant Physiological
Hierarchy—some nasty truths were unfolded by the witnesses. The
animal had been lying in a ditch l'roni {lune 26 till July :7. in a help-
less and hopeless condition; according to the testimony or ({tlil'e inde—
pendent Witnesses, there were a. number of wounds on various parts
of the body from which yellow matter was oozing: the animal was
exposed to the full glare of the sun, the weather being very hot at the
time; there were green {lies all, round the sores and the donkev 211"!)i‘e11‘9d
to be in very grea. s't'll’l’ering. '

‘t . . V . .
said:

”WW?” he I‘E‘CPH'ed intt'n'mation of the case he examined the
donkey. He had had experience of animals since he was five years

\

on the. body. 'lhc lnndqiuirtcrs were robbed iaw. and there was

a. 219817 Wound Just above the off hind leg. The wounds were
galﬂﬂq 013011., and matter was oozing from them. The ass could

not raise its head.”

«C . a. r 1 1 ’x ‘ _ .. _ . -
01 age. neie “tie two cut. wounds on the law and three or four

 

 

 

 

 

 

9.3”..‘v‘, ~v . . «i
( EdlllDLIgh Inciting Dispatch‘“ Jamun.V 04.4“ 10.14)

 




 

 

WHAT IS VIVISE‘O’TION? 11

When such was the condition of an animal that had been left outside
the laboratory, one shudders at the thought of what may have been
the condition of other animals inside the laboratory! I do not think
that the summing up of the case will increase anybody’s respect for
the Runcorn magistrates. ‘We are abundantly satisﬁed,’ so it reads,
°that there. has been no cruelty in this case. Our acquittal is an
emphatic one, and Dr. Yorke leaves this Court without a stain on his
professional character.’ One cannot help thinking of the stains on the

unfortunate victim.1

We might be pardoned for asking a pertinent question regarding
this particular case. In these days, when people are obsessed by
‘Germs,’ and when prolonged brooding over the teeming world of
microbes is enough to make one afraid to bite, sup or even breathe,
why did this physiological luminary of the Runcorn Research Labora-
tory endanger the lives of the inhabitants who happened to live near
the place where this animal was lying? We read in the report of the
children playing near—~—the ﬁve witnesses, who do not appear to have
had any reason or desire to deceive—swore that great numbers of ﬂies
were clustering thickly round the discharging wounds: wounds which
were probably the seat of various morbid inoculations. Should not
such a possibility be terrifying to the disciples of Pasteurism?

“ But then, of course, there were no wounds! and presumably no
ﬂies, because Dr. Yorke, at the trial, denied everything—the emacia—
tion of the donkey, its wounds, and its evidences of pain, and asserted
that it was fed and watered daily. Miss Beatrice Kidd—commenting
on the trial—~-witli ironic humour remarks: ‘ It is rather remarkable
that, after the defence, there remained a donkey”.

“ Not the least dreadful part of animal experimentation is that,
through long continued practice, experiments which at ﬁrst are
repellent to the better feelings, if persisted in by the force of a perverted
determination, paralyse the moral sense, petrify the feelings and harden
the heart to such an extent that the moans of a starving and mutilated
animal have no more effect on the operator than has the whistling of
the wind. How many young vivisectors began their ghastly career
by sickening at the sight of inflicted agony, and, conquering by the

 

 

l'I‘he 11.8.1’.C.A. is not enarn-oured of AntinVivisection as it is well known it has
struggled to retain vivisectors upon its Council and among its Vice-presidents. This
case was not a protest against vivisection. The charge was neglect—nothing more.
A full account of the case appeared in the “Liverpool Daily Post” and “Mercury”
of September 2nd, 1913.

2 See her pamphlet, “Was it for Science?” Published by British Union for Abolition
of Vivisection.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12 WHAT IS VII/[SEC‘TH‘LV?

exercise of the will their natural al')lu)rren('e. came subsequently to
cultivate an appetite for slaughter. nay. even a. tendenc}~ tn gloat; over

carnage ?

“But What seems to me more dreadful than all is that the sex
we associate with gentleness, pity and kindness shnuld degrade them-
selves to take up such an ignoble occupation. ()ne of them boasted
to a representative of the Event/m; Standard that she had pm'fnrmed
no fewer than 21,424 experiments in 1924! This licensee went on
to say, according to the report, ‘Of course, when I first tnnk up the
work 1 thought it would be rather gruesome. hat I won not used to

.it, and can now perform the operations without any adverse feeling.’
This statement opens up before us a. very dreadful insight intn the

dark obscurities of psychology and exhibits a terrihle pietnre of the
dark and awful abyss into which the growth in the mind of a dreadful
fascination will plunge a mortal soul. None of the animals en which

 

she operated she went on to say~—\\'ere hurt at all, heeanse the opera—
tion consisted merely of an inoculation! Thus the puhIie is led to
believe that inoculations consist merely of ‘ pin—pricks.‘ the i-‘rul'feringr in-
volved in which is trifling. They are not told of the awful results which
accrue and of the excruciating pain which many nf these um'nrtui’iate
animals subsequently undergo. The distinguished .l )r. (lent-gt: Wilson;
L.L.D. Edin., Medical Officer“ of Health for Mid-\Yarxx‘ieh, confessed
the cruelty of inoculations so long ago as 1802, at a meeting of the
British Medical Association. He said:

(I have HOt allied myself With the anti—\riviseetenlists. but.
I accuse my profession of misleading the public as to the cruclties
and horrors which are perpetrated on animal life. \\'hen it. is said
that the actual pain involved in these experiments is commonly
of the most trifling description. there is a satp},,.mxg,, H ri of the
most palpable kind, WhiCh COUld 0111)’ he zlcciatnted for at the time
by 1g1101:8110€ 0f the actual facts. I admit that in the mere opera-
tion of Injecting a Virus, whether cultivated or not. there may be
ilttle or .110 pain, but the cruelty does not: lie in the operation
itself which is permitted to be performed “ithout unu‘stlietics. but
111 theafter effects. Whether so—called toxins are iniected under
the Sku?’ into the peritoneum, into the cranium under the dura
long-drawn-out agony. The aninui1 iSS-i practised—~tliere IS the
have to live days weeks or m01 flat Soxlnnochﬂy operated (”1 may
its sufferings. and nothincr hi 1 is. “1th no.mmi3thdm to assuage

- .3 x it death to relieve.’

 




 

WHAT IS VIVISEC’TION? 13

"‘ It is also difﬁcult to form a concept of the. mentality of a woman
who can calmly face the appeal in the eyes of a. starving dog, only
taking interest in the effects of the starvation, as was the nature of
experiments performed by Margarete M. Kunde, a National Research
Council Fellow in Physiology, who works at the Hull Physiological
Laboratory of the University of Chicago. Her article entitled “The
Effect of Prolonged Fasting followed by Re-Alimentation on Gastric
Secretion,” in the American Journal of Physiology, April, 1924, makes
painful reading.’

“ On this occasion the dogs numbered only two, but we are re-
minded that ‘further investigation along this line is necessary before
deﬁnite conclusions can be drawn,’ The description of the experiments
is, of course, couched in the usual medical jargon—which if put in
plain language would be nauseating and repellent in the extreme.
But I ask any dog owner to imagine the scene. Here are two starving
dogs—deprived of any kind of food for 27 days-~expecting something
to eat, no doubt, every time their tormentors approach them, and every
time disappointed' They resort to water and even that, for two days,
is taken away. Once again the heartless human being draws near and
the imploring eyes ask for some small mercy—at least water, if not
food. iInstead of receiving either, the suffering dogs are seized and
subjected to the indescribable torment of the stomach pump, by means
of which their famished frames are cruelly convulsed. A street dog
dying of starvation would, at least, be left in peace, but the unfortunate
victims of Margarete M. Kunde could not look forward to any such
relief, for we learn that Dog No. 1 ‘was used for other experimental
purposes ’ I

“Try, if you can, Ladies and Gentlemen, to put yourself in the
place of one of those unfortunate dogs in the laboratorywstolen, to
begin with, probably at some time somebody’s pet. He will never see
his home and friends again. He is in a place over the portal of‘which
might well be written ‘Abandon hope all ye who enter here!” He
is doomed to deathwnot swift, merciful death, such as any decent man
or woman would give to an unwanted animal—but slow, lingering
death by torture deliberately inﬂicted by a terrible human creature
whose heart has been replaced by a stone. No language could describe,
no imagination could visualise the horrors, the mutilations, the miseries,
the heart-rending cruciﬁxions which the wretched victims of the vivi—
sectors, from Claude Bernard down, have undergone.

 

 

,1 "The Abolitionist” for October, 1924, makes some biting comments on these experi-
ments -

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'14 WHAT IS VIVISEOTION?

“ Yet What is there to show for all this welter of blood and agony?
Absolutely nothing. ‘ If the science of 111ediei1111 or surgery is to make
advance in the future,’ wrote Dr. James Burnct, MA... etc, Senior
Clinical Tutor of the Royal Infirmary Edinburgh ‘ it will not be the
'acquisition of knowledge from the viviseetm’ s table. . .I am ﬁrmly
convinced that Medical Science is beine‘ hampered by vi\ isection, and
that a step in the right dileetion would be its abolition. not only in
this country, but the world even". Illerbert Snow, Ml)” Late Senior
Surgeon, Cancer Hospital, London, was not less explicit when he said
‘I cannot ﬁnd a solitary instance of progress gained by the help of
vivisection in any branch of medical or physiological seienee.’ And yet
i the abominable practice goes on. Thousands of helpless animals daily
pass into the laboratories in their endless d11ea1y 11111111 e ssion; hundreds
of men and women continue their cold- blooded eon ardly cruelty; and
their foul work will go on until the g1eat public at last 1ises up and
_ in its wrath sweeps away for all time such 11. bloody and disreputable
institution. Dante’s inferno is but a ﬂight of poetieal imagination;
but the vivisector’s inferno is a ghastly and revolting reality.

~ “At present there is a class of inflieted pain praetieally limitless
in variety of application and duration. whieh. for a, general term, we
will call ‘experim'ental ulceration.’ One need only see the hideous,
eating, cankering, sloughing sores deliberately cultivated in the tissues
of experimental animals, or merely consult their description in the
articles being published from time to time to glimpse a. misery as near
to infernal torment as it is possible to i111agin1 . It may be said that

these experiments are as totally uncalled for as thev are hideous; and

one important fact should be borne in mind : in all these sore-30ml“
atlng experlments anaesthesia has no part. Dogs. rabbits. eats, all
'must endure their sufferings Without palliation

“ But Of all the follies Of the lal30ra.1t(11\1(,mieer Research must be
given the highest award for sheei 11st1l11s<11e<< and an 1m ineible
obstinacy Whmh 15 only equalled by its f1igl11’f11l11ess and by the 01 edu-
1113’ 0f 1tS a1(301ytes. It 1s only stupid people “hm pursue a method 0f
inVeStigation that has long proved its sterilitx: but the dullness 0f the
'v1v10seCt1ng medicine-man is seldom ilhnnined bv ex e11 a 12137 of the
obviOus. Cerintless thousands of wretched animals “ith eanee1 artiﬁci-

ally inﬂicted in every palt of their miserable bodies hax e passed thrgou 0h

- the viviseCtors’ labOratOries to their 1011 01 sleep: lmndmdq of thousands
- of pathetic little bodies shrivelled and 11 acted with projecting tumors
“sometimes heavier than the animal’s bodv itselfwexist in thel labora-

tOIies 0f to (1313’; and if the signs of the tinn s mean any.thing thousands
1 Letter to the “Medic ”A

_P—I——"‘

 

:11 Times and Hospital Gazette," July, 1905-

 




 

WHAT Is VIVISEO'TION? 15

of animals yet' unborn will’be cancer soaked and torn oy‘ 'paroxysms of
intolerable pain in the lab01atories of to-morrOw. Nearly every descrip-
tion of animal has been requisitioned. Innumerable mice are every
year impregnated with a mouse tumour that bears no more relation
to human cancer than cancer does to a toothache. Side by side with
these cruel experiments, the death-rate from this disease has increased,
which has, at least, not justiﬁed the bright hopes heralded by the
Cancer Research Fund at its inception 20 years ago. Not a single
thing in all those 20 years has been done by ViVisectOrs to save a
human life or increase its span—nay, .more, not a sign of a cure, or
even of a preventative, is to be seen 0n the horizon. The history of
Vivisections done in connection with cancer is one of the greatest
scandals'of the. century; and it is time that this senseless cruelty should
be put a stOp to, and. that huge funds should cease .to be. devoted to
maniacal propagation of a ghastly disease among our :sub- human

friends and that this money should be expended 1n 3. more proﬁtable
manner.

“ But one can only recoil with a shudder from what'seems to be
the latest fashion in the vivisector’s chamber of horrors. - I refer to
what is known as ‘ P-arabiosis ’——joining two animals together to make
one composite, creature! Dark, morally dark, indeed, must be the
avenue which leads to such archives of inhuman cruelty, where, for
the study of Vitamines, guinea-pigs, rats, and chickens—nay, even dogs,
have been joined together in pairs to live in such. condition as best
they could. This abominable eXperiment has been described thus ':

‘ An incision was made through the skin in the mid-clavicular
line extending the entire length of the abdomen, from the costal
margin to the inguinal ligament. The adjoining 'skin’ edges in
each animal were then united, bringing the raw edges together:
A second line of sutures then ﬁxed the abdominal muscles of one
animal to the other. Following this, the abdominal cavities of both
we1e opened and a transposition of the intestines effected. The
1emai11i11g layers were then closed so that the animals had a
common abdominal cavity.’ '

Is not this teiiible? ~Is it not f1ightful? How under heaven, I ask
can any human beings sleep 'comf01tably in bed at night knowing
themseh es to be the eieators 0f such abnormalities? ' Such monstrosi-
ties in medical ideas begotten by the morbid imaginations and cruel
lusts of the numerous .researchers’ will, one day, no doubt, occupy
the. attention of the psycho-analyst, but, in the 111eanti1ne',i"it falls to

m1 1

*‘see "Para-mean Rats,” published by the British Union for Abolition of! Vivisection

 

 




 

 

 

 

16 WHAT IS VIVISEOTION?

us who are not psycho-analysts to try to show the vivisectors the
poverty of their imagination, not to say the grossuess of their moral
degradation, and also to try to increase the aesthetic and moral sensi-
bility of the public upon whom in the end will fall the noblemif long
overdue-—task of demolishing for all time such Clark fortresses of cruelty.

“One could ﬁll a bookshelf with quotations from the vivisectors
themselves describing their experiments. Here is one taken haphazard
from the Quarterly Journal of Experimental Physiology, March 26,
1917. After giving details of experiments on over eighty dogs and cats,
consisting of cutting away the thyroid and parathyroid glands. cutting
the sciatic nerve, etc., it continues:

‘ Their dispositions are altered, they become nervous. depressed
and sluggish, shake their (paws. Contraction of the larynx with
difﬁcult breathing, sometimes head thrown back and spines arched
so that they rest on head and hind legs, their legs jerk and show
muscular tremors and stiffness, and they suffer from convulsions
in all degrees of severity; become emaciated. refuse to take their
food, fall about. suffer from diarrhoea, become prostrate and
usually die in convulsions.’

“ That such, futile and damnahle holocausts should he published,
let alone perpetrated. is a grave reflection on the _1<’)\'ernment of any
COUUU'Ytand I say lmhesitatingly that the man who should desire or
permit that such helpless creatures—his dependents—s]iould he so
tortured and mutilated in the hope that. he may derive some benefit

from such experiences. would prove our race too morally base and eon~
temptlble to be worth the saving.

Over 150 years ago the. c:’:lebrated Dr.

dls'approval of \‘Wisectlon in one immortal paﬂsagp of ereat and burn-
mg wrath : '

Johnson expressed his

‘ The idlers that sport only with inanimate nature may claim
some indulgence; if they are useless, they are still innocent: but;
there are others. whom I know not how to mention without more
emotion than my 10"9 0f quiet Willingly admits. Among the inferior
professors Of medical kanh‘dge is a race of wretchcs. whose lives
are only varied by varieties of cruelty: whose favourite anmsement
19 to nail dogs to tables and open them alive: to trv how long life
megabe continued in various (legl‘ees of mutilation. or with the
exeisron or laceration of H1“ "ital Parts: to examine. whether burning
irons aretelt more acutely by the bone or tendon: and whether the
morelastmg 330311.93 are DTOdUCGd by poison forced into the mouth.
01‘ Injected into the veins. . . What is alleged in defence of these
hateful practices, 9V91’F0ne kIIOWS; but the truth is. that. by ﬁre.
knives, and person. knowledge is not alWays sought“ and is very

 

 




 

 

WHAT IS VIVISIL’OTION? l7 ‘

seldom attained. The experiments that have been tried, are tried
again; he that burned an animal with irons yesterday will be willing
to amuse himself with burning another to-morrow. I know not, that
by 11v1ng dissections any discovery has been made by which a single
malady 1s more easily cured. And if the knowledge of physiology
has been soomewhat increased, he surely buys knowledge dear, who
learns the use of the lacteals at the expense of his humanity. It is
tlme that universal resentment should arise against these horrid opera-
tions, which tend to harden the heart, and make the physician more
dreadful than the gout or stone.’

“ Is it any wonder that Ruskin threw up his appointment and
severed his connection with Oxford University when the (authorities
there sanctioned the practice of vivisection? Is it any wonder that
all the loftiest minds who have enriched English literature, raised their
voices in solemn condemnation of the practice? Is it any wonder that
to-(lay a dark cloud of mental anguish hangs over the hearts of millions
of humane people who otherwise but for these scientiﬁc assassins would
lead bright and happy lives? I have known acquaintances of my own,
a few of them Medical Practitioners, who, when discussing this ques-
tion, were so moved by emotion at the thought of tying down a
faithful animal on a torture trough and cowardly taking advantage of
its lwlplessness, as to be only paciﬁed with difﬁculty.

 

“ If any of my audience happen to aspire towards medicine or
surgery, I appeal to you especially with all the sincerity at my
command; I beg of you, if only for the honour of your intended pro-
fession, to think of the wrong—of the treason—of the cowardice—of the
pitilessness—of the baseness—of the shame involved in this heartless
and bloody practice. Think, also, of the forcible authoritative testi-
mony of many distinguished physicians and surgeons both in the
past and at the present time, and not only in England but across the
oceans, who publicly washed their hands of the disgusting orgy. Surely
we are not savages contending against hostile tribes who would torture
us; we are not engaged in a struggle for life with ferocious animals
who would tear us limb from limb; even if wewere, the tortures which
I have described would not be justiﬁable.

“ The evidence given before the ﬁrst Royal Commission on Vivi-
seCtion by vivisectors and others revealed such a shocking amount of
cruelty and of callous indifference to the sufferings inﬂicted that the
Commissioners—who were anything but anti—vivisectors—agreed that
Vivisecti‘on is ‘ by its very nature liable to abuse.’

“ How true—unhappily true—such a summary is the audience can
judge from What follows.

 

 




18 WHAT IS VIVISEO’TION?

“If there is one, thing that the history of modern physiology
shows moreclearly than any other it is that gentlemen covered with
decorations and encumbered by deg1ees have been no more flee from
ingenious forms of cruelty and heartlessness than VS e1e the T7a1s in
the dark days of menarchical Russia.

' “What may not new be done unde1 the name of sp01t may be
done under the name of‘ research,’ and may be done with every
aggravatiOn of pain that science and highly developed inventiveness
can give. Most people are misled by names and lulled to sleep by
august titles. Let us face facts. That a law should continue to exist
that puniShes a carter who drives his horse through the sheets with
a sore neck, or a vegetable vend01 who uses a lame donkey—notwith-
standing that the cruelty inﬂicted by such persons is for the legitimate
purpose of earning an honest living—and at the same time grants
licences to other men to cut out, in various operations, the organs of
an animal, on the pretext that such infamy may in time alleviate the
sufferings-of mankind, is one of the legislative anomalies of the
twentieth century. To recognise the principle of humaneness in one
spherevandyto disregard it in another is surely? the negation of sound
thought and balanced judgment. :In my opinion, the act of an un-
cultured vendor who, through want of moral sense, drives a lame
donkey, does not deserve the term cruelty so much as the deliberate

inﬂicting of unnecessary pain upon an animal by a so-called cultured
scientist.

 

 

“Is it, therefore merely because vivisectors try to dignify their
fOul work by the name of ‘science’ that authoritative bodies are to
remain indifferent while dogs are being strapped down and beaten
unmercifully as was done by Dr. Castex? Or mutilated and burned
as was done by Dr. Crile? Or divested piecemeal of their kidneys as
was done by Sir John Rose Bradford? Is it because a man happens
to be a Fellow of The Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh, or a
Fellow of The Royal College of Physicians, London, or a Fellow of the '
Royal Society, that he is to be exempt from the punishment that
would surely befall a less fortunate ‘fellow ’ assuming that one could

ﬁnd a ‘fellow’ base enough to degrade himself as did these august
personages?

 

 

“ In what is called ‘ Martin’s Act ’ the rights of dumb animals are
recognised. Under that Act innumerable cases of cruelty have been
punished. No excuse is allowed the defendant if pain or suffering
have been inﬂicted. He must pay the penalty of his wrong-doing.
But the vivisector can pursue his cowardly and cursed practice of
deliberate dabbling in the blood and agony of unfortunate animals

 

 

 




WHAT IS VIVISECTION? 19.

without any interference—excepting by the Act of. 1876, which has
been so framed that it is the vivisectors who are protected from inter-
ference instead of the |animals from outrage.

“Although there is no admittance to the Vivisector’s torture
chamber, there is plenty of evidence to show us what goes on inside it.
Not to mention sidelights, we have the cold-blooded records, given by
the vivisectors themselves, in the medical journals, of their appalling
operations. Yet, as these delicately constituted gentlemen report and
publish only what they think ﬁt, it is impossible to obtain anything
like a full account of their doings. The following specimens, however,
according to their own writings, show the kind of things they do and
also how little they are to be trusted while under the inﬂuence of the
experimental mania.

 

 

“ The Intransigecmt of 'March 14, 1925, contains a long quotation
from the French paper Anti-Viv'isection. This paper in its turn quotes
from the medical records written by Dr.'Castex. The date on which
he performed his Operations is immaterial, since Professor Richet,
Who gave him facilities for perfoming them, is still living and an
honoured scientist in France. The following is a free translation from
the quotations:

‘Thanks to Professor Richet, I was able to carry out various
experiments upon dogs in his laboratory of physiology. I prac-
tised simple contusions, contusions of the joints, sprains, disloca-
tions and fractures involving the joints. In my latter experiments
I renounced the chloral anaesthesia which I used in the earlier ones.
The anaesthesia has the advantage of making less painful the blows
which are of necessity of a brutal nature; but the animal no longer
indicates by its plaints and defensive movements the degree of
traumatism. Besides, one knows the generosity of character of
the dog who comes to lick the hand of him who, that very morning,
directed a series of blows with la heavy mallet on some part of
his body.

 

‘ In a few lines, this is what I did.

 

“I produced a contusion by means of a heavy wooden mallet
or with an earthenware bottle, my arm descending with all its
power up to thirty-ﬁve times on each ﬂank, in order to produce
intense results equilaterally.

‘ Experiment I.-—Multiple contusions. Large watchdog. This
dog is stretched on the operating table on his belly, the four mem-
bers and the head tied down, but not too tightly, so that the animal
is able to execute some defensive movements. I take advantage of

 

 




20 WHA T IS VI I'L'ISECTION ?

a moment when the dog is partly raised upon its hind legs to
produce the contusion. With a large empty earthenware bottle I
strike a dozen Violent blows on the external and anterior aspects
of the thigh. My arm descends with all its power upon the
selected part. The animal, by means of cries increasing in. violence
indicates that the contusion is strong and intensely experienced.
I stop, however, just when I feel that a. greater blow would break
the bone.

' Experiment II.—Contusions of the shoulders. Large hunting
dog. The animal is ﬁxed in the same manner. Placing myself
at a certain height, so that my mallet should come down forcibly
upon the part subjected to the experiment. I deliver twelve suc-
cessive blows with all'the strength of my right arm with a large
wooden mallet, but avoid, as far as possible, fracturing the skele—
ton. As with the ﬁrst the dog betrays by its cries the fact that
the contusions create a painful impression, then it falls into a kind
of stupor, interrupted by plaints for about ten minutes, after
which it wakes up, moves, cries and appears to suffer much more
than the ﬁrst. '

 

‘lIn the third experiment the vivisector strikes thirty-seven
blows at a hunting dog.

‘Experiment IV. consists of the same treatment on a sheep

dog who, out of pain, “passes urine and soil and is seized by
trembling all over.”

‘ Experiment V.———On a large hunting dog. I begin by carry—
ing out false and forcible movements of the paws in all directions.
I carry the movement to the point when I feel that fracture is
about to occur. The animal indicates by its cries that it feels

1ntense paln. I prolong these movements to three minutes for
each joint.

c , 1‘ , .
Expeiiment VI.——The legs Of a watch dog are twisted.

‘ Experiment VIII—A sheep dog has its shoulders dislocated.
Two days later I put it back on the operating table and without
giving it chloral, I dislocate both shoulders ﬁve or six times
running, exaggerating the natural position. The animal cries with
pain; I then hold it for twenty minutes with both its shoulders
dislocated and its elbows tied together behind its back.’

 

cc Surely it is not too much to say that such cold-blooded savagery, , ,-
SUCh outrageous brutality, SUCh repulsive and enraging cruelty perpe- , ‘5
trated on members 0f the loyal and gallant canine race is the negation ‘

 

 

 




 

 

WHAT IS 'VIVISEOTZON? 21

of all that is manly and moral, degrading to the wretch who is guilty
of it, and a disgrace to ourselves who allow the practice of which this
is a sample.

“ Burns’ oft-quoted saying: ‘Man’s inhumanity to man makes
countless thousands mourn,’ could be applied with great, very great,
force to man’s inhumanity to the dog. ‘Many a deed of heroism,’
says Harold Moore, ‘has been done by dogs, which would, if done
by man, have been honoured with the Order of the Victoria Cross.’

“ Now, apart from the shame of it; apart from the treachery of
it; apart from the cowardice in so strapping down a noble animal and
so rendering it defenceless, what, I ask, could Dr. ‘CasteX have hoped
to gain by such an expenditure of ﬁendish energy? Did he think he
might add anything to the sum-tetal of medical or surgical science?
Surely the question needs only to be asked to be answered. To regard
such a man as insane may be a charitable judgment, but if that was
" his condition—and if it be the condition of other vivisectors—surely
these violent outbreaks of their lunacy ought to be rendered impossible.

“ M. de Cyon, in a work which he prepared for the guidance of
students, says that the true vivisector must approach a difﬁcult vivi-
section with ‘joyful ardour and delight.’1 Such a statement seems to
me to reveal something dreadful, and one can only gasp to think that
a member of the human race could ever so express himself. One also
Wonders was it with ‘ joyful ardour and delight ’ that George W. Crile.
'A.M., M.D., Ph.D., approached his victims! '

, “ This hero came to England from America and performed the
ﬁrst sixteen experiments. on a series of 148 dogs in Sir Victor Horsley’s
Laboratory, Gower Street, London. By his own account he committed
deeds the bare mention of which strikes horror into the minds of all
possessed of humanitarian feeling. The most repulsive operations in
which every conceivable outrage was perpetrated upon the bodies of the
victims are shamelessly recorded as anyone can see by getting his book
on ‘ Surgical Shock.’1 One’s heart almost stOps beating as page after
'» page is perused descriptive of the most frightful manglings, bruising,
dislocation, burning, etc.; and what intensiﬁes the repulsiveness of the
Whole cowardly and dastardly holocaust is that the culprit so shame-
lessly blazons forth his own infamy. It is true that these specially

 

* See Anti-Vivisection Journal, July, 1925.
*Methodik, page 15.

"‘"An Experimental Research into Sul'l‘a'icav1 Shock,” publiShed by J‘ 13' LippinCOtt'
Company, Philadelphia.

 




"' ...~u~—~.«~4¢4 .—~*s’"”~'"ww”¥mmmeﬂm*

:
$
‘4.

 

 

 

22 Wllzlr’l" [8' VIVISIUC.’I.’[()N?

frightful experiments were performed under anaesthetics, but we read
of ‘incomplete anaesthesia,’ and it is clear that the narcosis was not
allowed to be too deep.

“The type of mind which indulges in ‘penny dreadful’ literature
will here have its yearning for the terrible and frightful amply satls-
ﬂed, provided the education is equal to the morally perverted imagin-
ation. No such carnival of frenzied butchery has ever been recorded

, since the downfall of the sanguinary Empire of the Moguls; and the

strongest comment I can make on such a diabolical crescendo of suffer-
ing deliberately inﬂicted upon sentient and sensitive creatures by a
coward safely entrenched behind a diploma is buy the book and read it.

“ The discovery that ‘The result of action is reaction; of rest is
restoration,’ might have appeared to Dr. Crile as of paramount import-
ance, and an end which to his dead conscience justiﬁed the means;
but many a reader will harbour a suspicion that such an axiom was
known before this vivisector struck at the root of fair play, of honour,
of chivalry, of every feeling and principle that has helped to develop
the human race. And I make bold to say that every noble-minded
man and woman would prefer to remain forever in ignorance of the
fact that ‘ the result of action is reaction; of rest is restoration’ rather
than that Dr. Crile should have degraded himself far below the moral
dignity of his victims.

“ The late Dr. Charles Bell Taylor, F.R.C.S.E., Edin., M.R.C.S.,

.Eng., L.S.A., etc, of Nottingham, whose skill as an oculist was a

household word in medical circles throughout the world, delivered an
address before the Medico-Chirurgical Society of his native city, which,
with other addresses delivered by the same eminent surgeon, have been
published in book form by the London and Provincial Anti-Vivisection
Society, Whose permission I have to quote from this book. I must
confess that in all my reading of vivisectional practices I have never

encountered such descriptions of human depravity as those revealed
by Dr. Taylor.

“I quote the following as a specimen of what is meant by the

pursuit of selence from a vivisector’s point of view. It is called a
moral experiment.

‘ I inspired,’ says Dr. Brachet, Professor of Physiology at the
Ecole de Medecine, of Paris, ‘ a dog with the greatest aversion for
me, by plaguing or inﬂicting some pain or other upon it as often
as I saw it. When this feeling was carried to its height, so that

. the animal became furious as soon as it saw or heard me, I put
out its eyes. I could then appear before it without its manifesting ‘

 

 

 

 




'WHAT IS VIVISEOTION? 23

any aversion. I spoke, and immediately its barkings and furious
, movements proved the passion which animated it. I therefore
‘ destroyed the drum of its ears and disorganised the internal ear
as much as I could, and when an intense inﬂamation which was
excited had rendered it deaf, I ﬁlled up its ears with molten wax.
It could no longer hear at all. Then I went to its side, Spoke
aloud, and even caressed it, without its falling into a rage.’ 1

 

“Dr. Brachet, it seems, repeated the same ‘ experiment’ on an-
other dog, and assures us that the result was always the same! What
a boon to mankind is such a discovery! What lives this knowledge
will hereafter save!

 

“Here is another, also called ‘ a moral experiment,’ which Dr.
Taylor quOtes from a speech by a Dr. Shaw, delivered before the Royal
College of Surgeons of Ireland.

‘The operator began by treating the animal kindly and
l winning its love and conﬁdence. When these were secured he cut
off an ear of the dog, who looked astonished but manifested no
resentment. Next day he cut off a paw, and a few days afterwards
another. Thus he went from one outrage to another, slashing and
stabbing till the experiment was complete. It was astonishing
how much the animal endured before his conﬁdence was [gone and
his love turned to hate. After the second paw was removed he
continued to gaze up into his master’s face and to lick the hand
that maimed him.’2

“ Surely, Ladies and Gentlemen, you will allow me to protest in
Your name and to say that the person who could so mutilate, and so
betray, the most faithful friend a man could have is a ﬁend in the
semblance of a man; and surely also the personal liberty of such an
unmitigated villain is already forfeited to human society.

 

‘ Here is another exhibition of human degradation described by
an eminent London physician in the Appendix to the Report of the
Royal Commission:

 

. ‘ The subject, a dog, having been rendered motionless With
curare, had its windpipe cut open, a nozzle inserted, and artiﬁcial
respiration maintained by means of bellows; its head was then
partially ﬂayed, its spinal marrow cut though, needles dug into the
exposed marrow, and shocks given by a galvanic battery. The

N

 

 

1 Page 10-
2 Ibid 10.

 

 




 

 

24 WHAT IS VIVISEC’TIONR

nerves which lead from the brain to the heart were then burnt
away, and the spinal marrow further Stimulated. The doctor says:
“This beautiful and simple experiment we owe to a German
physician, with whom I had the pleasure of repeating it here very
frequently last summer.” ’3

“ To believe that anyone can truly know and realise what such
an experiment means, and imagine the amount. of pain it must involve
-—because curare, while it paralyses motion, does not impair the
animal’s susceptibility to pai11——and still condone it, is surely to place
such a one very low indeed in the scale of hmnanity.

“ N 0 man whose heart is not dead, whose feelings have not become
atrophied, whose sense of right and wrong has not become paralysed
can read the following gruesome and ghastly performance without be-
coming sick with grief, indignation and disgust at the whole cowardly
and bloody business.

”The subject was a small docile dog, which, a few minutes
after the drug was injected under the skin, staggered on its fore
paws, walking on the tips of its toes until it fell-over, frothing at
the mouth and weeping abundantly. Its windpipe was then slit
open and the nozzle of a bellows connected with a gas engine used
for artiﬁcial respiration inserted. The side of the neck, the side
of the face, the side of the foreleg, and interior of the belly were
then dissected out, and the sciatic and other nerves exposed and
irritated with galvanic shocks. No anaesthetic was used (except
curare), and the agony the poor creature endured must have been
awful; yet it was continued for ten hours, at the end of Whidh
time the operators left for their homes: but they did not release
the subject of the experiment, or end its sufferings by death. It
was purposely left helpless and mutilated as it was, in order that
they might resume their investigations next day without any pre-
liminary delay. When the next day came the poor dog was dead;
the machine was at work (as it is, I am told, in these labOratorieS
'often night and day), but it was pumping air in and out of a

dead body.”

“ In searching the records of human depravity one will. search in
vain for anything to equal this:

m.,__---——\_\_ﬁ__ __-_ ,__M__mm,,i__,-....... .
3 Ibid, page 11.
4 Ibid, nage 12.

 

 

 

 




'_.u—>A.n-~, ,

WHAT Is VIVISEOTION? ' 25

‘ Sixty-four operations were performed upon the same living
horse; eight students would be engaged on the same animal at
the same time; ﬁve or six horses were used up in this way in a
week; and no anzesthetics were employed. The operations com-
menced at six in the morning, and ended at six at night. The
eyes were cut out, the teeth punched out, the hoofs torn off, the
body ﬁred. and every conceivable operation upon nerves, arteries,
veins, bladder, and skull, was performed upon the groaning,
writhing beast; and it was considered highly creditable to the
young students if they could keep the animal alive until the last,
i.e., until six at night."5

”are“: M~W= W:
. 1"

Wee-6‘-

_W, (”3...
M 44 an“, '>

.mﬂ-j"

 

I 4'

,,—.. W
,1” _ “any“

“Here is a report from an eye-witness, Dr. Murdoch, of what
‘ actually occurred on one occasion:

 

‘ A little chestnut mare, worn out in the service of man, had,
l unfortunately survived the numerous tortures of the day and no
1 longer resembled any creature of this earth. Her thighs were out
i open, the skin torn away, ploughed through with hot irons, har-
l rowed with dozens of setons, the sinews cut through, the hoofs torn
l Off, the eyes pierced. In this blind and powerless condition the
miserable creature was placed, amid laughter, upon its bleeding

‘1' m)- ”#16;— -.g—..-,.A._.-.—-.r

1
feet, to show those present. who were operatlng upon seven other 9
horses, what human skill could perform before death released thelr‘
victim.’6

 

“ Surely, surely. if there is another world, those defenceless and l
tortured animals will rise up in judgment against such heartless and
00wardly demons who have so violated all the canons of common !
humanity,

“ The horse is justly regarded as one of man’s greatest friends,
Like. the dog, he hasiproved his friendship a thousand times over since
he ﬁrst became attached to the human race. His obedience to man’s
, Will, his generous response to man’s kindness, his unstinted devotion
ir and long toilsome yea-rs of freely rendered service should deserve some
recognition even at the hands of a vivisector. But apparently, to 2
i“(11100 a. sense of moral obligation in the minds of men who could be
guilty of such a bloody and barbarous onslaught upon our loyal, ?

unselﬁsh, equine friends, as described above, seems to be a super—human ;
task. 3 .

 

"'—‘———~___.__. _

 

 

silbid, page 16. l
6 Ibid, page 16.

 

 

 

 




 

 

26 WHAT IS VIVISEC'TION?

. “ A super-human task! Yes, indeed, when one cons1ders the fol-
lowing passage which depicts the vivisector‘ in’ all the nakedness of
his depravity, in all the shamelessness of his base ingiat-itude, and in
all the vileness of his methods. 1 1

i “‘1‘ I RECALL mo’MIND,’ says Dr. Latourywhio“ was present when a
poor dog'was used, the roots of whOse vertebral nerves Majendie desired
to lay bare to demonstrate Bell’s theory, which he claimed. as his own,
‘ THAT 1- THE DOG, MUTILATED AND BLEEDING, TWICE :ESOAPED FROM
UNDER THE IMPLACABLE KNIFE, AND THREw ITS FRONT PAWS AROUND
MAJENDIE’s NECK, LIOKING, AS IF TO SOFTEN ITS MURDERER AND ASK
FOR. MERCY. I confess,’ says Dr. Latour, ‘I was 'unable'to bear that
heart-rending spectacle.’ 7 ‘ -

‘ What more need be said: what more could be said to depict the
hellishness of this awful scene than the action of the demented dog
in the height of his pain and terror?

‘ O, that dogs could be less loving and less t,riue

And cease to give their lives for men in the splendid way
they d0.1

“ I must confess, Mr Chairman, that every time 11‘ see the name
Mayendie in print, a cold shudder runs through me.

“This same man, lecturing to his class on one occasion with a
greyhound fawning on his knee, remarked. Gentlemen, the skin is a
sensitive organ. He then slashed the unf01 tunate animal with a
sharp bistoury; the creature uttered a pieieing cry. That scream,
gentlemen, said Majendie,‘ proves the truth of my assertion.’

“ But transcending in red horror and rheadfulness 1s the follow-
ing passage:

‘ What do you think of crushing the: jaws of innumerable dogs
by turning down the screw clamp of the dog holde1,distending the
bladder to the utmost, clamping the duct and then bursting the
bladder, roasting the paws and scalding the intestines, dislocating

' and amputating the limbs and sticking them on again, and so on
for hours till outraged nature Can heal no 111o11‘3e What do you
think of saw ing through the spinal marrow of eighty dogs in suc-
cession, cutting off both fore legs and amputating at the h1p jomt

 

 

 

 

 

 

, iIbid, 1o.

 

 




 

 

WHAT Is VIVISEOTION? ‘27

both hind legs of a strong bulldog, then dissecting its intestines and
cutting out both kidneys? It is perfectly absurd to pretend that
these things are not true, they are self-avowed by the vivivsectors
themselves—wan be proved up to the hilt—and it is clearly our
duty to stop them. It is all very well for Fellows of the Royal
Society, sham scientists, and doctors to try and persuade us out of
our senses.’8 ‘ ‘ 1 ' ' '

“ Shall we read these things andheed not? [Having heard the
deeds of which vivisectors are capable, shall weallOW our loyal and

sentient sub—human friends to be outraged behind closed doors in our

midst? Shall we, like the Levite of old, look \on and pass, by on the
other side while animals moan and pine, bearing their tortures un-

soothed and unpitied until the pall of'death releases them? _ How long,

oh, how long will people remain indifferent to, such a blood—red stain

on the moral character of our race? Is anything to.,be' done?» Can

anything he done to put an end to this slaughter ofthe innocents “.7!
Is it that public opinion will not take alarm at this bloody and frightful

carnage until some ‘of ourselves are seized by the blood—stained

hands of the grim tonmentors, and are done to death in quest of some

obscure disease? , In pursuit of some maniacal whim under the Ignise

of ‘ science ’ ?

:c It is true that efforts have been made from time-to time in Parlia~
ment to free at least the dog from the vivisectOI‘storture trough; bUt
every time the Dogs’ Protection Bill has been brought forward, pressure
has been brought- to bear upon the Governmentto prevent any inter-
ference with [the physiologiS’CSa awful grip ,uPQn these noble loving
animals. whose implicit trust in man’s/kindness renders their betrayal.
all the. more base.

“ MY own impression is that the vivisecting medlcm‘e—man and
medicine-woman will ultimately ﬁnd it impossﬂale t0 trample upon the

conscience of a rapidly awakening and serious public. -- It-‘is to the

great public I make my appeal: it is in the 'g1°eat-= public I put my
hope and my trust, and I can visualise a not distant “future when an
enlightened people will rise up in rigl'iteOusindignation "and like a
mighty Perseus free for all time the chained Andromedaﬁ' i l~ ' ‘ '

 

3 Ibid, page 40.

‘1‘.)"‘

/

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

....~_..=—._..»r....._..u_-___.___ -m.._.__... _.._.4 ... -7... , . ._ l-.. A. , ._ . .

28 WHAT IS VIVISEC’TION?

THE PRESS AND VIVISECTION.
___.+.__._.

“ There seems no limit to the ingenuity of the present-day Sub- ‘

Editor in the creation of sensationalism. Given an idea, it does not

matter in the least what its value may be, the Press-man can be trusted .

to make the most of it. Now, Laboratory Research offers much for the
fertile imagination of these romance weavers, and the saddest feature

of the modern prostituted Press is that it is just those obnoxious .

treatments and ‘ cures,’ which owe their existence to vivisection, that
are immediately accepted as :‘ good copy ’ for a Press stunt.

“ Apart from the reprehensible attitude of these sensation-mongers
in boosting the abominable grafting operations known as ‘ Rejuvena-
tion’ or ‘Monkey Gland Treatment’l—which is the most dreadful
evidence of a decadent civilisation that any nation could exhibit—they
have lent themselves to act as free advertising agents for the big manu—
facturing laboratories who are reaping enormous proﬁts from the
preparation and sale of so-called sera and vaccines. That the torture
of animals for the making and testing of sera is almost as proﬁtable
on the one hand as it is reprehensible on the other, is clear from a

statement in the Lancet of May 16th, 1925, that the sale of vaccines,‘

serums, etc., by one of these Institutes during the year amounted to
over £30,000ii‘

“ That the use of sera and vaccines in poisoning the blood—springs
of; the race and leaving it more susceptible to the ravages of disease;
that the Germ Theory of Disease upon which the modern practice of
medicine has been built is already in the melting-pot and undergoing
very severe criticism and condemnation; that in practically every case
where medical practitioners have adopted vivisectional nostrums, the
death-rate has increased: and that whenever those methods have been
ignored and a saner and more scientiﬁc course has been pursued the
death—rate has decreased. is of no moment to the pressman on the hunt
for ‘ copy.’ He. must be able to work-up something sensational; hence
a. bold headline such as ‘Era of Health Dawning,’ ‘Cancer Expert
ﬁnds the Germ.’ ‘Emiment Professor Conquers the ’Flu,’ is much more
sensational and a better ‘ catch-on ’ than a sensible commentary on the
Annual Report of the Registrar-General, whose uncomfortable penetra-

tive Returns are so enibaiuassing to the assiduous ‘ researchers ’ in the
Laboratories.

 

~_‘__.. _ ._
a“- M

* The Lister Institute

 

 

 

 




 

 

WHAT IS VIVISEC’TION? 29

“ This volume of portentous dimensions, which is regarded by most
people as a (‘Hllt‘t‘lltlll ol' ‘(lis‘mal and boring details,’ is not only preg—
nant with rslulllllCztlll l'aets affecting us all, but is also replete with a
kind ol.’ sensationalism which, if rightly understood, would stir the
emotional depths ol the people for more than all the ‘ great discover-
ies’ of 't'ttres‘ and 'germs’ by ‘Eminent Professors’ and ‘Great
Scientist‘s ‘ that emanate from, the Laboratories, and which plant them-
selves and umw in the vivid imagination of aspiring Sub—Editors who
are so anxious tn ‘ restore the Health of the Nation.’

“ I stnnetimes wonder who many of the ‘ Medical Correspondents ’
are. whn tron! llHH‘ to time write so glibly about cures for various
diseases. and also what kind of influence is brought to bear upon the
proprietors or editors ol' t'ie\\'spape1's which cause them to indulge in
such stunts as ,l’asteurism and its various aspects; tuberculosis cures
such as that of lx'ueli. llre‘yer and Spahlinger; and such horrors as
anti-toxins. \neeinatinn. immunisation and vaccines and sera in general.

“ TIN Ilfmzclmstt‘r Daily Dcspatch of January 1, 1924, furnishes

an example of the irresponsible nonsense in which the Press indulges
, . A .

on these subjects. In the course of a brief note headed ‘A Year of

Real Progress ’ it says :

‘lt would be difﬁcult to say what have been the most
important (llSCOVCl‘lCS of. 1923. In scientiﬁc knowledge great

events have happened.’
Tww of these great events are-—

‘The world-wide recognition of the value of Insulin, Dr.
Bm'ltinfz’s cure for diabetes, and the great advance made in the

. - . q a
war against consumption by the Spahlingel serum.

”' New. apart from the niiany deaths which ‘Insulin’ has caused,
and leaving aside the innumerable dogs that have been cruelly sacri-
ﬁced for its production; the. most that Dr. Banting and those who are
ﬁnding it a ﬁnancial success claim for it, or could claim for it, is that
it will alleviate active symptoms for so long as treatment is contlnued
and careful dieting, and no longer. The fact
that “ Insulin" has not reduced the diabetic death-rate, which is the

fact usually considered most important in assessmg the value of any
thoughtful person when drawmg a

under strict supervision

treatment. 3- sufﬁcient for any
con clusimx.

v— vs: —~ '—‘ 7—7 -r 2-,;

 

 

 

 

 

 




-....__..u- .. ............_...¢..._. 7AM-.."

30 WHAT IS VIVISEOTION?

“ That Pressmen, however, estimate the psychology of the public
with regard to print as that of the child, is evident from the awe-
inspiring headlines that appeared in the Liverpool Echo of July 11,
1924:

‘THE JAWS OF DEATH.
DEFIED BY AMAZING POWER OF IN SULIN .
RECOVERIES FROM COMA.
JOY IN THE RELIEF OF {\‘Ulﬂ‘FlCRl'NG.’

and then followed the report of a statement by a Director of the
British Drug Houses Ltd.! Of course this was [not an advertisement! !

“ But Tuberculosis is, of course, on account of its appalling ravages,
the disease for which everyone is trying to ﬁnd a cure; and the
rsensation-monger knows that when dealing with this subject he is on
Tom Tiddler’s ground. For a considerable time the Press sucked the
juice out of Koch’s ‘ Tuberculin ’ until it was discovered that ‘ Tuber—
culin’ killed more patients than it cured, when, like many other
‘ cures ’ for Consumption, it was silently laid in the graveyard of dead
theories and replaced by the more sensational ‘ Secret’ of M. Spahw
linger.

 

“Around this young man a degree of romance has been woven
which puts Alice in V’Vonderland into the shade. Sub—Editors vied
with each other in their efforts to dramatize the new stunt. so promising
with awe and sensation, before it should receive, like all its prede-
cessors, the inevitable coup dc grace. Some of them waxed eloquent
over Spahlinger ‘ squandering his father’s fortune’ in keeping a ‘ big
farmyard’ to assist him in exploiting ‘one s()ul—ins}j),iring idea.’
Others regaled their readers with Spahlinger' ‘on the rnrmntain fast-
ness with droves of horses.’ Others again saw sufficient material in
the stunt to work up a Family Drama with Spahlinger ‘ gradually
pushing his parents out of their home ’ as the cuckoo does with his
{OStGF I'GlatiODS- The whole thing was most entrancing while it lasted;
but all we hear of Spahlinger now is, when at question time. in the
House of: Commons a Member tries to elicit from the Minister of Health
some information about the ‘ secret,’ to be informed that we have not
been able to obtain a ‘ supply’ for investigation.

 

’; Quite recently five members of the British House of Commons
who visited M- Spahlinger ill SWitzerland returned with the fervour Of
a religious pilgrim. and gave glowing accountg, not of what they had
discovered, but Of What Spahlinger told them he had discovered.
\Vhatever the Spahlinger serum may turn out to be. it; has passed
through the blood-streams of so many animals that it must be a weird

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

WHAT IS VIVISEOTION? 31

concoction of tilth indeed; and one can only regret that Spahlinger’s
humaneness is not equal to his attributed genius, as he still persists
in holding his "secret,’ notwithstanding that thousands die because
of the dread disease.

“ I take permission to read a letter that appeared in the Morning
Post, July. |‘.l‘.2:3:—~

'h‘ir.» I noticed in your issue of June 30 that two doctors,
nieniliers ot' the House of Commons deputation, have expressed
their faith in this treatment as a cure for consumption.

‘(‘an anyone with any humanity conceive the possibility of
full par-titulars of a cure. for a disease such as pulmonary tuber—
culosis ln-ing held up for any reason whatever? How can anyone
suppress details of a “ remedy ” that might save thousands of lives
yearly in this country alone, and also save untold misery? If
this is a genuine remedy or series of remedies Why cannot the
doctors all over the world have full details of it, and how it is
prepared?

‘ 'lfhis so-ealled “ cure” is now so old that hundreds of thou-
sands ot' deaths have needlessly occurred, if the statements are
true. 'l‘ln-re seems to me to be no middle course of: looking at the
matter lwtxx'ren these two. viz.:

.‘\. The. statements as to the efﬁcacy of the treatment are
untrue. or

P li)etails of a certain cure are being held up so that

_ ).
man-c thousands vearlv are ill and dying unnecessarlly.

‘ lt' those interested believe in their remedy they assume a
fearful i-o-porrsiliility tor the sufferings and deaths of so many by
so that anyone suffering can try it. In

not. publishing full details
treatment the

these or my mm acquaintance who have had the
results m re no better Whatever than in those who have undergone
the other ordinary forms of treatment employedréﬁ: ours, etc.,

I 71 >
“7. G. lVILLOUfﬂ-IBY, Tuberculosis Ofﬁcer.

~ w ~ . 1 a
The 'l own Hall. luastbiiiurue, July ].
"i NW». l subn'iit that upon matters oi: such importance the Press
should nu. in, ;illt;\\’(j(l to ei'rgineer stunts such as these. Apart from
V .I Q '1 . , ' W. q— ‘. ‘ 1F ' -‘ , 1:0‘ I
the danger to {tie nation's morale and health, airtait also it nu the blight
disease-al'lheted people (hopes only to

hopes (‘t‘t‘z‘gia‘t’i In the minds Dl . - '
be shattered when the bitter truth dawns) by the daily mdulgence m

._.-_.,_,_——_.__.__—..,—._.._., . ,_.__ 4.14 _

 

* See “Abolitionist,” August 1st, t925.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

32 WHAT IS VIVISEO’TION?

this insidious practice, a general false impression is formed. Two of

such impressions are, the wonderful advance in medical science, and
the necessity for the us e of animals in experimental resea1ch.

“ Analysed and examined in detail, the vivisection system—upon
which are founded the various serums and vaccines, anti-toxins, calf-

lymph for vaccination and Schick test for immunization, and all the»

other ﬁlthy concoctions of the morbid mind—is found to be a vast

commercial enterprise that has bullied .into its nefarious cult the-

whole medical profession, with comparatively few exceptions.

“For the medical practitioner to follow any other line than that
of orthodoxy—which to-day is synonomous with Serum '_l_‘l.1erapy-—is
to court official and public disapproval and a consequent loss of prac—
tlce, which fate the hard struggling MB. does not wish to meet with.
In the words of Dr. I—Iadwen:

‘ It is the great commercial manufacturing ﬁrms who are pro-
viding the brains for the medical man to—day. We are deluged
with circulars of ready—made medicines for every ailment under
the sun. There never was a day when a medical man had less
need for the use of his brains than he has at the present time. The
commercial ﬁrms do all the thinking for him. With a pocket
syringe and a case of concentrated tabloids he can go forth a
veritable Don Quixote to do battle with every imaginary foe.”

“ I make no impeachment against the geneial medical p1aet1t10ner
On the contrary, I have the greatest respect for his scientiﬁc attain—
ments and the high Oidei of his general ability, and justly app1eciate
the great skill oft-times displayed in surgery. Among my own medical
acquaintances I have seen real generosity and self-abnegation towards
their poorer patients without any hope of material reward. But having
said so much, let me also say that the time has arrived for the general
body 0f medical Pl’aCtitiOIlel‘S to resist being terrorised into submission
to passing fads and fashions which spell ‘orthodoxy,’ and which by
their use are 13013 only a danger to the community but are retarding
any progress in medicine that might otherwise be made.

“There are thousands of practitioners 011 the Medical Register
who know nothing of the cruelties of the labor1at01y and to whom such
piactices would be as hateful as they are to all humane people. No;
we anti— vivisectionists do not attack the general medical profession for
the excesses committed by Vivisectors, but we do say that the medical

profession in its corporate capacity must be held responsible for those
practices of its morally perveited members.

 

 

* See his speech delivered at Queen’ s H
from a charge of Manslaughter, bro
ground that he did not use antitoxin

all, London, February 6th 1925, after his acquittal
ought against him on the practically aknouledged’

 

 




 

 

'l VH/l T LS V1 VI SE 0 TI ON .9 33

‘ lint. let, us treat the question in a general way. The question is:
Has the sum-total of human disease been materially reduced by the
use of sera. and vaccines and all the other paraphernalia of the Research
Laboratories ‘3 l submit it has not. In spite of the countless numbers
of sentient. animals that have been offered up on the gore-imbrued
altar of viviseetion; in spite of the rivers of blood that have ﬂowed
from its slaughter~houses; in spite of the heartorending cries and howls
of agony that: have gone up from its unfortunate victims, the ravages
of disease have. shown no abatement, but. on the contrary have shown
such a. eimtinually increasing aggressiveness and power that despair
has seized hold of many peOple who witness the helplessness of man
to arrest it.

“ The inlluenza epidemic in 1918 in the British provinces of India
alone killed nearly live million people! And throughout Europe and
Asia that: same epidemic killed more people than were killed in the
Great \\'ar!! These are ofﬁcial statistics; and the vivisectors with
all their ii)I‘i111't‘—i11’()11f_’,‘llS, syringes and knives, and the bacteriologists
with all their microscopes and germ-obsessed imaginations were power—

less to stay it.

“ As for Cancer, it is eating up the vitality of our race. Year
after year it exacts a steadily increasing toll. of human life, singling
out its hundreds of thousands of: victims and slaying them without
regard to sex. social status or nationality. It has seized hold of. all
peOples with impartial malevolence, exacting, approximately, 500,000
victims annually; and this in spite of the thousands of animals which
have been sacriﬁced to Cancer Research and the thousands of thousands
of pounds that; have been allocated to the pursuance of such ‘ research.’

ii N0. Ladies and Gentlemen, disease Will continue to exact its toll
of life until medical ofﬁcialdom is stopped in itslinsan-e process of
dissemination; and the. work of the

blood-poisoning and disease . ' . .
pecialist is called into requ1s1tion instead.

Sanitary lingincer and Food S
aths from Consumption it is found
v among the working-class popula-
d unhealthful occupations are sufﬁ-

“ In studying statistics of de
that this disease plays havoc mostl

tion. whose insanitary dwellings an .
cient to indicate the cause. But the more comtortably Situated people

who enjoy better ventilated houses and larger air spaces are more or
Dr. Hadwen has dealt so effectively

less exempt- from its ravaO'es
Ii ‘ "V y 7 ii i o . I o _
‘Tuberculosis and Cows’ Milk,’ that

With this point in his pamphlet,
I take. leave to quote a passage:
well to walk outside their labor-

‘Bacteriologists would do .
and the ﬁlthy emulsmns and

atories, and leave thelr 33711113657

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

AMMMWM

34 WHAT IS VIVISECTION?

cultures behind them, and cease for awhile the conversion of"
innocent living animals into chemical test tubes, and just Visit
some of the farms where tuberculous cows are bred and the slums
where tuberculous children are reared. They would learn more
in six hours of solid fact as to the origin and transmission of
tuberculous disease than they will ever learn from six or even
sixty years of their present methods of research. We must let
more sunshine and more fresh air into the homes of the working
population. We must improve the conditions under which they live
and must carry on the work of better sanitation and hygiene. Let
us get rid of back to back houses; advocate wider streets; abolish
blind alleys and stuffy courts; prevent overcrowding; advise open
windows and bodily and household cleanliness; prove to the people-
that the simplest and cheapest food is the most nutritious, and
show them how to cook it. “7lien we have done this we shall have
gone a long way towards banishing consumption from our midst,
a .good deal less nonsense will be talked about the tubercle bacillus,
and much less public money wasted upon a handful of scientists-
who ought to be spending their time elsewhere in investigating-
the conditions which cause the disease.’

“During my remarks many references have been made to sera;
and for the enlightenment of some members of the audience who may
be unacquainted with the methods of their production I will explain
how Diphtheria Anti—toxin is obtained, which also furnishes a classical?

example of the manufacture of most serums used in the filthy practiCe
of Serum—therapy.

“ To commence with, the machinery used for its production is a
horse one, it may be, that has been worn out by its faithful service;
to man, and which its ungrateful owner, Judas like, has sold for a
few pieces of silver.

 

CC

The diphtheritic membrane is taken from the throat of a:
patient suffering from Diphtheria, transferred to a special beef broth,»
and then kept in an incubator until the germs multiply millions—fold
and the beef broth becomes alive with them. The broth is then-
filtered, and the ﬁltrate is passed through the blood-stream of the
horse. At ﬁrst the injections give rise to a considerable constitutional
disturbance resulting in“ a. condition of fever, with rapid breathing,
shivering, loss of inclination for food, sometimes sweating, diarrhoea
and swelling—in fact, all the symptoms of blood-poisoning—until the
animal ceases to respond to the injections, when the unfortunate victim
is declared to be immune (i.e., its blood is supposed to contain an anti-
toxin capable of neutralizing the toxin (poison) of Diphtheria). Next...

 

 

 




 

WHAT IS VIVISEO'TION? 35

the bleeding process conuxnences. A vein in the animal’s neck is then
opened and two or three gallons of blood drawn therefrom. The blood
then cmigulates in a. receptacle, allowing a clear ﬂuid to rise to the
surface. It is this cl tar ﬂuid that is named Serum and which, mixed
with :arholic acid, is squirted into the veins of those who are foolish
enough to allow it.

“One secret of the popularity of Diphtheria Anti-toxin is the
immense protits that are being made by its manufacture. It has been
estimated that a horse bought for a few pounds, if bled often enough,
will yield £300 before. the organs become so friable that they literally-
break to pieces. or death occurs from spontaneous rupture and
luemorrhage.

“ .\.part from the hundreds of people who have been killed by this.
treatment. and also the hundreds more who have been paralysed as a.

result of the injection, and notwithstanding that in spite of all the.

rigorous anti~toxin inoculation for the past 28 years, the death-rate
from Hipththeria is higher than it was before its introduction; this
‘ witches‘ hrew’ has been forced upon the medical profession, and by»
the latter is being forced upon the people.

" Another remunerative, though ﬁlthy, uncivilised and unscientiﬁc-
practiCe is that of vaccination, which is accepted by the medical pro-
fession corpol'ately, endowed by Government, and which to uproot seems
as herculean a task as that of uprooting the Vivisection system itself.

"The following. according to the same emlnent authority, 1s- a

- . . .‘ _‘ 7 ' a - ‘ r .
description ot how small-pox protection 1s manufactuied, but here
the machinery. instead of being a horse 1s a calf:

‘ .\ call. threeto six months old, is ﬁrmly strapped to a speci-
ally designed tilting table. its abdomen shaved, and from 100 to-
lit) incisions are made in its skin with a sharp scalpel. Into these
ll'lC’lSlOlh‘ virus is well rubbed by the aid of a bone spatula, and the
animal is then released and tied up by itS head (30 that 113 cannot
lick ﬁn» imitating- sores) for ﬁve days, until the wounds become
scabs. The calf is then returned to the table, rebound, the whole
its abdomen washed with warm water, each scab is
separately gripped with a clamp and the top of the crust removed,
or the skin is put firmly on the stretch, and the contents of each
sore carefully scraped out with a steel spoon. The contents Of these
120 scabs consist of lymph. pus, blood, dead skin, etc.,.all. of \Vl‘llcli
7 a crucible and mixed thoroughly With an equai

surface of

is transferred to
quantity of glyccrlne h." me

 

 

 

ans of a small electric motor. It is.

 

 

 

 




 

 

‘3 6 W H A T I S V I VISE CT I ON .59

afterwards strained in order to remove hair, pieces of flesh or

other coarse ingredients, and it is then put into tubes and sold

as “ pure. glycerinated calf lymph.”

“And this is what is rubbed into our innocent little children at
vaccination. And yet, after allowing our children to be so blood-
poisoned, we have the impertinence to laugh at the ‘witches’ cauldron,’
the African fetish man, the King‘s touch, and the soothsayers of the
old world!

“When will the medical profession arouse itself to ask the ques-
tion: ‘ XVhat is the origin of smallpox ‘3 ’ When will the people arouse
themselves to ask the question: ‘ How long are we going to allow an
ignorant and superstitious band of “ researchers” to thrust upon us
and upon our children such disgusting objects of their loathsome cult? ’
‘ For my part,’ says Arnold Lupton, ‘ I have little respect for any man
or woman who can tamely submit their children to vaccination rather
than pay a ﬁne, or go to prison for not paying it. The ﬁne and costs
may be 10s. or up to 30s. But the penalty of vaccination is disease,
perhaps a horrid death.’

“Smallpox, typhus, and other fevers are the result of foul air,
stagnant putrefaction, faulty drainage, sewers of deposit, impure
water and overcrowding; and the entire removal of such conditions is
the only effectual, sane and scientific immunity not only from small-
pox but from most other diseases. To sum up:

“ Vivisection is cruel, heartless and savage; and develops, in
the men and women who practice it, a callous and brutal spirit.

“ It is cowardly because it is taking advantage of the weak by the
strong. The helplessness of animals to protect themselves constitutes
in itself an appeal to us to protect them.

“ It is immoral because it seeks to alleviate and cure the diseases
of mankind which are self-generated—the result of our own folly and
ignorance—~by torturing sentient creatures who had no share in our
contracting these diseases.

“ It is unscientiﬁc in that it ignores the only true method for the
conquest and prevention of disease, viz., the observance of the natural
laws of man’s being. Those very diseases with which viviseetors occupy
themselves claim more victims than ever before, whilst those diseases
in the suppression of which sanitary measures and improved social
conditions alone have been allowed fair play have decreased in viru—
lence and extent.

“ I will now conclude in the words of Col. R. Ingersoll. He wrote
the following to Dr. Philip G. Peabody, of Boston. on May 27, 1890:

J

 

F ‘,,...,’

* See “The Modern Medicine Man.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

WHAT lb' VIVISEOTION? - 37

of Science.

 

‘ Vivisection is the Inquisition—~the Hell
All the cruelty which the human—or rather the inhuman
—~heart is capable of inflicting, is in this one word. Below
this there is no depth. This word lies like a coiled serpent
at the bottom of the abyss.

‘We can excuse, in part, the crimes of passion. We
can take into consideration the fact that man is liable to
be caught by the whirlwind, and that from. a brain on ﬁre
the soul rushes to a crime. But what excuse can ingenuity
form for a man who deliberately—--with an unaccelerated
pulse-~—~with the calmness of John Calvin at the murder of
Servetus~—~seeks, with curious and cunning knives, in the
living, quivering ﬂesh of a dog, for all the throbbing
nerves of pain? The wretches who commit these in—
famous crimes pretend that they are working for the good
of man; that they are actuated by philanthropy; and that
their pity for the sufferings of the human race drives out
all pity for the animals they slowly torture to death. But
those who are incapable of pitying animals are, as a
matter of fact, incapable of pitying men. A physician
Who would cut a living rabbit in pieces—laying bare the
nerves, denuding them with knives, pulling them out with
forceps—drewould not hesitate to try experiments with men
and women for the gratiﬁcation of his curiosity.

‘ To settle some theory, he would triﬂe with the life
of any patient in his power. By the same reasoning he
would justify the vivisection of animals and patients. He
will say that it is better that a few animals should suffer
than that one human being should die, and that it is far
better that one patient should die, if through the sacriﬁce
of that one, several may be saved.

‘Brain without heart is far more dangerous than

heart Without brain.

 

 




 

38 W 11 A T IS VI V1 SE C T]. 0N f?

‘ Have these scientiﬁc assassins discovered anything
of value? They may have settled some disputes as to the
action of some (organ, but have they added to the useful
knowledge of the race?

‘It is not necessary for a man to be a specialist in
order to have and express his opinion as to the right or
wrong of vivisection. It is not necessary to be a scientist
or a naturalist to detest Cruelty and to love mercy. Above
all the discoveries of the thinkers, above all the inventions
of the ingenious, above all the victories won on the ﬁelds
of intellectual conflict, rise human sympathy and a sense
of justice.

‘ I know that good for the human race can never be
accomplished by torture. I also know that all that has
been ascertained by vivisection could have been done by
the dissection of the dead. I know that all the torture
has been useless.

‘All the agony inﬂicted has simply hardened the
hearts of the criminals, without enlightening their minds.

‘It may be that the human race might be physically
improved if all the sickly and deformed babies were killed.
and if all .the paupers, liars, drunkards, thieves, villains
and vivisectionists were murdered. All this might in a
few ages, result in the production of a generation of
physically perfect men and women, but what would such
beings be worth———men and women, healthy and heartless,
muscular and cruel—mthat is to say, intelligent wild beasts?

‘ Never can I be the friend of one who vivisects his
fellow—creatures. I do not wish to touch his hand.

‘When the angel of pity is driven from the heart,
when the fountain of tears is dry—the soul becomes a ser
pent crawling in the dust of a desert.’ ”

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The Vivisection Act, 1876

ITS PALPABLE CONTRADICTIONS.

 

 

The terms of the License granted to a Vivisector
are nullified by the granting of Certificates».

Look on this side~

1. The animal must be anaes-
thetised.

Section 3, Sub-section 3.
'2. The animal must. be killed
before I‘M'nvel'y from the {UNUS—
thetic.

Section :3. Sub—section 4-.
3. The experiment is not to
be performed in illustration of
lectures.

Section 3, Sub-section 5.

4. No experiment calculated
to give pain is to be performed
on a (lng' or cat. without anaes—
thetics.

Section 5.
5. No experiment is to be per-
formed on a horse. ass, or mule.

Section 5.

6. On any breach of the pro“
Visions of the Act, no prosecution
can be. obtained unless (1) the
consent of the Home Secretary,
in writing, is obtained; (2) the
prosecution is instituted within
six months of the offence.

And on this.

1..Certiﬁcate A can be obtained
to dispense with the use of anaes-
thetics.

Section 3, Proviso 2.

2. Certiﬁcate B can be obtained
allowmg the Viyjisector to keep
the animal alive after its recovery
from the anaesthetic.

Section 3, Proviso 3.
3 Certiﬁcate C can be obtained
allowing vivisection (under anaes-
thetics) in illustration of lectures.

Section 3, Proviso 4.

4. Certiﬁcates E and A allow
operations on dogs or cats without
anaesthetics, and Certiﬁcates B
and EE all-ow dogs and cats to
recover, after serious mutilation,
when the effect of the anaesthetic
has passed off.

5'

Section

5. Certiﬁcate F allows experi-

ments to be made on horses, asses
and mules.

p

Section 0.

6. These conditions are an efﬁ-
cient bar to prosecution, because
(1) the consent of the Home See-
retary is exceedingly difﬁcult to
obtain; (2) the offence is seldom
known until after the six months’
limit is passed, as vivisectors
seldom publish their records
within that period.

N.B.—The futility of this Act is only a sign of the utter
impossibility of attempting to “ restrict” Vivisection.
The system cannot be regulated in the interests of the
the victims, who are denied all rights, and are mere

“ material for research.”

The Abolition of a system

which depends upon this point of view is the only

practical remedy.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 








 

2‘?
i
|
Ii
i
ii
i
l
i
i

British Union for Abolition of Vivisection,

32, CHARING Cnoss, LoNDON, S.W.1.

Life Membership, £5. Annual Member’s Subscription, lo/-.

Associates, 5,- and 2 6.

Organ of the Union: THE ABOLI'J‘JONIS'i‘ - - Twopence {viionthly

 

Published by the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection, 32, Charing Cross, S.W.I.
Printed by Howe Bros. 51 Co., Ltd, 60, Cheaps'ide, E C.2.

 




