We Went; ,W/We /

WM WZWWI/Z‘e

From the National Humane Journal.

 

ALAS POOR JOCKO!

By MARY CRAIGE YARROW

I Whoever gladdens the lives of dumb creatures in need,
Is one of Christ’s helpers, whatever his creed,
Clasps hands with 'the angel that comforted Him.’
But whoever ﬁnds pleasure in adding one hurt
:1: :1: =1: =1 2e :1: >2: :1: * =1<

Is somehow in league with those who found sport
In nailing the hands of the I/Vorld’s Greatest Love.

—-CALLA HARCOURT.

Into the drowsy stillness, which had settled upon the wide, main street of a country
town, one afternoon in mid—summer, drifted the monotonous strains of a hand-organ,
which knew but one tune On the porch of a comfortable house shaded by ﬁne, old trees,
a little group of gi1ls had gathered round a table and were sewing, while Marion Johnson,
a cousin who was visiting them, read aloud.

“Why, I do believe!” she exclaimed, laying aside her book and listening attentively,
“It is the very same man who came to our town a week ago, with such a miserable looking
little monkey he called Jocko. It seemed very tired, and Mother thought it was sick and
gave him money and his dinner, so that he would let it rest for' a while and we could feed it.

“Later, the Williams children, who live out in the suburbs and belong to my Band
of Me1cy, saw them, and heard the man speak very sharply to the monkey, which seemed
to be terribly frightened and not to know what he wished it to do. Then the organ grinder
grew very angry and dragged the poor little creature into the woods and beat it cruelly. The
children heard its pitiful cries and ran in search of our humane ofﬁcer, but by the time they
found him, the man had disappeared. I think I’ll ask Aunt Kate to come out,” she added,
rising and going into the house.

When she returned it was with this warm-hearted relative, who could always be
depended upon to lend a helping hand to any human being, or dumb creature needing a
friend. Her face lost its usual expression of placid good humor, as she walked to the
railing of the front porch, and saw on the sidewalk below, a tall, robust man leisurely turn—
ing the handle of a small organ, while a small, weak monkey, with dull, sunken eyes and
hollow cheeks begged for pennies and danced very wearily, with slow. lagging steps in
obedience to the sharp jerking of a chain attached to the stiff band of leather he wore
around his neck. A cap was held on his head by a piece of tight 1ubber passing under the
chin, and his gaudy dress was heavy and warm and weighed down his tired limbs. Now
and then as he dared, Jocko laid a tiny, brown hand on the torturing chain, in an effort
to ease the pain it was causing, and glanced appealing at his master as if t1ying to make
him understand how it was cutting his thin neck, but to this the man paid no heed, and
the merciless jerking continued.

Aunt Kate’s mild blue eyes came very near ﬂashing as she motioned the stout organ~
grinder to stop playing. “You no lika museec?’ he said brokenly, glancing up at her- in
some surprise. “Y,es that is right.” she answered, speaking very slowly and distinctly, in
order that the foreigner should grasp her meaning fully. “We do NOT like the music,‘

', 11
A,

 




 

and we do NOT like to see the monkey dance. and we do NOT like to see him take, off his
cap, and above all we do NOT like to see you hurting his neck by pulling that chain.” A
look of sullen anger came over the man’s face, and he prepared to move on, but recon—
sidered and sat down on the porch steps, when he saw a coin in the lady’s hand, which she
promised him and food also, if he would allow the monkey to rest for an hour.

Jocko eyed the man apprehensively at ﬁrst, scarcely believing that he might rest his
aching muscles and tired feet, but understanding at length that nothing further was required
of him just then, threw himself at full length upon the porch ﬂoor, as some wornout child
might have done.

Marion was then left on guard to see that he was not disturbed, while the others went
indoors to prepare food. On returning, they found Jocko resting on a porch cushion, a
comfort which his emaciated body had never before known. With considerable difﬁculty,
and only after being promised an additional coin, had the organ-grinder permitted Marion
to remove Jocko’s hard, leather collar, beneath which she had detected sores, in order that
she might bandage the small, wasted neck with soft linen and salve, during which he had
looked on contemptuously at her work of mercy. The cap, with its cutting rubber band,
had also been laid aside.

When water was brought to him, Jocko drank it with pitiful eagerness and milk also,
for many hours had passed since his parched throat and dry lips had been moistened.
Then, never quite comfortable or at ease, and with anxious, troubled eyes glancing con-
tinually in the direction of the organ-grinder (plainly showing that he feared punishment
if by any chance he offended him) he ate, much as some wild, starving creature might have
done, a bountiful meal, such as he had never before seen.

Marion J'ohnson’s sensitive face was quivering with repressed feeling, and the hearts
of both aunt and niece were sore, and their eyes dim with unshed tears when, the purchased
hour of rest having expired, they stood alone upon the porch. In the distance the slouch-
ing, heavily—built ﬁgure of the organ-grinder was disappearing, carrying beyond their reach
the helpless little slave, which was dying by inches in his hard, cruel hands.

“What a dreadful man,” said Marion, breaking the silence. “There seemed to be no-th--
ing to which one could appeal. I tried to ﬁnd a soft side to his nature while you were
indoors, but failed utterly. Then, hoping to touch the selﬁsh side, I said how much better
the monkey could dance, and how many more pennies it would bring him, if he gave it
plenty of food and water, and let it rest when tired, but he listened to all with equal indif-
ference, yet I saw by the expression of his face that he quite understood my meaning.”

“I cannot imagine what the societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals are think~
ing of to allow such things to go on,” answered Aunt Kate indignantly. “If this is not
cruelty—then I should like to know what cruelty is. Of all the means by which lazy people
make the world yield them an easy living, could there be any more contemptible and dis—
creditable than this, which we have just seen?”

“Your Uncle James,” she added, “once made a careful study of the methods by which
animals are trained to do unnatural and very foolish tricks, such as leaping through hoops
of ﬁre, and from great heights, etc., many of them causing them the greatest fear. I have
heard him say that the whole thing, from beginning to end, is hideously cruel, and that if
the public only knew what went on behind the scenes it would boycott such exhibitions, and,
the theatres, etc., which give them. This would soon bring the wretched business to an
end, as'there would then be no money in it. Have you read The Animal Trainer, by Alice
J. Cleator? It is excellent; I can give you a copy to use as a Band of Mercy lesson if you
would like to have it. Children are usually attracted by trained animals, being ignorant of
the cruelty involved, and should be carefully instructed in this very important branch of
humane education. Part of the poem runs like this——

“Listen, look! If not, there are but few who would not moan
The whip descends, as from the arena’s rear To gaze upon the cruel punishment,
Leaps into line a crowd of animals, When trainer with his pupil is alone.
Whose eyes are pviteous with the light of fear. Ah, these poor pupils mastered by the whip!
* * * * * * * 0d never meant them for a life like this.
The dogs go gaily dancing round the ring, Kind Pity, sweep such scenes as these from earth,
But, oh, the pathos could one see their eyes! And turn the loud applause to scathing hiss!”

For tricks well done the Judas-kiss is given,

**********

“The custom of keeping collections of caged, wild animals in various places, for the
entertainment of old and young is another great source of cruelty, which in Christian
countries, at least, should have been ended long ago,” continued Aunt Kate, going on with
a subject which was of deep interest to both. “There is no educational side to it, as knowl-
edge cannot be acquired by standing for a few minutes before a wild creature which has
been placed in utterly unnatural surroundings, and looking at it thrOugh the bars of a cage.
On the contrary, very much may be learned by studying the wealth of literature that has
been written on the subject, and by pictures, charts, models, etc. When the animal is used,
it should always be the mounted specimen, never the living one, which suffers unspeakably
in captivity, and from having been trapped, also from changes of climate, and from having
been transported long distances by sea and land, often suffering for food and water, and
always at the best, being very scantily fed.




. “Not long ago, six lions, all crowded into one cage, and the property of a circus, We'rj‘iiW
Side-tracked on a railroad and left uncared for, without water or food, in intensely hot I
weather. Suffering and frenzied by the heat, they attacked one another, and when found," _
éhreel were dead, and the remaining three so severely injured that they were expected to!

ie a so. 4- ..

. “Occurrences of this kind throw the search—light upon the dumb agony of imprisoned,”-
_Wild creatures,_ maddened by cruelty, whose lives are worse than any nightmare which -. 2
could be imagined; but for the most part the curtains are kept closely drawn, and we ~

seldom see what takes place back of them. ‘

“During the ﬁerce heat of that same summer a sick, caged tigress made desperate . ,
attempts to end her wretched existence by biting off portions of her body. Drastic, cruel ' '
measures were_used in trying to prevent this, and when she had at length almost suc.-‘
,ceededun reaching a Vital spot, a keeper having a long spear, was stationed beside her cage ‘
to punish her. I have been hoping that this suffering animal might outwit her jailers, and
soon be freed from painful, hopeless captivity.

“I cannot tell you how relieved I was not long ago, on learning that a wretched ele-
phant which had been kept closely chained for some Years, had at !last been shot, as it ”
should have been long ago; but then, elephants and other costly animals, are not easily
parted with by their owners, being very valuable in drawing visitors to the places where ,
they are kept, especially when they are called dangerous, and written up as such in the
newspapers. The cramped muscles alone, of this huge creature, kept "without exercise,
must have caused untold suffering both by day and night—but come, Marion, my dear,”
said the lady, breaking off from her subject, and laying an arm affectionately about her
favorite niece, she turned toward the house door. “I am giving quite a lengthy humane
lecture it seems. However, we think alike and I know I have not tired you. The organ-
grinder said that he intended going from here to Waterton, so we will telephone to the
Society for the Protection of Animals there and ask to have an agent on the lookout, and
I hope the monkey will be taken from him upon arrival. You must go to the ’phone, too,
and tell what the Williams children saw and heard.”

*******=i<*‘*

Strengthened by food and rest, cheered by the. unaccustomed kindness he had received,
and with the soft linen bandage protecting the sores on his neck, Jocko had responded with
more activity than for some time past to the commands of the organ—grinder, bringing him
in such a rich harvest, that it was late that night before he was locked into a close, stuffy
room scarcely more than a closet, after which his idle, vagabond master went to the tavern
below, to drink up the coins which the small, weak hands had gathered for him.

Jocko fell exhausted upon the hard ﬂoor of the hot, little room into which he had
been thrust. His aching limbs were weighed down by the heavy dress. The stiff cap with
its cutting band was still on his head, and the heavy collar round his neck. The tavern
was noisy and the room suffocating. A harsh, racking cough came at frequent intervals,
and a sharp pain was stabbing his side. Breath came in short gasps and his sleep was
broken and restless. Now, he is living over that all too quickly passing hour upon the'shady
porch, where kind hands had ministered to him and soft voices had spoken gently. Again,
memory leads him far back into the past. and once more he is swinging in the leafy tree-tops
or out into the radiant tropical sunshine of his native summer land, as in those early,
happy days, when joyous and free, he had roamed at will with his playful, frolicking com-
panions, ’ere man's ruthless, cruel greed had robbed him of liberty and all that made life
sweet, and laid him a helpless captive at the feet of Mammon. .

Then, some sound from the noisy drinkers in the tavern, startles and disturbs the little
dreamer, and his mind wanders from this blissful oblivion to the present misery. Now,
he seems to be the center of a laughing, jeering, teasing crowd, which frightens him, and
mocks him with merriment, when he would plead for pity. His weary feet are moving_to
the jangling, never-ending tune. His master’s dreaded eye is'on him and he trembles With
fearumechanically, a feeble hand burning with fever is raised in salutation to his cap,
while he moans and tosses on the hard bare ﬂoor. Later, a night-sweat chills his frail body,
and the delirium passes. ‘ . _

Patience, little Jockol—your release is at hand. Slowly and laggmgly it has been com-
ing to you on leaden wings, but now it ﬂies swiftly. Only a morning or two hence, and
when your brutal master wakens from his drunken sleep, not With all the cruelty he knows
so well, will he be able to arouse and drive you forth, to earn his daily bread and liquor. Lo!
Death, the great Deliverer, will have touched you in the night, and wrapped in his shadowy
mantle of repose, you can at last defy your tormentor, and a world so heartless and so
cruel, that it found in the dumb tragedy of your daily, hourly torture, merely something to
stir it to laughter.

A PRAYER

O Heavenly Father, maker of heaven and earth and all that .in them is, help us to feel
more strongly the tie of our common brotherhood with all ‘nations of men. Open Thou
our minds and our hearts to perceive our common kinship With all that live and move and .
have their being, with the-beasts of the earth and the birds of the air. Thy hand and Thy ,

 




will fashioned them. They are our brothers- Help us, O GQCl, to know our debt to them.
Makeus 'to be grateful for the joyous {songs of the birds, for the companionship of our

dumb friends.

0 God, many and great are the wrongs that the helpless creatures of; the lesser realm

of life have suffered at the hands of man.

Hunger, thirst, torture, the heavy burden and

the Cruel lash have been the portioln dealt out to, them by these with should have been

their friends. '

For all the great sin of cruelty and neglect of these, Thy crea'f'ures, we ask Thy

pardon, Lord.

1‘

We thank Thee for those brave souls who have dared to stand in defence of the help—
less, who have given their lives in the service of dumb creatures, to wrest for them from
careless, cruel, or indifferent human beings some poor measure of justice and humanity.

Grant, 0 Lord, that the gracious spirit of kindness and justice and humanity toward
all living creatures may grow‘and strengthen in our hearts and shine forth in our lives,

to thecglory of Thy Holy Name.

PAPETTA
(Prize Poem)

The April “rehearsals” are on at the Zoo——

(A gay group of buildings of yellow and blue)

Seven-ten in the morning! It’s time to begin!

At call of the trainer Papetta comes in,

A gray little terrier, he stands trembling there,

You say dogs are speechless? His eyes are a
prayer!

He knows what awaits him—the ladder so steep—

The strain of the hoopjump, the waltz, the high

leap.
And if dull of learning, 0 pitying skies,
Look down in mercy and silence his cries! _
What cares the harsh trainer of thin tightened hp?
His tools are hot irons, iron spikes, the wrre whip!
Where now are the people the Zoo aims to suit,
Who laugh at these antics and cr‘y “0 how cute!”
Ah, no, these rehearsals are hid from their v1ew,
Or even the thoughtless might turn from the Loo;
Sometimes in our searching we ask “what is hell?
Not far lies the answer. Papetta could. tell!
ALICE JEAN CLEATOR.

Amen. —-IDA KENNISTON.

Mrs. Jennie Weller, President of the Hillsborough
County, Florida, Humane Society, tells of an effec-
tive method of dealing with the organ grinder evil:

“I am pleased to tell you that in December, 1915,.
our soeiety addressed the Mayor and City Council
of Tampa, in the form of a Resolution, pointing out
the cruel'ties of the “Monkeyman,” and the fact that
he was a “Vagrant” under the law, and asked that
they re eal the then existing ordinance, which an-
thorize street performances, and that “all such
exhibitions herein mentioned, be prohibited for all
time to come, within the domain of our City.”
There was no protest; the resolutions passed on
ﬁrst reading, and great was our joy. I' used fre-
quently to have the monkeys “arrested,” that they
might have needed rest. One prosecution of the
"man” resulted in a scathing rebuke by our muni-
cipal judge, and ﬁning the “grinder” $25.00 or 30
days 1n jail. It was immediately following this
prosecution that our resolutions were presented and
adopted and Tampa freed.”

BEN HAZZARD’S GUESTS

From the C ongregationalist.

Ben Hazzard’s hut was smoky and cold,

Ben Hazzard, half blind, was black and old,
And he cobbled shoes for his scanty gold.
Sometimes he sighed for a larger store
Wherewith to bless the wandering poor;

For he was not wise in worldly lore;

The poor were Christ’s’ he knew no more.
One night a cry from the window came——
Ben Hazzard was sleepy and tired and lame—-
“Ben Hazzard, open,” it seemed to say,
“Give shelter and food, I humbly pray.”
Ben Hazzard lifted his woolly head _

To listen. “ ’Tis awful cold,” he said,

And his old bones shook in his ragged bed,
“But the wanderer must be comforted.” .
“Comein, in the name of the Lord,” .he cried,
As he opened the door, and held it Wide,

A milk-white kitten was all he spied.

Ben Hazzard, amazed, stare-d up and down;
The stout» house doors were carefully shut,
Safe bolted were all but old Ben’s hut. .

“I thought'that somebody called,” he said,
“Some dream or other got into my head!
Come then, poor pussy, and share my bed.”
Then out from the storm, the wind and the sleet
Puss joyfully lay at old Ben’s feet.

Truly, it was a terrible storm,

Ran feared he should never more be warm.
But just as he began to be dozy,

And puss was purring soft and cozy,

A voice called faintly before his door:

'“Ben Hazzard, Ben Hazzard, help, I implore!
Give drink, and a- crust from out your store.”
Out from his bed he stumbled again; .
“Come in, in the name of the Lord,” he S-ald;
“With such as I have, thou shalt be fed.”
Only a little black dog he saw,

Whining and shaking a bro-ken paw.

“Well, well,” he cried, “I must have dreamed;

But verily like a- voice it seemed.

Poo-r creature,” he added, with husky tone,
“Thou shalt have the whole of my marrow bone.”
He went to the cupboard, and took from the shelf
The bone he had saved for his very se f.

Then, after binding the broken paw,

Half dead with cold went back to his straw.
Under the ancient blue bedquilt he crept,

His conscience was white and again he slept.

But again a voice called, both loud and clear:
“Ben Hazzard, for Christ's sweet sake come here!”
Once more he stood at the open door,

And looked abroad, as he looked before.

This time, full sure, ’twas a voice he heard:
But all that he saw was a storm-tossed bird.
“Come in, in the name of the Lord,” he said,
Tenderly raising the drooping head,

And, tearing his tattered robe apart,

Laid the cold bird on his own warm heart.

The sunrise ﬂashed on the snowy thatch,

As an angel lifted the wooden latch.

Ben woke in a ﬂood of golden light,

And knew the voice that had called all night.

“Thrice happy is he that blesseth the poor.

The humblest creature that sought thy door,

For Christ’s sweet sake thou hast comforted.”

“Nay, ’twas not much,” Ben humbly said,

With a rueful shake of his old gray head.

“Who giveth all of his scanty store

In Christ’s dear name, can do no more.

Behold, the Master who waiteth for thee,

Saith: ‘Giving to them thou hast given to Me.’ ”

Then, with heaven’s light on his face, “Amen,

I come in the name of the Lord,” said Ben.

“Frozen to death,” the watchman said,

When at last he found him in his bed,

With a smile on his face so strange and bright;

He wondered what old Ben saw that night.
--A?ma P. MarshalL

 

Copies of this leaﬂet may be had without charge by addressing MISS M. C. YARROW, The
Normandie, 36th and Chestnut Streets, Philadelphia, Penna.

 




