No. 30%.

The R.S.P. . .

(Founded 1824. Incorporatedﬁy Act of Parliament and 23 Geo. V, 1932)

WHAT IT IS ND
WHAT IT D ES

THE ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS, 105, JERMYN STREET, LONDON, S.\W.1

Teleplzone—H’HITEHALL 7177 .
Telegrams—” CRUEL TY, LONDON.”

 

 

 




 

HOW

ANNUAL ,
MEMBERSHIP

LIFE
MEMBERSHIP

ANNUAL
SUBSCRIBERS

DONORS

SUBSCRIPTIONS
TO
PUBLICATIONS

REMITTANCES

TO BECOME A MEMBER
OF, THE R.S.P.C.A.

 

An Annual Subscription of not less than
ONE POUND constitutes the subscriber an
ANNUAL MEMBER, entitled to attend the
General Meetings as provided by the rules,
and to receive a copy of the Annual Report
and, on application, a Member’s Badge.

A Donation of TWENTY POUNDS and
upwards, paid in one amount, constitutes
the Donor a LIFE MEMBER, with the
privileges of an Annual Member.

Annual Subscriptions of amounts less than
ONE POUND constitute the donors ANNUAL
SUBSCRIBERS, though NOT Members.

Donations of any amount are very gratefully

' received.

The Annual Subscription to “THE ANIMAL
WORLD ” is 3/- per annum, post free, and
to “ANIMAL WAYS” I/- per annum, post
free.

Cheques, Money Orders and Postal Orders
should be made payable to “The Secretary,
R.S.P.C.A.” and crossed “ Coutts & Co.”

 

do
a

.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

in”

 

THE R.S.P.C.A.
WHAT IT IS AND WHAT IT DOES

 

HISTORY

The R.S.P.C.A. has the distinction of being the oldest animal
protection Society in the world; it was founded on 16 June, 1824,
by the Rev. Arthur Broome, who was aided by Richard Martin and
a few other humanitarians.

At ﬁrst the Society had to contend against much opposition, for
in those days all animals were treated brutally, and the idea of protecting
them was ridiculed.

The only law for the protection of animals was Martin’s Act,
passed in 1822. This was the ﬁrst measure of its kind in the world,
but it applied only to horses and cattle.

The Society’s progress was very slow until 1835, when Princess,
afterwards Queen, Victoria, became its Patron ; her example has been
consistently followed by members of the Royal Family to the present
day.

As its aims and methods became better known and understood,
the Society gained support, and its activities spread from London to
the provinces, and were imitated abroad.

One by one the grosser forms of cruelty were made illegal, and
fresh measures brought forward for the beneﬁt of animals.

Educational work amongst the young showed the value of
organised instruction as a remedy for cruelty arising from thoughtless-
ness and ignorance.

In June, 1924, the R.S.P.C.A., now a great and powerful organi-
sation, celebrated its centenary. To an International Conference
came the delegates of over seventy Foreign or Colonial Societies,
from twenty-three different countries. .

The history of the R.S.P.C.A. was published in 1924 in book
form, under the title of A Hundred Yearr’ War/(afar Animalx; it can
be obtained from the Headquarters, 105, Jermyn Street, S.W.1, for
25. 6d. nett; postage 6d.

 




 

4

CONSTITUTION

Members of the public are cordially invited to call at Headquarters
and discuss any matter affecting the welfare of animals, or to report
to Jermyn Street by post, or telephone, any case of cruelty to animals
that may be brought to their notice.

Work in the provinces is carried on through the Branches and
Auxiliaries of the Society, in England and Wales, which number
nearly 2,000. The names and addresses of Branch Secretaries and
Inspectors are published in full in the Annual Report, supplied gratis
to all Members.

Matters of policy and internal administration, and all questions
relating to prosecutions for cruelty are dealt with at Headquarters.

The Society has a Corps of 222 trained Inspectors, distributed
throughout its Branches ; a small staff is retained at Headquarters for
work in London. The R.S.P.C.A. is the only Society employing such
a body of men.

Subscriptions, donations or other gifts can be sent direct either
to the Chief Secretary, at Jermyn Street, or through any of the Branch
Secretaries.

Foreign and Colonial Societies work under their own executives,
but the R.S.P.C.A. maintains the closest possible liaison with them,
and is always willing to forward complaints to the proper quarter,
and to co-operate whenever possible.

In an endeavour to secure close liaison between the R.S.P.C.A.
and animal protection workers abroad, the following Societies have

become affiliated with the R.S.P.C.A. :—

British Guiana S.P.C.A. New Zealand Federation of
Cairo R.S.P.C.A. S.P.C.A.

Cape of Good Hope S.P.C.A. Oslo S.P.C.A.

Cracow S.P.A. Pietermaritzburg S.P.C.A.
Durban & Coast S.P.C.A. Society for the Protection of
Funchal S.P.C.A. Animals in North Africa.
Gold Coast S.P.C.A. South Australian S.P.C.A.
Guernsey S.P.C.A. Toronto Humane Society.
Jersey S.P.C.A. Trinidad S.P.C.A.
Johannesburg S.P.C.A. , Vancouver Branch, British
Latvian S.P.A. Columbia S.P.C.A.

Malta S.P.C.A. Victorian S.P.A.

New York Women’s League
for Animals.




5

A complete list of Sister Societies in all parts of the world is
published in booklet form, and through the kindness of various
Travel Agencies and Shipping Companies, copies are distributed to
their ofﬁces throughout the world. Thus, anyone abroad, on
witnessing a case of cruelty, can communicate quickly with the nearest
Society. To emphasise the international scope of animal protection
work the following notice is printed on the cover of the booklet :—

“The Duty of Protecting Animals and Birds Knows No
Barriers of Race or Creed.

If you see an instance of cruelty, do not shudder and pass by.
Please turn up the index over page, find the address of the nearest
Animal Protection Society, and write giving full particulars, or
better still, call on them as soon as you can. You will be sure
of a cordial welcome, and your visit will be an encouragement
in their difficult work.

In 1935, an Empire and Foreign Fund was instituted, for the
purpose of assisting the activities of newly—formed and struggling
Sister Societies abroad. The Fund is administered by the Empire
and Foreign Affairs Committee of the Society’s Council, who carefully
investigate applications for grants which are constantly being received.
This Fund also serves as a medium for the transmission of donations
to Societies abroad, and any donor sending a gift can earmark the
whole, or part of it, for animal protection work in any particular

‘country of the world.

POLICY

The Society’s policy is as much directed towards the Promotion
of Kindness as it is to the Prevention of Cruelty. Prevention alone
is negative, and the spirit which inspired the founders of the R.S.P.C.A.
was positive. Their aim was to teach the public to be kind to animals.
The Society is still working on those lines.

Prosecution still plays a considerable part in the work of the
R. S. P. C. A., and probably will do so for many years to come, but it is
not, primarily, a prosecuting body.

Brieﬂy, the policy of the R. S. P.C.A. is to promote kindness
and prevent cruelty, ﬁrst by Education, second by Caution and Warning,
and lastly by Prosecution.

EDUCATION

The founders of the Society saw that much cruelty was due either
to ignorance or to prejudice, and that the remedy for both ”was

 




 

6

knowledge. Accordingly, Humane Education, particularly amongst
the young, has always occupied a prominent position in the Society’s
programme.

Brieﬂy, this juvenile education is carried on through two great
channels, the Schools, and the R.S.P.C.A. Junior Division.

The Society’s aim is to introduce the subject of animals and their
care and treatment into the lessons given in the Schools.

The Society’s Education Organiser, having brought the Society’s
educational activities to the notice of a County or Borough Education
Committee and obtained the necessary permission, then arranges with
the Director of Education and the Head—teachers for lectures to be
given by one of the Society’s speakers in the Schools under the
jurisdiction of the Education Committee.

The importance and value of this branch of the Society’s work
is shown by the recognition and co—operation received from
Education Committees all over the country, and from the Heads of
the large Public Schools, and Secondary, Private and Preparatory Schools.

The subject of animals and birds, and the responsibility of human
beings towards them, can be easily introduced into such lessons as
Reading, Dictation, Composition, Silent Reading, Essay Writing, etc.,
without trouble to the teacher, and without adding to the ordinary
curriculum.

To a581st the teaching staffs, the Society also obtains permission
from Directors of Education for its various publications, specially
prepared for school work, to be placed on the School requisition lists._

Competitions in which essays are written on animal subjects are
held annually in many schools, and prizes are given by the local
Branches of the Society.

In London, by the permission of the L.C.C., a yearly competition,
for which some 200,000 children enter, is arranged by Headquarters,
and many prizes and certiﬁcates are given.

The second method of juvenile education, which can be, and
frequently is. merged into the ﬁrst, is that of the R. S. P. C. A. Junior
Division. Membership is free to girls and boys between the ages of
eight and eighteen, and they are asked to promise to be considerate
to animals and to try to do a good turn to an animal or bird whenever
possible. Members are expected to try to make themselves familiar
with the needs and habits of animals and birds and to take an active
interest in their welfare.

Instruction is given by many different means. Nature lectures
about animals and birds are arranged; these can be illustrated with




7

lantern slides or by the Society’s own “ talkie ” or silent ﬁlms. Other
activities, such as nature rambles, readings, essay writings, debates
on animal welfare and the making of articles in aid of the Society’s
funds are organised, and in this connection there is issued a monthly
magazine, specially written for children, entitled Animal Wayr.
Subscription 1/- per annum, post free, or 1d. per copy, post free.

The methods of instruction vary a good deal according to local
facilities, but the basic idea—to instil into the mind of a child a love
and an understanding of animals—is always the same.

There are now several hundred Groups of the R.S.P.C.A. Junior
Division, embracing in the aggregate many thousands of children,
and the movement is spreading rapidly. A

This juvenile work is (being carried on successfully in many
different countries, particularly in America and Canada, and has
within the last two years developed in Southern and Northern Africa.

Adult education is given chieﬂy through the Society’s publications
department.

Booklets, leaﬂets and pamphlets on the care and treatment of
all the more familiar animals, reptiles and birds are issued, lectures
and addresses are given by the Society’s speakers, donkey and horse
shows are held throughout the country, and the Society’s ofﬁcial
magazine, Tbe Animal World, is published every month. Subscription
3/— per annum, post free, or 3d. per copy.

The Society is always trying to gain the sympathy and interest
of such men as drovers, drivers and others who come into close
contact with animals.

CINEMATOGRAPH FILMS
AND LANTERN SLIDES

The Society has a number of films—“ talking ” and “ silent ”——and
special appliances for showing them in any hall. Some of the ﬁlms
illustrate various departments of the Society’s work; others I give
practical instruction in the management and proper treatment of
animals. The ﬁlms are lent for exhibition, free of charge, to the
managers of cinemas. (The arrangements are usually made by
Honorary Secretaries of the Society’s Branches through Headquarters.)

The Society has some thousands of lantern slides illustrating its
work, the care and treatment of animals, the lives of wild animals and
birds, etc., etc. The slides, with suitable readings, are lent, free of
charge, to anyone who will make good use of them. The Society’s
lecturers can be engaged, without fee, to give talks, with or without

 

 




 

8

slides and ﬁlms, about the work of the Society, the treatment of

animals, etc.

CAUTION AND WARNING

It is, and always has been, the aim of the Society to avoid prose-
cutions if possible.

IA great number of posters are issued informing the public of
new Acts of Parliament or of matters in which the Society is interested.
Other posters, with coloured illustrations, call attention to common
forms of cruelty, such as the caging of wild birds, the keeping of
unwanted kittens and puppies, the continual chaining of dogs, the
use of the hame rein, etc.

Many helpers have kindly erected notice boards in their own
gardens or at other suitable places, for the display of the Society’s
posters.

By arrangement with local Branches, the Society is glad to
supply posters if they can be put up on notice boards as described.

Probably more cruelty is prevented, by caution and warning,
through the corps of Inspectors than by any other means.

These men, in their ordinary routine duty of patrolling roads,
fairs, cattle markets, railway sidings, performing animals shows, etc.,
caution in a vast number of minor cases of ill—treatment of animals,
and put matters right in a friendly and helpful manner.

The number of cautions given yearly by the Society’s Inspectors
and reported to London averages about 20,000 ; convictions number
about 2,000 a year. ‘

The Broadcasting service as a channel of warning as well as
instruction has already been exploited, and it is hoped to use this
valuable medium more frequently in the future.

The Society, in effect, does everything it possibly can to prevent
a person when charged with an offence from pleading ignorance as
an excuse.

PROSECUTION

Some people are naturally cruel, others are so stupid, careless or
truculent that they will not learn and will not pay heed to a warning.

These people the Society deals with by prosecution. All cases,
wherever they may occur, are decided upon at Headquarters, London.

The publication by the Press of reports of the Society’s cases
serves as a caution and warning to people, but unfortunately they
create the idea that the Society’s one task is to prosecute offenders;
this, ‘as has already been stated, is very far from the truth.

 

 

 

 

" "”‘F er"




 

 

«9*... 5%.

 

9

It is outside the compass of this booklet to deal with all the
many forms of cruelty which the Society tries to prevent, but the
following details will be of interest.

BIRDS

The Society’s Inspectors notice many cases of ill-treatment of
fowls, mostly due to improper conveyance, and consequently the
Inspectors pay particular attention to fowls in transit on rail or road,
and exposed for sale.

Many prosecutions are undertaken for offences against wild birds.

In 1921 the SoCiety was largely responsible for the passing of
the Plumage (Prohibition) Act, which reduced the varieties of skins
and feathers permitted to be imported to twelve. That this
measure has done considerable good is undeniable, but unfortunately,
as the actual exposure for sale is not illegal, the Act itself encourages
smuggling. In one single seiZure by H.M. Customs 135,956 grebe
skins were discovered. All these birds were killed in full breeding
plumage. It is hoped at an early date that legislation will be passed
to prevent the actual exposure for sale of skins and feathers which
may not be imported.

In 1925 the Society was successful in obtaining the Protection
of Birds Act, which makes illegal the three cruelties of bracing decoy
birds, using bird—lime for the purpose of taking or attempting to take
alive any wild bird, and conﬁning birds in cages too small for. them.

In 1928 an Act for the protection of the Lapwing became law
through the Society’s efforts.

The Protection of Birds Act (1933) prohibits the taking of wild

I birds for sale and the selling, offering for sale, or possessing for sale

of wild birds. The Act applies to sixty-six species of birds, named
in the schedule of the Act.

The destruction of sea birds by waste oil discharged by ships has
engaged the attention of the Society. Birds coming in contact with
the oil, which ﬂoats on the sea, are rendered helpless and die miserably
from slow starvation. It is hoped that legislation will eventually compel
oil-burning ships to carry adequate machinery to separate the waste oil
and prevent it getting on the surface of the sea.

DOGS

Dogs are the subjects of many of the Society’s cases. One very
common form of ill—treatment which occupies a great deal of the time
of the Society’s Inspectors, is the keeping of a dog continually on a chain.

 




 

 

10-

An Act which, largely through the efforts of Sir Robert Gower,
M.P., Chairman of the Society, who originated the measure, was
passed in 1933, gives power to Magistrates to disqualify a person,
convicted of cruelty to a dog, from holding a dog licence and, therefore,
from keeping a dog. Within a few days of the passing of this Act
the Society used it successfully.

The Society annually pays dog licences for a great many poor

people who otherwise would have to part with their dogs, and destroys ,

a very considerable number of unwanted dogs, either free of cost or
at a nominal charge. In addition, some of the Society’s Branches
run Dog Licence Clubs, to which dog—owners are invited to subscribe
2d. a week until the licence fee has been accumulated.

By arrangement with the Automobile Association and the Royal
Automobile Club, all the various scouts and road guides of these
bodies are now supplied with the names and addresses of the nearest
R.S.P.C.A. Inspector, police station and veterinary surgeon. This is
to enable any motorist who has the misfortune to injure a dOg or any
other animal, or who may find such unfortunate creatures, to know in
the shortest possible time to whom to apply for aid. All R.S.P.C.A.
Inspectors have pistols for the humane destruction of hopelessly
injured animals.

The Society is always willing to pay veterinary or other expenses
incurred by people who cannot afford to be out of pocket when
procuring ﬁrst—aid or painless destruction for injured animals.

CATS

Possibly no creature suffers more than the cat. Every year in
London alone the Society destroys some 50,000 unwanted and stray
cats, and thousands are painlessly killed at various R.S.P.C.A.
Branches.

The reason for this vast army of misery with which the Society
deals each year is largely due to the habit of keeping kittens, when
they are small and interesting, and then turning them adrift when
they grow up.

'The Society in this humane work of destruction performs a
duty not only to the animals, but to the public at large. Homeless
cats may be carriers of disease to other animals.

The question of the licensing of cats has several times been
considered by the Council of the R.S.P.C.A., but no feasible scheme
has yet been evolved.

Members of the public are cordially invited to visit the Society’s
Animal Rescue League, 397, City Road, London, E.C.1, where the




‘11

bulk of the London cats are destroyed, or the Mayhew Cats’ Home,
afﬁliated to the R.S.P.C.A., which is situated at Trenmar Gardens,
Ponsard Road, Willesden, N.W.10; this Home provides both for,
the painless destruction of diseased, homeless and injured cats, and also
for boarding cats when their owners go away, or wish to part with
them temporarily.

SHEEP, CATTLE AND PIGS

These animals form the subjects of many of our Inspectors’
cases, often as the result of rough handling in transit, or at markets.

The Society is making strenuous eﬂorts to suppress the cruel
practice of the overstocking of cows at markets, and a great improve-
ment has been made in this matter. The Society has taken proceedings
in many cases for this offence, and will continue to do so. _

In connection with sheep, cattle and pigs, however, comes one
of the most important subjects in which the Society is at present
interested, namely the Humane Slaughter of Animals for food.

THE HUMANE SLAUGHTER OF ANIMALS
FOR FOOD

The Society desires that every animal that is to be killed for food
shall be stunned with a. mechanical instrument, familiarly known as
a Humane Killer, before it is bled. The instruments are in two forms,
one ﬁring a free bullet, the other projecting a bolt, driven by a blank
cartridge. They can be operated with perfect safety and without
damage to the meat.

Gleetric Stunners are now extensively used on sheep and pigs.

In 1928, mainly by the Society’s efforts, an Act was passed, making
Humane Slaughter compulsory for Sheep and Cattle, in Scotland.

In 1933, largely through the splendid work of Lieut.—Colonel
T. C. R. Moore, M.P., a Member of the Society’s Council, the
Slaughter of Animals Act was passed; it came into force on lst
January, 1934. This measure, which was introduced by Colonel Moore,
provides for the humane slaughter of all cattle, including calves—and
pigs under certain conditions, that is, where electrical energy is available,
or can reasonably be made available—and these animals must be stunned
by means of a mechanically-operated instrument previous to being bled.

Sheep are not included in this Act, but Local Authorities can,
by passing the Resolution contained in Section 2 of the Act, bring
them under its provisions; if a Local Authority passes this
Resolution sheep will be humanely slaughtered in exactly the same
way as cattle and pigs, which is very desirable.

 

 

 

 




 

12

The Slaughter of Animals Act 1933 does not supersede Byelaws
already in existence, under which the use of mechanically—operated
instruments is stipulated.

The Society’s Inspectors have attended Markets, Fairs, etc., and

humanely slaughtered large numbers of poultry, more especially )ust
before Christmas.

THE HUMANE DESTRUCTION OF OTHER
ANIMALS

The Society also provides for the humane destruction of animals
which have to be killed by order of magistrates, or at the owners’
requests, or owing to injuries, disease, etc. During the year 1936
151,504 animals were destroyed by means of the humane killers and
the Society’s lethal chambers.

RABBITS

The Society has for many years endeavoured to find a substitute
for the cruel steel—toothed trap, the use of which is still legal. To
encourage inventors, large money prizes have from time to time
been offered for a suitable substitute, but no effective design has yet
been submitted.

What is desired is a simple, light trap, cheap, small and durable,
that will kill outright.

The Society issues a humane snare which catches the rabbit alive
and holds it without hurting it; this snare is extensively used by
land-owners. The price of the snare is 1d. ; a discount is given to
the trade. Other types of snares and traps are recommended by the
Society.

Some years ago the Society was successful in obtaining legislation
to suppress the coursing of rabbits in enclosed spaces, and at present
has a Bill before Parliament which it trusts will put an end to the
coursing of boxed rabbits.

This measure, incidentally, will not only protect rabbits, but,
if successful, will prevent the keeping of any wild animal in a state of
captivity for the purpose of being immediately released to be coursed
or hunted.

HORSES, DONKEYS AND MULES

About one-third of the Society’s prosecutions for cruelty are
undertaken on behalf of horses. Very often the offence is due more
to ignorance and thoughtlessness than design, and it is the Society’s

 

 

 

Last»




 

 

13

wish that its Inspectors should be regarded by horse owners as people
who advise, rather than agents who punish.

One important work in connection with horses, with which the
Society has been associated for a great many years, is that of the
export of live horses to the Continent for butchery purposes.

Through the agency of the Society, much improvement has
already been achieved. Two Acts have been passed ameliorating
the conditions of these unfortunate creatures, and several Orders
have been issued, but the ﬁnal object of the Society is for a trade
in carcases to be substituted altogether for the trafﬁc in live butchery
animals.

The Society organises many horse and donkey parades throughout
the country.

On behalf of donkeys and other animals plying for hire on the
sands at seaside places, the Society recently approached all the local
authorities in England and Wales responsible for issuing the licences.
The authorities were asked to include in the licence certain Clauses
with regard to the general treatment of the animals, such as the
provision of proper rest, meals, etc., and the restriction to riders of
certain age or weight. In a great many cases the suggested Clauses
have been adopted. '

Various schemes are in operation throughout the Society’s
Branches which beneﬁt the poor man as well as the poor man’s horse.
There are Fields of Rest, where horses in low condition can rest at
the expense of the Society, while the owners are provided with sub—
stitutes. Horse Purchase Schemes, by which poor men are assisted
by the Society to purchase really sound animals on a deferred payment
basis, are worked successfully in one or two of the Branches.

The Society has also interested itself for many years in the matter
of slippery roads, and a suitable shoe for horses to wear under such
conditions. It has given its support to the ﬂat or Rational Shoeing
campaign, and has supplied all its Inspectors with specimens of straw
non—slip pads, brought to its notice by Captain Janssen. Pamphlets
on these subiects can be had on application.

PERFORMING ANIMALS

The most recent Act for the protection of these animals was
passed in 1925, as a result of the ﬁndings of the House of Commons
Select Committee on Performing Animals, 1921—22. The Act
containsonly three of the eight recommendations of, this Committee,
and provides that all performing animal trainers and exhibitors shall

 

 




 

 

 

14

be registered as to the number and species of the animals, and the
general nature of the performance. '

A Bill further to amend the Act, which is not felt to be satisfactory,
passed through all stages in the House of Lords in 1930, but was
blocked in the House of Commons. It was again presented, with a
slight amendment, to the House of Lords in May, 1933, when it was
defeated by one vote.

The British Jack London Club is affiliated to the R.S.P.C.A.
Its members pledge themselves not to encourage the employment of
animals for performances in circuses, music halls or films. A circular
is periodically sent to members, keeping them informed on all matters
affecting performing animals, and the progress of the work.

ANIMAL SUNDAY

October 4th, St. Francis of Assisi’s Day, is becoming accepted all
over the world as “ Animals’ Day,” St. Francis being the patron saint
of Animals. The Council of the Society recently decided to alter the
date of “ Animal Sunday ” in this country, from the fourth Sunday
after Trinity, to the Sunday preceding October 4th in each year, whilst
October 4th will in future be known as “ Animals’ Day.” This
decision of the Council will now bring England into line with most
other countries on this question, where St. Francis of Assisi’s Day is
the accepted day in the year when the duty of kindness to animals is
specially remembered. _

Branch Honorary Secretaries approach the clergy of the Church
of England, and the clergy and ministers of all denominations, and
invite them to bring the claims of animals before their congregations
and to have special lessons in the Sunday Schools. It will be realised
that the effect of the attention of the congregations, in all these Churches
and Chapels, being directed to the duty of kindness to animals, must
of necessity be considerable. Offertory collections are not asked for,
although contributions to the funds of the R.S.P.C.A. are always
welcome.

\VORK IN PARLIAMENT

The Society’s efforts to promote humane legislation have
been considerable in recent years. Four Acts of Parliament having
been passed since 1933, namely :—

The Protection of Animals (Cruelty to Dogs) Act 1933, which

was promoted by the Chairman of the Society, Sir Robert Gower,
M.P., and created a new precedent in animal protection law,




~——g——— «w s”. w

,—

lo

namely that in the case of cruelty to dogs a magistrate may make
an Order disqualifying a person from keeping a dog or holding
a dog licence, if it is found that the person is unworthy for
this responsibility.

The Protection of Birds Act 1933, which prohibits the taking
alive, for sale, of over 60 species of British \Vild Birds, and is
another entirely new step in Bird protection.

The Slaughter of Animals Act 1933.

The Protection of Animals Act 1934, which prohibits the
exhibition of certain cruel items in Rodeo displays. '

After the passing of these four Acts in two years, the Society is
making preparations for further efforts on behalf of the following
Bills :—

(l) Cinematograph Films (Animals) Bill.

(2) Performing Animals (Regulation) Act (Amendment) Bill.

(3) Protection of Animals Bill.

(4) Protection of Animals (No. 2) Bill.

(5) Prevention of Oil Pollution Bill.

(6) Coal Mines (Protection of Animals) Bill.

(7) Importation of Plumage (Prohibition) Act (Amendment) Bill.

(8) Docking and Nicking of Horses (Prohibition) Bill.

(9) Exportation of Horses Bill.

(10) Protection of Dogs Bill.
and many other subjects are being dealt with.

In matters requiring legislation, the Society has to deal with
all the questions before it from the widest possible point of View,
and much work is done in securing support for the various Bills,
from the different organisations of employers and workers concerned
with the industries in which the animals are used.

Cases have to be prepared for the various Bills promoted by the
Society and meetings of Members of Parliament arranged. A special
index is kept of the Society’s supporters, not only under names, but
under their constituencies, so that if any Member of Parliament desires,
he can ﬁnd at once active supporters in his constituency, and any
members of the public interested in this are asked to communicate
with the Chief Secretary.

The Society’s Parliamentary Organiser spends a great deal of time
at the House of Commons, and away in constituencies of Members
of Parliament, on occasions when mass support is required for a reform.
Many meetings and conferences dealing with legislation are attended
each year.

 

 




 

 

16
MEDALS FOR ANIMAL LIFE SAVING

The Society has for many years past recognised the exceedingly
brave acts by human beings who risk injury or death to save the
lives of animals. The Society awards either a silver or bronze medal
as a tangible recognition of any such acts of heroism.

A special award has recently been instituted in order that acts of
exceptional bravery in the rescuing of animals may be adequately
recognised. This is The Margaret Wheatley Cross, and it is the
Society’s highest award for animal life saving.

VETERINARY ADVICE FOR POOR PEOPLE

Clinics for the treatment of sick or injured animals of the poor
were started by some of the Society’s Branches in 1917.

Eleven such institutions serve the poorer districts of London,
and over 120,000 animals are brought to them every year; some
receive treatment, others are painlessly destroyed.

Further progress has been made in this scheme by the recent
formation of a convalescent ward at Putney. The object of the ward
is to provide skilled treatment for animals whose owners are either
unable to afford the necessary nourishment or to spare the time for
nursing which such cases require. Patients are drawn from every
Clinic in the Metropolitan area.

Naturally, Clinics are very costly, and in some districts (especially
those where the population is scattered) the “ de-centralised ” scheme
of Free Veterinary Advice has been adopted as an alternative.
“ Recommend forms,” signed by Branch Hon. Secretaries, Chief
Constables, Inspectors of the Society, or other responsible persons,
are issued to applicants, who then take their animals to the surgery
of the Veterinary Surgeon co-operating in the scheme. Inaugurated
in 1909, this scheme has since made great headway.

The Society is most anxious that advice of this kind shall be given
only by qualiﬁed Veterinary Surgeons, and it is glad to recognise the
public-spirited way in which many Veterinary Surgeons have come
forward and offered their services without charge, or at nominal fees,
in connection with this scheme.

 

 




I7

R.S.P.C.A. LONDON CLINICS

 

 

 

ADDRESS

 

A.R.L., 397, City Road,
E.C.1

Terminus 2422.

 

 

10, Cambridge Avenue,
N.W.6
Maida Vale 4610.

 

l

Destroy
Daily

I

 

CLINIC

Monday, Wednesday & Thursday,
5 to 7 p.m.
Friday 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.

, .. MERE“

Monday to Friday, 9.30 a.m. to
7.30 p.m.
(8 p.m. Tuesday & Thursday.)
Saturday, 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.

 

 

7, White Hart Lane, Barnes, l
S.W.13 1
Prospect 1410. ,

Sister Mabel’s Dispensary,
Medlar Street, Camber-
well, S.E.5

 

 

Daily

 

Daily
9 a.m. to 5. p.m.‘

Monday, Wednesday & Friday,
3.30 to 7 p.m.
Tuesday, Thursday & Saturday,
a.m. to 12 noon.

 

Wednesday 8: Friday from 7 p.m.

 

Medway Towns,
2, Skinner Street,
Gillingham, Kent
’Phone 5334.

 

6, Clarendon Road, PvuTtnEy:
S.W.15.
Putney 4410.

 

 

 

 

 

285, Borough High Street,
Southwark.
Hop 1955.

 

St. Andrew’s Institute, 7
Cheshire Street, E.2

 

1, Gilpin Grove,
Edmonton, N.18
Tottenham 3807.
(Mrs. Mosley)

Mayhew Hom Treninhar‘
Gardens, Ponsard Road,
N.W.10

 

 

 

 

 

Daily Monday to Thursday 9.30 a.m. to
8 p.m. ‘
, Friday, 9.30 a.m. 1 p.m.
! Saturday, 9.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m.
Daily Monday to Friday, 9.30 a.m.
to 7 p.m.
Saturday, 9.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m.
Daily Tuesday & Thursday, 6 p.m. to
8 p.m.
wMonday & Thursday, 6 p.m. to
8 p.m.
DT T Monday & Thursday, 5.30 to
(except Sunday) 8.30 p.m. .
6 to 8.30 p.m. Wednesday & Friday, 3 to
4.30 p.m.
Daily Tuesday & Thursday, 7 p.m. to

 

 

N
4, Grundy Stree i
Poplar. 5

’Phone East 5578 f

9 p.m.

 

Monday & Friday, 5 to 7 p.m.
Wednesday, 2 to 4 p.m.

 

 

 

 

The foregoing is in effect a skeleton of the various activities of
the R.‘S.P.C.A. Literature dealing very fully with any one department
mentioned can be obtained from 105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1.

The services of the Society are at the free disposal of the public.

 




 

 

 

LIST OF PUBLICATIONS ISSUED BY THE R.S.P.C.A.

These can be obtained from the Branch Hon. Secretary or direct from Headquarters.

 

 

 

No.
412 BIRDS. ——————-Feed1ng Birds in Winter
50A ,, To Lovers of Wild Birds ..
5013 ,, To those who keep Caged Birds
109 ,, On Keeping Fovsls .
82 ,, 1 Humane Killing of Poultry
104 ,, On Keeping Pigeons. Bv E. J. Hickson
31.2 ,, Offering Birds for Sale (Warning) .
320 ,, The Call of the Rook
321 ,, The Rook Problem .
402 ,, Hints on Keeping Fowls
405 ,, Cruelty to Birds (Warning)
406 ,, Freedom for Birds (Caged)
409 ,, A Few Words about Birds .
,, The Skylark and Stupidity Street
8 CATS ——————The Holiday Cat
110 ,, How to Treat Domestic Animals : Cats
A Few Words about Cats per doz.
108 CATTLE. On Keeping Goats . .
54A ,, Over-stocking of Cows
100 ,, On Keeping Calves
101 ,, On Keeping Cows
105 ,, On Keeping Pigs
106 ,, ' On Keeping Sheep
400 ,, Hints on Keeping Cows
403 ,, Hints on Keeping Pigs
404 ,, Hints on Keeping Sheep . ..
34 DOGS ~—Lead your Dog through the Busy Streets
111 ,, How to Treat Domestic Animals : Dogs
408 ,, The Chaining of Dogs
410 ,, A Few Words aboutc The House Dog
411 ,, The Yard Dog
304 ,, The best Chain and the best Kennel
102 DONKEYS. ———On Keeping Donkeys
401 ,, Hints on Keeping Donkeys .
13A HORSES. Non- Slip Pads for Horses ... . .
26 ,, The Horse Book: Simple Rules for Keepin‘ga aHorse each
310 ,, The Prayer of a Horse
308 ,, The Docking of Horses By Major R. S. Timniis, D. S. O.
95 ,, The Rational and Humane Shoeing of Horses
103 ,, On Keeping Horses
301 ,, Hame- Rein and Blinkers
407 ,, A Few Words to Horse- Drivers, Stablemen and Owners of Horses
Export of Horses, for Butchery: Various
7 MISCELLANEOUS. —Best Method of Killing Crabs and Lobsters Mercifully
305 ,, The R. S. P. CA. ——VVhat it is and what it does
15 ,, The Cruelties of Fashion each
16A ,, Decadent Sports ..
17A ,, The Common Seal
112 ,, Goldﬁsh.
303 ,, Injured Animals A few hints on ﬁrst aid
96 ,, Pet Shows. Hints on Organisation ..
97 ,, Stag Hunting: Various .
107 ,, On Keeping Tortoises.
315 ,, Cruelty to Animals and the Law ..
,, How to form Branches and Auxiliaries ..
,, Hints to Collectors . .. .
,, How to Organise the Collecting of Monev . .
307 ,, Collecting Boxes and Cards (a. help” to R. S. P. C. A. Workers)
,, Man versus Rabbit each
,, Our Pets .
” Pet or Prisoner
302 ,, A Brief Summary of the Society’s work
309 ,, A Talk on Playing the Game. By John Galsworthy
” Performing Animals: Various
306 ,, Days in the Life of an Inspector of the R. S. P.C. A.
,, The Humane Snare
,, Humane Slaughtering: Varidus .. .
3'11 ,, The Keeping of Aquaria, Vivaria and Small Zoos in Schools .
313 ,. What the R. S. P. C. A has done and is doing for the Army .
314 ,, Facts and Figures about the R. S. P. C. A. .
,, R. S P. C. A. Junior Division (How to form)
,, The R. S. P. C. A. and its Junior Division
316 ,, . Recommendations for the establishment and conduct of R. S. P. C. A.
Animal Clinics .
317 ,, Recommendations for the Conduct and Control of R. S P. C. A. Painless
Destruction Centres
502 Prayers for Animals

Price
Per 100

)
(gratis)
(gratis)
(5 ratis)

1 6
(gratis)
(gratis)

0

2
(grat'
3

3
( grati

(
(grati
3

£60:

A)
..{3
H3 93:18, O o

(grati
0

( gratis
(gratis
1

avv

(gratis)
(gratis)
(
(0

(gratis)
(gratis)
(gratis)
(gratis)
(gratis)
(gratis)
(gratiS)
(gratiS)
(gratis)
(gratis )
(gratis )
(gratis)
(gratis)

(gratis)

(gratiS)
(gratls)

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

' LIST OF PUBLICATIONS ISSUED BY THE R.S.P.C.A.——(00ntd.).

53A SERMONS.——— Kindness to Animals. By the Rev. 11 Graham Moeran (gratis)
500 ,, A Sunday School Lesson on Kindness to Animals .7 (gratis)
,, A Short Form of Serv1ce containing Hymns and Prayers each 0 l

501 A Sunday School Lesson on Kindness to Animals (Senior) (gratis)

Card 7' ms. x 5 ins. A Prayer for Animals and Birds .. ... ... each 0 1

The undermentioned pamphlets are also supplied printed 1n the Welsh language:

\‘0 6. Take off that Hame— Rein and Blinkers, please. ' No.59. How to Treat Domestic Animals, Horses.
,, 41. To Boys and Girls on Kindness to Animals. ,, 61. ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Sheep.
,, 92. Robbing the Birds. ,, 57. ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Pigs.

n 62 n n n n H calves-

 

CHILDREN’S PAMPHLETS

These pamphlets, issued by the R. S. P C A., are strongly recommended to Teachers

and others as supplying a long -felf want. They are written very simply, with a view

to capturing the interest of children and teaching them to be kind to animals. Specimens
may be had gratis on application.

No. 27. Rabbits 3s. 0d. per 100.
No. 202. To Boys and Girls on Kindness ls. 6d. per 100.
No. 207.111 Prison for Life: The Story of a Bird 3s. 0d. per 100.
No 300. Do not Rob the Birds gratis.
No. 7] About Saints and Animals for Children .. gratis.

Junior Division Talks

No. 1. Not Pets but Pals gratis.
No. 2. Imprisoned for life gratis.
No. 3. Chivalry gratis.
No. 4. Holidays gratis.
No. 5. R. S. P. C. A. Junior Division gratis.
No. 6. Bird Nesting gratis.
No. 7. Looking at Nature’s Children gratis.
No: 8: Choosing- a Dog gratis.

.—

 

The “ Small Lives ” Series. 4d. per dOZen.

No. 1. A Sleeping Beauty. No. 8. The Hedgehog.

No. 2. The Flower and the Bee. No. 9. Frogs and Insects.

No. 3. The Toad. No. 10. The Squirrel.

No. 200. The Barn Owl. No. 11. The Grass Snake

No. 5. The Mole. No. 12 Tiny Flying Machines (Insects)
No. 6. The Earthworm. No. 13. Guinea Pigs.

No. 201. The Farmer’s Friend (Birds). No. 14. The Ferret.

 

“ Our Four-Footed Friends ” Series. 4d. per doz., illustrated.

No. 1. The Cat. ' No. 3. The Cow. No. 5. Rabbits.
No. 204. The Dog. No. 4. The Horse. No. 6. TortoiSes.
Scroll. Things you can do for your Animals." Price 3d. each.

croll. The Animals’ Petition. Price 3d. each.
A New Animal Painting Book for Children. Price 6d.
A New Animal Painting Card for Children. Price 1d.

POSTERS FOR ADVERTISING MEETINGS, Etc.

Attractive coloured posters, with space for letterpress, in two sizes, viz., 20” by 15” and 30' by 20"

ANIMAL .WAYS

The Magazine of the Junior Division of the R S.P. C.A.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY, 15d. PER COPY ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION, 1/-

his Magazine, intended for members of the Junior Division of the R. C..,A is full
of bright and useful articles, stories, anecdotes, etc, calculated to give its readersP an interest in
and love of animals. Beautifully illustrated with photographs, it is a most attractive Magazine.

 

Send for a Gratis Specimen Copy.
PUBLISHED BY THE R.S.P.C.A., 105, JERMYN STREET, LONDON, s.w.1.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

R.S.P.C.A. _
DRINKING TROUGHS

SIZE :

8” Diam. at Top. 10” Diam. at Bottom.
Price 2s. 9d. Plus Carriage.
These Troughs are enamelled white with blue lettering.
Chain and Padlock 23. extra.

W) {a

Size 12 X6inches. Price 5s. Plus carriage.
v 14X6 a: as 63- a) :9

These Troughs are cast-iron, enamelled white With blue lettering.
Chain and Padlock 28.. extra.

(a m

R.S.P.C.A., 105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Issued by the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY T0 ANIMALS,
105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1.
5M/4/37.

 




