l
l

 

 

lead the cause of those dumb mouths
h.” —— Longfellow.

“We p

4“ASWeet- mercy is nobility’s true badge.”
that have no speeo

—— Shakespeare.

PUT YOURSELF IN HIS PLACE

Has the Golden Rule no right to govern us in our
treatment of the animal world?

Think what the animals in any zoo have to bear:

First they must suffer all the wretchedness of a long voyage, during
which all of them are terriﬁed, most of them are made ill, and many
die. They are brought to a strange climate, which causes the death
of many.

Then they are cooped up in prison, usually in solitary conﬁne-
ment, scantily fed, bereft of the natural joys of freedom, fresh air,
power to roam at will, and to mate. They are doomed to languish
in misery and despair till death comes to set them free.

Lions, tigers, bears, monkeys and other creatures who are forced
to perform ugly, foolish antics, are taught by starvation, drugs, Wire
whips, iron spikes, hot irons, and other barbarities.

If the public could but see what goes on in secret during the re—
hearsals, they would rise as one man to cry shame upon the horrible
performances.

But the people who earn money by these Vile means persuade
the audience that “all is done by kindness.” Nobody is allowed to
know what goes on behind the scenes. Good men, women and
Children! Do your best to stop these shameful cruelties to God’s
creatures!

Now and always we are opposed to catching, capturing, snaring
these free children of the wood and wild and shutting them up in
cages and pens to wear out their lives in what is nothing but a prison.
Oh, yes——many an inmate of a jail gets better food and clothes than he
had outside, perhaps is in far less danger of being maimed or killed
by automobiles or at some railroad crossing, but he wears the prisoner’s
garb and the stone wall and the iron bars are perpetually saying,
“Thus far shalt thou go and no farther.”

When wild animals injure or interfere with man they must be
killed, we have the right to do that—but mercifully. God never gave
us permission to torment, abuse, or torture them.

 

Published by the AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Avenue

Boston, Mass. Dr. Franc1s H. Rowley, President;_Guy Richardson, Secretary. -
Price 30 cents per hundred, postpaid. Taken 1n part from the Golden Rule series of leaﬂets.

 




