The Oﬂicial Journal of the League for 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports. Westminster,» S.W.l.
Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

'5

VOL. IX. No. I]. NOVEMBER, 1935. , . 2d. MONTHLY: 2/6 per annum

post free.

CONTENTS.

PAGE PAGE

VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR... 82 A SHOOT: THE IDLE RICH GUNMEN AT
~ WORK. BY (LG. 85
NATIONAL PETITION AGAINST MY BEST ANIMAL STORY. BY EBB. 86
BOOK-SHOOTING 84 DEBATE AT TAUNTON 87

Tﬁe Editor-accept: no respomz'éi/z'ty for opinions expressed in :igned dividers

.n-
1

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will corneiwhen
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sportwwith
the same wonder and ab‘horrence with which we now read of the__. bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of «the Roman amphitheatreft’.

 




 

CRUELi

S P O R T S November, 1935

 

Page Eighty~two

 

VIEWS AND

NEWS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

F gar-Hunting Season Re—opens

Cub-hunting now being over and the ‘young

, entry’ of hounds having been blooded through

the massacre of the weakest and most helpless
of the baby-cubs, the fox-hunting IVA-seas0n proper”
opens this month with meet-s of the elite 'all

over the. land. Otter-hunting is also over for

the time being and stag-hunting has had a break
for the rutting-‘season, but hare-hunting and
coursing, pheasant, partridge and other shootings
are in full swing. Thus is the lust for blood fed
and kept alive among our ‘gentle’ folks.

The editor will begrateful for press cuttings
and news items relating to any of these.‘sports’
so that our readers may be kept up to date with

the. facts of the situation.

Hounds at Lord Mayor’s Show

At the Lord Mayor’s Show in London on
November 9th, a pack of hounds is to take part
in the procession. This is an innovation in the
Metropolis against which we hope many of our
readers will protest, though it is part of a scheme
arranged by the Hunts generally to- organise
demonstrations of the kind at agricultural shows
all over the country. '

The new Lord Mayor of London, Sir Percy
Vincent; is reported to have stated that he was
anxious to emphasise the value of Agriculture.
-“ It would be better for the nation,” he said,
“ if we employed more men on the land and pro-
duced more foo-d at home.”

We would suggest to the Lord Mayor that that
is exactly the contention not only of humani-
tarians like ourselves but of probably ninety per
. cent. of farmers and poultry breeders who con-
demn fox-hunting from the economic food-pro-
ducing point of view.

The Secretary of the League is issuing a leaﬂet
”setting forth the factsin this connection and
Copies will be available for distribution at the
procession. All. who can help are invited to
write 't'qhim at once. =

The General Election

The General Election will have come and gone
before another issue of our Journal appears. We
therefore desire to suggest to our readers that

. 30th.

they should ask the candidates in their area
as to their attitude to ‘ Sport.’ This could be
done either in writing or at public meetings.
Perhaps the latter would be the better method
of approach as the subject would then be more
likely to get publicity in the local press.

Each person has his or her own particular
point of view, but a. question. along the following
lines would serve our purpose and elicituseful
information f“—- '

Are you in favour of stag and other forms of
hUnting, and, if not, will you, if returned to
Parliament, support any Bill brought in which
aims at making them illegal?

The editor will be glad to rece-iVe details of
any efforts by our readers.

The Animals’ Fair

As already announced the Annual Animals’
Fair in. London is being held at the Central
Hall, Westminster, on Saturday, November
It will be opened at noon, and will re-
main. open till 10 pm.

This is a unique opportunity for humanitarians
in London and out of it, to meet animal-workers
of all shades of opinion and we hope that our
friends will rally to the Fair and help to make it
a huge success.

Meantime, the Secretary of the League will
be very glad to receive gifts of money or of goods
suitable for sale at the 'Stall, and these should be

sent to 101, Chandos House, Westminster,
S.VV.1.
Rook Petition

On another page we’ print details of a Petition
against rook-shooting which it is desired to
present to Parliament. It has already been
signed by several thousand animal-lovers, but
very many more signatures are required if it is
to inﬂuence M.P.s as it should do.

Friends of the. rook who are willing to get the
Petition signed in their district are invited to
writ-e to- Mrs. T. S. Hawkins, The Old Cottage,
Woodley, Berks, who will supply them with
copies and all information.

Shooting Deer 0. Hunting Them

We heard much recently from hunting people
that the number of deer on Exmo-or could not
be lessened by shooting as this was too risky to
human beings wandering about and the deer

 

 

 

+1.93:— arr-4t

 

 

 




 

 

a»:

 

it

 

:« gaff.

November, 1935

were so timid no one could get near to them.
The humanest way to reduce their number was
to hunt them, we were told.

 

This, of course, is absurd, as we have re-
peatedly pointed out in these columns. We have
conﬁrmed our statements by referring to the
5,000 odd deer stalked and shot annually in
the Highlands of Scotland, also to the deer that
are rounded up and shot in the New Forest,
Windsor, Epping and other forests every year,
all of which are much more congested than
Exmoor

The falsity of the sports.’men s contention is
excellently exposed by a report in Horse and
Hound of October 4th of a stag-hunt on Exmoor
on September “263th, by “ Out-Over,” the ofﬁcial
reporter of the Devon and Somerset Staghounds.

“Hacking on to Dunk-ery Hill Gate,” writes

“Out-Over] “we met the harboure-d stags, seven

of them, standing actually in View of the meet.

They took llittl-e- notice of us, and when we got to

within twenty yards of them they trotted off.”

If it is possible to get, in this casual way, to
within twenty yards of the deer when out on the.
moors with the Hunt, it proves that it would be
a very easy matter for trained shots like game-
keepers to shoot any number when desired by
stalking them.

A nonymous Donation

The Hon. Treasurer desires to thank an anony-
mous donor (SW. postmark) for £1 received in
aid of the League.

The Tern ’
Over the bay the small yacht tacks;
Her white prow parts with a listing grace
The water where myriad golden points
Glint on its lightly rippled face.

Between the blue of the sea and sky,
Swift and free in the Summer light,
White-breasted tern, on their slender wings,
Move in a beautiful tireless ﬂight.

Is not this beauty enough, O man,
To ﬂood the heart as it ﬁlls the eye,
That in lust of killing you take a-gun .
And desire is bent where the blithe tern ﬂy?

Shots ring out, a moment more,
Fluttering, wounded, dying things
Out of the blue and golden air
Fall to the water on powerless wings.

What is retrieved? On the sunny deck
Dead birds lie—’Tis a bitter thought,
Though need or mercy may sanction death,
That man should slaughtqer and call it sport.

ELIZABETH F. ALDEN.

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Eighty—three
Our Christmas Cards

\Ve announced in our last number that our
Christmas Cards for 1985 were now ready, and
an. illustration of one of them—‘ Spring in
Arcady ’——appeared on page 75. Unfortunately,
the picture did not reproduce well so that we
desire again to emphasise its merit-s. It shows
a maiden in russetty ﬂimsies sitting on a grassy
bank holding up and admiring a rabbit which sits
complacently in her hands. A} red squirrel dis-
ports himself amongst primroses and bluebells,
whilst two foxes sit on one side [of her and a hare
squats on the other. A magpie and robin com-
plete what is a fascinating picture.

The other Card is entitled ‘Woodland Friends’
and is reproduced below. It shows a little girl
fondling a rabbit whilst a squirrel perkily perched
on a branch opposite gazes across evidently want-
ing to share her caress. Rooks, rabbits and
magpies hop around.

Both the cards are by Margaret W. Tarrant
and in colour, and are reproduced by the courtesy
of the Medici Co. The price is 3d. each or
2/10 per dozen post free, and as only a limited
number have been printed we would urge our
readers to send in their orders without delay.

 

 

WOODLAND FRIENDS.

 




 

Page Eighty—four C R U E L , S P O R T S November, i935

To the Honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland in Parliament assembled.

NATIONAL APPEAL AGAINST THE MASSACRE OF BABY ROOKS

 

 

PETITEON.

(1) WE, the undersigned, desire to bring to your notice the extensive and wanton de-
struction of helpless baby rocks throughout Britain during the nesting season. Many of these
nestlings fall back into the nest wounded, or are caught and ﬁxed in the fork of a branch: others
are left wounded on the ground, thus resulting in many cases in a cruel and lingering death.

(2) Respectfully we represent that such conduct constitutes gross and revolting cruelty,
and is contrary to the humane customs that exist in our country. It is also very demoralising
to the children who witness the inhuman massacre of nestlings in this way.

(3) We desire, further, to point out that such destruction of rocks and nestlings is against
the interest of agriculture, and is condemned by the results of recent research into this question.
This research shows beyond all doubt that the extent of injurious activities on the part of the
rock in any neighbourhood is, and must necessarily be, triﬂing, While the beneﬁcial activities of
the rook are incalculably great to the farmer and the forester, owing to the enormous destruction
of harmful insects. . ~

(4) We request, and call urgently upon Parliament to amend the Law, so as to ensure the
protection of these valuable birds during the nesting season, and Your Petitioners, in duty
bound, will ever humbly pray.

NAME. Mr. Mrs. Miss FULL POSTAL ADDRESS.

 

 

. f. INSTRUCTIONS. ~

Signatures must be in inkivno one under 18 years of age may sign, and no one may sign twice.

Petition forms may be “ailitained from and returned to T. S. Hawkins, Hon. Secretary,

N.C.A.W., Reading Branch, The Old Cottage, Woodley, Berks. Pamphlets may be obtained
on application.

 




 

 

ll
5

November, I 935

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Eigbjy~ﬁve

 

 

q,

THE IDLEeRICH G UNMEN A T WORK

An authentic account of a pheasant shoot by one who took part.

The scene is laid on a large South Country
estate owned by a wealthy landowner. It is a

.{ﬁne day with little wind and the November sun

.is struggling through the rising mist, lighting up
the autumn leaves to rich shades of yellow and
orange. From the woods and copses come faint
twitterings of tits, thrushes, and starlings and
bold robins can be seen hopping up and down
the dewy grass pausing now and then for bursts
of clear and joyous song.

Imagine that we are standing in a large ﬁeld
which is bordered on one side by a dense wood
and on another by a narrow lane. We suddenly
become aware of a low throbbing sound made
by a large car approaching from the Manor
House. The car stops at the side of the lane
and twelve men get out, six of whom are dressed
in plus—four suits, trilbys, coloured stockings and
shoes. They walk across our ﬁeld, leaving the
other men who are sensibly attired to follow
with, not only two guns each, but shooting sticks,
coats, bags and satchels. Four of the ﬁrst six
men happen to be peers of the realm, invited
by the “lord” of the Manor for a day’s pheasant
shooting. The others are, of course, the
“loaders” who act also as porters and valets.

The “lords” have now come abreast a number
of thin sticks on each of which there is a number.
These are the “stands” or positions from which
they are going to shoot and are arranged in a
semi-circle outside the wood. The distinguished
gentlemen are now taking up their positions and,
sitting on their shooting sticks, light pipes or
cigars, while their loaders hover at a respectful
distance in the rear. ‘

After about ten minutes there is a shrill whistle
from the other side of the wood, followed by
faint tappings. This means that the “beaters”
—a number of working men arrayed in white
coats with red collars—have started driving the
pheasants towards us. At ﬁrst there is no sign
of disturbance in the wood, but now that the
beaters are coming nearer a number of disturbed
jays are ﬂying into the air, chattering and
screaming. The “noblemen” stand erect and
are handed a gun each by their loaders and then
with set expressions on their faces, they wait.
There is a shout of “over” from the right ﬂank
and we look upwards to see a pheasant ﬂy out
of the wood just above a certain lord. He is
looking in every direction but the right one and
when at last, with the help of his loader, he does
see the bird, it is safely out of range.

The beaters must be really close now as their

 

cries of “ halloa there ” and their imitations of
the crowing sound made by the cock pheasant
can be clearly heard. We are gazing at the
ﬂocks of wild birds which are ﬂying from all
parts when there comes a loud whirring sound
and about thirty pheasants ﬂy low out of the
wood, directly in front of the guns. This effect
is obtained by a tape, consisting of strands of red
and white material, being worked up and down
inside the wood. When the pheasants come up
to this tape they dare not continue and as the
heaters are just behind them, they ﬂy upwards
and outwards into the desired position.

The Massacre

The “lords” start blazing away with their
double—barrel guns, changing and rechanging with
their loaders. Bang-bang, bang—bang-bang, and
dull thuds are heard as the pheasants who have
ﬂown so unsuspectingly out of the wood and who
for the last eight months have been so carefully
reared and fed, crash to the ground where they
lie ﬂuttering pitifully. These men shoot at very
close range and use 12. bore cartridges which
contain hundreds of small shot so that it is easy
for the inexpert to hit a bird so that it is only
wounded and may live in. pain for some days.
True, the retriever dogs seldom miss a nearby
bird, but it has been known for a pheasant to
have run or crawled several miles before it has
died of exhaustion. A frightened hare runs out
from the wood and seeing the men, darts side—
ways towards the cover of a broad hedgerow.
One man swings round and ﬁres, hitting the
hare’s back legs. The poor animal emit-s a ter—
rorised scream and dragging its wounded limbs,
tries desperately to reach cover. The man ﬁres
again, mercifully with good aim for this time
the hare ceases to struggle. The ﬁring con-
tinues at intervals until the beaters arrive at the
edge of the wood; they arehot and tired, their
faces bearing expressions of mingled boredom and
weariness. Their once white coats have now
become torn and soiled from forcing a passage
through the thick undergrowth.

The loaders are now busy picking up the dead
birds which bestrew the ﬁeld while, with the
help of their dogs, the keepers are searching in
the nearby cOpses and ditches for those birds
which fell further aﬁeld. A newly-painted game
cart comes rumbling up the lane and across the
ﬁeld towards the rapidly growing piles of
pheasants, rabbits and hares. A number of poles

(Continued on page 86, col. 2.)




 

Page Eighty—six

CRUELiSPORTS

s \l*i§

November, 1935 '

 

My Best Animal Storyi An Anthology*

This Antho-logy of 24 stories
known authors is extremely interesting as
showing the mental reaction of these minds
to the question of animal life both wild and
tame. And the impression left on the reader
is on the whole a sad one. Many years ago Dr.
Anna Kingsford, waging war against Vivisection
in Paris, wrote an earnest appeal to humanity
in a pamphlet called “ Roi ou Tyran?” a title
which should awaken many consciences. Are
we the kings or the tyrants of the sub—human
species? Let each one ask himself this question
honestly and fearlessly, and he may ﬁnd
himself somewhat startled by the answer.
There are people who maintain that all
creation moves in parallel and independent lines,
and that any attempt to merge those lines is an
infringement of the natural order. Any one of
these stories would supply the basis for this
widely debateable point. “Grey Fox Comes
Back ” deals especially with the problems which
are the chief concern of this journal. It contains
most beautiful descriptions of wild scenery and
wild life, and into it come the ﬁgures of a boy
intent to preserve and a deeper intent to destroy.
“Do seek their meat from God,” is another
story which gives two sides of a question. A
pair of panthers seeking food for their starving
cubs hear the cry of a lost child and start in
pursuit. The reader’s sympathies are naturally
with the child, but as the tale unfolds a great
pity for the savage family makes itself felt—the
writer has deﬁned the other side of the question
4—the child is saved and the cubs left to die of
starvation. One involuntarily recalls how many
a poor cat has been victimised because, following
her instinct, she has thieved to feed her young.
On the whole, in spite of some instances of
brutality, the writers of this anthology show a
just comprehension of the animals they describe.
This was only to be expected of Cherry Kearton,
whose mongoose bids fair to be a rival of Rudyard
Kipling’s immortal Rikki Tikki Tavi. We con-
clude with an extract from his introductory re-
marks: “ It takes two to make a friendship, just
as .much as a quarrel; and this is true of friend—
ships between men and animals as well as of
those between human beings. If you take the
trouble to understand an animal, you will ﬁnd

“that you are not only learning natural history,

- . but you are also achieving a wider understanding

’and a better state of feeling towards

life in
general; for is not understanding and love of
all your fellow-creatures the basis of Christianity,
of ethics, of all that makes life worth while?”

ERB.
* Faber and Faber, London, 7/6.

by well- ’

Cruelty to Captive Rabbits

A greyhound trainer, North Kensington, W.,
was ﬁned £10 and ﬁve guineas costs for causing
a captive rabbit to be worried by dogs.

For the R.S.P.C.A., Mr. Gordon Jones said
it was the practice of certain greyhound oWners,
who raced their animals after an artiﬁcial hare,
to accustom their dogs to the taste of blood.

On August 27 Inspector Banﬁeld saw White
the trainer, with ﬁve greyhounds in a ﬁeld at
Greenford, Middlesex. He disguised himself by
putting on a borrowed raincoat and kept
watch from behind a hedge. \Nhite tied up two
of the greyhounds and released the other three.
He then took a rabbit from a wicker basket and
put it on the ground. The three loose dogs
pounced on the rabbit. One of them tossed its
head and the inspector saw the live rabbit in
its mouth. The inspector took the rabbit from
the dog. He found its‘ﬂesh torn by the dogs’
teeth, and he killed it.

“Daily Herald, Sept 7th.

 

(Continued from page 85.)

are ﬁxed longways on the inside of the cart
on to which the carter hangs the bodies of the
dead game. “ Not bad,” the “noblemen” mur-
mur modestly to one another and then suggestive
of angling they‘go into long details of the bird
that ‘just got away’ or the one that ‘must be
down somewhere’.

The whole company is now moving away to-
wards another wood, where a similar mass-
murder takes place. From there we follow the
party to yet another wood which is so large that
it is split into three different shoots. And so
to a welcome lunch in a large barn.

After lunch the shooting continues, this time
the preserve is an area of heathland, the beaters
driving the birds before them- through the gorse
and bracken. Summer Time having come to an
end the day before, it is nearly sundown when
the day’s shooting draws to a close. After the
beaters have been paid and the keepers suitably
rewarded, everyone disperses and trudges off
towards their various destinations. A chilly
wind has sprung up which causes the workmen,
who are dreaming of a warm ﬁre and tea, to
shiver and turn up their coat collars. The
same chilly wind causes the “lords” to pull up
rugs and to wrap their coats around them as
they drive towards the Manor House. They too
are dreaming, perhaps, of a sumptuous dinner,
or turning over in their minds incidents of which
they will tell their wives and friends when they
recount their ‘hard day’s shooting.’ CG.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

November, I 935

DEBATE AT TAUNTON

A debate took place at the Taunton branch
of Toc H on September lllth, the motion being,
“ That Blood Sports should be Abolished.”
Mr. Farmer presided, and Mr. A. Denis Fry,
A.I.H., F.B.Econ.S., a schoolmaster, proposed
the motion seconded by Mr. Allan Davey,
the opposition being led by Mr. Norman Blake,
3. local farmer.

Mr. Fry said that since the passing of the
Reform Bill of 1832 there had been an increasing
tendency to bring old institutions and customs
under review. Now the critical faculty of think-
ing men and women had been turned upon blood
sports. His chief objection to them was that
they were cruel. He thought his listeners would
ﬁnd little difﬁculty in deciding whether or not
hunting a fox ﬁfteen or twenty miles only to
be torn to pieces at the end was cruel. Hunting
people told him that foxes escaped in nine cases
out of every ten After reading a picture of the
condition of the fox who escaped, taken from
a book by Mr. H. Mortimer Batten, the
naturalist, he went on to describe the cruelti-es
inevitable in stag-hunting. He then touched on
the economics of hunting. “You are spending
£5,000,000 a year on fox-hunting,” he said,
“and yet at the end of the year you have 14,000
foxes not accounted for. Foxeswere deliber-
ately preserved and fox—hunting would only be
effective economically if it destroyed all the
foxes.” Mr. Fry then gave instances of damage
to the poultry industry, to crops and fences, and
concluded by advocating the extermination of
foxes by shooting and the preservation of deer
in national deer preserves.

Mr. Davey described a scene he had
witnessed at the end of a stag-hunt, and said
that in view of such revolting cruelty he was
convinced that the use of the gun was preferable
to hunting.

Mr. Blake, for the opposition, said that he
was glad to hear the case for the “anti-hunters”
and very pleased indeed to know that it was so
weak. “ I agree,” he said, “ that from an
economic point of view fox-hunting is absurd.”
Mr. Fry had talked a lot about foxes being torn
to pieces, but he forgot that a fox, not being
able to reason, was not thinking all the time
about being torn to pieces at the end of the
chase. He had admitted, too, that in most cases
the fox got away. Mr. Blake thought that the
fox would much prefer being hunted with a nine
to one chance of escape than being exterrninated
by the humanitarians. The pitiable condition of
the fox who escapes, which Mr. Fry described,
it was impossible to verify. His opponents had
suggested shooting foxes. “ Do you mean to
tell me,” Mr. Blake demanded, “ that if three

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Eighty—seven

little fox—cubs were brought in a box into this
room, you could take a gun and in cold blood go
bang! bang! bang! and shoot them dead?” He
admitted there was cruelty in hunting, but how
about the far greater cruelty in slaughter houses?
The speaker felt that no sport gave him the
exhilaration he felt in hunting. Mr. Fry had
mentioned the drag-hunt, but he could assure
him it was tame because it took away the
element of risk and adventure.

A local member seconded, and conﬁned his
speech to two leaﬂets issued by the League.
One was written by a man who hunted for forty
years before discovering any cruelty in it, which
the speaker thought was a great argument in
favour of hunting. In the other leaﬂet it was
stated that nature was never cruel “for fun.”
.That was not true. How about the cat and the
mouse?

Several others then spoke, one declaring that
Mr. Fry’s statement that eggs could be pro-
duced more cheaply without fox-hunting was “an
absolute lie.” The proposer and opposer replied
on the debate, after which a vote was taken and
the motion carried by the casting vote of the
Chairman.

A Cowardly ‘Kill’ of a Fox Cub

“ A young fox was caught in the village of
Aldwincle by the \Voodland Pytchley Hounds
about nine o’clock on Monday, October 8, the
animal seeking refuge in an outhouse. The
hounds were hot on the trail towards the village,
and then scattered around the school playground
and through open gateways. Eventually they
found it in an outhouse of Mrs. Chandler’s, near
the Post Ofﬁce. The sub—postmaster, Mr. L.
Nicholson, Who saw the dogs at the kill, attracted
the huntsman’s attention, and the head and
brush were retrieved.”

Market Harborough Advertiser, Oct. 11.

Decoy Birds

Sin—Permit me to thank you for the very
ﬁne leader on cruelty to birds. It is refreshing
to ﬁnd a newspaper, especially one in a rural
district, speaking out against the abominable
practices in this matter of decoys and funnel
traps. ' '

E. S. NEWMAN.
Salisbury Times.

Bloodsports Not Cruel!
If wrong were right,
And width were height,
And dull were bright,
And day were night,
And darkness light,
Why then we might,
Share the blood-Sportsman’s blinded sight.
S. CLAUDE TICKELL.

 




__ Eage Eighty—eight

 

CRUEL SPORTS

November, I 935—.”

 

 

The League - For The Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

l0], Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l. Phone: Victoria 8496.

President—HAMILTON FYFE

LADY CLARE ANNESLEY.

SIR HERBERT BARKER.

MISS MARJORIE BOWEN, F.R.Soc.Lit. G,

ALD. M. CONWAY, J.P.
(Ex-Pres., Nat. Un. Tchers.).

CANON DONALDSON (Westminster).

. .. BRANCHES (Hon. Secretaries):

BRISTOL:"Mrs. Trewman, 9, Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol, 8.

HASTINGS: Mrs. Coleman, 11, Laton Road, Hastings.

LEEDS: Mrs. D. M. Beaumont, “The Valkyrie,” Allerton
Drive, East Keswick, Nr. Leeds.

SOUTHPORT: Miss M. A. Cummins, 46, Alma Road, Birk-
dale, Southport,

SOUTH-WESTERN: Mrs. Crosse, Rokeby, Pennsylvania,
Exeter. Mr. W. P. H. Warner, 73, Union Street,

Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALDSON.
Vice-Presidents—

P. GOOCH, D.Litt

GERALD GOULD, Esq.

DONALD MACLEOD, Esq.

(Ex-Mbr. Brit, Olympic 01.).

S cometary—4. C. SHARP.

E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq.
HENRY W, NEViNSON. Esq,
BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
EDEN PHILLPOTS, Esq.
PERCY A, SCHOLES, Esq.
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE,

WORKING GROUPS (Hon. Dist. Representatives):
BOLTON: Mrs. Margaret Tripp, Heaton Vicarage, Bolton.
GARLISLE: Mr. George T. Miller, 4, Cumwhinton Roaa,

Harraby, Carlisle.

COLOH ESTER: Mr. E. Womack. 138, North Station Road,

L'olchester.

HOVE: Miss M. M. Reynolds, 42, Osborn Villas, Hove, 3.
IPSWICH: Miss R. M. King. 45, Oxford Road, Ipswich.
NOTTINGHAM: Miss F. M. Roper, Belvoir Mount, Sneinton,

Torquay Nottingham

WHAT‘NTHE _ LEAQUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE, That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport———‘C pleasure ”1

IT CONDEMNS fox, deer, hate, and Otter-hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “ Blood Sports Condemned.” ) ‘

IT DEMANDS. the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting.”)

IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” Of children, and demands its cessation
leaﬂet “ Blooded.” ) .

AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application.
We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church Group, etc., if
out—of-pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also available.

 

( See

JOIN THE LEAGUE

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

I enclose herewith" ..............................................

State
whether
Mr., Mrs.,
or Miss.

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo ooeeoeo-oooooonoounooa...0.0.0.000...0000.00.00.
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 000.0000toucoooeoeooe-oeooooooeueoeeooeneoeeoeooeao

'5/— per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthl v. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members £5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L.i’.C.S., I01, Chandos House, Westminster, S.W.I.

FORM OF BEQUEST.

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :— . ' _
I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION or CRUEL Sponrs, London, the sum

of ............................ ”free of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be pazd to the

Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society.

By virtue of.the Act.of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and -Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two Witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other. . '

 

 

BEAUTIFUL BUTTERMERE.»National Trust’s supreme
Lakeland purchase. Victoria Golf Hotel modernised
and enlarged. Extensive woodland grounds. Bathing
pool. Many rare birds and plants. Photographers
paradise. ,

B RIG H TO N .._Ideal Boarding Establishment, pure
generous varied diet, Bedrooms h. and 0. water, gas
ﬁres. good garden, central, near Sea and Downs, inclu-
sive terms—Tariff: Mr. and Mrs. Massmgham, 16 and
17. Norfolk Terrace. “

WANTED, SJAMPISJ induse before 1880.———Sewe11. 51. q

r a e, on on. ,

LA‘Dgasitliaumanitarian) seeks post. Secretarial, HUMAN_E_FU,RI (fabric)._.104, George Street, W.1., Wel-
shorthand.—-D., 19, Compton Road, London, N1 beck 1207. . . _

Small prepaid advertisements are inserted at the rate of ltd. per word per insertion or 2/6d. per line for twelve--

insertions and they should be received at the oﬂice by the 15th of the month tor the followmg month s issue.

Lan-

typing,

 

ublished b the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OE CRUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster
P y S.W.1; and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS, LTD.-, Bond Gate, Nuneaton.

 




