_.. --._i ~.____-._.__‘. '— _, ._-_.__.._..N. WW

"‘27: um.

I“ .
i I" I"; m

ﬂag/$5315, '
’ 4%;

“0m Stupendous Whole”

By Robert H. Spurrier

All are but parts of one stupendous whole
Whose body Nature is and God the Sou1.—Pope.
N our own day the problems of animal life
and behaviour are engaging the close study
of scientists and the interest and consideration
of a widening circle of thoughtful people, and,
as the signiﬁcance of the emerging facts with
regard to the feelings, activities and intelligence
of the so-called lower animals is realised, the
conception of the common origin and kinship
of all life—human and sub—human—becomes
more and more widely accepted. The mechan-
istic theory, which will not allow that animals
are more than mere machines, has altogether
failed to provide any convincing or complete
explanation of animal behaviour, the key to
which may well be sought in the conception
put forward by the late Professor Sir Arthur
Thomson in these words:

“ These creatures are our distant kin, collaterals
on the tree of life. They share with us the mystery
of life and mind; they are products of the same
august will; they are sub—personalities claiming
kinship with us in endless delightful ways.”

The scientific basis of this solidarity of
human personality with animal sub—personality
has been given by Dr. Inge in his Conférrz'o
Fidez' as the discoveries associated with the

name of Charles Darwin. “ These discoveries,”
he points out, “have proved beyond a
shadow of doubt, that the so-called lower
animals are literally our distant cousins,” who
have as good a right on this planet as we have,
and are not made for our beneﬁt as we used to
suppose. Every intelligent person has some
knowledge of the discoveries on which Darwin
built up his theory of evolution, of the descent
of man, as he termed it, from animal ancestry.
Comparatively few people, however, have

- realised that his researches led him far in the

direction of recognition of the existence of a
kinship that extends beyond the region of the
physical and material into that realm of con-
sciousness to which emotion and reason
belong. He pointed out, for instance, that
“ the senses and intuitions, the various emotions
and faculties such as love, memory, attention,

curiosity, imitation, reason, etc., of which man
boasts, may be found in an 1nc1p1ent, or even

a

\

sometimes in a well—developed condition, in the ‘

lower animals.”

Since Darwin’s day science has gone much
farther in the direction of a recognition of this
kinship of consciousness, if one may thus
express it. Professor Arthur Thomson, for
instance, in his Gifford lectures on “ The

. ;_1!.'

AM

f

‘s .'

 

 

 




 

System of Animate Nature,” devoted a section
to the consideration of “ The Evolution of
Mind and Mind in Evolution.” In this he calls
attention to what he describes as the cumula—
tive evidence that in organisms also there is a
ﬂow of inner life—“a life of feeling, will and
thought, though it be but a slender rill as
compared with our full stream.” And, in his
summary to the same chapter, he speaks of the
growing evidence of a subjective aspect over
and above ordinary activities, and says:

“As we follow the main line of animal evolution
we see behaviour becoming more complicated and
masterly, -more like our own. There is evidence of
a rill of life growing into a stream, i.e., there is
much that we cannot describe in purely physiological
terms, there is an increasing difﬁculty in describing
what we see without using psychological terms.”

More recently another scientist, whose
activities in certain directions have aroused
strong opposition on the part of many friends
of animals—I refer to Dr. Serge Voronoff—
. has put the same aspect of animal evolution in
these words:

“As the brain slowly formed in ascending the
animal scale, so intelligence became increasingly
manifest. The instincts, that is, acquired reﬂexes,
undoubtedly continue to exert their inﬂuence even
in the higher animals, just as they govern our. own
habitual actions. But the moment new, unforeseen
circumstances arise which call for reﬂection, choice
and discrimination, intelligence is brought into play
and guides the animal’s actions, as we shall prove
with the aid of a number of examples. . . .”

“ Let us get rid of our prejudices and mistaken
ideas, which make us regard animals as stupid,
insensate creatures. They, too, think and judge,
suffer and love.”

The conception of a kinship of consciousness
is not new in our day and generation, indeed
it has been held from time immemorial and
taught by great philosophers and by spiritual
teachers of mankind. Confucius discoursed on
the indwelling of every living creature by the
divine intelligence and declared:

“ The mind of man and the mind of trees, birds
and beasts is just the one mind of heaven and earth,
only brighter or duller by reﬂection. As light looks
brighter when it} falls on a mirror than when it
falls on a dark surface, so divine reason is less
bright in cow or sheep than in man.”

Religion speaks in the language of Persian
mysticism, of the God Who “ sleeps inthe

,mineral, wakens in the vegetable, becomes I

conscious in theanimal and'self—conscious in

man ” and the Buddha spoke of “ all life as
linked and kin.” And is not the same great
truth implied in the sayings: “ Raise the stone
and there thou shalt ﬂnd Me: Cleave the wood
and I am there”? Professor Arthur Thomson
has put it in these words:

“ In the beginning was the Logos. implicit in
the nebula as now in the dewdi‘op. It slept through
the evolution of plants and coral—like animals, but
with dream smiles which are a joy for ever.. It
found more expression in the freely-movmg
animals, and became explicit at last in the reasoned
discourse of man. But it was present as part of
reality throughout the whole process of becoming.”
Another aspect of this unity of life is that

which is objectivised in the inter—relation of
lives significantly known to science as “the
web of life.” One organism gets linked on to
others and becomes dependent on them for the

continuance of its race.

In his great book entitled Tbe fling/e in
Sun/igbz‘ and Sbaa’ow, Mr. T. W”. Champion,
M.A. (Oxon.), F.Z.S., of the Imperial Forestry
Service of India, speaks of this inter-relation—
ship between animal and animal, or the
“ balance of Nature ” as it is termed by natural-
ists, as “ the guiding principle on which the
whole scheme of life is built up ” and as
“ the most marvellous organisation .it is
possible to imagine.”

“ Flowers and insects,” says Professor
Arthur Thomson, “are ﬁtted to one another .
as hand to glove. Cats have to do with the
plague in India as well as with the clover crop
at home. The young of the fish called the
bitterling are harboured within the fresh—
water mussel. Squirrels affect the cornfields
and water wagtails the sheepfolds.” And, he
points out: p g
' ‘“ When we learn something of the intricate
g1ve_and take, supply and demand, action and
reaction between plants and animals, betweep
ﬂowers and insects, between herbivores and carnl-
yores and between other conﬂicting yet correlating
interests, we begin to get a glimpse of a vast self—
regulating organism . . . the web seems to become
InCI'CaSirigly coherent, though man often rends the
fabric ruthlessly.”
One of the most arresting of these illustra-
tions is that cats have to do with the clover
crop. This was elucidated in the daily press a

few monthsago in the, story of an English




 

village in which cats found guilty of killing
poultry were destroyed. Result: a few summers
later the honey crop failed. Investigations
showed that the dearth of cats led to scarcity
of honey. How?

Cats don’t make honey. No, but cats eat ﬁeld—
mice. Fewer cats, more mice uneaten. Mice destroy
the nests of bumble bees. More mice, fewer bumble
bees. Bumble bees fertilise the clover crop by
searching for pollen. Fewer bumble bees, fewer

' clover ﬂowers and therefore less honey for the
honey bees to gather. In short, fewer cats, less honey.

Another illustration is afforded in the
plague of rabbits and rats by which we are
aﬂiicted. Writing on the subject of this plague
a few months ago, a correspondent of the
Spectator pointed out that by our ignorance
and stupid destruction of life we oftentimes tilt
the balance against ourselves, and continued:

“ One reason why we hear so much of the
menace of rats and rabbits and wage spasmodic
'war against them is that their natural enemies,
which might be our constant allies, have either been
exterminated or reduced to vanishing point by
keepers and farmers who, often with incomplete
knowledge of their feeding habits, call them
‘vermin’ and give no quarter.”

In his book, to which reference is made
above, Mr. T. W. Champion has much to say
of deep interest about the way in which the
balance of Nature is maintained, and in par—
ticular as to the part played in its maintenance
by such unpopular creatures as tigers, snakes
and scorpions. He points out, for instance,
that rats destroy enormous quantities of the
cereals which provide the chief food for man-
kind and other creatures, that they are far
more serious enemies than cobras, and that the
chief food of cobras is rats:

“ In other words, the cobra’s place in the balance
of nature is to act as a check on the undue increase
of rats, not necessarily so that man alone shall
beneﬁt, but because, in the general interest, the
{lumber of rats must be kept within bounds. True
1t 18 that this terrifying snake kills man as well, in
self-defence, but that is not his normal function and
prov1ded one keeps well out of his way it is posslble
to look upon even the dreaded cobra as a friend
of man.”

He applies the same argument to the scorpion
which preys upon certain types of insects
Whose numbers might otherwise become ex-
cessive. Times without number man has inter—

fered with the balance of nature with disastrous

results. The phenomenal increase of what is
known as the “insect pest ” which has
threatened (and still threatens) man’s food and
clothing supply, to such an extent that some
years ago a leading American scientist wrote
an article, to point out that, in his opinion, the
neXt great war would be waged between man
and the insect world and all the resources of
science would have to be mobilised for the
conﬂict. This condition may well have been
caused by man’s ruthless rending of the web
of life in his massacre of millions of the bird
population of the world to supply the plumage
markets. For the birds, along with many of
the fur—bearing animals, act as a check on the
undue increase of the insect population, and so
far back as 1927 it was stated in 7796 Far
Trader (a trade paper) that

“ The trade in skins will increase in volume
until the needs of man, coupled with the vanity of
women, have exhausted all the beasts upon the
earth’s surface.”

With reference to birds well might Ralph
Hodgson write:

I saw with open eyes
Singing birds sweet
Sold in the shops for
People to eat;
Sold in the shops of Stupidity Street.

I saw in a vision
The worm in the wheat
And in the shops nothing
For people to eat;
Nothing for sale in Stupidity Street.

Another way in which the balance of nature
is upset by man with disastrous results—in
Mr. Champion’s opinion, the commonest way
——is by the introduction of some animal into
a country to which it is an alien and in which
there may be no normal check to its increase.
He instances the introduction of rabbits into
Australia ‘,‘ where they have become an un-
mitigated nuisance ” as the classic example of
this. In this country two well-known examples
are afforded in the introduction of the grey
squirrel and the muskrat. ‘

Pursuing this principle it will be seen that
the breaking or disregard of the sacred chain
of life at one point leads to a whole series of
breakages or disturbances, and that man in his
ignorance and disregard of the; rights and

 




feelings of other sentient creatures, who
inhabit the earth with him and are his kin, is
himself the author of evils of which he com—

plains.

“ Let the principle once be grasped that man
is not an isolated struggling unit but part of the
great circle of life, inscparably connected from the
highest to the lowest, responsible for the guardian—
ship of that part of life within his power, then not
this or that particular reform but our whole rela—
tionship with animals is in question. Food, dress,
medicine, science, sport, amusement, all these and
our habits and customs concerning them must be
reconsidered in the light of the new principle. No
one change but a whole series of changes in the

life is then demanded.” (H. J. Stone).

In the light of this principle the slogan'

“ Cruelty to Animals is an Enemy to
Progress ” must surely commend itself as
something more than a pious sentiment.
Progress connotes growth in nobility of
character. Darwin described love for all
living creatures as the most noble attribute of
man, and cruelty to living creatures is incom—
patible with love for them. Cruelty arises from
selfishness, ignorance, suspicion and fear, and
is separative, disruptive, anti—social, whatever
its mode of expression may be and against
whomsoever it is directed, be it human person—
ality or animal sub—personality. It is as bad
for the cruel as for his victim, and those who
are seeking the welfare of animals are seeking
also the Welfare of man. The progress of

individuals, societies, communities, civilisation,—
depends upon the dissolution of the separative,
disruptive and anti—social tendencies through
the release of the creative impulses and without
this the fabric of society cannot be held
together. Progress goes hand in hand with an.
ever-widening conception and realisation of the
oneness of life. This is the lesson of history and
experience, and perhaps it is no mere coinci-
dence that the mighty civilisations of the past
began to decline when they could no longer
adapt their social order and institutions and
the habits, customs and practices of life to
express the new conceptions of kinship and-
freedom that were moving the world of their
day.

The widest conception of kinship that has
yet been known is moving in the world of our
day; the attitude of St. Francis who hailed even
the wolf as Brother is attaining scientific justi-
fication, but how few there are among us as
yet who realise that kindness to animals is not
enough, that justice to animals is a social
necessity, and that there must be understanding
of the life of animals and peace and righteous-
ness in our attitude and conduct towards these
other fellow creatures before we can enter into
that brave new world of our endeavours and
our dreams.

Vast chain of being which from God began
Natures ethereal, human, angel, man,

Beast, bird, fish, insect, what no eye can see,
rNo glass can reach; from inﬁnite to thee;

From thee to nothing.

Where, one step broken, the great scale’s destroy’d
From Nature’s chain whatever link you strike,
Tenth, or ten thousandth, breaks the chain alike.

Pope. 1

Published by National Council for Animals’ Welfare,—1-,—Fe&éherston&-Bui-ld-ings,_LQndnn-FM.QJ.

i W.P.L.-——7852—3-38

 




