'EPOUI LILC inﬁllv; “”1; :_,4 ,. ~ \ '1 '

’ é'ﬂlﬁ I 13 f ﬂag 3. iii/M” . .

3

Copy...

‘f‘. A 1-,

91% In

THE BALANCE OF NATURE

 

 

 

w 4/1 A question often asked at lectures on
Q\Tvc/Jﬂ ”1111/11 Animal Welfare is “ But what would
\gZ/ A happen if we stopped hunting wild
E/qus‘éy 3 ‘3/ , animals, or killing domestic animals
Lll film

\w
%\
A

for food ? Wouldn’t the world be
overrun with them, and human beings
‘ 1 be crowded out of existence '3 "
\

Those who ask this question over-'

, look the fact that animals have inhabited
the earth for long ages, both before
and during its occupation by Man,
and at no time has any one species
overrun the world and swept others
entirely out of existence. The control-
ling inﬂuence has not been the will
of Man, but factors more potent and
subtle, by which the state of comparative equilibrium which
we call “ the Balance of Nature" has been established

 

 

 

Some of these factors are easy to see or to trace ; for instance,
the geographical, geological and climatic conditions which are
suitable or unsuitable for different species, or which segregate
or encourage them to spread But a controlling factor of primary
importance is the competition between species for space in which
to live. Intimately associated with this, and of scarcely lesser
importance, is the factor of the food supply We have to face
the fact that many species of animals, including a considerable
proportion of human beings, are carnivorous and prey upon
others. They are not necessarily the most numerous , indeed,
from the nature of the case they are generally fewer in number
than the herb and grass eating animals, The usual way in which
the food factor operates is, that when there is a shortage, either
migration to another district takes place or, if that is difﬁcult
or impossible, the rate of breeding is reduced until the food
supply becomes sufﬁcient once more.

 

 




 

The Balance of Nature, thus established, has been very little
disturbed, except perhaps by occasional natural cataclysms,
until in comparatively recent years Man seriously began to meddle
with it. The main forms of Man’s interference have been of
tWo kinds, the partial or total elimination of species (which have
born a share in maintaining the balance) or the introduction of
species to districts where they are not indigenous.

It is important to notice that where in Nature one species
preys upon another, it does so of necessity in order to maintain
its own existence, and once its need has been met the species
upon which it preys is left to itself. So long as Man merely
hunted for his food—acting in this respect like any other carnivoraw—
he did little harm. It is when he uses his unequalled powers
of destruction to gratify his desires or whims, instead of only
to satisfy his physical needs, that serious damage results—a
damage not conﬁned to the species which he happens to be
exploiting.

For instance, in order that a man may enjoy the sport of shooting
and offer entertainment to his friends, he preserves game. This
preservation involves the destruction of hawks, owls, stoats,
weasels and other kinds of the lesser carnivores, which would
otherwise keep other species, and specially so-called “ vermin,"
in check. Stoats, for instance, are the main natural agents in
keeping the rabbit population in check, and owls and weasels
prey upon mice and rats. In Pembrokeshire, where there are
now no stoats (and virtually no foxes), the Rabbit plague is at its
worst. Again plagues of moths, caterpillars and other insects
have followed the destruction of birds, which from time to time
has been carried out on the plea that they are injurious to crops.

A second form of interference, namely the importation of
. species which are not indigenous to a country, may, unless
conditions are so adverse that they quickly die out, result in
a very rapid increase in their numbers, since in their new sur-
roundings they are no longer subjected to the natural checks
which surround them in the country to which they belong.

The importation of the blackberry into New Zealand and of
the rabbit into Australia are well-known instances of this pheno-
menon. In both cases the increase of the incomer has resulted
in great damage to agriculture and has cost an immense amount
in time and money to combat.

In this country the same process is now making itself felt
in the increase of the Grey Squirrel and the Musquash or Musk
Rat.




THE GREY SQUIRREL.

The introduction of the Grey
Squirrel appears to have been due to
a number of thoughtless but well-
’ , meaning lovers of nature who thought
it would make a pleasant addition
to our woodlands. At different times
since I879, grey squirrels, brought
from America, are known to have been
released in over thirty different districts
in England, Scotland and Wales, and
from these centres they have spread
and multiplied with increasing rapidity.
Individually they are interesting and
pleasant little creatures, friendly and
easily accustomed to human contacts,
but collectively their habits and choice
of food have made them a menace to
agriculture, forestry, gardens and bird life. They are known
to eat many different fruits, they attack growing wheat as well
as stored corn and many kinds of birds, eggs, and the shoots, buds
and bark of conifers and other trees. In addition they are said
to drive out the red squirrel, though the evidence on this count
is by no means conclusive. A National Campaign against them
was started in 1931, and has had the backing of the Ministry
of Agriculture. '

THE MUSK RAT.

The introduction of the Musk Rat has no such amiable cause.
Its coat, the fur generally described as Musquash, has long been
one of the staple products of the fur trade. Immense numbers are
caught in America, and the pelts are offered for sale at the London
fur auctions by hundreds of thousands at a time. The vast
majority of these are obtained by trapping, though in recent years
a certain number have been provided by Musquash ‘ farms.’ A
few years ago, an attempt was made to start Musquash farming in
this country—as silver fOX' farming had already been started.
Before long a number of Musk Rats succeeded in escaping in
different parts of the country and quickly began to multiply. They
breed from three to ﬁve times a year, the litters averaging from
six to eight. They infest streams, marshes and ponds, making their
homes by burrowing in the banks which, as well as the dams of
reservoirs, they thus often break down. They eat principally roots
and bulbs of water plants, but are fond of most vegetables and fruit.

’7 -"
.2 ‘
' .
' l
1/.-
. 1.
.' -/
l
I
.l
‘e‘
.9.
b-{w
& ." "
.' ’
‘ \

\‘éﬁ‘;

/\

\

4,6": . ’2'
r. .21.? -. ‘

 

 

 




.v‘f:~

i‘i

.4 if?
4?

.. ’7‘ , ‘41,, 3;; -
., . v ( , x}
.. , / ».

, “v l',’
.2233"

,;—:--’ a

In Central Europe, Where in 1905 a few pairs were released,

the Musquash was estimated to have reached at least; a hundrediggqg
million by 1930. An immense amount of damage-hastiligen T
done by them, and considerable sums are spent annually by

the German States in the endeavour to keep them in check.

The expense of the campaign in this country seems likely to be

as great—though the areas to be dealt with may be more conﬁned.
During the winter of 1932—33 it was reported from Shropshire

that the actual and estimated expenditure for thirty-one weeks

was nearly £4,000.

THE HUMANITARIAN VIEW-POINT.

To any lover of wild life, the war of extermination which is
enforced against such creatures as have been mentioned cannot
but be revolting. The methods of destruction, however humane
they may be planned to be—and in actual fact may be, so far
as those directly responsible to the authorities are concerned——
are likely to degenerate into extemporised and often brutal methods
of killing in the hands of the ill educated, and it is almost impossible
to keep a check upon them. Yet Government departments
responsible for the protection of agriculture and forestry cannot
ignore the evidence of damage presented to them, nor leave
the problem unattacked.

There is small consolation to be found in the thought that
the animals concerned in these circumstances are actually injurious
to man, for it is clearly man who is at fault, and they his innocent
victims. Nor is it much comfort to reﬂect on the admirable
opportunity thus given to point the moral that it is wisest as
well as best to meddle with Nature as little as may be.

 

Published by the National Council for Animals’ Welfare, W
H ' ,' ' .

\‘

 




