9,

HUMAN VIVISECTION.

 

 

FROM THE “DAILY CHRONlCLE ” TUESDAY MAY 15TH 1894.
7 7 7

THERE appear to be two sides to the question whether it is
justiﬁable to experiment on animals for the ultimate beneﬁt
of human beings; but I hardly think (writes a correspondent)
the keenest advocates of vivisection in the ordinary sense, at
any rate those who are not connected with the medical
profession, would justify experimenting on, often maiming,
and sometimes slaughtering human beings for the possible
ultimate beneﬁt of other human beings. Yet this is what the
writer maintains is being done almost daily in a dozen or
more institutions in England. From time to time during the
past ten years there have been threatenings of serious scandals
connected with hospitals, the alleged objects of which are the
cure of diseases of women, or the medical relief of women at
the time of childbirth. - Every woman who has, in the
capacity of nurse or midwife, worked in any of the majority
of these institutions, or in fact in any of most general
hospitals, and has not lost all her sense of womanliness,
not to say humanity, must have realised that some hospitals
exist as much in the interests of so-called science as
in those of philanthropy. The writer has for the past
ten years been devoting special attention to this subject
from the point of view of a layman, who, believing for many
years of his life that hospitals were founded and supported
for the beneﬁt of the patients, awoke to the conviction that he

- -4 ~~had been .mistakensaln allprobability had such-«ardi‘sclomire

as I am now going to make in these columns originated with

a layman almost the whole medical profession would have

risen as one man and shouted, “It’s a lie!” and whatever

proofs could have been adduced without seriously injuring.
institutions that are doing good as well as harm, would

perhaps not have one public verdict in the face of a general

denial emanating from the profession itself.

It is no exaggeration to say that the thanks of the whole
community are due to Dr. Louis Parkes, medical ofﬁcer of
health to one of the London vestries. This gentleman has,
perhaps unwittingly, fallen foul of the profession of which he
is a member. In a letter recently addressed by him to
the board of a certain hOSpital for women with reference
to the alleged inordinate number of fatal operations
in that hospital, he has drawn attention to the
fact that “ All deaths following immediately upon or shortly
after surgical operation, and certiﬁed by a registered
medical practitioner, are registered without further inquiry
and without reference to the coroner ; and,” he adds, “ the life
of apatient who dies from the consequences of surgical operation
is as much shortened as the life of a person who dies from the
effects near or remote, of an accident.” And here he comes
to the point. “ It would,” he says, “ be different, no doubt, if
surgical operations were always undertaken with a view to
saving life, but this is far from being the case, many operations
being of course undertaken to remove deformities or mitigate
pain and suffering in more or less chronic ailments.” No
doubt Dr. Parkes cannot go so far as to actually commit to
writing verbatim what the initiated read between the lines of
the last quotation. But the two words “ of course ” seem to be
qualiﬁed by his subsequent remark, “ No doubt the confidence
thus reposed in the medical profession is in the large majority
of cases fully warranted.” I propose to deal with the
minority.

To come to the point in plainer terms than those used by
Dr. Parkes : the medical profession is at the present moment

 

 

divided into two schools, which may be designated the old
school and the new school. The ﬁrst consists of thoroughly
practical men who have long passed the stage of the scientiﬁc
enthusiasm of youth, and who look upon their patients as
human beings, irrespective of class, to be cured with the
inﬂiction of a minimum of pain and as quickly as possible,
and who look upon the younger men who constitute the new
school as enthusiasts. The new school consists of the afore-
mentioned enthusiasts who have only just passed from the
stage at which young men go forth from the hospitals on
football or boat-race nights to parade the West-end in gangs,
knock foot—passengers off the pavement, and then in the
interests of what they call sport destroy the glasses of some
more or less innocent proprietor of a West—end drinking-bar;
and, having returned to their Bayswater or Bloomsbury
lodging in the early morning and tried to sleep off the effects
of bad whisky and worse cigars, go forth to gloat over men
older than themselves destroying human lives in the interests
of science. Those of the younger members of the profession,
those who hold hospital appointments, have not grown out of
the age at which they discuss the details of an operation
very much as they would the incidents of a football match.
Whatever may be their feelings towards patients later on,
they as a rule, and of course there are exceptions, look upon
a: .- ‘ “ca sex-91’- » for the ..:ﬁrst ten» .yearsefmtheir. .pumfessional ; career. ,
not as that of a human being who has come into a hospital to
be cured and sent home at the earliest possible moment, but
as a very interesting composition of ﬂesh, bones, and blood,
'from which some instruction is to be derived; some new
discovery made which will entitle the discoverer to read a
paper before a medical society or to write a letter to the
Lancet or the British Medical Journal, or, in particular happy
cases, to pen a pamphlet or book, and thus entitle him to one
or two additional lines added to the professional pedigree
that follows his name in the medical directory.

The temptations to operate upon women are great and
peculiar, and it is not to be wondered at that the ﬁrst note of
alarm has been sounded in connection with a hospital for
women. In the ﬁrst place, there is a great deal of mystery
about certain feminine ailments. Secondly, a woman is not

. likely to question what is being done so much as a man,

whose pluck and habit of reasoning are calculated to dis-
concert the indiscriminate operator. And lastly, the
profession of “ ladies’ doctor ” is known to be very lucrative,
thanks to tight-lacing and other acts of indiscretion on the
part of many women, and to the facility with which a more
or less hysterical woman may be induced to believe that her
ailments are ten times as serious as they really are. In
maternity cases there is more temptation to the student and
the young practitioner to use instruments on hospital
patients than can be imagined by the ordinary layman. In a
certain. proportion of cases in everyday midwifery practice
certain exceptional treatment has to be resorted to, and
it is for this treatment that the student is not una
naturally anxious to qualify himself, and frequently does
qualify himself at the expense of the hospital patient and of
the ”infant. Maternity hospitals at the present time may be
divided into two classes—«those that have as resident medical
superintendent a house surgeon, and those that have only a
thoroughly qualiﬁed, experienced, and intelligent principal
midwife, who is usually also thematron. In the former the

 




committee has no, what one may term, safety-valve between
themselves and the medical staff—that is to say, the philan-
thropic public who subscribe to the hospital and the patients
who are attended there have no protection from the young
school of medical practitioners. There is no intermediary
between the philanthropic public and the patient and the
scientiﬁc explorer armed to the teeth with knives and
forceps. Hospitals in the latter category have the
advantage of a woman in a position of authority, who, the
chances are, has not lost all womanly feeling, and might
be relied upon in extreme cases of unnecessary Opera-
tion by one of the visiting surgeons to make a representation
to the committee. During the past few months, at a certain
hospital for women in London, the matron, who has for many
years held a responsible post and had wide experience, was so
bold as to go to her committee over the heads Of the medical
staff and appeal to them to take certain steps for the beneﬁt
of the patients; steps which she considered necessary, in
order to avoid what she believed would be serious conse-
quences. The committee fortunately supported her, and gave
instructions, which they had every reason to believe by
subsequent events had not been given an hour too soon. The
urgent necessity for the step thus taken may or may not have
been a question of opinion, but in the ordinary course of
hospital practice it would have been taken as a matter of
precaution. A few weeks after this occurrence a mild form
Of round robin was addressed to the committee by the
medical ofﬁcers, at the instigation of the physician whose
opinion had differed from that of the matron, making
certain complaints as to the management of the patients
by the matron, and suggesting as a remedy that a
house surgeon should be appointed; an appointment that
would have superseded the matron, and in all probability
forced her to resign. The committee of management, being
a body Of intelligent gentlemen, disposed to treat hospitals as
such rather than as mere schools of instruction for medical
men, inquired into the matter and found that not a single
case Of negligence could be adduced against the matron; and,
so far, nothing has, I understand, been done to remove her
from her post or to introduce a house surgeon, who
would have necessarily, to speak plainly, played the
game Of members of his own profession under whom he
worked.

Two cases have recently been brought to my notice in which
preparations had been deﬁnitely made for a serious Opera-
tion on a woman in both of which nature stepped in,
deprived the doctors of their scientiﬁc treat, showed that the
contemplated operation need not have been performed, and
thus by a mere chance a human being was saved from what
would have been life-long injury, if not death. Such instances
offer a powerful argument for hospital committees keeping a
watchful eye on their medical staffs, particularly on the
number of operations performed and the rate of mortality.
They also Offer a strong argument in favour of the appoint-
ment of women as house physicians and house surgeons in
hospitals devoted to the cure of women’s diseases. It has
been said, I know, that women are more enthusiastic
operators than men, when once they have got over the ﬁrst
distaste for the scenes Of the operation-room, but I have
reason to believe that this character has been earned for the
sex by two or three individuals who, in their anxiety to cure
themselves of over-sensitiveness, unsexed themselves. There
is one very important point to which I would draw attention,
and that is the death~rate of children in maternity hospitals.

 

 

I have before me the report of one of these institutions, from
which I ﬁnd it quite casually stated that out of 468 children
born no less than thirty-two died. It would be interesting to
know how many of these thirty-two died from the effects of
operative interference, and how many of the Operation cases
which led to the death of the infants were performed by a
house surgeon of very limited experience and in search of
more.

I have only incidentally referred to the present position of
one hospital for women, the operations at which are now the
subject of a very searching inquiry by the authorities. There
may be new developments, for which I am on the watch. I_
have so far abstained from naming hospitals or individual
members Of the profession. I hope that the Daily Chronicle
may be spared the necessity of ventilating in detail such a
grave public scandal as that which not long since, through the
instrumentality of the Paris Figaro, was brought to light in
France. At present, all that is desired is that immediate
remedial measures should be adopted to prevent a recurrence
in the future Of the outrages Of the past.

The remedies that I have to propose for this great public
evil are—(1) That a committee of management of a hospital
should deem itself not merely a body whose duties begin and
end with the collection Of funds from the charitable, and the

' disbursement of those funds in the manner that seems best to

them, but as the guardians not only of public money, but of
the lives and bodies of the patients admitted to their wards ;
(2) that no serious operation should be performed without the
recommendation in writing of a surgeon of mature experience;
(3) that, as suggested by the medical ofﬁcer of health referred

~to, there should be an inquiry before a coroner into the

circumstances Of every death after an operation ; and (4) that
both the medical authorities and the Public Prosecutor should
be empowered to take steps against any member of the pro-
fession who might be found guilty of performing an un-
necessary operation, apart from the right that the violated
patient, or in case of death the relatives, might have of
recovering damages by civil action; and that this power
should be rigidly exercised. .

Apart from the danger of the hospitals in which indis-
criminate operations are performed, we have the greater
danger Of the private home in which physicians receive paying
patients; generally managed, not even by an ornamental
committee, and publishing no report. These are in some
instances kept by obstetric practitioners for the purpose of
operations, all of which may not be justiﬁable, and they
should all be licensed and under supervision.

All honour to the many medical men who realise the duties
of their profession and the real objects of hOSpitals! There
are, fortunately, many of them. But let us remember that
there are very few hospital appointments that are not very
lucrative directly and indirectly to their holders. It is not
philanthropy only, if at all, that induces many physicians and
surgeons to accept such appointments and retain them so long
as they possibly can. Apart from the lecture fees which are
attached to many of these posts, there are the invaluable
experience and the advertisement to be considered. A hospital
physician or surgeon, at any rate in all but small country
hOSpitals, is simply a public servant who receives much more
than he gives. We shall never have our hospitals thoroughly
entitled to public conﬁdence until the Older members of the
medical profession openly take up arms against the younger
members, who are converting houses of charity into butchers’
shops.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL

ASSOCIATION FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION or VIVISECTION, 20, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W.

5.94.

 




