 

EARLY LESSONS IN KINDNESS OR CRUELTY

“ HOUGHTLESS and unfeeling conduct,” says Mrs. Mary F. Lovell, “which

rapidly develops into downright cruelty, is exercised ﬁrst and most largely
toward the brute creation, because of its helplessness and the larger opportunity.
It may begin very early. An innocent baby will, in his exuberant happiness,
squeeze a poor kitten nearly to death, and try to put his ﬁngers into its eyes; but
the baby’s innocence is no reason for allowing him a pastime which gives pain to
a living creature. The kitten has rights which even a baby can be taught to re-
spect; and the baby has the right to an early training which will make him, by
and by, a benevolent and humane member of society, and not a selﬁsh and
thoughtless one.”

From the societies for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children we can learn
how often little children are cruelly treated by those who ought to protect them.
It is but a natural sequence. When the father was a baby he tormented the
kitten; as boy he abused the dog; as larger boy he bullied the smaller one, and
as husband and father he tyrannizes over wife and children. He has never learned
to control his temper; he has never known what it was to protect the weak; he
has never learned to regard the feelings of others—what can you expect of him
now? The child’s sense of justice is keen, and he knows when he is punished
simply because father or mother is in a temper and must vent it upon something.

1

 




 

Is it any wonder, then, that the child grows surly and resentful; that he learns
readily to deceive, and that the life of the father is repeated over again in the
child?

Baby’s Earliest Lessons

Baby stretches out his little hand for the ﬂy buzzing on the window-pane,
and laughs and crows with delight as he crushes it in his tiny ﬁst. These ﬁrst
destructive instincts should be checked then and there. If baby is old enough
to have those instincts developed, he is old enough to be restrained from them.

Another writer says: “I know of a baby fourteen months old who has been
taught not to touch ﬂowers, but only to smell them; and not to touch the cat,
although he is perfectly delighted with her. After a while, when he is old enough
to understand, he will be allowed to touch her very gently; and he will be much
more likely to always treat animals kindly and gently than if he had been allowed
to handle the cat or other pets as he would a toy that squeaked when it was

' )3
mehed' Toys Are Teachers

Many a mother gives all unconsciously to her child his ﬁrst lesson in cruelty.
Baby is seated upon the rocking—horse, a whip placed in his little hands, and he
is told, “Now, whip the old horse and make him go.” Katie is teasing the cat and
making her cry, and the mother says, “Don’t pull the pussy, she will scratch you.”
Tommy is pinching the dog to see him squirm, and she says, “Don’t hurt Rover,
Tommy, he might bite you.” Oh, mother, do you realize that you are teaching
your child that there is no harm in inﬂicting suffering upon anything provided he
is not himself hurt by it? Johnny starts to run across the room, trips over a chair
and bumps his nose on the ﬂoor. Johnny cries and his mother says, “Naughty
chair, to make Johnny hurt himself; beat the old chair,” and she immediately
proceeds to administer condign punishment to the unoffending chair. She is
teaching the child that instead of controlling his temper, he must give full vent to
it, and that if he is hurt, instead of bearing it with fortitude, he must revenge
himself upon something, whether innocent or guilty. What will be the result of
such a training? . . .

Most children do not mean to be unkind to their pets; it is thoughtless igno-
rance that makes them treat them as they do. . . . The rubber toy dog squeals
when it is squeezed, so why should not the kitten do the same? The child makes
no distinction between them, because the mother has never taught him that the
dumb creatures suffer, and has never brought home to him the thought: “How
would you like to have some one do that to you?”

No Whips, Guns nor Swords

Do not place in the hands of your child such toys as Whips, guns, and swords,
but teach him rather that needless wars and cruelty are crimes. Teach him to
ﬁnd delight in studying the birds with an Opera—glass instead of shooting them,
and to take pleasure in feeding them rather than in robbing their nests. There is
no surer way to teach a child to be unselﬁsh and thoughtful for others than to make
him considerate of the feelings of his pets; yet this fact often seems to be utterly
lost sight of in the training of many children.

2

its“???
565757.. M; C .‘IcﬁpmAN
Jim iii if]




 

Parent Strikes Child, Child Strikes Smaller Brother or Sister

The following incident which took place on a railway train illustrates another
way in which some mothers unconsciously give to their children lessons which
will develop results they little dream of. The gentleman who told the story said
that it reminded him forcibly of what we are all too apt to forget—that our chil—
dren do as we do, rather than as we tell them. He said: “On the two seats in front
of me sat a mother andthree children, aged about three, ﬁve and eight years. They
had evidently been traveling a long distance and were thoroughly tired out. The
oldest, a boy, was twisting about in his seat after his mother (evidently anxious
that he should behave well) had told him to sit still. Out of patience, she hit him
a sharp blow on the leg, which made him cry a little, after which he sat with a
sullen look on his face, evidently feeling the injustice of his punishment. In a
few moments his little brother did something that diSpleased him and he imme- .
diately gave him a slap in perfect imitation of what had been done to him. This
action received a very slight reproof. I felt strongly tempted to talk pleasantly
with the mother and try to show her the inevitable result of such treatment. I
have been very sorry ever since that I did not, for I believe that every mother really
wishes to do the best that can be done for her children.”

The Tender-hearted Are Strong

We must give more attention to developing tenderness of heart, since we
all know that the strongest, noblest man is he who unites 'with that strength ten-
derness and pity for the weak things of earth. Teach the child to be brave and
strong, for to protect the weak and helpless often requires great moral courage.
Teach him that it is cowardly to abuse any being weaker than himself, and that
he must respect the rights of every creature. Teach him never to ﬁnd his pleasure
at the expense of another’s pain and to love and protect whatever is dependent
upon him. Think you that a child so nurtured could deal harshly with wife and
children when grown to man’s estate, or Spend his earnings in the bar-room when
his family were suffering for food? Show the children what an immense amount
of happiness they gain for themselves in the love and devotion won from their
four-footed friends, and open out before them an endless ﬁeld of interest in the study
of the wonders of the animal creation. Teach them that dumb creaturesfeel and
suffer; that they have intelligence, that they have hearts full of faithful affection»
for us, if we are only willing to receive it.

0 loving mother, put your child into the arms of Old Mother Nature and let
her ﬁll his heart with pure and innocent and holy thoughts! Teach the little
one to love the woods and the ﬁelds, the ﬂowers and the birds, and to call his horse
and his dog his friends, and you have added to his capacity for happiness a thousand
fold. Give him a glimpse of the wonders to be seen in the study of the animal
creation, and you have opened out before him a ﬁeld of interest and pleasure which
a lifetime cannot exhaust. There is no surer safeguard you can give your boy
than to send him into the world with this love of Nature ﬁlling his heart. He has
learned to “look through Nature up to Nature’s God,” and to know the, Creator,
not as an abstract being, but as a living, breathing Presence. The man whose

3

 




 

heart has been thus kept pure and tender, whose soul is ﬁlled with divine love and I
compassion for the suffering dumb creatures whom he calls his friends, can never
become hardened in sin; it would be a moral impossibility—Adapted from “T he-
Mother’s Nursery Guide.” 1
Quick to Learn

A pugnacious little boy, not yet three years old, was reproved by his mother
for some fault, and at last, as he continued to disobey her, was soundly punished.
A few minutes later the child was seen beating his pet dog in a similar manner,
just for amusement. He had felt the strong hand of might, not of love, controlling
him, and exercised the same power over his inferior as soon as he had an oppor-
tunity. He is in excellent training to become a tyrant in the future—The Laws

of Life.
Which is the Better Way?

How many of us, when we come into collision with another, think that he also
may be hurt? A little boy bumped his head against the wall, and ran to his mother
crying to be kissed. She said: “What a bad wall to hurt poor Willie! Go hit the
wall!” Another day he bumped his head against a little playmate, and at once
struck him to punish the injury.

Another child, with a wiser mother, had been better taught, and when he
fell against his little playmate, and they both got hurt, he said: “Kiss Harry, too.” ’
“Thich is the better way, and which “child will be more likely to grow up kind and
considerate in all the relations of life?

Corporal Punishment

The faults of little children which the parent seeks to correct with corporal
punishment are largely the result of ignorance, accident, or the wrong point of
View of the parent.

Corporal punishment by teachers is far less frequent than formerly, though
many parents still claim they have the right to inﬂict it upon their own children.
Slowly the race advances to higher standards both for parents and teachers.

Thoughtful persons trace a relation through the following series, viz.: slap-
ping thehands of babies; Spanking children; whipping large children (the strong
taking advantage of the weak); disregard of the rights of others in the family,
in business, in society; in ﬂogging, in capital punishment, in ﬁghting on the battle-
ﬁeld. Shall we plant the seeds of kindness, or of cruelty? As we sow, so shall
we reap.

 

James Eddy said, “Kind and loving parents are the agents and representa-
tives of our Divine Father.” It is through the parents that the ﬁrst idea of religion
dawns within the child’s mind. When the baby who has learned to have love and
conﬁdence in the mother through whom he has drawn his life ﬁrst sees her hand
lifted to hurt him, moral and Spiritual injury must result.

 

Published by THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Mass. Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson, Secretary.

Price, 5 cents per dozen, or 40 cents per hundred, postpaid.

4

 




