oz'V

, -.=,'YT'T . . . - .5
~ - gram. c: a

4" ' .‘r v- 3":4 .V‘T -
g 4. , (2., Tanis’r' ../‘-"/'
“‘x. 15- - é. "Hi ‘ v " ' ~
3 _ . ~‘ 7:7: J ‘i #1 I
,. my.»
' ,. ‘3‘” 13.23;:

THE PASTEUR INSTITUTE

AN ENGLISHMAN’S PERSONAL EXPERIENCE.

 

 

Reprinted from the Echo (London), August 1, 1894.

 

AT ten o’clock on the morning of July the 14th, carrying an
introduction from an English Member of Parliament, I stood
outside the famous 25 Rue Dutot, Paris. The building stands in
its own grounds, which are exceedingly well kept, and at ﬁrst
sight there is nothing to indicate the character of the place, ex-
cept that running along the front of the building, immediately
over the ﬁrst story, can be read in large stone letters the words
“ Institut Pasteur.” We are politely informed that the 14th
being a National Fete day no inoculations will take place, and
the next day being Sunday no patients are treated then, but if I
will come on Monday morning I shall be shown round.

On Monday, July the 16th, I was taken direct to the spacious
room assigned to those waiting their daily inoculations; some
forty persons were already there, and these quickly increased
until there could not have been less than a hundred present;
several nationalities and nearly all ages were represented.

Whilst engaged in conversation with a case from Ireland, I
; was suddenly summoned by the attendant, as the inoculations.
for the day were about to commence. I was shown to a seat:
behind the operators; some 70 to 80 inoculations of men, women.
and children were performed in about 30 or 40 minutes. Pres~
ently a door was thrown open and in walked Dr. Roux, who, by'
the way, is Pasteur’s son-in-law, and holds the very lucrative
position of Director of the Institute under him; he was to cone».
duct us over the building.

A GRUESOME SIGHT.

In several of the rooms were lying about the dissected bodies:
of the animals, and also numbers of them still living, Who would
be the next subjects for examination, and who were then only

 

 

 

 

 

 




    

  

waiting the ﬁnal completion of the slow process of poisoning to
bring about their lingering and cruel deaths. At the sight of
these animals the two ladies who formed part of the company
being conducted by Dr. Roux, shrank back with horror de-
picted upon their faces. “ But where, Doctor,” said my inter-
preter, at my request, “ are the pens where the larger stocks of
animals are kept? Monsieur wishes to see them.” But Dr.
Roux was obdurate in refusiug to show them, as I think, be-
cause of the expression of tenderness on the part of the ladies,
but these pens were what I most desired to see. I had read de-
scriptions of the laboratories, and followed closely the system
through its many stages. “ Interpreter, please inquire at the
lodge and see if I can come early in the morning to see round
the pens,” said I, and so the following morning for the third
time I stand at Pasteur’s great gate behind which exists that

MIGHTY LIVING TOMB

of so many sentient creatures. I am shown a side path, and the
attendant unlocks a gate, which I notice is carefully fastened
again behind us, running along the length of the grounds. On
our right hand are a dozen houses, which might easily be mis—
taken for stables; these are opened and I enter. They are
crowded with cages, baskets, &c., Which contain animals in dif-
ferent stages of inoculation; these are removed day by day, as
the various viruses develop, until they reach the ﬁnal stage,
which to many of them will be a slow process of “rotting to
death.” There are hundreds of rabbits, ducks, guinea pigs,
fowls, rats, mice, &c. Some of these have young developing
disease in them. We enter a very high iron building. I walk
up and down it, for it is divided into sections, many of which
contain a dog whose barking is terrible to hear. I do not rec-
ognize in these furious, desperate creatures man’s faithful friend.
I count twenty—two of them. They are, indeed, appalling to
see. Many valuable breeds are amongst them. One poor
wretch has torn and scarred his nose and face in vain attempts
to tear away the iron network that exists between him and those
who look upon him. He will most likely die soon, die “driven
mad.”

‘ Leaving the dogs, we turn to the left of the grounds, and
enter a long room. Here I am

 

AMAZED AT THE NUMBER OF ANIMALS

kept; there could not have been much less than a thousand,
whole cages of rabbits, which I read from a label had been inoc-

 




    

  

ulated with “cholera virus,” and bearing the name of Dr.
Metchnikoff. I see the rabbits paralyzed in their hind-quarters
so that they cannot move, and they look up to you through
glazed eyes—a picture of helpless suffering. Fowls lie slowly
dying oftuberculosis. I saw hundreds of eyes red with inﬂam-
mation, the result of inoculation in their sensitive organs of
sight. I count thirty bodies thrown out into different corners
of the room, evidently of those whose long sufferings have
ceased in the previous night. I walk across the grounds, and
stop before a large stove-like object in a corner; it is the cre-
matorium which Pasteur has had erected to burn the bodies of
his diseased Victims of this much-disputed scientiﬁc system. As
I hold my nostrils against the most unwholesome stench that
ever assailed the sense of man—I count ﬁfty animals awaiting
fuel. The busy ﬂies are there, as previous Visitors have de-
scribed, and it seems quite possible for them to carry on their
feet and wings the germs of disease, to the danger of the com—
munity outside the Institute.

AT THE PARIS SCHOOL OF MEDICINE.

After leaving the Pasteur Institute I was fortunate to obtain a
card of admission to the Paris School of Medicine, where dogs
and monkeys are vivisected by the hundred, and every diabol-
ical cruelty inﬂicted without the need of license. The building
is very large, and as I stood in the courtyard I could hear the
barking of dogs kept for the immediate use of the students and
the working physiologists. I am anxious to visit Professor
R ’s laboratory, and so, pushing open a door, I ﬁnd myself
in a large room ﬁlled with the apparatus of torture. An atten-
dant explains to me that there will be no demonstrations by
Professor R , who is, indeed, out of Paris till November.
But what, then, mean those dogs about the premises? I had
counted thirty. Monkeys, ten in number, were gibbering from
their cages, frogs—“ God’s gifts to the physiologist,” as one of
them claimed them to be—were there in scores, and three
ducks were waddling about in a water vessel that stood four
feet high from the ground. These few animals were for the
more industrious students who did not go in for recreation,
whether of an innocent character or not, but who rather chose
to stay and hack away at these living creatures.

I was too late that day to see any experiment. . . . .
But I saw one of the many vivisecting tables still dripping with
the blood of its day’s victim. I must leave the place with its
terrible associations of suffering.

 

 

 




WHAT HAPPENED TO A DOG.

As I go out of the courtyard at the other angle to which I
had entered, I hear the sound of a howling dog coming from a
room over whose door I read, "' Dz’mcz‘eur (Z65 frat/aux d6 Physi-
ologz'e.” I entered. The dog, a large Newfoundland, is already
bound securely to the table by strong cords to each of his legs ;
he struggles Violently, and shakes and rocks the heavy table, but
to no purpose, he cannot escape. At his side one of the pro~
fessors is injecting chloral, which is no true anasthetic. Pres-
ently a knife is taken, the skin of the animal is cut open
between the ears, the ﬂesh is cut carefully open down to the
skull, but what is that curious instrument in the assistant’s
hands? He heats it at a gas jet, and a current is set in motion
that produces a red heat at the top, and with this he sears the
ﬂesh of the mutilated animal ; the electric cautery thus prevents
the poor lacerated creature from mercifully bleeding to death.
I had never expected to smell the burning ﬂesh of a living ani-
mal, and it came tome that day as a terribly new experience.
A brass plate was screwed upon the skull of the animal, and a
hole was made through to the brain with a circular saw, and
into this hole was poured an electric current from a battery on
the other table; look to it, or the dog, a very powerful one,
will escape, all bleeding and torn as he is. With the plunging
of the animal the whole arrangement of screws, &c., becomes
unfastened ,' two men hold him, and they ﬁt the plate again and
turn more Currents of electricity into that brain. \Vill he never
die? I think to myself; and my impulse is to end its misery
with my pocket—knife; but no, that will not do, and so I watch
for more than two hours these infamies perpetrated in the name
of Science. I never could have believed had I not heard that
it was possible for any animal to express human anguish as that
one did through that time of torture. That dog groaned as I
should have groaned; the thing is simply indescribable. I Wish
those groans could be heard for ﬁve minutes by every English
man and woman; if so, vivisection would be prohibited by the
consensus of our common humanity, and so, sick and horriﬁed.
I left the place, the victim still in the hands of his merciless tor-
turers.

T. A. -.VVILP, IAMs.

:2: {ii

48, Martin-st, St. Paul’s, Bristol,July 28.

r .. ar . r
. ’. . ' at
"4' .- K
r » .
a: . a.
. , “x
z. ' "v .
,;.. ; ' .~ LL
«gr-f -...' »_./ «
I t
. 1
v

 




