The Ofﬁcial Journal of the League for 101,'Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, Westminster, S,W,1,

Phone .- VICTonIA 8496.

VOL. VIII. NO. I JANUARY, 1934. 2d. MONTHLigszt/gseer annum.

 

 

CONTENTS.

PAGE
VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR 2 SHEFFIELD IN THE LIMELIGHT

LIVELY SCENES AT READING MEETING.'.. 3 JUNIOR BRANCHES

Tﬂe Editor accepts 720 reypemz'éz'lz'ty for opirziom expressed 2'72 yz'gvzea’ Wife/ex.

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 




 

' Page Two

CRUEL SPORTS

January, l 934 /

VIEWS AND NEWS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

A Happy New Year.

Our ﬁrst duty this month is to wish all our
friends A Happy New Year, and, in the thought
of Browning, may it be “ The Best Ever.”

1933.

Looking over 1933 we are satisﬁed that very
real and substantial progress has been made. We
may not have been able to do all we should have
liked, but we have made increasingly serious in—
roads in the citadel of the “ enemy ” and can see
it crumbling in many directions. Public opinion,
too, is more and more on our side, the best
evidence of this probably being the withdrawal,
under the pressure of our members and the Press,
of the fox—hunting and badger—digging broadcasts
which the BBC. had announced in October.

1934.

As to the future, though this is in the lap of
the gods, it is radiant with hope.

One thing we should like to see taken up this
year is our question in Parliament. The R.S.P.C.A.
is supposed to have had the two deer-hunting Bills
before Parliament in hand, but we have heard
nothing of them for about two years.

We know it is difﬁcult to get anything practical
done with these Bills in the present Parliament,
packed as it is with pro-hunting members, but we
also know that we shall never get anything done
unless we try, and try very hard. We hope,
therefore, that we will arrange for some Member
of the House to take up the matter from our own
point of View and so keep it well ventilated among
the members. Where a member is hostile we can
always expose him in the Press in his constitu—
ency where we shall ﬁnd the bulk of the voters
are on our side.

Our New Dress.

We hope our friends will like our little paper in
its new cover and new form. It may not please
everyone, but it is a step in the right direction
and indicates progress. We should much like to
have been able to raise the number of pages from
twelve to sixteen, or even more, but ﬁnancial difﬁ—
culties stand in the way. Perhaps we shall be able
to do this soon; meantime, let us concentrate on
ﬁrst things ﬁrst, i.e., in getting the paper across
to the public—for that is what matters. Five
thousand copies in a modest dress will do us more
good than 3,000 or 4,000 in a fancy dress, for
every paper is a missionary for our cause and
strikes sparks wherever it is read.

Bound Volumes.

_Copies of bound volumes of CRUEL SPORTS,
With Index, for 1933, are now ready and can be

‘ Treasurer, the anonymous supporter who recently

obtained from the secretary, price 3s., post free.
The Index can be obtained separately, price 2d.
As only a limited number of copies of the journal
are bound early application for them is necessary.

We have still a few copies of the bound volumes
annually from I927 onwards, and these can also
be had for 3s. each, post free.

After the Fair.

The Animals’ F air, held on December 2nd, was
a distinct success and yielded a nice little sum to
our funds besides leading to many inquiries about
our work. Unfortunately, several of the gifts were
unsold, including some of the books presented
by the President, as follows: “ Over the Sea to
Skye,” “ Behold the Hebrides,” and “ Wild
Drumalblain.” All these books are excellent
reading and racily descriptive of life in the High-
lands of Scotland, and make splendid gift books.
Copies, autographed, 55. each, post free.

Hare—Hunting Leaﬂet.

A new illustrated leaﬂet has been prepared by
the secretary, and copies can be obtained —21~d. each,
or forty a shilling, post free. This is the season
for distributing a leaﬂet of the kind, and we hope
many of our readers will buy copies and distri—
bute them wherever there is a Beagling or Harrier
Hunt in their district.

Callous Boasting.

The Trowbridge Foot Beagles boasts that it has
been in existence for thirty—two years and had
two thousand hunting days. The “ best” run
they ever had was on November I4 last when they
killed three hares, each after long and terrorising
runs. The ﬁrst run, they say, was a ” fast
hunt ” of forty minutes. The second run was a
“ really ﬁne hunt” of seventy minutes, during
which time the hare ran over three and a half
miles and swam one hundred yards across an
aqueduct, and the third run a “ twisting and turn—
ing ” hunt of eighty minutes. ‘

These facts are so subversive of all true sports—
manship that we apologise for inﬂicting such cal—
lousness upon our readers, except as an exposure
of how debased and obsessed by cruel practices
hunting peoplecan unconsciously become.

Acknowledgments.

We thank Miss F. M. Roper, our Hon. Repre—
sentative for Nottingham, who recently organised
a draw in aid of the League and raised £4 towards
its funds. A very practical and much appreciated
form of service worthy of emulation.

We also desire to thank, on behalf of the Hon.

\

sent us half-a—crown from High Wycombe.

 

 

 




 

January, I934

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Three

 

LIVELY SCENES AT READING MEETING

Cma’emed from #56 “ Brewer/ﬁre Chaim/e ” 0f INTOWMbW” 2 jZ/J.

There were a series of lively incidents at a meet-
ing held in the Small Town Hall, Reading, on
Tuesday, November 22nd, for the purpose-of pro—
testing against “ cruel sports.” The meeting had
been convened by the National and Oxford
Societies for the Abolition of Cruel Sports.

Mr. H. G. Chancellor presided, and he was
supported on the platform by Commander Cather,
R.N., the Rev. Dr. C. L. Bradley, and Mr.
Bertram Lloyd.

THE CHAIRMAN read a letter from the Mayor
of Reading (Alderman Miss E. M. Sutton),
apologising for her inability to preside. Another
apology was from Dr. Somerville Hastings, a mem—
ber of the Society, while Mr. R. C. Sherriff, the
author, also wrote saying much as he would have
liked to, it was impossible for him to attend. An
authoress, Miss Marjorie Bowen, also sent an
apology and expressed her willingness to help the
cause in any possible way.

“ The Sport of the Rich.”

In his opening remarks, the
chairman said the meeting
had been called to protest
against one of the most
popular of their country
sports, fox—hunting. That
hunting had great attractions
was undeniable. It was the
sport of the rich. It furnished one avenue of entry
into “ Society,” thereby satisfying the snobbery 1n—
nate in most. For the opportunity of ostentatious
spending in the company “of the great, men of
wealth who knew nothing, and cared less, about
nature, chose country estates, or houses in
neighbourhoods where packs of hounds were kept
and meets were frequent, not for love of rural life
or rural beauty, but to kill time and spend their
too abundant leisure in sport of the kind that 1n—
volve-d pursuit and, above all, killing.

He continued: “ The timid hare is hunted with
beagles, the otter, the deer, the fox with hounds;
anything wild that has life, bird or beast, 1n
order that their terror while chased may amuse, and
their death give joy, and their mangled remains
furnish trophies for the sating of the savagery in
their civilised pursuers, just like the gloating of
Red Indians over the scalps of their victims.”

The love of slaughter was savagery, the chair—
man said, and its practice by cultured and reﬁned
people, however highly placed, could not make it
other than savagery. ‘

game.”

 

 

Drag Hunts Suggested.

Mr. Chancellor suggested the substitution of the
drag for hunting. “ There is no need, and on our
part no desire, to stop the sport; we only want
to take the cruelty out of it,” he said. Nearly all -
the damage was caused by having to follow the
quarry through fences, over ploughed land, grow—
ing crops, farm yards, gardens and poultry runs,
and nearly all this could be avoided. If the drag
was substituted the scent could be laid on rough
land over which horses and hounds could gallop
without damage.

COMMANDER CATHER then moved the following
resolution: “ That this meeting is of the opinion
that the hunting of foxes, deer and other animals
involves much cruelty, and should be made
illegal.” In doing so, he said people in this
country rather prided themselves on their love
for animals, and it was about time they stopped
baiting deer, foxes, badgers, hares, rabbits and
other creatures. They had to justify their re—

putation if they were to make

 

LADY APSLEY

“ I fear that to a certain

.extent hunting is a selﬁsh
—T/ye Pie/d, 061214. In the case of hunted

‘ themselves worthy of it.
They prided themselves on
their love of fair play, but
what kind of fair play was
given to the hunted animal?

 

animals, there were seldom

 

odds of less than ﬁfty to one.
There was disproportion in numbers and othe
things as well. -

Digging Foxes Out.

The animal had only its native cunning, sagacity
and pluck, while human beings prided themselves
on their mental capacity and highly developed in—
telligence. They did their best to prevent the
escape of a fox, and in many cases if he had gone
to ground they dug him out. Thatway of getting
amusement was bound to go in a few years’ time
——it was an anachronism. They had no right to
use animals weaker than themselves for either
amusement or proﬁt.

MR. LLOYD seconded the resolution and he
criticised the hunting of. the carted deer. He asked
why their mammals should not be protected as well
as their birds, and why they should not be given
justice. It was an extraordinary contradiction that
a man could be punished for torturing a rather
objectionable creature such as the common brown
rat and he could not be punished for torturing other
animals while hunting them.

Before the resolution was put to the meeting the

 




 

 

 

CRUEL

Page Four

S P O R T S January, 1934 .

 

 

chairman said he would allow ten minutes for ques~
tions, and after several questions had been put one
lady exclaimed in a vehement manner, “ Does it
matter whether the huntsman enjoys the chase or
not? Isn’t it a matter whether the victim suffers
or not? Who cares about the huntsman? It is
the victim——the hunted creature.” These com-
ments were greeted with cheers from a portion of
the audience, and then Mr. Kenneth Diploch rose
and asked if he might, have an opportunity of
speaking against the motion. He was greeted with
cries of “ Shame” and “ Hear, hear,” but the
chairman stated that there was not time.

Mr. Diploch then asked if he could move an
amendment. This was followed by shouting, and
one lady exclaimed, “ Pay for your hall and have
your own meeting.” The shouting grew in volume,
and the chairman stated, “ This meeting was called
for one purpose. To consider a resolution which
it is open to you to accept or reject. I declare that
the amendment is out of order, and I decline to
accept it.”

Arguments Amongst the Audience.

Several members of the audience started argu—
ments among themselves and order was not
restored for a minute or two. The chairman then
pointed out that he had stated he could only allow
ten minutes for questions, and he could only receive
one more.

A gentleman then suggested that the people who
had spoken against fox-hunting should put them-
selves in the place of the fox. “ I should like to
ask whether they would rather be in hunting
country where their only enemy was the hunts-
man and his hounds, and where they are only
hunted for six or seven months in the year, or
whether they would rather be poisoned, shot or
trapped the whole year round?” (Cries of “ Hear,
hear,” and other comments.)

The Chairman: I would rather be shot than pur—
sued for ten hours and then torn to pieces by
hounds

Amidst considerable uproar, the resolution was
put to the meeting, and upon a show of hands there
were votes both for and against it. No count was
taken, but the chairman declared the resolution
“ carried by a large majority,” and his announce—
ment was met with another burst of cheering and
counter cheering.

The Rev. Dr. C. L. Bradley proposed a vote of
thanks to the speakers, and the meeting was
ofﬁcially closed.

Arguments once again broke out among the
audience and continued for some twenty minutes,
1wllilen a Town Hall ofﬁcial extinguished all the
1g ts.

BERKS FARMER CON DEMNS
HUNTING. '

Sir,—I should like to draw your readers’ atten—
tion to the abominable behaviour of the South
Berks Hunt. On October 24 last the Hunt came
over my farm without notice, and did a great deal
of damage. The pack were allowed to run through
a ﬂock of in—lamb ewes, and subsequently diagon—
ally across a ﬁeld of wheat which was just coming
through the ground. The ground was wet at the
time, and the horses did considerable damage to
the crops. Some of them were ridden across young
seeds and roots. A typical example of the
mentality of some of the members of the Hunt
is portrayed by the following incident: A parti—
cular member, after trying for several minutes to
get his horse up to a gate to close it—and all the
time the horse trampling the young crops—eventu—
ally, being too lazy to dismount, went off leaving
the gate open.

I wrote to the Master of the Hunt pointing out
this behaviour, and have not yet received any
reply. It seems most unfair that in these hard
times, when farmers have a job to make ends meet,
people who have nothing to do but amuse them—
selves should come and make matters still worse.
I should just like to add that I am one of the many
farmers who are experiencing similar behaviour.

(Mrs) G. ZDE. FERRANTI, M.R.I.
Pangbourne. '
In “ Reading Mercury,” November II.

HUNTED FOX

A fox, the quarry of the Ullswater foxhounds,
was drowned in Ullswater to—day. The run had

continued for four hours over mountain crags and .

among the bracken when the fox disappeared, and
after a long search was noticed crouching on the
ledge of a crag nine inches wide. The huntsman
climbed down the crag and disloged him by throw—
ing stones. The fox then dashed to the lake and
swam out twenty yards, the hounds following. He
returned to the shore, but after another quarter
of a mile run he again plunged into the lake with
the hounds close to his brush. Forty yards from
the shore he disappeared. The place was visited
by men in a boat, but there were no signs of the
body—October 23.

COSTS OF HUNTING.

The Taunton Vale Foxhounds’ annual report
shows that the Master, Viscount Portman, re—
ceived £1,500 last year to run them. Poultry
claims paid amounted to £8I5. But this is only
part of the damages done by foxes to hen-roosts,
for the secretary thanked those farmers’ wives
who refrained from sending in claims as “ equiva—
lent to substantial subscriptions.”

DROWN ED. '

Von '




wﬁéﬁé

. pondent a few weeks ago,
-who said it put him in a cold

. January, 1934

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Five

 

 

 

 

SHEFFIELD' IN THE LIMELIGHT

[For revere! week; in N ever/eke?” and Deeewber a vigorous eerrerpeiea’eﬁee 22243 carried on in f/Je
“ ﬂee/ﬁeld Daze/y Telegrap/y ” 2'77 eeﬁﬁeez‘ieﬂ were fox—bunting. T/ae fol/owing 2‘22/0 [ez‘z‘em [9y “ Ala/y
Fem/J ” 5/9ny z‘be rpz'rz'z‘ee’ defence pate/p by a mpperz‘er of tbe Leagete.———ED., C.S.]

Sir,—Social history of every country teaches
us that reforms and enlightened thought always
meet with strong opposition from vested interests
and the diehards of old tradition. The abolition

- of bull—baiting met with bitter opposition, and

when children were withdrawn from the mines
a chorus of lamentation arose, one of the great
aristocratic mineowners of the day declaring it
would mean the ruin of the coal industry.

As a c-ountrywoman, and one who has listened
to accounts of the day’s run, I strongly disagree
with the secretary of the [British Field Sports
that the hounds wait to kill the fox until the fore-
most hound can seize him by the back of the
neck. It may happen to a few, but not many
foxes have that luck. The foremost hound is
more likely to seize him by the leg or the brush,
enabling one of the other

ﬁght for its life when heavy, and often gives
birth to her young when in the presence of her
pursuers.

As to the hunting fraternity spending
£12,ooo,ooo on their pastime, surely it is an un-
wise admission to make in these days, and no
doubt will be earmarked by some of our politi—
cians. Very little of that is spent on the farmer.
Against it must be debited the immense amount
of damage done to the property of farmers and
poultry—keepers, who receive most inadequate
compensation for their losSes.

I cannot imagine why the hunting fraternity
will not be content with drag hunts. They would
get all the healthy gallops and hound—work they
want without pulling down some wretched fox or
stag at the end of it, and they could avoid

galloping over ﬁelds where

 

hounds to seize Reynard by
the neck.

And how can the secretary
of the B.F.S. explain the ac—
count from an Essex corres—

rage when, during his walk,
he came across the leg of a
cub torn off from the shoul—
der lying still warm on the

possible.”

 

Katharine of Aragon.

“ The cruel sports of the
time the Queen never could
take any delight in, and
avoided them as much as

—-—Sir H. Beerbohm Tree.

the young crops are coming,
and thus remain on better
terms with the farmer.—
Yours, etc.,

Dec. 2. MARY FINCH.

Shooting or Poisoning Foxes.

Sir,—The letter in Fri—
day’s ” Shefﬁeld Tele—

graph” is a good example

 

 

ground? If hunting is not
cruel, why do some hunters
give it up because of its cruelty? I know of a
one-time follower of the York and Ainsty and
also a follower of the Devon and Somerset who
each gave it up because of that reason.

Hunting Terrorises the Quarry.

As for the contention that the hunted animal
feels no terror, I should like to ask why does the
hunted stag leap from the cliff into the sea below,
or swim out to sea and be drowned, rather than
fall into the hands of the pursuers? And why
does the fox dash up the chimney of a house,
as he did some time ago at Bishop Auckland, and
was only dislodged because a ﬁre was lighted in
the grate, when the wretched animal scrambled
out at the top and was thrown to the hounds while
the hunt complacently looked on?

I have said nothing about otter-hunting, which
is as barbarous, if not more so, than fox or stag
hunting, as the otter is hunted before breeding
ﬁnishes. The bitch-otter often has to put up a

of the shoddy arguments
which the hunting fraternity
make use of in order to excuse their brutal pas—
time (I refuse to use the word “ sport”).

I shirk no issue. There are only two issues that
I can see, whether foxes should continue to
abound in order that a wealthy minority should
indulge in a cruel amusement, or whether they
should be shot by the farmers in order that some
of the £21,915, 500 which we spend in importing
eggs and poultry should be kept in this country.

In any case, there are far more foxes shot in
the country by farmers and gamekeepers than the
secretary of the British Field Sports wots of, and
I have far more opportunities of knowing that
ﬁrst hand than he has. Why should it be more
cruel of the farmers to shoot foxes than other
men to shoot grouse, partridges, or half-tame
pheasants?

Poisoning is not pleasant, but it is inﬁnitely
preferable to being killed by a pack of hounds,
and I think Mr. Fitzwilliam himself would choose
it rather than being hunted to death by tigers.

 

 




 

Page Six

Mr. Fitzwilliam’s efforts to make us believe
that the fox is always humanely killed sound like
a childish fairy story, which 1 do not think will
convince anyone except the simple-minded.

The otter-hunting crowd may prefer not to hunt
a bitch—otter in the breeding season, but it'is use—
less for Mr. Fitzwilliam to deny that it does hap—
pen, and that the bitch—otter has been known to
drop her young when hunted.

Mr. Fitzwilliam dismisses my account of a fox
dislodged from the chimney as an “ isolated case.”
He is quite wrong. The same thing happened at
Llanthony Lock last year. His excuse that the
Hunt had nothing to do with the ﬁre being lit in
the grate, or the ejectment of the wretched animal
from a chimney, is simply puerile. After all, Mr.
Fitzwilliam is only doing his job when he tries
to make out that the Hunt, compares with a Sun—
day school class out on a nature study expedition.

The Farmer’s Position.

As for Mr. Fitzwilliam’s contention that hunting
is a source of income to the farmer, well, so it
was years ago, but in spite of it, not because of
it. Thirty or forty years ago, when there was no
super-tax and income—tax was Is. in the £, you
did not need to be very wealthy to be able to,
afford a carriage, a pair of horses, a little cob for
the light cart for luggage to the station, and for
thegoverness-car, and perhaps a pony or donkey
for the children to ride. If you liked it, and could
afford it, you kept hunters.

Now if you multiply establishments like that by
the thousand all over England, and remember that
those horses and ponies remained all the year
round in that place, and were not sold or sent
somewhere else from March to October, as so
often happens in these days, it can be realised
that well-ﬁlled stables like these ﬁlled the farmers’
pockets, not the few (comparatively speaking)
hunters of to-day. If some damage was done by
the Hunt (and older members of the hunting
world would agree that there was less damage
done in those days), the farmer regarded it more
or less as a discount off his bill that was going to
each stable for oats, hay, and straw.

These are all factors over which the Hunt, to
be perfectly fair, have no control. Then in these
days the land and big country houses are pass—
ing into other hands, and are being taken over
very often by rather hard—ﬁsted men and women
who are accustomed to see so much-percentage
on a return for their money. They are paying
for their hunt, and a hunt they are going to have
and be hanged to the farmer and his fences and
gates is rather their attitude towards him. And
so the old feeling of mutual accommodation be—
tween farmer and landowner is gradually dying
away, and a growing feeling of hostility and re—
sentment on the part of the farmer towards the
Hunt is increasing. MARY F INCH.

CRUEL SPORTS

January, l 934

:- JUNIOR BRANCHES.

Some months ago the Executive Committee de-
cided that Junior'b’ranches of the League should be
formed when and as occasion offered.

The ﬁrst Junior Branch has now been formed,
in Bristol, and about two hundred names en-
rolled, with Miss N. M. Chapman as Hon.
Secretary, and Miss Winifred B. Medway as

,.. Leader. The Branch,
which has made an
auspicious start, was
inspired by the efforts
of the late Miss
Beatrice Medway to
teach the poorer child—
ren in her district to
be kind to animals,
and we hope that it
will have a long life
and do much good
work in inculcating in
Bristol a love for all
animals, wild as well
..... , as domestic.

Beatrice Medwa

Photo by Kathleei’iomers In connection with
the formation of this Branch a friend writes:—

“ To see a gleam and follow it is the only
course open to a sincere soul. So it was in the
life of Beatrice Medway, who, seeing the hope
contained in training children to show kindness
and mercy from their earliest years to all God’s
creatures, laboured with that aim in View amongst
the poorest boys of Bristol, her native city, until
she was called up higher. Her dominating desire
for the establishment of children’s societies where
young people could be taught to hate cruel sports
so impressed her friends that they mentioned it
to the secretary of the Bristol Branch of the
League, who secured the approval of head-
quarters, and in November last a Junior Branch
was formed at I, Tyndall’s Park, Clifton, Bristol.”

4; 49$:

  
   

ACTIVITY IN GREECE.

St. Francis’ Day, October 4, was an occasion
last year of a considerable revival of humani—
tarianism in Greece. For many years Dr. and
Mrs. Platon Drakoules have been teaching the
principles of humaneness to the Greek people,
and the writings of Howard Williams, Henry 8.
Salt, Anna Kingsford, Miss Lind of Hageby and
others have become widely known in the
Balkans through Greek editions. But this year’s
revival is largely due to the little book of Dr.
Drakoules’, “ Humane Education,” published
two years ago in Athens, which has had a re—
markable effect on the community. It is interest-
ing to note that Queen Sophia is a warm friend
of animal reform in Greece.

 




 

 

January, I934 C R U E L

SPORTS

Page Seven

 

 

FORMER MWFH FINED £10.

A former M.F.H. and owner of a large private
menagerie, Robert Leadbetter, Bucks, was ﬁned
£10 and £5 5s. costs at Wycombe for causing un-
necessary suffering to animals. Nineteen dogs,
three ponies, three goats and a ram were alleged
to have been neglected.

Three inspectors of the R.S.P.C.A. said that all
the animals were in a thin, emaciated condition.
They were in kennels and stables that were dirty
and in other ways neglected.

The Indian ram was suffering from pressure on
the brain and it could not stand owing to its giddy
state. When the inspeCtors gave them food the
animals ate ravenously.

Mr. Wright, a veterinary surgeon, said the
animals were in entirely unsatisfactory surround—
ings and some were emaciated.

Leadbetter said that he had been a lover of
animals all his life. For seven years he had been
a master of foxhounds. He had owned a larger
private menagerie than any other living man.

At one time he had ﬁfteen lions, ﬁve elephants,
tigers, bears and monkeys, and as he earned his
living by breeding and selling dogs it certainly
did not pay him to keep them in a dirty state.

The magistrates stated that they considered that
for a long time there had been neglect in the
kennels and stables.

They added that they had seriously considered
depriving him of dog licences in the future. If
there was any repetition they would certainly do so.

“ Daily Mirror,” October 21.

BLOODING.

From the “ Grantham Journal,” Oct. 2.

Sir, I was very pleased to read the protest of
“ Sportsman ” against this disgusting custom,
which we have strongly protested against ever since
our inception. '

One wonders why the Christian Church is not
louder in its denunciation of this practice, which
is nothing more or less than a travesty of the holy
rite of baptism.

Secretary, L.P.C.S. J. C. SHARP.

Sin—I fully agree with “ Sportsman’s ”
spirited letter against blooding. It is a most re—
pulsive, savage rite, and intolerable amongst
sportsmen.

The fox may be vermin, but he dies like a hero
facing his foes, and ﬁghting to the bitter end.
Mutilating him after his brave death shows entire
lack of sportsmanship.

We rightly condemn the Spanish bull—ﬁghts as a
blot on civilisation, but some of our so—called
“ sports ” prove that we are only primitives,
superﬁcially clad in a veneer of civilisation.

A LOVER OF TRUE SPORT.

'through the streets of

SANCTUARY—FOR SOME.

The week-end news provides an instructive con—
trast in human methods of dealing with other
creatures. On Friday a large stag was chased
Minehead (which
must have been an agreeable experience
for Minehead) down to the beach and into

the heavy seas which were then running.
Efforts were made to pull it out, but the stag—no
doubt ignorantly misunderstanding the intention—
stupidly allowed itself to be carried away into the
Bristol Channel, where the local ﬁsherman thought
it “ extremely probable ” that it would be
drowned. The following day, however, the Poet
Laureate was praising the Hawksmoor Nature
Reserve for providing a sanctuary for wild crea—
tures “ where they are safe and cannot be
harassed ” by man. Probably the same was
exactly the Minehead stag’s opinion of the ocean
at the moment when he plunged into it. Yet the
Bristol Channel, large and breezy as that district
is, is perhaps on the whole inadequate as a sanctu—
ary for hunted stags. The animal might conceiv—
ably have preferred some such place as the Hawks-
moor Reserve had it been handy at the moment.
But of course it must be obvious to all right—think—
ing Englishmen that it is quite impossible to provide
Hawksmoor Reserves for stags and such like; since
the brutes must be “ kept down,” the only thing to
do is not to shoot or capture them but to go hunt.-
ing them as expensively and as decoratively as
possible. Thus, by combining Hawksmoor and
the Bristol Channel, we exhibit our English
“ genius for compromise.”——Editorial in “Man—
chester Guardian,” October 23.

:14 =3 9%

Sir,—Many of your readers must have thanked
you for your very piquant comment on the coin-
cidence of the Minehead stag hunt and the cere—
mony at the Hawksmoor Nature Reserve, where

wild things are safe and cannot be harassed by
the major devilries of man. It was good to. see
that the Secretary of the National Trust was pre—
siding on the occasion.

At the last annual meeting of the Trust some of
us endeavoured to secure a promise that Trust
properties should all be made sanctuaries, but the
sportsmen and their friends won the day. Fear~
ing lest some day some of the properties of the
Trust may become the scene of such exploits as
so frequently sully the beauties Of Exmoor, one
hopes that all future donors of property to the
Trust will make it the condition that such gifts
shall always be treated as sanctuaries where bird
and beast' can dwell without disturbance.

T. A. LEONARD.

 




, Page Eight CR U E L S P O R T S January, 1934

 

 

THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS

lOl, Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, SWJ.
Phone : Victoria . 8496..

Hon. Treasurer— President— ‘ ‘ Secretary;
CANON F. L. DONALDSON. ALASDAIR ALI’IN MACGREGOR, ESQ. . 7 J. C. SHARP.

 

 

Vice- Presidents—

LADY CLARE ANNESLEY. GERALD GOULD, Esq. E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq.
SIR HERBERT BARKER. REV. DR. R. F. HORTON. HENRY_VV. NEVINSON, Esq.
MISS MARJORIE BOWEN, 14‘.R..Soc.Lit., DAME LOUISA INNES LI \ISDEN. BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
ALI). M.-CONWAY, J.,P. LL. D. (Edinburgh). PHILIP (I. PEABODY,‘ Esq. , LL LI
(Ex-Pres. Nat. Un. Tom's). LADY EMILY LL UTYENs. . EDEN PHILIIPOTTS, Esq.
CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). DONALD MACLEOD, Es . PIRCY A. SCHOLES, 14 sq
P. GOOCH, D.Litt-. (Ex-Mbr. Brit. Olympic. (11.). DAME SYBIL ’I‘HORNDIKE.

 

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—‘ pleasure ”'

IT CONDEMNS fox, deer, hare, and otter—hunting, badger—digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. ( See leaflet “ Blood Sports Condemned. ”)

IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
_of a run with hounds without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting. ”) ’ .

‘ IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding” of children, and demands its cessation. ( See

leaﬂet “ Blooded. ”)

 

 

AN OFFER. A copyof the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any addresson application
to the Secretary. We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church
Group, etc., if out—of—pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also
available.

 

JOIN THE LEAGUE.

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

State
whether
Mr., Mrs.,
or Miss.

*5/— per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthly. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members £5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L. P. C. S. , IOI, Chandos House, Wesminster, S. W. I.

 

 

FORM OF BEQU EST

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested: —

I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION or CRUEL SPORTS, London, the sum
of .............................. free of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be paid to the
Treasurer for the time being of such last- mentioned Society.

By virtue of the Act of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

Published by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION 0F CRUEII SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
Westminster, S. W.1, and Printed for them by PAGE & PRATT. 5, Ludgate Circus Buildings 1‘. .C. 4.

 

 




