Reprinted by Courtesy of The Open Door;” The National Anti-Vivisection and Animal Magazine

>< Blessed Are The Merciful“

By Edgar Whitaker Work, D. D.

An eloquent plea in behalf of God’s sub—
human children. Excerpts from the “Mercy”
sermon of Rev. Edgar \Vhitaker Work, DD.

“ . V There are. three great words
for us all. The ﬁrst is Righteousness, the
second is Justice, and the third is M ercy. We
cannot conceive of a true character with one
of these. left out. .. We can preach
God’s Righteousness and God’s Justice, but
we cannot preach God’s Gospel unless we pro.
claim Gold’s Mercy. . . .

Men often grow into great strength in the
elements of" righteousness and justice; and
forget at the same time to be merciful. Our
'Lord must have known how hard it is for
men to be merciful: therefore He gave them
His ﬁfth Beatitude, "Blessed are the Merci--
ful.”

. . In a Christian civilization we
are taught to search for weakness and defect
—for need of whatever kind, and to show
mercy to such as these. The glory of Chris—
tianity is in what it does for the weak, what
it does to alleviate pain, to heal sorrow. If
Christianity should cease to be merciful, the
world would become pagan again in a genera—
tion. Mercy is the hand—111aiden of the Gos-

pel.

o I O 0

Every philanthropy that
men cherish proclaims the fact that Mercy is

the sweet sister of Faith. We could not be
Christians without mercy. It is so near to the
heart of Christ——it is certain to ﬂower out-111
the hearts of His disciples. A Christian with—
out tender feelings would be an anomaly.
Sympathy, is written upon the Cross. Mercy
is round-about it

. But our Lords Beatitude
reaches farther still—why not to the dumb

o o

creatures that live with us in this world? Why
. shorten the arm of Mercy?

Why limit the
scope of Mercy? Is it not something so di—
vine and so large as to lie all over a world
like ours and include whatsoever lives beneath
the Sky?

My real message to you to— day 1s about our,
relation to the dumb creatures about us. It
belongs to the general proclamation of Mercy.
And I beg you to renr1ember what has been
said about the greatness of Mercy, as a law
and as a function of the Kingdom of God.
The law of kindness does not stop with our
human kind. There are dumb animals about
us that claim our thoughtfulness and care. We
speak of them as dumb, and that is partly
their claim upon us. They know no language i
of remonstrance, they have no logic of pro-
test——they are dumb. God made them depend-
ent upon men, the more so that they have been
('lo111esticatcd. The word (failins‘z‘z'cczzfcd is itself

 

 

 




      

  

 

'.

l

l
l

l

' x

l

l

  
  

    

 

; (In LET

? the bond—servant of man.

/ more remarkable.
lent upon man, but man is dependent upon

* cruelty.
l thing. Over and over again it has been shown
, in vital statistics that the ranks of criminal
. men are recruited by those who in boyhood

suggestive of our human responsibility. If

.we were true to that word, Mercy would not

be lacking. The word suggests a sort of pa—

‘t'e'rnal relationship of man toward the animals.

They belong to us by right of conquest, if you
please; but they belong to us in a domestic re-
lationship that implies care.
more right to abuse the dumb creature that
belongs to him, than he has to abuse his child.

Civilization seems to have approached this
question of our relation to the dumb creatures
from a wrong viewpoint. The domestic ani—
mals are peculiarly dependent upon man. The
horse was once a free creature of the plains
and steppes of Asia: to—day he. is everywhere
‘ For the most part
he is a willing servant. We speak of the pa—
tient ox—but the patience of horses is even

Not only are they depend-

them.
them.

Our civilization is dependent upon
Their toil is a constant asset of our

‘ life and a factor of our success .....

But the point of what I am saying is that
our relation to this dumb servant of ours is
not merely that of master—rather, it is a sort
of larger paternalism such as grows out of the

, responsibility of the act of domestication. 1
1 think it is well to press this argument very

strongly, for it is often forgotten.

If our child has a pet animal of any kind,
let us lead him to feel, not merely that he
is the master. of the dumb creature, but that
he is also in a position of responsibility toward
it. A child who is permitted to abuse a do—

, mestic pet on'the ground of mastery is learn—

ing the worst of all lessons—the lesson of
And cruelty is always a brutalizing

have learned lessons of cruelty by robbing

l . . .
,l b1rd’s nests, and stonlng stray ammals, and

l
l

abusing pets. The law of kindness begins to
,operate very early, and so also do the lesSons
of cruelty come early. If we knew the truth,
doubtless many of the unmerciful acts of men

and women could be traced to the nursery,

A man has no -

where children learn to practice small cruelties
upon dependent creatures.

I am trying to say to you, that if we wish
to create a society of men and women in this
world of ours that will do its work under the
Beatitude of Jesus, we must begin to teach
Mercy very early to the children. We must
guard against small cruelties even in play and
against every sort of wantonness in sport; and
we must teach, not mastery and dominion over
lower animals, but rather responsibility and
obligatiOn, and the necessity of care .....

Tell. your child, for example, on some day
when you may have observed some token of
cruelty in the child towards its pet—that fa-
miliar story of “The Bell of Justice”———how in
one of the old cities of Italy, the King caused
a bell to be hung in a tower in one of the pub~
lic squares. It was called “The Bell of Jus—
tice”; and the King commanded that anyone
who had been wronged should go and ring the
bell, and thus call the Magistrate and ask for
justice. And of how in course of time, the
lower end of the rope rotted away, and a wild
vine was tied to it to lenghten it. One day an
old and starved horse, that had been abandon—
ed by its owner and turned out to die—wan-
dered into the tower, and in trying to eat the
vine rang the bell. Then the Magistrate came
and found the neglected horse. And the story
reads that the Magistrate summoned the own-
er of the horse, in whose service he had toiled
and been worn out, and decreed that as the
poor dumb creature had rung “The Bell of
Justice,” his owner should be required hence—
forth to provide food and drink and shelter
for him, until he lay down to die.

I have an idea a quite young child would
understand a bit of a story like that. I am
not sure indeed but that we who are men
and women need to hear such a story too: only
I would like to call it the “Bell of Mercy,”
for then it will be like an echo of the Lord’s
Beatitude. I

It has taken the civilized world a long time
to realize that the dumb creatures in our midst
have rights of theirown; that if men are en—
titled to their wages, so also are horses en-

        
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
     
  
   
  
    
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
 
    
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 




       
  
 
    
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
     
   
  

  

:>':;1 Ii.“ [7531.“ N w-,

’ ‘ {€99
~.. I

I _» . )_

.titled to theirs, and that means proper food
and“ care, and shelter and kindness.‘ Long
since'the “Bell of Justice” and, the. “Bell of
Mercy” have been rung for men—and after
generations of agitation we are learning quite
rapidly. now I hope—what we owe as between
man and man, what the employer owes to the
employee, for example, in the way of just
wages, and considerate treatment. But there
was no one to ring the “Bell of Justice”—a
still less the “Bell of Mer~cy”—-—for the horse.
Generations went by, and there was no public
recognition in the laws of any land of the
rights of dumb creatures. Men grew civilized,
and learned to practice the arts and sciences.
Men read the Lord’s Beatitude and learned
to practice Mercy among their own kind. They
erected hospitals and endowed institutions for
the poor, orphanages for little children and
rescues for the out—casts among men. But no
one thought of any laws or institutions for
the dumb creatures that bear so many of our
human burdens.

At length a man arose in the English Par-
liament one day in the year‘ISIl‘ and rang

, the “Bell of Justice and Mercy” for the lower

animals. His name was Lord Erskine. And
how do you suppose Lord Erskine’s proposal
was received in the English House of Lords?
History tells us that the chamber broke out
in derision! And when he earnestly main—
tained the right of the lower animals to hu—
mane treatment, the Lords of England greeted
him with jeers and whistling and cock-crow—
ing. Did I not say to you a little while ago
that Christ’s Beatitude is a difﬁcult one, w1thal
it seems so simple? The last fault that lingers
in the human breast, after the light even of
Christian civilization has poured in, is brutal-
ity. Cruelty intrenches itself deep in the sel—
ﬁshness and prejudice and neglect. of men,
and only a burning, shining light like that of
Christ’s Beatitude of Mercy can ﬁnd out its
lair.

One hears the clatter of the horses’ feet'by
day and by night. How weary they must be!
How long the hours, how long the journeys,
how slippery the streets in winter, how hard

3'!

the pressure of the collar especially if there be
a sore spot! How uncomfortable that piece
of iron across the tongue! How cold and bit—

ing the winds! How heavy the loads must/be,

and the pull up—grade, and the hold back on
the down grade! “Blessed are the merciful.”

. I hear Christ saying this to the masters, not of

men only, but the masters of the dumb crea-
tures as well.

If we could but feel that every hard—worl -
ing horse received his wages, of proper foo
and care! That is a strange thing to say, isn’t
it P—“the wages of a horse.” But why not? '
He is a toiler and a willing one: he earn
his wage. If one could but feel that every
willing worker among these dumb and pa-"
tient toilers—had a kind master, whose voice
was better than a whip, who had a care for
the harness, and for the blankets, and fo,
the bruised places, and for the stall and the
bedding!

Thomas Hood, the poet, sang “The Song of
the Shirt.” Some day a poet will arise and
count it worth while to sing “The Song of
the Horse.” Despite all our laws, despite the
activities of the societies, great cruelties are
practiced. Brutality lingers in the human
heart, and the lesson of Mercy is slow to
learn. One will see sights on the street every;
day, if the eyes are open, that make the heart?
sick—horses unblanketed in cruelly cold
weather, standing in the wind, loads too heavy
for horse-ﬂesh to endure, and the poor beasts
struggling beneath the beatings of inhuman
drivers. And the slippery streets—few of us
have not seen the improperly shod horses in
recent weeks, quivering in every nerve from
fear, as they sought an uncertain foot-hold.
In matters such as these, citizens have: police
rights, which ought to be exercised far more
than they are. “Blessed are the Merciful”~
who seeing a cruelly burdened horse, or a
hungry or diseased or beaten or suffering
horse—pity it——and ring the bell of Justice
and Mercy.

   
 

But besides these obvious xcruelties to
seen on the streets, they tell us that there are
incredible atrocities practiced away from the

 
 




 

 

 

ublic eye—horses driven all day and permit—
ted to stand out of cover all night, or at least
in open sheds. The history of a horse, they
'i‘te‘li “us, is a tragedy. Once driven proudly on
Fifth Avenue or Riverside Drive—when his
style begins to decline~he is sold forlother
uses. He is fortunate 'if he does not come at
length to ever—increasing burdens, and de-
creasing food and vanishing strength and un-
speakable cruelties from junk men and other
drivers. This is the noble animal that man
has domesticated.

But if there are atrocities of this sort which
cruel men practice against the lower orders,
: there are also freﬁned cruelties of Society
which call also for the ringing of the bells of
Justice and Mercy. It is past belief that any
person 'of ordinary tenderness would leave a
house-hold animal to wander the streets, for—
aging for its food, during the summer period
of closed houses. Twelve thousand bodies
of such homeless animals were picked up
from the streets last summer after the hot
' spell.

Every cruelty :that men practice on the

, lower animals is brutalizing to humanity 1t~

f=self~mercy is reﬁning; it beautiﬁes all it
touches, and enhances values everywhere. Let
us preach Mercy and Sympathy and Kindness

 

on every hand. A merciful Society is work—
ing the works of God, for God is merciful. His
Kingdom is founded nolt only upon Righteous—
ness and Justice—but upon Mercy. There—
fore Christ said “Blessed are the Merciful, for
they shall obtain Mercy.”

It is our Father’s world. He has ﬁlled it
up with wondrous beauty and convenience. He
7' has made man master of it all. But not with—
d‘ut regard to His laws, not in despite of the
yBeatitude of Christ. Man is master, but

 

Christ is our Master; and God is the Father; '
of all His creatures, human and inferior.
Christ said “Not even a sparrow shall fall to
the ground without the Father’s noti-ce.’i’ If a.
sparrow is worthy of the notice of the Father
of all—let His children also love His creatures
and be merciful to them.

“The Prayer of the Horse”

To thee, my master, I offer my prayer:
Feed me, water and care for me, and when the
day’s work is done provide me with shelter, a
clean, dry bed, and a stall wide enough for me
to lie down in comfort. Talk to me. Your
voice-often means as much to me as the reins.
Pet me sometimes that I may serve you the
more gladly and learn to love you.

Do not jerk the reins, and do not whip me
when going up—hill. Never strike, beat, or
kick me when I do not understand what you
want, but give me a chance to understand you.
Watch me, and if I fail to do your bidding,
see if something is not wrong with my har~
ness or feet.

Examine my teeth when I do not eat. I
may have an ulcerated tooth, and that, you
know, is very painful. Do not tie my head
in an unnatural position, or take away my
best defense against ﬂies and mosquitoes by
cutting off my tail.

And ﬁnally, 0 my master, when my use—
ful strength is gone, do not turn me out to
starve or freeze, or sell me to some cruel own—
er to be slowly tortured and starved to death;
but do thou, my master, take my life in the
kindest way, and your God will reward you
here and hereafter. You will not consider me
irreverent if I ask this in the name of Him
who was born in a stable. Amen.

 

 

 

 

rice, 40c per Hundred. Address Mrs. M. F . Lovell, Superintendent Department of Mercy, National and World’s
‘ i W. C. T. U., Jenkintown, Pa.
V

 




