 
 
 
 

 
  
  
          
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   

‘1" ~ - -‘:-—~—- —- y , .._... ”“~“‘""Y," _ ~ T. i‘ .i... .11., ‘,' T "r ' ' 73‘
1111; I11 1::1<.\>A 1111:1111, 11111111..“ 1;. mo TEcI 1o};- I. EAG JE . C. .-» _
s\ V U-’ . .

\

 

REPRESENTED IN BANGLADESH . BRAZIL . BURMA . CAMEROUN . CANADA . GHANA . HONG KONG CC?-
INDIA . JAPAN . LIBERIA . NETHERLANDS . PAKISTAN . PERU . SINGAPORE DR. SHIRLEY MCGREAL
s.AERICA . SPAIN . TAIWAN . TANZANIA . THAILAND . 0.x. . U.S.A. . ZIMBABWE DR ARDITH AEUDEY

 

 

U.K. OFFICE

ijglAncyLL STREET Picascrcplyto: Shirley McGreal

LONDON, ’WIV ZDU.
“ IPPL
P.O. Drawer X
Summerville
SC 29483
6 April 1981

The Freedom of Information Act Officer
The State Department
Washington D.C.

Dear Sir,

This is a request under the Freedom of Information Act as amended
(5 U.S.C. #552).

The Wall Street Journal recently ran an article referring to
State Department documents it had obtained regarding U.S.
intervention with Bangladesh authorities to persuade Bangladesh
to export monkeys.

 

IPPL requires all documents pertaining to this intervention:
These include but are not limited to:

State Department telegrams to and from Bangladesh referring to the
country's policy regarding monkeys

Diplomatic: notes delivered to the Government of Bangladesh

Communications from U.S. animal dealers, including MOL Enterprises
and Scott Campbell of Oregon (the latter also known as ”Scotty's
Roadside Zoo”), to the Department seeking assistance in reopening
the monkey trade.

We are willing to pay duplicating costs for this material. However,
we would ask not to be assessed any fee since we are a nonprofit
organization and intend to share the information with other
organizations interested in the well-being of animals. We also
wish to evaluate whether such intervention may not be in
contradiction with the terms of the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species, of which the United States is a
member and which recognises the rights of sovereign nations to
determine their own policies with regard to protection of native
fauna.

As provided for in the amended Act, we shall expect a reply within
ten working days.

    
 

Ypurs sincerely, )

Shirley McGreal

Co-Chairwoman, IPPL
803-871-2280

    
     
   




t .. - . =—~\ x "I" mm. ‘x. l “7:“ a: n -- w. . n ~
, _~\ j ngxé ,9 iQNJ»5.L. I’m; :vIA Ir I: } ROI EL— }. NJ} LEAGUE

 

REPRESENTEDI‘N BANGLADESH . BRAZIL . BURMA . CAMEROUN . CANADA . GHANA . HONG KONG com.
INDIA . JAPAN . LIBERIA . NETHERLANDS . PAKISTAN . PERU . SINGAPORE DKSHIRLEY McGREAL
S. AFRICA . SPAIN . TATVVAN . TANZANIA . THAILAND . U.K. . U.S.A. . ZIMBABWE DR_ ARDIT'H A. ELTDEY

”m

6.x. OFFICE

1.93.1. ' A . .
I9-25 ARGYLL 5111251; Plane mph to: Shirl 8y I'lCGI' ea

LONDON, V1") V ZDU.
’ “ ‘ IPPL
P.O. Drawer X
Summerville
SC 29483
6 April 1981

The U.S. Ambassador
Dacca, Bangladesh

Dear Sir,

I am enclosing for your information a copy of an article

which appeared in the 26 March issue of the Wall Street Journal.
This article refers to Embassy intervention with Bangladesh
authorities to get them to export monkeys to the United

States for experimental purposes.

 

Several points are of concern to my organization and your
comments would be appreciated.

Firstly, the article quotes an unidentified State Department

spokesman as claiming that, "the monkey file is one of the
more highly classified we have.” Will you please let me know
whether this is an exact quotation? I should also like to

know the grounds for classification. I understand that the ONLY
reason such classification is permitted is when public
knowledge Of the information might harm the "national security"
Of the United States. In what way would public knowledge of
details of this intervention cause damage to the United States?
Surely, this is a minor commercial matter, partly reflecting
bickering between two dealers engaged in the somewhat sordid
business of trafficking in live monkeys, and partly reflecting a
genuine desire on the part Of Bangladesh to protect its
"wildlife heritage.

You will note also a reference to a most serious charge by Mr.
Scott Campbell thata, MI. Bert Vieceli has been "greasing palms"
at the Embassy. Will you please investigate this allegation and
let me know the results of this investigation? It does appear,
from the comments in the article, that some eager Officials,
possibly commercial attaches, have "gone overboard" in this
particular intervention.

As you know, the United States is a member on the Convention on
International Trade in EndangeredSpecies (CITES). This
Convention accepts the principle of voluntary participation by
countries in the wildlife trade. The Rhesus monkey- is protected
under this Convention by listing on Appendix II. According to
Article IV of this Convention, "the export of any specimen of a
species included in Appendix II shall require the prior ‘

grant and presentation of an export permit." The Convention requi
that such a permit be issued only when:

 




  

    

i 9 4

 

 

Ckﬁ

l) ”A scientific Authority of he utdte of export has
advised that such export will not be detrimental to the surViV31
of that species." '

4...
i-

 

 

 

 

. 2)”A Management authority of the State of export is
satisfied that_the specimen was not obtained in contravention '
o ‘
of the laws of that state for the protection of fauna and flora.

 

 

 

The United States has determined that non—party states must
provide equivalent documentation.

 

 

It would appear to me therefore that the reported intervention

is at odds with the obligations placed on the United States

by a major treaty obligation. There is no evidence at all

that the Bangladesh Rhesus population can withstand exploitation,
and plenty of evidence that indicates_that it probably can not.
The Zoological Society of Bangladesh has stated its firm
opposition to exports.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Clearly, any such intervention as that reported in the Journal
'should be cleared in advance with the U.S. Convention Management

authorities.

 

 

 

 

 

In addition, the article alleged that "an exasperated U.S. officiai
presumably in Decca, made the statement that,"Aid could be cut off
We don't want to threaten, but there's a stage when this has to
come into play." My organization feels that such threats are
totally inappropriate, and that countries seeking to protect

their wildlife heritage, especially countries that are not

wealthy and make sacrifices to protect animals, should receive
praise and encduragement from United States authorities, rather
than harassment as reported in the article. -

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
 

I personally eye—witnessed 30 Rhesus monkeys shipped to the United
States from Bangladesh by MOL Enperprises awaiting experimentation
at.the Armed Forces Radiobiology Research lnStitute, which
performs radiation experiments which are indeed ”inconceivably
ghastly." I am sending you a pamphlet by United Action for
Animals describing some of these experiments. The descriptions
were drawn from the published literature. I do hope my protests
may have saved these MOL monkeys from radiation death, but MOL
willingly sent them to that facility, unless all the AFRRI staff
and.its Director'were lying when they said the animals came from

MOL.

I do hope that the Embassy will stop any interventions on behalf
of the monkey traffickers and the trade in general. I personally
find that this is an inappropriate use of my tax dollars. An
Embassy should work to spread goodwill in this world.

You )5 truly ,
CIA 1&de

Shirley Mc real
Co—Chairwoman, IPPL




THE INTERNATIONAL PRIMATE PROTECTION LEAGUE Hmdqumm’ P'O' Box 908‘“

BERKELEY, CA. 94709 U.S.A.

 

REPRESENTEDH‘FBANGLADESH . BaAzxL . BURMA . CAMEROUN . CANADA . GHANA . HONG KONG C-C.P-
INDIA. . JAPAN . useruA . NETHERLANDS . PAKISTAN . PERU . SINGAPORE on. SHIRLEY McGRBAL
S. AFRICA . SPAIN . TAIWAN . TANZANIA . THAILAND . U.K. . U.S.A. . ZIMBABWE DR. ARDITH A.EUDEY

(1.1;. OFFICE

LRPL.

19-25 ARGYLL STREET,
LONDON, Wi‘v’ ZDU.

mwkmmm Shirley McGreal

IPPL

P.O. Drawer X
Summerville‘
SC 29483

25 July 1981

Dr. Dale Schwindeman

Senior Staff Veterinarian
animal Care Staff

APHIS, Hyattsville MD 20782

Dear Dr. Schwindaman,

From your letter to me of 22 July 1981 regarding the death of a
chimpanzee at the Southwest Foundation: M
”The animals had been fed and watered on Friday in the regular
manner and were checked by Dr. Cummins on Sunday. Food and
water were present at all times."

'1

You also state that 'a chimpanzee was found dead on a Sunday."

From the Report of the Special Review Committee of the National

Heart, Lun .~andf§lood Institute to Investigate Deaths of

NHLBI Chimps 5; Southwest Foundation ror Research and Education:"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"On Monda* morning, he (Dr. Cummins), made rounds early

and found chimp #153 dead at approximately 8 a.mn There was
no food or water in his cage or other cages in the roomr

He immediately removed the animal. . . Upon questioning

the animal care staff, it was determined that noone had
serviced Huts l5, 17, or 18 over the weekend. . . Therefore,
the animals were Without food or water and unobserved for

2 days — Saturday and Sunday.“ ’

So, you can note that you have 1) incorrectly stated the day of
the animal’s death, 2) incorrectly stated that food and water
were present at all times and 3) that the chimpanzees had been
cheeked by Dr. Cummins on Sunday.

Assuming that the NHLBI review team made a proper investigation,
and has its facts straight, then it is IPPL'S contention that

the Animal Welfare Act was violated. According to #3.79 of the
Act‘s Regulations, ”nonhuman primates shall be fed at least

once each day." Accord ng to Section #3.80, "if potable water is
not accessible to the nonhuman primates at all times, such water
shall be offered to them twice daily.” According to Section #3.84,
”Each nonhuman primate shall be observed daily by the animal
caretaker in charge or by someone working under his direct
supervision."

 




aim al Welfare Act Regulations
primates, daily watering
a caretaker?

irm whether the

g

daily feeding
lv observation

or

1
on:
m an:

(101 U

cf.
(14 M
£11? '
k“ (1‘ H1

(‘1? (D

m

{u H m
U<vm

C1, . D

A
J.“

.5
.L

m c) w

o
b

Hva

I n

15014

3?

M

(“‘1‘
’11

f“
‘-

~ (’0 (T) Or
1! n M O m

these act ties and these were
iolat ec wt; ver yon.and the
y think. I re is to be no
ause vou and ”veterinarian from
being of - priority. I do net
=atory primates totally at Man‘s

D
u—

1.1
O
1;. O :3" :j

f
*3 r1 m E} m m

("D W

,‘Y :1 H
L) "I
{’3 H'

.«r‘

J(DH
m
G

in m

m 8 O H
r
r m {23’ 1-»!

:‘J
*1 ('1'
m H

’ 1
r—
'.

‘t“ﬂ
'CfDO

<2
Cf) ”3 ("1'
(n r!
H‘
H Ce L?“ Ch
:3
(D
5.1 r1
H

7",
. '"1
.. rug
J 1.;

f

“5 (D 't' H\

:3}
km! m
n n. no

r , l

f
3
r-
f

, .J. (3 1.4.

H 311w
'9»:
o

:1” O m v
{D "d 1—“

":3 m ,
7
V
J!

z-
m
rt
(1‘
l...) .
m

an C

fore request that you take action against the Southwest
“ion for negligently causing the death of this chimpanzee.
Jdo not wish to see the Animal Welfare Act and its
tions er forcec, perhaps it is time for you to resign
rom.your position.

(D HI O

(N

thﬂtdhﬂhl

Yours sincerely,

Shirley McGreal
Co—Chairwoman, IPPL

 




United States Animal and Federal Bldg.
Department of Plant Health Hyattsville, MD 20782
Agriculture Inspection Service

JUL 2 2 l981

Dr. Shirley McGreal
International Primate
Protection League
P.O. Drawer X
Summerville, SC 29483

Dear Dr. McGreal:

This is in reply to earlier correspondence concerning the care of chimpanzeeS'
at Southwest Foundation for Research and Education, San Antonio, Texas. The
investigation of your complaint and the care and handling of the primates was
conducted by a veterinarian from our Austin, Texas, office.

‘ § o o I o O ' /
LAt,‘ Dr. L. B. Cummlns, the Foundation's veterinarian at the time of the complaint lat/Z-
@rwrstated a chimpanzee was found dead on a Sunday. The animals had been fed/535;“;—
///rwatered on Friday in the regular manner and were checked by Dr. Cummins on Ltd"

. / —_d\ « '
Sunday. Feed and water was present at all timeslrl‘3L%£f S;

w;

The death was/attributed to a health problem in the colony that has been
investigated by two separate review teams. Copies of their reports were filed
with the National Heart5 Lung, and Blood Institute.

PJC’YP\ LOLA/U2
Adequate veterinary care is being provided and there does not appear to be any
violation of the Animal Welfare standards.

Your continued interest in the humane care and handling of animals is
appreciated.
lDQJAJWLLZJvfg 9;/€)~LQ.5

Sincerely,

Dale F. Schwindaman «7

Senior Staff Veterinarian l
Animal Care Staff ' VVQVVV §ﬂ4quL}/—aﬁ '
Veterinary Services

 




     
   

    
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

'5'5;*J.-::...,..‘
‘ 5" , .?

“mm-«arr
‘1“ ‘: i

:- mm.
[m r . y .. .
' ;'4""1.:, ..‘ a ' 1 ﬂ ? .
' w! “MM”, . ' \ . . ,-, , V .
'. l ‘3 u rw A .
A. . ,
i. l
.x‘:
._,: . ‘
n? . . ; ,..
, ‘ u . .a
c, . .-
‘u‘v '
‘A

Wﬁﬂ, or”? ‘3 mfﬂf F ”‘7‘

"lb
t1

 

 

3197

/\ ._hm,r m _JM,_M . ..-,..Ure- \Mww_
) i5 Q¢VRIL&,’A/ Ck/ QXbWE (ﬁt Eltajmeq

P098 5

arriVi“9 in San Antonio on 8-30-70. Dr. Cummins and the animal

6‘ . '
_,;5’§J'Crvggor, Hr. Gutierrez, had been away ion a week making arrange-
is”: . U ) " ' ' . I
*2!“ .{br the animal transfer and accompanying the transfer van througn'
r£”‘5 hD hour trip from New York. Both supervised the unloading and

le .
“yacédcnt ofthe aninmls in huts l5, l7, and l8 of “infectious Village".
Fogiowing this Mr. Gutierrez was given Friday and the following weekend
off to rest up after the rigorous trip. Dr. Cummins, after resting

Thursday night,worked on Friday and took ”call” for veterinary services

over the weekend.

During Dr. Cummins absence Dr. Kalter had arranged a meeting of the
animal care staif on Wednesday, 20 August in anticipation of and for
discussion of the arrival of the chimpanzees on Thursday. yot appreciated
at the time was the fa_s£..._th_az_.t.___t.bg-an1mai care. :93an czgegeich veggie
‘respangrsra”r6?“ﬁ3cs l5, l7, agdwlﬁ in which chimp #153 would nghggsed
EEETabsEﬁfﬂbem the meetingjvﬂThe animal care stafi works a staggered work

wSEE‘TH”SFHEF"FS”E?SCTBE‘§even day a week coverage and the animal care
technician responsible for huts l5, l7, and l8 on the weekend did not work

on Friday.

 

 

 

 

Dr. Cummins observed the animals on Friday and all were in good con-
dition. Feeding, watering and cleaning was accomplished by a technician
of the regular Friday work crew. Since the size of the animals had not
been known prior to their arrival at SFRE cages were not selected until

they arrived. [hismresulted in cages not being e ui ed with automatic

._.__——-—
.

 

,watgginghgalves. Temporary vessels were provided in the cages for water-

 

 

 

ing.

. .

Dr. Cummins was not called in on Saturday or Sunday since no animals
were observed to be ill and he used the time to also rest up from the
rigorous trip. Qn Monday morning September 31 he made rounds early and

found chimp #153‘EESE”at approximately ggggféf57"”TEEFE‘GEE‘EB*T666*6F

x.‘

water in his ca e gtber cages in the room. 'He immediately_remgved the
animal aedwpiacedeitwyﬂési.refrigeratieeee.Upon questioning the animal

care stajjuit_w§§_ggjermined that no one had serviced Huts_l§iﬂlzi_gggﬂl§__
‘9VEF themwggkgpd since the responsible technician did/notggﬂgwwanimals
wd?EThou§edﬁinmthem.e Therefore: the animals QEFE“withoUt food or water

and unobserved for 2 days :*Saturday and Sunday.

«4.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since, it was necessary for Dr. Cunmins to leave SFRE and return to
N.Y. and arrange for the final animal shipment, he contacted Dr. Matthews,
notified her of the death and inStructed her to contact the investigator
and determine what tissues should be obtained at necropsy (since the
animal records were not yet available), and to perform the necropsy as in-
dicated. September 3 was Labor Day and a national holiday. Repeated
attempts to reach the investigator (Dr. William Robinson of Stanford UniV'
ersity) failed until Tuesday, September h. He indicated an interest in
liver tissue only. At this time the carcass had undergone extensive post
nortem autolysis and although Dr. Matthews examined all organs except
the brain for gross lesions, she deduced that autolysis of tissue was
too advanced to warrant saving tissues other than liver for further study.
Findings at necropsy were unremarkable except for lung mite lesions and
scarring of the liver from previous biopsy procedungsu:ﬂnEithEFwsuificient

 

 

 

  




August It, 19§1

Dr. Shirlgy ﬁcCtéil
Inthtnatioaal rrzmatel
chtéctloa League
Lightening, 3:: 29683

Dent 9t. BcCruall

We cpalogixc tor the delay in teepon¢iug to your lettcr of July 25, 15::.

Th: infatuation te§665t84 Hui originally ravixvad in L971; tbetciort, as ex-
;cricnccd sank difficulty in rcayonding promptly to your regacct. uuucvaz, .
cap; of the Southwest Foundation kcecaxch and Eéucation'a Spaciai sevich
Cozzitttc Ecrart vat recently zuccxved from Br. Luii Bérbaaa, hétLOnul
InaLitutc oi bezlth, national Bantu Lung ans aloud Institute (iunbL),
Bethesda, ﬁai}land. '

It in quita evident that there was a httukdoyn in conaunicatiun; not a
putpd$¢1ul neglect of onc'x dutlan. Cu: response to you: letter sadicatcd
that Dr. Stamina visited the tPAL on Suaday. noucvet, alter reviewing tbs
rcport, we realize thxt this was net [Lt cats. Our couaenta ware based cyan
ta: tnfcrantlon available iron thc field.

ﬁg are taking another look.at this cast and v131 éacxac the appropriate
action that nhould be taknn. .

3c appreciaté your continued latcxest in watering!) animal cztc.

Sincerely,

ﬁtnctt ﬂaicbttt -
Chic! staff Veterinarian
311:1 BAX Care 3 Ur ff
Vrtc:lnary Services

 




_~86 Seattle Poantettsgencer, Sundav July 19. 198‘; .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 4% 2/53} A £11171

hale death hit-é;

HONOLULU (UPD —- The international environmemg
tat organization Greenpeace has charged that a baby:

- humpback whale was hacked apart for its meat last;
November in Japan, even though the species is endanlg
gore-0L. . ' ._ 5”.”

_ The group, which ptans to meet in Seattle tomorzgyg» f“,
with the Japanese consul to protest Japan's “hating
practices, said Japanese whaling interests have Jung 2."

‘ dented titling proteded whales. , 15-?"

'_ The humpback abate has been officiatty .rotecied by If
the international 't’x'haltng Commiw'on (TW ) since'lﬁ, 11: .
and fewer than {mo are thought to remain, accordmg to f;

_ Greenpeace. The organization wheres there more about '1"
200,030 hurrnphec}: whales in prenhaling daan- 4:. ,. 3

A spokesman for the group said Fri-day that it has a 54,”

, photograph of the remains of an Lo‘ant humpback; ghalel '
m the Japanese community of Kau'ana, just gouthmst of : 7'-

‘ Tot-go Don “bite of the Hewett cha tor of Greenpeace _-__
said this photograph has been verﬁte by internationally :t

' known whale biologist Robert Brownetl in Brighton, I‘.'

‘ EnglanCL and by whale expert Edward Shattenberger, ex-L'

_.»__director of Sea Life Park in Han-31L ' 3,

 

 




FINAL REPORT SUMMARY
ENTRAPMRNT IN INSHORE FIS"ING GEAR IN

NEW? OUND LAND

JON LIEN

IVLEMORIAL UNIVERSITY OF NEWFOUNDLAND

ST. JOHN'S, NEWFOUNDLAND

CANADA ALB 3X9

 




      

inal Report Summary: Whale entrapment in inshore

     
 
 

fishing gear in Newfoundlan

Methods;

  
 

This research examined damage to inshore fishing gear

  
  

     
  

in Newfoundland caused by baleen whales. During the period

     

from June l, 1979 to Dec. 21, 1980 five basic studies were

        
    

conducted. First, the extent and pattern of the damage to

     
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
     

gear and whales was systematically examined by interviews,
meetings with fishermen, guestionaire surveys and a card
reporting system. Second, attitudes of fishermen toward the
problem were examined by interviews and guestionaires.
Third, causative factors which contributed to the problem
were studied by on site accident investigations and other
studies. Fourth, whales entrapped in gear were studied and
methods developed to release them. Fifth, alarms were
designed which could be placed on fishing gear to enhance-
its detection by whales and the effectiveness of these
devices was evaluated.

Findings:

(1) Although historical data is scanty, whale collisions
with inshore fishing gear are not a new problem for Newfoundland's
inshore fishermen. There is much anecdotal and historical
evidence indicating that inshore gear damage due to whales
and sharxs has always occurred at a low and irregular level.
Although the level of damage was typically low in total, costs of
the damage could be severe for the fishermen effected. In the

past,

probably due to the type of materials use

0.
'4
:J
P“
3.1
m
D
'4
:J
\0
L0
(D
D)
H

  




construction, few whales were actually entrapped in
following a collision; with the introduction of ronger
synthetic webs and ropes, whales have more commonly become
caught in the fishing gear in recent years.

(2) Interviews with fishermen indicate that there has been
a substantial increase in whale damage in the past few years,
especially in the pas five years. A guestionaire survey
indicates an 'rr gula ten fold increase in collisions
1974 to 1978. Locations of the damage are patchy an sites vary
from year to year. Most damage occurs in the eastern fishery
zone on the island.

(3) Increase in reported collisions by whales with inshore
‘fishing gear during this period are related to: (a) substantial

increases in inshore whale sightings (of from 70-300% depending

on location and species of whale during this same period);

-(b) redistribution of whales inshore so they are concentrated

in areas of bait availability; this is related to reduced .

capelin stocks; (c) increased inshore fishing activity durin

this same period; 450% increase in effort; 300% increase in

the amount of fishing gear in the water; (d) changes in attitudes

of inshore fishermen which make them more likely to report-damages.
(4) In 1979, 327 damage reports with a mean gear loss of

$990.00 were received.. Fishermen reported the most serious

collisions but typically did not report the least costly

incidents. Corrected for underreporting damage incurred in

1979 totaled about 1/2 million dollars in lost gear and 2 1/2

million dollars in down time and lost fish. Damages were

Q

divided approximately evenly between c0' traps and groundfish

 




            
     
     
      
      
      
     
   
     
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
  

  

gillnets; a small portion of total reported damage involved
salmon nets and other fishing gear. Damages showed a time
progression with the earliest collisions occurring on the

South Coast and proceeding eastward to the Avalon Peninsula.
Damages on the NE Coast occurred later in the fishing season.
Most damages centered in eastern fishery zones especially

St. Mary‘s Bay, the Southern Shore, the Bay de Verde area
and Bonavista Bay.

(5) In 1980, 562 damage.reports with a mean gear loss
value of $514.00 were received. The higher number of reported
collisions with a lower mean loss compared to l979 reflects
fishermen knowledge of the repdting systems. Estimated
damages in l980 totaled about $390,000.00 in lost gear and
about 1 1/2 million dollars in lost fish.' Most of the
damage in 1980 occurred to codtraps; there was also a large
increase in damage to salmon gillnets especially in Labrador.
No temporal progression of damages around the cost was
observed; all damages occurred at about the same time.

Most damage again occurred in eastern fishery zones.

(6) Comparison of differences in damages between 1979
and l980 indicates high between year variability in the
location, amount and type of damage. Reasons for the decrease
in l980 damage.compared to 1979 are: (a) a late start for
the cod trap fishery due to cold water; (b) an inshore
fishermens strike/lockout which reduced fishing effort; and
(c) altered distribution of whales due to changes in capelin
abundance. dign variability in collision frequency between

areas also observed; collisions per unit of fishing effort

 
   

q

for all types of fishing gear varies greatly between area

\—




   

      
    

(7)

Although the total of damages represents only 2—3%

        
 

 
 
 

I'h

   

nsh

'4.

O

O

H

(D

r h
P

U]

:3;
(D

H
“<1

the total annual value of the the damages

   

are usually concentrated in a few areas and this means that the

  
 
  
  
   
  
   
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
   

economic impact of the collisions is restricted to a few fishermen.
This accounts for the extreme emotionality fishermen express

over whale damages. Predominate attitudes expressed by fishermen
are; (a) that the whale problem has occurred bacause of fisher'
management which ignores the inshore fishermens best interest;

\_ 0 Q ' n y ‘ . ‘ 1
Kigira (b) that the ban on whaling should be lifted. Over time there
// ‘ \ \dwﬁwﬂmﬂwﬂwww_ -.. 1...- .~ ,. _- .. , V _ g g >_ 7 y .--

1

nas been an increasing tendency to see capelin stock recovery
and technical aids such as net alarms as eventual solutions;
(c) that they Should be compensnted for their losses; and

(d) that they are more or less helpless in dealing with whale
collisions or entrapments by themselves. Activities seen as
options by fishermen which may eventually allieviate the problem
are whale shooting and expressions of protest to the media and
government officials.

(8) Most species of whales do little damage to fishing
gear even though they frequently collide with it. A survey
indicated that many thousands of porpoises are caught by
inshore fishermen but they do not damage the gear. Other whales
such as minke and fins are infrequently involved in collisions.
Humpbacks, an endangered species, cause 70—90% of the damage.
Fin whales cause damage usually only to groundfish gillnets.

Minke whales cause infrequent damage to cod traps, salmon nets

 

and herring gillnets. Large sharks, especially basking sharks,

cause an unknown percentage of damage reported as 'whale damage'.




at - .. ”cu-”m..-
...-.

O

 

In l979 7% of entrapped animals reported as 'whales' were

basking sharks. In 1980, 66 reports of basking shark entrapment
were received. As a result of a collision with fishing gear,
22-27% of the animals become entrapped in the gear.

(9) In 1979, 76 calls were received from fishermen
reporting entrapped whales in their gear; in l980,£}j§:Entrapment
calls were received. This increase does not likely reflect an
increased rate of entrapment but rather occurred as fishermen
learned of our services in helping release entrapped whales.

Percentages of species of animals entrapped in l979 were 7%

.54“
\

\

. . . /” ‘\
sharks, 7% misc. whale speCies, 9% fins, 13% minkes andk62% '
humpbacks. In l980 entrapments by species were 2% fins,

6% misc. species of whales, 8% minkes,(ﬂl% humpbacks and

'43% basking sharks. ‘

(10) Of 223 whales reported entrapped from 1969—1980,
43% died. Compared to other whales humpbacks fare better;
3l% die if entrapped. When whales are caught in gear 60%
of them require human help in achieving release. Most often this
is given by fishermen but only 25% of these whales are released
alive. When fishermen reported an entrapped whale to us in
most cases they were simply advised on procedures for releasing
the animal; in l0% of the cases-they were supplied with advice
and equipment. In 30% of the cases we released the whale
ourselves.

(ll) The goal of these releases was to assist fishermen
and to develop satisfactory methods of releasing the animals with
minimum additional damage to the fishing gear. In our releases

alive; 30% were dead by the

Q.

70% of the animals were release

 




 

time we arrived to help. Several rtléase tools were developed

which are of substantial assistance in releasing either live
.or dead whales minimizing gear damage incurred during the
release. Attempts to train fishermen in the release of live
whales with these techniques met with limited success;
.ishermen were afraid of live whales; worried about damage
to their boats, and were often unab e to view gear underwater.
(12) Humpback whales entra-ped by fishing gear were small
immature animals; less then l5% were adult. Live releases
occurred in 65% ofgthe time; the animal was released alive
but in poor condition in another 5% of the cases. In l979 and
1980 about 20 humpbacks died in fishing gear each year; verified
deaths average lS/year. Due to pressures of work only a few
of the dead animals were thoroughly examined. Even numbers of
males and females were entrapped. Animals eared normal but
there was some indication that they were less fat then expected,
for animals of their size.
(13) Frequency of whale collisions in an area appear to be
a rather straightforward function of gear and whale density
with several exceptions. (a) Capelin abundance is the best
single predictor of where and when collisions occur. Capelin
spawning behavior produces feeding by whales directly around
cod traps and whale density during this period produces hi her
than expected damage levels in areas such as St. Mary's Bay.
(b) .reas where water is least clear and Has the highest ambient

noise 1 vels appear to have higher than expected collision rat 5.

 




    
       
   
   
    
        
    
       
     
     
     
           
      
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   

Accident investigations following whale collisions

   

gear do not yield a tidy pattern of causes: (a)
high risk of collision trap berths consistently have whale
damage year after year, (b) risk of damage is not associated
with type of trap or construction materials, (c) traps with
long, shore-fast leaders are at greatest risk; (d) the
highest probability of a collision occurs on the first day a
trap is in the water and then the risk of collision rapidly

f

O

declines; most collisions occur in the first 10 days
fishing. (e) high risk berths have high ambient noise and
lower visability; (f) the best fishing traps and areas have
the highest risk of a collision; (g) collisions with gear
occur at the exact time when the gear is most productive.

- (15) Visual alarms and passive and active acoustical
devices were developed which could be detected by whales but
which did not disturb fish. It was hypothesized that such
alarms could warn whales of gear presence and minimize
collisions. Tests on cod traps in 1979 indicate that visual
and passive acoustical devices are not effective as net
alarms. Active acoustical alarms appeared useful in reducing
collision frequency and cost of collisions when used on
codtraps. Because we were unable to predict the location of
high damage areas to gillnets, tests of alarm devices on
gillnets were not possible in l979. In 1980 about 10% of
all cod traps fished in Newfoundland were tested with one of
four types of active acoustical alarms or as control traps.
Control traps without alarms had collision rates of .lZ/trap
day; the collision rate on traps with alarms devices did not

(.l3/trap day). Cost of collision was however

   




    

    

significantly less ($600-$700 for gear and fish loss) when a

device was on a trap compared to unprotected traps. Collisions

with traps which had alarm devices often appeared to occur
when the whale was turning away from the gear following
detection; it is hypothesized that as high risk trap berths
had high ambient noise levels the alarm signal/noise ratio
was low and therefore ala m devices were detected too late
to completely avoid a collision. It is hypothesized that

effectiveness could be enhanced by louder alarm devices. In 1980

gillnet alarm experiments were disrupted by the strike/lockout;

\_.. .M..-_ g. W_,,__,.. WW _,.4.

data thus far obtained appears promising.

 

(17) small underwater explosives (fishing salutes) supplied
to fishermen to scare whales away while gear was being worked
and was partially aboard their boats were effe ective in scaring
the whale a short distance away for a short period of time.
Nearly 95% of the fishermen using these devices found them
helpful. Other attempts to scare whales away from gear fishing
areas were not_successful.
Conclusions and Recommendations:

(1) Whale damage to inshore fishing gear is a serious

economic problem in some areas of Newfoundland where collisions

occur commonly, year after year, such as St. Mary's Bay.

‘—
Ho—L... __,, .5...“

 

W— ‘ -..
' .A um‘.

amage incurred in other areas is often serious to the crew

receiving the d& nage as fish losses tend to be substantial.

Although over all, whale damage represents a very small

percentage of the total value of the inshore fishery, such

ercentage of the total

’0

m
B
0'

damage y represent a very high

.4

earnings of individual fishermen in some areas. They are




   

therefore an extremely emotional problem as well

 
    

of economic instability in the inshore fishery.

(2) The effects of the collisions on whale stocks are

    
 

not completely known. The humpback is the whale most commonly

      
       
    
      
  

involved in collisions. Verified deaths of humpbacks were

15 per year in 1979 and 1980; estimated deaths average 20

   

per year. Based on cumulative catch records it is estimated

 

  
     
    
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
   

that the virginal size of the Newfoundland feeding stock was
about 1500 animals; it has been recently estimated there are
800 animals now in this population. At present relationships

between populations of humpbacks in the NW Atlantic are not

   

well known° the total stock however has recently been estimated

   
 

between 2000 and 4000 animals. The incidental take of
‘ humpbacks in_the Newfoundland inshore fishery is important
in controlling the growth of this stock. Effects of injury
or stress as a result of collisions or shootings on reproduction
rates are not known but may also have some effect. Impact
of fishing gear collisions on other baleen whale species is
not serious; collision rates are low and the stocks large.
The by—catch of small common whales and porpoises, typically
in gillnets, is sufficient to warrant concern about its
impact on these species.
(3) Whale collisions with fishing gear have increased
greatly over the past five years due to a combination of causes.
A primary cause is depletion of capelin stocks and as this

K" ,. _. V

bait becomes more abundant redistribution of whales will occur




       
   
  
     
   
    
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
 

and the problemw will decline. However because of the
renewed effort in the inshore fishery, the amount of fishing
gear now used and recovery of whale stocks from previous

lows, the incidence of whale collisions will continue at a

‘.,__ »-- .—--
..,_._ \ ..

l Significant lSVEl- Although the recent level of collisions
has been greatly exaggerated by the lack of capelin, conflict
between the large baleen whales and fishermen is inevitable.
Management programs for both the short and long terms are
necessary.

(4) Continued monitoring of the whale damage problem
over the long term is important to better understand the
variation in the present data and the effect of collisions
on both the whales and fishermen. If compensation or

insurance prOgrams are developed they will undoubtly be

restrictive and not solicit all damages. A comprehensive

   

damage reporting scheme over a long period of time is

necessary to understand impact on the fishery and whale

   
       

stocks. This Mport ng scheme should compliment data

    
 

 

gained by insurance programs but also include incentives to

   

report by—catch of species such as porpoises and dolphins

     

which do not cause gear damage, and to report damage to

   
  

 
    

types of gear not covered by the program, etc.

    
  

(5) Techniques and tools for releasing alive and dead

 
   

      

entrapped whales are extremely effective. Efforts thus far

 
   
 
 

   
   

troduce this technology to fishermen have been limited.

   

’4.

CO

  
 
   

rom a ollis ion

H]

   

The release services minimized damages resulting

     
   
 
    
    

emotionality about them; fishermen found them very useful

       

and provision of the service gained researchers access to live

 
   




and dead whales and Opportuhity for accident investigations
which can provide information on proximate causes of the
collision. Release services prevent distruction of entrapped
animals and additional gear damage. This service should be
continued and additional efforts made to t-ain individuals
in high damage areas to release whales and provide them with
release equipment. Utilization of dead whales for scientific
study needs to be organized.

(6) High frequency acoustic net alarms are now cost
effective on cod traps in some high risk areas if included

in an insurance scheme. Additional research on the devices

 

is necessary to improve performance however. Evaluation

of alarm performance on gillnets to access the effectiveness

 

of the devices in preventing collisions by both small

cdontocetes and baleen whales is necessary. /./A
/

(7) Basking shark by—catch is seriously confounded

with whale damage. Differences in the type of damage done
to gear by the two types of animals can often be distinguished
but not always. There appears to be opportunity to process
basking shark by-catch so that returns to the fishermen may
pay for the gear damage in the typical collision. Historical
patterns of basking shark/fishery interactions indicate that
typically by—catch problems are periodic and short lived.

(8) ' attitudes of fishermen towards whale
damages are a critical aspect in successfully investigating

the curren' problem in the inshore ,' in developing

 




programs and techniques to alleviate ' current conflict.

The cooperation of fishermen is es ential to achieve accurate
and reliable reporting of by-catch information; in evaluating
the utility of control devices. Ongoing assessment 0

toward the problem and programs designed to allevia

should be part of all future efforts.

 




‘M”"M

ﬂaming Whppﬁﬁmcmon _ 1”"
Mr. STEVENS". Mr. President. I ask
unanimous consent that'the Senate pro-
ceed. to the consideration of Calendar
No. 285, HR. 4084. '
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The. .
bill will be stated by title. ' ’ " " _'
The legislative Clerk read as follows:
A bill (HR. 4084) to Improve the opera-

tion of the Marine Mammal Protection Act
of 1972, and for other purposes.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to the present consideration of
the bill? .

mere being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consideration of the bill.

 




 

September 29, 1981

Mr. PACKWQOD. Mr. President, I rise
in strong support of HR. 4084, a bill
which amends and reauthorizes the Ma-u
rine Mammal Protection Act of 1972.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act
(MMPA) was passed 9 years ago to pro-
tect and manage the more than 100 spe»
' cies of marine mammals found within
the jurisdiction of the United States, in-
cluding whales, seals, porpoises, sea ot-
ters, polar bears, walruses, and manatees.
The 1972 act reconniaed that marine
mammals constitute a sig, .iﬁcant func-
tioning element of the marine ecosystem,
that certain species and population
stocks were in danger of extinction, and
that these depleted species needed
protection.

The act established a moratorium on
the taking and importing of marine
mammals and their products. It also ire
stituted a permit system for the limited
takird of marine mammals during com-
mercial ﬁshing operations, for scientiﬁc
research programs, and for public dis«
play purposes.

While the not established a Federal
program for the protection and manage“
ment of marine mammals, it also pro-v
vided a mechanism by which States could
regulate marine mammals found within
their jurisdictions. illhe Mix/EPA also man-
dated scientiﬁc research programs, esa
tablished civil and criminal penalties for
violations, and created the Marine Mama
mal Commission to make recommenda-
tions on marii‘ie mammal protection and
management policies. The act continues
to be jointly administered by the Depart-
ment of Commerce through the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra~
tion and by the Department of the Inte—
rior through the Fish and Wildlife
Service.

,After 9 years of implements. ion the
successes and failures of the Marin
Mammal Protection Act are now appar~
lent. Even though the act has succeeded in

l

protecting many depleted marine mains -

mal species and populations, the act fails
to recognize the interactions of many of

these species with other elements of th ,
marine environment. Some provisions of ;

the act have proven unworkable and
some deﬁnitions need to be clariﬁed.

In light of these and other issues, the

Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation held a lull corn .iittee
hearing in conjunction with the national
ocean policy study on the act on April 3.

1981. Representatives from the National ,
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra—
tion, the Fish and Wildlife Semice, the"
Marine Mammal Commission, the States ‘

of Oregon and Alaska, the ﬁshing indus—
try, and the environmental community
testiﬁed on the current status of the act
as well as on the acts problem areas.

n May 6, 1981, the committee re-
ported a bill (S. 1186), which authorized
appropriations for ﬁscal years 1982 and
1983 upon the condition that all int-era
ested parties would continue to work to-
ward drafting amendments on the act’s
problem areas.

From May through the summer, the
committee worked very closely with all
interested parties and reached a con-
sensus on two major problem areas,

1 namely, the tuna-porpoise issue and the

f, .return of marine mammal management

.,..
v H“

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD -~

authority to the States. Specifically, an
parties recognized the signiﬁcant prog-
ress made by the tuna industry in re-
ducing the incidental taking of porpoises
in the course or commercial ﬁshing oper—
ations. It was therefore agreed that the
“immediate goal” language of the act
shall be satisﬁed in purse seine ﬁshing
for yellowﬁn tuna by the continued use
of the best marine mammal safety tech-
niques and equipment that are econom~
ically and technologically practicable.

On the issue of State marine manage-—
ment authority, an agreement was
reached on how this authority shall be
transferred from the Federal Govern—
ment to the States and on what elements
a State management program shall con-
tain in order to be consistent with the
purposes and policies of the act.

The committee has also worked closely
with the House Committee on Merchant
Marine and Fisheries in drafting other
improvements to the act. The ﬁnal
agreements reached by the Commerce
Committee and all interested parties is
reﬂected by HR. 4984 and its accom-
panying report.

This bill truly illustrates a consensus
on the problems and needs of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act. It is important

to note that the bill in no way relaxes

the Us». policy on marine mammal con-
servation. The bill reauthorizes the act
for 3 years and leaves intact the
basic protective philosophy upon which
the act was founded.

With these amendments, the act still

will provide for the protection of all
: marine

mammal species, population
stocks, and habitat areas, and where the
act’s protective eiforts have succeeded
in restoring marine mammal popula»
tions, the amendments will facilitate
conservation and management efforts by
the States as well as by the Federal
Government. This policy of shared man-
agement will reduce Federal regulatory
‘urdens and will result in objective man»
agement determinations that are based
upon a public record.

The protection of wildlife and wildlife
habitat areas is the responsibility of
every citizen. Industries whose actions
may signiﬁcantly ailect the environment
bear a special responsibility for environ-

» mental protection. Government can no

longer afford to be the sole source of

:_ funds necessary for monitoring the im—
1 pact or industry actions. The private sec-

tor must recognize its obligation to fund
research on the possible eﬁects of its ac-
tions on wildlife and habitat areas. HR.
4084 therefore requires industry to spon-
sor research and to cooperate with
Government and the scientiﬁc commu-
nity to assess such impacts.

HR. 4084 also recognizes the Federal
Government’s responsibility to protect
marine mammals as a national resource.
In response to these amendments,
Government agencies with responsibility
for marine mammal protection must in-
crease their research eﬁorts, improve
their coordination with the States, and
implement the act’s new provisions.

In light of these improvements and in
order to continue vital activities in
marine mammal conservation "and re-
search for the next 3 years, I urge my
Senate colleagues to support HR. 4084.

‘ S 10/ 07'

l mg. - EVENS. Mr. President, I com-
mend the many interested parties that
have worked during the last several
months to bring the much needed
changes to the Marine Mammal Protec-
tion Act of 1972 that are contained in
HR. 4084. This process began in the Sen-
ate in February of this year and was com
tinued by Congressmen BREAUX, Foa-
srrHE, and YOUNG of Alaska in the
House. Close cooperation between the
House and the Senate have produced
what I believe is a great step forward
to our goal of rational management of
our marine mammal resources.

The Alaska native community and the
State Department of Fish and Game
have devoted substantial resources to
produce the amendment before us today.
I would like to thank them, as well as the
many other parties involved in this long,
and at times, difﬁcult process.

The State of Alaska supports within
its borders the greatest variety and com
centration of marine marmaals in the
United States. More than 28 species re-
side in the waters adjacent to Alaska
along its 35,000 miles of coastline. Marine
mammals have always "been viewed by
the State of Alaska as valuable and im»
portant resources.

From the outset of statehood in 1959,
a marine mammal research and manage-

.ment staff was established within the

Alaska Dep rtment of Fish and Game.
Management efforts, including scientiﬁc
research, establishment of marine parks
and sanctuaries, and enforcement of
hunting seasons, bag limits, and humane
harvest methods, were under way by
1960.

By 1972, the State had developed con-
servation programs for the 10 ecological-
ly significant species inhabiting Alaska’s
coastal zone; had successfully introduced
sea otter into areas of its former range;
had eliminated Federal programs of
predator control directed toward harbor
seals and sea lions; had eliminated the
seal bounty; had established harvest
monitoring; had undertaken research ef~
forts on marine mammals signiﬁcantly
assisted by studies undertaken by the
University of Alaska; and had estab-
lished close working relationships with
coastal villagers involved in the taking
of marine mammals for subsistence.

By 1972, Mr. President, it was recog-
nized both nationally and international-
ly that Alaska had developed a broadly
based and effective marine mammal con"
servation program.

Alaska‘s program was swept away in
1972 with enactment of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act which pro»
empted State programs and established
a substitute regime built around the con-
cept of protection instead of manage~
ment. Owing to the rigidities of the
Marine Mammal Protection Act, every
effective marine mammal management
program in my State, except for the
North Paciﬁc Fur Seal, which is managed
under international convention, has
been dismantled. No effective Federal
programs have been substituted.

Consequently, the Pacific walrus pop-
ulation apparently has overpopulated its
habitat and is showing signs of stress.‘
Expanding sea otter populations are
pressuring important ﬁshery stocks.

 




i. -' I716

There is virtually no harvest-ant e u
plus in the'Dungeness crab ﬁshery in the
aardova region of Prince William Sound
because control of sea otter populations,
which congregate near the molt‘ing
grounds, is not permissible.

The king: crab ﬁshery of Cook Inlet
and Shelikoif Strait in south—central
Alaska is being reduced by increased sea
otter predation. Other conflicts, pri-
marily involving pollock, are occurring
with expanding sea lion populations in
southeast and south—central Alaska and
the Aleutians and with harbor seals in
Bristol Bay, the southeast Bering Sea,
and the northern. Alaska peninsula.
Other west coast States have experi-
enced ﬁshery/mammal conﬂicts.

When the Marine Mammal Protection
Act passed in 1972, I was concerned. that
the general moratorium would inﬂict
severe hardship upon the Native resi-
dents of Alaska’s coastal villages who de—
pend upon the marine mammal harvest
for their sustenance and other needs.
Consequently, I urged inclusion of sec-
tion 101(b) of the act as an exception

. to the general prohibition on taking. As
you know, section 101(b) exempts the
harvest of marine mammals by Alaska
Natives from the moratorium so long as
animals are taken either for subsistence
purposes or for the purpose of making
authentic Native handicrafts.

Section lOl(b) was interpreted by the
US. District Court in Female of Togiak
against United States, to exempt Native
hunting from, State as well as Federal
regulation.

HR. 4084 contains several important
provisions which clarify that Native
hunting of a marine mammal popula-
tion may be regulated by the Alaska
Board of Game after management au-
thority has been returned to the State
of Alaska and which guarantee that
State regulation will accommodate and
protect Alaska Native subsistence and
. other uses.

With. respect to the subsistence uses
deﬁnition it is important to note that the

- , purview of the term is limited to custom»

ary and traditional uses by rural Alaska
residents. This limitation recognizes
that as a threshold matter subsistence is
something characteristic of rural, rather
than urban, Alaska. It is the intent of the
House Merchant Marine and Fisheries
Committee and it is our intent that the
term emcompass the Native and non-
Native residents of Barrow, Kotzebue,
. Nome, Bethel, Dillingham, and the other
rural villages and communities scattered
along Alaska’s coastline and river sys-
tems. .

Both section 101 (b) of the act, and the
subsistence uses definitions in section 803
of the Alaska National interest lands
Conservation Act and in AS. 16.05340
(36) recognise customary trade as an im~
portant subsistence activity. And, indeed,
the use of marine mammals for such
purposes is a critical component of the
economy of many Alaska villages. The
term “customary trade” is classiﬁed as
a nonsubsistence use to facilitate more
efﬁcient management by the State Board
of Game.

,2: SSIONAL RECOR.D-—-SENATE

' Section 109(d) (2) requires the Secre-

tary to adopt all State regulations relat-
ing to the. taking of a particular species
or population for any purpose~includ~
ing but not limited to both subsistence
and nonsubsistence uses—except to the
extent he determines that a particular
regulation is inconsistent with his regu-s
latory responsibilities set forth in section
101(a) of the act.

This requirement is of particular im-m
portance in. Alaska. Both subsistence and
nonsubsistence hunters need one set of
regulations to govern. their activities. If
the State of Alaska were authorized to
adopt one regulatory scheme, and the
Secretary were authorized to adopt a
completely diiferent approach, the lame
fulness of a particular activity would de-
pend upon an artiﬁcial delineation of
jurisdiction at the seaward edge of the
territorial sea. In addition, the enforce-
ment of either regulatory scheme would
be next to impossible because of the dif—
ﬁculty of determining where a particular
animal was taken. ,

As a result, section 109(d) (2) elimi-
nates the Secretary’s discretion not to
adopt State regulations. Absent a con«
ﬁict with his section 101(a) responsibili-
ties, the Secretary is without authority
to second guess State regulatory deci-n
sionmaking in the ﬁshery conservation
zone.

In recognition of the Secretary’s sec-
tion 101(a) responsibilities, section 109
(d) (1) requires the State to integrate
section 101(a) takings into its overall
regulatory scheme, and section 101(a)
takings are to take precedence over all
other types of takings except the harvest
ofmarine mammals for subsistence uses.

For example, if a State determines
that a maximum of 100 animals may be
harvested without reducing a particular
pepulation below optimum sustainable
population and then authorizes the liar-a
vest of 100 animals, obviously no animals
will be available for the Secretary to al-
locate for section 101(a) purposes.

Consequently, either the Secretary
and the State must agree on a total allo—
cation which keeps the combined har~
vest within. the loo-“animal limit, or the
population. will be overharvested. Sec-
tion 109(d) (l) mandates the former
ratherthan the latter result.

However, it should be emphasized that
section were) (i) cooperative manage—
ment mechanism does not author'se the
Secretary to second guess a State with.
respect to its regulatory decisionmaking
unless he can afﬁrmatively demonstrate
that when combined with necessary sec-a
tion 10l(al takings the total harvest and»
thorized by" the State exceeds the maxi-3
mum number of animals which may be
harvested without reducing the popula~
tion below its optimum sustainable pope-
ulation.

So far as enforcement is concerned,
there are virtually no Federal enforces
merit agents in the ﬁeld. The State, al—
though preempted by the 1972 act, has
continued its efforts to protect impor-
tant habitat areas and to secure volun-
tary compliance with conservation
measures in force prior to passage of the
Federal act.

September 9‘9, 198]

Mr. President, when Congress enacted
this legislation in 1972, it made provision
for return of management to the States
where management decisions for these
local marine mammal populations rightly
belong. But the procedure established.
was so cumbersome that it took 4 years
before an administrative law judge could
complete the hearing process that recw
ommended return of management to the
State of Alaska. Another year and a hall
passed before the Federal agencies could.
prepare the necessary environmental im-v
pact statements. Management of walrus
was returned to the State of Alaska, but
under conditions that made practical ads
ministration impossible.

As it applies to marine mammal pro«
grams in Alaska, the Marine Mammal
Protection Act has been counterproduc»
tive. There has been little Federal man—v
agement and virtually no Federal en~
forcement. I welcome the amendments in
HR. 4084 which simplify the process of
returning management to the States.
These valuable animals must be managed
sensibly in a manner which assures the
long-run enhancement of all marine rem
sources. I question whether many of
Alaska’s marine resources can survive
another 9 years of Federal disregard.

Simpliﬁcation of the process forrea
turning management decisions to the-
States will also mean that funds pre»
viously spent on cumbersome adminisﬁ
trative procedures can now be more effec»
tively channeled toward resource
management in the ﬁeld. Alaska remains
willing to reestablish its worlderenowned
marine mammal program.

While the amendments are a signiﬁ—
cant improvement, there remain in the
act procedures which are more complex:
than are necessary in my view. We will
need the assistance of the Federal agen-
cies to facilitate management by State
wildlife agencies. I understand that the
Departments of Commerce and Interior
are now willing to facilitate return. of
management to Alaska. If these amends
ments are not adequate to make the
Marine Mammal Protection Act work»
able, then we will simply have to recite;
amine the basic goals of the Marine
Mammal Protection. Act.

Mr. CANNON. Mr. President, I wish to
add my voice to those supporting the
passage of HR. 4084, which. would rcu
authorize the Marine Mann‘nal Protec-
tion" Act for 3 years and. make a number
of useful changes to the act.

The act enjoys the avid backing of
citizens all over this country. including
my home State of Nevada. it has worked.
well over the years since enactment in
l972. Nevertheless. during our reauthor-
isation hearings this spring the Corn,»
merce (frammittee was advised of a num~
‘ber of aspects of the act that needed
correction. We therefore reported out a
2-year reauthorization, with the under-
eta iding that floor action would not pro:
ceed until a suitable package of. amends
ments was worked out.

I am appreciative of the considerable
effort that followed during the sum—
mer to develop such an amendment
package. HR. 4084 represents the prod-

 




‘Q

‘5

September .29, 1981

“act of that effort, and the degree of its
acceptance by critics as well as advo~
cates of the act is shown by the 3~year
period of reauthorization. The length of
the reanthorization is an expression of
our strong support for the continued
protection of marine mammals. We an—
ticipate that these amendments will en-
hance the already effective operation of
the act, especial? insofar as procedures
have been improved for returning n23-
rinc mammal management to the States.

Mr. HOLLINGS. Mr. President, I
shouid iii-re to join my colleagues in sup-
porting the passage of HR. tote. This
bill. woaid rcaiithorize the Marine Mam-—
mal Protection Act for another 3 years
and represents a strong endorsement of
tire act’s policy to protect the marine
iriammals in our coastal waters and on
the high. seas. HR. 4984 incindes a num—
ber of changes that wili improve the
operation of the act, especially insofar
as it facilitates the return of manage-—
ment to the States

its one of the sponsors of the original
legislation when it was enacted in 197'2.
1' am pleased to see. Congress continue
to recognize the worth of this act and
its Widespread support among the citi-
zens of this country.

Mr. STERB’eS Mr. President, I yield
to my distinguished colleague, the junior
Senator from . ias {a

Mr. MISRKQWSKI. Mr. President.
Alaska supports the greatest variety and
concentration of marine mammals in the
United States. More than 28 species tic-—
our in the waters adjacent to Alaska
along 35,360 relics of compiex coastline.
Marine mammals have always been
viewed by the State of Aiaska as valuable
and important res arces. From the out
set of statehood in .1959, a. marine ream-
mal research and management staff was

established Within the Alaska Departe-

rnent of Fish and Game.

Management eil’orts, including sciene
tine research, establishment of marine
parks and sanctuaries. and enforcement
of hunting seasons, hag ivrzrs anti hu~
inane harvest methods, were under way
by 196:}. By liiﬁ'fi the State had dew-ﬂogged
coneervation I‘Diaﬂ‘l for the to ecoiog—
'ically significant “Jones inhabiting
Aiasi:a’s coastal. zone; had successfully
introduced sea otter into areas of its
former range had elin'iinated Federal
programs of predator control directed
toward hatter seals anti sea ion had
eliz'iiinatecl the seal bounty: had estai»
libi’liﬁr‘i harvest monitoring: heel under-—
taken research efforts on “car/we mam»
mais signiﬁcantly assisted by studies
undertaken by the University of aiaska;
anti "nan. estaniished “we working rela»
tlons‘iiins With coastal viilagers involved
in the taking of marine mammais for
subsistence. By 1972, Mr. President, it
Was recognized oath nationail, and in~
ternaticnaliy that aiaska iii-iii developed
a broaoig based and effective marine
mammal conservation program

Virtually all of Alaska‘s program was
swept away in 1972 with enactment of
the Marine Mammal Protection Act

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD -- SENATE

which preempted State programs and
which established a substitute regime
built around the concept of protection
instead oi” management.

Owing to the rigidities of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act, every effective

‘marine mammal management program
in my State, except for the bowliead
7whale and the fur seal, which is man-
‘aged under
[has eeen dismantied. But no eii‘ective

international convention,

Federai programs have been substituted.

Consequently, the Paciﬁc wairas popu-
lation apparently has overpopulated its
habitat and is showing signs of s ress
Expanding sea otter populations are
pressuring important fishery stocks.
There is Virtnaily no harvestaleie ser-
pl'us the dungeness crab fishery in
the Cordova region of Prince William
Sound bccaase control oi" sea otter cerium
lations, which congregate near the molt»
ing grounds, is not permissible. The king
crab ﬁshery of Cook Inlet and Shelikof
Strait in South Central Alaska is being
reduced by increased sea otter predation.

Other conﬂicts, primariiy involving
polloc‘a, are occuring with expanding
sea lion populations in southeast and
south. centrai Alaska and the Aleutians
and with harbor seals in Bristol Bay,
the southeast Bering Sea, and the

Northern Alaska Peninsula. Other west
coast States have experienced fishery
mammal conﬂicts.

So far as enforcement is concerned,
there are virtually no Federal enforce-
ment agents in the field. The State, al-
thmigh preempted by the 197.2 act, has

continued its efforts to protect impor-
tant habitat areas and to secure volun-
tary compliance with conservation
measures in force nrior to passage of
the Federal act.

Mr. President, when Congress enacted
this legislation in 1972, it made prov}-
sions for return of management tothe
States where management decisions for
these local marine mammal populations
rightly belong. But the procedure es-
tablisheri was so cumbersome that it
literally took Li years in the case of
.Aiaslra before an administrative law
judge could compiete the hearing proc-
ess and recommned that management
be returned to the State.

Another year and a haiii’ passed be~
fore the Federal agencies could prepare
"the nec.Ssrrry environmental impact
statements. hwzgeme“ of walrus was
ret mod. to the State of aiaska but con.-
ditions imposed made practical admim
istration irnnossihie and the State re-
turned management back to the Federal
Government.

Then, a ‘i'é‘erierai court in Washington.
iii}. cone tread the Mare 1. iaWnn‘ Proa-
tection Act to bar the State from ei‘ii’orc-
ing regulations with respect to native
take of marine'mammals. As a legal
matter, the State could not regulate the
most important source of taking.

As it applies to marine mammal pro-
grams in Alaska, the MMPA has been
counterproductive. There has been little
Federal. management and virtually no

S 10717

Federal enforcement; monitoring of
harvest has been inadequate.

For these reasons, I welcome the
amendments in HR. 4084 which would
simplify the process of returning man-
agemcnt to the States. These valuable
animals must be managed sensibiy and
in a. manner which assures the long-run
maintenance and enhancement of all
marine resources. I question whether
many oi" Alaska’s marine resources can
survive another .9 years of Federal
disregard.

Simpliﬁcation of the process for re.-
turning management decisions to the
States will also mean the funds pre~
vioiisly spent on. cumbersome adminis—
trative procedures can now be more ef~
fectively channeled toward resource
management in. the ﬁeld. In the caee of
Alaska, the State is willing to devote
signiﬁcant funds toward marine maa -
mal programs.

While the amendments are a signiﬁ~
cant improvement, there remain in the
act procedures which are more complex
than are necessary in my View. We will
need the assistance of Federal agencies
to facilitate management by State wild»
iife agencies. »

Ii’ these amendments are not adequate
to make the MMPA workable, then we
will simply have to take up this impor—
tant matter again.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill
is open to amendment. If there be no
amendment to be proposed, the question
is on the third reading of the bill.

The bill was ordered to be read a third
time. was read the third time, and was
passed.

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I move
to reconsider the vote by which. the hill
was passed.

Mr. RGBERT C. BYRD. I move to lay
that motion on the table.

The motion to lay on the tahie was
agreed to.

 

 




‘

3 remember or, 1.981

. Mr. BREAUX, i thank the gentle-
men for his comments. I Would only
point out further that the last authore-
izotion and sppropria’tion was $6 mil-
lion, That the committee wound up re-
porting c $11,044,000 authorization, i.
think, is a reﬂection oi the fact that
we, too, are committed to working
toward. s. .helsncedtbudget and that is
indicated hy the substantial cut in euc-

thorieetion level that we are reporting

~

‘ to this House, ,
fl thank the chs. 'rrnan,

Mr, d‘tllilES of prion Caroline, Mr,
Speaker, 1 have 0 inrther requests
for time, 7. ~
- The SPEAKE pro, tempore, The
question is on th motion offered by
the gentlemen sir in North Carolina
(Mr, Jones) that , he Home suspend
the rules end pass the bill, HR 1953,
es amended. ‘

"The collection was taken,

  
  

Mr, newsrooms.- Mr, Speaker,

on that .l demnnd the yess and pays,

The yees and pays? were refused,

Mr. DANNEMEYER, Mr, Speaker, I
object to the vote on the ground that
o quorum is not present and moire the
point of or r that quorum is not
present, l

The (SPEAR _:
not to clause iv, .
previous
ceedings on "-

 
       
  

  
 

poned,
The point of no quorum is consid—
ered withdrawn, 1/ .-

’ MEX ~
hemp e ninnpprnorncrion

ACT AMENDMENT W M“

Mr, JONES of North Carolina, Mr,
Speaker, l move. to suspend the rules
and pose the bill (HR. 4084) to im»
prove the operation of the Merlin-3
Mammal Protection Act of 19%,, end
for other purposes, es amended,

The Cleric reed as follows:

HE, 4084

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 3, common: SUSTAINABLE POPULATION

tel Essie Amennmsnr,——Pnrogrep'h (8.) ct
section 3 oi the Marine Mammal Protection
Act of Will (it USE, 1362(8)) (which Act
shell herediter in this Act he referred to es
the “Act of 11972”) is repealed,

(bl CONFGRMING Amsnnnsnrs,~tll Section

7 2(6) of the Act of 31.972 (l6 USE, 1361(6)) is
amended by striking out “optimum carrying
capacity” end inserting in lieu thereof “con

. rying cepecitp”,

(2) Section Si oi the Act of ldtfl (it ‘U,S.C,
teen is inrther amended”

(A) by amending paragraph (ill to reed as
follows: ,

“ill rThe term “depletion” or “depleted“
moons any case in which»— ‘

“(Al the Secretary, after consultation
with the Merino Mammal Commission and
the Committee oi Scientific Advisers on
Merino Mommels established under title II
of this Act, determines that e. species or
population stock is below its optimum sus-
tainable population:

“(Bl e State, to which authority for the
Conservation and .management of a. species
or popnlation stock is transierred under sec-
tion Mid, determines that such species or

    
 

CONGRESSIONAL promo .— HOUSE

“term Upon greenest therefor. hy'citizens ,

stock is below its optimism sustainable popuo-

, lotion: or . ,

“(Cl especies or population stock is listed
as on endangered species or a threatened
species under the Endangered Species Act
of 1973,”; , "

(Blby strikmg out “the optimum carrying
capacity of their habitat" in paragraph (2)
and inserting in lieu thereol “their optimum
sustainable population”;

(Cl , hy redesigneting peregrop (9.)

through not on paragraphs (8) through .

(14), respectively; _

(ill 'by striking out “optimum carrying can
pecity” in paragraph ((8) its so redesignated)
and inserting in lieu thereof ““corrying ca~
parity”; and - -

(El by amending paragraph ((13) (as so to
designated) to read as follows: .

“(113) The term ‘United States“ includes
the several States, the District of Columbia,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the
Virgin Islands oi the United States, Ameri»
can Samoa, Guam, and Northern Marlene
islands”,

sec, 2, persimmon on reruns Ann
newer-me no NE , , ALS

Section lOl oi the Act of 19% (it ”0,5,0,
it‘ll) is amended~ "

ill by amending subsection ta.)—

(A‘l by striking out the first four sentences
of paragraph (2) and inserting in lieu there-
of the following: “(2) Marine mammals may
be taken incidentally in the course of com»-
mercial fishing operations and permits may
be issued therefor under section 104 subject
to regulations prescribed by the Secretary
in accordance with section l03, In any event
it shall be the immediate goal that the inci-
dental kill or incidental serious injury of
marine mammals permitted in the course of
comnemial fishing operations be reduced to
insignificant levels approaching a zero mor-
tality and serious injury rate; provided that
this goal shall be satisfied in the case of the
incidental taking of marine mammals in the
course of purse seine; fishing for yellowfin
tune by c continuation of the application of
the best marine mammal safety techniques
and equipment that are economically and
technologicaly practicable”,

(B) by striking out “is classified as belong.»
ing to an endangered species or threatened

' species pursuant to the Endsngepegﬁpecies

Act oi 195173 or” in paragraph-130m), and

"‘t‘UﬂBy adding at the end thereof the fol-

lowing new paragraphs:

“‘(tltAl During any period of fire someon-
tiye yeers, the Secretary shall allow the in
cidentel, but not the intentional, taking, Toy
citizens oi the United States while engaging
in commercial fishing operations, of smell
nnmhers of marine mammals of a species or
population stock that is not depleted if the
Secretary, alter notice and opportunity for
pnhlic continent"

“til finds that the totel of such taking
during such five-year period will have a. neg-
ligible impact on such species or stock; and

“(ill provides :gnldelhies pertaining to the
establishment of n cooperative system
among the fishermen involved for the moni—
toring oi snch taking, ‘

“(Bl The Secretary shall withdrew, or sus-
pend ior s time certain, the permission to
telse merino mammals under subparogreph
(A) if the Secretory ﬁnds, after notice and
opportunity for puhlic connnent, that~—

“til the inking allowed under suhpare
graph (A) is having more than a negligible
impact on the species or stock concerned; or

“(iii the policies, purposes and goals of
this Act would be better served through the
application of this title without regard to
this subsection.

Sections 103 and 104 shall not apply to the
talking of marine mammals under the au-
thority of this paragraph.

Date: SEP 2

Men-'1».
, 7 , NW‘ ., .-:,¢
«' ~ page .. -

‘1 1981

;.
Nigglva“ ; v
7. ‘ﬁ._v€.g',:”:_ ,

 

"-92—,"
a ‘X\

of the United States who engage ins, specie
ﬂed activity (other than commercial dish-
ing) within so, specified geographical region,
the Sec rotary shall allow, during periods of

not’more than five consecutive years each, ,-

the incidental, but not intentional, taking
by citizens while engaging is that activity
within that region of small numbers of
marine mammals of a species or population
stool: that is not depleted if the Secretary,
after notice (in the Federal Register and in
newspapers of general circulation,
through appropriate electronic media, in

the coastal areas that may he effected by ,
. such activity) end opportunity for public

commentm ,

“til finds that the total of such taking
during each tiveeyear (or less) period con:
cerned will have a negligible impact on such

species or stock and itsthabitot, and on the .

availability / of such species or stock "for
taking tor subsistence uses pursuant to sub~
section lb) or section 109%); and .
“(iii prescribes regulations setting forth—w
“(l-l permissible methods of taking pursu-
ant to such activity, and other means of ei-

iecting the least practicable adverse impact ~

on such species or stock and its habitat,
paying particular attention to rcokeries,
mating grounds, and areas of similar signifi-
cance; and ,

“(fill requirements pertaining to the moni»
toning and reporting of such taking.

“(Bl The Secretary shall withdraw, 'or sus-

pend tor a time certain (either on an indie '

vidusl or class basis, as appropriate) the per-
mission to take marine mammals under sub-
parograph (A) pursuant to a. specified activi-
ty within a specified geographical region it
the Secretary iinds,cftcr notice and voppor.

tunity for public comment (as, required_

under subporegraph (A) , unless subcate-
gr‘aph (CM) applies), that—- ‘ ‘
“(D the regulations prescribed under sub-
paragraph (A) regarding methods of taking,
monitoring, or reporting are not being sub-

stantially complied with :by a. person engag--

ing in such activity; or

“on the taking allowed under subporaQ

graph (A) pursuant to one or more activities
within one or more regions is having, or
may have, more than anegligible impact on
the species or stock concerned, ,

“(Gilli The requirement for notice and op-
portunity for public comment in isnbpara-
graph (Bl shall not apply in the ease, of a
suspension of permission to take if the .Sec-
rotary determines that on emergency exists
which poses a signiﬁcant risk to the well.
being of the species orstocl: concerned.

“(ill Sections 103 and 104 she’ll not apply
to the taking of marine mammals under the
authority of this paragraph”; and

(2) by amending subsection (.b)~.-— ,

(A) by amending the matter preceding
paragraph (1) to read as iollows: “Except as
provided in section 109, the provisions of
this Act shell not apply with respect to the
taking of any marine mammal by any
Indian, .Alen’t, or Eskimo who resides in

Alaska and who dwells on the coast of the ' E

North Pacific Ocean or the Arctic Ocean if
such taking—"; and ‘ ,

(B) by amending paragraph (ii to read as
follows:

“(l) is for subsistence «purposes; or”.
sec. 3. reomcrrrons AND PENALrn-zs

(a) Pnen-rerrrons.—-(ll Section 102(2),?) of

the Act of 1972(1‘16 U.S,C. 1372(3)) is amend-

ed—_

(Al by inserting “109,” immediately after
“104,” in the matter preceding paragraph
(1): " '

paragraph :(5); and ’

"

H6427} ,

and,

(B) by redesignating paragraph ((42) 38‘

  

 
    

. “ >
A. J ‘ , ,
‘ r
.

 

 

 

 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
   
 
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
   
    
   
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 

  

 

  




612’1'*‘ *

(C) by striking out paragraph (3) and in-

, serting in lieu thereof the following
1 " ~ “(3) for any person, with respect to any
i ‘ marine mammal taken in violation of this

title, to possess that mammal or any prod-
uct from that mammal;

“(4) for any person to transport purchase,
sell, or offer to purchase or sell any marine
mammal or marine mammal product; and”
_- (2) Section 102(b)(3) of such Act is amend-
ed by striking out “or which has been listed
as an endangered species or threatened spe»

, cies pursuant to the Endangered Species
, 1 Act of 1973”.

(3) Section 102(d)(l) of such act is amend-a
ed by striking out “or endangered”

(b) PEHALTIES. —-Section 105(a) of the Act
of 1972 ('16 U. S. C. 1375(a)) is amended by in»
sorting “(l)” inpnediately after “(a)" and by
inserting at the end thereof the following
new paragraph: .

“(2) In any case involving an alleged un-

- lawful importation of a marine mammal or
marine mammal product, If such imports,»
. tion is made by an individual for his own
personal 0r family use (which does not in~
. elude importation as an accommodation to
others or for sale or other commercial use),
_ the Secretary may, in lieu oi" instituting a

proceeding under paragraph (1), allow the 1

individual to abandon the mammal or prod-
uct,unde1 procedures to be prescribed by
, the Secretary, to the enforcement officer at
- . the port of entry” ” ~

SEC. 4. STATE MANAGEMENT

(a) TRANSFER or MANAGEMENT AurHoar-a
Tic—Section 109 of the Act of 1972 (16 U S C
1379) is amended)—- ,
' (1) by redesignating subsection (c) and (d)
as subsections (k) and (1), respectively; and

(2) by striking out subsections (3.) and (b)
and inserting in lieu thereof the followinzg

"SEC 109. (a) No State may enforce, or ate
tempt to enforce, any State law or regulae
tion relating to the taking of any species
(which term for purposes of this section inc
eludes any population stock) of marine
mammal within the State unless the Secre-
tary has transferred authority for the con-
servation and. management of that species
(hereinafter referred to in this section as
“management authority’) to the State under
subsection (bl( l)

“(b)(l) Subject to paragraph (2) and sub-
section (f), the Secretary shall transfer
management authority for a species of
marine mammal to a State if the Secretary
finds,

Oped and will implement a program for the

‘ conservation and management of the spec

voice that——

. “(A) is consistent with the purposes, polio
cies, and goals of this Act and with interna-
tional treaty obligations;

' “(B) requires that all taking of the species
be humane;

, “(0) does not permit the taking of the spew
cies unless and untilw

“(i) the State has determined, under a
process consistent with the standards set
forth in subseCtion (c)- ~

“(1) that the species is at its optimum sus—
tainable population (hereinafter in this sec-
tion referred to as ‘OSP’), and

, “(ID the maximum number of animals of

that species that may be taken without re-
ducing the species below its OSP, and
"‘(ii) the determination required under
clause (i) is final and implemented under

State law, and, if a cooperative allocation

agreement for the species is required under

1 subsection (d)(l), such an agreement is im»

plemented; ’

“(D) does not permit the taking of a
number of animals of the species that ex—
ceeds the maximum number determined

after notice and opportunity for
, , public comment, that the State has devel-

l-‘r‘,

CONoRsssmNALRscoRD .4 HOUSE . **

pursuant to subparagraph (C)(i)(ll), and, in
the case of taking for subsistence uses (as
defined in subsection (f)(2)), ’
permit the taking of a number of animals
that would be inconsistent with the mainte~
nance of the species at its OSP; '

“(E) does not permit the taking of the spe»

else for scientific research and public dis

play purposes, except for taking for such
purposes that is undertaken by, or on behalf
of, the State;

““(F) provides procedures for acquiring
data, and evaluating such data and other
new evidence, relating to the CSP of the
species, and the maximum take that would
maintain the species at that level, and, if re-
quired on the basis of such evaluation, for
amending; determinations under subpara»
graph (CM);

“((3) provides procedures for the resoluo
tion. of differences between the State and
the Secretary that might arise during the
developoment of a cooperative allocation
agreement under Subsection (d)(l); and

“(H) provides for the submission of an
annual report to the Secretary regarding
the administration of the program during
the reporting period

“(2) During the period between the trans»
fer of management authority for a species
to a State under paragraph (1) and the time
at which the implementation requirements

under paragraph (1)(C)(ii) are complied '

with-«1

“(A) the State program shall not apply
with respect to the taking of the species
within the State for any purpose, or under
any condition, provided for under section
101; and

“(Bl the Secretary shall continue to regu-
late, under this title, all takings of the spe»
cies within the State

“(3) After the determination required
under paragraph (l)(C)(i) regarding a spe-
cies is final and implemented under State
law and after a cooperative allocation agree-
ment described in subsection (d)(l), if re-
quired, is implemented for such species——

“(A) such determination shall be treated,
for purposes of applying this title beyond
the territory of the State, as a determina~
tion made in accordance with section 103
and as an applicable waiver under section
101(a)(3):

“‘(B) the Secretary shall regulate, without
regard to this section other than the allocam
ticns specified under such an agreement,
the taking of the species-

“(1) incidentally in the course of commer-
cial fishing operations (whether provided
for under section 161(a)(2) or (4)), or in the
course of other specified activities provided
for under section 1111111151, in the zone deg
scribed in section 3(14)(B), and

“(ii) for scientific research or public dis-
play purposes (other than by, or on behalf
of, the State), exceptxthat any taking au-
thorised under a permit issued pursuant to
section 1111111111 after the date of the enact»
merit of the 1981 amendment to this subsec-
tion allowing the removal of live animals

from habitat within the State shall not be,

effective if the State agency disapproves, on
or before the date of iSsuance of the permit,
such. taking as being inconsistent with the
State program; and

“(Cl section ldlib) shall not apply

“(c) The St ate process required under sub—
section (b)(l)(C) must comply with the fol~
lowing standawzrds

“(1) The State agency with management
authority for the species (hereinafter in this
section referred to as the ‘State agency’)
must malts an initial determination regard-
ing the factors described in clause (i) of that
subsection The State agency must identify,
and make available to the public under rea-

sonable circumstances, the documentation ~

does not“

September 21, 1,98?

supporting ' such -‘ initial determination, 4‘
Unless request for a - hearing under parao '
graph (2) regarding the initial determina-

,tion is timely made, the initial determina

tion shall be treated as final under State

f law

“(2) The State agency shall provide oppor-
tunity, at the request of any interested
party, for a hearing with. respect to the ini»
tial determination made by it under per a‘»
graph (1) at which interested parties may—u

“(Al present oral and written evidence in '
support of or against such determination;
and

“‘(B) crossesamine persons presenting evi
dence at the hearing

The State agency must give public notice of
the hearing and make available to the 1
public within a reasonable time before com-
mencing the hearing a list of the witnesses
for the State and a general description of
the documentation and other evidence that
will berrelied upon by such witnesses,

“(3) The State agency, solely on the basis
of the record developed at a hearing held
pursuant to paragraph (2), must make a de»
cision regarding its initial determination-
under paragraph (1) and shall include with
the record a statement of the findings and
conclusions, and the reason or basis there»
for, on all material issues

“(4) Opportunity for judicial review of the
decision made by the State agency on the
record under paragraph (3), under scope of
review equivalent to that provided for in
section 706(2) (A) through (E) of title 5,
United States Code, must be available under
State law The Secretary may not initiate
judicial review of any such decision

“(d)(l) If the rangeof‘ a species with re»
spect to which a determination under para:
graph (l)(C)(i) of subsection (b) is made ex»
tends beyond the territorial waters of the
State, the State agency and the Secretary
(who shall first coordinate with the Marine
Mammal Commission and the appropriate
Regional Fishery Management Council es:
tablished under section 302 of the Act of
April l3, 1976 (16 USC, 1852)) shall enter
into a cooperative allocation agreement pros
viding procedures, for allocating, on a timely
basis, such of the number of animals, as de»
termined under paragraph lll(C)(i)(.ll) of
subsection (b), as may be appropriate with
priority of allocation being given firstly to
taking for subsistence uses in the case of
the State of Alaska, and secondly to taking
for purposes provided for under section
lolia) within the acne described in section
3(14)(B)

“(2) if the State agency requests the Sec»
rotary to regulate the taking of a species to
which paragraph (l) applies within the zone
described in section 3(ldliB) for subsistence
uses or for hunting, or both, in a manner
consistent with the regulation by the State
agency of such taking within the State, the .
Secretary shall adopt, and enforce within
such acne, such of the State agency’s regu~
latory provisions as the Secretary considers
to be consistent with his administration of
section 11111111 within such zone. The Score-
tary shall adopt such provisions through
the issuance of regulations under section
553 of title 5, United States Code, and with
respect to such issuance the Regulatory
Flexibility Act, the Paperwork Reduction
Act, Executive Order Numbered 12291,
dated February ll, 11981, and the thirty- day
notice requirement in subsection ((1) of such ~
section 553 shall not apply For purposes of
sections 105, lil6, and 107, such regulations
shall be treated as having been issued under,
this title

“(e)(l) Subject to paragraph (2), the Sec-
retary shall revoke, after opportunity for a
hearing, any transfer of management au-

 




 

salmon 21, 1,981!

thority made to a State under subsection
(brill ii the Secretary finds that the State
program for the conservation and manages

, merit of the species concerned is, not being

implemented, or is being impleniented in a
manner inconsistent with the provisions of
this section or the provisions of the pros
gram, The Secretary shall also establish a
procedure for the voluntary return by a
State to the Secretary of species manage-
ment authority that was previously trans
ferred to the State under subsection (131(1).

“(arm The Secretary may not revoke a
transler of management authority under
paragraph (1) unless~

“(ill the Secretary provides to a State a
written notice of intent to revoke together
with a statement, in detail, of those actions,
or failures to act, on which such intent is
based; and ' '

“(ill during the ninety-day period after

, the date of the notice of intent to revoke“

“(1) the Secretary provides opportunity
for consultation between him and the State
concerning such State actions or failures to
act and the remedial measures that should
be taken by the State, and

“(ill the State does not take such remee
dial measures as are necessary, in the judge
ment of the Secretary, to bring its conserves
tion and management program, or the ad»
ministration or enforcement of the pros
gram, into compliance with the provisions
of this section. ' _

“(Bi When a revocation by the Secretary
of a transfer of management authority to a
State becomes final, or the State voluntarily
returns management authority to the Score:
tary, the Secretary shall regulate the
taking, and provide for the conservation and
management, of the species within the
State in accordance with the provisions of

this Act (and in the case of Alaskan Natives, '

section lblib) and subsection (i) of this secs
tion shall apply upon such revocation or

- return of management authority).

“(Mill The Secretary may not transfer
management authority to the State of
Alaska under subsection (le) for any spas
cies of marine mammal unless—

“(Al the State has adopted and will implee
ment a statute and regulations that insure
that the taking of the species tor subsists
once uses-m y ‘

“(ll is accomplished in a nonwasteful
manner,

“(iii will be the priority consumptive use
of the species, and ‘

“(iiil if required to be restricted, such res
striction will be based upon-w-

“(ll the customary and direct dependence
upon the species as the mainstay of livelis

hood,

“(ill local residency, and

“(Kill the availability of alternative res
sources; and

“(hi the State has adopted a statute or
regulation that requires that any consumpa
tive use of marine mammal species, other
than for subsistence uses, will be authorized
during a regulatory year only if the approa-
priate‘agency first malice findings, based on

. an administrative record before it, that-‘2

1}\
' i

S
i

“(ii such use will have no significant adu
verse impact upon subsistence uses of the
species, and _

“(iii the regulation of such use, including,
but not limited to, licensing of marine
mammal hunting guides and the assignment
of guiding areas, vvill, to the maximum
extent practicable, provide economic oppor-w
tunities for the residents of the rural coast-e
a1 villages of“ Alaska who engage in subsistv
ence uses of that species.

“(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), the
term “subsistence uses’ means the custom»
cry and traditional uses by rural Alaska
residents of marine mammals ior direct per-

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ... HOUSE

serial or family consumptionas' food, shel-
ter, fuel, clothing, tools, or transportation;
for the making and selling of handicraft are
ticles out of nonedible byproducts of marine

mamnials taken for personal or family con- ,

sumption; and for barter, orsharing for per-
sonal or family consumption. As used in this
paragraph-- ‘ .

“(Al The term ‘iamily’ means all persons
related by blood, marriage, or adoption, or
any person living within a household on a
permanent basis.

“(Bl The term “barter“ means the ex-
change of marine mammals or their parts,
taken for subsistence uses-

“(ii for other wildlife or fish or their
parts, or ‘

“(iii for other food or for nonedible items
other than money if the exchange is of a
limited and noncommercial nature.

“‘(g) Neither the transfer of management
authority to a State under subsection (le),
nor the revocation or voluntary return of
such authority under subsection (e), shall
be deemed to be an action for which an en:-
vironmental impact statement is required
under section 102 of the National Environ»
mental Policy Act of 1969. ,

“(11) Nothing in this title shall prevent a
Federal, State, or local government official
or employee or a person designated under
section 112(c) from taking, in the course of
his duties as an official, employee, or desig-
nee, a marine mammal in a humane manner
(including euthanasia) if such taking is for-

“(1) the protection or welfare of the
mammal,

“(2) the protection of the public health
and welfare, or

“(3) the nonlethal removal of nuisance
animals, and, in any case in which the
return of the mammal to its natural habitat
is feasible, includes steps designed to
achieve that result,

“(i) The Secretary may (after providing
notice thereof in the Federal Register and
in newspapers of general circulation, and
through appropriate electronic media, in
the affected area and providing opportunity
for a hearing thereon in such area) prea
scribe regulations requiring the marking,
tagging, and reporting of animals taken pur-
suant to section 101(1)).

“(3) The Secretary may make grants to

States to assist them“ .
, “(1) in developing programs, to be submits
ted for approval under subsection (b), for
the conservation and management of spes
cies of marine mammals: and

“(2) in administering such programs if

management authority for such species is
transferred to the State under such subsec-
tion,
Grants made under this subsection may not
exceed 50 per centum of the costs of devel-
oping a State program before Secretarial apt
proval, or of administering the program
thereafter.’i, ,

(b) No EFFECT on (Eastern Cooruasrrvs
Aonasusurs.——Nothing in the amendments
made by subsection (al shall be construed as
affecting in any manner, or to any extent,
any cooperative agreement entered into by
a State under section die) of the Endan-
gered Species Act of 1973 (10 11.8.0. 1535(0))
before, on, or alter the date of the enacts
merit otcthis Act. '

SEC. 5. MARINE WMM%>RESMRCH

Section 110(3) of the Act of 1972 (16
1.1.3.0. 1380(9)) is amended by adding at the
end thereof the following new sentences:
“In carrying out this subsection, the Secre-
tary shall undertake a program of, and shall
provide financial assistance for, research
into new methods of locating and catching

yellowfin tuna without the incidental taking .

of marine mammals. The Secretary shall in-

if 6429

elude a descriptioniof the annual results of '
research carried out under this section in
the report required under section 1036).”.

sec. 6. MARINE MAMMAL COMMISSION ’

Title II of the Act of 1972 (16 11.8.0. 1401-, '
1407118 amended“ . . ' ‘
(1) by striking out “furnishits reports and
recommendations to him, before publica~
tion, for his comment.” in section 202(1))
and inserting in lieu thereof “provide each
annual report required under section 204, ,
before Submission to Congress, to the ,Secre- ,
tary for common ,.',’; and , . '
(2) by inserting “, or provide such grants
to,” immediately after “agreements ,with" in

section 206(3). .

Soc; 7. Aorirosizmon or Arrsoramrrous.

(a) DEPARTMENT or Connexion—Eben are
authorized to be appropriated to the Des
partment of Commerce, for purposes of car-
rying out such functions and responsibilities
as it may have been given under title I of
the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972,
$7,223,000 for ﬁscal year 1932, $8,000,000 for
fiscal year 1983, and $8,800,000 for fiscal
year 1984. ' ,

:(b) DEPARTMENT or rm: momma—There
are authorized to be appropriated to the De-
partment of the Interior, for purposes of
carrying out such functions and responsibil-
ities as it may have been given under such
title 1, $1,600,000 for fiscal year 1032,
$1,760,000 for _ fiscal year 1983, and
$2,000,000 for fiscal year 1984,

(c) MARINE MAMMAL Commssron—There
are authorized to be appropriated to the
Marine Maximal Commission, for purposes
of carrying out title II of such Act of 1972,
$612,000 for fiscal year 1982, $1,000,000 for,
fiscal year 1983, and $1,100,000 for-fiscal
year 1984. ,

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is a
second demanded?

Mr. FORSYTHE, Mr, Speaker, 1 ,
demand a second.

The SPEAKER pro tempore. With-
out objection, a second will be consid-‘
ered as ordered. '

There was no objection,

The gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. Jones) will be recognized for 20
minutes, and the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. Foasr'mal is recognized
for 20 minutes, ’

The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from North Carolina (Mr. JONES).

Mr. J ONES of North Carolina. Mr,
Speaker, I yield myself such. time as 1
may consume. ,

Mr. Speaker, 1 rise in strong support
of HR. 4084, the Marine Mammal Pros
tection Act of 1981. This bill, as
amended, contains reauthorizations,
for appropriations to the Departments
of Commerce and Interior and to the
Marine Mammal Commission for fiscal
years 1982, 1983, and 1984 to carry out _

, their functions and responsibilities
under the Marine Mammal Protection

Act of 1972. The major significance or
this bill, however, arises from the
amendments it contains to the subs

'stantive features of the act. .

I feel that it is altogether approprb‘
ate that I open these remarks with
words commending the chairman and
members of the. Subcommittee on
Fisheries and Wildlife Conservation
and the Environment. They deserve
praise for their early perception of the
need for these amendments to relieve

 




 

\

“I; Finalise

pears to be leading to population den-

. ; sity problems and an eventual massive
2 diet-off of walrusjlerdsg an influx of
g s , s in 0 new areas with a result-
ing adVerse impact on Dungeness crab
stocks; and continued interference by
marine mammals with " fishing oper-
ations. Only by amending the act‘can
these problems be solved. ,

The amendments contained .in this
bill will be helpful in solving these
problems, although I do think that
further work will be needed. There are
two areas that are especially impor-
tant to Alaska that I would like to
‘ note.

The first involves the incidental,
nonintentional taking of marine mam—
malsin the course of commercial fish-
~ ing operations. This amendment does
not address th . ~ or oisecontro-

versy, which is handled elsewhere in
the bill, but rather the continued con-
flict between marine mammals and

other commercial fishermen engaged

in such fisheries as salmon seining and
gills-letting, bottomfish trawling, crab-
bing, and a number of others. This
amendment was suggested by the com-
mercial fishermen and is one that I
have worked on closely while the bill
was considered in committee. Pursu-
ant to this amendment, the Secretary
may allow a general 5-year permit to
, be published. covering all fishermen in
a particular fishery where marine
mammal, interactions occur. The
intent is that all such fisheries be cov-
ered by these general permits. The
- permit would allow the incidental,
nonintentional taking of marine mam-
mals that have not been found to be
. depleted. There will be no necessity
' for individual fishermen or fisher-
' men’s groups to obtain permits.
Rather, the Secretary will use some
mechanism such as publication in the
Federal Register to bring the permits
into effect.

The permits will be published after
the Secretary finds that the taking
which is«~expectcd to occur over a 5-
year period will. have a negligible
impact on a species or population
stock. The term “negligible” might
best be defined as it is in the American
College Dictionary: an impact that. is
“not worth considering.” Thus, if the
taking does not cause a significant
change in population size, health of
animals, or location of population
stocks, then it certainly is negligible.

In addition, the Secretary is to pro-
vide guidelines for the establishment
of a cooperative monitoring system.
TWO things should be noted here.
First, the Secretary is not to establish

‘ the system itself, nor is he to provide
guidelines for the system. The system
is meant to rely on the cooperation of
commercial fishermen and it will not
be effective if fishermen are forced
into a particular monitoring scheme.
Second, the system will be a voluntary

,. one in. which fishermen will feel free
to provide information without threat
._ i penalty. During testimony before
t re committee, representatives of the

A .

-CONG

chi.
’<\

commercial fishing industry noted .‘

that often fishermen- are afraid to pro-

“vide data on marine mammal interac-

tions because they would be incrimi-
nating themselves. Thus, it is Ineces
sary that the system be cooperative
and voluntary so that we can obtain
the data needed for .sound marine
mammal management.

Finally, it shduld be noted that the
provision for taking does not apply in
the case of marine mammal species or
population stocks which are formally
identified as depleted. In addition, the
Secretary may suspend for a tempo»

“ rary period the permission for taking

if such. taking is having more than a
negligible impact on a species or popu»
lation stock. This suspension will
occur only after notice and opportuni-
ty for public comment, including
public hearings in the affected area
whenever possible.

The second area that merits discus-

sion is the streamlining of the mecha~

nism whereby a State such as Alaska
can regain management over marine
mammals. A number of criteria are es
tablished for the return of manage

“ment and a series of procedures that

must be followed, including public in-
volvement. While the committee es-

tablished these safeguards, it is the-

intent that management be returned
to the States wherever possible and as
quickly as possible.

In those cases where the range of a
species extends beyond. State waters,

the committee presided that a cooper-

ative mechanism be established that
would allow the ﬁltrates to have appro-
priate input into the management of
marine mammals by the Federal Gov-
ernment in the Fishery Conservation
Zone. This will include, where appro-
priate, adoption of State regulations
by the Secretary. In no instance would
it involve Federal management within
State waters. in addition, any deci-
sions involving management outside of
State waters must be made with the
cooperation of the appropriate region»
al fishery management council having
jurisdiction in that area. Considering
that many marine irrational/common
cial fishing interactions occur within

the Fishery Conservation Zone, it is

very important that tire regional coun-
cils be fully involved in the manage
ment process. The amendments stress
that the Secretry must coordinate
with the councils and not merely

» inform them of what he is doing.
Gneother matter that is important .

to Alaska is the establishment ' of a
subsistence priority for rural. residents.
As I indicated, the taking of marine
mammals for food is very important in
rural Alaska. Because the subsistence
issue has been discussed by the Con»
gress before in action on the Alaska
National Interest Lands Conservation
Act, the committee decided to adopt
muchgof the language ”from title VIII
of that act when discussing subsist-
ence use of marine mammals.

The key aspect of this discussion in-
volves the definition of “rural" resi-

V RESSIONAI. RECORD .. Home

September 21, 1.981:

dent.”ASection _109(f)(2;)v of HR. 4084
states that “rural resident” has sub
stantially the same definition as is
found in-section 8703 of the Lands Act.
This wduld mean that the residents,
both Native and non-Native, of com-
munities such as Dillingham, Bethel,
Nome, Kotzebue, Barrow, and other
villages . scattered throughout ~ the
State will be considered as ”rural resie-
dents.” As I indicated, this is the same
language found in existing law and in
noway adds to‘ or detracts from the
legal authority to grant a subsistence
priority to rural residents of Alaska.

One item that is not addressed in
these amendments is the concept of
optimum sustainable population
(OSP). The committee did discuss the
matter with interested parties and den
cided not to modify the existing defi-
nition in the law or as it is currently
described in regulation. While I recog’
nize the reasons for the committee’s
decision, I must emphasize that many
of the problems that we have experi-
enced with the Marine Mammal Pro-
tection Act are due to the confusing,
unworkable, USP definition. It is my .
hope that this issue will be addressed
in the near future.

In sum, I would like to commend the
committee for the excellent work that
it has done and express my apprecia.
tion for the cooperation shown by the
various groups and individuals who
have provided information to us. I
think that this is a bill well worth sup
porting.

Mr. Speaker, there is one question I
would like to ask the chairman of the
subcommittee and the ranking minorm
ity member that is of great interest to
the State of Alaska. it is my feeling
and my understanding that the defini«
tion of “rural resident,” under the
Lands Claims Act, the Lands Act itself,
in section 109ifli 2) of lift. 4084, states...
that “rural resident” has substantially
the same definition as is found in sec.
tion 803 of the Lands Act. This. would ‘
mean that the residents, both. Native
and non-Native, of communities such
as Dillingham, Bethel, Nome, Kotzew
bue, Barrow, and other villages scat-
tered throughout the State will be
considered as “rural residents.” Am. I
correct in interpreting that this would
be the intent of the committee? .

Mr. BREAUX. Mr. Speaker, will the
gentleman yield?

Mr. YOUliG of Alaska. l will be glad
to yield. ‘

Mr. BREAUX. Mr. Speaker, I will re»
spend to the gentleman, first, by
taking this opportunity to cohunend
him for his efforts in bringing this bill
to the floor today. Had it not been for
his insistence on the provisions which
allow the program management to be
turned over to the various States," I
doubt that we would be successful in
getting it included in the legislation.
So,— I think to his credit, his work is
brought forth today in the final prod-

° uct we are bringing to the ﬂoor.

 




5
September 21, 1.981

In response to the specific question,
I would respond that the answer is
yes, that is our intent. I, have visited
many of those areas the gentleman
from Alaska is concerned about, and I
can attest to the fact that these are
indeed rural areas as we intended
when we wrote the legislation.

Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. I thank the
gentleman.

Mr. FORSYTHE. Mr. Speaker, will
the gentleman yield?

Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. I yield to the
gentleman from New Jersey.

Mr. FORSYTHE. Mr. Speaker, I
agree with the chairman of the com-
mittee. The gentleman has described
the legislation as we understand it,
and I think this is the way he wants it
and the way it should be.

Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. I thank the
gentleman from New Jersey.

Mr. FORSYTHE. Mr. Speaker I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
California (Mr. CLAUSEN).

(Mr. CLAUSEN asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)

Mr. CLAUSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
brieﬂy to add my commendations to
the previous speaker’s comments for
the very distinguished chairman and
minority member of the subcommit~
tee, as well as the full committee
chairman and the members of the
committee, for bringing about what I
think is a very important comprehen.
sive sort of compromise piece of legis-

lation. It recognizes the legitimate in- -

terests of those special interests that
are tracking this species, but at the
same time it has the potential of pro-
viding the kind of conservation protec-
tion which the committee seeks.

I commend the Members for their
efforts.

Mr. FORSYTHE. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. LENT).

(Mr. LENT asked and was given per~
mission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)

Mr. LENT.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of HR. 4084, the proposed
amendments to the Marine Mammal
Protection Act of 1972.

This legislation,

been a long time in coming. My col-

leagues might recall that the Mer~ ‘1

chant Marine and Fisheries Commit-
tee earlier this year reported a 1-year
authorization in an effort to assure
that needed clarifications and revi-
sions would be made without further
delay.

I am pleased toreport that our goal
has been achieved. The 3-year authori-
zation before us today is the result of
careful deliberations and negotiations
by all parties concerned about the
proper implementation of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act. It is a care-
fully balanced proposal which has won
the support of virtually all groups con-
cerned with this issue, and it deserves
the support of this body.

,gtook effect, over
were incidentally taken in tuna fishing
which makes 1’
needed improvements to the act, has ,

. number

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —— HOUSE

Brieﬂy, the bill retains the Marine
Mammal Protection Act’s important
goal of reducing the incidental taking
of marine mammals to insignificant
levels, and provides for its achieve-
ment by requiring use of the best
marine mammal safety techniques and
equipment that are economically and
technologically practicable.

Any taking which has more than a
negligible impact on any species would
require a permit, and the Secretary is
required to monitor population levels
to assure they are maintained at their
optimum sustainable populatiOn.

I applaud my colleagues who devel-
oped this proposal which is whole-
heartedly endorsed by the environ-
mental community, State fish and
game agencies, Alaskan Natives, and
the fishing industry. HR. 4084 de-
serves this Congress support and I
urge its prompt passage today. Thank

ou. «

Mr. FORSYTHE. Mr. Speaker, I
have no further requests for time, and
I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. JONES of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, at this time, I would like to
take a moment or two and commend
both the subcommittee chairman and
the ranking minority member, Mr.
FORSYTHE, including the staff, for this
spirit of compromise. It is impressing
these chairmen of the committees that
we do have a kind of a spirit of com-
promise. We are now moving legisla-
tion which heretofore would have
been impossible.

This Marine Mammal Act is a good
example of that, so, Mr. FORSYTHE and
Mr. BREAUX, I want to again thank
yOu and the staff of both committees.
0 Mr. RICHMOND. Mr. Speaker, I
rise in support of HR. 4084, reauthori-
zation of the Marine Mammal Protec-n
tion Act. '

Since enactment of the original
Marine Mammal Protection Act in
1972, this country has made extraordi-
nary progress toward the goals of pro-
tecting marine mammals and estab-
lishing sound resource management
policies. ‘

For example, in 1972, before the act
400,000 porpoises

operations. By 1980, this number had
been reduced, to slightly "over 20,000
per year. The tuna industry deserves
high praise for its efforts to develop
fishing methods which reduce the
of pomoises incidentally
taken and I am hopeful that the in-
dustry will continue its work in this din
rection.

H.R. 4084 supports the industry’s ef-
forts by authorizing funds for re-
search into new methods of locating
and catching yellowfin tuna/without
the incidental taking of marine mam-
mals.

My colleagues on the Merchant
Marine and Fisheries Committee are
to be commended for their bipartisan
efforts to draft a strong, multiyear
reauthorization of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act. The commit»

H 6433 '

tee bill attempts to answer the con-
cerns of the administration, industry,
and the major environmental organi-
zations interested in the legislation,
and has the support of all three of
these groups.

Mr. Speaker, if we are to continue on
the path of sound marine mammal
management, this act must be reauth-
orized and a multiyear reauthorization
is critical if there is to be continuity
and predictability in the administra»
tion of theact.

Once again, I commend my col-

leagues on the committee for their
fine work and. urge passage of ER.
4084.0 ‘ ,
0’ Mr. CORRADA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of HR. 4084, the Marine
Mammal Protection Act authorization.
This legislation authorizes appropri-
ations through fiscal year 1984 for
programs under the Marine Mammal
Protection Act.

This bill, as amended, authorizes
$9.45 million in fiscal year 1982, $10.76
million in fiscal year 1983, and $11.9.
million in fiscal year 1984, to the De»
partments of Commerce and the Inte-
rior and the Marine Mammal Commis
sion.

The authorization for fiscal year
1982 comes as part of the committee
amendment. It retains the act’s goal of
reducing the accidental deaths of por~
poises caught during yellowfin tuna
fishing operations to insignificant
levels approaching a zero mortality.
However, it specifies that the use of
the best marine mammal safety tech-
niques that are economically and tech-
nologically feasible are all that is re-
quired in order to satisfy the act’s
stated goal. The bill also establishes a
simplified procedure by which respon-
sibility for the management of marine
mammals may be returned to any
State. It allows a State to regain man-
agement authority after it develops a
program to insure that marine
mammal populations remain at opti-
mum sustainable levels, that any take
will be humane, and that annual re-
ports concerning the administration. of
the program are submitted to the ap-
propriate Federal agency. The measa
ure also requires, in the State of
Alaska, that a subsistence preference
in the taking of marine mammalsrbe
granted to rural residents. Finally, it
makes other minor changes in the act,
including adjustments in, the defini»
tion of some terms.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act
has been remarkably successful in
achieving its purpose of insuring that
marine mammals are maintained at
healthy population levels. In the area
of reducing the incidental take of por-
poises in tuna fishing operations, for
example, the number of porpoises
killed has dropped from an estimated
368,000 animals in 1972 to an estimate
ed 15,303 porpoises in 1980. This dram
matic accomplishment vouches to it a
success in responding to the growin
concern about the decline of cert

 




3116434 ‘ .

important role that marine mammals

~ play in the system as well as their ”eco-

. nomic, ' esthetic, and recreational

' . value. The purpose of this act must be

carried on.

I urge all my colleagues to vote in

‘ favor of this legislation.
0 Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Speaker, l
rise in strong support of HR. 4084 and
would like to take this time to compile
ment the gentleman from Louisiana.
. and Jeff Curtis of his staff for the
I, leadership they have provided on this
, potentially controversial issue. The
bill that the gentleman brings to the
floor today strengthens the Marine
_Mammal Protection Act by making it
more effective and workable.

' The Marine Mammal Protection Act
(MMPA) was enacted in 1972 for the
purpose of insuring that marine mama
mals are maintained at healthy popu-
lation levels. In passing the act, Con-
gress responded to the growing cone
cern about the decline of certain spee-
cies and recognized the important role
that marine mammals play in the econ
system as well as their economic, es-
;tethic. and recreational value.

' This legislation has been effective in
preserving many species, especially
porpoises. The number of porpoises
taken by the tuna industry and others
has declined from a high of 368, 000 in
319% to under 16 .000 a year last year
This is a significant achievement.

According to the Global Report
2000, over 3 million species of life have
vanished from the Earth during the
last millenium. Although many of
these species vanished through the
process of natural selection many
others perished through man s direct

-. actions or a drastic change in their

habitat. The bill before us today does
provide essential habitat protections
which are soimportant to the survival
of many mammal species

Ultimately, the concern we show or
fail to show for the other living in-
habitants of this planet reflects on our
humanity. Again my complements to
the gentleman from Louisiana for his
leadership on this most important
issue. I urge passage of HR. 4084 witlp
out delay.

Mr. JONES of North Carolina. M1.
Speaker, I have no fu1ther requests
for time. -

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. Jones), that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill H R 4084.
as amended.
, The question was taken; and (two:

thirds having voted in favor theieofl
the rules were suspended and the bill.
as amended, was passed.

:A. motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.

GENERAL LEAVE.
Mr. JONES of North Carolina. Mr.

' Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members who wish to do so. may

. . CONGRESSIONAL RECORDm HOUSE
‘ J V -- species. It has brought life back to the

have 5 legislative days within which to
revise and extend their remarks on the

' bill, HR. 4084 just passed.=-

. The SPEAKER pro ‘tempore. Is

there objection to? the request of the ,,

gentleman from North Carolina?

There was 20 objection.

APPORTIONMENT OF ,
lNTERSTATE’ HIGHWAY FUNDS
Mr. HOWARD. Mr. Speaker, I move

to suspend theirules and agree to the
concurrent resolution (H. Con. ' Res.
1791 making apportionment of funds

for the National System of Interstate

and Defense Highways for the fiscal
year I983.

The Clerk read the concurrent reso=
lotion. as follows:

H. CON. Res. 179

Resolved by the House of Representatives
(the Senate concurring), That the Secretary
of Transportation shall apportion for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 1933. the
sums authorized to be appropriated for such
fiscal year by section 108(b) of the Federala
Aid Highway Act of l956, as amended, for
expenditure on the National System of In-
terstate and Defense Highways, using the
apportionment factors contained in revised
table 5 of the Committee Print 97-18 of the

Committee on Public Works and Transpon.

tation of the House of Representatives.

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursm
ant to the rule, a second is not res
quired on this motion.

The gentleman from New Jersey
(Mr. Howaunl, will be recognized for
20 minutes, and the gentleman from
California iMr.CtausEN1 will be recogw
nized for 20 minutes.

The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey. (Mr. Howano).

Mr. HOWARD. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.

(Mr. HOWARD asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his res-
marks. 1»

Mr. HOWARD. Mr. Speaker, I come
mend to the House that House Cons
current Resolution 179 directing the
apportionment of funds for the has
tional system of interstate and defense
highways for the fiscal year 1983.
House Concurrent Resolution 179 was
reported by the Committee on Public
Works and Transportation by voice
vote on September 17, .198l. The Cone
gressional Budget Office confirms that
there will be no additional costs to the
Peder al Government as a result of this
resolution.

Mr. Speaker. eveiy 2 years. the Com
gross is required to take some action to
approve the cost» based factors used by
the Department of Transportation to
apportion to the States interstate
system construction funds. This apa
prcval action has traditionally taken
the form of either a bill or a resolute
tion, depending on whether the Con»
gress is considering a highway bill at
the time the matter arises for action.
The Committee on Public Works and
Transportation reported, on May 19 of
this year. the bill HR. 3210, which in-
cludes a provision approving a specific
apportionment table related to that

‘sibillty

September 21, 1.98] .
legislation. The committee intends to
make every effort to see that HR.
3210 is advanced to enactment in an'
expeditious manner.

However substantial differences per--

‘ sist on the best approach to a highway

bill between and among the adminis-
tration, this committee and the other
body. We want to advance HR. 3210,
the committee’s l-year bill, while the
Senate and the administration are fa~
voring multiyear legislation. Under
the circumstances, it is conceivable the
Congress might fail to get a highway
bill this session-

Section 104 of title 23, United States
Code. requires the FH‘WA to make
fiscal year 1983 interstate system up
portionments on October I of this
year. Because the Department cannot
make those apportionments without
congressional approval of the inten-
state cost estimate, and because the ‘
Congress may not be able to advance
HR. 32110 to enactment by October I.
the committee recommends the House
discharge this important fiscal respon-
through the mechanism of
House Concurrent Resolution 179
which, of course, would not require
Presidential concurrence.

The committee acknowledges that
the particular apportionment factors
which HR. 3210 entails represent a
more desirable course of action. How»
ever. those apportionment factors
relate directly to the program amend-
ments in HR. 32110 which shift certain
projects out of the basic interstate
construction program into a new 4R or
reconstruction program. Obviously.
these program changes require the en.»
actment of a public law, subject to
Presidential approval.

The (question arises as to how to res
solve the inconsistencies between HR.
3210 and House Concurrent Resolu~
tion 3179. First. we do not propose to
change the standard rule of law which
says that the provision enacted last
will govern. Ill both pieces of legislae
tion are enacted. Most likely House
Concurrent Resolution 179 would be
enacted first. superseded by HR. 3210.
During the conference with the other
body, H.R one might have to be ads
insted to reflect the latest progress

made by the States in obligating their
fiscal year 1983 interstate apportionm-
ments or adjusted on the basis of
other considerations such as equity
and ease of administration of the lug
terstate program. -

While it is the committee’s intention
to advance HR. 32m to enactment, to
do so in an expeditious manner. I be:
lieve the House must approve this cons-
current resolution so that the commits
tee will have the parliamentary lati»
hide to bring its bipartisan bill into
law. What this means, of course, is
that. should the Congress fail to get a
highway bill by this session, the States

and the people will know that the

House of Representatives has disa
charged its responsibility. '

 




 

 

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Bob Witeck
July 20, 1981 (202) 224-2670

PACKWOOD WHALING MORATORIUM APPROVED BY UNANIMOUS SENATE

(Washington, July 20) -- By unanimous vote this evening,
the United States Senate went on record in support of a world—wide
moratorium on the commercial killing of whales. The resolution
was introduced by Senator Bob Packwood (R-Oregon), Chairman of
,the Senate Commerce Committee, who has sponsored several measures
in the past to protect the world's endangered great whales.

”This is an important victoryf Packwopd said. ”The Senate,

along with the President and the House of Representatives, have

said-with one loud voice that we_will not sanction the

continued slaughterof whales. I hope we will find that world

 

opinion is in agreement once and for all.”

The Senate vote coincided with the first day of formal
meetings of the International Whaling Commission in Brighton,
England. The American delegation, headed by conservationist
Tom Garrett, has been directed by the Congress and the
Administration to seek a moratorium on the commercial killing
of whales. To date, there has not been sufficient support at

the IWC to achieve that goal.

A copy of Senator Packwood‘s resolution, S. Res. 148,
is attached.

  




 

: ............ , SENATE RESOLUTION NO. 148

 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
    
 
  
   
  
   
   
     
 
  
 

Senator Bob Packwood (RéOregon)
Chairman,Senate Commerce Committee

Resolved,

Whereas whales are a unique marine resource of great esthetic

and scientific interest to mankind and are a vital part of the
marine ecosystem; and

Whereas the protection and conservation of whales are a particular
interest to citizens of the United States; and

Whereas the United States, which effectively banned all commercial
whaling by United States nationals in December 1971, has
sought an international moratorium through the International

Whaling Commission on the commercial killing of whales since
‘ 1972; and 7

Whereas in 1971 the Congress enacted the Pelly Amendment to the
Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967 (22 U.S.C. 1978 (a)),

ﬁg; _______ giving the President of the United States the right to em-
( """"" 7 bargo the fishery products of foreign nations whose nationals
\ym . have conducted whaling operations that interfere with international

conservation programs; and

 

Whereas in 1979 the Congress enacted the Packwood-Magnuson Amendment
to the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act of
1976 (16 U.S C. 1824 (b) (6) (A)), which limits access to
the U.S. Fishery Conservation Zone to any nation found by the
Secretary of Commerce to be in violation of whale conservation
programs; and

Whereas in 1979 the Congress enacted a provision urging the Inter-
national Whaling Commission to agree to a moratorium on the
commercial killing of whales (Pub.L. 96—60, Title IV, §405,
Aug. 15, 1979); and

Whereas the management regime established by the International
Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, signed in 1946
and implemented by the International Whaling Commission, is
not providing adequate protection to the world's whale
populations: Now, therefore, be it

Resolved by the Senate of the United States, That it is the
sense of the Senate that the United States Delegation to the
International Whaling Commission is urged to work towards the

;_ adoption of a moratorium of indefinite duration on the commercial
Qﬁff killing of whales.

  




 

   

THE WHITE NOISE
TVA S} n.\‘( ;'1‘0\‘

July I7, I98!

I want to take this opportunity to affirm the United States Government's
continuing commitment to whale protection and to urge you to support
our proposal for an indefinite moratorium on commercial whaling.

Throughout human history, whales have evoked awe and wonder. They are
the largest creatures ever to have lived on this earth; yet they are also
among the most mysterious. it is this mysterious quality that gives whales
their appeal and increases the importance of effective management that
could assure whale populations for the future.

The United States has long supported scientific research and efforts to
strengthen management procedures used by the lnternational Whaling
Commission. We believe that further revisions to management procedures
are essential to reflect the inadequate information on whole biology,
behavior, population dynamics, and, most importantly, abundance. Even
such revisions, however, will probably not secure the necessary protection.
Our cooperative efforts in the past to regulate whaling have been tragically
unsuccessful and species after species has been successively over—exploited
and reduced to protected status. lndeed, the lnternational Whaling
Commission prohibits all commercial whaling on the majority of whale
stocks because of their reduced abundance. We have no basis to believe
that commercial whaling will not continue to reduce whale stocks.

lt is time to recognize the errors of the past. Available information is
inadequate to protect the whales while commercial whaling continues, and
it is for this reason as well as others that the United States has proposed
an indefinite moratorium on commercial whaling. I urge you to join with
us and other people throughout the world to secure the protection of these
magnificant creatures and wish you success in your important work.

Q magi OJ~1239-x




      

ARLEN SPECTER COMMITTEES:
PENNSYLVANIA ' ' JUDICIARY
- APPROPRiATIONS
VETERANS'AFFAIRS
INTELLIGENCE

        

alfnifeh_,${afes ﬁercafc

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

September 15, 1986

  
  

Mr. Robert Noggle
403 Reindollar Avenue
Marina, California 93933

  
     
 

Dear Mr. Noggle:

 
     

'Thank you for your recent communication regarding animal
welfare.

   
    
  
 
  
   
   
   
  

I share the concern that prompted you to write. Recently, a
bill that I cosponsored, S. 1233, introduced by Senator Bob Dole
(R—KS), was added as an amendment to the 1985 farm bill which
President Reagan has signed into law. As you may know, this vital
legislation is designed to ensure research facility standards, set
up institutional animal study committees to review conditions in
research facilities, and institute the use of pain relieving drugs
as well as other special procedures.

The Animal Welfare Act has been zero—budgeted, by the
Administration for Fiscal Year 1987. 'Please be assured, however,
that I will continue to fight for its strong provisions and adequate
funding.

In the House of Representatives, there is legislation in the
House Energy and Commerce Committee, H.R. 1877, which would
encourage Federal departments and agencies to develop and use
product testing procedures which do not rely on animals. In ,
particular, this measure stresses opposition to the Lethal Dose 50
(LDSO) test, a procedure whereby toxicity is measured in terms of
the dose that will kill half of the test animals which are subjected
to the substance being tested.

 

 
     
    
  

 
  

The Information Research and Accountability Act, H.R. 1145, has
also been introduced in the House. This legislation would decrease
duplicative research by providing an information base for those
involved in animal testing.

     
    
   
 
 

Please be assured that I will closely monitor these and other
pieces of legislation aimed at reducing the incidence of animal
cruelty. Please do not hesitate to contact me in the future
regarding this or other matters of mutual concern.

 
     
    

S' c rely,

 
 

(I:

 
    

Arlen Specter




THAD COCHRAN COMMITTEE ON
MISSISSIPPI AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION,

AND FORESTRY
COMMITTEE ON

ﬂanked States ﬁmatz 32:12:23

WASHINGTON, DC 20510 GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

September 8, 1986

Mr. Robert Noggle
403 Reindollar Avenue
Marina, California 93933

Dear Mr. Noggle:

Thank you for your recent letter regarding the fiscal
year 1987 budget proposal for the Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Services of the United States Department of
Agriculture and, more specifically, funds for the National
Agricultural Library.

As you may know, there are several measures pending
before the Congress designed to reduce spending and instill
fiscal responsibility in the federal government. I have
supported efforts in the past, and, as a member of the
Senate leadership, will Continue to work with my colleagues
to achieve a balanced federal budget.

I fully appreciate and understand your concerns about
inhumane treatment of animals and agree that, through
inspections, there must be enforcement of current
regulations to safeguard against cruel treatment. But, I
also feel that we cannot delay our efforts to promote the
adoption of such a policy of fiscal restraint. It is
important to ensure that the budget decisions which must be
made to achieve our spending goals are as fair and equitable
as possible.

Let me assure you that I will keep your views closely
in mind as Congress deals with this important issue and as
we adhere to the Gramm—Rudman Balanced Budget Act.

Thanks again for taking the time to write.

Sincerely,

/I‘HAD COCHRAN
United States Senator

 




LEON E. PANETTA ' WASHINGTON OFFICE:

16TH DISTRICT, CALIFORNIA 339 CANNON HSTUOSE OEEICESBgILOINs
WASHIN N, D 20 I
(202) 225-2861
COMMITTEES:
AGRICULTURE DISTRICT OFFICES:
I
380 ALVARADO STREET
CHAIRMAN u r2 0 e III B a B MONTEREY, CA 93940
suaCOMMITTEE ON DOMESTIC (408) 649—3555
MARKETING, CONSUMER RELATIONS, ”CLUSTER CA

AND NUTRITION £01158 of Representatihgg (408)637-0500

HOUSE ADMINISTRATION SALINAS. CA

CHAIRMAN maﬁbingtﬂﬂ, Em: 20515 (408)4244229

SUBCOMMITTEE ON PERSONNEL AND POLICE SAN LUIS OBISPO. CA
SELECT COMMITTEE ON HUNGER J 2 4 l 9 86 (305,541.0143
SANTA CRuz, CA
CHAIRMAN u 1 Y I (408) 429—1976

TASK FORCE 0N DOMESTIC HUNGER

DEPUTY MAJORITY WHIP

Bun Johnny Owens
403 Reindollar Avenue
Marina, California 93933

Dear Mr. Owens:

Because you reside in my Congressional district, your letter to
Representative Phil Sharp has been referred to my office for reply as
,a matter of Congressional courtesy. I am glad to have the benefit of
your views regarding H.R. 1809, legislation which would ban the use of

the steel—jaw leghold trap.

I share your concern about the use of these traps. You may be

aware that fifty nations and several states in the 0.5. have already
outlawed these devices. While opponents of a ban on leghold traps are
concerned that it would seriously affect local fur industries or cause
uncontrollable increases in animal populations, few economic or

biological problems have occurred in those areas where leghold trap
bans are already in effect.

You may be aware that Representative Clarence Long introduced
legislation in the 98th Congress, (H.R. 1797), which would have
prohibited interstate commerce in both steel—jaw traps and fur
articles such traps catch. The House Subcommittee on Health and the
Environment held a hearing on H.R. 1797 in August of 1984, but the
House took no action on this measure prior to the adjournment of
Congress. However, as you know, Representative Tom Lantos has
introduced similar legislation in the 99th Congress, H.R. 1809, and I
am hopeful that the 99th Congress will consider Mr. Lantos' proposal.
I have supported legislation similar to H.R. 1809 in the past, and
will carefully consider this measure should it come to the floor of

the House for a vote.

In addition, you may be interested in knowing that I cosponsored
legislation which requires stricter standards for the treatment of
laboratory animals. This legislation, introduced in the House of
Representatives by Rep. George Brown, amends the Animal Welfare Act
(AWA) to promote more humane care and treatment standards for

laboratory animals.

 




GERRY SIKORSKI I WASHINGTON OFFICE:

6TH DISTRICT, MINNESOTA 1 v“ 414 CANNON HOUSE OFFICE BLDG.
A ' WASHINGTON, DC 20515
WHIP AT LARGE .2_ f. . " (202) 2254271

, . A y- .- - DENNIS MCGRANN
ENERGY AND COMMERCE 4 _ ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT

POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE msmm 0mm

8060 UNIVERSITY AVENUE NE.

Congress of the @Hniteh étatzs ‘R'DIZIZIIBEZSSTW

SELECT COMMITTEE ON
CHILDREN ' DAVID BARTHOLOMAY
”9”“ AND FAM'L'ES image of Representatthzs DISTRICT mm.

Washington, 196$ 20515

August 5, 1986

Mr. Johnny Owens
403 Reindollar Ave.
Marina, California

Dear Johnny:

Thank you for your recent letter in support of Congressman Long's
Bill, H.R. 1797, "A Bill to End the Use of Steel Jaw and Leg—Hold Traps
on Animals in the United States and Abroad." I appreciate that you took
the time to inform me of you concerns.

Throughout my public career I have always supported legislation
that provides for humane treatment of animals. When in the Minnesota
Senate I authored legislation that would restrict the use of impounded
animals in research. I intend to continue that record in Congress.

As an avid pet lover and a member of the Health and Environment
Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I Supported
Congressman Doug Walgren's amendment to the reauthorization of the
National Institutes of Health to promote alternatives to and set
standards for animal research. You will be happy to know that the.
Walgren language is incorporated in the bill that passed the House.

H.R. 1797 is currently pending in the Health and Environment
Subcommittee. A hearing is scheduled in the near future. You have my
assurance I will keep your strong support for this legislation in mind.

Thank you again for alerting me to your views on this important
matter. Please do not hesitate to contact me again if I can be of
further assistance. - .

THIS STATIONERY PRINTED ON PAPER MADE WITH RECYCLED FIBERS

,..___-_—.-—._

 




 

 

 

Mr. Johnny Owens
Page 2
July 24, 1986

Specifically, this bill includes requirements for the use of
painkillers and euthanasia and requires researchers to give assurances
that alternatives to certain research methods have been considered.

In addition, this legislation requires research facilities to
establish institutional animal study committees with sufficient
expertise to assess the propriety of on—site animal care and treatment
in experimental research. The measure also calls for the
establishment of a national information data base which would help
avoid duplicative experiments and provide nationwide access to
information on improved and less painful methods of animal

experimentation.

You may be pleased to know that these animal welfare provisions

have been approved by the Congress and were signed into law by
President Reagan. It is my hope that implementation of this bill will
result in the humane treatment and proper care of laboratory animals.

Again, thank you for letting me know of your interest in H.R. 1809.
Please let me know if I can ever be of service.

 




ANIMAL manta CONNECTION
Is AN ACTMST NONeViOLENT GRASS ROOTS ORGANIZATION
WHICH OPPOSES ANIMAL EXPLOITATIQN IN ALLFOR s

3!.

NENST-LLWwaRWAHIMBI R
Vo 1. 4 No. 7

5a~q 4:. U
”quart—3,5 , :5»:
an I“ 1-.
may

"3“ ,s‘mu.
1' '1“wrl."\’4-\

A.
vaguely; 3 3

.va’

I
. _ ,3 3

ILELIohgand
Noon.‘§E11

:EQLSUM ISIREETA FAIR ouLE Eth LEblrE in San FEEHCIsco.L,,
“NORLD DAY FOR FARM ANINALS / GANDHI' S BIRTHDAY. Join us
pEOLEsL farm animal abuse mcDonElds and BurgEE

hIng on TONE 11 near MEEkEL in San FEEhCIsco at noon.

CELL 848 1705 For more 3in+0EmELion.

%

V

8.F. I00 19 EFIE LLIng~¢' Join GOEi11E 3

MASS wCIpIL DISOBEDIENCE at UC BEENE1E .«JOIn- tHé

*NELIonEI Effort to: 5Lop33 EniEm 1 E} (pEP1@§ 3;. F811

868—1705 FOE InformEtion.33ewL.va’f1=rgf"

RODEO 1EE11E ELLingwaLthe Grand Natiﬂhal M 3.”. 3

Cow FEIECL -LC311§848-1705 For LiME .3'g@;} ¢v r3_ JAE]
AGING” g nOHVIOIEnL:, wIII pccur3 EL3E local
Ipond3; End plans 3?“ undwrwag fdr‘f w -_cond

, hunting; anEw: PVNLV ;_£EII 848—1705 10E Info.

ARHY RESEARCH LE EFIELLIng EL [LE’LLE Eman Armu IhELi

0? RE: EEEE rh EgEinsL mIIILEEg anImEI NpE EEimw; an. M

ETA1 “HE1:T:”WBLWRIChBPdSOH End Lgon ELE-_L5, 7 0Q A. M2;;_45

 ?08 L EL noon.

A»

In

 

l

’ThuESdE Eg NOVA mEEEi: 7 VEGETARIAN THANVSGIUING DINNER HILh LhE
"- ““~‘~7!"JTTT53;§1”UwngEEIEn Soci ELL. 30311 John (5 ’6- J346) For f 33
‘ _ANNUAL FUR DFNONSTRATIUngaL UNIonquuar 15:53? Noon;
' Animals iChPTSLMBS FEELg follgwsg3EL Lh
In Fort masoh C nL EEI3 San FEEHCIECO: 474—4013:
1 ' ' 3" Ecglonggfuril E8£1PP.LP.
1 ,.

near Uﬁion Sq.yp

3 ghtsiboi H”571“;‘61fiﬁ17“°'l"ngp 59183Lh97hhd' d‘gth
_ Eg~m0nth73L1va Clocationsy: . *lAnImai RIghts DIEECL Action CDEIILI
:IARDACI waitings=;‘it, 1d‘+hp last I "; 9811 848‘170

 




 

‘2urhan1+~s

‘173efdrow1nd'7realI-aLIon_
In the world MlgHL be  Fed

7 . “.‘ 'w
4 ‘ 71- a
7 ' '\. V

would become ’

M
-
d

7‘! .77: ' 7A ~77 I" ‘ I101.
m~¢quwﬁcﬁ

”5Q0unLr1ws

oraIns

‘ lt‘ 1+HCV

culLIVQLed LQLLQrow
For” d1r~LL Human
of H~1ng leHFLHd LQL'
Ha~ards BSFOCIQLHd wiLh

9P“;

. c£m7”lwhwwﬁ
'm1321mtr4t3w3~ 2f
m11~w3ﬂbﬂ“mﬁa ”5

EIJ
wIn
Hc+c
Mc+213
30 WII
an

7iimwét’

cffFeedloL and “slaughterhouew.
Flisrw com1no under scruLIHQ HQuever”
* coandwraLIQn QF paramount
to wthlcal VegeLerlene _
1L: unparalleled crueltu.

,1MJ,",:‘.4: 1-7

.37

1" M Ema-"3..

FaLLoru FarmIng
SQFFeringy. Lhere
ITLHaL drIHPIng cows
'fanima1 lethLer: wand LHBL Lhe
1 mousLm InL1m3+~lg bound up
LHmew1+ Indueru.~ But even 1F
Fe“ rm1nq-~werwx abOllShWﬂrw male" I:alu
.erle stIll be slaughtered Lo mainLai n

the *milk InduerQ.J, Similarly,
chhicks 17 onld be 11lled ln“
[Toroduce_  enough FertileV @998
H ang1 ng Hens moo noL be’LF
”the? wVIlC”Jo+ Lhw botfwrg
ma:le cHiCks are
addIng t0

aHImals.f:
7: ’I Fa" 7! . “I

1ncre3s e3 animal
grow1ng awarenw'

. 395

is

dBIrg

.15

order,

gafwm“ but
lILwrdllg ”Lhrown auag"
the number: QFI SLFUQHFNPHd

7THe da1ru industru uses 11 million m11k
cows per gear: HalF QF whom are kepL
Isome kind oF InLHHCIvH OPHPQLIOH.J

is +aken aFLer c3 1ve<
truth is LHaL cows

~‘SU1D1US milk
'ijnurs~d,7 HQV Lhe
7m11P“7mmg‘"bH*bOLd Lo Humane.l
_cplv~e are Lann auau onlu 3
“at?“
_ ndU1Sh on both.
or“. Lhwn Hp+ darkness;
wooden crates
dwFICIwn+ 1n Ironz_ in ordwr
Lhw1r3 FleeH pale enough For
Avea tf"FregnanL Sous are c

h0U7b ed
Low

onFined Lo

75Ldlls barelu larder 3LHan LHHIr bod1~s.¢?*u“tlol
reduce;

in darPn~55 Lo
‘-almosL% all leg1nd
_hwhej are PepL‘ﬂn some Lgpe OanfaLFOPg
:sustem.51. Rear1ngI LronspQrL
7 gHLer are FraughL MiLh euFerIng
F53ﬂ¢m§£1311 {é _» 3331' ‘ V7ééiélﬂ-Jr“~.;ﬁF$ﬁj

O

Q 1..
in wt ‘3.
,1 ‘ ‘ ' . , ‘ . 7‘. ' - 17 , ' "
. ‘ . .. ‘7 7 ‘1 " ‘ 7 ' J " , I ' .1 ‘
71.. 2‘7'5 7 ‘ :0; r: '5... n A'-. , ~ I 3' -, 2’s: 9: :1 -. ~ ', ‘ , . . '7 7
3 -' a. ‘ .-,J »J'- — ' ‘ .~‘ ,, J» - .r . J, - 5 '7. , e 1.x? I I"
’7 7 ‘J ’7' 77 ‘ ‘7‘ ' " ' ' ‘7‘ 7 " ' ."‘ J 4 V w" . .- t

Theo rare Ppr
stss rﬁﬁl1wa15ey

1'
I.

1

ﬁhatw79wqan15m:

b9

SHIF"1V
7c1enL~I+Idand now Q<3 ed For. grazand
andgﬁiMllp
consumpt1on
en1mdls._,
wQLIhg
a 4HP10USIQr
'5Hhilé the htgh coeL 0F Fleah Fodder a nd
pollQLion
Lhei“
Impoerﬁzﬂ
gQFfri
7WVWVfd811g 1h respect 7LQ an1malr and dHM“Ln

4‘longHVItg,£'strwng+h and health.
1311,

. ,w. , . 17;; 3,, ‘ 1___
.. 71‘; ' ».-z ’ . 2/ , ‘ ‘ .. V, ; 5. .., a ,_ '2.
F 3.. 3.? . z ”3.. ._ .._: gym I 1 77.:..~:7;'-;~7 1.1“ ; _V - ,ft‘fex .‘ . __ L .

J”mIlP*conLr1HuL~s Lo777-7‘774W11
7w3tb.kg
FacLQrou<

1:13

mSLeQL"
+0"
FTP“? _-
suHJuc+pd  tD_111;

‘Lmangufi“-
InnoCenng believe ﬂ+hat' on1n*wr,
hBVEEJ”
38Pe11yio
kapt continuallu pPHdnonL so LhaL Lheirfwi;
FHHIrlij?"
dog or Luoﬁitf
hIrthyf‘ForCIHQ a QWPBPQLIOH LHaL33ﬂ1*
7 The C81Vd87 J7
1n*‘r1
and +86 #3 lIQQId QIHLFQFji
ppr,5$11 _
“quolILu”fI&§f.9

{'37 37“ anrjg ,L £"i‘tC‘qjtv‘Ll-l

.weloLe 01

W .1.,.A

goIng a step begond Vegetar-
oFers a wau o'FI living wh1c1
the eprQILaLIQn 'oF animalé
eliminating +185h
Honeuyl and aniMa
From Lhe die
7the use”_c'ii
"' Cikar‘i \IP'1

Ian15m,5
excludes
gIHSQFar as  poss1hle
fishy; Fowly7
éhd 1 Ls dHrIVQLIVw
galtogethwr, and ~FosLe rs
faltwrnaLIVHS For commodiL 1e-
From anImolr A well  plenned:. wegc1
~Fd1HL 15_ supr151nglg uearied f on

dwlICIQu and is chdQcive'g LI
Abov
H jgwncourag1ng the Spread 0F such 7
EdeL» Seems Lo bwv Lhe g.inQ> wau [L
7recL1+u SILuaLIQn LHQL growc

77“dd5?:

F_HQP§

7*Qs
Lion.
For

as humansII perhaps beuond rwdwmp
When LherefFS no longer 3 m3r1e
mea+ or meat pronch +h~ scourg

a, 1-1-— ‘0‘ 7‘ ..- .
. 1J- 1-. I,

 

7-1 f- ‘7 . -‘ v
a 7 ,.
"L «‘ n. . .1
. ,
.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

._

1 VM,L,M
..

on ,«

1: Elm tho cow dcoyinj hot own 111d milk :1: 1
J «in how 1*? ' ’ " ‘ '

 

 

 

. ., 1 h j 3" :gJQ'J

I .w7, ‘.’ 7 .P”:71 ~ ' I I...
’ r J :1 2 J- .51»? ”J. 1 1,1,: 1].;
4‘ ; 311:3:‘3‘:

NELESSARY EVIL

- *7317: {if}: 3 J"
I», I M‘a 1“" ‘37- q.
:‘3111.

bh nve.1o LQnIrIHQTQr' hhaewgJ
ﬂwnwrgufln FESU‘HH‘d ED DU .Pngwnl FUN”
‘ 1nd euueol.¢1udr AunonrriwpchWLIUC
urIHL Lhw HMUcthr”P7L and IuIr1n+-
"111...... 1.1.1» IIIIInQ r11.
“W"VWLH73“““n’-iclon 7 u3llu adj up.
811 dgﬁc'IUHFJGO Lo W“1“‘mu:'.mvk
no c3tar1eF-or otrIrI , .Iosfe; abu1
enerdg to rear; ;F 1,1.L'

- v

bﬁf;

 




7§VimovaHnt
FiagoF
Hriwori’"9
ﬁ._mang

5;"wonththlH7I
2HPOOF

, of? £0535"
‘f,}5IanFIcant

2,Pequ5re a_p

:VEVhobICBLS-

THVaanHansQU;

by B ob

, 2 N.“ 1 ,
2v a

g. .VThH‘
-anImalH From}
on QHFOQm thLh would
, anImals From somH of the
hOPPHndOUS.l anus a are certainly
buti'at thH samH time,
V causes of aniMal oppress ion

V bH: adHQHsst OthHPHISHr2 w“
:Loniinuallg QHspondIng to 2onei»

3 CQIs is
‘cnOthHPr:

without reallngmaking gw‘
2Q‘total_g

2“ PFOJPHS"5 towans
-33niW oi llbwration.;gnui , .

achieve ouQ uliImatH goal

VattitudH55 a nd hablt5:*  uhich
nundteging . cans oF other
VpnothmS'aa_lel _ThH exploitation V
animals For Food;;.Fa shion;
HntHQtaIannt SUPVIVHS2
soczietal anoQancH,“ FHaQ,’
..and conFOQmItu.V ThH pHQva I

eating~ 4cnimal 'IFlesh maPHs
’Fanming profitable. 2UVHP Reliance
the» deIca 3 and dng
“VFuels the Fine oF
‘the
Grid
tic

V.C‘l"*22

on
eats blishments
ViVlSHCLth: as does

VOCIal archtanc» R Duh materialis—
;and throw} auau mHntalItu con
tributes to the ﬂea tQuctIon of animals’
ThHQH aQmeanu moQa axe mpl;s.
j_ThH bottom lInH ‘51? thH HlImInaiion 0F
‘ snImalVVand HanQoanntol dos tQuction
“will ZQHquIQHE pHole-to lHaQn, how to
live moQas Implu-: with a consciHntioua
U V ThHQH will nHVWP bH animal
linQation without human lIbHratIon.

'.;a¢a;33-, Speakind of Lovof5£5“
“HFl'J 2522221 i i! 2'2
22 DH

Um! in human Sgr‘iwi U
uou think “23‘32 3, 3.R;,

you h3¥ ‘32MUHODQLU22"“"“2
. on ,

lov~2T

~_ , . t 7.. - .. .' .
‘ u. .. a» t J‘w.‘ v ,. “‘ if ‘ m“: .1 I": -
n u.» . ,~ 1,: , ;V., .. H *2; r“. It» A». "w, «
12422 i ‘ - V 2 12;“ «-3 .. a. ;:52;222 . ,_ 33 (2+ n: ‘2 .-, .1:

«a

”ldould noi‘a'mothQ DH
¥*I1Ion,
‘ ” ' on

-. 22222. 1: .- "1 . ‘
r: Y 3 22.22222272222'2222‘2'9 2

GOQILL , . __. x,
, ’QIsV h“? 1ITH22;_IU
iuQ hHh'uounu 222 ‘

Iuct soon ’
_ human mothQ

.,' F
.2222? $2 2'2,

..,. .
4 ' I.
:23“? 1 .. ,
5:. if :‘
,\v~',_:.,'.

2 V I“Cr“LIoIn L aHIE?
D20 UU'l thini
:33” uou’hova* munODolU

‘2ﬁﬁJRﬁHaonmto“HA?,*‘J‘”

.2221 2 VII-Y " ‘ ,75 2‘. \‘«I-—~»§’3z ﬁx“ ; :‘I; 1.x». 2: ‘2 k": ' '. ,‘7
, 1 . {mas-1 331‘; a,‘ {a we” ,V Hie-3:- . QM

bUFlLLA lUtl f3? 2 ’*

.,- v I - -. _ M -:‘V
i ‘ 3"- A17 "3 2‘9" Vs' ; I .2; ,
f. I. ' w; ’2‘“: L IzV . W1

:will
Hvolutionarg ch angH in  human2,-
V thng
aoCialRW
0F,3
QHSHaQCh andg:
onlu becau2s H oEiﬁHW;
,matHQIalIsmfiﬁ} ,
H habit oFQHJ“ 1
FBCtDPg+V

deHndanH on cosmHtics For glamoUQa

ultImatH goal of thH anImal rightsﬁ22R l
 linQatiohfﬁ#I*"
human*3_np10ItatIon.?§5’
 SpaPH22f
mogt£“”

--2t'h"32 32f_
I must _ l

DAHE‘
anotIiu
alHQta. _
-In+oand o tea so
93nd

~':|,IE at UC Bteeng.

2 ; ﬂviolHnt,

2; 5erjwr:

Spread the word about
* ' zununmaltzgﬂhts

,VAmmal Rtghts Bumper-stickers

1 ‘There s no excuse foI' animal abuse

 

2 Meat brought to you by animal suffering
3. 2 “Animal experimentation suffering. not science
Send $1 00 plus 25¢22 postage for each stIcker.

Animal Rights 122' shirts 2222

Featuring our beautiful ﬁve

animal design by artist Jeff

Hall. Choose red green

blue black or purple:

S M L ExL. Please specify

french cut style or regular

and indicate lst and 2nd

color chOice. Send 257. 002 V .

plus $1.50 postage for each _V

smn. » "“‘i~IU,
Make checks payable to ARAG a22nd I2n2ail with order to:

Animal Rights Action Group
P.0. BoxV 8987 0 Santa Cruz. (VIA 95061

 

 

 

PHONE TREETFV:

V - - ;2~(-:22 :

 a tHlHohnnHV2iQae2" to
t ~"o+ ma_ioQ 3”a_tIon
ou would _likH Vi;o
tilt ont2tho ion hHlou
éhecl2thH_3ooQopQI3ta buv‘2"*‘

},
.
V ------------------------

MNODh.VC811

maintain:
2 actIvIs
If g

<. a -.

I ,mwuwuw “Payout; T'fﬂk.

in; . -
:each tath in S2an2 Francisco.
ﬂALS / GANDHI’ S BIRTHDAY. Join us
I abuse. McDonalda and BquHQ
lkHt In San Francisco at noon.
'inFormation.__Vs

I Join Gorilla FOHt at noon.
Join2
lip animal prHQImHntatIon.
Iii”.

the'
.6811
NH Grand NatIonal RodHo at_ S;F;2
“705 fon time. _ V-

will occh2 at a loca2l

ans aQH undHQwag For :a SHCond
Ca ll 848- 1705 For inEo.7
king at LattHQman Arno InstitutH

*xll'_itan anImal,epoQImHnts. MHHt

3,115 DINNER
{[3111 John (526- 5346) FOQ
f:?(0N
'-5HQIstmas F'antg Follo2us

7 00 A. m.
with thH

sthets:

8823 t Eau

info.

at  Union SqanH; S. F., Noon.

at thHIQ
HntHryksan FQanCIsco,e474 402 0V.§ _;

5 up ,tthe gHaQ long Fur lHaFlHttInq
Post near Union Sq.z 1 Fm an

. x ‘ .5 ,
\ , ~ . . , . : v: - - '3‘ v I
2? VV K: V 2V. if .. -. 22! m 2.2 _ .I routs 52;. {i

éio Joaa:al , 2 “ow 7232’F
Hld the 2nd and 4th TuHsdags “of
1 Rights Direct Action Coalition

Javeng month. 8311 848*1705.

2‘ ,. "II x
“3 .~ 3‘; 3"

1% u_. _ .a-

 




Q1986 haS been S busq year {Or animal rights actIVIsts

, ‘ih the Bau ZAP a,**'
tfwatured BCtIVH partICIpatIon W W

in HBtIOHWIdH honVIolent diheLt BCtiOhS.,§Df6WUUUWUQ

 

:21"; _WL"W'
V

{ESPIQ thiS Qear ARC JOIan the Animal RIJhtS DlPect ActIOH CoalItIon ih a leaf~'

{letting of pathonr'IhaIdw and outside downtown -Sah FrahCIsco restaurants. This
«action waS COVHPHd  bQ local IV In Janey. the Human»* Farming ASSOCIdtIon
079$“ zed a Simi lar event in the North Beath SthIon Of San FrdnLIsco.. ThiS ~
aLtIon focused on the atrocious living conditions of veal CSIVe .jY/AW largeW 2
number of people tarned Out to plCPHt SHVHPBI res taurants that spthSlI ' ihivf
SPYVIHQ Vwal dHIICBCIHS: and drww mdea COVHPBQH.W I: 7 ‘ {46

After 1 1/» gears of weekly QW-
hBVEW

Igils at Letterman Army Institute of RWSFBPChWW
changed to the formWati of Ipaflutt'n N0 {pi , S
addition to some ad hoc 6,9,15..- 9 r rs on a 'QUGPtPPIQ basis, uInI

‘
. ,- ' an In .. I91"! J'

‘ " w, :5? I! “ . "5 It: . .;.- I»; I; . - . a +4.. . ._ I. "{

'WvW :7" : - WZ.5WI-£I11;‘T ' 7W1? " SW31 W W W

r‘v-vv‘v ..<~

v. tie-NI". a

. , y... . I-.,' I _- . , . {.7 4 :J...
! ' I. "W .6 in.“ ‘IQ‘ ' I’ ’ " , W. .W “‘ :7" WW ~ AW " “ W“:W« 5: L ”If? .~ .
‘W ' .‘W‘ﬁl , ‘ 'WWA. W. ‘ , ”w 4| ‘ _ ‘ z ’1 3- - _» ‘ . a ~ ~

.-_ {#:M..-- «as» .n .-

W): J V5
u‘v— 7.13“"

W!

,4 .' g- . . . ~t . ‘1 h:
3 .t'r" {._ .

-I';7i U.
. ‘I‘ 1-“); R 7
.,...‘,I~

.'-'«.:.‘ I1. “I ; ~r::*-;'_,:‘:;;.:. . .;_, .
w ‘-.‘ PK"'{“‘>“ 4’ ‘.'

A ,

4‘

0h 6 hit 4 H: 2 , _‘...MS
W WWW W nationwide effortg

culminated
Bag  Ahea,
Francisco
Leading

in L
the

World Lab Animals Dag: an extremelg SUCCFSW1ul
with nOHVIolwnt leHCt actith at scores 6f UHIVHPSitIPS. In the

65 people were arrested in SimultS
I heouS actiOhS at UC' .e e I
and Davis campuses and at Stanford, ‘PHCHIVIng HIdPSPPEBE Wgﬁélgciigﬁ

up to UOPId Lab animals Dag ARC m mb P 866 Smith

I e e JOInwd Doll Stanleu
72 hour fast while occupying a  che on the Stanford campusyl symbolI”Inq
Imprisonment Shd depthatIOh of resea och hiM815“8t that lnStltUtlono-SWEI‘

ARC has COHtinde ‘“<- ;
1haflvttind  ofr thp

W! I
,‘ it .... {gaf‘ : , ‘
. ,3, . ,...

. ”’99 . _ ‘ _
I 33,3{ll‘siﬁ’iets git-W WWI-'5 ~, WW’
w'W“

IIts awarwnwv 'fcampaignvrat«410cal~’ zde with perIodIc

Sah Frantisco add Oakland ZOOSJS ARC’S Gorilla Faet proVIdes
writings.g

.1... an. «W z‘w— 7: a. 7.5m ....aw 1... .‘W‘r:
1.. .
'1,

;o

gin effectivw’attractibn whriu OFTHPIna his C0mp85§1onatp
Mel“ chIckS-ahd”Titwrd119 wtnruwﬁwm ., w

’71 “.... r?

v? 3
if g’; Z "I
; 1. , m, 51'1““. d .: »

_ _ #yﬂy “It“: _
sléhiaga4f Several {ARC “Numbers “coordinated Wan
** aniMal ridhts DPHSHHtBtIOH at_ S general
meeting of the Son FPQHCIJLO Greehs.
-Thw?¥~vwnt“wwhcluded Slidws ‘and pahel
W4di€CUSSIOh.yn The Greehs pasewd 5

adding to the

HHMbHPS pp
hImals;‘f*‘w M. ~ I

:rtﬁw .3145}

t
in." V. q’ 0

"1‘-
. ‘c-v

'
. !~‘.!_..
:5

if, .
-. ‘4

“I ' " 'W'tr MW? We;

The
cows
some

daihQ
Pm"
kind of

urbanites

Sosurplus milP

QEBPI

15

induStrU uses
hSl+
IntwhSva

taiw

but7 the? tPUth

0? uhOm f,
PHPatIonmatigI
nHOCentlg believe thwiﬁmnn; ”w"’”*éﬁﬁm
“n d'FtEti" C d 1 V1,; W » _ A { on
is that L1 Suw-

millII
rare 132

:4; 32¢: $33.11;»; mtiﬂ ﬁﬁkWh‘iI’

waor

m}: - ; N,
/ «WrR‘Wrw

JUIUI217*

*PeéOlUtiOh opposing the‘usé OF
Mllitaru WPHSHBPCh and:
the Lettermah~8ctiona.f*“” W

BaQ Areazsand

 animSls
supportInc

1-2"?

,5...

.:

*SSCPamentc

tSHNPSHdr:

{Slaughter

'.Wkept continuallu pregnant so thaI
Wj_m7ilk
”cprMS are t_{S
DSFte r birth,
Wiﬁtlict’

W ’23P": {

imSQ vb» sold ‘to humahS.;¢.
\eh awau onlu S dag

FoPCIng .
JWSHGUIsh  on both. 4
then he pt in darlnwss,‘
wooden {CPQidS
waICIwnt in iron,
their“ FleSh pale enough for
veal. ‘*trwghant I” ,
stalls harwlg larder than thHlP b

Theg"i are Pwpt«In darkness»? to

”Th

ih order *tc

”7QntQSS;IM11,pHu;5H;‘ almosttwall Hf

heIwS {
':sgstem.

are kept‘Ih some type oFSIt
RearIngIa transport
are; raught wIth

(a;

131;; 1‘3”be (I

I. --W“.’WW*
WW

‘6 ‘mWWH‘:

. . {
(Q). {~_ - 4 .a

"5. ». 1-.- gﬁ ' ~. . , ,._ , .~ a W W 1W
:3". «III 4- : ’= ~ L ' ‘5‘“1'3.‘ ”wag EI'NIva’h-i
' ‘ 5'. ‘.‘ S;

E {

. d‘SObHdlpncH for 18h
WWawparatIIa 32p:

“hou‘;ﬁl I.
and ted a; HlIQUIPE7SIS“

quSQ;
isows  873 F0hflf5z'

WW7? sympathetic supporters.-

=Bob ZImmwrman Shared his

gsponsorwd bu ARC
‘ISIstwncg
TleaflwttIngS
SFranCisco
.waihound b8515.S
'7&:¢666kS tto

‘-8CtiVIStS {trvalwd to LoS Ahgwles tc
participathwIn a mass nOHVIolwht CIVIT
{anImals.‘ '*~

Wm'» ii-

Hklétx} *3”?

, ft" _.
W -:J',W.

prof SSIOhal
raISIng workshof
Thahis to the ;con-
0? LPO;JRUI the; weeklI
oFWRobertS Furs‘: ’ Sar
hSwagcontInuwd ,oh zan gear
ARC donated animal rldht‘
the Fro Fwac~«
":“ﬁpuhlici ed FinahCIal ~"(iciIi-‘IFI-
WW" ‘ *'§C0htihUIhg Iacrossxa.ths
w ”7 again shared tabl:

3514'

ski llsI at fund

Contlﬁﬁhtgﬁg

Iﬁwith FemInISts FonIAnImal Rights at th:

1iPeaceyh~Jobs
zéfFrancisco.»

and Justice march mSS
we hav~ also dOhe outreaci

at punkIWCOnc~rts to*“lInP up wit!

 




August 3, 1983

Mrs. Gilbert W. Humphrey
Woodfield Springs Plantation
Miccosukee, Florida 32309

Dear Mrs. Humphrey:

In response to your letter of June tenth, I want to expand further
on my letter of April 19th. 'It is not trapping per as which we
oppose but trapping with an unnecessarily cruel device: the steel
jaw leghold trap. More than 60 countries have banned this trap
because it causes such ghastly injuries and suffering. Substitutes
include leg snares (there are some specially good new ones as well
as the old type), box traps, cage traps, and killer traps.

The letter you enclosed from Mr. Hardaway speaks only of trapping
in general. He speaks of members of the Masters of Foxhounds
Association of America as becoming very upset when they see hounds
caught in a trap so they ”would like to see all traps legislated
out of existence.“ But that is not the issue. The issue is phat
ngigg or devices are used for trapping? That is the issue which

ﬁ

I hope you will examine carefully and e spassionately.

If a foxhound is caught in a modern cable coated leg snare, he
be released without injury simply by slipping the noose back.
if he is caught in a steel jaw leghold trap, he is very likely
have broken bones, severe injury to soft tissue, and, if not
promptly discovered, will be subject to gangrene so that the
veterinarian is obliged to amputate to save the dogPs life.

It is greatly to the advantage of Masters of Foxhounds to have a
change in the devices used by trappers. There are two major
reasons for this: (1) Foxhounds will not be painfully maimed
and ruined by steel jaw leghold traps: and (2) The image of the
Association and of all foxhunters will be clearly seen to be
rational and concerned, rather than defensiVe of an extremely
painful trap whose use they have no possible reason for wishing
to continue.

The best defense against anti-hunting groups is to show and act on
the concern foxhunters feel about unnecessary injuries caused by
an outdated device: the steel jaw leghold trap. Use of improved
methods of trapping certainly is not antiotrapping or anti—hunting.

State game and fish departments quite often adopt a defensive

 

 




  
     
   
   
   
  
 
   
     

  

Mrs. Gilbert Humphrey '- ~2- August 3, 1983

posture, encouraged by the major trap manufacturer. There is
nothing "scientific" about a steel jaw leghold trap. Wildlife
management in no way depends on its use.

I urge you to reconsider the position you have expressed in your
letter, for increasing numbers of sportsmen wish to sée’aclong-
needed change in trapping methoés. Your support for this rational,
humane goal would be appreciated.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

CS: 1h

cc: Alfred Hunt




April 19, 1983

Mrs. Gilbert w. Humphrey
Woodfield Springs Plantation
Miccosukee, FL 32309

Dear Mrs. Humphrey,

In a recent phone conversation with Alfred Hunt about the
Animal Welfare Institute of which his niece is a trustee, we
spoke of the steel jaw leghold trap to which he is verymmuch
Opposed. As he pointed out, they not only trap foxes, they trap
the hounds.

Mr. Hunt suggested that I write you about these traps when
he learned from me that the Wildlife Legislative Fund of America
Condones their use and has taken an exceedingly active role in
preventing any restrictions that animal welfare organizations
and sportsmen like Mr. Hunt have sought. He felt you should be
aware of this.

As a former Master of Fox Rounds and Master of Beagle Hounds,
I am sure you recognize the dangers of these traps. Scientific
tests show that more than half the animals caught in this type 66
trap suffer serious injury. Dogs that are caught often have to
have their legs amputated in order to prevent gangrene from spread~
ing into their bodies and killing them.

If you would like to have additional information on this
matter, I would be very happy to supply it.

Roger sends his regards to you. He has often told me of his
high regard for you as a fellow Metropolitan Opera board member.

Sinnerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




(OHM. 91/021 W? Wan/25713;
@ﬂmIJ/Wd 3/241th 4 01211111112112.
pi'i'ZIcaw/Xm Wanda

June 10, 1983

Christine Stevens, President
Anima] Weifare Institute

P. 0. Box 3650

Washington, D. 0. 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens:

The Board of Directors of the Masters of Foxhounds Association of
America first formaTTy supported The MdeTife Legisiative Fund of
America and its companion organization,“The‘MdeTife Conservation Fund
of America, in 1980. I am treasurer of both. In January 1982, the
Board of the Association overwheTmingTy endorsed the position it took in
1980. The issue was aTso brought up before the annuaT meeting in 1982
and the members present overwheTmingTy endorsed the Board's action. A
very key point of this action was the position of the NCFA/MLFA on
trapping. I am encTosing a letter on this entire subject from Associa—
tion President Ben Hardaway to aTT active Masters and members of the
Association. Mr. Hardaway serves on the Board of the MCFA/WLFA.

The second encTosure is a bookTet titTed “Trapping Benefits PeopTe
and Nde AnimaTs”, which states the reasons why trapping, and specifi-
caTTy the Teghon trap, is necessary. I, and many members of my famiTy
for generations, have strongTy supported scientific wdeTife management
practices. As a pTantation owner, I insist that these practices be
empToyed on our Tand.

I think you wiTT have to agree that the professionaTs in the fier
of wdeTife management regard trapping and the Teghon trap as necessary
tools in their work.

Sincereiy,

(\VO’L/LM

Mrs. Giibert N. Humphrey

LIszw
Encis.

cc: Mr. ATfred Hunt

 




 

ANIMALS

Wor/dSOC/letyfortheProtect/on ofAn/ma/s I n t 6 r n a t i O n a 1

World Society for the Protection of Animals - Société mondiale pour la protection des animaux - Welttierschutz-Gesellschaft
London/Boston/Basel

 

 

V01.IV N0. 15 Winter 1984

 

 

 

 

 

.‘. ~~,_ ... -«_ ,. Wang—a ‘_~......

 

 

 

Photo courtesy of Miss S. L ynam

m

Richard Martin— Pioneer of Animal Welfare 4 See page 4

 

Contents include: OWildlife trade, Colombia — 3 0 Result of art contest, Costa Rica - 3 0
Help needed for endangered species, Indonesia - 5 O TBIBrucellosis eradication programme,
Australia — 6 0 Save the turtles - 7 0 Review of Canadian laws - 7, O Bloodbath in
Botswana - 8 0 Campaign updates - 9 O Rhino walk — 10 O Cockfighting, Costa
Rica - 1 1 0 Shooting of cows, Ghana — 1 1 0 Pet registration - 1 1 .

 




 

 

ANIMALS International is the official publication of the World Society for the Protection of Animals (WSPA) with Editorial
offices at 106 Jermyn Street, London SW1Y 6EE

Editorial Board: Rosalind Lawes (Editor), London: Colin Platt, MIBioI, London; John C. Walsh, Boston.

The purposes of the World Society for the Protection of Animals (WSPA) are to promote effective means for the protection
of animals, for the prevention of cruelty and the relief of suffering to animals.

Headquarters: 106 Jermyn Street, London, SW1Y 6EE, UK. Tel: (01) 839 3026.

Eastern Hemisphere Regional Office: Colin Platt, Regional Director, 106 Jermyn Street, London, SW1Y 6EE, UK. Tel: (01)
839 3066.

Western Hemisphere Regional Office: John C. Walsh, Regional Director, PO. Box 190, 29 Perkins Street, Boston, Mass.
02130, USA. Tel: (617) 522 7000.

Continental Europe: Katharina Nebiker, Regional Secretary, Birsfelderstrasse 45, CH-4052 Basel, Switzerland. Tel: (061) 41 1563.

Canada: Michael O’Sullivan, Field Representative, 215 Lakeshore Boulevard East, Suite No. 113, Toronto, Ontario M5A 3W9.
Tel: (416) 369 0044.

Central America: Gerardo Huertas, Field Representative, Apartado 516, Heredia, Costa Rica. Tel: (506) 375 705.
South America: Alvaro Posada-Salazar, Field Representative, Apartado Aereo 75002, Bogota, Colombia. Tel: (57) 255 7826.

WSPA Officers: President: G. S. Drysdale (Glasgow)
Deputy President: J. A. Hoyt (Washington DC.)
Secretary: Dr. D. S. Claflin (Boston)
Treasurer: R. S. Cummings (Boston)

Vice Presidents: M. S. Madden (Washington DC), R. Steiner (Basel), H. J. Weichert (Munich)
Director Genera/: T. H. Scott (London)

 

 

 

 

1984 Annual Dues

 

£ $ sFr fFr

 

 

 

 

Individual Members 5 10 20 50
Life Membership

(one-time payment) 250 500 1000 2500
Society Membership:

— Voting Members 50 100 200 500
- Associate

(non-voting) Members 10 20 40 100

 

 

Payments can be made to the nearest WSPA Regional office by
personal cheque or by remittance of the amount to banks of
postcheque accounts as indicated below:

£ Regional Office for the Eastern Hemisphere, 106
Jermyn Street. London SW1Y 6EE.

$ Regional Office for the Western Hemisphere, PO. Box
190. 29 Perkins Street, Boston, Mass. 02130 (USA).

SFI‘. Until further notice payments to be made to the account

of the World Federation for the Protection of Animals at
Handelsbank N.W., Postoffice Box, CH‘8022 Zurich or
postal checking account Zurich PC 80-1004.

fFr. by bank cheques only. to WSPA Office in Basel.

DM/Dfl, etc.

At a time of fluctuating exchange rates, membership fees best be
calculated on the basis of the amounts expressed in Swiss francs.

 

 

 

 

ANIMALS International is pub-
lished in English, French and
German. Editors, journalists and
teachers are encouraged to reprint
articles or to use them as
background material. Suitable
credit would be appreciated.

 

 

 

For the right reason

That animals are capable of suffering
considerable pain and distress is
accepted without question. However,
whether animal suffering is important is
still a question in some circles. Partly
reacting to this position the animal
welfare movement often makes various
statements to justify the attitude of
animal protectionists. Of course, it is
legitimate to use different arguments to
achieve the purpose of eliminating
cruelty to animals and generally give
animals around the world a better deal.

However, the animal protection
argument is often bolstered and
sometimes has been based upon
ancillary statements. How many times
have we heard that “fox hunting/cock
fighting is brutalising”, “bullfighting
causes insensitivity to suffering” and
“eggs laid by battery hens lack the
quality of the free range product”?
Doubtless there is truth in all of these
statements but—for goodness
sake — bullfighting is bad for the bull. A
matador has 24,000/1 chance of sur-
viving a bullfight—the bull’s chance is
NIL. Equally, fox hunting and cock
fighting are pretty unhealthy pastimes
for the animal participants — they often
die horribly — and battery hens are con-
demned to a miserable existence, suf-
fering physical deprivation and mental

tedium with all the unpleasantness that
follows with excessive feather plucking,
brittle legs, etc.

Let the movement constantly ask the
question, “What happens to the
animals?” Then tell the world boldly
that the welfare of the animal is our
primary concern, and on this basis we
demand a cessation of cruel practices.

When we get this right the incidental

benefits to men and animals will
certainly follow.

Trevor H. Scott

Director General

 

INTERNATIONAL DISASTER
FUND DANGEROUSLY LOW

WSPA is the only organisation main-
taining an International Disaster
Fund used to bring relief to animals
affected by man-made and natural
disasters. In the past funds have
been dispersed to aid animals
affected by floods, famine, earth-
quakes, pollution, drought and
military conflict. As a result of an
increasing number of requests, this
special fund is dangerously low.
Please direct donations to your
nearest Regional Office Disaster
Fund. Your help is vital.

 

 

 

 

ANIMALS International IV/15 (1984)

 

 




 

 

INQUIRY CONFIRMS
INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN
ENDANGERED SPECIES —
BARRANQUILLA,
COLOMBIA

 

For some time WSPA has been receiv-
ing complaints concerning the illegal
import of live animals into Europe and
North America, originating from the
coastal port of Barranquilla, located in
northern Colombia. This city serves as
a major trading point for the illegal
capture, holding and export of wildlife.
Responding to these complaints,
Regional Director John Walsh, accom—
panied by Colombian Field Repre-
sentative Alvaro Posada-Salazar,
visited the market place in Barranquilla
to asses the current status of the trade
and the conditions under which the
animals were being kept.

Upon their arrival at the market they
found hundreds of animals housed
under deplorable conditions. Over-
crowding, lack of ventilation and
proper nourishment, and inadequate
sanitation were all contributing factors
to stress and disease in the animals.
They observed many exotic species of
birds including macaws, toucans and
parrots, and in addition there were rare
mammals such as ocelots, and avariety
of reptiles.

WSPAstaffreportedtheirfindingstothe
officials of the Colombian wildlife
agency, INDEBENA, and national
press coverage was focused on this
issue. '

Wildlife officials subsequently con-
ducted a raid on the market place,
seizing over seven hundred birds and
imposing heavy fines against the
offenders. After removing the birds
fromtheirmiserablesurroundings,they
were transported to nearby Salamanca
Island, where they were given their
freedom within the safety ofthis national
wildlife refuge.

 

“HOW CAN WE CARE FOR
ANIMALS?”—RESULT OF

COSTA RICA’S NATIONAL
ART CONTEST

 

As reported previously in Animals
International, Costa Rica had been
chosen as the first country in Central
Americato hold a nationwide animal art
contest. The theme of the contest was
based on man’s responsibilities to
animals and was sponsored by the
WSPA Field Office in that country. Car-
ried out in over 2,300 schools in Costa
Rica, the contest drew an overwhelm—
ing response, with more than 150,000
children submitting. over 5,000
individual and group entries.

The first prize was awarded to Loryin
Eduardo Alvarez Marin, an eleven-
year-old boy, and depicted a wide
range of current problems affecting
animals and how people could prevent
and relieve suffering to animals. Prizes
were also awarded for second and third
winning entries, and the school which
submitted the greatest volume and
diversity of drawings. Each child who
prepared a drawing received a
certificate of participation from WSPA.
Private corporations, individuals and
foreign embassies donated the prizes
which included text books, clothing,
athletic equipment and toys.

The judges included the Editor of
Central America’s leading newspaper;
the Minister of Education; a repre-
sentative of the Costa Rican Associ—
ation for the Protection of Animals; Mrs.
Frances l. Filleul, the wife of the
Canadian Ambassador; an elementary
school teacher and Gerardo Huertas.

In addition to the tremendous interest
generated by the contest, there is a
touching human element which
involves Loryin, the winner. This young
boy lives in a humble wooden dwelling
with an earthen floor, located in one of
the most financially depressed areas of

 

Regional Director John Walsh at marketplace, Barranquilla

ANIMALS International lV/15 (1984)

 

WSPA staff admiring winning entries of
the art contest

Costa Rica. Because his parents were
unableto afford the coloured pencils he
wanted to prepare his entry, a class-
mate loaned them to him.

Because of the great success, the
national animal art contest will be an
annual eventandWSPAWillencourage
similar contests in other countries in
Central and South America.

This is a unique way to encourage
children to consider the need of our
animal kingdom and their own re-
sponsibilities to domestic animals and
wildlife. From conversations with
students and teachers, it was apparent
that the contest began to develop a
humane ethic in children in an area of
the world where it is sorely needed.

 

SINGAPORE TO JOIN CITES

 

For many years WSPA has been
pressingthe GovernmentofSingapore
to accede to the Convention on Inter-
national Trade in Endangered Species
(CITES) and it is now reported that this
initiative will soon be taken, which will
effectively reduce the illicit trade in live
animals and their products. This move
will be welcomed not only by animal
protectionists, but also by other
signatory countries who have regarded
Singapore as a South-East Asian loop-
hole in the agreement, trading in com-
modities such as ivory, pelts, reptile
skins and live birds.

A CITES seminar, to take place in Kuala
Lumpur, will be attended by three
officers from the Primary Production
Department of Singapore.

An official announcement of the de-
cision to join CITES is to be made at a
meeting of Asian Environment
Ministers in Bangkok at the end of
November.

 




 

RICHARD MARTIN

 

 

 

— Humanity Dick

In 1834 an Irishman died in France
and was buried in Boulogne. His
name was Richard Martin and it was
he who piloted the first successful
Bill to protect animals through the
Parliament at Westminster in
London and thus virtually laid the
foundation of the whole SPCA
movement throughout the world.

Richard Martin was a humanitarian in
every aspect of his long life. He was
born in Dublin in 1754 and came from
an old Anglo-Irish Norman family. After
Richard’s mother died when he was
nine years old, he was sent to school at
Harrow and came under the influence
of two remarkable men — his
Headmaster, Doctor Sumner, and his
assistant, Samuel Parr. Both men had
a tremendous influence on their pupils.
Doctor Parr believed that from a very
early age children should be taught to
be kindto animals butthatthiswould be
impossible ‘if the heart has once been
familiarised to spectacles of distress
and has been permitted either to
behold the pangs of any living creature
with cold insensibility, or to inflict them
with wanton ’ barbarity. ' ‘Wanton
barbarity’ were words which Richard
Martin must have heard many times in
his youth and he was never to forget
them.

When Richard left Harrow he went to
Trinity College, Cambridge, where he
was admitted as a gentleman-
commoner. These undergraduates
spent many hours discussing such
subjects as politics, religion and
philosophy and they absorbed many
theories in their discussions about life,
which in later years were to bear fruit in
the many humanitarian reforms
introduced into British Parliament in the
early years of the nineteenth century.

Richard came down from Cambridge
without taking a degree but was later to
study law at the Kings’ Inns. He was an
excellent horseman and as was the
custom for young gentlemen of his
upbringing he travelled widely,
especially on the Continent.

He entered the Irish Parliament as an
MP. in 1 776. Thiswasthe start ofalong
and distinguished political career. After
the Act of Union of 1800 between
Britain and Ireland, Martin became an
MP. forCo. Galway atWestminsterand
joined the group of reformers who were
fighting for the poor and under-
privileged.

When his father died in 1794 he
inherited huge properties in Counties
Galway, Mayo and Roscommon but

4

they were heavily encumbered in debt.
The Martins had always been good
landlords and their numerous tenants
usually paid the rent in either labour or
produce. When Richard took over the
estates the tenants found that if they
werecrueltotheiranimalstheyincurred
the wrath of their landlord.

Richard Martin divided his time
between his lrish estates and his
political life in London. He visited
slaughterhouses and bear-baiting pits
and knew at first hand the cruelty
inflicted on animals. In 1800 William
PultneyintroducedaBillatWestminster
to have bull baiting abolished ‘as it
depraved the onlookers’. Naturally, it
was supported by Richard Martin. It
was laughed at and defeated. In 1809
Lord Erskine, who was the Lord
Chancellor and a most distinguished
lawyer, brought in a Bill to prevent
malicious cruelty to animals covering ill-
treatment of horses, sheep and dogs.
Anyone guilty of cruelty would be liable
to up to one month’s imprisonment.
This Bill was also defeated. In spite of
these defeats, Richard Martin battled

onA-innthevHouse of Commons whilstw

Lord Erskine fought for animals in the
House of Lords.

On 1st June, 1821 Richard Martin
presented the following Bill to the
House of Commons: “If any person or
persons having charge, care or
custody of any horse, cow, ox, heifer,
steer, sheep or other cattle, the
property of any other persons, shall
wanton/y beat, abuse or ill-treat any
such animal, such individuals shall be
brought before a justice of the peace or
to the magistrate.” If this Bill had
included dogs and cats, it would not
have stood a chance of acceptance. lt
succeeded in passing through
Commons but was defeated in the
Lords. Undaunted, Richard presented
it again the following year and this time
it passed both Houses and was given
the Royal Assenton 22nd July, 1822. It
became known as Martin’s Act.
Humanity Dick had at last succeeded in
bringing in the first laws to give
protection to animals. A door had been
opened which has never closed.

Richard attempted to bring in several
more Bills between 1822 and 1826 to
give protection to dogs and cats, to
improve conditions in slaughterhouses
and to suppress cruel sports but they
were all defeated. It was not until 1835,
after his death, that a Bill was passed to
increase the protection of Martin’s Act
to include bulls and domestic animals,
improve conditions in slaughterhouses

and, intheory, putan end to bull baiting
and cook fighting.

Richard Martin was ridiculed, scorned
and lampooned for his championship
of animals but it made no difference to
him. He persisted in interceding ontheir
behalf. Cab drivers and coachmen,
slaughtermen and drovers were
terrified of him. He was quite fearless.
He had boundless energy and spent
much of his time combing the streets of
London to find cruelty cases. Horses in
the city streets had a dreadful life asthey
were often raced against time and over
driven. Ponies and donkeys were
made to draw carts unmercifully laden.
Horses too exhausted to work were
brought to slaughterhouses but only
killed gradually as the demand was
needed —those left alive, were unfed.

Richard also exposed the terrible
cruelties inflicted on animals, especially
dogs, in some of the great London
hospitals. He gave vivid descriptions of
these experiments to the Members of
the House of Commons and pioneered
the work of anti-vivisectionists by
making the public aware of what was
going on behind closed doors.

In 1824, following the passing of
Martin’s Act, a Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals was
set up under the Chairmanship of the
Reverend Arthur Broome. This Society
was necessary to see that the law was
implemented and to educate the
public. Naturally, Martin was on the
Committee. Gradually, other SPCA’s
were founded and the animal welfare
movement spread worldwide.

Meanwhile, Martin, who had never
cared for worldly goods, was getting
more and more heavily in debt. Years
before he had handed over much of his
vast Connemara estates to his son,
Thomas. In 1826 he lost his seat in
Parliament which had given him

immunity from his creditors and he

decided to leave London and retire to
Boulogne with his wife and daughters
to escape being jailed for debt. It must
have broken his heart to leave his work
for animals unfinished, although In
France he continued to do his best to
intercede for any animal which was
being ill-treated.

Richard Martin died 150 years ago
this year at the age of 80. He was an
eccentric, a great wit, utterly
fearless, but above all a human-
itarian. Let us hopethat ourconcern
for animals is motivated by the
same spirit as that practised by
Humanity Dick, namely that
animals, as well as humans, are part
of God’s creation and that because
we have power over them we must
see that they are treated WIth
consideration and understanding.

Extract from paper presented at the
World Congress by Mrs P. McA/lister,
WSPA Director and Chairman of the
irish SPCA.

ANlMALS International IV/15 (1984)

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

HELP NEEDED FOR ENDANGERED
SPECIES IN INDONESIA

 

An appeal for help has been received
from Mrs. Coby Bonarius, a dedicated
worker for animal welfare in Indonesia.

There exists in that country a massive
illegal trade in endangered species
which Mrs. Bonarius istrying to control,
in conjunction with the Department of
Nature Conservation (known locally as
the PPA) in Bengkulu. She states
‘A/most every week we have door-to-
door salesmen who try to sell stuffed
animals. It often happens that they
come with, for instance, a living
siamang and try to sell it. If one is not
interested, they say “if you are not
satisfied with it, you can call me again
and have it stuffed”. That is a very
normal procedure here.’

Apart from siamangs, other favourite
species sold, either alive or stuffed, are
genet cats, fruit-eating bats, brightly
coloured birds, and turtles. Apparently,

 

Mrs Coby Bonarius and workers of the PPA with a selection of the stuffed animals

every ‘respectable’ Indonesian family
has a number of stuffed animals in the
house. The living animals are kept
behind the houses, are badly fed and
rarely have adequate space; they exist
for the sole, often cruel, amusement of
the owner.

Although aware and concerned about
this problem, the PPA cannot
confiscate ill-treated animals as there
are no facilities to house them. Until
such enclosures, are constructed, Mrs.
Bonarius and her husband take in ill-
treated animals and keep them at their
house for later rehabilitation. This year
two siamangs have been taken into
their care. One they kept for two
months, during which time it recovered
its health and was eventually accepted
by the Orang-Utan Rehabilitation

Centre. The other was very young,
severely ill-treated and almost starved

Photos courtesy of Mrs. C. Bonarius

 

to death —she was saved just in time.
The photo of her (above) was taken
after 14 days of intensive care.

Mrs. Bonarius and the PPA are hoping
to clamp down on the illegal sale of
siamangs and other species and stop
such unnecessary suffering and
slaughter. The first step will be to
construct cages to hold the confiscated
animals and they estimate this will cost
in the region of 5 million rupiahs
($33,723), but as yet they do not have
enough money.

WE APPEAL TO ANYONE IN-
TERESTED IN HELPING THEM
ACHIEVE THIS GOAL TO SEND A
DONATION TO.THE NEAREST
REGIONAL OFFICE, CLEARLY
MARKED INDONESIAN PROJECT
FUND.

 

In the next issue of ANIMALS
International we will state how much
money has been raised and we will give
progress reports on the work being
achieved.

 

Curb on captive dolphins

An investigation into mortality rates of
captive dolphins in the United Kingdom
has provoked much concern.

The zoologist Mr. Arden—Clarke
undertook a detailed study of
dolphinaria in the country and his
findings are nothing short of appalling.
The report cited that although the
average life of a dolphin in the wild is 25
years, in captivity its average life is less
than 4 years. In his study Mr. Arden-
Clarke listed 66 dolphins that have
been imported into the UK. during the

ANIMALS International IV/IS (I984)

Iast15 years — out ofthat number 29 are
known to be dead, 16 status unknown,
2 have been re—exported and 19 are still
alive.

WSPA has always deplored the
exploitation of these highly intelligent
mammals merely for amusement
purposes. There is overwhelming
evidence that keeping dolphins in a
confined area rapidly leads to physical
and psychological degeneration, and a
high vulnerability to infectious
diseases.

A European Council Regulation, which
came into force at the beginning of this
year, added dolphins and killer whales
to Appendix I of CITES, with the
consequence that the Department of
the Environment strengthened its
procedure for handling dolphin import
applications and, in the case of
applications for exhibitions, details of
the educational purpose of the
exhibition must be provided. The
Department has also heeded advice
given by the Nature Conservancy
Council that if any more imports are
permitted they should be conditional on
submission of a post-mortem if the
animal dies either in transit or in
captivity.

 




AUSTRALIA — TBIBRUGELLOSIS '

 

ERADICATION PROGRAMME

 

Faced with possible trade em-
ﬂgoes by disease free countries,
Australia’s national bovine
tuberculosis and brucellosis
eradication campaign plans to rid
the country of these diseases by
12%-

Although a testing and vaccination
programme is successfully reducing
brucellosis infected stock, bovine
tuberculosis is proving more difficult to
eradicate, being largely restricted to
range cattle in remote and difficult
terrain ofthe northern areas ofAustralia
in which they are difficult to locate and
muster. Currently, either of these
diseases infects 10% of the herds
placing at risk about 31/2 million cattle.

In 1981, the Bureau of Animal Health
and other agricultural agencies
commenced a project to determine the
cost of eradicating TB from the the
northern partsofAustralia, which would
include mustering range cattle for TB
testing and the slaughtering of infected
stock as no successful vaccine is
available against this disease. Repeat
testings would be necessary before the
herds could be attested 100% clean.
The project identified certain major
difficulties including types of terrain that
varied from tropical forested areas in
the northern monsoon belt, to the
mountainous Kimberley’s. Graziers in
these areas considered it praticable to
muster only 75% of the stock due to the
high (uneconomic) costs of rounding
up the remainder. The project
concluded that the cost of just one
complete muster Of the 5 million cattle
in Northern Australia would be about30
million dollars, and many more such
musters would subsequently be
necessary.

An essential factor in any disease
eradication programme is the
segregation of attested ‘clean’ stock
from possible contaminated carriers.
Allegedly, herds of feral scrub horses
(brumbies) are breaking down
paddock fences, allowing ‘clean’ and
untested stock to intermingle, and in
North Queensland alone estimated
stocks of these horses number
420,000. As a consequence, large
numbers of horses are being
slaughtered in the Northern Territory
and in Queensland and, presumably to
capitalise on this situatiOn, a licensed
export abattoir has opened at Tennant
Creek, reported to be the first premises
licensed to kill and process horses for
human consumption—elsewhere it is
stated that horse flesh is used by the pet
food industry.

6

 

So far as WS PA can ascertain, these are
the facts responsible for some
harrowing scenes recently shown on
television around the world, depicting
horses beingfired atindiscriminately by
riflemen in helicopters with resultant
wounding and maiming. This has
resulted in numerous complaints from
angry viewers in Europe, protesting the
apparent callousness of the shooters
and their indifference to the distress
and suffering they inflicted on these
unfortunate animals.

Whilst it is the right of any responsible
health authority to eradicate the spread
of disease, there also exists a com-
mensurate legal and ethical right for
them to employ humane means in the
pursuance of this objective. Both the
television documentary and other
evidence in our possession suggest
failure of the authorities to impose
humane safeguards and to supervise

 

 

the actions of the helicopter-based
shooters. Neither expediency or
economic consideration can, in
WSPA’s opinion, justify the infliction of
cruelty.

Representations have been made by
WSPA to the Bureau of Animal Health
in Canberra, protesting the actions of
these shooters and the apparent
willingness of the authorities to allow
this to continue. It is elementary logic,
that no shooter, whatever his standard
of marksmanship, can guarantee to
humanely kill a moving animal from a
moving vehicle, yet this is what the
authorities are permitting to happen.

Proposals have also been
submitted which, if adopted, would
drastically reduce, if not entirely
eliminate, these horses beimhot
and wounded.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MESSAGE IS GETTING THROUGH

Mrs. Peggy Fenner, MP, Parliamentary
Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food, United Kingdom,
today called for more information from
laboratories and farms to help achieve
a better understanding of farm animal
welfare needs. Opening the Farm
Animal ’84 Conference in Leicester,
Mrs. Fenner said:

‘lt is an open secret that my post bag at
the Ministry contains more letters from
members of the public, organisations,
and Parliamentarians on welfare
matters than on any other issue. lt

would be quite wrong to dismiss these
letters as the work of the extreme
welfare fringes. The great majority of
those writing to me, and to their
members of Parliament, amply demon-
strate that there is widespread interest

‘ and some degree of concern — across

the political spectrum — about the
welfare ofanima/s on the farm, in transit,
atmarkets and at the place ofslaughter.
There is growing awareness, especially
about intensive livestock production
methods. ’

Press Release, 25th September 1984.
Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and
Food (United Kingdom).

ANIMALS International lV/15 (1984)

 

‘-

~.~$_ _

 

 

l

4“,

-—_

 




a 31,—...
ﬁ— A ‘

-~%-=_=__

J-

 

 

 

SAVE THETURTLES

WSPA has‘been in correspondence
with Mr. and Mrs. Gunther Peter on the
subject of their project to save the
marine turtles in Indonesia. Their cam-
paign is well underway in Continental
Europe but helpis needed from as
many countries as possible to protect
these creatures from extreme cruelty
and ultimate extinction. The following is
extracted from the Peter’s report.

”We read about the so—called turtle
breeding farm in Benoa and decided to
visit it the following day. Our first im-
pression of the farm left us speechless.
We saw the animals crammed into
bamboo pens, and injuries were a
common sight—some were without
eyes, some without ﬂippers. A little later
a boat arrived carrying about 200
turtles. They were piled on top of each
other in four layers in the lower hold.

,, ~ Some had been placed close to the hot

engine which inflicted serious injuries to
their heads and other parts of their
bodies. The animals were hea ved outof
the hold, their flippers pierced and a
leather strap passed through the holes
and tied; they were then thrown into the
shallow water, violently hitting the
ground. After taking them to the market
place, they were left for many hours in
the blazing heat of the sun before being
loaded on to trucks for the rough ride to
the slaughterhouse at Denpasar—a
journey of several hours. One would
have hoped that a quick death would
finally put an end to their suffering,
which had lasted for weeks since their
collection on the shores of New Guinea.
We were, however, to witness even
worse acts of brutality. The slaughter

procedure consisted of‘turhing the
animal on its back, cutting the body
away from the shell and hacking at the
flesh until finally the turtle was dead”.

Turtles are protected animals, and no
trade in turtle products e.g. turtle shell,
turtle soup etc., should be allowed be-
tween countries which are party to the
Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species (CITES).

However, many countries presently
allow imports of turtle products from
what are termed “Turtle Ranches’.
These ranches take the tUrtle eggs from
the wild and hatch them artificially. 70%
of the hatchlings are destined for com-
mercial use, the remaining-30% are
released into the sea. However, it has
been scientifically proved that turtles
released in this way will not necessarily
help to increase the natural population.

The ranches are therefore seen as a
drain on the natural population of
turtles, and there are also increasing
numbers of falsely declared ‘farm-bred
turtles’ on the international market.

The SAVE THE TURTLE campaign is
aimed at banning all imports of marine
turtle products from these ‘ranches’.

 

To support the campaign to ban all
imports of turtle products, please write
to your country’s Ministry of
Agriculture, M. P., or Euro M.P., urging
such a ban.

 

 

Crude and painful method of transport for the turtles

ANIMALS International IVll5 (1984)

Photo: G. Peter

 

 

CANADA — WSPA ASSISTS
WITH LEGISLATIVE REVIEW
OF ANIMAL PROTECTION
LEGISLATION

 

The Law Reform Commission ~of
Canadaiscurrentlyexamining sections
of its criminal law which deal with acts
of cruelty towards animals. Originally
passed in 1892, these sections have
been revised on a number of occasions
since that time. WSPA, in co-operation
with the Canadian Federation of
Humane Societies and its mem bersoci-
eties, will be making a submission in an
effort to strengthen not onlythe existing
provisions of the legislation but also
recommendations to increase the
penalties to those convicted of abuse to
animals. A recent study funded under
the auspices of WSPA established a
scientific correlation between child-
hood abuse towards animals and later '
adult violent criminal behaviour
towards people. These findings will be
made available to the Commission in
order to emphasize the importance of
recognizing that inherent aspects of
cruelty towards animals is also a cause
for its desensitizing effect on children
and_adults.

WSPA has also made representations
to the Federal Ministry responsible for
the import of wildlife into Canada, and
to the agency responsible for the im-
portation of meat products into
Canada. The purpose of the legal re-
commendations was to assist develop-
ing nations with the enforcementoftheir
legislation in these areas. In these
countries major sections of animal pro—
tection laws are unknown, ignored or
openly flaunted, resulting in acts of
cruelty to animals that would constitute
criminal offences under the laws of
Canada and other developed nations.

The Ministry of Agriculture has indi-
cated that countries exporting meat
products to Canada must demonstrate
that the animals have been humanely
slaughtered in accordance with the
standards required under Canadian
law. The new legislation is expected to
come into force early next year.

The Canadian Wildlife Service of the
Ministry of the Environment has been
working on revising the Game Export
and Customs Acts in an effort to close
loopholes in the existing laws. Wildlife
officials advised that the legislation has
not yet been finalized and that they wel-
come WSPA’s comments once the
issue is once again open for a public
discussion period.

In each of the proposals for legislative
changes WSPA documented abuses
that occur in developing countries and
the organization’s past involvement
with government agencies and private
institutions in dealing with these
problems.

 




 

 

 

Bloodbath in Botswana

Even the most ‘seasoned’ animal

 

protection worker is at times nauseated

 

and revolted by certain acts of cruelty.

 

Such an incident, published as a shock

 

report by the South African magazine
‘Scope’, 17th August 1984, relates eye
witness accounts, including that of

 

 

 

Professor Christian Barnard, of a safari

 

in Botswana by South African game

 

hunters. The depths of callousness and

 

indifference to which these so-called

 

hunters sank degrades the human race

 

and leaves one with a feeling of shame

and guilt.

According to ‘Scope’, the safari party
comprised 12 hunters, only three of
whom were Botswana residents; also
20 trackers and helpers, 8 vehicles and
a single seater aircraft for game
spotting. Many of the hunters were
wealthy self—proclaimed ‘conservation
conscious’ South Africans and
prominent peopleintheircommunities.
Guest of honour was the famous heart
surgeon Christian Barnard who is
reported to be horrified by what he saw.
The host was a wealthy sheep farmer
resident in Botswana who, wishing a
record of the safari, engaged a Cape
Town film company. Subsequently,
when the film was sent for develop-
ment, the processing company
complained about the scenes of blood,
gore, and needless cruelty.

 

The following are extracts from the
article

26th June — The safari party set out in
Central Kalahari to hunt lion previously
spotted by the aircraft. On the way they
set dogs on a ratel (honey badger)
Mel/ivora capens/s for sport, chased a
hyena Hyaena brunnea to the point of
exhaustion with the dogs and vehicles,
finally running it over with one of the
trucks and leaving itto die from internal
injuries. A lion, lioness and 3 cubs were
located but showed no interest in the
party and were pelted with oranges and
bumped by the trucks to enrage them.
The lion was run over by two trucks
whilst the lioness was repeatedly shot
and wounded before being killed,
leaving 3 orphaned cubs. These were
lassoed, poked, prodded and kicked in
the stomach, and one had beer from a
can squirted into its face and eyes.

27th June — Large herd of wildebeest
Connochaetes, Sp. located and fired at
indiscriminately with wounded animals
left to escape. One eye witness recalls
theincidentasfollows‘Theyjustkepton
firing, pouring shot after shot into the
milling, terrified beasts as they
desperately tried to outrun the
speeding vehiclesthat raced alongside
them. I turned and looked at the faces
of the men feverishly working the bolts
of their hunting rifles. They were in the
grip of a killing frenzy—like a pack of
feeding sharks—filled with a lust for
blood and destruction . . . Some of the
animals, the more fortunate ones,
dropped as they were hit, but more,
many more, continued to run in agony

 

Photo: W. Robinson

and panic. One animal tripped
repeatedly on a bloody skipping rope
of its own entrails . . . another with half
its muzzle shot away careered out ofthe
plunging mass of animals and ran
headlong into the side of one of the
trucks, mercifully breaking its neck.
Young animals, old animals, pregnant
females, calves, it didn’t matter, those
murderers just wanted to slaughter as
much as they could. Oh God . . . even
now I can hardly believe that it really
happenedf

28th June-1st July—Approximately
65 animals killed over this period
including lions and numerous jackals
Can/s mesome/us, with probably as
many animals escaping wounded.

9th-11th July—Okavango [De/ta in
north-east Botswana—5 buffalo,
Syncerus caffer were killed and 7
wounded but allowed to escape.
According to the ‘Scope’ report, the
party had permits to shoot only 4
buffalo — ‘Agreementwas reached with
game wardens to overlook the other 7
that escaped wounded. The law of
Botswana stipulates that a permit
expires once a shot has claimed an
animal, irrespective of whether that
animal has been killed or wounded,
retrieved or escaped’.

12th July—Six zebra were killed and
one wounded which collapsed with a
chest wound and was subjected to
abuseasitlayinjuredtoprovideabetter
spectacle for the cameras. To enable a
10 year old boy to gain practice with his
new rifle, a hartebeest calf A/ce/aphus
sp. was immobilised with a shot in the
hips by one of the party. After three
shots by the boy which failed to kill, the
calfwasfinished offwith a hunting knife.
Other brutal and callous incidents
occured, the details of which are too
gory to relate.

WSPA is grateful to ‘Scope’ for
publishing the facts of this incident.
Numerous protests have been receiv—
ed at the WSPA offices demanding that
action be taken against the individuals
concerned. Consequently, strong
representations were addressed to the
Botswana and South African govern—
ments, seeking assurances of better
laws and stronger law enforcement,
also retribution against these infamous
hunters, cowering beneath a cloak of
anonymity in Botswana and South
Africa.

 

POSTSCRIPT
14th September 1984

We are advised that the farmers who
own the property where the hunt took
place are in prison in Botswana.

The South African hunters have been
declared ‘persona non grata’ by the
Botswana authorities and have been
barred for life from the South African
Hunters Association.

ANIMALS International lV/15 (1984)

 

\

J Va

 

 

 

 




 

CAMPAIGN UPDATES

 

 

BULLFIGHTING

 

 

 

 

 

Many readers will be aware of the fact
that WSPA is continuing the work of the
International Council Against
Bullfighting (ICAB). We are now
obtaining a great deal of publicity on
this issue and are soliciting the support
ofmajortouragencies, urging thatthey
denounce this cruel spectacle and
cease to advertise excursions to
bullfight arenas in their holiday
brochures. Euro-M.P.’s are also being
contacted, asking them to raise the
matter at the European Parliament. In
addition, our Field Representative in
South America is conducting investi-
gations into the extent of bullfighting in
those countries. The anti-bullfight film
‘Dance of Death’, shown at the World
Congress in Boston, has been con-
verted on to video tape for easy distri-
bution and is available for hire or
purchase. Details can be obtained from
your nearest Regional Office.

 

BULLFIGHTING IN COLOMBIA

 

Most people regard bullfighting as a
“sport” which occurs only in Spain,
Portugal and Mexico. Very few realise
that bullfights are also long-standing
traditions in Colombia, Peru,
Venezuela and Ecuador.

A WSPA report highlights the extent of
bullfighting in major Colombian cities.
For example, there are large bullfight
arenas in 8 Colombian cities, with an
average seating capacity of 10,000. In
addition, bullfighting occurs in nearly
every small community during annual
fiestas. There are more than 30
breeding farms which produce over
12,000 bulls, and an average of 650
bulls are fought to death annually, with
thousandsofothers used forothercruel
events.

This report contains a great deal of
other additional data and is available
upon request.

 

FROGS LEGS TRADE

International pressure continues to be
exerted on India and Bangladesh to
ban the frogs legs trade. The
Bangladesh authorities have indicated
thatour campaign is having an adverse
effect on the export of frogs legs from
their country and have requested
WSPA to document cruelty aspects,
and crop devastation resulting from the
removal of millions of frogs from their
land—this information is being
provided.

ANIMALS International IV/15 (1984)

 

FESTIVAL OF CRUELTY

 

WSPA has brought to light many
Spanish fiestas involving animal
cruelty. Two years ago WSPA
succeeded in banning the cruel
‘Stoning of Animals’ festival, and
recently the Toledo festival, where live
geese were beheaded by horsemen,
was outlawed.

WSPA has now investigated the annual
festival held on the holiday island of
Ibiza. On 16th September the festival
was highlighted by entertainment at the
local bullring. The event was billed as a
family show and the majority of the
audience consisted of young children
expecting to see circus acts.

However, the entertainment consisted
of an extremely inhumane variation of
the bullfight in which chimpanzees and

dwarfs, dressed as matadors, took
part, as well as clowns. Two young
calves were let loose in the arena and
the dwarfs continually taunted the
animals, pulling their tails and climbing
on to their heads and backs. Sharp
barbed banderillas (iron hooks) were
used to rip at the calves’ flesh, and
eventually the distraught animals were
crudely stabbed to death.

Mrs. Gl'uckofthe IbizaSPCA is assisting
WSPA’s campaign against such
inhumane spectacles. She is also
seeking to prosecute the people
involved in this cruel spectacle as it is
illegal to havechimpanzeesinthe same
arena as a bullfight, and it is also illegal
for children under the age of 14 years
old to be present at a bullfight.

WSPA is continuing to campaign
against this and many other festivals of
cruelty going on in Spain.

 

Dwarfs tormenting young bull in the cruel Ibiza festival

 

SPANISH BEACH
PHOTOGRAPHERS

 

As reported in Al. No. 13, WSPA has
been able to distribute warning posters
through the International Federation of
Tour Operators (IFTO) to the resorts in
Spain where the beach photographers
work.

This has already been effective in
warning many tourists about the cruel
trade, and WSPA has received a large
number of letters from tourists notifying
us of the photographers’ activities.

The cruelty of this trade is described in
a letter from one of our supporters who
recently visited Tenerife:

Photo courtesy of Mrs E. Gluck

“One of the photographers was
squeezing a cub so hard that it was
whining. Another was yanking a
chimp ’8 arm up in the air to geta ‘good’
photograph. A cub’s face was being
slapped by one of these men to make
him more alert and another cub was
slapped very hard for peeing on his
hand— probably the cub was very
frightened”.

This cruelty must be stopped! WSPA
will be stepping up its campaign for the
coming tourist season in an effort to
forewarn all potential tourists to Spain.
It you are going to Spain, please write
to WSPA’s London office for leaflets to
display in your hotel.

 




 

 

RHINO WALK

On his last visit to Mombasa, Regional
Director Colin Platt heard ofthe exploits
of a remarkable Kenyan, Michael
Werikhe, who in January 1983
completed a 500 kilometre walk from
Mombasa to Nairobi to raise, through
sponsorship, money for the ‘Save the
Rhino’ fund and to create local interest
inthe plightofEastAfrican endangered
wildlife. Accompanied only by his pet
snakes, ‘Kifaru’ and ‘Mombasa’, which
he carried draped around his neck,
Michael completed the walk in 24 days.
He now plans a sponsored walk of
1,600 kilometres through Uganda,
Tanzania and Kenya, again to raise
money for rhino conservation — but we
will let Michael tell his own story . . .

 

‘My name is Michael Werikhe, lam 28
years old and currently employed by
Associated Vehicle Assemblers (AVA)
in Mombasa, as a supervisor of the
guard dog section.

I have always been interested in wildlife
and even as a child I spent many hours
watching animals. Like many others, I
am deeply aware of the hazards to
animals in today’s world, in particular
the pressures put on wildlife by man’s
increased demands for more space
and a greater share in natural
resources of this planet. Many of E.
Africa’s animals are threatened but
none as greatly as the rhino. The
continuing demand for rhino horn and
loss of range now threatens the very
existence ofthis animal and its numbers
will soon reach a point whereby its
extinction in the wild becomes
inevitable. We must remember that the
rhino has comefrom an age long before
ours. They have, forthousands of years
co-inhabited the continents of Africa
and Asia with man and have gone
through the changes of evolution with
him. It is ironic that the rhino is now
tragically moving steadily to some-
where beyond our reach. Anything that
can be done to reverse this trend is
worthwhile, and I feel the first step is to
make people aware of this sad
situation. Some eighteen months ago,
I undertook a solo walk from Mombasa
to Nairobi, and by doing so was able to
raise over 280,000 Kenya Shillings for
the Rhino Fund. This money will go to
finance various projects to save this
animal and I feel that the resulting
publicity made people in Kenya and
abroad conscious of the problem. My
next step is to seek sponsorship for a
similar walk, but this time some 1,600
Kms. that would pass through three E.
African countries. I would like to start
from Kampala in Uganda, pass
through Kenya and Tanzania to re-
enter Kenya at Lunga-Lunga, finishing
in Mombasa. The problems con-
fronting Kenya’s wildlife also apply to

10

our neighbouring countries and I feel
that this walk could make many people
aware ofthe crisis. Overthe years I have
followed with deep concern the
wholesaledestruction of rhinosin Zaire,
Sudan, Chad and Uganda. Here at
home, in two decades Kenya has lost
90% of her entire rhino population to
ruthless poachers.

The rhino population in Kenya in the
1960s was between 15,000—20,000,
but is now only 500—1,000. Of the
three E. African states Uganda is the
worst hit with recent population
estimates of rhino numbering less than
twenty. Tanzania at the moment has a
fairly stable population, but for how
long? Poaching is on the increase in
nearly all the major parks there.

I hope that as a result of the walk,
sufficient funds can be raised to help
various rhino projects in the three E.
African states, such as the purchase of
much needed equipment for mobile
patrols guarding the rhino and
deterring poaching activities. Finally,
my appeal is addressed to you as I feel
your organisation may wish to help in
promoting this worthy project through
your news letter.’

Michael ’s Rhino Walk project is backed
by the East African Wildlife Society
based in Nairobi. Those wishing to
make a donation should send this to
WSPA, who will ensure, through its
Advisory Director in Mombasa, that the
money is placed in the ‘Save the Rhino’
fund. On behalf of the readership of
Animals international we wish Michael
every success with his new project and
hope that his courageous fund raising
venture is very successful.

 

Michael Werikhe

 

 

WSPA CONTINUES TO
OPPOSE COCKFIGHTING IN
COSTA RICA

 

Last year WSPA Costa Rican Field
Representative, Gerardo Huertas,
uncovered an attempt by special
interest groups to repeal a long-
standing law which prohibits the cruel
spectacle of cockfighting in that
country, Roosters with sharp spurs
fitted to their legs are forced to engage
in a bloody combat until one or both
birds die in the pit, accompanied by the
jeers of spectators wagering on the
outcome of the fight.

Huertas met ”with the leaders of all the
political parties to discuss this problem,
and they expressed their concern and
agreed to support any initiative to fight
the legalisation of cockfighting in their
country. He also conducted a number
of interviews with representatives of the
press which served to alert the public.
Working in conjunction with local
animal protection organisations, he
collected several thousand signatures
to protest the government’s proposal,
and the petition was then presented to
the National Assembly.

In a concerted effort, WSPA Regional
Offices supported Huertas’ cause by
sending telegrams to the government
along the following lines:—

“There is growing international
concern at the efforts underway to
legalise cockfighting in your country.
This would only serve to create a nega-
tive international image of Costa Rica
which is now widely viewed as one of
the most socially and culturally
advanced countries. These primitive
and barbaric spectacles have a
dehumanising effect on both partici-
pants and spectators. WSPA urges you
to reject all efforts to legalise the bloody
spectacles which developed in
mediaeva/ times and have no place in
modern society”.

Drawing on the strength of WSPA
member organisations and individuals
in over 60 countries, Huertas sent an
appeal for assistance which resulted in
a massive international protest to the
Costa Rican authorities. As a conse-
quence of this international opposition
brought to the government’s attention,
the proposal to legalise cockfighting
has been blocked. However, we will
continueto monitorthe situation closely
in the event that another attempt is
made to weaken the animal protection
laws of Costa Rica.

WSPA expresses thanks to all

members who supported us in this
crucial endeavour.

ANIMALS International lV/15 (1984)

 




 

 

GHANA: Pregnant Cows Face
Firing Squad

 

Upon receipt of information from a
WSPA correspondent in Ghana, the
following letter was sent to the
newspaper ‘Ghanaian Voice’ and to
the Ghanaian Embassy in London.

1 “The World Society forthe Protection of
Animals has noted with dismay and
concern, your article ‘Pregnant Cows
Face Firing Squad’, Ghanaian Voice,
September 3-9, 1984.

According to the article, seven
pregnant cows were shot by order of
Mr. D. K. Donkar, Assistant Director of
Education, and Nana Boafo Ntah,
Omanhene of Aowin Traditional Area,
while grazing on the outskirts of Enchi
in the Western Region. One must
assume, therefore, that these unfortun-
ate cattle were grazing in an area where
they should not do so.

Laws of trespass cannot be invoked
against animals, only against the
owners of animals, or, in the case of
these cows, the person who permitted
them to graze at Echi. It is elementary
logic that to break the law, the subject
must be aware that such laws exist—
clearly animals do not have such
powers of reasoning — but their owners
or keepers do. Consequently, they are
the ones from which the law should
seek compensatory action, not the
animals.

The fact that an Assistant Director of
Education made such an elementary
mistake says little for his powers of rea-
soning, understanding and compas-
sion, which are essential ingredients of
any education system.

It is, however, the effects upon the
Citizens of the Enchi area, notably
school children, that causes the World
Society concern. Advanced communi-
ties have long recognised the inter-
dependence of mankind and the
animal kingdom and, inthe case offarm
livestock, mankind’s total dependence
upon them. It is for this reason that such
advanced communities have enacted
laws to protect animalsfrom cruelty and
ill-treatment, and from the irresponsible
actions of people such as this Assistant
Director of Education.

A knowledge of, and respect for animal
life is now recognised as essential by
most nations of the world and is pro-
moted by the United Nations Organi-
sation. Consequently, humane
education in schools receives a high
priority but not so, apparently, in
Ghana. To redress this situation, the
World Society urges governmental
education programmes in Ghanaian
schools and, offers help and guidance
on how this can be achieved”.

ANIMALS International M15 (1984)

ESTABLISHMENT OF PET
REGISTRATION SCHEME - U.K.

It is estimated that over a quarter of a
million dogs and cats “go missing”
every year in the United Kingdom. All
over the country unscrupulous people
snatch animals by day and nightforsale
to others who use them for a variety of
illegal purposes. Still more become lost
or stray and the vast majority are never
seen again by their owners.

Forthe firsttime in Britain, a registration
scheme has been set up which gives
pets their own identity and the only real
chance of being recognised and
returned to their owners, should they
become lost. A simple painless tattoo,
applied by a veterinarian, gives the pet
a permanent and unique registered
number. Stored on The Pet Registry’s
central computer, this individual
number can be instantly retrieved if the
pet is found, and ownership can then
be established.

Such identification undoubtedly deters
those who seek to profitfrom their illegal
use. Dealers will not accept animals

 

with clearly marked identity tattoos;
officials will want to know where
identified animals have come from and
will make unwelcome enquiries. So the
Pet Registry system not only helps to
safeguard pets, but also assists in the
reduction of pet theft and the illegal use
of animals.

WSPA welcomes this initiative; such a
system is much needed in the U.K. and
we are confident that The Pet Registry
will soon become a nationally known
institution. Hopefully its success will
give the incentive for other countries,
who have no registration scheme, to
follow suit. WSPA urges its U.K.
members to register their pets (£1 0 per
animal).

Forfurther information and to obtain an
official registry form, please contact:—

The Pet Registry,
PO. Box 206,
Harrow,

Middlesex HA1 3UY.

 

 

U.K. BAN ON SQUIRREL MONKEYS
BY STREET PHOTOGRAPHERS

Whilst WSPA continues to fight the
trade in baby chimps by Spanish beach
photographers, similar exploitation
was taking place at holiday resorts and
in city centres in many parts of the U.K.,
with street photographers using
Squirrel monkeys as props.

This abuse of wild animals provoked
considerable public outrage and
WSPA advised concerned individuals
to support the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
(RSPCA) campaign to ban thetrade, by
protesting to the relevant local authority
and by writing to the Department of the

Environment, urging that the
Dangerous Wild Animal Act 1976 be
extended to include New World
monkeys (the ban previously applied
only to Old World monkeys).

Readers will be pleased to learn that
primates from the Americas (with the
exception of marmosets) have now
been placed on the above Schedule
and therefore the practice of using
Squirrel monkeys in this way has
become illegal since August 1984.

Any person seeing a street
photographer with a Squirrel monkey
should immediately report the matter to
the local authority or the police and also
give full details to their local RSPCA
inspector.

11

 




World Socrety for the Protect/on ofAn/ma/s

 

To become
a WSPA member

I would like to be come a WSPA
member.

Name

Address

 

 

Enclosed is a I:I cheque or I:I money
order in the amount of

 

I:I Annual Individual Membership
D Life Membership
D Contribution

 

 

FIELD TRIP TO
SOUTH-EAT ASIA

 

A field trip is planned in early 1985
when Regional Director Colin Platt
will be visiting several countries to
document abuses to animals and to
meet with governmental agencies in
order to raise the standard of animal
protection. Our main priority lies with
Malaysia, where cruelty is rampant.
Please help us to make PROJECT
MALAYSIA a success by sending a
donation. A leaflet is available
outlining the problems in Malaysia
and what WSPA hopes to achieve.
Please let us known if you can help
with their distribution.

 

 

SCANDINAVIAN MEETING

The 1984 annual meeting of the Nordic
Council for Animal Welfare was held in
Helsinki, Finland, with Denmark,
Sweden and Norway as the other par-
ticipating countries. A WSPA member
of staff was also present and issues
were discussed on progress made in
Scandinavia and future priorities to be
taken into consideration. An outline of
the resolutions made at the meeting
follows:

(1) Whilst fur farms continue to exist,
close co-operation must be initiated
between animal protection societies,
fur farmers and the relevant authorities
in order to obtain the best possible
conditions for these animals.

(2) A request be made to the Nordic

. Council political body to standardise

hunting regulations and animal
protection laws throughout Scan-
dinavia.

(3) Attention be drawn to the
authorities of the increased use of
crossbows for hunting, indicating the
inhumanity and danger of these
weapons.

‘(4) Each country urges prohibition of:

(a) poisons, traps and snares.

(b) tail docking in dogs (except for
medical reasons).

(c) the feeding of live animals to
captive animals e.g. live mice to
snakes.

It was also recommended that the
NordicCouncilaskitsmemberstowrite
to tourist agencies denouncing bull-
fighting and discouraging them to
advertise such spectacles in their
brochures.

 

in the U.K.

also available.
For further details, please contact:

WSPA Group Accountant,
106 Jermyn Street,
London SW1Y 6EE.

 

Covenanted Subscriptions —
of Interest to WSPA Supporters

Did you know that WSPA a registered Charity can recover tax paid by you at the
standard rate in the United Kingdom, provided you are willing to covenant your
subscription to WSPA for a period of either 4 or 7 years! Bankers Order forms are

 

 

BOOK

 

TITLE: Down Among the Donkeys
AUTHOR: Elizabeth Svendsen

PUBLISHERS: Pan Books Ltd, Caraye Place, London SW10

PRICE: £1.25

This book describes the formation of the Donkey Sanctuary, which is an
extraordinary animal rescue charity. Over 2,000 donkeys have now been rescued
from hardship, and rehoused in Elizabeth Svendsen’s sanctuary in Devon. No
needy donkey is ever turned away. A heart warming story.

 

TITLE: Animal Law

AUTHOR: Godfrey Sandys-Winsch

PUBLISHER: Shaw & Sons Ltd, Shaway House, London, SE26 5AE
PRICE: £10.25

A concise guide to the law relating to animals, ranging from the keeping of wild
animals to animal diseases, pet animals and animal transport. This book is
recommended asavaluable easy reference bookforanyone who has dealings with
animals, whether their own, or other peoples.

 

 

 

ANIMALS International M15 (1984)

 




Animal Welfare Enforcement

Fiscal Year 1989

 

 

Report of the
Secretary of
Agriculture to
the President
of the Senate
and the Speaker
of the House of
Representatives

 

 

 

\’/’/\'|l \- /\_"/ H. ll: . . V .. 7‘; ’V \‘/‘\‘
P/J\\///\ ”//\\/./——\ H / ”’3‘: . V " "‘ "\ “ “13‘ M"; \\= -‘/
§\",7\§1'.{:>\>\ -;.H; if“ :1"

'. '\\\‘\"'I/\__' \~/ ii/f: :\\

\-//\\
\’aﬁ;\\,\'

:‘///‘\

 

 

 

 

/ \,\:'I‘

\‘//| ’I/\
l'-\\n/‘/7

7(-‘

‘\\.\_\‘
//‘ ‘

///
\\\
'uy‘ ‘
74/

H
//
\\
\\
\\

J I :\\
‘

é
//
HZ

‘x
,\
.l'l; \
)\
4:
‘I
;.
II\\\"
2

_' 71'

T.

\3 r 9‘
4/-‘,\//.
I://\\\_—
I [\‘VIH‘:
. \_
. @x
\l
'l
§I

I I
l

\.

/ ' l\
\\
.'.‘//
\u

3

\‘
/
/‘
‘ /

\/
4...

\\

/A

 

’|

 

 

 

A

. .\

\u
4
\

\

[Ff/M" “‘7‘ f“!
,\\./\://"\\’/'/'/\\:\./‘ ::—I/\\\:\//'\\/./ <"\\ 7/; ~
\\'/ \\'////l ////l_‘\_\ ://’\, I

LI.
’,\

O

/,.‘\
.__.\
'//:'; '—/‘.\\ :1

\
\
'0
‘/ J!
\\"/

\HQ\\‘
,5“
MD)
2; 11/-..7/

- -'||//

5‘
\//-

¢\

‘\\

\

/’\\I
l 1‘ ﬂ/

/ 'l
>2

A

:\’

’: \/:: /‘ ‘ ~
IK‘H \—-‘\".‘ \\’<l}§‘\'l\.y

/,\_;,/\ ,‘ . '
“7"” \ , ' . . \//\\ \\ SVIH
Sl:\>-//\\ \_\"""T : U 3EU'1‘—“//=\//\\1 ";. _:“l\\:’/\

 

 

\\ /,//

N”

' |//'//

“I

 

 

 

’\ tiny—KI”:
/\//§ll/ \. ’;//\\ Edi :/

" .“’\ 1
A Vﬂxh/

 

 

 

 

United States Animal and Regulatory

Department of Plant Health Enforcement and

Agriculture Inspection Animal Care
Service

 




Contents

Report of 1989 Activities 4
Summary 4
1. Inspections 4
2. Violations 4
3. Regulations 4
Appropriation for FY 1989 5
Legislation 5
Regulations 5
Organization for Implementation
of the Act 5
1. REAC Field Activities 5
2. REAC Headquarters Activities 6
3. Training 6
Licensing and Registration 6
1. Research Facilities 6
2. Reports from Research Facilities 7
3. Animal Exhibitors 7
4. Carriers and Intermediate Handlers 7
5. Licensed Dealers 7
Inspections 7
1. Prelicensing Inspections 14
2. Compliance Inspections 14
3. Inspections of Animals in Transit 14
Complaints 14
Investigations 14
Other Activities 14
Public Information 16
1. Public Correspondence 16
2. Freedom of Information Act Requests 16
Legislative Recommendations 16
Glossary of Terms 17

Appendix

Table 1. Number of active licensees and
registrants

Table 2. Animals used in experimentation

Table 3. Animals used in experimentation
with pain - with drugs

Table 4. Animals used in experimentation
with pain - no drugs

Table 5. Animals used in experimentation
no pain - no drugs

Attachments

Animal Welfare: List of Licensed Dealers

Animal Welfare: List of Registered Research Facilities
Animal Welfare: List of Licensed Exhibitors

Animal Welfare: List of Registered Exhibitors

Animal Welfare: List of Registered Carriers and
Intermediate Handlers

 

 

 




 

 

 

Report of 1989 Activities

Each year, the Secretary of Agriculture reports on
administration and enforcement activities of the Animal
Welfare Act (AWA) (7 U.S.C. 2131 et. seq.) as required
by Section 25 of the Act. Section 25 also states that,
“This report as well as any supporting documents, data,
or findings shall not be released to any other persons,
non-Federal agencies, or organizations unless and until
it has been made public by an appropriate committee of
the Senate or the House of Representatives.”

The present report covers Fiscal Year (FY) 1989, which
began October 1, 1988, and ended September 30, 1989.

Summary
1. Inspections

US. Department of Agriculture (USDA) officials con-
ducted 11,056 inspections at 7,497 facilities (9,052 sites)
licensed or registered under the AWA. These figures do
not include pre-licensing inspections or inspections of
carriers. The average rate of inspections per site during
FY 1989 was 1.22 (Table 1). This is a decrease from FY
1988 Inspections. During FY 89, a new unit was
created within APHIS, the Regulatory Enforcement and
Animal Care unit. The Animal Care section is devoted

' entirely to achieving compliance with the Animal
Welfare Act (also the Horse Protection Act). Now that
this unit is established and fully staffed, we expect the
inspection activities to increase. During the upcoming
fiscal year, we will increase both the frequency and,
more importantly, the quality of inspections.

 

Table 1

Number of inspections made during FY 1987—89.

FY gout:i . 'II'rpstal Average

ac1 t1 5 c 'o c 'on

(Sites)‘e Ratgc(pternssite) Inspc U

1989 7,497 11,056 1.22
(9,052)

1988 7,434 15,296 1.73
(8,861)

1987 6,872 14,675 1.78
(8,244)

‘Research facilities have an average of 2.2 animal sites per facility.

Km

2. Violations

When APHIS inspectors discover noncompliant items
during an inspection, the necessary corrective measures

are discussed with the owner/manager or official of the
facility.

If violations are ﬂagrant or recurrent, APHIS takes
appropriate action. The following table shows the
resolution of these actions for FY 1987 through FY

1989.

 

Table 2
Resolution of cases submitted to OGC for FY 1987

through FY 1989.

 

FY Cases Suspension, Letters of
Submitted to Revocation, Warning,
Ofﬁce of Cease and Warning
General Counsel Desist Orders Notices

1989 79 55 298

1988 184 179 314

1987 145 4 4 328

3. Regulations

The Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act
was passed in December 1985 as part of the Food
Security Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-198). The amend-
ments include a requirement that standards be issued
providing for the exercise of dogs and for an appropri—
ate environment to promote the psychological well-
being of nonhuman primates. In addition, research
facilities that are registered under the AWA are required
to establish an Institutional Animal Care and Use
Committee to approve animal research protocols and to
assess the research facility’s animal program, facilities,
and procedures.

On March 31, 1987, proposed regulations for Parts 1
and 2 (9 CFR) were published in the Federal Register to
implement the 1985 amendments to the Act. Regula—
tions for the exercise of dogs and the psychological
well-being of nonhuman primates were not included at
that time. In all, 7,856 comments were received on this
proposal. Parts 1 and 2 were rewritten and published
in the Federal Register on March 15, 1989, along with
the first proposed standards in Part 3 for the exercise of
dogs and the psychological well—being of nonhuman
primates. A total of 5,582 comments were received on
Parts 1 and 2, and 10,686 comments were received on
the proposed standards for the exercise of dogs and the
psychological well-being of nonhuman primates in Part
3. The regulations contained in Parts 1 and 2 were
published in final form on August 31, 1989 and became
effective on October 30, 1989. Research facilities will
be allowed one year to implement the required changes
mandated by Parts 1 and 2. These newly implemented
regulations include the following requirements:

1. The establishment of an Institutional Animal Care
and Use Committee in each registered research facility
to oversee the facility’s program of animal use.

2. Standards to ensure the proper use of anesthetics,
analgesics, and tranquilizers when necessary.

 

 




 

 

3. In procedures that may involve pain, investigators
must consider alternative procedures and a veterinarian
must be consulted in the planning of such procedures.

4. Adequate presurgical and postsurgical care must be
provided.

Because of the exceptionally large number of com-
ments received on Part 3 for the exercise of dogs and
the psychological well being of nonhuman primates, a
great deal of time was required to catalog, read, and
analyze the comments. It is anticipated that subsection
A, dealing with the exercise of dogs, and subsection D,
dealing with the provision of an environment adequate
to promote the psychological well-being of nonhuman
primates will be reproposed some time in FY 1990.

Appropriation for FY 1989

The FY 1989 Animal Welfare Program was appropriated
$6.19 million. Table 3 indicates the AWA appropria-
tions for FY 1989 and the preceding two fiscal years,
plus the adjusted appropriation.

 

 

Table 3
Appropriation for Animal Welfare in FY 1987-1989.
FY Appropriation Appropriation
Available to
APHIS
1989 $6.19 M $6.19 M
1988 $6.19 M $6.19 M
1987 $5.88 M $5.13 M
Legislation

‘In 1966, Congress enacted Public Law 89-655, known as
the Animal Welfare Act. This law regulated dealers
who handled dogs and cats, as well as laboratories that
used dogs, cats, hamsters, guinea pigs, rabbits, and
nonhuman primates in research.

The first amendment to the Animal Welfare Act was
passed in 1970 (PL. 91—579). This amendment ex-
tended the regulations to cover other warmblooded
animals when used in research, exhibition, or the
wholesale pet trade.

An amendment in 1976 (PL. 94-279) prohibited animal
fighting ventures, and regulated the commercial trans-
portation of animals. In 1985, the Improved Standards
for Laboratory Animals Act was enacted as part of the
Food Security Act (P.L. 99-198). Included in these
amendments were more stringent standards for the use
of animals in research.

Regulations

The USDA is charged with developing and implement-
ing regulations to support the AWA. These regulations,
which appear in Title 9, Code of Federal Regulations,
Parts 1, 2, and 3, provide minimum standards for care
and handling of animals. Included are minimum
requirements for handling, housing, feeding, sanitation,
ventilation, shelter from extreme weather, veterinary
care, and separation of species if necessary. Birds as
well as rats and mice bred for laboratory use are
currently excluded from these regulations.

Organization for Implementation of the
Act v

Within the USDA, APHIS is responsible for administer-
ing the AWA. As a result of a reorganization of APHIS
in FY 1989, administration of the AWA became the
direct responsibility of a new APHIS unit, Regulatory
Enforcement and Animal Care (REAC).

The Animal Care component of REAC, a unit whose
mission is solely animal care, allows APHIS to give
animal care better attention and visibility. The people
who work in Animal Care have chosen to devote 100%
of their work time to this important function. These
people are better qualified, and have a better profes-
sional support system and communication network than
was possible under the previous structure. All of these
individuals are better trained, with some having special-
ized interest and expertise in such areas as the care of
laboratory animals, zoo animals, and marine mammals.

The Regulatory Enforcement component of REAC
brings together the professional investigators of the
Agency into a single unit. Regulatory Enforcement is an
integral part of an overall approach to achieving
compliance with APHIS regulations through sound
enforcement and strong educational efforts.

1. REAC Field Activities

The 1988 organization of REAC created five sector
offices strategically located throughout the United
States. Each sector office has a Supervisory Veterinary
Medical Officer heading the Animal Care unit and a
Sector Supervisor heading the Regulatory Enforcement
unit. Licensing, registration, inspections, and investiga—
tion of complaints and alleged violations are accom-
plished by a field force of RFAC employees directed by
the Sector Supervisors and Animal Care Specialists who
are based in the sector of lices. The field force consists
of Veterinary Medical Officers, Animal Health Techni—
cians, and Investigators who perform the compliance
inspections and investigations.

Sector offices are located in: Annapolis, Maryland;
Minneapolis, Minnesota; Sacramento, California; Fort
Worth, Texas; and Tampa, Florida.

 




 

2. REAC Headquarters Activities

The Assistant Deputy Administrator for Animal Care
supervises the inspection ﬁeld force and the Director of
the Animal Care Staff. The Animal Care Staff (ACS)
provides technical support and assists in developing
and providing program direction, goals, priorities,
policies, procedures, and regulations in order to carry
out the program in an effective and efﬁcient manner.
The ACS serves as the source and location of the
Agency’s expertise in the areas of Laboratory Animals
and Research Facilities, Horse Protection, Exhibitors,
and Animal Dealers.

The Animal Care Staff, in cooperation with the Recruit-
ment and Development Staff, provides program training
for animal care personnel. The ACS is also responsible
for cooperating with other Federal agencies in enforc-
ing the Act, and for maintaining liaison and working
relations with regulated professional groups, industry
organizations, humane groups, and other concerned
groups and individuals.

The Regulatory Enforcement Staff (RES) has the en-
forcement function for APHIS programs. This includes
investigation of violations of the Animal Welfare Act,
regulations, and standards; the documentation of
evidence; and the development of alleged violation
cases for prosecution. The RES works closely with the
Office of the General Counsel in the prosecution of
violators.

3. Training

During FY 1989, the ﬁrst year of APHIS’ reorganization,
the Recruitment and Development staff along with the
Animal Care staff of REAC developed and presented
ﬁve formal training courses for about 65 field person-
nel. These courses were held at various locations
across the country.

A basic course in Animal Welfare that included policies,
procedures, and regulations was presented three times.
This course served as a backbone of information for
new employees and updated experienced inspectors.
Following this course, additional specialized and in-
depth courses were deveIOped in areas such as animal
transportation and zoo animal husbandry, biology, and

medicine. The advanced courses are scheduled for FY
90.

Because of the need for qualiﬁed individuals to con-
duct inspections of marine mammal facilities, a select
group of Animal Care veterinarians were given an in-
depth training course in marine mammal husbandry,
biology, and medicine. The instructors included

experts from various Federal and State agencies, as well
as from the private sector.

An additional orientation training course in Animal
Welfare was given to a class of 25 veterinarians partici-

6

pating in the 1989 Public Veterinary Practice Career
(PVPC) program. Many of these trainees have ex-
pressed an interest in joining REAC.

The following training courses were given in FY 1989;

October, 1988
November, 1988

PVPC Animal Care Course
Marine Mammal Course

Basic Animal Welfare Course March, 1989
Basic Animal Welfare Course April, 1989
Basic Animal Welfare Course May, 1989

In addition to formal courses, numerous work sessions
were held at the sector level to refine inspection
procedures and clarify regulations. Many Animal Care
personnel also attended and participated in local,
regional, and national meetings addressing issues of
animal care.

Steps were taken during FY 1989 to develop advanced,
in-depth training in specialized ﬁelds of study. Extern-
ship training programs in laboratory animal medicine
and zoo animal medicine are proposed to be imple-
mented in FY 1990.

Licensing and Registration

The AWA regulations require the licensing of animal
dealers, exhibitors, and the operators of animal auction
sales where animals regulated under the AWA are sold.
Licenses are valid unless the licensee terminates the
license voluntarily, fails to renew the license, or the
license is suspended or revoked by an Administrative
Law Judge. The Department terminates licenses that are
not renewed within the time requirements set forth in
the regulations. Following the investigation of an
alleged violation, a license may be revoked or sus-
pended by an Administrative Law Judge after a notice
and opportunity for a hearing.

The fees for dealers and exhibitors are determined by a
graduated schedule listed in the regulations (9 CFR)-
Dealers pay between $5 and $500, and exhibitors pay
$5 to $100. These fees are deposited as “miscellaneous
receipts” with the US. Treasury and do not directly
support the APHIS budget.

1. Research Facilities

Research facilities include hospitals, colleges, universi-
ties. diagnostic laboratories, and many private ﬁrms in
the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry. The

list includes both Federal and non-Federal researCh
facilities.

All Federal and non-Federal research facilities are
required to comply with the AWA regulations. Federal
facilities are not registered or inspected under the AWA?
however, agency heads (Federal) are responsible for
maintaining compliance with the AWA regulations and
standards. Non-Federal research facilities receive

 

 

 




 

 

 

unannounced inspections on a regular basis to deter-
mine compliance with regulations and standards. Listed
below are the number of registered research facilities
for FY 1987-1989. Chart 1 shows the number of
inspections of these facilities for FY 1987-1989.

MW

FY Facilities Sites

1989 1,296 2.851
1988 1,308 2,878
1987 1,260 2,772

2. Reports from Research Facilities

An Annual Report is required to be submitted by each
research facility registered under the AWA and each
Federal research facility. The report lists the number
and types of animals used in research, testing, and
experimentation and whether pain relieving drugs were
administered. If pain relief was not administered, the
report must include justification that the use of pain
relieving drugs would have interfered with the research
or experiment. The report must also include certifica-
'tion by the attending veterinarian or the Institutional
Animal Care Committee that the type and amount of
anesthetic, analgesic, and tranquilizing drugs used on
animals during actual research or testing was appropri-
ate to relieve pain and distress.

In FY 1989, 1,754,456 warmblooded animals were used
in research, testing, or experimentation. This number
excludes birds, rats and mice, and farm animals. Chart
2 shows the number and species of animals used in
research for FY 1989. Chart 3 shows the number and
percent of animals used in research that did not experi-
ence pain or distress, those that received drugs for the
relief of pain, and those that did not receive drugs for
pain relief because of interference with research or test
results.

3. Animal Exhibitors

Licensed exhibitors operate animal acts, carnivals,
circuses, public zoos, roadside zoos, and marine
mammal exhibits. Most of the animals exhibited are
wild or exotic species such as lions and other large cats,
hoof stock, and bears. During FY 1989, 1,446 exhibitors
were licensed and 58 were registered. Licensed exhib~
itors are those who either obtain or dispose of their
animals in commerce or exhibit them for compensation.
Registered exhibitors do not buy, sell, or transport
animals, and do not. accept compensation. Listed
below are the number of exhibitors regulated during FY
1987-1989. Chart 4 shows the number of inspections
for that same period.

Wm
FY Registered and

' Licensed Exhibitors
1989 1 , 504
1988 1 ,475
1987 1,411

4. Carriers and Intermediate Handlers

Carriers registered with the US. Department of Agricul-
ture (USDA) include airlines, motor freight lines,
railroads, and other shipping lines. Registered interme-
diate handlers include ground freight handlers.

‘\

Intermediate handlers usually provide services for
animals between consignor and carrier and from carrier
to consignee. They also care for animals delayed in
transit.

The number of registered carriers and intermediate
handlers for the past 3 years is listed below. The
number of carrier and intermediate handler inspections
is shown on Chart 5.

 

1989 145 282 l
1988 143 275
1987 140 250

5. Licensed Dealers

Persons selling animals for research or teaching, wild
animals for exhibition, or pet animals at the wholesale
level must be licensed with the USDA. There are two
classes of licensees. The A class licensees are breeders
and deal only in animals which they breed and raise.
The B class licensees include brokers, bunchers, and
operators of auction sales. The number of licensed
dealers for FY 1987 through FY 1989 are listed below.
The number of dealer inspections for the same period is
shown on Chart 6.

1'
FY Dealers Class A Class B
(totaD Dealers Dealers

1989 4,415 3.259 1,156

1988 4,233
1987 3,811
Inspections

Because license applicants are required by law to be in
full compliance with regulations and standards before a
license is issued, APHIS performs prelicense inspections
to ensure that an applicant is in compliance. After a
license has been issued, APHIS performs unannounced
inspections periodically to ensure continued compli-
ance. APHIS conducted 1,854 prelicensing inspections
and 11,056 compliance inspections and reinspections in
FY 1989.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
    

    
 

00000000

m. 0 O O 0 O O O M W O
5555555555
444444444

   

 

   
 

 

/

 

Animal Welfare Act _ . _
Registered Research FaCllltleS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Chart 2
Animal Welfare Act

Animals Used in Research, Experiments,
Testing, and Teaching in 1989

Rabbits 27%

Other An'm‘als 9‘7
I O Hamsters 22%

Dogs 9%

 

Cats 3% .::... _;
primates 3%

Guinea Pigs 27%

Results from Form 18-23

 




 

9
8
%

 

 

 

 

 

////////// “D 6 mm. .

.0
9

n
9
%

.L /////////////m

// m

   

8
9
%

 

 

 

 




 

 

fringejﬁmsced and Registered Exhibitors _

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

o no
NNNNNN

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Animal Welfare Act _
Registered Carriers

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

00000
00000
ooooooo

 




é“ U/ -.___

 

 

 

 

 

Welfare Act
ensed Dealers

 

10-0 i z 2 : a : : . z - z z
in \ U
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
a .E l2 OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

4: a)
U§—l mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

1. Prelicensing Inspections

The number of prelicensing inspections performed by
APHIS for FY 1987 through FY 1989 is listed below.

Erelieeneing Inspeetiens Qf Dealers and Exhibiters
1989 ‘ 1,854

1988 1,913
1987 1,543

2. Compliance Inspections

APHIS routinely makes unannounced inspections of all
licensees and registrants to ascertain compliance with
the regulations. If noncompliant items are disclosed
when inspections are made, APHIS establishes a
deadline for correction of these items. Inspectors are
required to make a reinspection following the deadline
date for correction. If the noncompliant items are still
uncorrected, APHIS documents them for possible legal
action. Listed below are the number of compliance
inspections for dealers, exhibitors, research facilities,
and intermediate handlers for FY 1987-1989. Chart 7
shows the number of compliance inspections for each
type of facility.

gzemplianee lnspeetiens
1989 1 1,056
1988 13,383
1987 11,349

3. Inspections of Animals in Transit

APHIS conducts unannounced inspections of registered
carriers and intermediate handlers for animals in transit.
Registrants are required to refuse shipments of animals
if the shipment does not meet regulatory standards.
APHIS inspectors perform inspections to ensure hu-
mane care and handling of animals in transit.

APHIS inspections of intermediate handlers include
ensuring that animals are provided care when there is a
delay in transit. The number of inspections for 1989 is
down because REAC was not fully staffed during most
of the year. Airports and intermediate handlers have
received selected inspections based on the volume of
animals handled, but are not viewed as the program’s
first priority. Thus, when faced with a critical shortage
of professional investigators in FY 1989, the decision
was made to temporarily focus most of the program’s
existing resources on continued inspection and resolu-
tion of complaints and on inspection of licensees and
registrants, at the expense of air terminal inspections.
We expect the frequency of air terminal inspections to
increase in FY 1990 with improved staffing levels. The
number of inspections of in-transit shipments is listed

, below for FY 1987 through FY 1989.

In-Transit Inspections

1989 980
1988 2,643
1987 1 ,948

14

Complaints

APHIS attaches top priority to complaints about li-
censed or registered facilities in order to ensure regu-
lated animals are receiving proper care. Searches are
also continually being made for unlicensed/unregis-
tered persons.

The number of searches made and the complaints
investigated during FY 1987 through FY 1989 are
indicated below.

n r h
FY Complaints Searches
1989 962 1,138
1988 951 1,320
1987 694 661
Investigations

APHIS personnel conduct reviews and investigate
alleged violations. When investigation reveals apparent
violations, a case report and documentation are submit-
ted to the Regulatory Enforcement Staff. If, after careful
review, a case appears to warrant prosecution, it is
submitted to the Ofﬁce of General Counsel. OGC
reviews these cases and pursues prosecution through
the Administrative Law procedures.

License suspension or revocation, cease and desist
orders, civil penalties, or a combination of these may be
used to settle a case through Administrative Law
procedures. Official Notices of Warning are also used
to close some lesser cases. Investigation activities for
FY 1987 through FY 1989 are listed below.

Animal Welfare Inyeetigatien Aetiyities

FY Investigation Violations Cases that
of Alleged Submitted Reached Decision
Violations and/or Orders
1989 568 122 15
1988 639 411 33
1987 685 322 44
()ttuer.Amnjwdﬂies

APHIS Animal Care personnel maintain an active role in
participating with organizations concerned with the
humane care of animals.

APHIS is represented on committees of the American
Association of Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS) and
participates in its annual meetings. APHIS also main-
tains an active role in the American Association of
Zoological Parks and Aquariums (AAZPA) and the
International Association of Aquatic Animal Medicine

 




 

 

fare Act
pﬁancelnspecﬁons*

7
We/

(Din
t

c ions Conducted

So a
'e u,
q C

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

:2 °/;
2 é§§§§§§§§§§&&§ﬁ

OOOOOOOOO
OOOOOOOO
mmmmmmmm
NNNNNNN

771
§ 274 272 209
iers Inter. Handlers

Facility Type

 

 

 

ll Licensed and Registered Facilities

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

APHIS Animal Care is also represented in the United
States Animal Health Association (USAHA) and has
members on both the Animal Welfare Committee and
the Zoological Committee of this organization. These
committees have a broad membership that represents
the public’s concern in animal welfare.

Additionally, APHIS represents the Department of
Agriculture on the Interagency Research Animal Com-
mittee (IRAC), a committee that is composed of Federal
Agencies involved in the care and use of animals in
biomedical research. The IRAC is responsible for
interagency coordination of animal matters and for
making contributions to policy development. This
committee also serves as a forum for information
exchange and regulation development.

APHIS also maintains close working relationships with
the following Federal Agencies in regard to regulation
and enforcement of the Act: National Institutes of
Health, Health and Human Services (HHS); Food and
DrugAdministration, HHS; Department of Defense;
Veterans Administration; Marine Mammal Commission;
National Marine Fisheries Service, Department of
Commerce; and US. Fish and Wildlife Service, Depart-
ment of the Interior.

Public Information
APHIS issued 33 press releases on animal welfare

during FY 1989. These included reports of animal
welfare compliance and horse protection compliance.

16

1. Public Correspondence

During FY 1989, APHIS received inquiries about animal
welfare from individual citizens and concerned groups.
Also, APHIS received correspondence referred through
the Office of the President and members of Congress.
Other Federal Agencies refer animal welfare concerns to
APHIS for appropriate responses. Listed below are the
number of animal welfare inquiries received by APHIS
Executive Correspondence during FY 1987—1989.

Animl If r rr n n R iv
1989 64,913
1988 52,078
1987 22,112

2. Freedom of Information Act Requests

Numerous requests for material and records available
through the Freedom of Information Act are received by
APHIS. In FY 1989, APHIS received requests that
resulted in the release of 31,833 sheets of paper. Listed
below are the number of FOIA requests received for the
past three ﬁscal years.

F IA R R iv APHI
1989 630
1988 498
1987 384

Legistative Recommendations

The Department has no recommendations for amending
the AWA at this time.

 




 

 

Glossary of Terms

Airport Inspection - Individual airline inspections of
cargo and baggage areas made at airports for comp11_
ance with the AWA regulations and standards.

Alleged Violation - A violation of the Act, regulations or
standards that has been documented as existing but
has not been legally concluded.

Complaints - (1) A civil or administrative complaint:
Informs the alleged violator of the AWA allegations
charged against him/her. (2) A public complaint is
information received from citizens, humane groups, or
others concerning possible violations of the Act,
regulations or standards at animal facilities.

Compliance - Compliance is meeting all the regulatory
requirements set forth in the AWA regulations and
standards.

Compliance Inspection - An inspection completed, after
licensing or registration, to determine the facility's
compliance with the AWA regulations and standards.

Enforcement - Enforcing the AWA regulations and
standards by developing alleged violation cases and
taking action in the form of Letters of Warning, warn—
ing tickets, administrative complaints, hearings, trials,
and other legal procedures and methods to attain com-
pliance.

Investigation - Inquiries and examinations of certain
‘allegation(s) that a person or facility is not complying
with the AWA, regulations, or standards.

Prelicensing Inspection - Inspection made, after applica-
tion for license has been submitted, to ascertain com-
pliance with the AWA regulations and standards prior
to licensing the facility.

Reinspections - Inspections made following a compli-
ance inspection in which one or more violations were
documented.

Searches - Activity associated with finding unlicensed/
unregistered persons or animal facilities.

Site - The physical location where animals are used,
housed, or maintained by a licensed or registered
facility. A licensed/registered facility may have one or
more animal sites. A site may be a room, a building,
an Outdoor run area, or similar type facility used to
hold or work on animals.

Violation -An area or item, at a registered or licensed

facility, alleged by the APHIS inspector as not being in

'Xompliance with the regulations or standards of the
WA.

17

 

 

 




 

1\])1)euaslizt
Table 1
NUMBER OF ACTIVE LICENSEES AND REGISTRANTS, (FY 1989)
INTERMEDIATE ANIMAL EXHIBITORS REGISTERED
HANDLERS] LICENSED RESEARCH
STATES CARRIERS DEALERS LICENSED REGISTERED FACILITIES
TOTAL u.s. 391 4,082 1,342 46 1,328
ALABAMA 2 11 ' 11 0 14
ALASKA 2 o 6 D 4
ARIZONA 8 7 ' 14 D 10
ARKANSAS 2 163 18 D 8
CALIFORNIA 35 99 173 1 181
COLORADO 10 41 17 2 21
CONNECTICUT 7 7 18 o 19
DELANARE o 1 1 o 7
FLORIDA 32 79 171 2 44
GEORGIA 20 33 17 4 21
HAUAII 29 3 15 D 4
IDAHO ' D 5 . 9 D 5
ILLINOIS 12 115 61 3 51
INDIANA 4 66 26 D 23
IONA 1 436 16 3 17
KANSAS 1 603 20 2 23
KENTUCKY 4 17 4 2 6
LOUISIANA 1 21 13 D 11
MAINE 1 7 6 .1 13
MARYLAND 4 9 15 o 31
MASSACHUSETTS 6 25 31 1 80
MICHIGAN 2 44 46 4 43
MINNESOTA 6 83 20 2 25
MISSISSIPPI 1 11 11 D 4
MISSOURI 16 915 24 D 37
MONTANA O 8 6 D 3
NEBRASKA 2 194 13 o 12
NEVADA 2 3 32 D 1
NEH HAMPSHIRE 1 6 9 D 4
NEH JERSEY 6 20 24 1 64
NEH MEXICO 5 4 6 1 8
HEN YORK 23 58 65 o 99
NORTH CAROLINA 9 24 23 6 27
NORTH DAKOTA 1 16 5 o 3
OHIO 4 66 46 5 59
OKLAHOMA 2 303 13 1 14
OREGON 2 63 19 0 18
PENNSYLVANIA 13 143 63 o 95
RHODE ISLAND D 1 6 D 11
SOUTH CAROLINA 9 11 14 o 8
SOUTH DAKOTA D 59 6 o -3
TENNESSEE 2 21 15 D 16
TEXAS 37 192 9D 2 76
UTAH 8 — 5' 7 o 11
VERMONT O 7 2 o 3
VIRGINIA 17 20 20 o 18
NASHINGTON 16 13 19 D 26
NEST VIRGINIA D 3 . 8 o 5
NISCONSIN 12 33 58 1 23
NYOMING D o 1 1 4
PUERTO RICO 6 8 9 1 8
VIRGIN ISLANDS 7 D 0 o 0

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
FEDERAL AGENCIES

a
O
O
O

V

 

 




 

I\])IIEﬂlliil{

Table 2
NUMBER
OF

STATES REGISTRANT
TOTAL 0.8. 1,004
ALABAMA 13
ALASKA 2
ARIZONA 9
ARKANSAS 5
CALIFORNIA 107
COLORADO 15
CONNECTICUT 16
DELANARE 5
FLORIDA 35
GEORGIA 15
HAHAII 4
IDAHO 3
ILLINOIS 36
INDIANA 17
IONA 10
KANSAS 22
KENTUCKY 5
LOUISIANA 11
MAINE 1O
MARYLAND 12
MASSACHUSETTS 63
MICHIGAN 32
MINNESOTA 17
MISSISSIPPI 3
MISSOURI 19
MONTANA 2
NEBRASKA 7
NEVADA' 1
NEN HAMPSHIRE 4
MEN JERSEY 39
NEH MEXICO 7
NEN YORK 64
NORTH CAROLINA 22
NORTH DAKOTA 2
OHIO 47
OKLAHOMA 13
OREGON 8
PENNSYLVANIA 75
RHODE ISLAND 7
SOUTH CAROLINA 5
SOUTH DAKOTA 2
TENNESSEE 13
TEXAS 61
UTAH 5
VERMONT 4
VIRGINIA 16
HASHINGTON 19
NEST VIRGINIA 4
NISCONSIN 17
HYOMING 2
PUERTO RICO 7
VIRGIN ISLANDS 0
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 7
FEDERAL AGENCIES 58

NUMBER
OF ALL
ANIMALS

1,754,456

11,801
348
5,400
1,538
120,874
37,868
32,665
79,648
24,004
26,761
2,278
202
68,444
18,998
48,234
41,891
3,882
11,472
1,771
38,500
80,254
43,897
52,278
901
41,902
2,906
48,058
852
1,299
144,255
3,621
139,317
60,510
386
68,022
5,390
416
91,030
1,612
8,421
1,240
25,058
82,862
5,208
3,708
23,609
53,138
2,610
67,868
1,984
2,176
0

2,282
110,807

DOGS
156,443

2,389
66
1,096
249
7,314
2,952
3,598
1,922
2,668
2,885
0

0
5,717
4,380
4,502
1,606
680
1,362
0
2,411
3,721
8,435
10,814
382
5,835
0
2,014
155
209
12,870
1,232
10,824
12,374
42
7,941
1,201
2
9,292
26
1,074
210
1,681
5,341
785
210
2,803
1,754
134
5,698
120

0

0

727
2,740

CATS
50,812

510
14
238
77
4,745
1,888
619
187
830
636
12

0
1,106
426
2,556
717
431
1,226
0

914
800
2,420
1,522
42
2,836
104
1,108
O

755
639
18
2,990
4,160
42
2,398
309
43
4,381
198
820
48
380
1,141
216
168
637
628
164
1,824
44

1

O

849
1,995

PRIMATES

51,688

44

16
288

0
4,306
4
389
166
210

4,881

ANIMALS USED IN EXPERIMENTATION (FY 1989)

GUINEA
PIGS

481,712

405

42
2,104
527
24,761
2,788
4,460
41,530
1,184
373

O

110
21,587
3,023
7,357
9,709
289
698
66
17,283
16,603
12,608
18,354
304
8,077
1,076
5,912
379

HAMSTERS

389,042

3,767
78

RABBITS
471,037

4,643
54
1,636
564
57,432
6,090
10,012
6,046
11,380
5,015
1,246
0
26,592
4,309
7,382
3,964
1,800
2,157
1,094
8,241
26,355
12,594
12,902
161
9,582
1,122
6,794

163'

290
31,131
154
33,412
19,765
212
27,302
1,916
341
30,928
996
2,126
166
8,851
22,717
2,889
2,052
6,186
3,507
524
22,574
88

353

D

24
23,203

NILD
ANIMALS

153,722

 

 

 




Appendix

 

 

IZﬂble 3
ANIMALS USED IN EKPERIMENTATION WITH PAIN - WITH DRUGS (FY 1989)
NUMBER NUMBER
OF OF ALL GUINEA WILD

STATES REGISTRANT ANIMALS DOGS CATS PRIMATES PIGS HAMSTERS RABBITS ANIMALS
TOTAL U.S. 588 619,219 100,379 30,542 20,576 139,596 118,026 169,158 40,242
ALABAMA 10 7,305 2,141 369 44 158 615 3,978 0
ALASKA 1 54 0 0 0 3o 24 0 0
ARIZONA 4 2,832 1,096 0 128 0 0 1,594 14
ARKANSAS 3 1,105 179 51 0 295 100 480 0
CALIFORNIA 51 55,753 6,264 2,579 2,580 6,481 11,636 24,909 1,304
COLORADO 9 4,418 1,214 1,310 .2 180 640 1,072 0
CONNECTICUT 10 18,785 2,861 355 142 2,019 3,087 2,893 7,428
DELAWARE 3 38,625 976 139 26 8,516 24,970 2,398 1,600
FLORIDA 17 8,729 1,559 471 81 193 1,360 3,974 1,091
GEORGIA 8 18,100 1,674 423 57 120 11,515 4,303 8
HAWAII 2 1,174 0 10 0 0 840 144 180
IDAHO 1 86 0 0 0 0 30 0 56
ILLINOIS 26 15,172 3,984 915 455 1,778 2,228 4,825 987
INDIANA 8 6,669 2,642 411 22 402 1,252 1,880 60
IOWA 7 10,996 3,113 1,685 149 1,774 187 3,724 364
KANSAS 8 1,492 635 108 5 186 73 416 69
KENTUCKY 4 1,441 448 413 0 3o 0 550 0
LOUISIANA 5 4,227 1,091 254 476 543 342 1,481 40
MAINE 4 452 0 0 0 24 0 78 350
MARYLAND 7 29,833 2,387 815 908 15,809 1,860 7,175 879
MASSACHUSETTS 41 28,393 3,350 753 885 7,373 5,324 10,138 570
MICHIGAN 19 20,259 4,807 2,012 703 2,916 2,946 6,058 817
MINNESOTA 9 25,656 7,492 942 76 9,300 876 5,066 1,904
MISSISSIPPI 2 419 371 42 0 0 0 6 0
MISSOURI 13 11,109 1,903 325 180 2,529 2,745 3,158 269
MONTANA 2 898 o 104 O 198 0 596 0
NEBRASKA 1 1,756 40 2 D o 0 1,714 0
NEVADA 1 155 155 0 0 0 0 0 0
NEW HAMPSHIRE 3 704 104 431 0 0 15 141 13
NEW JERSEY 25 60,610 6,334 625 2,404 33,742 4,222 8,798 4,485
NEW MEXICO 5 1,131 379 4 246 14 83 46 359
NEW YORK 42 58,736 7,069 2,106 1,169 22,525 10,627 13,024 2,216
NORTH CAROLINA 12 20,850 7,426 1,507 823 499 623 8,886 1,086
NORTH DAKOTA 1 282 42 28 0 0 0 212 0
OHIO 35 24,032 5,866 1,823 168 5,782 2,559 7,523 311
OKLAHOMA 9 2,887 660 259 116 7 304 1,537 4
OREGON 7 412 2 43 0 20 0 341 6
PENNSYLVANIA 39 28,003 6,482 3,765 409 5,006 1,996 7,383 2,962
RHODE ISLAND 3 1,052 26 194 ' 0 0 0 672 160
SOUTH CAROLINA 3 5,625 675 675 12 20 3,008 1,143 92
SOUTH DAKOTA 2 648 114 24 0 32 392 86 0
TENNESSEE 8 6,675 734 142 133 1,357 2,103 2,206 0
TEXAS 30 26,849 4,406 905 2,954 1,189 3,834 9,062 4,499
UTAH 4 2,600 755 192 12 522 40 1,079 0
VERMONT 1 3,614 210 156 24 794 370 2,040 20
VIRGINIA 9 6,337 1,451 456 276 685 378 3,029 62
WASHINGTON 11 9,185 1,398 248 637 312 4,630 1,900 60
WEST VIRGINIA 3 1,388 134 164 0 538 0 408 144
WISCONSIN 10 10,654 2,598 590 390 1,130 2,340 2,630 976
WYOMING 2 354 80 20 0 4 128 2 120
PUERTO RICO 2 1,881 0 1 1,180 0 o o 0
VIRGIN ISLANDS 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 o 0
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 4 1,900 727 849 0 4 147 24 149
FEDERAL AGENCIES 42 26,917 2,325 847 2,704 4,560 7,577 4,376 4,528

 




 

 

 

Appendix I

Table 4 f
ANIMALS USED IN EXPERIMENTATION HITH PAIN - NO DRUGS (FY 1989)
1
NUMBER NUMBER 1
OF OF ALL GUINEA HILD 2
STATES REGISTRANT ANIMALS DOGS CATS PRIMATES PIGS HAMSTERS RABBITS ANIMALS 1
TOTAL u.s. 129 116,587 2,708 143 1,742 49,835 36,091 21,717 4,351 1
ALABAMA 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ?
ALASKA O 0 0 0 0 O 0 0 0
ARIZONA 0 0 0 0 O 0 0 0 0 I
ARKANSAS 1 48 0 0 0 30 18 0 0 3
CALIFORNIA 7 7,130 165 O 5 4,147 1,481 802 530 1
COLORADO 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 O
CONNECTICUT 5 1,747 440 8 80 172 0 1,047 0
DELAHARE 3 8,042 20 22 0 7,704 o 296 O
FLORIDA o 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
GEORGIA 1 26 0 0 0 0 26 0 O i
HAHAII 1 662 0 0 O 0 0 662 0 ‘
IDAHO 0 0 O 0 0 O 0 0 0
ILLINOIS 2 650 O O O 490 0 160 0
INDIANA 3 191 0 O 0 0 0 191 0
IONA 2 2,276 60 O 0 267 1,385 564 0
KANSAS 3 27,931 0 0 0 7,846 18,973 1,112 0 '
KENTUCKY 0 O 0 0 0 0 0 O O
LOUISIANA 1 518 0 0 518 0 O 0 O
MAINE 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 O 0
MARYLAND 2 1,010 0 0 0 52 0 34 924 ‘
MASSACHUSETTS 4 205 0 18 0 40 124 0 23
MICHIGAN 4 780 O 0 0 630 0 138 12
MINNESOTA 2 2,276 0 0 0 1,620 0 656 0
MISSISSIPPI 1 36 0 0 0 0 0 36 O
MISSOURI 3 11,170 24 0 0 598 10,380 0 168
MONTANA 0 O 0 0 0 0 O O O ‘
NEBRASKA 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
NEVADA 0 O 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 i
NEH HAMPSHIRE O 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Z
NEH JERSEY 14 5,053 961 0 192 2,052 760 1,088 0 1
NEH MEXICO 1 22 O 0 0 10 O 12 0 I
NEH YORK 10 3,751 352 34 0 2,434 300 631 0
NORTH CAROLINA 2 991 O 16 16 O 0 959 0
NORTH DAKOTA O O 0 O O 0 0 0 0
OHIO 8 5,660 85 0 300 1,268 0 4,007 O
OKLAHOMA 0 0 0 0 0 o 0 0 0
OREGON 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PENNSYLVANIA 0 5,406 O 0 0 3,396 0 1.765 245
RHODE ISLAND 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3
SOUTH CAROLINA 0 204 0 0 0 o 0 204 0
SOUTH DAKOTA 2 0 0 0 0 o 0 0 0
TENNESSEE 6 4.130 0 4 0 0 0 4'126
TEXAS 0 1,375 57 24 3 302 188 801 O
UTAH 0 0 0 0 0 3 3 g 3
van 3 1.809 0 0 0
VIR2?:IA 3 7.544 319 14 90 895 0 12 47:
NASHINGTON 0 0 0 0 1 7'345 198 0 L
0 0 0 O 0 0
NEST VIRGINIA 3 2:682 0 0 0 950 1 732 }
NISCONSIN 0 0 0 0 0 '
0 0 0 0 0 0 1
HYOMING 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 I
PUERTO RICO 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (
VIRGIN ISLANDS 0 0 i
0 0
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 64 238 ,
FEDERAL AGENCIES 21 13.262 225 3 537 8'537 2'258 1'4

 

 




Appendix

 

 

Tkﬂblet5
ANIMALS USED IN EXPERIMENTATION NO PAIN - NO DRUGS (FY 1989)
NUMBER NUMBER
OF OF ALL GUINEA NILD

STATES REGISTRANT ANIMALS DOGS CATS PRIMATES PIGS HAMSTERs RABBITS ANIMALS
TOTAL U.S. 666 1,019,350 53,356 20,127 29,370 292,281 234,925 280,162 109,129
ALABAMA 10 4,496 248 141 0 247 3,152 665 43
ALASKA 2 294 66 14 16 12 54 54 78
ARIZONA 6 2,568 0 238 160 2,104 0 42 24
ARKANSAS 4 385 70 26 0 202 1 84 2
CALIFORNIA 68 57,991 885 2,166 1,721 14,133 4,837 31,721 2,528
COLORADO 8 33,450 1,738 578 2 2,608 23,454 5,018 52
CONNECTICUT 12 12,133 297 256 167 2,269 2,682 6,072 390
DELAHARE 4 32,981 926 26 140 25,310 3,223 3,352 4
FLORIDA 13 15,275 1,109 359 129 991 1,333 7,406 3,948
GEORGIA 9 8,635 1,211 213 66 253 6,180 712 0
HAHAII 1 442 0 2 0 0 0 440 0
IDAHO 2 116 0 0 0 110 0 0 6
ILLINOIS 23 52,622 1,733 191 291 19,319 9,131 21,607 350
INDIANA 10 12,138 1,738 15 246 2,621 4,193 2,238 1,087
IONA 7 34,962 1,329 871 0 5,316 23,465 3,094 887
KANSAS 16 12,468 971 609 0 1,677 4,804 2,436 1,971
KENTUCKY 3 2,441 232 18 1 259 659 1,250 22
LOUISIANA 10 6,727 271 972 3,797 155 512 676 344
MAINE 6 1,319 0 0 0 42 81 1,016 180
MARYLAND 8 7,657 24 99 72 1,422 4,838 1,032 170
MASSACHUSETTS 52 51,656 371 29 372 9,190 23,974 16,217 1,503
MICHIGAN 16 22,858 3,628 408 611 9,062 2,261 6,398 490
MINNESOTA 11 24,346 3,322 580 20 7,434 5,184 7,180 626
MISSISSIPPI 3 446 11 0 4 304 8 119 0
MISSOURI 15 19,623 3,908 2,511 18 4,950 1,372 6,424 440
MONTANA 2 2,008 0 0 0 878 4 526 600
NEBRASKA 4 46,302 1,974 1,106 0 5,912 31,576 5,080 654
NEVADA 1 697 0 0 0 379 90 163 65
HEN HAMPSHIRE 3 595 105 324 0 _0 3 149 14
HEN JERSEY 29 78,592 5,575 14 1,136 36,776 11,900 21,245 1,946
NEH MEXICO 6 2,468 853 14 465 62 849 96 129
NEH YORK 41 76,830 3,403 850 1,492 44,025 5,465 19,757 1,838
NORTH CAROLINA 17 38,669 4,948 2,637 2,809 14,615 1,416 9,920 2,324
NORTH DAKOTA 1 104 0 14 0 80 10 0 0
OHIO 28 38,330 1,990 575 895 15,698 2,904 15,772 496
OKLAHOMA 7 2,503 541 50 158 383 992 379 0
OREGON 1 lo 0 0 0 2 2 0 0
PENNSYLVANIA 47 57,621 2,810 616 1,396 25,183 4,299 21,780 1,537
RHODE ISLAND 3 560 0 4 18 10 4 324 200
SOUTH CAROLINA 2 2,592 399 145 30 124 959 779 156
SOUTH DAKOTA 2 592 96 24 0 0 392 80 0
TENNESSEE 12 14,253 947 234 277 3,472 6,752 2,519 52
TEXAS 42 54,638 878 212 2,711 3,630 3,113 12,854 31,240
UTAH 3 2,608 30 24 0 4 740 1,810 0
VERMONT 2 94 0 12 0 0 30 12 40
VIRGINIA 14 15,463 1,033 167 1,266 2,978 1,743 3,145 5,131
NASHINGTON 12 36,409 356 380 1,709 492 1,148 1,607 30,717
NEST VIRGINIA 3 1,222 0 O 0 398 580 116 128
HISCONSIN 13 54,532 3,100 1,234 4,888 7,692 12,870 18,994 5,754
HYOMING 2 1,630 40 24 0 504 954 86 22
PUERTO RICO 5 995 0 0 639 0 3 353 0
VIRGIN ISLANDS 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 2 382 0 0 8 123 2 0 249
FEDERAL AGENCIES 43 70,628 190 1,145 1,640 18,871 20,727 17,363 10,692

I3'U.S. Government Printing Office I

1990 -

261-484/20125

 




BEAUTY WITHOUT CRUELTY USA®, SPRING, 1990

i

175 w.- 12m Street, New York NY 10011-8275 I

Compassionate
Shopper 5

 

WE ARE WINNING AGAINST FURS—NEXT TO GO ARE THE CRUEL PRODUCT TESTS!

BUT WE MUST DO IT OURSELVES

This new list of animal—friendly (cruelty-free)

products includes, besides make-up, per-

sonal and household care, solvents, paints, office supplies and.mmch:more. For the manufac—
turers below, the presidents, vice presidents, managers or directors of safety have signed
the BWC questionnaire stating that they neither test their formulations on animals nor send
these out for animal tests; and that at least some of their products are free of ingredients
from slaughter. The ingredients are well known as safe, so that the formulas canlxasafely,
legally and harmlessly tested on humans.

ABKIT, INC., 1160 Park Ave.,

New York, NY 10128. (212) 860-8358.
(-)Camocare Body Lotion, Camocare
Concentrate, Camocare Pain Relieving Cream,~
Camocare Shampoo, Camocare Throat
Spray/Gargle. (#)Camocare Soothing Cream. MO

ABRACADABRA, INC., P.O. Box 1040
Guerneville, CA 95466. (800) 523-5232 or
(707) 869-0761.

(-)Cosmetic clays, Herb Seed Company, Herbal
Spa, Mineral Bath, NATURAbath, Roman Spa,
rare and culinary plant seeds. MO

ADITI-NUTRI-SENTIALS, P.O. Box 155,

Prince St. Sta., New York, NY 10012

(212) 533-6962;

(-)Cleanser, Crowning Glory Conditioner,
Crowning Glory Shampoo, Eye Cream, Freshener,
Moisturizer, Night Cream. (8)Honey Almond
Oatmeal Scrub. MO

AD"! LABORATOIRES, INC., 141 20th St.,
Brooklyn, NY 11232. (718) 788-6838.
(-)Astringent Mouthwash, Baby Powder, Cream
Blush, Creams, Dishwashing Concentrate,
Fluoridated Toothpaste, Liquid Shabbos Soap
Concentrate, Polish Remover, Powder Blush,
Pressed Powder Mirrored Compact. (¢)Bau de
.Cologne, Lipstick, Pearlescent Lipstick,
Transparent Lip Gloss. (Kosher for Passover.)
MO,B,M,H

AFM ENTERPRISES, INC.,1140 Stacy St.,
Riverside, ca 92507. (714) 781-6860.
Calks, sealers, spackling, paints and
household cleaners. (-)All products. MO,H

AFRICAN BIO-BOTANICA, INC., 7509 NW 13th
Blvd., Gainesville, FL 32606. (904) 376—7329.
(-)Everything exggpt products listed under
(4) including, skin and bath care, soap and
baby care. Their elastin and collagen are
from sea plants: they no longer use shark oil
for their sun products. (I)Acne Cure, Bee
Pollen Shampoo, Hair Treatment. MO,B

ALBA BOTANICA COSMETICS, P.O. 1858,

Santa Monica, CA 90406. (213) 451-0936.
(Formerly a division of Life Tree Products.)
(-)After Shave Balm, After Shave SplaSh.
Gentle Body Smoother, Sparkling Mint Body
Bath, Very Emollient Body Lotion. (4)0rganic
Formula Cream Shave. MO,MB

ALEXANDRA AVERY, 68103 Northrup Creek,
Birkenfeld, OR 97016. (503) 755-2446.
(-)Bath herbs, body oils, Complexion Care
Cleanser, Facial Steam, Moonsilk Body
Powder, perfumes, Rosemary Hair Conditioner,
toner, vegetable oil soaps. (!)Almond Cream,
Dream Cream, Herbal Balm, Lip Balm. M0,?

ALIENS CRUEL'l'Y-FRZB NATURALLY, Att. 4'. Allen
Conlon, P.o. Box 339, Farmington, MI 48332-
0339. (313) 453-5410. (- and biodegradable)
All Purpose Cleaner, Aloe Liquid Soap,
Automatic Dishwasher Detergent, Dishwashing
Liquid, Fabric Softener (quart & gallon
sizes), Glass Cleaner, Lint Trap/Overflow
guard, Liquid Laundry Detergent (1 oz., quart
& gallon sizes), Multi-Purpose Spray.
Trigger sprayers & dispensing pump. MO,H

AMERICAN MERIIDAN, 3479 Edison Hay, Menlo
Park, CA 94025. (415) 364-6343.
(-)Merfluan Toothpowder, Natural Essential
Oil Mouthwash Concentrate. MO

ANANDA COUNTRY PRODUCTS, 14618 Tyler Fort
Rd., Nevada City, CA 95959. (916) 292—3727.
(-)Ananda Incense, Ananda oils, Secret Garden
oils. M0,P

ANDALINA, Tory Hill, Harmer, NH 03278-0057
(603) 456-3289 6 (404) 231-5338.

(-)Comfrey Comfort Herbal Salve. (9)8ath
herbs, herbal moth chaser, potpourris, and
"Scented Sweet Feet", all 6 scented vegetable
glycerin soaps. Brochure $1.50. M0,P

ARBONNE INTERNATIONAL, 22541 Aspan Dr.,

El Toro, CA 92630. (714) 770-2610. Also
avail. from Jeanine Cascio, 4703 Del Mar St.,
Rockford, IL 61105. (815) 397-3341.

(-)Facial Scrub, Night Cream, N/Oily Body
Lotion, Shampoo N/Dry, Shampoo N/Oily, and
all the rest, except for (+)blushers/shadows
which contain carmine from insects. no.5

AROMA VERA, P.O. Box 3609, Culver City,
CA 90231. (213) 675-8219.

(t)Aromatic baths, aromatic diffusions,
essential oils, massage oils. MO,P

ATLANTIC RECYCLED PAPER CO., P.O. Box 11021,
Baltimore, MD 21212. (301) 323-2676.(-)Com-
puter paper, copy paper, envelopes, facial
tissue, napkins, paper towels, printing
paper, toilet paper. Mo

AUBREY ORGANICS, 4419 M. Manhattan Ave.,
Tampa, FL 33614. (813) 877-4186.

Over 100 items, most of which are in
category (-). About 16 include by-products of
animal slaughter, including animal collagen,
elastin, placenta or silk, plus milk protein.
We suggest that you obtain an ingredient
list. The owner, Aubrey Hampton, has written
a thorough book on natural cosmetics and
their use, as well as a biographical play a-
bout George Bernard Shaw. MO,S,M,MB.D

AURA CACIA, P.O. Box 391,

Neaverville, CA 96093. (916) 623-3301.

(-)6 aromatherapy massage & body oils,
matching aromatherapy mineral baths: 36
certified natural essential oils, 100t pure
cocoa butter and pure tanning products, 7
fragrant natural body powders; matching
true botanical perfume oils. Mo,P

AUROMBRB: AYURVBDIC IMPORTERS, 1291 Weber
St., Pomona, ca 91768. (714) 629-8255.
(-)Auromere Ayurvedic Incense, Chandrika
Ayurvedic Soap, Herbo-Mineral Ayurvedic
Bathing Powder (also used as a facial),
Swasthya Ayurvedic Massage oils, Vicco Herbal
Toothpaste in new formula with Peelu and
Neem, Vicco Tumeric Complexion Creme. Free
catalog on request. MO,P

AUTUMN HARP, 28 Rockydale R ., Bristol,

VT 05443. (802) 453-4807.

(-)Barth Child Baby Oil, Talc Free Baby
Powder. (t)Body Lotion, Comfrey Salve, Barth
Child Baby Lotion, Lip Balm. MO,B

AVANZA CORP. (See MATURE COSMETICS)

AVBDA CORPORATION, 321 Lincoln St., NE,
Minneapolis, an. (000) 328-0849, (612) 379-
8500. Runs full page ads in slick magazines:
”No animal-derived ingredients or animal
testing“. The color cosmetic line is sold
under the name of 'INDRA“. Out of almost 300
SKU's, one product was tested on animals, but
Aveda plans no further animal tests. Retailed
through nationwide distributors, beauty
salons and beauty schools. The New York salon
is at 509 Madison Ave., (212) 935-2946. For
salons elsewhere, call the 800 number above.
No mail order. C,M,P

BABY TOUCH LTD, 100 Sandpiper Circle, Corte
Madera, ca 94925. (415) 924-4060.
(-)Hair Remover Mitt. MO

BARB ESCENTUALS, 809 Univ. Axel, Loo Gates,
ca 95030. (408) 354-8853. (-)Arya Laya Skin
Care, Bare Bscentuals Mascara. (+)These
include pigment from the carmine insect: Bare
Bscentuals Lip Gloss, blushing powders, dye
shadow powders, foundation powders, lip 5 eye
pencils, and all makeup with the color red,
pink or rose. MO,M,S

BARRY M. C/o BCCO BELLA, 6 Provost Sq., .602,
Caldwell, NJ 07006. (201) 226-5799. (-)Dazzle
Dusts, Natural Dazzle (loose powder), nail
paints. (I)Blushers, Eyeliner, Foundation
Creme, Lashes, Lip Gloss, Lip Paint, Make—up,
Make-up Tries, Matt & Sheen Translucent Pow-
der, Natural Dazzle Pressed Powder. (+) Kohl
Pencil, Lip Lines (fatty acid derivatives),
make-up brushes (animal hair). MO,M,S

BAODBLAIRB INC., Forest Rd., Marlow NH 03456.
(800) 321-2324 6 (603) 352-9234.

(-)Aromatic skin oils (C.A. Gregory). Bath
oils (C.A. Gregory 6 Hubner), Hotels sham-
poos, Jacob Hooy bath foams, massage oil,
shampoos, McClinton's Barilla Shampoo and
Soap, Parc D'Bntor Toothpaste. (#)Apiana
facial care: body lotion, cleansing milk,
moisturizing cream. (+) Apiana Pollen Cream

includes pollen oil and Apiana Royal Jelly
Cream includes royal jelly. Mo,P

BEAUTY MITB COMPASSION, Box 1373, Auckland,
New Zealand. Tel. Auckland 504-412.

(-)Foam Bath, Foundation Base, Hand 6 Body
Lotion, mascaras, moisturizer, shampoo,
talcum powder. (4)6 shades of lipstick and
lip protector. Looking for distributors in
the USA. MO,M.

BEAUTY MITBOUT CRUBLTY LTD. Main USA
distributor: Pamela Marsen, 451 Queen Anne
Rd., Teaneck, NJ 07666. (201) 836-7820.

(Not affiliated with our animal protection
society Beauty Without Cruelty USA.) Many new
products, all classified as either (-) or
(0). Send for the 2-page ingredient
description and 3-1/2 page position paper.
Now looking for local retailers throughout
the USA. Company headquarters are in England:
37 Avebury Ave.,.Tonbridge TN9 lTL. MO,M,MB

 




 

 

BEAUTY WITHOUT CRUEUTY LTD., Canadian
distributor: Mrs. Irene M. Davy, P.0. Box
136, Gibsons BC VoN 1v0. (Not affiliated with
Beauty Without Cruelty USA.) M0 in Canada, M

BIOKOSMA, Importer and mail order for almost
the whole range: Dr. Grendel, Inc., 626 West
Sunset Rd., San Antonio, TX 78216. (512) 829-
1763. Some products available at Caswell
Massey: M0 wholesale: 76 9th Ave.,New York,
NY 10011 (212) 620-0900; Stores: 1 Herald Sq.
(212) 244—0411: Lexington Ave. at 48th St.
(212) 755-2254: South St. Seaport, 21 Fulton
St., (212) 608-5401; World Financial Center,
225 liberty st., (212) 945—2630. (A11 four in
New York, NY).Products not available through
Dr. Grandel or Caswell Massey can be
purchased direct from the company
headquarters: Biokosma Ltd., Kapplerstrasse
55, CH—9642, Ebnat-Nappel, Switzerland.
(-)BIOKOSMA LINE: Bath balms, bath extracts,
lotions, massage oils, oil baths, shampoos,
soaps.(i)All creams and cleansing milks.
(+)Bagna Cleopatra Milk Bath (powdered cow's
milk). MALVA LINE: (-)Day Cream, Facial

Mask, Lotion. (4)Night Cream. (+)The Malva
Cleansing Milk, Eye Cream, and Moisturizing
Emulsion include stearic acids. M0,S

BIO LINE, INC., 2901 Penn Ave. S, Ste. 26,
Minneapolis, MN 55431. (612) 881-7314.
(-)Herbal conditioner, Masque, Moisturizer,
Scrub, Shampoo, Toner, Massage Gel, a tan
line and a Bio Vera Household Cleaner. Other
of their items include by—products of
slaughter. M0,H,S

BODY IOVE NATURAL COSMETICS, P.O. Box 7542,
Santa Cruz, CA 95061. (408) 425-8218.
(-)Amazing Grains, Herbal Facial Steams, Love
Mitts (shower loofah with herbs 4 essential
oils). (+)Atoma Beads (gelatin
encapsulated). M0,8,P

THE BODY SHOP INTERNATIONAL. This
manufacturer selling its own formulations in
a chain of 400 cruelty-free cosmetics shops,
worldwide, has been opening many stores in
Canada and the United states. Many more are
planned. To date there are shops in DC
(Washington), MA (N. Attleborough), MD
(Bethesda), NH (Manchester), NJ (Paramus,
Rockaway 6 Woodbridge), NY (5 in NYC), 6 VA
(McLean 6 Pentagon City). For further
information, contact the main 0.5. office at
45 Horsehill Rd., Tech. ctr., Cedar Knolls,
NJ 07927-2003, (201) 984-9200. In Canada,
over 50 shops are in Alberta, BC, Manitoba,
New Brunswick, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia,
Ontario and Quebec. To find the one nearest
you, contact The Body Shop, 15 Prince Andrew
Place, Don M1118, ONT M3C 2H2, (416) 441-
3203. (-)60 products other than those listed
below under (I) and (+), include skin, hair,
body care and make-up. (#)Cucumber Cleanser,
Carrot Moisture Cream, Dewberry Conditioner,
Honey & Oat Scrub Mask, Honey Water, Honey 0
Beeswax Cleanser, Lanolin Cream with Vitamin
2, Lip Balms, Mostly Men Face Wash, Oat Pro
Moisturizer, Olive Stone Body Scrub,Pepper-
mint Foot Lotion, Rich Night Cream, Rose
Refining Mask. (+)Foaming Bath oil Powder,
Milk Bath. Both include milk. M0,M,ME,P

THE BODY SHOP OF CALIFORNIA, 1341 7th St.,
Berkeley, CA 94710. (415) 524-0360. (Name
under license from ”The Body Shop
International PLC' [based in England], to
whom they sold the name “The Body Shop
International" in 1987). Lotions, perfume
oils, shampoos, cleansers, creams, bath oils,
bubble bath, shaving products, soaps.

(-)Send for their list of these products.

Free catalog. M0,ME,P,S

I
DONNB SANTB, 462 62nd St., Brooklyn,
NY 11220. (713) 492-3887.
(-)£uropean Pocket Incense, Frankincense &
Charcoal, Glycerin Soap, Henna Hair Products,
Incense Sticks, Monoi (Tahitian coconut oil)
Body Lotion, Rhassoul Moroccan Clay Mask.(!)
Scented candles (beeswax), Tiger Balm (bees-
wax a lanolin). (+)Royal Jelly Facial Cream
(Bee Pollen, Royal Jelly Extract). M0,P

monLIND or GERMANY, 9.0. Box 1437, New
London, NH 03257. (603) 526-2076.

(Anne Marie Borlind) has introduced a
cruelty-free line of make-up, the Caring
Color Collection, tested only on human
volunteers. (-)Crayon Khol Black, Cream Eye
Shadow, Eyebrow Crayon, Liquid Eye Make-up

Remover, Lip\Liner, Nail Balm, Nail Polish
Remover. (l)(Beeswax)Compact Cream Make-up,
Lip Color, Lip Gloss, Mascara, Touch-up
Sticks. (Lanolin) Compact Cream Make—up,
Compact Powder-Translucent, Fluid Make—up for
dry skin, Fluid Make-up for oily skin, Lip
Color, Lip Gloss, Powder Eye Shadow, Powder
Rouge, Touch-up Sticks. (+)Mascara contains
shellac from the lac beetle. A new baby's
through pre-teen's line includes: (-)Child-
ren's Bath, Cleansing Lotion, Shampoo.
(#)Care Cream, Protection Cream, Skin Balm.
They also carry a line of skin and body care,
mostly without animal ingredients. Company
headquarters are at 7260 Calw—Altburg,
Schwartzwald, West Germany. M0,M,S

BOTANEE, product of REVIVA, 705 Hopkins Rd.,
Haddonsfield, NJ 08033. (609) 328-3885.
Statement on the brochure: ”No testing ever
done on animals and no animal ingredients".
(-)C1eansing Milk, Hand 0 Body Lotion,
Protective Cream, Skin Toner, all made with
extracts of the ancient Karite tree.

BREEZY BALMS, Box 168, Davenport, CA
95017. (408) 423-4299. (-)0ak Away.
(4)Warm Up Rub, Roll A Rub. M0

CAMILLA HBPPER, c/o Baraka Co.,

4338 Center Gate, San Antonio, TX 78217.
(512) 599-3771 or (512) 341-1709.

"No animal has been used in the production
and testing of my cosmetics.” Extensive

catalog of skin, body and hair care, $1. M0

CARMR, 84 Galli Dr., Novato, CA 94949.
(800) 227-2628. Although this company‘s
products are not tested on animals, we
assume that our readers would not choose to
buy them since Carme was bought by IRDC, an
animal testing laboratory. Manufacturers
belonging to Carme include: Country Roads,
Jojoba Farms, Loanda, Mill Creek, Mountain
Herbery, and Sleepy Hollow Botanicals.

CERTAN—DRI (Div. of Leon Prod. Inc.), P.O.
Box 24845, Jacksonville, FL 32241. (904)
733-0221. (4)Certan-Dri Anti-Perspirant. M0

CERTININ AMERICA INC., Attn. Cornelius
Milligan, 130 Clarkson Ave., Brooklyn, NY
11226. (718) 856-9215. (-)Entire line of skin
care. Needs distributors. M0

CRAB, 815 E. 17th Ave., Denver, CO 80218.
(303) 893-9900. (-)Body Creme, Chae' Butter,
Chaelene, Chaessence, Creme Wash, Energizer,
Factor 11, Factor 22, Factor 33, Gentle
Cleansing Pads, Gentle Liquid Cleanser,
Herbal Scrub. M0

CHEMPOINT PRODUCTS CO., Div. of HPM Corp.,
543 Tarrytown Rd., White Plains, NY 10607.
(800) 343-6588. (-)A full line of
institutional chemicals for cleaning and
other purposes, available only to the
institutional trade. One product is avail-
able to the public: Citra—Solv, a natural
citrus solvent. No mail order, but is in 1&0
Generation catalog, Colchester, VT 05446.
(800) 456-1177; and other catalogs. H

CRENTI PRODUCTS INC., 21093 Forbes Ave.,
Hayward, CA 94545. (415) 785-2177.

(-)All skin and hair care products except for
the following (+)Chenti Bee Pollen
Conditioning Rinse, Chenti Bee Pollen Protein
Shampoo, and Chenti Elastin-Collagen Creme,
the elastin and collagen derived from beef
by~products. M0,s

CIIUUULY NATURAL (Formerly LAGUNA), P.0. Box
750024, Petaluma, CA 94975. (707) 762-5815.
(-)Glycerine E Sculptured Glycerine Soaps,
Laguna and Save the Whale Soaps. Mo
CLIENTELE, 5207 NW 163rd St., Miami,

FL 33014. (800) 327-4660. (-)Age Defense Hand
4 Body Lot1on, Anti-Aging Activator, Contour
Blush, Daily Nutrient Supplements, Daytime
Moisturizer with Sunscreen, Eye Makeup
Remover, Facial Masque, Gentle Cleansing Bar
Lip Color, Nourishing Rinse with Conditioner'
oil Free Moisture Concentrate, Powder, '
Preventive Age Treatment, Shampoo Masque

Skin Tone Balancer Makeup, Stress Controi
Nutrients, Solar Free Tanning System, Surface
Refining Lotion, Treatment Conceal, Wrinkle
Treatment. Sold in the Neiman-Marcus stores
in Chicago and in their catalog. M0,M

COLOUR QUEST, 616 8. 3d St. .

IL 60174. (312) 377-6226. ' St Charles,
(—)L'Aurue cosmetics (eye, cheek, nail),
Colour Quest Kit, Normalizing Oil, Occlusive
Moisturizer, Purifying Lift Mask, Wardrobe
Gu1des. (I)Mascaras and lipsticks. M0,M

COMFORT MANUFACTURING CO., 1056 Van Buren
St., Chicago, IL 60607. (312) 421-8145.(4)
Moisturizing Protective Cream, Toothpaste.M0

COMMUNITY SOAP FACTORY, P.O. Box 32057,
Washington, D.C. 20007. (202) 347-0186.

"”19““ soaps and sham o
in bulk. "O P 03 sold retail and

COOL PRODUCTS, 1168-8 Mass.

Ave. Camb
”5 02138. (617) 497—7734. ' tidge'

(“)Original kohl eyeliner cold
(4)0riginal cold wax. "0' cream,

COUNTRY COMFORT, P.0. Box 3, Nuevo, CA
92367. (707) 584-3057. (-)Baby 011, Baby
Powder. (4)Baby Cream, Golden Seal Myrrh,
Herbal Savvy-Comfrey-Aloe, lip cranes. MO

I
COUNTRY ROADS. (See CARNE)

CREATOR! CARE, Box 763, (9009 South St.),
Monte Rio, CA 95462. (707) 865-2207.
(-)Chi1dren's line of lotions, massage oil,
soaps, hair dyes (temporary and permanent),
perms, powdered blush, powdered eye shadow,
shampoos, sunscreen. (4)Bath Oil, Body
Lotion, Cream Perfume, Eye Gel, Sports
Massage Oil. MO,C.P

DESERT ESSENCE, 9.0. Box 588, Topanga'

CA 90290. (213) 455-1046. About 30 items

for skin, hair, teeth & fragrance, most with
jojoba oil. Also a jojoba car lubricant.
(-)All products except for (4)Jojoba-Aloe
Vera Lip Balm. M0

EARTH CARE PAPER, INC. P.O. Box 3335,
Madison, WI 53704. (608) 256-5522. (-)Re-
cycled paper, including greeting cards, gift
wraps, posters, note papers, pads, envelopes,
postcards, cellulose food storage bags,
office a printing paper, including some for
computers and copying. M0

EARTH HEALING ARTS, 2424 T St.,

Sacramento, CA 95816. (916) 456-7640.
(-)Herba1 Moist body lotions and face creams
(with apricot, coconut, lavender or
unscented), Herbal Moist lip balms (citrus,
mint or vanilla), 3 kinds of massage oils.M0

EARTH SCIENCE, 545 Porter Way, Placentia, CA
92670. (800) 222-6720 6 (714) 524-9277.

A large assortment of skin, body, sun and
hair care, with 6 men's items, plus liquid
micelized vitamins and nutrients. (-)All
except for the following: (I)Almond Aloe
Light 6 Silky Moisturizer, Azulene Desen-
sitizing Eye Creme, Forte Hair Spray, Hair
Repair Conditioner, Hair Treatment Shampoo,
Herbal Astringent Conditioner, Lite Hold Hair
Spray,LipotropicFactorII(vitamin).(+)Placent-
agen Eye 8 Throat Creme, which includes human
placenta extract. Free gift of 4 travel-
sized items with each $15 order. MO

ECOVER PRODUCTS BUBA, Industrieweg 3, 2150
Malle, BELGIUM. Tel. 3/3124373.Distrib in USa
by Mercantile Food Co., Georgetown, CT 06829.
(-)A1ternative Bleach, Cream Cleaner, Fabric
Conditioner, Floor Soap, Heavy Duty Hand
Cleaner, Liquid Clothes Wash, Toilet Cleaner,
Hashing Powder, Wool Wash.(+)Milk Whey (from
cow's milk), Washing-up Liquid. All
biodegradable, and"Require that all suppliers
of ingredients confirm in writing that they
also have not tested on animals for a minimum
of five years previously." M0,M

EDEN BOTANICALS, 6221 Ascot Dr.,

Oakland, CA 94611. (415) 530-3401.

(-)Amber Essence (perfume sachet in rosewood
box), Amber Essence Oil, Androgeny Child oil

Blend, quality incenses. M0,P

ESSENTIALS, RD 2, Box 16o-A, Ghent, NY
12075. (518) 672-4540. (-)Massage oils &
fragrance blends, none with animal
ingredients. M0,P

EVE COSMETICS, P.0. Box 131, Pebble Beach,
CA 93953. (-)Eve Shampoo. MO

EVERYBODY (Formerly MOUNTAIN OCEAN), 1738
Pearl St., Boulder, C0 80302. For free cata‘
log: (800) 748-5675; to order: (303) 440-
0188. (4)Cream Moisturizer, Lip trip. ikin
trip, Sunblock SPF 15, Sunscreen SPF 8. MO

FASHION Two TWENTY, 1263 s. Chillicothe Rd..
Aurora, on 44202. (216) 562-5111. (-)BodY
lotion, "Body Velvet" lotion, Cleansing
Creme, Cleansing Lotion, DepilatorY Creme.
Fragrance, Freshener, Hand Creme, "Image "
Body Lotion, “Nearer" Milk Bath, “Sinerely .
Milk Bath. (4)8 Bronze Suntan Lotion. Bea:
Aftershave, Blend No. 1 Skin Soother, aye
Throat Lotion, Eye Treatment, Facial Scrub
with Aloe, Lip Treatment, makeup productsi r
Moisturizer, Night Creme. Their GLS Cellu a
Skin Care Line includes beef by—products.t
Fashion Two Twenty wrote that they are no
re-printing the suggestions for fur colors
included in their recent brochure. M07H75

rAunTLEss srAncn/aon AMI CO., 1025 w. stgg
St-. Kansas city, no 64101. (016) 842'22 ioo
100 t biodegradable household products n

t biodegradable containers. The well know“
cleansing powder and cake, in most
Supermarkets, have never been tested on kind
animals, and no changes (requiring ‘°'° by“
of test) are planned. They do include a to
product of slaughter, but are preferable

the other major brands, which both haVe
slaughter ingredients and are tested on
animals. The Ben Ami Polishing cleaneg.
Glass Cleaner, and the Faultless stare
were tested on anilals over 5 years agoéold
Ron Dunnuck, Chief of Quality Control. n

us that they mean never to test 8931“ 0
animals. H

Foam

 




 

 

FINELLE COSMETICS (Formerly LADY FINELLE)
This company's products are not tested on
animals, but we assume that you would not
choose to buy them until they stop giving
furs as sales incentives.

FOCUS 21 INTER., INC., 2755 005 Aaron's Way,
Vista, CA 92083. (619) 727-6626. Call this
number for the address and telephone of your
state distributor. (+)Skin, Hair care, make-
up and vitamins, including no animal
ingredient except for milk. The NYS
distributor is: 4 Star Salon Services, (718)
326-7979. MO,M

4-D HOBE MARKETING, 201 So. McKemy, Chandler,
az 85226. (602) 257-1950.

(-)HAIR CARE:: Bald Isn't Beautiful Shampoo.
Perm-Hold Spray, Hair-Lovers Energizer
Shampoo, Hair Follicle Stimulator Mist,

"More Hair" 8 Scalp Treatment, Nuhairtrition
Algae Shampoo, Swimmer's Hair Shampoo,
Styling Mist. SKIN CARE: Cleanser, Face Mask,
Freshener, Hand 8 Body Lotion, Moisturizer,
Suntan Oil 8 Lotion. OTHER: Blue-Green Manna,
Coenzyme Glo, Colon Guard Laxative, Dent-a-
Kleen Tooth Gel, Perm-T Antiseptic, Great
Stuff for Aches 8 Pains, Great Stuff for
Sunburn Relief, Nuhairtrition Vitamins, Pau
d'Arco, PMS Time, Vita Green Barley MO,ME

A.J. FUNK 8 CO., 1471 Timber Dr., Elgin,
IL 60120. (-)Sparkle Glass Cleaner and
Sparkle Pine Cleaner. MO,H

GENERAL NUTRITION, P.O. Box 349, 1301
39th St., Fargo, ND 58107. (701) 282-2300.
(-)GNC ALoe Vera 8 Vitamin E Skin Oil, GNC
Jojoba Conditioner, GNC Jojoba Oil, GNC
Jojoba Shampoo, GNC pH Balanced Complexion
‘Bars, GNC Pure Vitamin E, GNC Vitamin E
Shampoo, Nourishair Biotin Shampoo. MO

GIOVANNI COSMETICS INC., P.O. Box 205,
Reseda, CA 91335. (213) 663-7033.

(-)Hair care for men 8 women, including
shampoos, moisturizers, styling gels,
conditioners, sprays, including ”Heck of a
Shine Spray". MO

GOLDEN LOTUS (See MOUNTAIN FRESH)

GOLDWELL COSMETICS, 9015 Junction Dr.,
Annapolis Junction, MD 20701. (301) 725-6620.
Hair care widely available in salons, all (-)
except for the following which include
products of slaughter: all color items, Bio
Spray, Gold Champagne, Herbasco, Hydrolized
Animal Protein, Kerathone, Oxient, Platin,
Setting Mousse, Styling Mouse, Trendline
Creative Mousse. MO,S ' '

GRANNY'S OLD FASHIONED PRODUCTS, P.O. Box
256, Arcadia, CA 91006. (818) 577-1825.
No animal ingredient in any item. MO

GRUENE KOSMETIK, 256 So. Robertson Blvd.,

Box 4122, Beverly Hills, CA 90211.

(213) 392-2449.(-)Aloe Coconut Shampoo, Aloe
Cream Shave, Aloe Mint Cleanser and Toner,
Skin Enhancing Supplement, Special White Clay
Masque. (4)Fine Almond cleanser, scrub 8
masque. (+)The following include human
placenta from screened live childbirths
collected at a hospital: Placenta 8 Aloe Body
Lotion, Placenta Moisturizer. M0

RAIN PURE FOOD CO., 13660 S. Figueroa St.,
Loo Angeles, CA 90061. (213) 516-5235.
(t)Del Breath Freshener, RDA Creme. (+)EDA
Soap includes tallow. MO,S

HAWAIIAN RESOURCES, 1123 Kapahulu Ave.,
Honolulu, HI 96816. (808) 737-8276.
(I)Monoi Tiara Tahiti Coconut Oils. Mo

HEAVENLY seas, 5948 E. 30th St., Tucson,
AZ 85711. (602) 790-9938.

(-)Bath oils and all soaps except for the
following list. (8)Facia1 Scrub, Herbal
Salve, Milk Honey Soap, Night Cream. M0

HOME MEADTH PRODUCTS INC., P.O. Box 3130,
Virginia Beach, va 23454. (804) 491-2200.

A large line of soaps, oils, rubs and
liniments, all as (-) or (I) except the wool
flannel for castor oil packs. MO

ROME SERVICE PRODUCTS, P.0. Box 269,
Bound_Brook, NJ 08805. (201) 356-8175 8

(215) 348-2393. (-)ﬁPROFESSIONAL.BRAND
HOUSEHOLD CLEANING PRODUCTS: All-Fabric
Bleach, All Purpose Spray Cleaner, Automatic
Dishwashing Compound--Powder, Dishwashing
Detergent--Liquid, Laundry Compound--Powder,
Laundry Detergent--Liquid, Pre-Add Fabric

Softener. Ingredients are controlled by the
Federal Trade Commission, are biodegradable,
and display the Beauty Without Cruelty Seal
of Approval. MO,H

MUISH CHEMICAL CO., 3540-d 1987 80., Salt
Lake City, or 84125. (801) 972-8611.
(-)Vista Laundry Detergent, Wintree Laundry
Detergent. MO,H -

IDA GRAB NATURE'S COLORS (formerly Nature's
Colors), 424 Laverne Ave., Mill Valley, CA
94941. (415) 388-6101. (-)Earth Rouge, Earth
Eyes (14 colors). (4)Creme Foundation, Earth
Fragrance, Eye/Lip Creme, Venus Moisturizer.
MO,M,P

IL-MAKIAGE, 107 E. 60th St.,

New York, NY 10022. (718) 361-3123.

(-)Color rouges, color shadows, face powder,
Heyelighter Dust, nail polish, neons, pressed
powder. (t)Brow Set, Even Tones, Foundation,
lip gloss, lipstick, mascara, pencils, TV
Touch. MO,M

INDRA (See AVEDA)

IRMA SHORRELL INC., P.O. Box 617,

Madison Hts., VA 24572. (800) 523-0907.
(-)Bath Gelee, Bodybraise, Body Treatment
Oil, Hand and Body Moisture, Moisture-Tan Sun
Sensitive, After Sun, Safer Tan Formulas,
Contour/35, Dermabrase, Face Mask, Deep
Acting Cleanser, Formula for Cleansing,
Moisture/35, Eye Make-up Remover, Sheer
Moisture. Not presently in dept. stores but
in many small specialty stores such as
Bixley's in New York. Can be ordered by mail
or phone. MO

ISADORA COSMETIQUE (Invima Ab.). Care Cos-
metic Technology, Inc, 4 Embarcadero Ctr.
5100, San Francisco, CA 94111. (408) 761-
2144. (-)Body Lotion, Conditioner, Eye-
brow Pen, Eye Flash, Hair Mousse, Hair
Spray, Kajal, Lipliner, Lipstick, Moist-
ure Make-up, Shower Gel, Waterproof Mascara.
(!)Cream Mascara, Eyeshadow Pen, Lipgloss,
Skin Care. (+)Eye Shadow, Face Powder,
Keratin Mascara, Shampoo. Company Head-
quarters are at Hojdrodergatan 26, S-212
39 Malmo, SWEDEN. Tel. 040-93 50 50. Telex
33551: Fax 040-18 70 27. Available in up-
scale drug 8 dept. stores. MO,M,S

JACRI'S MAGIC IDTION, 258 A St., 87A,
Asbland, on 97520. (503) 488-1388.
(-)Jacki's 100% Pure Cocoa Butter.
(4)Jacki°s Magic Lotion, unscented. MO

JASON NATURAL PRODUCTS, 8468 Warner Dr.,
Culver City, CA 90232. (213) 838-7543.
(-)Apricot Oil 8 Skin Freshener, Hand and
Body Lotions 98% Aloe Vera Gel, Primrose Oil,
Vitamin E Oil. (4)Apricot Cleansing Creme,
Apricot Scrubble. (+)The shampoos and
collagens include animal products other than
those listed as (I). MO,S

JEANNE ROSE HERBAL BODY WORKS, 219-A Carl
St., San Francisco CA 94117. (415) 564-6785.
(-)Astringent, Facial Mixture, hair oils.
essential oils (retail only). herbal sleep
mixtures, herb teas, massage oils, medicinal
oil, potpourri, Seawater Bath, shampoos,
vinegar rinses. (I)Honey facials, moisture
creams. (+)Baby powder (powdered egg shells),
Milk Bath (milk). MO

JELENE INTERNATIONAL, INC. 1409 Allen Dr.,
Ste. G, Troy, MI 48083. (313) 588-5522.
(-)Aloe Vera Gel, Bodytone Lotion, Body Wash,
Cleansing Gel--Oily, Cleansing Lotion--Dry,
Cleansing Lotion--Normal, Essential oils,
Lift Powder, Make up Remover, pH Balancer,
Protective for Oily, stuff. (8) Eye Creme,
Night Nourishing Creme, Protective for Dry,
Protective for Normal. 1+)Equalizer, Hair
Conditioner (bovine collagen); Extra
Ordinaire, Revive (bovine elastin). MO, P

JOHN PAUL MITCHELL SYSTEMS, P.0. Box 10597,
Beverly Hills, CA 90213-3597. (800) 321-JPMS.
Hair products widely available in salons.
(-)Awapuni Shampoo, conditioner, Baby Don't
Cry Shampoo for infants and adults with fine
hair, Shampoo I 8 II, Sculpting Lotion, Super
Clean Gel. JPM products are guaranteed only
when sold by a professional hairstylist. MO

I
JOJOBA FARMS. (See Carme)

JURLIQUE cosmsrlcs (D'Mamis Ltd.), 16 Starlit
Dr., Northport, I! 11768. (516) 754-3535.
(8)23 skin, hair 8 household products. Send
for their catalog. Mo,H

KIMBERLY SAVER INC., 61 West 82nd St.,

New York, NY 10024. (-)All skin care except
for the following:(+)£ye Renewal Cream and
Vital Night Cream include animal collagen.
They are searching for a chemist who will do
without this. The bath oils are now
medicinally custom made. MO,S

  

KISS MY FACE, 9.0. Box 224, Gardiner,

NY 12525.(UPS: 144 Main St.) (914) 255-0884.
(-)All items, including liquid and cake
soaps, skin 8 hair care, including travel
sizes. MO

mus assesses INC., 6807 Highway 299 3., p.o.
Box 520, 8.11. Vista, CA 96008. (916) 549-
4472.A large variety of hair care products.
(-)Between, Cleanse pHree Shampoo, Control,
Creme de la Mousse, E02+, Mg+, NEFA+, NEFA
Shampoo, Nucleo-Protein Rinse, Oh, So Gentle
Perm, Perm+, pHinish, Process Protector,
RePair, Skin Caresser, Styling 8 Setting Gel,
Sun Protector, Tanning Oils, Ultra Volume
Shampoo. (4, plus bee pollen extract)C‘est la
Force, Creme Hair Relaxer, Curl Activator,
Gelato, HMS Hair Spray, Moisturizing Shampoo,
Premium Perm, Prolimist, Prolimin Gold,
Sculpturing Lotion, Trilogy, Ultra-Pak.
(+)The 8 Zachi products include silk. MO

RSA JOJOBA, 19025 Parthenia St., No. 200,
Northridge, CA 91324. (818) 701-1534.

(-)All items including liquid and cake soaps,
skin 8 hair care, a few perfumes and 6.
automotive products, all with jojoba 011.
M0,?

LA COUPE, 694 Madison Ave., New York, NY
10021. (212) 371-9230. Mail order address: 30
Campus Plaza, Edison, NJ 08837. (800) LA
COUPE. M 1*

(-)The La Coupe Beauty Salons in New York,
Paris and London use their own cruelty-free
products by Charles Booth 8 CO., not tested
on animals and with no animal ingredients.
They can be bought from Universal Perfumes,
2826 NE 187th St., N. Miami, FL 33180. (-)
Amplifieur Gel Mist, Clean Scalp Shampoo-
ing, Creme Regeneratrice, Extra Hold Mousse
Coiffante, Fixatif, Fixatif Plus, Fixatif
Plus Hairshaper, Gelee Coiffante, Glossing
Wax, Mousse Coiffante, Rinsing, Shampooing,
Shampooing Hydratant, Sleeking Mousse,
Volumagie, Volumateur. Fragrance Free Items:

(-)Detangling Rinse, Essential Shampoo, Hair
Recovery Complexe, Remoisturizing Shampoo,
Sculpting Solution, stronghold, Stronghold
Hairshaping Spray. They have added (-) a Face
8 Body Natural Body oil. MO

L'ANZA RESEARCH LABORATORIES, 5523 Avon Ave.,
Irwindale, CA 91706. (800) 423-0307 s (818)
334-9333. 4 Shampoos, 3 reconstructors, 3
moisturizers, and 6 styling aids for hair.
Include some protein from human (not animal)
hair. 'L'Anza products contain NO animal
ingredients and are NEVER tested on animals",
on brochure. Widely sold but only through
professional salons. MO

LA CRISTA, INC., P.O. Box 240, Davidsonville,
no 20135. (301) 956—4447. (-)Face 8 Body
Natural Body oil.

LEVIAD/NATURE'S GATE, 9183-5 Kelvin Ave.,
Chatsworth, ca 91311. (818) 882-2951, (800)
327-2012. (-)Tea Tree Oil. (!)All other
Levlad/Nature's gate products, including:
Herbal Hair Shampoo 8 Conditioner, New Herbal
Hair products with aloe vera, biotin, keratin
or jojoba, plus 10 Rainwater Herbal Hair Care
products, skin 8 bath care 8 6 toothpastes.
(+)The Levlad/Aloegen products include animal
collagen or elastin. MO,S

LIFE TREE PRODUCTS, 1448 12th St.,

Santa Monica, CA 90401. (213) 451-0936.
(-)Life Tree Laundry Liquid, Home Soap,
Household Cleaner 8 Peppermint Bath Soap.
(I)Alba Botanica Organic Formula Cream Shave.
MO,H

LIVOS PLANT CHEMISTRY, 2641 Carrillos Rd.,
Santa Fe, as 87501. (505) 988-9111.

(-)Aidu, Albion, Amellos, Anavo, Avi, Bave,
Cembra, Children's watercolors, Donnos,
Dubno, Earthen 8 Mineral Stain, Essence,
Kaldet, Xivos, Landis, Latie, Lavenos, Lavo,
Leinos, Linami, Linseed, Meldos, Menos, Metal
Primer, Pastes (oil 8 water), Putty, Skeima,
Tekis, Trebo, Tunna, Vedo. MO,H

I
LOANDA HERBAL SOAPS (See Carma)

LOTUS LIGHT/LIGHT TOUCH, P.O. Box

WI 53192. For retail mail order, LgTugil-Ot'
PULIILMENT SVCE., P.O. Box 261, Nil-0t, WI
53192. (414) 862-2395. (-)Ancient.$ecrets
Bath Salts 8 Mud Masque, Chandrika Ayurvedic
Soap, Dead Sea Bath Salts, Helix Henna
Herbalvedic Ayurvedic Massage Oils and,
Toothpaste, Light Mountain Soap, Light Touch
Cocoa Butter, Coconut oil Moisturizers
Essential oils, Henna, Massage Oils, MO

M 8 N NATURAL PRODUCTS P.O. Box 4502
Anaheim, CA 92803. (714) 956-0360. '
(-)No animal ingredients in any item. Mo

 

 

CRUEL PRODUCTS WILL GO THE WAY OF SMOKING
BUT WE MUST BRING THIS ABOUT OURSELVES

AND JUNK FOOD

 

 

  




 

MAKAMINA, INC., p.o.'sox 307, Wallingford,
PA 19086. (800) 537-6746. (-)Foot Cream, Hand
Cream, Skin Care Products. MO

MARIE LACOSTE ENTERPRISES, INC., 1059 Ale-
meda de las Pulgas, Belmont, CA 94002.
(415) 838-4108. (-)Panache Skin Renewer. M0

MARTHA HILL COSMETICS, The Old Vicarage,
Laxton nr. Corby, Northants, England

Tel. (078) 085 259. In 0.5. call

(201) 494-7027. (-)All items including,
shaving formulas, skin, hair, and body care
for men a women except those listed under
(4). (I)The lipsticks. Products not available
in the 0.5 may be ordered from England. These
include colored make-up and fragrances. MO,M

MARTIN VON MYERING, 422 Jay St., Pittsburgh,
PA 15212. (412) 323-2832. (-)No animal
products in any of the items for skin or
body, 12 hair & scalp shampoos &
conditioners, or organic vegetable non-toxic
permanent waves for home use. (4)16 shades of

.organic hair color for home use. Looking for

retailers. M0,C

KIA ROSE PRODUCTS INC., 1374 Logan, Unit C,
Costa Mesa, CA 92626. (714) 662-5891.
(-)Methods of cleansing air. Made of essen-
tial oils distilled with fruit and herbs. MO

NICHAEL'S, HEALTH PRODUCTS, 7040 Alamo Downs
Pkwy., San Antonio, TX 78238. (512) 647-4700.
(-)After Sun, Derma Aid, Fem Pure, G 8 G
Shoo, So Soft. (4)1tch Aid, Pain Aid, PSO
Rectal Aid, Vapo Aid, VRL, WPG. MO

MICRO BALANCED PRODUCTS CORP., 25 Aladdin
Ave., Du-ont, NJ 07628. (201) 387-0200.
(-)Aqualin Facial Cleanser, Aqualin Skin
Moisturizer, Aquasole Shoe Inserts, Lavilin
Foot Deodorant, Lavilin Underarm Deodorant.
NO

I
MILL CREEK. (See CARME)

MOUNTAIN FRESH (Formerly GOLDEN IDTUS) ,

P.O. Box 40189, Grand Junction, CO 81504.
(303) 243-8835. (-)Household cleansers sold
in most natural food stores: dishwashing
soap, fabric softener, Kleen (all purpose
soap), laundry soap. Also animal-free skin 8
hair care. Their silk and milk are derived
from corn silk and corn milk. M0,H

I
MOUNTAIN HERBERY. (See CARME)
HOUNTAIN OCEAN. (See EVERYBODY)

THE MURPHY PHOENIX CD. has stated that they
may test a product on animals though they
intend to avoid this when they can.

NATURADE, 7100 E. Jackson St.,

Paramount, CA 90723. (213) 531-9120.

A large range of skin, hair care and make—up,
widely available in health food stores. Send
for their brochure. Mo,M

NATURAL ORGANICS, INC., 10 Daniel St.,
Farmingdale, NY 11735. (516) 293-0030.
For (-) and (4), see their catalog.
(+)Gelatin for the gelatin capsules: beef
liver for the dessicated liver. MO,S

NATURE COSMETICS, 881 Alma Real, Ste. 101,
Pacific Palisades, CA 90272. (800) 553-9816.
They have achieved a breakthrough in wide
dissemination: in CA in the major
supermarkets, including Pathmark and
Walgreens: also in the K-Mart Stores. They
plan door-to-door sales. Their products are
tested with computer modeling and, in
addition, sensitivity tests on humans.
Avanza, the company which produces Nature
Cosmetics, also produces another line called
NATURESSENCE, also not tested on animals.

The formulas of the latter are different, and
are sold in the Drug Emporium and 18 other
drug chains, 10 mass market retailers and 17
supermarkets throughout the 0.5. For both

Mature and Naturessence, we suggest obtaining
their ingredient list, since there are very
many items and some include by-products of
slaughter. NO direct or mail orders. S,M

NATURE DE FRANCE, 444 Park Ave. 8.,

New York, NY 10016. (800) 237-9418,

(212) 213-4343. Skin and hair care, much
based on purifying clays imported from
France. None have animal ingredients except
for (+)Algoli Facial Bar and Argimiel Facial
Bar, which include tallow. MO

NATURE'S COLORS, (See IDA GRAE)

NATURE'S PLUS, lO'Daniel St., Farmingdale,
NY 11735. (516) 293-0030. (-)Aloe Vera Soap,
Hairful (polysorbate 80), Natural Beauty
Cleansing Bar, Nutra Glow (NAPCA), RNA hair
cleansers, RNA Tanning Gel, Vitamin E Cream,
Vitamin E Soap plus large catalog of natural
vitamins suitable for vegetarians. M0,M

NEH AGE PRODUCTS, 16100 N. Hwy. 101, Willits,
CA 95490. (707) 459-5969.
(-)Lift Biodegradable Household Cleaner. MO,H

NEH BEGINNINGS NATURAL BODYCARE, 511 Calle
San Pablo, Camarillo, CA 93010.

(805) 482-7791. No animal ingredients in any
product except for a few now in process of
change. Ask for ingredient list. Mo

NEWAY, 150 Causeway St., Boston, MA 02114.
(617) 227-5117.

(#)Neway Laundry Load, Newbrite Oxygen
Bleaching Powder. Not in stores. Mail order
by letter or phone. Very inexpensive. M0,H

NEW HORLD MINERAIS, 4459 E. Rochelle, Las
Vegas, NV 89121. (800) 634-6466 6 (702) 435-
8110. (-)No animal ingredients in any item.
Mineral baths, rubs and food supplements. M0

N0 COMMON SCENTS, King's Yard, Yellow
Springs, on 45387. (513) 767-4260. (-)Herbs,
spices, essential Oils, potpourris, teas,
incense. (4)Autumn Harp Lip & Face Balm. MO,P

NORTH COUNTRY SOAP, 7888 County Rd. 6,
Maple Plain, MN 55359. (612) 479-3381.
(-)Soaps: Bayberry, Gardenia, Oatmeal & Rose.
(+)The other soaps include lard. MO,S

NU SKIN INTERNATIONAL INC., 145 East Center,
Provo, UT 84606. (801) 377-6056.(-)Body Bar,
Body Cleansing Gel, Exfoliant Scrub, Facial
Scrub, Glacial Marine Mud, Herbal Mineral
Bath, Nu Start Shampoo, Total Performance
Shampoo A. (+)Include royal bee jelly:
Automatic Hair Conditioner, Clay Pack,
Sunright 4, 8, 15, 8 25. The rest include by-
products of slaughter. For 4 of these last, a
single series Of animal tests was performed
"under necessity of government regulation".
no,s

NUTRI-NBTRICS INTERNATIONAL INC., 19501 E.
Walnut Dr., P.0. Box 1286, City of Industry,
CA 91748. (714) 598-1831. A large selection
of skin care and make-up under the headings
(-) and (4), including cover sticks and nail
products. The items which included fish
glycerides are discontinued, and they have
promised to discontinue their fur sales
awards. Catalog costs $1.00. MO,M

O'NATUREL, 2601 Adeline St., Ste. 133,
Oakland, CA 94607. (415) 268-9121.
(-)Lavender, Orange/Cinnamon, Rosemary 8
Tangerine Bath Foams, Lavender Conditioning
Hair Pack, Lavender Facial Scrub, Camomile,
Lavender a Rose Floral Waters, Camomile,
Conditioning, Henna/Rosemary & Lavender
Shampoos. (4)Honey 6 Sage shampoo. MO

ORIENTAL BEAUTY SECRETS, 1800 S. Robertson
Blvd., Ste 182, Loo Angeles, CA 90035.

(213) 551-0484. (-)Activating Skin Freshener,
Clarifying Mask, Conditioning Rinse, Dandruff
Treatment Shampoo, Facial Massage Oil, Hair &
Scalp Treatment, Purifying Blemish Cream.
Rejuvenating Formula, Rejuvenating Shampoo,
Revitalizing Scrub. As part of G.T.
International, now accepts Master Card and
Visa. Their toll free number is (800) 359-
2940. G.T. International also provides
homeopathic kits, herbs, vitamins, yogic
audio and video tapes, water filters, books
and wooden combs. MO

ORJENE NATURAL COSMETICS, 5-43 48th Ave.,
Long Island City, NY 11101. (718) 937-2666.
(-)Aloe Vera Conditioning Shampoo, Aloe Vera
Energizer, Apricot Kernel Moisturizing Oil,
Apricot Kernel Freshener, Avocado Oil
Shampoo, Avocado 7 Oils, Chamomile & wheat
Germ Cleanser Lotion, Citrus Deodorant Stick,

Clay Facial Mask, Eucalyptus Refining
Astringent, Grapefruit Refreshing Toner,
Herbal Deodorant Stick, Karite Shea Butter
Soap, Kelp Sea Protein Shampoo, Mascara
(black, brown, navy), Mint Deodorant Stick,
Orchid Oil Moisturizer Dry Skin Cream,
Pressed Powder Compact, Pure Herbal Shampoo,

 

4

Vitamin E 011,
on, Apricot

Seaweed Soap, Suntan Lotion,
(4)Aloe Yera Moisturizer Loti
Kernel O 1 Scrub, Camphor Cleans

DLM for Men--After Shave Skin SOOEEeEOtAZSQ
G Almond Scrub, Jog-R Foot Rub, Lipstick ‘
Eye Make-up Remover, lipsticks (26 shades)
Perfect Hair Dress, Special Cleansing Crea;
Super Sun Protector Lotion SPF 15, Vitamin A
Moisture Lotion, Vitamin E Lotion, Vitamin a
Stick. HO,N

PATRICIA ALLISON, Attn: Ann Keenan,

4470 Monahan Rd., La Mesa, CA 92041,

(619) 444-4879. 48 products--lkin care,
sachets, perfumes E make-up. Send $1 for an
order form indicating vegan items and vegan
samples, mentioning BWC. MO,P

PAUL PENDERS USA, 1340 Commerce St.,‘
Petaluma, CA 94952. (707) 763-5828. There are
now no animal ingredients in any of the pro-
ducts they carry. The brochure states no ani-
mal tests. (-)Arnica Mask, Chamomile Hair Lo-
tion, Chamomile Lotion, Hops Shampoo, Jasmine
Shampoo, Nut Oil Shampoo, Orange Blossom Io-
tion, Peeling Cream, Peppermint Emulsie, Pep-
permint Lotion, Peppermint Mask, Peppermint
Shampoo, Rosemary Shampoo, Shower Gel. 8 skin
and hair products include travel sizes. Mo

PEELU PRODUCTS LTD., 6224 Madison Ct.,
Morton Grove, IL 60053. (312) 967-9400.
(-)A dentifrice made from an Asiatic tree
with no inorganic abrasives, called PEELU.
Avail. as toothpaste, toothpowder, extract
and chewing gum. $5 gift certif. with each
order of $50 or more. MO

PETS 'N PEOPLE INC., 5312 Ironwood St.,
Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90274.

(213) 373-1559.(-)Nature's Miracle Cat Litter
Treatment, Pet Easy Mess Clean-up, Skunk Odor
Remover, Stain & Odor Remover. MO,D

PROFESSIONAL 6 TECHNICAL SERVICES INC.,
3333 NE Sandy Blvd., No. 208, Portland, OR
97232. (503) 231-7244. (-)Cielo 2000
Moisturizing Cream. (+)Cielo Moisturizing
Cream & Cielo Suntan Lotion--including
Keratin, manufactured by Santien Co. M0

PURITAN'S PRIDE, 103 Orville Dr., Bohemia,
NY 11716. (516) 567-9500. (-)Aloe Vera Hand 8
Body Lotion, Aloe Vera Moisturizing Cream,
Aloe Vera Moisturizing Lotion, Apricot
Healing, Cucumber Astringent, Deodorant
Stick, Herb oil Shampoo, Glycerine Soap,
Jojoba Shampoo, Nutri-vive, Roll-on
Deodorant, Strawberry Cleansing Cream, Tan
Gently, Vitamin E 011, Vitamin E Soap.
(I)Chamomile Eye Stick, Herbal Mint Masque.
Honey Almond Scrub, Lip Salve, Lipstick,
Vitamin E Moisturizer Stick. (+)13 other
products. MO,M,S

RACNEL PERRY, INC., Rachel Perry, President,
9111 Mason Ave., Chatsworth, CA 91311.

(818) 888-5881 s (800) 624-7001.

Rachel Perry herself has sent a letter
stating that her products are no longer
tested on animals. However, she has not ever
returned our questionnaire, so we do not know
which Of her items include animal ingredients
and which do not. We suggest that you write
suggesting she fill out our questionnaire.

RAINBOW RESEARCH CORP., 170 Wilbur P140
Bohemia, NY 11716. (516) 589-5563.

(-)All products, including skin 6 hair care i
colorants, except those listed under (I)-
(I)Golden Moisturizing Oil, Sports Massage
Oil. They have discontinued items with
slaughter ingredients. MO,C

w.r. RAWLEIGH 00., 223 E. Main St., Proeport'
IL 61032.

(-)13 animal shampoos and grooming items and
13 personal care items. (4)Aloe Vera and
Nutri-Care Hand 1 Body Lotions. (+)Aloe Vera
Shampoo, Balsam and Family Shampoos Pl“‘ 6
animal care items include animal collage“!
protein or 011. Send for their list. MO,S

THE REAL AIDE co., 4735-40 Industrial 5t..
Sill Valley, ca 93063. (805) 522-5310.
(-)Cleanser, Gel-juice ointment, Hand & BOdY
Lotion, liniment, Suntan Lotion. Toner.
(I)Burn Spray, Lip Balm. (+)The shampoos:

rinse, soaps, scrub, mask and moisturizer
include other animal ingredients. MO,S

REVIVA LABS INC., 705 Hopkins 86.. (80°)
Haddonsfield, :3 08033. (609) 428-3885. &
257-7774. A large line of make-up. 5K1" a1
hair care, available nationwide in not“: ts
food stores. In New York in the Health NU
chain. (-)0ver 5 items, including Cream
Blush, Liquid Foundation, Loose Powders
Translucent Powders. In Reviva products.

and
the

 

 

BEAUTY WITHOUT CRUELTY ACCEPTS NO REWARDS OF ANY KIND
FROM COMPANIES ON OUR APPROVED LISTS

 

 

 




propylene glycolstearate, silk powder,
stearic acid and urea, used in some of the
-above, are not of animal origin. (3)511
cleansing milks, fresheners, astringents, and
15 other items, including Hide 8 Cover Duo,
all lipsticks and Powder Blush. (+)Since
Revive can no longer obtain placenta from
human births, all placenta products now
include placenta from full time bovine
births. These include: Life Force Hair
Ampoules, Placenta Treatment Cream, and
Ultra-Rich Moisturizer. The eye pencils'
mascaras, include ingredients from
slaughter. For other items, ask for the
ingredient list. MO,M,S

HIGHLIFE, 2211 B. Orangewood, Anaheim, CA
92806. (-)Aloe Care Baby Shampoo. Mo

I. ROKEACH E SONS INC., 560 Sylvan Ave.,
Bnglewood Cliffs, MJ 07632. (-)All soaps. MO

ROYAL LABORATORIES, INC. (CBA Vegetarian
products Co.), 465 Production St.,San
Marcos, ca 92069. (619) 744—7040. A large
line of vegan vitamin, mineral and other
supplement tablets. 5 products in categories
(i) and (+) to be discontinued this fall.
Also seeds, spices, herbs and skin care. MO

RR INDUSTRIES, 1612 H. Olive, #301,

Burbank, ca 91506. (818) 569-3695.

(-)Truly Moist NaPCA Creme, Truly Moist HaPCA
Lotion. MO

SAPPO HILL SOAP WORKS, 654 Tolman Creek Rd.,
Ashland, OR 97520. (503) 482-4485. (-)Palm a
coconut oils, soap, all vegetable oils. M0

SEA MINERALS 00., 55 Fifth Ave., Ste. 505,
New York, NY 10017. (212) 286-9290. Products
frOm the Dead Sea in Israel: (-)Clay Soap,
Facial Mud, Mineral Bath Salts, Mineral
Cream, Mineral Shampoo, Mineral Soap. Mo

SCHIPP, 121 Moonachie Ave., Moonachie, NJ
07074. (201) 933-2282.

(-)Vegetarian multiple vitamins.

(4)8ee Pollen Conditioning Shampoo, Bee
Pollen Moisturizing Hair Conditioner. Bee
Pollen Hand 8 Body Creme. The labels in their
large product line indicate whether or not
the item includes animal derivatives. MO,S,C

THE SHAHIN SOAP CO., P.O. Box 2413,
427 Van Dyke Ave., Paterson, NJ 07509.
(201) 790—4296.

(-)Shahin Soap, made of edible oils,
including olive, soy or palm. M0,H

SHIKAI PRODUCTS, P.O. Box 2866, Santa Rosa,
CA 95405. (707) 584—0298. (Previously listed
also as TRANS INDIA PRODUCTS.) (—)Shikai
Moisturizing Shampoo. (I)Henna Gold
Conditioning Shampoo, Shikai Natural Shampoo,
Shikai Shampoo for Permed Hair. (+)Inc1ude
keratin protein from hydrolyzed wool fiber:
Henna Gold Conditioner, Shikai Conditioner,
Shikai Extra Body Shampoo. MO

SHIRLEY PRICE AROMATHERPY, 462 62nd St.,
BrOolen. NY 11220. (718) 492-3887.
(‘IAromatherapy skin care, Aromatic body 8
facial oils, carrier oils, mixes of pure
essential oils, ready mixed lotions, ready
mixed massage oils, reflexology cream. MO,P

SIERRA DAHN, 8687 Graton Rd., Sebastopol.

ca 95472. (707) 823-7250.

(‘ICampsuds, Downe, Life Tree Home Soap. Life

Tree Peppermint Bath 8 Body 508?. Lifetree
Premium Laundry Liquid, Map Life. Marina

Suds, Hapca Spray Moisturizer, Neotex Suds,
geppermint Campsuds, Polypropylene Shampoo,
ilke Suds, Travelsuds. (i)Mountain Moisture
Hand 8 Body Lotion. MO,H

SIRENA SOAP (Tropical Soap Co.), Box 31673,
”‘11GS. TX 75231. (214) 243—1991.

é;)All soaps. In natural food stores,

, tter Pharmacies and specialty stores.

SLEEPY Harlow BOTANICALS. (See CARHR)

:23 :22: FACTORY, 141 Cushnan Rd.,

(416) 6 crimes, ONT LZH 6T2 Canada.

produ t82-1808. (-)These Soap Factory

Tom C 5- AA-S Gen. Purpose Cleaner, All

Congiiature Laundry Conc., Bubble Bath, Hair

Conce ioner, Hair Shampoo, Laundry

produgtrfte. Laundry Miracle. (1)8rigitta

Qui 8- Essential Cream, Lanocol Cream,
nce Hand Cream. MO,H

SOLID corn HOLISTIC ANIMAL EQUINE NUTRITION
(619) 4 1483 N. Cuyumaca, El Cajon, CA 92020.
digesti65-9507. (-)Aloe vera oil, bee pollen,
herbal V0 enzymes, herbal flee repellents,
Vormers, jojoba creams, oil of evening

prierse I see
arthritis, Mo vegetation meal, yucca for

SOMBRA (C 8 S Laboratories), 56006 McLeod.
Ave., Albuquerque, NM 87109. (505) 888-0288.
(~)Aloe Crystal Gel, Daily Hair Conditioner
Hand 8 Body Lotion, Intensive Hair '
Conditioner, Shampoo, Suntan Lotion, Tan
Anytime. (t)Blushers, Foundation, Oats 8
Hone Facial Scrub. Visa and Mastercard at
their toll-free number: (800) 225-3963. MO,M

SUNSHINE sczurso OILS (Sunshine Marketing
Services), 1919 Burnside Ave., '

Loo Angeles, ca 90016. (213) 929-6400.
(-)Glowing Touch Perfume 8 Skin Care Oils
Herbal Comfort Oils, Soothing Touch Lotions 8
Massage Oils, Sunshine Perfume Oils. MO,P

TEKHIQUH. No longer in business.

TIKI (G.R.Lane Health Prod.), sisson Rd.,
Gloucester, GL1 308 Canada. (-)Camomile
Shampoo, Camomile Skin Toner, Cucumber 8
Elderblosson Skin Toner, Marigold Shampoo
Thyme 8 Tl—Tree Shampoo, willow Shampoo, I
witch Hazel Skin Toner. (O)Camomile Cleanser
Camomile Moisturizer, Cucumber 8 Elderblossom
Cleanser, Cucumber 8 Elderblossom Moist-
urizer, Nettle Shampoo, Rosemary Shampoo
Witch Hazel Cleanser, witch Hazel ’
Moisturizer. M0

TLC PET PRODUCTS, INC. 2319 w. Washington
Blvd., Loo Angeles, CA 90018. (213) 399-7146
8 730-1690. Shampoos, flea treatment and hot
spot treatment for dogs, cats 8 birds, use
tested only, on healthy animals. Send for
ingredient list. M0

TOMS OF MAINE, Railroad Ave., Kennebunk, MB
04043. (207) 985-2944. (-)Skin, hair & oral
care, including for men, very widely sold in
natural food stores and the better
supermarkets in the 0.5. and Europe. MO

TRANS INDIA PRODUCTS. (See SHIKAI PRODUCTS)
TROPICAL SOAP COHPANY. (See SIRENA SOAP)
UNI PAC LABORATORY. (See PEELU)

VELVET PRODUCTS CO., P.O. Box 5459, Beverly
Hills, ca 90210. (213) 472—6431. (4)Velvet,
a multi-purpose lotion, daytime moisturizer,
conditioner, shaving formula, hand 8 body
lotion for the whole family. Gives a
proportion of profits to animal protection.

VITA HAVE PRODUCTS, 7131 Owens-outh Ave.,
Ste. 940, Canoga Park, on 91303. (818) 886-
3808. Hair products. (—)All, including
permanent waves and conditioners, except
those listed as: (9)5tyle Sheen, Hair
Colors. M0,C

HALA-HEIUMITTEL (Dr. Hauschka Preparations),
0.8. importer: Dr. Hauschka Cosmetics Inc.,
Meadowbrook West, Wyoming, RI 02898. (401)
539-7037. Headquarters: 0-7325 Eckwalden/Bad
Boll, West Germany. Tel. 071 6412071. A non—
profit foundation directed by Anthroposo-
phists, aimed at providing skin care which
harms neither the users nor animals. Also,
most ingredients are not tested on animals
since these are plants, grown or harvested
wild by the company. Thus they are free of
harmful chemicals. Growing and production are
carried out according to principles of
Anthroposophy. (-)All 29 products except
those listed below. (4)0ay Cosmetic, Eye-lid
Cream, Lip Cream, Rose Cream, Skin
Conditioner. (+)The Body Powder, Lip Cream
and Rosemary Balsam include silk powder: the
skin capsules include gelatin. The Skin
Conditioner N includes Royal Jelly. M0,S

HARM EARTH COSMETICS, 334 W. 19th St., Chico,
CA 95928. (916) 895—0455. (-)Loose Powdered
Blush, Loose Powdered Eye Shadows. M0,M

HHLBDA, INC., U.S. distributor: 841, S. Main
st., Box 769, Spring Valley, NY 10977.

(914) 356-4134. Production is carried out
according to principles of Anthroposophy.

H are plants and
minerals, grown or harvested by the company,
therefore . Widely
distributed in natural food stores in
Europe, Canada and the 0.5. (-)Baby oil with
Calendula, Calendula Baby Soap, Deodorant
with Sage, Pace Oil, Hair Conditioner with
Rosemary, Hair Lotion with Rosemary. (4)Baby
Cream with Calendula, Chestnut Shampoo,
Cleansing lotion with Iris, Foot Cream with
Lemon, Night Cream with Iris. MO

(Continued on p. 7, mid. Col.)

I
I
I
I
I
I
|
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

SUMMARY
Cut this column oh and

take it shopping with you.

MAKE-UP
[KARE Labs Aubrey Organicg
Aveda Barry M

Bare Escentuals Beauty W. Ctnpassion
Beauty without Cruelty Ltd. Cosmetics

The Body Shop Borlind of Germany
Clientele Colour Quest

Cool Products Creature Care

 

Fashion 2 Twanty Focus 21
Ida Grae Il—Makiaqe
Isadora Cosmotique Martha Hill
Naturade Nature Cosmetics
Nature's Plus Nutri-Metics
Orjene Patricia Allison
Paul Penders Puritan's Pride
Reviva Labs Sonbra

Warm Earth
PERFUMES, COLOGNES, OTHER SCENTS
Adwe Alexandra Avery
Ananda Andalina
Anana Vera Aubrey Organics
Aura Cacia Auromere
Bare Escentuals Beauty w. Compassion
Beauty w/o Cruelty Bonne Santa
Creature Care Desert Essence
Eden Botanicals Essentials
Heavenly Soap Ida Grae
Jeanne Rose KSA Jojoba

Mia Rose No (Irnnon Scents
Patricia Allison Shirley Price
Sunshine Scented Oils

HAIR COLDRANI‘S AND/OR PERVI SOLUTICNS

Aveda Beauty Naturally
Creature Care KMS

Martin Von Myerling Rainbow Research
Shikai Vita Wave

ORAL HYGIENE

Abkit Adwc

American Merfluan Auromcre
Baudelaire The Body Shop
Comfort Mfg. Co. Desert Essence
Hain lovlad/Nature's Gate
lotus light Nature de France
Peelu Tbm's of Maine

(Vicco—-Auromere)
w % Withers
:03 “EN.

Alba Botanica
Beauty W. Comp.
The Body Shop

Aubrey Organics
Beauty w/O Cruelty
(lamdrika Ayurvedic

Life Tree . Soap (Auranere)
Martha Hill Paul Penders

Velvet
FOR INFANPS
Adwe African Bio—Botanica
Aubrey Organics Autumn Harp

Country Comfort
John Paul Mitchell
Richlife

Wimmwm

The Body Shop
Creature Care

Adwe AIM Enterprises
Aliens Naturally Atlantic Recycled
Bio Line Paper
Chempoint Cbnnnniity Soap Factory
Earth Care Paper Ecover
A.J.Funk (Sparkle Huish

Glass Cleaner) Jurlique D'Mamis
Life Tree Mia Rose
Mountain Fresh Neway
Shahin Soap Sierra Dawn
Soap Factory Xavier

 

 

YOUR DAY TO DAY SHOPPING CAN MAKE A SUB
IF YOU ADHERE TO ANIMAL-FRIENDLY PURCHASES

STANTIAL CHANGE IN SOCIETY

 

 

 




 

SHOPPING ASSISTANCE

You will find.meny, but not all
of these animal-friendly person-
al and household products in na-
tural food stores. Most such
stores are large enough to in-
clude some skin, hair and house-
hold items. If they don't have
what you need, let the owner
know that you and vour friends
will buy them. And please do
buy. __

Large health food stores and
chains can include personnel
qualified to sell Hake—up. If
you have trouble finding one of
these stores, send for our
Beauty Without cruelty computer—
ized data base of retailers sel-
ling animal—friendly make-up and
other items.

For 1 state: $2 plus a 9" by 4"
stamped, addressed envelope.

For US and Canada: $6 plus a 9"
by 12" envelope.

Some of the brands on this list
are in selected supermarkets.
specialty' Hake-up stores, or
salons. Call the manufacturer.

If you are lucky enough to live
near a Body Shop, this 100%
cruelty-free shop covers all
personal needs. LoOk them up
on.page 2.

Many people achieve a better
choice by buying direct from
the nenufacturers. This list
Mdll be especially helpful for
doing this, since it is the
only one we know of to have
full addresses, telephone num-
bers and distinctions, item by
item (in most cases) as to
which.include no animal pro-
ducts, which have beeswax, ho-

ney or lanolin,

 

and which, other animal ingredients.

If you need information not included here, contact the

manufacturer.

If you knOW'Of a company not on this list which you
think may be cruelty—free, send us it's full name and
address. Beauty Without Cruelty does not list any com-
pany which does not carefully fill out and sign our own

questionnaire.

Finally, a simple way to buy, putting everything into

one order, and without having

to worry whether it's

animal tested or not, use one of the cruelty-free

mail order houses listed below.

Since we do not know

sane of them very well, we suggest that you do not send
a large pre—paid order to any that you yourself do not

knOW’well.

AB ENTERPRISES, 285 St. Marks Place, No. 4?,
Staten Island, NY 10301. (718) 948-2622.
Address for mailing purposes: 9.0. Bax
120220, Staten Island, NY 10312-0006.

Several kinds of skin and household care,
including care for babies, and for athletes:
soaps, scents and 9 products for-mens By mail
only. H

AHBERHOOD, Rt. 1, Box 206, Hilnér, GA 30257.
(404) 358-2991.

All vegan. Hake-up, skin‘& hair care, hair
colorants, household cleansers. C,H,H

l
AYURVEDA, 125 lst Ave., New York, NY 10003.
(212) 260-1218.Also a store.

BARSAHIAN'S, 1030 Massachusetts Ave.,
Cambridge, MA 02138. (617) 661-9300.
Also a store C,H

BASICALLY NATURAL, Att. Joyce ﬂannel,
109 E. G St., Brunswick, ND 21716.
(301) 834-7923.

BEAUTY NATURALLY, P.O. Box 429, Fairfax,

CA 94930. (800) 432-4323, (415) 459-2826.
Both manufacturer and distributor of cruelty-
free products including 19 shades of hair
colorants, plus skin 8 hair care. M,S

BEAUTY WITHOUT THE BEAST, P.O. Box 951,
Boulder, CO-80306. (303) 440-0188. Skin
and hair care, make-up, baby care, shaving
products and perfumes. BH.H,HE,P

BLUE RIBBONS, 2475 Bell-ore Ave.,Bellmore,
NY 11710. (516) 785-0604. Cruelty-free pet
care catalog with grooming supplies toys &
paw print kits. 0

THE BODY SHOP (See Hanufacturer's List)
Includes 400 cruelty free shops worldwide: 14
in the USA incl. 5 in NY, 3 in NJ, 3 in
washington area, 1 each in MA, NH and MD,
with more opening. B.H,HE,P

SEIRIEY BROWN, 17636 Corte Potosi, San Diego,
CA 92128. (613) 451-3680. Hake-up, nail
polish, skin a hair care. Catalog charge $1,
refundable with first order. H

CAROLE'S COSHETICS, 7678 Sagewood Dr.,
Huntington Beach, ca 92648. (714) 042-0454.
Hake-up, skin 5 hair care, household
cleansers. H,H

COME TO YOUR SENSES, 321 Cedar Ave. 8.,
sinneapoiis, am 55454. (612) 339—0050.
Hake-up, skin 5 hair care, household
cleansers. All vegan. H,H

rum compassxosnrs consumes, v.0. Box 27,
Jericho, NY 11753.

Skin, bath, hair, oral care, color cosmetics,
baby, pet 8 household products, non-leather
bags, wallets, shoes, & belts for men and
women, plus few books, cards and art work,
all from one place. Color catalog $1. H,H

TERRI DIELI, 3.14th St., New York, NY

(212) 242-0390.

0n Saturdays, sells make-up, nail polish,
hair care and will stock hard-to-find items.
Leave a message on telephone for appt. H

DON SAVON, 2329 N. Hurray Ave., Kilwaukee,
II 53211. (414) 224-0717.

DOWN TO EARTH NATURAL FOODS, 31 W. Main St.,
Farmingdale, NJ 07727.

Sells only cruelty-free personal care
products and promotes the cruelty-free
movement. Store a mail order.

 

EARTESAFE PRODUCTS, 9.0. Box 81061, Cleveland
OH 44181-9933. (216) 734-1230. Skin, hair and
baby care, make-up, aromatherapy, household
and pet products. HO,M

ECCO BELLA, Att. Sally Leiner, 125 Pompton
Plains Crossroads, Wayne, NJ 07470.

(201) 890-7077. 22-page catalog with only
products in (-) and (3). Includes almost all
personal and household needs, including make-
up, skin 5 body care, men's products,
perfumes, hair care, perm 8 colorants, nail
care, general personal care, pet care, a few
healing products, biodegradable household
products, and some recycled paper products.
20% of profits donated to animal protection
groups. H,H,C

ECO-CHOICE,P.O. Box 281, Hontvale, NJ
07645-0281. (201) 930-9046. Skin 6 hair
care, make-up, oral, feminine and baby
care, including biodegradable diapers,
household cleansers, natural insect
repellents, holiday cards and wrapping
of recycled paper. B,H,H

EVERYBODY DTD., 1738 Pearl St., Boulder, CO
80302. (303) 440-0188, (000) 748-5675.
Entirely vegan, their expanded catalog now
includes accessories, aromatherapy, baby
care, bath care a therapy, body, foot,
fragrances, hair (including colorants),
household, make-up, men's products, nail,
oral & pet care. B,D,H,M,HE,P

GOING FIRST CLASS, P.0. Box 266, Pocono
Manor, PA 18349-1266.
Skin 8 hair care plus household cleansers. H

GREENTREE GROCERS, Att. Julia Shalom, 3560
It. Acadia Dr., San Diego, CA 92111.(619)
560-1975. (-)All vegan: cosmetics, skin, hair
and bath care, toothpaste, shaving cream,
scents, massage oil, aromatherapy. B,HE,P

HEART'S DESIRE, 1307 Dwight ﬂay, Berkeley,
CA 94702. Another big cruelty-free catalog,
different from Ecco Bella's, includes
different perfumes, humane (box) traps for
mice, animal defense information. Catalog
$1, refundable with lat order. H,P

BUMANE ADTERNATIVE PRODUCTS, Att. J.B.
Bonsignore, 8 Hutchins St., Concord,
NH 03301. All vegan. H,H

HUMANE STREET U.S.A. 467 Saratoga Ave., Ste.
300, San Jose, CA 95129. (408) 243-2530.
Skin, hair, baby and household care, plus
make-up. Catalog $1. B,H,H

I cans cosssrics AND cnzaunns, Att. Christian
a. Palm, 1216 3. Brighton, Burbank, ca 91505.
(010) 341-5909. s

TURAL, P.O. Box 580, Shaker St. 8.,
Sutton, us 03273. 600 personal care products
in categories (-) and (i). The owner listed
only the following as having unacceptable
animal ingredients: hair a bath brushes,
O'Natural Conditioning Pack 6 Shampoo, sea
sponges, Shikai Fine Hair Formula, wife of

 

 

DON’T TRIP OVER DEAD ANIMALS EVERY TIME YOU GO TO THE BATHROOM FOR MAKE-UPmem

 

 

 




Bath Soap. They carry several full lines of
.ake—up products for men, Homeopathic
nedicines and Bach Flower remedies. s

KINDNESS PRODUCTS, Att. Bev Clyde, 7150
Norse Rd., New Albany, 08 43054. (614)
855-1895. One of the few on our lists to
provide hair brushes without animal hair,
often obtained by holding live pigs down and
pulling. Their bristles are wooden, set in

a rubber cushion and build no static
electricity. They also provide make-up,

skin 8 hair care, and scents. H0,H,P

The LA COUPE BEAUTY SALONS. NY salon, 22 E
62nd St., (212) 371-9230: mail order address:
30 Calpus Plaza, Edison, NJ 08837. (800) LA
COUPE: office at 694 Madison Ave., New York,
NY 10021. Also in Paris and London.

La Coupe uses it's own products, not tested
on animals 6 with no animal ingredients.

LIFE ESSENCE, 3438 E. Lake Rd., No. 14-655,
Palm Harbor, FL 34685. (813) 855—0559. Whole-
salers for Paul Penders and several others. N

LIFE START HEALTHWAYS INC., 3644 North Blvd.,
Raleigh, NC 27604. (919) 872-5433.

LION 6 LANE, 29-28 4lst Ave., Long Island
City, NY 11101. (718) 361—5757. Skin 6 hair
care, make-up, baby care, nail polishes,
household cleansers, insect repellents. N,H

HRS. LANCE NALINA, "NET 3, Illinois Ctr.
303 B. Hacker Dr., Chicago, IL 60601.

NY BROTHER'S KEEPER, P.O. Box 1769, Richlond,
IN 47375. (317) 962-5079.

A large catalog with make—up (color charts
sent on request), skin 8 hair care,
fragrances, personal care, vitamins, salves,
rubs, household and pet products. Only animal
products: beeswax, lanolin or honey. $1. N,H

NATURE BASICS, P.O. Box 190, Lancaster,

NH 03584. (603) 788-4432

Hake-up, personal care, household cleansers,
products for dogs, cats, birds 8 horses. H,H

THE NEW LEAF MARKET (Leon Co. Food Coop),
1235 Apalachee Pkw., Talahassee, FL 32304.
(904) 2229916. Entire store cruelty-free.

OCEAN BEACH PEOPLE'S FOOD, San Diego, CA
92107. Entire store cruelty-free, including
supplements.

OTHER OPTIONS, 2253-C, 5. Santa Fe Ave.,Vis—
ta, CA 92083.Home, body care & cosmetics. H

PAINLESSLY BEAUTIFUL, 1260 Lu-ber St.,
Niddletown, PA 17057. (717) 939-5376. Skin
care. men's items and oral care. Includes
gift baskets (one for men) and larger gift
packages.

PANACEA, BOX 294, Columbia, PA 17512.
(717) 684—3774. All products cruelty—free.

PARK AVENUE BEAUTY DESIGN, 1055 Park Ave.,
New York, NY 10028. (See Nanufacturer's
List.) Carries the Aveda and Indra lines.

THE PEACABLE KINGDOM, Att. Polly Benson, 1902
a. 6th st., 5. Wilmington, DE 19805.
(303) 429-8687. All products cruelty-free.

PEOPLE'S FOOD STORE, 4765 Voltaire St., San
Diego, CA 92107. (619) 224-1387.
Store only: no mail orders.

RAINBOW CONCEPTS, P.O. BOX 2332, Stone

Hountain GA 30086-2332.(4o4) 29931 6. Host

Vegan. A 10‘ discount if you tell t em you

:0: a member of Beauty Without Cruelty USA.
I

RED sarrnos, Att. p. A-pferer 3009 16th,
Ave. s, Ninneapolis, an 55407.(612) 724-3686.

ROYAL LABORATORIES, INC.,Att. Debbie n.
"illden. 465 production st., San Marcos.CA
92°59- (619) 744-7040. Vegan vitamins and
minerals. (The few with other ingredients
will be discontinued by the end of 1989.)
Also edible seeds, herbs, 4 skin care items;

SIXTEENTB STREET rooo coop, 1318 Cortelyou
Rd-. Brooklyn, NY 11226. (718) 284-9486.
NOil-working members receive 44 discount:
Working members 16% discount on foods. H.“

SPARE THE ANIMALS, p.o. Box 233, Tiverton,
RI 02878. (401) 625-5963. Over a dozen
different brands of potpourri, hair care,
3°°P57 Shaving needs, make-up, oral care.
Children's items, animal-free candles and
household cleaners. Also T shirts. N.“

SUNRISE LANE, 780 Greenwich St., New York,
NY 10014. (212) 242-7014. The new color
catalog includes skin, body, hair care
(including colorants), baby care, men's
products, perfumes, deodorants, plus house-
hold cleaners, and a soap to wash pesticides
from fruits and vegetables. B,C,H,H,NE.

TOPCUTS BEAUTY SALONS, 3507 Cleveland Ave.,
Colu-bus, OR 43224. (614) 263-2552.
A small chain using cruelty—free items.

VEGAN STREET, P.O- Box 5525, Rockville ND
20855. Catalog has full lines of personal
care, make-up, shoes & leaflets.

VEGETARIAN CONCENTRATES, Att, Glen 5 Linda
Shoberg, Highways of Life, 2105 Glendale
Ave., Sparks NV 89431.

Vitamins E minerals not tested on animals.

VITAMIN QUOTA INC., 293 Madison Ave., I 419,
New York NY 10017. A good variety of make-up.

WITHOUT HARM, 4605 Pauli Dr., Nanlius, NY
13104. (315) 682-8346 or 7487.

Skin, hair and oral care, men's items, and
household cleaners. H,H

vss soap SHOP,1015 Wisconsin Ave., aw,
Hashington, DC 10007. (202) 338-0910

YVONNE RICHARDS, LTD., P.O. Box 476,
Whitehouse, NJ 08888. (201) 534-2283.

 

MANUFACTURERS’ LIST

(Continued from page 5)

THE WITHERS KILL CO., P.O. Box 347, Hannibal,
MO 63401. (314) 221-4747,(800) 223-0858.
(4)8ee Kind Personal Feminine Care. M0

XAVIER DISTRIBUTORS, P.O. Box 8314,
Rockville, MD, 20856. (800) 543-4379.
(-)Citrus II Air Freshener, Orange Magic
Cleanser/Degreaser/Deodorizer. HO,H

YOUTEESSENCE, UTD., P.O. Box 3057, New York,
NY 10185. (212) 595-3830.
(-)Firming E Moisturizing Creme. Ho

21A COSNETICS, 9.0. Box 143, Mill Valley, CA
94941. (800) 334-SKIN, 6 (415) 543-SKIN. 21
skin products including some for tanning.
(-) All items except for those listed below.
(4)Fresh Papaya Enzyme Peel, Super Hydrating
Nask. (+)Eye Oil (animal fatty ac1ds),
Nourishing Creme (rooster's comb & bovine
collagen), Rejuvenating Lift Mask (egg
white). NO,S

INDEX OF SIGNS

No animal ingredients of any kind.

No animal ingredients except for
beeswax, honey or lanolin.

Annual ingredients other than beeswax,
honey or lanolin.

Includes products for babies.
Includes hair colorants or menu prod.
Includes dog or other pet needs.
Includes household products.

Includes make-up.

Includes products for men.

Sells by mail.

Includes perfumes, colognes or

other scents. .
Some of the oanpany's products in—
clude ingredients from slaughter.

a=l

E

o a é'z I U13 m

U]

 

BOOKS

Lynda Dickinson , VICTIMS OF VANITY ,
Sterling Publ. , 387 Park Ave. S. ,
New York, NY 10016-8810.

Non-technical descriptions of pro-
duct tests and alternatives , lists
of companies testing and not on
animals and animal welfare groups
in US , Canada and UK. A chapter

on what you can do. 93pp. $9. 95.

’ 7
Heidi J. Welsh,ANIMAL TEST-
ING AND CQQSUMERPRODUCI‘S ,
Investment Responsibility
Research Ctr. ,1755 Mass.
Ave .NW, Washington , DC
20036. A little more tech-
nical and detailed.History
of PEI‘A' 5 activities, laws
& regulators , animal tests
& alternatives , profiles of
the major canpanies which
test on animals , statistics
of animals used. 167 pp.
$ 25.

 

LEATHER-LOOK GARMENTS

ULTRAIEATHER. The same dis-
tributor , Spring Industries ,
which brought us Ultrasuede
now has Ultraleather, also
from Japan, made of 40% poly—
urethane and 60% polyester.
It comes in about 6 shades,
is machine washable, and
costs $40 a yard at B & J
Fabrics, 263 W. 40th St.New
York, NY 10018: (212) 354-
8150. It is made into rather
expensive garments by Count
Romi Ltd. , 912 7th Ave. ,New
York, NY 10019; (312) 221-
0090, can be bought at
Sport & Travel, 53 Mad.Ave. ,
New York; (212) 758—0881;
also at Nordstrom, Nikki,
and the Carmel Dress Shop
inCalifornia . Prices

range from $200 for a skirt
to $600 for a trench coat.

 

SARA is a less expensive
faux leather of 100% poly-
ester, and is made into
skirts , pants & jackets by
Sara & Roxi Assoc. , Winns—
boro, 'I'X75494; (214) 342—
3615.

ULTRASUEDE garments are
still available at reduced
rates in the Samuel Robert
catalog, 414 River St. , Ha—
verhill MA, 08122. A free
catalog of leather alter—
natives, including shoes ,
can be had from Dept. 304,
Box 315 , Cambridge ,MA
02140.

 

 

 

TURN YOUR BATHROOM, CLOSET AND KITCHEN INTO CRUELTY-FREE ZONES

 

 

 




’1»,

THE MAN STREAM COSMETIC.COMPANIIES'fi

Amway , Avon , Chesebrough—Pond' s , Faberge and R3§71§bn - have .‘
all stated that they have stopped testing -* On animals . We
lurme sent.timan«our appreciation and included our question-
‘naire, EKHLEaD far, no replies have come. Revlon, however,
lrms gone one step further by advertising it's pure skin
care as a.100% nonranimal-tested formula. Revlon should
'be thanked.for this important additional step.

\Me'hope either to see more ads like this one or else to
receive our questionnaires filled out, so that.we can
'have confidence°in the stability of this change.

The moratoria on anbmal tests by Dial and.Mary Kay are
still holding, as far as we know. Even though.we appre—
ciate what these large companies have done, we are he-
Sitant about aCcepting them because of their position
.‘ Methrtheir trade association, the Cosmetic, Toiletry
and Fragrance Association (CTFA). The CTFA.has raised
funds from them to mount an "educational campaign" in
bitter opposition to animal defense, rather than engag-

ing in frank dialogue to lessen the polarization and
help solve the problems.

But if a product is labelled or advertised as not tested
on animals, it is reasonable to buy it, that is, if there
are no ingredients from slaughter.

4t

NON-LEATHER SHOES AND BOOTS

WASHABLE ATHLETIC SHOES. NIKE Air Healthwalker Plus and
’ Air Healthwalker Max both come in white and are machine
washable NEW BALANCE 320, for men and women cone in a
varielty of widths, are machine washable, and cost $39
at L.L. Bean, Freeport, ME 04033—0001; (800) 221—4221.

LEATHEReLOOK SHOES. There are fewer of these for men or
women, but the standby companies are still producing
some. If you don't find what you need in the popular
priced stores, try these catalogs: FOR MEN: Aesop
Unltd., P.O. Box 315, Cambridge, MA.02140m_A.neW'catalog;
L.L. Bean, Freeport, ME 04033.0720 (800) 221-4221; Eddie
Bauer, P.O. Box 3700, Seattle, WA.98130; Haband, 265 N.
9th St., Paterson, NJ 07530, Heartland Prod., Box 218,
Dakota City, IA 50529. FOR.WOMEN:Johhny Appleseed, P.O.
Box 1020, 30 Tozer Rd., Beverly, MA 01915-0727; Aesop
(see above); L.L. Bean (see above), Heartland (see a-

bove); Mature Wisdom, P-O. Box 28, Hanover, PA.17333—
0028-. (800) 621—5800; (Continued lower right column.)

WELCOME: BECOME A MEMBER OF BEAUTY WITHOUT CRUELTY U.S.A.

Our aims are to inform the public about the massive suffer-
ing imposed on animals by the fashion, cosmetic and house-
hold product industries; to provide information about sub-
stitutes which have not involved suffering, confinement or
death of any animal in production or testing, so that you
can vote with your dollars and help phase out the suffering.

Members receive up-dated information 3 times a year. Their
fees support dissemination of leaflets like this one, ads,
posters, videos and films. Our charity ID is 23 7344356.

KEEP THIS COPY OF THE
COMPASSIONATE SHOPPER

The next 2 numbers will include
only additions and changes. If

you lose this copy, send us $1

and a stamped envelope for ano-
ther. The CCMPASSIONATE SHOPPER
is now copyrighted and may not

be copied without permission.

The Anthropocentrist

(Continued from left column)
NaturaliZer, 120 E. Burlington
Ave., Lagrance, IL 60602; Old
Pueblo Traders, Palo verde at
34th, Box 27800, Tucson, AZ
85726—7800. (602) 747-5000.

INTERESTING CANVAS SHOES, some
for semi—formal wear, are as
usual in the more expensive
stores and CBtalogs—-costing
less than the others because

they are made of canvas.

MEMBERSHIP
STUDENII OR SENIOR

NAME
STREET

CITY ZIP

Send to: Beauty Without Cruelty
175 w 12th St., # 160.
New York, NY 10011-8275

 

 




    

 

Vol. 8, NO. ’I THE SCHOOL OF HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH .

 

 

tiarai gases or (Itematives

Alternative testing in Europe has reached the band—
wagon stage, with universities and industry devising in
vitro methods and political bodies supporting them.

The Commission of the European Council (CEC), the
executive/administrative arm of the European Economic
Community, for example, is planning a European Center
for Alternative Toxicity Testing—a multinational version
of Hopkins CAAT. Also for the first time, according to
John Frazier, Ph.D., director of Hopkins’ In Vitro Toxi-
cology Laboratory, the CEC has voted in favor of a specific
alternative technique. Committees have agreed to rec-
ommend the fixed-dose method over the classical LDSO
as a measure of acute toxicity. Frazier cites this ruling as
”important symbolically, since the CEC is a major Euro-
pean legal body.”

In another aspect, leaders of the trade-oriented consor-
tium, the Organization of Economic Cooperation and De-
velopment (OECD), voted to encourage members to
develop in vitro toxicity testing. The OECD, whose pur-
pose is to unify requirements that affect trade among the
28 member countries, includes western Europe, the
United States, Canada and Australia. OECD’s Chemicals
Group recently asked Frazier to draft a position paper on
validation of alternative testing methods.

Yet European scientists and political bodies are also
realizing that changes in toxicant testing involve more
than developing and supporting batteries of in vitro
techniques.

”A number of companies in America and abroad have
attempted to validate in vitro methods, but didn’t con-
sider precisely what they wanted to do,” Frazier says. “If
they were developing in vitro irritancy tests, they didn’t
decide if they wanted a replacement for the Draize ocular

 

    

WINTER 1990

 

irritation test or an adjunct to it or something for broad
screening. They were validating the tests, but not looking
at what they were validating them for. And so they were
disappointed,” Frazier says.

“In Europe or America, we don’t have a scientific
consensus about what validation is. You ask around the
scientific community and you get different answers.”

To keep industry and academia from jumping off the al—
ternative bandwagon, many European organizations are
focusing on the methodology of validation in addition to
in Vitro techniques.

Typical is ERGATT, the European Research Group for
Alternatives in Toxicity Testing. ERGATT is essentially a
scientific association, whose membership is widespread
throughout Europe. Acknowledging in a report that ”the
major problem currently besetting in vitro toxicology is
that of validation,” CAAT and ERGATT sponsored a

 

“In Europe or America, we don’t
have a scientific consensus about
what validation is . . .

You get different answers.”

john Frazier Phi).

 

workshop in January in Zurich to define the scientific ba-
sis of validation. The workshop, Frazier says, was to
“clarify exactly what has to be done and the optimal way
to do it.” Speakers at the session addressed how to use
animal and human data effectively in validation, which
chemicals and classes of chemicals to use, basic criteria
for reliability and how to interpret validation results.

ERGATT researchers, in cooperation with toxicologists
from Fund for the Replacement of Animals in Medical
Experimentation (FRAME), a British research-oriented
animal protection group, also have set up an in Vitro tox-
icology data base to keep European toxicologists aware of
recent developments.

In Sweden, the Scandinavian Society of Cell Toxicology
(SCS) is sponsoring a voluntary project, the Multicenter
Evaluation of In Vitro Toxicology (MEIC). Project heads
have picked 50 reference chemicals for validation by SCS
members’ in vitro acute toxicity methods.

(see page 2)




 

 

Focus on Alternatives (from page a

The choice of chemicals has come from human poison
control studies rather than animal in vivo tests. ”It’s il-
logical to evaluate cell test data against animal data when
one does not know the validity of the latter With respect
to humans,” says MEIC director, Erik Walum, Ph.D., ot
the University of Stockholm. So MEIC’s chemicals are
pulled from the data base of the Poison Information Cen-
ter of Sweden, where human lethal blood concentrations
are known as well as data on human pharmacokinetics
and LD5OS for rats and mice.

MEIC so far has 150 test chemicals, but plans to expand
the number over the next five years. A newsletter keeps
project members aware of validation protocol and statis-
tical techniques, as do periodic conferences. One meeting
last March presented MEIC to industrial and academic
representatives.

Germany’s alternative methods are largely coordi-
nated by the Bundesgesundheitsamt, the state public
health service. Unlike the other European bodies, this
one is concerned with alternatives for all uses of animals
in research.

A group of research scientists in France, organized
through the Institut National de la Santé et la Recherche
Medicale (INSERM) in Rennes, France, is validating
methodologies for hepatotoxicity testing. Headed by
Andre Guillouzo, Ph.D., Unit for Hepatic Research at
INSERM, the researchers have formed a private
government-fostered company for in Vitro toxicity
testing.

European researchers are coming to realize that no sin-
gle. in Vitro test can replace living animals and that bat-
terles of prOperly validated tests offer the only solution,
Framer says..”We all now understand much better what
the current 11mitations of in Vitro testing are. We have a
much better definition of what problems to solve.”

International CAAT Symposium Set

The Seventh International CAAT S ' '

ym osrum is sch d-
uled for November 27-29 in the Turner Auditorium of the
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md. A brochure
and registration materials will be mailed this spring.

November 27:

Mechanisms of Tissue Injury

Update of Avon Contact Dermatitis Pr

Application of M01 1 '
Toxicology ecu ar Biology and

Poster Session A

ogram Project
Genetics to In Vitro

 

 

loliii \l. li'a/iei', Hi It,
assoi iate din-i tor ol the
lolins l lopkinst enter
for Alternatives to
Animal lestinig. l-i‘a/ii-r
direi ts the I lopkms ln
\Vlll‘tl liniiiiliiigV
laboratory

Close-up an the CED

Last September in Brussels, Frazier addressed
the Commission of the liuropean Communlty
(CIZC) at a meeting to discuss alternatives to
the LDSU test, in particular the fixed-dose method.
The fixed-dose method is both a time-saving reflne-
ment of the LDSU and a means to reduce animal use.

The technique involves administering one of four
fixed concentrations of test chemical to 10 animals.
Then researchers examine them for signs of varlous
stages of toxicity, rather than looking for lethallty 1n
a fixed proportion, as in the LDSO. If no symptoms
appear, researchers try the next higher concentra-
tion of chemical. ”The aim is to bracket the region of
toxic symptoms to determine the dose range where
acute toxicitv occurs," Frazier says.

The CECEommittee approved of the replace-
ment, and their recommendation is awaiting overall
implementation by the commission.

 

Mimi Levine

I

 

November 28:

Reproductive Toxicology and Teratology
Historical Perspectives on In Vitro Tox1cology
New Technology

Poster Session B

November 29:
Extrapolation
Update on Validation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




0n the Road to Validation

At the second CAAT-Government Information
Exchange meeting recently, Alan M. Goldberg, Ph.D.,
director of CAAT, and John Frazier, Ph.D., discussed
their ideas about an administrative framework to carry
out validation.

The informational meetings, held two or three times
yearly in Washington, DC, offer an unusual forum for
federal agencies and private organizations to meet to dis-
cuss alternatives to animal testing.

This meeting focused on the following question: How
can scientists transfer their latest in vitro developments to
regulatory agencies so that testing thousands of chem-
icals each year will be accelerated and improved?
Goldberg and Frazier, associate director of CAAT, sug-
gested creating a streamlined system for test develop-
ment and validation which combines the best of
government, corporate and academic expertise.

”We need to find the best way to connect the in vitro
work in the labs with the scientists who are setting the
safety standards for the chemicals in our environment,”
said Goldberg. ”The process can start immediately by
stimulating discussion of an administrative structure
needed for validation.”

Frazier and Goldberg presented a working plan that
might be used to establish the administrative framework
needed for validation of in vitro methodology.

Currently, validation differs from lab to lab, Frazier
said.

He added that regulatory agencies need a formal panel
to evaluate methodologies and make recommendations
for their implementation.

The process, according to Frazier, might be as follows:
A scientist develops a new in vitro renal test. He or she

 

 

thinks that it is ready for full-fledged validation. The
scientist submits data to a Scientific Advisory Panel. The
Scientific Advisory Panel would coordinate the science
and determine whether the test is ready to begin the next
stage of the validation process.

The panel then would identify three or four Reference
Laboratories to test the replication potential of the test,
explained Frazier. Based on the results of these multi-
laboratory studies, the panel would compare data to see
if the new methodology is transferable.

The Reference Laboratories would need materials from
a centralized Chemical Bank which could provide quality
control so that the methods could be calibrated with a
standard set of chemicals. This Chemical Bank remains
another missing link, to date, in the validation process.
From the Reference Laboratory, the methodology and val—
idation data would be deposited in a Data Bank.

The Data Bank would function independently and
would serve as a core repository for methodology and val—
idation data. Scientists would be able to tap into this bank
to obtain in vitro test protocols, said Frazier.

When all validation data have been accumulated and
verified by the Scientific Advisory Panel, this would go to
the final step—to be examined by a Scientific Review
Panel. This panel would consist of a cross-section of par-
ticipants, including animal rights advocates, selected by
regulatory agencies, to judge the value of the test and
finally approve it as a valid methodology for a specific
purpose.

”Most of the feedback we are getting from our col-
leagues about this administrative framework is positive,”
said Frazier. ”What we need are the resources to begin
the process.”

FRAMEWORK FOR TEST DEVELOPMENT VALIDATION AND ACCEPTANCE

 

 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

 

 

II

 

 

 

 

Academia - Industry - Government

I

NEW METHODS

[—— — -+- — SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY BOARD

II II II V
| DATA BANK J<—-I REFERENCE LABORATORIESH CHEMICAL BANK

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: SCIENTIFIC REVIEW PANELS

 

 

Appointed by Federal ReguIatory Agencies

 

 

 

 

    




—

Ambitious Alternatives Project Underway at Tufts

The “Alternatives to Animal Testing Project” consists
of two ambitious initiatives underway at the Center for
Animals and Public Policy in Tufts University School of
Veterinary Medicine: The Alternatives Report and
the National Agenda Project, according to Andrew
Rowan, D.Phi1., director of the Center for Animals
and Public Policy.

The Alternatives Report, a bimonthly technical newslet-
ter, provides news and analysis on the developments in
the search for alternatives, on relevant policy issues, and
on the role of government, industry and the public. It is
targeted to regulators, industrial toxicologists and labor-
atory scientists but has been picked up by a diverse
group of readers.

Tufts researchers also are initiating a project to build a
national agenda or consensus to support, develop and
validate alternatives for safety testing through an ongoing
workshop program for academia, industry, regulatory
agencies and public sector organizations.

Transcripts soon will be available from workshops for
representatives from the cosmetic, household product,
chemical and pharmaceutical industries; the environ-
mental, animal and consumer protection organizations
and federal regulatory agencies.

”We are working to develop a national agenda, in co-
operation with organizations such as The Johns Hopkins
Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing, by providing a
forum for the exchange of information, ideas and critical
feedback from all interested groups,” says Rowan.

Andrew Rowan, D.Phil.

”We hope to generate cooperation to formulate a ra-
tional proposal describing appropriate development and
use of alternatives in safety testing.”

The Tufts project is funded by the US. Environmental
Protection Agency through the Center for Environmental
Management at Tufts University through 1990.

For information about Tufts Alternatives Project, The
Alternatives Report or workshop reports, contact the Tufts
Center for Animals and Public Policy, 200 Westboro Rd.,
N. Grafton, MA 01536. Call 508-839-5302, X4750.

v

Doerenkamp-Zbinden A word Recognizes Video Developer

Charles E. Branch, B.M.E., Ph.D., professor in the
Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, College of
Veterinary Medicine, Auburn University, was honored in
late October for a video he developed as an alternative to
live animal experimentation.

Branch received the Hildegard Doerenkamp-Gerhard
Zbinden Foundation Award for Realistic Animal Protec-
tion in Scientific Research. The presentation was made at
the American College of Toxicology annual meeting in
Williamsburg, Va. Alan M. Goldberg, Ph.D., director of
CAAT and a member of the Foundation’s board of trus-
tees, made the presentation.

Branch was given the award for creating a teaching sys-
tem consisting of a laser disk which records results of a
number of cardiovascular tests on dogs. Students interact
w1th the help of a personal computer and have access to
all data stored on disk. They can perform experiments
1ndependently by drawing on the data provided by the
program.

According to the Foundation, the system represents ”a
near—perfect simulation of experimental pharmacological

 

Charles E. Branch, B.M.E., Ph.D., developed a Video as an alternative
to live animal experimentation.

. . . f
studles and can easﬂy be applied to many other types 0
animal experimentation.” -

Next year, the award will be given in the area of ‘Altfers
natives for Animal Experimentation in the Neurosc1en
and Epilepsy Research.

 

Night Sparks Photography

 

 

 




_
Ambitious Alterna

The ”Alternatives to Anii
of two ambitious initiatives
Animals and Public Policy 1
Veterinary Medicine: Tl
the National Agenda Pro
Rowan, D.Phil., director
and Public Policy.

The Alternatives Report, a l
ter, provides news and anal
the search for alternatives,
on the role of government, 1
targeted to regulators, indu‘
atory scientists but has be
group of readers.

Tufts researchers also are
national agenda or consent
validate alternatives for safet
workshop program for aca«
agencies and public sector 0

Transcripts soon will be e
representatives from the cc
chemical and pharmaceuti
mental, animal and consuﬁ
and federal regulatory agent

”We are working to deve]
operation with organization
Center for Alternatives to A1
forum for the exchange of ir
feedback from all interested

SSVTD lSHId

”IS E’JIOM 'N 919
L{11931—1 DllClncI PUB

QOZIZ 'PW ’910111111'38
auarBAH Jo [ooqog sut>1doH suqo[ am i

HHSSEIEIGGV R8 Cll‘v’cl E18 TllM EIDVlSOcI
Z8261 'ON lIWHHcI

Jaiuag supIdoH suqof 3111

Sunsal [vultuv QL saApeulanV 105

'1le XIJEDI SSHNISHH

'GW 'EIEIOWIJIIVEI

 

 

_

 

Doerenkamp-Zbin

Charles E. Branch, B.M.‘
Department of Physiology at

 

 

 

 

 

 

Veterinary Medicine, Auburi C Z
late October for a video he d Z :1 31 O
o . . . P-] H

11ve animal experimentatlon. m 2 Z Q 8

Branch received the Hilde 53 E E $ m
Zbinden Foundation Award ; m E 3; ;
tion in Scientific Research. T [-711 O ”< 91
the American College of To m
Williamsburg, Va. Alan M. 1
CAAT and a member of the
tees, made the presentation.

Branch was given the awaIt- m __ _____O " “Who v, .. .. ., ”.0,
tern consisting of a laser disk which records results of a Charles E. Branch, B.M.E., Ph.D., develdped a video as an alternative
number of cardiovascular tests on dogs. Students interact *0 1iVe animal experimentation-
with the help of a personal computer and have access to
all data stored on disk. They can perform experiments studies and can easily be applied to many other types of
1ndependently by drawing on the data provided by the animal experimentation.”
program: ' Next year, the award will be given in the area of .Alter-

Accordlng to the Foundation, the system represents ”a natives for Animal Experimentation in the Neurosc1enc€5

near—perfect simulation of experimental pharmacological and Epilepsy Research.

   

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

—

Review of L‘AAT Grants for 1990

Ruben Adler; MD.
The [ohns Hopkins School of Medicine

Adler is continuing his analysis of the cell-specific
mechanism of excitatory amino acid neurotoxins in well—
defined cultures of chick embryo and mouse retinal
neurons and photoreceptors. The dose-response charac-
teristics of the toxins on specific cells will allow use of the
cultures as a bioassay. Adler also is investigating the in-
volvement of endogenous neurotransmitters made by the
cultured cells.

Thomas K. Baumann, M.S., Ph.D. and
Kim I. Burchiel
Oregon Health Sciences University

Baumann’s goal is to develop an in Vitro model of chem-
ical pain transduction that can predict if a test chemical is
painful. He is using patch-clamp techniques on cultures
of rabbit trigeminal neurons to determine ionic mecha—
nisms the irritants trigger. Baumann says the model
could have a role in replacing in vivo irritant screening
tests such as the Draize.

Robert M. Bigsby, Ph.D.
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis

Bingy hopes to construct an in Vitro bioassay for proges-
terone action, useful in screening potential progesterone
antagonists which can induce abortion during early preg-
nancy. He has found that synthesis of a characteristic
progesterone induced protein (PIP) is stimulated by pro-
gesterone and inhibited by progesterone antagonists.
Blgsby is developing a radioimmunoassay for PIP to
measure presence of progesterone antagonists in endo-
metrial cell cultures.

Ian K. Blusztajn, Ph.D.
Boston University

BluSZtaln is assaying cultures of cholinergic neurons
useful in studies of diseases such as Alzheimer’s and
Huntmgton’s Chorea and in evaluating potential thera—
pies. Using human neuroblastoma cells and mouse neu-
rOblastoma/septal neuron or spinal cord neuron hybrids,
he l1 evaluate enzymes, storage and substrate uptake
tYplcall of acetylcholine-producing neurons.

Nicole Bournias-Vardiabasis, Ph.D.
Foundation for the California State University,
San Bernardino

Many agents harm a developing fetus and researchers
need a reliable method to determine if a chemical is
teratogenic or if injury is by other means. Bournias-
Vardiabasis’ work with a model—Drosophila embryonic
cells—suggests a correlation between teratogenicity and
levels of the enzyme beta galactosidase. She’s developing
a simple assay for the enzyme. She also plans to transfer
the Drosophila gene responsible for the response into cul-
tures of human chorionic cells to see if the human cells
respond similarly to test chemicals.

Christopher Cullander; Ph.D.
University of California, San Francisco

Cullander has developed a model of human skin using
cultures of human keratinocytes. The model exhibits sev-
eral similarities to human skin, useful for toxicity studies,
yet a number of properties remain undetermined. Cul-
lander plans to assess the model as a barrier to water dif-
fusion. He also is altering the culture environment to
promote growth of cells at the air-medium interface.

Heather D. Durham, M.Sc., Ph.D.
Montreal Neurological Institute

Durham’s research seeks to determine if a unique cell
line, a hybrid of embryonic mouse spinal cord cells and

' mouse neuroblastoma cells, will prove a useful model for

testing neurotoxic agents. The Cell line displays many
properties of motor neurons, but with capac1ty for cell
division. The neurotoxins she will use damage in Vitro
motor neurons in specific ways, such as affecting axonal
transport or action potential conduction. Durham will
monitor the toxins’ physiological and anatomical effect on
the cultures for similarities to cells in vivo.

Gabrielle M. Hawksworth, Ph.D.
University of Aberdeen, Scotland

Present cultures of human hepatocytes often fail to
provide a good system for testing toxicity because of
progressive loss of key enzymes. Hawksworth IS evalu—
ating two hepatocyte cultures—one on an extracellular
matrix and one combining hepatocytes and an epithelial
cell line—for enzyme preservation. She also will com-
pare cryopreservation and fresh preparation of culture

(see page 6)

 

 




 

 

CAAT Grants ’0! 1990 (from page 5)

cells. In a second study, she will use the optimal culture
to investigate drug toxicity mechanisms, especially ones
involving depletion of reduced glutathione.

Richard S. Kalish, M.D., Ph.D. and
Valda N. Kaye, M.B.B.Ch.
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis

Researchers only poorly understand the mechanics of
contact dermatitis in humans. So Kalish proposes an in
vitro model of the problem, with skin consisting of dif-
ferentiated keratinocytes grown on an artificial fibroblast
and collagen matrix. He will examine effects of cytokines
on the culture, with and without added immune system
effector cells. Then, adding urushiol, the contact antigen
in poison ivy, Kalish hopes to create an in vitro allergic re-
action. Histologic confirmation of this would aid devel-
opment of in vitro assays for contact allergens.

I. Frederick Krall, Ph.D.
VA Medical Center; Sepulveda, Calif.

To evaluate agents involved in increased uterine motility
and, hence, spontaneous abortions, Krall is developing
cultures of rat uterine myometrial cells. Because such
cultures often lose their natural contractile properties
and ability to mobilize calcium ions, Krall hopes to define
conditions that will restore them. He also will note effects
of ethanol versus acetaldehyde on the contractility of his
cultured cells, monitoring that effect by appearance of a
metabolite, inositol polyphosphate.

D. Scott Linthicum, Ph.D.
University of Texas Health Science Center; Houston

Linthicum is establishing an in vitro model of the blood-
brain barrier using mouse cerebrovascular endothelium
plus astrocytes. He will examine interactions of antigen—
specific immune cells with the model barrier in the pres-
ence or absence of specific antigens. He will then observe
migration of these cells by introducing vasoactive amines,
their agonists or antagonists. Further study is planned of
the genetic control of the barrier using vasoactive amine—
affected cells from mice.

Pamela M. Mattes, Ph.D.
University of Connecticut Health Center

Tissues of the upper respiratory tract often respond to
vaporized toxins by developing ulcers, inﬂammation or
cell death. Mattes is culturing rat nasal cells as a potential
human model for toxicity, evaluating biochemical and
physiologic aspects of the response.

Steven E. Pfei e1; Ph.D.
University 0 Connecticut School of Medicine

Pfeiffer proposes developing a system of mouse brain ex-
plants for study of neuron remyelination. Subpopulations
of oligodendroglia will be introduced in the cultures and
their migration and differentiation charted via a variety of
measures, including immunological markers.

Predika Robertson, Ph.D. and

[effrey D. Laskin, Ph.D.

University of Medicine and Dentistry of New jersey,
Robert Wood Iohnson Medical School, Piscataway

Robertson will examine the ability of keratinocytes, epi—
dermal cells with a suspected role in contact allergies, to
release a variety of immune reaction by-products after ex-
posure to cytokines or inﬂammatory agent TPA. Then she
will compare that reaction with ones generated by known
contact allergens. Such studies should clarify the role of
keratinocytes and perhaps produce an in vitro model of
contact allergy.

Teresa K. Rowles, D.VM., Ph.D.
Virginia-Maryland Regional College of
Veterinary Medicine

Rowles will set up a model of the blood-brain barrier us—
ing cultures of rat cerebral microvascular endothelium,
with and without associated astroglia cells. She will also
try to set up co-cultures of the rat cells with human neu—
roblastoma cells, testing both cultures for viability,
expression of typical enzymes, transport of typical mole-
cules and transport of three known neurotoxins.

Daniel N. Sauder; M.D., ER. C.P.C.
McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario

The goal of Sauder’s study is to develop a molecular assay
for contact dermatitis based on generation of a number of
cytokines by keratinocytes and epidermal Langerhans
cells. He will monitor production of cytokine mRNAs
after addition of contact allergens and irritants to cultures
of the epidermal cells.

Norman Weiner; Ph.D.
University of Michigan

Weiner cites symmetry of lipids as a drawback of the li-
posome models of membranes used in testing
membrane—active drugs. He proposes a liposome system
with more realistic asymmetric lipids, and will test activ—
ity of local anesthetics and aminoglycosides—substances
that exert their effect by an unknown manipulation of
membrane lipids.

 

 

 




 

—

CAAT Advisory Board

Franklin D. Aldrich, M .D., Ph.D.
IBM Corporation

Donald 0. Allen, Ph.D.
University of South Carolina

Melvin W. Balk, D.V.M., M.S.
Charles River Laboratories, Inc.

John M. Frazier, Ph.D.
]ohns Hopkins University

Paul J. Garvin, Jr., Ph.D.
Amoco Corporation

Stephen D. Gettings, Ph.D.
The Cosmetic, Toiletry and
Fragrance Association, Inc.

Gordon A. Glover, Ph.D.
The Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation

Alan M. Goldberg, Ph.D.
]ohns Hopkins University

Gareth M. Green, M.D.
Johns Hopkins University

Gerald B. Guest, D.V.M.
US. Food and Drug Administration

Richard N. Hill, M.D., Ph.D.
US. Environmental Protection Agency

Alison Lukacsko, Ph.D.
Bristol-Myers Company

David Maurice, Ph.D.
Stanford University

James P. McCulley, M.D.
University of Texas

Reid Patterson, Ph.D.
Abbott Laboratories

Nicholas J. Pelliccione, Ph.D.
The Estee Lauder Companies

Albert Ritardi
Allied-Signal, Inc.

Bernard Robaire, Ph.D.
McGill University

Noel R. Rose, Ph.D., M.D.
]ohns Hopkins University

Robert A. Roth, Jr., Ph.D.
Michigan State University

Andrew N. Rowan, D.Phil.
Tufts University

Robert A. Scala, Ph.D.
Exxon Biomedical Sciences, Inc.

Solomon H. Snyder, M.D.
Johns Hopkins University

Kurt S. Stenn, M.D.
Yale University

Thomas J. Stephens, Ph.D.
Mary Kay Cosmetics, Inc.

Sabine Swierenga, Ph.D.
J.F. Morgan Foundation

Janice J. Teal, Ph.D.
Avon Products, Inc.

Peter A. Ward, M.D.
University of Michigan

John E. Willson, D.V.M.
Johnson 8 Johnson

 

 

Animal Research and Alternatives Bibliography

abWe at the CAAT are routinely asked for information
out animal research and alternatives. We have com-

Pil€d a brief bibliogra h to hel the student or teacher
Identify source materigl.y p

Alggatives to Animal Use in Research, Testing and Education.
G. . Congress Office of Technology Assessment; U.S.
overnment Printing Office, Washington, DC. 1986.

Aim?“ Welfare Information Center of the National
gnculmral Library, Beltsville, Md. 20705.

10111128 Hlopkins Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing
8 Ws etters; published three times a year; 615 N - WOIfe
t., Baltlmore, Md. 21205.

I .
LA]; Nezos. Pubhshed quarterly by the National Research
C uncll Instltute of Laboratory Animal Resources; 2101
onstitutlon Ave., Washington, DC. 20418.

On Being a Scientist. National Academy of Sciences
Committee on the Conduct of Science; National Acad-

emy Press, Washington, DC. 1989.

Scientists Center for Animal Welfare newsletters;
published quarterly; 4805 St. Elmo Ave., Bethesda,

Md. 20814.

' ' ' ' d the Envi-

Wzth Res ect to Life. Protecting Human Health an .
ronmenpt through Laboratory Animal Research. National
Institutes of Health National Instltute of Envrron-
mental Health Sciences, Washington, DC. September

1989.

M. Frazier. Alternatives to Animals

A-M- GOldberg and 1' erican, vol. 261, No. 2,

in Toxicity Testing. Scientific Am
pp. 24-30, August 1989.

 

 




Contributors to CM T

1989-90

Corporate Sponsors

 

Abbott Laboratories

Amoco Corporation

Avon Products, Inc.

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

Charles River Laboratories, Inc.

Ciba-Geigy Corporation

The Cosmetic, Toiletry & Fragrance
Association, Inc.

The Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation

The Estee Lauder Companies

Exxon Corporation

IBM Corporation

Johnson & Johnson

Mary Kay Cosmetics, Inc.

Corporate Patrons

 

Benetton Cosmetics Inc.

The Clorox Company

Cosmair Inc.

El. du Pont de Nemours & Company
Glaxo Inc.

Hoffmann—LaRoche, Inc.

The Procter 8: Gamble Company

Corporate Benefactors

 

Allied—Signal, Inc.

Elizabeth Arden, Inc.

BeautiControl Cosmetics

Best Foods (A Division of CPC
International Inc.)

The Body Shop Inc.

Colgate-Palmolive Company

Health Industry Manufacturers Association
(HIMA)

Hoechst Celanese Corporation

Kimberly-Clark Corporation

Maybelline

Pfizer Inc.

The Upjohn Company

Corporate Contributors

Louis 8: Ann Abrons Foundation, Inc.
Beecham Products

Boyle-Midway Household Products, Inc.
Chanel, Inc.

The Coca-Cola Company

The Dow Chemical Company

Fred Hayman Family Foundation
Gryphon Development, L.P.

Hershey Foods Corporation
Houbigant, Inc.

Redken Laboratories, Inc.

Shaklee Corp.

Shell Companies Foundation

Corporate Friends

Federal Support

 

National Institutes of Health
Environmental Protection Agency

Friends of the Center

 

 

AMA Laboratories, Inc.

Airwick Industries

Alza Corporation

Australian Society of Cosmetic Chemists

Blistex Inc.

Bradford

Carmé

Church & Dwight Co., Inc.

Concept Now Cosmetics

The Dial Corp.

Hawaiian Tropic Tanning Research
Laboratories, Inc.

The Andrew Jergens Company

Lion Corporation Biological Science
Laboratories

MEM Company, Inc.

Yves Rocher, Inc.

AKA Saunders, A Limited Partnership,
DBA Terranova/Nectarine

Sherex Chemical Company

Soundscape

Walgreens

Richard A. Bock
Constance G. Edds
Ann Fields

Dale K. Fletcher
Margaret J. Frederick
Camera Giorgia
Thomas K. Goldstick
Dawn Ruzicka

Helen Schmidt
Robert P. Schwarz
Allan J. Sutter

Continuing Supporters

 

Animal Birth Control of Martin Co. Inc.
Gerald Bagner

Dr. Joyce L. Bloom

Betty T. Bourgeois

Adele Caramanian

J. Dempsey Cohen

Mrs. John G. Dean

Steven E. Fazekas, Jr.

Christine Wulfhorst Hromadko
Ruth Kelly

Vilora J. Kergo

Elaine Livesey-Fassel

Marian F. McAleenan

Jeanette Rashti

Elizabeth W. Silliman

Matching Gift

The Clorox Company Foundation

 

The newsletter of The Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to
Animal Testing is sponsored by the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation
and is distributed free to the scientific community, supporters of the
Center and others interested in the Center's goals and activities.
Views expressed in the newsletter are not necessarily those of the

Center or The Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions.

Director of the Center:

Alan M. Goldberg, Ph.D.

Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing
Johns Hopkins School of Public Health
615 North Wolfe Street

Baltimore, Md. 21205

Telephone 301-955-3343

Editor in Chief: Jo Martin

Writers: Carolyn Habbersett
Marjorie Centofanti

Production Manager: Carol Chaplin
Production Assistant: Mia Pefinis

Editorial Office:

Office of Public Affairs

The Johns Hopkins School of Public Health
615 N. Wolfe St.

Baltimore, Md. 21205

Non-Profit Org.
US. Postage
PAID
Baltimore, Md.
Permit No. 1167

 




 

Vol. 8, No. 2

THE SCHOOL OF HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH

SUMMER 1990

'IHE JOHNS HOPKINS
._ CENTEREQR ALTERNATIVES TO
ANIMAL'I'ESI'ING

A Guide to Resources

In response to many requests for information resources on
animal welfare and the use of animals in product safety testing
and research, the johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to Ani-
mal Testing (CAAT) is pleased to issue this edition of its news-
letter It is primarily the result of a meeting sponsored by CAAT
and the Animal Welfare Information Center (AWIC), part of the
USDA’s National Agricultural Library. Individuals from sev-
eral organizations involved in animal welfare and alternatives to
animal testing shared their goals and described the types of
resource information available.

At a time when public concern over animal use in testing is
increasing, there also is an expanding level of concern about the
safety of commercial products and drugs. As a result, there is a

pressing need for scientifically sound and accurate information
on in vitro techniques that must be disseminated to a diverse
audience.

What follows are brief descriptions of available publications
from the: Animal Welfare Information Center; Animal Welfare
Institute; Applied Research Ethics National Association;
Canadian Council on Animal Care; Center for Animals in Public
Policy at Tufts University; Hastings Center; Institute for Labo-
ratory Animal Resources; ].E Morgan Foundation; National
Library of Medicine; Public Responsibility in Medicine and
Research; Scientists Center for Animal Welfare; and Center for
Alternatives to Animal Testing.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE
INFORMATION CENTER
National Agricultural Library
Beltsville, Md. 20705
301-344-3212
Contact: Jean Larson, coordinator
The Animal Welfare Information Center (AWIC) of the
National Agricultural Library (NAL) was established by

 

Mission Statement

The mission of the Center for Alternatives to Ani-
mal Testing is to:

° Develop, to the extent consistent with the public’s
health and safety, in vitro alternatives to the use of
whole animals in evaluating commercial and thera-
peutic products. Alternatives are new tests that reﬁne
existing ones or reduce or replace whole animal tests.

- Validate alternative methods and encourage
their use.

° Disseminate scientifically correct information
about alternatives and their use.

It should be recognized that in vitro methods act in
concert with whole animal and clinical studies to:

0 Advance science

° Develop new products and drugs and

- Treat, cure and prevent disease.

 

 

 

the Animal Welfare Act. The primary mission is to pro-
vide informational materials on alternatives to animal use
in testing, research and education, the proper care and
use of laboratory animals, training materials for labora-
tory animal personnel, new research methodologies,
animal care and use committees, legislation and regula-
tion, and bioethics.

Publications include bibliographies such as Animal
Welfare Legislation and Regulation; Welfare of Experimental
Animals; Animal Models of Disease; and Proceedings of a 1989
Conference on Animal Care and Use in Behavioral Research:
Regulations, Issues and Applications. Reference briefs are
available, such as Animal-Related Computer Simulation Pro-
grams for Use in Education and Research; Reference Materials
for Non—Affiliated Members of Animal Care and Use Commit-
tees; Animal Care and Use Committees; The LD50 (Medial
Lethal Dose) Toxicity Test; The Draize Eye-Irritancy Test, 1979-
1988, and others. There is also a videotape, Resources lb-
day for the Research of Tomorrow (about the Animal Welfare
Information Center and its services), and AWIC expects
to publish the first edition of its quarterly newsletter this

ear.
y NAL has an informational database called AGRICOLA
and has access to more than 500 other informational data-
bases such as MEDLINE, TOXLINE, EMBASE, BIOSIS,
and LIFE SCIENCES. AWIC staff also produce special-
ized bibliographies, reference briefs and listings on topics
which are timely and pertinent to current issues affecting
the laboratory animal research community. Simulation
software and audiovisuals also are available in the NAL.

(see page 2)

 




 

 

GUide (from 1961361)

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
R0. Box 3650, Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
202-337-2332
Contact: Christine Stevens, president

The Animal Welfare Institute is a non-profit charitable
organization founded in 1951 to reduce the sum total of
pain and fear inﬂicted on animals by man. A specific goal
of the Institute is to see the full implementation of alter—
natives (refinement, reduction and replacement of ani-
mals) in research and testing. The Institute was
instrumental in the publishing and distribution of Russell
and Burch’s The Principles of Humane I’il'pt’l‘flllt’lltill tech
nique, and has continued to publish and distribute infor-
mation on all three R’s. There is strong interest in
working cooperatively with the biomedical industry to
change conditions for animals being used and to explore
replacement methodologies to the use of animals. A list of
the Institute’s publications and more information about
the Institute are available.

 

ARENA
132 Boylston St., 4th Floor (5‘9
Boston, Mass. 02116 ﬁ’f‘i‘im
617-423-4112
Contactrloan Rachlin, executive director

Applied Research Ethics National Association
(ARENA), is a national membership organization for re-
searchers, other professionals interested in bioethics,
administrators, and members of IRBs, IACUCs hospital
ethics committees and patient I
ARENA’s function is to promote ne
educational activities and to resol
mutual problems among its members. AREN
Vides assistance with the development of re
works and prepares commentar
relevant federal legislation and/
tives. ARENA sponsors two ann
tion with two Public Respons
Research confere

 

 

 

advocacy groups.
tworking, to develop
ve and/or ameliorate
A also pro-
gional net-
y on, and response to,
or administrative initia-
ual programs in conjunc-
ibility in Medicine and

ARENA, nces. In 1986, PRIM&R helped form
ARENA - . .
Guidebook SO-On Wlll PUthh an animal ca re and use

gh and periodically up-
b . _ also is assem-
hEIP with problem pmem ershlp dlreCtorY WhiCh Will

rotocols and could lead t
o the d ’ -
opment of an expert consultation service. EV E]

PRIM&R has '
_ publlshed 1
summaries, The latest Volume: iyrtélumes of conference

Vol. XIII: Whitherl '

V New Deciiigism the 19905.7: New Directions and

ol. XIV: Peeple as Products: T
Issues in Reproduct

Body Parts and Tissues

Vol. X ' '
V. Animal Research iii the 905: New Regulations and

Old Proble ‘ .
Educational packeliiss (available in August)

. . containin '
materiali g essential back r
excer t nthe form. of reproduced articlesa d g ound
p s from earlier c n regulatory

onferences are available.

CANADIAN COUNCIL ON
ANIMAI CARI:

ltltltl lql Hltttt‘t‘ ‘il

(lttatva, Unlario, ( anatla KII’ 5t l3
()1 i2 iH ~Itl it

Contact: Harry C. Rowsell, O.C., D.V.M., Ph.D.,
e\ecttti\'e tlit‘et lot

I lie ( ‘atiatliaii t turned on Animal Care (CCAC) isana-
tioiial, volitnlam peer review organization founded in
Nos to safeguard lltt‘ well-being of experimental animals
used in researt It, teat hing and mandatory testing. Co-
lunded bv the totintrv's two major granting agencies, the
Medical Rest-an li t onntil and the Natural Sciences and
langineering Ix’eseart lit ouncil, the CCAC is composed of
20 member organi/ations lrom academia, government,
industrv, laboratory animal science, and the animal wel-
tare movement.

I’tiblit'ations int ltitle: (Unite to the Care and Use of Exper-
imental xlnnntt/s, as well as several monographs—Ethics of
Animal Invest/hennain; Hot ml and Behavioural Requirements of
l ,t‘pi'rnni'nla/ xlitima/u; (, itlijeitrics of lnvasiveness in Animal
It'llt'l'llllt'llt“, xli l cplitl‘li' lmmuuological Procedures; and Re-
snurit'. a st‘lltlntltltttill newsletter (all available in French
and linglisli).

 

CENTER FOR AIII‘ISRNA'I‘IVES TO ANIMAL TESTING
'l‘he Iohns I Iopkins l'niversity
tilh N. \Volle Street, lx’m. ItitH
Baltimore, Md. 20213
VII—93343343
Contact: Alan Goldberg, I’h.[)., director .

the goal of tlie Center for Alternatives t0 Animal Testi
ing (CAA’I‘) is to develop innovative non-whole-amma
methods to fullv evaluate commercial and/or therapiﬁ’?C
products to ensure the health and safety of the PE “:51
this goal is accomplished by funding research whlc of
lead to the refinement, replacement and reductiortfC
animals in to\icitv testing and by disseminatlng $099“
information about these methods and their applicatloirtlsyS

In vitro methods are integral to good SCIence ar'ldcloili—
recognized by the Center that in vitro methods act In our
cert ivith whole animal and clinical studies to advancgean
knowledge base, develop new products and drug
treat, cure and irevent disease. .

CAAT publishes its newsletter three tlmesffl Z3623:
has begun to issue Technical Reports 0? SPECI 1C
issues involved in in vitro toxicity teStmg‘

 

 

_____________..._———-——“"l
Names at a Glance . .
ARENA Applied Research Ethics National ASSOC“?ltlon
AWIC Animal Welfare Information Center .
CAAT Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing
CCAC Canadian Council on Animal Care ittee
IACUC Institutional Animal Care and Use Comm
ILAR Institute of laboratory Animal Resources
[RB Institutional Review Board
NAL National Agricultural Library
NLM National Library of Medicine. _ d ResearCh
PRIM&R Public Responsibility in Medicine an
SCAW Scientists Center for AniW

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

CENTER FOR ANIMALS

AND PUBLIC POLICY

Tufts University School of

Veterinary Medicine

200 Westboro Rd.

North Grafton, Mass. 01536

508-839-5302 X4750

Contact: Andrew Rowan, D.Phil., director

In 1983, Tufts University School of Veterinary Medicine
established the Tufts Center for Animals and Public Policy
to coordinate and focus programs dealing with ethical,
legal, scientific and social issues relating to the status of
animals in society. Funds raised from foundations, in—
dustry and individual donors support programs in vet-
erinary ethics and jurisprudence, companion animal
demographics and control, human/animal relations,
wildlife policy issues, animal research ethics and alter-
natives, biotechnology, and any other aspects of the in-
teractions of animals and society that are amenable to
scholarly and scientific study.

Publications include: The Alternatives Report; Alternatives
Workshop Reports; Center for Animals Newsletter; Animals in
Society Proceedings; and Biotechnology Seminar Summary
Report.

The Center conducts seminars and workshops on a
variety of issues involving the interactions of animals and
society. The Biotechnology Program sponsors seminars
on emerging issues in animal biotechnology, and the
Alternatives Program studies policies and technical is-
sues concerning alternatives to animals in research and
testing.

 

INSTITUTE OF LABORATORY N AS
ANIMAL RESOURCES N AE
Commission on Life Sciences IOM
2100 Constitution Ave.

Washington, DC. 20418

202-334-2590

Contact: Tom Wolfle, D.V.M., Ph.D., director
or Bernadette Mariotte, Ph.D., program officer

The Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources (ILAR) is
part of the Commission on Life Sciences of the National
Research Council. ILAR serves as a coordinating agency
and international resource for compiling and dissem-
inating information on laboratory animals, promoting
education, planning and conducting conferences and
symposia, and promoting high quality, humane care of
laboratory animals. ILAR advocates the use of the most
appropriate models for research, whether those models
are animals or non-animal alternatives. Its mission is to
provide information and advice to the scientific commu—
nity on the humane and appropriate care and use of ani-
mals and on the strengths and limitations of alternatives
to animals.

Under the guidance of a 14-member council, ILAR con-
tinues to expand in the areas of: refinement of research
methodologies through the use of appropriate models;
preservation of unique genetic stocks of research ani-
mals; recognition and alleviation of pain to research ani-
mals;'training and education of those involved with the

 

use of animals in research and education, including those
at the high school level; and guidance to institutional
officials and their animal care and use committees for de-
velopment of programs in Occupational Health and
Safety of Personnel in Research Animal Facilities and for
the production, care, breeding and disposition of trans-
genic animals.

ILAR publishes ILAR NEWS, a quarterly; Guide for the
Care and Use of Laboratory Animals; Animals for Research—A
Directory of Sources; Principles and Guidelines for the Use of
Animals in Precollege Education.

ILAR’s most frequently used service to the biomedical
community is the Animal Models and Genetic Stocks
Information Program, a computerized data base on US.
commercial and investigator-held colonies of commonly
and less commonly used laboratory animals.

THE HASTINGS CENTER CJHE

255 Elm Rd.
Briarcliff Manor, N .Y. 10510 WEIMNCSR

914—762—8500
Contact: Strachan Donnelly, Ph.D., director of education

The Hastings Center is an internationally-recognized
research and educational institution that examines ethi-
cal issues in medicine, the life sciences and the profes-
sions. The Center recently completed the two-year
project ”The Ethics of Animal Experimentation and Re-
search.” The findings were published as a special supple—
ment, ”Animals, Science and Ethics,” in the May/June
issue of the Hastings Center Report.

To order the special supplement or to become a mem-
ber of The Hastings Center and receive the Hastings Center
Report, contact Susan Fox, director of membership, The
Hastings Center, at the address above.

The Hastings Center Report, a bimonthly journal in
bioethics, contains articles on the use of animals in
science.

THE JOSEPH F. MORGAN RESEARCH FOUNDATION
PO. Box 5002
Merivale Depot
Nepean, Ontario, Canada K2C 3H3
613—232-3260
Contact: John Gilman, executive director

The Joseph F. Morgan Research Foundation is a newly-
formed Canadian organization with the aim of raising
research funds and acting as an information resource for
methodology development. The Foundation seeks to
advance and promote scientific knowledge, research and
education in in vitro and traditional toxicology testing
procedures as well as related biological sciences. A chief
purpose of the Foundation is to support techniques that
will provide the most humane treatment of experimental
animals and identify and validate possible alternatives.

(see page 4)

 

 




 

 

GUidB (from page 3)

The Foundation, now in the start-up phase, plans to
disseminate research results to the scientific community
through workshops, lectures, university courses and re-
prints of scientific papers. Another function will be to dis-
seminate information on the advantages, disadvantages
and trends in new testing procedures and regulations.

NATIONAL LIBRARY OF MEDICINE
8600 Rockville Pike

Bethesda, Md. 29894

301—496—3147

Contact: George I. Cosmides, Ph.D., deputy associate
director

The National Library of Medicine (NLM) has under-
taken a number of projects related to alternatives and
animal welfare. Many special bibliographies and on-line
services are available.

NLM provides the subject heading “Animal Testing Al-
ternatives” for articles from journals indexed in INDEX
MEDICUS beginning in 1985. The heading includes ”pro-
cedures, such as tissue culture, mathematical models,
etc., when used or advocated for use in place of the use
of animals in research or diagnostic laboratories.” This
subject heading can also be used for on-line searching.

As a result of a collaborative effort with CAAT early in
1984, NLM developed annotated bibliographies on Ani-
mal Testing Alternatives, which were published periodi-
cally. This project evolved into a collaboration with the
National Research Council’s Institute of Laboratory Ani-
mal Resources (ILAR) to produce and publish quarterly
and annual bibliographies on Animal Alternatives.

NLM’s MEDLARS System and its bibliographic data-
bases, particularly MEDLINE and TOXLINE, provide
valuable services to those interested in the care and use
of animals in research. They provide easy access to the
current published literature. The Computer Retrieval of
Information on Scientific Projects (CRISP) subfile of TOX-
LINE also provides descriptions of research in progress.
The Directory of Information Resources On-line (DIR-
LINE) is an on-line directory of resource centers which

provides information and other services related to health,
including animal welfare.

 

PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY IN MEDICINE
AND RESEARCH

132 Boylston St., 4th Floor
Boston, Mass. 02116
617-423-4112
Contact: Joan Rachlin, executive director

Publlc Responsibility in Medicine and Research
(PRIM&R) was founded in 1974 by a group of clinicians
and researchers from the major teaching hospitals in
Massachusetts who were interested in the ethical legal
and regulatory issues increasingly affecting their work.

At the same time, they wanted to promote greater trust in
research by changing the public perception that science
often proceeds without regard to ethics and patient/
subject needs.

Now a national non-profit organization, PRIM&R is
dedicated to providing a multidisciplinary forum for
addressing biomedical and bioethical issues. It accom-
plishes these goals through educational programs and
publications geared to the medical and legal professions,
pharmaceutical and biotechnological industry and the
public. Meetings focus on the ethical, legal and policy di-
mensions of appropriate and ethical research and clinical
practice.

PRIM&R hosts four conferences each year. Topics ex-
plored at these meetings have included: the operation of
IRBs and IACUCs, problems surrounding AIDS care and
treatment, relationships between academia and industry,
access to (and cost of) health care, and ethical and policy
issues of new biotechnologies.

SCIENTISTS CENTER FOR

ANIMAL WELFARE

4805 St. Elmo Ave.

Bethesda, Md. 20814

301-654-6390

Contact: Lee Krulisch, executive director

Scientists Center for Animal Welfare (SCAW) provides
educational information to increase the public’s andin-
stitutions’ knowledge about the humane and respon51ble
use of animals in research, testing and education.

SCAW publishes a quarterly newsletter focusmg on
current issues of interest to researchers, members of
IACUCs and the public. Publications include: Laboratory
Animal Welfare Bibliography; Field Research Guidelines; Effec-
tive Animal Care and Use Con‘zmittees; Science and Animals:
Addressing Contemporary Issues ; Canine Research Environ-
ment; Well-Being of Nonhurnan Primates in Research; and
Guidelines for the Well—Being of Rodents (at press):

SCAW also sponsors conferences and pubhshes con-
ference proceedings. SCAW’s Speakers’ Bureau helps
organizations develop presentations on varlous areas 0
animal well-being.

 

Look For Your Readership Survey

The CAAT Newsletter would like your input. Youl W11:
soon receive a readership survey asking you to eva ua —
the newsletter. Does it offer useful informatlon? Whaligw
formation would you like to read more often? Arldtter to
do you use it? Our goal is to better tailor the news e Your
your interests. Please let us know your thoughts-
opinion counts.

 

’4,

 




 

 

 

 

F

Call For Posters

Scientists are invited to present a poster at the CAAT
Symposium in Baltimore on November 27—29. Poster
categories include:

' academic endeavors in in vitro research
- organizations offering products of importance to in
vitro research

Instructions for poster presentation and manuscript
preparation will be forwarded upon request. Poster in—
structions are the same as those recommended by the
Federation of American Societies of Experimental Biology.

Please send one-page abstracts no later than October
30 to: Mrs. Ieannene Tylee, The Johns Hopkins Center for
Alternatives to Animal Testing, 615 North Wolfe St.,
Room 1604, Baltimore, Md. 21205—2195.

First 0! Its Kind Report Issued

The Investor Responsibility Research Center (IRRC)
has issued a report showing how animal use in consumer
product testing has changed over the last decade. It
includes detailed case studies of what several major cor—
porations have accomplished.

Animal Testing and Consumer Products also examines the
perspectives of companies, regulators and activists in the
debate over animal testing. Copies are available for $25
each, pre-paid, from the Investor Responsibility Research
Center, 1755 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Suite 600,
Washington, DC. 20036. Call (202) 234-7500.

The IRRC is an independent, non-profit firm that
conducts impartial studies on business and public policy
Issues. It is funded primarily by subscriptions from about
400 institutional investors.

 

Dodge Renews Challenge Grant

The Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation has
approved a $30,000 challenge grant to the Center in
renewed support of publication and distribution
of the CAAT newsletter.

TheCenter has until September 1 to raise the
matching funds. For information in joining the chal-
lenge, contact Center director Alan M. Goldberg,
PhD. The address and phone number are: Center
for Alternatives to Animal Testing, Johns Hopkins
School of Public Health, 615 N. Wolfe St.,
Room 1604, Baltimore, Md. 21205.

 

L‘

 

Alternatives Grant
Program Announced

The Procter 8: Gamble Company has announced a so-
licitation for research proposals for alternatives in animal
efficacy and safety testing of drugs and consumer prod-
ucts. This program, entitled ”University Animal
Alternatives Research Program,” will award three grants
in 1991. Funding will be up to $50,000 annually for up to
three years. The program focuses on key aspects of the
development and validation of new alternatives. Requests
for proposal application forms should be directed to
University Animal Alternatives Research Program, The
Procter 8: Gamble Company, Miami Valley Laboratories,
PO. Box 398797, Cincinnati, Ohio 45239-8707. Deadline:
September 1, 1990.

Animal Research and
Alternatives Bibliography

Animal Liberation by Peter Singer, Random House,
New York, N.Y., March 1990.

Animal Liberators by Susan Sperling, published by
University of California Berkeley, 1988.

The “Animal Rights” War on Medicine, Readers Digest,
June 1990.

Animal Testing and Consumer Products by Heidi Welsh,
published by Investor Responsibility Research Center,
Washington, DC, 1990.

Are Animals People Too? by Robert Wright, The New
Republic, March 12, 1990.

Beyond Cruelty by Katie McCabe, The Washingtonian,
February 1990.

 

 




 

Seventh International CAAT Symposium
In Vitro Tbxicology—Mechanisms and New Technology
November 27-29, Baltimore, MD

 

 

For further information and to register, contact: Program
Coordinator, Office of Continuing Education, Turner
Building, 720 Rutland Ave., Baltimore, Md. 21205-2195,
(301) 955-2959.

 

The symposium banquet will be at the B & 0 Railroad Museum.

Tuesday, November 27

8-9 a.m. Registration
Set Up Posters
9 a.m. Welcome:

Alan M. Goldberg, Ph.D., associate dean for research, Johns Hopkins University,
School of Hygiene and Public Health and director, CAAT
Announcement of Hildegard Doerenkamp-Gerhard Zbinden Foundation Scientific
Award for 1989

9:15-11:30 a.m. Mechanisms of Tissue Injury
Session Chair: Robert A. Roth, Jr., Ph.D., professor, Department of Pharmacology and
Toxicology, Michigan State University

11:45 a.m.—12:30 p.m. Avon Contact Allergy Program Project Update
Daniel N. Sauder, M.D., ER.C.P.C., associate professor of dermatology, Department of
Medicine, McMaster University, Ontario, Canada

2:30-4:30 pm. Application of Molecular Biology and Genetics to In Vitro Toxicology
Session Chair: Peter A. Ward, M.D., professor and chairman of pathology, University of
Michigan Medical School

Wednesday, November 28

9-11:30 a.m. Reproductive Toxicology and Teratology
Session Chair: Bernard Robaire, Ph.D., professor of pharmacology and therapeutics,
McGill University, Quebec, Canada
11:45 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Historical Perspectives on In Vitro Toxicology
John Parascandola, Ph.D., chief, history of medicine division, National Library of Medicine
2:30-4:30 pm. New Technology

Chair: Melvin Balk, D.V.M., M.S., senior vice president and scientific director,
Charles River Laboratories, Inc.

Thursday, November 29

9-11230 a.m. Extrapolation

Chair: Reid Patterson, D.V.M., Ph.D., director of drug safety evaluation, pharmaceutical
products division, Abbott Laboratories

11:30 a.m.-Noon Perspectives on Validation in Europe
Bas Blaauboer, Ph.D., Research Institute of Toxicology, University of Utrecht, The Netherlands
Noon-12:30 Update on Validation

John M. Frazier, Ph.D., associate professor, Johns Hopkins University, School of Hygiene and
Public Health, and associate director, CAAT

   

 




 

 

 

 

“

CAAT Advisory Board

Franklin D. Aldrich, M.D., Ph.D.

IBM Corporation

Donald O. Allen, Ph.D.
University of South Carolina

Melvin W. Balk, D.V.M., MS.
Charles River Laboratories, Inc.

Myra O. Barker, Ph.D.
Mary Kay Cosmetics, Inc.

Robert M. Diener, D.V.M.
CIBA-GEIGY Corporation

John M. Frazier, Ph.D.
Johns Hopkins University

Stephen D. Gettings, Ph.D.
The Cosmetic, Toiletry and
Fragrance Association, Inc.

Gordon A. Glover
The Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation

Alan M. Goldberg, Ph.D.
]ohns Hopkins University

Gareth M. Green, M.D.
Johns Hopkins University

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   

Dates: October 15-17

_ ”ssiRegistration fee: $300

519011801“ Center for Advanced Training in Cell and

., sMQlECUIar Biology

-=.:,=s-~,,620 M

PIChlgan Ave., NE, Washington, DC 20064.
9n91'202~635—6161; FAX: 202-635-5721.

’ ourth Annual Lake Tahoe Symposium
;:::A¢lvances in Recombinant DNA Technology

heme Molecular Genetics of Cancer
Qcati'on: Hyatt Resort Hotel, Incline Village, Nev.

Sme18810n5 for poster sessions and corporate
:,_.:.‘,,]11‘1b.1t0r5 are invited. For further information,
A mach Symposium Coordinator, The Center for
"swét’anced Training (CATCMB), Room 103, McCort—

' aid Budding, The Catholic University of America,

Gerald B. Guest, D.V.M.
U .S . Food and Drug Administration

Richard N. Hill, M.D., Ph.D.

U.S. Ei-zvironmental Protection Agency

Alison Lukacsko, Ph.D.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

Daniel Maes, Ph.D.
Estee Lauder Companies

David Maurice, Ph.D.
Stanford University

James P. McCulley, M.D.
University of Texas

Reid Patterson, D.V.M., Ph.D.
Abbott Laboratories

Albert Ritardi
Allied—Signal, Inc.

Bernard Robaire, Ph.D.
McGill University

Noel R. Rose, Ph.D., M.D.
Johns Hopkins University

Robert A. Roth, Jr., Ph.D.
Michigan State University

Andrew N. Rowan, D.Phil.
Tufts University

Robert A. Scala, Ph.D.
Exxon Corporation

Solomon H. Snyder, M.D.
Johns Hopkins University

Kurt S. Stenn, M.D.
Yale University

Mark S. Swanson, Ph.D.
ARCO

Sabine Swierenga, Ph.D.
Joseph F Morgan Research Foundation

Janice J. Teal, Ph.D.
Avon Products, Inc.

Peter A. Ward, M.D.
University of Michigan

John E. Willson, D.V.M.
Johnson 8 Johnson

Conference on Chemical RiskAssessment g » I
in the Department of Defense} " = -

Science, Policy and Practice

Dates: October 16—18

conference coor
CorporatiOn

Location: Dayton, Ohio ' '

Sponsors: Air Force Harry G. Armstrong Aerospace ‘
Medical Research LaboratOry; NaVali Medical Re~ f
search Institute Detachment (Toxicology); Army
Biomedical Research and Development Laboratory; j
With the cooperation. of .theNa-tional-Research.
Council Committee on‘TOXicology. ' . _ '

For further information contact Lois Doncaster,
dinator, NSI Technology Servrces
101 Weedman Dr.,- Suite 12, Dayton,
Ohio 45431. Phone2513+25871150w _   .  




0

Contributors to CM T

1989-90 Support

Corporate Sponsors

 

Abbott Laboratories

ARCO

Avon Products, Inc.

Bristol—Myers Squibb Company

Charles River Laboratories, Inc.

CIBA—GEIGY Corporation

The Cosmetic, Toiletry 8: Fragrance
Association, Inc.

The Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation

The Estee Lauder Companies

Exxon Corporation

IBM Corporation

Johnson 8: Johnson

Mary Kay Cosmetics, Inc.

Corporate Patrons

 

Alberto-Culver Company

The Clorox Company

Cosmair Inc.

E. I. du Pont de Nemours 8: Company
Glaxo Inc.

Hoffmann—LaRoche

The Procter 8: Gamble Company

S. C. Johnson Wax

Corporate Benefactors

 

Allied-Signal, Inc.

Amoco Corporation

Benetton Cosmetics Inc.

Best Foods (a division of CPC
International Inc.)

The Body Shop Inc.

Colgate-Palmolive Company

Health Industry Manufacturers Association
(HIMA)

Hoechst Celanese Corporation

Kimberly-Clark Corporation

Make-Up Art Cosmetics Limited

Maybelline

Parfums Christian Dior

The Upjohn Company

Corporate Contributors

Louis 8: Ann Abrons Foundation, Inc.
Block Drug Company Inc.
Boyle-Midway Household Products, Inc.
Chanel, Inc.

The Coca-Cola Company

Dow Corning Corporation

Helene Curtis, Inc.

Hershey Foods Corporation

Lehn 8: Fink Products

Parfums Nina Ricci, U.S.A.

Shell Oil Company Foundation
Society of Cosmetic Chemists
Sterling Drug Inc.

Corporate Friends

 

Airwick Industries

Alcon Laboratories, Inc.

Alza Corporation

The Andrew Jergens Company

Australian Society of Cosmetic Chemists

Beecham Products

Blistex Inc.

Carme

Church 8: Dwight Co., Inc.

The Dial Corp.

Gryphon Development, L.P.

Hawaiian Tropic Tanning Research
Laboratories, Inc.

Fred Hayman Beverly Hills

Houbigant, Inc.

Lion Corporation Biological Science
Laboratories

MEM Company, Inc.

M8:M/Mars

Miranol Inc.

The Pennsylvania SPCA

Redken Laboratories, Inc.

ROC, S.A.

Shiseido Cosmetics (America) Ltd.

Walgreens

Yves Rocher, Inc.

Federal Support

 

National Institutes of Health
Environmental Protection Agency

Friends of the Center

 

Heidi Carter
Katharine W. Cohen
Kimberly A. Dyrness
Jen—Tzaw Huang
KMS Research
Kathleen Remaly

Continuing Supporters

 

Mary E. Beall
Joanne Bollhofer
Fay P. Booth
Marjorie Brogan
Steven E. Fazekas, Jr.
Ruby B. Hillier
Mrs. Jodie Ravelli
Alice Stoller Scott
Dr. Lila E. Tabor
James R. Wiersig
Paula H. Wilhelm

Matching Gift

 

The Clorox Company Foundation

 

The newsletter of The Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to
Animal Testing is sponsored by the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation
and is distributed free to the scientific community, supporters of the
Center and others interested in the Center’s goals and activities.
Views expressed in the newsletter are not necessarily those of the

Center or The Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions.

Director of the Center:

Alan M. Goldberg, Ph.D.

Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing
Johns Hopkins School of Public Health
615 North Wolfe Street

Baltimore, Md. 21205

Telephone 301—955-3343

Editor in Chief: Jo Martin

Writer: Carolyn Habbersett
Production Manager: Carol Chaplin
Production Assistant: Connie Garcia

Editorial Office:

Office of Public Affairs

The Johns Hopkins School of Public Health
615 N. Wolfe St.

Baltimore, Md. 21205

Non-Profit Org.
US. Postage
PAID
Baltimore, Md.
Permit No. 1167

 




IHE JOHNS HOPKINS  
camera FORALTERNATIVESTO
ANIMAL TESTING

The Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Heal’rh

     
   
  
   
  
  
   

 

Technical Report No. I

 

TECHNICAL PROBLEMS ASSOCIATED WITH
IN VITRO TOXICITY TESTING SYSTEMS

A Report of the CAAT Technical Workshop of
May 17-18 1989

 

Editors:

‘ John M. Frazier
and

June A. Bradlaw




 

1

 

h

PREFACE

The idea of conducting a workshop on the topic of
technical problems associated with in vitro toxicity test-
ing systems arose from two converglng problem. areas.
First, the initiation of several prO)ectS t0 validate m vztro
toxicity testing methodologies brought to the fOFEfTOM
technical problems related to interactionsbetween the
physical-chemical properties of test chem1cals and the
biological components of the m mtro test system. These
problems have resulted in difficulties in the interpreta-
tion of the data generated in these studies. Secondly, the
Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to Animal Test-
ing receives a large number of research grant proposals
each year. Many of these proposals are directed toward
developing new in vitro toxicity testing methodologies.
In many cases, the proposed methodologies represent
unique approaches to toxicity testing; however, basic
technological requirements for test development are not
addressed. It is hoped that this Technical Report will
provide guidance to investigators participating in both
test development and test validation. Attention to the
technical issues discussed in this report should facilitate
the development of new in vitro methodologies and
enhance their transfer from the research laboratory to
the regulatory arena.

The process by which this Technical Report was
developed involved several stages. Initially, an outline
of the issues involved was developed here at CA AT with
input from the Center’ 3 Advisory Board. With the proj—
ect broadly defined, sponsors were solicited and a set of
spec1fic scientific questions was promulgated in con-
Junction with the identified sponsors. Concurrently,
workshop part1c1pants with expertise in cell culture and
productchemistry were contacted. Each participant was
respon51ble for several specific questions and was asked
to prepare a working document. Draft materials were
Icyclillected and the Workshop .was convened on 17-18
(1512,3989? Tlhe Johns. Hopklns Unlversity. After two
re glised chr; r113a egaluatlons, each partlmpant prepared
the draft re Ollnthhoqllmpnts which were complled into
A. Bradlawp(C(;.Che' ra treport was edited by Dr. June
Studies HFF 162 Fatsrlpegson, DlVlSlon of TOchological
DC 2 , , I 00 C Street, SW, Washlngton,

. 0204) and myself to obtain a second workin draft
This draft was submitted to two outside scienfific re:
v1ewers (Dr. Daniel Acosta of the Department of Phar-
galclology and Toxicology, University of Texas at Austin
M0 Kege of Pharmacy, Austin, TX 78712, and Dr. Wallace

c eehan of W. Alton Jones Cell Science Cent Old
Barn Road, Lake Placid NY 12946 ) as 3'
r . well as two
members of the CAAT Advisory Board (D P
of University of Michigan Medical School 1.1318521; Ward
:‘reblégaﬁrl Egg? Room M5240, Medical Science lat/2::
, and D . '
tology and Pathology rYEllerUSIifg-gfrogsor Of Derma-
Clne, 333 C r ty, hool of Medl-
receiving thiadcarlitiStmEt’ FEW Haven, CT 06510). After
ques 0 t e reviewers, the final re
w . 011:
as prepared and submitted to the publisher. AIthOIPIgh

the process used to develop and review this report
involved many research scientists from diverse back-
grounds and areas of expertise, it has worked remarka-
bly well and the final product has been published in a
timely fashion. Mainly, this is due to the competence and
dedication of the participating individuals whom I would
like to thank publicly for their contributions.

The Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to Animal
Testing depends on financial support of public and
private institutions to conduct its activities. This project
would not have been possible without the sponsorship
of the US. EPA, Mary Kay Cosmetics, lnc., The Procter
and Gamble Company, and Hoffmann-LaRoche, Inc.
The foresight and cooperation of these institutions is
gratefully acknowledged.

Finally, I would like to thank Marilyn Principe,
Administrative Assistant to CAAT, and Robbie Betts,
my secretary, for their assistance in organizing the
workshop and in the preparation of this Technical Report.

John M. Frazier, Ph.D.
June, 1989

 

PARTICIPANTS

Dr. John M. Frazier
Co-Chairperson
Associate Director,
The Johns Hopkins Center
for Alternatives to Animal
Testing
615 N. Wolfe Street
Baltimore, MD 21205

Dr. Mary DeLong

Division of Toxicological Sciences
The Johns Hopkins University
615 N. Wolfe Street

Baltimore, MD 21205

Dr. Robert Hay

American Type Culture Collection

12301 Parklawn Drive

Dr. June Bradlaw Rockville, MD 20852

Co—Chairperson

Division of Toxicological Dr. Robert G. Laughlin
Studies Procter and Gamble Co.

FDA Miami Valley Laboratories

200 C. Street, SW P.O. Box 398707

Washington, DC 20204 Cincinnati, OH 45239-8707

Dr. Sharon J. Northup .
Baxter Health Care Corporation
Baxter Technology Park

Round Lake, IL 60073

Dr. Daniel Acosta

Outside Reviewer

Department of Pharmacology
and Toxicology

University of Texas at Austin

College of Pharmacology

Austin, TX 78712

Dr. James H. Resau

University of Maryland

22 South Green Street

Dr. Wallace McKeehan Baltimore, MD 21201

Outside Reviewer

W. Alton Jones Cell
Science Center

Old Barn Road

Lake Placid, NY 12946

Ms. Melanie Smith
Skin Care Product Development
Mary Kay Cosmetics, Inc.
1330 Regal Row
PO. Box 47310
D" 10"“ Bunch Dallas, TX 75247
Mary Kay Cosmetics, Inc.
1330 Regal Row
PO. Box 47310
Dallas, TX 752417

g;

 

. = "as“.
W .

 

 

 




 

 

75;.

 

 

 

 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

In vitro toxicity testing is a technically complicated
activity and many pitfalls and sources of error exist
which can lead to erroneous conclusions. A critical factor
in the successful development of new testing
methodologies and their practical application is proper
and adequate training of individuals participating in
these activities. To this end, it is recommended that
personnel involved in all aspects of in vitro toxicity
testing be adequately trained in cell culture procedures
and basic toxicology.

The Workshop considered a series of technical
questions which relate to factors that confound the use
and interpretation of data derived from in vitro systems
for toxicity testing. It is recommended that when
developing a new in vitro toxicity testing system, certain
issues must be addressed and adequate documentation
of the test system performance provided. Table 1 lists
specific activities which should be undertaken to
characterize any in vitro testing system as well as
precautions to be taken when introducing test chemicals
into test systems. The following comments amplify on
the issues identified in Table 1.

(1) The characteristics and behavior of cells in culture
and their effects on biochemical function and endpoint
measurements in toxicity testing systems is an important
factor in in vitro toxicity testing and will be the subject of
future technical workshops. However, it is important to
emphasize here that the biological component of the in
vitro testing system should be fully characterized. If the
biological component is a cell line, then it is important to
provide documentation regarding the source, passage
number, and quality control checks performed for cell
parity. If, on the other hand, primary cells are used, it is
necessary to determine and report the purity of the
putative cell preparation, including method of isolation
and culture, as well as representative cellular
characteristics.

(2) Since alterations in basic physical/ chemical
characteristics of the media can inﬂuence the behavior of
the biological component as well as the endpoint
measurement of the test system, it is necessary to evaluate
the effects of such alterations on test performance and
experimental data. In the case of in vitro toxicity testing,
the two factors which are generally most relevant are
changes in media pH and osmolarity upon addition of
test chemicals. To determine test limitations with respect
to these two parameters, it is recommended that effects
of both parameters are documented prior to use of the
test system for toxicity evaluations. This can be provided
by determining and reporting cell and culture condition
and sensitivity of endpoint measurement to pH in the
range of 6.5 to 8.0 and to osmolarity in the range of
nominal for the medium to 350 mOsmol / L in the absence
of test chemicals. Effects on the test system over these
ranges of parameters should be reported.

(3) Foreign agents, such as solvents or antimicrobial
agents, should be avoided whenever possible. However,
many test chemicals may require solvents in order to

2

prepare stock solutions; therefore it is recommended
that concentration-response curves for the more common
solvents - ethanol and DMSO - be reported. In addition,
if any antimicrobial or antifungal agents are used, then
concentration-response curves for these agents should
be reported over a tenfold range including the concentration
used in the test system.

(4) When chemicals are added to cell culture media
for testing purposes, it is essential to obtain some
preliminary evaluation of their compatibility with media
components. Several simple observations can be made at
the highest concentration of test chemical: change in pH,
final osmolality, development of turbidity both
immediately and at a time interval equivalent to the test
exposure period, changes in color of medium and finally,
the formation of precipitates. These observations should
be reported since they will be useful in interpreting
results Any indications of reactions between test chemicals,
and medium should be noted and reported.

Although these recommendations do not cover all
possible problems which might arise, attention to these
issues will significantly reduce the occurrence of some of
the more common artifacts experienced when using in
vitro systems for toxicity testing. It is recommended that
researchers developing new in vitro tests investigate
each of these issues in a rigorous manner and provide
relevant information in the published literature for
evaluation by interested parties.

 

Table 1. Recommended Activities to Chacacterize In
Vitro Toxicity Testing Systems

1. Characterization of biological components of in vitro
test system.

2. Documentation of the effects of the following parameters
on both the status of cells and the endpoint measurement:
a. pH—-effect of varying pH between 6.5 and 8.0.
b. osmolality--effect of varying osmolarity from that

of standard media to 350 mOsmol.

3. Documentation of concentration-response curves for:

a. potential solvents to be used-~at minimum, data
should be provided for ethanol and DMSO.

b. antimicrobial /antifungal agents present in test media.

4. In the course of in vitro toxicity testing, conduct
preliminary evaluations to document the reaction of
the test chemical with culture medium. The following
information should be reported for the highest test
concentration employed:

a. pH

b. osmolarity

c. turbidity at appropriate time intervals

d. color change

e. precipitates

If possible, analytically determine if there is any decrease
in test chemical concentration in the medium during a
time interval equal to the exposure period. This study
should be conducted with a cell-free, control culture.
Chemical losses should be reported.

 

 

 

 




 

—

l\ll~{tlll|( lltt‘

*l'wi'm .inil Witt-troll l '3 ililﬁ -\
i ' l‘v\llll.tl2.i wt ll 1'“

‘-\'ilt‘lll~il mil li‘t li‘xltll‘. 'i‘,':1i,'..lfi‘i

hlatt ~ltt‘l

l 1 V
- v . ' ,y .. v . ’
\tl.lll.llt. l’ii‘i\‘;.lt.ll\i‘l iiiuwrii
. y.l.vvv . .J i .
l'liaui unimu llltiilil.'.il

l
fat tutw .ttrl 1L-‘rtiiwiii‘w .11: i .w'zl

llltl t" i-‘fiiiltlli it
ti‘llli‘lltillii‘lli‘litill'll‘i‘lII‘YIi~l .luwzpw 2'
t tizzi will u ' , t

innit! iiimi 1:: .1 tlwtiiii-t‘ t‘ll.ll ‘ltl'.
tiwgiwuxlﬁ vllliiiinai.‘ ‘tfl

\"li thin. lll .l lu‘ili'll \li.ll lil'ﬂ’lI’Wl li'
3,
ll

llli't‘ pit-.1; iliillll‘Jlilil‘li‘ll‘lt';v. A".
l\‘.lll.llltllliixt‘lltlllli‘llli.l'."l“"ll«l'l
it'll lllt"- tht are lv‘» .-.i-il liltii ' ’

tultiiiiwiit liiiriiair print lii'.tllii rwli

l .

li'i‘Jli lt til i

.; .arvtlt-'.wt-~l twtlrwp‘
\llllt‘lt'l'ﬂitll'Wi,l'llllml'; tizltiiiw i .
anti l \itll, l ","JV llll‘~ii"ll.lit‘t:llil
l‘M‘l, lla‘. l"“~lx l.lLt‘l‘\ .ii.l l'.i rt ;‘

l'attt'inwn. l'V'i, \ltl’xi‘vliaii. ' 1‘

l .

i

l l

t
E‘: 0: .|‘||

\ \

lli‘Rt'lx‘l‘llP'lilw in tliiuari-a lia'u' xii; ....
:r: :‘:.‘r lihli1i\'lt“wllllj."l‘ttiMillHi‘li~‘
in illl‘w ri-iwit

‘wtllllll‘..l.’\ ‘Mntioii ljt Illliltlll7tl131_' \ ‘

tells izit :zlttirt‘.

ln atltlition to lllt‘ liintlamt‘iﬂ :I
”thllli'ltiltn‘t' ol well i‘liarai‘ti-rixi-tl

toxit‘itx' lt‘wllll‘i", there are a ‘wl‘l't trum i ., i,. 1 7‘

l ‘\l
wbit li result from lllt‘ intvrai tum H;

\\'llll lllt‘\t‘llll‘tlllt‘lli\til ll]('i‘i‘]l\1;:fj;f-.

'l‘liesi‘ i'tt'ix ls l onlountl lllt‘ intrrprw' if:
toxitoloizital t'ttei'ts (it the {Hi up,”
taken into account \N‘llt‘ll interim—.43
tlata. 'llii‘ billowing; tat li\f\ mu“: }
t‘Xllllldllllﬁ lllt‘ lii\tt‘ll\’ (a 4 text it,”
\V‘wlt'lll.

la-l. et'tet t on cellular response in l-xf

changes in pl lotculturemetlium remit
alkalinity of test chemical,

1B, effect of alterations on t

be osmi ‘1 tr: ‘.
medium at lugb concent

.‘o

ti.

lt‘. effect (if altc‘mtions in t)“. compo .
medium cl ue to reactiom l\-t

weer ii‘zwt‘m"
and the test chemical, r.

‘ g, protein clenattzrqifz
or essential nutrient availability, etc,

ID. confounding effects on “1]
solvents used to dissolve
and alcohols,

I

' . ~ ~ ,- ni': :- it 1% man merits

rations or tin» . q . 1.

. . v:
‘lli‘.‘.ii‘

ri-s'jt \4
test (lie Tina's, \iiﬁl‘

‘\

t . ol antimicrobial agents and test
it" ill“ ‘ll‘vt‘,

i.. t . - '

to t \aptirdtltm of volatile test
ill]

lllt‘ endpoint measuremente
6 . 4 ' l . . . .l
a it i. llt‘llllt als, interaction Withassay

rpm 'lll luntlini; ot‘testchemicalsonthe
‘ll .1' t lll‘\.'t‘,

i.’: am m llltlt‘ on availability of essential

t allure purity clue tocontamination
Ali mt lt‘l'ltl, lungi and mycoplasma,

or inwluble particulates on cell

i it tors tan potentially influence the
r it text t liemit'al in an in vitro testing
.t be taken into consideration.

l ‘ tillltitlllcllll‘i: l‘actors RClatEd t0
Kl Arr ‘.ll in ( ulture Mcdlum.

- v t in it ‘lt nut al problem faced by invitro,

.-. . t ‘ili in“ testing, is how to deal w1th

-‘ i- - i ' ' 't‘ materials. Many chemicals are

i i ' ~. ‘ uxl in a physical state which 15 not

.‘If :tli tissueculturemediumanclcells

i , . : rmms and mineral solids are Justa

‘ . i ; ‘ I __ -f :;t ll materials. SeriousqucstionstOlﬁi

i i ti ~ plix'sit‘ally introduce the test materlézi
Li"lti"\\'\lt‘lll, bowtticlcfiiicd()sag?5§n

w i m tor mechanical effects as dISllnCi
“ 'w " .g li“.l\'ll\'tli lllt‘ test substance. Severe?

A. M W i it ' -n pursued to introduce pI’leemigc

test s\'5lt‘lll$3 phySlCal (11513651 ’

' H ' ' Each of these

; 12x sit‘al separation. _ . , s.
as well as limitatIOn

‘ '\ min
\ li slioulcl be acldrcsscd conce g

annuals are:

ii i‘ '~‘ ' «a 3;} \lit'mit‘al properties Of-tLISt7Che
:ie incompatible matcrla S.

. ,vv "i ‘l‘I
~v ,\’.i\’ “

'als
o diswlve these materl

'A 1 _. V',_\.-i\\'} ‘1]‘\‘]t .
HM'MI‘ .. tlllX nlCdla?

-‘";~‘:7i into tissue culture

' ETSC
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ sedtO disp
.‘.: :1«ya;techniques can bc U

' 7
culture media.

. ,. .. -'\
- , .\ ‘~\\l\
‘ . i. '~ "' '

repare
' \" ‘ 1[150(1 top
" “ 2w :znii tecliniqucscan be ‘7

' r N ‘ ~ 1 «WM ot‘cellsin culture.

w

 

 

 




 

 

 

4

—

11.15. What physical separation techniques (e.g., agar
overlay) can be used to dose cells in culture?

II .F . How can the effective concentration of test chemical
to which cells are exposed be quantified?

These question have plagued in vitro toxicologists
for years and definitive answers are not yet forthcoming.
However, familiarity with these issues will encourage
investigators to accurately report these problems when
encountered and describe procedures used to deal with
them.

The basic problem of incompatible test materials will
arise for most industries that require toxicity testing of
commercial or industrial products, many of which are
complex mixtures. This problem area can benefit from:
(1) a critical evaluation of the factors involved which are
relevant to in vitro toxicity evaluations, (2) a standardization
of testing procedures, and (3) establishment of guidelines
to deal with chemicals from diverse industrial interests.

 

SECTION I: CONFOUNDING FACTORS WHICH
AFFECT CELLS IN CULTURE.

I.A. pH

The addition of a test chemical to the culture medium
of in vitro toxicity testing systems may significantly alter
the pH of the medium and thus modify biological
responses. The potential effect of media pH on in vi fro
toxicity evaluation will depend, to a large extent, on the
acidity/ alkalinity of the test chemical, i.e., its intrinsic
buffering capacity, and the buffering capacity of the cell
culture medium. A test chemical with either a high or
low pH, butwith little buffering capacity, when added to
a cell culture system with a highly buffered medium, is
not likely to alter pH or elicit toxicity artifacts. On the
other hand, a test chemical with moderate buffering
capacity when added to an in vitro test system with low
buffering capacity can potentially produce an effect which
is only related to the inﬂuence of pH. Whether this pH
effect is relevant to in viva systemic toxicity or merely an
artifact of the in vi tro test system must be determined in
order to interpret the toxicological significance of the
observed effect.

The pH range for optimal cell growth and metabolism
must be determined in the development of culture
conditions for cells in vitro. An indicator, such as phenol
red, is usually included in the culture medium to allow
aseptic determination of pH. This is particularly important
for bicarbonat buffered media wherein rapid pH changes
may occur. Outside the optimal pH range, cell growth /
proliferation is significantly impeded, metabolic rate is
altered and cell death may occur.

The basic question to be answered is whether or not

the addition of the test chemical to the in vitro test
system will alter the pH of the cell culture medium
sufficiently to affect cell performance as determined by
the endpoint measured. The essential information needed
to make this evaluation can be obtained empirically, by
adding the test chemical to culture medium in the absence
of cells and measuring the pH change. If the change in pH
of the medium is less than 0.2 pH units from the optimum
pH for culturing the particular cells used in the test and
the remaining buffering capacity of the medium is adequate
to compensate for the production of metabolic acids,
then the test chemical will have limited effect on the
toxicological evaluation. An alternative approach makes
use of the pH and acidity/ alkalinity of the test chemical
(which must be determined) and the buffering capacity
of the cell culture medium. With these data, it is possible
to calculate the pH change resulting from the addition of
known concentrations of the test chemical to the culture
medium. In either case, the pH changes which can be
tolerated by a given in vitro test system without affecting
test performance must be evaluated in control experiments.

If significant pH effects occur when test chemicals
are added to the in vitro system, then two approaches
can be pursued. First, the pH of the test chemical can be
adjusted to an acceptable value. This approach is adequate
aslong asthe pH adjustmentdoes notaffect the physical /
chemical properties of the test chemical. Close scrutiny is
necessary if the pH of the test chemical is adjusted as this
may alter the solubility of the test chemical. Solubility
effects may also affect the outcome of testing the pure
chemical upon addition to the neutral culture medium.
There will often be some salt formation of pure chemicals
in culture media. For this reason, the preparation and
testing of sodium or chloride salts of test chemicals is
recommended. The second approach is to determine the
effect of pH on the performance of the test system and
assume that the effect due to changes in pH is additive
with the intrinsic toxicity of the test chemical. In this case,
the pH effectcan be subtracted and the "intrinsic toxicity"
determined, however, a pH control (i.e., cells cultured at
a pH equal to the medium plus test chemical but in the
absence of test chemical) must be included in the test
protocol to perform this calculation. The assumption
that the intrinsic toxicity and pH effects are independent
would not hold true for test chemicals which have a pKa
near 7.4. In this case, small changes in prould
significantly alter the ratio of ionized to unionized forms
of the compound and, therefore, affect its availability to
cells.

Additional precau tions are necessary when working
with bicarbonate buffered systems. If the system is open
to the air, then CO2 will be lost and pH changes follow.
Thus, whenever a test chemical is diluted in bicarbonate—
based media, the samples should be monitored for pH
changes and time delays between dilution and testing
may become a critical variable.

c

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5

“

LB. Osmolality

Osmolality is the property of a solution responsible
for the osmotic force of water across the semipermeable
cell membrane. This property is quantitated by the
osmolarity which is defined as the total concentration of
non-water particles (cg. ions, salts and proteins) In the
medium (Osmol = mole/ L). Osmolarity of a solu tion and
the associated osmotic pressure generated in cells can be
responsible for changes in cell shape, volume, function
and viability. Failure to control for dissolved salts, ions
and particles in the media can result in artifactually
increased cell death and injury.

Cell structure and function can be influenced by the
osmolality of the cell culture medium. This effect can
potentially become important for relatively innocuous
test chemicals where high concentrations are required to
produce measurable responses. In normal conditions,
cells are in contact with extracellular fluids with an
osmolarity of 281 mOsmols/ L. High concentrations of
test chemicals can significantly increase the osmolarity
of cell culture media and thus potentially inﬂuence test
responses. Water ﬂows across selectively permeable cell
membranes in order to stabilize the osmotic pressures
generated by dissolved salts, ions and particles. This
pressure can cause cells to shrink or swell and arti factually
invalidate morphologic characterizations of cell injury.
Cell Viability assays like trypan blue dye exclu sion assays
are senSItive to osmotic forces. Marked and sudden
changes iifif cetllular morphology are characteristic of an
osmo 1c e ec .

As with pH, the magnitude of the change in cell
culture conditions can be determined either empirically
or by theoretical calculations. The effect of these changes
on test system performance can be experimentally
determined and the inﬂuence taken into account, assuming
an additive effect. Osmolality of a solution is experimentally
Sgiiltnoméd by measuring) the reduction of the freezing

r increase in t e oilin oint ‘
water with an instrument kngwlii as/::p§siii%0mlette(ii
Qsmometers are easy to use, relatively inexpensive and
$er to calibrate and maintain.

n important question is: How can the chan e in
gigflailgtéeffiit be accounted for in the toxicity evaluagtion?

I portant to determin

concentration,
determined. In
experimental conc

lower concentrations need not be
the event that the toxicity at any
entration is associated with significantly

eleva ted osmolarity, a control assay using normal media
with an equivalent osmolarity obtained by addition of
non-toxic agents must be run to rule out toxicity thatis
in reality, only an osmotic effect. The osmotic control
media should be prepared using a biologically inactive
or non—metabolic compound, such as mannitol, rather
than Na, Ca, or K salts.

Examples of the effect of osmotic factors on
morphology and function of cells and tissues in vitro
have been demonstrated in rat embryo culture (Clode, et
al, 1987), tubulin proteins (Croom-Brown, 1986), and
bronchia (Luk and Dulfano, l983).

Osmolarity must be determined throughout the
experimental procedure. Relative changes in osmolarity
can occur as a result of evaporation of the aqueous phase
of the media which occurs in less-humid incubators at
37°C. As water evaporates, salts are left behind. If fresh
media is added and the cycle repeated, increasing amounts
of salts/ ions accumulate in the dishes. This increases the
osmotic forces and may affect cells or tissue explants.
This effect can be controlled by complete replacement of
media at periodic intervals. Use of polar and non-polar
solvents to dissolve test chemicals can also generate
osmotic forces in culture media and these effects need to
be determined.

l.C. Reactions Between 'l‘cst Chemicals and Culture
Medium

Another serious technical problem in in vitro
toxicological testing exists when test chemicals react
with medium components producing adducts or
modifications which alter the ability of the cells to maintaln
normal metabolism. Cell status is thus altered independent
of a direct toxic effect of the test chemical on the cells.
Due to the complex nature of cell culture media, a vast
array of toxicant interactions may occur including protein
denaturation, oxidation of reactive thiols and lipldS,
chelation of metals, etc. Although a complex issue,
consideration of the many possible medium-tox1cant
interactions is essential to the correct interpretation of in
vitro test data. . ,

The number of possible medium-toxicant interaction?
is defined by not only the reactive nature of the CherIPCha
toxicant but also by the reactive functional groups 0ht e
various medium components (Table 2). Although; 811':
is a vast array of potential interactions, the me lust
components most essential to cell growth and mo
likely to be altered by toxicants will be discussed. re

1) Free amino acids in the medium, which aen
essential for cell protein synthesis, act as both hy'dmagn
donors and acceptors and possess carboxyl, ammotion.
sulfhydryl groups as well, which are at risk for reac cids
Toxicants which contain metals will chelate amlnf);izing
such as cysteine while test chemicals with strong 0’0 on 5.
potential cause oxidation of such sulfhydr)’1 granpe
Carboxyl groups, as in glutamate and aspartatefﬁCcaﬁon
esterified by acid halides and alcohols. Such esterl rotein
could interfere with energy production as well asp

g;

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

6

synthesis. Due to the highly charged nature of some
amino acid side chains, they are always at risk for
adsorption onto or hydrogen bonding with polar toxicants
thus lowering the free amino acid concentration of the
medium.

2) Metals in the salt solution of a medium are mainly
the cations Na”, K“, Ca++ and Mg“+ which are balanced by
the anions chloride and phosphate. These ions maintain
osmotic and ionic equilibrium. An additional nineteen
trace metals are present in serum. A balance must be
maintained in the medium between Ca++ and phosphate
or precipitation will occur. Toxicants with potential
chelating properties, 6.3. polyglycols, diamines, sulﬂiydryl
reagents, can complex metal ions which would alter the
ionic equilibrium of the medium and eliminate essential
trace elements needed for enzymatic reactions.

3) Vitamins/coenzymes are present in limited
concentrations within the cell. Hence irreversible alterations
of these compounds in the media may deplete the cellular
complement of these substances. Lead, cadmium and
mercury ions are known to bind to the disulfide bonds
present in thiamine pyrophosphate, lipoic acid, and»
coenzyme A.

4) In addition to the salt solution components,
standard cell culture medium requires supplementation
with proteins usually supplied as whole or dialyzed
serum or serum components. The primary function of
the added serum proteins is not to supply amino acids
for growth but to be a source of factors for the attachment
of cells, regulators of cellular function and as carriers for
micronutrients, growth factors and lipids.

The proteins of serum can be denatured by changes
in their polar outer coat due to "salting out" effects by
high concentrations of highly charged toxicants or changes
in pH due to addition of acidic compounds such as
halogenated acids. Adsorption of highly charged or
polar toxicants on the surface of proteins due to hydrogen
bond formation may inhibit the ability of proteins to act
as carriers for essential nutrients. The ions of heavy
metals (particularly silver, mercury, cadmium and lead)
readily form mercaptides with cysteinyl residues. Protein
lability to such mercaptide formation varies with protein
type.

5) The composition of the lipids and fatty acids of
serum are critical precursors for maintenance of ﬂuidity
and integrity of the cell membrane. The propensity of
polyenoic fatty acids to undergo oxidation of their
unsaturated bonds by free—radical mechanisms is an
important concern in medium stabilization. Halogenated
hydrocarbons and ethanol are both known to cause
oxidation of fatty acids. Organic solvents and amphoteric
detergents destroy lipid integrity. Heavy metal ions of
mercury and cadmium complex with the phospholipid
bases ethanolamine and choline expanding the surface
area of the membrane and presumably decreasing its
ﬂuidity and flexibility.

Although serum proteins and lipids are the only two
classes of serum components discussed here, there are
approximately ten additional classes of components in

serum with varying concentrations dependent on the
source of the serum and the age and nutrition of the
animal. Each of these has the potential to interact with
toxicants. To overcome the problem of serum variability
and thus the potential for unknown toxicant interactions,
many researchers adapt cultures to defined or serum-
free medium which adds to the minimal basal medium
only those components necessary for cell growth and
maintenance of differentiated characteristics. Thus,
knowledge of the concentrations of each component in a
defined medium allows nutrient losses of any nature to
be measured by assays for the functional groups thought
to be affected by toxicant exposure.

While serum-free medium may eventually minimize
some of the problems of serum-supplemented media,
defined media require additions of essential proteins,
such as growth factors, at ng and ug levels. At these
concentrations, essential factors may be highly susceptible
to reactions and even inactivation by test chemicals.

Due to variability in serum protein content, the
measurement of loss of total protein due to toxicant
action is possible only in serum-free formulations with
defined and reproducible protein content. Total protein
is most often measured by the Biuret, Bradford or Lowry
assay after centrifugation of precipitated proteins due to
toxicant denaturation. However, the problem with protein-
toxicant interactions is not usually denaturation to the
point of visible precipitation but instead a partial protein
alteration which inhibits its usual functions. Assays for
this type of protein modification should be limited to
those proteins in the medium which are essential for the
growth and phenotypic expressions of the particular cell
type e.g. transferrin, growth factors, etc.

Pretesting of the medium with toxicant in the
absence of cells will potentially indicate toxicant-medium
interactions without complications of cellular metabolism.
If the medium alterations by toxicant are known,
compensations can be made during incubation conditions,
such as: 1) additions of the modified component, e.g.
additional transferrin 2) protection of the modified
component, e.g. using sulfhydryl reducing agents and 3)
elimination of the component from the medium if it is not
necessary to the growth of the cells, e.g. dialysis of
unnecessary salts.

In summary, toxicant-medium interactions are a
function not only of the toxicant chemistry but also the
composition of the medium. If the effects on the medium
result in alterations of components which are not essential
to the growth of the cell, then the medium can be modified
to a simpler formulation excluding the modifiable
component, e.g. serum-free medium. Alterations of
medium components which are essential for cell growth
and nutrition by toxicants can be compensated for by
additions to the medium or protection of the modified
component. Preincubation of medium without cells with
the test chemical and subsequent monitoring of selected
factors essential to cell growth may provide critical
information on medium—toxicant interactions. All changes
in medium formulation for a given cell line or cell type

—

 




 

Table 2: Possible Medium and Toxicant Interactions

 

Media Component Reactive Functional

 

Chemical Class Cell Effect of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Group of Toxicant Media Component
Free amino acids .NI—I2 Anhydrides Synthesis of proteins
-COOH Acid chlorides Buffering capacity
-OH Organic alcohols Energy sources
-SH Alkyl halides Chelator of metals
Oxidants
Heavy metals
Vitamins/coenzymes ~SH Heavy metals Enzyme activity
Cellular metabolism
Metals in salt solutions Me++ Chelators Cell morphology
(Charge) Clycols Enzyme activity
Diamines Cell adhesion
Sulfhydryl Growth rate
compounds
Serum proteins Macromolecular structure As with free Cell adhesion
(Denaturation / polar amino acids Availability of:
absorption) hormones
- micronutrients
-COOH growth factors
-OH fatty acid
-NH2
. l l
Serum 11p1ds -C=C-C=C- a, B-unsaturated Membrane ﬂuidity
I I carbonyl
compounds
Oxidants

 

 

 

 

must always be tested for effect on cell growth and phenotypic
expressmn.

I.D. Organic Solvent Effects

Many test chemicals and formulations ar
. . e not a ueous
soiluble. These solubility problems often create compliqcations
w en. polar solvents are employed (alcohols, DMSO) to
solubllize the test agent before addition to the in vitro test

system. Two possible effects ma res 1t f
exposure to both the test agen y 11 mm the dual

criterion for allowable solvent levels in the test system.
The second possibility is that the solvent is notdirectly
toxic, but may modulate cellular functions by elther
altering cell differentiation and / or intermedlate cellular
metabolism. These effects could potentially alter the
response of the cells to chemical toxins, and thus,
confound toxicological evaluation. Either of these;
effects must be carefully evaluated in any m mtro tes

system . '

A special case is the use of a volatile orgalglc
solvent (ether, chloroform, etc.) for the addltlon 0 a
measured amount of the test chemical to the culture
dish before addition of media. In this case, the test
chemical is dissolved in the solvent and knowitcl
quantities added to the culture dish. The O'rghatlhe
solvent is allowed to evaporate naturally or Wlt

M,

 

 




 

 

 

8

—

aid of a vacuum atmosphere. Following addition of cells
and culture media, the test chemical will partition into
the medium up to the maximum of the solubility limit or
partition coefficient for the chemical. Alternatively,
diffusion-limited dissolution into a serum-based culture
medium may be utilized to deliver the test chemical
which has been "solvent-coated" on the surface of an
appropriate container. The need for analytical verification
of test material concentration should be considered for
these special cases. Appropriate controls for the effects
of any residual solvent should be included with these
assays.

I.E. Effects of Antimicrobial Agents

Antimicrobial agents are added to media used in
some cell culture laboratories to reduce contamination
by bacteria and fungi. While this practice is advantageous
when tissues or substances of questionable sterility must
be utilized in primary cultures, systems free of all antibiotics
are preferred.

Antimicrobial drugs can be toxic to some or all cells.
They may also interact synergistically to mask or enhance
activities of test compounds. Furthermore, the
indiscriminate use of antibiotics in cell culture ﬂuids
permits repeated lapses in aseptic technique. Consequently,
the system may become contaminated with resistant
organisms, especially mycoplasma (DelGiudice and
Gardella, 1 984). Many strains of myc0plasma can coexist
with cultured cells in the presence of antibiotics without
causing any overt cytopathic effect. However, such
infections have been shown to affect many quantifiable
parameters, thus compromising or negating interpretations
of expermimental data entirely. This and related problems
are discussed further in Section 1.].

The most commonly used antimicrobial agents include
penicillin (at 10-1000 units/mL, streptomycin (50-500
ug/mL) and gentarnicin (5-50 ug/mL). Even these
compounds, which have been added routinely for years,
may have adverse effects depending upon the cell type,
other test compounds in the system, and the form and
concentration of antibiotics used. For example, Huegin et
a1 ., (1986) reported that five antibiotics containing the -
lactam structure, including 6—amino penicillinic acid,
suppressed generation of virus-specific cytotoxic T-cells
and their proliferation in vitro. Similar findings were
obtained with the erythroleukemic line K-562. Walker et
‘11-, (1988) found that streptomycin potentiated the
nephrotoxicity of cyclosporin A on epithelia of the porcine
and canine kidney cell lines LLC-PKI and MDCK. The
plg kidney line is also affected by gentamicin, since
Holohan et al, (1988) found that LLC-PKI cells accumulated
higher levels of intracellular Ca2+ rapidly and for a
prolonged period after exposure.

One of the most widely used and effective antifungal
agents, Fungizone or amphotericin B, is inhibitory or
even profoundly cytotoxic in some systems. Krause and
111118110 (1988) noted that acute (2 hour) exposure of LLC-
PKl cells to amphotericin B inhibited protein synthesis,

caused protein loss and eventual cell detachment with
an ICSO of about 30 ug/ mL. Sodium-stimulated glucose
transport was inhibited at much lower doses (1.5 ug/
mL). The methyl ester of amphotericin B is less toxic to
cultured cells than the parent compound (Fisher et al,
1976).

Broad spectrum tetracyclines, which are often needed
to eliminate myc0plasma infections from cell lines, can
also have markedly inhibitory effects of the host cells.
Borup-Christensen et al., (1988) found that minocycline
inhibited not only proliferation rates of some human-
human hybridomas but also IgM secretion. The effects
were reversible with lower concentrations of the antibiotic,
but cytostatic action has been observed at higher doses
with some tumor cells in vitro (Inaba and Nagashima,
1986). '

Ideally, antibiotic-free systems are preferred. In
primary culture systems where a microbial ﬂora is present,
penicillin (100 U/ mL) and streptomycin (50 ug/ mL) can
be employed with caution. If possible, antibiotics should
be removed from the primary cultures after the initial 5-
6 da 3.

Test compounds may be contaminated with
microorganisms and cannot be sterilized. In such cases,
antimicrobial agents become essential components of
the test system. Therefore, preliminary trials with
appropriate antibiotics (penicillin, streptomycin,
amphotericin B or others) may be necessary to establish
the degree of effect on cell proliferation or endpoint
parameters being evaluated. A concentration-response
curve should be constructed. Subsequent test runs should
also include several antibiotic concentrations to permit
determination of possible synergistic actions.

Some preparations being tested may contain
preservatives which are essential for stabilizing the product
as marketed. If positive effects are noted during initial
testing of the complete preparation, the manufacturer
may wish to repeat the procedure on the isolated
preservative and on the preservative—free preparation to
identify the source of toxicity. .

The use of sterile procedures in cell culture activ1ties
is essential in order to prevent contamination with bacteria,
fungi and mycoplasma. Even with the best technique
and equipment, the possibility of contamination still
exists. Therefore, it is necessary to include a quality
control program in the standard operating procedures of
the laboratory in order to verify the absence of
contamination.

I.F. Volatile Test Chemicals

For many aqueous soluble chemicals, their vapor
pressure is low and little material is off-gassed during
experimental studies. Hence, nominal test concentrations
remain effective during culture/ exposure periods.
However, many of the less water—soluble chemicals are
highly volatile, resulting in a significant loss of test
chemical during a test. This effect has two ma)or
consequences. The first is a constant loss of the test

_

 




 

chemical from the culture system and hence the regulation
of exposure conditions is less than adequate. Nominal
test concentrations can differ significantly from actual
exposure concentrations. This variance will produce
anomalies in the concentration-response curves and result
in reduced reproducibility of toxicity when comparisons
are made between test systems. The second problem is
cross contamination of test concentration groups. Test
material volatilizing from high concentration groups
may dissolve in low concentration or control test groups,
thus affecting baseline data. This problem must be
prevented when testing volatile test chemicals in cell
culture systems.

LG. Interferences

Occasionally, a test chemical will possess physical
and/ or chemical properties which will result in an
interference with the toxicity test endpoint measurement.
In many cases, this is a chromatic effect. If the endpoint
assay requires a spectrophotometric measurement at a
particular wavelength and the test chemical absorbs
light at the critical wavelength, then the potential for
interference exists. In this case, the test chemical mu st be
completely removed before the assay is performed unless
some procedure to correct for its presence is possible.
Spectral interference is an example of the most common
type of interference. Other possibilities exist. Test chemicals
may precipitate and/ or co-precipitate with assay reagents
and affect endpoint assay performance. The only way to
avoid such unforeseen complications is to maintain
constant surveillance at each stage of the test protocol to
identify abnormal reactions. Technicians should be familiar
with the details of assay performance so that they are
aware of potential problematic conditions.

1.1-1. Protein Binding

Protein binding refers to the association of the test
chemical with proteins. Direct reaction of the test chemical
with proteins present in the media has already been
addressed (Section I.C.). As considered here, binding
does not involve formation of covalent bonds between
the test chemical and media proteins. Protein binding
affinities for the test chemical may artifactually lower or
reduce the rate or amount of cell injury, toxicity and cell
death. It may also increase cell injury and toxicity if
protein binding leads to increased cellular uptake by
elther increasing solubility of the test chemical in culture
media or by directly facilitating cellular uptake.

A particularly confounding factor is the reduced
effective concentration of test material that results from
the binding of test chemicals to either proteins in the
culture medium and/ or the culture system substrate
(glass, plastic, membranes, biological substrates). This
causes a distortion in the concentration-response curve
which usually is manifested as a shift of the curve to
hi gher concentrations. Thus, ECSOs might vary solely on
the bas15 of availability of free toxicant and artifactually

 

inﬂuence the data. If the problem involves binding to
plasma proteins present in the culture medium due to
the presence of serum, this can be corrected by excluding
serum during the period of exposure to test chemicals.
However, if the binding is to the culture vessel itself, this
problem may be undetected. Such an effect could result
in false negatives and must be evaluated.

Toxicant binding to media proteins is a dynamic
process. Eventually an equilibrium will be established
between the free and bound species, but time factors
might compromise the data because equilibrium may
notbe attained during the course of the experiment. This
problem can be resolved by eliminating proteins in the
medium during the experimental exposure time, thus
reducing non—specific binding problems during the toxicity
test. If the toxicity assay is of short duration, consider the
possibility of dosage in serum-free medium or in the
lowest serum medium possible. If serum is necessary,
one might have to determine when equilibrium has
occurred before conducting the toxicity part of the test.

In vivo, non-specific binding of chemicals has been
reported for blood cells and serum albumins. Protein
binding of surfactant type physical chemical components
have also been characterized. These examples can serve
as a guide or indicator for the magnitude and duration of
the protein—binding problems.

When using serum containing media for in vitro
toxicity studies, one needs to consider the amount of
serum and the type of serum. Serum is used at
concentrations of up to 20% in the medium, however, the
minimum concentration of serum adequate to maintain
test system performance should always be predetermined
for each new batch of serum. The serum types are usually
fetal or adult, bovine, equine or human. One must
determine the albumin components of the serum by type
and know their importance when designing test protocols
in order to control for non—specific protein binding. Heat
inactivation, dialysis, or centrifugation during the
preparation of serum for culture will also impact on
protein binding by altering the competitive bindlng With
other serum components.

Concentration—response curves can be corrected once
the actual amount of protein binding is deterrnined
either theoretically or experimentally. The "contact
level of test chemical which interacts with the cells can be
utilized to express the ECSO.

I.I. Availability of Essential Nutrients

Cells in culture require various essential factors for
normal growth and maintenance of differentiatlon. To
provide adequate supplies of these factors, under normal
Circu mstances, the culture medium is replaced at regular
intervals. If this schedule is interrupted by the experimental
protocol (e.g. elimination of serum from the culture
medium during exposure to the test chemical or prolong.
periods without media changes), then the. possmillty
exists for depletion of these essential factors. IP15 important
that any such effects are evaluated and taken into accoun

_——.——_—————————_I——




gZ—u A“:

10

a

in order to prevent inaccurate interpretation of effects of
the test chemical.

The basic consideration in designing the length of
exposure to a toxicant and composition of the medium in
a testing procedure is the type of cell used as a model
system. Cell types vary widely in their nutritional needs
for carbohydrates as energy stores, in oxygenation, in
dependence on external growth factors, and in
requirements for specific factors, such as hormones and
trophic factors, to express characteristic features of the
cell type. Such variations in nutritional needs are
demonstrated by the array of various media formulations.
Another consideration for some cells is the requirement
for synthesis or availability of extracellular matrix (ECM)
components involved in cell-cell and substratum
adhesions. Such molecules as collagens,
glycosaminoglycans, proteoglycans and glycoproteins
are a complex arrangement of interactive protein and
polysaccharide molecules with specific precursor
requirements. In testing toxicants, the ideal nutritional
state for the cell is one in which the necessary components
for growth and phenotypic expression are maintained at
the optimal level in the original medium throughout the
duration of the test. Considerations of the interaction of
the gaseous phase with the media components must also
be considered in relation to 02 delivery and pH buffering.

Glucose is the most common factor depleted in a
toxic situation, and its depletion is often associated with
an energy stress for the cell. The question of the necessary
concentration of glucose for adequate cell nutrition over
an extended period of time again can only be answered
in relation to the specific needs of the particular cell line
or cell type. The cellular rate of glucose metabolism will
determine the carbohydrate needs of the cells during the
testing procedure. Hepatic ascites cells, malignant and
Virus-transformed cells generally have high glucose needs.
These cells produce large amounts of lactic acid which
change medium pH rapidly (a conﬂuent culture may
need new medium every 12 hours). In contrast, many
fibroblastic lines grow and metabolize slowly necessitating
new medium only every 48-72 hours. During a 24 hour
tox1cant exposure, the ascites line would be highly stressed
toward the end of test period, while the fibroblastic line
would be metabolizing normally. Cells with high metabolic
rates have been used for long-term or chronic testing by:
(1) maintaining the cell cultures at very low cell density,
(2) periodically adding small amounts of salt solution
containing glucose (this does however, change the
concentration of the toxicant), (3) supplying a constant
flow of fresh medium containing the toxicant over the
cells, e.g. capillary tube and high volume, mass cultures
that require steady state conditions and (4) substituting
other more slowly metabolized sugars such as fructose
0r galactose for glucose. If additional glucose is added to
the test medium, additional insulin may also be required
In the medium to maintain the correct simple carbohydrate
balance for the cells.

Another critical factor to consider in the relationship

tween testing time for toxicant exposure and the nutrition

of the test culture systems is the organization of the cells
in the culture used for the model system, i.e. explant,
tissue slice, monolayer, suspension culture, co-culture or
reaggregated cells. The differences in the nutritional
needs of each of these systems is dependent on the ability
or inability of medium to reach all cells and may dictate
whether long-term or short-term exposures are
feasible.Medium generally does not penetrate into inner
cells of explants and large reaggregated cell bodies often
resulting in necrosis due to hypoxia and starvation.
Thus, slice preparations are routinely tested for less than
12-24 hours while monolayer cultures can be incubated
for days.

Exogenous specific factors needed for expression of
phenotypic markers of certain cell types are another
class of nutrients to be considered in toxicity testing, e. g.
neuronal growth factor for neuronal cultures or hormones
for mammary cells. Again, the question of what is an
adequate concentration of any component during a test
period is defined by the cell type and the rate of turnover
of the specific factor. Rates of turnover of specific factors
can often be found in the literature. If the turnover rate of
a hormonal peptide is 12 hours and the toxicity test is 24
hours, only 25% of the factor remains at the end of the
experiment. If factor turnover data is not available, it can
be empirically determined by monitoring the temporal
correlation between phenotypic expression of the desired
characteristic and feeding of the component. Media
formulations may have large excesses of certain factors
so that even with metabolic turnover the medium
concentration of a specific factor may greatly exceed the
required effective level. The concentrations of salt
components of the media are often published in
manufacturer catalogs. The range of concentrations of
components in various types of serum are identified in
product analyses statements from serum suppliers.

For cells requiring serum, complications often arise
in designing toxicity-testing procedures. Inclusion of
serum in the test medium during incubation often lowers
the effective concentration of the toxicant by its binding
to proteins and lipids leading to false concentration-
response data. However, the removal of serum eliminates
a vast array of nutrients, growth factors, and metals in
the serum which are necessary for normal cell metabolism.
The lability of the cell in a test situation to serum deprivation
again depends on the cell type. Neuronal cells dlfferentiate
in the absence of serum, but they also become less
adherent and convert to a differentiated metabolism and
produce neurotransmitters. For the 3T3-Ll cell line,
removal of serum would inhibit the formation of
adiposelike differentiated cells. In general, however, for
most cell lines, for short time periods, 2-6 hour, serum
can be removed from a complex salt medium with only
minor effects on the cells. It is estimated there is a 2 hour
time lag when a cell readjusts to new media. Cells at
particularly high risk to serum deprivation Will often
start lifting from the plate Within 6 hr. For such cells,
serum substitutes or a lower concentratlon of serum can
be added to the test medium or a completely defined

v

 




 

 

11

—

medium can be used. It is suggested that prior to toxicant
testing, the cells should be observed and assayed for
phenotypic markers using the medium conditions and
time intervals to be used in the protocol to determine if
major metabolic or morphologic changes occur under
these conditions. The phenotypic markers to be assayed
are determined by the cell type in the test system, e. g.
glycogen for liver cells, neurotransmitters for neuronal
cells, etc.

For test substances which are of a nutrient nature,
such as vitamins, amino acid analogs, and hormones,
these may possibly serve as both test chemical and
nutrient, however, this would depend on the capabilities
of the cells to metabolize these compounds and the
relative concentrations of the added test formulation to
analogous compounds already present in the medium.
For example, in the cosmetic industry, amino acids are
often added to formulations which must be tested. If the
medium already contains micromolar concentrations of
lysine, addition of nanomolar levels of lysine to the
medium in the formulation tested would have no
consequence on cell nutrition.

Developments in studying complex tissue physiology
by defined cell culture approaches are revealing the true
complexity of interactions among nutrients, hormones
and extracellular matrix. Response to xenobiotics is likely
to be a part of this complexity. The total in vitro environment
(nutrients, hormones, matrix) employed as well as cell
type should be rigidly standardized to achieve quantitative
reproducibility of any cellular response. For example,
the presence or absence of a single hormone or growth
factor might completely alter how a cell would
metabolically react to a xenobiotic at all levels from
metabolism to damage repair.

In summary, the nutritional requirements of a cell
must be met within the period of toxicant exposure to
ensure proper interpretation of test results. Some factors
which are critical in the nutritional maintenance of cells
are an adequate energy source (usually maintained with
glucose), proper exposure to oxygen, and maintenance
of trophic, hormonal or other factors necessary for
phenotypic expression. For cells dependent on serum-
supplemented medium, serum can be removed from the
test incubation medium for short time periods. Ideally,
when culture medium must be modified, test conditions,
cell growth, morphology, and phenotypic characteristics

should be studied in the modified test medium prior to
tox1cant testing.

1.]. Contamination of Test Culture System

Even for small cell culture testing facilities, it is
recommended that seed stocks be created for each specific
line to be utilized. A starter culture can be obtained from
a reputable source (e.g., American Type Culture Collection
Corielllnstitute for Medical Research, European Collection
of Animal Cell Cultures) and a suitable lot of cells
produced (by growth in complete absence of antibiotics)
and cryopreserved. Extensive quality control steps can

then be applied to progeny from these stocks. Working
stocks for toxicity screening can then be generated for
use within 5-10 passages from the seed stocks. By returning
to the seed stock preparation periodically for production
of new working stocks, one can be assured of comparability
and uniformity within the cell system even over an
extended time period.

For an adequate quality control program, one must
consider at minimum apprOpriate precautions and tests
to ensure both that the correct cell type and species are in
use, and that the cell lines are free of microbial contaminants
including mycoplasma. Numerous occasions have resulted
in cross-contaminated cells when cell lines were exchanged
among cooperating laboratories. Examples of cross-cell
contamination with other species have been detailed,
documented and published elsewhere (Hay, 1988).
Similarly, the problem of intraspecies cross—contamination
among cultured human cell lines has been recognized for
more than 20 years and detailed reviews are available on
the subject (Nelson-Rees et al., 1 981 ). The loss of time and
research funds as a result of these problems is incalculable.
The inclusion of both appropriate steps to reduce the
likelihood of cellular cross-contamination in the laboratory
and of tests to verify cell line identity (6.3., isoenzymology,
fluorescent antibody staining, cytogenetics and DNA
fingerprinting) is critical. Commercial testing services to
authenticate cell lines are readily available.

Although bacterial and fungal contaminations
represent an added concern, in most instances they are
overt and easily detected and, therefore, of less serious
consequence than the more insidious contaminations by
mycoplasma. The presence of these microorganisms in
cultured cell lines often negates research findings entirely
and has been emphasized over the years (DelGiudice
and Gardella, 1984). Still, the difficulties of detection and
prevalence of contaminated cultures in the research
community show clearly that an especially high'degree
of diligence in quality control in this area is essential. One
key to avoiding mycoplasma contamination is the use of
media without antibiotics. Additional critical
characterizations, such as production of cell-spec1f1c
product, response to hormones or growth factors, presence
of characteristic inclusion or filaments, can be included
for the seed stock as required.

Quality control methodologies are described elsewhere
in detail (Chen, 1977; Cour et al., 1979; Macy, M. 1978,
1979; Hay, 1985, 1986, 1988; Gilbert et al., 1989). .

For actual toxicity test runs, depending upon the”
length and nature, it may be prudent to include
determination and quantitation of the degree of microbial
contamination both at the beginning and at the end Of the
trial.

I.K. Effect of Insoluble Particles

Insoluble powders, such as talc, or insolublcel:
particulates, such as polyethylene beads, which are use 1
in commercial products, may have a direct, physlca

v

 

 

.‘4 ﬁzzgxg.‘ .




 

 

12

—

effect on cells in culture. This physical effect may elicit a
phagocytic response or may physically injure the cell.
Physical actions could inﬂuence test results by damaging
the cell membrane thereby yielding spurious and
unexpected results, most likely false positives. A physical
effect could damage the cell wall thus activating the cell
and stimulating cell proliferation. Insoluble particulates
and powders may ﬂoat or settle in the media. It is
doubtful that they will disperse evenly in the media, thus
heterogeneous effects may be observed.

Since most insoluble particulates are larger (>20 in)
than the cell, inert, and in lower concentrations than the
cells in culture, the effect of physical actions in tissue cell
cultures will be minimal. However, physical actions that
may affect cells in culture include: (1) stimulation of
phagocytosis by particulates less than 10 m; (2) availability
of a large number of particulates whose surface chemistry
may alter phenotypic expression of cells, and (3) cell
damage resulting from test system handling techniques
(stirring, addition of materials to test system) and shear
forces that may impact particulates on cells (spinner
versus monolayer cultures).

Although adverse physical effects on cells in culture
are unlikely to occur for most test materials, it is important
that any potential interference or physical action caused
by insoluble particulates to cells in culture be controlled
by carefully observing for the presence and effects of
insoluble particulates in in vitro systems. This may be
accomplished by evaluating the test material with and
without the insoluble particulate. Once dispersed, the
test material may be filtered or centrifuged as a simple
means of removing any insoluble particulate from a test
material. The particulate-free fraction of the test material
may then be used as a control to determine if particulate
is contributing to observed responses. If particulates are
of concern, then test parameters should be reported in
terms of particulate size, distribution, whether cells are
stimulated by the material (6.3. phagocytic activity) and
potential culture shear forces which may contribute to
pOSItive responses.

When considering the effect of insoluble particulates
for certain toxicity testing objectives, e. g. ocular irritation
testing, it may not be necessary to subject the particulate
to m vztro or in vivo assays, since the ability of these

materials to produce h sicalactionson thee eisreadil
predicted. p y y y

¥

SECTION II. CON FOUN DING FACTORS RELATED

TO DISPERSAL OF TEST MATERIALS IN CULTURE
MEDIUM.

11.3. Physical/Chemical Properties of Test Chemicals
an Compatibility with Tissue Culture Medium

in thAr} incompatible material is defined here as insoluble
e US$119 culture medium. Therefore, the basic question

becomes how does one predict the solubility of a test
material in tissue culture medium. An evaluation of the
molecular structure is useful,because extensive information
is available concerning the relationship between
hydrophilicity, molecular structure and solubility. Most
bioactive molecules are amphiphilic, thus they contain
both polar and nonpolar structural elements. All ionic
amphiphilic compounds, as well as those nonionic
compounds which display a high proportion of hydrophilic
groups in comparison to lipophilic (hydrocarbon) groups,
are potentially soluble. It is important to recognize that
solubility has a qualitative, as well as quantitative,
dimension. The qualitative dimension is defined by the
physical phase of the test material which coexists with a
saturated solution of the test material in equilibrium
with culture medium at a given temperature. This phase
structure may be either a gas, a liquid, or a crystal. Since
solubility is determined by the difference in the
thermodynamic free energies between the test material
in the saturated solution and the coexisting phase, the
solgpility will be low when the coexisting phase is highly
sta e.

It is clear that the inference of solubility from
measurements of partition coefficients, such as between
water and octanol, may be misleading. The partition
coefficient provides information concerning the relative
solubility of the test material between the two phase
(aqueous versus organic), but does not define absolute
solubility of the test chemical in the aqueous phase.
Another factor which is indicative of solubility is melting
point. High melting points for the dry crystals of a test
compound often signify low solubility.

Truly soluble materials will dissolve isothermally,
i.e. simply by stirring with the solvent at a particular
temperature, provided adequate time is allowed for
dissolution to occur. Heating and cooling mixtures to
accelerate solubility may cause problems, as in the case
of a test compound which dissolves at high temperatures
and precipitates on cooling. This procedure may result in
the formation of colloidal dispersions of ill-defined
structure. .

In the case of poorly soluble materials no universally
applicable test for solubility exists. Often a poorly soluble
compound is actually soluble enough to act on cells Via
the soluble species. Isothermal dialysis experiments,
properly designed to allow for analySIS of transport
kinetics, are the least ambiguous means to determine the
solubility of these compounds. Such experiments are the
least subject to interference due to colloidal phenomena,
because colloidal particles do not generally diffuse through
swollen membranes. Similarly, gels such as agarose or
gelatin constitute effective barriers. to the passage of
colloidal particles, and only perm1t the difquion of
molecular species.

The effective dispersion of poorly soluble compounds
to form clear mixtures, as by sonication, does “0t change
their solubility. The formation of clear letuI'ESSlmply
signifies small particle size or low particle densities, and
does notnecessarily signify that the compound is soluble.

=

 




 

 

13

»

Clarity is an optical property of a mixture and is determined
by the refractive indices of the particle and the medium,
and the dimensions of the particle present. Solubility is
determined by the thermodynamics of molecular rnix1ng.

II.B. Solvents Used to Deliver Incompatible Test
Materials to the Tissue Culture Medium

The physical / chemical properties of anhydrous
liquids, solids and powders pose a potential obstacle to
testing such materials in aqueous culture media. Gmdelines
are needed to assist the in vitro practitioner in finding
ways to dissolve or otherwise make these materials
compatible with the culture medium. The main issue is
how to physically introduce the test material into the
tissue culture system.

Depending upon the density of the incompatible test
material, these materials will either settle or ﬂoat in
culture media. As an example, a thin film of relatively
innocuous mineral oil on the surface of the culture
medium can interfere with gas exchange across the
surface of an aqueous system. Low oxygen tension or
changes in pH may affect cells in culture, yielding a false
positive result. One must also consider potential interactive
toxicological effects of delivery systems and test materials
which may lead to unanticipated interference with the
response of the in vitro system. Furthermore, water
dispersible powders may absorb theaqueous media and
swell, thus posing another potential interference with
the culture systems response. Finally, it must be recognized
that there may be situations where incompatible test
materials cannot be tested in specific in vitro assay systems
because of the inability to cosolubilize or otherwise
deliver them to the test system.

Two proposed methods of introducing otherwise
incompatible materials into a test system are (1)
solubilization of the test material in a suitable cosolvent,
and (2) transportation of the material to the cell via
carrier molecules. The in vitro practitioner and test material
chemist may use these as guidelines in determining the
optimum method for introducing a test material into the
culture system.

. In general, water soluble materials need only be
diluted to the appropriate concentration prior to addition
to the test system medium. Whenever possible, the final
dilution of a test material should be made using the same
medium that is used in the in vitro system.

Water. insoluble test materials usually require
solubilization in. a compatible solvent prior to testing
them.in the m vitro assay. An ideal solvent is one that
permits the addition of an otherwise insoluble test material
3‘), :12: 13217111532 syiitfem without interferingwith the assay.
test material 3.1 ormation is not available for a particular

1 , . i ution of the test material in a variety of
1:21:53; b3} 21:10::qu1 terror I}; often used. However, the
801 b'l' can greatly facilitated when

u ‘ 1tY Parameter (SP) or Hydrophilic-Lipophilic-
Balance (HLB) values are available for the test material
(Barton, 1983; ICI Americas, Inc., 1987; Laughlin, 1978

and 1981; Vaughan, 1985 and 1988). The Solubility
Parameter is a numerical system for ranking solvents
and other materials according to their relative solubility
properties. Most test materials, which are likely to be
soluble in ordinary solvents, will have a SP value between
5, for oily or oil soluble materials, and 23.4, which is the
SP value for water. Solubilization of a particular test
material is accomplished by selecting a solvent of
comparable SP value. Example: Nitrocellulose (SP =
11.25) and Isopropanol (SP 2 1 1.24). Solubility prOperties
of solvent combinations can likewise be obtained, by
direct proportion, using the SP value. For cases when a
solvent has been found to be unsuitable for a particular
test system, an alternative solvent of similar SP value can
be selected directly from the literature, without resorting
to extensive trial and error solubility tests.

SP values are available in the literature for most
solvents and many materials. In addition, the SP value
can be obtained by direct conversion from the Hydrophilic—
Lipophilic—Balance (HLB) value. The HLB system, like
the SP system, is a numerical system for ranking materials
according to their solubility properties. It is particularly
useful for finding an appropriate cosolvent for raw
materials. The HLB value for a number of commercial
raw materials is listed in McCutcheon’s handbook (MC
Publishing Co., 1989). Several raw material manufacturers
supply this data in their specification sheets. High HLB
emulsifiers, especially those with HLB > 15, are excellent
cosolubilizers of oils. By mixing the surfactant with the
oil at ratios of 4:1 or 5:1, this mixture may be readily
added to water. This approach produces a true solution
of the test material, not an emulsion.

Temperature effects are not taken into account by
either the SP or HLB systems. Additional solubility data
related to cloud point or Phase Inversion Temperature
(HLB temperature) may be required for some materials
when this effect becomes important, (BASF Wyandotte
Corp; Rosen, 1978). .

The Octanol/ Water Partition Coefficient is .Widely
used as a tool for predicting biological accumulation and
effects of organic chemicals. However, the usefulness of
this procedure for testing materials may be limited due
to a lack of reliable methods for determination or estimation
(Mailhot and Peters, 1988). . . '

Speciﬁc examples of solvents to consider in solubiliZing
water insoluble test materials are listed in Table 3. The
selection of these solvents is based on their relatively safe
history of use in household and personal care prodIJCtS-
They have excellent potential as cosolubilizers of test
materials which may otherwise be incompatible with In
vitro systems. The effect of these solvents on Sp€C1f1Cm
vitro systems must be verified in each Circumstance (see
Section I.D.).

Powders that swell in aqueous systems, SUCh 35
magnesium aluminum silicate and carbomersac.an ‘;
made thinner by water dilution or by the additiOIfi O
chelating agents or glycols to the water phase 1:? 01”:
adding the powdered test material. However, care 5 0“, 1
be taken when using chelating agents so that essentlél

_—_————————




 

14

‘

Table 3: Potential Solubilizers for Water Insoluble Test Materials

 

 

1. Alcohols SP Value
methyl alcohol 14,33
ethyl alcohol 12,55
ethoxyethanol 9,90
t-butyl alcohol 10,28
methoxyethanol 10,80
2. Glycols1
glycerol 16.50
hexylene glycol 12.32
butylene glycol 13.20
propylene glycol 14.00
polyethylene glycols (PEG) Variable
3. Emulsifiers
polysorbate 20 (Tween 20 - ICI) 9.16
block copolymers (Pluronics - BASF) Variable
4. Miscellaneous
dimethylsulfoxide 13.40
acetonitrile 11.81
acetone 9.87
5. Cosolvents for nonaqueous media
dibutyl phthalate 9-88
diethyl phthalate 10-00
1Glycols with ethyl or higher chains are potentially toxic to cells. Toxicity varies inversely with
chain length.

 

 

elemental nutrients are available to cells in culture.
Another method of delivering the test material to the
cell is via carrier molecules. These carriers include
Intrahpld (Baxter), liposomes, cyclodextran and
mucOpolysaccharides. In these cases, the test material is
{IOt truly solubilized in the culture medium, but is
mCOFPOYated (i.e., engulfed, absorbed, etc.) instead into a
carrier system which is transported into the cell.
for Kb? dealing. with an unknown material, i.e., one
necesslc no solubility information is available, it may be
necessity to use a trial and error approach. First, 1t.15
With a 1'3’ F0 evaluate the compatibility of the test material
nce £31183}; of solubilizers and solubilizer combinations.
to detemliil a le solvent system is obtained,itis important
to Cosolubr}? the minimum amount of solubilizer necessary
Final] ﬁlze the test material in the culture medium.
dete Y1W en actual testing is conducted, it is essential to
mime the compatibility of the solvent with the tissue

CUIture media u . . . .
. Sin
Ctlon ID. 8 aPPI'Oprlate controls as discussed in

II.C. Physical Dispersion Techniques

The nominal concentration of a test chemical in
culture medium is the amount of the test chemical per
unit volume as prepared in the laboratory. If a test
material is less soluble than the nominal test concentration,
then the dosing solution will typically be a collmdal
dispersion of the compound With the aqueous phase
saturated with the test chemical. If testing is to be carried
out on colloidal dispersions in a reproducible and
controlled manner, two importantquestions which must
be addressed are: . . 7

1) how does one create suﬁlitdiseperaons.

h w stable are the Wit 1m . .
geifher of these queZtions can be answered indthelz
generic sense; the answer will depend on the indiv1 {Ea
case. Dispersion methods for produang collmdal SHEICI f (r):
(such as sonication or high shear mixmg).arq1 use 111180118
dispersing ﬂuids (liquids or liquid crystals) in t riaqunds
phase, but will not disperse crystalline co p0 .

v

 




 

 

15

—

Colloidal precipitation, obtained by dilution of a solution
of the test chemical in a water-miscible solvent with
water, is a commonly used method, but care in executing
this method is important. The colloidal structure of the
resulting dispersion is very sensitive to the precise
conditions of the dilution process, and the product is
often highly polydisperse. As long as these problems are
recognized, however, such methods may be used. In
principle, the method used is notimportant as long as the
colloidal structure is measured and controlled.

The second issue when dispersion techniques are
used is the stability of the colloidal structure. There are
two mechanisms by which colloidal structure changes:
Ostwald ripening and ﬂocculation / coalescence. In
ripening, small unstable particles dissolve and the material
in them reprecipitates on the more stable large particles.
Ripening is a linear function of solubility: the greater the
solubility, the faster the ripening. Flocculation is the
binding together of dispersed particles. Such binding is
induced by collisions between particles, which in turn
results from the action of thermal energy. Collision
frequency is increased by elevated temperature and by
increased particle number concentration. The rate of
ﬂocculation is strongly retarded by the development of
a charge at the surface of the particle. The magnitude of
this surface charge is strongly inﬂuenced by the valence
of counterions, by the concentration of electrolytes or
salts present, and by surfactants. Divalent counterions
and high salt concentrations significantly reduce the
surface charge and accelerate ﬂocculation. Furthermore,
the kinetics of ﬂocculation are retarded by the adsorption
of polymers, such as albumin. Coalescence is the fusion
of ﬂocculated particles, and its rate depends largely on
the physical state of the particle; only ﬂuid particles
readily coalesce.

For further information, the most authoritative
reference to the field of colloid science is the two-volume
series edited by Kruyt (1952). A recent concise treatment
of this discipline is found in Everett (1988).

In addition to the purely physical aspects of colloidal
structure, compounds that are poorly soluble may act on
cells as particles, as well as free molecules, and in such
cases, the colloidal structure of the dispersions, as well as
the molar composition, must be considered. Further, it
must be recognized that particles may interact with cells
in two distinctive ways: phagocytosis and fusion. In
phagocytosis, the particle is engulfed intact by the cell. In
fusion, contact of the particle with the cell leads to
partitioning of the contents of the particle into the cell
membrane. The integrity of the particle is lost during this
process.

If the test compound acts on cells strictly as a molecular
species, then the molecular concentration in solution is
an important parameter. Separation of the cells from the
test solution by a swollen hydrophilic membrane (dialysis
membrane), or by a swollen gel layer (agar overlay), will
restrict the response of the cells to the response resulting
from an interaction with the molecular species which can
diffuse through the barrier.

If the mode of action occurs via particles, such as in
phagocytosis, then the particle number concentration
(PN C) is important (see Section II.F.). In such cases, the
characteristics of the system are important and care
should be taken to control the composition of the colloidal
dispersion during the test and to determinate the
dimensions of the colloidal structure of the dispersions.
For most dispersions, quasielastic light scattering (QELS)
data is a good method for defining colloidal structure.

II.D.Extraction Techniques

Extraction is an alternative approach to processing
aqueous insoluble materials for in vitro testing. The test
material is placed either in water to obtain an aqueous
extract or in an organic solvent compatible with water,
6.3., an alcohol, and allowed to remain in contact for a
defined interval of time with or without mixing. At the
end of the extraction period, any insoluble material is
removed by filtration, centrifugation or phase separation
and the soluble phase is used for testing in the in vitro
system. For a complex mixture composed of several
ingredients, components of the mixture may be
differentially extracted depending on their solubility in
the extraction solution. The main limitation of this approach
is the lack of quantitation of the actual dosage to cells in
culture of each constituent in the original test material.
Therefore, reproducibility of results is difficult unless
the extraction prodecure is carefully standardized as to
extraction time, mechanical agitation and temperature,
among other potential modulating factors. In some
respects, the extraction procedure can be designed to
more closely resemble conditions of exposure in viva.
Development and validation of standardized extraction
procedures are important and require additional research
efforts.

II.E. Physical Separation Techniques (e.g. Agar Overlay)

The third technique in the preparation of test
chemicals for in vitro toxicity testing is the physical
separation of the test chemical from the cell culture
system which allows the extractable constituents to diffuse
into the cell culture system. This approach uses a physical
separation by means of a mechanical barrier through
which the extractable substances can diffuse. An example
of this technique is the agar overlay test system used to
evaluate the potential cytotoxicity of solid materials
used in medical devices and implants. Cells are grown in
a monolayer on culture plates until they establish a
desired degree of conﬂuency. A layer of low temperature
melting agar is poured onto the monolayer and allowed
to set. The test material is then placed on the surface of
the agar and the system is incubated for a defined
exposure period. At the end of the test, the cell layer is
examined for alterations (either morphological or
biochemical). The strength of the toxic effect is classified
by the spatial extent of the damage indicated by whether
altered cells are only located immediately beneath the

—

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

”w

test material or whether the zone of effect extends beyond
the margins of the test material. This method allows for
insoluble materials to be tested as well as soluble substances
which are applied as a solution absorbed into filter paper
disks. The major drawback of this approach is, as with
other techniques described above, the lack of quantitation
of the concentration delivered to the cultured cells. This
problem is complicated by the uncertainty in specific
diffusion of components through the agar layer and
depends on the composition and thickness of this barrier.
In all these methods, quantitation and / or standardization
of the concentration is difficult.

II.F. Quantitation of Dosage to Cells in Culture

When concentration-response relationships are
experimentally determined in in vitro systems, the question
of documentation of the test chemical concentration is a
critical consideration. The reproducibility of concentration—
response relationships is highly dependent on the ability
both to reproducibly prepare stock solutions of test
chemicals and to dose test cul tures accurately. The actual
concentration of the test chemical to which the cells are
responding can differ from nominal concentrations as a
result of several factors.

The potential factors which can alter the concentration
of test chemicals in vitro are: (l) insolubility, (2) adsorption
to culture vessel surfaces, (3) binding to media components,
(4) spontaneous reactions with media components, surfaces
and/ or photochemical reactions, (5) volatilization and
(6) uptake and metabolism by cells. Each of these factors
is discussed below:

(1) Insolubility. This issue is discussed in more detail
later in this section. Experimental protocols should be
developed which distinguish between responses of the
cell culture system to the test chemical in the soluble
phase as compared to physical reactions to the test
Shemical in the solid phase. If the test chemical itself is
lmscible or is dissolved in a solvent which is immiscible
Wlth the aqueous phase of the culture medium, a two—
phase system will result. If the density of the testchemical
ill the solvent in which it is dissolved is less dense than

c medium, the test chemical will have little contact
Clavilstslliells. If the test chemical or the solvent in which it is
mono]? lS lieaVIer than the medium, then .cells. in
Conceng'etr‘ cu ture Wlll be in direct contact With high
ex a ions of the test chemical. Quantitation of

Posure concentration becomes extremely difficult in

this case be
cause cells are ex se in n n-uniform
manner. p0 d a O

cheﬁzaﬂpw vessel surface. Many
0n the 3 WE. adsorb on plastic/ glass surfaces depending
to Vesserfesm lfc nature of the surface. Loss of test chemical
to which 81113933 Wlll reduce the actual concentrations
Orm of the S 1“ CUltufe are exposed. If a radiolabelled
canbereadgl “:1“ Chemical is available, then adsorption
is available1 {h ocqmentEd. If a direct analytical procedure
C emicalf I en “Fa,“ be USGd to measure loss of test

form media in the absence of cells. These data

 

can be used .to correct for adsorption effects.

(3) Bmdmg l0 media components. Plasma proteins

6111:; I)IOIted for their ability to bind xenobiotics (see Section

. . I n this respect, alburrun has the broadest spectrum
for bindin g. If serum or albumin is present in the culture
medium, then the potential for binding must be considered.
One way to avoid this problem is to eliminate serum and
albumin from the culture medium during the exposure
to the test chemical. However, this option has its own
drawbacks. Dramatic changes in culture media, such as
Withdrawal of serum, can have detrimental effects on the
state of cell differentiation and, thus, can alter cellular
responses to toxins (see Section 1.1.). Such alterations
would complicate interpretation of test results. A more
involved option to solving this problem is to investigate
xenobiotic binding to serum proteins by any one of
several techniques available, e.g. equilibrium dialysis.
Careful studies can provide accurate measurements of
affinity binding constants which can be used to estimate
the free toxicant concentration.

(4) Spontaneous reactions. Reactions with culture
media components, as opposed to binding, and / or
photochemical reactions, may convert the test chemical
into various degradative products which may be more
or less toxic than the original test chemical (see Section
I.C.). The concentration of the test chemical and its
metabolites may change with time. If these reactions can
occur in vivo , then such reactions may be relevant to the
toxicological evaluation. If, on the other hand, the reactions
observed are unique to the in vitro culture system, then
these modifications of the original test chemical may
produce toxicological artifacts. Such reactions can be
detected utilizing analytical techniques which are sensitive
to the initial test chemical and degradation products.
Blank test vessels containing media but no cells can be
assayed to determine the presences of. degradative
products. If pseudo-first—order reaction kinetics apply,
then a degradation rate constant can be determined, and
available concentrations of test chemical and its metabolites
over the exposure period can be computed. .

(5) Volatilization. For volatile test chemicals (see
Section I.F.), the available test chemical will decrease
with time if precautions to prevent this effect are not
taken. One solution to this problem is to expose cells to
the test chemical in a sealed vessel. In this case, the
concentration of test chemical available to cells in culture
media will not be the nominal concentration, but Will be
determined by the partial pressure of the test chemical
and the relative volumes of the medium and the headspace.
The actual concentration in the medium can be determined
by analytical means using sampling techniques whicl}
prevent loss of volatile components or by theoretical
calculations using the partial pressures and volumes.

(6) Cellular uptake and metabolism. The. concentration
of the test chemical in the medium can be inﬂuenced by
the cellular componentof the system in a time-dependent

' f 11 the effects described
manner. Even in the absence 0 a .
above [(1 )-(5)], the concentration .of tox1cant may decrease
below the nominal concentration due to partitioning

L:

 




 

17

”

between the aqueous phase and the cellular phase. In
addition, if cells metabolize the toxicant, then the
concentration will decrease with time. Metabolism is
non—linear with concentration and partitioning can be
non-linear if it involves intracellular protein binding.
Thus, the effect of these processes can result in
concentration—dependent distortions of the concentration-
time profile of the test chemical in the medium. In many
cases, the ratio of medium to cell volume is great and
metabolism is slow, thus effects are negligible in short-
term test protocols. However, with strongly hydrophobic
chemicals or high rates of cellular metabolism, these
factors can be important and concentration corrections
must be made.

It is always important to document the procedures
for preparation of stock solutions and dosing of test
cultures. If solvents must be used to dissolve test chemicals
or to solubilize them in culture media, these procedures
must be carefully followed to attain reproducible dilutions
of test chemicals. If a chemical is highly reactive or
susceptible to photoreactions, then care must be taken to
prevent spontaneous reactions. The time between
preparation of working solutions from certified, reference
solutions to dosing of test cultures mustbe standardized.
Photoreactive test chemicals must be protected from
exposure to light and the toxicity testing must be conducted
in appropriate lighting.

The requirement for documentation of test chemical
concentrations in the in vitro culture system leads to
certain analytical difficulties. If in vitro test systems are to
be used for rapid screening purposes, it is
counterproductive to become burdened with extensive
measurements of test chemical concentrations. However,
if the in vitro test system is being used for regulatory
purposes and / or mechanistic studies, it may be important
to determine actual test chemical concentrations during
the course of the in vitro toxicity study. Blanks must be
used to determine the time course of test chemical
concentration in the absence of cells to account for
spontaneous reactions and absorption/ adsorption to
culture vessels. In regulatory/ mechanistic studies, the
time integrated area-under-the-concentration-curve
should be considered as a possible measurement for
expressing exposure.

When the true solubility of a test material is less than
the nominal concentration, the response of cells in culture
to the material may be highly variable depending on
environmental conditions. Whether soluble or insoluble,
an important variable for quantitating concentration is
the particle number concentration (PNC) of the test
material. The total number of’ particles relative to the
total number of cells will inﬂuence the probability of
interaction of the test compound with the cells. Further,
unless the number of particles present in the liquid phase
is very large in comparison to the number of cells present,
nonuniform interactions with the culture may result.
Finally, transport kinetics by diffusion through the aqueous
12R??? surrounding the cells will also be influenced by

When the test compound is fully soluble at the
nominal concentration used, the PNC is equal to the
molarity times Avogadro’s number. When the compound
is not fully soluble, then the PNC will be far less than the
predicted molar composition. For complex mixtures
whose components are partially soluble at the test
concentration, under saturating conditions the actual
molecular concentration of each component in solution
is equal to the solubility of the compound, not to its
nominal concentration. The solution concentration is, in
this case, independent of the gross composition of test
material; therefore, the response of the cells may become
independent of dose. This will only be true if the dispersed
particles of undissolved material do not themselves
interact directly with the cells.

For some test materials, cells may respond directly
to particles (see Section I.K.). The carcinogenicity of
asbestos particles is an example; asbestos may be dispersed
as needlelike particles, but has no solubility whatsoever
in water. Under these circumstances, the PNC is dictated
by two factors: 1) the composition of the test compound
and 2) the colloidal structure of the dispersion utilized.

The acquisition of reproducible test data for materials
whose solubility is less than the nominal dose concentration
hinges critically on achieving control over both the
concentration of the test material and the colloidal structure
of the disperse phase. The parameters describing colloidal
structure are the mean particle size and the size distribution.
Both of these parameters may now be determined with
relative ease using modern instrumentation. The most
useful method for size analysis uses a QELS (Quasielastic
Light Scattering) spectrometer equipped with computer
data analysis. If both of these parameters are known, the
numerical magnitude of the PNC can then be ascertained.
The total concentration in solution then equals the solubility
plus the PNC of dispersed particles (i.e., PNC = [total
concentration - solubility]/ [mean particle volume of
dispersed particles times the density]). This calculation
is based on basic principles of colloid science and has
been used successfully (Laughlin, et. a1. 1983). Control
over colloidal structure both enhance the reproducibility
of the data and increases the intrinsic activity of the
compound.

 

CONCLUSION

This has been a brief discussion of the potential
technical problems which can arise when using in vi tro
cell culture systems to evaluate chemical toxicity.
Obviously, all of these factors will not have an effect on
each and every chemical tested. However, the conscientious
investigator must be aware that these problems exist and
mu st carefully monitor the performance of the test system
to ensure the quality and accuracy of test results.

—

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

18

“

REFERENCES

Acton, RT, and Lynn, ].D. (Eds.) Cell Culture and its
Application, Academic Press, New York, NY (1977).

Barton, A.F. Handbook of Solubility Parameters and
Other Cohesion Parameters, CRC Press, Boca Raton. (1983).

BASF Wyandotte Corporation, Data Sheets for Pluronics
and Cloud Point, 100 Cherry Hill Road, Parsippany, NJ
07054.

Berky, J. and P. C. Sherrod, (Eds.) In Vitro Toxicity
Testing, 1975-76: Short Term In Vitro Testing for Carcinogenesis,
Mutagenesis, and Toxicity. The Franklin Press, Philadelphia

1978).
( Borup-Christensen, P., Erb, K. and JensenJ.C. Curing
human hybridomas infected with M ycoplasma hyorhinis.
I. Immunol Methods 110:237-40 (1988.)

Chen, T.R. In situ detection of mycoplasma
contamination in cell culture by fluorescent Hoechst
33258 strain. Exp. Cell Res. 104:255-62 (1977).

Christolfalo, VJ. and Rothblatt, G. (Eds.) Nutrition
and Metabolism of Animal Cells in Culture, Academic
Press, NY (1973).

Clode, A.M., Pratten, M.K., and Beck, F. A stage-
dependent effect of ethanol on 9.5-day rat embryos
grown in culture and the role played by the concomitant
rise in osmolality. Teratology 35: 395-403 (1987).

Cour, 1., Maxwell, G. and Hay, RJ. Tests for bacterial
and fungal contaminants in cell cultures as applied at the
ATCC. TCA Manual 5:1157—1160, (1979).

Croom-Brown, H, Correia, I.]., and Williams, R.C.,
Jr. The effects of elevated pH and high saltconcentrations
on tubulin. Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 249(2):397-406 (1986).

Dawson, M. Cellular Pharmacology, Charles C. Thomas,
Publisher, Springfield, IL (1972).

DelGiudice, RA. and Gardella, R.S. Mycoplasma
infection of cell cultures: Effects, incidence and detection.
TCA Monogr. 5:104-115 (1984).

Everett, D.H. Basic Principles of Colloid Science. Royal
Society of Chemistry Paperbacks, Blackhorse Road,
Letchworth, Herts. 8G6 1HN, England (1988)

Fisher, P.B., Goldstein, M.I., Bryson, V and Schaffner,
C.P. Reduced toxicity of amphotericin B methyl ester
(AME) vs amphotericin B and fungizone in tissue culture.
In Vitro 12:133-40 (1976).

Freshney, R.I. (Ed.) Culture of Animal Cells. A Manual
0f Basw Technique (13‘ Edition). Alan R. Liss, Inc., New
York, 1983.

Gilbert, D.A., Reid, Y.A., Hay, R]. and O’Brien, SJ.
.Appltcation of DNA fingerprints for cell line
1ndIV1dua1ization. ]. Human Genet. 1989 (Submitted for
publication).

Gourley, D.R.H., Interactions of Drugs with Cells,
Charles C. Thomas, Publisher, Springfield, IL (1976).

L' Hay, R-l- (Ed) ATCC Quality Control Methods for Cell
(11791555,)ATCC Publication, Rockville, MD., First edition

f Hay, R-l- The seed stock concept and quality control
01' cell hnes. Anal. Biochem. 171:225-237 (1988).

. Hay, RJ. Preservation and characterization of cell
lines. In: Animal Cell Culture: A Practical Approach, RI.
3531518}, (Ed), IRL Press, Washington, DC pp, 71-112

Holohan, PD, Sokol, P.P., Ross, C.R., Coulson, R,
Trimble, M-E'r 138193, DA. and Williams, PD. Gentamicin-
induced increases in cytosolic calcium in pig kidney cells
(LLC-PKl). I. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 247:349-354 (1988).

Huegen, A.W., Cerney, A., Zinkemagel, RM. and
Neftel, K.A. Suppressive effects of B-lactam-antibiotics
or in vitro generation of cytotoxic T-cells. Int. J.
Immunopharmacol. 8:723-729 (1986).

ICI Americas, Inc. The HLB System: A Time-saving
Guide to Emulsifier Selection, ICI Americas, Inc., Wilmington,
DE (1987).

Inaba, M., Nagashima, K. Growth-inhibitory activity
of minocycline on various tumor cell lines in vitro. Gan To
Kaguku Rycho, 13:2337-41 (1986).

Jakoby, W.B. and Pastan I.H. (Volume Editors): Cell
Culture (Volume LVHI), Methods in Enzymology (Colowick,
SP. and Kaplan, N.O., Editors-in-Chief). Academic Press,
NY (1979).

Klausner, A. Tissue culture for improved toxicology,
Bio/Technology, 5:779-786 (1987).

Krause, H.]. and Juliano, R.L. Interactions of liposome—
incorporated amphotericin B with kidney epithelial cell
cultures. Mol. Pharmacol. 34:286-297 (1988).

Kruse, P.F. Jr., and Patterson, Jr., M.K. (Eds.) Tissue
Culture, Methods and Applications, Academic Press, New
York, NY (1973).

Kruyt, H.R. Colloid Science: Irreversible Colloids Vol. I.
1952. Elsevier Publishing Company, NY (1952).

Kruyt, H.R. Colloid Science: Reversible Collozds Vol II.
1952. Elsevier Publishing Company, NY (1952).

Laughlin, R.G. Solution and structural requirements
of surfactant hydrophilic groups. In: Advances in Liquid
Crystals, Vol. 3 (G. H. Brown, Ed.) (1978), pp. 41-98. .

Laughlin, R.G. HLB, from a thermodynamic
perspective. ]. Soc. Cos. Chem, 32, 371-392 (1981).

Laughlin, R.G., R. L. Munyon, S. K. Ries, and V. F.
Wert, Growth enhancement of plants by femtomole
doses of colloidally dispersed triacontanol, Sc1ence, 219,

-1221 1983). . .
1219Luk, C(.K., and Dulfano, M.].: Effegteopr-IE v15cosrcty,

nd ionic-stren th chan es on ciliary ating requen
if human broncghial explints. Clin. Sci. 64:449-451 (1983).

Macy, M.L. Identification of cell 11ne spec1es by
isoenzyme analysis. TCA Manual. 4.833-836 (1.978).. f

Macy, M.L. Tests for mycoplasmal contamination OI
cultured cells as applied at the ATCC. TCA Manua.

~ - 1979). . ,
5113;11:3va and RH. Peters. Empirical relationship;
between the 1-octanol water part1t10n-coeff1c1ept l1“ 1

h sicochemicalproperties. Environ. SCI. 8 cc no .,

- - . 1988 . . .
22.14/72: 133% llshing) Co. McCutcheon's Emulszflgeirs and
Detergents, North American Edition, MCCUtCheO“ V1510 '
175 Rock Road, Glen Rock, NY. (1987)-

E—ﬁﬁﬂ—

 

 




 

19

McKeehan, W.L., Barnes, D., Reid, L., Stanbridge, E.,
Murakami, H. and Sato, G. Mammalian cell culture.
Science 1989 (Submitted for publication).

N elson-Rees, W., Daniels, W.W. and Flandermeyer,
RR Cross-contamination of cells in culture. Science 212:446—
452 (1981).

Paul, J. Cell and Tissue Culture, 4 Edition, Williams
and Wilkins, Baltimore (1970).

Rosen, M.J., Surfactants and Interfacial Phenomena,
John Wiley and Sons, Inc. New York (1978).

Vaughan, CD. Using solubility parameters in cosmetic
formulations. J. Soc. Cos. Chem., 36:319-333 (1985). .

Vaughan, C.D. Solubility: Effects in product, package,
penetration and presentation. Cosmetics 6* Toiletries, 103 :47-
69 (1988).

Walker, R.J., Lazzaro, V.A. Duggin, G.G.; Horvath,
IS. and Tiller, DJ. Synergistic toxicity of cyclosporin A
and streptomycin in renal epithelial cell cultures. Res.
Commun. Chem. Pathol. Pharmcaol. 62:447-60, (1988).

Williams, G.M.,.Dunkel, V.C., and Ray, V.A. (Eds)
Cellular Systems for Toxicity Testing, Annals NY. Acad.
Sci. 407:1-484 (1983).

 

The Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing
(CAAT) is devoted to developing the knowledge base for methods

to evaluate fully the safety of commercial and/ or therapeutic
products.

Alan M. Goldberg, Ph.D.
Director

John M. Frazier, PhD.
Associate Director

The Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing
The Johns Hopkins School of Public Health

615 North Wolfe Street

Baltimore, MD 21205

Telephone: 301-955-3343
Telefax: 301-955-7407

CAAT Sponsors

Abbott Laboratories

Amoco Corporation

Avon Products, Inc.
BristoLMyers Company
Charles River Laboratories, Inc.
The Cosmetic, Toiletry and
Fragrance Association, Inc.

The Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation
Exxon Corporation

IBM Corporation

Johnson & Johnson

Mary Kay Cosmetics, Inc.

The Estee Lauder Companies
National Institutes of Health

Sponsors of This Workshop

Hoffmann—LaRoche, Inc.

Mary Kay Cosmetics, Inc.

The Procter & Gamble Company

US. Environmental Protection Agency

W

 




APHIS PROPOSAL ON THE IMPORTATION OF PSITTACINE BIRDS

m M...

.J

The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service is pmoposing two changes to
‘ its existing rules on the importation of psittacine birds. First, APHIS proposes
g.to delete the present limitation of only allowing the importation of two pet birds

.4 u ; aw
. we)
' \

v,
' . ﬁ

K

. per family per year.__ The incidence of the disease has been very low in recent
E“ years and psittacosis is now treatable with antibiotics. The Public Health
, gs Service, no longer considering psittacosis to be 21 serious health hazard, already
4jehx has removed the restriction from their regulations.

Second, APHIS proposes to change the existing requirement that imported psitta~
cine birds be individually identified or leg—banded within 72 hours of their entry
into quarantine. This 72~hour rule has posed unnecessary hardships since psittacine
birds often arrive at quarantine facilities in bulk shipments of hundreds of birds.
The 72—hour requirement frequently results in extensive overtime costs because
sufficient time is not provided for identifying large numbers of birds. USDA vet—
erinarians also believe the requirement places imported birds under undue stress due
to handling immediately after transportation. APHIS proposes to extend the require~
ment for identification from 72 hours to 7 days.

Comments on. this proposal. may be sent to Ed Schmitt of the Legislation
Committee by 25 September for inclusion in the AAZPA submittal or sent directly to
APHIS to the Regulatory Coordination Staff, APHIS/USDA, Room 728, Federal Building,
6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782.

FWS DESIGNATES FLORIDA GRASSHOPPER SPARROW AS ENDANGERED SPECIES

Effective 2 September, the Fish and Wildlife Service added the Florida
grasshopper sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum floridanus) to the List of Endangered and
Threatened Sp This bird, which is endemic to the prairie region of
south-central Florida is listed as endangered. Habitat loss and degradation due to
conversion of native vegetation areas is the principal reason for the species'
decline.

 

Update your Legislative Manuals accordingly.

 

APHIS PROPOSES TO CONTRACT WITH PRIVATE FIRMS FOR
CERTAIN QUARANTINE STATION SERVICES

On 22 July, AAZPA submitted comments to the Animal and Plant Health

.. Inspection Service on their proposal to contract with private firms to conduct
certain. activities at Federal animal quarantine stations. We stated that the

proposal raised innumerable questions and, without more specifics,we would be opposed.

W7“) \gxlzsi'od'~ qutcmﬁ e} ng GIN

gieLo')1 There was no criteria outlined in the proposal for the qualifications of a

’ firm and/or its employees; yet individuals who care for, feed, and handle animals

. must be specially trained. The preposal was not clear whether each quarantine
station would be serviced by only one firm or whether there would be several. This
raises the problem of the continuity of employees handling quarantine animals. We
expressed concern about the level of control APHIS would maintain over the firms
and their employees. Finally, we stated our uneasiness with the precedent created
to contract with outside firms to perform APHIS services--inspection of exhibitors
and. dealers under the Animal. Welfare: Act could. be ‘next. AAZPA is opposed to

private firms conducting those inspections. (V V‘ .
Kn. enrs;

-8—

 




shdernLReglstsr—I.-Vol.i51. No. 149 I'Monday..Angust‘4.r-1988 [Proposed ﬂules

#5927871.

 

(ii) Date and place of birth.
(iii) Country of citizenship.
(iv) Address.
(v) Status. i.e.. full-time or part-time.
(vi) Date of commencement of studies.
. . (vii) Degree program and field of
stud.. '
(viii) Whether the student has been
- certified for practical training. and the
beginning and and dates of certiﬁcation
(ix) Termination date and reason. if
known. .
(x) The documents referred to in
paragraph (k) of this section.
' (xi) The number of credits completed
each semester. —

A Service ofﬁcer may request any or all
of the above data on any individual
student or class of students upon notice.
This notice will be in writing if
requested by the School. The school will
have three work days to respond to any
request for information concerning an
individual student. and ten work days to
respond to any request for information
concerning a class of students. The
Service will ﬁrstattempt to gain
information concerning a class of
students from the Service's record

' . system. ' ' ‘

t a I. e a '

PART m-CHANGE OF "
NONIMMIGRANT CLASSIFICATION
‘l. The authority citation for Part 248 is
. revised to read as follows:
Authority: Secs. 101. 103. 214. 247 and 248
of the Immigration and Nationality Act as

amended: (8 U.S.C. 1101. 1103. 1184. 1257 and
1258).

5. In section 248.1. a new paragraph -
(e) would be added to read as follows:

§ 248.1 Bigibittty.

t i i f t

(e) Application for change of

noni'mmigrant classification from that of

a student under section 101(c)(15)(F)(i')
to that described in section
101(c)(15){H). A district director shall
deny an application for change of
nonimmigrant classiﬁcation from that of
an F—1 student to that of an alien
temporary worker under section
101(a)(15}(lf) of the Act if the student
has engaged in practical training after
completion of studies in accordance
with 9 214.2(f)(10)(ii).-

Dated: lune 18. 1986
Richard E. Norton.
9 Associate Comiiii'ssioner. Examinations.
' Immigmtibn and Naturalization Service.
(FR Doc 86—17438 Filed 8—1788; 8:45 am)

‘.

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service

s cm Part 02‘
[Docket No. ss-oszl _
Importatlon of Pstttaetne Birds

Aoeucv: Animal and Plant Health 5
Inspection Service. USDA.

ACTION: Proposed rule.

 

sUMMAnY: This document proposes to
amend the regulations in 9 CFR Part 92
to (1] lengthen the period of time in
which federal and commercial
quarantine facilities must legband or
otherwise individually identify imported
psittacine birds. and (2) delete a
footnote that is no longer applicable. It
appears that the proposal would relieve
current restrictions and clarify the <
regulations without increasing the risk
of spreading foreign bird and poultry
diseases into the United States.

DATE: Written comments must be
received on or before October 3. 1988. .

ADDRESS: Written comments concerning

this proposed rule should be submitted \

to Regulatory Coordination’Staff.
APHIS, USDA. Room 728. Federal

' Tluilding. 6505 Belcrest Road.

Hyattsville, MD 20782. Cements
should state that they are’in response to
Docket Number 86-032. Written
Comments received may be inspected at
Room 728 of the Federal Building
between 8 am. and 4:30 pm, Monday
through Friday, except holidays.
FlﬂiFIHTTHEWI"MFOWHIAJTOIICIHTEACDT
Mr. W. H. Ritchie. Import-

Operations Staff, VS. APT-HS. USDA.
Room 786. Federal Building. 6505
Belcrest Road. Hyattsville, MD 20782.
301-436-7835. ’ ' '3 - ,. '
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: '

Background .

The regulations in 9 CFR Part 92
(referred tobelow as the regulations).
among other things. regulate the
importation of birds into the United
States to help assure that said birds are
free from exotic Newcastle disease.
forms of avian influenza lethal to
poultry, and other communicable
diseases of poultry. Specific sections of
the regulations that would be affected
by this proposal are:

1. Section 92.2(0). containing
requirements for entry of pet birds into
the United States.

2. Section 9211(e). containing
imported birdhandling procedures for
United States Department of Agriculture

“ quarantine facilities.-

3. Section 92.11“]. containing facility
standards and imported bird handling
procedures for privately operated
quarantine facilities approved by the
Deputy Administator. Veterinary
Services. Animal and Plant Health

inspection Service. United States . . "

Department ongriculture. .
Birds Per Family Limitation _
Sections 922(c)(1). 922(c)(2)(ii. and

92.2(c)(3) of the current regulations are
footnoted as follows:

“US. Public Health Service Regulations (42
CPR 71.184(e)} restrict the entry of pet ’
psittacine birds to two birds per family per
year"

This restriction was established by ,
the United States Public Health Service
(PHS) as a means of stemming the
spread of psittacosis. a disease of birds
that is transmittable to man. However.“
the incidence of disease has been very ’
low in recent years, and psittacosis is
now treatable with antibiotics. As a,
result. PHS no longer cansiders .
.psittacosis to be a serious health hazard
and. on Feb. 11. 1985. removed »
restrictions on psittacine birds from PBS
regulations. Therefore. this document
proposes to delete the above footnote .
and the references thereto from '
§ 92.2(c). .

Bird Identiﬁcation

lrnported psittacine birds are
individually identiﬁed when
quarantined in [1.5. Department of . _
Agriculture or approved privately ' ' ‘
operated facilities. Under current _ _
regulations. the birds must be identiﬁed
with a serially numbered legband. or . ,
other suitable means of identiﬁcation, ‘
within 72-hours of their entry into the
quarantine facility. ' ‘ " '

The Department believes. however.
that requiring individual bird ' ‘
identiﬁcation within772~hours of their
entry into the quarantine facility is
causing unreasonable and unnecessary
hardships. Psittacine birds frequently
arrive at quarantine facilities in bulk
shipments of hundreds of. birds: The
current 72-hour identiﬁcation
requirement does not provide enough
time for handing or otherwise ~
identifying such large numbers of birds
and does not take weekends into
account. Thus. complying with the 72-_ -
hour identiﬁcation requirement
frequently results in quarantine facilities
incurring extensive overtime costs.

Department veterinarians also believe
that the 72-haur identiﬁcation '
requirement places Imported birds under '
undue stress. in fiscal‘year 1984. roughly 4,1 7
158.000 imported birds deid‘inftrsnsit or: M

during the mimnm seesay‘quamunsa .~_.

 

 

 

 




h

M

27872

.l-‘ederal Register I~rVol.a~51.-No. 149 I Monday. August 4.31986 I *Pmposed Rules

 

required by the regulations. The major
cause of these losses was stress.
resulting from handling and
transportation. Under the current 72-
hour identiﬁcation requirement. birds ..
are often not fully recovered from ..
shipment-related stress before .
undergoing identification—a procedure
involving the physical seizure and .
immobilization of the birds. ’
This document proposes to extend the
mandatory time period for ‘
accomplishment of individual bird
identifications by United States _
Department of Agricultureand approved
privately operated quarantine facilities.
from the current 72- hours to 7- days. The
Department believes that this additional
time would significantly reduCe facility
Overtime costs and bird stress. without
' reducing the effectiveness of the
identification procedure.

Executive Order 12291 and Regulatory
Flexibility Act

. This action has been reviewed in "
conformance with Executive Order
12291 and has been determined to be not

"major rule. " The Department has _ ,
determined that this action would not
have a significant effect on the . .
economy; would not cause a major -
increase in costs or prices for
consumers. individual industries.

Federal. State. or local government A

agencies. or geographic regions; and
should have no significant. adverse . 3.
effects on competition. employment

inVestment. productivity. innovation. or - ,

on the ability of United States- based
enterprises to compete with foragin- ‘.
based enterprises 1n domestic or export
markets

Removal of the footnoted reference
would have no impact on the
importation of birds into the United
States since the referenced importation
limitation no longer exists. Extending
the individual bird identification period
from 72-hours to 7-dayswould relieve
existing restrictions and should result in
reduced costs for quarantine facilities
and more healthful conditions for .
imported birds.

Under the circumstances explained

above. the Administrator of the Animal :
and Plant Health Inspection Service has -

determined that this action would not
have a significant economic impact can
substantial number of small entities.

Executive Order 12372

This program] activity is listed in the
. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance

under No. 10.025 and is subject to the .1":
' provisions of Executive Order 12372. .
which requires intergovernmental .
consultation with State and local , .2

--Quarantine. Transportation. Wildlife
PART 92-IMPORTATION OF CERTAIN

. CFR Part 92 as follows:

- U...SC 102-105 111. 13411.1.34b 1341:. 134d.

‘5 92.11 [Amended]

ivould be amended. by changing “72 '
hours" to read “7 days'ﬂ .

?-'.Done at Washington DC. this 29th day of
.Iuly 1986.41;-

- ‘Deputy Administrator. Vete11'nary Services.
' Animal and Plant Health mspection Servrbe.

’elLuucoooEmo-u-I .

. ! -.- unescorted access to protected areasini
~_ commercial nuclear power plants are

officials. (See 7 CFR Part 3015.‘-Subpart not under the influence of alcohol or ' I
V). _ other drugs or otherwise unfit for duty.

1.151 of Subjects in 9 CFR Part92 . The Commission proposed this rule

because of a concern that certain
Animal (“888888. Canada. Imports. ._ persons could become unfit for duty due
Livestock and Livestock Prddu‘cts'. it

to the effects of substances such as
Mexico P0111117 and Poultry 9“).qu r alcohol Or other drugs and. thereby.

'f‘adversely impact the health and safety
of the public. Instead of this rule. the
Commission is issuing a' Policy
Statement concurrent with this action to
withdraw the proposed rule. The
Commission has decided to defer
rulemaking on ﬁtness for duty of nuclear
power plant personnel for a minimum of .

P‘fEX—mgr‘

ANIMALS AND POULTRY AND
CERTAIN ANIMAL AND POULTRY
PRODUCTS. INSPECTION AND OTHER
REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN '
MEANS OF CONVEYANCE AND . ‘
SHIPPING CONTAINERS TI‘IEREON

Accordingly. it is proposed to amend 9 POBCY Statement. The Commission 8
. decision 19 intended to recognize and .v

further encourage the initiatives _-
concerning ﬁtness for duty beirig taken
by the nuclear pawer industry. the "
Nuclear Utility Management and Human
ResourCes COmmitteet C). and
by the Institute of Nuclear Power '

1. The authority citation. for Part 92
would continue to read as fellows:

Authority: 7 U ...SC 1822; 19 U. S. C. 1306. 21
1341, and 135; 7 CFR 217.. 251. and 371 .2(d).

§ 92.2 [Amended] ' .. Operations (INPO). The CommiSSion

' 2. In 5 92. 2. footnote number 2a of will exercise this deference as long as
paragraphs [c)(1). (c)(2)(ij. and (CH3) and the industry programs produce the '
the references thereto would be ' desired results. The Commission will
removed. ' ’ . -. ' reassess the poss1ble need for further
action based on the succeSs cl: these
_programs during the 18-month penod

DATE: This withdrawal is effective
August4. 1986 ' ‘ .

:_ - FOR FURTHER INFORMATION :CONTACT:
hires Bush. Ofﬁce of Inspection and

Enforcement. U. S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commismon. Washington. DC 20555. g g.
telephone (301) 492-8080 - . . .

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

3. Paragraph (e) of '5 92 .11 would be
amended by changing “72 hours" to read
“7 day s".- -

4. Paragraph [ﬂ(3)[11)(E) of 5 92.11

In Amn‘ '.:*;?~:.~..2 ' .
Background , ' -. . g.

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission
. recognizes drug and alcohol abuse to be
.... ’ " a social. medical.- and safety problem -
_ - ‘ affecting every segment of our society.
Given the pervasiveness of the problem
in our society. it seems reasonable to ‘
assume that drug .and alcohol abuse. as. . _
ﬁ-well as other emotional and. «-
psychological factors. also ex13t in the
nuclear industry. Prudence. therefore.
requires that the Commission take . g
appropriate precautionary measures to
reduce the probability that a person.
who 1s under the inﬂuence of alcohol."
other drugs. or who is Otherwise. unfit for '
some task involving a nuclear power
unit. may cause an accident or react
inadequately to an accident. ’

[FR Doc. 88-17442 Filed 8-1-86; 8: 45 am]

NUCLEAR REGULATORY
COMMISSION. .

10 CFR Part 50

Personnel With Unescorted Access to
Protected Areas: FItness tor Duty

AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory ‘ "
Commission.

ACTION: Proposed rule Withdrawal

 

SUMMARY: The Commission is. :1 ._ ’
withdrawing a proposed rule published
in the Federal Register on August 5. . . -~ .
1982. In this rule. the Commission ‘ The job performance of alcohol and
proposed amending its regulations to . ,drug abusers can be expected to be
require that certain licensees establish. hindered by the presence of chemicals _
document and implement adequate :- ‘i sin their blood stream. For example. the -_.
written procedures designed to ensure National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
that while on duty personnel with ‘ Alcoholism (NIAAA).11rits‘1981 Report
to Congress. reports that48 percent of

, {‘5‘

 

 

18 months from the effective date of the . .7

all nonfatal and 40 pmféll fatal . 53%




I z o o L o G l s C H E R e A R T E N

DER STADT FRANKFURT AM MAIN

Alfred—Brehm—Platz 16, D — 6000 Frankfurt am Main 1, West Germany
Director : Dr. Richard Faust - October, 1981

We request the publication of the following press release :

FROM WEST GERMANY BACK TO AFRICA
RE—INTRODUCTION OF SMUGGLED AND CONFISCATED CHIMPANZEES

In May 1980, two Chimpanzees and one Pigmy Chimpanzee were taken into custody
by the customs officials of the Federal Republic of Germany near the town of Wies—
baden. The three animals came from Belgium and had been smuggled into Germany,
stowed away in a sack in the boot of a vehicle. The competent CITES Management
Authorities ruled that they be deposited at the Frankfurt Zoological Gardens until
the conclusion of the legal proceedings. All three specimensiarrived there in a
piteous state. The Pigmy Chimpanzee was moribund, had in addition a broken arm
and only by means of infusions could he be kept alive. The two Chimpanzees had
also entirely wasted away and were in an extremely poor physiological as well as

physical condition.

After the lawsuit against the smuggler had now finally been completed after one and
a half years, decisions could be taken on the animals' further fate. During their
stay at Frankfurt 200 they fully recovered, tripled their weight and again became

healthy and vivacious young apes.

On 25 September 1981, the two Chimpanzees were returned to Africa with the object
of releasing them to the wild after an appropriate period of rehabilitation within

the Chimpanzee Rehabilitation Project in The Gambia founded and operated by Stella
Brewer. All costs involved for the flight as well as for their re—introduction were
made available by the Frankfurt Zoological Society from the account "Help for

Threatened Animals".

The destiny of the Pigmy Chimpanzee is still pending. His return to Zaire and re»-
introduction there cannot be materialized since a suitable rehabilitation station does

not 'exist.

ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS
FRANKFURT AM MAIN

I
\

 




Friday, July )7. 198! THE WASHINGTON POST

‘l 51701] cm] Pour/1w Trap
Snares 2 7 [“33 States

Unttutt Proms lntornultonnt

'
C
a

'l‘lm governnwnt unnotiiwotl tlio ttt't'tlh‘i ywtmj-
”(lily of 127 people Hmn'otl in on imitnnl sting oper-
ption l'ot‘ illugnlly liuying‘nntl selling nnnlws, tur-
(lt‘h, lizzn‘cls, migi'ntory'lmfda onil other wilt'llit'o.

: Voilm'ol ngontn snirl they wore notoninlwtl by the

V'Ivolnnio oi luminous tlio'tnmlorcovcr opvrntion nt-
. jl‘iltfitftl: during it»; 18-month run in n storefront in ‘

"n intlnstrinl pork nonr (\tlnntn. ,

. ‘More than 10,000 nnimnls wow bought and
would liymorc tlinn l75'intliviclunls in the largest
s opomlionot'_ it» kind; tltollb'. l“lHlt and Wildlife

Hci‘viccianitl. Prices for the prize specimens ranged

Jroniluiin tlnin $10“ to ncni'lv $10001

.‘ ”4‘”... J _ .‘ .

1‘ g», llttﬂlthCHlﬁilllt)”:illsu revealed that tens ot

t.i.51liotmnntln‘ot'minltoo'gn‘c illegally sent through the

."‘ll.S._mnil enoliycz’ir. ', i l '

L: 'l‘lto, h’tét‘VltBU suicl tho operation encletl yegtortlny ‘

”morning with tti arrests in Atlanta, eight in Pitts~
Iburgh, two in Scranton, Pit, tUKl one in I’I‘ollnhas-

hgseo, l"ln. Another l75 personsture under lHVCdLi“
ignition nnd nrrcats niny apt-owl into it states in all. *

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By Nuum for The Chutotu Chane:

 




7.. um. .m“,n.

’° nds

 

 
         

_ ,., , _,.. _ _ “1 .. ,_ , _.,...-_..... ._,..,.,,....,-— “a“? ...- - __ m... _.a‘7n~I-'p-smv ”vac".- .rf—V. . .._.....,..~. ,. 1‘ ...._ V..—r.....c .. MK.- .» , ‘ W, a... .-5..; ,. . .._. . . W. ,__, g __ .,... .., -qu; 7,». *1. ...‘,. {Cy—NV». w,» - .
. 3‘3““ , . ’ .. 554’ l “f" - i a». . 0., 3., . y . ”3.4-- .a sum—sq.-.— ‘n. L... - - > A > ”A . E: .3 .,.:. ., .1. _~ an- a,” .’,«.V_,‘T'u,_ 4. "J f?" a ., ‘. >7 . -f ‘ . mus“. , -. .,,._,._. J?” a“; ,_
L

v.7 M" an «anv—

 

 

 

   
  

of the Earth Internationa {fiery} E
@ 1~51—8 YOYOG!.SHTBUYA—KU
/ ‘ _ TOKYO 151 .JAPAN

 
     

IQTQTAQAJ’ LLAZITéT’EL.ajngfTTDLfEL’ (Qﬁ%NJ9ﬂA-: F2kﬂJ4 LrﬂﬁjcxﬁdAJ;

Re: Japanese Trade in Himalayan Musk Deer

  

Probably you are not aware of the fact that the Japanese trade in musk derived
from the Himalayan musk deer is about to render the Species extinct. In order to
Spread the word, Friends of the Earth Japan is sending you this special report
of our three month investigation of the issue.

In recent years Japan has been receiving about 200 kilos of musk per year from
Nepal which is very curious as Nepal banned all trade in musk in T9731 Japan
placed a reservation on Himalayan musk deer at the time of CITES ratification
(August l980) despite the fact that all nations where the species is found have
national legislation that prohibits killing the animal. Until the musk arrives

at Japanese customs it is contrabandtxade. The trade is wiping out about 30,000
animals annually.

It is strongly felt that the international conservation community can help save
the musk deer and reinforce the campaign here in Japan in the following ways:

Egblicity: This serious problem has received very little public exposure.
It is vital that the Japanese government be aware that the issue is gener—
ating international media and press coverage. Please give the issue exposure

in your own publications or pass the information along to interested individuals,
groups, newspapers, and magazines.

Letters: Voice your Opinions to the Japanese Ministries involved. Call upon

the Japanese government to remove the reservations on this and all_CITES

species. (Sei, Fin, and Sperm Whales, Green, Hawksbill, and olive Ridley

sea turtles, Bengal, desert, and yellow monitor lizards, and saltwater crocodile).
Point out that the Japanese musk trade can only exist through illegal channels

and that such a situation reflects very negatively on the Japanese image.

 

Ministry of International Trade and Industry
l-3—l Kasumigaseki

 

Chiyoda-Ku (oversees CITES; urge compliance with the spirit

Tokyo, Japan of CITES)

Ministry of Health and Welfare

l-2—2 Kasumigaseki (was the agency that requested the reser—
Chiyoda-Ku vation status; urge use of non-endangered musk)

:Tokyo l00, Japan

The Environment Agency

3-l—l Kasumigaseki "(was the agency that granted approval for
Chiyoda-Ku reservation status; urge compliance with the
T okyo l00, Japan spirit of CITES)

  
   

continued...

 

 




-2-

Regarding: Japanese Trade in Himalayan Musk Deer, cont.

Inguiries to local Japanese Embassies; Ask officials at the local embassy
and consulate Tacilities why their government is Openly encouraging the
extinction of the Himalayan musk deer by promoting poaching and smuggling

activities throughout the Himalayas. The officials will report back to Japan.

Thank you for your helpi The Japanese government is taking so much heat on the
whale issue that we think they'll back down on musk deer in a hurry once the
pressure is on rather than risk another wildlife issue.

4714M: /

gal/UL ~ m ,. Wi’VWJ‘UN “‘
WWU (L/ an/ Cﬂ‘vb‘kW-H ca

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




ﬁllet/aim riglstgeéﬁa

_Taxonomy
Moschus Mushiferus

Distribution

Formerly wideSpread throughout the entire Himalayan region in the upper
forest and scrub levels between 2,200 and 4,300 meters extending from Pakistan
through Northern India, Nepal, Bhutan, and Tibet possibly into Burma and Southwest
China.

Today it occurs in only one quarter of its former range in India (having
been exterminated by relentless hunting). A few survivors are reported in Pakistan
and Kashmir, but it is extremely rare. In Nepal, poaching has largely depleted
the animal from even so—called protected areas like Langtang National Park. The
species is very rare and teams of Nepali poachers-are turning to neighboring Sikkim
and Bhutan where the animal is under heavy pressure. The relaxation of tension
along the Tibetan border has seen an increased flow of musk into Katmandu to the
point that a recent Tibetan glut is forcing prices down. Nhile little data is
available concerning the animal§ status in Tibet these recent develOpments suggest
that it is under heavy pressure there as well.

The musk deer is the national animal of Bhutan. It is also seen on Nepal's l
rupee note. '

 

 

 

 

Former Range, 04' the

Himalayan .MusK Deer

SANGLADESH'

 

 

 

 




Distinctive Characteristics

The Musk deer is a very unique component in the Himalayan ecology. and from
a biological standpoint is a peculiar and distinct Species within the deer family.
It holds an evolutionary place between deer and antelope. It is hare—like with
an arched back, bounding gait and long ears. It possesses a gall bladder which no
other deer does. The total absence of horns is compensated by highly developed
tusk-like canines that protrude from the mouth. There are no face glands (which are
common in most deer species) but there is a musk gland anterior to the anus of
mature males and it is for this reason alone that the species is persecuted. The
hooves are another unique feature; being splayed the deer can move through snow
or up steep rocky terrain with little difficulty. The animal seems to be territorial
and is solitary; two animals have rarely been sighted together so even under
optimum conditions pOpulation densities remain low.

 

 

Musk Gland

 

Known as a pod in the trade, the musk gland of mature males is about
6 cm long, 3 cm in diameter and 4_5 cm deep. The averagevmﬁghtis about 22 grams.
(About 40 pods make one kilo of musk) Musk is a pungent, red-brown viscous sub—
stance. Himalayan musk is the best quality and therefore the most sought after
of the various musk varieties (i.e. Siberian or Chinese).

Uses of Musk .

Musk is used in both cosmetics and traditional medicinal compounds.

Cosmetics: esteemed in perfumery for its fixative and scent properties.

The first synthetic musk was developed in l888. Since then, there are more than
80 artificial musks. Natural and synthetic musks are chemically indistinguishable.

Medicine: used as a stimulant and sedative in indigenous medicine,
(ayurvedic and unani); as a sedative in the treatment of epilepsy, hysteria,
asthma, and other nervous disorders; as a stimulant in the treatment of pneumonia,
bronchitis, typhoid,typhus. and impotence.

ChOpra (l958): ”The importance of musk in the indigenous medicine in India
has been very much overrated and...it has not got any marked physiological or
therapeutic prOperties."

Hoerr and Osol (l952): ”The actions of musk...are so slight that they would
not produce any therapeutic effects.”

 

Hunting Methods

Guns: formerly widely used in musk hunting in India; today the noise is
likely to draw authorities so guns are seldom used. Kill ratios: two out of five
deer shot prove to be'a mature male bearing a pod.

Fence and snare: widely used throughout Nepal, Bhutan, and Sikkim where
teams of poachers string miles of fences and snares along the contours of mountain
valleys at 5 meter intervals. Kill ratios: One in four deer killed yields a
musk pod. .

Poison: Occasionally used in Nepal. Poisoned leaves are used.

All hunting methods are indiscriminate. Females, young and immature males
easily end up victims. Within two years an entire mountain valley's musk deer
population can be wiped out by poaching Operations.

It is_not necessary to kill the deer to extract musk. Musk ranching is
highly developed in China where the substance is extracted by inserting a hollow
tube into the gland without any adverse affects on the deer. However, the economics
of extinction are such that poaching seems to be the easiest way to obtain musk as
it involves the lowest capital investment.

 

Prices -

' ”Tn the mid l970's musk was selling for four times its weight in goldi

Prices range from about $25,000 to $40,000 a kilo. The economics of extinction

have been reSponsible for the sky high prices; as the population diminishes, the
price soars. Presently, musk wholesales for $50.00 a gram/ $50,000 a kilo in Japan.

 




Conservation Efforts _
In l972 India gave the species complete protection under the Wildlife

Protection Act of that year. All hunting of the species was prohibited, and
export of musk was outlawed.

In l973, Nepal banned all exports of musk and gave the Species total pro-
tection under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act. This action
was taken at a time when musk exports were the number two foreign exchange
earner for the poor country which shows to what extent the Nepalis were willing

to go to save the animal.
Internationally, CITES bans all trade in the musk of the Himalayan Musk Deer

listing iton Appendix l.
Since l974 the Himalayan Musk Deer has been listed as 'vulnerable' in the

RED DATA book.

 

Musk Ranching
Musk deer have been successfully ranched in China for the last 20 years

to satisfy the needs of the Chinese indigenous medicine systems. Farms were
originally stocked with specimens from the wild in l958, but this practice became
unnecessary after l965 when successful breeding programs were able to meet pro-
duction requirements. The musk is extracted from the animals by inserting a silver
grooved spatula into.the musk gland. The musk is drained onto paper and left to
dry. The deer is not harmed by the relatively simple procedure. Chinese farms
have been plagued by some problems particularly disease, and run at a loss due to
high maintenance costs. However, further studies might indicate that musk ranching
has high potential as a revenue earner once certain problems are worked out.

 

Trade with Japan
Japan has continued to import large quantities of musk even after it was

outlawed in India and Nepal. By l976 exports had ground to a total halt from
India, but the Nepalese connection persists to this day. The trade can only exist
through a network of illegal poaching, smuggling, and corruption.

k

 

f
»és.

 

l972 Nepal l46 kg. India l78 kg. Hong Kong 23 kg.
l973 Nepal l74 India 8] Hong Kong 22
T974 Nepal lOO India l6 Hong Kong 4
l975 Nepal 99 . Hong Kong 6
l976 Nepal l79 total. 275 kg. Hong Kong 9

4

3

5/ AVb/t [I‘ij/C'}

\< :

T977 Nepal l93 Hong Kong
l978 ,Nepal 232 Hong Kong
l979 Nepal l96 .Mong Kong 46
l98O Nepal l56 Hong Kong 40
3/8l Nepal __J3 . Hong Kong ll

total:l,488 kg. total: l68 kg.

/"7

“I , ' A
.11) 22551.14? 24,615) Happzyz/"é‘z

.1“.

 

source: Nihon Boeki Geppo

__‘

 

w

The Japanese trade could represent a total of about 280,000 deer once kill ratios
are computed. The Japanese trade continues even after the ratification of CITES
because Japan placed a reservation on the Appendix I listing of Himalayan Musk Deer
so it can continue to legally import the commodity though it remains illegal to
export it from any of the places where it is found.

Nepal is at a loss to stOp the trade. An official in the National Parks and
Wildlife Conservation Department expressed it this way: " How can we stop the
illegal trade in musk when we can't even control the smuggling of gold, silver,
drugs, or commodities?” The Nepalese trade represents not just musk from Nepal.
but also musk illegally poached in neighboring Sikkim, Bhutan, India, and Tibet.

. / . ~ /' I 5’1 ‘ ‘4‘“,
it A. .2ﬂ...-..a. .1 .. (EI/uaR‘L ,4 .

Hong Kong is also a component in the musk smuggling business. Both Indian §§

and Nepali dealers use Hong Kong as a contact and distribution center. A percentage

OE.ﬁimggayagkmggk‘égngporgedapgt of Hong Kong. -In T928: Hong Kong exported onlgnt’7a3

 




Uses in Japan

According to officials at the Ministry of Health and Welfare, musk is used
in over 2000 medicines by some 200 companies. Specifically, kyushin, an internal
medicine used in the treatment of heart patients, relies on musk. Half of the musk
imported into Japan is by the Kyushin company and the other half is divided among
a number of smaller companies. Siberian and Chinese musk is considered to be of
poorer quality and is therefore harder to sell. Musk is also used to a very limited
extent in acupuncture where it is rubbed onto the needles before insertion.

 

 

Japanese Law

Article 20-2 of the Wildlife Protection and Hunting Law requires official
documents from the country of export certifying that the product has been “taken or
collected lawfully”. It seems very doubtful that the Nepalese are issuing such
documents. 'Officials at the Nepal Embassy in Tokyo said that occasionally musk is
confiscated from illegal poachers, and those stocks are eventually sold at a
public auction to the highest bidder. This would perhaps account for a small
percentage of the trade between Tokyo and Katmandu. The rest must have the documents
or it should be confiscated at Japanese customs.

 

Japanese Government Attitudes and Positions/Rebuttals

Inquiries‘by two differentreporters(Sharon Noguchl/Japan Times WEEKly and
Manami Suzuki/Sunday Times of London) revealed confusing, insensitive and contra-
dictory government positions on the musk deer trade.

l. The trade is legal and carries Nepalese sanction. The Ministry of
International Trade and IndUstry (MITI) claimed the trade was legal because the
shipments are accompanied by proper documents issued by the Nepalese government.
Japanese customs are very strict and the shipments could not get into the country
otherwise, they claimed. MITI officials (Mr. Amano in particular) said that if there's
a question of legality it's strictly an internal Nepalese problem. Nepalese offiCials
are negligent. “If they enforced their own laws, the musk wouln't leave the country.”
However, MITI officials have yet to produce a copy of any document issued by the
Nepalese that should accompany any legitimate trade, nor would they say who was
issuing than in Nepal. It is likely that such documents do not exist at all. Later,
a MITI spokesperson modified this view by saying that because of the CITES reservation
status, documents were not necessary for legal entry into Japan. However, that would
only explain the trade since November of l980. As well, it seems to be a mis- .
interpretation of CITES. Also, it is doubtful that Nepalese law enforcement offiCials
have much of a chance against well—organized smuggling and poaching efforts. Mr Amano
said, ”Some Nepalese make their living by poaching” meaning the Japanese trade is
JQSI helping them to make a living.

2. There is a three—year voluntary import restriction on musk imports.

The Ministry ofﬁHealth andﬂwelfare said that since T980 there has been a voluntary
import restriction as a sort of conservation gesture despite the CITES reservation.
However, Mr. Yoshinhiko Mima of the Tokyo Chinese Medical Association, says he

has never heard of any such restriction and claims that if musk is now hard to

get it is the result of the animals depleted population, not any import restriction.
He also said that an import restriction could never work and maintains that most musk
is smuggled to Japan. ' '

3. It's a matter of peOples' lives! Mr. Yamamoto of the Ministry of Health
and Welfare introduces a very emotional justification for the trade, claiming that
the medicines that use musk are vital to the lives of many Japanese peOple and
thatit is amatter of putting the lives of Japanese peOple before considerations for
the deer species. However, his argument makes little sense if it means that the
musk deer is rendered extinct in the process; the future for the Japanese patients
is very bleak when measured against the imminent extinction of the species.. Instead,
the Japanese government should be committed to the conservation of the speCies through
ranching projects. Also, hundreds of other countries use heart medicines that don't
contain musk. There are other products available.

 

 

 

 

 




i4

4. The Japanesemgoyernment is developiﬂg musk ranching in Nepal. Mr. Tanaka in

the Ministry of ForeigﬁmAffairs said that musk ranChing is to 55 develOped as part of
the Economic COOperative Fund, and that the project was already underway. However,
other than a reference to a non—government team that went to Nepal in l980, no other
details have been forthcoming despite repeated requests. The Ministry of Health.

and Welfare-in a somewhat contradictory statement, said that the responsibility for
musk ranching projects was that of the importing companies and NOT the Japanese
government. This is a very interestjrg statanentas it was the Japanese government who
entered into an international convention"CITIES‘) and placed the reservation on the
species, and now to deny any reSponsibility at the government level for the future of
the species is indeed strange. The Nepalese embassy in Tokyo said they were completely
unaware of any Japanese musk ranching project in their country. It seems clear that
the Japanese musk ranching project is such a well kept secret that even the highest
representatives of the Nepalese government in Japan do not know about it.

 

 

Conseguences of the Japanese Trade on the Himalayan Musk Deer

If the present leveT‘of trade of about 265 kg. annually is maintained it is
highly likely that the species will be rendered extinct in the near future. Nhile
population data is scarce and incomplete the Species is no longer comnon anywhere,
indeed very rare throughout its range.

No country is presently involved in the trade to the degree that the Japanese
are. If the Japanese trade were to stop, a reprieve would be granted the Species.

The species is also suffering from the effects of deforestation and habitat
destruction. Even if poaching stops the animal is in jeapardy.

To a poor_country like Nepal, the musk deer represents a valuable natural
resource. "If musk ranching could ever be developed as it has been done in China,
the Nepalese could enjoy long term financial benefits from a successful Operation
and promote the conservation of the species at the same time. Unfortunately the
species may be extinct before any such program is implemented. The Japanese trade
will ultimately deprive Nepal of a potentially lucrative development option and
the world of a unique, evolutionarily distinct animal.

 

References

Green, M.J.B. (l98l), Himalayan Musk - Hunting and Trading. A report submitted to the
Wildlife Trade Monitoring Unit on the occassion of the III Meeting of CITES, New Delhi,
India.

Green and Singh (l98l),The ecology and conservation of the Himalayan Musk Deer,
Wildlife in India, Government of India

 




WWF
"1, WORLD WILDLIFE

«JFUND

_ v. . . .._..
-. 3—4:. x..- w a.- a -- m‘l» sinus.» :&.;. «-

Gland, Switzerland
Embargo for release
16:00 GMT, UULAE L8,

ILLEGAL ANlN kL

One of Europe's major conduits of trade in rar animals and plants was closed
today when the Belgian parliament unanimouslye ra tified CITE (also known as
the Washington Convention), the international treaty which regulates trade in
endanger ed species .

An estimated 3 30 million in endangered animals and animal products passed
through Belgium_in 1980.

year more than 50 ton s or ivorvn -lown into Belgium openly,
esenting at least £000 African el and considerably more '
red Brussels "in tr ansit” 'ithout 1 7‘ recorded. The extensive
nationallv protected "; . cheeta s parrocs,
will also be brOught unde ' “' ' i
onvention on international lra' '. . , ' . 1' of

(N

ium becomes the *jL; COuntry to 1 ' the Convention, follow

ssion on June 5, ' Belgium's 5ec'sion clears :.e way :or i-.mediate
Cification of CllES by both Luxemburg and the Netherlands, which endorsed
E5 in 1975 and 1980 respectively but which were unable, under provisions
Benelux Customs Union, to formally ratify the treaty until Belgium also
eed.

C
fr
i
e
I

”lhe Belgian decision also spurs the entire European Community to enforce
CITES”, notes Charles de Haes,’WWF International Director General. ”Greece and
land are expected to ratify shortly, and we are hopetul that the remaining
pean countries that have not yet joined CITES will also do so this
~Aus tria and Spain in particular." Other major animal trading nations yet
ratify the Convention include Colombia, Mexico, Singapore, Sudan and
ailar d.

ERR The Duke oi Edinburgh, WW? nal President,
congratulatory telegram to the ' ime Minister:
in endangered species is one of

n
\

-on nservation of wildlife worldwide,

 




i
3,.

if}! ,
I. .- 9*" g ; .f'k‘ I u
{5.7 u. A...

* FACT SHEET

HUMANE TRANSPORTATION OF HORSES BOUND FOR SLAUGHTER ACT
S. 1053 H.R. 3823

HOW MANY HORSES ARE SLAUGHTERED EACH YEAR?

In 1978, U.S. slaughterhouses which process meat for human
consumption reportedly killed more than 330,000 horses.
Another 30,000 are shipped to Canada each year, to be
slaughtered there for the horsemeat export trade. Although
more recent statistics are not available, both the price

of horsemeat and the demand have risen precipitiously since
1978, and the number of animals may soon reach a half million.

WHY DO THESE HORSES NEED PROTECTION?

 

The startling rise in demand for horsemeat from Europe and

Japan has led to an equally startling rise in the number of
horses sent to slaughter in the U.S. Unfortunately, the

heavy demand has resulted in many abuses, especially during
transportation from auctions to slaughter houses, which may

be journeys lasting several days or weeks. Horses are frequently
overcrowded in trucks with slippery surfaces and many not be
given food and water for days at a time. Adequate ventilation

as well as protection from the weather is many times not
provided.

HOW VALUABLE ARE THESE ANIMALS?

Very. With an average price of 50¢ a pound on the hoof, a
1,000 pound (medium size) horse would sell for $500. The
result is that at many auctions, killer buyers are outbidding
pleasure owners and buying younger and healthier horses for
slaughter, making these abuses all the more tragic and
pronounced. '

WHY IS LEGISLATION NEEDED?

 

While the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act assures these animals
a quick and painless death, they are currently afforded no
protection during transit to the slaughterhouse. The 28 hour
law, which mandates care, treatment, and rest periods for
livestock shipped by rail or boat, exempts those animals shipped
by truck, which includes most horses. To compound the problem,
"horses are most often shipped on carriers designed for cattle,
despite their different needs.

WHAT DOES THE BILL DO?

 

The bill gives the Secretary of Agriculture the authority to
regulate the transport of horses bound for slaughter by
requiring the formulation of guidelines, including vehicle
specifications and minimum requirements for feeding, watering,
loading, and sanitation. Enforcement would be assured by
mandating federal meat inspectors already stationed at the
slaughterhouses to inspect incoming loads for compliance.

WHY SHOULD THIS BE DONE AT THE FEDERAL LEVEL?

With only 20 licensed packing plants for horses in the U.S.,
and the ever increasing demand, transportation of horses for
slaughter has become more of an interstate activity than ever
before. The existence of federal meat inspectors at the plants
would make enforcement of this legislation inexpenSive and
effective. AS prices and demand increase, it becomes more
profitable to Ship horses long distances. Last winter, New
York state police confiscated a rig on its way from Florida
to a Canadian slaughtering plant. The carrier, designed

for 40 animals, was carrying 87 ponies that had been without
food or water in subzero weather for a number of days. One

horse had already frozen to death, many others had to be
killed to end their misery.

 




29

\

ISSN 0144;0896

 

 

 

 

9 OF THE

WILDLIFE TADE
nonmemie UNIT

“-7 ,m-.~".~w- z-r' ~35“ ww- w wv

 

uﬁqawl‘i. . 3...; . l». . . ‘. -“<‘J~&‘ZA‘IV.A‘K—"VH¢A»——LZL’ 1A.... «n.2,. “4,... .un - ”ma wt-

 

Publication of theTi’tAFl-‘IC Bulletin is funded by
THE PEOPLE’S TAUST FOR ENDANGERED SPECIES

 

IN THIS ISSUE

TRADE IN TREE FERNS ' F Editors: Clare McCormack
and WT WU
NEWS Ih BRIEC
_{ Publication of TRAFFIC is
WILDLIFE TRADE INTO BELGIUM funded by the People's
Trust for Endangered
COMMENTS ON THE GERMAN I979 CITES REPORT Species, 19 Quarry Street,
Guildford, Surrey, UK.
ILLEGAL GHANAIAN REPTILE EXPORTS
Any opinions expressed in
HUNTING IN MONGOLIA this Bulletin are those of
the writers and do not
CHINA, LAMMERGEIERS & TAXIDERMY necessarily reflect those
of IUCN or any other
UPDATE ON NORWEGIAN SEAL EXPORTS ' organization connected
with WTMU. Information
WILDLIFE SHOPPING IN TOKYO - I98| may be quoted freely, but
an acknowledgement to

INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN CORALS & SHELLS l WTMU/IUCN should be made
where appropriate.

 

MORE WILDLIFE EXPORTS FROM COLOMBIA

 

 

 

 

m Nos 3/4. May-August 1981

First, we must apologize for the delay in the production of this Bulletin. This was
due to pr0blems about our funding which we hope will soon be resolved. We have
produced a bumper issue to compensate for this delay which combines two numbers
in one and the format has been changed enabling us to give more information per
page and so reducing our printing and postage costs - always a very important
consideration.

Another setback has been the departure of our two editors from WTMU.
Shirley Bennett, who has contributed much to getting the Bulletin established, is no
longer able to help us because of her college commitments. She will be missed by
the Bulletin and the WTMU staff. John Burton has also resigned his consultancy at
WTMU. He was the initiator of the Bulletin and indeed the driving force behind the
original TRAFFIC office. He will be much missed by \X'TMU both in his personal
and professional capaCities, and We fully endorse Peter Sand's tribute to him.

 




30

The main articles in this issue concern two of the
world's major wildlife importing countries — Germany and
Japan. We have devoted a fair prOportion of the Bulletin
to them to emphasize their importance as importers and
consumers and also to celebrate the fact that TRAFFIC
offices are to be established in both countries. TRAFFIC
Germany is to be set up in the WWF offices‘in Frankfurt
and as from I August l98l will be under the very able
directorship of Dr Arnd \I'unjbihmazn. Credit and thanks
must be given to Ruth Turner without whose tireless
pioneering work on detailing the extent of the German fur
trade TRAFFIC Germany might never have come about.
IUCN has now given its backing to the creation of
TRAFFIC Japan and its establishment has only to wait for
the funding to come through. Tom Milliken, who will be
the executive officer, has contributed his survey on the
wildlife products on sale in Tokyo. We hOpe to include a
TRAFFIC Japan page, or pages, in each issue in the future.

TRIBUTE TO JOHN BURTON

The news that John Burton has resigned from his consultant
position with the Wildlife Trade Monitoring Unit will be
noted with sadness by readers of this Bulletin - which owes
its very existence to him. No single person is more closely
identifiable with the concept, and the cause, of the former
IUCN/SSC TRAFFIC Group in London, and with the
present unit in Cambridge. Studies and reports initiated by
John Burton and his team have been crucial for the work of
the CITES Secretariat in the surveillance of legal, illegal
and para—legal wildlife trade; and while his data and
methods sometimes caused official irritation, they usually
turned out to be correct. As he leaves the job, some of the
excitement and enthusiasm of the pioneering years of
CITES will inevitably go too; and no computer can replace
that part of the operation. It is good to know that John
Burton continues to work in the Fauna a Flora
Preservation Society, which will undoubtedly give him
future Opportunities to test the standards he has set at
TRAFFIC.

Peter H Sand
Acting Secretary General, CITES

THE TRADE IN TREE FERNS

by Sara Oldfield, Threatened Plants Committee, Kew

Tree ferns, families Cyatheaceae and Dicksoniaceae, are
all included in Appendix II of CITES. They are known to be
in trade but as yet little information on them has been
recorded in CITES annual reports. In the UK's 1976 and
l977 annual reports, applications for imports are recorded
from France, Germany and New Zealand but no more
recent data have been published.

\X‘ hole live tree ferns are available commercially as
garden plants but it is mainly the products derived from
the stems which enter into trade. In fact, tree fern stems
are the only plant products recognised in Schedule 3 of the
UK Endangered Species (Import 6r Export) Act 1976.

In certain species of tree fern the relatively narrow
stem is covered by a mantle of adventitious fibrous root
which makes up the tree—like girth. Portions of this ‘stem'
material are sold either as blocks, poles, carved containers
or in a shredded fibrous form, often mixed with other
vegetative or non—vegetative matter.

The fibrous material forms a sterile growth medium
used in horticulture. It is particularly favoured by orchid
growers, offering a relatively new alternative in temperate
countries to the traditional Osmunda fibre which is now
increasingly expensive and difficult to obtain. -

 

Space has also been given to articles on Belgium and
Austria as these countries also play a large part in
international trade. They are not important consumer
countries but as they are not parties to CITES they can
confer legitimacy on exports that left their countries of
origin illegally and re-export them to CITES members.
Belgium is on the point of ratifying CITES and it is likely
that soon all the BENELUX will become parties. Colombia
appears again in our pages as an exporting country, this
time in an article on maSsive illegal exports of caimans and
other reptiles. A different aSpect of trade is seen in the
report on hunting in Mongolia - TRAFFIC (USA) plans to
produce a report on hunting trophies which should prove
interesting.

Finally, a plea to all our readers and consultants to
send in reports, news cuttings, information on aspects of
the international trade in wildlife trade - and our thanks to
regular contributors. Your letters on articles in the
Bulletin are also appreciated.

In Mexico, tree fern fibre has always been the
favoured growth medium for orchids. In that country the
material known locally as 'macuique‘ is carved into various
roughly sculptured forms for sale to the public. The main
species used are Nephelea mexicana, Cyathea fulva and
SphaerOpteris horrida. Most of the tree fern fibre used in

 

 

 

 

horticulture in the USA comes from MeXico as well as from
Guatemala and Costa Rica.

Material offered for sale in EurOpe includes products
known as \lexifern and Xamim. These fibrous potting
media are offered alone or in various combinations such as
Mexifern x redwooo or Dicksonia x MeXifern. Species of
Dicksonia have the most extensive root mantles of all tree
ferns and'are therefore the most widely utilized species in
S. America.

In Hawaii, concern has been expressed about the
WideSpread use of local Cibotium Spp. The main area of
harvesting is on Hawaii Island where large scale
destruction of forest ecosystems is occurring.

Selective removal of tree ferns frequently exacerbates
existing losses caused by forest clearance. Some areas
can, however, still withstand removal, as in New Zealand.
At least one firm exporting from that country claims that
its tree fern products are 'from areas authorized to be
cleared for pasture or re-afforestation'. Products from
New Zealand include 'Punga' plant stakes and 'Austra fern
tree garden products‘.

Dicksonia antarctica, a tree fern from New Zealand,
is one of the species most commonly found in cultivation.
Other speCies include Cyathea c00peri from Australia,
Cibotium glaucum from Hawaii together With Dicksonia
fibrosa and D. squarrosa also from New Zealand. All tree

 

 

 

ferns grow naturally in trOpical or sub—tropical regions and

are not sufficiently hardy to be grown outdoors in N.
Europe or the northern states of the USA.

The use of tree ferns, both for landscaping and fibrous
potting material, seems likely to increase as they still have
a considerable novelty value in consumer markets. The use
of the stem material is particularly wasteful as there are
readily available artificial products with Similar
properties. More effective monitoring under CITES would
usefully show the volume of trade in tree fern products,
allowing international utilization to proceed only at
sustainable levels. 0

APOLOGY

It appears that an article which we published in Vol.11,
Nos.9/lO, on the flora of South Africa is inaccurate. We
published the article in good faith but have subsequently
been unable to verify the facts and therefore feel obliged
to retract it. At the same time we would like to apologize
to any organizations or persons who might have been
embarrassed by the implications of the article.

 




news iN BRIEF.

t: if? 7%
U5 Kangaroo import Ban Lifted

A 6 year ban on US commercial trade in kangaroos has
been lifted by the US Fish 6t Wildlife Service. After a one
year review the Service felt satisfied that the three largest
kangaroo species (the red Macropus rufus, eastern gray M.
giganteiis and western gray ll/L fuliginosus) had reached—
health numbers and were being prOperly managed.
Carefully monitored trade could therefore be permitted
although the three species will still be classed as
'threatened' under the Endangered Species Act. After two
years the Interior agency will reevaluate the situation,
including the status Of the animals. (Source: Dept. of
Interior press release 28.4.81)

This decision will disappoint several conservation
groups who had been campaigning for the import ban tO
remain, arguing that the review undertaken was inadequate
and no acceptable scientific justification had been given
for the rescinding of the ban. The Opening Of commercial
trade in a threatened species after a complete ban on its
importation is unprecedented in US regulatory history.

 

. ”'ftAHLLL‘LP at“; ,

..
, t .. .
.‘ ‘ “Uh
J Q ‘{ _ . ‘H‘:
’” swan»; 1» ,;%’_ I
-" ~ mgr-m ;~ '4.-
f ~ > 7“:
. *-

liml Kangaroo. Marni/ms Til/Hm

Zimbabia'ecngameroon loin CITES

Zimbabwe and Cameroon have acceded to CITES on 19 May
1981 and 5 June 1981 respectively. They will become the
70th and 7lst Parties to the Convention on 17 August 1981
and 3 September 1981.

Zimbabwe has taken a reservation on Crocodylus

_n_iloticus as she has four farming/rearing projects in'

' Operation which appear to be quite successful. A total Of
2253 animals were culled for hides between 1978—80. In
1979, 87 captive females at two farms produced 1906 eggs
and a third farm has set aside 30 captive females for
breeding. The farmers Operate on a system that requires
them to return a small percentage Of live animals back to
the wild (Tony Pooley, 'Oryx' May 81).

We have been informed that Zimbabwe has put a

temporary ban on all commercial bird exports until their

wildlife legislation has been revised.

We have also received a news cutting telling how
poaching in the West Nicholson, Gwahda, Balla Balla and
Beitbridge areas Of Zimbabwe last year accounted for
about 1 million Zimbabwean dollars in lost revenue. The
areas were some Of the worst affected in the country and
an anti—poaching unit had been Specially set up because Of
the seriousness Of the problem. However, it had enjoyed
only a 10 per cent success rate in catching poachers
because Of a shortage Of staff and the use Of motor
'ehicles by poachers.

Icterus mesomelas,

View Wildlife Trade Legislation
in Ecuador

Under "Decreto Ejecutivo NO. 487”, published in the
”Registro Oficial" dated 18 August 1980, the government
Of Ecuador does not permit the commercial export Of any
species of bird, mammal, reptile, amphibian or
invertebrate, except certain listed species which are
subject to quota. 10,000 birds of 38 Species or genera may
be exported annually by registered dealers under licence
from the Director General de Desarrollo Forestal del
Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia. 3000 skins each Of
the white—lipped peccary, Tayassu pecari and the collared
peccary, T. tajacu, are the only mammals permitted for
commercial export. . NO reptiles, amphibians, or
invertebrates may be exported. The list of permitted birds
consists Of the following parrots: Aratihga wagleri, A;
'weddellii, Brotogeris Spp., Forpus coelestis, Pionus
chalcopterus, P. menstruus, P. sordidus, Pyrrhura melanura;
blue ground dove Claravis pretiosa; aracaris: PterO lossus
spp, (except P. inscriptus and P. pluricmctusg toucanets
Aulacorhynchus spp.; blue-crO—anm Momotus
mOinota; tanagers: Anisognathus flaVanChLT—A...
igniventris, Euphonia laniirostris, E. mesochrysa, E.
minuta, E. saturata, E. xanthogaster, Piranga flava,
Rarnphocelus carbO, R. icteronotus, R. nigrogularis,
Tangara spp, (except L icterocephala, I; mexicana, ’_f_
nigrocincta, T. velia, T. xanthocephalal, Thraup‘s
cyanocephala, T. epiSCOpus, L palmarum; coerebids:
Chlorophanes Spiza, Coereba flaveola, Cyanerpes
caeruleus, Dacnis cayana, D. lineata; emberiZids:
Pheucticus chrySOpeplus, Rhodos-pingus cruentus; icterids:
Sturnella (:Leistes) militaris;
violaceous jay Cyahocoramus. ______

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cheetah Skins on Sale

WWF—Kenya reports that skins of cheetah Acinonyx jubatus
are being sold Openly on street corners in curio shops in
Johannesburg. Farmers in the Transvaal still regard
cheetah and wild dog Lycaon pictus as vermin. Cheetah
trOphies were recently advertised in a farming publication
at US$480 and wild dog at US$40. Cheetah are also
regarded as vermin in \Xest Africa but elsewhere in Africa
its numbers are steadily decreasing.

 

 

 

var vrv-sm :r-t‘w-NW 13"71'M'4 *U'prvvi

 




MAC and the IWC

Marine Action Centre (MAC) is afloat again and based at
the Bath House, Gwydir Street, Cambridge, Tel: (0223)
313819. It has produced a MAC newsletter for which the
subscription rates are: £8.00 for individuals, £20.00 for
organizations, and £1.00 for individual newsletters.

June‘s issue includes comments on Agenda Items for
the IWC meeting to be held in Brighton on 20-25 July. The
commercial whaling moratorium is back on the agenda.
PrOposals are:

Indefinite ban/moratorium on all commercial whaling;

Indefinite ban on commercial whaling in the North
Atlantic;

Commercial moratorium for the pelagic catch of
minke whales after the 1983/84 season;

Commercial catching of sperm whales:

1. Conditional prohibition/indefinite ban/

moratorium

2. Moratorium for 5 years.

Indonesian 8»; Malaysian Export Bans

There has been some confusion as to whether (as some
reports have indicated) there is a ban on primate exports
from Indonesia. We have now heard from Ken Proud, the
WWF Assistant Representative there, that there was a
temporary SU§Q§DSiQDJDWIhSEVLSSﬂiDg-91..JiCQDCES-aim? some
gfwa consignment -91.IWQQFCXS.,,11§Q-91¢.<31..and it had been
discovered that’anim‘al dealers were trying to evade the
annual quota of 25,000 monkeys by understating the
number in their shipments.

Ken Proud also sent us some information on the legal
position in Malaysia. Due to their past colonial histories
there are WWMMEWDQQJQ
West Malaysia, Sarawak and Sabah. When Malaysia
acceded to CITES in 1977, the regulations only applied to
West Malaysia — not to Sarawak and Sabah. The Legal
Department in Sarawak said they would need official
notification from the Federal legal authorities in West
Malaysia that Malaysia had acceded to CITES before
amending the, Wildlife Protection Ordinance to comply with
the prOVisions of CITES. Eighteen months later, WWF
Malaysia was able to get the Ministry of- Science and
Technology to send some very bad photocopies of the
relevant documents which were not really acceptable to
the Sarawak Legal Department.

So when Malaysia placed a ban on the export of
primates at the end of 1979/beginning of 1980, this did not
apply to Sabah and Sarawak who had different laws and
were not asked to impose such a ban. As a result a number
of applications for primate exports were received .-
including one from the UK Department of Health 6r Social
Security. No permits were in fact issued.

Ken Proud ends by wondering whether this situation
might permit Malaysia to export Appendix I species for
commercial reasons: "Is there not potential for Malaysia,
with its three different wildlife laws and localised
distribution of species, to manipulate the provisions of
CITES to export Appendix I Species for commercial
purposes? The provision that specimens were not obtained
in contravention of the laws of State could technically be
applied to the region where a particular animal is not
protected, e.g. orang utans sent from Sarawak to West
Malaysia then exported."

4!

’Bahrain Regaiates Live Bird Exports

A WTMU correspondent in Bahrain has informed us that,
following discussions With the Director of Agriculture, no
export of live birds will be permitted from Bahrain without
ministerial approval. This new policy is to take effect
from 12 July 1981 and has resulted from information
supplied to the WTMU concerning re—exports from Bahrain
of Australian parrots. The Director is also introducfing
measures to control imports of birds, applicable from
August. Particular attention will be paid to rare and
endangered species. Trading companies in Bahrain have
been made aware that they must seek approval for bird
imports and exports from the Director of Agriculture,
Ministry of Commerce 6c Agriculture in future.

Pangolin Trade Increasing

TRAFFIC (USA) recently issued a pangolin 'alert' as it
appears that US imports of pangolin skins have increased
considerably over the last few years. The skins are used
mainly to make cowboy boots. It is probably only the three
southeast Asian species, Manis crassicaudata, M; javanica
and M. pentadactyla, which are involved; all three species
are ITS-ted on CITES Appendix II.

The Chinese have long believed the scales to have a
medicinal value. According to Lekagul 6t McNeely (1977,
Mammals of Thailand, Bangkok),the scales of M;
pentadactyla are used both internally and externally for
the treatment of skin diseases and are "said to be
particularly efficacious for the treatment of venereal
diseases”! Martin Brendell, a WTMU correspondent,
reported seeing pangolins on sale in China for meat
(TRAFFIC International Bulletin, Vol.11, No.8) and John
Harrison (1966, An Introduction to the Mammals of
Singapore and Malaya) states that pangolins are said to be
excellent eating.

Pangolins are apparently totally protected in
Indonesia, Singapore, Thailand (although iﬂamca may
be exported under quota in Thailand) and in MalaySia (that
is, West Malaysia -— See ‘MalaySian Primate Ban' for an
account of the rather confusing different sets of legislation
in Malaysia). However, there is little doubt that the
majority of skins in international trade originate from
these countries.

Readers With any knowledge of pangolin usage and
trade are asked to send comments to TRAFFIC (USA), 1601
Connecticut Avenue N.W., Washington, DC. 20009, USA,
with a copy to WTMU.

Sumatran Rhino Found Killed in Sabah

A correspondent in Singapore has sent us news of th.
killing of a rare Sumatran rhinoceros (Dicer_orhinu
sumatrensis), which has a total population of under 300. A
one time it was thought that this rhino was extinct i
Borneo but several Sightings were reported and recentl
the tracks of five were found. The carcass of a youn
Sumatran rhino was found in March at the side of a leggin
road in the Silabukan Forest Reserve near Lahad Datu o
Sabah's east coast. It is thought that the rhino was trappe-
with a nylon rOpe and then dragged several miles to th
logging road to be hacked apart. It's head and feet wer
chopped off for the valuable horn and toenails.

 




A group of 5 loggers was suspected and it was hope ‘
that a conviction would result to discourage further
poaching. As the rhino is protected in Malaysia, the
penalty could have been a fine of $5000 or a 5 year jail
sentence. However, because no part of the rhino was found
in the suspects' possession, the loggers could not ‘be

convicted of the killing but were fined $300 each for.

failing to report the discovery of the rhino. Meanwhile the
game department is trying to mobilise its staff of 23
rangers to police the area where the rhinos are said to be
roaming, but only 3 rangers are being stationed in the
Silabukan areas to keep checks on poaching by loggers.

Rhinos were once common in the jungles of Borneo but
numbers have been declining since Chinese traders began
coming to the island to look for rhino horn over a thousand
years ago. Rhino horn has been prized for its medicinal
properties as an antidote for poison and as a fever-reducing
agent. Other rhino products are also used for medicinal
purposes, in particular the skin though all parts are
utilized, the rhino being one of the most versatile of beasts
as far as Asian remedies are concerned. This, combined
with its ornamental qualities and the demand for its meat,
has led to the disastrous over—hunting of the animal in
Borneo as elsewhere. Vast sums are now to be made in the
rhino trade — for example, in Singapore, Sumatran rhino
horn sells for well over US$500 an ounce, a pound of rhino
skin for $150, and a pound of rhino toes for $180.

Now the rhino is in double jeopardy as the area is
.scheduled to be cleared for timber over the next 5 years.

Deforestation particularly affects the Sumatran rhino as, '

for intrinsic behavioural reasons, it has the lowest
population density of any rhino — one per #000 hectares.
The Sabah Foundation, owner of the timber rights, has been
asked to provide an area for the animals to live in and it
has reportedly agreed to give about 165 sq mls (out of its
total holding of 3500 sq mls) in the Danum Valley.
However this is about l00 miles away and it may be
impossible to find, capture and transport the animals there.

,____.———‘

l

l

 

Our correspondent also informs us that the Malayan
Nature Society in Singapore is to petition the government
to sign CITES. Singapore has long been an important
'laundering' port, offering a market for much illegal trade,
and her accession to CITES would be a very welcome step.
Along with these cuttings we were sent a couple of
advertisements from a Singapore paper, one from West
Germany offering 5 pieces of rhinoceros horn and the other
"rare rhinoceros horns. Very, very expensive." U

TH E AUSTRIAN CON N ECTION

EDDIE BREVI ER, DIRECTOR of the Wildlife Conservation
Department in the Gambia, has sent us an account,
”Freddie‘s Story", of the fate of one chimpanzee in the
hands of an unscrupulous Austrian animal dealer. Freddie‘s
capture was typical of many cases where the mother is

killed so that the young chimp may be obtained for sale on
the black market. Fortunately, when he was'smuggled into
the Gambia for this purpose, the Wildlife Conservation
Department heardof it and he was seized under the 1977
Wildlife Conservation Act. He was taken to the Abuko
Nature Reserve where his health gradually improved and it
was planned that he should join a chimpanzee rehabilitation
project.

At this time an Austrian, Horst Blaich, owner of a pet
shop and ‘private zoo', visited the Reserve and enquired
whether he could buy and export chimps and other primates
but he was informed that trading in wildlife was prohibited
by Gambian law. Having taken some photographs of
Freddie, he left the Reserve and returned to Vienna. Three
months later in February of this year, Freddie was stolen.

No trace of him was found after 2 weeks of searching

and investigations and it was concluded that he must have

been smuggled out of the country immediately after the
theft. Then Mr Brewer was shown an Austrian newspaper
article detailing how a passenger on a package holiday to
the Gambia had been seen by two stewardesses abandoning
a 3 month old puppy on a beach. The stewardesses rescued
the pup but on the return flight, the same day that Freddie
had been stolen, they recognized the man with the same
large basket at his feet that had contained the puppy.
Suspicions were aroused and when the captain demanded to
examine the contents of the basket he found a drugged
infant chimpanzee.

After reading the'article, Mr Brewer contacted the
Viennese police and W'WF Austria and with the help of
Interpol the net began to close around Blaich. Freddie was
identified and the Austrian WWF together with Austria's
largest newspaper said they would cover the cost of
Freddie's return to the Gambia.

Eddie Brewer flew to Austria where he was invited to
comment on previous wildlife importations by Blaich.
Among his recent imports were a 'Java monkey‘ (probably a
pig—tailed macaque Macaca nemestrina) of about 5 weeks
old which has since died, a gibbon Hylobates sp., and an
assortment of vervets Cercopithecus aethioPi, colobus
monkeys Colobus sp, bush babies Galago sp., and Sykes
monkeys Cercopithecus mitis from Tanzania. He was
asked to put a market value on the animals which he priced
as high as he could - Blaich had declared Freddie's value as
400 schilling (approx. £I2.50) and had a customer arranged
for him for 35,000 schilling (approx. £1070).

On the morning of his appeal for bail, a representative
of Blaich was apprehended at Vienna Airport in possession
of 36 boas from Madagascar. These boas (Sanzinia
madagascariensis, an Appendix 1 species) were returned to
the dealer as soon as he had paid the customs dues - in
Austria it is not a question of Violating conservation laws
but evading tax. Blaich's appeal for bail was refused and in
April he was sentenced to 7 months imprisonment for his
involvement in the affair and a further 8 months on
another count — probably his attempts to defraud the
Austrian customs.

Freddie, who had been looked after in Vienna by the
Schonbrunn Zoo, was flown back to the Gambia in May and
has now arrived safely in the Abuko Nature Reserve.

 

 

 

Mr Brewer believes Blaich‘s shop is to be closed for
the sale of exotic animals and that he is now a bankrupt so
may well go out of business completely. However, while in
Vienna, he saw several pet shops offering rare animals
including one that had a gibbon shut up in a cage 2'9"
square and 4' high. This is all quite legal in Austria as she
has not acceded to CITES and like Belgium handles a large
number of endangered animals including re-exports to
other European countries, North America and Japan. Now
that Belgium looks ready to ratify CITES is it not time for
Austria to follow suit and close the Austrian connection? 0

 




E‘JELQLEFE TRADE INTO ELGIUM

(This is based on the text of a WWF Belgium press
conference given as part of the campaign for Belgium to
ratify CITES)

BELGIAN ANIMAL traffickers have set up an intricate
system of importation based on contacts with the licensed
suppliers resident in the exporting country. At the
beginning of the chain, the poacher receives, for example,
a sum of up to 2500 BF for a chimpanzee. The shipper
often knows peOple in the customs and the veterinary
service who can let the consignment through although the
accompanying documentation is often incomplete or
uncertified. -

The animals generally pass through the customs
without any problem and are loaded onto the plane either
as accompanied luggage or as freight. At Zaventem, the
Belgian national airport, the animals going through the
customs as accompanied luggage are considered as pets and
are not taxed. A network of African 'students‘ has been
built up to take hundreds of parrots and monkeys through in
this way. Outside the airport the students are met by the
agent of the Belgian dealer; the student receives 10,000 BF
for a chimpanzee which will be resold at 65,000 BF, and
about 2500 for a parrot, resold at 6500 BF. Because of the
extent of this traffic the Belgian customs have limited the
allowance for accompanied animals, as from 1 October
1980, to one cat, one dOg or two parrots per person

If the animals go by freight the airline companies
which are members of IATA are supposed to follow the
conditions of tranSport outlined in the IATA manual 'Live
Animals Regulations’. But the cages in which the animals
are transported rarely conform to the regulations and
mortality during transit is often considerable. The
suppliers recognize this, and so frequently — particularly
with fish, tortoises and birds — dispatch a higher number
than that for which they were authorized. Several Species
are mixed in the same box and the declaration is 'live
monkeys' or 'live birds‘ even though the IATA regulations
demand that the species and the number of individuals be
declared. When they arrive at Zaventem the animals‘ state
of health is often very poor as a consequence of the
conditions of capture and transport.

The profits that the airline companies take from this
freight are enormous. To send one chimpanzee to Kinshasa
by Sabena in a cage conformin_g_to the specifications of
IATA would cost 40,719 BF. However, one dealer who
wanted t‘. freight 2 chimps, 2 tigers and a cheetah from
Brussels o Mexico had only to pay 35,210 BF for this
consignment, sent in cages not complying with the
regulations.

The countries of origin are many but trade is
principally channelled through: Singapore, Hong Kong and
Bangkok (Thailand) in Asia, and Kinshasa (in Spite of the
fact that Zaire has ratified CITES), Bujumbura (Burundi)
and Kigali (Rwanda) in Africa.

The kind of animals imported varies according to the
country of origin, but fish, tortoises and birds are common
currency and pass in their hundreds through the
animal—house every week. Amongst the mammals it is the
rarer ones that make up the most intensive business
(chimpanzees, tigers, leOpards, Cheetahs) but lions and
monkeys play their part too. The majority are re—exported
and the price list of the largest Belgian dealer is drawn up
in German and English....

All this results in Belgium, which is one of the last
nations where the traffic in wild animals is perfectly legal,
importing thousands of animals each year many of which do
not survive the journey. The official statistics of the
Office Belge du Commerce Extérieur illustrate the volume
of the trade in wild animals.

The fact that countries like Rwanda and Burundi do
not appear in the list of official exporters underlines the
fact that the figures should be taken carefully and be
considered as a minimum, since the declared value is

 

minimised by the dealer for tax reasons and a significant
pr0portion of the animals leave the territory illegally.
Finally, to show the extent and value of the trade, in. 1979
Belgium officially imported 89 million BF worth of ivory,
tortoiseshell, horns and whalebone. However, the majority

-.: of ivory coming into Belgium is stockpiled in transit for
3 further re—export so these quantities are not- included In

the statistics. Most of that ivory is probably poached and

~ smuggled out of CITES parties Zaire, Kenya or Tanzania
with'export permits' from Burundi (which is not a CITES
't party - and has no elephants) and then re—exported.with
Belgian documents. According to \V’WF'S information -

from residents in Zaire, Sabena air crews etc. - between

22—3 tonnes are shipped to Belgium every week. For

example, one dealer in Burundi, Jaffer Habib, shipped 1930

' kg to Brussels in November and 1143 kg in February.

OFFICIAL STATISTICS from L'Office Belge du' Commerce
Exterieur
(There are approx. 76 BF to £1)

, 1. 0106.990: Live wild animals (excluding fish)

 

 

l979 IMPORTS x 100 kg x 1000 BF

 

EEC 2 779 53 673
France ' 323 7 491
Netherlands 784 27 693
West Germany 149 4 018
UK‘ l 487 12 867
Hungary 103 2 318
Senegal 38 7 157
Togo 8 2 742
Zaire 24 7 071
USA 64 4 119
Brazil 7 2 292
Argentina 17 3 505
Malaysia 29 4 819
Singapore 10 3 315
Japan 16 2 047
Hong Kong 10 3 118

TOTAL 1979 3 456 118 874
TOTAL 1978 2 696 (i) 93 928
TOTAL 1980 3 923 138 380

1979 EXPORTS x 100 kg x 1000 BF
EEC 852 58 165
France 530 42 262
Netherlands 100 4 562
Italy ’ 28 6 511
Greece 13 5 822
South Africa 2 1 440
USA 20 11 987
Canada 13 6 912
Venezuela 9 5 512

 

TOTAL 1979 941 106 623
TOTAL 1978 854 (+) 96 967

TOTAL 1980(Jan—Sep) 834 94 861

2. Code 0204.920: Whalemeat, seal meat, frogs legs

 

 

l979 IMPORTS x 100 k x 1000 BF
EEC _ 2 978 35 155
Netherlands 2 029 24 740
India 1 034 11 927
Indonesia 4 745 54 191

 

TOTAL 1979 9 256 106 304
TOTAL 1980 7 505 88 835

1979 EXPORTS x 100 kg x 1000 BF
EEC (F—NL-D) 2 061 2a 562
TOTAL 1979 2 216 26 548
TOTAL I980 765 9 068

 

 




3. Code 0301.152:'Aquarium fish

 

1979 IMPORTS x 100 kg
EEC 187
Netherlands 68
USA 8
Thailand 19
Singapore 512
Japan 8
Hong Kong 19

 

TOTAL 1979 868
TOTAL 1980 1 140

EXPORT 1979 - Solely to the EEC.

I’unliux rumiugi ((liinlhor)

1+. Code 0509.00: Ivory, tortoiseshell, horns, antlers, turtle

 

shells, whalebone.

 

IMPORT x 100 kg
1975 (+71
1976 2 555
1977 355
1978 3 830
1979 1+ 939
1980 7 635

EXPORT x 100 kg
1975 9 712

1976 9 221
1977 519
1978 503
1979 2 675
1980 6 079

5. Code 05.12.000: Coral and shells

 

IMPORT x 100 kg x 1000 BF
1979 98 266 31 279
1980 66 230 28 795

6. Code 15.15.010: Spermaceti: crude and refined

 

IMPORT x 100 kg x 1000 BF
1979 211+ 3 027
1980 287 3 l+73

7. Codes (11.01.660 - I41.05.200 - 41.05.930: Reptile and
fish skins

IMPORT x100kg EJPOOBF
1979 99 5a 741
1980 69 47 397

8. Code 41.01.680: Skins of other animals

 

 

IMPORT x 100 kg x 1000 BF

1979 677 10 937

1980 652 3 289

9. Code 43.01.230: Skins of hair and fur seals - raw

 

 

IMPORT 1}}: of skins x 1000 BF
1979 120 ’ ’— 116
1980 0 O

10. Code l13.02.230: Skins of hair and fur seals — tanned

 

IMPORT N0. of skins x 1000 BF
1979 181 529
1980 152 521

11. Code l43.01.270: Skins of sea otters, nutria - raw
\

IMPORT No. of skins x 1000 BF

1980 8 020 8 765

 

12. Code 43.02.270: Skins of sea otters, nutria - tanned

IMPORT No. of skins x 1000 BF
1979 16 322 17 6814
1980 . 5 858 10 £138

13. Code l13.01.350: Skins of wild cats — raw

x 1000 BF

IMPORT No. of skins
150 870

1980 Siuui

N0. of skins x 1000 BF

EXPORT

1980 (Jan—Sep) 1 857 228

14. Code 143.02.350: Skins of wild cats — tanned

 

IMPORT No. of skins x 1000 BF

1980 9 179 13 330

No. of skins x 1000 BF

EXPORT _
31 534 122 282

1980 Jan—Sep)

TOTAL SKINS IMPORTED (Codes #1 and 1#3)
1980 - 234.610.000 BF

BELGIUM'S RATIFICATION of CITES is a vital step in the.
controlling of wildlife trade and CITES cannot be truly
effective until this major European inlet for CITES Species
is closed. The text of the law on CITES was agreed in the
Senate on 30 April by a vote of 125 to 0 with 5
abstentions. Two senators expressed concern that the
ratification would considerably modify the activities of
some 'important' economic sectors such as the ivory and
fur trade but it was pointed out that it would guarantee
that only the honest dealers would be maintained in these
sectors.

CITES has now to be approved by the House of Parliament
which should be done before the end of June. Both the
Netherlands and Luxembourg endorsed CITES in principle
several years ago but have been unable to formally ratify
CITES until Belgium does, under the terms of the Benelux
Convention. We hope to bring you news of any further
developments of Belgium‘s ratification of CITES in our
next Bulletin. [:1

 




(W
\
l‘.

1

I
I}
I ,

l
'1
l
36 l l
l l
1‘; “

“‘1

COMMENTS ON WE ANNUAL REPORT BY THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY ON ITS
IMPLEMENTATION OF CITES (WASHINGTONER
ARTENSCHUTzzUEBERElNKOMMEN,
JAHRESSTATISTIK 1979), Published by Bundesministerium
fiir Ernahrung, Landwirtschaft und Forsten.

by John A Burton

1. GENERAL REMARKS: WHO IS IN CHARGE HERE?

IN THE Federal Republic of Germany, the Convention is
implemented by two "Management Authorities" (which
issue trade licences) and a "Scientific Authority" (which
provides scientific advice to the Management Authorities).
While in other CITES member states the "Scientific
Authority" is a separate entity composed of scientific
experts expressing their view independently from the views
of the Management Authority, the Scientific Authority of
the Federal Republic of Germany appears to be identical
with one of its Management Authorities (the Bundesamt fiir
Ern'ahrung und Fortwirtschaft; the name of the same
government official is given in the annual report for both
institutions. Presumably, he first reaches an independent
scientific judgement and then advises himself).

The members of the honorary "Beirat" appointed by
the combined Management/Scientific Authority include
"representatives of science" (zoos, museums and botanical
gardens) and "representatives of industry". Surprisingly,
and unlike similar institutions elsewhere, the Beirat does
not include any representatives of nature conservation
bodies or associations (even though there certainly are
some internationally respected experts available in these
bodies, in relevant fields such as ornithology, marine
zoology, etc.) The four representatives of industry are the
following:

Herr Walter Langenberger (Deputy Chairman of the
Beirat), Executive Director of the German Fur Trade
Association (Verband der deutschen Rauchwaren— und
Pelzwirtschaft) and of the Frankfurt Fur Trade Fair
(Rauchwaren—Messe);

Herr Helmut Fehns, Manager of the fur and leather
trade firm of P.Fehns GmbH in Hamburg, one of the major
German importers of furs from Paraguay;

Herr Karl Heinz Fuchs, Gerberei—Ingenieur at the
Frankfurt chemical plant of Hoechst AG, one of the
leading firms for industrial tanning of reptile hides;

vHerr Odo Willscher, :I'lanager of Safari—Willscher KG in
Hamburg, one of the largest German big—game hunting
agenc1es. .

The Ministry's Report mentions the affiliations of all
scientific members of the Beirat; why not those of the
industrial lobbyists, too?

 

2. VOLUME OF GERMAN IMPORTS:
HIGH '
The CITES statistics are considerably lower than the
official German customs statistics in many categories, and
they also confirm the well—known fact that the Federal
Republic continues to be the world‘s leading importer of
furskins. Total imports of spotted cat furs for 1979 are
160,000, compared to 60,000 in 1977 and 310,000 in 1978.
Current trends indicate a probable increase in 1980.

Ivory imports have remained at about the same level
as in previous years: 69 tonnes in 1978, 66 tonnes in 1979.
It is estimated that more than half of this represents
"speculative ivory" imported as investment (the price of
ivory having deve10ped along the lines of the gold price, as
elephant pOpulations are constantly decreasing); about
25-30 tonnes annually are consumed by the German ivory
carving industries. With the average weight of raw ivory in
trade now having gone down to about 6 kg per tusk*, the
German ivory imports over the three—years period
1977—1979 represent at least 16,000 elephants.

Imports of crocodilian hides show a

CONTINUOUSLY

significant

 

 

 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

upward trend: from 260,000 in 1977, to 350,000 in 1978 and
365,000 in 1979. Only France and Italy import more.
Over—all imports recorded in the 1979 German CITES
report may be estimated to represent an over—all declared
value of at least 80 million DM (roughly estimating 30
million each for the furskin and reptile hide trade, 10
million for the ivory trade, and 10 million for live animals,
which is a rather conservative figure). Considering that
the average Customs rate applicable to most of the
categories concerned is 13%, the annual Customs revenue
from these foreign wildlife species to the Federal Ministry
of Finance is at least 10 million DM.

3. LEGALITY OF IMPORTS: FORGERIES AND FALSE
DESCRIPTIONS
As explained by the Ministry of Agriculture in its
introduction to the report, these statistics are supposed to
represent legal trade only; i.e. imports and exports
accompanied by the required documents from the countries
of origin, and recognized as authentic by German Customs
authorities.
Recent discoveries of wide-Spread forgeries among
German importers have cast serious doubts on this
assumption. As confirmed by the Ministry in a press
release in November 1980, one of the major importers in
Frankfurt is being accused of having used forged
documents and false descriptions. since 1977 to import
thousands of furskins and crocodile hides from Paraguay,
estimated value about 20 million DM. The 1979 statistics
also include these imports. ,
Significantly, more than half of the Spotted cat skins,
and more than 80% of the South American otter skin
recorded in the 1979 import 32$ the Federa
Republic of Germany came fromz a uay. What is mor-
alarming, however, is the fact that apparently all the otte
skins (20,416) and ocelot skins (9081) imported fro
Paraguay were in reality prohibited species: there simpl
are no "Peru otters“ or “Brazilian river otters" in Paraguay
as recorded on page 140 of the report (on the basis of th
import declarations); instead, the only species of ocelot
and otters existing there are those listed on Appendix 1 o
the Convention (Fells pardalis mitis and Lutra platensis a

excluded from trade. Alternatively, assuming that th

skins were as described but originated in other countries
they probably were smuggled from them (Brazil has
complete ban on export of all wildlife and wildlif
products). As recently as June 1981, one of the larges
department store chains (Karstadt) openly advertised wha
it described as 'genuine Brazilian furs of wild ocelot'.

Since only legal trade is listed in the CITES statistic
the 1979 German CITES report shows no imports of wildli
or wildlife products from Brazil, except for some orchi
(duly authorized, on page 27). Curiously enough, howev—
the official foreign trade statistics of the Federal Republ
of Germany for 1979 (published by Statistisch
Bundesamt, Wiesbaden) list more than 50,000 "raw wild c
skins" as imported from Brazil - without CITES permits
As all wild cats are subject to the Convention, the
cann—oT be explained away by discrepancies
classification. Something is wrong here, and the legality
West German fur imports from Latin America is anythi
but clear.




On the other hand, the 1979 statistics clearly show
that a large portion of these imports do not remain in
Germany but are officially re—exported to many other
countries, with German re—export certificates describing
them as "Peru-otters from Paraguay" (page 49) and similar
exotic labels.

4 ORIGIN OF IMPORTS: THE "LAUNDERING" SYSTEM
Contrary to the practice of other CITES member states,
the statistics of the Federal Republic of Germany refer to
the statistical category "country of origin" as
"Versendungsland" (country of shipment) instead of
"Ursprungsland" (term used on Swiss documents). As a
result, the report is full of "chimpanzees from Austria",
"bobcat skins from Greece", etc., which renders much of
the statistical information meaningless.

In some cases, however, these transactions reveal
attempts by traders to circumvent the rules of CITES by a
technique known as "laundering". In order to legalize
shipments of dubious origin, they are first sent to a country
which is not a CITES member state‘ and which has a
"liberal" approach to documents of origin. With an official
re—export document from that country, the shipment is
then presented in West Germany, either for legal import or
for further re-export, with a "laundered" re—export
certificate now provided by the authorities of a CITES

mber state. i

The 1979 report offers numerous illustrations of this
practice:
@ ivory: The 6.7 tonnes of ivory ”from Belgium" (page
’44) were almost certainly illegal imports from Zaire (where
exports are prohibited) or from Burundi (which has no
elephants at all, but serves as the "laundering" station for
smuggled ivory from Zaire and Tanzania). By not recording
the true origin, the German report actually helps to cover
up the operation. A similar situation existed until very
recently in Namibia (South West Africa), which is not
covered by the CITES Convention and liberally exported
ivory probably originating from Angola or other
neighbouring countries. Namibia's own elephant population
outside national parks was estimated to be no more than
1700 in 1979. Consequently, if West Germany alone
imported 16 tonnes of Namibian ivory that year (page £14),
the local elephant population would have been wiped out!
3 Reptile hides: Of the 360,000 crocodilian hides
imported by the Federal Republic of Germany in 1979,
more than 150,000 are recorded (on pages 45/06) as
originating from Austria and Italy - where at that time
CITES rules were not applicable. Another famobs
"laundering" operation is nicely illustrated on page 57 of
the report, where leather goods are recorded as
"Podocnemis expansa from Mexico" and “Chelonia depressa
from Mexico". It is now known (also to the German
authorities) that these shipments really contained
prohibited marine turtle leather (Chelonia mydas and
Lepidochelys olivacea, CITES Appendix I) from Mexico,
which had been fraudulently mislabelled in order to obtain
"laundered" documents, first in Italy and then in Germany.
The fraud was discovered when the German importer tried
to re-export the goods to Switzerland with German
re-export certificates, and the Swiss authorities rejected
them: neither Podocnemis expansa nor Chelonia depressa
exist in Mexico (the latter species only occurs in
Australial). Why is there not even a footnote in the
German report to correct this blatant mistake, long after
its discovery?
9 Furskins: The "pampas cats" (Lynchailurus pajeros),
2728 skins of which are recorded on page 54 as originating
from Paraguay, only exist in southern Argentina.
Nevertheless, they were re—exported with official German
documents to the United Kingdom and to Spain, Frankfurt
thus becoming the "laundering" station for the transaction.

 

 

 

 

 

0 Exotic birds: A more SOphisticated "double laundering"
is recorded on page 20: the 17 palm cockatoos
("Ara—Kakadus”, Probosciger aterrimus) allegedly
originating in Thailand (not a CITES—Trianber) do not occur
there and were probably smuggled out of Australia,
Indonesia or: Papua New Guinea, where they are fully
protected. With documents from Thailand, however, they
also obtained "laundered" CITES documents in Germany -
apparently for prompt re—exportation to the United States,
some under Appendix 11 (page 29), some under Appendix 111

(page 35).

5. TRADE IN SPECIMENS "BRED IN CAPTIVITY":
LOOPHOLES

Another method to circumvent the Convention is to claim
that an important specimen was "zoo-bred" or "farmed",
with a view to exempting it from trade prohibitions.

3 Otters: The 19 EurOpean otters recorded on page 8 of
the report as "bred in captivity in Bulgaria", and imported
by way of another "laundering" operation (this time

' involving a "transit“ stOp in England organized jointly by an

animal dealer in Frankfurt and a so—called zoo in the
United Kingdom), illustrate the ease with which the
Convention is by-passed for purely commercial imports
under pseudo-scientific pretexts: the otters were sold for
DM 5000 apiece.

9 Crocodiles: It will be equally difficult to substantiate
the claim (page 38) that 1156 hides of Nile crocodiles from
Botswana, 3 from Zambia, and leather goods from Italy
were all derived from animals bred in captivity. There are
no known crocodile farming Operations at this stage in any
0 these countries.

@ Marine turtles: The Federal Republic of Germany

'continues to import products said to be derived from

captive—bred green ‘turtles (Chelonia mydas) at the
German—owned "Cayman Turtle Farm” in the Caribbean:
according to the 1979 report, 34 tonnes of turtle meat
imports, with 21 tonnes of meat and 31 kg of tortoise—shell
re-exported (pages 38/39). Curiously enough, however,
there is no reference in the report to the considerable
amounts of tortoise—shell from fully protected turtles,
which a number of exporting countries show in their
statistics as going to West Germany (see the report of the
World Conference on Sea Turtle Conservation, Washington,
26—30 November 1979, which also questions the Cayman
sland "captive—breeding" Operation).

6. OMISSIONS: WHERE ARE ALL THE WHALE

PRODUCTS?

The report leaves many questions unanswered. Judging
from the quantities of endangered species currently
offered for sale in West Germany, it is unlikely that the
statistics concerning imports of exotic birds, live reptiles,
and a number of other species on the Convention lists are
anywhere near the real trade figures. Only looking at the
advertisements in professional tournals, the total of 4111
butterflies (re-exported to Switzerland, page 60) or of 275
cacti (page 27) merely goes to show that the Convention is
still not being enforced for the conservation of endangered
insects and plants.

By far the most serious omission in the 1979 report are
whale products. As of 28 June 1979, CITES member states
were under an obligation to control imports of all
cetaceans and their parts and derivatives, including in
particular whale oil and spermaceti (\X alrat), of which \Xest
German industry has long been the world's third largest
importer after Japan and the Soviet Union. By comparison
with official trade statistics, the annual imports for 1979
probably were about 6000 tonnes of whale oil, and about 2
tonnes of whale meat (see the report by Charles Mearns,
"International Trade in \‘s'hale Products: A Review",
RSPCA 1980). Did these imports continue during the
second half of 1979 without CITES controls? 9

 




38

* ian Douglas—Hamilton in 1977 calculated a mean weight
of 14.81 per tusk. This was based on a large sample of tusks
held in the Dar es Salaam Ivory Room. In his final report
in 1979 he concluded that the average weight could be
between 5 - 10 kilos. However, Ian Parker has conducted a
detailed survey into the weight of tusks by examining the
average weights of the tusks held in the world's major ivory
markets - Hong Kong and Japan. This ranges from 9.65 kg
in Hong Kong to 16 kg in Japan. His report 'How many
Elephants‘, to be published in the next issue of Oryx,
concludes that a conservative estimate of the mean weight
of a tusk would be the Hong Kong weight of 9.65 kg.

# But see 'More wildlife exports from Colombia‘ in this
issue, for a report of a disastrous attempt at crocodile
farming in Italy. C]

Illegal Exports of Ghanaian
Reptiles to the UK

by F B S Antram

At the end of March 1981 a consignment of live reptiles
arrived at East Midlands airport from Ghana and was
detained by H.M. Customs and Excise. WTMU was
requested by Customs to assist in finding an expert who
would be prepared to go to the airport and identify the
animals. On 2nd April, John A Burton of the Fauna and
Flora Preservation Society (and, at that time, also a WTMU
Consultant) travelled to the airport and identified a
consignment of #5 royal pythons, Python regius. The only
export documentation accompanying the reptiles was a
veterinary certificate covering not only 1+5 royal pythons,
but also 40 geckoes, Gekkonidae, and 50 chameleons,
Chamaeleo sp. The geckoes and chameleons were not
included in the shipment and it was assumed that these
might arrive on one of the next flights from Accra. WTMU
ascertained from KLM (the carriers) the times and routing
of subsequent flights from Accra and alerted contacts at
Schiphol airport, Amsterdam. Meanwhile, the CITES
management authority (Department of the Environment)
was prepared to instruct Customs to release the pythons if
the importer was willing to sign an undertaking to apply for
an import licence. However the shipment was seized
because the importer was unable to provide an export
licence from Ghana (required by CITES under Article
IV,2). Subsequently WTMU received confirmation from
Ghana's Dept. of Game and Wildlife that the pythons had
been exported illegally.

A few days later, on 16th April, a second consignment
of reptiles from Ghana arrived at Heathrow airport,
London without an export licence and was seized by
Customs. The animals involved were ten royal pythons, 60
chameleons, five monitor lizards Varanus sp., and 100
agamas Agamidae. John Burton went to the Animal
Quarantine Station at Heathrow on 23rd April to identify
the reptiles Specifically and attend a press conference.
Customs were keen that every effort should be made to
return the reptiles to Ghana for release into the wild. The
Fauna and Flora Preservation Society and Royal Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals agreed to raise
funds to do this. WTMU continued to assist by trying to
contact officials in Ghana and establish whether
arrangements could be made for the receipt of the
rehabilitated reptiles. Communications with Ghana proved
very difficult and when telegrams got through
misunderstandings occurred. When no satisfactory reply
had been received by the first week of May, a decision was
made to sell the remaining reptiles (some, mainly the

-

chameleons, had already died inSpite of expert care) to a
pet dealer. This method of disposal was opposed by some
of the voluntary conservation bodies and was taken up by
the media, notably in "The Guardian" and "New Scientist".
The following quote is taken from New Scientist (14/5/81),
page 397:-

"It was only when NCC officials saw a story in last
Sunday's 'Observer' saying that Ghana was on the brink of
collapse and that its telephone system had broken down
that they decided to give up attempts to contact officials
there and instead ordered the sale of the animals.

"John Burton of the Fauna and Flora Preservation
Society is extremely unhappy about the decision to sell
these animals and about the government‘s conduct in the
matter, although he is quick to praise the behaviour of
Customs officials throughout the affair. Burton is
disappointed that the government ignored conservationists'
advice to contact the Ghanaian authorities through
diplomatic channels in view of Ghana's disorganised
communications."

‘ r; , . r. .
,4 I .,V V
“".y." ' ,‘l 'quu . “,u 3 \
:3}! vv 1" J4" ‘ '9: i. .. ,_ '5' .

‘. tank”): .4 i x _i , F" '

. .5: w ;“»..¢\."‘

About a week later, WTMU received a telegram from
Ghana to the effect that the government was very
concerned and would be sending Dr. Emmanuel Asibey
(Chief Administrator of the Ghana Forestry Commission,
which has reSponsibility for the Dept. of Game and
Wildlife) over to the U.K. on 15th June to discuss the
methods of disposal of seized live animals. A meeting in
London on 18th June was attended by Dr. Asibey, three
representatives from the Ghana High Commisison including
the High Commissioner and representatives from H.M.
Customs and Excise, the Dept. of the Environment, the
Nature Conservancy Council, ffPS and WTMU. The
meeting proved very fruitful and, among other things,
"..revealed that export permits presented for consignments
of animals from Ghana to this country have carried forged
authorising signatures." This statement is taken from a
letter circulated by the Dept. of the Environment on 25th
June to importers who were known to have imported
animals from Ghana in the past and to the pet trade
journals. The letter goes on to say that in future,
applications to import any animals from Ghana will not be
considered unless a properly authorised permit from the
Dept. of Game and Wildlife can be presented. "Any
animals arriving in this country from Ghana without a valid
export permit will be seized by Customs and Excise." D

 




REGRE INILDLIFE EXPORTS
FROM CDLGMBIA

THE COLOMBIAN PAPER, 'El Tiempo‘ has again exposed a
Colombian smuggling racket, involving firms in the USA
and Italy. This one concerns the illegal export of thousands
of caimans and a disastrous attempt to set up a crocodile
farm in Italy.

The Investigations Unit of 'El Tiempo' reports that almost,
12,000 live animals were exported from Barranquilla
between November 1980 and March 1981. The exports
were fully supported by forged documents from Inderena
(the Institute for the Development of Renewable Natural
Resources), lCA (Instituto Colombiano AgrOpecuario, which
issues certificates of health), and Incomex (Instituto
Colombiano de Comercio Exterior, the foreign trade
agency). Information obtained for El Tiempo concerns four
cargo loads, though there were probably many more
conSIgnments sent.

The species involved - babillas (Spectacled caimans
Caiman crocodilus), snakes and lizards - are all protected
and their export is strictly forbidden (see last issue of
TRAFFIC Bulletin, pp. 19-21). Three cargoes were sent to
Miami, the first of which contained 5550 live caimans, 87
boas and 16 vipers. This was sent to Tropical Animal
Distributors Inc., a firm that for many years has dealt in
wildlife and whom Alberto Donadio had named in his
"Wildlife Trade in Colombia in 1974" as a US importer from
Colombia. The cargo was supported by a permit from
Inderena which has since been found to be forged as
Inderena has no record of such a permit being issued on 7
November 1980. The Colombian exporting firm, Reptiles
Tropicales, named on the forms, does not exist, nor does
the tax identification number of the firm. The health
certificate and the Incomex permit accompanying the
cargo were also forged.

 

The other two shipments sent in March of this year to
Miami had similar false documents — in fact the Incomex
permits for all three shipments had the same document
number, 5815. The first of these cargoes contained 250
aimans, 891 boas, 24 rainbow boas Epicrates cenchria and
326 lizards; the second, 1213'boas, 85 tegus Tupinambis
eguixin nijr0punctatus, 330 caimans and 10 rainbow boas.
ince the export firm does not exist it is impossible to say

ho is responsible for sending these consignments.

 

 

impossiblewtgﬁnforgenthese laws.

I,

I l.
,.
L/

CAIMANS TO ITALY

However, the dealer who exported 3000 caimans to Italy is
very well known. He is Simon Daza who has been deeply
involved in international wildlife trade for 30 years.

In December 1980, caimans were flown from
Barranquilla to Rome airport, arriving in mid winter, and
transported from there by lorry to Présicce, a village on
the very tip of Italy. The animals had been acquired for
the Compagnia lnternazionale Allevamento Animali Esotici
which plans to establish a captive—breeding farm in
Présicce.

The first count revealed that 1500 had died in transit.
Between December and the. middle of February another
1094 had died, probably from salmonella and fungus
disease. By March there were only 406 left. An expert
who visited Pre’sicce found that the animals were living in
overcrowded ponds of stagnant water, were suffering from
malnutrition and mouth fungus, and were not getting
adequate heating. He predicted that 100—150 would die
within the month.

The Italian company had made an additional order for
1500 caimans that were due to arrive on 20 February but
'El Tiempo' was unable to establish if Simon Daza had sent
the second consignment. The paper knew of a telephone
call that Daza had had with the Italian importing firm
though Daza denied any knowledge of the firm or the
consignments, adding that he had stopped exporting
animals six or seven years ago.

PROBLEMS OF LAW ENFORCEMENT

Colombia, although the only S. American country not to
have ratified CITES, has extensive legislation protecting
its wildlife. However it seems that it is virtually

Inderena had not recorded any of the consignments nor
had Incomex registered them. Officials from Inderena
knew that these illegal exports had been going on for some
time but said they were powerless to st0p them. According
to one official, customs officers at Soledad airport in'
Barranquilla do not allow Inderena officials on to the
runway. For example, at the beginning of 1980, customs
did not permit Inderena to confiscate some skins - by the
time they were turned over to the inspectors they had been
turned into shoes! The same official said that when the
inspectors went to the warehouses the traffickers simply
hid their goods and waited till the next day. It had become
so difficult for the officials to carry out their jobs that
sometimes it was necesary to bring in unknown inspectors
from Bogota.

The regional chief of Inderena at Barranquilla said
that since 1978 he had not signed a single document
authorizing the export of any species of animal. An
internal investigation was being set up to see if there had
been any involvement in the affair by Inderena officials,
and there was going to be a major clampdown on such
Operations in the whole region and the local airport.

WTMU consultant, Professor Medem, told the paper
that these exports showed that controls were inadequate
and the laws of the last years were not being enforced. He
commented that it was madness to try to breed caimans in
the Mediterranean — it was like breeding penguins in
Barranquilla. Medem thought the exports were scandalous
as caimans were now in danger of extinction (see his report
in TRAFFIC Bulletin Vol II, Nos.9/10). In 1956 it was easy
to see 200 adult caimans sunning themselves on the river
Ariari, two hours from Villavicencio and it was the same on
the Atlantic coast. Now however they had practically
disappeared - Medem and an assistant had spent two weeks
by the river Tomo and had not seen a single caiman. U

 




40

l
iiuw‘rme EN mosses-311m

ACCORDING TO AN article by Rod Nordland of the
Knight News Service, the Mongolian Government now
includes the snO‘W‘Te’Opa—rdNPanthera uncia) in its hunting
programme. T e YTO‘WﬂEOpard is a rare and endangered
species and is on Appendix I of CITES (to which Mongolia is
not a Party).

It is difficult to ascertain what its numbers are in
Mongolia though the 1978 sheet in the Red Data Book
estimated them to be less than 300. Now for US$50,000
one “fiesta-German and two US {firmswavrewofferingmthe
ngTgame huTTtEFthe cha‘h‘é‘éﬂitowbring back- a prestigioUs
snow'leopard trophy.‘ Members of “the hunting party fly to
the capital Ulan Bator from Moscow where they are met by
a Government interpreter and are then flown to Jirgalant
in the extreme west of the country. From there they
travel into the High Altai, the home of the elusive snow
leOpard, to bag their game. There are no figures available
for the number of snow 1e0pards that hunters are being

 

allowed to take although for the smaller game on offer, the _

argali (the big—horn sheep) and ibex, government officials
have said 300 of each are being shot a year.

For US$16,000 you can hunt the Altai argali Ovis
ammon ammon which are found in the entire A—lt-ai
Mountain range in western Mongolia, Spilling over into
China and up into Kazakhstan SSR. They are an attractive
game for hunters as the average length of the great curled
horns, according to one hunting report (Safari Club
International), is 57 inches with broomed tips and massive
20 inch bases. In the lower part of the Altai range there
are also argali but here the sizes are noticeably smaller.
To hunt these smaller argali and the argali of the Gobi
desert O. a. 'darwini‘ : ?hodgsoni, which average 42.5

 

inches in—h—Ernalength with 16 inch bases, you pay only
$10,000 and a mere $6000 for a Siberian ibex Capra
sibirica. Again it is difficult to ascertain the status of the
argali but all argali are on Appendix II of CITES (with O. a.

hodgsoni on Appendix I).

CONSERVATION RECORD

Up until about the middle of the present century the
animal and plant world of Mongolia, had only been slightly
affected by man‘s activities and because of this some of
the rarest animals of the world had been preserved there -
Przewalski's horse Equus przewalskii, Bactrian camel
Camelus bactrianus, Gobi bear Ursus arctos pruinosus,
Mongolian wild ass Equus hemionus hemionus and saiga
antelope Saiga tatarica (now no longer considered
threatened). Mongolia's conservation record up to now has
been very good and from its earliest years the Republic has
sought to protect the rare endemic animals. By a decree
of 1929 the hunting of the Przewalski's horse and the wild
ass was prohibited and further laws were passed to protect
other species including the camel and the Gobi bear.
Species have been monitored and research and studies
carried out. At the beginning of 1975 the Government
decided to create the Mongolian Society for Protection of
Nature and Environment of which all organizations and
institutions whose activities were connected with natural
resources became members. By the end of the year the
number of individual members reached 175,000 and the
number of institution members was as high as 1500. In
1976 a Nature Protection Department was set up by the
government.

The Government showed its willingness to follow
through conservation policies by establishing by official
decree in 1976 the Great Gobi National Park. The vast
park comprises the Transaltai Gobi National Park of
3,800,000 ha and the Djungarian Gobi wildlife Reserve of
900,000 ha - two enormous areas of both arid and semi-arid
largely undisturbed desert. Here there are thriving
populations of all the indigenous large mammals (with the

 

 

 

 

 

 

exception of Equus przewalskii) and tracks of the snow
leopard have" also been found. In 1979 the Khuhtsyhr
Reserve was created, where evidence of the presence of
several different snow leopards have been found, and a
second Reserve north east of Bulgan, representing a typical
region of taiga, should be set up between 1981 and 1983.

 

TROPHY HUNTING TRADE

With the exception of India, Asia had been virtually
unhunted by outsiders until 1967. Then the
Klineburger/Milton hunting expedition paved the way for
wealthy Western sportsmen to hunt in innermost Asia. The
Asian countries that were opened up to foreign hunters
were the Soviet Union, Iran, Afghanistan and Mongolia —
except for Iran, the other three countries have
government—Operated outfitting. In Mongolia there are
three areas Open for the hunting season - the High Altai,
the South Gobi and the Forest area. Wapiti, roe deer and
wolf are hunted in the Forest, argali (O. a. 'darwini'), ibex,
gazelle in the south Gobi and argali (ofé. ammon), ibex
and now the snow leOpard in the High- IA—ltai. With the
closure of Iran and AfghaniStan, Mongolia has become even
more popular and attractive to the trOphy—conscious
big—game hunter with this unprecedented offer of the snow
1e0pard, legally protected in other areas and indeed
protected in Mongolia since 1970.

One government official attributed this departure
from its proclaimed conservation policies to the country's
need for hard currency and foreign exchange. Nearly all of
Mongolia's trade is with the USSR and so it has little means
of earning hard currency. A common solution to this
problem is tourism and Mongolia has been trying to develop
a tourist industry but this is made difficult by lack of
hotels and tourist facilities. Hunting, on the other hand,
does not require the infrastructure of regular tourism as
the hunters stay for a short period to bag their game, need
only camping facilities and yet still bring in large amounts
of currency.

Most of the animals involved in these hunts, though
perhaps vulnerable, are common game animals and are
either on CITES Appendix II or not on the Appendices at
all. However the snow leopard is an Appendix I Species and
as such requires both an export licence from the country of
origin and an import licence from the country of
importation. Applications for US import permits are only
accepted on a case—by—case basis, and cannot be approved
unless sc1entific findings show that the activity or its
purpose will not be detrimental to the survival of the
animal in the wild, and the specimen is not to be used for
primarily commercial purposes. The one exception is if the
importer is not a US citizen he can bring in an Appendix I
Specimen without a permit and can either keep it or give it
away, but he cannot sell it. However two American
hunters encountered in Mongolia did not seem to expect
any trouble at all in bringing back their trophi and felt
that their $50,000 would not be wasted. \ f5

 




I In I979, the Safari Club International filed an
application with the Department of the Interior to import
'sport hunter trophies' of 1125 endangered animals
annually. Out of the 1+5 taxa applied for, only one was not
found either in the CITES appendices or in the Red Data
Book. Included in this shOpping list of the world‘s rarest
species were 10 snow leOpards. After a public outcry the
Safari Club withdrew its application.

In the Winter 1980 Klineburger World Adventure Club
Hunting Report, amongst accounts of hunting programs
around the world, the "Gamemasters of the World" report
on a "a very positive‘plan" to develop a hunting program in
the Kashmir, Ladakh and Jammu regions in India. These
areas all come under Kashmir's state government
jurisdiction and so have different legislation from that of
India's central government. The report talks of the great
potential of this region and goes on: ”The list of animals of
Kashmir is long and, hopefully, all of them will be available
for hunting in the foreseeable future. Included in the
wildlife program are Shapoo, Tibetan Antelope, Kashmir
Stag, Musk Deer, Goral, Serow, Argali, LeOpard, Snow
LeOpard, Black Bear, Brown Bear, Wolf, Tibetan Gazeile,
Tahr, Markhor, Bharal, Barking Deer, Hog Deer, Ibex,
Sambar, Chital and Boar. As can be seen, we can look
forward to a great future in hunting." Note that the first
12 in the list are CITES Appendix I and the next three are
in Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act. This
act is in force in virtually all Indian states except Jammu
and Kashmir. Alongside this section is a photograph of two
of the organizers on a exploratory trip to Kashmir, posing
by the skin of a Himalayan brown bear Ursus arctos
isabellinus "to show off the size and beautiful fur".

The Hunting Report reproduces a plaque from one of
its member's trOphy room: "It is with the greatest reSpect
‘for our Creator that I have taken the life of these noble
animals and shared the flesh with my fellowman and at
considerable expense mounted the heads so that others may
praise their beauty. The man that has not eaten the flesh
of God‘s animals may be the first to cast the stone." 1! D

IN CHINA

”HAND

Meanwhile in China zoologists have warned that half of the
country's 130 endangered species are on the verge of
extinction because of reckless killing and exports,
according to the official New China News Agency.

The zoologists declared at a recent conference that
some forestry workers and rangers act as if natural
reserves were their "private hunting grounds". They also
said that zookeepers and researchers hunt the species or
pay premium prices for them giving an incentive to
suppliers. No particular species was referred to but the
scientists said they wanted state laws to protect the
endangered animals. China's most famous animal, the
giant panda Ailuropoda melanoleuca, is now protected and
last year a peasant convicted of shooting one was
sentenced to l8 months imprisonment.

Several hundred thousand Chinese hunt annually and
their activities are reported as an integral part of the
nation's agricultural productivity. Hunting for commercial
purposes is well established in many of the less populated
autonomous regions. Income from hunting is frequently
higher than from an equivalent amount of farm labour and
central government leaders praise the communes which
increase their revenue from hunting wild animals.

In addition to meat and hides, many animals are
hunted to supply important medicinal and industrial
products. Official Chinese management policy included
elimination Of canids and felids regarded as harmful to

 

desirable wild animals, livestock, or humans' safety, and
whose pelts are economically useful. \Xith China's
accession to CITES in January this year it is hOped that
some restrictions-will be put on the hunting of particular
species for trade - for example, the clouded leOpard, 220
skins of which were seized by Hong Kong customs in 1979.

At the conference the scientists claimed that in their
quest for foreign currency some foreign trade corporations
freely export China‘s rare birds and animals with no regard
to their preservation. The conference agreed that it was
essential for the government to set up an educational
programme and research into the preservation and rational
utilization of animal resources. U

LAMMERGEIERS 8: TAXIDERMY

The March Editorial of the 'Vulture News' is concerned
with the vulnerablity of some Species of vulture in the
taxidermy trade. It reports that in 1979 the frozen bodies
of 200 Lammergeiers Gypaetus barbatus were imported
into Germany from China. The birds had been caught alive
and then killed by driving a nail into the back of their
heads. This form of slaughter enables the bodies to be sent
in prime condition to the work-tables of German
taxidermists who paid DM 600 per bird. Once prepared and
mounted, the same specimens fetch ten times this amount
and apparently there are plenty of people willing to Spend
these sums for a stuffed Lammergeier. The speCies is only
on Appendix II of CITES and so the trade between Germany
and China is quite legal.

The Chinese population seems quite healthy and
wideSpread but the vulnerability of the small southern
African and European populations is increased greatly by
their value in the taxidermy trade. The Editorial suggests
that further protection is needed for the Lammergeier
particularly for these small populations.

It adds that 300 bodies of Black Vultures Aegypius
monachus were also imported into Germany from China
under exactly the same circumstances as the
Lammergeiers. There appears to be a growing demand for
vultures in this trade. [:1

 

 




 

42

International Trade

UPDATE

Prices a7 Leningrad Fur Auclions -

July 79 70 January 8|

in Harp and Flooded ﬁeals -,

      
 

 

 

~ >3
5: $37 '
L‘ ‘ H 2

!\
7%
e

‘ .

- {"A.
‘ 4‘ ‘2 g
E§§§<s>fﬁsxs§72§
vs»~::\;\g$s«
i “‘“a

«:45 -
a e.

~~ - ~ £33:
7- - “se_

 
      

§F§:xt;

 
 

Tolal Norwegian Sealskin ExporTs,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I977-l980 (Value in I000 Nkr)
Jan.80 July 79
Low High Low High
S 5
l3 242 dyed Whifecoaf, sold l001 20 49 20 30 2 I977 I978 I979 I980
. . ‘ No, No. No. No.
6 07! Norwegian dyed Whifecoafs, val. Val. Val. Val.
sc;ld 71% IS 54 ____
7 Raw 26 546 20 l6l 2I 848 22 945
I 920 dressed Nerpa, sold 69.4% 60 68 60 7O Sealskins 2 949 2 866 I 924 2 607
Jan. 81 Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes
Low High Val. Val. Val. Val.
. S Erocessed l20 I40 I52 I66
‘9 ‘32 dyed Wh'lecoalv SOId 98%' Scalskins 33 292 39 224 44 350 50 386
STrong compefifion advancing I0$ .
compared wifh Leningrad July 80 23,50 66 To‘al
“ , , 35 238 42 090 46 274 52 993
I 272 dressed Serka Beaiers, sold 50% 36 43 \a.ue #
3 560 dressed Nerpa, sold 32%. Where '
sold, firm. Top price: 74 Source: StatistlSk Sentralbyra, Oslo
Source: Fur Review,March l980;Fur Review, March l98|
Norwegian Raw Sealskin EXpOFTS, l977-l980 (Value in I000 Nkr - Counlries wiTh a value
less Than 50,000 Nkr are nol specified)
W H l T E C O A T 8 L U E B A C K C T H E R 5
I977 I978 l9/9 . '980 l977 I978 I979 I980 l97/ I978 I979 I950
To No. No. No. No No. No. No. No. No. No. NO. NO.
Val. Val. Val. Val Val Val. Val. Val. Val. Val Val Val .2.
r 235 2 C 6 l25 350
oenmark 78 525 l 058 46
. , 500 8 li2
Finland 60 776
‘ l I00 2 7l9 5 666 2 02I
5‘808“ 324 629 953 308
France 7 343 I 300 3 800 5 395 2 070 I 000 982
527 IOI 306 485 I64 55 I28
263
‘a'y 57
Spain i 27i
_ ' 213
UK 5 850 6 500 I 23C 5 9l¢ S 530 3 080 l I32
40! 147 95 SIS 499 247 90
l 237 30; 964 sec _ ZIQ 52c 45. I 974
resT Cernany '59 2: :23 '77 29 El 58 43‘
2. ADC
Jasan ldd
TOTFL No. I3 I93 3 237 ll 350 I6 37E I99 520 15c IO :2 :54 IS 354 '0 348 6 557
Val. 928 303 547 l 53* 401 I17 47 3 1 6l7 2 38: l 330 l 008
ihfffgia. 70:‘4 03,60 49.19 97.4“ 334,1: 5'6 37 3:3,31 300 1‘3,L« .45,81 l28,53 133,73
Source:

Jon Barzdo's reporf is available from The Fauna
Gardens, Regen‘ls Park, London NWI 4RY. Price

STaTisTisk Senfralbyré, Oslo

 

 

aﬁl.20

 

 

& Flora Preservafion Sociefy, Zoological

 

 




2231!...131JFE 523:1 i 31311556 IN
Llaéiiii‘t’O " 11981

by Tom Milliken

IHROUGHOUT THE 19705 Japan reigned as the world's
largest uncontrolled market of wildlife and wildlife
products. On 9 November 1980, Japan became the 60th
nation to ratify CITES. Japan took nine reservations on
AppendixI Species. They are:

Fin whale Be :aenoptera ph\sa1us
Himalayan musk deer Moschus moschiferus
Green turtle Chelonia mydas

Hawksbill turtle Eretmochelys imbricata
Olive ridley turtle Lepidochelys olivacea
Yellow monitor Varanus flavescens

Bengal monitor Varanus bengalensis

Desert monitor Varanus griseus

Saltwater crocodile Crocodylus porosus

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

With its paramount record for wildlife trafficking, Japan's
signature is potentially the most significant event since the
inception of CITES in 1973. However, the law means
nothing unless it is prOperly enforced.

Beyond the government published import/export
statistics very little data has actually been obtained
concerning the specific nature of the consumer orientated
trade in wildlife products in Japan. To fill that void, and
to make an assessment of the present situation 2 months
after CITES has officially become law, a survey of wildlife
products featured at Tokyo department stores and
businesses was planned and carried out during the weekend
of 17 and 18 January 1981. It was sponsored by Chikyu no
Tomo (FOE, Tokyo) and Hirake Coma (Open Sesame). The
\ki‘w’F-Japan contributed data previously collected on the
fur trade and a team from the Panda Club continued their
work for this survey.

The stated purpose of the survey was to:

I. ascertain the full range of wildlife products currently
and readily avai 'able to Japanese consumers; to collect
pertinent and recent data on prices, trade volume and
manufacturers.

2. locate and identify products derived from Appendix I
species that could represent potential areas of illegal
trade; to locate and identify products derived from
reservation speC1es.

3. note areas of commercial activity that could possibly
endanger animals not presently covered by CITES
protection.

4. establish a data base for appropriate media use, and '

from which department store and government policy could
be influenced; to establish a data base for future
comparative studies.

The survey was primarily focused upon four major
commercial centres in Tokyo: Shinjuku, Shibuya, Ginza and
Kichijoji. Because department stores carry the widest
range of goods, they were the main targets of the
surveyors. Beyond general categories, species
identification was usually impossible as most of the
volunteers had no previous experience. The labels attached
to the product usually served identification purposes.
Occasionally clerks were questioned and often the
information was incomplete. Because of the lack of time,
the survey was not expanded to include pet shops which
deal in a wide range of live mammals, birds and reptiles or
the speciality stores that feature ivory. Also, the Chinese
medicine establishments which supply potions made from
rhinoceros horns, deer antlers, dried snakes and even tiger
penises were not surveyed.

FINDINGS:
SPECIES SUBJECT TO CITES APPENDIX 1 RESERVATIONS

Q F1n\¥ha1es

Although all department stores feature extensive food
markets generally covering the entire basement,floor, none
of the stores surveyed featured whale meat either canned
or in other forms. This underlines the salient fact that
whale meat plays an insignificant role in the Japanese diet.

9 Himalayan Musk Deer

With a welLdeveloped cosmetics industry (Shiseido, I
believe, is the world‘s largest manufacturer) the Japanese
use of musk is substantial. Musk in a pure form is rarely, if
ever, available, but it is an important ingredient for many
perfumes and scents manufactured in Japan. Jovan Japan
Inc has an entire line 'Musk Oil for Men' featuring colognes,

'hair tonics, moisturizing creams and soaps. The products

are mixtures and the labels fail to indicate the percentage
of musk used. Import data indicates that most musk comes
from Nepal which would clearly represent the Himalayan
pOpulation. The dramatic increase in importation rates

'could well represent a stockpiling effort given the

uncertainty for future trade prospects.

Year Nepalese Total imports
1980(Jan-May) 112 kg 239 kg

1979 196 kg 334 kg
1978 256 kg

9 Turtles
1979 represents a peak year for all areas of turtle imports
whether it be bekko (TortoiSeshell), turtle skins or turtle
leather (according to official Japanese statistics which
show many discrepancies with the export figures of the
countries of origin).
Bekko imports from Singapore and the Philippines doubled
and those from Indonesia and the Netherlands almost
tripled. The yen value of the imports doubled over 1978.

Year Total imports

T979 63,555 kg

1978 90,544 kg
Turtle skins imports:

1979 169,568 kg

1978 94,445 kg
(Imports from Ecuador account for almost 3/# of the trade)
Turtle leather imports:

1979 29,744 kg

1978 l 1,806 kg

 

 

 

 

”9(Mexico represented all but 1100 kg of the 1979 total)
,. m...»—

The turtle trade is substantial and extremely lucrative.
While Species identification was impossible, one thing is for
certain, there is an abundance of turtle products available
to the Japanese consumer.

Bekko

Bekko represents a domestic industry with a long
tradition. Top of the line spectacle frames are so
expensive that they are generally only available upon
Special order. The Siebu department store in Shibuya
topped the list with a pair for 154140. In the Ginza a pair of
blond frames of Mexican derivation was priced at $3300.
Half frames can be had for $500, but are generally in the
5800-1500 bracket. Full frames range upwards from $1600
a pair. All of the manufacturers were Japanese: Vinca,
Seizo, Japan, Matshushima Optical. The shell came from
South America, Mexico, the Middle East and Southeast
Asia.

Bekko accessories are readily available starting at a
modest $12.50 and ranging upwards to $150. These items
included hair clips, hair combs, small rings and bracelets
and brooches. A small Bekko handbag was $215 and Bekko
watch—straps were as high as 51140. F

 

 




44

Leather

While—“the manufacturers of bekko products were
exclusively Japanese, there were Italian imports of turtle
leather products. Turtle leather is a fairly recent
commercial endeavour for the Japanese unlike bekko.
Doma Elisa, Italy, offered turtle handbags for $140 and
Berbano of Italy shoes were $750. Turtle leather bags by
Accent (a Japanese Co.) were priced at $340. Turtle
leather zoovis, a traditional Japanese slipper worn with
kimono, ranged from $90-125 a pair. For men, belts were
in the $50 range and wallets between $60-75.

Lacquered turtles

The turtle, like the crane, is a symbol of longevity for the
Japanese. As a result homes often feature a lacquered
whole turtle as a room decoration. Japanese tourists from

 

Southeast Asian countries often purchase these turtles as'

souvenirs. Stuffed turtles representing two species were
available at the Tokyo Department Store for $400.
Another was sale-priced at $150.

Soup

Turtle soup imports from West Germany (Jensen's Fine'

Foods) and France (Continental Purchasing) were found,
but turtle as a food source is for the most part negligible.
Nothing on these labels indicated that the turtles were
commercially farmed.

An indigenous freshwater turtle is apparently
commercially farmed in Japan and used in a traditional
cuisine, Suppon Ryori. As far as 1 know, the trade does not
constitute a threat to the Species' survival.

The domestic trade in turtle products is increasing. Public
perceptions of the turtle as an endangered species are
virtually non-existent. The reservation status sanctions
this growing trade.

3 Lizards

Again, species identification was impossible to ascertain,
but the trade is substantial. Every store that featured
ladies handbags had products of lizard origin. French and
Italian companies took a large portion of the market with
designer items by Yves St Laurent, Guido Borelli and Ted
Lapidus being especially prominent. Many department
stores had their own brands.

A wallet by Ajoka d'Argent, a Japanese company,
costing $60 was identified as Indonesian in origin.
Japanese handbags ranged from a low sale-priced store at
$75 upwards to $440. Italian imports by Guido Borelli -
leather with lizard trim - were priced between $475 and
$650. Shoes by Bernano ranged from $1140—1750 a pair.

The importation of lizard skins increased nearly 60 per
cent between 1977 and 1979 and the importation of' lizard
leather more than doubled. The yen value of the trade
doubled for lizard skins and quadrupled for lizard leather
during those year. The primary suppliers are Indonesia,
Singapore, Bangladesh and Pakistan followed by Paraguay
and Thailand.

0 Crocodile

Of all the reptilian products, crocodilian derived
merchandise is the costliest. Italian and French imports
take a substantial share of the market and are the most
expensive. Japanese companies are successful
competitors, and even some products manufactured in West
Germany were found. When a single handbag by Collin of
Paris can bring $6250 in Tokyo, it is no wonder that both
the French and the Japanese continue to trade in these
endangered species. Crocodilian products are
unquestionably status symbols. Men's belts range from
$100 to $225 - one belt was priced as high as $500.
Women's handbags range from a modest $260 for a tiny
handbag to over $6000. The average price is in the $1500
to $2000 neighbourhood. An Italian made credit card

holder costs $400 and a key holder $125.

 

With such incredible profits to be made, the Japanese
will not voluntarily remove the reservation as long as
Europeans like the French and Italians continue to trade in
the commodity. Between 1976 and 1979 alligator and
crocodile skin imports increased six-fold from 27,206 kg to
162,737 kg. Imports of alligator and crocodile leather in
1979 reached an all time high of 21,078 kg. Production
levels are not remaining stable but expanding in a large
way.

OTHER SPECIES

® Snakes

Italian, West Germany and Japanese companies are all
involved in the snakeskin trade. While species
identification was rarely obtainable, snakes were used for
belts and handbags. Bags by Medell Londor of West
Germany ranged from $340—390. Generally prices were
lower, in the $100-300 range for Japanese-made products.
Givenchy belts were $39 and Gian France Loffi belts were
slightly less at $37.50. Snake skin items occurred much
less frequently than the other reptile Species. It is a less
desirable leather. The 1979 trade was consistent with
mid—1970 levels of over 20,000 kg of skins. Thailand,
Philippines, Indonesia and Singapore accounted for all the
1979 trade.

3 Peccary
Peccary leather was widely available as shoes, wallets,
gloves and belts. Japanese companies as well as French,
Italian, and West German concerns were involved in the
trade. Peccary gloves are highly prized by Japanese
equestrians. Gloves of West German origin were priced
from $100-l40 a pair. Italian peccary shoes priced at $345
a pair identified the leather as coming from Lederfabrik
Lorsbach, West Germany. Top of the market shoes sold for
$365 a pair, while the French company Vigens offered
shoes for .as little as $175. A peccary belt by Reodor of
Italy sold for $150. Wallets by the Japanese firms of Ajoka
d'Argent and Plaster were priced in the $55-85 range.
Peccary leather seems to be popular and becoming
increasingly so all the time.

 

Ostrich

Ostrich leather products are expensive and abundant.
Italian imports dominate the market and fetch the highest
prices. A handbag by Guido Borelli will sell for as much as
$2450, an Italian made wallet for $300, a pair of shoes for
$450, and a tiny watchstrap for $140. Japanese
manufactured prooucts generally are about 40 per cent
cheaper than the Italian imports, but even so a handbag
will cost up to $1200. Some of the products identified the
leather as South African derivation.

Ostrich leather imports have hovered around the
20,000 kg mark for the last 5 years With South Africa
accounting for most of the trade. (South Africa has
several successful ostrich farms which have been
established for many years — Ed)

 




\

Shark: Handbags made from shark‘KJe/ather were found at

the Matuya Department Store in Ginza under a store brand
name selling for around $125.

EBL‘EIQPE: Antelope wallets were put out by Pister as part

9f their 'Game Skin' collection and sold for $30-50. Species
identification was not obtained. '
Se‘ailioﬂ: Sealion was also featured in Pister‘s 'Game Skin'
line. Wallets were priced $40-65. Species identification
was not obtained.
Elephant: The Tokyo Department Store in Kichijoji had 3
elephant leather belts clearly marked as "Southeast Asian”
selling for $50 each. This trade is presumably derived from
Elephas maximas (CITES Appendix I)-
Vicuna: The Siebu Department Store had a 'Siebu Original'
line of vicuna scarves ranging from $75-250. This trade
apparently operates in defiance to the Appendix I listing
for, the vicuna.
Birds: As pet stores were not surveyed data pertaining to
the live bird trade is not available.
pOpular however. Pheasants in glass cases can be priced as
high as $475. Cheaper sale priced items were found for
$190—240. A stuffed falcon was selling for $225 at an
animal products bazaar at the Tokyo Department Store.
Spectacle cases made from flamingo were also found
at the same bazaar, pricedat $36.30.

 

FURS

For the last few years a 'fur boom' has been sweeping
Japan. According to a column by Tomiko Shirakigawa in
the Japan Times on the miracle of the Japanese fur
business ”in fiscal 1979 the scale of the Japanese market
for fur imports reached 65 billion yen - an increase of 20
times in 10 years". The fur industry has mushroomed into a
multi—million dollar business beyond even the wildest
expectations and more pe0ple are jumping on the
bandwagon all the time. Hanae Mori will be offering furs
for the first time at the American International Fur Fair
this year. Other designers are getting involved.
Purchasing on credit in pre—determined time installment
paying plans has made fur fashion accessible to virtually
everyone from the super rich to the college coed.
Shirakegawa writes, ”The number of well—to—do women,
generally middle-aged, who own two fur coats has
increased. Buying a fur has become the Japanese woman's
pleasure equivalent to a man‘s buying a car". The range of
animal furs available and the volume of the trade is
perhaps unequalled anywhere in the world. Virtually all of
the fur imports of endangered Species fall in the trade
category of ‘other furs' making the figure more or less a
useless gauge for the direct nature of the trade. A 'Fur
Digest' by Nakamura Furs has a list of 108 fur-bearing
animals, a description of their fur and its commercial
uses. Besides the obvious Appendix I Species listed (tiger,
cheetah, clouded leOpard etc.) the list even included
'Panda' fur coats and jackets and 'Giant Panda' for fur
rugs. A look at the Tokyo fur trade indeed reveals that
everything and anything is coming in.

0 Spotted cats

The fashion industry is pushing Spotted cats. Store window
diSplays, showrooms for mannequins and exclusive ads in all
the women's magazines routinely feature fashions created
from spotted cat furs. According to pre-Christmas survey
data collected by a team of girls from the World Wildlife
Fund Japan's Panda club up to 30% of the total fur
collection at the most exclusive furriers represented cat
species. Generally speaking at least 20% of any fur
collection be it a department store or a fur boutique, is
composed of spotted cats. Recently, some stores,
particularly department stores, have been offering "last
chance" sales to clean out the cat stock in what seems to
be a direct response to CITES. (Some establisments even

Stuffed birds are still»

"represented

made Specific mention of CITES, referred to as the
Washington Jyoyaku in Japan). However, the more
exclusive furriers continue to maintain a very low profile
viS-a—vis CITES and some stores even went so far as to
indicate that "there are ways" to circumvent the CITES
restrictions. While there is a budding conservation
consciousness in some quarters, in general all furs are
promoted from a purely fashion standpoint and there is
little if any, recognition of the larger issues at Stake here.
The Japanese consumer is affluent, sophisticated and
status conscious but unfortunately environmentally
unaware.

The rarest species are found at fantastic prices:
clouded leopard $25,750 to $124,270, tiger $94,750, snow
leOpard $33,000, ocelot $23,795 to $32,400, leOpard $32,500

no $50,000, lynx $24,000 to $75,000, African leopard
'\ $72,000 and Bengal tiger $72,000.

( ll'i 1‘1 1‘ l 1"1'.\H13.

The trade in lesser cats is even more extensive than
the ultra-expensive exotics, according to Shirakigawa "easy
to wear, less formal short coats account for 80% of the fur
coats sold in Japan today." The pelts of the smaller
leopard cats, civets, and grey cats are routinely featured in
these creations. Apparently, furriers are more readily able
to procure large quantitites of lesser cat skins at cheaper
prices, making the finished product moderately priced and
easily accessible to housewives, secretaries and even
stuoents. Species identification by the manufacturers label
is usually deceptive. A wide range of different Species are
lumped and sold under the common, if not misleading labels
of "leopard cat", ”Spotted cat", "tiger cat", "mountain cat",
or "wildcat". A sampling of prices shows
comparison with the rare large cats the cost of a half
length jacket 15 conSJGerably less. Leopard cats $1,500, to
$2,950, mountain Civet $1,140, civet cat, $1,740, grey cat
$2,000, wildcat $2,900 Andes cat $3,100, tiger cat (full
length) $3,750, yellow cat, $1,990, and mountain cat,
$4,400.

e Wild furs
The bulk of the fur collections at the most exclusive
Japanese firms like Ember, Julius and Grace are derived

that in

45

from wild animals. Surveyors found that as much as 60 tom“

70 per cent of the furs, in these expensive boutiques
wild animals an extremely high figure
(inclusive of cat species ). Many Appendixglmanimals are
involved in the trade which “encompasses most of the
regularly traded species.

Chinchilla (wild) was priced at $48,950 at the Ember
Store in Yurakucho. A half length wolf by Freundlich of

D

 




46

 

INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN CORALS - ABSTRACT

Analysis of foreign trade statistics reveals that there has
recently been a considerable increase in the volume of
coral involved in world trade. Stony corals for the curio
trade are exported in large quantities from south east Asia,
particularly the Philippines, to EurOpe and the US and
imports into the latter increased dramatically during the
l970s. Taiwan and Japan are currently the centre of the
precious coral industry, their boats ranging far into the
lndo-Pacific since local coral beds have been successively
depleted. Black or semi—precious coral has recently
become pOpular for jewellery in the deveIOped world and is
being increasingly collected. Local depletions have been
reported in the Caribbean. Exporting countries are
beginning to attempt to control the coral trade but
enforcement is difficult and consumer countries have made
little attempt to curtail the retail end of the trade. A
coral fishery management plan has been drawn up for the
Western Pacific Region, based on research carried out on
commercially valuable Species in Hawaii. It is suggested

that further research be initiated to determine optimum'

sustainable yields for commercially valuable species in
other regions.

q
U4 ( lNTERNATIONAL “more FOR commvntou or mnunt AND NATURAL
C} “sonnets

International Trade in
Ornamental Shells

by Susan M. \Vells

 

IUCN Conservation Monitoring Centre

I ah lhr if."- ..n “Marc-(c o: the putro Nations Eﬁ'h'On'I'f-“Hi P"—'E""""° “’6
the ‘0116 ‘nu’jllit Fqu.

These reports are available at £1.00 ($2.00) each including postage & packing (surface nail).

 

d 1 I\TTK>;ATI\‘KAL1_'NI\‘P\ FOR (‘ossrm ATIOi‘ OF hAi'v“ “‘0 NATURAL
f‘
V

g! KLSOK RCES

International Trade in

Corals

by Susan i\‘l.\‘v'ells

\
I ‘. I
,A'. v- \ %\ g,\ C.‘
‘u ‘1'. \ k .‘ ..“’
'9‘” ﬂ, .\£ {L}. ;‘-‘a”*.
A“ -- .3;
Kt}. I“ f-’ ' f 0-1 "V-Iil'f. E\\
\ t \L ..I ‘\1 ' .' -". "~_
t' . ’-' f‘ ' ~ ‘r'...
‘is’ Ru, \‘r ('13
‘t‘f‘ ’ " ‘ s '
“I I" _—-. ’/' ‘\‘Q ‘ Jk
._ I 1 l
‘1'... ~ .\ {f ‘l l /\
A .‘l: _ .f r \ l /
”"57 - Cit ‘ \ WU“ ’ /
a, .1‘ ~ . ‘ '
‘ "" \‘i V
3.“ ."jf‘ ‘ ‘ w
. at .: -\ , ,
: I,—-.- “ ﬂ’ 5“" ""
. ‘- ,, ._ q, \ ‘
1‘..- / / \\
~-- , " . \ .
.. (g ,\\‘_:
K . /’ / / '3! \ \‘
h! / 1“ t \ \ \-
. I , [l . .
l \\ .
1’ I," \‘ \x
I, / I" ' \\$ .
P .‘ \
‘4‘Jii \‘u

 

lUCN Conservation Monitoring Centre

a tth Hu‘ imam-ml “nuance ol the (mutt-G Nations Ennronn mu: Programme and
l’~( I one VI .ttznic Fund.

INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ORNAMENTAL SHELLS -
ABSTRACT

Considerable concern has been expressed recently over the
scale of trade in ornamental shells. Foreign trade
statistics have been analysed to given an indication of
trends and to ascertain the main importing and exporting
countries. The Philippines, Mexico, Haiti and a number of
other Indo—Pacific counties were found to be the main
suppliers, with the bulk of exports destined for the US and
EurOpe. Exports from some countries have escalated over
the last decade and there have been reports of depletions
of commercially valuable Species in some areas. Countries
are increasingly introducing legislation to regulate or
curtail the trade, but there is very little data available on
which to base management plans. Although no mollusc
Species are likely to become extinct through commercial
exploitation it is suggested that trade should be managed
on a sustainable yield basis. Further research is urgently
needed on the distribution and ecology of commercially
valuable Species.

Cheques should

be made payable to the Conservation Monitoring Centre - 2l9c Huntingdon Road, Cambridge C83 00L, UK.

it

‘3‘: Bulletin Subscribers

Subscriptions are £5.00 (“0.00) per volume, and cheques should be sent to WTMU, payable to the

Conservation Monitoring Centre.

Bulletin - be warned.

Will all subscribers please ensure that they have paid for Vol.lll.

To those who have not yet paid, this will be your last tree

it

 

 

 




Pans at the thatsuzahaya deparUnent SHMffln the Cana persecuted. The tanukiin partmlﬂar was coninmwuy found
was priced at $l2500. \Xild RUSSian sable cost $22,500 in and a half coat can be close to $5000. The status of the
the sza K03 UChi Hiroki. Ember also featured a line of tanuki should be determined as its range seems to be
wild foxes at hetty prices. Grey fox for $6,500, white fox declining according to some reliable sources. Litte if any
l0? “3,200, and red fox for $5,100. "‘Xild" seems to mean data is currently available concerning Japanese animal
better. quality fur to the Japanese consumer, and the populations. Outside of the national parks few if any
excluswe fur salons clearly cater to those tastes. Even protective measures'are in force.
departnwent stores stock at least half of their ccﬂlections Lhﬂess fur hrwxxts are closely HMOnltOFEG, the trade in
With wild furs. West Germans, French, Canadians and wild and exotic furs will continue unabated. The present
Italians were all involved in the trade. At Mitsukoshi offiCial trade statistics employ categories that are far too
department store a full” length raccoon by Canada Fur cost general to control the flow of endangered species into
$45400 at the Parco department store in Kichijoji. Nutria Japan. The four Specific categories of furs are mink, fox,
half jackets by Revillon Fourrure, West Germany were rabbit and hare, and squirrel. Everything else falls into the
priced at $9,000 at the Oscar Salon in Shibuya. In the "others" category.
Ginza full length nutria by Freundlich of Paris was $0,000. Apparently customs authorities have a manual for
Northern American raccoon can sell for as high at " identification purposes. However, the WWF Japan request
$9JMM)fora ﬂﬂlylengthcxmn Ulexjnxs)and beaverreaches E to look at the rnanual was refused by the Nhnhnry of
$8,400 for a half length jacket (Julius, Ginza) Canadian ' International Trade and Industry, and to my knowledge no
\luskrat was $ll,000 for a full length coat at Julius in ' one from conservation circles has seen it. It seems that
Ginza. fularmot at the Ginza Koa Uchi Hiroki was priced at ' customs officials generally rely on the descriptions on the
$2,900 forahalf length jacket. customs declaration forms. Deceptive labelling could
The fur business seems to be expanding to include eaSily facilitate a steady illegal flow of furs. Reform of
Species that are rarely included in the fur trade. Coyote at ' '; customs procedures is essential to the proper
the Grace Fur Salon in Shinjukes old for 53,400 for a half iimplementation of CITES.
length jacket. At the Jataksimaya in Yokohomas a full
length coyote coat was $9,000. Siberia furs of Japan
features a cape made from the black and white colobus in
their '80-81' autumn/winter collection catalogue. It is
priced at $6,000. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Not all the fur trade involves imported Species. This survey represents a jomt effort and thanks are due to
Animals native to Japan are also exploited. Foxes, nelpers from Friends of, the Earth—Tokyo, Hirake Goma,
squirrels and the tanuki Nyctereutes procyonoides are all WWF-Japan, and the Panda Clup. U

 

 

 

Please cut along dotted line and return to WILDLIFE TRADE MONITORING UNIT,
219C Huntingdon Road, Cambridge CB3 ODL, UK

Subscription Form

NAME

 

 

 

 

 

ORGANISATION

 

 

ADDRESS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DATE

 

..——__._

I wish to continue to receive the TRAFFIC Bulletin.

I enclose cheque/bank draft/international money order for SID/£5.00, per
volume, payable to the Conservation Monitoring Centre.
For orders of more than one c0py, a reduced rate is available.

The Bulletin is sent free to all WTMU/IUCN consultants, Government agencies,
conservation organisations and other institutions in a position to further the
conservation of threatened species. Donations to defray costs will continue to
be welcomed. To commercial enterprises and private individuals the Bulletin
subscription is $510.00 (£5.00) per volume to cover mailing.

.

Printed by Cambridge Free Press, 56, Fitzroy Street. Tel. 0223 316403 .-

 




IS m
WILDLIFE

NEWS

Fish & Wildlife Service

UNITED
STATES
DEPARTMENT
OF THE
INTERIOR

AUGUST—SEPTEMBER 1981

Snake Charmers “Stung” During Law Enforcement Bust

Service Lowers Boom At Bogus Wildlife Exchange

photo by Bob Coles

Ray Arnett (center), assistant Secretary of Interior for fish and wildlife and parks, and
Clark Bavin, the Service’s chief of the Division of Law Enforcement, look on while Linda
Ki/marx of LE displays one of the snakes seized during the “sting” operation. The results of
the undercover investigation were announced to the national news media during a press
conference in July.

 

Myshak Becomes Portland Director
Headed Wildlife Resources in Washington, D. C.

Richard J. Myshak has become the
new director of the Fish and Wildlife
Service’s regional office in Portland,
Oregon.

Myshak, 53, formerly the Fish and
Wildlife Service’s associate
director—wildlife resources in
Washington, D.C., replaces R. Kahler
Martinson as regional director of the
six—State area. His appointment was
effective August 9.

Myshak served as deputy assistant
Interior secretary for fish and wildlife
and parks from 1977 until 1979, when
he joined the Service. A former assist-
ant commissioner of the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources,
Myshak began his career in that
State’s public school system, becom-
ing assistant to the science director
of the Minnesota mathematics and

Richard J. Myshak cont. on p. 20

A massive illegal trade in protected
and endangered U.S. reptiles was
uncovered by a live animal “sting”
operation that was concluded in mid-
July by the Fish and Wildlife Service.
Assistant Secretary G. Ray Arnett
announced at a national press con-
ference that the 18-month investiga—
tion involved suspected illegal
trafficking in thousands of snakes,
turtles, lizards, and migratory birds
by more than 175 people. It was the
largest wildlife law enforcement
operation ever conducted, with some
200 Federal and State agents partici-
pating in the action.

“What is surprising,” Arnett said,
“is that this investigation revealed
that hundreds of thousands of US.
reptiles are illegally taken from the
wild each year for a thriving black
market with a very large portion
smuggled to Europe and Japan.
These are specimens that cannot be
taken from the wild or sold under
Federal and State laws.”

cont. on p. 20

 

On theflnslde...

Namaycush’s riddle

Photowinners .
Hester’s day ........... . .
Schreiner’s view

 

 

 

 




 

DeSoto Visitor’s Center Dedicated
Home to Bertrand’s Artifacts

Dedication ceremonies for the
long-awaited, $5 million visitor’s cen—
ter at DeSoto National Wildlife
Refuge were held on July 11, culmi-
nating nearly 10 years of planning
and construction by the Fish and
Wildlife Service. The new, modernis-
tic building will serve as a wildlife
interpretive center for the 7,820—acre
refuge and permanent home for the
historical artifacts salvaged from the
steamboat Bertrand.

 

DeSoto Refuge’s newly—dedicated
visitor’s center, as shown in this
architect’s view.

Iowa Governor Robert Ray used a
corroded but still serviceable pair of
116-year-old scissors from the Ber-
trand’s hold to cut the ribbon to the
new building during the dedication.
Ray, who delivered the keynote
address, called DeSoto, “a classroom
of history and nature, a particularly
choice spot in the world.”

The 26,000-square-foot building
houses both exhibits and office
space. The public use area containsa
multi-purpose room, exhibit gallery,
information desk, sales area, theater,
Bertrand cargo storage gallery, and a
wildlife viewing area called the
“Refuge Today” gallery. Other areas
of the new building house adminis-
trative offices, conference room, and
a records section that includes offi-
ces, a research library, artifact con-
servation laboratory, and darkroom.

Exhibits in the new building feature
both the wildlife and history of the
Missouri River basin. Refuge man—
ager George Gage said exhibits of the
Bertrand cargo provide an unprece-
dented opportunity to learn firsthand
an important segment of American
history. “Finding the Bertrand was
like opening an 1865 time capsule
filled with the material goods of a
frontier society,” he said. All artifacts

page 2

on display date back to the year the
Bertrand left St. Louis on the rising
spring flood waters of the Missouri
River. It was bound for Fort Benton in
Montana Territory—the upper limit of
steamboat traffic on the Missouri.
That year the Bertrand, its hold
filled with foodstuffs, clothing, min-
ing and agricultural tools, and sup—
plies for Montana Territory pioneers,
struck a snag at Desoto Bend and
sank. The bulk ofthe cargo was found
in near perfect condition in 1968
when two Omaha men unearthed the
Bertrand’s hull. Since 1969, the Fish
and Wildlife Service and National
Park Service have cooperated in
extensive efforts to clean, chemically

stabilize, and catalog the thousands
of recovered artifacts.

Sodbusting plows, lead shot, how-
itzer shells, harnesses, broad-
brimmed felt hats, pick axes, and
shovels are among the many items
displayed in the new center. These
items were destined to change the
character of the Missouri River basin,
its Indian communities, and its
wildlife.

Says Gage, “The theme ofthe cen—
ter’s exhibits stresses the positive and
negative impacts that Western man
has had on the wildlife and wildlands
of the Missouri River basin. Many of
the artifacts found among the Ber-

cont. on p. 6

 

DeSoto Refuge’s Jim Guthrie assists a visting film crew aboard the reluge’s boat.

 

jigpesOto National. Wildlife Refuge was featured in a program filmed by NebfaSk a
Educational Telewsron and aired nationally in July, 2 days before the opening 0’

DeSoto’s new visitor center.

called “Hidden Places, " which in

Nebraska Educational Television has produced a series of half-hour programs
cludes a segment identifying transportation

methods and routes used to settle the trans-Mississippi West in the 19th century.

tie-n emphasized the i
sengers to the wester
supplies.

, Members of the refu

Wagon trains and steamboats are identified in the show “Two Trails West" as
being instrumental in settling the American from/9,,

)Historical. photographs as well as archival film of the Bertrand's 1969 excava-
mportance of the steamboat's ability to transport pas-
n frontier and provide the gold fields with goods and

99 staff assisted the producers with on-site filming. Histori-

ans, arChGO’OgiSfS, and artifact conservators discussed the unique qualities of

the collection and the involvement each had with it.

Other staff members assisted the film crews with research about the Bertrand '

and helped to direct their activities

Fish and Wildlife News—August/September 1981

with the least effect on the refuge’s wildlife. '

 

 




 

 

Merritt Island Fires Flare,

Two US. Fish and Wildlife Service
refuge employees died from burns
suffered while fighting a lightning-
caused fire on the Merritt Island
National Wildlife Refuge near Titus-
ville, Florida.

Biological technicians Scott
Maness and Beau W. Sauselein were
cutting a firebreak with a fire tractor
on June 8 when a thunder squall sud-
denly developed, causing the wind to
increase to about 35 miles-per-hour
and shift toward them. The two
attempted to outrun the fire on the
tractor but the machine became
snagged on an old stump. They aban-
doned the tractor and tried to flee on
foot through heavy palmetto under-
brush, but the fire overtook them.

The two badly burned men were
taken to a hospital in Titusville.
Maness, 32, died there several hours
later. Sauselein, 33, was later airlifted
by an Air Force helicopter to a hospi-
tal in Gainesville, Florida, where he
died the next morning.

At the time ofthe incident both men
had the required firefighting equip—
ment and were wearing fire retardant
“Nomex” clothing. The fire that over-
took the two was one of four on the
refuge that afternoon caused by
lightning strikes and being fought
simultaneously by NASA and Fish
and Wildlife Service firefighting
teams. (Merritt Island National Wild-
life Refuge and the Kennedy Space
Center share a common boundary.)

Maness was a career seasonal
employee who had worked for the
Service less than a year. Sauselein
had worked on Merritt Island Refuge
since 1976 and had assisted with
dusky seaside sparrow research at St.
Johns Refuge.

A special board-of—inquiry was
established this summer to investi—
gate the two deaths.

Meanwhile, fires continue at the
Merritt Island Refuge, sparked by
lightning and fanned by gusty winds.
Area hurricanes and tropical storms
have brought some rain, but much of
Florida remains plagued by chronic
drought.

An interagency team of firefighters
from Service, the Boise lnteragency
Fire Center, the Bureau of Land Man—
agement, and the US. Forest Service
has been stationed at Merritt Island
through August to combat fires and
assist the Service’s refuge personnel.
As many as 60 firefighters were on
duty at the central Florida refuge at
the height of the fires in early August.
As of August 27, that number had
dropped to a dozen.

[gallant/y along the paﬂsway to the
ij'ifbeach A format/en bf seven pehcans-t‘w
’Eijifffglides sound/essly by As the refuge
“manager begins the brief eulogres a i.gi: >
*f‘NASA helicopter hovering 50 feet
2*:~-».:aboi'Ie the sea, moves slowly down
3i=~the shore/me past the assembly
j§~Scott had flown many times with this
...f_,,helic30pter crew as he made Wildlife
igs-surveyswa part of his Work that he '
really enjoyed '
Now, three peeple leave the group .
"and move slowly toward the waters a
hedge Scotts mother, father, and his. .
*fiancee open the smell hex that holds,
*his earthly remains and carefully
i empty it into the gentle surf, as the
, waves move rhythmically up the
',beech
It is afternoon 1 day later The sky“

refuge personnel the: ' ' ’ " '
~~I§§§friends, NA SA secunt

Fish and Wildlife News—August/September 1981

Plane disappears on th‘ ' her
{the gathered peep/9 solemnly

employee who had worked With
for 7 years says a short porgna’
prayer. .Beau’s wife lovingly/drop

another and another Chrysant

Kill Two in June

   
    
    
  
 

  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 

 

their heads A uniformed ref

 

sith a red rose into the water t1

mums and daisies follow, and soon; ,
scattered bouquet of flowers is bobq
bing in the gentle waves. . . '

Thus it was that the National WI/d-_

«life Refuge System bid farewell to two!

dedicated employees, both killed In"

.. line of duty Scott and Beau we"
salute you Your names Will be

recorded in the annals of the Nationali-
Wildlife Refuge System with the ape-if
clal honor you deserve fer the sacri-A} ,.
fice you gave You have passed from .

our midst but not from our memories .

page 3

 

 




 

 

The Riddle of Namaycush

Great Lakes Lab Probes Lake Trout’s Decline

The recent special edition of Fish
and Wildlife News on “Research”gar—
nered so many interesting and topical
articles from the Service’s fie/d
employees that we ran out ofroom for
some of them! ,

Beginning with this regularissue of
Fish and Wildlife News, we’ll start
running the ones we couldn’t
squeeze into the special edition.

This month, Neal Foster of the
Great Lakes Fishery Laboratory
exp/ores “The Riddle ofNamaycush. ”

Dr. Neal Foster
Great Lakes Fishery Laboratory
Ann Arbor, Michigan

If you can make any inferences
from fossil bones, the big fish that the
Cree people called namekus and
other Algonkian people, namaycush,
has lived in the region now known as
Wisconsin for thousands of years.

The fish was there long before the
last of the mile-thick tongues of gla-
cial ice had finished gouging out the
beds of the Great Lakes.

Well before the Europeans came,
the native peoples fished for namay-
cush. European naturalists eventu-
ally incorporated the native American
name in the scientific name for the
fish. Salve/inus namaycush, the lake
trout (or charr, as some prefer),
ranges from Alaska southward to
Montana and Idaho, the Great Lakes
States, and into New England.

it was in the Great Lakes that lake
trout and other fish species flour-
ished in such abundance that their
harvest once helped support more
than 5,000 commercial fishermen and
their families. Until about 35 years
ago, lake trout were one of the most
valuable commercial fishery resour-
ces in Lake Michigan, with yearly
commercial catches averaging mil-
lions of pounds. In 1945, the catch
began to decline precipitously. By
1956, native populations of lake
trout—a species that had probably

page 4 Fish and Wildlife News

 

lived continuously in the lake since
shortly after its formation by glacial
ice 15,000 years ago—had, as far as
anyone could tell, become extinct
there.

The catastrophic loss of the Lake
Michigan lake trout was traced partly
to excessive fishing and partly to pre-

art by Bob Hines

Lake trout

dation by the sea lamprey. Petro-
myzon marinus. The sea lamprey
invaded the other Great Lakes from
Lake Ontario via man-made canals
and flourished in Lake Michigan in
the decade following its first
recorded appearance there in 1936.

In the 1950’s, the late Vernon
Applegate and John Howell, Fish and
Wildlife Service biologists who spent
several years carefully screening
more than 4,000 chemicals, finally

—A ugust/September 1981

discovered one that would success-
fully kill lampreys—TFM (3-
Trifluoromethyl-4-nitrophenol).An
effective sea lamprey control pro-
gram subsequently developed that
now has successfully reduced lam-
prey populations to 10 percent of
their former peak abundance.
Beginning in 1965, hatchery-
produced lake trout began to be
stocked in the lake, and by 1980,
nearly 34 million had been planted.
Bottom searches by scuba divers,
egg pumping. and trawling recently
showed that the planted fish are de-
positing fertilized eggs in a few areas
of the lake and that some recently
hatched fry are surviving past yolk
absorption into the actively-feeding
stage. But significant numbers of
lake-produced yearling or adult lake
trout have not been detected in the
lake in a decade of sampling by the
Great Lakes Fishery Laboratory, the
States of Michigan and Wisconsin,
the University of Michigan, and pri-
vate environmental consulting firms.

What Alls Lake Trout?

Many fishery biologists, inside as
well as outside the Service. have
investigated this riddle—this failure
of planted lake trout to produce Sig-
nificant numbers of surviving off-
spring Moreover, this apparent
reproductive failure is a problem in
several other lakes besides Lake
Michigan. Except for Lake Superior.
where some native lake trout popula-
tions still survive and appear to be at
least partially self—sustaining, the
problem may also be interfering with
interagency efforts to reestablish
self-sustaining lake trout populations
in Lakes Huron and Ontario and east-
ern Lake Erie. Meanwhile, one elOltJr
agency's goals is to help rehabllltife‘
laketroutpopulationsinLakesMic lo
980. Ontario. Superior. and Huron ii—
that naturally—produced trout conSU'
tute 50 percent of the laketroutpopI is
lation. The target date for this go81
1986'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Since the early 1970’s, the staff of
the Great Lakes Fishery Laboratory
has used a variety of approaches to
solve this problem. The secretive
habits of this deep—dwelling cold-
water fish, which spawns in thefall, at
night, usually during spells of stormy
weather, virtually preclude direct
field observations of spawning
adults, at least in the Great Lakes.
And we are still uncertain just where
the weakest link lies in the 6-or-more-
year chain of events, from spawning
by planted lake troutthrough the sex-
ual maturation and spawning of lake-
produced offspring. Do fishing
pressure and lamprey predation
leave enough of the planted fish to
spawn in the first place? When they
do spawn, are enough eggs fertil—
ized? Among the fertilized eggs, do
enough embryos survive the 4-to-5-
month incubation period to hatch
successfully? How many of these
hatchlings survive the next month or
so, hidden as tadpole-like sac fry in
deep crevices in the spawning
grounds—a perilous time lasting
through swim—up, yolk absorption,
and first feeding? What happens to
surviving fry when they leave their
natal area and disperse into deeper
water?

Questlon of Contaminants

Numerous environmental factors
have been suggested as limits on suc-
cessful natural reproduction. Fore—
most are chemical contaminants and
toxic substances such as chlorinated
hydrocarbons that have entered the
lakes over the years from various
municipal, agricultural, and indus-
trial sources. In the mid-1970’s, we
suspected that levels of PCB’s and
DDT in Lake Michigan lake trout and
their eggs might be causing prob-
lems, but our experiments with eggs
from various sources with different
contaminant levels revealed no
correlation between contaminants
and survival of eggs or early fry in
clean water. At leastthat was the con-
clusion reached in comparative hat-
chability studies conducted by the
physiology and contaminant chemis—
try section here at the Great Lakes
Laboratory and colleagues at the
Michigan Department of Natural
Resources’ Marquette State Fish
Hatchery.

!
.......

  
   

  

,3 _ . .
n v. .

photo by DA. Webster

The sea lamprey has had a devastating impact on lake trout fisheries in the Great Lakes,
helping to speed the extinction of an unknown number of separate stocks.

 

But these earlier experiments did
not incubate the eggs of Lake Michi—
gan lake trout in water from that lake.
When that was recently done, about
twice as many eggs died in Lake
Michigan water as in laboratory well
water to which four chlorinated
hydrocarbons had been added at lev-
els simulating those in southeastern
Lake Michigan.

We also conducted long-term stud—
ies on fry hatched from eggs of Lake
Michigan lake trout and exposed for6
months to PCB’s and DDEatconcen-
trations 5 and 25 times higher than
lake levels. Nearly twice as many of
the fry exposed for 6 months to simu—
lated Lake Michigan levels of PCB's
and DDE in their water and food died
as unexposed (control) fry. We also
found that fry exposed to the highest
levels had a lower preferred tempera-
ture. In other words, our results show
that toxic contaminants in water or
food organisms in the lake are proba—
bly at least part of the answer to the
riddle.

Can Lake Trout Flnd Spawning Grounds?

Other factors could be involved.
For instance, current efforts rest on
the assumption that planted fish,
when mature, would by some

unknown mechanism locate and use
the traditional spawning grounds
where native lake trout stocks once
reproduced most successfully. Are
the planted trout spawning in the
“best” places or are they just scatter-
ing eggs and milt “willy-nilly” near
inshore areas where many of the fish
were planted—areas where the eggs
are vulnerable to destruction by wave
action and thick masses of moving
ice?

A careful review of laboratory and
field studies on lake trout (many of
them conducted by Paul Eschmeyer,
now Fisheries’ technical editorforthe
Service) and other species of charrs
suggested that the reproductive fail-
ure of the planted trout might be due
to some difficulty in their finding
spawning grounds where enough fer-
tilized eggs survive to hatching and
beyond, and that odors produced by
the adults, their fertilized eggs, or
their recently hatched offspring
might play some role in local homing
and spawning site selection. To
investigate this idea, we began lab-
oratory experiments in 1978 requir—
ing lake trout to spawn in captivity
without resorting to hormone injec—
tions and manual stripping.

cont. on p. 6

 

 

Fish and Wildlife News—August/September 1981 page 5

 




 

 

cont. from p. 5

Lake Trout

Lake trout do not excavate redds
on the lake bottom. However, the arri-
val of the mature males on the spawn-
ing ground usually precedes that of
the females by a week or more.
According to field observations by
former Service biologist William F.
Royce and others of shallow-water
spawning populations in smaller
lakes, males spend part of this pre-
spawning period cleaning the rocky
surface of the spawning ground by
rubbing their bodies against it. Actual
spawning occurs at dusk or night

. _. .1"'i"'-':"1’Ei , -: \s- §W

simulate stormy conditions, we
finally obtained successful spawning
by our laboratory—reared lake trout in
1979—the first natural laboratory
spawning of which we have heard or
found any record.

Although relatively few of the eggs
were fertilized, we were encouraged
that the males performed the
substrate-rubbing behavior for the
first time in our laboratory, and that
this rubbing appeared to be restricted
to the artificial spawning reefs where
earlier we had placed odor sources

 

photo by Neal R. Foster

Rare underwater night view of lake trout courtship, caught with a special viewing device
under dim red light: The dark-colored female (upper right) is courted by nuptially-colored
male atop an experimental reef in a laboratory pool.

within the confines of the areas
cleaned by the males. The traditional
explanation of the function of the
males’ substrate—rubbing has been
that of cleaning the surface of loose
detritus and algal growths. However,
the males could also be tagging the
rocky surface with an odor, a chemi-
cal signal, or pheromone, which the
females later use to locate the sites
where they will assume the charac-
teristic spawning posture in response
to the persistent quivering and nudg-
ing of the courting males.

Fish Voyeurs

Usmg 'dlm red light for nocturnal
observations, black plastic curtains
to shield the adult fish from distur-
bances, an 18-foot circular swimming
pool to provide enough space for a
chOice of four artificial spawning
reefs, and the occasional production
of turbulence and surface waves to

page 6

containing feces, egg membranes,

and sloughed mucus from recently
hatched fry.

While it is still too early to say what
the eventual “payoff" from these
crude preliminary experiments will
be, they do at least support the possi-
ble existence of a hitherto undis-
covered, pheromone—mediated
mechanism of spawning site selec-
tion in lake trout—a chemical signal
system that induces adults to spawn
where eggs from previous spawnings
have. hatched successfully. Further
studies on the role of natural odors in
the local orientation and spawning of

Great Lakes lake trout are currently
underway.

Portable night-viewing devices and
low-light level TV cameras, which
amplify existing light levels many
thousands of times, now enable biol-
ogists to observe fish in the labora-

Fish and Wildlife News—August/September 1981

 

tory at night, photograph their
behavior, and record their activities
on film or videotape. These devices
orginally developed for military and
surveillance applications, have
turned out to be powerful research
tools for “nocturnal fish voyeurs,”
greatly extending our ability to
observe (and eventually, better
understand) secretive, light-
shunning species such as lake trout
in the laboratory and perhaps, even-
tually, in the lake environment as
well. Such equipment will probably
be used more commonly in fish and
wildlife research of the future.

Research on other possible causes
of the lake trout’s decline—forexam-
ple, predation on eggs and fry or
competition with introduced species
such as smelt or alewives—is contin-
uing. Some planted male lake trout
have constrictions in the reproduc-
tive organs that might impair spawn-
ing or egg fertilization. Another
possibility is that the strain of lake
trout usually planted in the lake—the
Marquette (Lake Superior Lean)
strain—may be genetically less “fit”
than the extinct populations of lake
trout that originally developed there.
The Great Lakes Lab is presently
studying the physiology and behav-
iorofthedifferentstrainsoflaketrout
to determine the significance of
genetic differences.

Meanwhile, the “riddle of namay-
cush" stands out as one of the most
challenging fisheries problemsfaced
by this laboratory since it was estab—
lished in 1927. Even though the prob-
lem of sea lamprey control once
loomed as an even greater challenge,
persistent research eventually paid
off, enabling sport and commerCial
fishery resources to rebound and
increase substantially in both recrea—
tional and economic value. We hope
to solve the "riddle of namaycush’ in
the next few years and discover hOW
to help the planted trout become at
least partially self-sustaining.

_4—

cont. from P- 2

DeSoto

trand's cargo were used by settlers,
farmers, and miners to reshape the
American West.

“Changes brought by the Bertrand
and other forces which advanced
Western civilization are certainly a
major reason why DeSoto was
created." DeSoto was established In
1959 to conserve and restore lands:
suitable for wildlife along the MISd
souri River in both Nebraska ano
Iowa. It is used by thousands si—
migrating waterfowl and many re
dent wildlife species.

 

 




 

 

Duck’s “Rescue” Prompts International Attention
LE Agent in Las Vegas Aids in Roundup

Tom Harper
Special Agent, Law Enforcement
Las Vegas, Nevada

No one can anticipate what inci-
dent, seemingly small at first, can
explode into a national or interna-
tional issue.

“Donna the Duck” was such an
incident for me.

Last April 20, I received a call from a
Sahara Country Club homeowner
that a mallard hen was impaled with
an arrow in his backyard. The arrow
was imbedded horizontally in the
bird’s chest, eliminating the use of
most conventional methods of water-
fowl capture. Most nets and traps car—
ried a high risk of injury if the arrow
should become entangled.

The duck appeared every bit as
strong and healthy as its closely
attentive mate; it flew as though no
arrow existed in its chest. Steve Stas—
kowitz, the homeowner, and I attemp-
ted to capture the bird several times
as it came within inches of our hands
for the usual morning and evening
feedings of cracked corn. Another
time, we herded the drake and hen
underneath a solar collector but they
escaped through the rear of the struc-
ture. Other attempts were similarly
unsuccessful. Frustration was begin-
ning to set in.

About the same time, another golf
course resident apparently called the
local newspapers and a full—page
story and series of photographs of
the bird were published. The national
news media picked the story up and
soon we began to receive advice on
possible capture techniques from all
over the world. Calls came in from
Australia, France, Turkey, Ireland,
and other foreign countries.

From that time on, as many as five
television crews covered every
moment of the “rescue.” A CBS Tele-
vision crew was instructed to stay
with us 24—hours-a-day until the duck
was caught.

We were soon joined by members
of the Humane Society of Southern
Nevada, which had received 416 tele-
phone calls about the bird in a single
day. One of the Society’s volunteers
named the duck “Donna” and the
saga of “Donna the Duck” was born.

We continued our attempts to cap-
ture “Donna.” We felt that three alter-
natives remained: a drop net,
drugging with alcohol, and drugging

 

photo by Patricia Mortati

“Donna" the Duck

 

 

photo by Scott Henry,
Las Vegas Review-Journal

LE Agent Tom Harper (left) and Dart
Anthony, chairman of the board of the
Humane Society of Southern Nevada,
return “Donna" after a successful opera-
tion to remove an arrow from its breast.

with a barbituate. Suspending an 8 x
10—foot drop net over the bird’s most
regular roosting place was tried; we
hoped to attract “Donna” with bread
soaked first in water, and later in
vodka, to a point where the drop net
could suppress her before the arrow
became entangled. The chance of a
vodka overdose was small, although
there was a risk of “Donna’.’ flying into
something. But “Donna” would not
accept the bread and the use of the
vodka was temporarily abandoned;
phenobarbatol that I obtained as a
last resort from a local veterinarian
was also postponed.

An attempt was made to catch
“Donna” with a submerged net in one
of the two ponds that it used, but the
duck again escaped. Because of
“Donna’s” familiarity with golf carts,
we gave chase but it eluded us by
inches. Lights loaned to us by the
camera crews were used at night, but
each time “Donna” and its mate flew
off into the darkness. The antagonis-
tic drake even thwarted our attempts
to capture “Donna” beneath an
Oleander bush, wandering under the
drop net but not allowing the hen to
do the same.

On Memorial Day, we induced

cont. on p. 19

Fish and Wildlife News—A ugust/September 1981 page 7

 

 




 

/‘ '

~ ’ BIack-and-White
Winners

Fish and Wildlife“ _. __ . .. 1981 National

,,

 

Employees from Region 2
swept much of the Fish and Wild-
life Service’s 1981 National Photo
Contest in June, taking top place
in most black-and—white photo-
graph categories and scoring well
in several color slide competi-
tions.

The national contest caps the
Service’s annual photo awards
program in which regional offices
hold individual competitions
among field employees. Top
regional winnersthen go on tothe
national contest in Washington
each summer.

John Oberheu, assistant area
manager—wildlife resources in
the Jacksonville Area Office, won
“best in show” in the color slide
competition for his photo “Key
Deer”. Wyoming wildlife biologist
Dean Biggins won “best in show”
for his black-and-white print
' - - . . , “Plain Prairie”.
3rdplace—“FOX Kit”—EdWagner,Region3 Former photo contest winners
Lynn Nymeyer, Matthew Perry,
Tom Smylie, and several other
employees who annually score
high in the final judging were well
represented in this year’s contest.
as were a number of newcomers
to the yearly competition. _The
two-fold purpose of the SeerCeS
photo contest series is to recog-
nize outstanding photograph"C
talent among the agencyS
employees and to garner tOP‘
notch slides and photographer?"r
regional and Washington Ofﬁce
photo files, used heavily by the
media.

1st place—“Golden Eagle”—Tom Smylie, Region 2

  

 
   

2nd place—“Vigilanceme“—D Biggins, ﬂ
Reglon6

 

Honorable Mentlon—“Prairie Dog” HonorableMention—“Sandhi/l Cranes”—
_pag Hagan, Reglon 2 Hana Stuart, Region 2

 

Honorable Mention—“Long-bi/led
Dowitcher”—Lynn Nymeyer, Region 2

Honorable Mention—“Adult Great Blue
Heron —Donald Whlte, Reglon 5

page 8 Fish and Wildlife News—August/September 1981

 

 




ti

 

Region 2
Places High in
Contest Judging

“The quality of this year’s
entries was outstanding and
judging proved to be extremely
difficult,” said John Mattoon, the
Service’s assistant director—
public affairs. “The quality in the
‘fish and wildlife’ and ‘general’
color slide categories was so high
that the judges elected to recog-
nize five ‘honorable mentions’
rather than the normal three.
Also, the quality and quantity of
the black-and-white entries
improved considerably over pre—
vious years.”

The judges for the 1981
national contest were Hannelore
Aceto, chief of photographic ser-
vices for the Smithsonian Institu-
tion; Luther Goldman, retired
Fish and Wildlife Service photog-
rapher; Jim Jubek, assistant edi-
tor of National Parks Magazine;
Tom Powell, illustrations editor of
National Geographic Magazine;
and Woody Williams, retired
National Park Service photog-
raphen

'This year, in achangefrom pre-
vuous years, Fish and Wildlife
News will publish all of the top
black—and—white photograph
Winners in this issue as a way of
presenting the full range of talent
exhibited in the contest at one
time. BIack-and-white versions of
the top color slide winners will
follow in the October—November
Fish and Wildlife News.

—Davld Kllnger
Offlce of Current lnformatlon

Work of the Service

0

 

1st place—“To Save an Eagle”—Tom Smylle, Reglon 2

      

, -

3rd place—“Benefits of EE”—Rae Smlt

2nd place—“Mexican Duck Release”—
Hagan, Reglon 2

Tom Smylle, Reglon 2

   
 

      

 

 

Honorable Mention—“Researchers
Aboard Vessel ‘Kaho' Hauling Smelt from
Lake Ontario”—Davld Kllnger, Waahlng-
ton Offlce

   

Honorable Mentlon—“Raptor Release”—
Pat Hagan, Region 2

Honorable Mention—“Walleye Tagging
Operation”—Rlck Jullan, Reglon 3

Fish and Wildlife News—August/Sepfember 1981 page 9

 




Public Use

 

BEST IN SHOW—BLACK-AND-WHITE
1si place—“Plain Prairie"—-Dean Biggins, Region 6

 

 

2nd place—“Never Too Young”—Larry 3rd place—“Early Morning Double"—
Davis, Region 2 Lynn Nymeyer, Region 2

 

2nd place—"Po/e Fence in Winter"—-Peter
Carboni, Region 2

 

Honorable Mention—“The Deer
Hunter"—Lynn Nymeyer, Region 2

 

Honorable Mention—“Photographer arid
Brooding Nighthawk”—Herb Troesler,
Region 6

 

', ’ HOno‘
‘ Honorable Mention—“Tenacity -Dean NYme
Biggins, Region 6

page 70

Fish and Wildlife News—August/September 1981

 

 




Threatened and Endangered Species

 

    
    
    

3rd place—”Cutting Horse"—-Curtis Car-

    
    

Iey, Region 2

       
   

/I¢/’/£/;///z$’///////////

2nd place—“Prairie Boomer"-—Lynn
’Vf/W/l

3rd BIace—“xB-rown Pei/c
Nymeyer, Region 2

Manners“—Alan Jenkins, Region 6

   

fab/e

H°"0|'able Menti

O _H . . H :
Nymeyer, Region; Tranqumty —Lynn i V

H o n o r a b I e
Osprey”—Dan O’Neal, Regi

Mention—“Guardian
on1

  
   

  
   

Honorable lilintion—iPeregrine
Falcon Banding”—Tom Smylie,
Region 2

'9 Ment' i.
meyer, Regiofg‘ Water Hole "—Lynn

_,. ,
1v

Honorable M ntion—I‘I‘V'Bush 009”
—Jim Palmer, Washington Ofﬁce

HonrabeMention
“Pitcher Plant"—Fred
Youngblood, Region 4

page 17
Fish and Wildlife News—AugustlSeptember 1981

 

 

 




 

Training Program One Avenue to Washington

Jelf Fountain lil
Executive Managerial Development
Program
Washington Office

Of course you don’t.

Neither you nor I joined the Fish
and Wildlife Service to push papers in
Washington, DC. Awful place—
traffic, bureaucracy, noise, bureauc-
racy, people, bureaucracy.

For the 99 percent of you who
agree with me completely so far, have
absolutely no desire to leave your
hatchery or refuge, and are firmly
convinced that at the end of your
career you’ll have no regrets that you
didn’t move some bigger mountains
for the Service—stop reading.

On the other hand—if you’ve won-
dered why the Central Office is “so
fouled up,” why the Service’s leaders
don’t stand on a soapbox for special
issues, why programs are revised and
budgets are cut—if you’ve ever had a
desire to straighten those guys out, to
makethings happen as youthinkthey
should, if you’ve wanted to influence
more than one project at the time—
then read on; you may learn some
aspects of a tour in Washington that
aren’t all bad.

i admit that it takes an emotional
struggle and it is a sacrifice to leave
the field—but did you know: some of
the finest Canada goose hunting is
within 2 hours’ drive, excellent dove,
duck, quail, turkey, and deer hunting
can be had within one-and—a-half
hours ofthe Main lnteriorBuilding,or
that good fresh- and saltwaterfishing
can be within minutes of your house?

And speaking of houses, you’ve
heard of the $150,000—$500,000
houses in DC. and McLean, but did
you know that good liveable three-
bedroom homes can be had for
$68,000 in smaller towns within com-
muting distance of downtown?

Of course, these opportunities
aren’t presented to you on a silver
platter and commuting replaces that
extra hour in the woods, but if you’re
looking for a professional challenge,
Washington has a lot to offer.

There areanumber of ways to“tour
Washington.” The easiest way to see
if you desire a full tour is to volunteer
for a short-term detail. From time to
time, various divisions have emer-
gency needs lasting from 1 to 4
weeks. If you try this, be sure to see
how the natives live and extend your
scope beyond the Park Central Hotel.
A task force assignment is another
way to test the water before
swimming.

page 12

 

Prime Midwestern waterfowl country? No, the Potomac River, downstream from
Washington, D. C.

A permanent staff position can be
both rewarding and at the same time
frustrating. It can be rewarding due to
the scope of involvement and poten-
tial for national input, and frustrating
for any one of a number of bureau-
cratic reasons. Since Washington
work involves Service and Adminis—
tration policy, don’t expect the free-
dom of expression and latitude of
action you’re accustomed to as afield
project leader.

Another excellent way to start a
permanent tour in Washington is
through the Departmental training
program. The program, known as the
Executive Managerial Development
Program (EMDP), involvesll months
of training with a commitment for an
additional year’s work in Washington.

Having just completed the pro-
gram, I am intimatelyfamiliar with the
opportunities it presents. The Service
has been one of the leaders in this
program, particularly in the area of
support for its trainees. This year, the
Service supplied six trainees, toward
the Department—wide total of 34.

The program consists of two parts:
formal workshops and courses (usu-
ally of 1-week duration) and individ-
ual assignments arranged by the
trainee. Continuity is provided by the

Fish and Wildlife News—A ugust/September 1981

assignment of advisors (GS-15 level
and above) who review and approve
proposals by the trainees. My advisor
was Galen Buterbaugh, Associate
Director—Fishery Resources.
Periodic meetings with the Service’s
and Department’s training officers
and special requirements for all
Service participants (Capitol Hill
budget assignments and “shadow
duty of a top assistant or executive)
also insure variety in the program.

Formal courses and workshops
cover many important aspects of
management as well as specuallzed
“Washington” needs. Courses and
seminars included management of
interpersonal relationships, buClQet
processes, public administration,
legislative activities, and a spring
departmental trainee seminar. Usu-
ally the seminar, developed bY the
trainees themselves, covers one or
more important resource issues; this
year the group opted to receive addi-
tional exposure to the management
of human resources.

Individual work assignments make
up the bulk of the training program
and provide the most varied learning
experiences. This past year, SeerCe
trainees obtained work aSSIgnmentS
with the White House transition team,

 

 

 




 

 

private organizations (The Wildlife
Society, International Association of
Fish and Wildlife Agencies, National
Rifle Association, and Alaska Natural
Gas Transportation Company), the
Senate Environment and Public
Works and House Merchant Marine
and Fisheries Committees, Congres-
sional staffs, other Federal agencies
(Bureau of Land Management,
National Park Service, Secretary’s
Office of the Budget, Corps of Engi-
neers, and Office of Trust Territo-
ries), and two assistant secretaries
(Land and Water and Fish, Wildlife
and Parks).

Work assignments included prepa-
ration of legislation often directly
affecting the Service, writing of tech-
nical papers, conducting oversight
studies of agency programs, prepar-
ing and coordinating the Secretary’s
policies for later implementation,
briefing Congressmen and their
staffs on resource issues, and prepar-
ing budgets at the agency and
Departmental level.

Although most of our work took
place in Washington, the Service’s
trainees were sent to Alaska, Maine,
Colorado, and various regional and
area offices. Other Departmental
trainees were sent to Brazil (by the
World Bank); collectively we traveled
from Maine to Washington State and
from Florida to California.

Our work assignments in some
instances led to continuing involve—
ment with a particular subject. Ste-
phanie Caswell worked at the
Secretarial level on “management by
objectives" and will continue to be
involved with M80 in the Service.
Ken Russell prepared an extensive
briefing on acid rain for a private
organization and will present an
updated report to the annual meeting
Of the International Association of
Fish and Wildlife Agencies to be held
afterthe program is concluded. Other
trainees completed Service assign-
ments outside their “parent” division
which led to permanent positions in
new divisions.

“Shadow” assignments provided
the opportunity for us to follow atop
executive through his or her daily
routine. These duties usually lasted
W a week in order to give a complete
plcture of duties. They were particu-
W'Y valuable in providing a perspec-
tlve of the agency by the people who
not only manage the Service but help
set its policies.

S€9rV|Ce participants “shadowed”
thanous assistant secretaries
asrgughout the Department, as well
train:reau directors. One “nameless”
recon?” set the all-time “shadow

this year for assignments

cont. on p. 15

  
 
 

ese A Day in the Life

pi rturii’i iftog“shadow" acting deputy director F. Eugene
a‘y think, as i once did. that the Director is an
33 3,-remipffre with thO'usands to answerto his beck
tar as an-ii'mportant influence over the direction

as, he must answer to many people on a variety

., F.1'iEL'3'Linene, Has 61‘. 80“"9' deputy
2. left andWild/ir9;;3.§9’7"3’¢?3

‘ Meet. Q‘wljtn' Assistant Secretary fer ‘ ’

wattage: and Assistant Secretary
~ ? “forFish‘ and Wildlife and Parksand
their staffs to discuss FY, ‘83
. budgetchenges and appeal Serv-
f ice changes. . _ ~
Meet With Assistant Secretary for
Fish and Wildlife and Parks? on
intera-gency i‘Urisdictiona'l

Meet with Realty and Legislative
, Services to discuss’Adminlstratien
(and Service position concerning
2 . " tomorrows-3 Senate Workshop in?)
land abouisitiompolicy. Final
Administration policy and seem»
‘ tary‘s statement wili‘sat the tensor

- ‘Servicefs; statement», ,

_ 3 Meet with Legislative Services on
Congressional request. While

meeting, receive Mo telephone

:rimeesages on regional pron/ems»

i» ‘~"-»tequirin'g“ immediate notification
V, or Assistant Secretary.

 

Tackle accumulation of corre-
. spondence, memoranda, con-
; ‘ i'tract‘s, reports, international travel

* requests, and personnel actions
_ requiring Director’s approval.

_.V_Meet with and brief the Assistant
" ,. Secretary on five different sub-
'- [ects of immediate concern.

Review accumulation of material
placed in Director's in~boxes.

Pack briefcase with unread in»box
items and start 1-hour commute
home.

wJeii Fountain
Washington Office

Fish and Wildlife News—A ugust/September 1981 page 13

 

ect and. personally;respond to internal Service

 

   
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
  

 




 

 

 

 

 

Federal Assistance

Granite State success. The endan—
gered peregrine falcon, after an
absence of approximately 28 years,
has returned to nest in New England.
In June, a nesting pair of peregrines
with two young was discovered in the
White Mountains of New Hampshire.
This pair represents the only instance
of peregrines occupying a natural
cliff nesting site in the eastern United
States.

On June 8, after investigating a
report received from a pair of rock
climbers that birds resembling pere-
grines were seen exhibiting aggres—
sive behavior, Rene Bollengier, a
Service biologist, and Tom Sears, a
Peregrine Falcon Restoration Pro-
gram volunteer, located the site and
verified the birds’ presence. Accord-
ing to biologists, early evidence indi-
cates the female of the falcon pair
could be a bird released from a site in
the Plymouth, New Hampshire,
region in 1978.

California o.k. The Service will
begin trapping California condors in
early September as the start of the
“last ditch” captive breeding and
research program designed to save
the endangered bird.

At first only two condors will be
captured and fitted with radio trans-
mitters. Each will be released and
then carefully monitored before per-
mission is sought from the California
Fish and Game Commission to cap-
ture additional condors.

The Commission unanimously
approved the State permit on August
7, authorizing the capture and han-
dling this season of a maximum of
nine condors for captive breeding,
radio telemetry, and other research
purposes. Three of these birds will be
kept in captivity as breeding stock,
including one as a mate for “Topa-
topa,” the only condor now in
captivity.

“We are pleased with the Commis-
sion’s vote of confidence,” assistant
Interior Secretary G. Ray Arnett said.
“That confidence is well placed in the
Fish and Wildlife Service, with its
proven success record of breeding
endangered species in captivity.
While no one can guarantee that our
efforts with the condor will succeed, I
am convinced that the program is
biologically imperative. Time is run-
ning out for the California condor.”

page 14

'ROGRHITI BRIEF

Fewer than 30 of the giant vultures
are thought to remain in the rugged
mountainous terrain some 70 miles
north of Los Angeles.

Cajun rebound. The alligator is no
longer a threatened species in Louisi-
ana. This recent announcement by
the Service capped a 17—year effort by
State and Federal wildlife officials to
bringthe alligator backfromthe brink
of extinction.

In a Federal Register notice on
August 10, the Service changed the
alligator’s legal status in Louisiana
from “threatened” to a less restrictive
category under the Endangered Spe-
cies Act. The reclassification gives
Louisianathe optionto permitaregu—
lated alligator harvest throughout the
State. The reclassification of Louisi-
ana alligators does not affect alliga—
tors in other southeastern States,
where they remain classified as
“endangered" or “threatened.”

Louisiana alligators will now be
listed under a category of the act
called “threatened by similarity of
appearance.” This category is used
for species that are not biologically in
danger of extinction, but that so
closely resemble other species that
are listed as endangered that it is dif-
ficult for law enforcement officials to
distinguish between the listed and
unlisted animals. The “similarity of
appearance” category is needed for
Louisiana alligators to protect alliga-
tors in other States where they are
still listed.

“We have carefully reviewed the
biological data and have concluded
that it does not justify keeping the
alligator listed as a threatened spe-
cies in Louisiana,” said G. Ray Arnett,
assistant Interior Secretary. “Alliga-
tor numbers in Louisiana are stable
and have grown as large as the availa—
ble habitat will permit. Habitat is
abundant, and habitat destruction is
not a serious threat because the
prime alligator habitat is unsuitable
for agriculture or other development.
The species is also protected by strict
Federal and State regulations that
control commercial trade in alligator
hides and other products.”

Wildlife Resources

Eagle death. A matchbox-sized
radio transmitter emitting a pro—
longed rapid-pulse “distress” signal
off the tail of a bald eagle nicknamed

Fish and Wildlife News—A ugust/September 1981

“Patience” led airborne biologists to
a 50-acre island in Oregon’s Snake
River in January, where they uncov-
ered the lone eagle’s burial site.

Their discovery, after 3 months of
charting the research bird’s elusive
migration path through the Inter-
mountain West, led to an inquiry by
Law Enforcement senior resident
agent Bill Halstead. Charged with the
shooting of the endangered bald
eagle was an Oregon rancher, who
had tossed its carcass into the
island’s garbage dump. There, its
miniature radio device continued to
emit a staccato pulse that led its
trackers ever closer to the scene of
the bird’s abrupt end.

In late July, after a lengthy investi—
gation during which the Oregon man
confessed to the shooting, the Fed-
eral Court in Portland, Oregon,
ordered Evan John Mackey, 55, of
Ontario, to pay a $2,500 fine under a
settlement with the US. Attorney’s
office. Underthe agreement, one—half
of Mackey’s fine will be turned overto
Glacier National Park’s Bald Eagle
Research Project to fund further
research. Mackey received the fine
and a 30-day suspended jail sentence
for violating the Bald Eagle Protec-
tion Act.

Kodiak dedication. Kodiak
National Wildlife Refuge’s new head-
quarters and visitor’s center was ded-
icated on June 26. The new structure,
built on US. Coast Guard land, com-
bines 4,200 square feet of office
space with the visitor’s area, which,
when c0mp|ete, will contain display
alcoves, a relief display of Kodiak
Island, and an audio-visual room.

The building has a special Alaskan
touch with its unique sod roof, de-
scribed by Alaska Regional Director
Keith Schreiner as the Service’s “little
grass shack on Kodiak.”

William P. Horn, deputy Undersec—
retary of the Interior who has special
responsibilities for coordinating pol-
icy on Alaska, gave the day’s keynote
address, and Schreiner served as
master of ceremonies for a program
that was favored with good weather
and high attendance.

Fishery Resources

Northeast records. The fishes of
the Connecticut River swam thelr
way into the record book during the

 




 

'ROGRRm BRIEF

first 200 days of 1981.

Atlantic salmon, blue-backed
herring, shad, and striped bass made
their way up the Connecticut in
numbers that exceeded the fondest
hopes of area fishery biologists.

By July 20, 515 salmon had been
tracked into the river, with 107 cap-
tured at the Salmon River, 62 on the
Farmington River (both tributaries in
Connecticut), and 319 at the main-
stem trap at the Holyoke Dam. There
were 11 caught by fishermen and 16
found dead on the river banks.

This year, 419,000 blue—backed
herring were counted, which far
exceeds last year’s 200,000, and there
were 377,000 shad, 1,000 more than a
year ago.

“Another big surprise this year,”
says Region 5 Director Howard
Larsen, “were the numbers of striped
bass, about 500 of them, in the upper
river. It is normal to see some bass in
the southern section of the Connecti-
cut, but we know of no records indi-
cating such numbers this far up river.

“We are all delighted with the
spring run and look forward to an
autumn run, but all of this and other
years of increasing runs would not
have been possible if it were not for
the power companies and the States
that have banded together to give us a
new living fishery.”

Steelhead success. Dworshak
National Fish Hatchery in Idaho com—
pleted another successful year of
steelhead production with a release
of 2.6 million smolts into the Clear-
water River. The young steelhead.
averaging 7 inches, began leaving the
hatchery on April22fortheir500-mile
seaward journey. Weekly plantings in
the river continued until the last
QVOUp of fish was released on May 18.

'Under a program known as "Oper-
ation Fish Run," the Army Corps of
thlneers and National Marine

Isheries Servrce began collection of
m_'9rating steelhead at lower Snake
reIll/er dams within a week following
re ease from Dworshak. Fish were
anlaorted in top condition for barging

am rucking to below Bonneville
to” ~the last of eight dams en route

the Pacrfic Ocean.
millidoult steelhead from last year's 2.5
returnn_Smolt release are expected to
in fall olfn the sport fishery beginning
es .1982andcontinuingthrough
nt pgng Of 1985. This year’s excel-
Should Ut-migration of steelhead
assure continuation of return-

ing fish in large numbers and size (12—
15 pounds) into the spring of 1986.

Hydroacoustlc surveys. Under a
contract with the University of
Washington, Service personnel from
the Kenai Fishery Resources Station,
in cooperation with the Alaska
Department of Fish and Game, have
completed the first of a series of
hydroacoustic surveys on Tustu—
mena Lake. This technique will ena-
ble biologists to estimate the
abundance and vertical distribution
of sockeye salmon fry in the lake. The
hydroacoustic surveys were comple-
mented with tow-netting samples to
quantify, by species, thetargets iden-
tified during echo sounding. These
surveys are part of a scheduled 5-
year project.

Flsh exchange. Edenton and
Orangeburg National Fish Hatcher-
ies have provided 6,000 striped bass
fingerlings and 6,000 channel catfish
fry for shipment to the Soviet Union.
The fish will be used for experiments
and were provided under a US.—
U.S.S.R protocol agreement. The
protocol also includes the exchange
of technical aquaculture information
and fishery personnel and the ship—
ment of additional experimental fish.

Environment

Wetlands fllm ll. “America’s
Wetlands,” the Service’s major new
film exploring the values of wetlands,
continues to be in heavy demand,
project officer Harvey Doerksen of
OBS’s Water Resource Analysis PrOj—
ect reports. The 28-minute cross-
country guide to the characteristics
and benefits of wetlands was co—
funded by the Service and the Envir-
onmental Protection Agency.
International Minerals and Chemical
Corporation will buy 250 prints ofthe
film for distribution to conservation
organizations ranging. from the
National Wildlife Federation and The
Nature Conservancy to the League of
Women Voters and the Girl Scouts of
the USA. A Pacific NOrthwest power
company is using “America s
Wetlands” as an envnronmental
awareness training film for its
employees and the US. Army Corps
of Engineers has made it apart of its
wetlands management training pro—
gram. The Province of Q‘uebechas
inquired abouttranslating Americas

Fish and Wildlife News—August/September 1981

Wetlands” into French. The film even
scored a big hit at the Ipswich, Mas—
sachusetts, town hall this summer at
its local premiere; much of the town’s
population, including the town shell—
fish constable, appear in the movie
while enjoying one of the benefits of
tidal wetlands—clam digging.

Research

Patuxent tllm II. The new film, “The
Patuxent Wildlife Research Center” is
being translated into French and
Spanish by the International Com-
munications Agency for use over-
seas. A slightly shortened version is
being distributed to some 400
schools in the United States and Can-
ada by the Science Screen Report, a
non-profit organization supported by
private corporations.

 

Training cont. from p. 13
with almost every assistant secretary
in the Department, as well as several
bureau directors. Depending on the
individual manager, we were allowed
to attend confidential policy decision
meetings and Secretarial briefings.
Most executives took time to explain
why a decision was made as well as
the factors in the decision. Fish and
Wildlife Service director Lynn Green-
walt and acting deputy director
Eugene Hester were considered two
of the “best” shadow assignments in
the Department.

The training program is tailored to
meet the development needs of the
individual. Although all trainees
received broad exposure to various
aspects of the Service, they pursued
their own approaches within the pro-
gram. Several participants concen-
trated on learning Service structure
and functions. I concentrated on
assignments that gave insight into
the outside forces that shape Service
policies and actions, and several of us
structured assignments to observe
and analyze the management styles
of top executives.

The past year has been exciting
and educational but it also has been
demanding and exhaustive. I am con-
vinced that the Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice profits from the awareness and
managerial skills obtained by the par—
ticipants and alumni who now'are in
key management posrtions in the

agency.

page 15

 




 

 

 

Alaskan Refuges: Planning and Management

Schreiner Addresses Future at Refuge Conference

Last May, the National Audubon
Society co—sponsored its Alaska regional
conference on “Wildlife Refuges: What
Future for Alaska?” with 20 other agen-
cies, including the US. Fish and Wildlife
Service.

Keith Schreiner, the Service’s Region 7
director, addressed the conference on the
“Planning and Management of Alaska
National Wildlife Refuges. ” Portions ofhis
remarks, which set the tone for our agen-
cy’s future management activities in the
State, are reprinted below.

 

Alaska is a savings account for
wildness. Alaska is a vast reservoir of
resources. Alaska is an opportunity,
not a bone of contention to chew on.
Alaska is a future story of whole eco-
systems, not leftover pieces from the
past. She is also a virgin treasure-
house to be wooed for her untapped
wealth of renewable resources.
Alaska is vast and diverse, but vulner-
able to hasty endeavors. Because of
this diversity, Alaska is also easily
misunderstood.

A word picture of Alaska would
include the following elements in a
composite drawing:

A 55-gal/on drum, a glacier, a .375

H&H magnum rifle, a commercial

fishing boat in the Southeast, a

Native village, a d-2 belt buckle, a

caribou biologist with a wet note-

book, an Anchorage saloon, a

pretty log church in the foothills, a

lonely pipeline worker from Ohio,

a well-coordinated dog team, a

Ford truck stuck in a mountain

pass, a scrimshawed walrus tusk, a

bush pilot with steady eyes, a mine

shack, two Boston backpackers

hitchhiking on the ALCAN, a

wealthy man, a family struggling

for survival, a Winnebago with

California plates, anda condomin-

ium with a view.

It takes gilt-edged perception to
fully understand the “real” Alaska
lifestyle. As we proceed to implement
the Alaska Lands Act, we will need
raw instinctand humilityto doourjob
well. Our mission is not to changethe
personality and character of Alaska.
The Act created a new perspective for
resource use but it generally accom-
modates the Alaska lifestyle. In other
words, the Fish and Wildlife Service,
in implementing directives in the Act,
will make every effort to accommo-

page 16

date the public to the highest degree
possible without jeopardizing wild
living things or their habitats.

The Act created or enlarged 16
National Wildlife Refuges in Alaska.
These refuges span 76 million acres.
There are about 375 million acres in
the State. The 16 refuges include
some of the bestfish and wildlife hab-
itat in the world. Our objective is to
manage these refuges underthe code
of wise use to meet the needs and
interests of people.

We are not
starting at point
zero in this
endeavor. Alaska
refuges are part
of the National
Wildlife Refuge
System. The sys-
tem is older than
anyone here
today. Funda-
mental and spe-
cific principles
were established
by our forefathers for managing
National Wildlife Refuges. This was
done during the infancy of profes—
sional conservation. We respect that
heritage. We also know that all pro-
grams must coexist with the standard
of the times. The realities of day-to-
day refuge management in Alaska
require that we discretely adapt the
basic philosophy of the National
Wildlife Refuge System to the needs
of wildlife and people today. The
Service intends to maintain these
refuges in a natural state by deliber-
ately avoiding artificial settings
except where there is no practical or
economical alternative.

Alaskan refuges will support such
important activities as non-wasteful
subsistence use, sport hunting and
fishing, access to inholdings, reason-
able vehicle use, and oil, gas, and
mineral development that does not
create undue impact on refuges and
wildlife.

This is the spirit of the Act. This is
what we mean when we say all people
have a stake in and a right to reasona-
ble use of National Wildlife Refuges
provided the public uses are compati-
ble with the purposes for which the
refuges were created, and provided
the activity falls within the allowed
uses set forth in the Act.

Keith Schreiner

Fish and Wildlife News—August/September 1981

 

The Fish and Wildlife Service isjust
one of several land-managing agen-
cies in Alaska. Other Federal and
State agencies and native corpora—
tions and private groups either man-
age or control lands utilized by fish
and wildlife. Cooperation and com-
munications are essential for mean-
ingful planning and management.
Doing business nowadays with a chip
on one’s shoulder is unacceptable,
unwise, and unproductive.

An example can be cited with
refuges and resident wildlife. The
State has the primary management
responsibility for resident species on
or off the National Wildlife Refuges.
The Service, on the other hand, is
responsible for all other resources
within boundaries of the National
Wildlife Refuge System. All hunting
and fishing that occurs within a
refuge must be done in accordance
with applicable State and Federal
laws. Under this Federal-State
arrangement, which I fully support,
needless biopolitical turf battles can
be avoided and progress can be
made.

I want to emphasize that the Serv-
ice intends to work with the Alaska
Department of Fish and Game and
other agencies, groups, and individu—
als as we develop comprehensive
plans for refuges. Moreover, mean-
ingful public involvement opportuni-
ties will be afforded throughout the
process at appropriate stages of
planning. I will insist on an open and
friendly approach because it’s the
right thing to do, particularly in
Alaska.

I would be a timid swordsman ifl
did not say that subsistence is a hot
issue in Alaska. As resource manag-
ers, we have a job to do and that job
centers on scientific management of
fish and wildlife populations within
the National Wildlife Refuge System.
Subsistence and recreational uses of
resources within refuges will not be
predicated on whim orfancy. All con—
sumptive uses will be based on
orderly use and scientific manage-
ment. There’s no other way to do it
and still perpetuate these resources.

Contemplating what lies ahead, I
believe that it will be years before the
last articles of agreement are in place.
I urge you to participate whenever

cont. on p. 18

 




 

 

“ ,,Your staff did an outstanding job
on producing the special edition of
Fish and Wildlife News on ‘Research.’
It provides both our past and present,
and it tells of important research find-
ings. But most important, it explains
the living and dynamic aspects of
research and appropriately conveys
the enthusiasm of researchers for
their work. Additionally, it explains
that researchers are working on the
important problems of the Service
and are not off ‘doing their thing.’ It
contains just the message for which I
had hoped.

“One of the things about the publi—
cation that makes it so great is that
Meg Durham and other members of
your staff were given the opportunity
to go out and see what researchers
were doing and to write about it. They
did fantastic work. They captured the
dedication and accomplishments of
our reserchers as well as their motiva-
tions and personalities. The great
capabilities of your staff, which seem
inadvertently suppressed in the rou-
tine of all of our responsibilities, was
allowed to flow forth. Their creative
talents will be obvious to anyone who
reads the publication.

“Thanks to all of your staff who
helped bring this one through to this
fine finished product. You did great!"

—Dr. F. Eugene Hester
Acting Deputy Director

“We liked, especially, your article
about ‘Ding’ Darling since he has
such a special place in the Iowa
(Cooperative) Unit's history. We are
Preparing now for our 50—year cele-
bration in 1982. Congratulations on
your outstanding publication."

—Kathy Shaver
Secretary, Iowa Cooperative Fishery
Research Unit

and would like to compliment you
your staff on the April-May1981
SIJeCial edition of Fish and Wildlife
“few: It is an interesting and attrac-
iMornrzgtroach to presenting research
Oweverfcin' l'have one complaint.
or even , here 3 notable of contents
annoyinan author/title list. it is really
Want tog to spot an article that you
page an[joute to someone, lose the
trying to lhave to spend 10 minutes
law in a(Scatte it again. A serious
pUbliCation.“ o herWIse really nice
—Barbara J. Arnold
yServicesSpeciallst
Institute, Madison.
Wisconsin

s“ Grant Advisor
ea Grant

“I was pleased to receive a compli—
mentary copy of the ‘Research’ spe-
Cial edition of Fish and Wildlife News.
In reviewing this document, I was
intrigued by the human interest sto-
ries woven throughout this historical
document. Further, the pictorial pres-
entation portrayed the equal oppor-
tunity story more graphically than
any words could. Such a document
instills in me great pride in my associ-
ation with the Service.

“I hope you will accept my congrat-
ulations for a job well done and con-
vey my best wishes to those Public
Affairs and Research employees who
developed and contributed to this
publication.”

—Barbara Glillard-Payne
Assistant Director, Office for Equal
Opportunity, Department of the

 

 

Interior
FISH
WILDLIFE .,
NEWS Special

  
 

53, Edition

   

Research ’ , j. .; ,,

 

 

“Most important is the insight this
will impart to all the rank-and-file,
most of whom know little about
research and what little they know is
not altogether accurate. You have
contributed another major measure
to the accomplishment ofa long-term
goal of mine: to get people comforta-
ble with the idea of working for one
Fish and Wildlife Service, a team of
which each employee is an important
and working part. You’ve done well,
all of you, and I'm indeed pleased.

or kee ing me up-to-date.”
Thanks f 9 —Lynn A. Greenwalt

Former Director

"Over the weekend I had a chance
to read the special edition of Fish and
Wildlife News dealing lWlth
‘Research.' I found it extremely inter-
esting, well—done, and something

that we in Research can be proud of
being associated with.

“Please thank your staff for all the
effort that they put into the publica—
tion. It was done by professionals."

——Richard N. Smith

Deputy Associate Director—Research

“Just read the (‘Research’) publica-
tion and enjoyed it. Then i asked
myself, ‘Where is the famous female
researcher that recently donned a
new postage stamp?’ Shame on you
people that overlooked Rachel
Carsonl—an Opportunity lost
forever.”

—Larry De Bates
Assistant Regional Director
Region 1, Portland

Ed. note: You make a goodpoint—
we can hardly forget Rachel Carson,
as we are located in the same room
she was during her tenure at the lnte-
rior Department. We could write a
110-page issue just on her accomp-
lishments, but since we were inter—
ested in the achievements of many of
the other “unsung” employees of the
Service, our “Research” edition was
weighted in the other direction.
And—not to split hairs—Rachel Car-
son was primarily an editor and infor-
mation specialist for the Service, not
a pure researcher.

“I must confess that, for the first
time, I have read an edition of Fish
and Wildlife News from cover to
cover. You see, i have an occupa-
tional interest in the Research
program!

“I especially enjoyed the articles on
Hart Merriam and the origins of Fed-
eral wildlife research. The vintage
photos added to my enjoyment. Dave
Klinger’s observations on life
onboard the ‘Kaho’ were very infor-
mative. l chuckled over Roy Tomlin-
son’s ‘Adventures in Mexico.’ Ken
Wolf’s contribution to this special
edition provided me with more infor-
mation on Leetown than l’ve accumu-
lated in 3 years of servicing that
facility. You also did the-(Co—op) unit
program justice by sharing its origin
and purpose. My hat is off to Fred
Meyer who has successfully com-
bined research and administration
and lives to tell the tale. And Frank
Kenney is right when he tells us that
Lucille Stickel doesn't fit into a mold
...and the Service is a better organiza-

’ for it.
tion cont. on p. 18

Fish and Wildlife News—AugustlSeptember 1981 page 17

 




 

First Woman Appointed for Co-0

Dr. Jacqueline D. LaPierre has
been appointed assistant leader of
the Alaska Cooperative Fishery
Research Unit, becoming the Serv-
ice’s first woman to hold a profes-
sional position at a co-op unit.

A recognized authority on the lim-
nology of subarctic lakes and
streams, LaPierre has written widely
on the subject. Since 1971, she has
been a technician, biologist, instruc-
tor and, most recently, assistant pro-
fessor with the Institute of Water
Resources at the University of Alaska
in Fairbanks, where the co-op unit is
located. Ofthe projects she was asso—
ciated with before joining the Alaska
unit, LaPierre particularly enjoyed—
and became known for—coordin-
ating a Japanese scientific
expedition to core Harding Lake in
the Alaskan interior.

LaPierre received a BS. from the
University of Massachusetts and an
MS. in water resources at Iowa State
University, where she studied for her
doctorate in 1976. Her dissertation
dealt with invertebrate drift in subarc-
tic streams; during her field work,
several of her sampling stations were

photo by Sabra McCraken.
University of Alaska

Dr. Jacqueline D. LaPierre

located on the upper Chena River,
where the unit is conducting studies.
As assistant leader of the unit,

 

p System

LaPierre will continue her work as an
assistant professor at the University,
and contribute to research and grad-
uate education in fisheries. LaPierre
says she accepted her new position
because of her admiration forthe unit
program and the opportunities it
offered, especially for increased
administrative responsibilities. She
was unaware that her appointment
wasa“first”untilshe wastold she had
become the Service’s only female
professional at a unit.

The Alaska co-op unit, established
in 1978, is a cooperative venture of
the Service, the University, and the
Alaska Department of Fish and
Game. The unit’s focusfor research is
the relationship of arctic and subarc-
tic ecosystems and fishery resources,
with emphasis on interior lakes and
streams. The upper Chena River near
Fairbanks, a subarctic stream which
supports Alaska’s largest arctic
grayling fishery, is the site of several
projects by unit students. Learning

’ how this unique ecosystem operates

is essential for making informed
recommendations for management.

-Joy Davis
Office of Current Information

 

Letters

“This special edition is a personnel
specialist’s dream come true. l’ve
been all around the world with
Research and haven’t left Washing—
ton! l’ve done desk audits on a unit
leader position, a lab director, a sec-
tion chief, a biological technician,
and even a writer-editor and a librar-
ian. l have an appreciation for how
they fit into Research and how
Research fits into the Service. There
really is some orderto this immensely
complex being we call ‘Research.’

“I shall keep this special edition as
a reference tool. Thanks for making
my job a bit easier.”

cont. from p. 17

—Joanne Martin
Personnel Management Specialist
Washington Office

“My congratulations to you and
your staff on putting together an out-
standing issue. I learned a great deal
about the role research plays in the
Service and how we are viewed by
others in the Service.”

—J. Michael Scott
Research Biologist
Patuxent Wildlife Research Center

page 18

“This publication truly articulates
the evolution of the Research activ-
ities from the ‘Merriam days’ to the
present day. It is especially gratifying
to realize that the attitude in the Serv—
ice has evolved from regarding
women as ‘feminine companionship’
to fully accepting and recognizing
them as professional researchers. We
also noted that a representative
number of the articles were written by
or are about women/minorities in the
Service. I am aware that the articles
and photographs in this edition did
not ‘just occur,’ but were selected
because of the consciousness and
dedication of your staff in ensuring
that the Service is viewed as an equal
opportunity employer.

“Both Research and Public Affairs,
in their individual ways, have contrib-
uted immensely in the development
of women and minorities within the
Service. More importantly, these offi-
ces have played major roles in chang-
ing the Service’s attitudes toward
minorities and women.

“Congratulations on a superb job
of reporting.”

—Samuel D. Lyons
Acting Chief, Office for Equal Opportunity

Washington Office

Fish and Wildlife News—August/September 1981

Schreiner cont. from p. 16

possible in planning the future of
refuges in Alaska. Take the public
comment periods seriously. Attend
and participate in meetings when
practical to do so. The mere fact that
so many have traveled so farto attend
this conference on refuges indicates
intense interest in what the Service
does. We’re most appreciative.

When I travel in Alaska I’m
reminded that this is the last chance
our country has to work with near-
pristine areas. This is it, forevermorel
It is a golden opportunity for all
America.

| NEW PUBLICRTIONS I

Mule and Black-tailed Deer of
North America, at 624 pages one of
the most comprehensive and up-to-
date publications ever devoted to a
single wildlife species, has been pub-
lished by the University of Nebraska
Press under the auspices of the Wild-
life Management Institute.

Ordering information is available
from the Wildlife Management Insti-
tute, 709 Wire Building, 1000 Vermont
Avenue, N. W., Washington, DC.
20005.

 

 




 

 

Duck

cont. from p. 7

liquor to become “tipsy” yet still avoid
rescue. That same day, after we con-
sulted with two veterinarians, a dose
of sodium amytal was calculated and
injected into five small pieces of
bread, two-and-a-half of which the

“Donna” to eat some canned corn
soaked in vodka overnight. Because
of the constriction of the bird’s
breast, its smaller intake of food per-
mitted it to get only enough of the

 

Stuttgart Continues Peace Corps Training

 

photo by Lori Tucker. Stuttgart Daily Leader

Don K untzelman (right), chief of fish cultural training at the Service’s NationalFisheries

Academy, discusses water analysis with three Peace Corps/volunteersheaded for the

Central African Republic. Their training in intensive fish culture at S‘tuttga‘rt’s Fish'Farming

7 Experimental Station is part of the facility’s ongoing cooperative program with the Peace
Corps. Former volunteer Karen Moleski (left) counseled the group based on herexperien-
j 068 in Africa.

 

The aquaculture training expertise of the National Fisheries Center—,Aeetown

has again been applied to aid a foreign country interested in fish farmin’g’asa"

, means of providing a protein food source for its people.

Three Peace Corps volunteers—Anne Daly of Belmar, New Jersey; Keith Alexa
ander of Royal Oak, Michigan; and Roland Champagne of Garden Grove,

California—~recently completed an intensive 2-week course in 'vliarmWater pond

' culture, with special emphasis on the propagation of Tilapia niloticawa speVCIes ‘
similar to bream—at Leetown’s Fish Farming Experimental Station ing-:Stuttgart,
» Arkansas. Their newly-acquired knowledge will be valuable to the Central Aim»
can Republic in establishing and maintaining homefish farming operathnVServltS

population of 1.3 million.

Donald G. Kuntzelman, chief of fish cultural training at the Fisheries Acadeqmy
at'Leetown. assisted by Dr. Glenn L. Hoffman, Mayo Marti-n, Drew Mitche:: .ay;
Carter, and Les Gill of the Stuttgart station, and others, combined theirg‘is ting:
expertise to present a practical, “hands on" training program t9: 9 T

VOlunteers.

Kuntzelman says the culture of Tilapia is highly desirable forth? Cteenattrg:
African Republic because this fish is not only native to Africa, but asap an _ .

can be reared cheaply and can adapt to ponds.

The volunteers, following further schooling in African languages, CUStOm$i and __

..-CUlture, will spend 2 years in the Central African Republic.

Fish and Wildlife News—August/September 1981

duck ate. It became drowsy, yet alert
to sudden movements, and as we
moved up on “Donna” its immediate
reaction was to swim into a nearby
fountain and take a shower, possibly
to “wake up.” It flew on to a deeper
pond.

Dart Anthony, chairman of the
board of the humane society, and I
entered the 5-foot-deep pond in our
street clothes and forced “Donna’_’ to
fly to shallower water, where the
duck’s combined handicap of wet
feathers and drugged condition
enabled me to capture it by hand, the
safest way of preventing injury.

I handed “Donna” to Anthony, who
carried the bird out to the cheering
members of the media. It was then
that I fully realized the significance of
this situation—injury or death to
“Donna” under the combined eyes of
the media would have been devastat-
ing to the public.

A helicopter, provided by Las
Vegas’ Circus Circus Hotel and
Casino, transported “Donna” and us
to the Black Mountain Animal Hospi-
tal in Henderson, where Dr. Gary
Weddle, DVM, removed the arrow,
sutured the wound, and administered
antibiotics. The duck remained in the
hospital for 4 days.

On May 30, after an interview with a
crew from NBC’s “Real People,"
“Donna” and several of us boarded
the helicopter and returned to the
Sahara Country Club. While circling
the golf course, “Donna” spotted its
pond and attempted to fly out of the
helicopter. After a short “welcome
home" ceremony, “Donna” was taken
by golf cart to the pond and released,
rejoining its mate.

After a careful investigation, a 15-
year-old Las Vegas youth was cited
for the incident and turned overto the
custody of the local juvenile court.
The arrow was the crucial piece of
evidence that allowed us to find the
youth. It has been presented to the
humane society, to be displayed at its
new $2 million animal shelter to pro-
mote humane education. The arrow
will carry this inscription: “‘Donna’
has reminded humanity that all living
things on this earth must be treated
with respect."

In my opinion, “Donna” contrib-
uted to humanityintwo wayszthe bird
represented the less obvious
“humanitarian” side of Las Vegas, rel-
atively unknown to many visitors to
our area, and it gave a boost to wild-
life awareness all over the world.

And people were hungry for a
good, front-page feature with a
happy ending that everyone could
identify with.

page 19

 




Sting cont. from p. 1

The Service’s Division of Law
Enforcement estimates that at least
100,000 venomous and nonvenom-
ous snakes are shipped secretly
through the U.S. mails each year.
Arnett said masking tape is com-
monly placed over the rattles of rat-
tlesnakes so they won’t be heard.
Postal law forbids the shipment of
snakes.

Arnett announced that the Justice
Department had filed criminal
charges in Atlanta, Georgia; Pitts-
burgh and Scranton, Pennsylvania;
and Tallahassee, Florida; against
individuals for violating various Fed-
eral wildlife laws. Arrest warrants
were issued for 27 people. Federal
and State search warrants were
issued for 45 locations in 14 States.
Most of the remaining suspects were
interviewed.

Fish and Wildlife Service law
enforcement officers launched the
investigation based on intelligence
from past cases. Additionally, several
State wildlife agencies requested
assistance in controlling the inter-
state illegal traffic. A number of zoos
also cooperated.

To infiltrate the illegal trafficking in
reptiles, undercover agents estab-
lished the “Atlanta Wildlife Ex-
change,”awholesale reptilebusiness
in suburban Atlanta where they
bought and sold almost 10,000 ani—

mals that had been caught in the wild
illegally, all the while tape recording
transactions. Price lists were pre-
pared with a statement noting that the
Exchange bought as well as sold
native species. Over 1,000 Federal
and State listed endangered animals
of 15 species were eventually bought
in the “sting” operation. Many of the
protected species were released to
the wild after being purchased by
agents.

“This was not a large, organized
conspiracy, but rather many small
groups of two to five individuals
working independently,” said Clark
R. Bavin, chief of Law Enforcement.
“An extensive informal grapevine
made sources and buyers of the
animals easy to find.”

Although the reptiles were taken
from a number of States, most of the
poaching was done in California,
Florida, Pennsylvania, Texas, New
York, Wisconsin, Kansas, New Mex-
ico, Idaho, and Arizona. About 5 per-
cent of the “sting” operation’s
business consisted of foreign species
from Australia, Central and South
America, and Mexico, some of which
were smuggled into the U.S. “Most of
the trade is based on demand from
private collectors,” said Bavin, “and

page 20

the varied backgrounds and occupa-
tions of those who were arrested or
apprehended was also surprising.”
Included were zoo employees, police
officers, a sheriff, teachers, an attor-
ney, bankers, a mortician, business—
men, and officials and employees in
the wild animal trade.

Most of the animals sold for
between $25 and $200, although
some cost as much as $500. A Texas
Trans-pecos rat snake would sell for
$75; alligator snapping turtles
brought $35; Gila monsters, $200.
Prices would double or triple for
animals sold overseas.

“People are attracted to these
animals for a variety of reasons,”
Bavin said. “Their rarity and inacces-
sibility is a major consideration.
Some of the snakes are prized for
their intense coloration or intricate
patterns. The California mountain
kingsnake, a very docile, 2-foot rep-
tile with repeated bands of white,
reddish-orange, and black was par-
ticularly valued and would usually
sell in the $150 range. The Texas
gray—banded kingsnake, another
favorite, could bring $200. The rarer
the animal, the higher the price.”

Migratory birds, including both live
and stuffed hawks, owls, and song-
birds, were also purchased in the
operation.

The individuals apprehended were
sought for various violations of the
Endangered Species Act, the Lacey
Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act,
Postal statutes, and conspiracy and
false statement statutes. Both misde—
meanor and felony counts were
involved. .

Throughout the investigation the
Department of Justice’s Wildlife and
Marine Resources Section and the
Atlanta U.S. Attorney’s Office pro-
vided counsel and guidance to the
Interior Department.

—AIan Levitt
Office of Current Information

 

Myshak

science teaching project in the Uni-
versity of Minnesota’s Institute of
Technology in 1964. He also served
as field secretary and editor for the
Minnesota Academy of Science. He
has recently completed his second
term as national president ofthe Con—
servation Education Association.

Myshak received a BS. in forest
management from the University of
Minnesota in 1953 and a BS. and
MS. in education and biology from
Mankato State University in 1954 and
1962, respectively.

Martinson had served as regional
director in Portland since 1973.

cont. from p. 1

Fish and Wildlife News—Augusf/Sepfember 1981

 

 

r TIDBITS

Assistant Refuge Supervisor Jay
Hamernlckinthe Billings Area Office,
hiking the trails of Glacier National
Park late last spring, happened upon
an antique Remington rifle in the
crotch of a tree that is estimated to
have been poised in a ready-to-fire
position for the past 50 years. The
gun, placed in the fixed position and
attached to a trip wire, was embedded
in the tree, which had grown around
the rifle. The set-up was designed to
be discharged at its prey without the
presence of its owner. Glacier Park
intends to exhibit the gun and tree
section. No word on whether Rip van
Winkle has shown up to claim his fir-
ing iron...Ever wonder how many
Individual fish are caught by anglers
each year throughout the U.S.? So
did Alaska legislator Cliff Grow, who
asked that question of the Service’s
Office of Current Information. With
its assistance, Grow was put in touch
with the Sport Fishing Institute,
which came up with the figure
2,658,634,000 for angler year 1979.
The Institute’s “guesstimate” was
derived by using various ratios of
reasonable validity that reflect the
relationship between weight and
number, in combination with fishing
frequency data...GlIbert C. Radonski
has become the executive vice presi—
dent of the Sport Fishing Institute,
replacing retiring chief Richard
Stroud. Radonski, who has 21 years
of professional experience in Federal
and State government and private
industry, started his career in 1960 as
assistant manager of the Service’s
Inks Dam National Fish Hatchery in
Burnet, Texas.

 

FFISHQND
~ WILDLIFE

NEWS

FISH AND WILDLIFE NEWS is pub-
lished bimonthly for employees of the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service by the
Office of Current Information, Public
Affairs, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
Department of the Interior, Washing-
ton, D.C. 20240. Comments and
suggestions are appreciated.

John Mattoon, Assistant Director—Public Affairs
Alan Levitt, Chief, Current Information
David Klinger, Editor, Fish and Wildlife News

 

 

 

‘US Government Printing Office: 1981—341-758/102

 




