 

 

II II II II II II I[ II II II II II H} II II H II II II II II II H H H H H II M II H H II

 

 

 

A Review and Refutaﬁon
of the Principal Claims
Made on Behalf of
Vivisectional Research

39

JOHN SHAW, M.D. (London)

formerly Vice-President of the British Gynaecological Society. For
upwards of 20 years Physician for Diseases of Women, North-VVest
London Hospital

Reprinted from

THE ANTI—VIVISECTION 8: HUMANITARIAN REVIEW, 1927

1
—.J
.-
d
h-
”~—
2
=
L:
-
d
=
=
E

 

Price Twopence.

 

Issued by The A m'mczl Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society,
35, Old Bond Street, London, W1, and

4, Cour St. Pierre, Geneva, Switzerland.

President:_ Hon, Director:
THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON MISS LIND-AF-HAGEBY

 

 

 

 

 

 

* ll JI II II 1| 1| 1] II II II H II II II "1| Jill [I HjIJI II II II II II II II II II III II II H II II II II II II II II II IL II II II jl II II ll II II H H II

Aim” H II H I! II I! ll 1! H I] I! H "1| [1 H II II II H I] II II II

 

 

 

 

 

I II II II ll‘ﬂ II II ll H II M II I! II II II Ii II II H H] II II II H I] H II II II II II II If

 

 

 




 

A REVIEW AND REF UTATION
OF THE PRINCIPAL CLAIMS
MADE ON BEHALF OF
VIVISECTIONAL RESEARCH

Why all to whom are dear the Health of

the People and the Honour of the Medical

Profession should support the Dogs Protection
Bill.

N the following pages an endeavour is made

to answer as brieﬂy as possible the arguments

urged against the Dogs Protection Bill in
the “ Conference on Animal Experimentation ”
as reported in the British Medical Journal
Supplement, 9th April, 1927, as well as the
Memorandum of the Medical Research Com-
mittee, dated 2nd May, 1919, in opposition to
the earlier Bill then before Parliament.

When Lord Dawson of Penn states that “ it
cannot be disguised that the whole principle of
animal experimentation is involved,” one gladly
admits that, regarded from one point of view,
this must inevitably be true. For example, when
Sir Thomas Lewis says that without experiment
upon living animals “ Medicine would have
failed to emerge from the status it held in the
Dark Ages,” the obvious retort is that Medicine
need never have entered the Dark Ages but for
animal experimentation. Whilst admitting that
it is impossible to discuss the vivisection of dogs
in particular apart from the vivisection of
animals in general, nevertheless, it is true that
when this Bill, now or later, becomes an Act of
Parliament the whole animal world (with the
one exception of the dog) will still be at the
disposal of the British vivisector, subject only
to existent legislation, whilst the conscience of
very many will be freed, in some degree, from
the nightmare evoked by present conditions.

When the President of the British Medical
Association describes the movement to which he

 

 




 

 

 

 

is opposed as “ an agitation which is not
distinguished by scrupulous regard for accuracy
of statement or fairness of description,” the
reader may wonder whether such characteristics
(if true) are the monopoly of the anti-vivisectors.
Seeing that there are to-day—compared pro rats
to the membership of the Profession—two to
three times as many titled practitioners as at
the beginning of the century, I would ask my
readers not to be too much dazzled by the
glamour of such titles, but to remember that the
[cry of the silversmiths, “ Great is Diana of the
Ephesians,” was not the ﬁnal word in one great
controversy, for in Medicine, too, there is a
“ crowd conscience ” only too willing to silence
the voice of reason and crush the apostle.

It does not seem out of place to remind the
reader that but a century ago venesection was
as universally and as authoritatively lauded as
is vivisection to-day. “ Harmsworth’s Encyclo-
paedia ” (article “ Venesection ”) states:

“ In the early part of the nineteenth century,
healthy men, women and children were bled as a matter
of course three or four times yearly, while in disease
its application was almost universal.“

Dr. John Brown had the temerity to write a
work in which he modestly suggested that dis-
crimination should be used in bleeding, and a
distinction made between full-blooded individuals
and feeble, anaemic or exhausted patients.
Hereupon the medical authorities of the
enlightened City of Edinburgh-“Athens of the
North ”--—publicly ostracised this dangerous
.revolutionary, who died seven years later in
London in great poverty. Medicine, too, has
had its martyrs—alas! too many of them. But
oﬂ‘lcial Medicine to-day reserves this title for its
helpless victims, which it describes as “ giving ”
their lives for the beneﬁt of others.

When Mr. R. G. Hogarth, C.B.E., F.R.C.S‘.,
President of the British Medical Association, and
Chairman of the Conference on Animal
Experimentation, said that “ the dogs which are
“the martyrs of the movement do not give their

3

 




 

 

 

lives for man alone, they yield them no less for
the beneﬁt of their brother dogs,” he seems to.
have already forgotten What he had advanced in
the sentence immediately preceding as a
justiﬁcation for the vivisection of dogs—namely,
“ the cynical indifference of dog for dog.”
Without venturing to describe such sentimen-
tality as “ soft and slushy emotionalism,” I am
reminded of the Report of the Medical Research
Council for 1922-23, in which the service of
animals to mankind by way of vivisection is thus.
referred to: “ It is plainly right that this high
service should be gratefully recognised and
openly acknowledged by the whole community
that takes advantage of it.”

On the occasion of Miss Lind-af—Hageby’s;
lecture on December 7, 1926, the dogs rescued
from the University College laboratories and
now adopted by the Duchess of Hamilton were
present at the moment when certain students of
the College were invited on to the platform in
order that they might have the opportunity of
expressing their views. The dogs, which up to.
that time had been perfectly quiet, commenced
to bark. The incident impressed many people
and was reported in the Manchester Guardian——
but no one seems to have thought that very
possibly they were but acknowledging the vote
of thanks so generously and so graciously
proposed to their race by the vivisectors. The
conscientious reader will inevitably have to face-
the question—much as he may shrink from it—
whether vivisection does not entail an atmosphere
of hypocrisy which stiﬂes alike freedom of
thought, scientiﬁc accuracy, and logical
_ judgment.

The Moral Aspect of Canine
Vivisection.

The Memorandum above referred to did not
consider it relevant to discuss the moral aspect
of the question, although common sense would
seem to have indicated that in all matters of
health (VVholth) every aspect of any question

4

 

 




 

 

 

concerned is relevant, especially when it aﬁects
a profession Whose duty is not merely to prevent
disease, but to cure it in the weak and suffering,
in the young and aged—in a word, in those
whose helplessness constitutes their claim to
attention. Can any one deny that, in its very
essence, vivisection is an application of the
dogma that the weak and helpless are the
legitimate prey of the strong? Can it, there-
fore, constitute a suitable training for those
whose duty it is (or will be) to succour the weak
and helpless ? And the danger of such moral
degradation must inevitably be aggravated in the
vivisection of dogs, by reason of those very
qualities which make them particularly valued
by the vivisector namely, their heroic stoicism
under suffering, and their affection for and
trust in ourselves. A sentence referring to the
visit of Lord Dawson of Penn to Dr. Banting’s
laboratory is particularly suggestive:

“ I myself saw the dogs at Toronto which were the
subject of experiment by Banting and his colleagues;
they were well cared for, and those that were not ill
were happy, some of them the pets of the laboratory.”

Yet Dr. Banting’s researches have included the
pouring of boiling Water around the pancreas
of a dog so that it fainted with pain! Was that
dog one of the pets of the laboratory?

The Dark Ages of Medicine.

The following paragraph is quoted from the

British Medical Journal Supplement :

“ Sir Thomas Lewis, M.D., F.R.S., began by showing
that the science and practice of medicine had been
built, and continued to be built, upon a threefold
basis: the examination of living people, the dissection
of their bodies after death, and experiment upon living
animals. If any of these three sources of information
had been closed in the past, Medicine would have failed
to emerge from the status it held in the Dark Ages.”

This statement appears to be typical of the
confusion of thought characterising the vivi-
section defence, and illustrative of Lord Bacon’s
teaching in the “ Novum Organum ”——-that the
human understanding is not a mere faculty of

apprehension, but is affected, more or less, by
a

 

 

 




 

the will and passions; what man wishes to be

true, that he too easily believes to be so.

Sir George Newman, Chief Medical Officer to
the Ministry of Health, in paragraph 7 of his
“‘ Outlines of the Practice of Preventive Medi-
cine ” (1926) contrasts the two great medical
leaders of antiquity, Hippocrates and Galen.
"Concerning the latter he quotes the great medical
historian, Haeser, as saying of the Galenic system
that its “ spurious air of infallibility led the
spirit of man in fetters for centuries and
shattered any hope of progress.”

The essential difference between the two
systems was this: Hippocrates, a faithful ob-
server and disciple of Nature, took as his motto,
so to speak, the words, “ The proper study of
mankind is man.” Galen resorted to the vivi-
section of animals,-——he was the ﬁrst authentic
vivisector of animals—and although it is admitted
that the least satisfactory part of his work was
that dependent on such experiments, still, so
great is the fascination of vivisection, that it
'was precisely these erroneous observations that
”gave him his autocratic authority, because such
“teaching suited the “ intellectual indolence ” of
his own and succeeding generations. I do not
believe that any unprej udiced reader can peruse
the articles on “Anatomy ” and “ Medicine ” in
the 9th edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica
without coming to two conclusions:

(1) That the Dark Ages of Medicine were the
logical outcome of vivisection;

(2) That, if medicine were released from the
trammels of vivisection, the Hippocratic
method, enriched by the resources of
modern science, would speedily make medi-
cine a profession to be proud of, one in
which the public might regain conﬁdence.

Let me now brieﬂy pass in review the principal

claims made on behalf of vivisection in general,

and of the vivisection of dogs in particular, at
the recent Conference and in the Memorandum

of 1919.

i

6




 

 

The Surgery of the Brain.

'At the meeting of the British Medical Asso-
ciation at Toronto in August, 1906, Sir Victor
Horsley published certain statistics of his:
operations on the brain for malignant tumour.
In my book, “ The Cure of Cancer and How
Surgery Blocks the Way,” published the follow-
ing year, I showed (page 80) that of 23'
operations where Sir Victor was successful in
removing the tumour, in three cases, only had
the patient remained free from recurrence after
a lapse of two years, whereas in eleven cases
where he had failed to remove the growth, the
patient made a permanent recovery. The evidence
and my argument based thereon are still
available for discussion.

Sir Victor Horsley, in our subsequent corre-
spondence, neither refuted my ﬁgures nor
challenged my conclusion. He had published
statistics of a sort, he said, and I was free
to construe them as I thought ﬁt. The late
Dr. Danford Thomas had assured me that cases
presenting the symptoms of glioma were curable
by iodide of potassium, but I have had no
opportunity of putting this contention to a test.

Abdominal Surgery.

From the report of the speech of Sir Holbert‘
Waring, F.R.C.S., I quote the following:

“ For ten years I was a licence-holder in connection
with vivisection and an active worker. The work I‘
did was mainly in connection with the surgery of the
liver, gall bladder, bile ducts, spleen and alimentary
canal. . . .When I was carrying on these investigations
I used, at diﬁerent times, monkeys, dogs, cats, rats,
sheep and pigs, but I found that from the point
of view of discovering the best solution of a surgical
question which would be of importance when I came
to treat the human patient a large-sized dog was far
and away the best.”

If the reader of Sir Holbert Waring’s
testimony at the Conference on Animal Experi-
mentation concludes that he was ﬁrst and
foremost a vivisector who extended his observa-
tions to mankind, can he blame anyone but
himself ?—for it is notorious that surgeons of'

7

 

 




 

 

 

the very highest eminence have been successful
in abdominal operations without the aid of
vivisections, as was the case with Sir Henry
Morris and Mr. Lawson Tait. Indeed, Sir
Frederick Treves went so far as to say that
he had to unlearn his vivisectional experiences
before he could successfully operate on the
human intestine. The following is cited from
Vol. II, page 1389, of the British Medical
Journal, of November 5th, 1898":

“ Many years ago I carried out on the Continent
sundry operations upon the intestines of dogs, but such
are the differences between the human and the canine
bowel that, when I came to operate upon man, I found
I was much hampered by my new experience, that I
had everything to unlearn, and that my experiments
had done little but unﬁt me to deal with the human
intestine. ’ ’ ,

Personally, as a humble general practitioner,
for I was thought (whatever my medical curri—
culum as a student may have been) to be too
little orthodox to be admitted on to the Staff of
St. Thomas ’s Hospital, I protest with the
utmost conviction against the pretensions of Sir
Holbert Waring. The vivisection of animals is
absolutely unnecessary for successful abdominal
surgery. All that is needed is an accurate
knowledge of human anatomy and general con-
ceptions of surgical procedure.

The following notes are conﬁned to what may
be regarded as original work and are submitted
as evidence against the assumption that the
vivisection of animals is a necessary preliminary
to successful surgery:

(1) When a patient whom I had recommended
to go to Alexander of Liverpool for the
shortening of her round ligaments insisted
on my doing the operation, I did it, and
did it successfully. ‘

(2) I have had to deliver twins by th

Caesarean Section when the placenta was
in the line of the incision; and the mother
left my care six weeks later with a baby
on each arm.

(3) When asked to operate on a large mass

8

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

of ﬁbroids, I found that there was no
possibility of removing them by the
ecraseur, the method then in vogue. On
the spur of the moment I designed and
carried out the modern operation of

. abdominal hysterectomy. Years after, I
heard from the doctor that the patient
continued in good health.

(4) When a paper of mine (sent in Nov. 14th,
1894) was read at a Meeting of the
Obstetrical Society of London, “ Periton-
itis: Its Nature and Treatment,” my
suggestion that the peritoneum of a patient
might be infected by the breath of the
surgeon or his assistant was greeted with
contemptuous laughter, but I have lived to
see masks worn even when a catheter had
to be passed on an anmsthetised patient.
The recommendations of my paper for the
treatment of peritonitis have been adopted
by one or other surgeon of the highest
eminence, viz.,

(a) Lavage of the stomach;

(b) Injections of strychnia, instead of
morphia;

(c) Inhalations of oxygen.

Vivisecti-ons constitute the “ Open, Sesame! ”
to the inner sanctuary of the profession, what-
ever the competence, or incompetence, of the
aspirant may be. The follower of Hippocrates
ﬁnds the door slammed in his face, however
distinguished his curriculum as a student may
have been. Indeed, I have heard a late President
of the British Medical Association—he was at
the time President-elect—insistently recommend
that a student should be turned down if he did
not subscribe to surgical dogmas which to-day
are intimately bound up with the vivisection
question.

Diabetes and Insulin.

Lord Dawson of Penn, whose peerage makes
him a sort of ﬁgurehead to the medical profession
in Britain, said in his address at the Conference

9

 

 




 

 

 

that he saw in the presence of the representatives
of the Press a means of reaching the public,
many of Whom “ at present do not see eye to
eye with us.” He announced “ the crowning
success of insulin by Banting at Toronto, with
the result that diabetes has been brought under
control, and literally thousands of lives have
been saved.”

On page 87 of the Report of the Medical
Research Committee already quoted, it is stated:

“As is now well known, insulin is not a ‘ cure ’ for
diabetes. The diabetic suﬁers from a lack of insulin
production by his own pancreas. . . The administra-
tion of insulin from external sources makes good the
natural deﬁciency. . . Insulin is administered at
regular intervals, usually once or twice a day, by sub-
cutaneous injection. . . The eﬁect of an overdose
in a diabetic is to produce distressing symptoms and
possibly convulsions. Insulin treatment must therefore
be carefully regulated by reference to quantitative
measures of the diet, the sugar in the blood, and the
potency of the insulin given.’ ’

The concluding sentence of paragraph 134 of
Sir George Newman’s work already quoted—it
was published only last year—reads thus:

“ The" isolation of insulin thus constitutes a thera-
peutic landmark, but the results obtained by its use
are variable, sometimes disappointing, and in every
instance its use must be combined with considerable
dietetic restriction.” (Beaumont and Dodds.)

In the latest published Annual Report of the
Registrar-General (1925), the mortality from
diabetes in women is higher than ever before,
namely, 125, as compared with 79 in 1900, that
is to say, an increase exceeding 50 per cent. in
25 years. There is some improvement, however,
in male mortality, the signiﬁcance of which is
discounted by the extraordinary vagaries of
the incidence of mortality from this disease
since the war began.

The public whom Lord Dawson of Penn was
addressing through the Press representatives
may not unreasonably wish to know on what
evidence he informs them that “ literally
thousands of lives have been saved ” by insulin.

10

 

 




 

There are certain facts worth remembering.
Several years before vivisectors induced diabetes
in dogs by the removal of the pancreas, it was
known that in a very large proportion of the
fatal cases (13 out of 30 cases reported by
Rokitansky) the pancreas had undergone very
remarkable shrinking. The natural suggestion
arising from this fact was to supply the missing
secretion. Quite recently, Messrs. Carnick
announce the cure of diabetes by the administra-
tion of preparations of pancreas taken by the
mouth. Cancer is very often associated with
diabetes, and for this reason I have been in the
habit of giving an alcohol-glycerine extract of’
pancreas as part of the treatment of cancer for
many years past.

A short personal note may, perhaps, be ex-
cused. When a student at the hospital, I was
supposed to be suffering from diabetes and, in
consequence, had to suspend my medical work
for a Whole year. A not too sympathetic fellow-
student went so far as to say in my presence,
“ Shaw’s booked already! ” But here I am,
having accomplished the full span of three score-
years and ten (and a little over), still—as I
believe—“ ﬁghting the battle of the Lord.” On.
the subject of diabetes, Sir Thomas Watson, in
his classical work on Medicine (Vol. II, page 731)
wrote:

“ But though too often a fatal malady, it is not
necessarily so 3 and the older I grow, the less despondent

do I feel upon ﬁrst ascertaining that a patient is
voiding saccharine urine.”

The Effects of Alcohol.

Two of the most eminent vivisectors in this.
country have devoted attention to this subject,
the late Sir Victor Horsley and the late Professor
Starling. If one would desire to learn the
ﬁnality (or otherwise) of viviseetional teaching,
Sir Victor’s book on ‘ ‘Alcohol ’ ’ might proﬁtably
be compared with Professor Starling’s “Action
of Alcohol on Man.” The latter book raises

11

 




 

 

 

further questions of vital importance, as may be
judged by the following notes:

(i) In the signed preface of his book, Professor
Starling referred to his work as “ written
from the purely scientiﬁc standpoint.”
(Aug. 1923.)

(ii) A few months later, a letter signed by
the Rev. H. Carter and Sir Ernest Lamb
appeared in the Methodist Times of Nov.
1st, 1923, containing this statement : “ We
have documentary evidence to justify the
assertion that the book was originally
commissioned by the Anti-Prohibition
League——a body which ﬁghts in the liquor
interest.”

(iii) In its issue of December 8th, 1923, the
Daily Herald drew attention to these dis-
crepancies, remarking that “ Professor
Starling will not deny this allegation,
although he must know the effect of it
to be damaging.”

If the old proverb still holds good which
recommends those living in glass houses to avoid
throwing stones, one may reasonably doubt the
discretion of the Chairman of the Conference
on Animal Experimentation, in charging his
opponents with inaccuracy of statement and un-
fairness of description. ,

Rickets.

The chief beneﬁt arising from these experi-
ments is to demonstrate the utterly misleading
character of vivisectionist propaganda. The
Memorandum of 1919 states that “ the disorder '
itself in the puppy, as in the child, is quite
painless.” That is true, if the meaning of pain
is restricted to neuralgic conditions. But there
may be, I submit, degrees of prolonged suffering
far more terrible than severe pain of compara-
tively short duration. If Members of Parliament
could only see the photographs of the dogs
published in the Reports on Rickets issued by
the Medical Research Committee for the years
1921 and 1925, I cannot believe that they would

1‘)-

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

need any further inducement to vote to a man
for the Dogs Protection Bill. For these experi-
ments have been absolutely unnecessary from the
point of view of the acquisition of knowledge
and the beneﬁt of infancy. All that was needed
was the application of common sense to the
observation and treatment of growing animals
and of children.

The mortality from Rickets in boys is about
half as much again as in girls. It reached its
maximum in 1904 when it stood at 66 and 43
per million of the male and female populations
respectively, since which time there has been a
steady reduction, with the exception of the years
when .the war interfered with the normal
alimentation of the people. In 1925 the death
rate in the two sexes was 15 and 10 respectively.

The Testing of Drugs.

Lord Dawson of Penn is reported as saying
at the Conference:

“ Then, again, new drugs—let me mention pituitrin,
a drug which will control heemOrrhage on the one hand,
and go far to diminish the dangers of childbirth on the
other. , How are new drugs to be tested 1* On the wives
and daughters of the members of the public—or on
animals ‘i’ Or are no new drugs to be tested and used
at all ”3 If there is to be no animal experimentation,
the use of pituitrin falls to theground? ”

I venture to think that Lord Dawson’s method
of posing his question is tendencious in the
gravest degree, and I claim to have some right
to a hearing in answering it, for it was I who,
during the absence of my chief from the physio-
logical laboratory and acting on the instructions
of Dr. 0rd, extracted and weighed the mucin
from the skin of the foot of a patient who
had died from the disease to which the name
"‘ myxcedema ” was subsequently given, in con-
sequence of the results of my analysis. (It was
Dr. Cranston Charles who had prepared the
material before going for his holiday, so that I
have no complaint to make that it was he who
was ofﬁcially thanked for the result.)

The atrophy of the thyroid gland observed
in this patient was an obvious indication to

1.3

 




 

 

 

administer compensatory doses of this gland

obtained from animals slaughtered for the-

purposes of food. This obvious course was,
however, long delayed in consequence of time":
wasted in “ animal experimentation.”

“ How are new drugs to be tested?” asks:
Lord Dawson of Penn. My answer is—on our-
selves. In the treatment of cancer I have never“
used a new drug except after testing it on my-
self. Why ﬁrst test it on animals, observations:
which might lead to fatal mistakes in the dose
selected for the experiment on a patient 2?"
Different animals have different idiosyncrasies
with regard to drugs, and we know that such
idiosyncrasy extends even to individuals. Dogs,.
for example, have a tolerance of morphia which
would fatally mislead any experimenter who»-
trustcd to such tolerance as an indication of
the dose to be given to a man. And how does:-
Lord Dawson of Penn—07' anyone else—know
whether the dog may not have a similar tolerance-
for pituitrin? The late Professor Starling ad-
mitted—what must be obvious to all—that the
ﬁnal experiment must be on man. Why not
make the first experiment on man, and not wait
to dabble with preliminary experiments on
animals which may give fatally false indications ‘?'

Diphtheria.

Diphtheria is the disease the successful treat-
ment of which is ascribed entirely to the
employment of antitoxin which was introduced
to the profession in 1890. Lord Dawson men--
tions it speciﬁcally.

With regard to speciﬁc germs and their
relation to disease, there are some very wise-
words at the close of paragraph 9 of Sir George

Newman’s work already quoted:

“ The discovery of particular micro-organisms in
association with particular diseases, and possibly even.
causally associated, is not, however, the whole story.
Men soon learned that bacteria are unstable and variable,
and that their functioning, action and reaction, is;
dependent upon many circumstances, both within and
outside the living body of their host.”

H

 

*3

 

 

 




 

 

 

The brief fact is, that after the introduction
«of antitoxin in 1890 the mortality from diph-
theria continued to rise, reaching its maximum
in the quinquennium, 1896—1900, since which date
.it has decreased, so that in the last quinquennium
the mortality is but 32.85% of that maximum.
It must, however, be remembered that another
disease which bears some afﬁnity to diphtheria,
namely, scarlet fever—many years ago Dr. Alex-
ander Collie, Superintendent of the Homerton
Fever Hospital, insisted that diphtheria was
:scarlet fever with membranous exudations—has
shown a much more remarkable diminution in
mortality, without the help of (my antitoxin,.
In the last quinquennial period the mortality
from scarlet fever is less than three per cent. of
its maximum mortality during the last seventy
years, that is to say, the improvement in the
mortality from scarlet fever without an anti-
toxin has been ten times as favourable as in
adiphtheria with its antitoxin.

I have had some personal experience of the
obsession from which the profession suffers in
"this matter of antitoxin, Many years ago, fear-
ing that my second son might be suffering from
adenoids, I called in the late Mr. Stephen Paget,
Whose name is familiar to many as Hon. Secre-
tary to the Research Defence Society. He assured
me that there were no adenoids, but to my utter
astonishment advised the injection of antitoxin,
As I could not see the faintest justification for
"such treatment I ﬂatly refused to permit it.

A few years ago, my youngest daughter was
resident in a doctor’s house. She was suffering,
:as I thought, from an ordinary attack of nasal
eatarrh, for which the doctor insisted that she
"should be treated with antitoxin, a suggestion
which I vetoed absolutely. I went up to see
"her daily, sometimes twice daily, so that I
"might inject my own remedy, if necessary. The
”doctor took advantage of my absence one morn-
"ing (I had to go to Southampton to see a young
:son off to Canada) to call in the Medical Ofﬁcer

15

 




 

 

 

of Health with a View to injecting my child
with antitoxin—an outrage to which this
gentleman would not consent. If my child had
been killed by such an injection, as many child-
ren may have been, what redress could I have
had in this priest-ridden land”? I admit that
my blood boils at the remembrance.

The Great Betrayal. I accuse !

There is a noble sentiment expressed in para-

graph. 159 of Sir George Newman’s work to
which repeated reference has already been made.
He wrote:
' “ I desire with the utmost emphasis to impress upon
my colleagues the great truth that the spirit of research,
of investigation, of the ﬁnding and following of new
learning is the monopoly of none and the inspiration
of all. The dead hand of traditional authority stiﬂed
freedom of thought in Medicine for fourteen hundred
years. It did so because in human nature the dislike
of change, the fear of the unknown, the avoidance of
personal responsibility are deep and strong. These
instincts are still potent ; they respond readily to the
suggestion that investigation is only an aﬁair of
laboratory experts. Those who argue thus are the
mediaaval traditionalists in new guise.”

For these words, Medicine is greatly in Sir
George Newman’s debt. But he has omitted
the chief obstruction to progress, viz., the com-
mercialism that vivisection has brought into a
profession that was once a sacred ministry.
One regards this as the Golden Age of Medicine;
it is, in fact, the Age of the Golden Calf.
“ Research” is but too often the ﬁnding of
employment, “ with salaries appropriate to the
extreme importance of such national service,”
for the vast army of the unemployed in the
ranks of the medical profession. And the result
of this is that advance is absolutely taboo, unless
it brings grist to the mill of the laboratory.

It was my misfortune in 1918 to discover a
remedy which proved an absolute speciﬁc for
inﬂuenza and pneumonia: it appears to have
banished the mortality from one Swiss hospital,
where, previously to its use, there were very
numerous deaths from pneumonia amongst the

16

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

young people of 20 to 30 years of age. It has
been successful in this country also. Why has
it been taboo? The only reason I can suggest
is that it obviously (or, at least, apparently) cuts
the ground from beneath the feet of the pre-
parers and vendors of various vaccines and sera.

It is obvious that, if a powerful antiseptic
can be injected into the body which not only
does not harm it, but by strengthening the heart
actually fortiﬁes its resistance to the disease,
such a remedy constitutes a master—key to the
successful treatment of all infectious illness.
And my inﬂuenza speciﬁc is all this. If I had
kept its composition secret, the profession would
have had some excuse for its neglect, but I did
not. Although, on ﬁrst learning of its success,
I had some hopes that it might be the means of
recouping the terrible losses entailed by my
cancer campaign, the need of the remedy was
so great on the one hand, and its success so
remarkable on the other hand, that I published
its composition and mode of preparation to the
whole civilised world. Am I to be forced to
the conclusion that my profession prefers to
sacriﬁce tens of thousands of human lives—
hundreds of thousands—rather than endanger
the vested interests of the “ sacred stronghold
of research ” “.3

The formula of my remedy for foot-and-
mouth disease I have not published, as I felt
it an absolute duty to a numerous family to
try and recoup their ﬁnancial losses. Since I
ﬁrst introduced the remedy to the Ministry of
Agriculture, foot-and~mouth disease has cost
our heavily burdened country millions of pounds.
The Secretary to the Research Committee at the
Ministry (so I was informed on credible
authority) designated the remedy as ‘ ‘quackery,’ ’
because I had discovered some of its constituents
in my research-work on cancer.

Another of the unfortunate remarks of the
President of the British Medical Association in
his opening speech as Chairman of the Con-

17

 

 

 




 

'ference on Animal Experimentation seems to
have been, when he described the anti-Vivisection
agitation as “ kept alive, after repeated rebuffs,
by the ﬂow of bequests made to the anti-
viviseetion societies and to the various bodies
which exist for the special protection of dogs.”
’What about the enormous sums dedicated to
“ Research ” “I

Vivisection and the Cure of Cancer.

Why is not a little common sense brought to
bear on this question? Why do men who have
made large fortunes by business acumen behave
in this matter as simpletons? Seventy years ago
the deaths from consumption were about eight
times as numerous as from cancer: during the
Iquinquennium 1921-25, the deaths from cancer
exceeded in round numbers those from consump-
tion by one-half. One might have thought that
this was sufﬁcient indication that cancer was
less well understood than consumption. The
fact that in less than 70 years the death-rate
from cancer has increased four-fold might be
thought to indicate the necessity for fresh lines
of thought instead of intensive team work on
the lines responsible for the present condition
of things.

The simple fact is that the cure of cancer
without operation—if once recognised as an
established fact—would constitute a terrible
disaster for the most inﬂuential partner in the
medical trinity—the surgeon. And he is sup-
posed to be enthusiastically working in the true
altruistic spirit for this whole-sale martyrdom!
If, on the other hand, the surgeon in his inner
consciousness is as ﬁrmly persuaded as I am
myself that ‘ ‘research’ ’ never can lead to the cure
of cancer, then he can continue to operate,
supported by the pronouncements of the vivi-
sector. Vivisection and surgery constitute an
unholy alliance which is directly responsible for
the present situation. Here I must conﬁne the
question to two items, the one referring to the
false teaching of Vivisection, and the other to
"the disastrous effects of routine operation.

13

 

alr—~ 1...;

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Chronic Irritation as a Cause of
Cancer.

From 1868 to 1888 the increment of mortality
in skin-cancer was considerably less than one
per cent. per annum in both sexes. From 1900
to 1925 the increment per annum amounted to
6.5 per cent. How to account for this?

As the result of experiments on mice,
apparently of revolting cruelty (British Medical
Journal, Dec. 9th, 1922), it was thought that
more attention must be given to chronic irrita-
tion as a cause of cancer. Could the increase
in the mortality from skin-cancer be thus
accounted for? We do not, however, paint our-
selves With tar, or creosote, or parafﬁn, neither
do we rub ourselves over with arsenic or soot.
But the average individual does use soap daily.
A celebrated surgeon thought that he had thus
discovered the cause of the increase of skin-
cancer and took upon himself to warn the public
against the use of soap. “ There was a great
opportunity for an inventor who could discover
some substitute for soap, for though personal
cleanliness was essential the perpetual applica-
tion of soap should be discouraged.”

I must not take up space to repeat the evidence
submitted in my pamphlet, ‘ ‘ Cancer : An Appeal
to Reason ” (1923), which proved from statistics
that soap is preventive of cancer. Let it sufﬁce
to quote the opinion of an American Professor
as reported in the public press:

“ Dr. James Ewing, Professor of Pathology at
Cornell University Medical School, declared, before a
gathering of the Ontario Academy of Medicine, that a
more violent use of soap and water would prevent
much of the cancer of the skin. He added that he
anticipated a large increase in the number of cancer
cases among motor mechanics, owing to their hands
and arms being coated with oil.”

The reader will understand that in this case,
as so often before, vivisection had led to results
absolutely contrary to the truth. The mortality
from cancer of the skin has increased in con-

19

 




sequence of the ‘ furor operativus,’ the disastrous
effects of which are still more clearly seen in
cancer of the female breast, which in the period
of 1921-25 accounted for upwards of 25,000
deaths in England and Wales. \

The Fatal Lure of Surgery.

Common sense would seem to show that if
surgery were a rational treatment of cancer, its
beneﬁts would be most clearly seen in the case
of the female breast, which is operated on with
increasing frequency and with an immediate
mortality almost negligible. What are the facts ‘I
From 1868 to 1898 the annual increment of
mortality was less than one-half per cent. From
1900 to 1925, the annual increment has been
about three per cent. Such increase, however,
has not been constant, but progressive. The
ﬁgures at the quinquennial dates, 1905, 1910, etc.
(1900 being taken as 100), are 109, 120, 132, 148
and 172 respectively. That is to say, from one
quinquennial date to the next following, the
increments are as 9, 11, 12, 16 and 24. From
1921 to 1925, therefore, the annual increment of
mortality was at least 10 times that of the period
1868 to 1898. There is, moreover, evidence
available conﬁrmatory of my observations in
Switzerland that the mortality is highest where
the facilities for operation are the most advanced.
Surely it ought to be the business of someone to
conﬁrm or refute these ﬁgures.

In the meanwhile, my reader will understand
the grounds of my contention. that the passage
into law of the Dogs Protection Bill will be a
substantial step towards the conquest of cancer.

 

31:. CLEMENTS PRESS, LTD., Portugal Street, Kingsway, W.C.2

 




