The (Cruelty oi the Muzzting @rcter.37

 

Allow me to demonstrate the cru— cry of “mad dog” was raised; it was
elty of the muzzle. it is an unnatu- pursued by a cowardly mob, and, but
ral, barbarous instrument of torture. for the timely intervention of some
Dog owners know the extreme aver— sensible and humane persons, would
Qinh and tnrr'nr with which its vic- have been ruthlessly and barbarous—

r
{(How Rabies are Manufactured.

Recipe.
Malice 1‘ , , Imbecility
Cowardice aa Equal Parts Ignorance
Nervousness S Imagination
Dog hatred, add quantum suﬂicit.

Shake the ingredients well up, look intently and constantly at the
mixture, carefully scan, the columns of the daily press for Hydrophobia
announcements and imagine every playful, lost, sick or worried dog that
is at liberty out of doors is in the frenzied stage of “rabies.”

—— Waaa’rajfe Hill of England, Fellow of Ike Royal College of Veterinary
Surgeons.
THE HYDROPHOBIA SCARE.

“In the name of Pasteur there has been a holocaust of dogs. But for
him thousands of dogs now lying in heaps upon. the market gardens of
Europe would be alive and happy.

Those who have: been spared are prisoners. of war, caged and fettered
and in hourly peril of being slaughtered on owner’s door—steps or taken
to the dog’s home for happy (‘2) despatch.

* i“ my objection to M. Pasteur is that in the interests of vivi-
section his establishment has been advertised by illegitimate means. The
panic would have died out long ago, but it has been fomented by the press
in the interests of Pasteurism, and when the mad-(log was not available
for sensational treatment, a mad-dog has been invented. One thing is cer—
tain; the present epidemic. of rabies did not commence till Pasteur was
ready for it. If he were to—morrow to abandon his experiments in this
direction, and turn. his attention to, say, small-pox or cholera, we should
hear of very few cases of mad dogs. The best way to stamp out hydro-
phobia would be to unreguzzle all the dogs and send Pasteur to the North
Pole. ' '

The force of foolerQy can go no farther than this. A muzzled dog, a
harmless pet, runs out of its owner’s door for a moment and is instantly
seized and beaten to death by a. posse of policemen, under the command
of an inspector.

Pasteur has much to answer for. It is becoming every day more and
more patent that this mad dog panic is fostered in the interests of vivi-

section.

Hundreds of cases of hydrophobia were deliberately manufactured by
fools or knaves during this past year.

 

——L0na’072 Referee

 




 

 




 

The Ciruettg of the Muzeting @rderfg

Allow me to demonstrate the cru—
elty of the muzzle. it is an unnatu—
ral, barbarous instrument of torture.
Dog owners know the extreme aver—
sion and terror with which its vic-
tims regard it; how they ﬁght against
it and try to wrench it off until forced
into sullen endurance, and their
abject, spiritless, broken-hearted de-
meanour under its inﬂiction. A dog
is a highly nervous, sensitive, and
excitable animal, and the constant
irritation produced by the restraint,
discomfort and pain of the heavy,
oppressive, cruel wire cage amounts
to positive torture. Some dogs have
been frenzied by it, many irretriev—
ably ruined in health and temper,
many have died under it. Dogs in
muzzles cannot yawn, lick tleir
skins, nibble at fleas, eat grass—an
aboslute necessity—drink, or pant;
they suffer greatly, fall into ill—
health, and become in consequence
pre—disposed to rabies and other dis—
eases.

No muzzle could be invented that
would not be intensely painful and
irritating to a dog. Its weight presses
on the top of the head, causing a
pain akin to neuralgia; the throat
strap compresses the throat, render—
ing it impossible to pant, or even
breathe properly; and lines of wire——
in hot weather, scorching, blinding
wire—across head, face, and eyes, in-
jure the visual organs, are excruciat-
ingly painful, and are torture pure
and simple.

A veterinary surgeon once wrote
to the Press, enumerating some of
the various dreadful wounds and

mutilations caused by the muzzle,
such as eye—balls pierced by broken

wire, teeth gouged out, lips and
tongues badly cut, noses raw and
bleeding. I have seen a little terrier

)up with a large festering sore un«
der his chin, from a knot of coarse
wire which was eating into the ﬂesh;
l. have seen many” dogs with bad
wounds from the jressure and tric—
tion of the wire; I know of a dog
fixed by his muzzle in a hedge, where
he starved and died, and of another
rho, jumping a fence, was caught by
his muzzle and his neck broken; i
know of a young puppy, the edges of
whose tongue were cut by a muzzle
tight as wire round a cork; frantic
with pain and fear, the poor little
creature rushed away, tearing at its
instrument of torture; the senseless

 

 

cry of “mad dog” was raised; it was
pursued by a cowardly mob, and, but
for the timely intervention of some
sensible and humane persons, would
have been ruthlessly and barbarous—
ly killed. And I have read of a little
dog, found by a policeman, exhausted
and dying. He had evidently been
endeavouring for hours to drag the
torturing muzzle off his head; the
muzzle was a shapeless mass, the
dog’s head and jaws were frightfully
mangled, and his poor little fore-

paws were reduced to bleeding
stumps. These instances could be
endlessly multiplied. The pitiful

spectacle of dogs toiling along after
carts and bicycles, suffocated by heat
and dust, with muzzles so short or
tight—or both that they cannot pro-
ject more than the extreme tip of
the tongue, and are unable to open
their mouths to pant or drink, Very

 

deeply disgraces our national hu-
manity.

Dogs owned. by the poor, and by
all dwellers in towns or villages,

who have no place for exercise but
the streets and roads, are condemned
to the torture of the muzzle all day
and every day, from dawn to dark,
without relief, or—an equal cruelty——
to be always chained up.

I could ﬁll your columns with the
terible sufferings of muzzled dogs,
and it must not be forgotten that
during a muzzling order dogs are
kept in unnatural, cruel, constant
conﬁnement, lest their owners should
be ﬁned, hunted down like vermin,
beaten to death in the streets because
in some pain not understood by an
ignorant constable, and massacred by
thousands. And, after all, a mad dog
will not, and a stray dog cannot be
muzzled; the sole victims are the
healthy, owned and licensed dogs.
The muzzling order is a disgrace to
civilization, and, being useless as
well as most cruel, its enforcement
is utterly unjustiﬁable and indefensi—
ble.

Mr. Hanbury has recently, before
Parliament, admitted the failure of
the muzzle; we must, therefore, in—
sist upon the immediate and total
abolition of the muzzling order, and
its prohibition as gross and wanton
cruelty to animals.

C. A. M. BAILEY,

Member of Executive Committee,
National Canine Defence League.

 

 




 




