ULAWS Monographs No. 4a.

THE RABBIT PROBLEM IN
* AGRICULTURE.

EFFECTS OF THE GIN OR STEEL TRAP
IN SOUTH WALES.

By CAPT. W. H. BUCKLEY, late 5th Inniskilling Dragoon
Guards.

The abolition of the steel trap is necessary for the
following reasons:

I. There was no mbbz’t problem in Carmarthenshire before
the steel trap came into use during the war,* when the price
of rabbits rose to a very high level and individual trappers,
or poultry—dealers employing trappers, started the practice
of purchasing the right to trap from the farmers.

2. Before the steel trap was used rabbits were efﬁciently
kept down or exterminated by rabbit-catchers using nets
of all kinds, ferrets, snares (or “wires” as they are locally
called), and shooting.

3. At one time very large prices (up to £50) were paid
to farmers for the rabbits on a farm of, say, 150—200 acres. It
was doubtful even then whether this was a paying proposition
in View of the damage done to the land by the vast increase
in the number of rabbits which the trapping brought about.
Many farmers were against it and did not admit the trappers,
but eventually every farmer in the district where trapping had
got a hold had to sell the right to trap, to compensate for the
loss caused by rabbits swarming on to his land.

4. To- day the price of rabbits has fallen so low that the
average price paid to the farmer last season for the rabbits on
a farm of from 150—200 acres was only from £4 to £10. The

 

* The steel trap was ﬁrst used extensively on the sand dunes round the
coast, just before the war. Here the rabbitsidid no harm as nothing can be
rown.
g On the sand dunes near Kidwelly, where there is a Government afforesta—
tion scheme, and in the hills round Brechfa steel traps are not allowed
and foxes are preserved in order to keep down the rabbits, of which there
are very few.

 

 




 

average damage on such farms cannot be less than £40 p.a.,
when damage to grazing, hay—crOps, banks and fences is taken
into account.

5. It is not practicable for the trapper to set large
numbers of traps in the earths or holes. It is difﬁcult,
and the traps take too long to set and pick up. They
are without exception set by the hundred in the runs
right out in the open. All living things over a few ounces
in weight on which the trap can get a grip are therefore
caught if they venture into the ﬁeld, whereas many doe
rabbits lurk in their burrows.*

6. The steel imp increases the rabbits for the following
reasons:

(i) The natural enemies of the rabbit are
exterminatedﬂL foxes, weasels, stoats and cats in
particular, as they follow the rabbit runs in which the
traps are set. Rats and moles increase also, because
foxes, stoats and cats kill a large number of rats, and
weasels dispose of a number of moles.

(ii) The doe rabbits become very wary as soon as
the traps are set, and will not come out and face
them. By far the greater percentage of rabbits caught
by other methods after the trappers have ﬁnished are
does. The does are therefore left to breed, and the
stock is kept healthyi

(iii) Nets, ferrets and snares work quietly, and a
good man can catch clean with them—i .e., he can catch
all the rabbits, so as not to leave any stock for breeding.

(iv) A trapper is always interested in so many
farms that he is pressed for time to. get round them all
in the season. It therefore pays him to make two or
three big catches on one farm, and then pick up his traps
and go off to the next. Owing to the low price of rabbits
the trapper will now usually only agree to terms of 50%—-—

 

* It is not uncommon for 300 traps to be set in a small ﬁeld of IO
acres at the same time, or for as many as I ,000 traps to be set on one farm at
the same time.

TA case is known where traps were set on a farm where there were not
many rabbits, and which had never been trapped before. During the ﬁrst
few catches 12 foxes and between 30 and 40 weasels and stoats were caught.
That farm has swarmed with rabbits ever since.

3: One way of keeping rabbits down in Australia is to kill all the does
caught and release the bucks, which kill the young rabbits (Rodier system).




50‘70 with the farmer, instead of paying an agreed sum as
he used to when prices were high. When he had paid
a big price it paid him to catch a large number of rabbits
——-the bigger the catch the bigger the proﬁt—but now on
the 5o%—5o% basis the more farms he can get round,
just making a few big catches, the better it pays. There
is now comparatively little competition compared to
that which obtained a few years ago, and a number of
trappers have given up. The trappers that are left can
more or less dictate terms as to which farms they
will trap. Until the steel trap is abolished, the trappers
can dictate to the farmers and land—owners and control
, the situation, and will continue to exterminate the vermin V
and breed rabbits.

7. Over a large part of Carmarthenshire trappers were
never allowed to start, and though it is similar land to that
which is trapped there are very few rabbits, and in many
places none. Nets, snares, ferrets, etc ., do all that is necessary .
Compared to the trapping areas the land is, generally speaking,
healthy and clean, fences and banks are well made, more grain
and green crops are cultivated.

8. Over the western part of—Carmarthenshire, which is
eavily trapped, the agricultural position is extremely serious
and if the expected improvement in the price of milk and
livestock takes place farmers in the trapping districts will
be unable to take advantage of it as they should. There are
farms to-day where the farmer is literally eaten out of his
farm.

Not to labour the subject, a man who farms 150-200
acres cannot feed a head of 4,000 rabbits or more,* for
which he will get only a few pounds, and at the same time
make a living out of milk and livestock. On some farms there
is not a bank standing, the whole being one vast rabbit run.
The damage to the hay-crop alone involves the loss of hundreds
of pounds. In most places in the trapping area it is useless
to attempt to set a ﬁeld of corn or other crop.

The damage to grazing is incredible, and nothing will
graze over large areas where the rabbits have soiled the land.

 

* These ﬁgures are not exceptional and can be proved.

 




It is impossible to get lambs and other stock to fatten on land
which in pre-war days was famous for it.*

9. Unless the steel trap is absolutely abolished by law it
will be impossible to return to normal conditions. If a farmer
or estate manager in a trapping area were to forbid the use of
traps on his land, and by the use of nets,’ ferrets, etc.,
reduce or exterminate the rabbits, they would only swarm
in from adjoining land where traps are being used and where
the rabbit—population is being increased.

IO. If the trap were abolished there would for some years
be work for hundreds of men in building up banks which at
present are not worth putting up as they would at once be
pulled down by the rabbits.

II. It would be impracticable and impossible to control
the use of the steel trap in any way, and its intensive use
prevents nets, ferrets, etc., from being successfully employed
simultaneously with it on a large scale.

 

* There is a case in point of a farm that was so swarming with rabbits
that the owner was unable to fatten his lambs. He was able to clear off the
rabbits, and the lambs have since fattened well. On the same farm (in the
west country) which incidentally was not in a trapping area, the owner sold
the rabbits to a catcher on condition he should not use the steel trap. The
ﬁrst year the catcher paid £50. The second year he said there were not so
many and only paid £2 5. The third year he said there were so few rabbits
he could give nothing, but would come and catch what he could. This farm
has since been clear whereas before, when it was trapped, it swarmed.

September 16, 1934.

 

<

«0.

Published by the
University of London Animal Welfare Society,
()8, Torrington Square, London, W.C.I.

Printed at the RydalpPress, Keighley.

 




