July, 1933.

NOTES

(No. 2).

Some humane inquirers recoil from consideration of the
gross cruelties of spo1t and the hunt, of butchery and vivi-
section and say that they a1e too sensitive to hear about
them. They even go so far as to make no protest as it is all
too dreadful. If they could see the poor victims crawling
to the feet of the butche1s and sportsmen and craving for
mercy, they would p1obably do thei1 best to help. It 15 not in
one case only that a t01tured dog has licked the hands of his
vivisector in a vain appeal fo1 relief.

All who protest should know exactly what they are object-
ing to. The greatei the suffering the greater the need to know
. what it really is and to plotest withb full knowledge of the
facts.

In the Preliminary issue of “ Notes,” in April, attention
was drawn to the fact that Nature is not so cruel as is some—
times supposed, and that the severe suffering inﬂicted by
man. on the sub-human species cannot be condoned by refer-
ence to Nature’s arrangements. The carnivora kill their prey
swiftly and, probably in most cases, there is hypnotism; so
that the pain and terror suffered by the animals preyed on are
far less than man causes. Dr. L1vingstone. when in the
powe1 of a lion, though 11 ounded, felt only a pleasant delirium
and, though able to see the efforts of his fiiends to lescue him,
was apathetic and without pain.

Wild animals kill for food; man (quite unnecessarily) for
food, but also for sport, and to obtain furs and feathers for
women.- Instead of swift and painless death, he deals out
prolonged agony. The severe beatings driving long dis-
tances without food or water slaughtering, vivisecting with-
out anaesthetics hunting to exhaustion, and then a terrible
tea1ing to pieces by dogs, shooting, skinning ali1e, throwing
lobsters and sluimps into boiling 11ate1, catching in steel

I

 




 

traps. and leaving the animal-s all night with broken limbs
and screaming with pain—are some of the daily acts of other-
wise cultured and honourable folks, either of themselves or
by their agents at their request.

There is the case of the pit ponies taken from their happy
life on Dartmoor to work in the darkness and misery of the
' mines; and that of the worn—out horses sent through rough
seas to the Continent to be used till no more work can be
beaten out of them, and then to be slaughtered for food.
There are the horrors the cattle have to suffer in transit by
sea and train.

Larks are destroyed for the sake of their tongues, which
make a tasty dinner dish; and it is to be hoped that those who
eat “ pate de foie gras ” do so in ignorance of the mode of
obtaining it. The Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A., described this
in his “ Arrows in the Air,” and called it damnable.

Many a kind-hearted owner of a singing canary is, no
doubt, unaware of the fact that his may be one of the many
that are blinded to make them sing better.

The parrot is a bird that, in its natural state, enjoys long
ﬂights daily with its numerous companions in the bright sun—
shine and amid the palms and other tree-s and warm air of
the Tropics. In captivity, parrots are usually kept in cages
much too small for them to stretch their wings to their full
extent, and they have to stand on a small perch or move
slowly from one cramped position. to another within about two
cubic feet—and this for the rest of their lives. They are
often left all night in winter close to a cold window—in strong
contrast to the genial warmth of their early home.

The history of the procuring of seal skins is one of the
worst of all. To burst in on thehappy community of hand-
some, intelligent and friendly creatures, and, after an exhaust-
ing drive, to club them and skin them, in many cases remov-
lng the whole skin while the seal is still in vigorous life, iS
barbarity indeed. The hunters leave behind them a fright-
ful scene of carnage and suffering.

So also the treatment of the stag is one of the worst.

For instance, when a hunted stag or hind is exhausted and

2

    

Q...

  

 

 

 




 

 

 

343

hard pressed, it has sometimes swum out to sea to escape
the dogs. Even then no pity is shown; for when, to escape
drowning, it returns to a different part of the shore, the
hunters are there, and the animal is torn by the dogs and its
throat cut.

In the “Sunday Chronicle’ an eye—witness related that
a stag, which the hounds had worried down a river, crept
into a shed, dead beat. Some of the hunters sent the hounds
into the shed where they fell on the deer. The tormented
creature fought its way out and staggered back to the water.
Hounds were hanging on to it and blood was streaming down
its ﬂanks. It was followed to the water where it was flogged
till it sank. Two men waded in after it and cut its throat.

On another occasion, a hind had fought her way up a
river and, exhausted after a hard run, lay down in a deep pool
in mid-stream. Certain young bloods amused themselves
by throwing stones at the beast; and women encouraged the
men to throw harder, cheering when the hind was hit. Then
the animal was lassoed, hauled roughly out of the water and
her throat cut.

The eye-witness also described how, on one occasion, the
stag was driven to the edge of some high cliffs. Panting and
heaving, he gained an uncertain foothold on the rocks where
he could not be reached. Lumps of rock were then thrown
down on him till he fell over the cliff to his death on the
rocks below.

3

The men and women who follow the hounds on horse-
back, and devote large sums to the funds of the “ Hunt,”
are usually people of wealth. They are patrons of sport. In
the football or cricket ﬁeld, in boxing, etc., they insist strictly
on British fair play. They object to bullying the weak or
hitting a man when he is down. Yet they treat mercilessly
and kill cruelly some of the most helpless and harmless
creatures at a hunt or a shoot in which the hunted animal
has no chance. The British fair play does not count when
the quarry is too weak to hit back. Most of the huntsmen
are very respectable and, persumably, often go to Church

3

 




 

 

service-s. Possibly they join in the hymns and, may be, they
sing that expressive one :———
“ As pants the hart for cooling streams
When heated in the chase,
So longs my soul, 0 God, for Thee
And Thy refreshing Grace.”
Their own longings are not hampered by a pack of dogs

thirsting for their blood.

If healthy out-door excitement is necessary for the full
development of youth. and for keeping the middle-aged ﬁt,
there is no need to torture animals to obtain it. Football,
cricket, racing, polo, cycling, golf, tennis, hockey, yacht-
ing, drag hunts, and other genuine sports supply all that is
required.

Those who wish to join in the present wide-spreading
movement for the amelioration of morals in the better treat—
ment of animals can easily ﬁnd opportunities. There are
several well written and interesting magazines dealing with
the subject. At the many humanitarian guest houses and at
the Summer Schools one can make the acquaintance of cul-
tured, humane people, and discuss the subject with them.
Instead of exploiting all creation for skins and ﬂesh, they can
use some of the many substitutes coming more and more into
the market and being daily improved. There are establish—
ments where one can buy boots, belting for machinery, covers
for furniture, travelling trunks, hand bags, pocket books,
purses, gloves, furs, brushes, soap, ivorv articles. etc., which
are not made of the skins or other parts of animals. At the
Health Food Stores very good foods are, to be had without
resort to the products of the slaughter-house.

As Portla says in Shakespeare’s “ Merchant of Venice” :
H A g . .
The quahty of mercy 1s not strained,—
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
ibpon the place beneath; it is thrice blessed,w
t blesseth him that glves and him that takes.”

4

 

 

 




 

 

 

FISH.

Some who abstain from ﬂesh food ﬁnd that doing so is,
at ﬁrst, difﬁcult and, though they abstain on humane con—
siderations, they st1 ll eat ﬁsh They may argue that ﬁsh are
cold blooded, do not feel much, are good food for the brain,
and so on.

To pull a. ﬁsh out of its natural element by means of a
hook in its mouth must be very painful. The violent struggles
and gaSping are proof enough. To catch ﬁsh in nets and see
them springing up in the air in their convulsive attempts to
breathe as they slowly die, should be deterrent for every
truly humane man. The crimping and other cruelties prac—
tised on them in the boats. the boiling alive of lobsters and
shrimps, the terribly painful skinning of eels, the slicing
ope 11 of oysters, a1e savage prepaiations which ought not to
be ignored by the ﬁsh eater when the dead bodies a1e put
before him as food.

For his own sake he should remember that ﬁsh are the
scaVengers of the 1ivers and sea . They eat one another and
congregate in great numbers at the mouths of rivers where
they feed on the worst refuse which passes from the large
towns to the sec . And these estuaries are the ﬁshing grounds
where fat oysters, mackerel, etc., are caught. In the “ British
Medical Journal ” adoctor wrote that mackerel are a most
dangerous food as ptomaines a1e rapidly developed in them.

Sir 11. Thompson, in his‘ ‘Food and Feeding,” wrote
that there is no foundation whatever for the popular belief
that ﬁsh food (ontains elements that adapt it in an especial
manner to renovate the brain and so support mental labour.
Such elements exist in good proportion in oatmeal and other
vegetarian foods.

Dr. J. Hutchinson, F. R 5., FR. CNS, made ca1eful
inquiries in countries whe1e leprosy 1s common, and he stated
before the Leprosy 1m estigation Committee:— “I believe
that in all the various lands where it is now still found, it has
had, and still has, the same cause—that cause being the tak-
ing into the system, in the shape of ﬁsh food the poisonous
germs of the malady.”

 




 

 

 

In the 14th Century leprosy was common in England,
but it disappeared owing to the decline in the amount of ﬁsh
eaten and the increase in the use of vegetables and fruit.
We hear little of it now in this country. Sanitation and the
vegetables and fruit have kept it in abeyance; but, no doubt,
some of the minor ailments of the ﬁsh-eater are really tenden-
cies towards that dreadful disease.

Fish is obtained at great risk and with the loss of many
lives of the ﬁshermen in rough weather. This is sometimes
defended on the ground that it is a great industry, employing
thousands of workers. Abandon the demand for ﬁsh and em-
ploy the men in the healthy agricultural work of raising pure
food instead. As the poor woman singer of “ Caller herrin ”
says of the herrings:

“ Wives and mothers maist despairin
Call them lives of men.”

Howard Moore remarked that the right to life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness, are believed to-day by all exalted
minds to be the inalienable properties of every human being;
but that the non-human millions are considered to be in the
same class as the waves of the sea and the weeds of the ﬁeld.
They may be beaten, maimed, starved, eaten, tormented,
skinned alive, shot down for pastime, cut to pieces out of
curiosity.” As Plutarch says :———Lions, tigers and serpents
we call savage and ferocious, yet we ourselves come behind
them in no species of barbarity. '-

Read Hardy’s “ Jude the Obscure ” and learn the details
of the pig killing by Jude, who tries to do it humanely in
Opposrtion to his'wife, who calls him a tender-hearted fool.
She wanted the killing tobe slow lest the pig die too soon

for it to bleed enough to make the meat white. The blood has
to be caught to make black puddings.

. Though many humane people may be as sound in their
p‘rinc1ples, few are so v1gorous in their action as was Mr.

4 O
. R. ng, when. a party of hunting people had passed

6

 




 

through his avenue. He then published the following
notice in the “ Cornish Evening Times ” :——

“ 1, Francis R. King, of Kenegie, give public notice
that I consider hunting and every form of blood (so
called) sport to be an abomination, and that I forbid any
hunt access to my grounds. Furthermore, that I will
accord any hunted animal taking refuge therein
SANCTUARY, and will deal with any injury threatened
to it as if it were an injury intended against me.”

It is known that fear and pain and mental suffering have
a poisonous inﬂuence on the secretions of the body; and this
is, no doubt, the case with the animals that, just before their
death, suffer so much from beatings, worrying by dogs, hun—
ger and thirst, struggling in traps, terror in the trains, or
when crowded together and thrown about in the dark holds
of vessels in rough seas.

No wonder their ﬂesh bears in it some malign inﬂuence
on those who use it for food; a very likely explanation of some
of the mysterious illnesses which a few pious people attribute
to the “pestilence that walketh in darkness,” or an “ Act
of God.” '

The same thing may be one of the many causes rsepon-
sible for the failures of vivisection. Any results obtained
by observation of a tortured animal can hardly be reliable;
and are probably always misleading.

Sir Andrew Aguecheek: “ I am a great eater of beef,
and I believe that does harm to my wit.”

Sir Toby Belch: “No question.”
Shakespeare’s ” Twelfth Night.”

In man and the higher animals there is a double circu—
lation of the blood. By means of the arterial circulation the
nutriment extracted from food is carried to all parts of the
body to build up new tissues in place of the old tissues that
have done their work. These old tissues are of no further

7

 

 




 

 

use, and are carried away by the venous blood to the elimina-
ting organs, to be turned out of the body. They are the
waste material of the whole system, and, if allowed to remain
long in the body, cause ill-health.

When an animal is killed the circulation immediately
ceases. That is why, in, some cases, animals are kept alive
some time while dying; as it is wished to extract as much
blood as possible so that the dead ﬂesh shall be white meat.
For that purpose, up to not many years ago, calves were hung
up by their feet and bled Slowly to death during the night.

As the flow of blood in the veins ceases as soon as the
animal is dead, there remains, therefore, in all parts of the
body some of this effete waste material. When a joint of
beef is boiled, this waste material is the ﬁrst constituent that
is boiled out as it is very soluble in hot water. It is the
chief constituent of beef tea. It has no nutritious value; and
the only use that can be made of it is as a stimulant. It
rouses the body to try to expel it as something objectionable.
In other words, it draws on a patient’s reserve strength. It
is like a whip to a horse, which makes the horse exert him-
self, but gives him no extra strength.

Stimulation, at times, is necessary; but there is. no need
to resort to this material—~50 unclean, and obtained at the
cost of so much suffering.

All round us in the air there are innumerable micro-
scopically :small animalculae. When disease arises they
settle on the bad matter, which is the cause or result of the
disease, and attempt to remove it. These ‘ germs ’ are not
the cause of the disease; thev simply congregate by millions
where it occurs. 7

They come, in their myriads, to beef tea, to clear away
the obnoxious matter. And that is why beef tea is used as
one of the best culture media for germs.

Such germs are found, very few or none at all, in vege—
table and fruit juices. These are pure foods. S

Several eminent medical men have strongly insisted on
the poisonous character of beef tea. Dr. Kellogg says that,
when given in cases of diphtheria and scarlet fever, it adds

8

 

 

 




 

 

 

poison. to poison. Dr. Milner Fothergill remarked that many
deaths are due to the misplaced conﬁdence in beef tea.

CONTRASTS.
“Look here on this picture and on this.”—
Shakespeare’s “ Hamlet.”

(I) Compare the life led by the agriculturalist with that
of the butcher. The one lives a pleasant, healthy life amid
the enjoyable sights and sounds of Nature in the open air.
The other in the most depressing and unhealthy conditions
of town life, in slaughter houses amid distressing scenes and
groans of dying animals. Often, through the night he is
in touch with the carcases and wading in ﬁlth and blood.

Dr. W. B. Richardson wrote :—“ I am not far wrong
in saying that no butcher can be found in our large towns
who, after eight or ten years’ daily work at a slaughter house, 7
is free from the effects of bronchitis, rheumatism or heart
disease—the latter being the most prevailing malady.”

In a list given by the Registrar General in his decennial
“ Vital Statistics,” among several class-es of occupied work—
ers, the butchers are shown as the most unhealthy class,
except the publicans. Those at the top of the list—the health—
iest—are agriculturalists and others raising the foods used by
vegetarians.

(ll) Compare the life of the cattle in the ﬁelds with
their terrifying experiences between that and the slaughter.
They have, in most cases, known nothing but the coming of
dawn, the brightness of the day, sunset, sound sleep, and the
companionship of their fellows. Suddenly they are driven
to a goods siding and loaded up, packed closely, in the cattle
trucks; they are frightened at the rush of passing trains and
screams of whistles, and when sudden darkness comes as
they go into tunnels and sudden light when the train
emerges——a strong contrast to the pleasing gradual dawn and
sunset they have hitherto known. Then come the dr1v1ng

9

 

 




 

 

through the trafﬁc of the streets and arrival at the market and
slaughter—house—enough to make some of them mad and
to poison their ﬂesh.

(III) Compare the happy life of a partridge or
pheasant with its misery when ‘hope'lesslfy wounded by a
‘ sportsman,’ and the crying of the young ones left to die of
hunger in the nest.

In May, 1933, Mr. Edmund B. D’Auvergne, in an article
on the “ Enlargement of Ethics,” traces the stages of man’s
advance in moral and emotional progress from pure selﬁsh-
ness to a wide sympathy for others, including kindness to
animals. He says :———

“The progress of civilization is the widening of sym—
pathy. . . . All human beings are included now within the
range of our duty and the moral law. Animals suffer equally
with men. To feel sympathy only with our own kind is to
be so many degrees less removed from the cave man. The
man whose compassion is stirred by the suffering of animals
has advanced so much further along the path which mankind
has been pursuing from the jungle upwards.

Kindness to animals is not then merely an amiable trait.
It is not hyper-sensibility. It is the inevitable stage further.”

In the “ Middlesex County Times,” of 20th May, and in
other newspapers, Mr. Frank Wyatt continues his protest
against the ugly public ox roastings so common lately. As
he says, they are coarse and vulgar. And they are in the
same category as the blooding of children at the close of a
fox hunt.

In the “ Daily Express,” of 1st May, there was an
account of “The Shame of Club Row ”——the wild birds’
market, which Lord Buckmaster has described as one of the
most disgraceful places in London.”

IO

 

 

 




 

 

 

On 29th April the “ Daily Mirror ” published the follow-
ing letter from Mr. J. Arnold Reid :—-—

“ The photograph which you publish of a four week old
lamb, described as being ‘ even more intelligent than a
puppy,” amply illustrates man’s enormous inﬂuence for good
or evil over animals, and the responsiveness of the latter
under helpful condition-s.

“ Sympathetic understanding invariably brings out many
delightful childlike traits in their character.

3

“ Such familiar terms as ‘silly sheep or ‘dirty ’ pigs
are really a sad impeachment of our treatment of what are by
nature clean, active and intelligent animals.”

On 21st May the “Sunday Express ” wrote :

“ Secret dog ﬁghts, in which dogs are set against each
other until one of them dies, are becoming an organized sport
in the Black Country. The sport is more cruel than bull
ﬁghting ..... The method of training the ﬁghting dogs is
to chain them up without food. Later, at regular intervals,
food is placed just out of reach and other dogs are brought
in to eat it. The dog, in time, is driven frantic with rage, and
wants to ‘ savage ’ any other dog it sees.”

There were an airedale, a bull terrier, and two mongrels.
The owners goaded the dogs till they sprang at each other
“ in a twisting, snarling, ball of fury.” The bull terrier,
after a three minutes’ bout, sunk its fangs into the mongrel’s
throat and was declared the victor.

FOR THE CHILDREN.

Have you heard of the dog who had been treated for some
injury at a hospital and, after his recovery, brought another
injured dog to the hospital door? There must have been
some talk between the two dogs about the kindness of the

II

 




hospital doctor to the ﬁrst dog and the possibility of his ex-
tending his sympathy to the other.

.. Doeem.”

One of the Three Little Maids from School talks to her
favourite dog :—
VVell I Doggie, what’s the news to-day?
Give me your paw. How do you do?
I’m very glad to romp and play
With a nice old dog like you.

Who taught you all your funny tricks ?

What makes you wink your eyes like that?
What are your views on politics?

And what do you think of the cat ?

They told me something once of you :
I really can’t believe it quite.

Tell me, dear Dog, it is not true.
Did you—do you——ever bite ?

You’re too good natured; but it’s plain
You’re not a very wise dog yet.

You go out in the wind and rain
And you get your coat quite wet.

And, as you cannot take it off,
You ought to mind what you’re about.
You’ll some day get the whooping cough,
Rheumatics or mumps or gout.

Of course we know you’re very clever,
And a teetotaller, I think.

Doggie! I do hope that you’ll never,
Never—never take to drink.

I wonder if you’ve tried to smoke
A cigarettte; it would look queer.
You might not think it, though, a joke.
Have a biscuit, Doggie dear.

12

 




