 

 

 

 

 

 

 

/\70 yam/W I 94/ Price 3d.

. THE

ANIMALS

W. V. Goulstone] Staff-Mk Pam/9 56612.10) [Bromley Camera Club

HE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
EEN’S AVENUE, MUSWELL HILL, LONDON, N.Io.
Subscription for One Y ear, poi? free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is pablisbed neontbl I by tbe National Conneil for Animals’ Welfare
at Queen’s Lodge, 52, Queen’s Avenue, Mimi/ell Hill, London, N. IO, and all eonzinnnieations
regarding tbe magazine sbonld be addressed to tbe Editor.

Editor: ROBERT H. SPURRIER.

 

 

 

 

 

Vol. XLVHI. ' November, 1941 N o. l.
C O N T E N T S .
Page Page
HABITS 0F NESTLINGS—H- C- M- Clark . 4 THE UNITED STATES OF ANIMALS. E. Keitb
STORY OF THE PAINTED STORK. S. V. O. Robiﬂmﬂ - I4
Sonzanader . . . . . . 6
THE MARMOT. Fran/é Colger ., . 15
THE LEGEND OF THE MIRACULOUS PRO—
CESSION . ' . i . . g . 8 CAT FRIENDSHIPS. E. G. B. . . . . 16
EARLYIRISH HERMIT POETRY. D. jeﬂeij’ TONY—A DOG WHO THINKS. E. Coningsb} I7
W/zllzarns . . . . .8—9 C D W E G B l ‘
FROM ONLOOKER’S NOTE BOOK. Onloo/éer. IO HESHIRE IALECT ORDS‘ ‘ ' W my 18
NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR ABOLITION OF SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR PREVENTION OF
CRUEL SPORTS .. . . . . I I VIVISECTION . . . . . . zo
N'C'A'W' ESSAY COMPETITION ' . ‘, ' 17' LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS 21
(I s tbere eo—operation and nintnal aid amongst
n/ild aniznals and birds P—Priize Essays.) CORRESPONDENCE . . . . . 22
Appreciations of “ The Animals’ Friend.” ponies will ﬁnd in it not only excitement and adventure,

We are grateful to readers who send us words of but will learn from it just what they want to know.
appreciation Of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND. From Stafford A chapter entitled, “ A Sporting Neighbourhood ” is
a subscriber writes that she ﬁnds the magazine “ most concerned with a stirring account of a gymkhana and
interesting and feels it does a lot of good.” Another, in not, we are happy to say, with hunting and killing;
renewing his subscription, writes from Brighton : this is the ﬁrst of the two books.

“ I should like again to express appreciation of so “ The Odd Ones.” This is the title of the second.
splendid a magazine, and congratulations (with grati— It is written by Christine Chandler and illustrated by
tude and some understanding of the enormous difﬁ- Harry Rountree. The “ Odd Ones ” were Simon, the
culties of the times) that it is still sending out its little brother of the household, and Larry, the Cairn.
message of Light and Reason in a dark and rather Both Simon and Larry were very loyal souls, devoted to
stupid world as man has made it. . . .” Bill, the adored elder brother, and “ The Odd Ones ”
is the story of their faithfulness. The high-light of the
tale tells how Simon faced a night alone in a cave on the
Two New Books. Downs to save Rufus, a lovely red setter, from death on

“ Ponies and Caravans,” by Marjorie M. Oliver and a .charge .Of sheep—worrying. The “1"“; who read
Eva Ducat, is a book which will appeal to children {5111.3 story 111 MS- for the publisher says 3. . Thls story
and especially to pony—loving children. It is a 18 JUSt ﬁght, StﬂCtlY PrObéﬁble yet V6137 gating, Pathfitlc
story full of incident and adventure and tells what yet amusmg, and true to life. Every Chlld wﬂl love it.”
happened to Bob and Phyllis Russell, who We endorse this commendation. Both books are
are spending their holidays withtheir uncle—a veterinary Country Life publications, “ Ponies and Caravans ”
surgeon. They sleep in a caravan in their uncle’s being issued at 75. 6d., and “ The Odd Ones” at 63.
garden, and later go on a real caravan journey to Harry Rountree’s illustrations to the latter merit special
Dartmoor. The story is illustrated from photographs mention; they are full of life and humour, and true to
of its characters and incidents. Children interested in the spirit and movement of the story.

2

A
V‘—

 

 

 




 

 

[Va/ember, I94]

,1 Notes and Comments

Animals’ F air—-a Correction. .

We announced, last
’ month, that no coupons
would be required for
the purchase of goods
at the Fair. A regulation
has been issued, how-
ever, which requires
that eoapom 772m! be
rztrrenderezz’ 13)! ﬁre par—
e/mrer at Me Pair of an)!
mlz'orzed comm/Odin offered
for rale~clothing or
foodstuffs—even though
those who have pro-
vided them for sale at
the Fair have previously
surrendered coupons in
purchasing them in
shops or stores. So

please bring your coupon
books with you in case you may be tempted to buy
some rationed article or goods that are offered there
for sale.

\We are glad to be able to report that a good number
of societies are participating in this venture, which will
afford a great opportunity for workers in all. sections
of the movement, and their friends, to foregather and
hobnob.

Please note carefully the name and address of the
Hall and the dates and hours of the Fair. The Caxton
Hall, Westminster, Friday and Saturday, December 5th,
and 6th, from II am. on the Friday and IQ am. on the
Saturday until dusk. Admission IS. on the ﬁrst day,
6d. on the second. Children, half—price.

Heigh—ho! Come to the Fair!

 

a .;.\.r..-1.~.-..-...u..=- w... .. i

 

Animals and a New World Order.

The following resolution, we are informed by Mrs.
F. M. Holmes, the Hon. Secretary of the Ulster Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, was passed
at the Annual Meeting of the Society held at Belfast
on March 28th of this year :—

That in View of the fact that a New World Order
can only be established upon the foundation of
Justice to the weak, beginning with the weakest of
all creation—~the lesser animals—this meeting de—
plores that in all discussions which are taking place
in connection with the Educational, Cultural,
Religious and other organisations, and also the
British Broadcasting Corporation, theanecessity for
inclusion of animals is unrecognised, and calls
upon the leaders of Church, State and People to
give full consideration to this vital and funda-
mental principle with a view to establishing a
World Order which will arrest the continuous
growth of cruelty, exploitation, economic loss, and
consequent degradation of man which is involved
in this colossal transgression of the Law of God.

Bomb-divining by Horses !

Comez'eme, a publication edited by Dr. George S.
Arundale, tells of two horses ploughing in a ﬁeld at
Merstone, in the Isle of Wight, who deﬁnitely refused
to pass over one particular spot. Some soldiers were
told about this and digging investigations were set on
foot. At a depth of some 3 ft. below the surface in the

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

area avoided by the horses a bomb was found buried.
we should like to have further details of this incident
and shall be grateful to any reader who can give us
conﬁrmation of the story. In particular, we should like
to know, if conﬁrmation is forthcoming, whether the
bomb was still “ alive ” when unearthed. ‘

Reports Received.

During the last few months we have received the
annual reports of the Scottish Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, the Ulster S.P.C.A., the Animal
Welfare Society of South Africa, the International
League for the Protection of Horses, the National
Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports, the World
League against Vivisection and for the Protection of
Animals, the Hawkesley Society and the Cheltenham
Animals’ Welfare Association and Animals’ Shelter.
We regret that we have no space under present restric-
tions to examine these reports in detail, for they consti-
tute an impressive record of educational, protective and
relief activities carried through during the year 1940
on behalf of exploited and suffering animals in a

civilisation that sorely needs their cultural and civilising
influences.

Abraham’s Annual.

Readers who are allured by alliteration will appreciate
the following original effort by G. E. Hadley, of
Handsworth, Birmingham, entitled “ Abraham’s
Annual 3’ as an arresting agglomerate and amusing
alliterative achievement anent amiable animals, although
avoiding any animadversions about aardvark, aardwolf,
agouti, alligator, alpaca, amphibian amphipoda, ana-
conda, androsphinx, arachnida, axolotl, aye—aye and

angora, all apparently absent annual assembly.
“ Abraham’s Annual ” runs :——

An Airways aeroplane, after an awkward acci-
dent, arrived an afternoon at Ayr, and Aunt Anne
alighted, also Andy, an aristocratic, affectionate and
amiable Airedale. Abraham and an assistant
awaited Andy’s arrival. Adorable Aunt Anne
always attracted admiration.

Andy, after an adventure adroitly avoided
Abraham’s arms, and audaciously approached an
artistic annex. Aunt Anne appealingly arrested an
awkward attack, apologized, and afterwards
attracted Andy’s attention.

An Animals’ Association assembled annually at
Abraham’s ancient abode amid artistic acacia
arbours, acclaiming Andy all alert and absolutely
animated.

Animals all ages arrived, and after acquiring
acquaintance ambled across an arranged arena.

Abraham announced: Advance all. And
animals aroused and angry, animals agile, athletic
and agog, animals altogether aloof, acrobatic
animals, amiable and artless animals, austere and
aristocratic animals, armadillos, asses, antelopes
and Australian anoas, Airedales and Alsatians;
also animals attired artistically as artists, ayahs,
Australians and Africans; apes arrayed as armed
Arabs at artful attention.

All animals aimed at amusing Aunt Anne and
Abraham, also an assembly. Applause after
applause arose, and audience’s appreciation. After—

‘ wards, Abraham appropriately and amply appeased
all appetites.

R. H. S.

 




 

TI-IE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

November, 194]

Habits of Nestlings—II.

By C. M. CLARK.

 

N en'Zy bare/Jed ear/e222 ringer—flee} become selﬁmpportz’ng
at an ear_/y age.

IKE the nightjar chick the baby curlew
Lis able to walk as soon as he is dry after

emerging from his large egg, but there is a
great difference in habit between the two. The
nightjar chick has short legs, and is dependent
for food upon the ministration of his parents
for many days ; whereas the curlew has strong
legs and feet, seemingly disproportionately
large when compared with his light, ﬂuffy self.
His legs and feet, however, are no whit bigger
nor stronger than necessary, for he is largely

dependent upon his own efforts to secure a
livelihood.

 

Winged planer ebz'eié lying prone wit/2 elated eye; Waiting
for Me all—clear signal.

 

AIearlow—pz'pz‘tr nertlz’ngs are fed on ground level, to they
bare to streteb up their neck: to rear]? tbez'r food.

Parent curlews usually nest where food is
available for their young, but they do not
appear to catch insects to give to them ; rather
do they lead their chicks to find small moisture—
loving creatures for themselves : they indicate
where such are to be found but the baby
curlews pick them up and become self-
supporting at an early age. They are adept at
lying doggo among the herbage, when their
parents give the danger signal, but they are not
always proof against the temptation to give an.
answering “ cheep, cheep ” and this has some~
times led me to discover them. Had they kept
quiet it is much less likely that they would
have been seen—their striped and mottled
down blending well enough with their
surroundings to render them difficult to detect
by sight alone.

Lapwings’ chicks are much more circum—
spect than this and will lie still and keep quiet
for- long periods ; their parents ﬂy up and down
calling out hectic danger signals so that it
would be a self—willed youngster indeed which
would dare to disobey.

The ringed—plover, another member of the
wader family, is equally biddable and, like the
nightjar chick, will seek the shelter of a stone
or small hollow and lie prone with closed eyes.
My photograph shows one, only a few hours
old, a wonderful instinct causing him to remain
quiet and not even to peep at the approaching

 

riv—

 




 

 

 

 

194]

jVowmber,

 

Hedge-rparrow ”art/mgr range tile/7136106; in a row far

féedz'ng. T/Jez'r parent; can rear/9 to pm! food in f/Jez'r
ng—rtrelc/Jed bill: from tbc edge of the ﬂex! orfmm a om’r-
banging twig.

menace to his safety. Though he cannot know
that his bright eye is the danger spot, which
might call attention to his position, he keeps it
shut until his parents change their warning
note to the all-clear signal. ‘

By way of contrast we have the instinct of
two members of a quite different order of birds
—the meadow pipit and the hedge sparrow.
Meadow pipits nest on the ground and feed
their young from ground level. On this
account the nestlings instinctively remain head
down facing the entrance, their tails somewhat
elevated at the back of the nest. Thus the old
birds are able to place food in their open bills
with ease, which would not be the case were
they to behave like a tree—nesting species.
There are many of these with a different habit;
the hedge sparrow of my photograph is a clear
example. The old birds perch on the edge of
the nest or on a convenient twig overhanging
it, so that the young sit well down to avoid
falling to the ground and stretch up their necks
whenever a parent arrives with food. As soon
as the meal is over they sink down again into
the nest—hollow and are out of sight and sound
and become quite inconspicuous ; but as soon
as one of the old birds approaches they open
their bills and twitter expectantly. They hear
the coming of a parent long before we can,
even from the close—up position of a hiding-
tent, and they recognise their own and never
respond to a strange bird passing by.

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Natural Balance for

Wild Life.

0 addition, in
I \l the way of bird
or mammal, rep—

tile

    
  

/ or amphibian,
1.19%“: :\\\ should be made to the
3%: \\\\\\ N native complement of
” \ ﬁﬁx animal life in a National
' ” a) Park—to that which
belong; there. And not
only this, but the full native complement
of animal life should be left absolutely un—
disturbed, save to the extent incidental in
making the park accessible to the visiting
public. I mean exactly this, that no so—
called “vermin,” such as Wildcats, coyotes,
weasels, hawks or owls should as a rule ever
be killed inside of National Park boundaries.
Within large parks such as Yosemite and
Sequoia, not even the mountain lion should be
disturbed. All these animals belong in the
territory, have been there from time imme~
morial, as parts of the perfectly normal biotic
complex, to the presence of which the popu—‘
lation of every other native animal is, by reason
of its long—established and wholly adequate
rate of reduction, adjusted. Fluctuations in
the numbers of each are to be expected. The
numbers of one species may now be below
normal, or above normal; but experience
shows that, in the latter case and through
natural causes, a downward swing will shortly
occur, so that the population of carnivore and
of. herbivore tends to maintain a mean ratio
from one period to another. In ﬁnal analysis
the total quantity of animal life in a locality is
controlled by the total production of plant life
there.
Most of the cry against large mammals
comes, I suspect, from the man who wants to
trap for fur, or to shoot for sport, or else from
the sentimentalist with inadequate notions as
to the proper natural balance and as to the
facts of natural process. The mountain lion,
or the grey wolf, in gaining his own livelihood,
simply disposes of a part, generally but a small
part, of the annual surplus of deer which would
become over-populous and suffer as a result
from competitive starvation when a severe
season comes round. '

    
  
 
 

(Extract from an article by Dr. JOSEPH GRINNELL,
Berkeley University, California.)

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS FRIEND Aim/ember) 194]

The Story of the Painted Stork

By S. V. O. SOMANADER.

 

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

Above are Pictures Nos. I and 2—below is No. 3.
The top picture in column 2 is No. 4 and the lower
one No. 5. No. 6 is the round picture in column I
of page 7—opposite. No. 7 is to the right of No. 6
in column 2, and No. 8—concluding Mr. Somanader’s
picture story of the painted stork—is at the bottom
of column I page 7.

The captions to the pictures are set out on page 7,
columns I and 2.

- ,_.— 2 .Iv-w—f—

 




 

l

W<rﬁvv w-W

 

 

 

 

November, 194]

 

(I)
Two painted storks (seen apart in background) happened to
forage in a pond along with other aquatic birds like the spoon—
bill and the pelicans. The pair gradually became so much
drawn to each other that they made an appointment to meet
in a remote corner of the pond on the fol/owing day.

( 2)
At the rendezvous—the cock-bird is summing up all his
courage to “ pop the question.” His offer is accepted, and
plans for the future are subsequently discussed.

(3)
After some days they resolved to build a home in which to
rear their young. Here they are seen racking their brains
to find a suitable site for the nest, for which the twigs and
sticks thy) have conjoint/y brought are intended.

(4)
The mother, with open bill, shows her joy and pride at her
great feat—the eposition of an egg! W’hat, she wonders,
will be her husband’s reactions to this, and what part is he
going to play in the rearing of the baby?

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

(5)
The egg has been hatched and the baby bird is
sleeping. The proud father is seen doing his share
of the domestic duties while the tired mother has
gone oﬂ to find food in the pond not far away.

(6)
Baby has now grown to be a fledgeling, and has
become taller than his mother—who is in the

foreground taking her “young hopeful’ out for

a walk and teaching him how to take the air in
the green grassy field.

(7)
And here is father (background) teaching his
tail, growing son how to wade in the water and
forage for himself. He is showing him how to
search for molluscs, worms and fish which con-
stitute their chief food.

. (8)
When the youngster has become fully fledged, and
the parents’ devoted duties are at an end, they
introduce him to the original company of pelicans
and spoon—bills and resume their normal work of
wading in the shallows and ﬁnding food in social
surroundings.

 

 

 

 




 

THE 'ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

November, [9-7 1

The Legend of the Miraculous Procession

(One of the less well-known Franciscan Legends.)

N t h e m y s t i C
heights of ' Al-
verna, sheltering

in the shadow of the
“ Sacros Bosco,” stands
the Friary of the Stig—
mata. In that Friary, as
all who have visited it

w know, there is an ancient

_ custom which can be
witnessed nowhere else. Twice in 24 hours,
once during the day and once at night, there is a
solemn procession of all the Friars to the heart
and core of all Franciscanism, the Chapel of the
Stigmata, where kneeling before the spot
where St. Francis received his seal of union with
Christ, they recite certain prayers with arms
outstretched. It is a singularly moving cere—
mony, and held in such honour that nothing
but stern necessity would ever induce the
Friars to omit it. But winter storms can be very
wild in that high altitude, and before the
present colonnade leading to the Chapel of the
Stigmata was erected, it must sometimes have
been an almost impossibly dangerous task to
pass along the exposed path. Of one such night
the legend tells :—

The snowstorm burst in fury upon the moun-
tain just about the time the Friars were retiring
for their brief rest, and the Father Guardian,
listening to the wild shrieking of the wind and
remembering the awful precipice over which
the Chapel is built, decided sorrowfully that his
children mustnot risk the perilous journey.
For to-night there could be no procession. As
soon as it was light, if the storm had abated at
all, they would perform their accustomed
devotion to their Seraphic Father. So he and
they must forego their much—loved privilege.

The Brothers heard and obeyed with sad
hearts. Rising very early neXt morning, they
found the storm had not only abated, but spent
itself, and the sun rose on a white, peaceful and
snow-clad world.

Headed by a young novice, they set forth,
consoled by the beauty of the new day, yet
sorrowful at the thought of that omitted
procession. Suddenly "the young novice in
front stopped and fell on his knees with a cry
of amazement.

“ What is it, my son?

 

Why do you not

 

proceed?” asked the Guardian, coming

forward.

“ Oh, my Father, look. Look. The Pro—
cession we missed. They have made it.” He
pointed to the ground in front, and then all
the Brothers, who had broken rank and came
crowding after their Guardian, looked and saw
the marvel. Right up to the entrance of the
Chapel they reached—those footmarks of the
tiny followers of St. Francis. Small footpads
of stoat, weasel and squirrel, rabbit and hare—
larger marks of boar and wolf—tiny markings
of bird and ﬁeld mice—they stretched in an
unbroken line to the threshold of the holy place.

For a moment the Guardian looked in
silence. Then he too knelt down beside his
novice in the snow.

Let us give thanks, my Brothers, for our lesser
brethren, who have so well performed the task we

left undone. Let us give thanks to Him Who made
us all and Whose Name is Love.

From “ Tbe Premixed” Timer ” V 0/. .1 ]\To. 6.
3 )

 

Early Irish Hermit Poetry
I I ERMIT poems are ascribed to a period

between A.D. 800 and 1000, “ and are
mostly stated or implied to be the work
of monks or hermits.”

In Early Ce/z‘z'e Nature Poetry (Cambridge
University Press), Mr. Kenneth Jackson says,
concerning the reputed authors of these poems,
that “ there is an evident interest in the simple
fare and aesthetic way of life. It is part of the
hermit’s rule to eat and drink only what is to
be found in the surrounding woods or what he
can grow in his own garden; he must be self—
supporting and the plainest berries and nuts
must be sufficient.” He further suggests that
“ the aesthetic fare, hard bed, and coarse
clothing, were some of the means by which the
hermits attained their chief objects, spiritual
purity and communion with God unhampered
by the defilements of the ﬂesh; continual
prayer and penitence were to be their occupa-
tion, and peacefulness, free from disturbing
emotions and alarms, was the way of life
desired.” “ They had no diet but apples and
nuts and the roots of every kind of herb that
they could find.”

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ala umber, I941

The quiet clarity of vision in these hermit
poems, maintains Mr. Jackson, was the product
of the aesthetic life. Be that as it may, he
considers that one of the most remarkable
features of these texts is their “ very intimate
love and sympathy for wild life.” To the hermit
the “ trilling of birds ” was a delight, the song
of the cuckoo a “lovely discourse,” and he
comes out of his cell to listen to the lark in the
cloud—dappled sky. “ The she—bird in the dress
of blackbird colour sings a melodious strain,”
and there is the sense of vivid joy in the
“ peaceful company,” in the “ grave host of
the countryside,” and in “ swarms of bees,
chafers, soft music of the world,” and “ song
of the bright redbreasted folk.” “ They lived
so much among the wild creatures,” says Mr.
Jackson, “ that they became almost one with
them, almost own brother to them, as it were,
hardly conscious that there was any distinction
of genus.”

This feeling is evident in the following story
from the Lines of tbe Saints, concerning
St. Maedoc :—

As he was walking on his way a she-wolf met
him on the road there, and she piteous, exhausted,
starving ; she came gently and fawningly to him.
Maedoc asked a youth who had met him on the
road whether he had anything he might give to
the wolf; the youth said he had one loaf and a
piece of ﬁsh. Maedoc took them from him and
cast them to the wolf.

Here are some stanzas taken from Poem V
in this charming book :—
I bane a bat in tbe wood,
none knows it bat nay Lord;
an asb tree tbis side, a bagel beyond,
a great tree on a wound enfolds it.

Tbe size ofiniyobat, final/jet not small,
a place of familiar patbs ;
tbe sbe—bird in dress of blackbird colour

sings a neelodions strain from its gable.

Aronnd it lie tarne swine,
goats, boars,
wild swine, grazing deer,

a bad g‘er’s brood.

A peacefnl company, a gram best of tbe
manta/side,

an assembly to 777] bonse;

foxes come to meet tbe/n,

deli gbtfnl it is.

A ni/nble songster, tbe co/nbatioe brown wren

froin tbe bagel boagb,

THE? iANlMALS’ FRIEND

speckled booded birds, woodpeckers

in a great ninltitnde.

Fair wbite birds coine, cranes, seagnlls,
tbe sea sings to tbein,

no nioarnfnl int/sic; brown fowl

oat of tbe red beatber.

A beaatifnl pine ina/ées innsic to we
tbat is not bired ;

tboagb I sing to Cbrist I fare no worse
tbanjoa do.

May I give three further verses from different
poems :—

(a) Tbe barp of tbe wood plcy's nee/oral,
tbe sail gatbers—perfect peace ;
colonr bas settled on every bill,

baze on tbe lake of fall waters.

([7) Look beforeyon to tbe nortb—east
' at tbe ningij/ sea, tbe borne of creatnres,
tbe dwelling of seals ; wanton and splendid,
it bas taken on flood—tide.

(c) Tbat I inay see its beaoy wanes
ooer tbe glittering ocean
as tbey cbant a nielocbl to tbeir Fatber
on tbeir eternal coarse.

Mr. Kenneth Jackson ends his chapter on
the Hermit Poets by saying: “ It was from
this harmony with nature, this all—perceiving
contemplation of it, that the Irish hermits
reached to a more perfect unison with God.”

D. JEFFERY WILLIAMS.

\\\\ \\-

/
///
4?
MN.
; I
’ 4

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND
From Onlooker’s Note Book

An

Stine token of Year’s Jared age,

Nonenzber gn/er [ear/e wood/ands bane;

Alofz‘ 2‘ng fling weird wispy of [land ;

Glow berries red—2796 winged—ﬂ 222/ ’5 fare.
—E. A. HEARD.

Unusual Friendship.

“ In a quiet Buckinghamshire garden play-
mates are a cocker spaniel and a Belgian hare,”
writes Craven Hill in 1796 Evening Standard of
September 20th, 1941.

Susie and Ferdinand, as they are called, are such
pals that their owner, Mrs. Gerald Gilbert, of
Bears’ Wood End, Beaconsﬁeld, has given them a
“ playground ” on the lawn, where they have many
a spirited romp.

Mrs. Gilbert told me how this curious friendship
came about.

“ I had had Susie for years,” she said. “ She
had never shown any special interest in other
animals,until a recent afternoon, when I heard her
barking out in the garden and, on going out, found
her snifﬁng at the hare.

“ \Y/here the hare came from we don’t know.
But it seemed friendly so I picked it up, brought it
indoors and fed it.

“I had a hutch made for it, and also the ‘ play—
ground.’

“ From the ﬁrst Susie and Ferdinand. got on well.
Now they are such chums that they mope if
temporarily parted. If I pick Ferdi up for petting,
Susie whines and gets miserable. If I pay too much
attention to the dog the hare goes and hides
himself.”

Excerpt from “ The Times,” of February
20th, 1941.

“ Our Buenos Aires Correspondent writes:—

A proposal is under consideration to create a. .

cemetery for the dogs of Buenos Aires on the
ground that the dog is the best friend of man.
“ La Nacion ” considers, on the contrary, that
man is the best friend of the dog. The newspaper
admits that while dogs have been known to refuse
food and die on the grave of their dead master, no
man has yet been recorded as having laid himself
down and died at the tomb of his dog—perhaps
because dogs usually do not have tombs.

My Friend the Horse.

Here is an extract from 7796 Nature Loner
of June, 1937 :—

,_ — ~- 7“..-.;.._.. M... _..,. “may, .- . __

T/JF. Sat/701k Pnnr/y.-——As the name implies, this
cart—horse is bred in the county of Suffolk, and is
greatly valued for transport work on account of
their quick movements accompanied by hardiness
and great strength. '

They are smaller than the Clydesdale Shire or
Percheron, being generally 15 to 16 hands high,
very sturdy and compact, with their legs and

10

November, 194]

shoulders well-covered with ﬂesh. Their colour is
chestnut and they are noted for their gentle and
tractable tempers.

The absence of “ feathers ’ makes them easily
distinguished. (“Feathers ” are the long hairs
that grow on the lower part of the legs.)

9

Tracking.

Warming Wild Life is the title of a fascinating
book by Phyllis Bond to do with the things
that anyone interested in wild life will want to
do in the country. Here is a brief extract
taken from a chapter dealing with Tracking.

With November rains comes the soft, tell-tale
mud in woodland paths, the smooth, sodden earth
in the furrows that give away the secrets of the
night. . . .

The beginner who wants to recognize the tracks
of wild animals cannot do better than begin by
studying the tracks of domestic animals. At the
print of a cloven hoof on a woodland path the
poet’s mind leaps to a sudden thought of Pan, the
nature—lover’s to the hope of a ﬂeeting glimpse of
deer, but the prosaic tracker, who has studied trails
about the farm, knows he is only on the track of
an enterprising pig. The tracks of dogs hunting in
the woods may be equally misleading, so it is
worth while noticing them in their endless variety
in any muddy road. But in all tracking it is the
kind of place where the tracks are found, and the
ways of the creature that are as much a guide to its
identity as the shape of the paw.

Recollect, Not Collect.
The Editor of Animal Way; is reported to

have said :——~ _

In the whole realm of science there is no study
more fascinating than that of animals if you but
seek and learn aright. Merely to collect is useless.
You must recol—
lect rather. It is‘
better to observe
one creature in its
natural haunts, to
mark its way and ,5
note its needs and
habits than to ﬁll
a dozen cabinets
with dead and " “
labelled s peci—
mens. Seek, learn,
inquire and, hav-
ing inquired, seek i
again, until the T
tiniest insect upon
the wayside spray '
has yielded up to : .
you in some way '
the why and
wherefore of its
being.

 

“ On/ooker ” will) friend.
ONLOOKER.

 

 

 

 

A’IVWW *4

W

" "W‘ ""‘V ’

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

1Vommber, 194]

”V .y _....._._i . _._-._.,._.-..-. ._. ,.,,7J.m«,_. ~ .I. .;__v_._.‘,. _*_‘_“ _ , ,. __ A ,.,. ., .,__, .., _, A. ,,_,__ _ _

a .. “mi“-..ﬂm.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

National Society for'the Abolition of Cruel Sports

Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD, C/O 253, Cowley Road, Oxford.

And Shall Field Sports Die?

The Secretary of the British Field Sports
Society, Mr. J. W. Fitzwilliam, has published a
solemn warning to those “ who have not yet
read the writing on the wall ”—those sports-
men and sportswomen who are unaware of the
danger which threatens their heritage of sport.
His letter to Home and Hound (26th September,
1941) opens with a grandiloquent parallel
between the plight of the conquered nations of
Europe, who have been “ one by one ” over—
run by Nazism, and the various forms of blood—
sport which are “ one by one ” in danger of
extinction through the activities of anti-sport
organisations. The late Stephen Coleridge
was once asked if he wished to make illegal all
forms of “ hunting, shooting, coursing and
fishing.” He replied, “ What I desire at present
is the extermination of stag-hunting. When
stag-hunting has ceased I will consider what is
the next most abominably cruel sport and do
my best to stop it.” In recalling this incident
Mr. Fitzwilliam adds, “ Mr. Coleridge has
passed on, but his plan of destroying sport
‘ one by one ’ remains.”

It remains to be seen whether the movement
against cruel sports can succeed in preventing
that revival of hunting and shooting wild
creatures for amusement which our opponents
naturally seek to establish as soon after the war
as possible. Can any acceptable “ New Order”
permit such activities?

This Year’s “ Glorious Twelfth.”

The following note headed “ Tank Beaters ”
is taken from the News C/nonz'c/e (2 3rd Septem-
ber, 1941) :—

“ Not only do our soldiers dig for victory,
as Capt.‘ Margesson proudly informs us. On
August 12th twelve men in a tank regiment
were taken off duty to act as beaters in a
grouse—shoot. The same thing happened the
next day. Each man had a haversack ration,
plus a glass of beer, to support him on his
seven-mile march back to barracks.”

Can Foxes Be Shot?

The following report is of special interest in
view of the constantly repeated legend by the
British Field Sports Society and other de-
fenders of fox7hunting that foxes when shot
invariably creep away wounded and die in

11

agony :—

“ ZISt July—During the past week—end the
Surveyor’s staff of Purley and Coulsdon, aided
by a few of the elders, shot forty-five foxes, no
fewer than twenty—eight being killed in Selsdon
Woods, a mere twelve miles from Charing
Cross.”—Raymond Bush in “From a Fruit-
Grower’s Diary ” (25) in T66 Connz‘igvnan,
October, 1941.

Cheshire’s Way with Foxes.

The Mann/Jester Evening Chronicle (10th
October, 1941) reports that Machynlleth
farmers have achieved the startling feat of
getting a local huntsman temporarily released
from the Army in order that the hunt may be
re-formed and marauding foxes dealt with. In
agricultural areas in Cheshire this devotion to
the hunt tradition is laughed to scorn, even the
hunts being prepared in the exceptional circum—
stances to admit the farmers’ right to take
independent steps to deal with foxes who
damage poultry. The Secretary of the Cheshire
War Agricultural Committee states that early
in the war hunts were warned of the necessity
of foxes being kept under control. These

,.,,.-_.‘—£..,u-.i~.._7.,7_1—,.+ .71: .7.- . .

replied that they would take the fullest possible '

action to ensure that the number of cubs was
kept down, and they have kept their word.
There have been no general complaints about
the ravages of foxes in the county. Cheshire
farmers would not support a proposal for the
release of huntsmen if foxes got out of hand.
They are quite prepared to take the necessary
“independent steps,” 216., with a gun.

A Gamekeeper’s Standpoint.

A letter in the New Siaz‘ernzan (29th Septem—
ber, 1941) provides an interesting comment
on the whole system of game preservation 'as
seen through the eyes of a war—time head
gamekeeper. Mr. C. \V. Balchin writes :—

When I read at such times as this that a farmer
still has to respect game, then I feel not a little
shame for my profession, and at the same time I
fully realise what I am up against in making any
adverse statement against the lordly pheasant, but
for God’s sake and the smashing of Nazism, do
let the country know that the day of the feudal
overlord is long passed. Mind you, sir, I could
relate, and with all truth and relish, tales of places
where eviCtion was the order of the day should
game be taken by others than the gilded few. . . .’

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

NEW/276w, I94]

N.C.A.W. Essay Competition, 1940

Subject :-—I.r Mere co-opemz‘z'on and mutual and amongst wild animal; and birth“?

Photo by]

 

[South A frican Railways and Harbours

I ”(paid—Kruger National Park.

FIRST PRIZE—SENIOR.

‘ HERE is a great deal of co—operation and
mutual aid among animals and birds.
Beavers, for instance, form colonies and
each one is expected to do his share. Males are
frequently found enjoying each other’s com-
pany and at the same time the sheer content—
ment of the beaver family can only be made
possible by an affection which transcends and
outlasts the mating urge. The male beavers in
acting as sentry, give warning if danger
approaches.

Bison herds act in a novel manner on the
approach of bad weather; the calves and cows
are protected by an Outer ring of bulls. Wild
geese ﬂy in arrow-shaped formations, yet the
family is not broken up. Through the long
migration all the families unite at certain places
and proceed together. Others gather together
to swim and play, noisily trying to see who can
make the farthest plunge. Some creatures, like
the minX and the grizzly—bear, prefer their own
company, but they are members of a minority.
The majority obeys the major law of the wilder—
ness which demands that “ Every individual
shall co—operate for the welfare of his species.”
A stroll through the woods will provide abun-
dant proof that the law is respected.

Some animals are taught to depend on man
and are too lazy to forage for themselves.
Dogs in particular form personal affections-
and it is common for the same dogs to collect

. as regularly as possible, sometimes to play and

12

sometimes to doze together.

The Canadian goose also has a deep affection
for his mate; it lasts not only a season but for
life. _

In most cases practically every animal and
bird have lasting affection and friendliness and
when necessary give aid when danger
approaches.

Birds in other countries, like Africa, where
there are great jungles and dense forests, give
immediate warning to their friends and mates
when danger approaches. Most of the animals
in these far-off countries live quite happily,
every day making new friends, which may at
some time be very useful. As the summer
gradually fades and the cold nights of winter
approach ‘the wild' animals of the jungles
share the little food they have stored equally
among the members of their tribe, who in
return help one another when needed.

DOREEN THOMAS—Sandown C. of E.
School, I.o.W. Age 15 years 8 months. ‘

FIRST PRIZE—INTERMEDIATE.

I think there is co—operation and mutual aid
between animals. The study of the lives of
animals and birds is very interesting. We read
of and see many examples of co—operation and
mutual aid between both large and small
animals.

How busily the bees work together during
the summer days, to feed the young which
hatch out from the eggs laid by the queen bee,
and perform the many other duties of the hive.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

1V0V6mber, 19 4]

The tiny ants are very energetic workers. If
their nests are disturbed you will see them

helping each other to carry out the little white

pupa: to a new home.

Perhaps the best example of clever co—
operation is the beaver. All through the
summer they prepare their winter home from
small trees which they gnaw until they fall.
They have been known to build a dam across
a river to enable them to get supplies of water
for the winter. What fun the beavers have
sporting in the river, but if one sees danger
coming he slaps his tail sharply upon the
water thus warning the others.

The wild. animals of the forests co—operate
for hunting or self-preservation. ’

The elephants live in herds, and in times of
danger the big ones protect the little ones and
the strong the weak. When the herd goes
down to drink and bathe they squirt the water
over each other and therefore wash themselves.

Wolves, when food is hard to get, hunt
together in packs. ‘

Although giraﬂes are one of the biggest
animals they are very timid. When seeking
water they go to find it in herds.

The laZy walrus lives in a party, and when
sleeping on the beach one or two of them stand
on guard to warn them of approaching danger.

The squirrels help each other to prepare
their homes for the young ones, then all the
family helps to gather nuts for a winter store.

Most animals and birds work together in
families when rearing their young.

We are very familiar with the sight of birds
helping one another to build their nests in the
trees of our countryside, and have often
watched the birds feeding their young who are
' always‘wanting more food. Birds show co-
operation when they all gather together to ﬂy
to other countries as winter approaches.

When the female ostriches sit on the eggs
males go to feed and then the male takes his
turn on the nest while she feeds.

"When rabbits are out playing and one of
them scents danger he thumps his hind legs on
the ground, and shows his white tail to tell
the others danger is near.

It is not unusual to see a starling digging its
beak into a sheep’s back, it is catching the
insects. Sometimes you will see ducks walking
across cows’ and horses’ backs, they are also
catching insects and ﬂies. This is done by birds
on a rhinoceroys’ back, but they also warn the
rhinoceros when danger is near because it has
small eyes.

13

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The hippopotamus’ teeth are kept clean
by the birds who pick out the waste food.

Dare we inﬂict suffering on animals which
can and do work together for good? Let us
therefore allow them the freedom in which
they can live happily.

ALICE PHEBY—Parsloes Senior Girls’

School, Dagenham. Age II years.

THIRD PRIZE—INTERMEDIATE.

Yes, there is co—operation and mutual aid
amongst wild animals and birds.

The alligator and crocodile have a great
friend. It is a small bird about the size of a
wren and is a browny colour.

Nearly every day' this small bird appears
near the water’s edge of Africa or hot countries
where there are crocodiles or alligators. \W hen
the crocodile sees the bird nearby it will open
its massive mouth and the bird will ﬂy in
amongst those big teeth.

The small bird does not mind, it goes busily
to its work. Peck, peck with its beak. “ Ha l
The bird is cleaning my teeth,” the crocodile
seems to say. Soon its task is over and it goes
to some other crocodiles or alligators.

The jay is a friendly bird to foxes or other
wild animals. It gives a shrill cry if anything is
in peril or danger. He sits on branches in
trees on the look—out. A fox is drinking in a
stream below. Suddenly the jay sees a poacher
coming. He sends a shrill cry out. The fox
knows that he is in danger, he rushes down the
slope into the wood below.

The poacher followed but he had not enough
time to catch it, because it was two ﬁelds ahead
of him, and he gave up the chase and went off.

The jay watched the poacher go off and then
it laughed cheekily and ﬂew off.

The fox had tricked the poacher again by
the cunning jay.

JAMES BURKE—Blacko Council School,
Nelson, Lancs. Age II years 7 months.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The United

1V0 member, [94]

States of Animals

By E. KEITH ROBINSON

MERICA being a young
and more progressive
nation, ﬁrst federated her

various states into a united
whole, true not without difﬁ—
culty. The time must come
when Europe will become a
United States. Why, therefore,
not a United States of animals? The federated
principles of America and Switzerland, by
which each State in its home policy is
autonomous, whilst its foreign ' policy is
federal, can be and should be applied to the
animal welfare movement. View it as we will
we cannot close our eyes to the fact that all is
not well between animal societies. There is a
divergence of policy and a difference of
opinion that, I submit, can and should be
eradicated. It is a question of give and take, it
is a question, perhaps, of sincerity, it is a
question of seeing the other person’s point of
view. The old must give way to the new,
old traditions outworn are being discarded;
national and international alliances that at one
period appeared to be unlikely have come into
being. If this can be done when the differences
were so wide, why cannot. we in our movement
do it, where there should be no large gap?

It is obviously unwise to create a monopoly,
that is, to rule out competition; monopoly
usually ends by becoming moribund, and where
there is no competition or no choice of an
alternative, those directing lose interest and
gradually drift from their guiding principles.
The federation principle can be applied. The
societies would be self—governing and autono—
mous as far as the particular phase of their work
is concerned, but when it comes to the wider
issues, which obviously lie in the ﬁeld of
politics, or the betterment of animals by
utilising the law, then it would compare with
the foreign policy of a united states.

This could be extended to embrace animal
welfare societies all over the world, so that the
same laws to better the lot of animal life in one
country can be adapted to the needs of and
applied to those of other countries. It is
o viously desirable to pick the best from the
State laws in existence; they diﬁer widely
according to the country. Let the societies of
the world meet and draw up a charter to be

14

placed before their separate Governments. If
then the United States of Animals is functioning
as it should function, the whole weight of
national and world opinion would be behind
the request to the legislature for a particular
Act of Parliament.

This can be extended further. A society
which has built up its reputation on one or
more departments of animal work should con—
tinue to deal with that work with the know-
ledge, however, that the other members of the
United States of Animals can and would under—
take it if the Society doing it failed to function

properly.

It would perhaps be as well at this juncture
to lay down a few guiding principles apart
from those already discussed. Each country
then would have its federation of animal wel—
fare societies dealing primarily with national
policies. This federation would meet at stated
intervals to discuss the wider issues, and to
endeavour to further the welfare of those that
look to us, not only for their food, but for their
happiness. From this federation would be
chosen the delegates to meet the delegates of
other countries to discuss with them the
guiding principles to be followed in the
animal movement as a whole. If we, in the
movement, discard the outworn policies of the
past, as we as a nation are doing, then we can
adopt one principle which will lead to the
common goal, because whatever may be our
internal difﬁculties we should admit that each
according to its own light is endeavouring to
work for the benefit of animals. Unfortunately
an era of suspicion, rather similar to the
international situation between 1918 to 1959,
is in existence. There is no need to settle our
differences by war.

Attempts have been made to solve our diffi-
culties by inter—societies conferences, which
have not met with the response that their
founder, the Chairman of the National Council
for Animals’ Welfare, deserves, but they are a
beginning. Those societies which have
loyally supported Mr. Robert Spurrier can see
that out of these conferences a beginning has
been made. If the animal movement is to live
and thrive, during and after this war, it must
hang together. We are going through difﬁcult

 




 

Nb 1/877sz); 19 4]

times and they are going to become more diffi—
cult. There is going to be a lack of ﬁnance to
further our projects, simply because we are
now taxed very highly and may be taxed higher
still, and this taxation leaves less to be spent on
charity than in the old days. In addition there
are more charitable objects to support than
there were prior to the war. That many
institutions have to exist on charity is a
mistaken policy, in my opinion, but as long as
they do, the public will be asked to support
them; they are very vital to the needs of the
peoples. If, then, we waste our substance in
competition that is unfriendly, in institutions
that overlap, we are doomed, not that perhaps
it matters much whether we, as existing
societies, are destroyed, for I believe others
would come into existence to carry on our
work, but in that process of destruction the
animals must be hurt.

Let us, therefore, take warning again from
the international situation. The Prime Minister
of England graphically described how, one by
one, the nations of Europe were swallowed into
the maw of Nazi Germany because they
declined to hold together in the face of evil.
Are we going to be responsible for animals
suffering through our neglect to take warning?
\We stand, then, at the parting of the ways. Are
we to go forward in a new and kindlier spirit,
or are we to go backward, wasting the good
that is in us through bitterness and suspicion?

Photo by]

Am/ra/z'an Bullock Team.

15

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Marmot

By FRANK COLGER

HOUSANDS of feet above sea—level, on
I the high shoulders of peaks in the Alps

and in the Rocky Mountains, lives a most
industrious little worker called the Whistling
Marmot. He appears to make his whistle by
blowing down his nose. It is really an alarm
signal, but the little chap seems to be very
proud of his accomplishment, for he whistles
even when he has no cause for alarm.

He looks for all the world like an overgrown
squirrel. His nose is blunt, his head rounded,
his short ears are rounded, and his legs and
tail are short. He measures about twenty-
eight inches in length, and his fat little body
may weigh as much as ten pounds. His pelt
is greyish and consists of long, coarse hair.
Like the squirrel, he has four toes and the
merest sign of a thumb on the forefoot, and
five toes on the hind foot.

His home is a tunnel beneath the shale on
the mountain side. It is usually two or three
feet below the surface, and it may be from ten
to twenty feet long. Something of an engineer,
the Marmot appreciates good drainage, so his
tunnel slants down .a short way, then rises
toward the main chamber. This chamber is
large enough to allow two animals to turn
around in comfort.

 

I]. H. Stone

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

W/ljz'rf/z'ng Mar/7202‘.

Radiating from the main tunnel are several
side tunnels. One of these may lead to a
look-out post, but the others end in store-
rooms. During the summer and autumn the
Marmots cut grass into little bits about a
quarter—inch square, and these are left to dry
in the sun. When properly cured, they are
stored away in the store-chambers, to be used
as food and bedding during the winter. \Vhile
they are hay-making, the animals have to be
alert, because birds of prey and predatory
animals consider them to be tasty morsels.

The mother leads her babies into the open
about the end of May, and they learn by
imitating her which plants may be eaten and
which should be left alone. They also learn to
distinguish various sounds, and they skelter to
the burrow when alarmed. They are nearly
fully-grown before the bad weather sets in, and
in August they settle down to the task of
making homes for themselves and stocking
them with food. Marmots usually live in
individual burrows, but sometimes a pair will
spend the winter together, as if for warmth.

If they are fortunate enough to be left in
peace, the animals hibernate in warmth and

16

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
    
  
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
   

November, 1941

comfort, even though there be many feet of
snow on the rocks above them. Grizzly-
bears, even those which have been vegetarians
for months, develop a craving for marmot ﬂesh
just before they den up for winter. They tear
away the rocks with ease and reach the Marmots
before those sleepy victims have a chance to
escape. But those which escape the bear’s
attention are warm and well-fed, however
ﬁercely the winds may howl.

(From “ Mai/1Q About Anima/r.”)

Cat Friendships

ATS not infrequently make friends with
other animals, notably horses. There are
many stories of these friendships.
Godolphin, the celebrated Arab horse, lived
for several years on intimate terms with a black
cat. Alix says that Godolphin’s black cat, who
was the horse’s inseparable companion, was
inconsolable at his death : “ It sat on the
horse’s body until the latter was buried, when
it went away; it was not seen again until the
day it was found lying dead in a barn.”

The famous racehorse Bend Or had a white
cat for a companion, the cat lived in the box
with the horse; and when Bend Or died, the
cat was very much upset and pawed at his

dead body.

The Cambridgeshire is linked with a curious
cat story. Hackness, the 1882 favourite, was
great chums with a large black cat, which lived
in his stable, and grew fretful in its absence.
Knowing this, some interested person stole
the cat the day before the Cambridgeshire,
and Hackness showed such distress that his
chances of a win were obviously lessened. In
consternation, owner and stable boys hunted
for the lost cat in vain, and when someone
produced an almost exact double of the missing
animal he readily obtained the ,{:50 he asked
for it. The money proved well spent. Hack— '
ness accepted the substitute, recovered his
temper, and by winning the race, brought his
owner over 350,000. Considering the close
resemblance between one large black cat and
another the 750 sounds easy money. The
wonder is that the horse, which was presum—
ably inﬂuenced not by sight but by some bond
of animal sympathy, did not detect the trick
and refuse to be comforted by the substitute.

E. G. B.

 

 

”ow—W ——-‘

 

‘uvI—MH', ‘V‘WA‘MW‘u—t m._~_..-._...

 

 

‘4

w" H-.~.. R v»

 

 

l-_ w...— _ .n

h




 

 

 

 

 

A“ ' IKE-7' , ML; 53mm; ;__ _. " ‘

 

 

i'Vm/eméer, I94]
Tony—A Dog who ThlllkS.
(A true anecdote.)
7 ’I1ONY is a little Welsh terrier who has
lived next door to us for about ten years.
He has one of the sweetest little faces it
has been my lot to meet with in dogs, with
two very bright and mischievous eyes peeping
out of his curly hair; and one has only to look
at those eyes and the cheeky little face to know
that here is a dog who is full of mischief and
animal spirits. He only seems to rest when he
is asleep; at other times he is running hither
and thither, snifﬁng and smelling, or barking
for stones, or digging up grass, like the true
ratter he is, and always the little tail is wagging
and wagging with joy and happiness.

Tony and I have always been friends, for the
simple reason that I cannot imagine myself not
being friends with any dog with whom I come
into contact; but he has never shown any
marked affection to me until recently; and the
occasion is worthy of note, albeit it shows a
certain heartlessness and selﬁshness on the part
of my little Welsh friend. All the time that I
have known Tony I have had in my own home
a large Irish terrier, who, although he tolerated
his small neighbour, and even, on occasion,
allowed him to run behind him or around him
on his walks (never too close), he, of course,
would never permit Tony to enter our garden,
and if he ever did get through the fence he was
soon chased out again.

A month or so ago, however, Michael be—
came very ill, with a wasting disease (but
painless), and I tried for some time to keep
him alive, hoping that he would die a natural
death. Somehow or the other Tony sensed
what was wrong, and began to come regularly
to visit him, and even tried once or twice to
get into the basket beside him. At ﬁrst I
thought it was sympathy, that Tony was trying
to be neighbourlyto a sick friend, and I was
very touched by this action; but gradually I
began to fathom what was at the back of Tony’s
little mind. It was to Me he gave his atten—
tion; he would prance round my legs, barking
for stones, and if prevented from coming into
our garden, would begin to whine or howl the
moment he heard my voice, or if I made the
slightest movement in the next house; and
when, eventually, I had to have my dog put to
sleep, there was no sign of mourning on
Tony’s part. He ran from room to room, as
if trying to make quite sure that Michael had

gone for ever, then once again he transferred
his attentions to myself.

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Speech with some animals is totally un—
necessary, and it is so with Tony. He has
been telling me every day, for some weeks
now, that he desires, nay, intends, to take my
dog’s place. I hope to have another dog, and
although I would take Tony (if his owners
would allow it, which they will not), I would
naturally prefer to have a young one, to bring
up as my very own. At the same time, this
persistence on the part of my little neighbour,
and the pitiful crying which comes from the
next house, is just getting round my heart, as
of course the cute little fellow intends it
should! I am not conceited enough to
imagine that he has suddenly taken a violent
fancy to me, after all these years; but I DO
deﬁnitely believe that he has turned the matter
over in his mind and decided that he would
prefer to live with me; not because his present
owners are in any way unkind or neglectful,
in fact, his mistress makes a pet of him; but
being a male and consequently more or less
selﬁsh, Tony realises that he would have more
freedom with me, and also even more aﬂection
than he now receives, I being one of those
people who are termed “ fools about animals.”
I am afraid, however, that he is going to be
cruelly disappointed, and the sooner I get
another dog in place of my Michael the sooner
will the disappointment be over, and Tony
will, once more, I hope, become reconciled to
the good home he has always had, and the
kind people with whom he has lived for so
many years.

E. CONINGSBY.

U.F.A.W’s Lecturette.

We have received from the Secretary of the Universi-
ties Federation for Animal Welfare an excellent lectur—
ette for delivery to evacuee school-children. It is en-
titled “A Few Bird Friends of Ours,” by Professor
E. H. Warmington, M.A., who writes in an entertaining
and instructive way, which will appeal to children, of
many of the 180 different kinds of birds who bring up
their families in Britain. There is also a leaﬂet containing
admirable notes for the guidance of evacuee children in
the country on “ Watching Birds.” This has been
prepared by Doris Lockley and we are glad to note that
collecting birds’ eggs is spoken of as “now an old-
fashioned and unpopular hobby,” and that the new and
popular method is to study birds “instead of being a
burglar of birds’ nests.” Short descriptive notes of some
dozen of our commoner birds are given. These
publications should be popular and most useful for the
purpose for which they are designed, and they will help
in the understanding of the value of bird life in main-
taining the balance of Nature. The cost price is 3d. per
copy but a small number of copies are to be had free
or at a reduced rate, we understand.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

,-.J‘ (at M . '

A a». y w .nwm;hﬂw1>;'

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Cheshire Dialect Words.

OST districts have their own local
IV I names relating to animals and birds.
Some of these are very old. The
following is a list of words current in 1817 in
Cheshire :— '
A.
ASK—a newt.
*ANEEN1)—a rearing animal.

B.

*BALLY OF PIGS—a litter of pigs.

*BANDY HEWIT a little bandy—legged dog.
Originally a turnspit.

BAWSON—a badger.

*BAWSAND—ma cow or horse with a white
spot in the forehead.

*BEEN—plural of bee.

BELLART—a bear-leader.

*BILLY—BITER—a black and white water
wagtail.

*BOOSE~~—a cow’s stall. Cherry being a
favourite name for a red cow which was
at one time the most esteemed for milking,
anyone who is in a comfortable situation
is said to be “ got into Cherry’s boose.”

*BRADow—~—to cover. A hen bradows her
chicks.

*BUIL—HEAD—a tadpole.

 

C.
CAPo—a working horse.

*CAUF or CAAF—a calf.

*CAUF—KIT—a place to put a suckling calf in.

*CHEM—a team of horses, a team of wild
ducks, a team of young pigs.

*CLARGYMAN—a black rabbit.

CLEA—a claw.
COME EYT—used to a dog, meaning “lie
still, don’t bark.”

*CoquK—that part of a cow’s hide where
the hairs of it, having different directions,
meet and form a projecting ridge of hair.
Believed to be produced from the cow
licking herself.

*CREWDLE—to crouch together like frightened
chickens on sight of a hawk.

D.
DIGG—-a duck.
*DUNNOCK—a hedge sparrow.
DUG—a dog.

E

ELDER—~th6 udder of .a cow.

November, 194]
F.
*FLIGGERs—young birds beginning to, ﬂy.

FLOUGH—a flea.
*FORKIN ROBIN——-an earw1g.

G.
*GESLING—a gosling.
*GIL—HOOTER—an owl.
*GORSE-HOPPER—a whinchat.
GRAZIER—a young rabbit beginning to feed
on grass.
GULL—a nestling bird in an unﬂedged state.

H.
HULLART—an owlet.
*HOYK—to toss up as a bull does with his
horns.
HURE—hair.
HURN—horn.

l.

*JACK NICKER—a goldﬁnch.

K.
KEOUT—a little barking cur dog.
*KEow—a cow.
*KYE—plural of cow.
*KITTING—a kitten.
*KINDLE—to bring forth. Chieﬂy used when
speaking of hares, rabbits and cats.

M.
*MARRow—mate, companion, wife. An old
Cheshire rhyme says:
“ The Robin and the Wren
Are God’s cock and hen,
The Martin and the Swallow
Are God’s mate and marrow.”
MOULDY—\VARP——a mole.

N.
*NEESTm-a bird’s nest.
NETHER—an adder.

O.
*OVERWELT—a sheep overthrown and lying
on his back.

P.
*PEEWIT—a lapwing.
*PIED .FINCH—a chaﬂ‘inch.
PINK—a small fish.

QUEEZE—a wood pigeon.

18

 

 

 




 

 

1V0 vember, I94]

*RAPPIT—a rabbit.

. S.
f SAHL—an ox yoke.
.’ *SCHARN—cow dung.
' SEGG—a castrated bull.
’ SHEPSTER—starling. Probably from the star—
' ling’s habit of alighting on a sheep’s back
to relieve that animal of ticks, etc.
*SHOAT—a young pig.
SIRRY—a contemptuous term often used to
dogs
ll’ *SKEW-BALD—a brown and white horse.
SKELP—to leap awkwardly as a cow does.
SPARLING—a ﬁsh, the smelt.
*STAGGERING BOB—a name given by butchers
to very young calves.

 

T.
TIT—a name for an inferior horse.

*TANTONY PIG—to follow anyone like a tan—
tony pig is to stick as close to him as St.
Anthony’s favourite is supposed to have
done to the saint.

*TWITCHEL—to tie up a horse or a dog with
a tight cord.

V.
*VARMINT—vermin. Small animals disliked
by sportsmen.

 

Y.
YAFF—to bark, applied to a small dog.
*I have heard Cheshire people use these names
to-day.
E. G. BARLOW.

 

 

......

 

' THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Tomb Animal Paintings
THE Etruscans flourished in Italy before

the conquering Romans came. Etruscan

tombs, some of which date from the
sixth century B.C., were decorated with wall
paintings. These limned scenes from the lives
of the Etruscans, their work, feasts, sports,
etc., and there were symbols representing, and
illustrations of, their religious ideas. The
peoples of that time are now dust, but they
have left a lively record in many of the tomb
paintings of the animals that shared their lives.
These include the boar, bull, cat, cock, dog,
dolphin, dove, deer, goose, goat, horse, lion,
leopard, ox, partridge, pigeon, ram, rabbit,
squirrel; and imaginary animals such as the
bzppommzrr, grzﬂz'n, z‘i-‘z'l'on. Because of the pro—
minence of the animal decorations, some of the

-tombs are now known as the Tomb of the

Leopards, Tomb of the Lionesses, Tomb of
the Bulls, etc.

A Cruel Pastime.

The Etruscans were sufficiently “ civilised ”
to hunt, fish, and to encourage cruel sports.
These also are depicted on their tomb walls.
One painting shows a combat between man
and dog. The man has a skin round his waist,
and has his head in a sack, and he is being
bitten by a ﬁerce dog which is held on a lead
by another man. The man with his head in
a sack is entangled in the long lead of the dog ;
with one hand he seeks to get hold of the cord
and with the other hand he holds a huge club
with which to hit the dog over the head.

E. G. B.

 

 

 

.....

Slmvel/er Ducks.
19

v“ q-s‘W-A

~‘ "‘A . 2—".'_'< as" ‘ﬂ ,

‘i- m- a:

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

November, 1941

Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection

Hen. See/”elegy :

Q/ﬁﬂ’J: EDINBURGH—IO, QUEENSFERRY STREET.

Vivisection No Imaginary Evil.

(A reply by the Duchess of Hamilton to a
reader, published in TlJe Bnllez‘z'n, 30th Decem—
ber, 1917.)

Dungavel, Strathaven, Lanarkshire,
December 28.

Sir,——-I have just read in your issue of yester—
day a letter entitled “ Imaginary Evils ” by
“ B. Consistent.” He asks whether there are
anti—vivisectionists who would refuse to avail
themselves of any “ benefits ” made available
through vivisection.

This is an old chestnut which has been refuted
many times. I'know personally of many who,
like myself, would refuse, and have refused for
themselves or for those they love, any so-called
benefit derived from vivisection sources. How
indeed could one degrade those one loves by
introducing into their bodies anything derived
from means so evil?

“ B. C.” proceeds further to imply that there
is no cruelty in vivisection as practised in
Britain. I commend to his notice a pamphlet
entitled “ A Survey of the Case Against Vivi-
section,” signed by 45 doctors, in which he will
ﬁnd chapter and verse for experiments which
entail great suffering.

I have met several vivisectors, and I find the
honest ones all admit that there is pain and
considerable suffering, but, of course, they
make the excuse that it is done for “ humanity’s
health ”—forgetful of the fact that there is also
much experimenting upon unfortunate animals
simply to discover the most virulent gas with
which to destroy human beings!

Is “ B.. C.” really so ignorant that he does
not know that though in this country vivi—
sectors have to be licensed by law, and that
law enacts that the animals they use must be
anaesthetised and killed before regaining
consciousness, yet this merciful clause is
annulled by the fact that vivisectors may be
given certificates giving exemption?

It should also be realised that animal experi—
mentation does not stop human experimenta—
tion, but, on the contrary, leads to it. Indeed,
anti—vivisection is now needed as much to
protect humans as animals.

MISS IVORY ( to whom all communications should be addressed").

GLASGOW—I47, BATH STREET.

If “ B. C.” is honest in his desire to find out
the truth he has only to read the records of the
experimenters themselves to realise that there
is often suffering entailed in experiments upon
animals as practised even in this country.—
I am, etc.,

NINA HAMILTON.

Cowardly and Base.

In his autobiography the famous author,
John Cowper Powys, speaks of vivisection as
“ an abominable crime against the only
morality that is worth a ﬁg. No excuse, make
it as plausible as you please, justiﬁes vivisec—
tion. There has never been upon any human
subject so much crafty and deliberately mis—
leading propaganda. . . . People in our
modern world are too blind to see what these
fanatical devotees of physical science are doing
to humanity. They are taking away what
makes us men. Vivisection . . . is cowardly
and base. It is an immoral, a revolting and
wicked thing. . . . There is at present what
one might call a guilty conspiracy of silence
about vivisection. We shrink from facing it
but it should be incumbent upon us to do
something about it, and it is this fear . . . that
these scientists exploit for their own purpose.
. . . Science has so hypnotised us into a belief
in its greatness, its sublime impersonality,
when as a matter of fact it is full of all sorts of
humbug. What are we to expect from these
sly pundits who, with their pseudo—chemical
clap—trap and hocus—pocus jargon, darken and
obscure all honest, open, decent understanding.
Humanity must rebel now and shake off this
unspeakable yoke, or it will be too late.

Elevation or Deterioration.

The fight against vivisection is one of the
most important tasks of culture, for victory or
defeat in this fight means the elevation or
deterioration of mankind.

Tbere will come a time wben tlJe world will look back. f0
modern vivisection in tbe name of seienre a5 it now does to
burning at Me stake in the name of religion—HENRY J.
BIGELow, M.D.

2‘0

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

November, 194] ' ‘

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

Searez‘my: J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 259, Hurst Road, .Sidcup, Kent.

Hunters Condemn Badger-Digging.

HAT there is divergence of opinion among

I hunting people on the “ sport ” of

badger-digging has recently been shown
by correspondence in Home and Hound.

“ C.G.S.” initiated the correspondence by a
letter in which he stated that when hunting
was limited he did quite a lot of badger-digging.
“ With the help of my friends and three other
terriers, we have taken out eleven badgers
this summer, and [these four bitches have given
us wonderful sport.” He continued : “ There
are quite a lot of badgers in this part of the
country, viz., North Cornwall. The badgers
down here put up terriﬁc ﬁghts, but our dogs
are all real good ones and rarely get cut up.”

Commenting on this, “ G. M. C.” stated
that he could hardly understand any sportsman
holding the view that badger-digging was a
good sport. “ Anyone who has seen badger—
digging must surely realise what a cruel and
brutal amusement it is, and the torture to which
a perfectly harmless creature is subject.”

“ Avancez ” wrote: “ How anyone can
take part in it with any sense of enjoyment is
past my comprehension. Farmers or keepers
may perhaps think it necessary to dig one out
occasionally which is known to be doing
damage, but this should never be allowed
except under proper supervision, so that undue
cruelty may be avoided. Surely badger—
digging as a sport should be relegated to that
past which includes rat—pits and dog-fighting P ”

“ L. M. C.,” who evidently was not averse
to badger—digging, admitted that it “ is a sport
that can be made very cruel. For instance, it is
very unsporting to hunt a badger above ground
after he has been bolted, and yet this is very
, often done. . . . . I have seen badger—
digging in Devonshire brought to a degree of
cruelty that I shall never forget. The badgers
_ there, on the whole, are not in very deep
earths, and the soil is very loose. Long-pointed
spades are used, and in this one instance there
was no need to use the terriers at all, until the
badgers bolted, and they were then killed by
the dogs. As five of the badgers .were young
ones with the mother it was a beastly exhibition
of unsporting behaviour, and ﬁlled me with
sick disgust.” ,

“ Dalesman,” a M.F.H., wrote: “ No one
can deny that it is cruel. Personally, I feel no

enmity for Mr. Brock, although he rakes over
foxes’ earths into vast unstoppable craters, and
I’ve always been too fond of my terriers to use
them for such work, though admittedly they
might enjoy it. There are those who like it
vastly and even call it sport.”

We have never been able to understand in
what way this “ sport” of badger—digging
differs in any great degree from the illegal
“ sport ” of badger—baiting. True, in the case
of the former “ sport ” the badger is “ drawn ”
from his natural habitation, but this does not
necessarily involve less suffering, for first one
terrier, then another, is sent in to tackle him
until the unequal contest ends in his
destruction.

Some years ago we enquired of the
R.S.P.C.A. whether they could not institute
proceedings against devotees of this “ sport ”
on account of the suffering entailed by the
terriers, who are sometimes badly mauled in
the encounter, but apparently there is no
infringement of the law.

When the present struggle is ended we must
see that the law is amended. An enlightened
public conscience, a wide and general recog—
nition of the rights of beasts to live their lives
free from wanton persecution will demand
that this barbarous and degrading “ sport ”
shall cease.

Protest Coursing
Meetings. .

Our old friend, Mr. Alfred Brisco, Organis—
ing Secretary of the National Equine (and
smaller animals) Defence League at Carlisle,
sent us a copy of a letter and resolution from
his Committee against the proposed Longtown
Coursing Meetings, which was sent to about
sixty local organisations and clergy. The letter
and resolution, which was published in three
local papers, called upon every local organisa—
tion—the Churches and all forward move-
ments, to register, with no uncertain voice,
their condemnation of this “ devilry ” and to

Against Longtown

demand that these local hare—coursing meetings
shall not be held.

We were grateful for the opportunity of
supporting Mr. Brisco’s Crusade against this
callous “ sport,” and at his request sent him a
supply of our anti-coursing pamphlet. A1—

 

 




'THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND November, 194]

though, as we pen these notes, we are not

aware if the meetings were held, we have seen correspondence-

til? @11thth leéterﬁ thmafclly mailers Who (The forceful letter printed lee/0n) n/ar written by Airy. Y.
5 long .V proteste t at t 13 astar Y bIOOd' Stott, Secretary to the National Connrz'lfer Anz'nzalr’ [Vel—

sport Should be permitted. fare, will be read wit/J interert [3y readerr of THE ANIMALs’
FRIEND.) '
New Forest Buckhounds To the Editor, Eeerybody’r Weekly,
, ° 114, Fleet Street, E.C.4.

We read recently in Home and Hound of a September 22nd, 1941.
gymkhana at Burley organised by three 'DEAR SIR,—.I have just read the article entitled “. Most
\Vomen’ the proceeds of Wthh went to suppOl‘t CClerat€d Animal, 1n C3pt1V1ty,” Wthh appeared 1n the
the New For t B kh d - C; h . b issue of Every/batty 5 Weekly on September 20th.

.68 uC 0,11“ S in. t in: rave One marvels as one reads at the stupid-cruelty of it
Effort to surV1V€ these dlﬂqCUIt tlmes- all and one is horriﬁed to realise that there are still so

. - many human beings, supposedly superior to the very
The New Forest Buckhounds have been dis-- gorillas they ill—treat, who can inﬂict such misery and l

banded, but undoubtedly strong efforts will be life-10ng mental torture as this.
made to revrve buckhunting after the war. There is no need to point out where the cruelty lies, .
We would remind readers of our petition it can be seen in practically every line of the article unless Ii

- - (c a) . one is absolutely devoid of humane feelings.
agamSt this Sport’ WhICh has already been And what is the reason for all this, simply because the

Slgned by over 40,000 persons and W111 be animal is worth two thousand pounds. Then has the
presented to the Forestry Commissioners, if anz'nzal no values of its own as a separate and sentient
necessary. ‘ entity? Is there nothing that is precious to it and which
it cherishes? Apparently more than anything it
_. 1‘ ,_ . . ._ , cherished Liberty, the precious freedom we are ﬁghting
.‘.§,t;g®§.?' _, _\ . for, and when that went as the article puts 1t, “ The
" ' ~ ' nature of the gorilla warped completely.” Man had
changed a ﬁne, happy, friendly animal into a fearsome
monster for the lust of gold. Is it any wonder that
mankind still has wars, internment camps, torturers,
imprisonment, refugees and all the other horrorsZwe are
hearing about lately? Surely it deserves them !
Yours faithfully,
YVONNE A. M. STOTT,
Secretary.

 

 

a; .9. .‘L i. a

i. i 9.9
...
' s

. L ‘

 

To the Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.
DOGS IN AIR—RAIDS.

SIR,—The warning of the Secretary of State for Air
about the possible intensiﬁcation of air-raids on this
country should cause dog-owners to take additional

 

 

 

Mom " " precautions and they may be glad to have the latest
. . information, which is contained in a handy booklet,
The Benefwlal Badger. issued jointly by the R.S.P.C.A. and the National

Canine Defence League under the title, “ Save Dogs
Now.” For only 3d. it may be obtained from either
organisation or can be ordered through the trade. It
tells of many things a dog-owner can do to protect his
dog from enemy violence during raids or even invasion. .
Yours truly,
CHAS. R. JOHNS,

.S‘eeretary, N at/anal Canine Def/Wee League.

Victoria Station House,
London, ‘S.W.I.

In the Editorial Notes of the May issue of the
Journal of the Society for the Preservation of the Fauna
of the Empire, attention is called to correspondence in
The Timer, beginning in January last, from ‘which it
would appear that the merits of stoats and weasels as"
destroyers of destructive rodents is now officially
recognised. This fact, says the Journal, led a corre-
spondent to put in a plea for recognition of the badger
in the same capacity. “ Not content with ones and
twos,” he wrote, “ when he goes rabbiting in the early
spring, he locates the nest from above, neatly takes out

a hole the SiZe of a bucket and ‘ cops t’ lot,’ as we say Unhappy—Unnatural—DiseasedI

 

1“ these parts n '(Cumberland), And when summer There is no place in any National Park for a Zoo.
comes, he 2‘th his attentjon t0 the wasps and destroys It is the chipmunk, the squirrel, the deer, the bear, eat—
them 3150 by the nest. off-doom, that the visitor must be directed to seek, for his

own best enjoyment—«his own good. Animals in
captivity are, most of them, unhappy, unnatural as to
behaviour, more or less abnormally diseased, relatively
uninteresting as objects of study. It is the free, un—
fettered, wild animal out-ofvdoors, behaving normally,
But rogue badgers, the Editor remarks, are rare, that is thrilling to the beholder, and far and away the

though their occasional depredations have given the most inStrUCtiVC-
tribe a bad name 1n some parts. (Dr. farep/J Grinnell, Berkeley Univerrizy, Calzfornz'a.) .

This letter prompted a Herefordshire correspondent
to write suggesting that beetles should be added to the
list of creatures which the badger destroys in large
numbers. He points out that an occasional rogue
badger'turns its attention to poultry and, even, lambs.

 

22

 

. . EM 1/

 




.Nmrmlrer, [94] THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 82,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog-welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

S eelés to probibit tbe viviseetion of dogs.

Membership 5s. 0d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE. S.W.I

 

 

 

If You Are a Cat Lover YOu Should Join

V ; Nib l" "l The Cats Protection

 

    

 

 

»___.__v..,«.-...-,..t.a :— .. , League
Editor: C. S. COLLEN-Qr}§-—»-~~~ The one societyfr detvoteg 1:93:13, to the welfare
0 ca san ’.1 ens,
PROVES
LIFE MEMBERSHIP 5 /- PER ANNUM,

including the Society’s ofﬁcial organ,

AFTER ‘C THE CAT ,,

DEATH Associate Membership Subscription 35. 6d. pa.

6d. Place an order with your '
Newsagent, or 6d. post free , . 4 . . _ ,

MONTHLY or 7/_ yearly pOSt free from \Vrite for ggee Igitseiature Stlo.——1fhe Secretary, 29,

13, CHESHAM PLACE, LONDON, s.w.1 u“ ”e" ”g ’ B9Cks'

 

 

 

 

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

5, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W.I.
President: HAMILTON FYFE C/Jaz'rman: AIR-COMMODORE L. E. O. CHARLTON, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.

 

Secretary: J. C. SHARP Hon. Treasurer: ARCHDEACON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.

 

This Society is devoted solely to the protection of Animals against Cruel Sports. The
League is doing for Wild animals What other societies are doing for domestic animals.

Membership 28. 6d. upwards.

 

National Society for Abolition Of Cruel Sports

c/o 253 COWLEY ROAD, OXFORD

Chairman: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Han. Treasurer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD
Recent Publications FOOD AND SP ORVF 1d.
By TH. Ge Chancellor.
THE PLEASURE OF KILLING 1d.

By L. Lind-af-Hageby.

 

 

 

 

. All subscriptions and communications for the Magazine s/Jould be addressed “ Tb: Editor, ANIMALS’ FRIEND,
32, Queen’s Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N .10.”

 




'I‘I-IE ANIMALS’ FRIEND November. 194/

THE DOG’S BAZAAR

GROSVENOR HOTEL,
GrOSVenor Street, EDINBURGH,

 

TUESDAY, 25th NOVEMBER, 1941

UNDER THE DISTINGUISHED PATRONAGE OF
THE RIGHT HON. THE COUNT ESS OF HADDINGT ON AND OTHERS

IN AID OF

,THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF , VIVISECTION

(Hon. Secretary—Miss N. IVORY)

 

 

DEAR KIND FRIENDS OF OURs,——You will notice that there are
three of us this year I

We are terribly excited and greatly pleased that Miss Ivory has
asked us to be the Conveners of the 1941 Dog’s Bazaar. We all
belong to one very kind mistress who is helping usby taking a
Stall along with us, so you may imagine how extremely important
it iS that our Stall, being the Convener’s, Should be the Biggest and
Best in the whole Bazaar! '

We are looking to you, dear friends, to make it so, and we know
you will grant our request, so, do Please Help all round by collecting
£1 in money, or its value in goods, and Send to

Your very loving dog friends,

“ TALLY,”
“ WENDY,” C oﬁveners.
“ SHRIMP,” '

c/o Miss N. IVORY, THE DOG’S BAZAAR,

AT 10, QUEENSEERRYSTREET, EDINBURGH.

 

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press. Cavendish Road. Redhill. Surrey.
for the National Council for Animals' Welfare, 32. Queen's Avenue. Muswell Hill. London. N.10.

 




