 

FOX-HUNTING:
Digging—out and Earth—stopping.

BY
LADY ROLLESTON.

 

 

Coming/Lt T 1,16 Daily [Mirror
Huntsman down Drain after Fox.

THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION
OF CRUEL SPORTS,
4 Tavistock SQUII‘C, London, W.C.I.

1935.
Publication N0. 26 Price Twopence.

 

 

 




 

FOX — HUNTING :
Digging — out and Earth —stopping.

“ Riding to hounds would be good sport, if it were not for the fox-
So long as the gallant little fellow is running for his life, excitement, one
may hope, deadens his fear and pain. But the digging him out is cold-
blooded cruelty. He ought to have his chance. How men and women,
calling themselves sportsmen, can defend the custom passes my under-
standing. It is not clean.” JEROME K. JEROME.

“ And thére was his earth at the great grey shoulder
Sunk in the ground, of a granite boulder.
A dry, deep burrow with rocky roof,
Proof against crowbars, terrier-proof,
Life to the dying, rest for bones.

The earth was stopped : it was ﬁlled with stones.”
JOHN MASEFIELD.

HE voice of intellect is a quiet one, but it does not rest until

it has gained a hearing. This is a point on which we may
be optimistic about man’s future treatment of animals; for when,
on the long road to civilisation, man’s natural cruelty becomes.
dominated by intellect, hunting, shooting and the slaying of
innumerable beautiful creatures in the name of sport will cease.
Two of the cruellest practices connected with fox-hunting are the
almost inevitable custom of “ earth-stopping ” and the very
common one of “ digging out ”. The latter in particular elimin-
ates that “ sporting chance ” for the quarry of which we hear so
much from the upholders of blood-sports.

The fox spends a large part of his life underground (73.6., in
'his “ earth”) usually emerging at night-time to forage—in the
case of a vixen often for a family of cubs as well as herself.
Returning home in early morning after his night’s wandering,
he discovers that his own earth, with most others in the district,
has been stopped by human agency during his absence. He has.
then when “ found ”' by the Hunt no refuge at hand and is very
likely doomed to a long “ run ” before the pack.

The writer of a recent article entitled Too many Foxes go

2

 

 

 

I 4 mn.nl_’.__.——___-—___-g I gin;




 

 

 

to Ground: Good Hunting depends upon Successful Earth-
stopplng, gives the following description of the practice :—

“ There is no gainsaying the fact that the manner in which
earth-stopping is carried out, can make or mar sport in any
hunting country . . . The age of the oldfashioned earth-stopper
has 110w departed, and in its place we have various sections of
a hunting country divided up and the responsibilities of'earth-
stopping left to the keepers covert owners and various other
nominees . . .

“No fox can be hunted as a fox should be hunted, unless the
country is efﬁciently stopped, and if everyone worked in unison
there is no doubt that there would not be so many accounts of
hounds being deprived of blood as there are today . . . [Italics
ours]

“ The best way to stop an earth is to take a faggot or faggots
of about three feet in length, and drive them in so that a fox
cannot scratch his way through, stones or bricks can then be
imbedded round the earth, and all earth-stopping material
should be kept near the earth ready for use. I have seen earths
stopped with old buckets ﬁlled with soil, but I have never cared
for this method a great deal, as the bucket does not allow air
to penetrate to the earth and it is possible that a vixen and
cubs may be suffocated therein . . . ‘

"‘ It often happens that an earth stopper’s carelessness is.
blamed on to one of the most harmless and interesting of our
English animals, namely the badger. Many huntsmen will aver
that badgers, which“ are far more numerous than is generally
supposed, scratch open earths when they return home from their
nightly prowls. But if they do so it is quite easy for the earth
to be made safe again in the morning, and if the covert owner
thinks that badgers are becoming a nuisance he can quite easily
stink them out, when the ‘ gentlemen in the grey coats ’ will be-
take themselves elsewhere. There is no excuse for the slaughter
or digging out of these harmless creatures, which do so much
good in a hunting country . ..”—The Field, 12/1/35.

The admission that foxes may be suffocated by earth- -stopping
is notable, particularly as it comes from a fox- hunter, and the
slaughter of badgers to which the writer refers is absolutely
inexcusable, though these engaging animals are not infrequently
killed by hounds during fox-hunting—a fact which is in itself
sufﬁcient reason for the abolition of that pastime.

3

 




 

The fox’s feelings on arriving at his stopped earth while being
hunted, are thus described in a famous modern poem :—
“ The earth was stopped : it was ﬁlled with stones.
#3 >}{< =X< ‘4?

Then, for a moment, his courage failed,
His eye-s looked up as his body quailed.
Then the coming of death, which all things dread,
Made him run for the wood ahead.”

When the fox does succeed in ﬁnding a haven by “ going to
ground,” he is often evicted by means of terriers carried by the
Hunt for the purpose; or, failing that, he may be dug out with
spade and pick. In this plight the spent fox is frequently a
broken creature, with over-strained lungs and heart.

To quote again the Poet Laureate’s Reynard the Foam——

“ They meant to run him until his blood
Clogged on his heart as his brush with mud,
Till his back bent up and his tongue hung ﬂagging,
And his belly and brush were ﬁlthed from dragging.
Till he crouched stone—still, dead-beat and dirty,
With nothingbut teeth against the thirty.
And all the way to that blinding end
He would meet with men and have none his friend . . .W

Many voices, including those of some sportsmen and even of
fox-hunters themselves, have been raised in protest against this
particularly mean practice of digging out; and, as will be seen
from the passages quoted in the Appendix, it is evident that the
consciences of hunting-men are by no means at one on the
question.

Peter Beckford, in his famous sporting classic Thoughts upon
Hare and For-Hunting (1781), a famous classic of “ sporting”
literature, thus gloatingly describes the objectionable custom:

“ You should always keep a terrier in at the fox; for if you
do not, he not only may move, but also, in loose ground, may
dig himself further in . . . When your hounds are in want of
blood stop all the holes lest the fox should bolt out unseen . . .
If hounds want blood and have had a long run, it is the best
way, without doubt, to kill the fox upon the earth; but, if they
have not run long, if it be easy to dig out the fox . . . it is better
for the hounds to turn him out upon the earth, and let them

* Quoted by special permission of the author from Reynwrd the F000
by John Maseﬁeld (Wm. Heinemann & Co., Ltd., 1919).

4

 




 

 

work for him. It is the blood that will do them most good, and
may be serviceable to the hounds, to the horses, and to yourself.
Digging a fox is cold work, and may require a gallop afterwards
to warm you all again. Before you do this, if there be any
other earths in the cover, they should be stopped, lest the fox
should go to ground again.”

When the fox is “marked to ground ”, he is often bolted by
the aid of terriers and thus killed without any digging-out being
necessary. This is quite a normal procedure and accounts of
it appear almost daily during the hunting season in The Times,
and the sporting journals.

Another form of digging-out which is practised for a totally
different purpose may be brieﬂy referred to here. This is done
for the purpose of kidnapping fox cubs in order to export them
to other districts where more foxes are desired by the Hunts.

Not long ago the Marquess of Tavistock in an essay On “ Field
Sports and the Humanitarian ” in The Fortnightly Review—an
essay very ill-informed as to the knowledge of the people he
was criticizing—sneered at humanitarians for their exceeding
ignorance of the animals whose cause they championed. In
defending fox-hunting, he remarked incidentally: “ The idea
that foxes are artiﬁcially bred for hunting, though commonly
believed by humanitarians, is of course nonsense”.

There is no reason whatever to assume that this idea is
“ commonly believed ” by anyone. There is, however, small
difference between artiﬁcial breeding and artiﬁcial rearing for
hunting—and of the latter there is plenty of evidence. It is
true that fox-rearing for sport is far from being an almost
national industry like the custom of breeding and coddling
pheasants for shooting. Yet it is by no means as rare as hunt-
ing people pretend, though naturally it seldom ﬁgures in the
daily press.

An excellent example is the following report in The Eveshamz
Journal, 2/ 6 /34, from the village of Weston Subedge :—

“ ‘ Foxes Have Holes . . . ’ For some time past it had been
apparent that there was a fox’s lair in the neighbourhood . . .
and considerable interest was aroused when George Goodwin
(the First Whip of the North Cotswold Hunt) came from
Broadway to capture the animals. Assisted by a number of
parishioners, he dug along the brook . . . and soon came across

5

 




 

a nest of three-parts-grown cubs within ﬁfty yards of the main
road. After considerable spade work, and with frequent pauses
for refreshment, the party captured ﬁve cubs. The parent foxes
Were not captured. Activities were kept up till a late hour, and

Mr. Goodwin took the cubs to Broadway, where they will be

)7

reared for hunting.

Further examples may be found in The Yorkshire Evening
Post, 27/4/35, where a very similar case is described, and in
The Evening News (London), 1 / 5 /35, which published a photo-
graph of two fox cubs captured in Lincolnshire “ to be freed
later on in hunting districts where foxes are scarce.”

In mountainous districts foxes sometimes make their earths
so that a root or boulder blocks the entrance not far down; and
in such cases men engaged in digging out may ﬁnd themselves
obstructed in their work by a piece of solid rock, below which
a family of cubs may be hidden. Even if the bottom be found
the cubs may still be missed, for there are sometimes side-
pockets in the earth where they may have huddled in for refuge
during the digging.

' Drag-hunting offers exercise and pleasure and good hound—
work, without the cruelty of chasing and harrying a living
victim. Yet there are but 14 packs of drag-hounds in Great
Britain and Ireland as compared with 227 packs of fox-hounds
alone! Why should not the drag-hunt be generally adopted by
those who enjoy riding to hounds?

Fox—hunting must go, like the bull-baiting legally abolished
only a century since to which it is akin. But do not both
baiting and hunting depend for fun on the harrying and if
possible the death of a sentient creature?

APPENDIX.
Sportsman’s Views.

The Duke of Beaufort and Mowbray Morris in Hunting
(Badminton Library, 1885):

“ Gone to ground! Who-whoop! It is neither one thing nor the
other, and the spirit of the chase is chilled. Then follows the question,
What shall we do with him? If the sanctuary is a short drain or culvert,
and the terriers are handy, a bolt may be speedily effected . . . but against
prolonged disinterment by a gang of labourers, ending with a worry OVer
the mouth of a yawning chasm, we at least would fain enter energetic

6

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

protest. The stock arguments in favour of a dig are almost too well-known
to need repetition, but have we sufﬁciently considered them from the fox’s
point of view? ”

Basil Tozer in The Graphic, 1910:

“ The question of digging out is one that often gives rise to a good deal
of controversy, not only because most hunting men detest to be kept
waiting about while the tedious business of digging is in progress, but
also because an increasing number of men and women who ride to hound-s
would like to see the practice altogether abandoned.”

Lady Oxford in The Times, 1/2/33 :

“I would like to make it clear that I think digging up a fox which has
gone to earth is cruel, stupid, and unsporting, and I protested against it
every time I saw terriers used for the purpose. It is cruel because it
prolongs pain; it is stupid, as a fast fox may give the ﬁeld another good
run 3 and it is unsporting, as it does not give a fox the fair, chance of
escape, which is what hunting men have always claimed for it.”

Capt. H. F. H. Hardy in English Sport, 1933 :

p. 56. “ Some people think huntsmen bloodthirsty. It is true that if
you meet an old huntsman he will always ask, ‘ Had you a good day?’ and,
before you can answer, he adds, ‘ Did you kill?’ But this is not because
he is bloodthirsty : it is because a huntsman’s job is to catch his fox. The
moment he ceases to try to do so, he ceases to be a good huntsman. At
the same time some huntsmen are unquestionably too fond of digging.
In the wild hilly Countries the object is to destroy as many foxes as
possible and in all Countries, it must be borne in mind that where you
want to preserve them, the best way often is to kill them. If an old
woman has had her pet ducks taken and you let off the fox, she may get
her old man to ‘do in ’ the fox in some other fashion. But the fact
remains that some huntsmen, where they have no excuse of ‘ necessity for
blood’, are much too fond of digging.”

A Reviewer in The Times Literary Supplement, 22/7/20,
in an article on Lord \Villoughby de Broke’s Hunting the Fox:

“ The agonies of a beaten fox who ﬁnds his earth stopped have been
described so vividly by Mr. Maseﬁeld as to give rise to grave searchings of
heart in the breasts even of the most hardened foxhunters. Already the
sentiment. of sportsmen is revolting against the inhuman practice of
digging a brave fox who has run to earth.”

 

NOTE—The photograph on the front page shews a fox being
“bolted.” The Huntsman is trying to ﬁnd the fox in a drain in
which it took refuge “during a. run with the Garth” on January
21st, 1935. The fox was killed “after a short burst.”

LONDON I S'I‘RANGI‘I\\'AYS, PRINTERS.

 




 

Publications
of the

National Society for the Abolition
of Cruel Sports

THE COST OF A FOX. By Charles Oldham, F.L.S. 15?.
WHO ARE THE KILL-JOYS? By Henry 3. Salt. 1d.
DRAG HUNTING. . By Basil Tozer. 3d. post free.

THE BEASTS THAT PERISH. A West-Country Sketch.
By A. L. Salmon. Third Edition. 2d. post free.

GENTLEMEN VERSUS FOX. By A. P. Herbert. 1d.

WHAT SHALL IT PROFIT? The Economics of Hunting.
By H. G. Chancellor. 2d.

A— HUNTING WE WILL GO. Three poems. By Henry S.
Salt. 1d '

IN ENGLAND—NOW. (Stag-hunting.) 1d.
IN AT THE DEATH : Freeman on Cruelty in Sport. 1d.

ETON COLLEGE HARE-HUNT: A Protest and a
Memorial. Gratis.

THE HUNTING OF THE STAG. By Edith Ward. 3d.
HARE AND HOUNDS. By Allan Monkhouse. 1d.
THE CASE AGAINST COURSING. By T. E. B. Clarke. 1d.
OTTER- HUNTING. By John Tunnard.1d

DIGGING— OUT AND EARTH STOPPING. By Lady
Rolleston. 2d.

“Junior Series ” Leaflets :
(I) What do Young People think about hunting
Animals?
(2) Hunting the Fox to Death.
(3) The Gentle Deer and the Gentle Men.
(4) The Coursing of ﬂares and Rabbits.
(5) Is Otter-Hunting Fair Sport?
(6) The Cruelty of Shooting.

Price la’. each or 25 copies for 15.

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS,
4 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.I.
Information from the Secretary.

 

 

 

Publication No. 26]

 




