_ ADDRESS
TO THE BOSTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS

IN THE WINTER OF 1885 AND 1886

By GEORGE T. ANGELL

Foem dew of the American Humane Education Society, the JIa-ssarchusetts Society for the Pe'eerention
of Cruelty to Animals, and the Parent Ameor‘icarn Band of Illewy.

GLORY TO '7
GOD, 9m
PEACE ON EARTH, 33
KINDNEss, JUSTICE 5
' AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

THE LAST PHOTOGRAPH TAKEN OF MR. ANGELL WITH HIS FAVORITE
BOOK, BLACK BEAUTY, IN HIS HAND

OFFICES OF THE QIERIC

AN HUMANEﬁEDUCATjONMSQNCIETY AND MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
“FOR THE-PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

180 LONGWOOD AVENUE, FENWAY STATION, BOSTON

 




 

THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
Founded by GEO. T. ANGELL

The American Humane Education Society,
founded by Geo. T. Angell, was incorporated in
1889 by a special act of the Massachusetts legis-
lature. It is an organized effort to promote
“Glory to God,” “Peace on Earth,” “Kindness,
Justice and Mercy to Every Living Creature,
both Human and Dumb,” by carrying humane
education into all our American schools and
homes, aiding humane societies, and founding
Bands of Mercy over the whole American
continent.

Its president is Francis H. Rowley of 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston; its vice-presidents
are the Governor of Massachusetts, eX-Governor
John D. Long, William Cardinal O’Connell, and
other prominent gentlemen and ladies. On its
board of directors are two of our Massachusetts
judges, ex-Attorney-General Albert E. Pillsbury,
and other prominent gentlemen.

By a special act of the Massachusetts legis-
lature its property is held in trust by three trus-
tees, Messrs. Alfred Bowditch, Laurence Minot
and Thomas Nelson Perkins. All three are
widely known as investors in Boston and else-
where.

It now employs agents in several western
states to carry on humane work and to secure
needed legislation. It also maintains represent-
atives in Cuba, France, Switzerland, Turkey,
and other countries, where literature is being
translated into many languages and widely cir—
culated, resulting in the formation of Bands of
Mercy and adult societies for the protection of
animals. 1

It has caused to be established Bands of Mercy
in all our states and territories and elsewhere.

It has carried the circulation of the one book,
“Black Beauty,” up to over three million copies.
It has already distributed, at half cost, in the
public schools and elsewhere, 100,000 cepies of
its three most popular books, “Black Beauty,”
“Strike at Shane’s” and “Our Gold Mine at
Hollyhurst.” It has recently published “Don—-
His Recollections,” the story of a horse by Dr.
W. A. Paul; “The Birds of God,” by Theron
Brown; “Prince Rudolf’s Quest,” by Ida Ken—
niston; and “The Humane Idea,” a history of
the humane movement in all countries. It has
employed several missionaries.

It sends its organ, Our Dumb Animals, every
month to the editors of every neWspaper' and
magazine in America north of Mexico, to the
presidents of all American universities and
colleges, and to all members of Congress.

All persons wishing to know more about this
Society are respectfully requested to write

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President,

Fenway Station, Boston .

THE
AMERICAN BAND OF MERCY

Founders of American Band of Mercy:
GEO. T. ANGELL and Rev. THOMAS TIMMINS

Officers of Parent American Band of Mercy:
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President;
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

Over ninety-six thousand branches of
the Parent American Band of Mercy have
been formed with probably over two mil-
lion members.

PLEDGE

“I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures, and try to protect them from cruel
usage.”

M. S. P. CA. on our badges mean “Merciful
Society Prevention of Cruelty to All.”

We send without cost, to every person asking,
a copy of “How to Form Bands of Mercy” and
other publications also without cost, to every
person who forms a Band of Mercy, obtaining
the signatures of thirty adults or children or
both to the pledge, and sends us the name chosen
for the Band and the name and post ofﬁce
address (town and state) of the president who
has been duly elected:

1. Our monthly periodical, Our Dumb
Animals, for one year.

2. Mr. Angell’s “Twelve Lessons on Kind-
ness to Animals.”

3. “Does it Pay?”——an account of one
Band of Mercy.

4. Copy of “Songs of Happy Life.”

5. Several special leaﬂets for the use of
teachers.

6. Eight “Humane Education Leaﬂets,"
containing pictures and selected stories and
poems.

7. For the president, an imitation gold badge.

The- head ofﬁcers of juvenile temperance
organizations and teachers and Sunday school
teachers, should be presidents of Bands of Mercy.

Nothing is required to be 'a member but to
sign the pledge, or authorize it to be Signed.

Any intelligent boy or girl, fourteen years
old, can form a Band without cost, and receive
what we offer above.

To those who wish badges, song and hymn

books, cards of membership, and a member-

ship book for each Band, the prices are as listed
on the last page of this pamphlet.

Everybody, old or young, who wants to do
a kind act, to make the world happier or
better, is invited to address, by letter 03
postal, Guy Richardson, Secretary, F enway
Station, Boston, Massachusetts, and receive
full information.

0?)
Y}

/

 

i._,.n_,_,_*,_m~._._‘_m a.“ __._._.I. , .. .1. F I w

.44“ ____4_' Emm‘ _I \_41ﬁ~—MWW__W~L a .. , ._ m . __




“

 

iv-ui 4 - ,4 _ _ a

_‘.4i_

ADDRESS TO THE BOSTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS

IN THE WINTER OF‘ 1885 AND 1886,

BY GEORGE

T. ANGELL,

Founder of the American Humane Education Society, the M asaaclmsetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, and the Parent American Band of Mercy.

 

Addresses were giVen before the sixty-
one Boston Latin, Normal, High, and
Grammar schools, in the winter of 1885
and 1886, by Geo. T. Angell, Founder
of the American Humane Education
Society, the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
and the Parent American Band of Mercy.

The following address by Mr. Angell
to the Grammar schools is now published
for similar use in the schools of other
cities and towns:—

It seemed to me, some time since, that
out of the thousands of hours that the
boys and girls in the Boston public
schools have to study geography, arith-
metic, grammar, and the higher
branches, one hour might be properly
given to a talk about kindness to animals.

And so, when the School Committee
came together in the fall, I sent in word
to them that I should be willing to take
one school a day, and talk one hour to
all the public schools of Boston on kind—
ness to animals.

And I was very glad to learn the next
morning that the School Committee,
without a single objection, by unanimous
vote, had authorized me to address all
the public schools of Boston.

I began with the Normal and Latin
and High schools, and then took the
Grammar; and now I have come to talk
with you.

It is quite likely that the ﬁrst thought
which may strike some boy or girl here
is, “What does Mr. Angell want to talk
to us about kindness to animals for?”

“Probably somebody pays him a lot
of money.”

 

\‘Vell! the fact is that the horses and
dogs don’t have any money. They are
poorer than the poorest boy or girl in this
hall—for, no matter. how hard they
work, they can’t buy an apple or a stick
of candy, or even a lump of sugar; and
so, because they haven’t any money, I
have been in the habit of talking for
them a good many years for nothing.

The fact is, I have always, since I was
a boy, been very fond of them. When I
was a boy I hardly ever went by a real
kind, good—looking horse or dog without
stopping to have a talk with him.

If I met a cross, ugly one I did exactly
with him as I do with a cross, ugly man;
I just let him alone. But I hardly ever
met a kind, good-looking horse or dog
without stopping to have a talk with
him. '

Sometimes even on the way to church
Sundays, with my good mother on my
arm, she would ﬁnd herself brought to a
sudden halt, and look around to see what
the matter was, and ﬁnd that I had
stopped to talk to a horse or a dog,—~and
she would give my arm a pull and say,
“What do you suppose the people will
think of you, stopping right here on the
public street on the Lord’s day, on the
way to church, to talk to a horse or dog?
Why, they’ll think you’re crazy.”

Well! the fact was, I didn’t care'half so
much what the people thought, as I did
what the horse or dog thought.

I used to ride a verv high—spirited V
horse. He didn't much like to be ridden
by other people. I have seen other men '
try to get into the saddle, and sometimes
it would take towards ten minutes for a ‘

 




 

 

4 Address by Geo. T. Augell to Boston Public Schools.

man to get into the saddle, and some—
times after he got in he wished he hadn’t.

One gentleman who tried to ride him
told me that the horse came very near
breaking his neck, and he wouldn’t ride
him again for any money.

That horse would stand for me as
quietly as a lamb. I might be ten min—
utes getting into the saddle, and I never
had to touch the bridle rein until I got
ready to start, and would say, “N ow, old
fellow, let’s go.”

Why was it?

Well, the fact was, I was always very
kind to the horse—always used to speak
kindly to him. When I saw an apple
tree hanging over the road, sometimes I
» would ride under the tree and give him
an apple; and after a while he got so that
he could see an apple about as quickly as
I could, and if I would let him he would
stop under the tree and then if I didn’t
give him the apple he would turn his
head around and look at me. I used to
water him frequently, and occasionally
give him a bite of grass—and the fact was
he was just as glad to go out with me as
I was to go out with him.

He was a very jealous horse. I don’t
know whether any of you know anything
about jealousy. He couldn’t bear to
have any other horse do any better than
he could. I remember one evening I
rode with another gentleman who had a
very fast horse. In spite of all my horse
could do, the other would get ahead of
him. The moment we stopped and got
side by side he let his heels ﬂy at the
other, but the other horse dodged him.
And yet one Sunday morning I looked
out the window and saw a little girl that
could just ' toddle around—only about
two years old— seated on the grass right
at my,horse’s heels, pulling his long tail
as hard as she could pull it, and he was
grazing as quietly as a lamb and seemed
to enjoy it.

I found, a long time ago, that all these

 

 

creatures have gratitude.
grateful when you are kind to them. I
was walking one day in Dorchester, just
outside the city, and I found a cow tied
to a tree by a rope, and somehow she had
contrived to get the rope wound around
her legs, and had thrown herself down,
and there she lay in a state of great eX-
citement. She hooked at me when I
tried to help her. But after a while I
succeeded in getting the rope unwound
and got her on her legs again. Then the
thought seemed to strike her that I had
done her a kindness, and she just put out
her tongue and lapped my coat sleeve
just as she was in the habit of lapping
her calf. I don’t suppose she took me for
a calf, and so I must suppose she was
grateful for what I had done.

I went home and told the folks that I
had met a lady out in Dorchester in great
distress, and that I helped her, and that
she rewarded me with a kiss, and I did
not tell them for some time what kind of
a lady it was.

These creatures know very well when
they are badly treated. I remember how
Father Haskins, of the House of “Angel
Guardian,” told me a great many years
ago of what he once saw at a little inn or
tavern near Rome.

A woman was going by with a donkey
loaded with two great baskets of eggs,
which she was taking into Rome to sell.
It seemed that the donkey had been ac—
customed to stop at this inn to get a
lunch, but this day the woman was in a
hurry, and instead of giving him a lunch
she gave him a club. Well, just like
some human donkeys, the more she beat
him the more he wouldn’t go, and at last,
When she had beat him very hard with
the club, the donkey just lay down and
rolled over on his back and smashed all
the eggs in both baskets, and then there
was no need of going to Rome at all.
Father Haskins thought he served the
woman right.

They are I

 

 




 

 

 

Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools. 5'

Many of these animals are wonderfully
intelligent. »

One dog of the convent of St. Bernard
is said to have saved more than “forty
human lives. While I was in London,
England, some years ago, a gentleman
fell into the Serpentine river which ran
through a large public park there, and
sank to the bottom. A Newfoundland
dog jumped into the river, dove to the
bottom and brought him to the surface
and then safely to the shore. I had the
pleasure of contributing, with others, to
buy a silver collar for that dog, on which
was inscribed, “A member of the Royal
Humane Society.”

Some years ago a friend of mine, wife
of the mayor of the city of Lowell, Massa-
chusetts, had a splendid Newfoundland
dog, whose photograph she wanted to
get.

She took him, one day, to the pho-
tographer’s, but when he was placed op-
posite the camera he probably thought
the black tube pointing at him was some
sort of a gun, and so as often as they
placed him there he would get up and
shake himself and walk off. Finally
my friend gave up in despair, told him
he was a bad dog and to go home. He
kept pretty much out of sight during the
rest of the day and the next morning was
missing. About noon he came home
wagging his tail, with a little package
tied around his neck. On opening it my
friend found his picture. She went
down at once to the photographer’s to
inquire how it happened. He told her
that in the morning he heard somebody
apparently pushing his door; he opened
the door and found the dog there. The

dog walked in, went at once to the place

where they had tried to have him lie the
day before, and remained perfectly quiet
while his picture was being taken, and
then they tied the proof around his neck
and sent him home. ,

All these dumb creatures know their

 

friends. I was walking at North Con-
way, New Hampshire, at one time, when
I met a ﬁne-looking dog. I talked to
him pleasantly for a minute or two, as I
usually do, and he seemed to conclude
that I was a friend, and followed me.

Presently we passed a house and an-
other dog came out, and after comparing
notes with the ﬁrst dog he also followed
me. ‘

After walking some distance I looked
around and found a good-sized pig had
joined the dogs. I kept on considerably
farther and they all followed. I then
walked back to the house where the last
dog came from, and asked the man there
if he could explain the matter. He said
that his dog was the friend of the dog that
ﬁrst followed me, and his dog and his pig
were such friends that it was impossible
to keep them apart. Unless the pen was
very high the pig would jump over to
be with the dog.

That these dumb creatures have a sense
of justice is well illustrated by the old
story of the elephant and the tailor.
The elephant, in passing a tailor’s shop,
was accustomed to put his trunk in at
the open window daily for whatever any
one there chose to give him. One day
the tailor thought it would be a good
joke to prick his trunk with a needle.
The elephant withdrew his trunk, went
down to a very muddy pool of water,
ﬁlled his trunk with it, came back, put it
again into the tailor’s window and emp-
tied about four pailfuls of nasty water
over the tailor.

They know their enemies.

Some years ago a man here in Boston
tried to get a law that every male dog
that was found on the street without a
muzzle over his nose should be shot by
the police; and every female dog found
on the street should be shot anyhow,
whether she wore a muzzle or not. He
was a great six-footer, but was terribly
afraid of dogs.

 




 

 

 

6 Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools.

.1.

1 was down before the committee of
the aldermen when he came to tell his
troubles.

"Why,” said he, “three times, when I
have been working in my garden, dogs
have jumped over my garden wall and
chased me into my own house.”

“Of course.”—If a man should try to
get a law that every boy in Boston who
didn’t wear a muzzle over his nose should
be shot by the police, and every girl
should be shot anyhow, it is quite probable
that the girls wouldn’t chase him much,
but the boys might.

 

 

But there’s another reason why I came
here to—day—and that is that I found out
a good many years ago that these friends
of mine were sometimes very badly
treated.

I went to a stable one day and hired a
horse for a pleasure drive, and after I had
driven about half a mile I thought he
seemed very tired and unhappy. So I
watered him and drove him back to the
stable. The hostler ﬁnally admitted to
me that the horse had been already driven
forty miles that day, and yet, having no
other horse in—to get the money——they
had let him again to me.

My friend Mr. Ditson, the great Boston
music dealer, kept his horse in the same
stable, and he used to ﬁnd him mornings
looking tired and unhappy, and at last he
found that the hostler used to drive that
horse nights sometimes ﬁfteen or twenty
miles and then harness him up in the
morning for Mr. Ditson to drive in and
out of Boston, ﬁfteen or twenty more.

I once used to drive a very beautiful
horse, so gentle and high spirited that I
never struck him with a whip in my life.

One day the man who had charge of
him let two young men have him to drive
a short distance with great care.

The young men got drunk and drove
the poor creature almost to death,—

 

brought him back into the dooryard,
not only covered with sweat and foam,
but so weak that he could hardly stand,
and with such a look of horror in his eyes
as I never saw in the eye of any human
being. It was only by working almost
the entire night that the poor creature’s
life was saved. There was no law in
those days to punish men for doing such
things, and those men went unpunished.

In the town of Newton (now city),
where I lived, a man owned a very val-
uable stock of cattle, which were en-
trusted to the care of another man. This
man got mad at the owner about some-
thing, and out of revenge locked the stable
doors and starved all the cattle to death in
their stalls,—and when the neighbors
broke into the stable and found the poor
creatures lying dead there, and where
they had gnawed the woodwork in the
vain effort to sustain life, they tried to
ﬁnd some law under which that man
could be punished, and there was no law
in Al assachusetts under which he could be
punished.

I was walking one morning in early
spring in a town just south of Boston,
when I saw driven out of the dooryard of
a rich woman a cow that was so poor she
could hardly stagger through the street.
She was nothing but skin and bones, and
I asked what was the matter with her,
and they told me it was the custom of
this rich woman to keep that poor crea-
ture the whole winter just at the point
of starvation to save the cost of hay,~
and there was no law in Massachusetts to
stop that woman from doing it.

I went out to Milton one day, and some
friends told me how their old family dog
had just been killed. They loved him so
that they would not kill him themselves,
and so they hired some boys to do it, and
the boys didn’t know how. First, they
tied a rope around the poor creature’s
neck, then they led him to the woods;
then they tied him to a tree; then they

 

luv 4 4 r“, I 4 A

 




 

 

Address by Geo. T. Angellto Boston Public Schools. ‘7

ﬁred every barrel of a revolver into him
without killing him, and then they beat
him to death with sticks and stones.

Now I am glad to say that the Society
over which I have the honor to preside
has men employed to kill every horse and
dog and cat humanely, without fore—
knowledge and almost without pain, and
all you have to do when any of these crea—
tures must be killed is to send to our
ofﬁces, and without charging a single
penny we send a man to do it humanely.

These things led me to think that some-
body ought to stand up and try to protect
these dumb creatures that cannot speak.
I_ didn’t know what to do. I had never
heard of a society for the prevention of
cruelty to animals, and didn’t know
there was one in the world. So I sat
down and wrote a will giving a large part
of my property to be used after my death
in circulating, in schools and Sunday-
schools, stories and information that
should tend to make the men and women
of the future more merciful.

But about two years after this a man
by the name of Henry Bergh came home
from Europe with an idea he had picked
up there, and formed a society in New
York.

I heard of it, and a while after there
came a great horse-race for money, in
which two of the best horses of Massa—
chusetts were driven about forty miles,—
each drawing two men, over rough roads,
in the month of February, up hill and
down dale, they were lashed and driven,
and both driven to death.

When I read the account of it in a
Boston paper, I just sat down and wrote
the editor that I, for one, was willing to
give time and money to stOp such cruelty,
and if anybody else was willing to do the
same I should be glad to be informed.
The next morning I was called upon by a
wealthy and inﬂuential Boston lady, Mrs.
Wm. Appleton, who told me she had for
some time been trying to form a society;

 

and I was called upon by others and
found myself at once in an occupation to
which I have deemed it a duty and privi-
lege to give most of my time ever since,
and some thousands of dollars in money.

 

The ﬁrst law in the world to prevent
cruelty to animals we owe to an Irish
member of the British Parliament.

The celebrated Lord Erskine tried to
get such a law, but they made so much ;
fun of him that he backed out and gave 5
it up.

Then came into the House of Com-
mons, from Galway, on the west coast of
Ireland, Richard Martin, an Irish gentle-
man,———or, as the folks called him, Dick
Martin, and he was noted for two things.

First, he was very fond of animals; and,
second, he was known to be very much in-
clined to ﬁght anybody that he thought
insulted him. So one day he brought in
a law to protect animals.

Immediately somebody made a cat-
call.

He just stepped right out onto the ﬂoor
of the House of Commons and said very
gravely that he should be very much
obliged for the name of the gentleman who
had seen ﬁt to insult him. There was
dead silence. The gentleman didn’t give
his name, and Martin walked back to his
seat amid the cheers of the House of .
Commons, and his law became the law of
Great Britain and the ﬁrst law of its kind
in the world.

Now these societies have spread over
the world.

One of the largest to which I have the
pleasure of belonging is in Calcutta, in
Hindostan. The emperor of Brazil is
president of a large one in South America.
General Sarmiento is president of an-
other in the Argentine Republic.

When I crossed the Atlantic some
years ago, I found in the European soci- ’

 




 

 

 

 

 

8 Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools.

eties many of the most eminent men and
women of the world.

The ﬁrst audience of the friends of ani—
mals that I had the pleasure of address—
ing in England was presided'over by one
of the most learned men of England, and
the gentleman who moved the vote of
thanks was Field—Marshal Sir John Bur—
goyne, very near the head of the British
army; and the second was at the house
of the Baroness Burdett-Coutts, loved by
the English people and known through-
out Europe for her generous gifts to the
poor.

The celebrated Roman Catholic Car—
dinal Manning is one of the foremost men
in Great Britain for the protection of ani-
mals from cruelty. They give now
every year several hundred prizes to the
boys and girls in the London schools who
write'the best compositions on kindness
to animals.

These prizes have been distributed by
the lord mayor of London, by the daugh—
ters of the queen, and at one time by the
queen herself. At one distribution it
was said that about ten thousand people
? were present.

There is one society of boys and girls in
England to protect animals which has over
80,000 members.

So, if we cross over to Germany, there
is one German society which has 23 gen-
erals and over 200 ofﬁcers of the German
army.

50 in France they have many of the
most distinguished men of the country,
and probably hundreds of thousands of
boys and girls.

In some of the Roman Catholic dio-
ceses of France, children are required
before they are admitted to the ﬁrst com-
munion to promise that they will never
ill—treat the lower animals.

.The minister of public education of
France has ordered publications on the
subject to be sent to the schools, and in

 

 

 

 

 

upwards of ﬁve thousand French schools
regular lessons on the subject are given.

In this country I am glad to say that
we have in Massachusetts one of the best
societies of the world. We have on its
board of ofﬁcers several gentlemen who
have been governors of the State, chief
justice, and mayors of Boston.

Archbishop Williams is one of our vice
presidents, and sends us every year a
liberal contribution. We have dealt al-
ready with over 70,000 cases of cruelty,
and have circulated millions of copies of
our publications in this country and
around the world.

 

I have not time to tell you much about
the condition of animals in winter in our
extreme Western and Southern States.
I spent last winter in New Orleans and
Florida forming societies there.

It is estimated that more than a million
cattle and other animals died last winter, in
the extreme Western and Southern States
and Territories, of neglect and starvation,
and probably hundreds of thousands were
frozen to death.

That’s all I am going to tell you about
that.

In regard to transportation of animals
on our railroads, I will say that probably
hundreds of thousands die every year on
the cars for want of food, water, and rest.

That’s all I am going to tell you about
that.

In regard to the slaughtering of ani—

mals, I have stood in slaughter—houses.

and witnessed scenes which compelled
me to leave or drop fainting on the ﬂoor.
I have seen hundreds of cattle compelled
to stand and see other cattle killed and
dressed right before their eyes, and
knowing their turn was coming next.

That’s all I am going to tell you about
that, because boys and girls cannot stop
these things. That must be the work of
men and women.

 

 

 




 

Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools. 9

But I am going to tell you one thing
that is very important and which I shall
speak of again before I get through, and
that is,—

That every pain which any animal suf-
fers just before dying poisons the meat.

If you wound a bird and don’t kill it,
every minute its meat is growing worse.

If you catch an animal in a steel trap,
every minute it stays there its meat is grow-
ing worse.

Some hunters will not eat the meat of
a deer that has been run and worried by
dogs, but only of those which have been
killed by what is called still hunting,—
that is, which are shot and killed and so
don’t suffer much before they die.

And so it is in transportation and
slaughtering,——all suﬁering just before
death poisons the meat.

There is no nation in the world so care—
ful to eat only the wholesome meats of
healthy animals as the Jews. The Jews
go out to Brighton and pick out the best
animals, and if they find the slightest

surgeon, Dr. Henry J. Bigelow, tells me
that out of all this animal torture and
suffering not one single useful fact has ever
been thus far discovered, to his knowledge,
in America. . .

Mad dog —You frequently read in
the papers about mad .dogs. Now I
want to tell you that some of the most
eminent doctors of the country think
that hydrophobia is only a disease of the
imagination. I do not say that, because I
do not know anything about it; but I will
say that I have had the records of deaths
in the city of Boston carefully examined
for thirty-two years, and in that thirty-
two years there have been only two deaths
by hydrophobia reported in the whole city
of Boston.

There are a hundred chances that any
boy or girl will be struck by lightning for
every one chance of having hydrophobia. ,

So if a dog should happen to come up
to you wagging his tail you needn’t run
for the house as the man did whom I told
you about, for fear that you’ll have

 

 

hydrophobia.

There has been a very important dis—
covery made in European schools, and ,
that is that boys who are taught to be\
kind to all these lower creatures,——to
feed the birds, and pat the horses, and 7‘
speak kindly to all those lower creatures, f
——become a good deal better fellows. I ll
don’t know that the experiment has ever ?
been tried with girls. They are supposed
' ' ' . to be about as good as they can be, anyway.

' But it has been tried vxith boys, and it

has been found that they become not 7

: only kinder to the lower animals, but

: kinder to each other,—kinder to the little

fellows, kinder to everybody and every- ‘

thing that needs protection. One Eng- ,

lish school makes its boast that out of ‘

{5% about seven thousand boys that have been 2
3 ' sent out, carefully taught to be kind to ani-

'~ :. mals, not one has ever been convicted of any

f crime. Out of two thousand convicts in

‘ - our prisons, inquired of a few years ago.

trace of disease they leave the animal at
once for Christians to eat. And it has
been found by statistics gathered in
various parts of Europe that jews live on
the average about ﬁve years longer than
Christians, that they have less disease than
Christians, and seldom have scrofula.

‘yd’

 

 

v “’1‘ P "

u
v

 

 




 

10 Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools.

» it was found that only twelve ever had any

V

K.

/.

k.

an

higher wages to a milkmaid who can sing

pet animal in 2heir childhood.
When I was in Richmond, Virginia, I

“saw running around the large State

House Capitol grounds lots of gray squir-
rels; and the children, both white and
colored, came from all over the city, and
the squirrels fed from the hands of the
children. I told the people whom I ad-
dressed there that I thought those squir—
rels were worth their weight in gold to the
city of Richmond for the kindness they put
into the hearts of the children.

I wish, for its effect on character, that
every boy and girl in America could have
some pet animal which it took good care
of, if it was only a white mouse.

Why should we protect animals? I
have told you already one reason: Be-
cause every cruelty the animal suffers
just before death poisons the meat.

N ow I am going to tell you another: If
you throw stones at a cow, or frighten, or

injure her, it goes right to the milk and

poisons the milk.

I wouldn’t, for ten dollars, drink the
milk of a cow that had been badly
treated, if I knew it.

In Switzerland, it is said, they will pay

7 to the cows than to one who cannot.

In the hall where the Wisconsin Dairy-
men’s Association holds its meetings
they have put up a great sign on the
wall, “Always speak to your cow as you
would to a lady,"’ and they tell a pretty
good story 'ab‘O‘ﬁt‘bne fellow who put on
his best Sunday go-to—meeting hat and
coat and went out to milk the cow, and
talked so politely that the old cow, not
accustomed to such language, didn’t
know what the matter was, and so she
kicked over the milk pail and spilt all the
milk But the principle is a true one:
you cannot get good milk unless you treat
the cow that gives it kindly.

There’s another reason, Gratitude. At
the Greyfriars’ churchyard, in Edin—

 

rburgh, Scotland, there stands a beautiful

monument erected in memory of a dog.
The statue of the dog on top of it cost
over two thousand dollars; and this is the
story: A poor man died and was buried
there. He was followed to his grave by
his dog When the other mourners
went home the dog remained and laid
down on his master’s grave. The sexton
drove him away, because dogs were not
allowed there. Next morning the sex-
ton found him on the grave again, and
again drove him off. The second morn-
ing he found him on the grave again, and
again drove him off. The third morning
was a very cold one and the sexton
found the dog again lying on his master’s
grave, shivering with the cold. His
heart relented; he fed the dog. Pres-
ently the lord mayor of the city heard
about it and sent the dog a collar, and a
man that kept a restaurant near by fed
him every day. I don’t know what pro-
vision they made for kennel, but during
ten or twelve years, until he died, he
made his home in that graveyard, and
much of the time lay on his master’s
grave; and now they have built that beauti—
ful monument to tell future ages of the
ﬁdelity of that poor man’s dog.

I wonder how many of you ever saw
Professor Bartholomew’s trained horses.
Hold up your hands. That’s right; lots
of you, I see—you remember how they
would take a sponge in their mouths and
rub off the ﬁgures on the blackboard,
bring the master his pocket handker-
chief, play see-saw, go through military
drill, ﬁre small cannon with their teeth,
capture a fort and pass the hostile ﬂag
with their teeth from one to another.
And you remember the murder trial,
where one horse was brought in bound

-with chains, and the horses in the jury-

box, and how the old donkey judge sat
up in the pulpit and looked as solemn as
any human donkey ever did, and the jury
found a verdict of not guilty, and the

4% egg;




4%..“ ' 7.;9 3.

.ga‘ E“-

Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools. 11

horse sheriff pulled off the chains with
his teeth, and then they came out and
bowed to the audience. Well! all that
was done by kindness; and I had the
pleasure, when the Professor was last
here, in the great Boston Theatre, in the
presence of some three thousand Boston
drivers, of handing him a splendid gold
medal, because he had shown how much
he could get horses to do by kindness.

In one of Napoleon Bonaparte’s cam—
paigns, one of his high ofﬁcers was shot
dead in battle, and his horse stopped
right there and would not move. Dur-
ing the entire battle he stood by his
master’s dead body. After the battle
was over they went to remove the body,
but the horse attacked every comer
furiously with both teeth and heels. At
length they reported to Napoleon that it
seemed impossible to remove the body
without injuring the horse. Napoleon
ordered a guard to protect the horse and
see what he would do. During the en-
tire night he stood by his master’s dead
body. In the morning, just about day—
break, he sniffed it over from head to
foot, and then the thought seemed to
dawn upon him that his master was
dead, and with a cry of pain he dashed
off on a gallop, plunged into the river
Danube and was drowned.

There’s another reason why we should
treat animals kindly, and that is, it will
make every boy and girl and man and
woman that does it, happier.

Why, I had a little canary bird some
time since that only weighed a half an_
ounce after dinner. And yet he brought
so much happiness into my home that I
would not have taken a hundred dollars
for him. He would stand on my hand
in the morning when I read my news-
paper, and look at the newspaper and
then at me. When I went to shave, and
put my little glass on the window, he
would ﬂy up to the window and put his

inspect that operation. 'He would ﬂy
to my shoulder at breakfast time and
feed out of my hand. And he was a
funny fellow. Sometimes he would ﬂy
to the top of my head and go to pecking
away there as hard as he could, pretend-
ing that he fonnd something.

I read some time ago how a poor man
travelled on foot with his dog several
hundred miles to Louisville, Kentucky,
to get medical treatment in the hospital
there. Well, when he got there they
told him they would take him into the
hospital, but they wouldn’t have the dog.
He must leave his dog in the street to
take care of himself. When they told
him that, the poor man stooped down
and took the dog up in his arms, and
with tears running down his face said the
dog was the only friend he had in the world,
and he would rather die with his dog right
there in the streets of Lonisville, than go to
the hospital and abandon him. I am glad
to say the commissioners gave him a per—
mit to enter the hOSpital and to take his
dog with him.

It is not only poor men, but some of
the greatest men of the world whose
lives have beenmade happier bml'ove
of these lower creatures. Sir Walter
Scott, the great novelist, and Sir Edwin
Landseer, the great painter,—their whole
lives were made happy by their love of
dogs.

Cardinal Wolsey, the great English
statesman, and Cardinal Richelieu, the
great statesman of France,—they loved
cats.

Daniel Webster, the great American
statesman,—he loved cattle, and—When,
down at Marshﬁemefore his death,
he found that he was about to die, he re-
qnested that all his cattle should be driven
to his window that he might see them
for the last time; and as they came one by
one to his window he called each by name.

Walter Von Vogelweide, the great

 

nose between my face and the glass, and

lyric poet of the Middle Ages, so loved

 

A PLEA FOR THE H012SE u.

' I: better and longer i given ree

“53:13:11,359: :lhhty oftﬁure wattle; 5111:5112; shzslsa
' l' wen er; a .

$333311; Irtul‘l if???“ enough room to he down in la
net in summer; two weeks vacation each year.blindvol
the cruel, tight check rein, and closely fitting era,
which cause blindness.

SPARE THE WHIP

 

 

 

 




 

 

12 Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools.

the birds that he gave by his will a large
sum of money to the monks of Wurtzburg,
on condition that they should feed the birds
every day, on the tombstone over his
grave.

And so with our modern great men.
We ﬁnd President Lincoln protecting
the little wild birds and their nests. We
ﬁnd President Garﬁeld taking a poor
half—starved, half-frozen dog from the
streets of Washington to his comfortable
home.

General Porter says that he never saw
General Grant really mad but twice in
his life—and one of those was when he
saw an army teamster beating a poor
horse. He ordered the teamster to be
tied up and severely punished] an, r.»

The great Duke of Wellington, who
won the battle of Waterloo, was so kind
to the lower creatures that he ordered
special protection given to a toad in his
garden. H» ~‘77-..,,, ~_

It may be worth d thousand dollars to
you some time, if you remember what I am
now going to tell you, and that is, that if
you ever see the time when you feel as
though you hadn’t a friend in the world,
and wish you were dead, go and get some
pet that you can talk to and love and
care for—if it is only a little bird—and
you will be astonished to ﬁnd the relief
and happiness it will bring into your life.
In the caring for and loving it you may
ﬁnd, as the great poet Longfellow has
written,—

Your nights will be ﬁlled with music,

, And the cares that infest the day,

Will fold their tents like the Arabs
And as silently steal away.

This point I hOpe you will remember,
if you remember nothing else, that what-
ever may be your lot in life—your for-
tune or your misfortune—there is no
man or child or woman, however poor or
neglected, that may not be made happier

 

 

and better by the love of these lower creae
tures, poorer still.

The birds whose songs gladden the
springtime,—

The cattle grazing in the ﬁelds,—

The cat purring at your feet,—

The horse kindly treated, always glad
to toil in your service,—

And the dog, that will not desert his
master, though only a blind beggar in the
street, to follow a king to his palace,—keep
sunshine in many a human heart where
otherwise would be only darkness.

 

The North American Indians believe
that after they die they shall again meet

their horses and dogs in what they call '

“the happy hunting grounds.”

“Oh, well may the Indian hunter,
Lie calm on his couch of skins,
When the pain of this world ceases,
And the joy of the next begins.
For on the Great Spirit’s prairies,
Under blue skies of yore,
Are waiting his steed and his watch dog,
To answer his call once more.”

I don’t know anything about it. But
I do know that thousands of good Chris-
tian men and women would be glad to
meet their horses and dogs again on the
happy hunting grounds.

But how shall we protect animals. I
am going to tell you how a little boy did
it.

Some time ago I was invited to address
the students of one of our colleges, and

when I got through, one of the professors 1

said to me, “We have a humane society
in this town that protects all our dumb
animals, and I want you to be introduced
to it.” So I went down with him to an-
other professor’s, and they brought out
a ﬁne— —looking little boy about four years
old, and the professor said, “This is our

 




_._‘,,A..r ., .

. HW~<———~

 

 

Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools. 13

humane soCiety that protects the dumb ani-
mals in this town.” “Well,” I said, “it
isn’t a very big one.” “No,” said he,
“but it’s a good one.” “Well, how is it?”
I said.

“Well,” said he, “a few days ago a man
was kicking his horse out in the street,
and this little fellow walked out of the
door-yard, and into the street, and stood
right up to the man as straight as a crow-
bar and said, ‘Mister, stop kickin’ that
horse.’ Well, the man looked around to
see where the big voice came from, and
saw this little midget, and then went
right to kicking the horse again.

“Then the little‘fellow walked off a
few feet and picked up a stick about as
big around as his little wrist; then he
came back again and stood right up be-
fore the man just as straight as before
and held up his stick.

“ ‘Now,’ said he, ‘now, Mister, if you
don’t stop kichin’ that horse I’ll give you
the awfullest walloping you ever had in
your life,’ and the man did stop.”
That’s one way. .

Now I am going to tell you of another.
You see this badge I wear on my coat?
The President of the United States wore
a badge like this some time since, while
he reviewed a procession of about ten
thousand boys and girls.

He belongs to a branch of this great
organization, which is called “The Amer—
ican Bands of Mercy.” It was begun in
Boston. Among its ﬁrst members were
the governor of Massachusetts, the chief
justice of our Supreme Court, the mayor
of Boston, our Roman Catholic arch-
bishop, our Protestant bishops and
clergy, and lots of our most distinguished
men. Over three hundred thousand
boys and girls all over America now be—
long to this “American Band of Mercy.”

Inscribed on this badge are the Words,
“Glory to God,” “Peace on earth,”
"” Kindness, justice, Mercy to all,” and

 

the pledge is simply this: “I will try to
be kind to all harmless living creatures,
and try to protect them from cruel usage.”

Now what I want to say is this: You
can come to our ofﬁces, 19 Milk Street,
corner of Hawley Street, next building;
to the ofﬁce of the Boston Post, which
stands on the spot where Benjamin
Franklin was born, any day between
half-past nine in the morning and half-
past four in the afternoon, and, without
costing you a single cent, Sign this pledge,
and receive a certiﬁcate on tinted paper
that you are a life member of “The
American Bands of Mercy,” to which all
these distinguished gentlemen belong,
and also that you are a member of the
“Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals,"’ so that if you
ever see a dumb animal being abused,
and anybody asks you what business it
is of yours you can say, “I am a member
of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.”

If you happen to want a badge, our
Society sells them at something less than
they cost us,——eight cents apiece; but
there is no need of buying a badge; the
certiﬁcate is all you need to make you a
member, and that you get for nothing. I 7‘
any one of you wants to form a “Band of
Mercy,” then you have only to say so,
and we shall be glad to give you all the
information you want, without cost.

And now I am happy to invite every
boy and girl to come any day between
half-past nine and half—past four and
join this great army. '

 

Now, I want to tell you something that
is worth knowing, and that is, that if all the
birds in the world should die, all the boys
and girls in the world would have to die
also. There wouldn’t be one boy or girl
left alive; they would all die of starvation.

 




 

14 Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools.

And the reason is this: these small
birds live on insects; they eat up millions
-- and millions of insects. If there were no
birds, the insects would increase so that
they would eat up all vegetation. The
cattle, and horses, and sheep, and swine,
and poultry would all die, and we should
have to die also. Now what I want you
all to remember is, that every time you
kill one of these littls insect—eating birds,
that means that thousands of insects the
bird would have eaten up are going to live
~ to torment us, and every time you take an
egg from one of these little birds’ nests, that
means one less bird to eat the insects. I
don’t like mosquitoes and insects. I
think it is better that the birds should live
and eat the insects, than that the birds
should die and the insects eat us.

And now I want to say a word to the
girls about canaries and other birds kept
in cages. I called a while ago upon a
lady, and while she stepped out of the
parlor I thought I would look at her
canary. There wasn’t a single seed in its
cage. When she came back I told her,
and it seemed she had forgotten it, and
for two days that little canary had had
nothing to eat.

I called upon another lady some time
ago, and noticed that her bird seemed to
be pecking away at its cup as though try—
ing to attract my attention. I went to
the cage and looked into the cup and
there wasn’t a drop of water there. The
lady said she had forgotten to put water
in the cup, and so it had been all day
without water.

I hope you will always keep an eye on
these cages, and be sure that no little bird
is dying there for want of food or water. I
always take care that my canary has
plenty of food and water. I give, beside
seed, little bits of lettuce, and egg, and
apple, and chickweed, and crumbs of bread
soaked in milk, and almost anything I
eat myself. I look out that he has

 

 

plenty of ﬁsh-bone and sandpaper in his
cage. I never hang him in a cold draft or
hot sun. I let him come out and ﬂy
around the room several hours a day. I
hold him on my ﬁnger almost every
morning and whistle a tune to him, and
dance him up and down keeping time to
the music. But the thing which seems
to please him better than anything else
is this: I go to a ﬁve cent store and buy a
little looking—glass or mirror about as large
as the palm of my hand and then put it in
his cage, taking care that neither the sun
or lights shall dazzle him, and he will stand
there for hours together and look at his
pretty self, With as much, happiness as
any young gentleman you ever saw in
your life. You can always stop your
bird singing by giving him a chance to
look at himself. He had rather look at
himself any time than sing.

By putting him between two looking-
glasses I sometimes show him 'six or
eight birds.

I have told you already how cruelty to
any animal just before death poisons the
meat, and how cruelty to a cow poisons
the milk.

I am now going to tell the boys some-
thing which I think you will all remem—
ber, and that is, whenever you go ﬁshing,
if you will always kill the ﬁsh as soon as
you take it out of the water by a sharp
blow on the back of the head, the ﬁsh will
keep longer and be a great deal better ﬁsh.
Fishermen over a large part of Europe
always kill the ﬁsh as soon as they take
them out of the water, and our best
ﬁshermen here carry with them little
clubs or batons, and as soon as they
catch a ﬁsh strike him on the back of the
head and kill him, because he is a great
deal better ﬁsh if he dies as soon as taken
out of the water.

The great teacher Agassiz always taught
his pupils to kill ﬁsh as soon as they caught
them.

 

,.. g—Awmﬁ ‘—‘“’*"‘H"'—"“ ‘4‘“«4‘ ~ v « 4 - 4 4 _ 4 4




Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools. 15

And I want to tell you another thing,
and that is, if you want to be real humane
you can put the ﬁsh worms into a dish of
boiling water before you start. You will
kill them almost instantly, and the only
difference will be that you will give the
ﬁsh cooked worms instead of raw.

I don’t believe there is any one here
who puts lobsters into cold water, and
then kindles a ﬁre and slowly boils them
to death. I don’t believe there is any
one here who collects frogs for the mar—
ket and cuts off the hind legs and doesn’t
stop to cut off the head, and so leaves
them to be a week in dying. But I
think it quite likely there may be some
boy here who sometimes throws stones at
frogs. I am afraid I used to do it myself
when I was a boy. But since I have
learned that the frog is perfectly harm-
less, it don’t strike me as quite the fair
thing to throw stones at a harmless little
creature that always sings the best songs he
knows how, and that can’t throw stones
back. It is a good deal like throwing
stones at a little girl.

I don’t suppose any young lady ever
fell in love with a toad on account of his
beauty, though the toad has eyes almost as
handsome as diamonds. But the toad is
perfectly harmless and very useful. He
lives on insects. In Europe they are
sold in the markets for quite a price, to
be kept in gardens, and some people keep
them in their kitchens to eat up bugs and
roaches.

Please always remember that the toad is
perfectly harmless, and, though very
homely, is very good.

I once saw a little boy take a splendid
medal in Paris, France, in this way: On
his way to school with his little dinner
basket he came across a poor, half—
starved dog, and he pitied the dog so
that he just opened his dinner basket and
gave the dog all his dinner, and went
without himself.

 

 

The French society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals heard of it and
awarded him a medal, and I was present
at the annual meeting of the society, in
the great hall of the Sorbonne, when the
medal was presented.

When the little fellow’s name was
called and he came forward to get the
medal, the whole vast audience of French
men and women stood up and cheered him.

Now whether you ever get a medal
or not, I hope you will always do to
every half—starved dog or cat, or other
creature you may happen to meet,
exactly what you would like to have done
if you were half starved yourself.

When it comes time for you to go out
of town in the summer, and the question
is what to do with the old family cat, do
just what you would like to have done if
you were the old family cat yourself.

If you have to carry poultry, before
you carry them with their heads down,
consider whether you would like to be car—
ried with your head down. If you would,
all right.

If you see little children sticking pins
into butterﬂies and other creatures, tell
them that it is wrong, and if that don’t
stop them—if you prick them a little bit.
with the pin, just enough to show them
how good it feels—I will not ﬁnd fault.
If you ﬁnd ﬁsh kept in glass globes slowly
dying, and you can get permission from
the owner to smash the whole concern, it
will be a good thing for the ﬁsh.

I get a good deal of fun from feeding the
birds in winter. All winter I have from
ﬁfty to a hundred pigeons come to my
window every day for food, some of them
very beautiful, and it gives me a great
deal of pleasure to feed them.

Some time ago,.in warm weather, on
my way home one day I met a little girl”
with a box about as large as a two—quart.
measure, and something in it. I asked
her vhat she had, and she said she had a.

 




 

16 Address by Geo. T. Angell

little wild bird that a man had given her.
I looked in through a hole and saw about
the most sorrowful—looking creature that
I ever saw in my life. I thought what
to do about it, and then said to the little
girl: “Wouldn’t you like to sell me this
little bird?” Well, she said she didn’t
care if she did. “Well,” I said, “what
would you take for this little bird?”
She thought a moment, and said she
would take about ﬁve cents. I gave her
the ﬁve cents, opened the bOX and let
the happy bird ﬂy away to its relations,
and I have enjoyed the thought of it
ever since.

When I was a boy I didn’t like the
looks of the earthworms that we often see
in the roads and on the sidewalks after a
shower, but since I have found that they
are very useful in gardens, when I ﬁnd
one likely to be trodden on I stoop down,
pick it up, toss it over into somebody’s
garden, and tell it to go to work.

In this section of country I suppose
that ninety-nine snakes out of every hun-
dred are perfectly harmless. The great
teacher Agassiz used to carry them
around in his pockets and frighten his
wife badly with-them sometimes.

I asked the boys in, one of the schools
one day if any boy could tell me what
they put blinders on horses for? One
boy held up his hand. “Well,” I said,
“why is it?” “So that the horses can’t see
”behind them,” he answered. “Yes,” I
said, “and perhaps when the boys and
girls ride out together they don’t want
the horses looking around at them all the
time, but tens of thousands of people have
lost their lives because horses couldn’t see

behind them. ”

The horse With tight blinders doesn’t
know when you are ready to start.

He doesn’t know whether you are on
the step or in the carriage, and so he
starts too soon—throws you down, gets
frightened, and runs away and somebody

 

to Boston Public Schools.

gets killed; or he hears a thundering
noise behind him and can’t see what’s
the matter, and does just what I should
do if I heard a thundering noise behind
me and I didn’t know what it was about,
and my eyes were covered up,——I have
no doubt I should run away as fast as I
could.

In Russia, which is the great horse
country of Europe,—I think there are
very likely more horses there than in all
the rest of Europe,—they never put
blinders on a horse, and a shying horse is
almost unheard of.

Blinders were invented by an English
nobleman to cover up the defect of a
wall—eyed horse, and then they were
found to be good places to put on the
coats of arms of the nobility, and so they
came into fashion, just like the fashion
of wearing dead birds on ladies’ bonnets,
and the beautiful eyes of horses were
covered up because the nobility cared more
for their coats of arms than they did for
their horses’ eyes.

There is another thing that is much
more cruel than blinders, and that is the
tight check-rein, that draws a horse’s head
away back like this.

If a boy or a man has a load to push or
draw he wants to lean forward and put
his head down, and it would be very
cruel to make him pull or push with his
head tied back.

I t is just as cruel for a horse as for a boy
or man.

Some ﬁve hundred veterinary surgeons
or horse doctors in Great Britain have
signed a paper condemning tight check-
reins. You should either take off the
check—rein entirely, or wait until the
horse is pulling uphill and then let him
put his head down where he wants to, and
lengthen out the check—rein to that point,
and then it will be all right.

I tell the boys never to invite a girl to
ride without ﬁrst letting down the tight

 

 

w‘

 

 




 

 

 

Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools. 17

check—rein, and I tell the girls to tell the
boys they will not go until the tight
check-rein is let down, so that the horse
can travel comfortably.

In four monthsI passed in Paris I
never saw but one team overloaded, and
then as soon as‘the driver found it out
he talked to his horses as kindly as if
they had been his children and went
right off and got another horse.

We should always remember that some-
times horses are sick and tired just like
human beings; sometimes they have been
worked too hard; sometimes the hostler has
forgotten to feed or water them; and we
shouldn’t expect an old horse who has
worked all his lifetime for his master to do
as much work as he did when he was young.

Horses’ stomachs are small, and they
like to be fed and watered often. I remem-
ber how I used to see the drivers in
Switzerland and other European coun-
tries cut slices of bread from their own
luncheons and give to their horses.

When you give a horse an apple or a
slice of bread, always feed him from the
palm of the hand, so that he will not bite
your ﬁngers.

When you take a horse to a strange
stable always be sure the hostler feeds him.
You just go out and see that he has the oats
that you pay for, and the water. I read a
while ago of a horse that, after being
driven nearly all day, was tied up in a
stable twenty-nine hours without a particle
of food or water, through the carelessness
of the hostler.

In cold, frosty weather never put the bits
into the horse’s mouth until you have
warmed them, unless you have tried them
ﬁrst on your own tongue. If they don’t
take the skin off your tongue, then you
can try them on the horse’s tongue.

If in cold weather you ever ﬁnd on the
street a horse with his blanket off, always
either put it on again and tuck it under
the harness, or get somebody to do it;

 

and when you ﬁnd a horse has too much
load, take hold and push,—every little
helps.

When in old age a horse’s teeth don’t
chew well he can be taken to a horse
doctor and the teeth made right.

There is one thing which girls and
women are apt to do in driving, and that
is to keep twitching the reins,—twitch,—-
twitch,——twitch. There’s hardly anything
more annoying to a sensitive horse than to
keep twitching the reins.

But one of the most cruel things done in
Boston is to tie up horses in stables and
keep them several days without exercise.
A horse or a dog needs a run every day
just as much as a boy or a man does;
and it’s just as cruel to tie a horse or dog
up in a stable several days without exer-
cise as it would be to tie a boy or a man
up in the same way.

You can do a great deal of good for
horses if you will always make it a rule
that you will never ride after a poor, tired
horse when you can help it. When you
are going to take an omnibus or a herdic or
a carriage, always look at the horses, and
when you see a poor one, say, “No, sir, I
don’t like the looks of your horses: they
look poor, their heads are tied up with
those tight check-reins; no, I will take the
other carriage, the horses look better.”
Boycott all the poor horses. If everybody
will do this, it will not pay to have poor-
looking horses, and all the poor—looking
ones will be fed more and worked less until
they look better. '

I tell all the boys and girls, when they
see a real miserable looking horse on the
street, one that they really pity, if they
will only say, in the kindest tone, four
words so the driver can hear them, “I
pity that horse,” that horse will be better
taken care of very soon, for no man will
care to drive a poor horse many days
through the streets of a city where sixty
thousand boys and girls are ready to tell

 

 




 

l8

him, every time he stops, that they pity
his horse.

 

And now I come last to the most import—
ant thing I have to tell you, and that is
that all these lower creatures know the tones
of your voice, and they know just as well
as you do when you talk kindly.

General Walker, president of the In—
stitute of Technology, told me a while
ago that he had just come home from
California, and while there he saw per-
haps the most valuable lot of horses in
the United States. They all belonged to
EX—Governor and United States Senator
Leland Stanford, and were all so gentle
they would come up and put their noses
on his shoulder and in his face; and he
said to the Governor, “How do you cona
trive to have your horses so gentle?” The
Governor said, “I never allow a man to
speak unkindly to one of my horses, and
if a man swears at one of my horses I dis-
charge him on the spot.”

To show how this power of the voice
extends through the whole animal crea—
tion, I will say that I know one of the
best ladies in Massachusetts, who lives
within ﬁve miles of this school—house.
She had, a few years ago, a beautiful
canary bird which she dearly loved, and
to which she had never spoken an unkind
word in her life.

One Sunday the church organist was
away, and she stopped after church to
play the organ for the Sunday-school.

In consequence of this, the dinner had
to be put off an hour, and, when she got
home her good husband was very hun—
gry, and as the girls may ﬁnd out some
time, when husbands get very hungry they
sometimes get cross, and he spoke to her
unkindly.

The things were put on and they sat

 

Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools.

down in silence at the table, and pres-
ently the bird began to chirp at her as it
always had to attract her attention. To
shame her husband for having spoken so,
she turned to the bird, and for the ﬁrst
time in her life spoke to it in a most violent
and angry tone. In less than ﬁve min-
utes there was a ﬂuttering in the cage.
She sprang to the cage—the bird was

dead.

When I was at New Orleans, winter
before last, Mrs. Hendricks, the wife of
the late Vice—President of the United
States, came there. And she said that
she once killed a mocking bird in the
same way. It annoyed her by loud
singing. To stop it she spoke in a vio—
lent tone, and pretended to throw some-
thing at it, and within ﬁve minutes it
was dead.

 

What can girls do ?

They can manage the boys pretty well
when they set out to—not always their
own brothers—but almost everybody’s else
brothers.

They can, not only do thousands of
kind acts themselves, but they can make
the boys do them, and men do them.

A heavily loaded team was stalled in
a deep mud hole just in front of one of
the Chicago school—houses, and the man
was whipping his horses furiously. A
gentleman came along and said, “If you
strike those horses again I’ll have you
arrested.” The man went right on whip-
ping his horses and threatened to whip
the gentleman. Just then school let out,
and the girls came pouring out, and one
little girl wearing the badge of the “Band
of Mercy” stepped out to the edge of the
sidewalk, and simply said in a kind tone:
“Please, sir, don’t whip the horses any
more. I belong to the ‘Band of Mercy,"
and this is my badge.” The man never

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools. 19

struck another blow, but waited until
another team came along and helped
him out.

What can the boys do if rightly trained ?
Some years ago I had the pleasure of ad—
dressing, in one of the beautiful halls of
that city, the police of Philadelphia.

Eight hundred stalwart men, with
thirty—two ofﬁcers, marched in, all in
their best uniforms, with badges, and
belts, and clubs, and probably revolvers
in their pockets, to listen to a talk about
kindness to animals.

It was a splendid audience.

And yet when I look over a school like
this, I think it may be a vastly more im-
portant one.

Why?

A few years ago I was invited to ad-
dress the legislature of Vermont, and
just before I went in to speak in the hall
of the House of Representatives, the
governor took me by the hand and said:
" Do you know that when you was a
young man and used to come up here
ﬁshing, I was the boy that went with you
and carried the ﬁsh and bait .9”

“ No, sir, I didn’t know it.”

“I was the boy.”

Now he was the governor of Vermont.

A few weeks later I called upon the
President of the United States at Wash—
ington to ask him to put into his message
to Congress something about the cruel
transportation of cattle, and one of the
ﬁrst things he said to me was: “When I
went to school I once heard a talk about
kindness to animals which I have never
forgotten, and now if you will write out
what you want, and it suits me, it shall
go into my message to Congress.”

I wrote it out, and he put almost every
word I had written into his message.

More than ﬁfty years ago, in a moun-
tain town of New Hampshire, a teacher
put into the hand of a little boy some

 

 

 

verses on kindness to animals. Fifteen
years ago (in 1870) I went to the great
city of Chicago to try to form a humane
society there. It was then one of the
most cruel cities in the world. Two
horses were permitted to starve to death
in one of the stables, just about the time
I came there. A cow run over by a
locomotive engine in the south partof
the city, and both her fore feet cut off,
was permitted to lie in a public street
twentyjour hours before anybody had
mercy enough to put her out of misery.

I went out to the great stock-yards
just outside of the city and saw them
haul with iron hooks the dead and dying
animals off the cars.

In one morning that I was there they
hauled over eight hundred off the (cars. I
saw the men standing there with great
spike poles weighing eight and ten
pounds, with iron spikes in the end as
long as half my ﬁnger, loading cattle.
Sometimes they would push these spikes
through the hide of a single animal thirty
or forty times when. the poor creature
was trying to do its best. I said to one
of them, “I should think there was dan—
ger of putting out their eyes.” He said,
“ They didn’t care if they did.”

Every Saturday night the water was
shut off from those stock—yards until
Monday morning. During the long, hot
Sundays of summer, while the church
bells were ringing, and the Christian
people of Chicago were gathering in the
churches to pray for God’s mercy, thous-
ands of cattle and other dumb creatures
were standing in those great stock—yards,
within sight of those church spires, and
within sound of those Sabbath bells,
from Saturday night till Monday morning
without one drop of water.

Then I went into the city and hired an
ofﬁce, and tried to form a humane society.

With the help of all the daily papers I
got lots of sympathy, but everybody in

 




20

Chicago just then was expecting to make
a great fortune, and wanted all the
money he had and all he could borrow
And so, after I had spent out of my own
pocket about six hundred dollars, I had
to come out in the papeis and say I must
give it up as a bad job, and go back to
Boston, and let all this terrible cruelty
go on.

Then came to the front the lzttle boy
from New Hampshire.

He was a man now.

He had wandered out to Chicago, be—
come president of its “Board of Trade,”
president of its “Board of Education,”
one of two senators representing it in the

 

Address by Geo. T. Angell to Boston Public Schools.

Illinois Legislature. In a few days he
raised several thousand dollars. He
caused laws to be passed, and now and
in the great future millions of dumb ani—
mals in those stock-yards every year are,
and are to be, fed and watered and pro-
tected from cruelty, largely through the in-
fluence of that little boy whose teacher put
into his little hand more than ﬁfty years
ago some verses on leirulness to animals.

I thank you for the kind attention you
have given me. I Wish you all many
happy years, rnade happier by kind words
and kind acts to those forwhorn I came
here to speak.

 

HUMANE LITERATURE

Published by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

is for sale at 180 Long“ ood

Avenue (P. 0. Address, Fenw ay Station), Boston, at these prices, postpaid:

About the Horse

Don —— His Recollections, Willard A.
Paul, M. D, 274 pp , illus., cloth.
Black Beauty (English) cloth, 20 cents, paper
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 2 cents
each, or ....................... $2.00
The Horse — Treatment of
Diseases, etc.
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5
Care of Horses
The Horse’s Prayer
The Horse’s Prayer large post—card
The Horse’s Prayer, card 1n two colors
The Horse’s Point of View, post— —card.
Advice on Stable Management, card . .
The Checkrein, 8 pages ..............
The Ove)rhead Checkrein Card (two
s1d es

9.35125
cts.

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, illus., $1.25; cloth, 62 cts.small
Only a Dog, or, Our Pet ............ cloth
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post—card $1.00
The Dog — Its Care in Health and
Disease ........................
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3

.60

About the Bird
The Birds of God, Theron Brown
318 pp., illus. ,
The Lady 01 the Robins, cloth, 20 cents paper
Save the Birds, post- -card ............. $1: .30

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos.

2
How atnhe Birds Help the Farmer
About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and
Disease ........................ 3

Humane Education Leaﬂet. N0. 8

“Thedz. Beggar Cat,’ post-card, 50 per

.30

bout Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s A,Quest Ida Kenniston,

150p ....................... boards 58
For Pity’p s pSake, cloth, 20 cts. ........ paper 10
Our Gold Mine at Hollyhurst, cloth,

20 cts. p . 8
The Strike at Shane’s cloth, 20 cts. .paper 7
Jewish and Gentile Methods of Slaugh —

tering Our Food Animals (original

illustrations)
Slaughter-house Reform, by Dr. Rowley,

37 .

cts.
cts .

cts.
cts.
10 cts.
10 cts.

The Cruelties of Trapping
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 16 pp.
Indictment of American Slaughter-
house
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No.
No.

per 100

Humane Education Leaﬂet,
cattle
Hints on the Care of Cows
Humane Education

Humane Stamps, in colors ........ 15 cts. or

“Be Kind to Animals” buttons .75 cts “
Special prices in large quantities, sample free

The Humane Idea, by Francis .

Rowley ........................ cloth 25
Angel] Prize Contest Recitations paper 16
Twelve Lessons on Kindness to Animals$2 00 per
Address to Boston Public Schools . . 2.0
Humane Education. What to Teach and

How to Teach It
Man the Animal’s God
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty
Woman’s Indifference, by Dr. Rowley
Outlines of Study in Humane Education,

100

cts.
cts.
100

Festival pof Tender Mercies
A Talk with the Teacher .40
Condensed Information, pamphlet by President
Rowley, telling how to organize humane societies,
with constitution and by—laws, free upon application
Band of Mercy Buttons
White star on blue ground, with gilt letters and
border, one cent each, 60 cents per 100.
Badges, gold or silver ﬁnish, large.

Scents; ...................... small, 5 cents
“Band of Mercy” pennant .......... 10 cents each
Band of Mercy Register .............. 8 cents each
Songsn of Happy Life (56 pages, words

y) .......................... $3. 00 per 100

Band ofy Mercy Card of Membership” 3.0
How to Form Bands of Mercv 1. 00 “ “

No order by mail ﬁlled for less than ﬁve cents.

The above can be had 1n small numbers at the same
rates. Special prices on large orders to be shipped
by freight or express.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Anima 8.

Terms: -—One dollar per year, postage free; clubs
of ﬁve and over, 50 cents, special price to teachers.

Manuscripts and all communications intended for
Our Dumb Animals should be addressed to the Editor,
180 LongWood Avenue, Boston, lVlass.

 




