ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

Adam Roberts Telephone (202) 337—2332
Research Associate Facsimile (202) 338-9478

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE Telephone: (202) 337-2332

P.O. Box 3650 Fax: (202)338-9478
Washington, DC 20007-0150 email: awi@animalwelfare.com

For Immediate Release . Contact: AdamM Roberts
October 31, 1996 Cathy Liss

SCIENTISTS REJECT ANIMAL WELFARE

One man demonstration Outside Minneapolis Convention Center Nov. 4 & 5
to protest AALAS bias against the humane views of animal protection organizations

When the 47th National Meeting of the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science
(AALAS) opens Monday in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the Animal Welfare Institute (AWI), a dues
paying AALAS member devoted to the humane care of animals used in labs, will be
conspicuously absent from the convention hall -- barred from exhibiting by the AALAS Board
of Trustees.

Undeterred by the AALAS rejection, Adam M. Roberts, research associate at the Institute, will
be outside the convention center Monday and Tuesday to protest exclusion from the exhibit hall
and inform meeting participants and the general public about vital animal welfare issues.

AALAS ofﬁcials claim that the Institute is prohibited from exhibiting -- even after submitting the
$1,500 booth fee -- because its representatives are unwilling to sign a strict endorsement of
AALAS’s positions regarding animal use in experiments. AWI Executive Director, Cathy Liss,
responded: "It appears that AALAS is unwilling to progress beyond the status quo when it comes
to the care of animals used in laboratories. AWI merely encourages setting higher institutional
goals for animal care. AALAS directors are clearly engaging in a well—orchestrated maneuver
to omit educational information about animal well-being. Such censorship is inexcusable".

AWI President, Christine Stevens, added: "It's rather ironic that AALAS claims to be 'committed
to the principles of humane care and treatment of laboratory animals...’ and that it 'shall provide
a medium for the exchange of scientiﬁc information on all phases of laboratory animal use', yet
it is unwilling to facilitate its members’ access to certain published scientiﬁc materials that
advocate a heightened level of animal protection".

AWI was founded in 1951 to reduce the sum total of pain and fear inﬂicted on animals by
humans. Toward that goal, it publishes books, ﬂiers and other educational materials on the
humane treatment of animals (including those used in testing), alternatives to animal models, and
ways to provide laboratory animals an enriched environment. Prohibiting availability of such
material undermines the integrity of scientiﬁc, academic and intellectual dialogue that AALAS
professes to pursue.

###

PRINT ED ON RECYCLED PAPER

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE Telephone: (202) 337-2332

P 0 Box 3650 _ Fax: (202) 338-9478
Washington, DC 20007-0150 email: awi@animalwelfare.com

October 3, 1996

H. Hugh Harroff, Jr., President

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science
c/o Laboratory Animal Resource Division

Clinical Investigations

1255 Wilford Hall Loop

Lackland AFB, TX 78236—53 19

Facsimile: 210—670v6053

Dear Dr. Harroff:

We were dismayed to receive your letter informing us that the American Association
of Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS) Board of Trustees voted 19 to 1 against
providing the Animal Welfare Institute (AWI) with complimentary booth space for
the AALAS Annual Meeting this year in Minneapolis.

AWI is not an anti—vivisection organization; the Institute's goals include the humane
treatment of laboratory animals and the use of non—animal testing methods. Our
previous exhibits at AALAS have been wellvreceived. Though AWI is a small nonv
profit with a limited budget, we felt it was important to exhibit at the meeting and
distribute our material and books free of charge. Therefore, we submitted $1500 to
AALAS to purchase commercial exhibit space at the meeting. Unfortunately, our
application and our check were returned to us.

We are being refused an exhibit because we cannot sign AALAS's Position Statement
on the "Use of Animals in Bio—Medical Research." We disagree with the statement
for the following reasons:

1. We do not endorse the NIH Guide because we are committed to a higher
level of animal care.

2. We do not endorse AAALAC because our previous review of AAALAC
accredited experimental facilities has revealed the apparent failure of many of these
institutions to comply with the minimum requirements of federal law (Animal

Welfare Act).

PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER

 




.2.

3. We do not believe that "it is inconceivable that animal experimentation can
be replaced in the foreseeable future...". This is an unnecessarily narrow approach to
the issue of animal use. The search for alternatives is already mandated by law, and
all scientists who experiment on animals should be applying the "3 R's" (replacement,
reduction and refinement) so that fewer animals will be used.

The Association's position states: "[AALAS] shall provide a medium for the exchange
of scientific information on all phases of laboratory animal use." This appears in
AALAS's own constitution, though it now seems AALAS seeks to restrict and
narrowly define the scientific information which is exchanged.

AALAS says that it "is committed to the principles of humane care and treatment of
laboratory animals..." yet the organization has acted to prevent organizations

committed to improving animal care from being heard.

I hope that the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science will reconsider
its decision and permit the Animal Welfare Institute to exhibit.

Sincerely,

Cathy A. Liss

Executive Director

/ cal

cc: Michael R. Sondag
Executive Director, AALAS

 




AMERICAN
ASSOCIATION FOR
LABORATORY
ANIMAL

SCIENCE

SERVING THE SCIENTIFIC
COMMUNITY SINCE 1950

OFFICERS

President
H. Hugh Harroff,jr.
San Antonio, TX

Vice President
Lynn C. Anderson
Rahway, NJ

Vice President-Elect
Mary 8. Bean
Dallas, TX

Past President
Jerry Fineg
Austin, TX

Secretary/Mr
Ralph E. Homickel
Louisville, KY

TRUSTEES

 

District One
john W. Cumming
Congers. NY

Kimberly A. Hutchinson
Wallingford, CT
District Two

Mark S. Garrett
Collegeville, PA

Michael G. Roell
Somerville, NJ
District Three
Bruce W. Kennedy
Ellicott City, MD

Eileen M. Morgan
Rockville, MD

District Four
Sandra S. Manetta
Tampa. FL
Margaret 5. Rent:
Columbia, SC

District Five

Robert C. Voigt
Cleveland. OH
Linda R. Zehler
Oxford, OH
District Six

Judith M. Dennison
Springﬁeld, IL
Ronald E. Larson
Madison. WI

District Seven

Ken N. Gray

Houston. TX

Dale A. Weiss
Smithville. TX

District Eight

Peggy Murphy-Hackley
Palo Alto. CA.

Ronald Orta
Snohomish. WA

 

Executive Director

Michael R. Sondag
Assistant Executive Director
Sarah J. Dunlap

70 Timber Creek Drive
Cordova, TN 38018-4233
(901) 754-8620

fax: (901) 753-0046

e-mail: infoGaalasorg

aw;

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

H. Hugh Harmff, In, DVM

Chief. Lab Animal Resource Division
Clinical Investigations

1255 Wilford Hall Loop

Lackland AFB, TX 78236-5319

August 6, 1996

Phone (210) 670-7289
Fax (210) 670—6053
e-mail harroff@whmc—lalb.af.mil

Ms. Cathy Liss

Executive Director

Animal Welfare Institute

PO. Box 3650

Washington, DC. 20007-0150

Dear Ms. Liss

The request from the Animal Welfare Institute (AWI) for complimentary booth space
in the exhibition area of the National Meeting of AALAS to be held in Minneapolis,
Minnesota during the ﬁrst week of November, 1996, was referred to the AALAS
Board of Trustees for a vote by mail ballot. We have now received and tallied all of
the mail ballots and the results were as follows:

OppOsed to allowing the AWI complimentary booth space -- --------- 19
In favor of allowing the AWI complimentary booth space -------------- 1

In accordance, I must inform you that AALAS will not provide complimentary booth
space to the AWI at the Minneapolis meeting.

It is worthy of note that several AALAS trustees made speciﬁc reference to the fact
that the AWI was not only unwilling to afﬁliate with AALAS, but particularly, that the
AWI was not willing to sign statements and forms required of all other exhibitors at
the national meeting. While the Board understands the position of the AWL there is a
general feeling that there should be no exceptions made to what the Board views as a
reasonable policy for the AALAS meeting. '

Sincerely,

H. Hug arroff, J r.
President

cc:_ Michael ,pSondag J
” Sarah Dunlap l“

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE Telephone: (202) 337-2332

P 0 Box 3650 , Fax: (202) 338-9478
Washington, DC 20007-0150 email: awi@igwpcoorg

July 18, 1996

Mr. Michael RaSondag, Executive Director

American Association for Laboratory
Animal Science

70 Timber Creek Drive

Cordova, TN 38018-4233

Facsimile: 901-753-0046

Dear Mr - Sondag:

I just spoke with Dr. Harroﬂ', and he suggested I send you this second request
for complimentary exhibit space at the AALAS Annual Meeting. This letter is
for distribution to the Board of Trustees so they can make a decision by mail
ballot regarding our request.

The stated purpose of the Animal Welfare Institute (AWI), a non-proﬁt
educational organization, is "to reduce the sum total of pain and suffering
inﬂicted on animals by people". Our goals include the humane treatment of
laboratory animals and the use of non-animal testing methods. A detailed
description of our position, "Animal Welfare Institute Policy on the Use of
Vertebrate‘Animals for Testing and Experimentation" can be found in the back
of the AWI book, Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, and I have

enclosed a copy for the information of the Trustees.

The Animal Welfare Institute has not sought an afﬁliation with AALAS because
the scope of issues that we cover extends well beyond laboratory animals.
Other issues include maintaining the ban on commercial whaling, ending use of
steel jaw Ieghold traps, protecting endangered and threatened species and
reforming intensive conﬁnement of farm animals.

We are requesting complimentary booth space because we Operate on a very
small budget. If our request is granted, we would like to distribute free
literature including our newly revised book, Comfortable Quarters for
Laboratory Animals, and a new book that we are just completing on animal
dealers including those that supply dogs, cats and primates for research.

PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER

 




The Animal Welfare Institute was pleased to have been provided with exhibit
space at the AALAS meeting in Baltimore last year. Much interest was shown in
our booth, and we distributed hundreds of complimentary copies of our books
and other literature. The Institute would greatly appreciate the opportunity to
exhibit at the AALAS Annual Meeting in Minneapolis .

If you are in need of any further information, please let me know. I look
forward to hearing from you.

Sincerely,

Executive Director

/cl

Enclosure

 




 

 

 

ANIMAL
WELFARE
INSTITUTE
POLICY '

on the use

of Vertebrate Animals
for Experimentation
and Testing

Abstract: Animals should be used for
experimentation only 1) when there is no known
feasible alternative; 2) after review of a carefully
designed experiment based on knowledge of
existing literature on the subject; 3) using the
smallest possible number of animals 4) of the most
suitable species, 5) maintained in an optimum
environment, 6) under the care of trained,
sympathetic personnel, and 7) preventing pain,
fear, and anxiety by judicious experimental design
and generous use of anesthetic, analgesic and
tranquilizing drugs. 8) Endangered species should
not be used; 9) threatened species should only be
used for experiments conforming with
requirements for human experimentation.

 

Animals should not be subjected to any pain,
fear or anxiety which can be avoided. This means:

1) If other equally effective methods of
experimentation or testing are known to be
available they should be used in preference to any
experiment likely to cause pain or fear to an
animal.

2) If the experiment or test can be conducted
on a fully anesthetized animal it should be, and, if
injury is caused, the animal should be destroyed
without regaining consciousness, OR:

3) If it is imperative that the animal survive the
injury inflicted, sufﬁcient pain-relieving drugs must
be administered to prevent each animal from
feeling pain.

4) Nursing care must be provided to all animals
following surgery or other injurious interventions.

5) Competent staff should be available at all
times, day and night, weekends and holidays to
care for experimental animals. They must make
rounds for the purpose of ascertaining the state of
the animals’ health and well-being. They must be
authorized to dispense pain-relieving or tranquil-
izing drugs or, where specified, to phone the investi-
gator or director for such authorization with regard
to specific animals at any time. -

6) Before undertaking any experiment involving
animals, the experimental design must be reviewed
by a committee including a senior scientist in the
discipline involved, a veterinarian familiar with the
treatment, care and management of the species of
animal involved, and a person primarily concerned
with the welfare of animals. Purpose of the review
is to ensure I) that it is not feasible to substitute
for the use of animals, 2) that the least possible
distress and injury is caused, 3) that excessive
numbers of animals are not used, and 4) that
appropriate anesthetics, analgesics and tranquil-
izers are employed if needed. In those special cir-
cumstances in which the investigator feels his re-
search would be marred by general anesthesia or
use of narcotic alkaloids, this should be given
special scrutiny by the review committee, and, if
necessary, by a further impartial authority. The
committee must also ensure that no experiment is
undertaken by a person untrained in the methods
to be employed and that the kind of animals
selected are the ones most likely to develop the
new knowledge or test result being sought. _

If a disagreement between the investigator and

 

 




 

the institutional committee cannot be resolved, and
the design of the experiment is questioned either
1) on the basis of inadequate preparation and
review of the literature and sound scientific
conception, or 2) on the basis of the humane
considerations listed above, the proposal should be
submitted to an objective committee or arbitrator
who is not associated with the institution and a
decision taken based on evidence requested or
submitted to the committee or arbitrator.

7) No endangered species should be used for
experimental purposes. Threatened species should
only be used under constraints which prevent risk
of death or serious injury as required in human
experimentation. Capture and transportation of
wildlife for laboratory use must be subject to
regulation and inspection both nationally and
internationally.

8) The great majority of experimental animals
are bred for the purpose. This is the preferred
method of acquiring animals. They should be raised
in facilities whose standards of housing and care
are equal to those described in this statement for
animals under experiment. Dogs and cats, for use
in experiments under full anesthesia from which
they are not allowed to recover but pass directly
into death, may be obtained from amorig animals
already condemned to death in pounds because no
homes can be found for them. This simply
constitutes a change in the place where euthanasia
is conducted. Transportation and handling of these
and all other animals must be humane, providing
the same high standards of sanitation, ventilation
and temperature control as for animal quarters.
Transportation should be conducted by the most
rapid means feasible. The size of the cage must
permit normal postural adjustments for any animal.

9) Euthanasia must be considered a major
responsibility. Animals should be killed by
anesthetic overdose and their inability to recover
ensured by surgical means. No animal should be
discarded without holding it long enough after
death to observe rigor mortis.

Housing of experimental animals must be so
constructed and maintained as to provide for the
activities natural to the species. Enclosures or
cages must be sufﬁciently large and well
constructed to permit burrowing, climbing,
perching, swinging, walking, stretching, rolling, or
other normal actions ordinarily seen in the species
when not confined. Any exceptions to such basic
rules for housing for purposes of a particular
experiment must be considered as part of the

experimental design and reviewed as outlined '
above.

If funds are not available for housing any
particular species comfortably, providing a diet
which will maintain optimum health, providing
veterinary and nursing care following surgical or
other adverse experimental intervention and
providing high standards of sanitation, ventilation
and temperature control at all times, the
experimentation should not be undertaken.

Well trained staff who like animals and
sympathize with their feelings are essential. They
must be observant and make their observations
known to the director of the laboratory or other
person with authority to act in all cases. For
example, moribund animals should be euthanized.
Suffering animals should be, depending on the
situation and the nature of the work, euthanized,
anesthetized, sedated or otherwise treated to
prevent suffering.

Experimental animals, sacrificed for human
benefit, should be provided optimum living
conditions before, during, and after their use. This
is a minimum repayment for their services—the
only one which can be made.

Painful animal experiments should not be
conducted for any frivolous or non-essential
purpose; therefore, new products should be tested
to the greatest extent possible using substitutes for
living, conscious vertebrates; and where known
substances are being evaluated, safe and painless
human testing should be substituted, as, for
example, in the way that new soaps, creams, and
other cosmetics are tested by leading
manufacturers. Where obviously harmful effects
can be predicted by the chemical or physical
properties of a new product, for example a strong
acid, it should be automatically given a warning
label without requiring further animal testing.

All institutions that use research or test animals
should make an active effort to develop means of
replacing animals wherever possible. Funds saved
by adOption of substitute methods should be
applied to improving the quality of food, care, and
housing for animals used.

Tests of products in different countries should
be coordinated to eliminate useless duplication.
Experiments or'tests should not be carelessly
repeated merely because it is easier to use animals
than to search the literature or because a
competitor will not release his test data.
Duplication of an experiment or test should be
undertaken only for a genuine scientiﬁc reason.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

Martyn Colbeck is a world renowned, free-lance wildlife photographer. In
cover: the spring of 1987, he filmed all of the behavioral sequences used in 'The
Rhino War” shown by the BBC and in a National Geographic special. This ﬁlm received
two Emmy nominations. In 1990, he and elephant authority Cynthla Moss followed a single
family of elephants over a period of two years, resulting in a film shown on natlonal televrsion
and a book, Echo of the Elephants (see AWI Quarterly, Vol.42, No.1). In 1993, Colbeck
received the “BBC Wildlife Photographer of the Year” award. His cover photo shows two
elephant sisters. Young female elephants love to take care of a new baby in the family. They
stand over the calves, get them if they wander off, and rush to their aid at the slightest cry.

 

 

 

 

 

Directors
Madeleine Bemelmans
Jean Wallace Douglas

David 0. Hill
Freebom G. J ewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Roger L. Stevens
Aileen Train
Cynthia Wilson

Ofﬁcers
Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Freebom G. Jewett, Jr., Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, MD.
F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee
Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. - Mexico
T.G. Antikas, D.M.V. - Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain - Bangladesh
Angela King - United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru - Kenya
Godofredo Stutzin — Chile
Mrs. Fumihiko Togo - Japan
Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. - Denmark
Alexey Yablokov, Ph.D. — Russia

Staff
Brian Clarke, Administrative Assistant
Jennifer Coates, Publications Coordinator
John Gleiber, Assistant to the Officers
Diane Halverson, Farm Animal Consultant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Coordinator
Cathy Liss, Executive Director
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta N ilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Jennifer Pike, Administrative Assistant
Viktor Reinhardt, D.M.V., Ph.D.,
Laboratory Animal Consultant
Adam Roberts, Research Associate
Rick Spill, Marine Mammal Research Analyst

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Norway Seeks to Overturn Whale Meat Trading Ban

by Craig Van Note

The Norwegian government, already violating the international ban on commercial whal-
ing, is now attempting to overturn the global ban on trading whale products.

Norway has petitioned the Convention on International Trade in find-angered Species
(CITES) to downlist minke whales in the northeast Atlantic from Appendix I to Appendix
II. This would allow Norway to export thousands of tons of whale meat to Japan. where the
price is more than 10 times what the meat sells for in Norway. The Ill-nation treaty
organization will consider the Norwegian demands at the biennial CITES meeting in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida in November.

Norwegian Prime Minister Gro Brundtland. who portrays herself as the “Green
Queen” of world leaders, has tarnished her well-crafted image by openly defying the 8-year-
old ban on commercial whaling. The International Whaling (,‘ommission has repeatedly
condemned Norway’s whaling piracy; earlier this year the IWC refused to adopt a
Norwegian proposal to rescind the ban. Why is Norway at odds with the rest of the world?
Observers say domestic politics are driving the deviant whaling policy. The fishing
communities ofthe far north, which are in a depression because ofthe collapse of fish stocks,
have a disproportionate vote in Norway's parliament. The government. desperate to
appease the fishermen and seeking to shift blame from disastrous fishery management
policies, has attacked the whaling ban and promised a return to large-scale whaling. Ignored
is the fact that Norway’s coastal whaling accounts for less than I W of the fishery economy.

Brundtland cynically declared N orway‘s defiance of the whaling ban in order to help
her reelection two years ago. Now she faces a new whaling crisis: the European Union,
which Norway has petitioned to join. has flatly rejected Brundtland's demand for an
exemption for whaling. The EU requires that its members comply with international
environmental treaties, including both the IWC whaling ban and the CITES ban on trading
in whale products. Indeed, Spain and Portugal willingly halted their commercial whaling
when they joined the European Community in 1986.

. . The European Union bases much of its wildlife protection regulations upon CITES
11st1ngs. As long as the minke whale is on Appendix I. the EU also protects the speCiCS-
Norway, therefore, must get a CITES downlist in order to have any chance of selling whale
meat W1thin the EU—or exporting it to the lucrative market in Japan.

. Norway portrays its whaling as “coastal" and “small-boat." attempting to create an
111u31on of artisanal fishing in the foggy fjords. But the fact is that the whaling is conducted
by large fishing vessels travelling far out to sea for days or weeks and usually in international
waters—to hunt down the whales, which are winched on board for butchering. Most of the
whale meat is sold in Norway’s commercial meat markets. In recent years. much has
apparently been smuggled to Japan in violation of Norwegian and Japanese laws. as W611 35
CITES. A year ago, 3.5 tons of minke whale meat labelled “frozen shrimp" was diSCOVered
at Oslo alrport en route to South Korea. which is a popular entrepot for contraband destined
was an employee of the head of the Norwegian Whaling ASSOCiation'

 

Clalg Van Note IS Executive Vice President of the Monitor Consortium.

 

 

 

 




 

SUMMER 1994 VOLUME 43, NUMBER 3

 

PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007 phone: 202-337-2332 fax: 202-338-9478 email: awi@igc.apc.org

 

 

 

Table of Contents

Norway Seeks to Overturn Whale Meat Trading Ban 2
Russian Ranger Brigades Patrol Nature Reserves to Save

the Siberian Tiger 4
Stopping Illegal Wildlife Trade—Making CITES Work 5

More Ports of Entry and Less Government Inspection

Open the Way for Wildlife Crime 5
African Elephants—The Success of the CITES Appendix I Ban 6
Goffin’s Cockatoo—Again in Jeopardy 7
Proposed CITES Listing Criteria Will Threaten Species 9
The Northern Hemisphere’s Penguin: Dead and Gone 9
Endangered Species: The Truth 10

Animal Protection Threatened by World Trade Organization 8

Which Whales Are Hunted? A Molecular Genetic Approach to

 

 

Monitoring Whaling 12
Marine Circus Closed —Dolphins Sent to Honduras 12 The endangered chimpanzee is one species that could
Japan and Russia Object to Whale Sanctuary ~ 12 reenter international commercial trade ifa proposed weak-
_ ening of the criteria for listing under the Convention on

. ’ , , , International Trade in Endangered Species is adopted. See

Ann—Horse Tr1pp1ng B111 Enacted 13 a e 9 '
New Michigan Anti-Cruelty Law Passed 13 p g '
New Type of Antifreeze Reduces Risk of Animal Poisoning 13
Mobile Spay/Neuter Clinic on a Roll 13 g
Where Do the Cats for School Dissections Come From? 14 g
Fraud Costs Random Source Dealer $8,000 14 E
Shocking Violations of Federal Law by Laboratory Dog Dealers 15 g
University Renounces Use of Class “B” Dealers 17 g
AWI Exhibition Barred from AALAS Meeting 16 g
Award to be Given for In Vitro Validation 17
Laboratory Livestock 17
Periodical Pleasures 18
How to Wage a Guerrilla War for Reform 18
Joey, The Story of a Baby Kangaroo 18
Tracking the Vanishing Frogs: An Ecological Mystery 19
Letters of a Traveler, 1834 19

Carolina Biological Supply Company, where this cat was
18 photographed, was assessed a civil penalty of $2 ,5 00 for
20 violating the Animal Welfare Act. See page 14.

Animal Advocate Clarence Long
Acting Out a Change

 




 

 

 

 

 

Russian Ranger Brigades Patrol Nature Reserves to Save the Siberian Tiger

by Steven R. Galster

   

Tracked easily through the deep snow of the
Russian Far East, the Amur or Siberian tiger
was hit hard by commercial poachers again
this winter, pushing the earth’s largest cat a
big step closer to extinction in the wild.
Russian authorities estimate they may have
lost 20-25 percent of their tigers between
November and March alone, leaving the
current number as low as 150-200. Most
experts agree that if this trend continues, the
Siberian tiger may, for all practical pur-
poses, disappear from the wild within five
years. Some Russian authorities, pointing to
their country’s economic situation and tenu-
ous wildlife enforcement structure, give this
great predator only three years at best, un—
less political pressure on tiger bone con-
suming countries continues and support for
anti-poaching efforts are stepped up imme-
diately.

Some Russian authorities and wildlife
groups have heeded that warning and are
teaming up in the Russian Far East to try to
stem the tide of commercial poaching, which
is devastating not only the Siberian tiger but
also bears, deer, seals, and other species whose body parts are being
sought for a burgeoning trade in traditional Asian medicines.

Before perestroika and the subsequent opening of the Sim-
Soviet border, tiger poachers were held at bay. Commercial trade
channels between the Soviet Far East and other countries in demand
of tiger bone, such as China, were restricted. Wildlife rangers
received enough financial and material support to field a “zone
defense” in areas encompassing the tiger’s range. After a period of
intense poaching in the early part of the century, the population of
Amur tigers rose from 30 in 1947 to 370 in 1989.

But post-perestroika Russia, which brought political freedom
for most Russian citizens, has spelled disaster for Russian tigers.
Unregulated and often illegal trade with other countries, spiralling
inﬂation, corruption, and government austerity measures such as
severe budget reductions have contributed to a situation in which
wildlife poachers can make enough money from their illegal hunting
to buy Land Cruisers, vehicles that are very good in the snow and
literally enable the poachers to run circles around government cars.
The most lucrative of commercial wildlife products have been tiger
skins and bones. A whole dead tiger can fetch more than $30,000 on
the black market in Taiwan or China. Until recently, little was being
done to stop this illegal trade, which has driven tiger populations
worldwide to their lowest levels ever.

On August ninth, President Clinton imposed limited economic
sanctions against Taiwan for its illegal trade in tiger parts, and
signalled China and South Korea that the US would continue moni-
toring their progress in enforcing the international tiger trade ban.
This was a historic decision, since it is the first time the United States
has imposed sanctions on another country under the Pelly Amend-
ment. Several weeks after the announcement, a little known but
significant announcement was made in the Russian city of Ussurisk.

Standing in front of a ceremonial burning of confiscated tiger

4

. . s c .

An Operation Amba ranger displays guns and
snares seized from tiger poachers.

bones and skins in Ussurisk, located on the
edge of the taiga in Primorsky Territory,
Commander Vladimir Shetinin and 16 rang-
ers launched “Operation Amba,” the Rus-
sian government’s new anti-poaching pro-
gram. The tiger is not mentioned directly
but is referred to with reverence as “Amba,”
meaning “Great Sovereign.” Outfitted with
new uniforms, equipped with new vehicles,
but still short on money for fuel and radios,
Amba has begun operation. Consisting of
15 special rangers, a deputy, and a com-
mander, it aims to reduce poaching of the
tiger through a two-fold strategy: dispatch-
ing patrols quickly to poaching problem
areas, and conducting investigations in cit-
ies and border areas where wildlife smug-
glers are known to operate. Amba officers
were recruited not only from the park ranger
system but also from the military. Reﬂect-
ing the post-Cold War conversion of some
military resources to conservation, there
are Amba officers with backgrounds in-
cluding naval intelligence and army special
airborne forces.

Three five-man teams rove constantly through nature reserves
and other areas of Primorsky and Khabarovsky Territories, where
poaching activity is known to be a problem. Once they are equipped
with radios, these brigades will be able to stay in constant touch with
one another and their headquarters in Vladivostok, where their
commander will be collecting and collating information on poach-
ing and wildlife trading activity. Mikhail Bibikov, Chairman of the
Primorsky Territory Ecology Committee, hopes to add a fourth or
fifth team to Amba if he can raise the money.

Community outreach will also play an important part in Opera-
tion Amba’s activities. Gathering information from villages that
border poaching areas, as well as compensating farmers who have
lost livestock to a tiger, are vital to Amba’s success. Amba will also
be the liaison with Russian non—govemmental organizations that
have tiger education and protection programs in progress.

Amba appears to be having a positive impact already, as are
President Clinton’s political measures. Last month, Russian under-
cover agents reported that poachers in Primorsky Krai are staying
clear of tigers, “fearful that they may get caught by the new special
police brigade.” Also, Chinese traders in Ussurisk told the same
agents that while they are still buying and smuggling bear gall and
other items to China, they are afraid to take tiger bone “because of
new penalties regarding possession of tiger parts in their country.”

Amba is still fighting a steep, uphill battle that can only be won
if international efforts continue at the political level—such as Pelly
action—to stamp out the tiger trade, and if more resources are
injected into Amba’s efforts on the ground.

1915199 uaAals

 

Steven R. Galster runs the Global Crimes Research Group and consults for
the Endangered Species Project.

Adapted from the US Fish and Wildlife Service’s Endangered Species
Technical Bulletin, Vol. XIX, N0. 3 (1994).

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Stopping Illegal Wildlife Trade
Making CITES Work
by Peter Knights

The UN Treaty on wildlife trade, the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), has
gained a higher profile in recent years thanks to public and media
interest over the banning of the international ivory trade and increased
public awareness of endangered species issues in general. One of the
treaty’s major successes has been the recruitment of new members.
One hundred and twenty four countries have ratified the treaty with
only a few major trading countries remaining outside the fold.

Results in other areas depress even the most cheery of optimists.
Pro-wildlife trade elements point to CITES’ limited successes and
conclude the answer is to liberalize wildlife trade and call it “sustain-
able use.” The debate over listing criteria (see page 9) has distracted
attention from the issue that will ensure the ultimate success or
failure of the treaty—wildlife law enforcement.

In the past, CITES policy has been one of “creeping compe—
tence”—getting countries to join CITES and then gradually trying
to persuade them to abide by the Convention, even tolerating
persistent major violations to keep them “in the club.” Time is
running out for this approach. We will start losing species, including
tigers, rhinos, leopards, and bears, early in the next century if we do
not start to enforce the treaty. What must be done to realize the goals
of the Convention?

Legislation Recently countries have been asked to review their
domestic laws to see if they adequately implement the treaty. Even
if legislation has been passed, it is all too often ineffective. For
example, penalties for wildlife violations are usually pitifully low.
This enables smugglers to consider fines as an operating expense
rather than a deterrent. Following months of painstaking investiga-
tion, enforcement agencies often see wealthy wildlife dealers walk
away with paltry fines after being convicted for serious violations.

In the past, CITES has shied away from making recommenda—
tions as to what countries should do within their own borders, but
with free trade agreements, like NAFTA and the European Union,
many state borders have become meaningless. Clearly, effective
enforcement must include the option of domestic sales bans, as well
as trade bans. For example, in Asia there are literally tons of ivory
on sale that may or may not have been imported legally before the
worldwide ivory ban. The legality of sale provides a perfect cover
to market continuing illegal imports.

Enforcement Although wildlife dealers net millions of dollars
annually, most developing countries devote scarcely enough re-
sources to issue permits under CITES, let alone carry out proper
scientific monitoring. Enforcement of wildlife law may not even
enter the equation. In wealthy countries, enforcement is normally left
up to Customs or Police. These agencies have higher priorities such
as drugs, arms and violent crime; wildlife is at the bottom of the list.

Wildlife law enforcement is a highly complex task. The degree
of specialization and prioritization—which general enforcement agen-
cies lack—and the need for investigative ability—which most wild-
life agencies do not have—necessitates the formation of new agencies
dealing specifically with the task at hand. Where such agencies have
been set up—South Africa’s Endangered Species Protection Unit, the
Dutch Algemene Inspectie Dienst, and the US Fish and Wildlife
Service’s Division of Law Enforcement—the results have been
impressive. The number of seizures and prosecutions has sharply

risen and major smuggling rings have been broken wide open. Their
work also reveals that wildlife smuggling is part of organized crime,
not just a casual affair conducted by a few individuals. Consequently,
organized and resourced policing is needed to prevent it.

International Cooperation While the smugglers can whisk their
booty around the world using “ﬂags of convenience” and corrupt
officials to launder their ill— gotten gains, law enforcement officers
often have to wait months to get replies to the simplest of requests
for information from abroad. Although the CITES Secretariat’s one
enforcement officer valiantly tries to act as liaison, bureaucracy and
poor communication often confound the process.

The “Lusaka Agreement” is a regional enforcement treaty
between six African countries that is due to be finalized in October.
The agreement is designed to increase enforcement cooperation and
would form a Task Force specializing in investigations that will be
able to pursue poachers across borders. It is hoped that this can be
a model for regional cooperation in other parts of the world.

Public Awareness The general public needs to be kept informed.
Wildlife dealers must know the requirements of CITES and domes-
tic legislation and that violations will no longer be tolerated. They
also must be dissuaded from speculating in species extinction. Rapid
declines in species like elephants, rhinos, and some parrots are
attributable not to direct consumer demand but to stockpiling in
speculation of the future decline of the species. Citizens of exporting
countries must cooperate in the protection of wildlife, and importing
countries desperately need to start trying to manage their excessive
demand for wildlife products.

These requisite elements all demand a political will that has
been lacking to date. If CITES does not come to terms with its
shortcomings, the last twenty years of effort will have been wasted.
We will bid farewell to many of the world’s most beautiful creatures,
knowing that the concept of international wildlife trade “manage-
ment” has been a farce.

 

Peter Knights is a senior investigator for the Environmental Investigation
Agency.

 

More Ports of Entry and Less Government
Inspection Open the Way for Wildlife Crime

' Despite the fact that adequate funding for inspection of incom-
ing wildlife shipments remains unavailable, the US Fish and
Wildlife » Service continues to designate additional ports of
entry for the importation and exportation of wildlife. Portland,
OR and Baltimore, MD were added in 1990 and 1992. The
twelfth port, Boston, MA, was designated on July 28, 1994.

Meantime, there were no inspections of primate shipments
coming into Miami’s busy port. A major dealer, the head of

, Worldwide Primates, was asked in court under oath how many
shipments of primates he imported in 1992 and 1993. He told
the court there were “Approximately 60” shipments and stated,
under further questioning, “When I was present, Your Honor,
there were no inspectors there.”

The Fish and Wildlife Service reports that of the 68,859
wildlife shipments imported into the US in 1991, only 20%
were physically inspected. The estimated value of the 28% of
those that did not “clear” inspection is over $760 million.
Smugglers and poachers are given a wide opportunity to make
huge illegal profits in the absence of any official presence.

 

 

 

 

 




*‘—\
K

‘%a%%a%ﬂ iii ﬂaa%@a%

African Elephants—The Success of the CITES Appendix I Ban

Agreement.” (Lt. Gen. C. S. Tembo. Minister of Tourism, Zambia,

 

 

Ever since the CITES Parties agreed to an international ban on the
ivory trade, insidious attempts by corrupt vested interests have May 1994.) . . . . . . ‘ ‘
sought to overturn it. Dave Currey’s introduction to the Environ- The report begins With a summary history of attempts to

mental Investigation Agency’s (EIA) just—published report, states: regulate the ivory trade before Appendix I. It states:

 

 

 

The Appendix I listing of the African elephant by the Conven-
tion on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) has
dramatically reduced poaching, ivory prices, and markets. Although
there is still some elephant poaching despite the ban, there can be no
doubt that it is a tiny percentage of the 70,000 elephants slaughtered
each year in the decade prior to the Appendix I listing in 1989.

This has been one of the
great successes of recent conser-
vation history. It is hoped that the
achievement it represents will not
be thrown away or undermined
at the cost of the lives of thou-
sands more elephants and at the
expense of African nations and
our global heritage.

The report, entitled Living
Proof, African Elephants, The
Success of the CITES Appendix]
Ban (17 pages, profusely illus—
trated), features direct quotations
from African authorities from
Uganda, Tanzania, Niger, Nige-
ria, Gabon, Cameroon, Zambia,
Angola, Botswana, the Central
African Republic, and provides
information from many addi-
tional countries.

“It is clear that the ban on
trade in ivory has caused the
decline in poaching,” wrote Jean
Hubert Eyi Mbeng, Director of
Wildlife and Hunting, Gabon,
June 1994, in response to EIA’s
request for information. Further
comments from other spokes-
men follow.

“The Appendix I listing...

profits to be made from large Cynthia MOSS-

scale illegal dealing. There is no more interest in commercial
hunting.” (Djoh a Ndiang, Deputy Director of Wildlife, Cameroon,
July 1994.)

“Appendix I... has eased the work of enforcement as little effort
needs to be given to distinguish between legally and illegally
obtained ivory.” (Norbert Mumba, Chief Investigations Officer,
Anti-corruption Commission, Zambia, August 1994.)

“Appendix I has saved elephants from a disaster.” (Dereck
Joubert, Wildlife Films, Botswana, May 1994.)

“The annual value of the illegal international wildlife trade (is
estimated) at US$5 billion, second only in value to the illegal drugs
trade. This gives an idea of the scale of economic robbery of Africa
for the past 30 years, underlining the importance of the Lusaka

6

 

' Mr. Nick” is an adult bull who lives in Amboseli National Park in K cnvu.
has con51derably reduced the He Is one of several hundred elephants studied and known as individuals I) v

CITES made attempts to control the ivory trade, culminating in
the Ivory Control System. devised in I985 and first implemented in
1986. This system required import and export permits to be issued for
ivory, the marking of pieces of ivory over 1 kg. or 20 cm in length,
with unique numbers and records kept of ivory movements. Quotas
were issued country by country. although some were higher than the

entireelephantpopulation ofthe

i V country they applied to. The

loopholes in the system were so

huge that unscrupulous intema—

tional ivory dealers exploited its
weaknesses to the full.

Despite the new attempts
at controls. the CITES Secre-
tariat allowed two crucial am—
nest ies on stockpiles of illegally
acquired ivory in Singapore and
Burundi. neither country hav-
ing any elephants. The stock-
piles. totalling over 350 tonnes,
were marked and registered, pro—
vided with CITES permits and
doubled in value overnight.
Some of the permits were then
used illegally as a cover for
newly acquired poached ivory.
This extraordinary decision by
ClTliS allowed the owners of
the poached ivory to control the
supply and the price of ivory, as
well as making them multi-mil-
lionaires overnight. It is believed
that some of the profits from
this amnesty were used by these
W traders to finance their ivory fac-
‘ , '4 f- tories in Dubai and Ajm'dn in
i further successful attempts to
circuntvent the controls.

()ne of the failures of the
international community was,
and remains. its refusal to ac-
cept that the international ivory
trade is controlled by criminals and gangsters. Triad and Mafia
members are deeply involved in the business. and many ofthem Still
own large stockpiles of ivory worth millions of dollars. It is no dOUbt
their aim to persuade the international community to downlist the
African elephant and renew trade in ivory so they can realize high
prices for their currently deflated spoils front the ivory wars.

intro.) uiuvts

sssswxx

The illegal ivory trade and consumer market do still continue,
but on a vastly reduced scale. with greater risks and lower profltS.
However their existence poses a continuing threat to elephants and
elephant range states. Taiwan and Japan are now the main consumer S

ofivory. and African. European and Asian countries are still used for
transit.

continued on page 7

 

 




 

 

 

 

Elephants, continued from page 6

 

In Japan, “hankos,” the name seals that are used to stamp business
documents, are made of ivory, wood, or stone. Although there is no need to
use ivory for this purpose, it has been heavily promoted. “A number of
seizures of smuggled ivory have revealed cut blocks clearly destined for the
hanko market.”

**********

The Appendix I listing eased the burden of enforcement on anti—
poaching units, police and customs officers as the existing system of
permits, ivory marking or quotas gave way to the trade ban. The new
message was clear: all international trade in elephant products is
illegal.

It is Vital to recognize the importance of this clear message in
reducing the demand for elephant products and in the fight against
smuggling and poaching. No other conservation disaster has been
reversed so quickly. N 0 other international trade dominated by smug—
glers and criminals has been dealt such a swift and decisive blow.

However, the unrelenting opposition to the listing from South
Africa, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Malawi, and Botswana has Cast a dark
cloud over the overwhelmingly positive results. Repeated threats and
on—going bids to sell ivory have diluted the public message, giving
support and succour to the international ivory syndicates responsible
for the massacres and lawlessness of the preceding two decades.

Now, the proposal by South Africa to downlist its elephants to
Appendix II further threatens the strong public message that has won
a reprieve for all of Africa’s elephants.

Although the South African proposal does not seek to sell ivory,
to many, including the ivory barons and traders, it signals the
inevitability of renewed ivory trading within a few years. If this signal
is endorsed by CITES, the successes of the Appendix I listing will be
dramatically undermined. If traders believe that world ivory prices
will return to previous highs, then ivory at its current low prices will
become a bargain for speculators. South Africa’s proposal could
herald a renewal of uncontrolled poaching and loss of human life.

Ecotourism offers an economic incentive to preserve each
country’s living elephants. “It has been estimated that in Kenya a
live elephant attracts $USl million of tourist revenue in its lifetime.
This is in stark contrast to the relatively small amounts of money
brought in by trade in parts of elephants.”

Tourism brings economic benefits to a wide spectrum of a
country’s citizens, but even on the simplest, most direct level,
charges for foreign tourists to View African animals in National

Parks can and should provide substantial revenue.

In Zimbabwe, where the government has been calling out for
foreign aid and the right to sell ivory, a simple increase in National Park
fees for foreign tourists, in line with other African countries, would
instantly raise more income than the sale of ivory over many years.

 

k9 D QABG

 

In South Africa, where park fees are also very low, the govern-
ment is pushing for an Appendix II listing, which will undermine the
public message, give hope to ivory syndicates and could renew
poaching across the continent.

To allow the ruthless ivory trade a second chance to destroy
elephants must not be countenanced. The 124 nations that have
joined together under the CITES banner must firmly reject any
weakening of the protection provided by the Appendix I listing,
which bans the international trade in ivory and any other part or
product of African or Asian elephants.

 

Copies of Living Proof, African Elephants, The Success of the Appendix I
Ban, are available from the Environmental Investigation Agency, 1611
Connecticut Ave., Suite 3b, Washington, DC 20009, 202-483-6621.

 

Gofﬁn’s Cockatoo—Again in Jeopardy
by Greta Nilsson

The fate of a beautiful white cockatoo, native to the tropical
Indonesian Islands of Tanimbar, is again in the hands of the Parties
to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
(CITES). At the 1992 Conference, this beleaguered species was
finally given reprieve from the cage bird trade that was threatening
to cause its extinction in the wild when it was upgraded to Appendix
I. Research by the Animal Welfare Institute on its status and heavy
exploitation had led to the proposal presented by the United States
delegation.

At least 70% of Goffin’ s Cockatoos captured were imported for
sale in US pet stores. Between 1980 and 1992, the US alone imported
55,012 of these delicate and highly social, affectionate birds. World
trade in the species from 1983 to 1989 totalled a minimum of 73,500
according to CITES records. Untold thousands died in the cruel foot
nooses used to capture the birds.

The traders in cockatoos—exporters, importers, and others who
profit from this destructive commerce—fought the Appendix I
listing of the Goffin’s Cockatoo from day one. Now, the Indonesian
government has proposed that the species be down-listed to Appen-
dix II at the upcoming CITES meeting. This would effectively allow
trade to resume under a quota system. To bolster their argument, a
survey of the Goffin’s Cockatoo was conducted, a survey that has
come to the absurd conclusion that the species numbers almost a half
million birds!

This survey has already come under attack from many promi-
nent biologists who have questioned both the methods and findings.
Dr. Teresa Telecky, an ornithologist who has studied the behavior
and ecology of wild birds, commented, “The population survey is
not well—documented, it has not been conducted over a period of time
that would enable the authors to demonstrate population trends, it
does not demonstrate ‘recovery’ since data were not collected
during two points in time, and it does not address the effect that
resumption of commercial trade will have on the species.”

In fact, the survey may qualify for the Guiness Book of World
Records for speed; the population of an entire species in a range
covering over 5,000 square kilometers was surveyed in approxi-
mately two weeks. The two researchers merely walked over
portions of the range and made calculations that were never
explained, to arrive at their final numbers. In fact, only 40% of the
area that was projected to be surveyed was actually covered.

continued on page 8

7

 

 




Director of the US Fish and Wildlife Service Mollie Beattie releases Hope, a rehabilitated bald eagle. Most populations oft/2e species have recovered to the point th;

Endangered Species: The Truth

by Jessica Mathews

Last November, ABC’s newsmagazine “20/20” aired a high-voltage
story claiming that the Endangered Species Act was the cause of
homes burning in a California wildfire through its rules protecting
an endangered kangaroo rat. One homeowner claimed to have saved
his home by leaping on his tractor and bravely violating the law’s
prohibition against removing the brush around his land. Others,
whose homes had burnt, furiously laid the blame on the Endangered
Species Act.

The report sparked a ﬂood of newspaper stories. Devastated
homeowners blamed “those public-minded asses and environmen-
talists.” To a public already sensitized to horror stories of billion-
dollar projects being halted by some obscure newt, it seemed wholly
believable: another case of blundering, uncaring federal bureau-
crats, driven by fanatic environmentalists, putting the welfare of fish
and birds above people.

Great story. But it turns out not to be true. The General
Accounting Office reported to Congress last week that brush re-
moval would not have saved the 29 homes. The Riverside fire had
100 to 150—foot-high walls of ﬂame and 80 mile-per-hour winds. It
consumed 12,000 acres in six hours. In the View of one fire expert,

10

in those tomado-like conditions it could not have been stopped by
the “entire US. Army.”

The fire easily leaped roads, highways. bare fields and the San
Diego Canal. Clearing even 1.000 feet around homes could do little
against winds able to carry burning embers a mile or more. Away
from the TV cameras, the man who claimed to have saved his home
acknowledged that the wind had shifted as the fire approached his
property.

I doubt the GAO story will reach a fraction of those who heard
the earlier claims. More likely, the Endangered Species Act’s
culpability in the California fire will add to the rich lore that has
made it the most caricatured law on the books. To its critics it is the
ultimate example of environmental zealotry, a mighty legal steam-
roller that costs billions, provokes endless controversy, stopS ngth
in its tracks and robs Americans of their property rights. .

In reality, the act is weak in concept and in practice. The F1311
and Wildlife Service gets $40 million per year to administer it——th€
cost of one mile of urban interstate. Of an average of 10,000 annual
consultations evaluating the impact of development projects on
endangered species, 25 are found to cause a problem, and most Of
these can be easily fixed by rerouting the road or building the mall
a mile away. Only one-tenth of one percent of projects are halted.

Most of the law’s abuses stem from its weaknesses, not 1tS

 




strength. Chronic underfunding and the consequent huge backlog
mean that agencies, businesses and private citizens wait too long for
answers. Species do too: 34 of them have gone extinct while sitting
on lists awaiting protection.

An acute lack of information about what species we have, where
they are and what their genetic endowments are makes it difficult if
not impossible to set rational priorities on what to protect, or to avoid
the surprise discovery of a threatened species halfway through an
Expensive development project.

Worst of all, the focus on individual species—instead of eco—
SYStems—and on last-minute rescues, means that the least is saved
at the highest cost. The ESA is emergency room medicine where
preventative care is needed. When a population is down to its last
few hundred individuals, there is little room for tradeoffs. Without
the authority to act while a species is still in relatively good shape,
the law loses most of its potential efficiency.

Without question, the Endangered Species Act could be made
more effective and less irritating by being strengthened. It should be
broadened to protect habitats and ecosystems, undergirded with
1nformation on the health, range and genetic properties of the species
found in this country, enabled to take preventive action before
Species are threatened, and adequately funded. But don’t look for
any of that to happen soon.

L5
U)
E
3’
06
N
O
' 3
. 'ﬁ
. Q
(4
N
'0
LT
O
H
1: o
x 0"
"
» H
(D
m
8
m
:J"
(D
"1

pomt that they have been removed from the endangered species list and placed on the relativ y less cr ical threatened list.

If the act were taken up today, Congress would wreck it. Though
polls uniformly show strong public support, congressional critics
are ascendant, marching under the bogus banner of protecting
property rights. Feelings are so strong that last year’s effort simply
to improve adequate information by creating a National Biological
Survey went down to ﬂaming defeat.

The so-called “takings” movement, led in the case of the
Endangered Species Act by Rep. Billy Tauzin (D-La.), pretends to
be about protecting the “little guy,” but is the opposite. It would
cripple government’s ability to provide amenities individuals value
that the market does not provide, including the environment (and
public health, civil rights, worker safety, local planning, historic
preservation, anti-discrimination etc.). Rep. Tauzin’s campaign
contributions—more than double the House average, 74 percent of
them from PACs and 95 percent of those from business—suggests
just who expects to benefit.

T auzin’s “reforms” of the act are thinly disguised anti-environ-
mentalism. Ironically, he and his more than 100 cosponsors (many
of whom I’ll wager are unaware of the implications of the takings
movement) mean that much of what they legitimately object to in the
Endangered Species Act won’t be corrected for the indefinite future.

Jessica Mathews is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
(6) The Washington Post

11

 




 

 

 

 

 

Following are excerpts from a paper by C .S . Baker ( University ofAuckland)
and SR. Palumbi (University ofHawaii), which reveals the illegal kill of fin,
North Atlantic minke, and humpback whales. Please see the September 9,
1994 issue of Science for the complete text of this ground-breaking report.

Which Whales Are Hunted?
A Molecular Genetic Approach to
Monitoring Whaling

In recognition of the global overexploitation of whale populations,
the International Whaling Commission (IWC) voted in 1982 to
impose an indefinite moratorium on commercial hunting. Although
the moratorium has been in effect since 1986, whaling never actually
ceased. Some IWC members have continued to hunt whales under
scientific permit and for aboriginal or subsistence use. As a result,
a commercial market for whale products has been sustained. Are the
whale products available today exclusively from species hunted or
traded in accordance with international treaties? A recent spot check
of Japanese retail markets shows that they are not and suggests that
the existence of legal whaling serves as a cover for the sale of illegal
whale products...

[L] ittle attention has been given to the problem of illegal hunting
of the many depleted stocks of whales. This omission is a particular
concern given the magnitude of illegal whaling that can go unno-
ticed by the international community... There is little doubt that this
illegal hunting has contributed to the variable recovery among
stocks of right and humpback whales and the absence of recovery
among blue whales throughout the Southern Hemisphere.

The IWC’s acceptance of the Revised Management Procedure
at this year’ 3 meeting is generally viewed as a step toward the return
to commercial whaling. If so, there is an urgent need to consider new
and effective methods to verify catch records of exploited species
and to interdict illegal trade of protected species. We tested the
potential of molecular genetic methods for identifying the species
and probable geographic source of whale products using samples
purchased in retail markets throughout the main island of Japan from
February to April 1993...

The humpback whale sequence [of mitochondrial DNA] (sample
#19b) was identical to sequences we have obtained from other

 

Marine Circus Closed
Dolphins Sent to Honduras
Ocean World, a Fort Lauderdale, Florida, marine theme park, closed
to the public on August 31, 1994.

According to the Associated Press, in 1992 the US Department
of Agriculture (USDA) shut the park for two weeks, charging Ocean
World with maintaining dolphins in undersized pools with over-
chlorinated water that made their skin peel off. Ocean World
admitted no wrongdoing but paid $20,000 in fines. The AP story
further reported that while the park was closed, handlers dropped a
dolphin while transferring it to a pool, breaking its tail. The dolphin
later died of pneumonia.

On September 15, twelve dolphins from Ocean World were
transferred to a marine park in Honduras. The USDA’s Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service authorized the export of the Ocean
World dolphins despite the protests of animal protection groups.
Florida Governor Lawton Chiles had demanded that the dolphins,
captured off the Florida coast, remain in the state.

12

 

humpback whales sampled near the Mexican, Hawaiian, and J apa-
nese (Ogasawara Islands) wintering grounds, suggesting a North
Pacific origin. One fin whale sequence (sample W84) was identical
to fin whales sampled near Iceland and in the western Mediterra-
nean, suggesting that the origin of this sample was the North
Atlantic. The other three fin whales, however, differed by 1.6 to
2.9% from the type sequences, possibly suggesting an origin outside
of the North Atlantic. Among the nine minke whale sequences, eight
were similar to type samples from Australia and the Antarctic,
whereas sample #18 was most similar to a North Atlantic minke
whale. Because minke whales from different oceans are known to be
genetically distinct, it is likely that the sources of these products
were the Southern Hemisphere and North Atlantic, respectively...

This review of recent whaling activity indicates that products
available currently on the Japanese retail market may include
species that have been imported illegally and others that have been
hunted or processed illegally. An alternative interpretation is that fin
whale, sold as unfrozen lean meat, has been in storage for at least 4
years, North Atlantic minke whale, sold as ‘sashimi,’ has been in
storage (outside of the country of origin) for at least 7 years, and
humpback whale meat has been in storage for 27 years.

These results demonstrate the inadequacy of the current system
for verifying catch reports and trade records of commercial and
scientific whaling. Systematic molecular genetic testing of commer-
cial products (even those that have been smoked, marinated, or
otherwise processed) should be integrated into requirements for
future whaling under conditions for monitoring and observation by
the IWC...

Arguments about sustainable whaling are based on the tacit
assumption that only abundant species will be killed and that depleted
or endangered species will continue to enjoy protection. Without an
adequate system for monitoring and verifying catches, however,
history has shown that no species of whale can be considered safe.

 

 

[ Japan and Russia Object to Whale Sanctuary

In May, the International Whaling Commission (IWC) estab-
lished a sanctuary banning the killing of whales in the waters
around the Antarctic continent (AWI Quarterly, Vol.43, No.2).
Twenty-three countries voted for the resolution and only one,
Japan, against it.

However, the anachronistic Schedule to the IWC allows
countries to take a “reservation” to any IWC decision. A
country so objecting is not bound by the ruling. On August 12,
1994, Japan officially objected to the Antarctic whale sanctu—
ary. The current global whaling moratorium still prevents Japan
from whaling commercially in the Antarctic. If the moratorium
is lifted and the Revised Management Scheme implemented
(see AWI Quarterly, Vol.43, No.1 and Vol.42, No.1), 2000
minke whales could be killed annually in the Antarctic.

The Japanese action extended the deadline for reserva-
tions, and on September 5, under pressure from the Japanese
government, Russia also objected to the sanctuary. However,
this objection may be withdrawn since the message to the IWC
Secretariat states that it “does not reﬂect the position of the
Russian Federation on the substance of this issue... At present
the Russian Federation does not conduct commercial whaling
and has no plans to start it.”

The ﬁnal deadline for objections to the sanctuary is

LDecember 6, 1994. l/J

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Anti-Horse Tripping Bill Enacted

On August 26, California Governor Pete Wilson signed a bill
making horse tripping for entertainment illegal. This practice

' has been common in the infamous charro rodeos (see AWI
Quarterly, Vol.43, No.2). The new law will go into effect on '
January 1; similar initiatives are being launched in Arizona,
Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, and Texas where charro
rodeos are prevalent.

~ —y(,“ ».- .n - .

 

lsniL tuv p Ksaunoo ‘alﬁoq Healing: -

'.v‘
‘y

,1 .-~..;a'<i:-#

LA_w°cti—m—of the charro rodeos

New Michigan Anti-Cruelty Law Passed
On May 15, 1994, Michigan Governor John Engler signed Senate
Bill 605 into law, thereby creating one of the toughest anti-cruelty
laws in the United States. The bill was drafted and initiated by the
Michigan Humane Society (MHS) and its lobbyist, Eileen Liska.

Only six states have felony anti-cruelty laws. Michigan was one
of the first when, in 193 1, it became a felony if a person maliciously
and willfully killed, maimed, mutilated, injured, or poisoned an
animal who belonged to someone else. Because of SB 605, prosecu-
tors will now focus on the nature of the crime, not the issue of
ownership.

According to the MHS, the passage of SB 605 is a historic
milestone in the animal advocacy movement’s ongoing struggle to
establish rights for animals because it repealed a 63-year-old law
based on the concept that torturing or killing an animal could only
be a felony if the animal was someone else’s property. A weaker
substitute bill was defeated by 73 to 19 in the House.

“With votes for passage of SB 605 being unanimous in the
Senate and 91 to 4 in the House, Michigan state legislators sent out
an unequivocal message that animals now have intrinsic worth—a
r lght in themselves to be fully and strongly protected from harm,”
emphasized Eileen Liska, who spent over two years lobbying to get
513 605 passed.

The number and the serial nature of the penalties the bill
PrOVides also makes it unique. “The convicted can be required to
re9€ive mental health treatment; relinquish their animal ownership
Perllege for any time determined by the court including perma-
nently; reimburse public or private animal shelters for all expenses
Of caring, housing and medically treating the animal victims; pay
thﬁ Court for the cost of their own prosecution; perform up tO 1,000
hours of community service; pay a fine of up to $5,000; and/or

SPend up to four years in jail,” notes Gary Tiscomia, MHS Execu-
t1ve Director.

 

 

 

 

New Type of Antifreeze Reduces

Risk of Animal Poisoning

Ethylene glycol (EG) is a toxic substance that when taken internally
can cause permanent kidney damage or death. This powerful toxin is
the primary ingredient in a common product that most people have in
their homes and in their cars—conventional antifreeze/coolant. Nearly
every car and truck engine is cooled using a mixture of antifreeze and
water. Almost all of that antifreeze is formulated with EG.

Animals are attracted to conventional antifreeze probably be-
cause it has a sweet taste. Two ounces of conventional antifreeze can
kill a dog, one teaspoon can be lethal to a cat, and as little as two
tablespoons can be harmful to a small child.

It is estimated that thousands of needless pet deaths are caused
each year by the ingestion of EG-based automotive antifreeze.
Additionally, the literature reports frequent incidents of the anti-
freeze poisoning and subsequent death of wildlife. The best known
incident was the death of a rare California condor in the fall of 1992.
The condor died of EG poisoning, apparently after drinking anti—
freeze that spilled or leaked in a recreational area.

Fortunately, there are alternatives. Several brands of propylene
glycol (PG) based antifreeze/coolants are now on the market. PG-
based antifreeze provides engine protection comparable to that
provided by EG-based antifreeze, but PG is much less toxic and
therefore safer to use. To help prevent accidental poisoning of
children, pets, and wild creatures, look for the following brands of
antifreeze: Sta-Clean, Uni-Gard Freeze-Proof, SAFE, Eco—3, and
Sierra. All of these are based on propylene glycol.

 

Mobile Spay/Neuter Clinic on a Roll

To combat Houston’s animal overpopulation crisis, the Houston
Animal Rights Team (HART) has established the Spay/Neuter
Assistance Program (SNAP), the first mobile spay/neuter clinic in
the US. The mobile clinic is able to perform a minimUm of fifteen
spay/neuters each day, provided free of charge to individuals who
qualify for public assistance. Surgeries are performed by a licensed
veterinarian. All clients receive information about the benefits of
spaying and neutering so they can become community educators.
According to Sean Hawkins, Executive Director of HART,
over 100,000 unwanted dogs and cats end up in pounds and shelters
each year in Houston. The sad fact is that only about one in every ten
of these animals will find a new home. In the six months that the new
clinic has been in operation, over 570 animals have been spayed or
neutered. To support SNAP contact HART at PO. Box 440304,

 

H ouston's landmark mobile spay/neuter clinic

13

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WHERE DO THE CATS FOR SCHOOL DISSECTIONS COME FROM?

The Case of Carolina Biological Supply Company and
Al Wise, the dealer who supplied the cats

A major supplier of cat cadavers and other animal “specimens” to
schools and colleges was fined $2,500 for failing to maintain
complete records on acquisition and identification of the cats.

According to the Burlington (NC) Times-News, May 17, 1994,
the government also charged that Carolina Biological Supply
Company’s (CBSC) “enclosures for rabbits were unclean and un-
kempt, rabbit food was unprotected from spoilage, contamination
and vermin infestation; hamster enclosures were not maintained nor
in good repair; and rabbits kept outdoors were unprotected from 90—
degree temperatures.”

  

A cat destined for laboratory dissection

CBSC damage control came into play the very next day with a
Times-News headline saying the company was “cleared of viola-
tions.” The record keeping violations were down-played as “trivial.”
Another North Carolina paper, The Daily News, wrote, “the company
quoted an Administrative Law Judge as ruling that there had been no
violations.” Record keeping violations weren’t even mentioned.

But actions speak louder than words. An ABC documentary
film shown October 22, 1991, included footage of a principal
supplier of live cats to CBSC, Al Wise, riding a large tractor and
chasing an ABC News producer. As the television crew tried to get
away, a second camera documented Wise ramming an ABC News
van (see AWI Quarterly, Vol.39, No.1).

According to the US Department of Agriculture AWA Docket
No. 91—75, CBSC kept information on the date of purchase, source
of the animals, and the number of animals received, but

...Carolina Biological did not identify individual animals, nor did it
verify the accuracy of the sellers’ forms, which it could have done
by observing the identity of the dead cats and also by checking the
collars around their necks after the cats were euthanized. This failure
took on particular importance in this case because the supplier, Mr.
Wise, had been charged (unknown to Carolina Biological) in a
Complaint filed December 29, 1992, with obtaining cats illegally,
falsifying his documents and using false names on his records. On
July 7, 1993, Mr. Wise resolved the charges by consenting to an
order banning him from operating as a dealer for ten years (AWA
Docket No. 93—18).

Two of Al Wise’s relatives still remain in the animal dealer
business in North Carolina.

According to a press release from the National Association for
Biomedical Research, which did its best to whitewash CBSC, the
company, founded in 1927, “serves more than 75,000 customers
worldwide and has more than 25,000 products.”

14

slewiuv Jo iueuneerl [Boring 911110; 91d09d

F isherE ducational Materials Division and the Mexicali
Connection

Mexicali police, alerted January 30, 1994 to suspicious-looking
individuals moving plastic bags from a pick—up to a truck, discov—
ered the bodies of 2,000 preserved cats in the bags. Investigators
from the World Society for the Protection of Animals (WSPA) went
undercover to learn how the cats were obtained. They were in-
formed that a collecting truck with loud speaker attached drove
about announcing a US$1 payment for any unwanted cat and
generally obtained 30 or 40 by this means every day. The cats were
bagged and drowned ten at a time. The informant said children
brought in many cats, a large percentage of them probably owned.
He estimated he had killed about 1,000 cats himself.

According to WSPA, one of the companies identified during
this investigation was Fisher EMD (Educational Materials Divi-
sion). Boxes clearly labeled with the Fisher catalogue number were
videotaped by the WSPA team. WSPA further reports Fisher EMD
as stating, “We’re going to our suppliers... and have them verify how
these cats are killed.”

The Mexican Director of Quarantine Control has informed state
representatives that issuing of sanitary guides or certificates for the
transport of cats is not authorized because there are no cat slaughter-
ing plants. Clearly, more vigorous action is needed to eliminate
capture and sale of Mexican cats to US biological supply houses.

One woman told the WSPA undercover team that one of the cat
catchers put a noose over her cat’s neck while the cat was lying in
her front yard. By running outside and screaming at the man, she
succeeded in rescuing her cat. Nevertheless, he boldly offered US $1
if she would sell her pet to him.

The potential for illicit trade remains high.

 

Fraud Costs Random Source Dealer $8,000

Although payment of damages cannot bring back Sosha, the
much-loved dog of Don Johnson, the former laboratory animal
dealer who obtained Sosha by deception and fraud has been fined
$8,000.

According to Mitchell Fox of the Progressive Animal Wel—
fare Society (PAWS) in Washington State: “Posing as devoted
dog lovers seeking a companion, Don and Judee Peters... ac
quired Johnson’s dog, Sosha, in 1986. About one week later they
sold Sosha to the University of Washington.” Documents ob—
tained by PAWS revealed that Sosha was killed in a lung injury
experiment two weeks after arriving at the university.

In 1989, PAWS attorney John Costo filed a lawsuit against
Don and J udee Peters on behalf of Johnson, alleging fraud,
outrage, and breach of contract. When the Peters failed to dispute
these claims, a Snohomish County Commissioner awarded J ohn-
son damages in the amount of $10,000. The damages remained
uncollected until July, 1994, when Johnson agreed to an $8,000
cash settlement from the Peters family following another lawsuit
that accused Don and Judee Peters of hiding assets in order to
declare bankruptcy and avoid paying creditors.

This action closes the nation’s first civil court case against
a laboratory animal dealer. According to Fox: “PAWS believes
that ethical and legal corners continue to be cut when it comes to

 

 

using former pets for animal experimentation.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

In acrack-down on flagrant violators of
the Animal Welfare Act, the US De-
partment of Agriculture (USDA) has
taken action against several large-scale
animal dealers. In direct contradiction
ofthe intent ofthe Act, dogs were going
to laboratories without documentation
to prove that they were not stolen pets,

Julian and Anita Toney

Random source dog dealers, Julian
and Anita Toney ofLamoni, lowa, were
charged by USDA with more than 1600
violations ofthe Animal Welfare Act’s
record keeping requirements. This stag-
gering number of forged. incomplete,
and/or inaccurate records of acquisition
and sale of animals is unrivalled.

The Toneys received over $100,000 a year for selling dogs and
cats to the University of Iowa and the University ofMinnesota. They
even understated their profit to USDA in order to pay a reduced
license fee. Representatives from both Universities were subpoe-
naed to testify at the Administrative Hearing held in June regarding
the charges against the Toneys. The hearing record, recently ob-
tained by AWl. is packed with revelations about the animal dealing
business. Julian Toney described how the research facilities like to
use him, and his business flourished. As he put it, “I always delivered
on time. I always tried to have the sizes dogs they ordered... if you
had the right breeds and the right sexes, then they was real happy
with you... If they needed two litter-mate females to do a heart
transplant because doctors were coming in from all over they
country, they would call and say. Julian, we’ve had another dealer
cancel out. Do you happen to have two of these females? Can you
have them over here tomorrow morning, or it is going to cost us
literally thousands of dollars to do away with this class for the day
and schedule it for another day until you can get here. And I would
always go with any kind of special order that come.”

Where did the Toneys get the dogs and cats they sold? We may
never know all of their sources. but they included other licensed
dealers, and many unlicensed dealers, known as “bunchers.” Some
of the bunchers acquired animals from pounds that provided dogs
free of charge under the guise of relieving the pound from the
€Xpense of euthanizing animals.

One example is the city of Brookfield, Missouri, which has
employed Wayne Junior Stufflebean for the past 14 years to “pick
up dOgS for them...” At the hearing. Mr. Stufflebean testified that the
dOgS were held for 48 hours. When questioned about the dogs he
gave away he stated. “we didn’t keep track of the dogs, you know...
Iwould ask them what they were going to do with them. And they
831d that they was going to—people down there in another town
Wanted them. And so I was just giving them three, four, five dogs.”

In Minnesota, people who have lost pets have contacted the
UniverSity Of Minnesota in a desperate search for their beloved
ComPanions. In fact. most dogs used by the University appear to have
Come from Iowa and Missouri. Thus, the elaborate dealer network
makes it virtually impossible to find a missing animal. The dealers
profit; the research facilities use the animals, then incinerate them.

While we anxiously await the outcome of the hearing on
USDA’S charges against the Toneys, they continue buying and

 
   

One of the dogs confiscated from Jack S towers kennels

 

Shocking Violations of Federal Law by Laboratory Dog Dealers

selling dogs. A ruling is not expected
until next year.

J aek Stowers
' USDA inspectors attempted to con-
duct compliance inspections more than
' 20 times, but were unable to get onto the
premises to do their job. When Stowers
admitted inspectors, they found many
' problems. Because of the squalid condi-
tions and poor health of the dogs, the
USDA, assisted by the local District
Attorney, obtained an injunction, which
reads in part:
The Secretary has reason to believe that
Jack Stowers is placing the health of
dogs in serious danger in violation of the
Act and the regulations and standards
promulgated thereunder.

Prior to the confiscation of 29 dogs from Stowers’ premises by the
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service on June 29, 1994,
Stowers had threatened to, inter alia, shoot the dogs.

The 29 dogs were confiscated by APHIS pursuant to 9 C.F.R. §
2.129, because the health of the animals was in serious danger and
because they were in need of immediate veterinary care.

Stowers has stated to APHIS officials that he intends to continue
to deal in dogs, regardless of whether his license is revoked.

For these reasons, the issuance of an order enjoining Stowers from
operating in violation of the Act and the regulations and standards
promulgated thereunder is appropriate.

Many of the dogs had to be euthanized, but fortunately, others
were placed in caring homes by a local humane society. Stowers is
believed to have supplied dogs to other Class “B” dealers including
South Jersey Biomedical and Mike Kredovski of Biomedical Asso-
ciates, both currently under investigation. Stowers continues to
operate while the case is pending before an administrative law judge.

Jerry Vance
Vance’s housing facilities did not provide adequate shelter,

were ramshackle, and failed to allow rapid elimination of excess
water and wastes according to USDA. Vance was also charged with
record keeping Violations and failing to identify animals.

Vance had been a regular customer at local “trade days.” He was
televised on Connie Chung’s “Eye to Eye” program at the Rutledge
trade day in Missouri carelessly loading dogs into his large truck.
This led to a loud public outcry.

Jerry Vance has been permanently prohibited from animal
dealing. He was also required to pay a civil penalty of $25,000,
though $20,000 of the fine will be suspended if he doesn’t violate the

Animal Welfare Act for 20 years.

Jeffery Hodges . .
Animals at Hodges’ facilities, were 1n need of veterlnary care

and housed in cramped, dirty cages, without sufficient shelter. Food
and water bowls were filthy. USDA inspectors also noted over-
crowding during transport, record keeping Violations, and that ani-
mals were not held for the required period of time before being sold.
In a Consent Decision, Hodges agreed to a Cease and Desist
Order and to a license suspension for one year continuing thereafter
until he is able to demonstrate full compliance with the Animal
Welfare Act. He was also assessed a civil penalty of $10,000, which
was suspended as long as he doesn’t violate the Act for one year,

15

 

 




 

 

 

AWI Exhibition Barred from AALAS Meeting

AWI submitted a request to maintain a booth at the annual meeting
of the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS)
to be held in Pittsburgh, PA from Oct. 16-20. As in previous years, the
AWI exhibit would have provided information on humane treatment of
laboratory animals and alternatives to the use of animals. C orrespon-
dence between AALAS and AWI is reprinted below and on page 17.

August 10, 1994

Mr. Michael R. Sondag, Executive Director
American Association for Laboratory Animal Science
70 Timber Creek Drive

Cordova, TN 38018

RE: Non—commercial Booth Space
Dear Mr. Sondag:

I was shocked to receive
your letter of July 7, 1994,
rejecting the request of the
Animal Welfare Institute to
exhibit at the upcoming annual
meeting of the American Asso—
ciation for Laboratory Animal
Science (AALAS). The exchange
of relevant information on all as-
pects of laboratory animal care and
experimentation is of paramount im—
portance. The Animal Welfare Insti-
tute believes in constructive dialogue
between the biomedical and the animal
welfare communities. It is our conviction
that the presentation of the Animal Wel—
fare Institute at the AALAS meeting would
have fostered this dialogue. I was extremely
disturbed by the reasons provided for the
denial of AWI’s participation.

- As
8%”??le “She 19°07

AALAS Objects to the Lack of AWI En-
dorsement of the Current NIH Guide for the
Care and Use of Laboratory Animals.

The first conﬂict you cite is the lack of AWI
endorsement of the current NIH Guide for the Care
and Use ofLaboratory Animals. AWI agrees with the
Guide that the research community has “a scientific and an
ethical responsibility for the humane care of animals, and all who care
for or use animals in research, testing, and education must assume
responsibility for their general welfare.” AWI does not endorse all
recommendations set forth by the 10 year old Guide, but we are far
from being alone in this opinion. Members of the Committee appointed
to revise the Guide have received no less than 216 written comments
from organizations and individuals as of March 29. A copy of the
Animal Welfare Institute’s submission is attached.

AALAS Believes that AWI’s Contact with Other Exhibitors Will
Be Confrontational.

The second objection given to an AWI exhibit is AALAS’ belief that
based on “the rhetoric” of AWI’ s publications, our “contact with other
exhibitors will be confrontational.” No examples are provided.

16

1‘ 1
65th 116991613X go
, O

The Animal Welfare Institute has exhibited at many AALAS meet-
ings, and we were never aware of any difficulty. In fact the only
problem that ever arose was the vandalism of the AWI exhibit booth
one evening when the exhibit area was closed to the public.

AALAS Says “Yes” to a Convicted Felon and “No” to AWI.

Especially discouraging is the willingness of AALAS to permit an
exhibit by a convicted felon while refusing AWI. Matthew Block of
Worldwide Primates is listed among AALAS commercial exhibi-
tors for 1994. [A 1994 Membership Directory lists Worldwide
Primates as an exhibitor and Mathew Block as a member
of AALAS .] Mr. Block pled guilty to felony
conspiracy in the smuggling of endan—
gered species, namely six infant orangu-
tans, three of whom died. More recently,
he paid a $16,000 fine to USDA to
settle charges that he violated the fed—
eral Animal Welfare Act.

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
      
     
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 

The Animal Welfare Institute
seeks Humane Treatment of
Laboratory Animals.

The purpose of AWI is “to re-
duce the sum total of pain and
fear inﬂicted on animals by
humans.” AWI seeks humane
treatment of laboratory ani-
mals and the use of alterna-
tives comprising the 3R’s,
replacement, reduction,
and refinement in ex—
perimentation and test-
ing. Does AALAS
disapprove?

Our literature such
as Comfortable
Quarters for

Laboratory Ani-

mals, Beyond the Laboratory

Door, text of the 1985 Improved Standards

for Laboratory Animals amendments to the Animal

Welfare Act and “A Bibliography for the Use of Non-affiliated

Members of Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees” is

made available to scientific institutions. Thousands of these docu-

ments have been distributed without charge to interested persons
attending previous AALAS meetings.

I hope that you will reconsider what is, to me, an incomprehensible
decision and invite the Animal Welfare Institute to exhibit at the next
annual meeting.

Sincerely,

(Mia one:

Liss
Executive Director
continued on page 17

A—4 ,4(

 

 




 

 

 

AALAS continued from page I 6
September 2, 1994
Dear Ms. Liss:

I am the attorney for AALAS.

Mr. Sondag has asked me to reply to your letter of August 10, 1994,
wherein you request AALAS to reconsider your request for an exhibit booth
at AALAS ’ annual meeting.

I have reviewed your letter and the material submitted therewith, and
can find no basis for AALAS to change its original decision.

With respect to the NIH Guide, we recognize that an organization may
endorse this document while simultaneously seeking to change some of its
provisions. Nevertheless, there comes a point where the changes sought
belie endorsement. Your letter of August 19 at best is a very qualified
endorsement of the NIH Guide, and does not change our judgement that the
AWI is not supportive of this document.

Moreover, the materials you provided indicate that the AWI’s stance
with respect to the revision of the NIH Guide appears extremely confron—
tational. My reading of the papers you provided leaves me with the
impression that anyone who opposes AWI’s views on the changes it seeks
(or seeks to prevent) is motivated by greed and profit. In this vein, AWI’s
definition of a “disinterested” scientist appears to be a scientist that agrees
with the position of AWI.

AALAS is a scientific, not a political, organization. AALAS has only
limited time and resources to conduct its annual scientific meeting, and it does
not wish these resources to be expended on highly charged emotional debates.

Therefore, AALAS is not changing its decision.

You make a good point that violations of the laws regulating the use of
laboratory animals, especially those which seek to protect a particular
species or to assure humane treatment, can not be condoned. However, the
AALAS ’ office first, and only, knowledge that an exhibitor may have
violated these laws was your letter. We intend to inquire into the details of
this matter with the exhibitor in question and take action that is appropriate.

Respectfully,
Thomas H. Boerschinger

 

September 15, 1994
Dear Ms. Liss:

This will follow up on my letter to you of September 2, 1994.

A review of our contracts for exhibit hall space reveals that AALAS does
not have now and has not had in the past any Matthew Block or Worldwide
Primates, Inc. scheduled as an exhibitor for the 1994 meeting in Pittsburgh.

I trust this clarifies the question you raised.

Respectfully,
Thomas H. Boerschinger

 

September 29, 1994
Dear Mr. Boerschinger:

I am writing in response to your letter of September 15, 1994 regarding
AALAS exhibit space for Worldwide Primates, run by convicted felon
Matthew Block. Please note that both Matthew Block and Worldwide
Primates are listed in the 1994 AALAS Membership Directory. Page 9 of
the Directory, with the heading “Commercial Contributors” lists World-
wide Primates as an annual meeting exhibitor.

On the same page, above the list of companies which includes
Worldwide Primates is the following AALAS statement: “We wish to thank
the companies listed below, because of whom AALAS has been able to offer
to its members a variety of publications that otherwise would not have been
possible. We hope all AALAS members will make an extra effort to let the
representatives of these companies know how much we appreciate their
support when they call on our facilities.”

In addition, a listing for Matthew Block, President of Worldwide
Primates including an address and phone number appears on page 18 of the
alphabetical section of the Directory.

I trust this clarifies my statement of August 10.

Sincerely,
Cathy A. Liss
Executive Director

 

 

Award to be Givenforln Vitro Validation ,
The Multicenter EValua’tion of in Vitro Cytotoxicity (MEIC) and Ameri—
can Fund for Alternatives to Ammal Research (AFAAR) will be preSente
ing an award to a researCher Who, by November, 1994, has made the
largest contribution of in vitro. data missing fer a non—animal test of

v toxicity within the MEIC program. MEIC is an international project
initiated by the Scandinavian Society for Cell Tox1c1ty (see AWI Quar-
.- terly, Vol .42,- No. 1) to validate replacements for annual toxiCity tests.
‘ ,Fbr mom information, interested researchers should centact AFAAR
4175 West 12th St. ,Suite 16G, New York,- NY 10011, 212 989 8073.

 

 

Laboratory Livestock

The following is an excerpt from a letter by James A. Serpell, Ph.D.

regarding the establishment of acceptable standards for the care and

use of farm animals for non-agricultural purposes.
I have been given to understand that the Guide for the Care and Use
of Agricultural Animals in Agricultural Research and Teaching
(1988) is currently being used as the basis for developing the new
standards. In my View, this would be a grave misjudgment. From a
purely scientific standpoint, this Guide is grossly out of date. It
endorses intensive farming practices which are now known to cause
severe welfare problems in livestock animals. In response to public
pressure and scientific evidence, many of these practices are already
subject to bans or restrictions within the European Community and,
in general, the trend in public opinion in the US closely mirrors that
of Europe. Furthermore, the use of animals for both teaching and
research demands a far higher standard of care than would be consid-
ered acceptable within the commercial farming industry. A moral
responsibility exists to teach students of all ages the humane treatment
of nonhuman animals and this cannot be achieved if the institutional
standards of animal care are, in themselves, inhumane. Likewise, it is
well established that data derived from research on stressed and
uncomfortable animals is of less value scientifically than the same
data derived from animals that have been cared for humanely...

 

Dr. Serpell is the Associate Professor of Humane Ethics and Animal
Welfare at the University of Pennsylvania’ s School of Veterinary Medicine.

 

University Renounces Use of Class “B” Dealers

The University Of Minnesota recently announced its'intention to
discontinue 'use of random Source/class “B” dealers to acquire ~
do gs and cats for‘ex’perimentation. The University has been under
Scrutiny by the animal Welfare community for more than a decade,
_. beCause of its reliance on unscrupulous source dealers. The
‘ University used to acquire animals from Don Hippert who was ’
known to have dealt in stolen animals. Fer the past 6 or 7 years,
the University had been using Julian Toney, now charged with
serious violationSZOf the Animal Welfare Act (see page '15).
According to the University’s Assistant Vice President for
- Health Sciences, William JacOtt, “our Animal Care Committee has
been working on these policy changes for the past several months,
and it is the Committee ’ s'hope that the University will sOon be able
to purchase animals from Class ‘A’ dealers [breeders] only.”
The University’s Animal Care and Use Committee also ruled
that “dealers sellinganimals to the University will be required to
submit photocopies of their latest USDA inspection reports. The
University will not purchase dOgs from any dealer with signifi-
cant, reoccurring deficiencies on these inspection reports.”
The University of Minnesota is to be congratulated for taking
the lead in the responsible acquisition of animals.

 

 

 

17

 




 

 

 

 

Periodical Pleasures
by John Gleiber

In case anyone is inclined to sit back and think that everything is
going well in government agencies dealing with animals and the
environment, a few minutes with PEEReview will swiftly disabuse
them. PEEReview is both heartening and fascinating because it is the
official publication of Public Employees for Environmental Re-
sponsibility and disheartening because of the picture it presents,
citing chapter and verse to back up the allegations. Basically, it
shows that business as usual involving those who would exploit the
resources that belong to all of us is alive and well in this as well as
preceding administrations.

The lead article tells about wild horses, adopted out under the
Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) own adoption program,
ending up in slaughter houses, the BLM freeze brand prominent on
their necks as they are led illegally to their doom.

Another article tells the depressing story of whistle-blower
Ernie Nunn who was vindicated by an administrative law judge in
spite of adverse testimony from his Forest Service Chief.

Write to Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility,
810 First St., NE Suite 680, Washington, DC 20002-3633 for further
information. Even before doing that, you can write to Secretary of
the Interior Bruce Babbitt who faces tremendous opposition from
vested ranching, grazing, and mining interests. Let him know you
expect strict enforcement of the Wild Horse Act, the Lacey Act, the
Wild Bird Conservation Act, and the Endangered Species Act.

Secretary Bruce Babbitt

Department of the Interior

10th St. & Constitution Avenue, NW
Washington DC 20530

Joey, The Story of a Baby Kangaroo
by Hope Ryden, (Tambourine Books, NY), 1994, $15.00.

The affectionate relationship between the kangaroo mother and her
“joey” is most sympathetically depicted in this magnificently illus-
trated children’s book. The baby kangaroo’s brother, who occupied
his mother’s pouch a year ago, is part of this loving family.

  

   

The joey gazes affectionately at his mother. At seven months
goes back into her pouch to sleep.

18

Ofage, he only

R How to Wage a Guerrilla War for Reform

uap/(zjodoH

If you are working in an agency that is resistant to reform, do
not give up! Outlined below are several PEER tactics you can
use to fight for ethics in your agency without putting your
career on the line:

> Working with PEER staff. design a fleet of Freedom of
Information Act requests under PEER ‘s name. Be the behind-
the-scenes brain for a campaign to force your agency to
disgorge records that tell the real story.

> Singly, or with like—minded colleagues. employees can
write a critique of agency policies or specific actions. PEER
will have your work professionally edited. peer-reviewed by
outside experts. and published under the PEER banner——
without using your name.

> Let PEER put you in touch with key congressional staff.
Coupling your inside information with congressional sub-
. poena power, your agency management can be targeted for
E oversight from the body that authorizes the budget.

) PEER works closely with a number of television news
magazine shows. Using retired (or soon-to-be retired) em—
ployees as spokespeople. the full power of the media can be
used to shake up the status quo in your agency.

> Using whistleblower protection provisions in environ-
mental and other laws. employees can put pressure on man-
agement to drop spurious claims and think twice about
continuing retaliation against ethical employees. 1

 

l
E
'1 Reprinted from PEEReview.

The text ofthis delightful book is skillfully compressed and the
print is large. A child learning to read can easily grasp the phraseS,
and parents, who may have wondered how kangaroo mothers coped
with babies rapidly outgrowing the pouch. can see touching illus—
trations of Hope Ryden’s words: “Whenever he took a nap his legS
and head stuck out. And if his mother wanted to hop to a new place
she had to tuck him in. Carrying such a heavy joey slowed her
down.”

Kangaroos are in great need of sympathetic interpretation, since
the US Fish and Wildlife Service has been considering remOVing
three of the 52 kangaroo species from the threatened category under
the US Endangered Species Act. The joey and his mother pictured
1n Hope Ryden’s book belong to one of those species. the western
grey kangaroo, Macropusﬁlliginosus.

/

Animal Advocate Clarence Long

Durlng hts long tenure as Congressman from Maryland. ClareﬂC€
Long, Who dted recently. waged an unremitting fight I0 PTOteCt
anlmals from the steel jaw leghold trap. He was an advocate for

. anlmal welfare before it had received the wide acceptance it HOW

commands.

TWO major hearings were held on bills he introduced to end the use

Of the .Steel trap, We can all remember his detemiination and
dedlcatlon to his humane principles,

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Tracking the Vanishing Frogs:

A n Ecological Mystery
by Kathryn Phillips, (St. Martin’s Press, NY), 1994, 244 pages, $22.95.

Frogs, toads, and other amphibians have been disappearing from all
parts of the world at an alarming rate. Kathryn Phillips details the
reactions of the scientists who study them and well describes the
deleterious effects of the scientific caution, which greatly delayed
any action to prevent or even recognize the losses occurring.

She tells how herpetologist Dave Wake observed mountain
yellow—legged frogs in Yosemite in 1959 when they were so numer—
ous that it was difficult to walk without stepping on them. They were
fewer in 1979 and had totally disappeared in the late 19803.

But despite reports on the decline of amphibians throughout the
United States and many other countries, little action resulted from
the meetings that have brought herpetologists together, and at a 1990
meeting, we are told that one scientist complained: “My research is
already threatened by the animal-rights movement. I’m a little
bothered about a riot of publicity.”

The author quotes a second scientist at the meeting: “I feel all
of a sudden a sense of procrastination here. We know there is a
problem right now. We should be moving on that problem. It’ 3 very
urgent to get moving, not to keep having meetings, not to keep
having congresses.”

Now that amphibians are vanishing, there is at least a debate
about how many specimens field scientists ought to collect. Phillips
tells us that some “would, indeed take every amphibian they saw. If
that meant taking 1,200 salamanders from one site in Oregon—as
one prominent scientist did—then so be it.”

Importation of frogs for food is a serious source of the decima-
tion of bullfrog populations. The description of the arrival of dead
and dying frogs from the Dominican Republic is graphically de—

 

Letters of 21 Traveler, 1834

George Sand

I remember that, when I was a child, towards autumn, the hunters
brought to the house lovely, soft, bloodstained wood doves. They gave
me those that were still living and I took care of them. I regarded them
with the same ardour, the same love as a mother for her children, and
I managed to heal a few. As they grew stronger, they became sad and
refused to eat the beans that, during their convalescence, they ate
avidly from my hand. As soon as they could spread their wings, they
ﬂuttered around the cage and threw themselves against the bars. They
would have been dead of exhaustion and distress if I had not given them
their freedom. Thus, I learned to overcome my childish selfishness and
sacrifice the pleasure of possession for the pleasure of generosity. It
was a day of keen emotions, of triumphant joy and insuperable regret,
that day that I brought one of my wood doves to the window. I gave her
a million kisses. I asked her to remember me and to return to eat the
tender beans of my garden. Then I opened my hand just to close it again
to recapture my friend. I kissed her again, my heart bursting and my
eyes full of tears. At last, after many hesitations and many tries, I put
her on the windowsill. She remained immobile for quite some time,
surprised, almost frightened by her good fortune. Then she took off
with a little cry of joy that went straight to my heart. I followed her a
long time with my eyes; and when she had disappeared behind the trees
of the garden, I began to cry bitterly, worrying my mother the whole
day through with my air of dejection and suffering.

 

AWI is indebted to the Société Protectrice des Animaux de Lyon et du
S Lid-Est for publishing George Sand’s remembrance of the wood

 

 

 

doves. The translation is by AWI’s Jenny Pike.

 

 

A Golden Mantella

tailed. We are left to guess what airline failed to keep the crates
upright. Half of the 2,000 frogs were upside-down throughout the
lengthy trip. Cartons of exotic tree frogs imported for the pet
industry are described as “barely alive.” At least half of the 72 exotic
creatures were dead or dying. The reader is told that more than four
times as many amphibians passed through US ports in 1992 as in
1990, according to US Fish and Wildlife Service records. The
commercial pet trade is an increasing drain on frog populations.

Tracking the Vanishing Frogs follows scientific efforts to
determine the extent to which UV—B, the ultraviolet light that has
greatly increased because of the ozone hole in Antarctica, has
inﬂuenced the shocking decline of amphibian life. The book follows
scientific work on climate change. Logging and cattle grazing are
designated as “two of the most easy-to—identify habitat problems
bothering forest amphibians around the world.”

Phillips gives a whole chapter to the Arroyo toads and their
defender, Sam Sweet. Sweet, a professor at the University of
California in Santa Barbara, has followed the fate of the Arroyo
toads since 1977. “The toads,” writes Phillips, “have probably
occupied this part of California for twelve thousand years, surviving
ice ages, fires, and ﬂoods galore. Now their biggest test is to survive
the Forest Service.” Her account of the disastrous grading and road
building incident that decimated the rare toads’ population makes
depressing reading since it seems to have been a huge mistake,
unannounced and unapproved, contributing, along with off-road
vehicles, mining, grazing and logging, to the depletion of the toads.

“In the Los Padres National Forest, and in many other forests
around the country, a more accurate motto for the agency’s millions
of acres would be ‘Land of Many Abuses,’” which the author
attributes to old-school insensitivity to ecosystem management and
wildlife preservation by the district rangers and their lieutenants.

Towards the end of the book, Phillips tells us the Fish and
Wildlife Service announced in August 1993, that it intended to list
the Arroyo toad as endangered and was seeking public comment.
The comment period was extended in September, but a final deci-
sion still has not been made on the toad’s status, nor has the Fish and
Wildlife Service proposed regulations for setting standards on the
importation and exportation of amphibians and reptiles.

The amphibians continue to vanish.

19

03ml [aeqorw

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Acting Out a Change

The late Bill Travers, who played George Adamson in the ﬁlm Born
Free, reﬂects on how the making of the ﬁlm 30 years ago changed
his philosophy—forever.

I suddenly became aware of the beautiful, six-foot long lioness
crouching like a gigantic marmalade cat along the side wall of the
tent behind Ginny’s* chair. Her amber eyes coolly focused on me.
I knew, as relaxed as Mara seemed, she was wound up like a giant
spring waiting for my glance—eye contact, which would mean to
her a playful challenge. Instead, I helped myself to some salad.
“George**, we are being watched,” I said.

“You are, you mean,” he replied.

“You ought to be ﬂattered by so much attention. It was my turn
yesterday,” laughed Ginny, “and I’m bruised everywhere.”

I felt a prickle of excitement. It happened regularly, it was ‘lion
play.’ I could be bowled over, knocked off my camp stool at any
movement. Great!

Every day possible we—Ginny, George and I—had lunch, a
picnic, on the Kenyan plains with one of ‘our’ lions. To make ‘Born
Free,’ which was essentially a love story, we had a number of lions,
24 in all, and we had to know seven of the larger or full-grown lions
almost as closely as George and Joy had known Elsa. The trust and
friendship had to be real. We weren’t using ‘doubles.’

By now the film unit would be girding themselves in cages; at
2:30 we’d be back on some location with Mara in the back of our
Landrover and we’d try to create circumstances which would
persuade her, we hoped, to walk with us, run, play with us, climb up
and ride on our Landrover roof; act out a few seconds of the script
Carl Foreman had given us, so we could tell some of Joy and
George’s amazing story of their life with Elsa on film.

Desmond Morris, the zoologist, wrote that the impact of the
story was so great, it changed the attitude of the world towards
wildlife... for ever.

The change for me, however, was all in those looks. Life was
going to be different from now on.

That was in 1964, 30 years ago. Years of theatre, films and
‘make believe reality’ were just part of the perspective. I’d suddenly
found a new colour in the rainbow.

* Virginia McKenna, ** George Adamson

Animal Welfare Institute
Post Office Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

Address Correction Requested

Virginia McKenna and Bill Travers with Girl—one of the lionesses who
appeared in Born Free.

From that unique experience our lives. Ginny’s and mine,
became richer, incomparably richer, with purpose, focus and, it
seemed, an irresistible drive to rediscover some of thousands of
years of lost human feelings. Will we ever know how much has been
lost by isolating ourselves from the rest of the creatures with whom
we share this world, this experience we call life? We have enslaved
animals and, through it, succeeded in making ourselves slaves. At
timeslfelt I understood what Rousseau ( l 7 l 2- l 778) meant when he
wrote: “Man was born free, and everywhere he is in chains.”

Human conceit, arrogance and greed are the chains.

Now, as I work for wildlife. sadly and gladly. in happiness,
sometimes in despair, on a voluntary basis for The Foundation, I am
constantly reminded of the experience which changed the course of
our lives, our attitudes, priorities. our thinking. ll'l love life, I love
all life.

Is anyone really any poorer for having a love for wild animals
and, if they are lucky enough to have that feeling. do they mind being
called ‘Bunny Huggers’? I don’t. in fact it leads me to think of the
other words Rousseau wrote all those years ago: “You only hunger for
the sweet and gentle creatures which harm no one. which follow you,
serve you, and are devoured by you as the reward of their service.”

We softies, we ‘Bunny Huggers' have been around a long time,
it seems.

 

Reprinted with permission of the Born [free Foundation. Colt/harbour,
Dorking, Surrey, RH5 (SH/l. Eng/and.

Non-Prom
US. POSTAGE
PAID
Washington, DC
Permit No. 2300

 

PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER

 




 

BEYOND THE LABORATORY DOOR

“The initial reaction on reading this survey is to ask the questions, ‘Why do these violations happen?’ and ‘Was this experiment
really necessary and did it contribute to either our knowledge or well-being?’ . . .

“Part of the reason these things happen, I think, is the tremendous growth in scientific research since the war and the competitive atmosphere this has generated. It
is unfortunate that during the decades following World War II, research also became big business. . . .

“It is quite obvious this puts tremendous pressure on the scientist and as a result he is not going to be willing to wait until there is room in the animal quarters
to house his experimental animals. He will jam them in some way because he cannot afford not to. . . .

“ll/[any projects are of the make work type or ‘let’s do it and see what happens’ rather than one of rigorous experimental design,
with the hope of collecting enough data to publish something and thus receive another publication credit. ”

From the Preface by Samuel M. Peacock, Jr., M.D.

Beyond the Laboratory Door documents massive
non-compliance with the Animal Welfare Act found in ma-
jor universities and corporate laboratories across the coun-
try. The book includes the ﬁrst in—depth analysis of reports
by veterinary inspectors of the United States Department
of Agriculture (USDA), which administers the law. Far
from uncovering isolated incidents of neglect in the 214

 

institutions studied, the reports reveal that less than one
fifth of these facilities are regularly meeting the minimum
standards set by the Act.

The book also includes a compilation of excerpts from the
scientific literature from 1978—1984 reporting 120 represen-
tative experiments that cause pain or distress to animals.




PART ONE: UNJUSTIFIABLE BY PART TWO: PHOTOGRAPHS OF
ANY STANDARD EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS

Examines information on institutions which, due to serious Illustrates suffering experienced by animals used in research.
and chronic deﬁciencies, have not been in compliance with
the Animal Welfare Act.

Excerpts from the reports of USDA veterinary inspectors

reveal:

‘ Animals suffering unrelieved pain while the institution in-
volved maintained that no experiments were conducted
without pain relief
Rusty cages with sharp protrusions
Excessive build-up of excrement in cages
Animals left to endure temperature extremes
Vermin-infested or otherwise contaminated food
Unclean water covered with green scum
Animals kept in cages so small that they were unable to
make normal postural adjustments
Animals housed in previously undisclosed sites where
serious deﬁciencies were found
Recurring instances of neglect

‘ a
8
, 'E
m
. 5:»
cf,
. 1,
‘5
: g
~l
(Q

A monkey, one of whose eyes has been removed.

PART THREE: A REVIEW OF THE
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE, 1978-1984

Reports the use of painful experiments in the following areas
of research:

Eye Manipulation Brain Research

Burn Experiments Electric Shock Research

©Lifeforee—Peter Hamilton

Noble-Collip Drum Aggression Research

' . i . ' . . . ' Trauma -
Implantatzon of electrodes znto the brazn may result zn purulent znfeo- Stress Experlments

tion at the surgical site. Note pus running down this cat’s forehead. Radiation Research Miscellaneous Manipulations

 




x i is published at a time when

the taxpayer is questlomng whether existing standards for
the treatment of research animals are adequate 1n view 3‘3, Anlmal Welfare InStltUte
. a P 0 Box 3650

Washington, D.C . 20007

of heavy government support even for institutions which

have repeatedly been out of compliance with the Animal
Welfare Act. The
billions of dollars of
appropriations for
research from the
federal government
will continue to be
questioned until
institutions show a
greater attempt to
avoid cruelty.

Please send me copies of the Beyond the
Laboratory Door at $5.00 each, for which I enclose

$5

 

 

Name

Address

 

 

Blood pour: into a drain
from this dog’s surgical

wounds as she lies groaning

 

‘ Ink/rm r4 ‘ l’rtrr Hamilton

 




 

 

 

OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Aims of the Institute

The Animal Welfare Institute (AWI) is a non—profit
charitable organization founded in 1951 to reduce the
sum total of pain and fear inﬂicted on animals by
humans. Specific goals are:

I Humane treatment of laboratory animals and the
development and use of non-animal testing methods.

ﬂ Ban on steel jaw traps and reform of other cruel
methods for controlling wildlife populations.

Prevention of trade in wild-caught exotic birds, and
regulation of transport conditions for all animals.

Preservation of species threatened by extinction.

ﬂ Reform of cruel treatment of food animals, such as
intensive confinement in factory farms. AWI was a
leading opponent of cruel slaughter methods in the
1950s.

I Encouragement of humane science teaching and
prevention of painful experiments on animals by
high school students.

 




 

Programs of the Institute

CI Laboratory Animals

Strict enforce-
ment of the Ani—
mal Welfare Act,
the major federal
statute on protec—
tion of animals,
is a primary goal
of AWI. Our

 

 

2.7.10f2ﬂ7/u011gmv H .9126]

 

documentation
made possible
the law’s enact—
ment in 1966 and
its strengthening
and broadening amendments in 1970, 1976, 1985
and 1990.

The activities of unscrupulous random source,
Class “B” animal dealers are of great concern to
AWI because of the suffering many of them inﬂict
on dogs and cats obtained by illegal means. De-
spite their horrific track record, Class “B” dealers
are major suppliers of dogs and cats for experi-
mental laboratories.

AWI supports the 3 R’s: replacement of experi—
mental animals by alternatives, reﬁnement to
reduce pain and suffering when animals are still
used, and reduction of numbers of animals used.

We provide a free copy of Beyond the Laboratory
Door (266 pages, 31 photographs) on request by
libraries, scientific institutions and humane societ-
ies. Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Ani—
mals (108 pages, 165 illustrations) is also avail—
able without charge to institutions that want to end
confinement of animals to small, barren cages and
make decent provision for their needs. Animals
and Their Legal Rights (441 pages), the fOUTth
edition of AWI ’ s informative analysis of maj or US
laws affecting animals with appendices that in-
clude significant legislation in other countries, IS
also free on request to chiefs of police in addition
to the above—mentioned institutions.

 

 

 




CI The Albert Schweitzer Medal

In 1951 , Dr. Albert Schweitzer gave his permission
to the Animal Welfare Institute to strike a medal in
his honor to be presented for outstanding achieve—
ment in the advancement of animal welfare.

 

In granting his permission, Dr. Schweitzer wrote,
“I would never have believed that my philosophy,
which incorporates in our ethics a compassionate
attitude toward all creatures, would be noticed
and recognized in my lifetime.”

Medalists have ranged from well—known leaders—
Rachel Carson, Hubert Humphrey, and Senator
Robert Dole—to Patrolman John Mobley whose
actions reduced the suffering of laboratory dogs.

CI Action in the Field

The Animal Welfare Institute provides representa—
tion, speakers and exhibits at conferences and meetings
around the world. At the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species and the International
Whaling Commission, AWI representatives work
actively to inﬂuence the outcome for the benefit of
animals, confronting exploiters with incontrovert—
ible facts, figures, and photographic documentation.
AWI’s companion organization, the Society for
Animal Protective Legislation, works for animal
protective legislation within the US.

 

 




 

Cl Whales

In 1971,AWI launched the Save the Whales Campaign.
We are at the forefront of the fight against Japanese and
Norwegian effons to force a resumption of commercial
whaling within the International Whaling Commission.
We also work to end the activities of pirate Whalers and
whale meat smugglers. AWI is calling for a permanent
ban on commerce in the ﬂesh of these unique beings.

CI The Wildlife Trade

Every year, tens of millions of animals—many of
them endangered—die.j ust to satisfy the international
pet trade. AWI works hard to stop this commercial
exploitation of animals. We headed a coalition
of organizations in the successful lawsuit to require
regulations for Humane and Healthful Transport of
Wild Mammals and Birds enforced by the US Interior
Department.

 

$5014] nil/1mg) I

 

We have funded investigations of the ivory trade.
With the Environmental Investigation Agency, we
Spearheaded the campaign to ban international trade
in ivory at the 1989 meeting of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES),
and fought off efforts to rescind the ban at the 1992
and 1994 CITES meetings.

The United States formerly imported half a million
Wild-caught birds each year. Mortality was enor-
mous and the suffering incalculable as birds were
jammed into inadequate crates to save transport
Costs. AWI took the lead in researching, publishing
and distributing the facts on the commercial bird
trade. We provided evidence for the successful paS-
Sage of the Wild Bird Conservation Act in 1992.

The
Iegh
the I
in th
as th
to fr!
is ca
this

Incn
fine]
deI
ing 1
are I:
F act
page
and

F am
of cat
less f
it has
into t

The
pub]

The

med
hum
teacl

AW:
tionz
poli<
ers. ’
Wha
H an
and j
direc
chas




CI Trapping

The non-selective and highly destructive steel jaw
leghold trap is the most common type of trap used on
the millions of animals killed for their fur each year
in the US. Victims suffer excruciating pain and fear
as they tear ligaments and break teeth in their struggle
to free themselves from the bone crushing trap. AWI
is campaigning vigorously against the steel trap in
this country and abroad.

D Farm Animals

Increasingly, farm animals are raised in close con-
finement in “factories” where they suffer severe
deprivation. AWI works to halt these intensive farm—
ing practices and replace them with methods which
are both humane and economical. A paperback book,
Factory Farming: The Experiment That Failed (86
pages, 1 14 illustrations) documents current cruelty
and available alternatives.

Factory farming has taken the joy out ofthe lives of millions
of calves and pigs, and billions of hens; it has driven count-
less families oﬂ the land; it has polluted streams and rivers;
it has injected massive amounts of antibiotics and other drugs

into the public food supply resulting in serious health risks.
—From the Introduction by Christine Stevens

CI Publishing and Education

The thoroughness and comprehensiveness of AWl
publications are widely recognized.

The AWI Quarterly is sent to members, deans of
medical and veterinary schools, public libraries,
humane societies, and thousands of veterinarians,
teachers, scientists and administrators.

AWI distributes books, films and other educa-
tional materials to research institutions, libraries,
police chiefs, humane societies and school teach-
ers. We publish books, such as Facts About Furs,
Whales vs. Whalers and The Endangered Species
Handbook, on different aspects of animal welfare
and provide them free to those who can put them
directly to use helping animals. Others may pur-
chase them at cost.

 




Membership in the
Animal Welfare Institute

The Animal Welfare Institute has been working for
over 40 years to prevent needless suffering of ani—
mals. We need your help to continue the struggle.
Please join us by becoming a member. AWl puts
your tax-deductible contribution to work immedi—
ately to help animals.

Members of AWl enjoy many benefits. including a
subscription to The A ll 'l Quurlc'rlr and an opportu—
nity to receive free copies ofAWl ‘s books as they are
published. In addition. we keep you informed of
AWl‘s progress with special mailings as well as the
annual report. Members are invited to the Albert
Schweitzer Medal presentation and reception in honor
of its recipient.

l— ______________ 7

Membership Application

I support your work and would like to become a
member ofthe Animal Welfare Institute.

D $ 1000 Benefactor

El 35 500 Patron

El 3; 100 Friend

Cl 35 50 Supporter

Cl 35 25 Regular

El 35 5 Student or Senior Citizen

90“ to help you continue your work
for animals.

Name

 

Address

 

City State

 

 

Institution (if pertinentl

 

Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
\V'ashington. DC. 20007

(203)117-2332

l |
l |
| l
| |
l |
| |
| l
| l
l l
l . . . . . l
l Enclosed is my tax—deductible contribution 0t l
l |
| |
| l
l |
l |
| |
| l
| l
l |
| |

Printed on Rec} cled Paper

 




AVAILABLE FROM

PO BOX 3650, Washington, DC 20007

 




 

, by<
APPRECIATION AND [the
m 1
PROTECTION OF ANIMALS by”.
AW
The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly ‘ Help
Our magazine dealing with current animal welfare issues, Ful]
including treatment of captive animals in laboratories, com— COP
mercial trade, factory farms, and traplines, summaries of i Undr
international meetings, laws and treaties affecting animals, L Are
articles by undercover investigators, and book reviews. Illus— tal ]
trated, one year subscription. $25.00 L'
lVll
Animals and Their Legal Rights , Appe
US legislation, with appendices on important foreign laws. A r
AWI, 441 pages, fourth edition, 1990. One copy free to pag
libraries, police and humane societies. To others $8.00 The
Man and Beast i A r.
by Major C.W. Hume, OBE, M.C., B.Sc. London. Essays on tratr
animal issues by the founder of the Universities Federation
for Animal Welfare. UFAW, 222 pages, illustrated by C011
Fougasse, second edition, 1982. $5.00 WO“
1
The Neighbours mAe n1
Anthology of animal poems. UFAW, 117 pages, illustrated pag
by Fougasse. $5.00 “
‘ How
The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion A r,
by Major C.W. Hume. UFAW, 100 pages, illustrated by } tratr
Fougasse. $10.00 ‘
. “ Slau
Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer is De
by Ann Cottrell Free. AWI and others, 93 pages, illustrated, ‘ A r:
revised edition, 1988. $5.00 16 1
Since Silent Spring: Our debt to Albert Schweitzer and Russ
Rachel Carson Tige
A speech by Ann Cottrell Free. 17 pages, 1992. $3.50 Figh
The Schweitzer Medalists A r ‘
The medal has been presented for outstanding contributions 001‘
to animal welfare from 1955 on. Free i From
Childhood Cruelty Toward Animals Among Criminals ! in B‘
and Noncriminals J A T‘
by Stephen Kellert and Allen Felthouse. 16—page study 3 001‘
reprinted from Human Relations, Vol. 38, No. 12. Docu— Wh
ments a link between childhood cruelty to animals and adult ‘I A i
violent crimes, 1985. $0.50 1
pag
CIT 1
) A I
WILDLIFE UNDER THREAT 1 Fag
Rare
Bird
L181
Flight to Extinction: The Wild-Caught Bird Trade Spe
Report by the Environmental Investigation Agency and AWI. cop
27 pages, 31 color photographs, 1992. $5.00 cop
The Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial Cage Bird Save
Trade Ele}
by Greta Nilsson. Foreword by S. Dillon Ripley. AWI, 121 gua
pages, illustrated in black and white and color, 1981 . One copy adu
free to libraries. To others $5.00 CI 0

 

 




Importation of Birds Into The United States In 1985
by Greta N ilsson. Discussion of developments and research in
the cage bird trade. AWI, 203 pages, 1989. $5.00

Importation of Birds Into The United States 1986-1988
by Greta Nilsson. A continuation of the preceding report.
AWI, 287 pages including tables, 1990. $5.00

Help Us Stop This Cruelty
Full color brochure on the bird trade. AWI, 1989. Up to 10
copies available free. Additional copies $0.25

Under Fire: Elephants in the Front Line
A report with color photographs and maps by the Environmen—
tal Investigation Agency, 57 pages, 1992. $6.50

Living Proof: African Elephants—the Success of the CITES
Appendix I Ban
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. 18
pages, illustrated in color, 1994. _ $8.00

The Political Wilderness: India’s Tiger Crisis
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. Illus—
trated, 1996. $8.00

Corporate Power, Corruption, & the Destruction of the
World’s Forests: the Case for a New Global Forest Agree-
ment
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. 52
pages, illustrated in color, 1996. $8.00

How to Save the World’s Forests
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. Illus-
trated, 1995. $3.00

Slaughter of the Apes: How the Tropical Timber Industry
is Devouring Africa’s Great Apes
A report by the World Society for the Protection of Animals.
16 pages, illustrated in color, 1996. $2.00

Russia’s Final Roar—Criminal Threats to the Siberian
Tiger and Local Communities: an Inside Look at a New
Fight for Survival
A report by the Investigative Network. 24 pages, illustrated in
color, 1996. $10.00

From Forest to Pharmacy: The Global Underground Trade
in Bear Parts
A report by the Investigative Network. 56 pages, illustrated in
color, 1996. $ 10.00

Why the World Must Kill the Trade to Save the Bears
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. 12
pages, illustrated in color, 1995. $3.00

CITES: Enforcement Not Extinction
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency. 38
pages, illustrated in color, 1994. $5.00

Rare, Threatened and Endangered Species of Mammals,
Birds, Reptiles and Amphibians of the World
Listing from Red Data Books, CITES, U.S. Endangered
Species Act and state laws. AWI, 36 pages, 1986. One
copy free to teachers and libraries. To others and additional
copies $2.00

Save the Elephants Longsleeve T-Shirt
Elephants trumpeting with message in the three CITES lan—
guages (English, French and Spanish). White with black print,
adult sizes CI M CI L CI XL only (specify artwork on front
CI or back Cl). $14.00

 




 

TRAPPING

Text of European Community Regulation regarding

trapping and importation of furs. Free
Petition against the steel jaw leghold trap Free
Facts About Furs

by Greta Nilsson and others. 257 pages of information on the
way furs are obtained throughout the world. 79 illustrations,
18 appendices, AWI revised edition, 1980. $10.00

Alternative Traps, comprising The Role of Cage and Box
Traps in Modern Trapping, The Role of Legsnares in
Modern Trapping, and The Role of Spring Powered Killing
Traps in Modern Trapping

by Tom Garrett. 61 pages, illustrated. AWI, 1996. $ 8.00
Trapping Agony

The views of Charles Darwin on the cruelty of the steel jaw

leghold trap. Reprinted from Defenders magazine. Free

What is the Real Price of a Fur Coat?
Cruel methods of obtaining wild furs. Society for Animal
Protective Legislation, 4 pages. Free

Steel Jaw Traps Maim and Cripple Pets
A compilation of articles on pets caught in steel jaw traps.
Society for Animal Protective Legislation. Free

Ban Steel Jaw Leghold Traps
8 1/2” by 14” poster illustrating the cruelty of steel jaw traps.
Society for Animal Protective Legislation. Free

A Survey of Opinions of US. Citizens on the Use of the Steel
Jaw Leghold Trap
Conducted by Stephen Kellert, Ph.D., Yale School of For—
estry and Environmental Studies. Includes a list of the 88
nations that prohibit use of this trap. Free

LABORATORY ANIMALS

The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique
by W.M.S. Russell and R.L. Burch. A reprint of this Classic
book. UFAW, 238 pages, 1992. $25.00

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
Illustrated manual for those planning to build, remodel or
re-equip animal quarters. AWI, 108 pages, 165 illustra—
tions, revised edition, 1979. One copy free to scientific
institutions, veterinarians or architects. To others $5 .00

Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
Text of the 1985 amendments to the Animal Welfare Act
from The Congressional Record, Vol. 131, No. 175. Free

Humane Consideration for Animal Models
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from Animal Mod-
els of Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases. National
Academy of Sciences, 8 pages, 1976. Free

%.

31

h! I—Q H A

me 3‘:




'%98

Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals: A
Review of Scientiﬁc Literature from 1975-1978
by Jeff Diner with a foreword by Samuel Peacock, M.D. AWI,
195 pages, 1979. $5.00

Beyond the Laboratory Door
Continues the above review, 1978—1984, and includes two
new sections: “Unjustifiable by Any Standard” (citing
USDA reports of laboratory inspections) and “Photographs
of Experimental Animals,” AWI, 266 pages, 1985. $5.00

Mistreatment of Laboratory Animals Endangers
Biomedical Research, Commentary by Christine Stevens,
Nature, September 27, 1984. Free

Humane Perspectives
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The Future
of Animals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Research, De-
velopment, Education, and Testing. National Academy of
Sciences, 9 pages, 1977. Free

A Bibliography for Members of Institutional Animal Care
and Use Committees
Annotated. Includes publications on alternatives to
animals, laws and regulations, training courses, and the
psychological well—being of primates. AWI. Free to
members of IACUCs, all others $0.50

Use of Laboratory Animals in Research
Dissent by committee member Christine Stevens to the
report of the National Research Council Committee on the
Use of Laboratory Animals in Biomedical and Behavioral
Research. 2 pages, 1988. Free

Excerpts from: Housing, Care and Psychological Well-
being of Captive and Laboratory Primates, a 544 page
book edited by Evalyn F. Segal, Noyes Publications. Con—
tains quotations from 50 leading primatologists and other
scientists. 3 pages, 1989. Free

Concentration Camps for Dogs
Reprinted from Life magazine. 8 pages, illustrated, 1966.

Free
Protect Our Pets
Help stop pets from being taken by unscrupulous animal dealers
and sold to laboratories. AWI, 4 pages, illustrated. Free

Also available: a 2” button reading “Protect our pets - Stop dog
& cat theft.” Free

FACTORY FARMING

Factory Farming: The Experiment that Failed
Compilation of AWI Quarterly articles showing intensive .
rearing of calves, sows and hens and practical alternative
methods. AWI, 86 pages, 1987. One copy free to libraries
and humane societies. To others $5.00

How Astrid Lindgren Achieved Enactment of the 1988
Law Protecting Farm Animals in Sweden
A translation of articles and letters published in Expressen,
Stockholm, from 1985-1989. AWI, 27 pages. $3.00

 




 

HUMANE EDUCATION

Good Kind Lion
For primary grades. UFAW, 4 pages, illustrated by Fougasse.
$0.50 or free with a self-addressed, stamped envelope

Kittens and Cats and You and You and Your Dog
For primary grades. Humane Society of Huron Valley, 12 and 16
pages, with pictures suitable for coloring. One copy free to teach-
ers, librarians and humane societies. To others & additional copies
$0.50 or free with a self—addressed, stamped envelope

First Aid and Care of Small Animals
by Ernest P. Walker. For use by teachers in primary and secondary
schools. AWl, 52 pages. second edition. One copy free to teachers,
librarians. humane societies and scout leaders. To others $3.00

Attitudes Towards Animals
by Christine Stevens. Reprint of article from The American Biol—
ogy Teaeher. 3 pages Free

Biology Students as Experimental Subjects .
by F. Barbara Orlans, PhD. Reprint of article from The American
Biology Teaelzer. Free

Alternatives that Don’t Harm or Destroy Animals
Substitutes for dissection and invasive exper1ments. Free

Humane Rules For Canadian Science Fairs
One page. Free

VIDEOS

Video rentals are subject to availability and can only be shipped
within the US. All video rentals require a $25.00 refundable deposzt
(please enelose a separate cheek) and are available for one week.

Where Have All the Dolphins Gone?
Video documenting the dolphin slaughter narrated by George C.
Scott. Marine Mammal Fund. 48 minutes. $5.00

The Earthtrust Driftnet Expedition _ .
Video showing entanglement of marine mammals and buds in
driftnets. Earthtrust. 25 minutes. $5.00

America’s Shame .
Video showing suffering of animals caught in leghold traps. The
Fur-Bearers. 15 minutes $5.00

Gregory Peck Speaks Against Leghold Traps .
Society for Animal Protective Legislatlon. PSA for loan to telev1—
sion stations only. Free

The Pig Picture . .
Video detailing the cruelty of factoryhog farm cond1tlons. Pro—
duced by the Humane Farming Assocratlon and AWI. $5.00

Down on the Factory Farm . . d
Video produced by the BBC documenting cruel confinement an

showing alternative housing systems. 50 minutes. $5.00
Laboratory Dogs . . .
Video showing humane care and housmg of dogs 1n an exper1men—
tal surgery laboratory. Produced by Crawley Fllms. $5.00

Animal Detectives -

A 7-part series documenting illegal trade in endangered speCICS and
shocking abuse of wildlife around the globe. Env1ronmental
Investigation Agency, 1995. Available from EIA, 15 Bowllng
Green Lane, London EC1R OBD, UK. Phone (44) 171 490 7040.

 

 

__a._— .. 4._A “‘AAMAAA‘a‘ A,_ﬂ_4 ,

 




 

 

 

SAVE THE WHALES

Whales vs. Whalers: A Continuing Commentary
Articles published from 1971 to 1995 in the AW] Quarterly on
national and international efforts to prevent the extinction of
whales. $5.00

The Global War Against Small Cetaceans: the [WC and the
Politics of Extinction
Documentation of the hundreds of thousands of dolphins,
porpoises and small whales that are killed and exploited. Environ-

mental Investigation Agency, 56 pages, illustrated in color,
1990. $6.00

The Global War Against Small Cetaceans
A second report by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 63
pages, illustrated in color, 1991. $6.50

The Continuing Global War Against Small Cetaceans
An update by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 46
pages, illustrated in color, 1996. $6.50

Under Fire: Environmental Threats and the Extinction of the
World’s Cetaceans
A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency, 34 pages,
illustrated 1n color, 1994. $6. 50

The Gray Zone: Industrial Threats to Gray Whales in Baja,
Mexico
A report by the Investigative Network, 18 pages, illustrated,
1996. $10.00

Strandings: Ways to Save Whales
by Frank Robson. Includes step—by-step instructions to assist
stranded marine mammals. Science Press, hardcover, 123 pages,
over 70 illustrations, 1984. $16.00

What Dolphins Are Teaching Us About Communication: A
New Age Interview with Frank Robson
by Jim Nollman. A ﬁve-page discussion with the author of

Strandin gs. Free
How to Liven Up Your Classroom with a Pod of Whales

For teachers, 2 pages. Free
A Whale of a Friend

An ocean giant and man play together in an historic happening.

4 pages. Reprint from The Toronto Star. Free
A Letter from a Whale

by Anthony Sandonato. For primary grades. AWI, 4 pages. One

copy free. Additional copies $0.50
Save the Whales Poster

Richard Ellis illustrations of the Great Whales. One free, extras

$2.00

Wear a Message: Save the Whales and Protect the Dolphins
from Pollution and Proﬁteering is printed on the front of
AWI ’s T—shirts. Many different species of cetaceans are pictured
on the back. Adult sizes Cl M Cl L E] XL $12.00

A full-color print measuring 20” x 26”, from an original painting
by Richard Ellis, of two majestic cachalot whales, suitable for
framing, is available to anyone donating $25 or more to the
Animal Welfare Institute’ 8 SAVE THE WHALES campaign.

Cl Please send me the Richard Ellis print

 

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007

I wish to become a non—voting member of
the Animal Welfare Institute.

CI $1000 Benefactor CI $500 Patron
CI $100 Friend CI $50 Supporting

CI $25 Regular CI $5 Student or
Senior Citizen

(Subscription to the AW] Quarterly included)

NAME

ADDRESS

 

CITY

 

STATE

 

 

INSTITUTION

 

Please send me the items marked, for which I

enclose $ .
(DC residents add 6% sales tax to all orders.)

 

 

Cl Check or money order (payable to
the Animal Welfare Institute)

Cl Visa or Cl MasterCard
Card Number:

Hlllllllll ll 1‘ _ [ k villlulll

Expiration date: I H
Month

Signature

 

 

 

 

All orders should be accompanied by payment. To lower
expenses, an acknowledgment of your gift will be sent
only upon request. Ifyou require a receipt, check here CI.

Teachers, please use school letterhead and indicate
grade level. We regret that only reprints and leaﬂets
can be provided free to student teachers.

 




 
  

   

l—

A BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR MEMBERS OF INSTITUTIONAL
ANIMAL CARE AND USE COMMITTEES

     

This bibliography may serve asa guide to published scientific material assisting non-affiliated and
affiliated members of Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees (IACUCs) in their commit—
ment to ensure ethically and scientifically acceptable reSearch protocols involving live animals.

    
   
   
 

GENERAL

Animals, Science, and Ethics. Donnelley S and Nolan K (eds). 1990. The Hastings Center
Report, Supplement May/June.
Invaluable background information that addresses ethical theory and the moral status of
animals, animals in science, animal suffering and IACUCs.

    
     
 

Animal Welfare Information Center Newsletter. Available from Animal Welfare Information
Center, National Agricultural Library, USDA, 10301 Baltimore Blvd, Beltsville, MD 20705-
2351*
A quarterly newsletter providing “current information on animal welfare to investigators,
technicians, administrators, exhibitors and the public.”

 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

“Beyond ‘Adequate Veterinary Care.’” Anchel M. 1976. Journal of the American Veterinary
Medical Association, 168. pp 513—517.
A very clear definition of the laboratory animal veterinarian’s professional and ethical
obligations. “The veterinarian must have the courage—and it willrequire courage—to insist
on standards that are absolute and not relative to the pressures within any institution.”

“Editorial: Caring for animals, caring for ourselves.” Spaeth GL. 1994. Ophthalmic
‘Surgery, 25. p 426.
“When we act uncaringly toward experimental animals we become uncaring human beings.
What is the worth of medical miracle achieved at the cost of inflicting trauma on others that
cannot help but scar our own characters?”

Guide to the Care and Use of Experimental Animals, Volume 1. 1993. Canadian Council

on Animal Care. Ottawa, Ontario.
A very thorough manual with a clear discussion of relevant literature. Pertinent chapters:
responsibility for the care and use of experimental animals, laboratory animal facilities,
laboratory animal care, social and behavioral requirements of experimental animals,
restraint and manipulation, standards for experimental animal surgery, control of animal pain
in research, teaching and testing, anesthesia, euthanasia, use of animals in psychology, use
of animals in neuroscience research, space requirements, categories of invasiveness in
animal experiments and ethics of animal investigation.

 

Humane Innovations and Alternatives, Volume 8. 1994. Psychologists for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals. Washington Grove, MD.
A periodical packed with valuable information including articles on detecting and alleviat-
ing pain and boredom in animals, enrichment for primates, appropriate housing for mice,
and use of a non-animal alternative for teaching introductory surgery.

* Note: Animal Welfare Information Center publications are also available via the World Wide Web:
HTTP: / /netvet. wustl. ed u/awic. htm

 
   
      

—— 1

    
 




—

7|

In the Name of Science: Issues in Responsible Animal Experimentation. Orlans F B. 1993.
Oxford University Press. New York, NY. _
“It was not that I was against the study of living organisms in the classroom, nor was 1 against
animal experimentation when conducted by well-trained, professional scientists to discover
new knowledge that had a social purpose, but I thought that reasonable limits should be set...
To my surprise, when I proposedchanges, I encountered a harsh environment. Each step
of the way is a struggle against a weight of resistance to any change in the status quo. ”

Laboratory Animal Science. 1987. 37 (Special Issue).
“Consensus Recommendations on Effective Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees
by Board of Trustees of the Scientists Center for Animal Welfare.” Scientists Center for
Animal Welfare. pp 11-13.
A classification system for degree of animal harm is proposed for addressing the ethical
dilemmas of animal experimentation.
“Animal care and use committees: History and current national policies in the United States. ”
Whitney RA. pp 18—2 1.
Defines the functions of the IACUC.
“Case studies of ethical dilemmas.” Orlans FB. pp 59—64.
Five cases based on actual situations are discussed in depth to illustrate opportunities of
the IACUC for modifying protocols to introduce more humane experimental design.
“Reducing pain in laboratory animals.” Spinelli JS. pp 65-70.
Terminology of pain is summarized; simple but effective strategies for the control of pain
are proposed.
“Assessment of animal pain in experimental animals. ” Soma LR. pp 71-77.
The signs and behavioral changes associated with acute and chronic pain in animals are
clearly described. “Until specific criteria have been established in each species or
biochemical or physiological markers defined, observations, knowledge of the behav—
ioral characteristics of the animal or group of animals, careful daily observations, and
comparison before and after any intervention are the methods currently available to all

who care for experimental and clinical patients. When there is doubt, the bias should be
in favor of the animal.”

“Public concerns for animals in research.” Clark J. 120-121.
The author highlights the fundamental dilemma of regulated animal welfare: “The
resistance of the medical profession and scientiﬁc community to definitive legislation
forcing them to assure compliance with at least the minimum norms has been a long—

standing problem. If we want to Protect laboratory animals from neglect or abuse, we
must insist on strong laws that can be enforced.”

“Scientists’ attitudes toward animal care and use committees.” Orlans FB. pp 162-166.
A survey conducted by the Scientists Center for Animal Welfare.

The Monkey Wars. Blum D. 1994. Oxford University Press. New York, NY.
A realistic picture of the scientific and ethical dilemmas that accrue from biomedical and
psychological experimentation with animals, in particular with nonhuman primates. Dis-
cussions include the standpoints of extremists and moderates and are based primarily on
interviews with leading primatologists and animal advocates across the US.

L ,l

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique. Russell WMS and Burch RL. 1959.
Methuen & Co. London, England.
The authors introduce the concept of the 3 Rs——Replacement, Reduction and Refinement.
' “Desirable as replacement is, it would be a mistake to put all our humanitarian eggs in this
basket alone. The progress of replacement is gradual, nor is it ever likely to absorb the whole
of experimental biology. Refinement may reach such a pitch that a given procedure
employing animals is absolutely humane, but in any given field there is bound to be a latent
period before such success is attained... reduction remains of great importance, and of all
modes of progress it is the one most obviously, immediately, and universally advantageous
in terms of efficiency.”

INSTITUTIONAL ANIMAL CARE AND USE COMMITTEES (IACUCs)

Animal Care and Use Committees. Allen T and Clingerman K 1990 Animal Welfare
Information Center, National Agricultural Library, USDA. Beltsville, MD. 1992. Reference
number SRB-9216.

A comprehensive bibliography.

“Ethics of animal welfare in research: The institution’s attempt to achieve appropriate
social balance.” Prentice ED, Zucker 1H and Jameton A. 1986. The Physiologist, 29 (2). pp
17-19. '
Paper describes 1 5 ethical principles governing research involving animals that were adopted
by the University of Nebraska Medical Center. These clearly stated principles serve as the
protocol review criteria employed by the IACUC.

“Institutional animal care and use committees: A new set of clothes for the emperor?”
Finsen L. 1988. The Journal of Medicine and Philosophy, 13. pp 145—158.
A thorough analysis of the regulatory texts pertaining to IACUCs.

Public Health Service Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. Office for
Protection from Research Risks, National Institutes of Health. 1985. Bethesda, MD.
Functions of IACUC as defined by the Public Health Service policy are clearly outlined.

“Research protocol review for animal welfare.” Orlans EB. 1987. Investigative Radiology,

22. pp 253-258. .
Author addresses the following questions: What is the attitude of investigators toward
IACUCs? How is protocol review conducted? What do IACU Cs look for in their review? How
can investigators be responsive to IACUCs concerns? In what ways can a research protocol
be modified to minimize animal pain and distress?

LEGISLATION, REGULATIONS AND GUIDES

Animal Welfare Act & Regulations, as amended. Available from USDA, APHIS, Regulatory
Enforcement and Animal Care, 4700 River Road, Riverdale, MD 20737.
Chief federal animal protective law, adopted in 1966 and amended in 1970, 1976, 1985 and
1990. Sets minimum standards for care and housing of animals used in research, exhibition
and the wholesale pet trade. Mandates principal investigators to consult with a veterinarian
andto consider alternatives before conducting any procedure likely to produce pain or
distress in an experimental animal. Requires semi-annual inspections by the IACUC and at

I least one inspection per year by USDA. I
l v l i

  




_ ‘

7|

Animal Welfare Enforcementx1994. USDA, APHIS: 41—35—022.
The Secretary of Agriculture annually reports to the President of the Senate and the Speaker
of the House of Representatives on the administration and enforcement activities of the

Animal Welfare Act.

“Animal welfare regulations and accreditation by the American Association for Accredi-
tation of Laboratory Animal Care.” Rozmiarek H. 1994. The Role of the Chimpanzee in

Research. Eder (3, Kaiser E and King FA (eds). 26—33. Karger, Basel.
A concise outline of the major animal welfare policies and regulations in the USA.

Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. 1985. NIH Publication Number 85-23.
Animal Resources Program Division of Research Resources, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD.
Basic reference on housing, handling and care of animals in scientific institutions and
government agencies. (under revision)

ETHICS

Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer. Free AC (ed). 1982. Albert Schweitzer Fellowship,

Albert Schweitzer Center, Animal Welfare Institute and Humane Society of the United States.
A brief outline of Albert Schweitzer’s ethic of Reverence for Life. ”Whenever an animal is
somehow forced into the service of men, every one of us must be concerned for any suffering
it bears on that account. No one of us may permit any preventable pain to be inflicted, even
though the responsibility for the pain is not ours.

“Animal protection and medical science.” Wiebers DO, Leaning J and White RD. 1994. The
I Lancet, 343. pp 902-904.
A succinct analysis of current notions brought forward by scientists in political justification of
conventional animal experimentation strategies.

“Assessing animal well-being: Common sense, uncommon science." Fraser D. 1993. Food
Animal Well-Being: 1 993 Conference Proceedings and Deliberations. Purdue University Office
of Agricultural Research Programs. West Lafayette, Indiana. pp 37—54.
An excellent analysis and sound sOlution of the problem related to defining animal well—
being. “How we use them [scientific variables related to housing/ handling] to interpret well—
being, and even which ones we choose to study, reflect a value judgement on what we feel
[emphasis added] is important for the well-being of animals. “

Beyond the Laboratory Door. Animal Welfare Institute. 1985. Washington, DC.

A documentary of unjustifiable neglect and mistreatment of experimental animals. “It seems
bizarre that in our society we need legislation to protect experimental animals. There can be
little doubt that animal research has been of immense value to both man and other animals.
When experiments are conceived and designed, it is the scientists ethical obligation to
question if the results will improve the quality of life or answer a significantly important
question. In short, is this project and the publication really worth the eyes of twenty monkeys
or the hearts of ten dogs or the brains of twelve cats? If the answer is yes then these animals
should be treated as royalty in their brief stay in our laboratories. To them the scientist, the
administrator, all of us have this moral obligation.” (Preface by Samuel M Peacock)

 

 

 




 

 

“Chimpanzees in AIDS research: A biomedical and bioethical perspective.” van Akker R, I
Balls M, Eichberg JW, Goodall J, Heeney JL, Osterhaus ADME, Prince AM and Spruit I. 1994.
Journal of Medical Primatology, 23. pp 49-51.
A cOnsensus view of the appropriate utilization of chimpanzees in AIDS research. The paper
considers which types of studies are scientifically justifiable, the conditions under which they
should be carried out and the conditions which should be encouraged for post-experimental

retirement of the research subjects.

“Ethical consideration in toxicology.” Zbinden G. 1985. Food and Chemical Toxicology, 23.
pp 137-138.
Toxicologists must realize that their important mission. .. does not give them an unconditional
license to kill as many laboratory animals as they wish and to hide behind regulatory
requirements, testing guidelines and bureaucratic prescriptions for good laboratory practice.

“Ethical guidelines for investigations of experimental pain in conscious animals.”
Zimmermann M. 1983. Pain, 16. pp 109-10.
Guidelines of the International Association for the Study of Pain. “It is essential that intended
experiments on pain in conscious animals be reviewed beforehand by scientists and lay—
person.” Investigators “should accept a general attitude in which the animal is regarded not
as an object for exploitation but as a living individual.” '

Ethical and Moral Issues Relating to Animals. Allen T. 1993. Animal Welfare Information

Center, National Agricultural Library, USDA. Beltsville, MD. Reference number QB 93-29.
A comprehensive bibliography.

“Ethical principles for the maintenance and use of animals in neuroscience research.”
Zimmermann M. 1987. Neuroscience Letters, 73. p 1.
The editors of Neuroscience Letters do not consider manuscripts for publication if there is
evidence that six guiding principles have not been adhered to. “Animals are generally
accepted to be sentient and capable of suffering, and to have species-specific requirements
of living.”

“Ethical scores for animal experiments.” Porter DG. 1992. Nature, 356. pp 101-102.
A scoring system to explore the experiment from the viewpoint of the research animal is
delineated. The system is based on the ideal that harming sentient beings should be avoided
whenever possible. It takes the following parameters into account: animal species, pain,
distress, duration of experiment, number of animals, animal care and aim and quality of
scientific endeavor.

“The ethical socialization of animal researchers.” Arluke A. 1994. Lab Animal, 23(6). pp
30—32 and 34—35.
Newcomers face a closed moral universe where issues of morality are defined institutionally,
and hence are rarely confronted openly by individuals. Anti—ethical training processes
support ideological overemphasis on knowledge production, “professionalism” and un-
questioning subjugation of non—human animals.

Laboratory Animal Husbandry: Ethology, Welfare and Experimental Variables. Fox MW.
1986. State University of New York Press. Albany, NY.

The inﬂuence of ethically pertinent variables in housing conditions of research animals (e.g.
—

cage size, handling, social deprivation) on scientific data are discussed. I

5 . ' _"

 




 

L

 

 

ll~

“Sacrificial symbolism in animal experimentation: Object or pet?” Arluke AB. 1988.
Anthrozoos, 2. pp 98-117.'

Many principal investigators do not handle animals at all, although a few may do surgery after
the animal has been prepared'fully by a technician. Laboratories should adopt a moral
attitude that sanctions the expression of emotions. They should acknowledge such senti-
ments and actions as a legitimate and inevitable part of animal experimentation.

“Recognizing animal suffering and pain.” Mroczek NS. 1994. Lab Animal, 23(1). pp 27-31.
Recognizing pain in animals requires empathic observation, which in turn engenders
identification and often sympathy. Scientists have undertaken voluminous research which
is based on the assumption that animals do feel pain. Pain inherent in animal research,
however, is often ignored as subjective experience of the animal’s reality in a simplistic
attempt to objectify animal life and hence reduce it to measurable data.

“The role of attending veterinarians in laboratory animal welfare.” Quimby FW. 1995.
Journal of the American Veten'nary Medical Association, 206. pp 461—465.
A brief summary of the veterinarian’s institutional and ethical responsibilities.

PAIN/DISTRESS/SUFFERING

“Adverse effects in animals and their relevance to reﬁning scientific procedures.” Morton
DB. 1990. ATLA (Alternatives to Laboratory Animals), 18. pp 29—39.
The author highlights areas in which suffering can be prevented, alleviated and avoided. The
terms “pain, stress, eustress, distress and fear” are clearly defined to help determine animal
suffering. “One has to recognize suffering by non-verbal means, i.e. through observing
changes in behaviour'patterns and in physiology.”

“Guidelines on the recognition of pain, distress and discomfort in experimental animals
and an hypothesis for assessment.” Morton DB and Griffiths PHM. 1985. Veterinary Record,
116. pp 431-436.
The article helps not only newcomers inexperienced in the recognition of pain, but also
experienced workers who may be called upon to evaluate the pain involved in a new model
or an individual animal. Speciﬁc signs of behavior and common clinical signs indicating pain,
distress or discomfort in laboratory animals are listed and discussed.

Recognition and Alleviation of Pain and Distress in Laboratory Animals. Committee on
Pain and Distress in Laboratory Animals, Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources, National
Research Council. "1992. National Academy Press. Washington, DC.
An introduction to the basis, recognition and assessment of pain, stress and distress in various
laboratory animal species. Discusses the pharmacology of general anesthesia, describes
major classes of drugs used to achieve the clinical goals of analgesia, sedation and restraint
and lists doses per species. Also summarizes and supplements the Report of the American

Veterinary Medical Association Panel on Euthanasia with emphasis on animals used in
research, testing and teaching.

§

7|

W$




IT

SURGERY, ANESTHESIA, EUTHANASlA

“Guidelines for animal surgery in research and teaching.” Brown M], Pearson PT and
Tbmson FN. 1993. American Veterinary Medical Association Panel on Animal Surgery in
Research and Teaching and ad hoc committee of the American Society of Laboratory Animal
Practitioners.
Areas coVered include: definitions, regulations, training, facilities, principles of operative
technique and preoperative, anesthetic, perioperative and postoperative management.
These general, professional recommendations are “designed to help individuals charged
with the stewardship of animals used in research and teaching.”

“Report of the AVMAPanel on Euthanasia.” 1993. Journal of the American Veterinary
Medical Association, 202 (2). pp. 229-249.
Useful reference to insure that appropriate methods of euthanasia are being used on
different laboratory species.

Research Animal Anesthesia, Analgesia and Surgery. Smith AC and Swindle MM (eds).
1994. Scientists Center for Animal Welfare. Greenbelt, MD.
An up-to-date conference—report covering regulatory requirements, guidelines for animal
surgery in research and training, ethics of xenotransplantation and xenoperfusion, physi-
ological effects of anesthetics and analgesics, species-specific drug dose requirements,
intraoperative monitoring, emergencies in surgery and post surgical care.

ALTERNATIVES

“Alternatives to animal testing in the USP-NF: Present and future.” Underhill LA, Dabbah

R, Grady LT, Rhodes CT. 1994. Drug Development and Industrial Pharmacy, 20. pp 165-216.
A comprehensive review of alternatives to animal testing including physiochemical tests,
tissue cultures, electronic and computer processing tests, bioassays, combination tests,
hormone potency assays, and general safety tests. Advantages of in vitro tests (greater
sensitivity, smaller variability, lower cost, fewer ethical problems) vs in vivo tests are
discussed.

ATLA (Alternatives to Laboratory Animals), Fund for the Replacement of Animals in Medical

Experiments. Nottingham, England. , , .
This quarterly journal covers “all aspects of the development, validation, introduction and
use of alternatives to laboratory animals in biomedical research and toxicnty testing.

Alternatives to Pain in Experiments on Animals. Pratt DP. 1980. Argus Archives. .
A very well written account of ethically and scientifically unacceptable practices in animal
experimentation. The author describes specific experiments and tries to match them with
alternatives.

“Biological specimens other than intact living vertebrate animals available for biomedical
research.” Kenny K and Quimby FW. 1990. Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources News,
32(2). pp A1-A15. .
The catalog lists addresses of available alternative resources such as: fresh tissue and body
ﬂUids, invertebrates, cell lines and hybridomas and data banks.

——_

JI

 




— ~

ll. BI

“Justification of the enucleated eye test with eyes of slaughterhouse animals as an
alternative to the Draize eye irritation test with rabbits. Prinsen MK, Koeter HBWM. 1993.
Food and Chemical Toxicology, 31. pp 69- 76
The authors examined 2 1 test materials and concluded that the enucleated eye test provides
a very accurate means of assessing eye irritant potential without using laboratory animals.

“The laboratory animal dilemma: A solution in our backyards.” Devenport LD and
Devenport JA. 1990. American Psychological Society, 1. pp 215-216.
Authors question the assumption that the laboratory is the only or even the best setting for
much behavioral research. “Millions of domestic animals kept as pets are available for on-
site experiments. We report that this subject pool is accessible, cost—effective, and produces
reliable behavioral data.”

Laboratory Animals—The Three Rs: developments in laboratory animal science. 1994.
Laboratory Animals Ltd. London, England. Contains three reprints from Laboratory Animals,
28. 1994.
“Replacement of animal procedures: alternatives in research, education and testing. ” Balls M.
“Reduction of animal use: experimental design and quality of experiments.” Festing MFW.
“Refinement of animal use—assessment and alleviation of pain and distress.” F lecknell PA.

Toxicology Information Program. National Library of Medicine, Specialized Information
Services, Office of Hazardous Substances Information. Bethesda, MD.
These bibliographies provide a survey of the literature in a format which facilitates easy
scanning.

In vitro research and testing

“An approach for development of alternative test methods based on mechanisms of skin

irritation.” Osborne R, Perkins MA. 1994. Food and Chemical Toxicology, 32. pp 133-142.
Human skin cell models can provide useful systems for preclinical skin irritation assessments,
as alternatives to rabbits, for certain classes of test substances.

“Cytotoxicity assays for intrinsic toxicity and irritancy.” Balls M and Clothier RH. 1992. In
Vitro Methods of Toxicology. Watson RR (ed). CRC Press. Boca Raton, FL. pp 37-52.
The usefulness of cytotoxicological in vitro tests as alternatives to ocular and dermal in vivo
toxicity testing and as methods to study metabolism mediated toxicity is discussed.

“In vitro approaches to the elucidation of mechanisms of chemical teratogenesis.” Welsch
F. 1992. Teratology, 46. pp 3-14.
“This report describes some of the contributions that in vitro methods have made to our
progress... toward understanding mechanisms of chemical teratogenesis.” The authors
recommend that the new in vitro techniques should be used for investigations of toxicant-
induced teratogenesis.

“In vitro approaches to fertility research: Genotoxicity tests on primordial germ cells and
embryonic stem cells.” Vogel R 1993 Reproductive Toxicology, 7, Suppl. 1. pp 69— 73.
It was suggested that pluripotent embryonic stem cells could be used to develop an in vitro
model for screening chemicals for female reproductive toxicity. Techniques for preparing
and maintaining primordial germ cells and embryonic stem cells derived from NMRI—mouse
blastocysts in culture were described Embryonic stem cell cultures were found to have

cellular and biochemical properties similar to primordial germ cells, suggesting that they can
be used to assess the effects of toxicants on the female reproductive system

_ 8 ’

 

 




 

“An in vitro method for examining the effects of pharmacologically active compounds on
neuropeptide secretion.” Virmani MA, Dufour S, Corsico N, Catt KJ, Krsmanovic Z and
Arrigoni-Martelli E. 1993. Pharmacological Research, 27. pp 57-58.
An in vitro approach was developed to study the effects of various agents on the secretion
of gonadotrophin releasing hormone from cultured hypothalamic neurons.

“In vitro methodologies for enhanced toxicity testing.” DelRaso NJ. 1993. Toxicology

Letters, 68. pp 91-99. '
An excellent introduction to in vitro studies of toxicology. Advantages and limitations of in
vitro systems as alternatives to whole animals are discussed. “It is not realistic, at this time,
to expect that in vitro methods will totally replace the whole animal. However, the use of in
vitro systems to reduce animal numbers and refine in vivo experiments has been docu—
mented. There are a number of integrated interrelationships between structure, function,
and behavior in toxicology that will require whole animal studies... It is conceivable that
advancements in in vitro technology may some day be capable of addressing the problems
of integrated interrelationships in toxicology and result in the total replacement of animals.”

“In vitro methods for predicting human toxicity.” Silber P, Ruegg CE and Myslinski. 1994.

Lab Animal, 23(2). pp 33-37.
A brief but very clear introduction to in vitro prediction of target organ-speciﬁc toxicity using
human tissues and cells. “The in vitro methods born in the laboratories of academic
researchers have been increasingly transferred to the commercial sector, where they are
being used with great success to accelerate product development, significantly reduce the
numbers of animals required to satisfy research requirements, and most important, to
provide a means for predicting the interactions of drugs and chemicals with human systems
long before clinical tests are ethically possible. ” '

“In vitro tests of neurotoxicity.” Abdulla EM, Campbell IC. 1993. Joumal of Pharmacological
and Toxicological Methods, 29. pp 69—75.
New techniques in neurotoxicity in vitro testing are reViewed.

“Measurement of intracellular ATP and cytosolic free calcium for in vitro nephrotoxicity

assessment.” Endou H and Jung KY. 1991. Reviews in Pesticide Toxicology, 1. pp 339—348.
“Measurement of cellular ATP and Ca2+ is a sensitive tool for the evaluation of toxic
chemicals and also is a reasonable method to study cytotoxic mechanisms.”

“Testicular and germ cell toxicity: In vitro approaches.” Lamb JC and Chapin RE. 1993.

Reproductive Toxicology, 7, Suppl. 1. pp 17-22. . . .
A review. The authors conclude that in vitro test systems can be very useful for investigating

possible toxic metabolites and examining their activity in target cells.

“Testing of known carcinogens and noncarcinogens in the Syrian hamster embryo (SHE)
micronucleus test in vitro; correlations with in vivo micronucleus formation and cell
transformation.” Fritzenschaf H, Kohlpoth M, Rusche B and Schiffmann D. 1993. Mutation
Research, 319. pp 47-53. . .
“A high degree of concordance with data from the in vivo test was found... findings pro
new evidence that the in vitro SHE micronucleus test does in fact represent a short-term test

of high predictive value.”

vide

—_

.ll

 

 




II‘ WI

ENVIRONMENTAL ENRICHMENT/EXERCISE

Comfortable QuartersfarLaboratory Animals. Animal Welfare Institute. 1979. Washington,
DC.
Outlines captive environments that are “sufficiently natural that the animals can be
maintained as nOrmal individuals, upon whom reliable observations can be made” and of
whom sound scientific data can be collected. Numerous photographs document species-
appropriate and practical housing arrangements for dogs, primates, cats, livestock, rabbits,
guinea pigs, hamsters, rats, mice, pigeons, chickens and amphibians kept in laboratories.

 

“Enhancing Animal Comfort in the Laboratory.” Russell WMS. 1994. Humane Innovations
and Altematiues, 8. pp. 601—605.
Describes the importance of comfort to laboratory animals for both humane reasons and
scientific reasons. Addresses the impacts of distress.

“Innovations in research animal care.” Benn DM. 1995. Journal of the American Veterinary
Medical Association, 205. pp 465—468.
An excellent introduction.

Dogs

“Correlates of pen size and housing conditions on the behaVior of kennelled dogs.”
Hubrecht RC, Serpell JA and Poole TB. 1992. Applied AnimalBehavior Science, 34. pp. 365-
383.
A comparison study between group—housed and single—housed dogs. Housing dogs in
groups was associated with high activity and social behavior. Single-housed dogs in smaller
pens had low overall activity and exhibited stereotyped circling.

Laboratory Dogs. Crawley Films. Available from Animal Welfare Institute. Washington, DC.
Video showing humane care and housing of dogs in an experimental surgery laboratory.

Primates

“Abnormal behavior in non-isolate-reared rhesus monkeys.” Erwin J, Mitchell (3 and Maple
T. 1973. Psychological Reports, 33. pp. 515—523.
Common behavioral disorders attendant to housing in barren single—cages are photographi-
cally documented. '

“Catching individual rhesus monkeys living in captive groups.” Reinhardt V. 1990. Animal
Care Audio-Visual Materials. Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center. Madison, WI. Call
Number vt0324. -
This videotape demonstrates how rhesus macaques living in a breeding troop can readily
be trained to enter a chute voluntarily or on vocal command and exit one—by-one into a
transport box to allow capture. The procedure avoids undue stress. It is carried out by a
single person.

Environmental Enhancement for Caged Rhesus Macaques. Reinhardt V. 1995. Animal
Welfare Institute. Washington, DC.

A 60 slide series and written explanations documenting innovations implemented at the
macaque colony of the Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center.

IL. ,ll

---!- 10 —

 

 

 

 




" h h =

 

Environmental enrichment information resources for nonhuman primates: 1987-1992.
Swanson J, et al. National Agricultural Library, Animal Welfare Information Center, USDA.
Beltsville, MD.
A comprehensive, well structured bibliography with an appendix on primate information
resources.

“Quantitativer tested environmental enrichment options for singly caged nonhuman
primates: A review.” Reinhardt V and Reinhardt A. 1992. Humane Innovations and
Alternatives in Animal Experimentation, 6. pp 374—384.
F ifty—two publications are reviewed. The majority of studies examined inanimate enrichment
strategies, the minority, animate enrichment strategies.

“Training stumptailed monkeys (Macaca arctoides) to cooperate during in-homecage

treatment.” Reinhardt V and Cowley D. 1990. Laboratory Pn'mate Newsletter, 29(4). pp 9-10.
“Animal care staff should be encouraged to train their charges to cooperate during routine
handling procedures in the animals’ familiar homecages. This improves experimental design
as well as offering environmental enrichment for the research subjects, whose intelligence is
challenged. It also allows animal caretakers to expand their professional skills in creative,
productive ways and hence makes their work more satisfying.”

Rabbits

“Group housing: Meeting the physical and social needs of the laboratory rabbit.” Love JA.
1994. Laboratory Animal Science, 44. pp 5-11.
A thorough review of optimal social housing for laboratory rabbits. Safe group formation and
re—grouping techniques are described and discussed.

Rodents

“Cage enrichment for hamsters housed in suspended wire cages.” McClure DE and
Thomson JL. 1992. Contemporary Topics, 31(4). p 33.
“When these hamsters were provided with nesting material [and a PVC pipe] their well-being
was improved as indicated by resolution of inappetence, aggression, and depression.”

“Meeting the needs of captive mice and their caretakers.” Wallace ME. 1994. Humane

Innovations and Alternatives, 8. pp 565-568.
An innovative cage design is described that provides mice opportunities to choose between
warm and cool temperatures, a nesting area where they can control the temperature,
Opportunity for a comfortable sleeping area with low light density, easy access to water, a dry
living space, less ammonia, a solid bottom cage and a less stressful env1ronment. The cage

also offers flexibility for change in experimental design.

J

‘_ 11

 




 

 

Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650

Washington, DC 20007
Tel: 202-337-2332 Fax: 202-338-9478 Email: awi@igc.apc.org

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




SOCIAL HOUSING OF PREVIOUSLY SINGLE-CAGED
MACAQUES: WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS AND THE
RISKS?

V Reinhardtf, C Liss and C Stevens

Animal Welfare Institute, PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007, USA

Reprinted from

Animal Welfare

ISSN 6962—7286

UNIVERSITIES
FEDERATION
FOR
ANIMAL
WELFARE

 




SOCIAL HOUSING OF PREVIOUSLY SINGLE-CAGED
MACAQUES: WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS AND THE
RISKS?

V Reinhardtl, C Liss and C Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute, PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007, USA

* Contact for correspondence and requests for reprints: 4605 Crescent Road, Madison WI
53711, USA

Abstract Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

> A review of the scientific literature gives evidence that transferring previously single-caged
adult macaques to permanent compatible pair—housing arrangements (isosexual pairs,
adult/infant pairs) is associated with less risk of injury and morbidity than transferring them
to permanent group-housing arrangements. Juvenile animals can readily be transferred to
permanent group-housing situations without undue risks. Safe pair formation and subsequent
pair-housing techniques have been developed for female and male rhesus (Macaca mulatta),
stump-tailed (M. arctoides) and pig-tailed macaques (M. nemestrina) as well as for female
long-tailed macaques (M. fascicularis), Pair housing does nOt jeopardize the animals’
physical health but it increases their behavioural health by providing them with an adequate
environment to satisﬁ/ their need for social contact and social interaction.

 

Keywords: aggression, animal welfare, behavioural health, compatibility, disrress,
morbidity, primates, psychological well-being, social housing, undernourishment

Introduction

The housing of non—human laboratory primates is a controversial issue. While the public
argues that individual housing is not species-adequate and hence ethically not justifiable,
some members of the primatological research community are reluctant to give up a housing
system that is seemingly serving their scientific enterprise so well. A recent survey of North
American primatological institutions showed that the most common laboratory primates, ie
rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta), long-tailed macaques (M. fascicularis), pig—tailed
macaques (M. nemestrina), and stump-tailed macaques (M. arctoides), are being housed in
appropriate social environments on average in only 38 per cent of cases (Reinhardt 1994a)
despite the fact that published scientific information strongly supports guides and rules
prescribing housing conditions that address the animals’ social disposition.

The United States’ Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (National Institutes
Of Health 1985) states that group housing should be considered for communal animals. The
British Code of Practice for the Housing and Care of Animals Used in Scientiﬁc Procedures
(Home Office 1989) recommends that non-human primates be so housed that they have an
opportunity for social interactions. The US Animal Welfare Act (US Department of
Agriculture 1991) requires that institutions address the ‘social needs’ of social non-human

‘9 1995 Universities Federation for Animal Welfare
Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328 307

 




 

Reinhardt et al

 

primates. An animal may be exempt from social housing for health reasons and approved
scientific research reasons. The Swiss Animal Protection Law (Der Schweizerische Bundesrat
1981) explicitly restricts such exemptions for health reasons. The Canadian Guide to the
Care and Use of Experimental Animals (Canadian Council on Animal Care 1993) stipulates
that non-human primates should be provided with a social environment conducive to their
well-being. The International Primatological Society’s Guidelines (International
Primatological Society 1993) propose that unless absolutely essential, primates should not
be housed alone in a cage on a long-term basis, because a compatible conspecific probably

provides more appropriate stimulation to a captive primate than any other potential
environmental enrichment factor.

The intent of the guides and rules reflects frequently published n0tions of primatologiSts.
Chance et al (1983) argue that except for some specialized cases the accepted practice of
housing monkeys singly is completely unjustified, since primatologists are fully aware that
monkeys are social animals and require companions for a healthy life. With sociality so
central to the very survival of primates (Bernstein 1991), Bramblett (1989) points out that
the most stimulating, diverse and biologically important addition to the welfare of a captive
primate is a social companion (cf Bennett & Davis 1989; Fouts er al 1989; Pereira et a1
1989; Segal 1989; Riimpler 1992). Social deprivation should not be considered any more
normal than water or food deprivation (de Waal 1991). The assumption that non-human
primates have social needs (US Department of Agriculture 1991) is echoed by Novak and
Suomi (1991) who stated that social interaction is crucial for normal development in most
primate species, and that having access to one or more companions may be the most
effective way to foster their psychological well-being (cf Novak & Drewsen 1989).

Some primatologists warn against social housing, underscoring an increased potential for
the transmission of contagious diseases, for wounding and for undernourishment (Novak &
Suomi 1988; cf Vandenbergh 1989; Woolverton er al 1989). The concern for wounding has
been expressed most strongly by Line (1987) arguing that any plan to increase social
interaction also increases the risk of injury and death. Unless they have grown up in the
same social group, primates are not likely to tolerate each other when placed together as
adults (of Line er al 1989a).. The fear of risking injury is shared by Coe (1991) cautioning
that especially when new pairs are formed ‘veterinarians will be kept quite busy suturing
wounds’. Novak and Suomi (1988) underscored that stress may be increased in pairs as a
result of incompatibility or excessive aggression by the dominant member of the pair.
Ruppenthal et al (1991) pointed out that pair rearing may lead to behavioural maladaptation.

Taking both, the social disposition of primates and the potential risk of social housing into
account, the Association of Primate Veterinarians strongly recommends that a programme
of social interaction be adopted by each institution (Keeling 1990). Contrary to this
veterinary recommendation, only 12 per cent of primatologists (n = 105 respondents)
indicated that if non-human primates should have rights, the provision of an appropriate
social situation should be one of them (Petto 1994). Investigators at the National Institutes
of Health suggest social housing of caged research primates less frequently (7.7%) as a
modification of the cage environment, than provision of inanimate enrichment objects
(27.8%) such as toys, swings, perches and shelves (National Institutes of Health 1991).
Woolverton et a1 (1989) echoes this attitude by expecting only ‘marginal benefits’ of social
housing for laboratory non-human primates.

308 Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

 

 




 

 

_._..-.—-‘.-.~_....-... “.0...

Social housing of primates

The conflicting opinions of professionals working with laboratory primates warrant an
evaluation of possible arguments used to justify individual housing (cf Visalberghi &
Anderson 1993). The present review focuses on studies conducted in macaques (Macaca
spp.), because comprehensive published information is available only for this genus.

Aggression

Group housing

Group housing is probably the biologically most appropriate housing condition for macaques
(cf Bernstein 1991; Rolland 1991). Aggressive intolerance of strange conspecifics, however,
distinguishes adult macaques; and the artificial formation of groups or the introduction of
strangers into established groups is associated with considerable risks of trauma and death
(rhesus macaques: Bernstein & Mason 1963; Southwick 1967; Bernstein et a1 1974;
Fairbanks er a1 1977, pig-tailed macaques: Bernstein 1969; Tokuda & Jensen 1969; Erwin
1979, long-tailed macaques: Dollinger 1971, stump-tailed macaques: Rhine ‘& Cox 1989).
Kessler et al (1985), for example, routinely formed single male harems of 15-25 rhesus
macaques and reported a 13 per cent trauma mortality rate per year.

Line et al (1990a) tried to circumvent the consequences of xenophobia in rhesus
macaques. Future group members were therefore familiarized by placing two monkeys in
wire-mesh cages at 7cm distance for 15 minutes. Fights were common during the first day
of group formation. By day four, one male was depressed and withdrawn, and was regularly
harassed by two of the other males. The victim was permanently removed for treatment of
several bite wounds. Four days later, the top—ranking female was found dead in the cage
from trauma. Within less than a month 77 per cent of the animals (10/13) had sustained
injuries.

Assuming that adequate familiarization of potential group members cannot be achieved
in the course of brief non-contact encounters, Reinhardt (1991a) formed two isosexual groups
of six adult rhesus macaques each, after group members had been given the opportunity to
physically interact with each other on a one—to-one basis for one week. In both instances,
group incompatibility was heralded by certain subjects challenging other individuals to whom
they had originally been subordinate. Aggressive harassment was intensive and persistent,
but Victims showed no resistance. Both groups were split up within less than one hour to
avoid similar consequences as those described by Line er al (1990a)

Unlike adults, socially experienced juvenile and subadult macaques can readily be
transferred from single—housing to group-housing arrangements with other peers. Bernstein
and Draper (1964) released eight female and three male juvenile rhesus macaques into a
compound and observed that the animals formed an organized social group Without resorting
to serious aggression. Schapiro et a1 (1994) reported no problems associated with aggression
when moving 19 juvenile rhesus macaques from single cages into heterosexual peer groups
and maintaining group membership until the animals reached sexual maturity. Wolff and
Ruppert (1991) encountered no' aggression-related problem when forming a heterosexual
group of six formerly single-caged subadult rhesus macaques. Group members were
compatible and showed no serious aggression during a nine-week follow-up period.

Vicious fighting among adult macaques is a frustrating management problem not only '
when groups are artificially formed, but also when excessive aggression develops

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328 309

 

 




Reinhardt et al

 

spontaneously in well-established troops (Chance er a1 1977; Ehardt & Bernstein 1986;
Samuels & Henrickson 1983; Reinhardt et al 1987a; Rolland 1991) and is likely to flare up
in association with sexual competition (Judge at al 1994; Schapiro et a1 1994) and whenever
changes are being made in the troop’s composition (Erwin 1977; Fairbanks er a1 1978;
Kaplan et al 1980; Kessler er al 1985; Rolland 1991).

Pair housing

Pair-housing techniques have been developed to avoid the risk of injury attendant on group
housing. Reinhardt er al (19883) and Eaton et al (1994) tested pairs of previously
single-caged adult female rhesus macaques. Partners were first familiarized with each other
in double cages with transparent barriers. Subsequent pair formation was successful in 89
per cent (16/18) and 90 per cent (19/ 21) of cases. In both studies two pairs were separated
because of fighting. Eaton et a1 (1994) as well as Reinhardt er al (1988a) ascertained partner
compatibility (cf Table 2) in 83 per cent of cases for 36 and 4 months respectively (Table
1).

In an attempt to minimize the typical fighting during the initial introduction of partners
(cf Maxim 1976), Reinhardt (1989) paired adult male rhesus macaques after it was verified
that partners had established clear dominance-subordination relationships during a five-day
period of non—contact familiarization. It was hypothesized that the establishment of such rank
relationships would make aggressive disputes rather unnecessary during pair formation (cf
Bernstein & Gordon 1974), because partners would respect their relative dominance~
subordination relationships. In order to form five pairs with clear relationships, seven
different dyads had to be screened. No rank decisive interactions (cf Table 2) could be
observed in two dyads. The partners of the other five dyads established rank relationships
within the first day of familiarization. When those males were paired in a different double
cage (a precaution against possible territorial antagonism: Reinhardt er al 1988a; Line et‘ al
1990a) they confirmed their rank relationships within the first six minutes. No fighting, no
biting and no signs of aggressive harassment or depression were observed during a five-day
follow-up period. The males were strictly housed in male—only areas to exclude the risk of
sexual competition possibly triggered by the sight of females (cf Coe & Rosenblum 1984;
COe 1991). Reinhardt (1994c, d) tested this technique again in other rhesus as well as in
stump-tailed macaques of both sexes with the following results:

1 Male rhesus pairs were compatible in 80 per cent of cases throughout follow—up periods
of one to five years (Table 1).

Female rhesus pairs were compatible in 88 per cent of cases during follow-up periods of
one to seven years (Table 1).

All stump-tailed pairs were compatible during pair formation and during a six-month
follow-up period (Table 1).

Crockett er a1 (1994) formed isosexual pairs of adult long-tailed macaques. Potential
partners were also pre-familiarized, but no attempt was made to ascertain that they had
established clear dominance-subordination relationships before introduction. During pair
formation 13 per cent of the female pairs, and 67 per cent of the male pairs engaged in
fighting. Two male dyads were split due to serious injuries. Unlike the above mentioned

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

. .. 1' - a»...rn - <Iv ‘ n "
m _ n 1 ‘ ‘37 -, r» - ( tt'.\ .4... 9 . ,_ ‘. . \ ,‘_
WW ., ,_ ‘,. 13‘ _. .3 _.“,.~_§.‘,.“ ‘7 y >. .4. _ 3.5} ‘ ‘ .y , .
.. .- . ‘. ’.‘ _ \ -_.o . . H!- . ' ., r“ ‘.~. , -< . "'
1" ﬁrm“. I. "5 ~"- ‘.' ' " 3 *L, I‘. {4‘1th ‘ v "a. I? ‘ " ' '
:t-m-J.‘ .. . ~ . - If":n‘ -:'£ " - w -
.. .. a_ . ' ‘. '. ' H.’ . ‘ ‘ . I _ . (I h
. . , ..,
,

n3

_, J“, 1’;- 'l'
‘w “‘1‘- ;‘.
y

"Katy“. r. ‘f.‘ l-r. ‘ ' -“ p‘ $15.91
L. . . . , ». - , ﬂ . < _'

2'

at

 




.11:- ,3
gas...

[1‘
'r
10.;

‘v’ué’iéfaq i
22;: we.

 

W T

J
«L
If»

:. , ' ‘ j“
l v «‘.“3 ~ ‘> a, ~.
k." ., h. . . .
w ~-.-‘.‘?'-1:£-“ ’4'" W " “ '
,"I . WI: . 1" -. ‘ A ‘

Social housing of primates

studies, all newly paired subjects of the study by Crockett er a1 (1994) were separated after
90 minutes and reunited on the following day. On days 2-13 each pair was separated daily "
for 17 hours and re-introduced thereafter. All female pairs but only 40 per cent of the male
pairs were compatible throughout the two-week study period (Table 1). Clarke et al (1986)
also formed pairs of male long-tailed macaques, but allowed partners to continuously stay
together as long as they did not fight excessively. Pairs were compatible in 58 per cent of
cases for an eight-month follow-up period. Unfortunately, the authors did not elaborate on
how partners were initially introduced to each other.

Table 1 Success rates of pairing techniques for previously single-caged adult
macaques.

 

Pairing technique Compatibility Follow-up Subject Macaca Reference

 

prefamiliarizatz'on 83% (15/18) 4—6 months female mulatta Reinhardt et al 1988a
92% (11/12) 36 months female mulatta Eaton er al 1994
75% (3/4) 5—6 months female fascicularz's Line et al 1990a
100% (15/15) 2 weeks female fascicularis Crockett er al 1994
40% (6/15) 2 weeks male fascicu/aris Crockett et al 1994

unknown 58% (7/12) 8 months male fasciculan's Clarke et a1 1986

rank relationships 100% (5/5) 5 days male mulatta Reinhardt 1989
established during 80% (16/20) 1-5 years male mularra Reinhardt 1994d
prefamiliarizaa'on 88% (68/77 1-7 years female malaria Reinhardt 1994d

100% (5/5) 6 months female arctoia’es Reinhardt 1994c

100% (3/3) 6 months male arctoides Reinhardt 1994C

no familiarization

94% (16/17)
94% (61/65)
92% (11/12)
92% (12/13)

7—11 months
1—8 years
7-11 months
1-4 year

female/ infant mulatta
female/infant malaria
male/infant mulatta
male/ infant mulatta

Reinhardt er al 1987b
Reinhardt 1994d
Reinhardt er al 1987b
Reinhardt 1994d

 

 

Successful isosexual pair formation has been reported for male and for female pig-tailed
macaques but the actual technique of partner introduction has not been published (Reinhardt
1994a) .

As an alternative to adult-adult pairings, Reinhardt er al (1987b) socialized previously
single-caged rhesus macaques with 1-1.5 year-old, naturally weaned infants from breeding
troops. It was hypothesized that infants of this age would trigger parental responses rather
than overt aggression in the adults (cf Lorenz 1971; Redican & Mitchell 1973; Gibber &
Goy 1985; Schwind er al 1992). Infants were therefore directly placed into the cages of
adults of both sexes. Pairs were compatible in 90 per cent of cases, with the adult subject
huddling with the introduced infant, and the latter showing no signs of injury or depression.
Compatibility was 94 per cent for female-infant pairs, 83 per cent for male-infant pairs
(Table 1).

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 




Reinhardt er al

Adult males were as affectionate with juvenile companions as adult females (Figure 1).
Pair incompatibility was due to non-injurious aggression in two cases, a non-bleeding injury
in one case. In another study, Reinhardt (1994d) ascertained one to eight-year compatibility
in 94 per cent of female-infant pairs, one to four-year compatibility in 92 per cent of
male-infant pairs (Table 1).

Figure 1 Adult rhesus male protectively holding his juvenile companion three
months after pair formation. '

There is little information about the risk of forming pairs of unfamiliar young macaques.
Brandt and Mitchell (1973) paired eight pre-adolescent rhesus macaques with eight infants
in isosexual and heterosexual dyads without encountering aggression related problems during
a three—week follow-up period. Schapiro er a1 (1993) transferred 64 unfamiliarized juvenile
rhesus macaques from single~housing to heterosexual pair-housing conditions for one year
without noteworthy problems associated with aggression (cf Schapiro et a1 1991; Schapiro
& Bushong 1994). Weaned rhesus infants have been housed in isosexual pairs routinely at
the Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center without any aggression related problems.
When this manuscript was written, the Center had 12 female and 4 male pairs. Partners had
been directly introduced to each other with no incidence of serious aggression (cf Reinhardt
1994d), and they had lived together as compatible companions for up to three years (Figure

2).

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

't “dﬁ'ﬁi‘u‘LI-w'waﬁﬁﬁﬁ puma; 3. .,

-- rumm- , . . ,~ .
. - i . n 1‘ "I t

"3
. *3?“ ‘

"€23.ﬁ' “‘1.
x' "0“ -r“(
ngd.
watt

’

. Ir.._
V4—. .
;. .
:2
tu.‘
.3
‘.
#1:; v_II '
._ V‘
t
H
.'.
‘.§ .
.
~', ‘-‘.
. 5*
._,l _' ‘
‘ ' a:
.0 I.—"' V" J
" I. n
"I .
..
. ‘. ‘
. ,t ,
. _’
\ H» "
V. - - l-
, n ; .
»- ,
) I. .
a "- '
.‘< V
L '—'
s‘— -
‘r
v
r“
b
\
x
.

.24“
'ffxzdﬁf‘

{TV‘erﬂm
‘ .

‘1“:1' .
4’Z,'#‘
la : .

.. ’1. 3,’
.r . ,
ﬁ‘b Z ~ V t j.. .
“ V‘s ‘ ’." a {,‘fp14p‘r'
"I". " ‘ , -. .-

 

 




 

Social housing of primates

 

 

 

nt in 98 rhesus

'ly treatment per

, intermediate in the

'ntervention needed

e to less diarrhoea and little trauma. Reinhardt ( 1990a) compared

rates of veterinary treatment per year of 237 individually-housed with that of 382 pair-housed

rhesus macaques that were kept in the same facil' 'red by 23 per cent

(54/237) of the single-hous , (38/382) of the pair-housed subjects.

Eaton er al (1994) found no significant difference in rates of clinical morbidity in 12
single-housed and 24 pair-housed female rhesus macaques.

but recovered from it
ompanion. Shively er a1 (1989) noted in adult
housing may be a greater risk factor for
ividually caged subjects had significantly more

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328 313

 




Reinhardt er a1

 

extensive atherosclerosis in the coronary arteries than 47 group-housed subjects.
Atherosclerosis extent was four times greater in animals that were kept alone than in those
that were living in groups. Coelho er a1 (1991) assessed the effect of companionship in four
baboons (Papio spp.) during a distressing restraint situation. The animals were tested under
traditional single housing, and under experimental social housing which implied that subjects
had visual, tactile and auditory contact with compatible conspecifics. Being restrained in
company with familiar social partners resulted in significantly lower resting blood pressure
and lower heart rates than when being restrained alone, suggesting that familiar

companionship ameliorated physiological stress responses.

Eaton er al (1994) , Crockett er a1 (1994) and Reinhardt (1994c) emphasized that grooming
is the salient social behaviour of compatible macaque pairs, and that companions show
agonistic interactions only rarely but have a strong preference to stay in close proximity to
one anOther (cf Washburn er a1 1994). These observations indicate that compatible

companionship is a source ofcomfort rather than distress.

Schapiro er al (1993), were unable to detect significant differences in cortisol response to
single versus pair housing in 64 juvenile rhesus macaques. This finding supports results of
Reinhardt er al (1991) who examined serum cortisol concentrations of single-housed and
compatible pair-housed adult rhesus macaques. In both sexes, cortisol concentrations of
isosexually paired animals (ten females, ten males) showed no significant differences with
those of single animals (five females, five males). Both in female and in male pairs,
dominant partners had cortisol concentrations that were equivalent to those of their
subordinate counterparts (females: 19.5 pg (11'1 vs 19.4 pg d1“; males: 17.5 yg dl'1 vs 17.2
yg dl“). These data corroborate those of Crockett et al (1994) who found no evidence of

elevated levels of urinary cortisol in response to compatible pair housing versus single
housing in ten adult female long-tailed macaques. '

Eaton er al (1994) assessed immune stress responses in adult female rhesus macaques
when being single-housed (n = 45) versus pair-housed (n = 24) with a compatible partner.
Lymphocyte proliferation response did not decline after pairing and showed no difference
between dominant and subordinate members of pairs. The analysis of behavioural profiles
complemented this finding, suggesting that subordinates were nOt stressed by the experience
of pairing. Coe (1991) reported a decrease in lymphocyte proliferation response in old rhesus
macaques when being transferred from single housing to pair or group housing with
juveniles. These physiological observations are in line with ethological records by Reinhardt
and Hurwitz (1993) showing that pair-housed aged rhesus macaques have to discipline their
sometimes all too frisky young companions. The authors therefore recommended that pairs
should be split in the event of excessive disturbance of the aged subjects by their young
cagemates.

Taking the expression of gross behavioural disorders as signs of diSIress, compatible
companionship may have a therapeutic effect (Harlow & Suomi 1971; Brandt & Mitchell
1973; Bushong er a1 1992). Line er al (1990b) observed self—abusive behaviours in five
female long-tailed macaques and noted cessation of this disorder in all cases after the animals
had been transferred to compatible pair housing for five to six months. Reinhardt er al
(1987b) noted bizarre stereotypical behaviour patterns in three singly-housed adult female
rhesus macaques. All three animals were paired with infants and gradually abandoned their
peculiar habits within four months of social housing. Bloomsmith and Schapiro (1994

314 Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

 

.. f’TUsttmf .-"’ - -r
"- :.‘ . .

 




  
  
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   

é 53$ ’71
”.5:

. '. g. ‘.
£33;- ‘I
' it: 1

-:£".

 

new.

 

Social housing of primates

 

personal communication) noted that pair housing previously single-caged juvenile rhesus
macaques, significantly reduced the percentage of time that was spent by the subjects
engaged in self-aggressive activities. Ruppenthal er a1 (1991) observed stereotypies in
individually caged but not in pair-housed pig—tailed infants.

Social housing need not be distressing for laboratory non-human primates, however,
involuntary separation from familiar companions for routine management or experimental
reasons may be a disturbing experience (Redican & Mitchell 1973; Willott & McDaniel
1974; Suomi er al 1975; Reite et a1 1981; Rasmussen & Reite 1982; Coe 1991; Mendoza
1991; Gordon et a1 1992), as is the involuntary removal from the familiar home-cage
(Mitchell & Gomber 1976; Holm 1979; Line et al 1989b; Line er al 1991). Allowing
partners continually to keep visual and/or auditory contact during physical separation is
likely to minimize their stress response (cf Gust er a1 1994; Table 2). “

Table 2 Ethological guidelines to avoid aggression during and after pair
formation of previously single-caged adult macaques of the same sex.

 

1 Allow potential partners to establish clear dominance—subordination relationships
during a non-contact familiarization period. This is a basic condition so that the
animals will be able to live together in harmony.

2 Check for signs of an established rank relationship. such as unidirectional fear-
grinning, withdrawing, looking away, threatening-away and absence of reciprocal
threatening.

3 Pair partners only after they have established their rank relationship. This will give
them no reason to fight over dominance.

4 Pair partners in a different double cage. This avoids possible territorial antagonism.

Do not force animals to live together when they are incompatible. Signs of
incompatibility are serious injury. persistent fighting, aggressive harassment,
depression and inadequate food sharing.

Ut

6 Keep male pairs in male-only areas. This avoids sexual competition possibly
triggered by the sight of females.

7 Let a new pair live together continuously for at least one month. This allows them
to establish a stable social relationship.

8 If partners have to be physically separated thereafter, allow them to keep continual
visual and auditory contact. This minimizes the possible stress associated with
separation.

9 If partners have to be housed in different rooms for more than one week, do not
simply re-unite them in their home—cage thereafter, but give them the opportunity
to briefly recognize each other across a temporary transparent cage divider. This is
a safeguard that the animals will not treat each other as strangers, ready to ﬁght
over dominance.

10 Never threaten or scare the animals. This could excite them so much that they
redirect the triggered aggressive tension toward each other.

 

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

 

 




 

 

 

Reinhardt et al

 

Undernourishment

Eaton er al (1994) compared body weight developments of adult female rhesus macaques and
found no differences between single—housed (n = 12) versus pair-housed subjects (n = 24),
nor between dominant and subordinate partners of compatible pairs. Reinhardt et al (1988b)
assessed body weight developments of 28 adult female rhesus macaques in the month before
pairing, and in the first two months after formation of 14 compatible pairs. Compared with
the pre-pairing situation, dominant partners showed no significant change in body weight
during the first two months, while subordinates exhibited a significant increase in weight in
the second month. Reinhardt and Hurwitz (1993) recorded body weights of eight aged rhesus
macaques (six females, two males) one year prior to being paired with compatible
companions, at the day of pairing, and again one year after pairing. The aged animals were
so old (31-36 years) that they experienced a gradual loss in body weight. Living with a
companion did not accelerate this biological process: average yearly body weight balances
were -4.4 per cent in the year prior to pairing, -4.2. per cent in the year after pairing.
Reinhardt er al (1987b, 1989) include food sharing between partners as one criterion of pair
compatibility to guarantee that subjects obtain their adequate shares of the daily food ration
(cf Table 2).

Maladaptation

Chamove er al (1973) examined eight rhesus infants raised without a mother and
demonstrated that allowing them to interact with only each other precludes normal social
behaviour development. Familiar peers exhibited a preponderance of mutual clinging because
they had no opportunity to develop affectional ties with any other conspecifics (Chamove
1973). Ruppenthal er al (1991) tested infant pig-tailed macaques during play sessions
scheduled throughout the first eight postnatal months. Play groups consisted each of two
females and two males: four pair—housed versus four individually housed subjects. The
animals had been separated from their mothers shortly after birth. They were artificially
reared during 14—28 days and subsequently assigned to the experimental protocol. During
the play sessions, pair-housed infants tried to maintain physical contact with their partners
by clinging to each other. Individually housed infants spent significantly less time clinging
to playmates and were less afraid to examine them. No significant difference in social play
was found between rearing conditions. Unlike single subjects, paired subjects exhibited no.
rock/ huddle/ self clasp and stereotypic behaviour patterns, but instead spent significantly more
time playing with toys. At the end of the study, all animals were placed in cages with seven
to eight other monkeys. Informal observations suggested that the pair-reared subjects fared
poorly in this social housing situation: they were submissive and appeared depressed. These
reactions were not seen in the individually reared subjects. The authors concluded that pair
rearing yields abnormal social development in pig—tailed macaques.

Unlike motherless peer rearing, mother rearing and subsequent pair housing with another
peer is unlikely to produce developmental disorders. Schapiro er al (1994) separated 24
mother-reared rhesus infants from their natal group when they were a little over one-year-old
and placed them in single cages for one year. The animals were subsequently paired with
another similarly reared peer of th opposite sex. When they were three-years—old, subjects
were placed into groups of six to eight other monkeys. The authors did not observe any
social integration problems on these occasions.

316 ' Animal Welfare 1995, 4.- 307-328

 

 

 

 




'- b‘_'r.
J

,n
1',“ 1‘“
1 .‘

_,..‘£,,.,

 

 

 

 

 

4, I _ .1... j-‘uv
l .. '. l- ny'

 

Social housing of primates

Discussion

The present review leads to the conclusion that arguments justifying individual caging of
laboratory non-human primates may often be based on assumptions rather than on facts.
Rhesus macaques for example, are commonly single-housed because it is generally believed
that the species is particularly aggressive and hence unsuitable for social housing.
Disregarding this conventional wisdom, 295 adult rhesus macaques of both sexes assigned
to research, were successfully transferred from single housing to permanent isosexual pair
housing with each other (102 pairs) or to pair housing with infants (91 pairs). This
socialization programme was associated with serious, yet not life threatening wounding in

only less than 1 per cent (3/386) of animals (Reinhardt 1991b).

The available information indicates that transferring single-caged macaques to group
housing is likely to be associated with a relatively high risk. The inherent socio-ethological
advantages of group living, however, warrants carefully controlled and monitored attempts
to provide compatible group housing, especially for young animals.

Scientific findings show that pair formation and subsequent permanent pair housing offers
a safe alternative to unsuccessful group housing attempts. The relatively high degree of
aggressive incompatibility found in male long-tailed macaques (Crockett er al 1994; cf
Goosen er a1 1984; Whitney; & Wickings 1987) could probably be attenuated as in rhesus and
stump-tailed males (Reinhardt 1994c,d), if partners were allowed: a) to establish rank
relationships during prefamiliarization, and b) to stay together continuously rather than
intermittently thereafter. Future studies will also have to examine if adult-infant pairing is
equally successful in other macaque species as it is in rhesus macaques.

The information regarding the impact of social housing on morbidity is limited, but
strongly suggests that the health risks associated with group living can effectively be
minimized or even. neutralized when non—human primates are housed in compatible pairs.

The literature reviewed offers no evidence that compatible social housing causes more
distress than single housing. This does not imply that single housing is stressful. Compatible
companionship, however, unlike solitary confinement. functions as a buffer against stress
during fear-inducing events associated with routine management practices and experimental
procedures. Housing gregarious non-human primates in compatible social conditions is also
a safeguard against the pathological condition of behavioural disorders so commonly seen
in single-caged subjects (cf Erwin er a1 1973). Goosen er a1 (1984) recommend therefore that
individual housing should be used only when striCtly necessary for the well-being of the

animals, eg during recovery from surgery.

To make social housing a successful management improvement:

a) partner compatibility must be ascertained on a daily basis (of US Department of
Agriculture 1991).

b) animals should not be forced to live with each other if observable and/or measurable
evidence indicates that they are incompatible (cf US Department of Agriculture 1991).

c) companions should have the option of moving into temporary visual seclusion (Goosen
et a1 1984; Whitney & Wickings 1987; O’Neill 1989; Taff & Dolhinow 1989; Reinhardt
& Reinhardt 1991).

d) male companions should be housed in male-only areas to prevent sexual competition
(Reinhardt 1992a).

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

 

 

 




 

Reinhardt er (11

e) social relationships should not be disrupted to avoid possible distress triggered by
involuntary separation from familiar conspecifics (cf Gordon et a1 1992).

It has been shown that groups/pairs can be successfully trained to voluntarily separate for
common procedures such as blood collection (Bunyak er al 1982; Vertein & Reinhardt
1989; Clarke et a1 1990; Reinhardt & Cowley 1992), faeces collection
(Phillippi—Falkenstein & Clarke 1992), systemic drug administration (Reinhardt 1992c),
topical drug application (Reinhardt & Cowley 1990), vaginal swabbing (Bunyak er a1
1982), tethering (Reinhardt 1991b), and headcap implantation (Reinhardt 1991b). Socially
housed animals can readily be conditioned to allow capture in transport boxes (Smith
1981; Boccia er a1 1992; Reinhardt 1992b; Luttreil'er a1 1994). If an animal has to be
kept singly for a limited time period (ie metabolic studies, feeding studies, urine
collection, post-operative recovery, experiments involving chair restraint) a compatible
companion can be kept close by behind a transparent barrier allowing visual and/or
acoustic social contact (cf Reinhardt er a1 1989; Coelho er a1 1991).

The normal social adjustability by pair—housed macaque infants that were naturally raised
by their mothers, as opposed to the relatively poor social adjustment of pair-housed infants
that were artificially reared without mother contact, endorses natural rather than artificial
rearing conditions for non-human primates. The unnatural attachment of a mother-deprived
infant to another infant inhibits rather than facilitates the devolvement of normal peer-peer
interaction (Chamove et al 1973). The cause of this behavioural problem is obviously not

the social peer-housing condition but the absence of the biological mother (cf Mason 1991).
This notion is supported by findings of Alexander (1966) who reared infant rhesus macaques
from birth for eight months with only their mothers. These animals did not show the typical
together-together syndrome when separated from their mothers, and socialized with peers.

The present survey of the literature supports the regulatory recommendations of housing
gregarious non-human primates, such as macaques, in an environment that allows them to
express their social disposition. Keeping macaques under social rather than single housing
conditions provides a simple way of approximating conditions that are normal. It makes the
animals more valuable for unbiased scientific research because they are now truly what they
are supposed to be: social animals. 'Partners of compatible macaque pairs spend
approximately 1/5 of their time interacting with each other in affiliative ways typical for the
species (Ranheim & Reinhardt 1989; Reinhardt 1990b; Line er al 1990a; Reinhardt &
Hurwitz 1993; Crockett et al 1994; Eaton er al 1994; Reinhardt 1994c; Schapiro &
Bloomsmith 1994). This is compatible with the situation in groups containing animals of both
sexes and different ages (Rhine & Kronwetter 1972; Post & Baulu 1978; Bernstein 1980;
Teas er a1 1980; O’Keeffe & Lifshitz 1985; Chopra et al 1992; Leon et a1 1993), and
suggests that being transferred from single to pair housing improves the animals’ behavioural
health by providing them with an appropriate environment for the expression of their social
disposition (Reinhardt 1987). Pair housing is likely to be one of the least expensive and most
effective alternatives for improving the welfare of macaques in research facilities (Line et
al 1990b).

It would defeat the purpose of the regulations to stubbornly force laboratory macaques to
live together and possibly kill each other. Given the complexity of non—human primates and
the inherent dynamics of their social relationships, it would be unrealistic to expect
unvarying compatibility (Reinhardt 1994b). No strict rule can therefore be set which will

318 Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

 

1'. j.“ .‘ 1' . ‘4 . ' ‘m .. ‘ .l.
I, is"? (a? .‘_..',"‘..,’"" .
. ' ; .

o
‘I
{A

 

I .
at. r
I ' ‘ ‘1 . n 7
, , , o. . . . .,, r ' . '- , A ~ -.- V ' ' . , . - . , M . . . . t. . I . .
Prisca. ‘ l ",' . - L 5:" a - :- -. m . - .9 1. ‘. . H" . ,-b»4'," . ‘ a _ ,, -.- ‘ , '
. (l _ r'~ . -v . , . ~ , __ ._ ' I' . . . . ,, ., ‘ , .'.‘ ’.
' . _.. ' . .. ~ - , .. ' . . w .ﬂ . ..
4 lb , - v4 .11 . . ,, . ¢ - . . . .n,
-' . .- -’ ' . . ‘ ‘ "y ., 4. ~‘ ~ ‘ — . w. , ~va . - ‘ -,a, .. ,, . ~.‘.
‘,-‘ - , ' ‘ , 5v ' .‘_ . - . ‘ ‘ '7 , - '.‘. , ' i . .~‘
' .~ ' ‘ a . I "- . . ‘ ‘. ‘. ' . ~ , ' ,
. u < , ~ -, ~ I . , . _ r, J .v.
. - ‘ t _ .1 V ‘ f' ,. - .‘ . . . . .. a. ,- ("I .
. , , ' . : ' 1 - v; ' ‘.. . , , ._ . - . -
‘-‘.- . ~ " .. , ' - A . ‘ ,

a”

.Ap
. $171“
.5
. ‘ M
._n 7
1

i‘.\

~,.\,. ‘ u
. . wmajjl“
.,.,

‘v

553/

n‘. I; . O-f ..,
. .
v» _ a 4‘: . . .7
~ - o . ,:~ ..
v , , " '1

. new
' - .

 




 

nuwmnrvow« .~I-‘l'." n.

 

 

 

 

Social housing of primates

 

guarantee successful social housing in all instances. Attempts to transfer single-caged animals
to compatible permanent group or pair housing have to be based on ethological principles
(Table 2), common sense, some expertise, and also on good will in order to take variables
into account that may directly affect the outcome. Such variables are: technique of partner
introduction, sex, age, rearing history, social experience, health status, research protocol,
animal caregiver/technician, feeding regime and physical environment.

The published data show that previously single-caged macaques can be transferred to
social housing adequate for the species (group housing for juveniles, pair housing for adults)
without undue risks to individual animals. Techniques that are currently applied successfully
with macaques should be attempted with other appropriate species and modified if necessary.
The work described in this review presents a justifiable plan of action to provide social non-
human primates with a social rather than solitary housing environment.

Animal welfare implications

Scientific evidence shows that laboratory macaques can be permanently housed in a
compatible social environment without unduly jeopardizing their safety. Providing them with
a social rather than the traditional solitary environment, fosters their well-being by offering
them means to satisfy their need for social interaction and social contact.

Acknowledgements

We are thankful to Mollie Bloomsmith, Gray Eaton, Catherine Reinhardt and Annie
Reinhardt for reading the first draft of this manuscript and offering constructive criticism.
The manuscript also benefited from very helpful suggestions of three anonymous referees.

References
Alexander B K 1966 The effects of early peer-deprivation on juvenile behaviour of rhesus
monkeys. Doctoral Dissertation, University of Wisconsin, USA

Arnone M and Dantzer P 1980 Does frustration induce aggression in pigs? Applied Animal
Ethology 6: 351-362

Bennett C L and Davis R T 1989 Long term animal studies. In: Segal E F (ed) Housing,
Care and Psychological Wellbeing of Captive and Laboratory Primates pp 213-234.
Noyes Publications: Park Ridge, USA

Bernstein I S 1969 Introductory techniques in the formation of pigtail monkey troops. Folia
Primarologica 10: 1-19

Bernstein I S 1980 Activity patterns in a stumptail macaque group (Macaca arctoides). Folia
Primatologica 33: 20-45

Bernstein I S 1991 Social housing of monkeys and apes: group formations. Laboratory
Animal Science 41: 329-333

Bernstein I S and Draper W A 1964 The behaviour of juvenile rhesus monkeys in groups.
Animal Behaviour 12: 28-31

Bernstein I S and Gordon T P 1974 The function of aggression in primate societies.
American Scientist 62: 304-311

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

 

 

 




 

 

Reinhardt et al

Bernstein I S, Gordon T P and Rose R M 1974 Factors influencing the expression of
aggression during introduction to rhesus monkey groupern: Holloway R L (ed) Primate
Aggression, T erritorialigz and Xenophobia pp 211-240. Academic Press: New York, USA

Bernstein I S and Mason W A 1963 Group formation by rhesus monkeys. Animal
Behaviour 11: 28-31

Boccia M L, Broussard C, Scanlan J and Laudenslager M L 1992 Practice makes
predictable: the differential effect of repeated sampling on behavioural and physiological
responses in monkeys. In: Davis H and Balfour A D (eds) The Inevitable Bond:
Examining Scientist-Animal Interactions pp 153-170. Cambridge University Press:
Cambridge, UK

Bovard E W 1959 The effects of social stimuli on the response to stress. Psychological
Review 66: 267-277

Bramblett C 'A 1989 Enrichment options for guenons in the laboratory. American Journal
of Primatology Supplement 1: 59-63

Brandt E M and Mitchell G 1973 Pairing preadolescents with infants (Macaca mulatta).
Developmental Psychology 8: 222-228

Bunyak S C, Harvey N C, Rhine R J and Wilson M I 1982 Venipuncture and vaginal
swabbing in an enclosure occupied by a mixed—sex group of stumptailed macaques
(Macacca arctoides). American Journal of Primatology 2: 201-204

Bushong D, Schapiro S J and Bloomsmith M A 1992 Self-aggression in non-human
primates: a review of its development/possible causes, methods of therapeutic treatment,
and its relevance to the zoo situation. American Association of Zoological Parks and
Aquariums (AAZPA) Regional Proceedings: 723-729

Canadian Council on Animal Care (CCAC) 1993 Guide to the Care and Use of
Experimental Animals, Volume 1, 2nd edition. CCAC: Ottawa, Canada

Chamove A S 1973 Rearing infant rhesus together. Behaviour 47: 48-66

Chamove A S, Rosenblum L A and Harlow H F 1973 Monkeys (Macaca mulatta) raised
only with peers. A pilot study. Animal Behaviour 21 : 316-325

Chance R M A, Byrne B and Jones E 1983 A tandem cage for individually handling

' group-living monkeys. Laboratory Animals 17: 129-132

Chance R M A, Emory G R and Payne R G 1977 Status referents in long-tailed macaques
(Macaca fascicularis): precursors and effects of a female rebellion. Primates 18: 611-632

Chopra P K, Seth S and Seth P K 1992 Behavioural profile of free-ranging rhesus
monkeys. Primate Report 32: 75-105 _

Clarke M R, Kaplan J R, Bumsted P T and Koritnik D R 1986 Social dominance and
serum testosterone concentration in dyads of male Macaca fascicularis. Journal of
Medical Primatology 15: 419-432

Clarke M R, Phillippi K M, Falkenstein J A, Moran E A and Suomi S J 1990 Training
corral-living rhesus monkeys for fecal and blood sample collection. American Journal of
Primatology 20: 181 (Abstract)

Cobb S 1976 Social support as a moderator of life stress. Psychosomatic Medicine 38:
300-314

320 Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

 

 

 

 

<.-—... -

aux-m rm. Gr-‘MVN .WW‘W"'~""

 




 

Social housing of primates

 

Coe C L 1991 Is social housing of primates always the optimal choice? In: Novak M A and
Petto A J (eds) Through the Looking Glass: Issues of Psychological Well-Being in Captive
Nonhuman Primates pp 78-92. American Psychological Association: Washington, USA

 

Coe C L, Franklin D, Smith E R and Levine S 1982 Hormonal responses accompanying
fear and agitation in the squirrel monkey. Physiology and Behavior 29: 1051-1057

Coe C L and Rosenblum L A 1984 Male dominance in the bonnet macaque: a malleable
relationship. In: Barchas P and Mendoza SP (eds) Social Cohesion: Essays Toward a
Sociophysiological Perspective pp 31-64. Greenwood Press: Westport, USA

Coelho A M, Carey K D and Shade R E 1991 Assessing the effects of social environment
on blood pressure and heart rates of baboon. American Journal of Primatology 23:
257-267

Crockett C M, Bowers C L, Bowden DM and Sackett G P 1994 Sex differences in
compatibility of pair-housed adult long-tailed macaques. American Journal of Primatology
32: 73-94

Cubicciotti D D and Mason W A 1975 Comparative studies of social behavior in Callicebus
and Saimiri: male-female emotional attachments. Behavioral Biology 16: 185-197

de Monte M, Anderson, J R and Charbonnier H 1992 Self-aggression in stumptail
macaques: effects of frustration and social partners. Primates 33: 115-120

Der Schweizerische Bundesrat 1981 T ierschutzverordnung, Stand am I. Januar 1992.
Bundesrat: Bern, Switzerland

de Waal F B M 1991 The social nature of primates. In: Novak M A and Petto A J (eds)
Through the Looking Glass: Issues of Psychological Well-Being in Captive Nonhuman
Primates pp 67-77. American Psychological Association: Washington, USA

Dollinger P 1971 Tod durch Verhalten bei Zootieren. Juris Druck und Verlag: Ziirich,
Switzerland

Eaton G G, Kelley S T, Axthelm M K, Iliff—Sizemore S A and Shiigi S M 1994
Psychological well-being in paired adult female rhesus (Macaca mulatta). American
Journal of Primatology 33: 89-99

Ehardt C A and Bernstein I S 1986 Matrilineal overthrows in rhesus monkey groups.
International Journal of Primatology 7: 157-181

.o

V I...
if]
‘ 1‘ .
. "6,9,1
“'2‘
' *-.

 

«.I“ L“ ~
- l..."

""“‘"'ﬂvm‘1rn‘m¢~r‘«— w. ‘

4 -'.JI‘-‘

Epley S W 1974 Reduction of the behavioral effects of aversive stimulation by the presence
of companions. Psychological Bulletin 81: 271-283

Erwin J 1977 Factors influencing aggressive behavior and risk of trauma in pigtail macaque
(Macaca nemestrina). Laboratory Animal Science 27: 541-547

~4'v-u-o-voam-1m. W. 1’3"!“‘11'Uh' :u w . a ‘ ~ . I

 

Erwin J 1979 Aggression in captive macaques: interaction of social and spatial factors. In:
Erwin J, Maple T and Mitchell G (eds) Captivity and Behavior pp 139-171. Van
Nostrand: New York, USA

Erwin J, Mitchell G and Maple T 1973 Abnormal behavior in non-isolate-reared rhesus
monkeys. Psychological Reports 33: 515-523

Fairbanks L A, McGuire M T and Kerber W T 1977 Sex and aggression during rhesus
monkey group formation. Aggressive Behavior 3: 241-249

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Reinhardt et a1

 

Fairbanks L A, McGuire M T and Kerber W T 1978 Effects of group size, composition,
introduction technique and cage apparatus on aggression during group formation in rhesus
monkeys. Psychology Reports 42: 327-333

Fouts R S, Abshire M L, Bodamer M and Fouts D H 1989 Signs of enrichment: towards
the psychological well-being of chimpanzees. In: Segal E F (ed) Housing, Care and
Psychological Wellbeing of Captive and Laboratory Primates pp 376-388. Noyes
Publications: Park Ridge, USA

Gibber J R and Goy R W 1985 Infant-directed behavior in young rhesus monkeys: sex

differences and effects of prenatal androgens. American Journal of Pn'matology 8:
225-237

Gonzalez C A, Coe C L and Levine S 1982 Cortisol responses under different housing
conditions in female squirrel monkeys. Psvchoneuroenrlocn'noigy 7: 209-216

Goosen C, van der Gulden W, Rozemond H, Balner H, Bertnes A, Boot R, Brinkert J,
Dienske H, Janssen G, Lammers A and Timmermans P 1984 Recommendations for
the housing of macaque monkeys. Laboratory Animal 18: 99-102

Gordon T P, Gust D A, Wilson M E, Ahmed-Ansari A, Brodie A R and McClure H M
1992 Social separation and reunion affects immune syStem in juvenile rhesus monkeys.
Physiology and Behavior 51: 467-472

Gunnar M R, Gonzalez C A and Levine S 1980 The role of peers on modifying behavioral
distress and pituitary-adrenal response to a novel environment in year-old rhesus
monkeys. Physiology and Behavior 25: 795-798

Gust D A, Gordon T P, Hambright M K and Wilson M E 1994 Relationship between
social factors and pituitary-adrenocortical activity in female rhesus monkeys. Hormones
and Behavior 27: 318-331

Harlow H F and Suomi S J 1971 Social recovery by isolation-reared monkeys. Proceedings
of the National Academy of Science 68: 1534-1538

Hennessy M B 1984 Presence of companion moderates arousal of monkeys with restricted
social experience. Physiology and Behavior 33: 693-69

Holm R A 1979 Effect of parental risk and prenatal stress on pregnancy outcome. In:
Ruppenthal G C (ed) Nursery Care of Non-human Primates pp 21-26. Plenum Press: New
York, USA A i

Home Office 1989 Code of Practice for the Housing and Care of Animals Used in Scientific
Procedures. HMSO: London, UK

International Primatological Society 1993 IPS International Guidelines for the Aquisition,
Care and Breeding of Nonhuman Primates. Primate Report 35: 3-29

Judge P G, de Waal F B M, Paul K S and Gordon T P 1994 Removal of a
trauma-inflicting alpha matriline from a group of rhesus macaques to control severe
wounding. Laboratory Animal Science 44: 344-350

Kaplan J R, Manning P and Zucker E 1980 Reduction of mortality due to fighting in a
colony of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). Laboratory Animal Science 30: 565-570

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

 

 

 




 

 

Social housing of primates

Keeling M A 1990 A historical view. In: Mench J A and Krulisch L (eds) Well-Being of

Nonhuman Primates in Research pp 12-14. Scientists Center for Animal Welfare:
Bethesda, USA

Kessler M J, London W T, Rawlins R G, Gonzales J, Martines H S and Sanches J 1985’
Management of a harem breeding colony of rhesus monkeys to reduce trauma-related
morbidity and mortality. Journal of Medical Primatology 14: 91-98

Leon S, Taylor L and Sussman R W 1993 Activity patterns of captive and free-ranging
long-tailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis). Proceedings of the American Association of
Zoological Parks and Aquariums Annual Conference: 171-178

Line S W 1987 Environmental enrichment for laboratory primates. Journal of the American
Veterinary Medical Association 190: 854-859 '

Line S W, Markowitz H, Morgan K N and Strong S 1989a Evaluation of attempts to
enrich the environment of single-caged non-human primates. In: Driscoll J W (ed) Animal
Care and Use in Behavioral Research: Regulation, Issues, and Applications pp 103-117.
Animal Welfare Information Center National Agricultural Library: Beltsville, USA

Line S W, Markowitz H, Morgan K N and Strong S 1991 Effect of cage size and
environmental enrichment on behavioral and physiological responses of rhesus macaques
to the stress of daily events. In: Novak M A and Petto A J (eds) Through the Looking
Glass: Issues of Psychological Well-Being in Captive Nonhuman Primates pp 160—179.
American Psychological Association: Washington, USA

Line S W, Morgan K N, Markowitz H, Roberts J and Riddell M 1990b Behavioral
responses of female long-tailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis) to pair formation.
Laboratory Primate Newsletter 29(4): 1-5

Line S W, Morgan K N, Markowitz H and Strong S 1989b Heart rate and activity of
rhesus monkeys in response to routine events. Laboratory Primate Newsletter 28(2): 9-12

Line S W, Morgan K N, Roberts J A and Markowitz H 1990a Preliminary comments on
resocialization of aged rhesus macaques. Laboratory Primate Newsletter 29(1): 8-12

Lorenz K 1971 Studies in Animal and Human Behavior, Volume II. Harvard University
Press: Cambridge, USA

Luttrell L, Acker L, Urben M and Reinhardt V 1994 Training a large troop of rhesus
macaques to co-operate during catching: analysis of the time investment. Animal We‘l are
3: 135-140

Lyons D M, Price E O and Moberg G P 1988 Social modulation of pituitary-adrenal
responsiveness and individual differences in behavior of young domestic goats. Physiology
and Behavior 43: 451—458

Mason W A 1991 Effects of social interaction on well-being: development aspects.
Laboratory Animal Science 41: 323-328

Maxim P E 1976 An interval scale for studying and quantifying social relations in pairs of
rhesus monkeys. Journal of Experimental Psychology 105: 123-147

Mendoza S P 1991 Sociophysiology of well-being in nonhuman primates. Laboratory Animal
Science 41: 344-349

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

 

 

 




-,. ._ .5. ““h‘“-~ .--

 

Reinhardt et al

 

Mendoza S P and Mason W A 1986 Contrasting responses to intruders and to involuntary
separation by monogamous and polygynous New World monkeys. Physiology and
Behavior 38: 795-801

Mitchell G and Gomber J 1976 Moving laboratory rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) to
unfamiliar home cages. Primates 17: 543-547 '

National Institutes of Health (NIH) 1985 Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory
Animals. NIH Publication No 85-23: Bethesda, USA

National Institutes of Health (NIH) 1991 Nonhuman Primate Management Plan. Office of
Animal Care and Use. NIH: Bethesda, USA

Novak M A and Drewsen K H 1989 Enriching the lives of captive primates: issues and
problems. In: Segal E F (ed) Housing, Care and Psychological Weilbeing of Captive and
Laboratory Primates pp 161-182. Noyes Publications: Park Ridge, USA

Novak M A and Suomi S J 1988 Psychological well-being of primates in captivity.
American Psychologist 43: 765-773

Novak M A and Suomi S J 1991 Social interaction in nonhuman primates: an underlying
theme for primate research. Laboratory Animal Science 41: 308—314

O’Keeffe R T and Lifshitz K 1985 A behavioural profile of stumptailed macaques (Macaca
arctoides). Primates 26: 143-160

O’Neill P L 1989 A room with a View for captive primates: issues, goals, related research
and strategies. In: Novak M A and Petto A J (eds) Through the Looking Glass: Issues of
Psychological Well-Being in Captive Nonhuman Primates pp 135—160. American
Psychological Association: Washington, USA

Pereira M E, Macedonia J M, Haring D M and Simson E L 1989 Maintenance of
primates in captivity for research: the need for naturalistic environments. In: Segal E F
(ed) Housing, Care and Psychological Wellbeing of Captive and Laboratory Primates pp
40-60. Noyes Publications: Park Ridge, USA

Petto A J 1994 Responses to survey on ethical principles in primatology. Laboratory
Primate Newsletter 33(3): 3-7

Phillippi-Falkenstein K and Clarke M R 1992 Procedure for training corral—living rhesus
monkeys for fecal and blood-sample collection. Laboratory Animal Science 42: 83-85

Post W and Baulu J 1978 Time budgets of Macaca mulatta. Primates Z 9: 125-140

Ranheim S and Reinhardt V 1989 Compatible rhesus monkeys provide long-term
stimulation for each other. Laboratory Primate Newsletter 28(3): 1-2

Rasmussen K L R and Reite M 1982 Loss—induced depression in an adult macaque
monkey. American Journal of Psychiatry 139: 679-681

Redican W and Mitchell G 1973 The social behavior of adult male-infant pairs of rhesus
macaques in a laboratory environment. American Journal of Physical Anthropology 38:
523-526

Reinhardt V 1987 Advantages of housing rhesus monkeys in compatible pairs. Scientists
Center for Animal Welfare Newsletter 9(3): 3-6

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' .- ~ 5)

»'~‘~*se. ~.~ ,

ﬁhe‘w

D " g . ta

F. “Rat a»??? ,7. K ',
.':‘ss:1‘i£x‘f '}

‘2 ‘ i L2.
.yp'can’xl; 53‘ ‘_‘n

 




 

Social housing of primates
Reinhardt V 1989 Behavioral responses of unrelated adult male-rhesus monkeys familiarized
17: 243-248

and paired for the purpose of environmental enrichment. American Journal of Primatology

Reinhardt V 1990a Social enrichment for laboratory primates: a critical review. Laboratory
Primate Newsletter 29(3): 7-11

Reinhardt V 1990b Time budget of caged rhesus monkeys exposed to a companion, a PVC
51-56

perch and a piece of wood for an extended time. American Journal of Primatology 20:

Reinhardt V 19913 Group formation of previously single-caged adult rhesus macaques for
_ 110-115

the purpose of environmental enrichment. Journal of Experimental Animal Science 34:

Reinhardt V 1991b An environmental enrichment program for caged rhesus monkeys at the
Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center. In: Novak M A and Petto A J (eds)

 

Through the Looking Glass: Issues of Psychological Well-Being in Captive Nonhuman
Primates pp 149-159. American Psychological Association: Washington, USA

Reinhardt V 1992a Effective, safe and inexpensive environmental enrichment and improved

handling of research rhesus macaques. In: Krulish L (ed) Implementation Strategies for

43: 57-61

Research Animal Well-Being: Institutional Compliance with Regulations pp 121-126.
Scientists Center for Animal Welfare: Bethesda, USA
Reinhardt V 1992b Transport-cage training of caged rhesus macaques. Animal Technology

‘t

a "
4"}

I?
r

3a
’

v .,
J‘ '\
. ,‘ .‘
. . ,
.‘V “
ﬁ‘ 5
.1 -
' :x,‘
IV .
A '_
v.
.‘ .i?‘
W
-
hut. .~
_ t

n

Reinhardt V 1992c Improved handling of experimental rhesus monkeys. In: Davis H and
Balfour D (eds) The Inevitable Bond. Examining Scientist-Animal Interactions pp 171—177.
Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, UK

Reinhardt V 1994a Survey of environmental enrichment for research macaques. Laboratory
Primate Newsletter 33(3): 1-2
Reinhardt V 1994b Continuous pair-housing of caged Macaca mulatta: risk evaluation.
Laboratory Primate Newsletter 33(1): 1-4
Animal Technology 45: 37-41

Reinhardt V 1994c Social enrichment for previously single-caged stumptail macaques.

Reinhardt V 1994d Pair-housing rather than single-housing for laboratory rhesus macaques.
Journal of Medical Primatology 23: 426-431

 

 

 

 

Reinhardt V and Cowley D 1990 Training stumptailed monkeys to cooperate during
in-home-cage treatment. Laboratory Primate Newsletter 29(4): 9-10

Reinhardt V and Cowley D 1992 In-homecage blood collection from conscious stumptailed
macaques. Animal Welfare 1: 249-255

Reinhardt V, Cowley D and Eisele S 1991 Serum cortisol concentrations of single-housed
Science 34: 73-76

and isosexually pair-housed adult rhesus macaques. Journal of Experimental Animal

Reinhardt V, Cowley D, Eisele S, Vertein R and Houser D 1988b Pairing compatible

female rhesus monkeys for the purpose of cage enrichment has no negative impact on
body weight. Laboratory Primate Newsletter 27(1): 13-15 '

 

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307—328

 

 




 

 

Reinhardt et a1

Reinhardt V, Houser D, Cowley D, Eisele S and Vertein R 1989 Alternatives to single
caging of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) used in research. Zeitschn'ft ﬁir
Versuchstierkunde 32: 275—279

Reinhardt V, Houser W D, Eisele S G and Champomr M 1987b Social enrichment with
infants of the environment for singly caged adult rhesus monkeys. Zoo Biology 5: 365-371

Reinhardt V, Houser W, Eisele S, Cowley D and Vertein R 1988a Behavior responses of
unrelated rhesus monkey females paired for the purpose of environmental enrichment.
American Journal of Primatology 14: 135-140

Reinhardt V and Hurwitz S 1993 Evaluation of social enrichment for aged rhesus
macaques. Animal Technology 44: 53-57

Reinhardt V and Reinhardt A 1991 Impact of a privacy panel on the behavior of caged
female rhesus monkeys living in pairs. Journal of Experimental Animal Science 34: 55-58

Reinhardt V, Reinhardt A, Eisele S, Houser D and Wolf J 1987a Control of excessive
aggressive disturbance in a heterogeneous troop of rhesus monkeys. Applied Animal
Behaviour Science 18: 371-377

Reite M R, Harbeck R and Hoffman A 1981 Altered cellular immune response following
peer separation. Life Sciences 29: 1133—1136

Rhine R J and Cox R L 1989 How not to enlarge a stable group of stumptailed macaques
(Macaca arctoides). In: Segal E F (ed) Housing, Care and Psychological Wellbeing of
Captive and Laboratory Primates pp 255-269. Noyes Publications: Park Ridge, USA

Rhine R J and Kronwetter C 1972 Interaction patterns of two newly formed groups of
stumptailed macaques (Macaca arctoides). Primates 13: 19-33

Rolland R M 1991 A prescription for psychological well-being. In: Novak M A and Petto
A J (eds) Through the Looking Glass: Issues of Psychological Well-Being in Captive
Nonhuman Primates pp 129-134. American Psychological Association: Washington, USA

Rowell T E and Hinde R A 1963 Responses of rhesus monkeys to mildly stressful
situations. Animal Behaviour I]: 235-243

Riimpler U 1992 Beschéftigungsmoeglichkeiten bei Primaten im Zoo. Zeitschrzft des Kolner
Zoo 35(2): 47-68 ,

Ruppenthal G C, Walker C G and Sackett G P 1991 Rearing infant monkeys (Macaca
nemesrrina) in pairs produces deficient social development compared with rearing in
‘ single cages. American Journal of Primatologv 25: 103-113

Samuels A and Henrickson R V 1983 Outbreak'of severe aggression in captive Macaca
mulatta. American Journal of Primatology 5: 277-281

Schapiro S J and Bloomsmith M A 1994 Behavioral effects of enrichment on pair-housed

Juvenile rhesus monkeys. American Journal of Primatology 32.159-170

Schapiro S J, Bloomsmith M A, Kessel A L and Shively C A 1993 Effects of enrichment
and housing on cortisol response in juvenile rhesus monkeys. Applied Animal Behaviour
Science 37: 251-263

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

' "Wig w. > v .x ‘ ‘
' “I user; .‘El‘zrffa'v' - ‘
. ~ . , . .
. - _,._ .1

A \

‘..\'~
- ‘_“t

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Social housing of primates

 

Schapiro S J, Bloomsmith M A, Kessel A L, Bushong D and Keeling M E 1991 Effects
of environmental enrichment on the social behavior of pair-housed juvenile specific
pathogen free (SPF) rhesus monkeys. American Journal of Primatology 24: 133-134
(Abstract)

Schapiro S J and Bushong D 1994 Effects of enrichment on veterinary treatment of
laboratory rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). Animal Welfare 3: 25-36

Schapiro S J, Lee-Parritz D E, Taylor L L, Watson L, Bloomsmith M A and Petto A
1994 Behavioral management of specific pathogen-free rhesus macaques: group formation,
reproduction, and parental competence. Laboratory Animal Science 44: 229-234

Schwind C, Lessnau R G and Taylor L L 1992 An adult male rhesus macaque adopts an
orphaned female infant. American Journal of Primatology 27: 57 (Abstract)

Segal E F 1989 Preface. In: Segal E F (ed) Housing, Care and Psychological Wellbeing of
Captive and Laboratory Primates pp vii-xv. Noyes Publications: Park Ridge, USA

Shively C A, Clarkson T B and Kaplan J R 1989 Social deprivation and coronary artery
atherosclerosis in female cynomolgus monkeys. Atherosclerosis 77: 69-76

Smith E O 1981 Device for capture and restraint of nonhuman primates. Laboratory Animal
Science 31: 305-306

Southwick C H 1967 An experimental study of intragroup agonistic behavior in rhesus
monkeys (Macaca mulatta). Behaviour 28: 182-209

Stanton M E, Patterson J M and Levine S 1985 Social influences on conditioned cortisol
secretion in the squirrel monkey. Psychoneuroena'ocrinolgy 10: 125-134

Suomi S J, Eisele C D, Grady S A and Harlow H F 1975 Depressive behavior in adult
monkeys following separation from family environment. Journal of Abnormal Psychology
84: 576-578

Taff M A and Dolhinow P 1989 Langur monkeys (Presbytis entellus) in captivity. In:
Novak M A and Petto A J (eds) Through the Looking Glass: Issues of Psychological
Well-Being in Captive Nonhuman Primates pp 291-304. American Psychological
Association: Washington, USA

Taylor G T 1981 Fear and affiliation in domesticated male rats. Journal of Comparative and
Physiological Psychology 95: 685-694

Teas J, Ritchie T, Taylor H and Southwick C 1980 Population patterns and behavioural
ecology of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) in Nepal. In: Lindburg D G (ed) The
Macaques pp 247-262. Van Nostrand Reinhold: New York, USA

Tokuda K and Jensen G D 1969 Determinations of dominance hierarchy in a captive group
of pigtailed monkeys (Macaca nemestrina). Primates 10: 227-236

US Department of Agriculture 1991 Animal welfare; standards; final rule. Federal Register
56: 6426-6505

Vandenbergh J G 1989. Issues related to " psychological well-being" in nonhuman primates.
American Journal of Primatology 1: 9-15

Vertein R and Reinhardt V 1989 Training female rhesus monkeys to cooperate during
in-homecage venipuncture. Laboratory Primate Newsletter 28(2): 1-3

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Reinhardt et al

 

Visalberghi E and Anderson J .R 1993 Reasons and risks associated with manipulating
captive primates’ social environments. Animal Welfare 2: 3-15

Washburn D A, Harper S and Rumbaugh D M 1994 Computer-task testing of rhesus
monkeys (Macaca malaria) in the social milieu. Primates 35: 343-351

Whitney R A and Wickings E J 1987 Macaques and other old world simians. In: Poole T
B (ed) The UFAWHana’boo/c on the Care & Management of Laboratory Animals, 6th
edition pp 599-627. Longman Scientific & Technical: Harlow, UK

Willott J F and McDaniel J 1974 Changes in the behavior of laboratory-reared rhesus
monkeys following the threat of separation. Primates 15: 321-326

Wolff A and Ruppert G 1991 A practical assessment of a non—human primate exercise
program. Lab Animal 20(2): 36-39

Woolverton W L, Ator N A, Beardsley P M and Carroll M E 1989. Effects of
environmental condition on the psychological well-being of primates. A review of the
literature. Life Sciences 44: 901-917

Animal Welfare 1995, 4: 307-328

 

 




 

AnImal Welfare
ISSN 0962-7286
Editor-in-Chief
Roger Ewbank

Animal Welfare brings together the results of scientific research and technical studies related to
the welfare of animals kept on farms, in laboratories, in 2005, as companions or living in the wild.
The aim is to publish information that has welfare benefits across the whole range of species. It
is intended to act as a focus for the advancement of animal welfare science and technology in
order to help ensure that relevant knowledge is more readily available where most needed.
Opinions expressed by authors do not necessarily reflect the views of UFAW, its Council,
Staff, Members or Associates, the Section Editors or the Editorial Advisers.

Individual photocopies of this reprint may be made for personal study.

© UFAW All rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced stored in a retrieval
system or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording or otherwise without the prior written permission of the Publisher.

Subscription form
Photocopy and return this page for further details or with your subscription to Animal Welfare

Current volume annual subscription rates (4 issues) - tick as appropriate

UFAW individual members grip/US$80 E]
UFAW corporate/group members RES/US$70 _ D
Others (including libraries) £50/US$100 C]

Request for further details/instructions for authors [:1

l enclose a cheque/international money order for EJUSS ............ made payable to UFAW.

Return completed form to:

Universities Federation for Animal Welfare
8Hamilton Close South Mimms Potters Bar Herts ENG 30D UK
Tel: 01707 658202 Fax: 01707 649279

I‘

, rpfﬂing t. '3‘, .... ..-‘ . ;_.\ :- - 'vl.
w- m. we .~.- , "3111?. wet-1mm.

 

 




J Med Primatol 1994;23:426-431
Printed in the United States of America—all rights reserved

Special article

  

Copyright 0 Mun/csgaard. 1994

JOURNAL OF MEDICAL PRIMATOLOGY
ISSN 0047-2565

 

Pair-housing rather than single-housing for
laboratory rhesus macaques

macaques. J Med Primatol 1994;23:426-431.

pliance with federal rules and professional standards.

 

Introduction

There is a consensus that social primates. such as
rhesus macaques, beneﬁt from social housing
[4,6,16,32,40]. Scientiﬁc and professional stan-
dards therefore require that, unless absolutely es-
sential, primates should not be housed alone in a
cage on a long-term basis [1,11,12,4l,42].

Rhesus macaques have the reputation of being
particularly aggressive [10,36,37] and hence un-
suitable for being transferred from individual to so—
cial-housing conditions [15]. Although there is well
documented evidence that group—housing of rhesus
macaques is indeed associated with considerable
risks of trauma and morbidity [3,9,13,14,18,31],
there are no published data indicating that pair-
housing them is unduly risky. Preliminary ﬁndings
suggest that there are reasonably safe ways to trans-
fer single-caged animals to painhousing arrange-
ments. A 90% (26/29) success rate was reported
when 29 adults of both sexes were paired with sur-
plus infants of breeding troops; none of the young-
sters was seriously injured by the adult companions
[17]. A 100% (5/5) success rate was reported when
ten adult males were paired with each other after it
was veriﬁed that future partners had established
clear dominance-subordination relations during a
noncontact familiarization period; there was not a
single incidence of ﬁghting during pair formation
[20]. Both pairing options were tested in 15 aged,
22—33 years old subjects with equal success [25].
No noteworthy problems associated with aggres—
sion were encountered when 64 juveniles were
transferred from single- to heterosexual pair-
housing conditions [34].

426

Reinhardt V. Pair-housing rather than single~housing for laboratory rhesus

A total of 378 adult and juvenile rhesus macaques of both sexes were
transferred from single- to isosexual pair-housing arrangements. The inci-
dence of serious injury resulting from partner incompatibility was 0.8%
during the ﬁrst year after pair formation. It was concluded that pair—
housing offers a safe option to address the animals’ social needs in com-

V. Reinhardt

Animal Welfare Institute. Washington, DC
20007

Key words: Macaca mulatta - husbandry -
behavioral health — animal welfare - ethics

Viktor Reinhardt, 4605 Crescent Road, Madi-
son, WI 53711.

Accepted for publication November 29.
1994.

 

The present study tests the systematic implemen—
tation of all three pair formation options in a pri-
mate research institution in order to comply with
current federal rules stipulating that social nonhu-
man primates have to be housed in ways that ad—
dress their “social needs” [38].

Materials and methods

Subjects were 456 physically healthy rhesus ma—
caques (Macaca mulatta): 272 adults (4-34 years
old), 106 juveniles (2-3 years old), 78 infants
(12—18 months old). All animals had been mother-
raised. Adults had lived in single cages for several
years prior to pair formation. Juveniles had been
pair-housed with an adult animal for at least six
months prior to being paired with another juvenile
partner. Infants were naturally weaned. They were
housed with their mothers in cages or breeding
troops prior to being paired with an unfamiliar adult
partner. Paired companions were not kin-related
and had never lived together.

The animals were kept at the Wisconsin Re-
gional Primate Research Center. Room temperature
was maintained at 20—22°C with a relative air hu-
rnidity of approximately 50% and a 12-hour artiﬁ-
cial light/ dark cycle. Commercial dry food was fed
once a day between 0700 and 0900, supplemented
with fruit or bread between 1400 and 1600. The
animals were offered treats, such as raisins and
whole peanuts, during two daily health checks. ,

New pairs were observed during the ﬁrst 30 min-
utes after pair formation, checked at least three

    

 

 

 




 

more times during the ﬁrst day. and at least twice
a day thereafter to evaluate their compatibility.
Partners were considered to be compatible as long
as none of them inﬂicted a serious wound (requiring
veterinary care) on the orher. none of them showed
signs of depression (reduced alertness and interest
in otherwise favoured food treats). both of them
obtained an adequate share of the food ration (veri-
ﬁed during direct observations and/or regular body
weight recordings l. and none of them disturbed the
other unduly.

lncompatabile animals were not forced to live
with each other but were separated and repaired
with different partners. Compatible animals. how-
ever. were allowed to stay together for at least one
vear.

Adult, adult pair formation

Potential companions were "randomly” selected
and placed pairwise in two adjacent cages. Partners
were separated from each other by a grated cage
dividing panel permitting visual. olfactory. and
auditory communication (Fig. 1). They were famil-
iarized in this way for 34 hours and repeatedly ob—
sery ed icumulative observation time 5—90 minutes)
for signs of an established dominance—subor-
dination relationship. The following gestures and
behaviors were taken as rank-indicative when oc-
curring in strictly unidirectional manners: "Fear-
grinning” [17] when being looked at by the neigh-
bor. withdrawing andor looking away when
approached or looked at by the neighbor. and "en-
listing" [5] against the observer. A rank relation-
ship was considered to be equivocal if neither of
the two subjects showed any of these subordination—
indicative behaviors and. or if both subjects threat—
ened each other across the dividing panel. No at—
tempt was made to introduce these individuals to
each other as pairs.

Partners with established rank relationship were
transferred into a different double cage without a
partition. in an environment where everything was
strange to them except the other companion. Pairs
were housed according to the subjects” body
weights in 1.05 m2 :< 77 cm (11.3 til x 30.3 in)
or 1.70 m3 X 85 cmi15.5 a3 x 33.5 in) stainless
steel double cages. each equipped with two food
boxes or two food puzzles [28.30]. two drinking
spouts. two perches [24]. and two gnawing sticks
[24]. Double cages were created by simply remov-
ing partitions between twin modules. These parti-
tions were changed into privacy panels [26] and
re-installed after the ﬁrst day of pair formation.
Males had their canines blunted. All male pairs
were kept in male-only areas.

The animals were assigned to various research

 
   
 

air-housing

 

 

.‘ ':

 

‘TJ

 

 

 

 

 

atzat'vzoratu»mzul;m x . ‘ - .. s
0

,EE

 

 

371‘.”
w

». ~«' .
AI . A I: ‘51"?

 

 

v
. xv 1,
' ﬁﬂi‘?

”a"

 

    
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fig. l. Separated by a grated cage dividing panel. potential
partners not only get t‘amiliarized but establish dominance-
subordination relationships without risk of injuring each other.

  
   
 

and breeding protocols. If this involved a temporary
separation of a pair for more than one week. part-
ners were not simply re-united in their homecage.
but they were given the opportunity to recognize
each other across a transparent cage divider which
was removed after a few seconds.

 
 

Re-oairing adults wrth different adult partners

Animals that lost their partners for medical or ex-
perimental reasons were re-paired with other adult
conspeciﬁcs as soon as possible. Males were re-
paired with other males following the above out-
lined procedure. Females were re-paired with other
females without preceding familiarization. Like
original pairs. partners of new pairs were intro-
duced to each other in an environment that was
unknown to both of them.

Adult. infant and iuvenileiuvenile oair formation

Surplus infants were directly transferred into the
cage of their potential adult companions without

    

427




 

Reinhardt

any preliminary familiarization. The same was true
for juveniles, who were also paired, by one animal
being directly transferred into the cage of a poten—
tial companion. Most pairs required double cages,
which were created by interconnecting adjacent
cages with short stainless steel tunnels [2] or by
removing dividing panels between twin modules.

Results
Adult/adult pairs

A total of 154 females and 40 males were trans-
ferred to isosexual pair-housing arrangements. In
order to form 77 female and 20 male pairs, 101
female and 24 male dyads had to be tested. Partners
of 24 (23.8%) female dyads and partners of four
(16.7%) male dyads failed to establish noticeable
dominance-subordination relationships during the
24-hour familiarization period and were therefore
not paired. Partners of the remaining dyads estab-
lished clear relationships during that time and were
subsequently paired.

Pair formation was accompanied by ﬁghting
within the ﬁrst 30 minutes in 2.1% of the 97 pairs
tested (two female pair, no male pair). Partners
were incompatible in 13 (13.4%) cases. Incompati-
bility became evident during the ﬁrst month in
seven cases, during the remaining 11 months in six
cases. It was due to aggression in six cases (6.2%),
due to inadequate food sharing in ﬁve cases (5.1%),
and due to depression in two cases (2.1%). Incom-
patibility was associated with a serious injury for
1.3% (2/154) of the paired females, and 2.5% (l/
40) of the paired males.

Partners were compatible throughout the one
year follow-up period: in 88.3% (68/77) of the
female pairs and in 80.0% (16/20) of the male
pairs. Partner compatibility was veriﬁed up to seven
years in female pairs and up to ﬁve years in male
pairs.

There were 11 females and 9 males of the test
population who were continuously housed in iso-
sexual pair conditions for ﬁve years. They lived
with two to ﬁve different cagemates during that
time involving the establishment of 43 new female
pairs and 23 new male pairs. Re—pairing females
was successful, i.e. , new partners were compatible
during at least one month, in 90.7% (39/43) of
cases, repairing males was successful in 95.7%

(22/23) of cases. Seven of the 11 females raised
their offspring together with their various compan-
ions. In no instance did the presence of the young
affect the adults’ compatibility, but pairs had to be
split in two cases when dominant females persis-
tently “stole” the infants of their subordinate nurs-
ing companions.

428

 

-vv-‘v my—ue‘ww f:.w.~t—v—~"T-vf.m.’v _ ..—.—.-A._... x ”T. .r _

 
 

    

Adult/infant pairs

A total of 65 adult females and 13 adult previously
single-caged males were directly paired with infants
of the same sex.

Partners were compatible throughout the one
year follow-up period: in 93.8% (61/65) of the fe-
male/infant pairs and in 92.3% (12/ 13) of the male/
infant pairs. Partner compatibility was ascertained
up to eight years in female/ infant pairs and up to
four years in male/ infant pairs.

Incompatibility was noted within the ﬁrst week
after pair formation in three cases. It was caused by
the adult animal aggressing the infant companion in
two cases (one female, one male). It was due to the
adult preventing the infant from getting its adequate
share of the food in one case (one female). Incom-
patibility was noted after more than one year in the
remaining two cases when young subjects started
“teasing” [39] their aged companions (32 and 34
years old), thereby creating excessive disturbance
for them.

Juvenile/juvenile pairs

A total of 84 female and 22 male juveniles were
transferred to same-sexed pair arrangements.

All 42 female and all 11 male pairs were compat-
ible throughout the oneofyé‘ari' follow-up period.
Male companions were occaSionally observed play-
fully wrestling with each other, but this never re-
sulted in serious aggression.

Census

The three pair-formation options were fully inte-
grated into the animal husbandry protocol of the
Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center when
this study was terminated in March 1994. At this
time, the colony comprised 728 caged rhesus ma-
caques, of which 91.8% lived in compatible pairs
(N = 644) or groups (N = 24), 8.2% (60) lived
alone (their exemption from social housing was ap
proved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use
Committee).

Discussion

The present ﬁndings give evidence that there are at
least three recommendable options to provide so-
cialchousing for previously single-caged rhesus ma-
caques in compliance with current federal rules.
The study involved 456 rhesus macaques sub-
jected to either of these social-housing options for
at least one year. The total incidence of serious

 
   




injury resulting from partner incompatibility during
that time period was less than 1% (31456). Of the
originally tested pairs. 92.1% (210/228) were com—
patible for at least one year. The incidence of in-
compatibility was 7.9% (18/228) when animals
were paired for the first time. 7.6% (5.66) when
they were re-paired after having lost their first part-
ner. These data indicate that the assumption that
rhesus macaques are too aggressive for social-
housing does not hold true for pair-housing arrange-
ments.

The success of the three pairing strategies is not
surprising when considering that basic ethological
principles were being applied:

Selecting potential adult companions only if
they established clear-cut dominance-subor-
dination relationships during the noncontact
familiarization period made aggressive dis-
putes over dominance rather unnecessary. and
partners engaged in lighting during original
pair formation only in 2.1% of cases. This
inference is supported by two other studies in
which partners were also familiarized but
were subsequently paired regardless of
whether the animals had established rank re-
lationships during the familiarization time.
Under this condition. the occurrence of right—
ing during partner i tr - action was 40% in
adult female rhesus macaques {19]. and 13‘}
and 676’} in adult female and adult male long-
tailed macaques (M. fascicularis) [7].
Pairing adult animals away from their famil—
iar environment avoided aggressive conﬂicts
resulting from possible territorial antagonism
{19] and from indirect aggressive provocation
through coalition formation with familiar
cage neighbors.
The provision of privacy panels provided
adults the option of visual seclusion. thereby
reducing aggressive tension while fostering
affiliative interactions {26].

eeping male pairs in male-only areas
avoided antagonism resulting from possible
sexual competition.
1nfants were not yet big enough to count as
potential dominance rivals but triggered pa-
rental care rather than aggressive behavior in
adults (Fig. 2).
Not being "backed-up” by adults and nOt yet
being pressured by serious dominance ambi-
tions. juveniles had little reason for strife.

Data have been published showing that pair forma-
tion and subsequent compatible pair—housing of rhe-
sus macaques:

Pair-housing

'vvv

‘ 7,'§§'I...... IT” ....
‘ségvytt ,
"4'IOI’

‘vﬁﬁtﬁff ”L.'VI¢-H / .i

”;*§¢ic
€111"? .

_ Wits? ‘. -’
ﬁre7"

”9—. ‘ ’
4..+ C

F u; .lnfants trigger affectionate rather than aggressive re-
sponses in healthy adults. Here an 11 year old male protec-
nveh'hohhng hs l4anondvohicage(xnnpannnL

promotes the animals' behavioral health by
providing them a species-adequate outlet for
the expression of their social disposition
[8.23.34] (Fig. 3').

has a therapeutic effect on
disorders [8.17.23].
decreases rather than increases the animals~
morbidity [8.35].

does not lead to endocrine and immune stress
responses [8.27] or to undemourishment in
subordinate or dominant members of compat-
ible pairs [8.29].

does not interfere with routine husbandry pro—
cedures and common experimental protocols
[21.22.24].

gross behavioral

The information available indicates that there is
little scientiﬁc justiﬁcation for not providing
healthy caged rhesus macaques a species-adequate
social environment in form of pair-housing arrange-
ments.

 




Reinhardt

Fig.

3. Pair-housing provides social laboratory primates a

means to express their social disposition. Paired companions
spend approximately one fourth of the time interacting with
each other in species-typical ways [8,23,34]. Here two female
rhesus macaques engaged in social grooming.

Acknowledgments

I am grateful to my wife Annie for critically reading
this manuscript and providing constructive com—
ments. This project was partly supported by
USPHS, NIH grant RR-00167.

References

1.

ANIMALS (SCIENTIFIC PROCEDURES) ACT 1989: Code of
Practice for the Housing and Care of Animals Used in
Scientiﬁc Procedures. Home Ofﬁce: London. 1989.

. BELLINGER LL. HILL EG, WIGGS RB: Inexpensive mod~

iﬁcations to nonhuman primate cages that allow social
grouping. Contemp Topics 31:10—12, 1992.

BERNSTEIN IS, GORDON TP, ROSE RM: Factors inﬂu-
encing the expression of aggression during introduction to
rhesus monkey groups. In: Primate Aggression, Territori-
ality and Xenophobia. Holloway RL (ed). New York: Ac-
ademic Press, 1974, pp. 211—240.

BERNSTEIN IS: Social housing of monkeys and apes:
Group formations. Lab Anim Sci 41:329—333. 1991.

. BERNerIN IS, JUDGE PG, RUEHLMANN TE: Kinship,

A 430

association, and social relationships in rhesus monkeys
(Macaca mulatta). Am J Primatol 31:41-53, 1993.

. BRAMBLET‘I‘ C: Mental well-being in anthropoids. In:

Housing, Care and Psychological Wellbeing of Captive
and Laboratory Primates. Segal EF (ed). Park Ridge:
Noyes Publications. 1989, pp. 1—11.

. CROCKETT CM, BOWERs CL, BOWDEN BD, SACKETT

GP: Sex differences in compatibility of pair-housed adult
longtailed macaques. Am J Primatol 32:73—94. 1994.

. EATON GG, KELLEY ST, AXTHELM MK, ILIFF—

SIZEMORE SA, SHIIGI SM: Psychological well-being in
paired adult female rhesus (Macaca mulatta). Am J Prima-
tol 33:89—99, 1994.

FAIRBANKS LA. MCGUIRE MT, KERBER WT: Sex and
aggression during rhesus monkey group formation. Ag-
gress Behav 3:241—249, 1977.

FAIRBANKS LA. MCGUIRE MT, KERBER WT: Effects of
group size, composition. introduction technique and cage
apparatus on aggression during group formation in rhesus
monkeys. Psychol Reports 42:327—333. 1978.

. GOOSEN C, VAN DER GULDEN W, ROZEMOND H,

BALNER H, BERTNES A. BOOT R, BRINKERT J. DIENSKE
H. JANSSEN G, LAMMERS A, TIMMERMANS P: Recom-
mendations for the housing of macaque monkeys. Labora-
tory Animal 18199-102. 1984.

. INTERNATIONAL PRIMATOLOGICAL SOCIETY: lntemational

guidelines, code of practice: 1. Housing and environmen-
tal enrichment. Primate Report 3527—16. 1993.

KAPLAN JR. MANNING P, ZUCKER E: Reduction of
mortality due to ﬁghting in a colony of rhesus monkeys
(Macaca mulatta). Lab Anim Sci 30:565—570. 1980.
KESSLER MJ. LONDON WT, RAWLINs RG. GONZALES
J. MARTINES HS, SANCHES J: Management of a harem
breeding colony of rhesus monkeys to reduce trauma-
related morbidity and mortality. 1 Med Primatol 14:
91-98. 1985.

LINE SW: Environmental enrichment for laboratory pri-
mates. J Am Vet Med Assoc 190:854—859, 1987.

. NOVAK MA, SUOMI SJ: Social interaction in nonhuman

primates: An underlying theme for primate research. Lab
Anim Sci 41:308-314, 1991.

. REINHARDT V, HOUSER WD, EISELE SG, CHAM-

POUX M: Social enrichment with infants of the environ-
ment for singly caged adult rhesus monkeys. Zoo Biol
5:365—371, 1987.

. REINHARDT V, REINHARDT A, EISELE S, HOUSER D,

WOLF J: Control Of excessive aggressive disturbance in a
heterogeneous troop of rhesus monkeys. Appl Anim Be-
hav Sci 18:371-377, 1987. '

. REINHARDT V, HOUSER W, EISELE S, COWLEY D,

VERTEIN R: Behavior responses of unrelated rhesus mon-
key females paired for the purpose of environmental en-
richment. Am J Primatol 14:135-140. 1988.
REINHARDT V: Behavioral responses of unrelated adult
male rhesus monekys familiarized and paired for the pur.
pose of environmental enrichment. Am J Primatol 17:
243-248, 1989.

. REINHARDT V, HOUSER D, COWLEY D, EISELE S, VER—

TEIN R: Alternatives to single caging of rhesus monkeys
(Macaca mulatta) used in research. Z Versuchstierk 32:
275—279, 1989.

. REINHARDT V, HousER D, EISELE S: Pairing previously

singly caged rhesus monkeys does not interfere with com-
mon research protocols. Lab Anim Sci 39:73—74, 1989.

. REINHARDT V: Time budget of caged rhesus monkeys

exposed to a companion, a PVC perch and a piece of
wood for an extended time. Am I Primatol 20:51-56,
1990.

REINHARDT V: An environmental enrichment program for
caged rhesus monkeys at the Wisconsin Regional Primate

.. L... 7, . -Jm‘wct‘: p ‘ 37:.1r-vfn'1-l’r' ‘1'""I"“T" “’3“:f_.‘:""w"w

 




 

Research Center. In: Through the Looking Glass: Issues of
Psychological Well-being in Captive Nonhuman Primates.
Novak MA, Petto A] (eds). Washington: American Psy-
chological Association, 1991. pp. 149—159.

. REINHARDT V: Social enrichment for aged rhesus mon-
keys that have lived singly for many years. Anim Technol
42:173—177, 1991.

. REINHARDT V, REINHARDT A: Impact of a privacy panel
on the behavior of caged female rhesus monkeys living in
pairs. J Exp Anim Sci 34:55—58, 1991.

. REINHARDT V, COWLEY D, EISELE S: Serum cortisol
concentrations of single-housed and isosexually pair—
housed adult rhesus macaques. J Exp Anim Sci 34:73-76,
1991.

. REINHARDT V: Enticing nonhuman primates to forage for
their standard biscuit ration. Zoo Biol 12:307—312. 1993.
. REINHARDT V, HURWITZ S: Evaluation of social enrich-
ment for aged rhesus macaques. Anim Technol 44:53—57,
1993.

. REINHARDT V: Caged rhesus macaques voluntarily work
for ordinary food. Primates 35:95-98. 1994.

. ROLLAND RM: A prescription for psychological well-
being. In: Through the Looking Glass: Issues of Psycho-
logical WelI-being in Captive Nonhuman Primates. Novak
MA, Petto AJ (eds). Washington: American Psychological
Association, 1991, pp. 125—134.

. RUMPLER U: Beschaftigungsmoglichkeiten bei Pn'maten
im Zoo. Z Kolner Zoo 35:47~68, I992.

. SCHAPIRO SJ, BLOOMSMITH MA, KESSEL AL, SHIVELY
CA: Effects of enrichment and housing on cortisol re—
sponse in juvenile rhesus monkeys. Appl Anim Behav Sci
37:251—263. 1993.

 

Pair-housing

. SCHAPIRO SJ, BLOOMSMITH MA: Behavioral effects of
enrichment on pair-housed juvenile rhesus monkeys. Am

J Primatol 32:159-170. 1994.

. SCHAPIRO SJ, BUSHONG D: Effects of enrichment on vet-

erinary treatment of laboratory rhesus macaques (Macaca
mulatta). Animal Welfare 3:25-36, 1994.

. TEAS J, RICHIE T, TAYLOR H. SOUTercx C: P0pulation

patterns and behavioral ecology of rhesus monkeys (Ma-
caca mulatta) in Nepal. In: The Macaques: Studies in
Ecology, Behavior and Evolution. Lindburg 06 (ed).
New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1982, pp. 247—262.

. THIERRY B: Patterns of agonistic interactions in three spe-

cies of macaque (Macaca mulatta, M. fascicularis, M.
tonkeana). Aggress Behav 11:223-233. 1985.

. U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE: Animal Welfare;

Standards; Final Rule. Fed Regist 56:6426—6505. 1991.

. WAAL FBM DE, HOEKSTRA I: Contexts and predictability

of aggression in chimpanzees. Anim Behav 28:929—937,
1980.

. WAAL FBM DE: The social nature of primates. in:

Through the Looking Glass: Issues of Psychological Well-
being in Captive Nonhuman Primates. Novak MA, Petto
A] (eds). Washington: American Psychological Associa-
tion. 1991, pp. 67—77.

. WHITNEY RA, WICKINGS EJ: Macaques and other old

world simians. In: The UFAW Handbook on the Care and
Management of Laboratory Animals. Poole TB (ed). New
York: Churchill Livingstone, 1987, pp. 599—627.

. VAN AKKER R, BALLS M, EICI—IBERG JW, GOODALL J,

HEENEY IL, OSTERHAUS ADME. PRINCE AM. SPRUIT I.
Chimpanzees in AIDS research: A biomedical and bio-
ethical perspective. J Med Primatol 23:49-51, 1994.

 

,—. ‘ ,r_. a“ ..--.—c -'-rv~-r‘-'-" W‘ ."w‘fy-gr.mwjrw‘r :rt-J-‘.' _... J'.‘ -!-*- r ._ -

 




let tie At 1019

By Viktor Reinhardt

andling procedures for macaques assigned to re—
search often involve two circumstances that trig-
ger anxiety and fear in the subjects: removal from

. . the home environment and involuntary restraint. Common re-

11] 11] sponses to this situation include a variety of distress reactions“: that

e e 00 not only affect the well-being of the macaque but also the validity of
research data“?

Being a veterinarian and behavioral scientist, I recognized a

. . need for reﬁning the common blood collection procedure (Fig. 1). I

thought that the intelligent nature of monkeys”23 should make it

0 60 I on r006 ure possible to condition them to cooperate during blood collection in

their home environment. Anecdotal reports of laboratory monkeys

and apes presenting a limb for blood collectioniZ-H-zi'” support the
view that it is not necessary in all situations to remain the animals

for ‘\ ll aca ues during this common procedure.
q Methods

I worked with rhesus monkeys (Maeaca mularta) at the Wiscon—
sin Regional Primate Research Center (WRPRC ), and after several
years felt conﬁdent enough to start training the animals to present

a leg for venipuncture in their fa-

 

miliar homecage.
I conducted my first trial with

 

the assistance of Russell Vertein.
an experienced animal caretaker”.
We worked with four pairs of5-16-
year-old female rhesus monkeys
that were all familiar with us and
showed no fear reactions when ei—
ther of us approached their cages.
Staff at the center previously ha-
bituated the monkeys to saphenous
blood collection in a restraint appa-
ratus away from their homecages.
Each pair was housed in a 85 x 85
x 85 cm cage equipped with a
squeeze-back.
During days 1-5 of the training.
= - ~ ' Vertein and l habituated the ani-
FlGURE 1. Anxiety and fear associated With involuntary mals to accepting raisins offered
blood collection away from the familiar homecage may lead through the mesh ofthe cage, while
to substantial deviations of the subject’s normal physiological

functions, and hence introduce a dependent variable that is
often overlooked by researchers‘.

we reduced their cage space by
about 75%. The monkeys had
enough room to turn and move

 

 

around. Some took and ate raisins
on the first day, while others accepted them only on day 5. On days
Viktor Reinhardt has worked with primates for ten years. He 6 and 7, we partially restrained the females as described above.
currently consults for the Animal Welfare Institute. Please send Then. With my fingertips through the mesh 0f the cage front. I

reprint requests to the author at 4605 Crescent Road. Madison. WI groomed the leg 0f each female for at least one minute and gave
53 71 1. raisins as rewards thereafter. On days 8-15, I partly opened the cage

 

32
LAB ANIMAL
January 1996

 




 

door and cautiously reached for a leg
of the female nearest to me. I gently
lifted the animal’s leg and stroked it
for one minute, rewarded the animal
with raisins, and repeated the proce-
dure with the second female. On days
15—23, I lifted and gently pulled the
leg of each female through the cage
door. I kept each female in this sham
venipuncture position for approxi-
mately 20 seconds before releasing it
and offering some raisins in my hand.
I pushed the squeeze-back into its
normal position at the termination of
each training session. and the ani-
mals received a raisin reward again.

We completed the training on day
24 by collecting a blood sample from
each animal via saphenous
Three females
promptly presented a leg on this oc-
casion and showed no resistance dur-
ing the procedure. The other five,
although less cooperative, did not
resist having their legs pulled through
the cage door and having a blood
sample collected. All animals ac-
cepted the food reward offered after
venipuncture. thereby showing us that
we had not lost their trust in the
course of the training.

venipuncture.

This pilot study with females
was so encouraging, I decided to
adapt the training program to
males”. The second trial included
10 pair-housed, 4-12-year-old. male
rhesus monkeys which we had also
habituated to saphenous blood col-
lection away from their homecages.
Previously, I gave these males food
treats during daily health checks,
so they knew me. Each pair lived in
a 85 x170 x 85 cm high double cage
provided with a privacy panel, two
perches, and one restraint mecha-
nism”. As a safeguard, I equipped

all doors ofthe restraint compartments with a sliding Plexiglass
panel. The panel had a smooth-edged (28 cm high and 8 cm
Wide) opening that allowed a male to extend a leg, but prevented
it from protruding its head out ofthe cage (Fig. 2a,b,c). I trapped

 

. . ,_.
‘i 311*;
l

.'-------------- .

b
" b' ‘ v-v o. «..; ..

FIGURE Za,b,c. Active cooperation of adult
rhesus macaques (here, a ten—year-old male)
during in-homecage blood collection can easily be
achieved within less than a cumulative total of one
hour oftraining. Trained animals promptly present
a leg (Figure 2a) and show no distress response
during venipuncture (Figure 2b); they accept food
treats as positive reinforcement (Figure 2c).

 

 

33
LAB ANIMAL
January 1996

the target male by pulling the
squeeze-back past the passage hole
of the privacy panel”. The other
male had free access to the rear
portion of the cage and could keep
visual contact with its companion.

I started each training session by
enticing the target male (with rai-
sins) to enter the restraint compart-
ment ofthe double cage. By pulling
the squeeze-back panel, I restricted
the male to the front ofthe cage to the
extent that the animal had to get into
an upright position to turn around.
Reaching a hand through the opening
ofthe Plexiglass panel, I touched and
stroked the animal’s back, grasped
one of its legs and gently, yet firmly.
pulled the leg out of the cage. l
repeated this exercise until the male
tolerated the procedure and sponta-
neously cooperated by presenting a
leg in or through the opening of the
Plexiglass panel. Once a male ac-
cepted venipuncture in this situation
without showing any signs of resis-
tance. I reduced the spatial restraint
during the final session from approxi-
mately 80% to 75-50% ﬂoor area,
giving the animal enough leeway to
freely turn and move around.

I trained the ten males with strict
consistency, and under no circum-
stances terminated sessions before
pulling the subject’s leg out of the
cage for a one-minute period time. or
before attaining a successful blood
collection. Once achieving either of
the two goals, I released the subject
and offered raisins as a reward. Un-
like the females, I considered the
males successfully trained only if all
of them actively presented a leg and
accepted venipuncture without any
signs ofresistance. I made this modi-
ﬁcation to minimize the risk of get-

ting bitten, because a voluntarily cooperating monkey should have
no reason to attack in self-defense.

I achieved my goal in 16 days. During this time, I invested,
on average. a cumulative total of 20 minutes to overcome a

 




 

male’s resistance to having a leg
pulled out of the cage while be-
ing restrained. I invested an
additional 19 minutes to ensure
that the animal actively pre-
sented a leg and displayed no
resistance during blood collec-
tion, while having enough room
to comfortably turn and move
around (FiO. Za,b). Total train-
ing time spent with a male ranged
from 16-63 minutes, with a mean
of 39 minutes distributed over
13 individual training sessions.
Like the females, none of the
males ever tried to bite, but they
did not hesitate to take and eat
raisins after completion of each
training session (Fig. 2c). While
training, I applied gentle, ﬁrm.
and persistent patience, thereby
making my actions predictable
and non-threateningl9'3‘.

I applied this training protocol
to six adult female stumptailed
macaques (Macaca arctoz’des) 3‘.
The animals’ responsiveness was
equally positive, and all subjects
learned to actively cooperate dur-
ing in-homecage venipuncture
within a two-week period (Fig. 3).
Total cumulative training time per
individual ranged from 15-45 min-
utes with a mean of 34 minutes.

Once trained, all rhesus and stumptailed macaques cooperated
during blood collection, not only with the trainer, but also with

attending caretakerszs'zw.

Inﬂuence on
Cortisol Levels

I extended my studies to test
the hypothesis that training the
animals to cooperate during in-
homecage venipuncture can help
to avoid distress responses asso-
ciated with the conventional in-
voluntary blood collection proce-
dures. Taking increased cortisol
secretion as an indicator of dis-
tress32‘3“, I analyzed the cortisol

Blood lollootioo

 

 

 

 

 

 

FIGURE 3. Adult stumptailed macaques can be trained
as readily as adult rhesus macaques to actively cooperate
during blood collection intheir own cage.

 

 

 

TABLE 1. Serum cortisol response of adult rhesus macaques
to different blood collection procedures.

 

Condition of Venipuncture 15-minute Cortisol Increase

 

restrained on table +63% (n=1 0 females)

restrained in apparatus. +50% (n=1 0 females)
+52% (n: 6 males)
trained to cooperatein homecage +14% (n=10 female)
+13% (n26 males)

 

 

34
LAB ANIMAL
January 1 996

levels of two blood samples taken
in 15 -minute intervals from adult
rhesus monkeys venipunctured
while restrained on a table or in a
specially designed restraint ap-
paratus, and from monkeys
trained to cooperate during
their
Subjects were
routinely bled in these fashions.
The time required to get hold of

venipuncture in
homecages35‘37.

an animal and draw a blood
sample was 60-90 seconds in all
three conditions.

Serum cortisol showed a sta-
tistically signiﬁcant increase in
animals venipunctured on the
table or in the restraint apparatus
(Table 1).
cortisol levels was higher in the

The magnitude of

ﬁrst than in the second mode of
restraint. Neither females nor
males showed a signiﬁcant corti-
sol response to blood collection
when trained to cooperate during
the procedure while in their
homecage (Table 1).

These ﬁndings lead to the con-
clusion that training nonhuman
primates to cooperate during
venipuncture in their familiar home
environment offers an important
methodological reﬁnement3 for re-
search protocols by eliminating sig-

niﬁcant cortisol responses. The training beneﬁts not only the research
subjects and research methodology but also animal care personnel by

reducing the chances of being bit-
ten, and by eliminating the health
risk associated with carrying heavy
animals from their cages to desig-
nated treatment areas”. Finally,
the training offers an effective
means of environmental enrich-
mentv“9 for the monkeys and for the
animal caretaker by challenging
them to establish and foster a rela-
tionship that is based on trust.

Acknowledgments

I wish to express my sincere

 




Blood Collection

thanks to Doug Cowley. Steve Eisele, and Russell Vertein from the
WRPRC for their guidance and assistance.

Received 11/20/95 .‘ accepted [2/12/95.

References

1.

3

Reinhardt. V. Impact of venipuncture on physiological research con-
ducted in conscious macaques.J. Exp. Anim. Sci. .' 34: 212-217, 1991.

/. Reinhardt. V.. Liss. C. and Stevens, C. Restraint methods of

laboratory non-human primates: A critical review. Animal Welfare;
41:221-238. 1995.

. Russell. W.M.S. and Burch. R.L. T he Principles of H umane Experimen-

tal Technique. Charles C. Thomas Publishers, Springfield, MA, 1959.

" . National Institutes of Health (NIH). Guide/or the Care and Use of

Laboratory Animals. NIH. Bethesda, MD, 1985.

. US Department of Health and Human Services. Principles for the

utilization andcare of vertebrate animals used in testing, research, and
training. In: National Institutes of Health ( NIH). Guide for the Care
and Use ofLaboratorv Animals. NIH, Bethesda. MD, pp. 82-83,
1985.

. European Economic Community Council Directive. On the approxi-

mation of laws. regulations and administrative provisions of the
member states regarding the protection of animals used for experi-
mental and other scientific purposes. Journal Ojficiel des
Communautes Europeennes: L 358, December 18, 1986.

. Canadian Council on Animal Care (CCAC). Guide to the Care and

Use of Experimental Animals, Volume 1, 2nd Edition. CCAC,
Ottawa. Canada. 1993.

. Brown. Ml, Pearson. PT. and Tomson, F.N. Guidelines for animal

surgery in research and teaching. Am. J. Vet. Res; 54:1544-1559.
1993.

. Prentice. E. D.. Zucker. I.H. and lameton, A. Ethics ofanimal welfare

in research: The institution‘s attempt to achieve appropriate social
balance. The Physiologist; 17: 17-20. 1986.

. Zimmermann. M. Ethical principles for the maintenance and use of

animals in neuroscience research. Neurosc. Lett.; 73:1, 1987.

. Streett. 1W. and Jonas. A.M. Differential effects of chemical and

physical restraint on carbohydrate tolerance testing in nonhuman
primates. Lab. Anim. Sci: 32:263-266, 1982.

. Walker M.L.. Gordon T.P.. and Wilson M.E. Reproductive perfor-

mance in capture-acclimated female rhesus monkeys. J. Med. Primat. .'
11: 291-302. 1982.

. Anderson. I.H.. and Houghton P. The pole and collar system. A

technique for handling and training nonhuman primates. Lab
Animal: 12(6): 47-49, 1983.

‘ . Hemdon J.G.. Turner J.J.. Pcrachio A.A., Blank MS. and Collins.

D.C. Endocrine changes induced by venipuncture in rhesus monkeys.
Physio]. Behmn: 32: 673-676, 1984.

. Adams. M.R.. Kaplan. J.R.. Manuck, S.B.. Uberseder, B., Larkin.

K.T. Persistent sympathetic nervous system arousal associated with
tethering in cynomolgus macaques. Lab. Anim. Sci. ; 38: 279-282,
1988.

. Turkkan, J .S. New methodology for measuring blood pressure in

awake baboons with use of behavioral training techniques. J. Med.
Primat.; 19: 455-466. 1990.

. Schwindaman. D. The 1985 animal welfare act amendments. In:

Novak. M.A. and Petto. A.J., eds. Through the Looking Glass. Issues
of Psychological Well-bein g in Captive Nonhuman Primates. Ameri-
can Psychological Association. Washington. DC. pp. 26-32. 1991.

. Quimby, F.W. The role ofthe attending veterinarian in laboratory

animal welfare. JA I'M-'1; 206: 461-465. 1995.

. Rumbaugh. D.;\I., Richardson. W.K., Washburn. D.A.. Savage-

Rumbaugh. ES. and Hopkins. W.D. Rhesus monkeys {Macaca
mulatta). video tasks. and implication for stimulus-response spatial
contiguity. J. Comp. Psychol. Anim. Behav.;103: 32-38, 1989.

. Washburn. D.A.. Hopkins. W.D. and Rumbaugh. D.M. Video-task

assessment oflearning and memory in macaques: Effects ofstimulus
movement upon performance. J. Exp. Psychol. Anim. Behav.: 15:
393-400. 1989.

. Reinhardt. V. Uncommon tool usage by captive primates. Interna-

tional Zoo News.“ 38(5):13-14. 1991.

. Washburn. DA. and Rumbaugh. D..\/I. A comparative assessment of

psychomotorperformance: Target prediction by humans and macaques.
J. Exp. Psychol. Gen; 121: 305-312. 1992.

. Washburn. D.A.. Harper, S., and Rumbaugh. D..\/I. Computer-task

testing ofrhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) in the social milieu.
Primates; 35: 343-351. 1994.

. Rosenblum. I.Y. and Coulston. F. Normal range oflongitudinal blood

chemistry and hematology values injuvenile and adult rhesus mon-
keys (il/[acaca mulatta). Eeotox. Environ. Safety; 5: 401-41 1. 1981.

. Billiard. R.B., Richardson, D.. Anderson. E.. Mahajan. D.. and Little.

8. The effect of chronic and acyclic elevation of circulating
androstenedione or estrone concentrations on ovarian function in the
rhesus monkey. Endocrinologv; 116: 2209-2220. 1985.

. Wall. H.S.. Worthman. C., and Else, J.G. Effects of ketamine

anaesthesia. stress and repeated bleeding on the haematology of vervet
monkeys. Lab. Animal: 19: 138-144. 1985.

. Whitney, RA. and Wickings E..l. Macaques and other old world

Simians. In: Poole T.B., ed. The CPA WHandboo/c on the Care and
Management of Laboratory Animals. 6th edition. Churchill
Livingstone. New York. NY. pp. 599-627,1987.

. Vertein. R. and Reinhardt. V. Training female rhesus monkeys to

cooperate during in-homecage venipuncture. Lab. Prim. .\i’ewsl.:
28(2): 1-3. 1989.

. Reinhardt. V. Training adult male rhesus monkeys to actively coop-

erate duringin-homecage venipunctureAnim. Techno/.5 42: 1 1-17.
1991.

. Reinhardt. V.. Pape. R.. and Zweifel. D. Multifunctional cage for

macaques housed in pairs or in small groups. .~1.-1LAS Bull: 306 )2
14-15. 1991.

. Reinhardt V. and Cowley D. In-homecage blood collection from

conscious stumptailed macaques. Animal Welfare: 1:249-255.
1992.

. Selye. H. Hormones and Resistance. Springer. New York. NY.

1971.

. Udelsman. R.. and Chrousos. G.P. Hormonal responses to surgical

stress. In: Chrousos G.P. Gold. DI... and Gold. P.W.. eds. Mecha-
nisms ofP/it'sical and EmotionalStress. Plenum Press. New York.
NY, PP. 265-267. 1988.

. Torii. R.. Kitagawa. N.. Nigi. H. and Ohsawa. N. Effects ofrepeated

restraint stress at 30-minute intervals during 24-hour on serum test-
osterone. LH‘and glucocorticoids levels in male lapanes monkeys
(illacacajiiscatat. Exp. Anim; 42: 67-73, 1993.

. Reinhardt. V.. Cowley. D.. Scheffler. 1.. Vertein. R., and Wegner. F.

Cortisol response of female rhesus monkeys to venipuncture in
homecage versus venipuncture in restraint apparatus. J. Med.
Primatol.,' 19: 601-606. 1990.

. Reinhardt. V., Cowley, D.. Eisele. 8.. and Scheffler. J. Avoiding

undue cortisol responses to venipuncture in adult male rhesus
macaques..~1nim.Technol..' 42. 83-86. 1991.

. Reinhardt, V. Improved handling ofexperimental rhesus monkeys.

In: Davis H. and Balfour A.D.. eds. The Inevitable Bond: Examining
Scientist-Animal Interactions. Cambridge University Press, Cam-
bridge, UK. pp. 171-177. 1992.

. Cowley. D.. Vertein. R.. Pape. H. and Reinhardt. V. Improving the

work environment for animal care personnel with laboratory macaques.
Anim. Techno]. .' 44: 129- 135. 1993.

. United States Department of Agriculture. Animal Welfare; Stan-

dards; Final Rule. Fed. Reg; 56: 6426-6505. 1991.

For all the latest information in

lab animal science: and medicine, read

“Newsfronts”
in every issue

35
LAB ANIMAL
January 1 996

 




Animal Welfare institute, PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007

COMMENTARY

 

EthiCal scores for animal experiments

David 6. Porter

 

Scientists have for too long been faced with a polarized debate concerning the ethics of animal experiments. An
ethical ideal and a practical scoring system would be valuable for the moderate majority.

 

MANY scientists probably occupy the
middle ground between the absolutists
at either extreme of the animalerights
debate. Neither the abolitionist nor the
‘no-restriction’ advocate offers a solution
to the ethical problem of the use of
animals in science that is both practic-
able and humane. Moderates are left in
an ill—deﬁned ethical no-man’s-land in
which a great deal of philosophical
analysis is available, but little in the way
of practical advice.

Those who experiment on sentient
animals face the dilemma that the pro-
cess of investigating the very ‘material’
that they wish to study carries'with it an
ethical dimension. This is hardly the case
for the physicist or chemist, or even the
botanist. An ethical content has long
been recognized to be part of research
on human beings, and most scientists
feel repugnance at human experimenta-
tion without ethical restraint. But there
is no coherent philosophy for dealing
with animals, and scientists have gener-
ally subscribed to a largely unarticulated
dogma that ‘humans come first’ and that
biomedical science is essential for human
well-being, if not survivall. Animals
have been seen primarily as tools for
research, a practice that is defended
almost exclusively by a litany of ‘good
things’ that emanates from it. Contrary
to allegations made by some critics of
modern medical researchz, ‘good’ things
have come from animal experimenta-
tion, and, although their significance
might be exaggerated by researchers,
even in good faith, they have been
fundamental to the understanding of
biological mechanisms and to improve-
ments in medical care. But, a list of
‘good things’ is not always an effective
counter-argument to a philosophical
challenge. The defence of slavery in the
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries by
extolling the ‘good’ things about the
institution, illustrates this point. Indeed,
scientists’ defence of animal experiments
is surprisingly simplistic for a section of
society that prides itself on its intellect.

Ethical approach

We can develop ethical tools to deal with
the problem of whether or when to use
animals in experiments only if we ﬁrst
have an ideal. An ideal of the animal-
rights movement, which might better be
referred to as the ‘Schweitzerian’ ideal,
as. it is close to that advanced by Albert

 

Schweitzer, is that we should avoid
harming sentient animals whenever
possible. The scientific community and
government3 tend to regard this as un-
attainable and usually conclude that it is
not worth serious consideration. All
ideals are probably unattainable, but
their value lies in providing yardsticks by
which to judge our conduct. I believe
scientists should adopt the Schweitzerian
ideal of respect for all life, and become
anti—vivisectionists at heart. Thereby, we
will deliberately create a tension be-
tween ideal and practice similar to that
governing our behaviour in many other
activities. Some might ﬁnd this out-
rageous, but the onus is on them to
explain why we would not want to share
an ideal that seeks always to minimize or
avoid the harm we inﬂict on sentient
animals.

Once we adopt this philosophy we
need a ‘tool-kit’ to help apply the philo-
sophical ideal to the practical environ-
ment of the laboratory. I propose a
simple scoring system to explore the
experiment from the viewpoint of the
research animal. Like any scoring system
it suffers from limitations and has the
disadvantage of implying accurate
measurement where there can be none.
It should, nonetheless, draw the atten-
tion of the experimenter to a range of
factors that affect the animal beyond
those usually considered. The exper-
imenter is encouraged to imagine, as
objectively as possible, what it is like to
be a rat, a dog or a monkey about to
experience the experiment. The tool-
kit’s novelty is that it advocates a change
in philosophy and then challenges the
investigator to ensure that the proposed
experiments are of a quality and exi-
gency sufficient to justify the total
demand that will be made of the animal.
A similar holistic approach, but lacking a
scoring system, has been advocated
recently for animal-use review
committees“.

The premise of my scoring system is
that every experiment on a sentient
animal represents a departure, however
small, from the Schweitzerian ideal.
The more points scored, the further the
departure. The ideal should generate
constant pressure to avoid experiments
on animals wherever possible, to seek
alternatives, and to reduce the cut-off
for unacceptable experiments.

Six categories deal with factors likely

 

to cause the animal pain or distress, and
two assess the exigency and quality of
the experiment. One of the animal cate-
gories (C) deals with the species to be
used. A scale of 1 to 5 ranges from
apparently relatively insensitive crea-
tures to highly sensitive and intelligent
mammals. The inclusion of animals as
‘lowly’ as molluscs draws attention to the
difficulty of drawing a moral distinction
between different life forms. Perhaps a
unit of ethical concern (an ethicon?) is
needed where a mollusc might score one
and a chimpanzee 1,000,000. The scale
could thus be modiﬁed, and should be
revised as understanding is gained of the
sentience of different living creatures, a
principle embodied in existing UK
legislation3. The objective of C is to
demonstrate the extent to which we
depart from our ideal when we harm a
chimpanzee, while reminding us of a
ﬁnite, if small, departure when we harm
a mollusc.

Pain

Category D considers'pain. Despite re-
cent interest in assessing animal pains,
this is still difficult to gauge with cer-
tainty. The LASA working party report6
provides a severity index which could be-
used to score procedures in category D.
Wherever there is doubt, the ideal
should impel us to err in favour of the
animal. For example, would investiga-
tors who score an intraperitoneal injec-
tion as 1 or 2 for a rat accept that score
for themselves? 15 hypophysectomy, a
routine operation in many laboratories,
in the low-pain category and is analgesia
administered for it? Is the experimenter
skilled in the planned procedure so that
inadvertent suffering is avoided?

Category B refers to factors that may
involve distress, discomfort or anxiety.
To what extent will the animal be res-
trained, deprived of social contact, or
placed in an unfamiliar, frightening, en—
vironment? How will its normal be-
haviour patterns of feeding, sleeping and
exercise be disturbed?

Duration, in Category F, relates the
length of the experiment to the animal’s
normal lifespan. A month-long experi-
ment places a much greater demand in
terms of lifespan on a rat than on a dog
or a sheep. Therefore, we need to factor
the animal’s lifespan into estimates of
the overall effect of an experiment.
Category F assumes that animals ‘per-

NATURE - VOL 356 - 12 MARCH 1992 Reprinted with permission from Nature. Copyright 1992, Macmillan Magazines Ltd. 101

 




    

COMMENTARY

PROPOSED SCORlNG SYSTEM TO MINIMIZE SUFFERING IN ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS

A Aim of experiment

1. Alleviation of substantial human or non-human pain

2. Alleviation of moderate human or non-human pain or
suffering

3. Clear benefit to human or non-human health or welfare.
4. Some beneﬁt to human or non-human health or welfare.
5. Fundamental research for the advancement of knowledge
(no clear alleviation of pain or benefit to human or animal
health)

8 Realistic potential of experiment to achieve objective

Excellent

Very good

Averagelfair

Limited

Very limited or impossible to assess

Species of animal

Low sensibility/consciousness

Some sensibility

Sentient but possibly limited consciousness
Sentient and conscious

Sentient. highly intelligent and precognitive

Pain likely to be involved

. None

. Minimal/slight
. Moderate

. Considerable
. Severe

wewwe O'wewwe 0 new»?

C. Examples of animals are as follows: group
mammals (except group 5). birds; group 5:
anthropoid apes. but most are endangered species. Unless

prospects of species. all primates are probably best left in group 5.)

D. Laws in many countries require that pain be of short

consideration the use of analgesics. together with currrent opinion of their effectiveness. It should also estimate factors
such as post-operative pain. and the skill of the experimenter in the proposed procedures.
E. Considers all aspects of the procedure. for example. restraint. deprivation of social contact. unfamiliar environments.

exposure to thermal stress. and so on.

F. LS. estimated normal lifespan.

H. Evaluates all aspects of the animal's environment
environment and its appropriateness for specific animal(s).
lighting. ventilation.

ceive’ time in relation to their natural
lifespan, an assumption for which we
have no information, but is made on the
‘beneﬁt of doubt’ principle.

Whether death per se is an ‘evil’ is
debatable, but to kill 100 animals in an
experiment represents a greater depar-
ture from the ideal than to kill five
(category G). It is not always easy to
score category G appropriately, because
using more animals for a shorter period
(category F) could generate lower scores
than fewer animals used for longer. This
is a dilemma that no scoring system can
resolve, for there is no ethically accept-
able number. Experiments should be
statistically designed so that excessive
numbers of animals are not used and
that unnecessary repetition does not
occur — see, for example, ref. 7.

The standard of care that surrounds
the animal throughout its stay in a re-
search establishment should be scored
(category H). With greater emphasis on
animal-care committees and sophisti-
cated animal facilities, individual resear-
chers may overlook this facet of an
animal’s experience. Modern animal
facilities do not always provide the best
environment for the experimental anim-
al. How many rabbits exist in isolation
conﬁned to small cages and how many

1. molluscs; group 2. cephalopods, fish. amphibia; group 3. reptiles: group 4.
primates. carnivores. cetaceans. (Primates are not all as sentient as the

while not under experiment. lt includes. for example. quality of

E Duration of discomfort or distress

1. None or very short
2. Short

3. Moderate

4. Long

5. Very long

F Duration of experiment

Extremely short 10'5 L8
Short 2x104 LS
Moderate 2x10'2 LS
Long 2x10'2 LS

Very long >2X10‘1 LS

Number of animals

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
G
1. 1-5
2. 5—10
3. 10—20
4. 20—100
5. >100
H

Quality of animal care

Excellent
Very good
Average
Good

5. Poor

1.
2.
3.
4.

an additional category is developed to reflect the survival

duration. Assessment of scores under D should take into

caging. skill of attendants. quality of postoperative care,

primates live out impoverished lives
deprived of contact with their peers and
of environmental stimulation?

Scoring the science

Category A challenges the morality of
inﬂicting pain unless the objective of an
experiment is specifically to bring about
the reduction of pain or suffering. The
ideal steers us away from causing pain
in the pursuit of profit .(for example,
enhancing animal production) .or curios-
ity (see below) or to reduce minor dis-
comforts of human beings.

Category A recognizes the need for
‘curiosity-driven’ or fundamental re-
search, not directed at medical .or health
problems. Such research has often led to
unexpected, valuable discoveries, but
given the fairly high probability that it
will not do so, it is difficult to- quantify
the inﬂicting of suffering in such. inquiry.
Its weighting therefore requires experi-
ments to have low costs in the remaining
categories, in keeping with the ideal.

Finally, category B scores the quality
of the science, and requires an estimate
of its chances of achieving its goal —
that is, how far it is removed from its
ultimate objective. It demands that the
experiment be well planned and statisti—
cally sound and seeks a realistic judg-

 
   

’__.—

close to a pain-reducing objective would
score lower than those at an earlier stage
in the often tortuous investigative path.

The final score

The next step is to arrive at a total score
out of a maximum of 40. The minimum
unavoidable score of eight reﬂects the
tension between ideal and practice and is
a reminder that every experiment on a
sentient animal represents a departure,
in at least some measure, from the ideal.
The cut—off score should be as low as
possible. Because the animal categories
account for up to 30 points their con-
tribution should be no worse than 15. ~
Categories A and B should contribute no
more than 7 together, giving a working
cut-off of about 21. If experiments are
carried out in vitro, without previous
procedures on the animal in vivo, only
categories A, B. C, G and H would be
scored and a cut-off point of around 16
could be used. Under the imperative of
the ideal, the cut-off score should be
revised downwards as time goes on.
Additional categories could be made, for
example for endangered species.

By adopting the compassionate ‘anim-
al rights’ ideal to guide their
experimental studies, scientists would
strengthen their ethical position. The
proposed tool kit would eliminate some
experiments that might be acceptable
under the current law, and a ﬁnite loss
of knowledge could result. Although it is
important not to stiﬂe our quest for new
knowledge, ethical standards should be
enhanced by developing new ways to
advance knowledge with less animal
suffering. Any setback resulting from
ethical restraint would probably be
transitory. Scientists are ingenious and
industrious and would redirect their acti-
vities towards experiments with lower
scores, or to the use of different ex--
perimental approaches, or even to the
study of problems in human and animal
health that are under-investigated but do
not demand invasive experiments. [I

David G. Porter is Chair of the Department of
Biomedical Sciences, University of Guelph,
Guelph, Ontario N16 2W1. Canada.

 

1. McLaughlin, RM. in Animal Research. Animal Rights.
Animal Legislation (ed. Concannon, P. W.) 11-15 (Socie-
ty for the Study of Reproduction. Champaign. 1990).

. Sharpe. R. The Cruel Deception: "re use of animals in
medical research (Thorsons. Wellingborough. North-
amptonshire. 1989).

. Scientific Procedures on Living Animals (Her Majesty’s

Stationery Ofﬁce. London. 1983).

Prentice. E. D.. Crouse. D. A. & Rings, R. w. invest.

Radiol. 25. 271—274 (1990).

Morton. D. B. & Griffiths. P. H. M. Vet. Rec. 118.

431—436 (1985).

LASA Working Party Report Lab. Animals 24. 97-130
(1990).

Mann. M. 0.. Crouse. D. A. & Prentice E. D. Lab. Animal
Sci. 41. 6-14 (1991).

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS I thank Drs W. D. Black and A. J. S.
Summerlee for comments on the manuscript. An earlier
version of this article was published in the Proceedings of a
conference of the Scientists' Center for Animal Welfare,

P

5.
6.
7.

 

 

intelligent, inquisitive and highly social

102

ment of its exigency. Experiments very

Washington. DC. 1989.
NATURE - VOL 356 - 12 MARCH 1992




 

 

Excerpts from

..............
..............

HOUSING, CARE AND
PSYCHOLOGICAL
ELLBEING OF
CAPTIVE AND
LABORATORY PRIMATES

Edited by
Evalyn F. Sega]

NOYES PUBLICATIONS

.

/
a

44-2/ ’ .
.%'/.;4' 7/

"4/.

ll/ljy?/
. ,H. . . l

.42
4.3.

'24-.

.
.

;'/I

m

97::
I

/ ml". /
v

'-
‘1‘
. -

l/a‘.‘
:/ '

u
ll.
If.
I. .

 

 

 

 




 

Housing, Care and
Psychological Wellbeing of

Captive and Laboratory Primates
Edited by Evalyn F. Segal

Noyes Publications (Park Ridge, New
Jersey), 1989. 26 chapters, 544 pages.
$64.00.

An announcement of this book ap-
peared in the last Quarterly (Vol. 38,
No. 2, page 14). In this issue, we pro-
vide quotations to familiarize readers
with some of the outstanding contribu-
tions it contains from 50 leading pri-
matologists and other scientists who.
work with captive primates. All insti-
tutions housing primates for labora-
tory studies are urged to purchase this
comprehensive volume.

the animal is forced to spend most of the
day on a surface covered with urine and
feces. It is ludicrous to feel good about
hygiene just because the steel cage can be
sterilized in a cage washer once a day! Yet
current trends condemn housing in outdoor
areas large enough to support grass in favor
of ‘clean’ concrete or steel.”
Claud A. Bramblett University of Texas at
Austin
0

“I It most standard laboratory cages today,

promises to improve, not jeopardize,

the quality of biomedical research in
many important ways.
“Outdoor housing for social groups produces
demonstrably healthier, less expensive, and
much less idiosyncratic subjects . . . many
methods long used in progressive primate
laboratories reduce standard difﬁculties with
physiological research— difﬁculties that
threaten animal health, technician safety, and
data validity. Primate subjects, for example,
can typically be trained to present appropri-
ate body parts for vaginal swabbing, rectal
exams, and even blood draws.”

Michael E. Pereira, Joseph M. Macedonia,
David M. Haring, and Elwyn LaVerne
Simons, Center for the Study of Primate
Biology and History, Duke University,
Durham, NC

“G roup-housing laboratory primates

O

 

ing of captive primates is not new; the

history of such concerns began well
before recent pressures from animal welfare
activists. It has long been recognized that
successful captive breeding of primates
requires equal attention to physical and psy-
chological needs . . .

“Cage furnishings. The environments we
have designed for our marmosets and tamar-
ins are quite large, ranging—342 m3 for the
cotton-top tamarins (Snowdon Savage &
McConnell 1985) up to 20 m3 for the pygmy
marmosets . . . The bulk of the branches and
ropes are placed a meter or more above
ground level to simulate an arboreal envi-
ronment, and all food and water containers
and nest boxes are placed high in the cage.

“. . . It is important to develop housing that
goes well beyond the minimum standards. A
more complex environment allows mem—
bers of the group to engage in a wider variety
of social activities, and it allows the develop-
ment and maintenance of locomotor and
sensory skills. Thus, caging of appropriate
size and complexity contributes to both physi-
cal and psychological wellbeing . . .

“. . . the development of a sense of control
over the environment has been shown to be
a critical component of psychological well-
being. Animals cannot passively receive
environmental events; they must be able to
act on the enviromnent and consequences
must result from their actions. This is a key
aspect to most good environmental enrich-
ment . . .

“For many nonscientists as well as scien-
tists, research is synonymous with invasive-
ness: good research is thought to require
isolating animals from one another and
banning any sort of enrichment as a violation
of strict experimental control. It is thought
that animals must be prodded and handled,
blood samples drawn and surgery performed
before research results can be considered
signiﬁcant. While particular research prob-
lems may require that animals be isolated,
blood drawn or surgery performed, we sug-
gest that, researchers think more creatively

“C oncem for the psy°h°1°8ical Wellbe_

. about possible alternative ways to gather the

same or similar data without using invasive
techniques or isolation of captive primates.”
Charles T. Snowdon and
Anne Savage, University of
Wisconsin, Madison

9

dard husbandry guidelines for indi-

“W e believe that adherence to the stan-
vidual caging over long periods of

 

time can have deleterious effects on squirrel
monkeys. Discomfort and psychological
stress may be occasioned by the following
sources . . .

“We have observed that when individually-
caged monkeys are released into larger en-
closures, an initial period of awkward activ-
ity ensues characterized by inaccurate leap-
ing from one structure to another and a ten-
dency to fall from elevated locations . . .-

“Hosing as a Source of Stress. It is usual in
colony rooms to hose down drop pans under
the cages every day. Squirrel monkeys usu-
ally move as near the tops of their cages, away
from the water, as they can. Hosing remains ‘
aversive even after years of caging and con-
tinues to evoke a profusion of loud shrieking.

“Tail sores are exacerbated when monkeys
sit for extended times on narrow perches like
the small—diameter dowels or pipes that are
commonly used in individual cages. Tail
sores can be lessened by use of wire-mesh
platforms instead of narrow pipes (Clewe &
Duvall 1966) . . .

“Most primatologists would agree that the
welfare of monkeys is better served by hous-
ing them in large groups rather than in indi-
vidual cages . . .

“In January 1983 we decided to establish
two free— environment rooms. Individual and
gang cages were removed from two conven-
tional colony rooms and the monkeys were
simply released into the rooms . . . Various
climbing devices were introduced including
a 6-ft. rack of 12 rodent gang cages (approxi-
mately 18 x 24 x 12 in.) with fronts removed;
racks with no cages; small live trees; step
ladders; ropes; and plastic chains. Tree
branches were also dispersed through the
rooms. These provided the monkeys with a
variety of surfaces and areas for exercise,
especially leaping, as well as private and
secure resting areas . . . no signiﬁcant costs
were incurred in converting from one con—
ventional caging to the free-enviromnent
rooms.”

James E. King and Vicky R. Norwood

University of Arizona, Tucson

O

trapeze hanging from the squeeze-panel
guide bars so that the trapeze could slide
forward as the squeeze-panel was moved to
the front of the cage. The u’apeze proved the
most popular part of the cage and provided a
vital source of environmental stimulation of
the balancing and kinaesthetic systems that
would be virtually lacking in the otherwrse
static environment. . .
“Therefore, passageways (150 cm high x 23

“I n addition each cage was ﬁtted with a




O

which environmental enrichment can

be combined with research protocol to
enhance both . . . This may reduce or elimi-
nate the need to coerce the anirnals’ partici-
pation in research activities . . .

“The monkeys no
longer constantly turned
somersaults or banged
their cages whenever
research personnel en—
tered the room. Exces~
sive vocalizing and
grimacing were greatly
reduced, as was self-
abuse.

“ ..We all suffer from
a tendency to lump all
animals of a species to-
gether (unless they are
humans); yet anyone 1
who has worked closely
with a complex species
is acutely aware of indi-
vidual differences and
personality quirks.”

Hal Markowitz, San

Francisco State

University, ScottLine,

University of California, Davis

0

“I t is clearly possible to find methods by

 

oped in caring for our monkeys was
that they, like us, need ample living

space and exercise . . .
“Animal technicians tend to house animals
singly in laboratories for reasons of disease

“E xercise. Another principle we devel-

control and ease of restraint. However, if
animals are trained to enter a carrying cage
voluntarily, either one of a pair canbe handled.
Also, if a colony is protected from infectious
diseases, the danger of a monkey’s transmit-
ting infection to a cagemate is minimized,
and the animals gain from social interac-
tion.”

Cynthia L. Bennett, Santa Barbara

Zoological Park, CA

Roger T. Davis, Washington State

University, Pullman

O

‘ ‘ rom the very beginning of the installa-
tion of this new set of exercise cages,
in December, 1986, noise from pound-

ing on the home cages and screeching has

been noticeably reduced. When anyone walks

 

“Each monkey in turn had V V
 . an opportunity to reside in i H
the cage With a View next to.
the only WlndOW. His staff
' noted that monkeys
displayed less disturbed
behavwr when 1n that cage, ,-
perhaps not surprrsrng In " "
light of evrdence for the
posrtrve e ects of Windows
' ' on human health and jg:
mood.” . ., ..

Peggy O’Neill, National Institute of
Child Health and Human Development

 

into the room, the two macaques in the exer-
cise cages immediately stop what they are
doing to observe or challenge the person, but
they are not usually vocal. After a few
minutes they either climb the cage wall near-
est the visitor to get a better look, or resume
play with the toys, or groom themselves. The
other animals in the room are unusually quiet
and observe the exercise cages, the occu-
pants, and the visi—
tors.

“Our four exercise
cages are occupied
24 hours a day, with
one animal per cage,
in shifts: 7-11 AM,
11 AM - 3 PM, and 3
PM - 7 AM. We are
careful to schedule
equal exercise op-
portunities for all
monkeys throughout
the week . . .

“Guided by our
USC experience, and
the guidelines that
are being written by
the USDA-APHIS
committees who are
studying the psycho-
logical enhancement
of the environment
of nonhuman primates, we hope to establish
an optimal program when the new USDA
rules are promulgated.”

William M. Blackmore

University of Southern California

Los Angeles

 

 

9

major factor in improving the labora-

tory monkey’s psychological well-
being. Enrichment is appropriate not only
from the perspective of humane treatment
but also from a scientiﬁc perspective. Long-
terrn studies in behavioral toxicology re-
quire special management to ensure good
scientific models .

“A portable swimming pool in the play-
room. A Plexiglas pool on wheels is used in
the playrooms . . . The pool has been a
tremendous success with the younger mon—
keys, who adapt easily to water and are
instinctively good swimmers.”

Steven G. Gilbert and Ellen Wrenshall

Health and Welfare Canada, Ottawa,

Ontario

“E nvironmental enrichment can be a

 

perirnented with varied enclosures
and measured the rate of stereoty-

pies using Davenport and Menzel’ s (1963)
deprived chimpanzees. The Berkson study
began after the chimpanzees had been living
in the standard laboratory environment at
Yerkes for approximately three years. Stere—
otypy rates were highest (stereotypies took
up 85% of the time) when the chimpanzees
were placed in a wooden isolation cubicle
81" x 59" x 78" where, in addition to being
isolated, they could not see out. When they
were placed in an outdoor barred cage 69" x
72" x 85 ", still isolated but now able to see
out, stereotypies occupied a smaller 52% of
the time. The lowest stereotypy rate, 15%,
occurred when the chimpanzees were placed
with other chimpanzees in an outdoor enclo-
sure measuring 39 ft. x 57 ft.”

Roger S. F outs, Mary Lee Abshire,

Mark Bodamer, and Deborah H. F outs

Central Washington University,

Ellensburg

‘ ‘B erkson Mason & Saxon (1963) ex-

 

Reprinted from Animal Welfare
Institute Quarterly, Fall/Winter
1989/90 (vol. 38 nos. 3&4)

Animal Welfare Institute
P.0. Box 3650
Washington DC 20007

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Cover: The cherubic beluga whale has long been the subject of immense
curiosity and commercial exploitation. They have been hunted for
food, oil and leather and were the first whales to be held in captivity.
Here an adult beluga and two. calves enjoy a frolic in a shallow stream
in the Northwest Territories, Canada. Photo by Flip Nicklin.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Directors
Madeleine Bemelmans
Jean Wallace Douglas

David 0. Hill
Freeborn G. J ewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Roger L. Stevens
Aileen Train
Cynthia Wilson

Ofﬁcers
Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr., Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Gerard Bertrand, PhD.
Bennett Derby, M.D.
F. Barbara Orlans, PhD.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee
Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. - Mexico
T.G. Antikas, D.M.V. - Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain — Bangladesh
Angela King — United Kingdom
_ Simon Muchiru — Kenya
Godofredo Stutzin - Chile
Mrs. Fumihiko Togo - Japan
Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. — Denmark
Alexey Yablokov, PhD. - Russia

Staff
Jennifer Coates, Publications Coordinator
Mary Ellen Drayer, Editorial Assistant
John Gleiber, Assistant to the Officers
Diane Halverson, Farm Animal Consultant
Lyme Hutchison, Whale Campaign Coordinator
Cathy Liss, Executive Director
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Jennifer Pike, Administrative Assistant
Viktor Reinhardt, D.M.V., Ph.D.,
Laboratory Animal Consultant
Adam Roberts, Research Associate
Rick Spill, Marine Mammal Research Analyst
Lori Talbott, Administrative Assistant

J

 

 

 

 

THREATS TO ANIMAL WELFARE
by Craig Van Note

The 15 animal protective laws passed by the US Congress in the last 37 years
are suddenly endangered by a series of bills that could disastrously weaken
these laws. The Committee that developed and promoted the Endangered
Species Act, the Wild Bird Conservation Act and the Marine Mammal
Protection Act has been eliminated. Instead, a new Resources Committee,
headed by an advocate of the steel jaw leghold trap, Representative Don Young
(R, AK), has taken charge of wildlife issues.

Radical changes to federal laws and regulations that could cripple or
destroy decades of hard-won progress in animal welfare and wildlife conser-
vation are being pressed in a number of ways.

The sweeping changes in the federal government now being pushed
through Congress include:

1. Broad-brush deregulation that would wipe out wise rules along with
unnecessary and burdensome ones.

2. A regulatory moratorium that would freeze for many months—and
perhaps years—new regulations for humane treatment of animals and the
protection of threatened and endangered species.

3. Cost-beneﬁt analysis of all federal regulations at tax-payer expense, a
process that could tie every federal agency into knots by requiring complex,
time-consuming studies of the impacts and effects of regulations.

4. Costly risk analysis of major laws and regulations, subjecting them to
nit-picking by economists and statisticians. Humane values and conservation
concerns could be sacrificed on the altar of economic growth.

5. A regulatory “sunset” provision that would terminate automatically
all existing federal regulations in seven years and new regulations after three
years unless the federal agencies and Congress complete an exhaustive review
of each regulation within the time frame—and Congress speciﬁcally reauthorizes
the regulation.

6. A proposed requirement for the federal government to reimburse
property owners for diminution of value of their assets that could cripple the
government’s—and every community’s—ability to set standards for humane
treatment of animals and to regulate development.

7. Across-the-board budget cuts that could wipe out any enforcement of
decades of animal welfare and conservation standards we have fought for in
America.

 

Craig Van Note is Executive Vice President of the Monitor Consortium.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

SPRING 1995 VOLUME 44, NUMBER 2

 

PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007 phone: 202-337-2332 fax: 202-338-9478

email: awi @igc.apc.org

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

The 104th Congress
Threats to Animal Welfare
Assault on Endangered Species Act Endangers Us All

Marine Mammals

“Scientists against killing mammals”

Japan Profiteering in Antarctic Whale Sanctuary

Biodome Won’t Display Belugas

State Department Provides Funding for US/Russian
Beluga Observation

50 Year Ban on Commercial Whaling Gains Legal and
Scientiﬁc Support

The Cruelest Kill: The Faroese Pilot Whale Hunt

A History of Lawlessness—Can Whalers Ever be Trusted?

Wildlife at Risk
The Animal Detectives
Taiwan: Too Soon to Lift Sanctions
Koalas, Australia ’s Ancient Ones
Chile’s Heraldic Animal Faces Extinction
Sport Hunting of Endangered Species Stopped
in Turkmenistan

Trapping
The Independent reports on trapping battles
Trapping Notes
Demonstration Against Cruel Traps

Personal Notes
In Memory of Pearl Twyne
Letter to the Editor

Animals Used in Laboratories
AWI’s Executive Director Speaks at NABR Conference
Toneys’ License Revoked
Center Promotes Alternatives to Animal Experimentation
Wright State University Fined

Farm Animals
Face Branding: Going, Going...
“Bovine Economics”

12
13

13

12
12

14
15
15
15

16
16

   

. ias mp .mpue Itétgi‘sn

Despite its many successes, including the recovery of the
black-footed ferret, the Endangered Species Act is under
attack. See pages 2 and 10.

éln tsp nghﬂ‘

V Amlaassadm“
Rattler:
2a;

2w- g“; .L.
gsttéwiiéiii

A man in wolf s clothing? AWI staﬁ‘ member Adam Roberts
poses as a trapped wolf during a protest in front of the US
Trade Representative ’s oﬁ‘ice. See page 9.

 




 

 

 

“Scientists against killing mammals”

The March 29, 1995 Galveston Daily News reports two scientists are
working on a book about non-lethal methods of studying popula-
tions of whales and other mammals. Under the headline “Scientists
against killing mammals,” Heidi Lutz writes:

Alexey Yablokov is the chairman of the Russian Federation
National Security Council Interagency Commission on Ecological
Security. He met Texas A&M’s Dr. William Evans in 1972 while
Evans was in Moscow for a conference.

Since then, the two scientists have been working together to show
people what can be learned from mammals without killing them.

Yablokov first had the idea that scientists could learn about the
populations of whales by their color patterns. He shared this idea with
Evans and it is now the subject of their book.

‘We are absolutely sure there is no reason to kill,’ Yablokov said.
‘We can understand the whale population of Antarctica without
killing.’

Many scientists have been killing whales to learn about their social
patterns. But all of the information needed to manage the population
of a species can be found by observing them, he said.

Yablokov and Evans are polishing the manuscript and hope to
publish it by the end of the year. Their data can apply not only to
marine mammals, such as whales, but to all mammals, Yablokov said.

‘What we’re doing here is very important to us,’ Evans said. ‘We
can learn the majority of things we need to do without lethal
methods.’

Before heading the commission on ecological security, Yablokov
was a scientiﬁc advisor to Yeltsin. And when Perestroika was
beginning, Yablokov was a member of the Soviet Parliament.

All of these positions have enabled Yablokov to help shape
environmental policy, he said.

The commission he chairs discusses environmental security in the
wake of nuclear disarmament and litter left in space from American
and Russian spacecraft.

‘You have to establish regular norms and rules,’ Yablokov said.

Evans was the head of the National Oceanographic and Atmo-
spheric Administration.

He currently is a professor at Texas A&M University in Galveston
and president of the Texas Institute of Oceanography.

Both scientists have written several books, but this is their first
project together.

 

JAPAN PROFITEERING IN
ANTARCTIC WHALE SANCTUARY

For the eighth consecutive year, Japan has deﬁed the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission (IWC) by killing 330 whales in
the Antarctic. Not one of the so-called “scientiﬁc permits” the
Japanese government has issued itself has ever been approved
by the IWC. Each year since the Commission adopted the
moratorium on commercial whaling, Japan has used a loophole
in the treaty to continue killing whales and selling whale meat.
This year, Japan not only deﬁed the IWC moratorium but
added insult to injury by repudiatin g the IW C Convention’s 23
to 1 vote creating the Antarctic Sanctuary for Whales.
“These hunts,” said Michel Barnier, France’s Minister of
the Environment, “are all the more shocking less than a year
after the creation of the Sanctuary, set up on French initiative ”
. He called the Japanese scientiﬁc permits “alibis for prac-
tices mainly motivated by commercial objectives” and vowed

Rance would take corrective action at the next meeting of the
C.

\\\‘\J

4

 

 

 

 

————__.

Biodome Won’t Display Belugas

In a March 29th press release, the Biodome de Montreal
announced its decision to “postpone the acquisition of beluga
whales for its St. Lawrence marine ecosystem indeﬁnitely,
whether through capture or a purchase from other institutions.”
According to the press release:

The Biodome believes it is important to keep in mind the
opinions voiced strongly and vigorously by groups whose
environmental goals in the end match its own.

the Biodome is closing its file on the belugas indeﬁnitely.
The only option that might be considered is to temporarily
accommodate a beluga or other marine mammal sent to the
Biodome as part of a rescue operation or a short-term collabo-
ration with national and international programs to preserve the
genetic pool of cetaceans in captivity. In such cases, the animals
would not be on display to the public. For the time being,
however, the Biodome prefers to focus its efforts on developing
its ecosystems and facilities.

 

 

 

State Department Provides Funding
for US/Russian Beluga Observation

The most beautiful of all 91 species of cctaceans, the beluga whale
has long been persecuted. Belugas have been killed both for sport
and for their meat. Currently, Norwegian whalers are anxious to
involve the Russians in commercial beluga hunting. Canadian
belugas are threatened by pollution from manufacturing plants
whose wastes pour into the St. Lawrence River. Many of these
belugas have been found to be suffering from cancerous growths.

 

Arctic inhabitants—a bowhead whale. beluga whales and hooded seals.

Beluga (Delphinapterus Ieucas): Investigation of the 51266135
(1969), written by Dr. Alexey Yablokov and his colleagues, 15 the
most comprehensive book on the beluga. The text of Beluga IS
strictly scientific, but the introduction expresses the powerful aes—
thetic imPact of these magniﬁcent and highly social whales: A
school of white animals in the greenish water, under the blue sky, 0“
the background of ﬂoating ice is a beautiful Sight and one of the
characteristics of the northern landscape.”

This Year, the US State Department provided a $25,000 gran;
for a cooperative study of belugas in the Paciﬁc Ocean by US an
Russian scientists. Dr. Yablokov, who is closely associated wlth [:6
cooperative plan, is optimistic about the work these funds w111 ma 3
Possible. At last these gentle whales may get the attention they 5
badly need,

 

 




 

 

 

50 Year Ban on Commercial Whaling Gains Legal and Scientiﬁc Support

by Allan Thornton

According to James Cameron, a barrister and director of the Lon-
don-based Foundation for International Environmental Law and
Development, the International Whaling Commission (IWC) has
not fulﬁlled a critical legal mandate to conduct a comprehensive
assessment of the effects of the moratorium on commercial whale
hunting. “No comprehensive assessment of the effects of setting
zero catch quotas on the commercial hunting of whales has been
completed,” stated Cameron in a recent legal opinion. “The Scien—
tiﬁc and Technical Committees of the IWC have instead merely
made a selective assessment of the potential of some whale stocks
to sustain renewed catches. No modiﬁcation of the 1982 (morato-
rium) decision is permitted until a comprehensive assessment has
been completed.” Cameron’s opinion undermines efforts by Nor-
way and Japan to overturn the moratorium.

Recent IWC resolutions calling on the Commission’ 3 Scientiﬁc
Committee to study environmental threats to whales and other
cetaceans should provide additional support for the moratorium.

In March, the IWC held a special scientific workshop on the
threat of chemical pollution to cetaceans. The meeting was held in
Bergen, Norway and hosted dozens of the world’s top experts on
pollution. A variety of papers describing known and potential effects
of pollutants on whales were discussed and numerous recommenda-
tions were drawn up to be forwarded to the Scientific Committee.

Dr. Theo Colborn, a world expert on effects of pollutants, gave
an impressive but sobering account of new scientiﬁc insights into
the massive damage caused by organochlorine pollutants, including
reproductive failure in many species. Dr. Colborn described how
many of these pollutants replicate the effects of hormones and are
transmitted from mother to infant in the fetal stage of development.

The pollutants affect neurological development of the fetus even at
verylow doses previously thoughtto be harmless.The IWC willhost
a second special scientiﬁc workshop on the effects of global warm-
ing and ozone depletion in the United States in early 1996.

Only during the last two years has the IWC’s Scientiﬁc Com-
mittee started to undertake the daunting task of studying environ-
mental threats to whales. Ironically, it was only after the IWC agreed
to the moratorium on commercial whaling in 1982 (which was
implemented in 1986) that the broader scientiﬁc community began
to document many of the major environmental threats that now pose
such grave dangers to whales.

The ozone hole above the Antarctic was discovered in 1986, and
this year European scientists discovered a similar hole in the earth’s
atmosphere above Europe and the arctic regions. During the nine
years the commercial whaling moratorium has been in effect,
scientiﬁc data on the impacts of pollutants have emerged at an ever
increasing rate. Bycatches of hundreds of thousands of whales,
dolphins and seals have been recorded since the mid 19803. The
cumulative impact of the many threats to whales has not yet been
studied by the IWC. It will take decades of research to even begin to
quantify these threats.

The existing moratorium on commercial whaling must be
extended for a period of 50 years. Deliberate killings should also be
banned to ensure that whales, dolphins and porpoises have a chance
to survive in the long term. These goals will be the focus of a joint
campaign by the Animal Welfare Institute and the Environmental
Investigation Agency at the 1995 meeting of the IWC.

 

Allan Thornton is Chairman of the Environmental Investigation Agency.

 

The Cruelest Kill:
The Faroese Pilot Whale Hunt

The world’s largest whale slaughter continues in the Danish owned
Faroe Islands, just north of Scotland. Each year, more than 1,000
pilot whales are driven into bays and brutally killed. This indiscrimi-
nate killing method is banned in the US and by the European Wildlife
Convention, to which all European states adhere—including Den-
mark with a single exemption for the Faroe Islands. Pilot whales are
protected in the North and Baltic Seas by an agreement reached
under the Bonn Convention on Migratory Species. Both Britain and
Ireland safeguard pilot whales within their 200 mile limits.

Although pilot whales are protected within their entire coastal
distribution around Europe, they migrate temporarily out of these
waters each year towards the continental shelf around the Faroe
Islands. Once they approach the islands, dozens of ﬁshing boats
drive a herd onto a beach, where Whalers kill all of the animals,
including pregnant females and newborn calves.

Pilot whales are also threatened by high levels of pollutants,
including, heavy concentrations of toxic organochlorines—PCB’s,
dieldrin, aldrin and heptachlor—and heavy metals such as mercury
and cadmium. The whales are so contaminated they would be
classiﬁed as high level toxic waste under US law.

A recent study revealed Faroese people have pollution concen-
trations in their bodies up to eight times greater than people on the
Danish mainland. This is almost certainly associated with their

 

A F aroese child crouches over a recent victim of the pilot whale hunt.

consumption of highly polluted whale meat and blubber. The
Danish Health Ministry continues to turn a blind eye to the threat
posed to the Faroe Islanders’ health. The Faroese disbelieve the
health warnings of environmentalists, considering it a “trick” to fool
them into stopping the whale hunt.

The Environmental Investigation Agency and AWI will be
seeking a ban on the pilot whale hunt at the 19951WC meeting to be
held in Dublin, Ireland.

Kauaﬁv uopéspsaaul muanuortaua

 




 

 

 

 

A History of Lawlessness—Can Whalers Ever be Trusted?

The International Whaling Commission was established in 1946. From the veryfirst, the whalers have violated the rules and agreements
of the IWC. Following is a brief summary showing chronic deﬁance by the whaling industry.

1942-52

1951-55

1953

1960s

1967

1968-72

1970s

1970s

1973

1974-80

1975-79

1977

1977-78

1977

1978
1978-79

19805

1980

1981

1981

Contrary to IWC rules, half the average annual catch of 1,000
whales in the Norwegian minke whale hunt in the North Atlantic
are ﬁrst year calves, an unknown proportion still suckling.

Panamanian registered Olympic Challenger under-reports large
catches of sperm whales and humpback whales off South
America and catches baleen whales in Antarctica outside the
season.

Olympic Challenger catches undersized blue, humpback and
sperm whales.

Soviet Whalers in the Antarctic catch prohibited species and
massively under—report catches of eight species to the IWC.

Japan establishes whaling station in Peru, a non-IWC country.
About 1,800 whales killed per annum until 19708.

Japan imports whale meat from pirate whaling ship M V Run,
which has been hunting humpback and southern right whales
off South Africa.

Sei whales caught by Norway around Iceland are misreported
as minke whales.

Norwegian Whalers regularly report two small whales as one
large whale.

Observer on Icelandic whaling station reports that some meat
from whales caught below minimum length was exported,
contravening IWC rules.

Pirate whaling vessel MV Run renamed the Sierra catches
thousands of whales regardless of size or sex; the whale meat is
imported by Japan.

Four Taiwanese—registered pirate whaling vessels catch whales
in the north Paciﬁc Ocean; whale meat is laundered to Japan via
South Korea.

Pirate Whaler Palmy StarNo. 3 operates off Chile, exporting the
catch to Japan.

Japan imports fin whale meat from Spain, a non-1W C member,
which also catches blue and sperm whales.

Taiwanese statistics show exports of whale meat to Japan; no
imports appear on Japanese statistics.

Pirate Whaler Tonna hunting whales in the Atlantic Ocean.

Observer of Japanese coastal sperm whaling operations reports
13 infractions.

Norwegian whaling vessels are reported to be catching 30%
above the quota allocated.

IWC observer reports widespread infractions of J apanese sperm
whaling despite being present at only 10% of landings; the
national inspectors report few infractions despite being present
at the majority of landings.

Chilean vessel Juan IX reported to have captured 10 Bryde’s
whales over its quota and sei whales, a protected species; 104
tons of meat exported to Japan.

Japan circumvents the IWC ban on factory ships by using an
anchored factory ship to process Bryde’s and sperm whales in

1983-86

1984-85
1986
1986-91
1987

1986-89
1987
1987-95

1988
1988-94
1991
1991
1992
1993
1993

1993
1993-94
1994

1994
1994
1994

1994

the Ogasawara Islands, calling it a land station.

In violation of IWC regulations, MV Faith catches and pro-
cesses whales around the Philippines and hunts whales after
IWC moratorium comes into effect.

Chilean vessel Juan IX reported to have captured right whales
illegally.

Norwegian whaling vessel Ulla catches four whales above the
ship’s quota.

Japan imports over 58% of whale meat from Iceland’s scientific
hunt, contravening IWC rules.

140 tons of Icelandic whale meat conﬁscated in Germany en
route to Japan.

Iceland hunts whales under scientific permit in each year.
South Korea goes scientific whaling.

Scientific whaling conducted by Japan in each year, contrary to
recommendations of the IWC.

196 tons of Icelandic whale meat confiscated in Finland en
route to Japan.

Norway conducts scientiﬁc whaling in each year, contrary to
the recommendations of the IWC.

Japanese import statistics show Icelandic whale meat still being
imported, two years after the end of Iceland’ 5 scientific whaling
program.

Stripped whale blubber found in South Atlantic Ocean.

10 tons of whale meat seized in southern Japan, imported
illegally from Taiwan. '

Unconfirmed report from Norway of a whale caught after the
season had ended.

Attempted smuggling of 3.5 tons of minke whale meat from
Norway to South Korea.

Korean Fishermen‘s Associations admit large-scale illegal
whaling in the Pacific after whale meat is found openly sold 111
Republic of Korea.

Contrary to the will of the IWC and despite the moratorium,
Norway conducts commercial whaling operations, setting Its
own quotas.

Confiscation of 232 tons of whale meat in Vladivostocl:i
Russia, tentatively identified as Bryde‘s whale, being smuggle
from Taiwan to Japan.

Attempted Snggling Of 11 tons of whale meat by Korean
fishermen into Japan.

Norwegian Whaling vessel catches and strips the blubber from
a Whale above the ship’s quota.

6
Japan conducts two scientific whale hunts contrary to th
recommendations of the [W C .

DNA analysis reveals illegal minke, fin and humpback whale

meat on sale in Japan.

Reprinted by permission of the Environmental Investigation Agency '

 

 




 

 

 

The Animal Detectives

A new seven-part television series currently airing on British Inde-
pendent Television has received high acclaim in the British press.
“Animal Detectives” follows seven undercover investigations by
the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA). “This is a com-
pletely new kind of factual television,” says producer Paul Cleary of
Goldhawk TV and Film Productions. “Animal Detectives focuses
on the work of EIA and combines hard-hitting undercover investi—
gations with natural history footage and challenges the audience to
act.”

Public reaction to the ﬁrst two
programs has been overwhelming.
Carlton UK Television’s phones
were jammed following the broad-
cast of the ﬁrst program. Thousands
of letters have been sent, and every
British Member of Parliament (MP)
has been warned to expect large
postbags while the series is running.

The series was launched in Lon-
don with the support of celebrities
and MP3 from each of the political
parties. Since the ﬁrst program, it
has been chosen by TV magazines
as their “pick of the day” and has
generated more than 400 newspaper
and magazine articles. Mathew Tay-
lor MP, the Liberal Democrat Envi-
ronment spokesperson, said “The
series... reﬂects ahuge change... from
getting people to accept that there is
a problem, to looking at how we
solve these problems.” EIA has
worked with Carlton UK to produce
a free brochure for the public with
action points on each of the wildlife
issues addressed in the ﬁlms.

EIA’s Executive Director and
Chief lnvesti gator, Dave Currey, has
worked very closely with the pro-
duction team over the last year. “Animal Detectives is one of the
most powerful campaigning tools we could have” he explains. “The
idea is that the programs appeal to broad audiences who will follow
the excitement of the investigation, but get pulled into the impor-
tance of the issue. These are ﬁlms that demand action, and EIA is
trying to empower audience-s by helping them discover the problems
and join in to help provide the solutions.”

The programs cover the plight of macaques, marine turtles,
rhinos, walrus, grey parrots, pilot whales and bears. Filming took
place in the Russian Far East, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Vietnam, the
Faroe Islands, Sri Lanka, the Maldives, China, North America,
South Africa and Taiwan.

The Films:

The macaque investigation exposes a plan by Vanny Chain of
Hong Kong to set up a “captive breeding” station for macaques
outside Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam. This would provide half the
world’s supply of research macaques. The EIA team found wild
animals in appalling conditions in holding cages and were told the
company planned to catch 6,000 macaques in the immediate future

 

Baby macaque for sale in Ho Chi Minh City. Wild macaque
populations will be decimated if Vanny Chain ’s plan to establish
the world’s largest “breeding center” in Vietnam goes ahead.

from all over Vietnam. Former investigations prove the captive
breeding centers in Asia are often used to launder wild caught
monkeys. When secretly ﬁlmed, the director of Vanny Chain
explained Vietnam was his biggest venture because Vietnam has
“the natural resources.”

The turtle ﬁlm exposes marine turtle shell available in Sri
Lanka’s tourist shops even though it is illegal to sell parts of these
highly endangered animals. The EIA investigators traced the major-
ity of the supply of raw shell to the Maldive Islands in the Indian
Ocean. Here they learned the identity of the main suppliers and the
smuggling method.

The rhino ﬁlm was shot during
a number of investigations and fol-
lows the trail from poachers in Af-
rica to the big dealers in Taiwan and
China and the shops around Asia.
The undercover EIA investigators
found one ton of rhino horn for sale
in southern China.

Walruses, whales and seals are
hunted by native people in Chukotka,
Siberia. An investigation revealed
marine mammals are all killed pri-
marily to feed foxes on fur farms. In
this area left behind after the col-
lapse of the Soviet Union, nobody
gains from the cycle of killing and
waste to feed foxes who are killed
for fur no one wants to buy.

Grey parrots are one of the most
intelligent birds and for that reason
are popular in the pet trade. EIA
investigators discovered the identi-
ties of traders and ofﬁcials who are
illegally catching wild grey parrots
in Ghana and smuggling them to
Cote d’Ivoire. The ﬁlm follows the
investigation, which ends in an ar-
rest by Ghanaian police.

The Danish Faroe islands, 200
miles from Scotland, are the site of
the biggest whale kills in the world (see page 5). For the ﬁrst time,
locals spoke out to EIA in opposition to the hunt. So scared are they
of reprisals, their identities had to be disguised.

EIA met with Fish and Wildlife Service ofﬁcers to uncover the
extent of bear poaching for gall bladder in the US and then traveled
to China to track down sordid farms where bears are regularly
drained of their bile for sale as Chinese medicine. Asiatic Black
Bears, an endangered species, are often caught from the wild and
forced to live the rest of their lives in tiny, barren cages.

“Animal Detectives” is scheduled to be shown in Germany in
June, and the distributors are currently negotiating with four other
countries. When asked about EIA’s concern that its investigators
will be recognized in the future, Dave Currey had a warning. “There
are countries in which some of us could no longer work undercover
effectively,” he explains. “But we’ll send others. We want every
trader in wildlife to be worried that the next person offering them a
deal may be out to expose them. Let’s get them nervous. But if they
want to do business they’re going to have to trust someone. One day
that’ll be one of EIA’s Animal Detectives.”

AauaSv uopeSpse/iul [mummy/tug

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2,670

Wednesday 10 May 1995

l
't
ll
,1

Traps like this were outlawed in Britain in the 1950.
Now the US wants to stop us banning fur caught this way

BY DANNY PENMAN

Canadian and United. States
trappers are trying to force the
European Union to scrap its im-
pending ban on the import of
furs from animals caught in
cruel and inhumane traps.

With the full support of their
governments, the trappers plan
to exploit a loophole in the ban
whichallows imports of fur of
animals caught using “interna-
tionally recognised humane
trapping Standards”.

Animal welfare groups claim
that the fur trade dominates a
key international group setting

the “humane” trapping stan-'

dards and are shepherding
through a series of measures that
would condemn millions of an-
imals to an agonising death.

Europe is being pressed to ac-
cept fur from animals caught in
traps that snap bones, tendons
and ligaments and from those
that drown their prey. .

The traps were banned in
Britain in the 19505 and across
Europe on 1 January this year.

.Under a European regulation,
fur from animals caught in steel ..

jawed leghold traps will be
banned in the EU from 1 Jan-
uary next year.

US and Canadian trappers are
lobbying hard fer the ban to be
scrapped. According to docu-
ments obtained by the Indepen-
dent, and criticisms voiced by an-

,imal welfare bodies, the

Canadian and US fur lobby
dominates a key committee set-
ting “humane” trapping stan-
dards, a technical committee of
the Geneva-based Internation-
al Standards Organisation
(ISO), known as TC191. Animal

welfare groups are not repre-

sented as such on TC191.

The committee’s final rec-
ommendations to the ISO are
due later this year, and are ex-

pected to legitimise traps that
have been branded as “unac-
ceptable” and “inhumane” by
the Scientific Veterinary Com-
mittee, which advises the Eu-
ropean Commission on animal
welfare and husbandry policies.
The standards, if accepted, may
allow Canadian and US fur
trappers to overturn European
welfare laws using internation-
al free trade rules.

Last month Stuart Eizenstat,
the US ambassador to the EU,
tried to persuade Ritt Bjerre-
gaard, the EU’s Environment
Commissioner, to scrap the ban.
And last week, Canada’s In-

ternational Trade Minister, Roy ,

MacLaren, warned the EU that
Canada would seek “trade
remedies” if agreement on fur
imports was not reached. Talks
between Sir Leon Brittan, Vice—
President of the EU, and Mick-
ey Kantor, the US Trade Rep-
resentative, are planned. ' _

If the ISO succeeds in setting
international guidelines for
traps, then the US and Canadi-
an governments, following in-
tense pressure from‘ the fur
trade, are expected to challenge
the ban through the World
Trade Organisation. The Cana-
dian government initiated a

 

TlHIlE INDEPENDENT

(Irish Republic 45p)

 

 

 

 

A mink caught in ‘one of the traps that are banned in Europe

challenge to the ban in April ,

1994. If they win, then Europe
could be forced to lift the ban.

The Canadians are deter-
mined to win international ac—
ceptance of their trapping meth-
ods. The government has been

advised by a public relations
firm to label Canadian fur “so as
to assure the wearer that the an-
imal was caught humanely
where environmental balance is
always a key consideration”.
‘Fearful cruelty’, page 2

 

 

Fur trappers fight to inﬂict ‘fearful cruelty’

Animal welfare groups claim those
defining acceptable killing machines are
biased. Danny Penman reports

In 1863 Charles Darwin condemned the steel-jawed leghold trap
made famous by Daniel Boone and Davy Crockett for consigning
“thousands of animals to acute agony.” He called on Englishmen to
act against “so fearful an amount of cruelty.”

Today, fur trappers are trying to get their traps classed as
humane through the International Standards Organisation. The ISO
is better known for worrying about ﬁlm speeds and widgets than
killing machines. The TC191 committee, charged with drawing up
the trapping standards under ISO auspices, is dominated by fur
interests, animal welfare groups say.

The proposed standards approve leg-hold or “restraint” traps
that break limbs or dislocate joints. Animals are caught when they
step on a trap. Two steel jaws clamp on to the animal’s leg, biting
deep into ﬂesh. The animals may stay in the traps for days, growing
weaker through pain and the struggle to escape. Often they get away
by chewing or tearing off a leg. '

Drowning traps would also be approved. In them, animals are
trapped underwater. “Submersion traps” are a popular way of
catching mink, beaver and otter. These animals may take up to 15
minutes to die.

“Killing traps” that take up to five minutes to render an animal
unconscious would also be approved. They frequently inﬂict a slow
1m gering death on “trash animals”—the unintended prey of a trapper.

8

 

 

The distinguished British newspaper, The Independent, is well known for its outspoken reporting on matters of serious concern and
controversy. The May tenth issue featured the international battle against the steel jaw leghold trap emphasizing the fact that Britain
banned it many years ago, but the United States “wants to stop us banning fur caught this way. ” Reproduced above is the banner
headline and report by Danny Penman, below, his article quoting Charles Darwin on the “acute agony ” inﬂicted by the steel jaws.

 

 

Traps would be assessed using an injury scale. “Humane” ones
would allow limb dislocations, severed toes, tendons and ligaments.

The European Commission’s Scientiﬁc Veterinary Committee
says a killing trap should render an animal insensible to pain
instantaneously or at least within seconds.

Asked to review an earlier draft of the standards being drawn up
by TC191, the EC Committee said “a delay of three minutes after
inﬂiction of trauma is unacceptable.” They described the injury
scale to measure humaneness as “having no scientiﬁc basis.”

 

A ‘humane’ trap would
allow severed tendons

Animal welfare groups say the ISO has so far ignored their

 

- concerns. They claim the fur lobby dominates the process and has

done 30 from day one. Their only victory to date has been to force
removal of the word “humane” from the title and text of the draft
standards. The standards are still aimed at producing “humane
killing machines. .

Neal Jotham, who is leading the ISO process, was a foundlng
board member of the Fur Institute of Canada, a trade body represent-
ing the fur industry. He was also a director of the Canadlan
Federation of Humane Societies for eight years. .

The draft standards were drawn up with the help of Fred Gilbert,
3 key player in trap research. In 1990, Mr. Gilbert was refused

permission by Washington State University to investigate drowning
traps, as part of the ISO process, because of the cruelty involved with
the experiments.

Mr. Gilbert is now a member of another TC191 working group
guiding research into drowning traps.

At the last meeting of TC191 at Ottawa, the US delegation was
led by Tom Krause, from the National Trappers Association and
editor of American Trapper. He says the draft standards will allow
use of many of the existing traps, including the leghold and has
advised readers “not to throw away any traps.”

In 1993, the American committee, which sends delegations to
TC191, was castigated by its parent organisation, the American
National Standards Institute, for blocking the admission of animal
welfare groups.

An ANSI appeal board said the sub-committee had “a complete
lack of balance” and was dominated by a “single interest group.” The
ﬁndings were subsequently overturned and the results of a further
appeal are awaited.

The Canadian government has begun the ﬁrst stage of a chal-
lenge to Europe’s fur ban, under the World Trade Organisation
Treaty.

Top level discussions are planned between Mickey Kantor, the
US Trade Representative and Sir Leon Brittan, the European
Commission’s Vice-President, to try to resolve the looming dispute.

 

Trapping Notes

0 On May 2, 1995, Russian Federation President Boris Yeltsin
signed a new law entitled On the Animal World. Article 40 of the law
forbids use of the steel jaw leghold trap except when it is legal under
“the special constitutional rights of the Russian Federation.”

0 Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D, NY) and Congressman Christo-
pher Shays (R, CT) have introduced legislation to end use of steel
jaw traps in the US, HR 1404. Congresswoman Lowey stated: “Most
Americans support the abolition of steel jaw leghold traps. It’s time
to join the growing circle of enlightened nations that have realized
that they should end the use of these maimin g instruments.” The bill
has more than 60 cosponsors.

0 AWI has been the leader in a series of appeals against the gross bias
of the American National Standards Institute’s (ANSI) Technical
Advisory Group (TAG). The ﬁnal appeal will be heard in July.
Meanwhile, in an act of deﬁance to AWI’s concerns, the steel jaw
trap supporters on TAG added two more trappers and a furrier to the
membership at a recent meeting. One box trap manufacturer was
permitted to join TAG, but veterinarians, an ethologist, a wildlife
rehabilitator and a neurophysiologist were rejected because of their
humane perspective. The next TAG meeting will be held at the end
of September in Denver, Colorado. Contact AWI if you are inter-
ested in attending as an observer.

 

Demonstration Against Cruel Traps
On May 2, AWI organized a protest against steel jaw leghold
traps at the US Trade Representative’s (USTR) ofﬁce two
blocks from the White House. Senators from several states
where these agonizing traps are used on a large scale have
exerted pressure on the head of USTR, Ambassador Mickey
Kantor, to oppose and challenge the European Union (EU)
regulation banning importation of fur from countries still using
the leghold trap. If Ambassador Kantor accedes to trapper/
furrier demands, the EU’ 3 landmark regulation will be crippled
or lost altogether. All 15 countries belonging to the EU have
banned these traps.

  

a" . ' . 4 =
a: t": r...“

 

emnH

 

éétms 551m and to hopes an

...

. New»

AWI’s Adam Roberts, disguised as a trapped wolf, and
HSUS’ 3 Dale B artlett delivered a letter opposing “any effort to
weaken or delay implementation of the European Union’s
Leghold Trap Regulation.”

Action: Let Ambassador Kantor know of your opposition
to steel jaw traps that cause animals such intense pain and fear.
His address is United States Trade Representative, 600 17th
Street NW, Washington, DC, 20506.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ASSAULT ON ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT ENDANGERS Us ALL

US legislation protecting wildlife and the environment is the ﬁnest
in the world. It is important that our nation maintain this leadership
of which every American can be justiﬁably proud. In 1973, Con-
gress enacted a comprehensive, model Endangered Species Act
(ESA). This legislation has been extremely effective in saving
wildlife and plant species in danger of extinction.

Non-consumptive Use of Wildlife—A Fiscal Boon

The economic beneﬁts of preserving species and their environ-
ments are numerous. In 1991, whalewatchin g in the US brought an
estimated $37.5 million in direct revenue while another $155.5
million was earned by associated businesses. In Southern New
England alone, tourists pay more than $21 million each year to visit
whales in their natural environment. Humpback, ﬁn and minke
whales frequent these waters, as well as the occasional orca and pilot
whale. One might even be fortunate enough to catch a glimpse of the
highly endangered North Atlantic right whale.

The California gray whale, now removed from the endangered
species list, is the star of the West Coast’s whalewatching industry.
Commercial whalewatching vessels also serve as platforms for
educational outreach and scientiﬁc research. The Endangered Spe-
cies Act was key to protecting the whales that now support an
industry pouring millions into our coastal economies.

 

Whalewatching, one example of the non-consumptive use of wildlife, earns
millions of dollars for communities on both the east and west coasts.

Agriculture Dependent on Wild Plants & Animals

American agriculture’s debt to wild plants is estimated at $1
billion per year. All of our food comes from species of plants and
animals that were once wild. Cultivated plant species become prey
to diseases, fungus or insect attack. When Southern cornleaf blight
attacked crops in 1970, losses totalled almost $1 billion. The disease
was stopped when an old, resistant corn species was found and bred
into a new hybrid. Currently, botanists are collecting seeds of wild
potatoes in an attempt to prevent a variant of the fungus that caused
the Irish potato famine in the 18403 from ruining crops in the US.
Food losses to insects in the US amount to at least $5 billion per year,
and hundreds of insects have become resistant to a wide spectrum of
pesticides. Species capable of saving agricultural crops and billions
of dollars for American farmers will be lost without protection from
the ESA. Many of theseancestoral plants and insect predators are

10

highly endangered and urgently need to be maintained in their native
habitats. The ESA has identiﬁed many of these species and pre-
served them from extinction.

   
 

Life-saving Medicine from Rare Species
Worldwide, medica-
tions derived from plants are \ ,
worth $40 billion annually. .
Mostofourmedicines came 3 N.
originally from wild plants, \ \
including major painkillers, l
birth-control agents and ma— \
laria drugs. Quinine, digi-
talis and morphine all come
from plants. According to a
study funded by the Inter-
national Union for the Con-
servation of Nature and the
World Bank, more than 40
percent of all prescriptions .
in the US still depend on g‘
natural sources. Onlyasmall "
percentage of wild plants
have been tested for medicinal value. In some cases, plants that

Purple F oxglove—the source of digitalis

3 might have disappeared altogether were found to be medical trea-

sures. The Madagascar periwinkle is a small ﬂowering plant that

. grows in a country that has lost more than 80 percent of its

vegetation. Two potent compounds found in this plant have proven
effective in the treatment of Hodgkins’ disease and produce a 99
percent remission in patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia.
Global sales of these two drugs now total $100 million a year.

Another species that could have slipped into extinction is the
Paciﬁc yew. Traditionally considered a “trash plant” by foresters in
the Paciﬁc Northwest, this evergreen has been cleared to make way
for plant species that are proﬁtable to the timber industry. Research
in the past few years revealed that the Paciﬁc yew contains com-
pounds effective in treating ovarian and other cancers. Synthesis of
these chemicals will save thousands of lives and be worth millions
of dollars.

The Paciﬁc yew grows in old- growth forest, home of the spotted
owl. This threatened bird’s addition to the ESA provoked a bitter
controversy between loggers and conservationists. After a ﬂurry of
lawsuits from both sides, logging limits were implemented. In spite
of dire predictions from lumber companies that 100,000 jobs would
be lost as a result of the reduction in logging, employment in Oregon,
the heart of the spotted owl’s habitat, has increased. An inﬂux of
technology ﬁrms and retraining of loggers through government
programs has brought new higher paying jobs to Oregon, resulting
in the highest employment rate in a generation. The ESA is directly
responsible for saving both the Paciﬁc yew and the spotted owl
through habitat protection.

When a species’ habitat is preserved, an entire ecosystem may
beneﬁt. That ecosystem may harbor other species valuable to
medicine or perform functions essential to the health of the environ-
ment. For instance, old growth forests keep streams and rivers clear
from erosion, and their slow release of water keeps rivers ﬂowing
throughout the longest droughts. Salmon ﬁnd the rivers of old

continued on page 11

Mum names momma xmx man

 

 




 

 

 

 

continued from page 10
growth forests ideal for spawning; where logging has ruined stream
banks and caused erosion, salmon have
disappeared. The salmon species of
the Paciﬁc Northwest were once an
extremely valuable economic asset,
but today several species of salmon
are approaching extinction due to log-
ging and dams.

Their Loss is Our Loss

Economic interests that wish to
weaken the ESA argue that the Act
unreasonably interferes with govern-
ment and private projects and infringes
on the constitutional rights of indi—
viduals. In truth, however, few con—
ﬂicts have arisen and the majority of
these have been settled to the satisfaction of all. By September 1994,
the US Fish and Wildlife Service had issued 36 permits for “Habitat
Conservation Plans” with 150 more in process. These agreements
between the government and private landowners permit activities

   
 

Salmon stocks have plummeted in the lower 48 states as
streams became degraded by logging operations.

 

normally restricted under the ESA as long as adequate safeguards to
protect endangered species are adopted. Many involve ﬁnancial
beneﬁt to landowners. For example,
those who donate land inhabited by
endangered species to a nonproﬁt or-
ganization or to the federal govern-
ment receive a tax deduction.

In the words of Edward O. Wilson
of Harvard University, “We have in-
herited a treasure house but are throw-
ing out a great many of the pieces
without so much as looking at them.”
To consider the ESA an economic det-
riment to this country is folly. This Act,
a major beneﬁt for agriculture and
medicine and a means of preserving
the precious genetic heritage of this
country, must be protected. Congress
will set our course by choosing either to protect this country’s
natural heritage or contribute to its destruction for the sake of short-
term commercial gain. We are at a crossroads.

was elllpllm pue (15H so ”

This article is part of a more comprehensive report available from AWI.

 

Taiwan: Too Soon to Lift Sanctions

by Peter Knights

In May of last year, the Clinton Administration imposed ground-
breaking sanctions on the wealthy nation of Taiwan for illegal trade
in rhino and tiger products. The embargo, which took effect in
August 1994, covered imports of Taiwanese wildlife products
valued at US $23 million annually. A delegation representing the US
government visited Taiwan in March to evaluate Taiwan’s progress
in controlling trade in endangered species. Based on this delegation’s
report, President Clinton will decide whether or not to modify the
import prohibitions.

Investigators working for the Animal Welfare Institute, the
Humane Society of the US and Humane Society International also
visited Taiwan in March 1995. They concluded that although there
had been some positive progress in combatting the illegal trade in
rhino and tiger products, it was too early to judge whether this would
be a temporary phenomenon. The investigators were encouraged by
an increased public awareness of wildlife laws brought about by
extensive media coverage and campaigns by the government and
wildlife groups. The availability of rhino and tiger products has
apparently been reduced, but the investigators warned the illegal
trade may resurface if efforts are not ongoing. They found the
{sanctions had given the rhino and tiger issue the high political proﬁle
it needed in Taiwan but asserted that unless this increased ofﬁcial
Concern is translated into greater resources for wildlife enforcement
and education, the progress could be short-lived.

Taiwan has passed new, stricter wildlife laws, but the by-laWS
or regulations to implement them have not been ﬁnalized. US
Secretary of the Interior Bruce B abbitt has made it clear that wildlife
law enforcement is the most crucial issue to be dealt with before
sanctions are revoked. The US Fish and Wildlife Service Division
“Law Enforcement has provided technical assistance and training
i0 Its Taiwanese counterpart, but the investigators found that lack of
Identiﬁcation materials, resources and appropriate manpower Still
hamPered enforcement. They called the formation of a “Conserva-

tion Police” force of over 100 specially-trained police ofﬁcers
crucial if conservation efforts in Taiwan are to be permanent. “If
there is no conservation police force, there will be no effective
enforcement, and in the long run all the efforts of the Taiwanese and
US authorities will have been wasted,” said one investigator. Such
a force was recommended by Secretary Babbitt and is currently
being discussed by the Taiwanese government.

In some other areas of wildlife protection, Taiwanese authori-
ties have made little or no progress. Many species protected by the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species are still
not protected under Taiwanese law. Wild birds, such as Indonesian
cockatoos, continue to be imported into Taiwan for the pet trade
without restriction, breaking international law and risking the intro-
duction of disease. An outbreak of Newcastle’ 3 disease in the United
States in 1971 was traced to a wild parrot imported by the pet trade.
The outbreak killed twelve million chickens at a cost of US$56
million. Since that time all wild birds entering the US for the pet
trade undergo quarantine and screening for Newcastle’s disease. In
Taiwan, outbreaks of the disease have claimed the lives of thousands
of birds, but there is no quarantine system whatsoever.

Taiwan also continues its illegal trade in Asian bear products.
In a survey conducted in March, 25 of 40 pharmacies surveyed in
Taipei were still offering alleged bear gall products. Even if up to
two thirds of “bear” galls on the market are really from domestic
animals, large numbers of galls from endangered Asian bears are
still for sale in Taiwanese pharmacies. The conservation community
does not want to be forced to call for sanctions and boycotts of
Taiwanese goods again over bears, but authorities there do not seem
prepared to take any meaningful action on their own initiative. Asian
bears have been persecuted for this trade, bear poaching in Russ1a
has been severe and it seems likely that dealers will soon be
switching more and more to North American bears to supply their

gruesome business.

11

 




 

 

Koalas, Australia’s Ancient Ones
by Ken Phillips (Macmillan, NY) 1994, 155 pages, $27.50.

This is a book that celebrates the enormous charm of the koala.
Koalas are nocturnal animals who sleep all day long after spending
their evenings eating their ﬁll of eucalyptus leaves. They are
mysterious creatures who, the author tells us, most Australians have
never even seen. Koalas have been on the planet for more than
50,000 years; they were here before the separation of land into what
we now know as continents. Mr. Phillips lists no fewer than 38
species of eucalyptus preferred by koalas. Only six species are
common. He tells us “the destruction of [the koalas’] trees has been
allowed to proceed at an alarming rate.”

In a table headed “The Bare Facts,” Mr. Phillips lists the
“Principal predator” as “Humans,” and this is attested to by records
showing that “in the 18905 from 10,000 to 30,000 [koala] skins per
year were being sent to London. By 1889 the volume reached
300,000! They were not used for high-fashion items but when a
‘cheap and durable fur’ was required.”

Mr. Phillips is no mere recorder of facts about koalas. Proceeds
from his book go entirely toward efforts to protect, heal and ensure
a future for the koala and its habitat. He describes the Koala Hospital,
which carefully caters to the koala’s tastes. He writes: “... running
the Koala Hospital resembles a ﬁne European hotel, as the dietary
preferences must be noted and eventually logged in a computer
database. Fresh leaves must be picked in accordance with these
preferences and served within hours of picking, having been kept in
cool water ﬁrst.”

The book ends with the story of a koala rescue high in the trees
after a forest ﬁre. The intensive care that a koala named Terry Glen
received continued for months and resulted in his return to the wild.

Mr. Phillips stresses the necessity of preserving the koala’s
habitat if this remarkable creature is to survive:

With the continued destruction of its habitat, even if present

disease factors were to be eliminated from the equation, in roughly
ten years’ time, there will simply be neither home nor food for the

 

 

 

In Memory of Pearl Twyne

Animals have lost another good friend with the death of Pearl
Twyne. A long-time employee of the Department of Agricul-
ture, she plunged whole—heartedly into animal protection
activities upon her retirement. After helping to found the
Arlington Animal Welfare League, she served as its president
for over twenty years. She founded the American Horse
Protection Association and led the campaign to end cruel
soring of Tennessee walking horses. At one horse show she
was mobbed by irate trainers whose horses’ pasterns had been
deliberately sored to such a degree that some lay groaning in
their stalls. She wrote the authoritative chapter on horses when
AWI’s Animals and Their Legal Rights was ﬁrst published.

 

mention was made of the fact that while the owners of these abodes
probably have insurance to enable them to reconstruct their homes,
many more thousands of Australians have lost their lives in these
conﬂagrations, not to mention their magnificent green forested
dwellings. These fires, reported to be the worst in the 200 years since
Australia was settled by whites, are now known to have been in large
measure set by human arsonists.

While the region served by the Koala Hospital is not at risk at
present, volunteers from other areas of New South Wales, who have
received training at the hospital and who have released rehabilitated
koalas into the wild, have now seen many of those territories
destroyed by ﬁre...

I end this book as it began, by noting that one of the planet’ 8 oldest
and wisest inhabitants is about to disappear unless aggressive action
is taken to protect the koala’ s habitat. At the start of this century, new
settlers killed over two million koalas for their fur. At the end of this
century, let us right this terrible wrong by ensuring the continued
survival of this very special Earth Spirit. When the last member of a
species disappears, so, too, does a part of the earth and a part of each
of us. As Beebe pointed out, ‘an entire heaven and an entire earth must
pass before such a one can be again.’

 

The photographs in this book so far surpass all other pictures of
koalas that it can be recommended in aesthetic terms alone.
If you want to know more about what you can do to help, write
or telephone:
Mr. Ken Phillips
Koala Preservation Society
PO Box 612, Cooper Station
New York, NY 10003
1-800-989-KOALA (5625) or 212-477-4370.

koala. Trees must be planted and the destruction of forests containing
the koalas’ eucalyptus leaves halted.

Even as this book was being written, massive ﬁres were consum-
ing hundreds of thousands of acres of trees and wildlife in New South
Wales. Though the popular press reported that hundreds of homes
had been destroyed in the wealthier suburbs of Sydney, virtually no

 

 

Bequests to AWI

To all of you who would like to help assure the Animal
Welfare Institute’ 3 future through a provision in your will, this
general form of bequest is suggested:

 

Letter to the Editor ,

I give, devise and bequeath t0 the Animal Welfare Institute, April 13, 1995
located in Washington, DC, the sum 0f$ . .
and/0r (speciﬁcally described property). Dear Christine,

You and your colleagues deserve the highest praise for your
efforts in forcing the world’ s most abundant primate to adopt
behavior appropriate for humans. The Quarterly, always

outstanding, has become even more so, powerfully effective.

Donations to AWI, a not-for-proﬁt corporation exempt under
Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3), are tax-deductible.
We welcome any inquiries you may have. In cases where you
have speciﬁc wishes about the disposition of your bequest, we

suggest you discuss such provisions with your attorney. I write in admiration to convey congratulations to all of you.

Yours truly,
George M. Woodwell, Director
The Woods Hole Research Center

Animal Welfare Institute
Post Ofﬁce Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

 

 

 

 

 

 

12

 

 




 

 

ﬂ

Chile’s Heraldic Animal Faces Extinction
by Godofredo Stutzin

The Chilean national coat-of—arms is upheld by two animals, the
condor and the huemul. While the former, although facing increas-
ing problems, has managed to survive in satisfactory numbers, the
latter is rapidly approaching the brink
of extinction. A beautiful and good-
natured animal, the huemul, or South-
ern Andean deer, was still abundant in
central and southern Chile over a cen-
tury ago when it was added to the
national emblem. Today, however, it
can only be found in remote areas of
the deep south, in the regions of Aysen
and Magallanes, where small and scat-
tered populations live a precarious ex-
istence under adverse natural condi-
tions. Itis estimated that not more than
a thousand animals still survive.

About a hundred animals have
found refuge in two reserves managed
by Conaf, the National Forestry Cor-
poration, with support of Codeff, the
National Committee for the Defense
of Fauna and Flora, which obtained funding for the purchase of part
of the land from the Frankfurt Zoological Society’s “Help for
Endangered Wildlife.” Because of their very limited number, the
future ofthese animals is in doubt.

A true miracle of survival is represented by the presence of less
than ﬁfty animals in a mountainous area not far from the town of
Chillan. This group ofanimals is separated by a distance of over 700

*

 

The beautiful huemel is in danger of extinction.

 

miles from the other huemul populations. For more than two
decades, Codeff and Conaf have endeavored to protect these hardy
surVivors who have been visited and studied repeatedly by various
seientists, particularly Dr. Anthony Povilitis, a US wildlife special-
ist who has published a number of reports on the subject pleading for
support of the conservation program.

The situation of the huemul in
general and of the Nevados de Chillan
huemul population in particular is ex-
tremely critical. The only real chance
of saving the Chillan huemul lies in the
purchase of sufﬁcient land to assure
winter and summer habitats. Codeff
has launched an urgent appeal to ob-
tain the necessary funds, estimated at
about $500,000. A quarter of this
amount has already been provided by
the Frankfurt Zoological Society, but
the rest is still outstanding and sorely
needed. Logging and cattle ranching
are progressively encroaching on the
already reduced living space of a popu-
lation that is diminishing every year.
The huemul may still be rescued from
extinction by the generous help of those
who are in a position to give a hand to these wonderful animals who
certainly deserve to be with us in the future.

ACTION: Send contributions to help save the huemul to
CODEFF, Casilla 3675, Santiago, Chile.

 

Godofredo Stutzin has led animal protective efforts in Chile for many years.
He is a valued member of AWI’s International Committee.

Sport Hunting of Endangered Species Stopped in Turkmenistan
United Arab Emirate Sheiks Forced To Pay $40,000 Fine and Go Home

ghefOIlowing is based on an article by Andrei Zatoka of the Dashkhovuz
ECOIOgtcal Club that originally appeared in the May I, 1995 issue of

Costan News, which reports on the ecological situation in the Central
Asmn Republics.

Thls Spring, several sheiks from the United Arab Emirates (UAE)
:lnformed [he Turkmenistan Ministry of Foreign Affairs of their
mm to hunt endangered animals. Such hunts are not occasional but
:16 CVIdenCe 9f an Emerging tradition for the UAE royalty. The
liq; est made “3 way into the Ministry of Nature Use as a formality.
a meutl‘expected m0Ve, the Ministry turned the sheiks down. After
Miniset mg convened ‘0 debate the issue, the bureaucrats of the
Statin I); “We a re$13€3thul denial to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
disturg’ dunng Sprlng, while they are breeding, animals must not be

bed, and therefore such a hunt is impossible.”
Whirl}: Shélksi aCCustomed to a genial reception, arrived anyway
huntin Ymung for OfﬁCial approval. They brought With them their
undulagt alcons, Specially trained to hunt bustard (Chlamidotys
Use andaj:j a rare Species in Turkmenistan. The Minister of Nature
at the ti IS DeputyMmister for Animal Conservationiwere abroad
Depart me. The deCtSion was left in the hands of the Director of the
Sionh ment f0r Animal Conservation, Mr. Masharipov. The deci-
e {001‘ was not only brave but amazing; he dispatched Wildlife

ins ' '
Dectors to the scene; these inspectors issued an ofﬁCial complalnt

against the sheiks and levied a $40,000 ﬁne on them.

The distraught hunters directed themSelves to President Niyazov,
conﬁdent that his intercession would restore “justice.” However,
Niyazov turned them back, saying that the issue was clearly in the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Nature Use. At this time, Minister
Kurbanov returned from abroad, reviewed the case and fully sup-
ported the decision of his inspectors. With greatly sunken spirits, the
Arabs paid the ﬁne and quickly ﬂed inhospitable Turkmenistan.
Kurbanov rewarded Masharipov with a healthy percentage of the
collected ﬁne. This is the first case that includes a presidential
comment on the issue and indicates a deﬁnite intention not to protect
the same Arab hunters that were once accorded preferential treat-
ment as the “President’s personal guests.”

The Ministry of Nature Protection has taken more and more
positive stands recently with regard to ecology. This was the fourth
incident of Ministerial action against foreign and local poaching in
the past six months. These changes may even encourage the repeti-
tion of the famous “Turkmenistan Invasion” of the 19803, when
more than ﬁfty young scientists from the Soviet Union’s most
prestigious universities accepted research pOSitions in the nature
reserves of Turkmenistan. In a short period of time, they made
Turkmenistan the most progressive republic of the USSR in nature

conservation issues.

13

 




 

 

AWI’s Executive Director Speaks at NABR Conference

In a startling reversal of previous policy excluding all but National
Association for Biomedical Research (NABR) sanctioned members,
NABR invited AWI Executive Director Cathy Liss to speak at the
group’s annual meeting. AWI welcomes this opportunity. Following
are excerpts from the speech.

My message to you is that random source
dealers are bad news, and I hope you will
consider other options available to you
for acquiring dogs and cats for research.
As long as the demand for dogs and cats
for research continues, and research fa-
cilities are paying hundreds of dollars for
random source animals, there is a very
strong financial incentive for illegal ac-
tivities. The solution is to stop relying on
random source dealers for dogs and cats-—
you can get these animals from other
sources.

Currently there are approximately
4,100 USDA licensed dealers. 3,000 of
them are Class A dealers—people who
breed animals for commercial purposes. The vast majority breed
animals for the pet trade and the rest breed animals for the research
trade. Of the 1,100 random source, or Class B, dealers, only about
60 provide dogs and cats for the research trade. The number of these
dealers is on the decline, and according to our information, approxi-
mately one-fourth are under investigation by USDA or have cases
pending against them because of apparent violations of the Animal
Welfare Act. This does not mean the other three-quarters of Class B
dealers supplying animals for research are in compliance. With its
limited resources, USDA just hasn’t gotten to all of the violators yet.

The legal sources of dogs for random source dealers are: 1)
Class A dealers, 2) other Class B
dealers, 3) pounds and 4) indi-
viduals who have bred and raised
the animals themselves. In real—
ity, many dealers will get dogs
and cats any way they can, in-
cluding using bunchers, unli-
censed dealers who collect dogs
and cats by theft or by “adopt-
ing” them from pounds or

 

Smokey was returned to his owners after being fo und at
the Mayo Institute. Researchers bought the dog from a
Class B dealer who obtained him from a buncher.

you can tell members of the public that no, you would never
experiment on their pets. The fact is we know pet dogs and cats are
ending up in research laboratories.

When a person’s pet is stolen for research, the dealer network
helps insure that it will be nearly impos-
sible to find that animal. The person whose
pet is stolen may frantically call every

' dealer or research facility in the state in a
desperate attempt to locate his or her
animal. Meanwhile, the animal has prob-
ably been sold by a buncher to an out-of-
state dealer perhaps at a trade day, who
then sold the animal to a research facility
at the other end of the country. Dogs and
cats in the dealer network are victims of
rough handling, deplorable housing con-
ditions, neglect and deprivation. These
animals are transported under horrible
conditions over long distances, oftentimes
crossing many state lines.

I know of a research facility that
claimed to dutifully check for stolen/miss-
ing pets in response to all in-state callers, while making a point of
buying animals from an out-of state dealer. This same facility
proudly stated it would never use anyone’ 3 pet. Yet the out-of-state
dealer they were purchasing from was Julian Toney, an Iowa dealer

with more than 1,600 apparent record violations. (See page 15).

A key sign of problems at a dealer’s facility is violation of

regulations governing acquisition and disposition records. If ani-

mals are acquired legitimately, dealers should have no problem
maintaining records in compliance with the Animal Welfare Act.

USDA has only recently been checking the validity (or lack thereof)

of records. The USDA tried to verify acquisition and disposition
records of random source deal-
ers in a random source traceback
pilot project. The USDA is to be
complimented for conducting
such a thorough investigation——
unfortunately the process is ex-
tremely time-consuming and
costly. Every one of the 8 deal-
ers whose records were exam-
ined by USDA had apparent

 

through “free to good home” ads.
They then sell these animals to
random source dealers. Auctions
and trade days are major sources
of animals for B dealers.
Bunchers and dealers travel from
many states to one location where
they trade or buy animals. Many
of the dealers’ acquisition record
violations are for animals acquired at these functions.

The American public is rightfully concerned about pet theft.
When a beloved dog disappears from his fenced yard, there is no sign
of him at the local shelter, and numerous other dogs in the neighbor-
hood have “disappeared,” theft for the laboratory research trade is a
realistic possibility. We hope you will take the necessary action so

14

 

Distribution of dogs sold by a Missouri random source dealer

record violations.

You have heard a lot from
me about the problem, but what
is the solution?

1.Do not use random source
dealers.

2. If you are in need of qual-
ity dogs and cats for experimen—
tation, use purpose-bred dogs.
Breeders are able to supply beagles, hounds, mongrels, “#2 grade
dogs” and ex-breeders.

Many countries, including Switzerland and the United King-
dom, conduct research using only purpose-bred dogs and cats. In
1986, the European Union adopted a directive stating only purpose-
continued on page 15

 

 




 

 

 

contnued from page 14

bred animals shall be used. The Council of Europe’s European
Convention for the Protection of Vertebrate Animals Used for
Experimental and Other Scientiﬁc Purposes contains similar lan-
guage.

3. If your principal concern is getting dogs and cats at minimal
cost, go directly to the same pound your dealer is using, rather than
through the dealer.

  
   

91 riopﬁvjotuammdaﬂ Sf] ~

{my ,( -"

 
   
   

b 33"“ “a! " M mm In“ “ﬂ" 5‘ -"“‘ "" 33%

.,..

An ill-fated victim of a Class B dealer.

 

Iunderstand some research institutions are still using B dealers,
but are trying to be sure the animals they purchase from the dealer
were acquired from pounds only. I must warn you many random
source dealers are contract pounds for their local communities. This
gives them a license for aggressive collection of animals. Unlike
most pounds, dealers who maintain pounds are interested in making
money, not reuniting animals with their owners. Also, it appears that
virtually all random source dealers are acquiring animals from
sources other than pounds.

In conclusion, we believe the only way to stop pet theft,
acquisition of pets by fraud, payments made under the table and

. other illegal activities that are the modus operandi of the dealer

network is to stop use of random source dealers. You will be able to
maintain your supply of dogs and cats while assuring the public that
family pets will not be used for experimentation.

 

Center Promotes Alternatives
to Animal Experimentation

In response to a European Union directive calling for research
into the development and validation of alternatives toanimal
experimentation, the Commission of the European Union
established the European Centre for the Validation of Alter-
native Methods (ECVAM). ECVAM functions as a focal
point for the exchange of information on the development of
alternative test methods that reduce, reﬁne or replace the use
Of animals. The center coordinates validation of alternative
test methods, maintains and manages a database on alterna-
tive procedures and facilitates discussion among regulatory
authorities, scientists, industries and animal welfare groups.
ECVAM is an organizer of the Second World Congress on
Alternatives and Animal Use in the Life Sciences, scheduled
for 1996 in Utrecht,The Netherlands.

 

 

 

 

 

TONEYS’ LICENSE REVOKED

ASSESSED LARGEST CIVIL PENALTY UNDER AWA

On April 29, 1995, USDA permanently revoked the Class B
license of notorious animal dealers Julian and Anita Toney and
ﬁned them $200,000, the largest civil penalty ever assessed
under the Animal Welfare Act. The Toneys have 30 days to
appeal. Following are excerpts from the Administrative Law
Judge’s Decision and Order:
“On brief, the USDA addressed the extent of sanction as
follows:
“Part XI Sanctions.
Giving due consideration to the four factors set forth in the Act
(7 U.S.C. § 2149), extremely severe sanctions should be im—
posed upon the respondents. The four factors to be considered
are the size of the respondents’ business, gravity of the viola-
tions, good faith and history of previous violations. The size of
the respondents’ business is relatively large. The gravity of most
of the violations is extreme. The respondents acquired random
source dogs from prohibited sources and falsiﬁed their records
to conceal their violations. They failed to hold dogs for the
required period before selling them. Although there are no prior
adjudicated violations by the respondents, this case involves two
separate complaints which were consolidated for hearing. After
the first complaint was ﬁled and while a hearing was pending,
the respondents falsiﬁed certificates which the Act and regula—
tions require not only for the sale of dogs but to acquire them.
They also misrepresented dogs obtained from other, unknown
sources as “home raised.” These violations are the antithesis of
good faith. Further, while the first complaint was pending, the
respondents allowed the physical condition of their facility to
deteriorate so that the violations were ﬂagrant. They let dead
dogs [lie] and they let dogs feed on a rotting carcass and on
rotting animal parts.”
The Decision continues: “The record, as a whole, supports
Complainant’s allegations as to numerous violations of the Act
and the applicable regulations. These have been repeated,
ﬂagrant and willful. Such disregard by Respondents reﬂect a
situation where the purposes of the Act are thwarted and render
its objectives a nullity. The Animal Welfare Act seeks to ensure
the humane treatment of various species of animals used for
research or experimental purposes.”

 

 

 

Wright State University Fined

USDA Alleges Inadequate Veterinary Care
On March 27, 1995, Wright State University in Dayton, Ohio was
ﬁned $25,000 under a Consent Decision and Order for alleged
violations of the Animal Welfare Act. According to the complaint
ﬁled by the US Department of Agriculture, Wright State allegedly
failed to provide adequate veterinary care to three dogs—Genessee,
Princess and Woodstock. Speciﬁcally, Wright State misdiagnosed
Genessee’s dislocated hip and Princess’ loss of appetite and bloody
diarrhea and failed to euthanize the dogs. Researchers did not treat
Woodstock for hookworm, resulting in his death from severe
anemia.

Additional allegations included use of expired drugs to euthanize
animals, failure to use sedatives, analgesics or anesthetics when
scraping scabies mites from rabbits’ ears and failing to deworm dogs
used in the scabies study in order to conduct other, independent
research on the animals.

15

 




 

FACE BRANDING: GOING, GOING...
by Henry Spira

On May 17th, the Federal Register published the USDA’S proposal
to end face branding of domestic cattle and bison in the agency’s
tuberculosis and brucellosis identiﬁcation program. As you prob-
ably know, January 1995 saw an end to face branding of Mexican
steers. However, smaller numbers of domestic cattle have continued
to be face branded as part of disease control programs. With the
current announcement. we can look forward to the complete elimi-
nation of the face branding of cattle within the next few months.

USDA’s Acting Assistant Secretary Patricia Jensen said, “We
are committed to continually evaluating USDA identiﬁcation re-
quirements to ensure that our methods are both humane and effec-
tive for livestock disease control and public health purposes.”
Jensen also said that these proposed regulations are USDA’s re-
sponse to increasing public concern that hot-iron branding on the
jaw may cause undue distress to cattle or bison.

Congratulations to all of you who voiced your strong concerns
to the USDA. You stopped the proposed expansion of face branding
in its tracks. In fact, the USDA was so impressed with your reaction
that they moved to eliminate all face branding with speed uncharac-
teristic of a government agency.

Many of you also voiced strong concern to the USDA about
other painful animal agriculture practices. This concern is now
empowering USDA ofﬁcials to place farm animal well—bein g on the
federal agenda. A similar recognition by fast food giantMcDonald’s
recently led the company to publish a statement requiring their
suppliers to adhere to humane guidelines for farm animals. Indepen-
dent experts are suggesting the McDonald’s initiative is already
making a meaningful difference. There will now be pressure on
other major companies to take similar initiatives, including fast food
parent PepsiCo, with whom we are now in discussion.

Until very recently, “food animals,” who account for 95% of all
animal suffering, have not been considered as appealing or deserv-
ing of concern as some other animals. But now, increasing numbers
of individuals and organizations are beginning to direct serious
energies towards solving the nightmarish problems of the more than
seven billion farm animals in the USA.

 

Clearly, we now have momentum and enormous opportunities
for progress. But not all the news is good news. In future columns,
we’ll discuss the negative trends, including: how the US is promot-
ing the consumption of a debilitating, high-fat diet in countries that
to date have beneﬁted from a largely meatless life-style, and the
proliferation of mega factories, where pigs live their entire lives in
steel cages unable even to turn around, at a time when such cruel
systems are being phased out elsewhere.

 

“Bovine Economics”

Having twins is usually a cause for celebration. But for a dairy farmer
a cow that bears twin calves can be a bad omen: twin births weaken both
the mother and her offspring. One or two sets of twins in any herd is par
for the course, but when Lisbon, New York dairyman Jay Livingston-
discovered 20 sets of twins among his 200 milk—producing cows, it was
a calamity. He lost little time in dispatching the 40 calves to the
slaughterhouse where they were ground up for bologna and hot dogs.
Many of the sickly mothers will soon follow their weakling calves,
ending up as hamburger in the school lunch program.

The lot of these cows is more than an inexplicable twist of fate.
Livingston had been injecting his herd with Monsanto’s new genetically
engineered growth hormone known as rBGH—trade name Posilac—
which promises to increase the amount of milk a cow produces...

For the first couple of months on rBGH “our cows seemed to be
doing OK,” [Livingston] says. “Their milk production increased from
40 to 65 pounds per day. Then they just went all to pieces. We had a half
a dozen die and then the rest started experiencing major health prob-
lems, cows went off their feed, experienced severe weight loss, mastitis
and serious foot problems...

Dairy Proﬁt Weekly, [an] industry report, quotes Mike Connor, a
dairy nutritionistin Black Earthy County, Texas, who said two—thirds of
his client farmers are phasing out rBGH. Noting recurrent side effects,
he said, “Many concluded that the risk was not worth the benefit.” Dick
Bengen, an BOO-cow dairy producer from Everson, Washington, re-
cently told a Toronto dairy symposium that he had dis appointing results
using rBGH on his herd, saying that many of the cows with increased
milk production require more feed. The extra costs—a shot per cow
every two weeks runs $5.80—and the additional feed made the eco—
nomic gains marginal at best.

Excerpted from “Bovine Economics ” by James Ridgeway. The article
appeared in the March 28,1995 issue of the Village Voice.

 

 

___._<_.. _._.._.__—.———

 

 

Animal Welfare Institute
@ Post Ofﬁce Box 3650

® Washington, DC 20007
Address Correction Requested

Non-m

US. POSTAGE
PAID
Washington, DC
Permit No. 2300

 

 

PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER

 




 




Cove/t: Three little pigs: this charming trio of piglets was caught on film by
AWI’s farm animal consultant, Diane Halverson, at an exhibition of innovative
farming techniques in Zurich, Switzerland. They are housed in a family pen
on deep straw, which maximizes comfort, well-being, cleanliness, and
environmental soundness—the very opposite of the cruel intensive-confine-
ment, mass-production pork factory approach to hog farming that is, unfor-
tunately, fast replacing traditional, more humane family farms.

See page 17 for more on deep-straw alternatives for pig housing.

 

 

 

Directors
Marjorie Cooke
Jean Wallace Douglas
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Roger L. Stevens
Aileen Train
Cynthia Wilson

Officers
Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr., Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, PhD.
Gerard Bertrand, PhD.

Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.

Roger Payne, Ph.D.

Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee
Aline de Aluja, D.M.V. - Mexico
T.G. Antikas, D.M.V. - Greece

Ambassador Tabarak Husain - Bangladesh

Angela King - United Kingdom

Simon Muchiru — Kenya

Godofredo Stutzin - Chile

Mrs. Fumihiko Togo - Japan
Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. - Denmark

Alexey Yablokov, Ph.D. - Russia

Staff
Mary Ellen Drayer, Editorial Assistant
John Gleiber, Assistant to the Officers
Diane Halverson, Farm Animal Consultant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Coordinator
Cathy Liss, Executive Director
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Patrick Nolan, Publications Coordinator
Jennifer Pike, Administrative Assistant
Viktor Reinhardt, D.M.V., Ph.D.,
Laboratory Animal Consultant
Adam Roberts, Research Associate
Julie Shellenberger, Administrative Assistant
Rick Spill, Marine Mammal Research Analyst

 

 

 

 

 

 

Trapping Lobby Misrepresents Legholds

Lobbyists for the trapping industry from the United States and Canada
are attempting to pull the wool over the eyes of European officials.
Claiming great expertise on the ”humane” trapping issue, they are
attempting to make the Europeans back off from their heroic efforts
against the barbaric steel jaw leghold trap. They want to continue using
leghold traps, but they are hiding this fact by referring to them by a new
name: “restraining systems.”

Apparently, the North American defenders of leghold traps will do
whatever it takes to continue using these traps, including spreading
outright lies in Europe. The International Association of Fish and
Wildlife Agencies (IAFWA), US. Fish and Wildlife Service, Louisiana
Department of Wildlife and Fisheries and the Missouri Department of
Conservation and representatives of the Canadian government have
produced a report titled, “Improving Animal Welfare in Trapping in
North America.” The first paragraph of the report concludes: ”Traps
with teeth have not been used in Canada or the United States for
decades.” Yet use of leghold traps with teeth is still legal in approxi—
mately half of the fifty states, and toothed traps are still being sold and
distributed throughout the US.

In fact, we just received
a new 1996-1997 trap supply
catalog which offers a
variety of brutal traps.
Trappers can purchase enor-
mous sized leghold traps
with teeth on the jaws or
simply a row of razor sharp
teeth, ”Holdfast jaws,”
which can be affixed to any
leghold trap.

The report contains an
enticingly presented chart

in rainbow colors entitled ”Evolution of Improved Animal Welfare
Related to Trapping in the United States.” But this so-called
”evolution” is belied by an earlier document of the IAFWA which
states that leghold traps are the most popular device used by trappers.
Each American trapper owns an average of 120 leghold traps and a
couple of dozen snares. With such widespread use of leghold traps,
with toothed traps legal in much of the states, with about half of the
states permitting more than 24 hours to pass before traps are checked,
how can this be called evolution? The North American lobbyists even
have the audacity to claim that the trapping in Europe, where use of
leghold traps is prohibited, is somehow more cruel! ‘L‘

 

The ”Holdfast jaws” attachment
”Helps add new life to older traps,”
according to a supply catalog.

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

SPRING/SUMMER 1996 VOLUME 45, NUMBERS 2 &I 3

 

 

PO Box 3650, Washington, DC 20007 phone: 202-337-2332 fax: 202-338-9478 email: awi@animalwelfare.c0m

 

 

 

TAMO‘W

Threats to Wildlife

Trapping Lobby Misrepresents Legholds 2
What You Don’t Know Can Kill You 6
Who Protects Our National Forests? 10

Marine Mammals
House Bends to Free-Trade Pressure, Votes to Dismantle

Dolphin Protection 4
US Reverses Course on Indian Tribe’s Proposed Whaling 7
More IWC Notes 7
IWC Acknowledges Environmental Threats to Whales,

Vows to Protect Small Cetaceans 7

Companion Animals and the Law

Pet Protection Legislation Considered by House Subcommittee 8
State Anti-Cruelty Laws Take Giant Leap Forward 18
Captive Non-Human Primates

Gorilla Helps Fallen Child, Warms Human Hearts 9
Better Caging Eases Transition to Larger Quarters 9

Study Shows Monkeys Thrive When They Can Dive and Swim 9

Conserving Africa’s Wildlife
Elephant Conservation: an African Perspective 12
CAMPFIRE’s Richest District Goes Broke 14

Farm Animals

Henry Spira’s Schweitzer Medal ceremony speech
A Shocking Firsthand Account of Inhumane Treatment of Livestock 16
Canadian Farm Animal Transport: Regulated or Unregulated? 16
Humane Alternatives for Hog Farmers Come to US from Sweden 17

Mammoth Pork Factory Goes Belly-up 19

Landmark Ordinance Limits Feedlot Size 19

Sweeping Changes or Sweeping Under the Rug? 20

Wildlife Law Enforcement

Russian Tiger Patrols Crack Secret Wildlife Trade Channel 19
19

BOOt Company Forfeits a Million Dollars’ Worth of Lizard Skins

  

3>Ild Auua[

 

Henry Spira, Coordinator of Animal Rights
International, received AWl’s 1996 Schweitzer
Medal for his lifetime of activism and tireless
dedication to the cause of helping animals. See
his remarks on page 15, and his eloquent plea
on behalf of farm animals on page 20.

ueBJow analpgw

A friend indeed: Congressman Charles Canady

(R, FL), sponsor of a bill to protect pets from being
taken and sold for experimentation, with Tasha,
who was obtained from a Pennsylvania laboratory
dog dealer. See page 8 for a report on Congres-
sional hearings on this important legislation.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

House Bends to Free-Trade Pressure, Votes to Dismantle Dolphin Protection

The Republican-dominated US House of Representatives,
backed by the Clinton-Gore administration, pressed their joint
political power to the hilt to destroy US protection of dolphins
July 31. By a vote of 316 to 108, the Mexican-inspired bill, HR.
2823, which reinstates the hot pursuit of dolphins by speed-
boats and helicopters to facilitate the capture of tuna fish, was
passed. Even a modest amendment introduced by Congress-
man Gerry Studds (D, MA) to retain an honest means of
granting dolphin-safe labels to tuna canners was defeated in
the stampede to surrender US sovereignty to tuna-fishing
nations south of our border who threaten the United States
with World Trade Organization sanctions, and employ the
most expensive lobbyists to push their will home.

Congressman George Miller (D, CA) led the doomed
attack on HR. 2823 with a clearly stated and deeply felt
argument which should have been persuasive to any open
minded Members of Congress. He said:

This legislation that we have begun debating here today, HR.
2823, the International Dolphin Conservation Program Act, I
believe, is a declaration of surrender by this Congress to those who
insist that American environmental and labor standards must be
destroyed on the altar of free trade.

HR. 2823 is a complete capitulation to those who believe that US.
consumers have no rights and our trade competitors must have all
the rights when it comes to product disclosure.

This is a bad bill: bad environmental policy, bad trade policy, and
bad foreign policy. It does precisely what we were told NAFTA and
GATT would not do. It demands that our own laws governing the
environment, worker safety, species protection, and a consumer’s
right to know be sacrificed.

Less than a decade ago, millions of American consumers, led by
schoolchildren of this Nation, demanded the creation of dolphin
protection programs because of the needless slaughter of hundreds
of thousands of marine mammals by tuna fishermen. We passed the
Dolphin Protection Act. We required that tuna sold in the United
States be dolphin safe.

The US. tuna industry, at enormous expense, complied with
those requirements, relocated their ships and processing plants,
and produced dolphin safe tuna. Those efforts have had a dramatic
success. Dolphin deaths last year were a little less than 3,600,
compared to 100,000 or more a few years ago.

The dolphin protection law has worked, but the bill before us
today would renounce the very program that has achieved the goals
we sought when the dolphin protection law was enacted.

Why on Earth would we so grievously weaken the very law that
has worked so well? Not on behalf of American consumers, not on
behalf of dolphin protection, not on behalf of those interests, but
rather on behalf of Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia, and other nations
who are trying a little environmental blackmail, and to date it seems
to be working.

Those very countries that have continued to fish in violation of the
dolphin safe law now demand of this Nation that we weaken our
laws so they can sell dolphin unsafe tuna in US. supermarkets
under a label that the consumer has come to understand as meaning
dolphin safe, a label that was enacted by this Congress. This
Congress should not now become a party to this deception of that
label, and a deception that this act would bring about with respect
to the American consumer.

HR. 2823 implements an international agreement, the Panama
Agreement, which was negotiated behind closed doors by five
Washington-based environmental organizations and the govern-
ment of Mexico. This agreement makes major changes to longstanding
laws protecting dolphins and informing our consumers.

But let us remember it was negotiated without the knowledge of
any elected Member of Congress or other interested parties with a
decades—long history on this issue.

It was negotiated without consideration of the American tuna

It was negotiated without the participation and approval of
dozens of environmental organizations with millions of members
nationwide who vigorously disagree that this is the best way to
protect dolphins, and who strongly support the Studds amend-
ment thatwillbe offered later to retain the current dolphin safe label.

The legislation was drafted with the help of lobbyists hired by the
Mexican Government, and presented to the Committee on Re-
sources with the caveat that no amendments could be accepted if
they were unacceptable to Mexico. Since when did we start
negotiating in this fashion? Since when did we start negotiating in
a fashion where privately negotiated agreements are now brought
to the Congress and we are told that somehow they are the same
as a treaty or an agreement between this Nation and other nations,
but this Congress cannot be engaged in the process of amendment?

There are some very serious problems with this legislation. The
most important is that it would do exactly what proponents of the
trade agreement pledged these pacts would not do: drive down
American environmental standards through pressure from coun-
tries that do not want to meet those same standards. That is the
goal, pure and simple.

Let us be clear. The driving force behind this legislation is Mexico,
which does not want to meet the standards of the dolphin safe label
that is on every can of tuna sold in this country. Mexico wants to
open the ﬂoodgates to nonsafe tuna and to desecrate the integrity
of the label that has led to a steep reduction in dolphin mortalities
through consumer preferences.

If we do not accede to this undermining effort, Mexico and other
nations tell us that they will abandon their commitment to this
agreement, to ﬁshing dolphin safe, and deliberately resume the
slaughter of dolphins. These nations, and many other trading partners,
are waiting to see how the US. Congress responds to this threat.

This legislation responds by capitulation. We are going to hear a
lot of assertions about this legislation, how sensitive it is to
dolphins, how it would not allow damage to be done to dolphins.
Before Members vote I urge them to consider the following:

This legislation, as currently written, the supporters will tell us
that this bill does not allow more dolphins to be killed; that it
reduces the number of dolphin deaths. But the fact is, HR. 2823
allows the number of dolphin deaths to rise by almost 30 percent.
There is nothing in this bill about keeping dolphin deaths at today’s
historic low level. This bill is about allowing more dolphin deaths.

They say that their bill does not allow dolphins to be hurt. Under
HR. 2823, dolphins may be regularly encircled, harassed, and
injured. The bill imposes no limit on the amount of injury that could
be imposed on dolphins, as long as the dolphins do not actually die
in the nets.

We will hear the proponents say that the environmentalists
support this legislation. The fact of the matter is that over 80
grassroots environmental organizations vigorously Oppose this
bill and support the Studds amendment. By contrast, what we
have are five Washington-based environmental groups that se-
cretly negotiated this agreement with Mexico who are now
supporting it.

Since when is this Congress obligated to accept, unamended, the
products of negotiation by environmental organizations and for-
eign governments?

Lastly, the supporters of this legislation argue that we cannot
change the bill because to do so would be to renounce international
agreements and damage American credibility. The fact is, there is
no international agreement. There is no treaty. This is about going
to the negotiations on a possible treaty. This bill requires that we
change US. law as a condition of going to those negotiations.

It is worth noting that the United States is the only country that
is required to make these kinds of changes, to change domestic
consumer protection laws to conform with this agreement.

I would hope that the Members of this Congress would see
through this effort by Mexico to essentially abolish the dolphin safe
protection that we currently have on the books, and would support
the Studds amendment that will allow for the protection of the label,
the protection of consumer knowledge, and provide for the protec-
tion of the dolphins.

 

 

canning companies who in 1990 responded to the demands from

Congressman James Saxton (R, NI) heatedly accused

Congressman Miller of making “misleading, untrue and
patently false” characterizations of the bill. ”This is President
Clinton’s initiative,” he said, ”and as Chairman of the Sub-

our schoolchildren, their parents, and consumers nationwide, and
some of the same environmental groups who secretly negotiated
this deal. They did it by voluntarily announcing that they would no
longer purchase and sell tuna caught by harming dolphins.

continued on next page

 

 




 

 

 

 

’—

continued from previous page

committee on Fisheries, Wildlife and Oceans I am pleased to
have been able to support a Clinton administration initiative.”

Mr. Saxton did not explain his claim that Mr. Miller’s
statements were untrue, instead relying on reading a list of
supporters to quell opposition. ”Listen to this,” said the
Congressman, ”Greenpeace, the Center for Marine Conserva-
tion, the Environmental Defense Fund, the World Wildlife
Fund, the National Wildlife Federation and the American
Sports Fishing Association, to say nothing of the Clinton
administration and the AFL-CIO.”

In fact, the AFL-CIO, as noted later by Mr. Miller who
reported ”we just spoke to them” on the phone, was divided
on the issue, but the other groups’ names were repeated like
a mantra throughout the debate, and, to their shame, none
expressed any objection. Indeed, like the proverbial goat who
leads the sheep to slaughter, WWF, EDF, Greenpeace, CMC
and NWF have allowed themselves to be used to deceive
Congress and the public. Some of these groups are beholden
to Mexico. All enjoy basking in White House accessibility and
approval. Some had never worked seriously against the
killing of millions of dolphins over the years in the giant tuna
purse seines. They sent their trade specialists to the secret
negotiations that resulted in the Panama Declaration. They
never raise their voices over the inability to access data from
the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission (IATTC), an
organization supported almost entirely at US taxpayer ex-
pense ($2. 74 million in 1994, 90% of its total budget), but which
is immune to the Freedom of Information Act and keeps its
data secret except for certain privileged scientists. It won’t
divulge figures relating to ”juvenile tuna, billfish and sea
turtles” caught and discarded when ”log fishing” for large
tuna. This is the basis on which proponents of HR. 2823
constantly prate of ”long-term threats to the marine ecosys—
tem” and ”sound ecosystem management,” but the figures on
which these allegations are based are the property of the
IATTC, an organization to which Mexico, the chief beneficiary
of HR. 2823, does not even belong.

A knowledgeable marine mammal scientist who asked
that his name be withheld dubbed ”the ecosystem stuff” a
"very cynical prostitution of science.”

Dr. James Joseph, head of the IATTC, has testified at
Congressional hearings for more than thirty years, ever
Vigilant lest dolphins get too much protection to suit the tuna
industry. Dr. Joseph is scheduled to retire soon, and Con-
gressman Bilbray (R, CA) placed a ﬂattering article about
IOSeph’s work in the record of the debate. Mr. Bilbray was
especially emphatic about the importance of adapting ”an
’ecosystem based’ approach to ocean resource management.”
In fact he stated, ”This is a blueprint for how we should
Proceed on future environmental strategy matters.” This
dangerous concept was advanced, too, by the bill’s author,
Congressman Gilchrest (R, MD) who stated, ”This bill iS a ﬁfSt
step to understand the nature of complex environmental
issues such as global warming that we will have to sit down
at the table and find agreements on.”

Mr. Gilchrest’s position is exempliﬁed by his intense oppo-
SitiOrl to the Studds dolphin safe amendment and his assertion
that the death of 5,000 dolphins is “biologically insignificant.’
He stated:

FiVe thousand dolphins killed is biologically insignificant as as-

sessed by some of the best scientists in the world. One of them is from
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, a woman

 

SleN

 

Dolphins trapped in a purse seine net.

 

named Elizabeth Edwards, who says that is biologically insignificant.

We understand that. We do not accept the 5,000 number. We will
continue to work toward zero.

Here is what Dr. Edwards says about the study, that the process
that we are trying to get into law stresses dolphins to the degree that
it harms them. She says, ”In particular the 5 reviewers were
unanimous in their opinion that the study failed to confirm the stated
conclusion that dolphins were experiencing acute continuous stress. ”

So I wanted to dismiss that accusation that the encirclement, where
you allow the dolphins to get out, which is what we are doing, causes
stress that harms the dolphin. There is no evidence to that effect. The
Center for Marine Conservation, one of our more sophisticated,
respected environmental groups around the country, says arguably
stress is not found to lead to species decline, the stress that they
experience in this encirclement.

Congressman Studds, Chairman of the House Merchant
Marine and Fisheries Committee before it was wiped out by
the 104th Congress, is a well-established champion of whales,
dolphins, and wild birds whose presence will be sorely missed
in the next Congress. He offered a brief but important
amendment to HR. 2823 which should have passed on its
merits alone, but the majority of Representatives didn’t bother
to listen, much less read what was at stake. Following are
excerpts from Mr. Studds’s remarks. First, he responded to
Mr. Gilchrest:

There are two species which have been consistently, over time,
chased and netted in this fishery: the eastern spinner dolphin and the
northern offshore spotted dolphin... According to the National
Marine Fisheries Service, these two populations are at less than 20
percent of their original size. This is an indisputable fact due to the
8 million deaths that have taken place over the last 20 years.

Now, we have been enormously successful in reducing those
deaths, as most people have mentioned speaking on both sides of this
issue, but, and this is a large “but,” in spite of the much observed
lower level of dolphin deaths these two dolphin populations are not
growing. The fact is worth repeating. Although dolphin deaths have
dropped from approximately 100,000 annually to about 3,600, we see
no increase in these populations.

Many biologists believe that the constant injury and harassment of
these animals is preventing the recovery of the populations.

In offering his amendment, Mr. Studds stated:

When I grew up, safe meant secure from danger, harm or evil.

That is what the dictionary says it means.

Under this bill, safe would permit doing all kinds of things to
dolphins, including seriously injuring them, and as long as no one
actually noticed it happening, they might even be able to kill them.
This legislation would define as safe a process that stOps dolphins
from feeding, separates mothers from their calves, injures animals,
and allows them to be chased for hours until they are unable to sw1m

n lon er...
anr th§ee of the four debates during which we have had strong
bipartisan support for legislation protecting dolphins from the
extraordinary slaughter that occurred in this fishery, I had the honor
of chairing the subcommittee of jurisdiction. We passed the law

continued on next page

5

 

 




 

 

continued from previous page

requiring truth in tuna labeling because American consumers,
American voters, and American schoolchildren demanded it. They
made it clear that they did not want to endorse the selling of a product
whose harvesting caused any harm to dolphins. Since its enactment
in 1972, the Marine Mammal Protection Act has prohibited any,
”attempt to harass, hunt, capture or kill any marine mammal.”

Again, it is illegal under current law to harass, hunt, capture or kill
any marine mammal. That language is in the law because we know
that these activities are not safe from marine mammals.

Those who support the labeling change in this bill, I am sure, would
not allow whale-watching vessels in my district to harass whales and
separate mothers from nursing calves and then market those cruises
as safe for whales...

Two years ago, some of the environmental groups that are support-
ing this bill blocked regulations allowing dolphin-feeding cruises in
Florida and in Texas because they were convinced that the harass-
ment of dolphins was not safe.

The double standard in this bill, put there for Mexico’s sake, violates
in my judgment the integrity of everything we on both sides of this
aisle have worked to achieve over the last 20 years.

The amendment is simple. It did not get read but it would have
taken less time to read it than to designate it. It simply adds after the
word ”killed,” and I quote, ”chased, harassed, injured or encircled
with nets. ” You cannot do any of those things under our amendment
and call it dolphin safe.

 

The amendment leaves intact the provisions of the bill that lift the
embargoes on tuna. It leaves intact the remainder of the international
agreement. But it retains honest information for American consum-
ers, and that is all it does.

Not long ago we held a debate on this ﬂoor about truth in nutrition
labeling. Right now there is a bipartisan effort under way in both
Chambers to establish simple labels on clothing and sporting goods
that would inform consumers if those products were made by child
labor. Labeling means something to consumers. It means trust.

The American people know what the word “safe” means. If we
cannot be honest about the meaning, then we should probably get
rid of the label. Perhaps we could call it ”good for Mexico,” or
”NAFTA-consistent,” or ”caught under international guidelines,”
but we should not call it safe for dolphins, because by any standard,
semantic or otherwise, it is not.

Let me once again remind my colleagues that the amendment does not
address the international agreement. It does not address the embargo. It
simply says that we retain the sanctity and the meaning of the label
”dolphin-safe” which has been so successful as it is now in current law,
which says that if they want to use that label on imported tuna, they not
only have to demonstrate that that tuna was caught in a way that did not
kill dolphins but did not involve chasing, harassing, injuring, or encircling
with nets the aforementioned dolphins.

However, despite Studds’s well-supported, eloquent argu-
ment, the House voted 260-161 to kill the amendment. ‘L‘

 

What You Don’t Know Can Kill You

On 14 August 1996, AWI presented a strong statement to the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) urging addition of
America’s airports to the list of facilities required to report
toxic chemical use under the Emergency Planning and Com-
munity Right-To-Know Act. This vital law provides the Toxic
Release Inventory List (TRI) which informs citizens when
hazardous industrial chemicals are being used by a company
in their community.

Unfortunately, the EPA has removed airports from the
list of facilities considered for TRI-expansion. This is particu—
larly egregious since, in the summer of 1994, the EPA’s own
analysis concluded: ”Elements of the transportation sector,
primarily airports, also appear to have significant releases” (of
TRI chemicals). Airports were still under consideration in the
spring of 1995, but were inexplicably omitted from the final
list.

As our regular readers know (see Fall 1995 AWI Quar—
terly), airports spray millions of pounds of de-icing ﬂuid
containing hazardous ethylene glycol. Thousands of com—
panion and wild animals die each year from ingesting ethyl-
ene glycol—either in automobile antifreeze or airplane de-
1cer.

In fact, one study at Colorado State University estimates
that almost thirty percent of all documented dog and cat
poisonings were a result of ethylene glycol consumption. In
1992, an endangered California Condor drank antifreeze
containing ethylene glycol and died. In 1989, ethylene glycol
was present under the carcass of a dead polar bear on an
Alaskan island. It is believed that the polar bear ingested a

6

small quantity of an ethylene glycol mixture used to mark the
centerline of roads and runways covered with snow and ice.
Thousands of cases of human ethylene glycol poisoning are
reported each year—some of which prove fatal.

In May 1995, Union Carbide and several trade associa-
tions told the EPA that its intention to require airports to
report TRI chemical releases was misguided, suggesting that
ethylene glycol is not harmful to the environment and that
requiring airports to report ethylene glycol releases is not in
the public interest.

The public clearly has a right to know when chemicals
harmful to both people and wildlife are emitted into the
environment. TRI reporting of ethylene glycol spraying at
airports would discourage use of toxic ethylene glycol (which
can be replaced by safer propylene glycol) and assist commu-
nities and scientists in monitoring potential ethylene glycol
exposure and performing research on the potential effects of
ethylene glycol exposure.

Action: It’s not too late to tell EPA Administrator Carol
Browner that you object to the use of ethylene glycol and want
to ensure that when facilities use toxic ethylene glycol,
communities need to know about such chemical use. There
is also a petition pending to remove ethylene glycol from the
TRI list altogether. Tell Administrator Browner that ethylene
glycol must not be not removed from the TRI. Write:
Environmental Protection Agency, Mail Code 1101, 401 M
Street, SW, Washington, DC 20460. Contact Adam Roberts at
AWI if you need additional information or would like a copy
of AWI’s statement to the EPA. ‘2'

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

* US Reverses Course on Indian Tribe’s Proposed Whaling

In the face of overwhelming opposition, the United States
delegation to the International Whaling Commission (IWC)
was forced to withdraw a controversial proposal to allow a
Washington state Indian tribe to kill gray whales. The plan
had formidable weight behind it—the Clinton administra-
tion made the Ma kah proposal its overriding priority during
this year’s IWC meeting in Aberdeen, Scotland in June.
Citing cultural need, the US was ‘|

seeking a five-whale quota under the
IWC’s ”aboriginal subsistence whaling”
category for the Makah, who have not
hunted whales for 70 years. The pro-
posal claimed that a resumed whale hunt
was in the best interests of the entire tribe
and would alleviate economic and cul-
tural malaise through a revival of its Al

    

berta Thompson

  
  

and Dottie Chamblin. They revealed how undemocratic the
decision to resume whaling had been, how suspect the plan’s
motives were, and the fact that it was not supported by the
Tribal Council nor by the majority of the tribe.

Two days before the end of the IWC meeting, US
Representative Jack Metcalf (R, WA) introduced a resolution
condemning the planned whaling in the House Resources

’ , Committee, which passed it unanimously.
It read:

Whereas, the Makah tribe in Washington
state has announced its intention to hunt the
gray whale;

Whereas, the gray whale was removed from
the endangered species list only two years ago;
g, Whereas, 13 native groups in Canada have
Doing Ch dmb lin indicated their intention to resume Whaling if

 

 

 

whaling heritage. In reality, however,
the planned whaling was only supported by a small minority
within the tribe, who allegedly were planning to make the
whale hunt a commercial enterprise—worth an estimated
$2.5 million annually—by selling the meat to Japan.

According to Rick Spill, AWI’s Marine Mammal Research
Analyst, ”IWC rules require that any community wishing to
undertake aboriginal subsistence whaling must demonstrate
a continuing, traditional dependence on whaling, both cul-
tural and nutritional need, and the non-commercial nature of
the hunt.”

Only pro-whaling members of the tribe were appointed
to the US delegation, but countervailing forces brought two
other Makahs, Alberta Thompson—who is a tribal elder—

\ How [W M

Norway’s brash, arrogant chief zohaler, Steinar Bastesen,
called Aberdeen ”The most positive meeting for Norway in
many, many years. ”

”lapan and Norway returned jubilant, ” BBC Wildlife
reported in a disheartening dispatch in its August issue,

 

”comfortable in the knowledge that once again whaling is Itis '

being regulated by the whalers.” Hyperbole? Let’s see:

' Whale advocates lost a battle to outlaw the whaleWa

electric lance, which is used by Japanese whalers in

1997. .2:

 

the Makah Tribe hunts the gray whale;

Whereas, seven elders of the Makah Tribe strongly oppose the
proposal and fear the hunt will become a commercial enterprise;

Whereas, the US delegation to the International Whaling Commis-
sion, appointed by the President, supports the plan to kill gray
whales;

It is the sense of the Committee on Resources that the gray whale
should be protected and that the position taken by the US delegation
at the Whaling Conference is strongly opposed by the Committee on
Resources.

The resolution was the last straw for the Makah pro-
posal. The embarrassed US delegation withdrew it the next
day, asserting, however, that they will propose it again in

 
      

 

  

C.

H

  
       

the Antarctic. New Zealand and Great Britain, to i p i
their credit, introduced a resolution outlawing this "

extremely cruel, ineffective implement, but the reso-
lution failed to achieve the required 3/4 majority.
Japan and its inseparable allies managed to prevent ‘ .
the adoption of a humane resolution, ensuring that ba51s.
Whales will continue to suffer. ..

' Though the IWC rejected Japan’s request for a .
”Small type coastal whaling” quota for some commu—
nities it claims have been economically ruined by the
COmmercial whaling moratorium, the Commission
agreed to study the request further.

' Norway succeeded in convincing the Scientific .
Committee to accept its estimate of the population of g .
minke whales in the Northeast Atlantic, despite ‘* ’
eminent scientists’ questioning of the validity of the
estimate. The population counts, on which Norway
bases its self-allocated quota, have been found to be 1

 

Vastly overestimated in the Past (see the Summer Jenny’LonsdaIeis‘ia director'ofthe'EnVi-Fonméntal\l‘nvestigaﬁ'ﬂ‘i.gﬁncyi‘l-‘ ‘
1995 AWIszrterlyj. .2. ,j _ . ,. ,

The _ .
mg n dpxtpuutn f ‘ l
d’iSturban’ce etc Will affect- whaj ’ "dolph anderpo
mgasafewhalingHewittCHH
TheEnvrronmental InVeS‘tl‘ga i'OH Agencyandmanymhﬁr.rigamza‘f‘f .
ftioﬁsrbelie‘xréthat the metatoriumgon commercial Whaling mu emam
in place forat least ‘ thenextso ' ars “ allotmet ‘
understandthesechangesst ~~ _
‘ Despiteistrongbppﬁsiﬁdﬁ’ Inf-the past 't: ere; ‘ _ _ . w H _.,_
acceptance that’the IWC. must: address the-plight ofthe smaller whale
species. A resolutionWHS’PHSSHdHHHHimH . HHHHHHHHdirection
. to theworkonsmaHCeitaceans bytheIWC‘S‘denﬁﬁccomme‘ "a' ;. ., j

 

   

    
  
 
 
  
  
     
     

mmisslonhasaccer) .1»»t at. must learnh

ishmg, p-noisr7e;175habitat»! 7

 
 

 

 

   

.

  

is; everlncreasmg ‘

   

      
 

     

 

 

 

 

7

 




 

 

Pet Protection Legislation Considered by House Subcommittee
Concerted Efforts to Prevent Theft of Cats and Dogs for Research Are Gaining Ground

On August 1st a hearing was held before the House Subcommit-
tee on Livestock, Dairy and Poultry on legislation to stop the sale
of pets to laboratories. Chairman Steve Gunderson (R, WI)
opened the hearing, stating ”I, along with most Americans, feel
a deep attachment to the pets we own. The thought of these
animals in research laboratories is understandably upsetting.”
Among the audience in the hearing room was Danny, a
Norwegian Elkhound who was stolen from his owner’s truck and
._ ,, . _ 337 To :5 was sold to a laboratory; luckily, he

9 was rescued before being used in an
’ experiment. Danny’s presence was
poignant for Gunderson, whose par-
ents’ Norwegian elkhound was also
stolen but never recovered.

Representative Charles Canady
(R, FL), who introduced the legisla-
tion, entitled the Pet Safety and
Protection Act of 1996 (HR. 3398),
explained, ”I have simply attempted
to provide a solution to the problem
of stolen cats and dogs ending up in
laboratory experiments as a result of
the misdeeds of unscrupulous Class
B random source animal dealers.
Medical research is of great impor-
tance, but it should not be undertaken using family pets that
have been snatched up and wrongfully taken away from the
families that love them.”

Michael V. Dunn, the US Department of Agriculture’s (USDA)
Assistant Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, stated
that USDA supports the intent of the legislation and testified at
length about the problems his department faces in regulating
Class B dealers. He told the Subcommittee that of the 89,420
dogs used in research last year, 50% were purpose-bred. Of the
other 50%, half came from pounds or shelters. Dunn said, ”The
remaining 25% of these dogs—about 22,000—were obtained
from...the approximately 50 Class B dealers who provide
random-source animals to research facilities.”

Dunn focused on the difficulty of determining the sources
of animals from Class B dealers, who are notorious for inad-
equate or falsified records. He stated USDA conducted a
”traceback” project to try to gauge the problem, and found
recordkeeping problems with 52% of the dogs traced.
“Recordkeeping inaccuracies severely preclude complete
tracebacks of animals and consume a large share of our inspec-
tion resources,” Dunn said.

Representative George E. Brown, Jr. (D, CA), a cosponsor
of HR. 3398, decried “the cloak of secrecy that seems to protect
Class B dealers from necessary scrutiny.” He stated, ”It would
seem on the face of it that eliminating Class B dealers would both
save money to the department and eliminate one level of
regulation. ”

In response, Secretary Dunn stated, ”It would eliminate one
heck of a headache for us in some areas.” He noted that those
dealers who falsify records make tracebacks extremely difficult.
”Every time we develop a new way to look for something, they
develop a new way to hide it.”

Norman Flint told how the man who answered his ”free to
good home” advertisement turned out to be a dealer who sold
Flint’s dog Bear to a research facility where he died during a
heart attack experiment. Flint’s other dog, Wiggles, was kept in

8

  
   

 

Danny, a dog who was
stolen and sold for research,
then rescued, with his owner
Karyl Parks.

 

miserable conditions at the dealer’s facility until he was rescued,
weighing 90 pounds less.

A panel comprised of three individuals selected by the
National Association for Biomedical Research spoke in support
of random source dog and cat dealers. In a tactic used all too
often by defenders of the status quo, none of the panel members
focused on the issue at hand. Rather than discussing whether
or not the legislation would solve the problems associated with
Class B dealers, they gave lengthy dissertations on the impor-
tance of medical research, and of using dogs and cats in
research.

The opponents of the legislation carefully avoided refer-
ence to the dealers their institutions use to supply them with
animals. In fact, following the hearing we attempted to find out
which Class B dealers they used. Despite our requests to
numerous individuals at both Wayne State University and Rush
Medical College, they have yet to provide us with a single name.
The only information we did get was that Wayne State Univer-
sity uses three different Michigan dealers. According to our
files, each of the three Class B dealers in Michigan who supply
animals to laboratories have been cited repeatedly by USDA
inspectors for apparent violations of Animal Welfare Act regu-
lations. In May, one of these dealers was fined $16,000 for failure
to provide adequate veterinary care and maintain required

 

acquisition and disposition
records.
Coincidentally, in
citing examples of severe
animal suffering on
dealers' premises, Dr. F.
Barbara Orlans, a scientist '
who spoke in support of
HR. 3398, quoted a 1994
USDA inspection report
of this same Michigan
dealer's facility, which re-
ported that one dog ”was

 

  

Michael V. Dunn and Patricia lensen,
the current and former Assistant Sec-

, retary of Agriculture for Marketing
shaking, labored breath- and Regulatory Programs. Both test—

ing and cloughing/i an- ified on the importance of preventing
other dog was emac1ated pet theft.

and very depressed, ” and
another ”had bloody diarrhea that was not detected or treated. ”

Dr. Orlans also read a statement submitted by Dr. Robert
Whitney, former director of the Office of Animal Care and Use

at the National Institutes of Health:

Over the past 25 years I have been involved in the development and
update of most of the federal policies and regulations governing
appropriate care, use, and welfare of animals used in biomedical
research. This experience has led me and many of my colleagues to
believe that our inability to guarantee the quality of procurement and
care of animals from Class B dealers creates many problems in public
perception for the biomedical research community, and potentially
in the research itself. Despite the small number of animals obtained
from these sources, their use portends many more problems than the
benefits which might be derived.

The continued existence of these virtually unregulatable Class B
dealers erodes the public confidence in our commitment to appropri-
ate procurement, care, and use of animals in the important research
to better the health of both humans and animals.

This bill, HR. 3398, is a moderate, sensible approach which will
continue to provide access to dogs and cats for research, while
helping to allay our public benefactors’ concerns about research
animal procurement and care. U

 

 

Meag '01

 

 

 

 




 

 

Gorilla Helps Fallen Child,
Warms Human Hearts

Binti Jua, an 8-year old lowland gorilla who lives at the
Brookfield Zoo outside Chicago, achieved overnight star-
dom when she carried an unconscious toddler, who had
fallen into the 200’s gorilla enclosure, to safety. Binti, with
her own infant clinging to her back, cradled the injured child
in her arms and brought him to an access door.

Since the August incident was captured on grainy
amateur video, the story of Binti’s gentle altruistic act has
spread worldwide—perhaps helping to chip away at the
popular conception of the great apes as ferocious killers.
She has received an outpouring of mail, including gifts of
bananas, ﬂowers and ice cream.

There have been numerous instances of apes helping
humans, notably Jambo, a silverback gorilla who, when a 4 /
boy had fallen into the gorilla enclosure at England’s Jersey Zoo, stood protectively over the child, stroking his back.

Early in Binti’ s life she had close contact with humans, including the 1988 encounter pictured above, in which she met an equally
curious, though comparatively hairless, primate—Z-year-old Jennifer Bailey. 2

1 _ § Better » gaging Eases Tran l ion ;_10 targer Quarters _, , :
jug: u j 1 . Tl Captive non-human primates suffer physmlogically and psychologically from close
confinement Australian researcher Cobie Brmkman gives some interesting ideas
toward ameliorating this 1n ”Toys for the Boys Envrronmental Enrichment for Singlg;
» Housed Adult Male Macaques, ” published 1n the Laboratory Primate Newsletter, April ‘
“*V1996 ‘ 1 ‘“
_ 1 The Cages-i Brinkman 3 ”boys occupied until recently allowed th‘ew»:‘an1mals-_
" ‘Walkmg and climbing spaCe, room to. Stand bipedally, a place to perch comfortably,
“ 3‘ and walls made of chmbable mesh rather than vertical bars (see figure) 1.
1 1 ”The cage has almost tWice the ﬂoor area and is 50% higher than the U S
equivalent for animals this size,” Brinkman Writes. 1’While this Size may still not be
'1 ’h"'adequate it has kept the animals in good phySical condition 1
11 ' "When transferred to their present quarters, Where space is increased four to
‘1 ”eight times the motor weakness and incoordination seen by others when
‘ conventionally smgly caged animals Were given access to a large exerCise area, were
. r absent Brinkman notes that the an1mals who suffered these motor problems had
1_ been housed in cages of ’the standard NIH size, which no one would call generous'”

, Olfactory Stimulation as an En Vironmental Enhancement

11,111.,In another interesting finding of Brinkman s paper, monkeys were given lightly

*A macaque in fa cage With toys ~th rinsed shampoo bottles, and the animals Were extremely interested in smelling and
playing with them ”The interest shown 1n fragrant bottles indicates that olfactlon,

that he can sit on the perch Without his I,
ta , I touch mg the ﬂog, 1 1 : » 1 hitherto largely neglected as enrichment, warrants further attention ‘a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l

 

 

  
 

Cohie "Brinkman

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STUDY SHows MONKEYS THRIVE
WHEN THEY CAN DIVE AND SWIM

A swimming pool provides captive monkeys with a much-needed opportunity for play
and stress reduction, according to a recent article in the scientiﬁc journal Animal Welfare.

In ”Diving and Underwater Swimming as Enrichment Activities for Captive
Rhesus Macaques,” Dr. James R. Anderson and Drs. A. Rortais and S. Guillemein
illustrate that providing a pool for monkeys can greatly increase play activity and
reduce social tension.

The study’s subjects were ”highly motivated to dive and swim,” and just
before and after water—related activity they were substantially more playful than
usual: ”Play showed a tenfold increase in the presence of the pool. ” For example,
according to the article, ”One monkey would leap out of the water and immediately be contacted playfully by another” .a subject
would leap out of the water and grab onto a swing or an elevated horizontal tree- trunk and engage in acrobatics.”

Boredom-induced neurotic behaviors, such as cage manipulation and excessive grooming, appeared to be noticeably
reduced, as was Violent behavior. ”The provision of a small swimming pool for captive macaques is an effective contribution

to improving their welfare.” ‘20

 

 

9

 




 

 

 

 

 

Who Protects
Our National Forests?

By Victor Rozek

In the 19505, one could ﬂy across this nation and
never see a clearcut. N ow clearcuts are the dominant
feature of most of America’s 165 National Forests.
Clearcutting is the practice of stripping every living
thing from a large—sometimes immense— forested
area. Marketable trees, usually a single species, are
removed. The rest—young trees, unmarketable
species, ferns, mosses and other understory vegeta-
tion—are bulldozed into massive piles and burned.
Scorched earth forestry.

The accompanying picture is of a massive clearcut
in the Olympic National Forest in Washington.
Mountain after mountain shorn of trees. An ancient
forest converted to a biological desert. The Forest
Service absurdly calls this the Shelton Sustained
Yield Unit. Weyerhauser, the self-proclaimed tree
growing company, is responsible for a 48 square-
mile clearcut in Oregon’s Middle Santiam region, a
fragment of which is pictured here. The Weyerhauser
clearcut is on private lands, but it is no less egregious
for that. These logging operations are vast enough
to register on satellite images from space. Habitat
destruction on a Wagnerian scale.

There is, however, a critical difference between
these two ruinous acts: the former was wholly prevent-
able because it occurred on public lands, lands that
belong to all Americans and should not, the National
Forest Council believes, be managed with enormous
tax subsidies for the benefit of the timber industry.

Why protect public lands? Because more and
more species are becoming rarer and rarer, and
because habitat is critical to wild animals’ welfare.
The timber industry is well aware of the connection
and in 1995 tried to unlink what nature has linked
together. Industry lawyers, attempting to eviscerate
the Endangered Species Act, argued before the court
that, in their view, the destruction of habitat did not
equate to the taking (killing) of an endangered or
threatened species. They implied that if the forest
ﬂoor was not littered with grizzly bear, spotted owl
and marbled murrelet carcasses, no harm was being
done to them. The court disagreed.

Preserving habitat is especially vital because we
no longer have enough. Simply stated, animals need
space, and bigger animals need bigger space. Undis-
turbed space, however, is itself a rarity and habitat is
frequently hemmed in by arbitrary lines drawn on
maps. Roads, strip malls, cities, towns, golf courses,
farms, airports, and other manifestations of human
habitation bisect ecosystems. As animals compete
for a shrinking habitat base, populations correspond-
ingly dwindle, many to precarious pre-extinction
levels of rarity.

Animals that survive in designated wilderness
areas may not survive long. William Newmark, a
biologist, studied 24 National Parks in the western
United States and southern Canada. He found that

10

 

 

 

 

Above: Tim Hermach, director of the
Native Forest Council. At left and right:
clearcuts in the Pacific Northwest.

>IM€li1li8ii/A>Is—8Mi

 

 

Virgin Forests 1989

 

even our largest National Parks did not provide
enough range of habitat to secure viable populations
of larger mammals. Parks encompassing hundreds
of thousands of acres still suffered extinctions. The
smaller the park, the greater the likelihood of species
loss. Lassen Volcanic National Park in California, a
relatively small reserve of 106,000 acres, supports six
fewer species than it had when the park was estab-
lished in 1916.

If survival is linked to size, the 191 million acres
of public forest and range land may provide a
solution. Currently, these lands are managed by
federal agencies for the pleasure of mining, grazing,
and logging interests. But a strong grassroots move-
ment is seeking to reclaim and protect public lands
and break the stranglehold extractive industries have
on Congress and federal land management agencies.

Five years ago, the Native Forest Council shifted
the forest debate. It did not ask: How much more
should we cut? Or: How can we log better? It asked:
Should we be logging public lands at all?

One would think that such a fight would be led
by any number of national environmental organiza-
tions with multi-million dollar budgets and paid,
professional staffs. Not so. In fact those groups
often stand in opposition. Timidity, the desire to
protect their political insider status, fear of being
labeled as radical, fear of losing corporate financial
support; the reasons are many, and although the
national groups bark for better logging and less
logglng, until this year none supported an outright
end to the exploitation of public lands.

There is an equilibrium, a homeostasis that has
developed between industry, government and envi-
ronmental groups. They frequently bark at each
other, but it is understood that greens, at least, are
not. allowed to bite. Mild and meek, greens reserve
their passion and ferocity for fund raising appeals.
They have not become a political force, because they
stand for nothing for very long, each position nego-

tiable, each conviction mediated. When a group
comes along that is willing to bite, to stand its ground
and speak truth to power, it upsets the equilibrium.

The vision of fully protecting and restoring the
integrity of public lands was provided by the
grassroots when the NFC expanded its mission to
protect America’s native forests and began to advo-
cate what it called a Zero Cut policy for public lands.
No more industrial logging, not one stick. At the
time, Zero Cut was thought to be ”radical” and
”politically unrealistic,” but as the economics and the
ecology of the forest issue became clear, the concept
garnered support.

The public, the NFC noted, pays billions of
dollars to cut down their own forests, then billions
more to mitigate the impacts of industrial logging:
decimated fisheries, fouled watersheds, landslides,
ﬂooding. Further, there is no need to log public
lands since more than an adequate timber supply can
be obtained from private lands. So excessive is the
logging that, according to the Department of Com-
merce, nearly half of everything cut in the West, from
both private and public lands, is not used domesti-
cally but exported.

The NFC also argued that the economics used to
justify public land logging are fraudulent. The Forest
Service assigns no value t standing forests, nor does
it consider the replaceme .t cost of a resource that,
under ideal conditionS,J/Vould take hundreds of
years to restore. So chea :y does it hold the public’s
forests that in Alaska, the Forest Service sold 200—
year—old trees for under $2.00 each. No private
grower could hope to compete with such taxpayer—
subsidized largess. . .

Besides providing. crltlcal wildlife habitat, the
NFC argues that standlng fOrests provide a portfolio
of vital services to the human community; services
which cannot be duplicated and Whose worth is also
ignored. Forests are the Prlmary providers of air and
water. Forests act as the lungs of the earth. They

filter and store water in winter and spring and release
it gradually during dry seasons. They abate ﬂood-
ing, and moderate the climate. Forests are a source
of medicines and wild edibles. They spawn abun-
dant fisheries, provide recreational opportunities
and spiritual renewal. These services are priceless
and necessary for our survival, yet they are consis-
tently subordinated to commodity timber extrac-
tion—a short—sighted and foolish policy.

Ecologically, it is clear that America’s forest
ecosystems are unraveling. The best science recom-
mends not only a cessation to industrial logging, but
a major program of restoration. Watersheds, fisher-
ies, and the forests themselves riddled with clearcuts
and logging roads, need protection and renewal.
Complex, multi-species, multi-aged ancient forests
have been converted to single-species, even-aged
tree farms. The system is biologically impoverished.
In a systemic sense, National Forests—specifically
those portions in the timber base—are no longer
forests at all, and haven’t been for a long time.
Ninety-five percent of America’s original native for—
est base is gone. Outside of a few scarce roadless
areas and occasional patches of old-growth, all that
remains are clearcuts interrupted by sorry clumps of
young, even-aged trees, each square mile of forest
bisected by three to four miles of logging roads.
There are over 360,000 miles of logging roads criss-
crossing our National Forests—more than 17 times
the length of the entire interstate highway system.

The forests have simply been converted to fibre
factories. Over time, the values of standing forests
became ancillary and were replaced by factory
values. And the obligations of stewardship were
replaced by public relations.

Factories, after all, do not produce clean water
and fresh air. Factories are not expected to moderate
the climate and abate ﬂooding. Factories do not
shelter wildlife. Factories can salmon, they are not its

natural habitat.

The native Forest Council offered a five part
program, in the form of draft legislation, to address
the forest crisis.

0 Stop all commercial logging of public lands.

0 Restore watersheds and native biodiversity to those
portions of our National Forests which have been
converted to tree farms.

0 Save American jobs by discouraging exports of raw
materials. Institute an inverse excise tax which would
penalize the export of raw logs or minimally process
timber, and reward the export of finished goods.

0 Eliminate logging subsidies and use the savings to
support transitioning timber workers and communi-
ties.

0 Hold government workers accountable for enforce-
ment of environmental laws, with fines, loss of job and
imprisonment when lawlessness is ﬂagrant and delib—
erate.

The NFC is currently working to gain support for
the introduction of such legislation in Congress.
Progress has been exceptional. Five years ago, no
one believed it could be done. Now Zero Cut, largely
due to the tireless work of the NFC, has been
adopted by the Sierra Club. It is discussed in national
publications, it is embraced by a growing grassroots
coalition. Its time is now.

But the organization needs your help. Its rare
willingness to strive and not to yield has lost it the
financial support of conservative foundations. The
NFC may have to close its doors or severely curtail its
efforts if adequate funding cannot be found. Too
radical? Too controversial? Perhaps. But women’s
suffrage was once radical; integration was once
controversial. Nothing was ever accomplished by
the timid. \20

Victor Rozek is the editor of Forest Voice.

Contributions may be sent to the Native Forest
Council, PO Box 2 790, Eugene, OR 97402; phone (541)
688-2600.

11

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Elephant Conservation:

By Susie Watts

AWI and the Environmental Investigation Agency are
long-term allies in the fight to conserve elephants, first by
backing African calls for an ivory ban in 1989 and since
then by supporting the (so-far successful) efforts of the
majority of African nations to maintain it.

However, the story goes much further back than
that. In the days of the ” great white hunter, ” the elephant .
was the most prized of trophies and stories abound
of European hunters collecting the tusks of literally
hundreds of elephants as they travelled around Africa.
There are also stories of whole areas being denuded of
elephants as a result of the uncontrolled greed of these
hunters.

The ivory was exported all over the world, the
elephants were dead and the African porters and trackers
used by the hunters were left clutching the pittance that
they were (sometimes) paid for their efforts.

If this scenario looks familiar, that’s because it repre—
sents a pattern that was repeated decades later with the
international ivory trade. Overconsumption, uncon—
trolled slaughter, status symbols for the foreign
consumer and Virtually no benefit for Africa or its people.

 

  

, The tragic, point~
, less legacy of the
ivory trade:above,
.vthe deCaying car-
1' £355 ofan ele-
gﬁjjephant shot ”for ,
0': ; ivOry ’ in Kenya ’5
TSavo National
” Park in 1988; at
. right, ivory, and
an ele'phant’s foot
7 wastebasketw
luxury items ob-
tained through
cruelty.

 

an African Perspective

VlEi

‘2’
-\'
23.
.,:m
(‘4‘
’ E
a)
:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Overconsumption

This is a factor which is never taken into account when the
proponents of ”sustainable use” try to argue their case for
international ivory trade. Japan became a major consumer of
ivory only when its economy took off in the late 19605. More
recently, the economic booms in Taiwan, Korea and other
Eastern countries have meant a rapid increase in the consump-
tion of wildlife products in general. Now, the meteoric rise of
China as a free market economy spells disaster for the wildlife
of the entire world unless consumption is curbed.

It is worth bearing in mind that, even if you could persuade
90% of all mainland Chinese never to consume another endan-
gered species again, the remaining 10% would be equal to
double the population of Britain. The last thing we should be
doing is encouraging consumption. Incredibly, there is a naive
belief in Zimbabwe that the country can establish and enforce a
controlled market in ivory and rhino horn.

Uncontrolled Slaughter

Regular AWI Quarterly readers do not need to be told how
much damage was caused to African elephants by the interna-
tional ivory trade. Between 1979 and 1989 the African elephant
population had been halved, from 1.2 million to 600,000. Whole
herds were wiped out indiscriminately, including tiny babies.
By the end of the 19805 the weight of the average tusk in trade
had dropped from 20 kilograms to 4 kilograms.

Despite years of so-called ”sustainable use,” it was esti-
mated in 1988 that 94% of all ivory in international trade had
come from poached elephants. East Africans warned of im-
pending extinctions of some of their populations and were seen
on television worldwide, imploring consumers to stop buying
ivory. Even Zimbabwe, not normally known for admitting the
possibility of defeat, predicted that the poaching was on its
doorstep.

Since the 1989 ban, the carnage has stopped. There is, of
course, occasional poaching, but to be able to talk in terms of tens

12

rather than of thousands is a relief to all those, in Africa and
beyond, who fought so hard for the ban and who are still
fighting to prevent Zimbabwe from reopening the ivory trade.
The indiscriminate slaughter could so easily begin again.

Status Symbols for Foreigners

The story of the Far Eastern economic ”miracle” is also the
story of massive—and growing—consumption of wildlife prod-
ucts from all over the world: tiger bone from India, ivory and
rhino horn from Africa and seal penises from Canada.

As economies grow, so does the desire to spend money on
“luxury” items, and exotic as well as domestic wildlife is a major
factor in this.

No Benefit to Africans

One of the many myths being spread around by Zimbabwe
about ivory trade is that impoverished rural Zimbabweans have
lost a significant proportion of their income as a result of the
ivory ban. This could not be further from the truth. The money
which Zimbabwe used to earn from international ivory sales——
and it was not very much—did not go to the rural communities.
Like National Park ”gate fees” and receipts from live wildlife
sales, it all had to be handed over to the government.

Like the ”great white hunters” before them, the ivory
traders took the profits and ran. The massive illegal trade WhiCIV1
sprang up alongside—and quickly dwarfed—the legal trade,
simply gave rural Africans an incentive to poaCh. Thousands Of
elephants died every year. Alongside this, corruption greW,
communities were disrupted, weapons became hard currency,
children were orphaned and rangers died. So, too, did poach-
ers. In the Zambezi valley of Zimbabwe, 200 men have been
killed since 1984. Law-breakers, indeed, but poverty-strickeI1
pEOple nonetheless, tempted by the high price on the heads Of
dead elephants and prepared to get shot for it. This is the real

continued on next page




 

 

continued from previous page

legacy of the ivory trade: negative, pointless and disruptive.

The question, then, is how to approach elephant conserva-
tion in a way which conserves the species and which brings
benefits to impoverished rural communities.

The history of commercial use of dead elephants shows that
it has been of very little economic benefit to rural Africans,
but the prognosis for live elephants depends very much on
changes in the way we see elephant “problems.”

A Brighter Future <

As I see it, the international Lu
conservation community is only
just beginning to seek new ways of
approaching long-term elephant
conservation. Innovative ideas are
surfacing in Africa now, and I
think these will lead to radical
changes in the way in which el-
ephants are viewed. What works
in one country, or one region, or
one ecosystem, will not necessarily
work in another. What we need is
a wide diversity of ideas which can
be tested and applied in appropriate

 

May It is ou

 

e. Elep ants cross from Botswana
into Namibia, happily heed/e55 of national borders.

the feces, has a head start in terms of survival. For some
countries, there exists the possibility of extending the elephants’
range. A number of national parks in South Africa, for example,
have been or are being extended to accommodate more wildlife
in general and more elephants in particular.

A great deal of research has been done on elephant impacts
on vegetation and there are increasing signs that many of the old
assumptions about ”irreversible damage” and about the need to
maintain ecosystem equilibrium are being challenged by a new
generation of scientists. Furthermore, a number of researchers
have suggested that, if left to their
own devices, elephants will regu-
late their own numbers in response
to the main determining factor——
the availability of food.

The most humane way to
regulate populations is the use
of fertility control. Dr. Jay
Kirkpatrick has had enormous
success with keeping the feral
ponies of Assateague Island in
harmony with their environment
by regulating the number of foals
born each year. He is now leav-
ing for Kruger National Park in

 

 

circumstances.

First, there is the thorny question of crop raiding. While it
is true that elephants can have a severe impact on crops, it is
ludicrous to imply, as Zimbabwe does, that regular culling will
solve the problem. In some regions it has been estimated that
you would have to remove 50-80% of the elephant population
in order to have any effect on crop raiding, and even then there
is no guarantee. Crop raiding is a serious problem for some
farmers, and the problem is made worse by the fact that it is used
as a political lobbying tool by wildlife managers in Zimbabwe,
a country which, incidentally, does not compensate its farmers
for crop losses!

Some countries use electric fences, the strongest of which
are said to be effective in keeping elephants off crops. In
Zimbabwe, trials have been carried out involving sprays con-
taining capsicum as a deterrent to elephants, which react badly
to the scent. It is reported that these sprays worked well in trials
but that further tests will need to be done to determine whether
or not they are cheap, convenient and accessible enough for
widespread use. In Tanzania, ﬂares have been used to scare
away elephants, although one can imagine that these may be of
limited use on a large scale!

Some countries choose not to compensate for crop
losses, citing their experience of ”cheats” who claim for
damage which has not occurred. Some maintain that per-
haps the solution is to persuade farmers to accept crop losses
in return for receiving benefits from the tourism. Some
communities do precisely this.

For other elephant populations, the answer is thought to lie
in the establishment of migration corridors. This will apply in
areas Where human settlement has not made it an impossibility,
or where human settlers are prepared to accept incentives to
move. There are, of course, very old migration routes estab-
lished long ago by elephants, some of which are still recogniz-
able. In northern Botswana, for example, old corridors can be
seen from the air, as they are lined by Ilala palms. The Ilala palm
nut germinates in an elephant’s gut and, when passed out with

South Africa with the requisite
drugs and darting devices to contracept some of the el-
ephants. This important project is being conducted in coop-
eration with the South African parks and the government,
which ended the culling of elephants earlier this year.

Finally, one of the most significant ideas coming out of
Africa is that of establishing transfrontier parks linking wildlife
habitat on both sides of an international border. South Africa is
leading the way in this, with plans to establish links with
Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Botswana. This will take time but,
when it happens, the creation of vast protected areas of great
biological diversity will allow elephants to move around much
more freely.

Much of the world has given up the idea of ivory as a
commodity. If the small minority of southern African countries
still clinging stubbornly to the idea would just re-think the issue,
it would release both brainpower and funding from the dead-
end pursuit of ivory trade into what many regard as a much
brighter, more dynamic and positive way of seeing the future for
elephants. There is always an impressive array of creative and
imaginative ideas coming out of Africa. Ivory trade is not one
of them. 4):

Susie Watts, who has spent much of her life in Africa, covers African
wildlife issues for the Environmental Investigation Agency.

Action: Please write to the following representatives of
African nations urging them to oppose efforts to resume the
ivory trade:

0 Mr. P. Shakie Kebaswele, Commercial Attache, Embassy of
Botswana, 3400 International Drive NW, Washington, DC
20008; Phone: (202) 244-4990.

0 HE. Mr. Willie Chokani, Ambassador, Embassy of Malawi,
2408 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008 ; Phone:
(202) 797-1007.

0 Ms. Hatendi, Zimbabwe Tourism Office, 1270 Avenue of the
Americas, Suite 412, New York, NY 10020; Phone: (212) 332-1090.

13

 

 




 

CAMPFIRE’S RICHEST DISTRICT GOES BROKE

Pro-Trophy Hunting Program Fails to Give Back to African Communities as Promised

A system set up ostensibly to return the profits from huntlng
exotic wildlife in Africa to ordinary Africans has fallen on 1ts
face. The ﬂagship Nyaminyami district of CAMPFIRE (the
Communal Areas Management Plan For Indigenous REsources)
is now broke despite earning $600,000 per year from ”Wildllfe
use,” i.e. trophy hunting of elephants and other much-
sought-after game. ' .
CAMPFIRE has been much touted for its claim that 1t Wlll
help African communities profit from ”sustainable use” of
their wildlife, and it receives substantial funding from Amerl—
can taxpayers through the US Agency for International Devel-
opment (USAID)—to the tune of $5 million annually.
Officials of the Nyaminyami District, which had been
used as a showcase for CAMPFIRE’s success, now face serious
charges of corruption in the wake of the district’s financial

 

In ”Slaughter of the Apes,” the
' World Society for the Protection of
Animals reveals how the tropical
. timber industry is devastating
Africa’s great ape populations. The
companies do not supply food for
., their workers, who then depend on
the trade in meat from wild animals.
" " ”Bush meat” hunters kill indiscrimi-

; " ' i' nately, and the meat is often that of
endangered apes. Contact WSPA at
2 Langley Lane, London SW8 1T];

 

 

 

The Investigative Network has
done admirable work in the Rus- A
sian Far East, exposing the links
between organized crime and the
trade in the imperiled Siberian .
Tiger. ”Russia’s Final Roar” paints
a picture of how poaching and
habitat destruction has affected
local communities while imperil-
ing the tiger. Contact the IN at PO 5
Box 73214, T Street Station, Washing I
ton DC 20007; phone (202)387-0028
(See story, page 19.)

 

m-m;dasmmwwm
sawing kink 1:an FagiaForSonat :
:,: . 3th
. lamﬂmod:
‘ for
wgman‘i‘imWthtm

 

 

FROM FOREST TO PHARMACY ”From Forest to Pharmacy,” also

from the Investigative Network,

 

ground trade is ﬂourishing, and

if unchecked it could extinguish
many bear species.

 

 

 

woes. The Harare Sunday Mail reported in July that "the
council has suspended two senior officials while the Chief
executive officer is under police investigation of thousands of

dollars that has left this rural authority on the lurch.”

The council, which was launched to contribute cash to
individual families as well as farming equipment and infra-
structure improvements to entire communities, could not
even afford to pay its own employees.

“Most of the case being investigated involved flouting of
tender procedures, inflating invoices, using council funds for
personal business and allegedly receiving kickbacks for grant-
ing illegal hunting rights,” the Sunday Mail went on. "There
were allegations that an officer recently received eight Cattle
and a councillor one beast from a safari operator so they could
award a hunting contract.” ‘20

is an examination of the impact of
global warming and environmen-
.. tal degradation on whales and dol-
‘phins. Drawing on evidence from
the lntei‘giwernmental Panel on Cli-
mate (‘hangtx ”Dying by Degrees"
argues It )I‘ a St l—yea r extension on the
current commercial whaling ban (see
story, page 7). Contact EIA at 15
Bowling ( ireen lane, London EC1R

Dying es
()Bl); phone (44) 171 490 7040.

(ilolul “arming and the ! mimumrnlal (frhh

Threatening (lu- \\urld\ “ halm and Dolphin!

In another incisive report, ”The
Continuing Global War Against
Small Cetaceans,” EIA furthers
its extensive documentation of
how small whales, dolphins and
porpoises have been mercilessly
hunted and harassed—to the
brink of extinction in many ca ses—-
even as the slaughter of the char—
ismatic great whales has slowed
considerably. This is ElA’s third
report on the threats facing small
cetaceans.

era

Bid upon by the Environmental lnvestigaﬁo“ Agency

 

"California grav whales,” Kather-
ine Hanlv writes in ”The Gray
Zone,” ”were hunted to near
extinction bV connnercial whal-
ers, recovered against signiﬁcant
odds, and are again threatened
bV human activitv. " This report,
available from the IN, exploreS
how recklesslv expanding indus-
trv in Baia, M'exicoe-particularly
the salt, on and gas industrles’
threatens this Whale’s tenuous
hold on survival.

THE GRAY ZONE

Industrial Threats to Gray \Vhalcs
in Baja, Mexico




 

 

Since 1955, AWI has given the Albert Schweitzer Medal ”for outstanding contributions to animal welfare.”
’ AWI ; President Christine Stevens says of 1996 recipient Henry Spira that he ”epitomizes what animal
" protectwncan and should be.” The following is adapted from Spira’s talk at the award ceremony.

 

 

Thank you for the honor of receiving the Albert Schweitzer medal.
What makes this award so special is getting it from people you
admire, people whose guiding principle is to protect the vulner-
able. As we all know, Christine Stevens is a superb and effective
advocate for the animals on Capitol Hill, in the halls of Congress.
I feel particularly honored in getting this award from Christine.

I see this as a collective award—you’re only as good as
the people you work with. I’ve always tried to work
according to the philosophy of advertising legend David
Ogilvy who operated under the principle of always working
with people smarter than himself, and asking them, in turn,
to do likewise. He would recall the well known Russian folk
dolls which nest one inside the other. And observed that if
each of us chooses to work with someone smarter than
ourself we will become an enterprise of giants. I’ve been
fortunate in having access to many people smarter than
myself, and that’s made all the difference.

I’d like to take this opportunity to share my thoughts on
where we’re at. Many of us are familiar with former New
York mayor Ed Koch who used to walk the streets and never
tired of asking: ”How’m I doing?” That’s not an uncommon
question. It’s asked in focus groups and in telephone surveys
by everybody from politicians to toothpaste manufacturers.
This is also a question we need to ask of the animal protection
movement, ”How are we doing?”

By some measure we’ve done very well. Since Peter
Singer’s Animal Liberation, there’s been a total revolution in
people’s thinking. Thanks to the involvement of people like
yourselves, there’s an acceptance by the overwhelming
majority of the public that the suffering of animals does
matter. And over the past couple of decades, there’s been
an estimated 50% reduction in the number of laboratory
animals used. There’s a whole new scientific discipline of in
vitro, non-animal toxicology which has entered the scientific
mainstream. There’s the public perception that the move-
ment is enormously powerful and successful.

But, the reality is that this success has only impacted on
5% of the problem. And this is not recognized by the general
public, nor by many activists. With regard to the 95% of
animal suffering, things keep getting worse. If we look at the
entire universe of animal pain and suffering, the gains of the
70s and 805 have only been a drop in the bucket. And as
regards the eight billion farm animals, their confinement is
becoming ever more intense and their numbers are massively
increasing, because the US is now exporting the products of
factory farming to foreign lands.

In the 19605 2 billion farm animals were slaughtered
every year. Now we’re slaughtering eight billion. And in
earlier years, their confinement was less intensive than it is
now.

Unlike cosmetic testing, factory farming is not being
massively challenged by the animal rights movement. Most
of the animals are being kept out of the loop of our cam-
paigns. I had assumed that after the lab animal victories
there would be the farm animal victories, but it hasn’t
worked out that way.

We need to live up to the public’s perception that we are
fighting all animal suffering. The movement cannot claim to
be relevant and successful while eight billion animals con-
tinue to suffer.

And in fighting against intensive confinement animal

and Auual

 
  
 
   
    
 

 

 

Above, Henry Spira,
the 1996 Schweitzer
Medalist, at the cere-
mony held june 27 in
Washington, DC. Atleft,
lane Alexander, current
Chair of the National
Endowmentforthe Arts,
poses with the first NEA
Chair: AWI Treasurer
Roger L. Stevens.

Ann Cottrell Free

agriculture, we are fighting not only to liberate farm animals.
We are also fighting to protect our environment—the land,
water and air. And we’re protecting food for the billions by
not wasting resources.

With this in mind, I would like to encourage the animal
protection community to place more energies on factory
farming and to take the necessary steps to address the
massive suffering. To begin to knock zeros off the eight
billion farm animals who live and die in misery. This
gathering has the people who can make it happen. Who can
make it possible to proudly answer the question of ”How are
we doing?” ‘20

Henry Spira is the Coordinator of Animal Rights International.

15

 
   

 




 

 

A Shocking Firsthand Account of Inhumane Treatment of LivestoTk

In March 1994, a Canadian trucker who transports farm
animals for a living started writing to a group called
Canadians for the Ethical Treatment of Food Animals
(CETFA) about cruel and negligent transport conditions.
Over the last two years, the letters have kept cornlng,
documenting an appalling lack of concern for anlmal
welfare in the animal transport industry. CETFA recently
published the reports in a booklet titled ”Operation Transport. ”

The trucker, who wishes to remain anonymous, glves a
chilling account of handlers using electric prods on the
rectums and eyes of animals, animals freezing to the sides
of metal trucks, and crippled animals being dragged by
chains or carelessly left in piles of dead animals.

Abusive animal handlers, whether they are employees of
the stockyard, of the slaughterhouse, or drivers, frequently
boast about their rough treatment of the animals. Few have any
training in how to humanely load, unload, or transport the
animals, and stubbornly resist correction. ”Some feel they are
tough cowboys who will tame these wild animals, no matter
what it takes,” the trucker wrote of his fellow livestock haulers.
“They want to show the animals ’who’s boss.”’

”Operation Transport” includes the story of a slaughter-
house worker who ”dragged a live downer pig to the back of the
top deck of the trailer and pushed it off to smash onto cement
10 feet below.” ”Problem—what problem?” one stockyard
worker said of a horse that was whipped and goaded for 20
minutes while being forced to climb a steep ramp. ”Nothing that

 

Dear editor:

Readers of the AW] Quarterly who are familiar with animal
welfare issues in Canada could be forgiven for being confused by
the recent article ”Deregulated Farm Animal Transport in Canada——
The Animals Pay the Price” [Winter 1995]. The article claims the
”transportation of farm animals in Canada is deregulated and
clearly out of control.”

That assertion is incorrect, as the transportation of animals is
well regulated in Canada and Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada
(AAFC) does not intend to deregulate this area of its mandate.

Four years ago, AAFC comprehensively reviewed its regula-
tions. As part of that review, we asked Canadians to identify the
regulations they found valuable and those that could be improved.
Respondents cited the regulations covering the transportation of
animals as worthwhile but emphasized the need for improved
delivery of the federal humane transportation program.

In response to these comments, we restored previously
reduced resources to the program and initiated a major review of
the transportation of animals in Canada. The goal is ambitious: to
create a shared, national quality assurance system for the transpor-
tation of animals in Canada that involves farmers, transporters,
animal welfare agencies, receivers, provincial governments, law
enforcement agencies, the veterinary profession, and the research
community.

Over the past two years, we have consulted hundreds of
interested Canadians, completed and distributed a
Document,” and launched a one—year pilot project.
includes several regional and national initiatives, i
development of a “Recommended Code of Prac
humane transportation of animals.

During the review, Canadians told us that a
should include research and data collection, stand
training, and enforcement. Of course, enforcemen
depend on a strong regulatory base.

In Canada, the Health of Animals Act (

16

”Discussion
This project
ncluding the
tice” for the

new system
ards setting,

t will always

1990) contains regula-

a little bit of coaxing with a whip and cattle prod wouldn’t fix,”

Livestock is often transported hundreds of miles across the
vast Canadian plains. Temperatures can be brutally hot or
miserably cold (reaching -70 degrees with the Windchill), and the
trailers in which the animals are shipped are very rarely heated
or air conditioned. The sympathetic long-distance hauler in
”Operation Transport” tells of a calf whose belly froze to a truck
ﬂoor. The driver of that truck jabbed the calf with a prod before
he realized she couldn’t move. By the time he got help three
hours later, she had been trampled and died from hypothermia.

This and other tragic incidents could be easily prevented by
putting an adequate amount of straw in the trailers. The
Canadian government routinely fails to en force the requirement
that sufficient straw be used to cushion the animals’ ride, help
keep them warm in winter, and absorb waste. The veterinary
inspectors at weigh stations all too often give only the most
cursory inspections of animal trailers. Sometimes, the drivers
have to pay for straw, which often means that the animals go
without enough—there is little incentive for the drivers to take
the trouble to make the animals comfortable. Adequate straw
piled in the trailers can also help keep animals’ legs from slipping
through vents and spaces between planks. Sometimes a limb
will be sliced off if it falls through an aperture.

This trucker’s eye View of appalling abuse and neglect in
animal transport can be obtained from CETFA by writing
to PO Box 18024, 2225 West 4lst Ave, Vancouver, BC, Canada
V6M 4L3; phone: (604) 261-3801. .2.

Law to m emww *
CANADIAN FARM ANIMAL TRANSPORT: REGULATED

OR UNREGULATED?

tions that define conditions for the humane transportation of all
animals in Canada, by all means of conveyance. These conditions
prohibit overcrowding, transportation of incompatible animals,
and transportation of animals unfit to travel. They also specify
proper facilities and methods for loading and unloading, adequate
feeding and watering, good ventilation, maximum transit times,
rest periods, and protection from the elements. The regulations
also outline requirements for the use of proper containers and
vehicles, appropriate space allocation, proper bedding, and medi-
cal care for animals in transit.

Our inspectors regard the enforcement of these regulations
very seriously. All formally reported incidents of inhumane
transportation in Canada are investigated. These investigations
often lead to prosecutions and significant fines. As a further
incentive for compliance, all successful prosecutions are published
and notices are distributed to major print and broadcast media.

Nevertheless, we believe that prevention is ultimately prefer-
able to prosecution, and that the creation of a shared national
quality assurance system for the humane transportation of animals
is potentially the best long-term tool for ensuring that animals are
transported humanely in Canada.

This shared quality assurance system could place Canada
among the world’s leading countries committed to improving the
welfare of farm animals. The animal welfare community I'D
Canada can take a great deal of credit for its support of thlS
initiative, which demonstrates that cooperation to identify and
SOlve PfOblems works better than the rhetoric of isolation and
confrontation. '

Ms. Harrison quotes a “sympathetic long distance hauler” 1n
the article. An official from our Enforcement and Compliance
Division in the British Columbia regional office met with tWO
prominent members of CETFA to provide an opportunity that
would have allowed the trucker to speak about his concerns freely
with anonymity. We are always prepared to investigate any

continued on next page

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Humane Alternatives for Hog Farmers Come to US from Sweden

AWI is helping to import innovative Swedish pig farming
methods, which take the animals’ natural behavior into account
and make their welfare paramount, into the United States.

Pigs in the United States are all too ' '
often kept confined in crates that re- . ----- ,,
strict their movements and prevent
them from exercising or interacting
with other pigs. Antibiotics are added
to their feed to counteract the effects of
close confinement.

The ”Vastgotamodellen,” however,
prescribes communal housing on deep
straw beds. The composting action of the
straw kills pathogens, enriches soil, keeps
pigs warm in winter, and produces little or
no offensive odor. This model enables
pigs to perform most of their natural
behaviors, and eliminates the need for

      

 

“Marlene H

Pigs housed communal/y on deep straw at Tomas
and Magnus Carlevad’s farm in Sweden.

meters in order to clear a space and lie down to nurse. What
is needed, then, is not less room to maneuver, but more—
when the animals’ natural behavior is understood.

' " Agricultural economist Marlene
Halverson, a consultant to Iowa
State University, took a group of
' Minnesota and Iowa farmers to Swe-
den in 1994 to study Swedish farm-
ers’ welfare-compatible alternatives
' (see AWI Quarterly, Fall 1994). In
March 1996, Halverson organized a
reciprocal visit of hog farmers and
agricultural scientists from Sweden
' ' to the US, under the auspices of
AWI and others. The group toured
and gave lectures on humane alter—
natives to intensive confinement,
including a stop at the Leopold Cen-

 

 

expensive, harsh chemical feed addi-
tives to reduce disease and stimulate growth. It is both pig- and
human-friendly, cost-efficient, and environmentally benign.
A perennial objection to group housing of pigs is that sows
kept in close contact with their piglets will sometimes crush
one when lying down to nurse. The conventional solution
is to further restrict the movements of the sow and add
barriers between her and her piglets. However, new re-
search shows that sows need approximately 7.5 square

ter for Sustainable Agriculture’s
Swine System Options Conference.

The response of American farmers to the alternative model
has been favorable and encouraging. After Bo Algers (a veterinary
ethologist with the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences)
spoke about the physiological changes that accompany a sow's
nesting instinct, one farmer was overheard saying, ”In the begin—
ning I thought his ideas were pretty wild and far out, but by the
time he finished speaking I saw the sense in what he said.” \20

 

continued from previous page

verifiable incidents of inhumane transportation.

At Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada we feel that every
Canadian who cares about the humane transportation of animals
has a role to play in contributing to the creation of the new quality
assurance system. I would strongly encourage that the Canadi-
ans for Ethical Treatment of Food Animals support this coopera—
tive approach.

Yours Sincerely,
Dr. N.G. Willis, Director General, Animal and Plant Health Director-
ate, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada

Tina Harrison replies:

We are grateful to have the opportunity of responding to the letter by N .G.
Willis of Agri—Food Canada in which he takes issue with my article on
deregulation of farm animal transport in Canada. Since his letter is grossly
misleading, it is crucial to examine the facts, one point at a time.

First, the issue of deregulation. In 1987 the federal Minister of
Agriculture announced that ”the transportation program was identified as
one of the programs from which resources were withdrawn as a result of
Government’s efforts to reduce the budgetary deficit. All resources,
including inspection staff dedicated to the enforcement of the transportation
Program, were therefore moved to other activities.” . .

As a result of widespread criticism, one checkpoint in the entire
country~West Hawk Lake in Manitoba—was restored and staffed for
inspection purposes. For the rest of Canada, intransit surveillance of
livestock went from a reduction of manhours, to complete elimination.

Each year the annual statistics of animals dead on arrival at slaughter
has escalated in direct proportion to the numbers of animals processed. In
1994, over three million animals died in transit to federal abattozrs.

With the erosion of legal protection due to cost—cutting measures,
unenforced paper regulations have, in effect, been replaced by Recom—
mended Voluntary Codes of Practice, having no force of law,‘ and
administered by user groups that deal with violations privately within the
industry.

. It is nothing short of ludicrous to claim that all formally reported
incidents of inhumane transportation are investigated. In British

Columbia alone, there have been exactly two ”humane” prosecutions in a
full two-year period, which—given the number of dead and ”down”
casualties—seems hardly adequate!

As for the review process presently underway, it is worth quoting from
the Report of the prestigious Animal Welfare Foundation of Canada relative
to a review conference which I also attended. The Report reads, ”The
running of the meeting and its organization gave me the distinct impression
that any serious discussion was neither anticipated or encouraged. The
committees involved with review of the Codes of Practice are effectively
controlled by the industry, and the Ministry has evidently decided to turn
over control of the transport of animals to the transport industry itself. ”

Hardly the mark of a regulated system.

Regarding protecting the identity of the long distance hauler who
regularly reports to CETFA—never at any time has opportunity been
provided that would guarantee confidentiality. The ”two prominent
members of CETFA” provided me with a detailed account of the meeting
in question, which took place in Victoria on Ianuary 8, 1995. At that
time, the official of Agriculture Canada, Mr. john Bouchard, suggested
that the trucker could give the information anonymously to Agriculture
Canada, although the many horrifying incidents witnessed and reported
have not been investigated. It was suggested to Mr. Bouchard that he
meet with me, as co—ordinator. He has not done so, nor has he ever made
an effort to communicate with us. This hardly builds confidence in the
good faith of the bureaucracy to protect a whistle blower within the
industry.

It is not the first time that we have had to refute misinformation
circulated at taxpayer’s expense by defenders of a cruel and exploitive
segment of the industry. Unfortunately it is not the sort of strategy that
enhances the credibility of the Canadian government either at home or

abroad .

Tina Harrison
Co—ordinator, Canadians for the Ethical Treatment of Food Animals
Sources:

Deregulation: Letter of june 22, 1987 (Hon. john Wise, Minister)
Statistics: "Species Found Dead at Registered Canadian Establishments.”

(Agriculture Canada) .
Prosecutions: Agriculture Canada - ”Prosecution Bulletins.

17

 




 

 

 

 

‘

STATE ANTI-CRUELTY LAWS TAKE GIANT LEAP FORWARD

By Ann Church '

The animal protection movement is in the midst of an incredlbly
successful effort to improve our state anti-cruelty laws. All 50 states
have enacted laws to protect animals from abuse and overwork.
Many, originally enacted in the 1800’s, have slowly been amended
to keep pace with the changing times. But in the last several years,
our success rate in improving these laws has been truly phenomenal.

Seventeen states have recognized the seriousness of cruelty
to animals and have made it a felony offense. Thirteen of these
laws have been enacted since 1989, with ten of those having been
enacted since 1993! This year already Colorado and Arizona have
made a first or second offense of cruelty a felony, and Utah
increased its fine and jail term. Hawaii, Colorado, Maryland,
South Carolina, New York, Arkansas, Alaska, Ohio, Vermont,
Alabama and others are among the states also considering
strengthening their laws. Clearly the momentum to provide
additional protection is on our side and we expect to gain
enactment of additional laws each year.

Willful and intentional animal abuse should be a felony
offense because it is a ﬂagrant act of violence few people will
tolerate. Our society divides crimes into less serious offenses, such
as vandalism, petty theft and shoplifting, which are misdemeanors;
and serious crimes which cause humans great physical or mental
harm or signiﬁcant loss of property, which are felonies. When a
mentally unstable individual douses a cat with gasoline and
lights the animal with a match or beats a dog to death with a
shovel, those are serious and violent acts and should be treated
accordingly under the law. Not only did the animal Victims
suffer horribly, but the owner experiences the emotional devas-
tation of knowing a loved one was tormented. Such acts should
be considered a serious crime and should be a felony.

Those convicted of felony offenses serve their time in a state
penitentiary and can be assessed major fines. In addition, their
criminal records can be obtained by law-enforcement officials—
an important consideration if an abuser moves from state to
state. Misdemeanors are often removed from an individual’s
record after a period of time.

Unfortunately, prosecutors sometimes fail to press a cruelty
case through the judicial process because it takes too much time
for too little result. If the abuser is only going to be fined $50 and
receive no jail time, why devote the hours? A felony offense is
taken much more seriously by all involved.

Anti-cruelty laws vary widely in their fines and jail or prison
terms. Oregon has the strongest monetary punishment with its
fine of up to $100,000 and as much as five years in jail. In
Louisiana, animal abusers can be sentenced to up to 10 years of
hard labor and a $25,000 fine. Both of these laws were enacted
in 1995. In other states, the most common jail term is one-year
maximum and up to a $1,000 fine.

Michigan, Washington, Minnesota and Oregon laws allow
the court to request psychological evaluation or counseling of a
convicted abuser—at the abuser’s expense.

Someone who has abused an animal shouldn’t be allowed
an opportunity to do it again or to take out his or her rage or
frustration on another innocent victim. Several laws include
language allowing the court to prohibit the abuser from possess-
ing the animals he or she abused. Minnesota's statute goes an
important step further by giving a court the option to limit the
abuser’s further possession or custody of other pet or compan_
ion animals for an open-ended period of time.

We also advocate passage of ”cross reporting” laws which

18

require any social worker or animal control professional Who
encounters suSpected violence to report it to the apprOpriate
agency. In homes where child or spousal abuse exists, chances
are pets in the household may also be abused. And in a home
where the dog is routinely kicked or beaten, chances are good
the children have received similar treatment. The more these two
professions work together, the more violence can be prevented. A
California law already exists to have animal control workers
report child abuse. A bill was considered, but not passed, in
Connecticut this year that would have covered both professions.

These good new laws are being enacted because we have
successfully shown legislators that people who abuse animals
may very well turn their violent tendencies toward humans.
Ted Bundy, Albert DeSalvo, and Jeffrey Dahmer were just
several of the serial killers who first abused animals before
expanding their sadistic actions to humans.

The economics of handling a cruelty case can also be a factor in
pressing the case. This is especially true in ”collector” cases involving
ﬁfty to a hundred animals or livestock cases where large animals
mustbe housed, fed, and given medical care pending trial. (The term
“collector” is used to describe someone who amasses more animals
than he or she can possibly care for. Such individuals generally
refuse to acknowledge that the animals in their custody are suffering
from neglect.) Missouri, Oregon, Connecticut, Kansas and Wash-
ington now have laws that require the person charged with cruelty——
if he or she is also the owner of the animals—to post a bond to cover
the costs of caring for the animals prior to the trial. Some shelters can
go bankrupt if forced to house, care, and feed numerous animals for
months or even over a year pending a trial.

Senator William Cohen (R, ME) recently made a statement
in the Congressional Record discussing this link between animal
abuse and human violence and urging the Justice Department
to study it more fully. Senator Cohen said, ”Perpetrators of
serious animal abuse often lack empathy and respect for life in
general. The absence of empathy is often manifested by
striking, torturing and abusing an innocent animal. Abusing
animals is a despicable act, and psychologists and criminologists
tell us those who lack empathy for animals may also lack
empathy for humans. As a result they may be predisposed to
other violent behavior.”

Many children who become abusers were first Victims of
violence themselves. Abuse may be direct physical violence
against the child, or psychological mistreatment. A beloved dog
or cat may be cruelly treated or even killed by adults in order to
hurt, punish, or intimidate a child who loves the pet. Sometimes
seeing a pet mistreated is enough to make a child reject feelings
of love, because they are so painful, and turn those feelings into
cruelty against others. Former FBI agents Robert Ressler and
John Douglas identified cruelty to animals as a keystone of the
”homicidal triad” which also includes bed—wetting beyond the
normally appropriate age and fire-starting.

Anthropologist Margaret Mead once observed, ”One of the
most dangerous things that can happen to a child is to kill 01‘
torture an animal and get away with it.” Enactment of strong
anti—cruelty laws give us a tool to prevent anyone, of any age, from
getting away with causing harm to innocent creatures. ‘a‘

 

Ann Church is the Deputy Director for Government Affairs of the
Humane Society of the United States.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

l

Cartoon Features Syndicate

 

Roger Rom

MAMMOTH PORK FACTORY GOES BELLY-UP

 

Premium Standard Farms (PSF), a giant Missouri factory hog
farming concern, has gone bankrupt after defaulting on more
than $325 million of junk-bond debt (see the Winter 1996 AWI
Quarterly).

PSF’s failure reflects particularly badly on the Morgan
Stanley Group Inc. , the New York financial giant that launched
the venture. Morgan Stanley put its considerable weight
behind PSF’s ambitious plan to integrate all aspects of factory
hog farming under one roof. It even gave the venture special

NW4 2W

 

treatment: the Wall Street [ourrzal reported in May that ”Mor-
gan offered the private placement Of junk-bond debt to only
a select few of the firm’s top accounts.”

Evidently Morgan Stanley’s confidence was gravely mis-
placed. PSF’s mass-production approach appears to be
economically unsupportable as well as inhumane and envi-
ronmentally destructive.

LANDMARK ORDINANCE LIMITS FEEDLOT SIZE

 

Rice County, Minnesota’s county commissioners have voted
to curb the proliferation of massive factory farms by limiting
size of feedlots to 500 ”animal units” (for example,1250
sows). AWI's farm animal consultant, Diane Halverson,
noted that ”the ordinance, intended to protect public health
and welfare and the environment from large factory farms,
has been tremendously controversial in the county,” pitting
supporters of restrictions on factory farms against hard-line
agribusiness.

A moratorium on building new feedlots with more than
500 animal units had been in place for two years while the
county worked out the details of the ordinance, which also
strictly regulates the size and construction of manure storage
lagoons and encourages the use of straw or other bedding.

While the new rules will likely be challenged in court, they
set an encouraging precedent that factory farming can be
successfully challenged at the local level. ‘a.’

 

Russian Tiger Patrols Crack Secret Wildlife Trade Channel

A specialized Siberian tiger protection team called Depart-
ment Tiger, together with Russian police, exposed and broke
up a major underground wildlife trade route in August.
According to the Investigative Network, which is a sponsor
of Department Tiger, the illegal trade flourishing between
Russia, China and perhaps other countries is linked to the
Russian mafia and includes a flourishing traffic in small
arms, as well as in dead Siberian tigers, which can bring up
to $60,000 apiece on the Asian black market.

Department Tiger’s investigation, which began in May,
culminated in the arrest Of two traders, Alexander Shevchenko
and Andrei Matishev, who were found to possess tiger skins
and carcasses. The two men were operating separately along
the same trade corridor. Vladimir Shetinin, Commander of
Department Tiger, said “the arrest Of Shevchenko, a major

 

BOOT COMPANY FORFEITs A MILLION

The US Fish and Wildlife Service reported that a recent investi-
gation into illegal trade in exotic reptile skins resulted in the
forfeiture Of caiman lizard skins valued at over one million
dollars, wholesale, from the Tony Lama Boot Company. More
than 13,800 caiman lizards were sacrificed for the skins.

Included in the forfeiture were 907 pairs of caiman lizard
cowboy boots and 2,554 pairs of boot vamps. In addition, a
15-Count felony indictment for smuggling and violations of
the Lacey Act was returned by a Texas grand jury against tWO
pEOple Who sold the skins to Tony Lama using fraudulent
€Xport permits.

The caiman lizard (Dracaerza guiarzerzsis) is an olive-brown
lizard that inhabits the Amazon Basin Of South America. The
SPECies is listed On Appendix II of the Convention on
Inteltnational Trade in Endangered Species (CITES). Their
lustrous skins are prized in cowboy boots, which can fetall
from $700 tO $1,000 per pair. Four lizards are used to make
one pair of boots.

trader we’ve been watching for months, disrupts one of the
biggest tiger trading channels we’ve ever seen.”

Steven Galster, Executive Director of the Investigative
Network, said that ”This recent bust will send a serious
signal to the other traders who will hopefully realize that the
cost of smuggling has just gone up.”

The Siberian Tiger was perilously close to extinction in
1994 when Department Tiger, also known as Operation
Amba, was launched. A population of this, the world’s
largest cat, had dropped from 400 to about 150 between 1990
and 1994.

The team was set up under the Russian Ministry of
Environment and financed by foreign donors including the
Investigative Network, Tusk Force, and the David Shepherd

Foundation. ‘2'

DOLLARs’ WORTH OF LIZARD SKINS

The investigation into illegal trade of reptile skins used in
the leather boot industry was begun in 1993 by Fish and Wildlife
Service law enforcement agents. The illegal trade of caiman
lizard skins was initially traced through the Fish and Wildlife
Service’s computer database that records wildlife imports and
exports governed by '
CITES. Fish and Wild-
life Service agents and
wildlife inspectors
discovered that the
US CITES permits
and Mexican export . .
permits were being ,
fraudulently acquired
and illegally used for
the worldwide move-
ment of caiman lizard
skins and products. 5,0

    

terracotta sculpture of a caiman lizard,
by Sara Morris Swetcharnik (photo
courtesy of the artist).

19

 




 

Sweeping Changes or Sweeping Under the Rug?

by Henry Spira

Does the recent announcement of sweeping new changes to
meat inspection open opportunities to push the farm animal
welfare issue onto the national agenda? Harmful bacteria
kill more than 4,000 people a year and sicken five million.
The new policy calls for a more scientific approach to
detecting E. coli and salmonella in meat and poultry. But
just like the old policy, the focus remains

on dealing with effects and ignoring causes.

It covers up the consequences of the stress— _

ful conditions in which this country’s farm .

animals are raised.

Today’s endemic disease in farm ani-

mals is not the natural order of things.

One need only see the filthy and cramped

environments in which today’s chickens,

turkeys, pigs and veal calves are raised to

see the reason for the epidemic. When

living beings are crammed indoors on a

thick bed of fecal waste and forced to

spend a lifetime choking on ammonia fumes, is it so
surprising that the end result is diseased meat?

As the intensity of confinement has increased, so has
the prevalence of food borne diseases. The direct relation-
ship between stress and disease is well documented. In
humans and other animals.

There’s an urgent need to focus on the causes of these
illnesses and on prevention. It is universally recognized that
prevention is more cost effective and more conducive to
promoting well-being than treating diseases after the fact.

Such a prevention campaign could begin by examining
the connection between the escalating abuses of intensive
confinement systems, the parallel demise of animal health

and the increase of food borne illnesses in humans who eat
them.

While our ideal is the non-Violent dinner table, we
recognize that eating habits tend to change slowly. As long
as people continue to consider animals as edibles, we need
to relentlessly pressure industry and government to de—

_ velop, promote and implement humane

’ " standards in the rearing, transport and
handling of farm animals. Reducing farm
animal suffering would benefit both the
public and the animals.

There’s another critical defect which
remains unaddressed in the new proce-
dures. The USDA is mandated, by law, to
both assure the safety of meat and at the

: same time promote the meat industry.

_ The futility of the government taking on

M conﬂicting roles was recently demonstrated

- by the ValuIet disaster. Just as in the case
of aviation, the government cannot be an advocate for food
safety while simultaneously promoting the meat industry.

Why the government should spend taxpayer dollars to
market meat products for a multi—billion dollar industry
defies logic. The health risks associated with a meat-
centered diet are increasingly well documented. Would
government money not be better spent in protecting public
health? Current thinking seems to be that the government
should get out of the business of promoting the airlines. It
doesn’t belong in the business of promoting meat either. ‘2'

 

Henry Spira, Coordinator of Animal Rights International, was
awarded AWI’s 7996 Albert Schweitzer Medal (see page 15).

World Wide Web users: be sure to visit AWI’s new website at
httpzs’i-"x-rx-x-w-x-nanimatwe]farecnm

 

Animal Welfare Institute
Post Office Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

Address Correction Requested

Won-Profit Org. j
U.S. POSTAGE 3
l PAID *
Washington, DC
Permit No. 2300

PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER

 




—

ELIMINATIN G RANDOM SOURCE (CLASS B) DEALERS
REDUCES PET THEFT AND BENEFITS RESEARCH FACILITIES

RANDOM SOURCE (CLASS B) DEALERS MARKET STOLEN
AND MISTREATED DOGS AND CATS

Random source (Class B) dealers have acquired stolen and fraudulently-obtained dogs and cats and sold
them to research facilities.

Random source (Class B) dealers often withhold the true origin of the dogs and cats they supply to
research facilities.

Random source (Class B) dealers routinely violate the law by failing to maintain accurate records
showing the source of the dogs and cats they supply to research facilities.

Random source (Class B) dealers typically fail and often refuse to meet even the minimum care
requirements of the Animal Welfare Act.

RESEARCH FACILITIES NEED NOT SUPPORT A MARKET FOR STOLEN AND
MISTREATED DOGS AND CATS—THEY CAN RELY ON ALTERNATIVE SOURCES

Research facilities can obtain dogs and cats directly from pounds at a much lower cost than through
random source (Class B) dealers.

Research facilities can obtain pure—bred and mongrel dogs and cats directly from breeders (Class A
dealers).

Research facilities can breed dogs and cats themselves.

Eliminating random source (Class B) dealers will not diminish the supply of dogs and cats.

RESEARCH FACILITIES WILL BENEFIT BY REFUSING TO PURCHASE DOGS
AND CATS FROM RANDOM SOURCE (CLASS B) DEALERS

Dogs and cats can be purchased directly from pounds for $10, sometimes even less. Random source
(Class B) dealers charge $150 or more for these same animals.

Dogs and cats obtained from breeders (Class A dealers) usually require less long-term care than animals
from random source (Class B) dealers because they are healthier and have lower rates of mortality.

The public at large will appreciate the research community's help in ending the corrupt, "cottage
industry" for stolen and mistreated dogs and cats. -

The public at large will respect the research community's effort to ensure that pets will not be stolen,
mistreated, and sold for experimentation.

Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007
Tel: 202-337-2332 Fax: 202-338-9478 Email: awi@igc.apc.org

 




