ANN COTTRELL FREE mmm
4700 JAMESTOWN ROAD -
WESTMORELAND HILLS

BETHESDA. MD 20816

April 25, 1989

Ms. Christine Stevens
AWI

P. O. Box 3650
Washington, DC

Dear Christine,

Attached hereto is the Thomas O. McShane World
Wildlife Fund report, Conservation Before Crisis
—— An Action Plan for Conservation in Gabon. X;

A copy of a letter I sent to him before he went

to Gabon is also enclosed and The New York Times
article (Feb. 28, 1988) on research in Franceville,
Gabon.

Yours,

Enclosures (3)

7; 5/4”}... L ﬂK/VX' {Abrzl- ”ff/ah dy/f’
207W [Kym/"Mud. VA Aw/Af” MK,
,(9/4 A4 /C~NM/'

 




30l-229-8 I 60

ANN COTTRELL FREE
4700 JAMESTOWN ROAD
“TSTMORELANDIHLLS

BETHESD/hgﬂrgclﬂfimz 4
I

Mr. Thomas Mc Shane

World Wildlife Fund -U.S.
1205 Twenty—fourth St. N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20037

Dear Mr. McShane,

This letter is being written in advance of our meeting today
in regard to the possibility of the naming a National Park
for Dr. Albert Schweitzer in the Gabonese Republic.

Indeed, if written after our meeting, it might have been more
relevant. But due to your imminent departure for Gabon, it was
necessary to follow this course.

Though I cannot speak officially for any of the long established
Albert Schweitzer organizations, those members with whom I have
spoken are most enthusiastic in their support. This matter will be
considered at the board meetings in order to approve statements of
vigorous support. The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship's annual
meeting and board meeting: May 1, 1989).

As you know, Mrs. Rhena Schweitzer Miller —— Dr. Schweitzer's
daughter, who resides in Livonia, Georgia -— is in whole—hearted
accord. She and Lawrence Gussman, president of the Albert Schweitzer
Fellowship and former president of the International Schweitzer
Association, have been closely associated with various officials of
the Gabon government, especially Mr. Rober Rwiri in regard to the
Schweitzer Hospital, which is administered by an international
foundation, which includes Gabonese members. (Her letter to Godofredo
Stutzin, the originator of the idea, is attached.))

The naming of a suitable natural area -— hopefully a park ——

in honor of Dr. Schweitzer would be a most generous gesture

on the part of the Gabonese government and its citizens. It

would be a signal to the entire world that Gabon is to be a
leader in preserving and protecting its natural values, even
though it seeks to develop various natural resources. Development
would not then become synonymous with over exploitation.

 




Associating the name of Dr. Albert Schweitzer with this protection
would also be attraction to international tourists. Increasingly

Dr. Schweitzer is being hailed as a major pioneer in the ecological
awakening. Hence visits to the area that so enhanced the articulation
of the phiIOSOphy of "reverence for life" would be most favorable to
Gabon's economy. (Tourism, as East African nations have learned. is
an invisible export and earner of foreign exchange. And as we

all know that disappearance of wildlife, due to over hunting,

poaching, over development etc, means loss of tourist foreign
exchange.)

The World Wildlife Fund's magnificent contribution in regard to
protection and preservation of the natural areas and wildlife of
Gabon would be greatly dramatized by the naming of an area for Dr.
Schweitzer. But most importantly, it would a tribute to the
vision of the Gabonese government.

These thoughts, I hope, reflect the attitude of my colleagues in the
"Schweitzer"community -— a community that continues to expand and soon

may include an organization devoted entirely to environmental and animal
education and protection.

I am attaching numerous materials on the Schweitzer groups. Please note
in back of my Schweitzer book, profiles on two of the Schweltzer

organizations. Also I am including materials from the Animal Welfare

Institute, headed by Christine Stevens, which awards the Albert Schweitzer
Medal.

Thank you again for your interest and c00peration.

SIncerely yours

Ann Cottrell Free

Board member, the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship.

 




By JAMES BROOKE
Special to The New York Times

FRANCEVILLE, Gabon — Scientists
here have helped to discover two vi-
ruses similar to the main AIDS virus —
one in humans, the other in monkeys —
and in doing so have focused'attention
on a rare outpost OLA-IDS research in
Central Africa.

The outpost is the International
Medical Research Center, which was
built a decade ago at a cost of $30 mil-
lion and which recently shifted its re-
search attention from other sexually
transmitted diseases to acquired im-
mune deficiency syndrome.

In July, the center is expected to
complete construction of a $1.4 million
laboratory whose stringent contain-
ment standards will allow three teams
of virologists to work simultaneously
on AIDS-causing viruses without fear
of contamination, according to Georges
E. Roelants, a Belgian microbiologist
who is scientific director of the center..

International Seminar

In April, the center is to sponsor the
International Seminar on Retroviral
Infections in Intertropical Africa -- the

first AIDS conference in Gabon, which.

is an anomaly in Central Africa be-

cause of its low rates of AIDS infection.

. Scientists from France, the United
States and 22 African countries are ex-
pected to attend.

A major topic will be the two new
virus discoveries, accounts of which
are to be published shortly in scientific
journals.

The human variant, called HIV-1 oyi,
was identified last year from blood
taken two years ago from three Gabo-

nese. The simian variant, SIV mand,j

 

Miles

100 200 "i:
AFRICA

CAMEROON

 

if iEOUAT.
, _.GUlNEA

 

 

 

The New York Times/Feb. 28, l988
Research center in F ranceville is
financed by oil revenue.

 

was identified last year from blood
samples from two mandrills.

The human variant is a substrain of
HIV-1, the main human immunodefi-
ency virus causing AIDS in Africa and
virtually all cases in North America,
Europe and elsewhere. Variants such
as the one found here show small dif-
ferences in genetic makeup. An en-
tirely separate but related virus, HIV-
2, 'has been discovered in humans in
West Africa; scientists believe it some-
times causes disease but they are not
yet sure whether it is as virulent as
HIV-l.

Caution on Discovery

All other previously known strains of
HIV-1 can cause disease in their
human hosts. But so far, the three
Gabonese in which the new variant was
found show no signs of AIDS.

Scientists here caution that it is too
early to tell if HIV-1 oyi —- the name is
derived from the initials of the first pa-

tient in which it was discovered — is a .

benign variant of the main AIDS virus.

“If I-IIV-l oyi is benign, then you can
compare it with other HIV-1 viruses
and try-to identify what gene, what pro-
tein part is responsible for making the
viruses pathogenic,” said Dr. Roelants.
“If you have that, then you can start
thinking in terms of pharmacology -—
an AIDS drug.”

Last year, scientists here and in
Paris cultured three HIV-I oyi viruses
in blood samples taken from 20 Gabo-

Virus Discove.rie§...li.§.1

~~-rnim

aLEhGaln

1'.
'- III

IHE NF W YORK TIME
WT" “WEEK“

AfricanOutpst of
mi

RY 28, 1988

The New York Times/ James Brooke

Eric Delaport, right, a French virologist, watching Leonard Bedjabaga, a laboratory technician, conduct an
AIDS-related test at the International Medical Research Center in Franceville, Gabon.

' campaign.

 

nese. Simon Wayne-Hobson, a virolo-,
gist at the Pasteur Institute in Paris,
identified the virus variant last sum-
mer.

Primate Blood Bank

The monkey virus variant was iden-
tified from samples taken last year for
a blood bank maintained by the cen-
ter’s Primatology Division since 1981.
At the installation, which is believed to
be the world’s largest blood bank for
primates, the center stores blood sam-
ples taken every four weeks from ai
population of 259 captive primates —
largely chimpanzees, mandrills, low-
land gorillas and long-tailed macaques.

Last year, the new monkey variant
was identified by two Japanese virolo-
gists, M. Hayami and H. Tsujimoto, at
the Institute of Medical Science at the
University of Tokyo. '

Previously, three other strains of
simian immunodeficiency viruses
were known: SIV macaque, SIV Af-,
rican green monkey and SIV sooty'
mangabey monkey. These viruses,

 

which apparently do not infect humans,

are related to the human AIDS viruses.
Scientists hope that by studying how
these viruses function in monkeys they
can draw lessons about the human dis-
ease.

“‘The Japanese hope to see what is
different in the molecular makeup in
the viruses,” said Robert W. Cooper, an
American veterinarian who is director
of the Primatology Division.

The international character of the re-
search here is in keeping with the mis-
sion of the 100-acre installation set in a
rolling savanna overlooking the upper
reaches of the Ogooué River.

The center’s construction a decade
ago was funded by Eli Gabon, the
French-Gabonese oil company, and its
annual $8-million budget is paid by the
company and the Government of
Gabon, which is the smallest African
member of the Organization of Petro-
leum Exporting Countries.

“The idea of CIRMF is to bring mod—
ern technology to Africa,” Dr. Roelanis
said, using the French—language ini-
tials for the research center.

 

The center employs 165 people — 25
foreigners and 140 Gabonese — and
maintains close supply and communi-
cations links with the northern hemi-
sphere.

Shift in Focus to AIDS

“We have a purchasing office in
Paris,” said Eric Delaporte, a French
virologist who directs the center’s
AIDS virus research. “Supplies leave
Paris Wednesday evening and arrive
here Thursday evening.”

When the center opened in 1979, its
primary focus was the study of the con-
nection between sexually transmitted
diseases and what scientists call Af-
rica’s “infertility belt” Gabon,
southern Cameroon and northern
Congo.

Researchers here found that a
chlamydia epidemic is a major cause
of a relatively low fertility rate in this
nation of 900,000. Gabon’s rate of 3.2
children per woman is well below sub-
Saharan Africa’s average of six chil-
dren per woman.

 

Surveys indicate that 10 to 15 percent
of pregnant Gabonese women are in-
fected with chlamydia. One study
found that chlamydia was the cause of
sterility for 76 percent of women could
not have a second child.

With the outbreak of the AIDS epi-
demic in neighboring Central African
countries, work at the center is shifting
toward AIDS virus research.

Relatively Low AIDS Rates

For now, Gabon has been spared the
high rates of AIDS virus contamination
found in neighboring Central African
states.

The nearby countries of Zaire, Congo
and the Central African Republic re-
port that about 5 percent of their urban
populations are infected with the main
AIDS virus.

Surveys in Gabon have found an in-
fection rate of 1.8 percent in Libreville,
the capital, 0.5 percent in Port-Gentil,
the second-largest city, and .25 percent
in the countryside around here.

 

“W9: :tt‘t understand why the rates
are so iUW, because we are so close to
Congo and Zaire,” said D. D. Benoni, a
virologisv studying the HIV-1 virus at
Omar l:s«._::::go University in Libreville.

Some scientists here speculate that
the thick jungle covering most of
Gabon has blocked population move-
ment from infected zones in the south
and east.

Prevention Campaign

Due to itsoil wealth, Gabon has the
highest per capita income in sub-Saha-
ran. Africa -— $3,900. Immigration is
tightly controlled. Traditionally, most
immigrants here have come from the
north -— Benin, Cameroon and Equa-
torial Guinea. These countries '_"also
have low AIDS rates. . ,

Although there have only been 17
known cases of AIDS in Gabon, the
Government has started a prevention

“AIDS is‘ a serious disease and we
are aware .of it,” Gabon’s President,
Omar Bongo, said in an interview.
.“The survey results are comforting.
But we are very vigilant because we
know the virus is spreading.” '

Scientists here fear that Gabon is
ripe for an epidemic of the AIDS-caus-
ing virus, which is spread in Africa
largelythroug'n heterosexual sex. a»

Surveys indicate that 19 percent of
adults in Libreville and 13 percent of
'adults in Franceville suffer from un-
treated cases of syphilis. Scientists sus-
,pect that untreated sores from vene-
ireal disease can speed the transmis-
sion of AIDS. '5.

Testing Blood for Transfusion's

'To head off an epidemic, Gabon last
November began testing all blood col-
lected for transfusions for the main
AIDS virus. There are now test centers
in the three-largest cities — Libreville,
Port-Gentil and Franceville. :

“I have one and a half tons of infor-
mation booklets to distribute,” Gabon’s

.I-Iealth Minister, Jean-Pierre Okias,

said before leaving last month for a
health ministers’ conference in London
that focused on AIDS. . ' .

At the hilltop research center here,
scientists have embarked on a four-
year, $400,000-a-year project to study
the new human AIDS variant. One goal
is see if HIV-1 oyi offers protection
against known pathogenic HIV-1 -vi-
ruses.

“Pathogenicity is still a question
mark,” Dr. Delaporte said of HIV-1 oyi.
“This is one more building blocksfor
our understanding of the HIV retrovi-
ruses.”

 




CONSERVATION BEFORE THE CRISIS: AN OPPORTUNITY IN GABON.

Thomas O. McShane

World Wildlife Fund

1250-24th Street, NW

Washington, DC_ 20037
USA

Short Title: Conservation in Gabon

 




Introduction

Much of the news we hear regarding the conservation
situation in Africa portrays a continent in crisis. Increasing
human population, decreasing agricultural production, loss of
forest cover and mounting debt all point to a bleak future. Even
in countries where conservationists have been most active the
black rhino is near extinction (Western & Vigne, 1985) and the
elephant population is crashing (Douglas-Hamilton, 1987). The
conservation community has responded with last—ditch conservation
efforts, commonly known as "firefighting" or "band-aid

conservation".

While it is not the point of this paper to argue where or
how funds should be spent, it does examine an opportunity to
practice "Conservation Before the Crisis". This paper describes
a country with time on its side to address its long-term

conservation and development needs.

Gabon is covered with vast areas of undisturbed tropical
forest, and this, coupled with its low human population and one
of the highest standards of livingin Africa, makes it one of the
few countries in the world which still offers exceptional

potential for conservation. The country's tropical forests are

among the most biologically diverse in Africa. Gabon provides an

 




\

opportunity to design a biologically sound system of protected
areas and to incorporate conservation planning into the country's

overall development plans.

Little attention has been paid to conservation within Gabon,

either by the Government or international conservation

organizations. The lack of rapid, uncontrolled development means
__________.,_/"\

that the country is relatively untouched by the environmental
problems that have affected other developing countries. The
Gabonese Government has begun to realize that development must
take the country's natural heritage into account and has begun to
make considerable investments in conservation. This
acknowledgment of the environment in development planning

reflects an important change in conservation awareness.

This paper reviews the status of natural resource
conservation in Gabon and proposes broad guidelines to develop a
country program conforming to local priorities and needs. rThe
paper follows upon the recommendations of a joint WWF/IUCN
project "Conservation et UtiliSation Rationnelle des Ecosystems
Forestiers du Gabon" (Nicoll & Langrand, 1986), conducted at the

request of the Gabonese Government which has now endorsed its

recommendations.

 




Biological Significance

Gabon is found entirely within the Guineo-Congolian regional
center of endemism (White, 1983), the most biologically diverse
region on the African continent. The area has enjoyed a stable

moist climate since the Pleistocene making it one of the main

refugia for African tropical forest species.

Sitting on the equator, dabon experiences little seasonal
change in its climate. Daily temperatures average near 27°C
throughout the year. The country is broken by mountain ranges
reaching up to 1,000 m in the north-west, north-east and
south-center resulting in important micro-climatic differences.
Gabon is dominated by the Ogooué River which drains most of the

country, creating numerous wetland areas near the coast.

Differences in Gabon's tropical forest structure are ,
primarily based upon rainfall distribution, topography and soils.

The result is a mosaic of important and unique habitats which any

W

 

 

WW

conservation strategy must consider.

Coastal Gabon has the highest rainfall in the country
averaging between 3,000 and 4,000 mm p.a., with high humidity
throughout the year.’ The region has a very distinct and endemic

flora. Most notable is the endemic tree Okoumé (Aucoumea

 




Llaineana) the dominant speCies and a preferred timber tree for

veneer and plywood. 'Gabon accounts for about 90% of the world's
market in 0koume. The coastal area is interspersed with numerous

lagoons, rivers and mangroves. Threatened fauna include manatee
M .

 

(Trichechus senegalensis) and leatherback turtle (Dermochelys
coriacea). This zone is probably the only place remaining in
Africa where western lowland gorilla (Gorilla g. gorilla) and

forest elephant (Loxodonta a. cyclotis) can be found on Atlantic

Ocean beaches.
”A —~__..—=4

 

Further inland rainfall decreases. In the extreme

north-east Okoumé trees and logging activity disappear completely
[leaving vast areas of primary forest still undisturbed.

Important mammalian Species include forest elephant, western
lowland gorilla, chimpanzee (Egg 3. troglodytes), mandrills
(Mandrillus sphinx), black colobus (Colobus satanus) and bongo
(Boocercus euryceros). An endemic monkey, new to science,
Qgrcopithecus solatus, discovered in 1984 in the Forét d'Abeilles

("the Forest of the Bees"), has a limited distribution in central

Gabon (Harrison, 1988).

The crests of the Belinga Mountains in north-east Gabon are
covered between 950 and 1,000 m with a type of vegetation known
as "elfin thicket" found nowhere else in Africa.‘ This mysterious
4 to 8 m tall thicket is clothed in epiphytic orchids, bryophytes

and lichens down to ground level (White, 1983).,

 




Savannas make up 15% of Gabon, primarily located in the
south-east and south-west. Gabon's savannas are thought to be
secondary, resulting from human activity dating as far back as
the Neolithic. Gallery forests are found throughout this
formation. The country's only lions (Panthera leg) were found in

the south-east savannas but are now probably extinct.

Approximately 85% of Gabon is covered in tropical forest
estimated to contain 8,000 species of plants (IUCN, 1986) and a
diverse fauna of ové;“$§B‘ESEEals and 600 birds (Nicoll &
Langrand, 1986). Forest elephant are distributed throughout the
pocountry and locally are very common (Barnes & Jensen, pers.
comm.). Gabon may hold the largest and probably most stable
population of this species in the forests of Africa. It is
equally an important sanctuary for primates, with at least 20
species recorded. Recent surveys indicate that the country has
very large populations of western lowland gorilla and chimpanzee

(Tutin & Fernandez, 1984).

Gabon thus offers the opportunity to protect not only

specific threatened species such as elephant, manatee, gorilla

iand chimpanzee but also, intact tIOPical foreSt ecosystems. If

central Africa's biological diversity is to be understood and
preserved, conservationists must act to capitalize on this

opportunity.

 




    

   
 
 

Conservation Threats

Gabon's forests and wildlife have generally been protected
from excessive exploitation because vast mineral resources,\
including petroleum and natural-gas, manganese and uranium, have
provided the income necessary to drive the economy. As commodity
prices have fallen, however, the Government has been forced to
reduce its budget (from $2.5 billion in 1986 to $1.4 billion in
1987), resulting in pressure to boost other sectors of the

eCOnomy, especially timber (Arnaud, 1987).

Logging in Gabon is highly selective, but nonetheless
significant. Its impact is two-fold: direct habitat alteration
through felling trees and constructing roads, and indirect
disturbance by opening up new areas for hunting and settlement.
Workers at forestry camps hunt with guns and snares, and hunting
usually continues long after the logging is completed since
recently constructed roads permit entry into previously
inaccessible areas. All except the smallest animals are
regularly hunted for meat and, while subsistence hunting by small
rural communities has a limited impact, professional hunters who
provide meat for larger towns can decimate the fauna of a
particular area in a short time (Tutin & Fernandez, 1987). It is

estimated that four tons of bush meat are brought into Libreville

each month.

 

 




Logging is also permitted in Gabon's existing protected
areas despite the fact that laws totally protect flora as well as
fauna within Faunal Reserves. The Ministry of Eaux et Foréts has

taken no action to revoke‘permits in any of the reserves.

The Direction de la Faune et de la ChaSse (Gabon's Wildlife
Department) is located within the Ministry of Eaux et Foréts and
is dominated by the larger Forestry Department. The Wildlife
Department requires support in the form of funding and training
to control and monitor environmental impacts within the forest.
Gabon needs trained professionals to deal adequately with

environmental protection.

Conservation Profile

Gabon is a country with few people. The official census in
l9§0 recorded 1,232,000 inhabitants. Outside organizations
estimate the population at below one million (World Bank, 1986).
An exodus from rural areas has resulted in a concentration of the
population around urban centers and along main transportation
routes, leaving vast areas of low or no population and limited

pressure on the forest ecosystem._

No national parks exist in Gabon, but there are five
”mp '

 




protected areas (fi . 1). 0f these, three are Faunal Reserves
administered by the Wildlife Department of the Ministry of Eaux
et Foréts: Setté Cama (3,500 kmz) on the southern coast,
Moukalaba (1,000 kmz) in the south—west and the Lopé (5,000 kmz)
in central Gabon (cf. Mackanga, 1986). Wonga-Wongué (2,000 kmz)
in the north-west is a Presidential Reserve and is run privately.
M'Passa (100 kmz) in the north—east is a Biosphere Reserve run by
”the National Center for Scientific and Technical Research, which

has an ecological laboratory there.

Management and protection practices vary: Wonga-Wongué is
well protected from poachers though some official hunting occurs
and a number of exotic species have been introduced; M'Passa
enjoys no special protection and as there are very few scientists
now working at the ecological laboratory, hunting has become a
serious threat. The Wildlife Department has recently built camps
at the Lope (1982) and at Moukalaba (1986), but Setté Cama is not
currently staffed and the oil company Shell-Gabon has a base

within the reserve.

The proteCted area system had its beginnings in 1946 with

the French Equatorial Africa administration (creation of

Lopé-Okanda Reserve). This structure has been modified by a

number of different laws and the protected area system expanded
by the Gabonese Government (laws of June 1960, November 1962,

April 1971, July 1982, March 1987).

 




Gabon has designated 38 species as fully or partially .
protected. The Government is currently in the process of

acceding to CITES and the Algiers Convention on African Wildlife

Conservation.

The Gabonese Government has recognized the necessity for a
forest management strategy which gives full attention to
environmental protection as well as commercial forest
exploitation. On the conservation side, the strategy should
include an inventory of forest resources, identification of

endangered species, protection of the country's flora and fauna

,.. who..-»—
a "ma-cum,” Mm m“,
w

.In-«u‘ ' ”W

‘- ..

through a representative system of protected areas, strengthening
of the present reserve system, launching of agonsgryation

awareness campaign, and adopting a policy of rational

\‘, K
‘WA _

exploitation of wildlife. On the development side, the strategy
should include promotion of rational forest exploitation without
irreversible degradation of the resource base, improvement in the
processing and marketing of timber, and increased participation

by Gabonese nationals in forestry development.

Unfortunately, the Ministry of Eaux et Foréts does not have
sufficient staff to develop such a comprehensive strategy.
Further emphasis needs to be placed on training to improve the

in-country ability to help the Government in matters related to

such a proposed forest strategy.

 




          
             
     
  

Currently there are no indigenous conservation NGO's in
Gabon. There are, however, a number of private sector groups

such as the "Syndicat des Forestiers du Gabon" which represent

   

the timber industry. Resolving issues such as logging within

protected areas and development of a forest management strategy

  
    

will require close collaboration between the private sector, the

Government and conservation organizations. The Government has

        
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
   

indicated that there is room for cooperation. The Centre
International de Recherches Medicales de Franceville and local
oil companies have also provided support for conservation
initiatives in Gabon in the past and may prove a source of

continued support.

Outline for a Country Program in Conservation

Resource conservation in Gabon is based on the following

factors:

0 Gabon is one of the most biologically important

countries in Africa.

The recent drop in commodity prices for Gabon's

traditional exports has shifted emphasis to the




forestry sector, increasing pressure on the tropical

forest ecosystem.

There is an urgent need to bring conservation into the

development process in Gabon.

There is a need to augment and improve management

within Gabon's protected area system.

Options still exist in Gabon to develop a Sound

conservation program given the country's low and
concentrated population, relative prosperity and vast

areas of pristine tropical forest.

A successful conservation program in Gabon must address the

following objectives (WWF, in litt.):

First, institutional self-sufficiency so that government
organizations, NGO's and university research centres are
effectively designing, funding and implementing conservation

activities.

Second, development of a cadre of skilled conservationists

having the full range of needed skills.

 




Third, creation of a culturally appropriate conservation

i/xethic based in local culture, causing conservation to rank high

\/// among national priorities.

Fourth, an ecological information base permitting informed

conservation and development decisions.

Fifth, systematic conservation of important biological

resources .

Sixth, a development program seeking economic progress in a
metter consistent with the long term maintenance of ecological

processes and the sustainable use of wildlife and ecosystems.

For such a broad program to be successful, it must not seek
to identify simple solutions to complex problems. Most people
who utilize natural resources practice multiple approaches-in
meeting their needs. This program must develop a similar
strategy at both the national and local levels which increase
flexibility and receptivity to change while, at the same time,

spread exposure to risk.

A major focus of the program should be related to long-term
sustainability and self-sufficiency. A strategy to address these

fundamental questions include: use of local personnel; keeping

 




recurrent costs low; stressing self-reliance and avoiding
dependency on foreign funds and exotic technologies; and, use of

local technical knowledge.

As discussed by Aka (1985), development cannot be achieved
by proxy. A country develOps itself or not at all, and it can
develop itself only through a strategy of self-reliance and
through the commitment and energy of the people. Developed
countries have the financial resources and technical expertise to
help. If conservation in Gabon is to be successful it must have
the support of the country's political leadership as well as the
support of the rural communities who rely on resources on a daily

basis.

Acknowledgments

This paper was presented to the 64th annual meeting of the

American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums in
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. World wildlife Fund has provided support
for my visits to Gabon as Well as funding for various
conservation projects. M. Fernandez, C. Tutin and A. Mackanga
made much valuable information available. I thank R. Barnes, K.
Fuller, E. McShane-Caluzi and C. Tutin for comments on the

manuscript.

 




References

Aka, C. (1985) Why is Africa not developing? West Africa (17

June) pp. 1212-1214.

Arnaud, R. (1987) Gabon: Plus tot que prévu voici l'aprés -

pétrol. Jeune Afrique, 1371 - 15 avril 1987, 37.

 

Douglas-Hamilton, I. (1987) African elephants: population trends

and their causes. Oryx 21, 11-24.

Harrison, M.J.S. (1988) A new species of guenon (genus

Cercopithecus) from Gabon. Journal 9: Zoology.

 

215, 561-575.

IUCN (1986a) Plants in Danger: What do we know?. IUCN, Gland,

 

Switzerland.

Mackanga, A.M. (1986) Developpement de l'Activité Humaine et

Necessité d'un Plan d‘Amenaqement dan la Reserve de Faune de

la Lope au Gabon. M.Sc. Thesis, Université de Montpellier,

Montpellier, France.

 




  

 

 

Nicoll, M. & Langrand, O. (1986) Conservation et Utilisation

Rationnelle des Ecosystemes Forestiers du Gabon. WWF/IUCNL

Gland, Switzerland.

Tutin, C.E.G. & Fernandez, M. (1984) Nationwide census of gorilla

(Gorilla o. gorilla) and chimpanzee (Pan 3. troglodytes)

—.L

 

populations in Gabon. American Journal Primatoloqy 6, 313

-336.
Tutin, C.E.G. & Fernandez, H. (1987) Gabon: A fragile sanctuary.
Primate Conservation 8, 160~161.

 

Western, D. & Vigne, L. (1985) The deteriorating status of

African rhinos. Oryx 16, 215-220.
White, F. (1983) The Vegetation of Africa. Unesco, Paris.

World Bank (1986) The World Bank Atlas. International Bank for

Reconstruction and Development, Washington, DC.

 




 

CAMEROUN

r
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
O

EQUATORIAL
GUINEA

5--------*

i'PASSA

 

WONGA—
UONGUE
V

, MOUWB‘A‘ , ’ ‘- --
.7 g

 

 

 

\

FIGURE 1. PROTECTED AREAS IN GABON

 

 




h...)

“Ma
3:" C 1‘
. w
v»- -9

vi *1

;

“a ,.., ,.-
.3*;Zx:€
:w’ 0.! Aymara.

wu

1»
n:

a

.33 3% .-‘

i.‘ ~-.
3
war «a

.2 k4

 




 

mun...”

ANN COTTRELL FREE
I "A001 MTES OWNR 95.0
WW TM-O RELAND I“ “.3
BET" 55” AMD 0208”

a .
a ﬁt . ‘1 ’ ‘
-".P i a _
-‘.. . k " - §_jrvw‘¥b I , ~. "=1 _ _ ;
,4n- n , ff? 711:7 1i“ I (I "I M r.
a} , . 7‘ .4 I?
: . - ., s? i ‘ c

ﬂ =
«x
“It

I /} ’ 640k 6%“ leu a ,.

/W{’(/ g6 é Mfﬂmy

ﬂ» WQWM ’ H%&uuucé 743

a, 2x MW7 ”#774,

J {5/ I40» /
ﬂ’A Mﬁ k Mf [ﬂat/(1%

Mﬁﬂﬂ» [’7‘ / Spin/175,, ‘ f Hbv/

éﬂsf;

357"? z’ 4'“ “’44“ A @107 mlérur; /

 




a: , ~~ -mmwMﬂ“~w~-...--mtug M.” .31. 22"»::‘

October 5, 1989

To: The Board of Directors
Albert Schweitzer Fellowship

From: Ann Cottrell Free
Coordinator, Summer Fellowship Program,
The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship and
The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and
Molecular Biology: Catholic University

Dr. Roland Nardone, director of the Center for Advanced Training

in Cell and Molecular Biology, Catholic University, has regretfully
concluded that —— due to new developments at the Center and in his
professional life —— the Center is no longer able to participate

in our joint program.

Among other expanded duties, Dr.Nardone is now the Editor-in- Chief
of a new journal, Clinical Biotechnology.

During these past five years, our Fellows program has been quite
demanding of the Center's time and resources. Dr. Nardone and his
staff have contributed countless hours to the program. The Center has
taken on the major recruitment responsibility through our jointly
prepared circulars/flyers, bearing the costs of printing and mailing
to thousands of institutions, sending out the requested applications
and preparing the finalized applications, with their addenda, for
presentation to our panel of judges. Dr. Nardone has participated in
the difficult selection process and has handled the administrative,
details of notification, helped the students settle in, offered them
personal guidance: as to housing and other matters. Most importantly,
he and his instructorss have provided invaluable, SOphisticated state-
of—the—art individual instruction to the Fellows, guiding them through
difficult scientific procedures and special projects. It has been a
heavy burden, gracefully donated —— one deserving of recognition.

Working with Dr. Nardone on various aspects of the program has been
pleasure for me and I only wish that the Fellowship Board could have
availed itself of his major intellect, wise counsel and good company.

And, I am sure, he would have been pleased to have met with the Board and
discussed the program, which has its aim the teaching of skills in in
vitro ( primarily tissue culture) toxicology that could lead to the
reduction and/or replacement of animals used for experimentation and test-
ing —— a program that undoubtedly would have been close to Dr.Albert
Schweitzer's heart.

We already have substantial proof that this has been a worthwhile

project and the Schweitzer Fellows have benefited from their exper-
ience, scientifically and philosophically. Within a few years' time,

our 10 Schweitzer Fellows —— all, save one, coming to us as under-
graduates -— will hold either M.D., D.V.M. or Ph.D. degrees. They'

have reported that their acquired skills have been of tremendous value
not only in their actual work, but in helping them obtain needed scholar-
ships at their respective medical/graduate schools. They report that an
awareness of Dr. Schweitzer's philOSOphy has deepened their perceptions
on the use of experimental animals.

 

m‘ ‘qu‘wnqu-mv-nm , .




    
   
 
     
    
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
    
  
   
 
 
  
   

-2-

Nowﬁlet us address the future.

     

I trust that you agree that in keeping with Dr. Schweitzer's regard for
animals that the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship should continue as a high
priority a program that is beneficial to animals as well as man. It is
most unlikely that other institutions are in the position to donate time,
energy: eXpertise to such a program, though inquiries can be made. (None
exists analagous to Dr. Nardone's.) Also additional funding would be needed
from the Fellowship or elsewhere for the students. Last Year we found it
necessary to increase the living expense stipend. We obtained an additional
one— time $2, 000 grant from another organizA ion, WARDS (Welfare for Animals
Used in Research, Drugs and Surgery.)

Instead of trying to duplicate the tissue—culture research type of
educational program, we could consider a more specific "hands on"

and/or educational animal welfare program. There is great need for such
help. We might want to participate in the The Albert Schweitzer Animal
Welfare Fund program, administered by the Society of Friends, and funded
through Dr. Marjorie Anchel and her husband, Dr. Herbert Rackow. Through

a competition among humane societies needing help for worthwhile projects,
the Fund distributes from $2,000 to $5,000 annually.. It is exceeedingly
underfunded in relation to the numerous worthy requests. ( Being on the
panel of judges, I have first-hand knowledge of this excellent program.)

Or we might consider participating in the National Association for the
Advancement of Humane Education's "adopt-a—teacher" program. (NAAHE

is an affiliate of the Humane Society of the United States.) We could
reach about 100 classrooms with funds allocated to the Fellows program.
The program includes a quarterly humane education teacher's manual, keyed
to timely and provocative animal welfare items in "newspapers" distrib-
uted to each student in the class. It is a very effective and pOpular
program. ( Incidently, NAAHE is featuring Albert Schweitzer's birthday

in its winter issue of the manual and juveniles‘ newspaper.)

We might very well consider contributing to both of these programs, by
dividing the funds earmarked for the "animal" aspect' of the Fellowship's
concerns. Fortunately, neither of these programs would entail the often
tedious and time—consuming work of either a Fellowship board or staff
member, taking the responsibility for its functioning.

I recommend consideration of those programs for 1991. But in the
meantime, I suggest for our "animal/nature" expenditure for 1990,
another use for the $3,250 usually earmarked for the Catholic University
program. This use would capture the best of the past and reach a larger
public with the Fellowship's involvement in carrying on Dr. Schweitzer
"reverence for life" philosophy. ‘

In short, I suggest the publication of a small ( approx. 48 pages)
book:

Reverence for Life in the Laboratory

Ten Young "Schweitzer Fellows" Seek Alternatives to Animals




 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
    

-3-

'This small, attractively presented book would preserve for the historical
record our unique five—year project. It would be an important addition to
our publications program and would be most appropriate during our 50th
anniversary year. In seeking endowment funds, this small book would offer
another example of our perpetuation of the Schweitzer legacy. It could be
an inspiraation to all who read it, possibly generating interest in similar
programs. Also it would be a way of saying "thanks" to Dr. Nardone in this
"ecumenical" project. To summarize: it would further the Schweitzer ethic
and the pursuit of the development of alternatives to research animals.

Specifically, it would provide suitable background on the Summer Fellows
program. It would introduce the Fellows and provide an update on their
current status. ( I expect to send out questionnaires to our Fellows

and to interview them by phone.) The heart and true message of the book
would found be in their reprinted superb essays on Dr. Schweitzer's
perspectives—on animals and their use in research. It would summarize

their scientific projects at the Center. explaining in lay terms their
potential for practical application, benefitting man and/or animals. It
would include messages from Dr. Nardone and the President or Chair of the
Fellowship. The mission of the Fellowship and the Center would be described.
One of distinguished judges, expert in the field of alternatives, would be
asked to write on that growing field of research. We could also include a
few paragraphs by or about the other judges. Quotations from the writipgs

of Dr. Schweitzer would be interspersed throughout the book. It might include
several illustrations.

It would be a welcome and novel addition to the growing body of literature
on substitutes for laboratory animals. I believe it would be well received
by the scientific and humane communities and would be reviewed in their
respective journals.

 

One thousand copies of this 48-page book can be published for less than
the $3,250 allocated yearly for the Catholic U. program, based on the
estimates I have received for type setting, design, paste-up, binding,
cover, etc. This would include secretarial assistance if needed and long
distance telephoning. ( I will assume the responsibility of assembling the
material! editing and preparation for publicationﬁ

In the interests of advance planning, it would‘good to have the Board's
approval at this meeting, and earmarking of re ease of funds to pay the
publication costs when they fall due. ( I must work within certain constraint-
~— so time is important.) Depending on the Board's pleasure the publication
could be ready for the "kick—off" ( if any) of the 50th anniversary year or
for the next meeting.

 

I am sorry that I cannot be with you at Great Barrington to answer any
questions, participate in other business and to enjoy your company. But a
vexing back problem is limiting my activities.

#######




 

Iriire:

   

 

 

NO ROOM, SAVE IN THE HEART

William D. Carey
372/1 Northamplon Shoot. NW.
Washinglon, DC. 20015

I do not think the case for the natural dignity

of living (though non-human) creatures has been

put forward in so compelling a way as this before.

'What Ann Cottrell Free manages, with her spare yet

deadly poetic constructions, is to thrust open the

shuttered regions of the mind to the proposition

that the whole wonder of life, animal 3.99. human,

is a given, not chosen, value.

That is quite a

lot from a little book, and I dare hope it finds

many a caring home.

‘

June 9,1989

Until arecently, Mr. Carey was publisher
.of Science. the AAAS weekly magazine.
Veg/5‘! 1
\ /. 5‘, "\~ , a...
.T J“ (7" - a ,,.
C Q “JI‘NL’L 78 5/pr E7 __ Lug. . 42:5 if), i (—3 I

LXL’Ui i AV? A C:

, [Ag/NW“

W7

 

 

kit/(“ﬁve ”bx/L,

‘ Lid/Le! W (“L/(d

‘1 Nut,

 

“WMA f/L'Rx/LW «

 

(,Cé/f‘ CCILCQL( (git W’ 5Z3 QB"
Cm. WW4 u L; Qua Law-4 ,- it led
1932‘ [K 4—710 (A ’Lﬁﬁnrﬂ U‘WVK ﬁéL

 

*mm Am '

 

 

 




a. son-22938160 301-22945”

CoTTRELL FREE

4700 JAMESTOWN ROAD
“7' « & ’ 5’7

BETHESDA, MD 20816

’ a?“ »
{TX/[fa ”7137;” P

K...
4;; :22 ﬁx” KC 5%

é7W/k’e‘ ./

/< is“, /ZW/7 [2%

r ///4w m I
/ﬂﬂ/~Xiﬁ/ﬂ w (ﬂy/'57 ﬁzz/€34)

 




 

In‘re: NO ROOM, SAVE IN THE HEART

William D. Carey
3724 Northmnplon Slmni. NW.
Washington, DC. 7.0015

I do not think the case for the natural dignity
of living (though non-human) creatures has been
put forward in so compelling a way as this before.
What Ann Cottrell Free manages, with her spare yet
deadly poetic constructions, is to thrust Open the
shuttered regions of the mind to the proposition
that the whole wonder of life, animal and human,
is a given, not chosen, value. That is quite a
lot from a little book, and I dare hope it finds
many a caring home.

June 9,1989

Until ;recently. Mr. Carey was publisher

.of Science, the AAAS weekly magazine.

 




THE FLYING FOX PRESS
4448 Faraday Place, NW.

Washington, DC. 20016
3012298160 301-229-7533
June 16, 1988

Dear Christine,

I am calling to your attention an essay submitted by Sandeep
Singh, one of the Schweitzer Fellows studying this summer at
the Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular
Biology at Catholic University. We should give it wide
circulation. Details about Singh are attached. He won the
all—India Nehru essay contest in India a short while ago. I
invited the Fellows to the Alliance meeting.

Also among the enclosures, some articles about the Vieques
situation. Thanks to your alert to Secretary Weinberger,
the wheels have been grinding at the DOD, Navy and Army -—
but ever so slowly. By end of summer, we may have a couple
of Army veterinarians sent there to do free innoculations,
and some euthanasia; but I can't budge them on the
spay/neuter phase. Nor are they willing to earmark funds
either to the municipality of Vieques or the Humane Society
for carrying out a sustained animal control/humane program.

Through my flyers, Marjorie Anchel/ Herb Rackow Schweitzer
Fund help, and the donations from the AGENDA article

and the story in the Associated Humane News (both enclosed), we
have raised about $5,000 and this has helped on free or
reduced rate spaying, feeding, collecting, euthanizing, etc.

Recently I have found myself head on with problems of rural
permanently tied—out dogs —— a little recognized or thought about
tragedy. We have a "getaway" place in Shenandoah County in the
Valley of Virginia, where consideration of animals, protection of
streams etc is quite lacking. Though the rural population in

this country has decreased, the prevailing philosophy of
considering animals primarily as "tools" continues. Getting humane
education -— possibly NAAHE materials in schools —— is essential if
ever attitudes are to be changed

 

We look forward to the "elephant" celebration. Thank you for
the\invitation.

Yours,

P.S. Among the contributors to the Vieques Fund was
Lucille Moses. We had a reunion by mail, both of us harking
back to those very early pre-Animal Welfare Act days.

 




THE FLYING FOX PRESS
4448 Faraday Place, N.W.

Washington, DC. 20016
301229 ~8160 301-229 7533

June 16, 1988

Dear John,

Here are the enclosures that I believe will be of interest
to you and Christine. You will note my new flyer on NO
ROOM,SAVE IN THE HEART. I hOpe you have no objections to
being reprinted. Read the letter to CS and the Singh essay
and other things, please. \\

_ aﬂfgg/

 




"reverence for life" in my research career

so H'WTEITZER SUB’HE’HSR FELLOi'il. . 1988

By Sandeep Singh

As I contemplate the ethical philosophy of Dr. Albert Schweitzer, a
deep sense of need for ethical conduct grows within me. Dr. Schweitzer's
ethics are all encompassing , applying not only to humankind, but to all of
creation. His philosophy extended ethical conductfrom its relation of man
to man to the relation of man and all other life forms on our planet. He
feels that the very existence of life on our planet is a treasure beyond
asssessment andthe preservation of life should be a major human
objective. . S .

Dr. Schweitzer posits the idea that the evolution and advancement of
any culture or civilization has three basic components : technological,
social and spiritual . The spiritual, according to him, is the most
important. The single most important problem confronting mankind as a
whole is the apparent inability of spiritual and social development to keep .
pace with ”technology. Over the ages, humans have come to occupy a
position of power and supremacy on this land largely through the
developments in science and technology. We have developed science. Since
science seeks truth, it is a natural product of the human mind. The mind is
therefore the ultimate tool that we use to explore and explain the
environment around us. But the power and the capabilities emanating from
from this power tool have blinded some of us. This power to control
sometimes stands between us and a compassionate regard for other life

forms that live with us on this planet .

 




But science as a discipline cannot give us the complete understanding
of the universe because its inherent complexity is beyond our perception . .
It can however help us better understand the mechanisms of life . Dr.
Schweitzer was cognizant of this fact. According to him, " However, a
philosophy that proceeds from truth has to cOnfess that no spirit of loving

kindness is at work in the phenomenal world. The universe provides us with

the dreary spectacle of manifestation of the wills to live continuously

opposed to each other. one life preserves itself by fighting and destroying
other lives. The world is horror in splendor, meaningless in meaning,
sorrow in joy. Ethics is not intune with the phenomenal world, but in
rebellion against it.... ." Understanding the phenomena of life as
elucidated by science seems to be reinforcing the view. But in this
hopeless desert of dead habbit where ethics seems to be so hopelessly
impractical — in the desert of pessimism devoid of loving kindness for life,
Dr. Albert Schweitzer becomes truly relevant. He added the spiritual yet
logical ingredient of a sense of Spiritual responsibility. which he
recognized as an innate trait of every human being. He viewed this
responsibility as a self discipline which ensures our integrity, ethical
honesty and conduct towards ourselves and other life forms.

He based his life on truth, the most fundamental and scientific
principle. A truthful human cannot undermine the significance of any

living creature because he cannot lie to himself and superficially justify

 




and rationalize his act of having made an unethical judgement. i.e. having
decided the fate of another lifegform out of thoughtlessness. His
philosophy of reverence for life is very deep-rooted because its basis is
nothing but the absolute truth. Clearly, He believes that reverence for life
is the absolute truth. An ethical human being cannot distort himself to
conform with his/her immediate needs in the phenomenal world. By
deciding the fate of a living organism(s), humans have taken it upon
themselves to determine and establish a heirarchy in the biosphere which
is a distortion of the self. his-therefore not the truth and hence is
unethical. Thus the basis of the philosophy for reverence of life is truly (or
purely) scientific. ltuis the logical result of truthful living. It is similar to
other schools of thought in that it takes issue with the most fundamental
of human concernswhile being unique in its practicality. It offers
scientific answers to these fundamental ethical questions and an
explaination of the answers, that it has to offer. Dr. Schweitzer's
solutions were natural. He recognized that universal love and kindness
were in accord with our natural feelings. Therefore practice of his
proposed ethics required each human being to explore and actualize the
humanity inside him/her self. In essence, the answer lies within each of .-

us, not outside. '
Nature continuously confronts us with perplexing issues of ethical
norms and standards. We have to continously weigh the fate of living

animals in against the possible benefits to mankind and the biosphere as a

whole amidst truly subjective standards.

 




Dr. Schweitzer realized the inescapability of occasional destruction of
life both inside and outside the laboratory due to human practices .
Therefore instead of establishing an objective set of rationale and
philosophical standards, he left the choice to the sense of individual
ethical responsibility . Ideally self discipline should lead one to a conduct,
which would assure that no life would be lost as a result of
thoughﬂessness:

In all research involving animal subjects ethical aspects come to
the forefront. Although the use of animals in certain experiments cannot
be completely ruled out, the development bf cell and tissue culture
technology has provided’a remarkable alternative to the direct use of
animals. As a matter of fact there are scientific, economic and moral
considerations for their increased use and development in biomedical
research. Rapidity, sensitivity and low cost are some of the very positive
and desirable attributes.

In the last decade there have been tremendous advances in the
development of specific bio-cultures and nutrient media for the
development and maintenance of in vitro cells and tissues. These
techniques have found wide application in projects ranging from bacterial
mutagenic assays, toxicity levels of biohazardous chemicals, genotoxic
metabolic pathways, carcinogenic screening , determination of oncogene
loci and diagnostic approaches of clinical cytogenetics. Many other

projects could be cited. An amazing number of different cell lines from

various parts of different species can be sustained in culture. Depending

 




5
upon the research approach and the goal, cell metabolism can be studied at
the in vivo level. The molecular approach is proving to be a powerful tool.
Molecular alterations in the biochemical processes are being increasingly
understood. In experiments dealing with correlation of cell- mediated
mutagenesis and carcinogenesis one can directly observe and assay. For
instance the molecular nature of the phosphorylating kinases which are
directly translated products of known oncogenes have been studied and
especially their deposition on the inner plasma membrane surfaces or
stored indefinitely by freezing in a cell bank. The key to achieving
substantial insight into the process of carcinogenesis and tumor formation
is the molecular approach. For instance, the fundamental differences
between the normal and neoplastic cultures seem to consist of very
specific and intricate changes in the cellular cyclic nucleotide levels,
plasma membrane fluidity, secreted proteins, changes in the cytoskeleton
and in the ion fluxes, just to name a few. There are also profound
morphological and chromosomal markers in neoplastic cells.

I wish to pursue a doctoral degree in molecular genetics and
investigate mechanisms for oncogene activation in selected cells and
tissues . In vitro techniques using specific cell lines with appropriately
engineered environment can prove to be a powerful tool in my future study.
This activity would represent the ideal fusion of my scientific interests,
academic interests and ethical standards.

My philosophy includes a belief in the "reverence for life." My

social and religious upbringing has further encouraged and inculcated this

philosophy in me.ln addition Dr. Albert Schweitzer's philosophy and its

 




practicability in life has played a very important role in shaping my view

of the world. If he was a preacher than he was a practical one . The only
befitting tribute to the great doctor would be an effort to understand the
practicability and relevance of his life to modern world problems . My
thoughts are appropriately summed in the words of French philosopher, La

Rouchefachauld, who once said :

"The renown of the great men is truly known by the means they have used

to acquire it. "

 




ALBERT SCHWEITZER SUMMER FELLOWSHIPS
FOR COLLEGE IUNIORS AND SENIORS,
GRADUATE OR MEDICAL STUDENTS

at

THE CENTER FOR ADVANCED TRAINING
IN CELL AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY
The Catholic University of America
Washington, D.C. 20064

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship and The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology are
pleased to announce the availability of two Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellowships for 1988. The Albert
Schweitzer Summer Fellowships are intended to provide well-motivated students in biology or medicine with
an opportunity to obtain specialized training in cell and tissue culture and related cell and molecular biology
disciplines. The Summer Fellows Program is entering its fourth year.

Recipients will spend 9-10 weeks, including June and July, at The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and
Molecular Biology where they will attend at least two 5-day training courses, Basic Cell and Tissue Culture
and In Vitro Toxicology, and become involved in a research program dealing with in vitro toxicology. Such
training will facilitate the development of insights and laboratory skills which may contribute to a reduction in
the use of animals for experimentation and testing.

ELIGIBILITY: The Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellowships are open to currently enrolled college juniors and
seniors, graduate and medical students. College and graduate student applicants must be majors in biology or
related disciplines, such as biochemistry. The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology
and the Catholic University of America does not discriminate on the basis of race, creed, color, national and
ethnic origin, age or sex.

APPLICATION AND SELECTION: The primary basis of selection will be academic merit and an awareness
of Dr. Schweitzer’s perspectives on the use of animals for biomedical research. Applicants must submit a com-
pleted application, a current academic transcript, a letter of recommendation from an appropriate teacher,
and a 800—1000 word essay discussing ”How I Expect to Apply Dr. Schweitzer’s Ethic of Reverence for Animal
Life in My Professional Career." Deadline for submission: April 1, 1988.

SELECTION COMMITTEE: Roland M. Nardone, Ph.D., Director of the Center for Advanced Training in
Cell and Molecular Biology; Martin L. Stephens, Ph.D., Director, Laboratory Animals Department, the
Humane Society of the United States, and Ann Cottrell Free, author-editor Animals, Nature and Albert
Schweitzer and board member, Albert Schweitzer Fellowship.

FINANCIAL AWARDS/ TUITION REMISSION: The $1,300 tuition and registration fees for the training
courses will be waived for each fellow. The Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellows also will receive a stipend of
$1,250 each from the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship to help defray travel, housing, and other expenses. (Low
cost campus housing will be available.) The Fellowship will provide an additional $750 for materials. '

SPONSORS: The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship is a non-sectarian membership organization seeking to foster
Dr. Schweitzer’s ethic of reverence for life, and to provide support for the Albert Schweitzer Hospital at Lam-
baré'né, Gabon. Its headquarters are at 866 United Nations Plaza, New York, N.Y. 10017. The Center for Ad-
vanced Training is sponsored by the Department of Biology, Catholic University of America, where doctoral
research and instruction are part of a seventy-three year tradition. Further information on sponsors may be
found on overleaf.

APPLICATION/ INFORMATION
For applications, reading list for orientation, and other information contact:
Dr. Roland M. Nardone, Director
Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology
Catholic University of America
Washington, D.C. 20064; Tel. (202) 635-6161 _ PLEASE POST

 




Aﬁoloig Jelnaalow pue "93,,
u;
Buiuiml paaueApV Jo; Jajuag aql

 

‘3'0 'NOISNIHSVM
llL ilWHad
GlVd

39V130d 'S'n 179002 '3'Q ’uoﬁuiqsem.

“WHO “30”“ N0“ VDIHHWV :IO MISHHAINH DHOHLVD Eli-1.1.

 

 

 

THE CENTER FOR ADVANCED TRAINING
IN CELL AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY
Roland M. Nardone, Ph.D., Director

MISSION: The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology has been established as a National Center to provide expert train-
ing for scientists and technicians. Its focus is on those new and established biomedically—related concepts and technologies which provide the ma-
jor impetus for contemporary research, innovative industrial applications, and sophisticated diagnostic laboratory techniques.

FACILITIES: The Center for Advanced Training is sponsored by the Department of Biology, Catholic University rof America, where doctoral
research and instruction arepart of a seventy-three year tradition. Hence, the facilities are well-suited for the programs being offered.

STAFF: All courses are staffed by experts drawn from diverse laboratories. Staff members are selected on the basis of their scientific acumen,
laboratory skill, and ability to communicate.

SPECIAL EXPERIENCE AND LOCATION: The Center for Advanced Training recognizes the unique requirements of short training courses
and their participants. Hence, it’s programs avoid ’dead time,’ and use a staggered preparation approach in order to compress into a single session
procedures which may ordinarily span a few days or weeks. Its staff facilitates the exploitation of the scientific and cultural riches of the
Washington, DC. area by registrants in the courses.

THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER FELLOWSHIP
866 United Nations Plaza
New York, N.Y., 10017

Lawrence Gussman, President — Estelle Linzer, Executive Director
Ann Cottrell Free, Summer Fellows Coordinator

MISSION: The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship was established in 1939 to assist the Schweitzer Hospital in Lambare'né', Gabon (formerly, French
Equatorial Africa) during World War II. After Dr. Schweitzer’s death in 1965, it broadened its mission to carry out even further Dr. Schweitzer’s
philosophy of “reverence for life." '

PROGRAM: As well as helping the Hospital — now managed by an international foundation — the Fellowship sponsors an American medical
students summer-duty program at the African Hospital. It contributes to the support of Schweitzer archives and museums in Gunsbach, France and
Great Barrington, MA. It publishes and distributes books by and about Dr. Schweitzer and a semi-annual journal, The Courier. In 1985 it in-
augurated the Summer Fellows program with the Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology.

MANAGEMENT: A non-profit, non-sectarian, membership organization, it is managed by a board of directors from the fields of medicine, the
law and judiciary, academia, religion, business and finance, journalism, architecture, music, and animal and environmental protection.

 




‘vr

ii.
i
E"
I

a ‘ﬂ‘ﬂ—m. . ﬂ “.w-.._. E.” ...,,.__‘_.__.‘_—_...~—_..»

1. "'
, ,. ,... p.__.l~,‘.,. .. r -

v.” w - -v -. ,—-—-¢ --w« ——v~.-‘A...~—_—_-. ‘..-.V_._ «-ma—v» -w—WF~—.>n~—-v—w~ "Y“.

WIN A NEW 19’? KTV COLOR TELEVISIQN SET
See Page 23 for details

mv~.

 




Humane News 11

PRISONERS OF PUERTO RICAN ISLAND

. . SEE PHOTO PAGE 1

Anyone who has vacationed in Puerto Rice has seen the squalor & poverty ‘

that abounds only blocks from the sumptuous hotels. Walking or driving
anywhere on the island, tourist can see the misery of starving dogs & preg-
nant cats which roam at will on the streets & beaches. ,
The small island of Vieques is just 7 miles off of the main island. Here
most of the 8,000 native population exist on welfare -& conditions are poor.
The Department of the‘Navy owns % of Vieques island. Noted author
Ann Cottrell Free visited last year & as a result of her prodding, a few
of the local people have organized the Vieques Humane Society. Although
meetings were held with local municipal leaders & the US. Military, things
have moved very slowly & the main impetus is coming from a few
Americans (innkeepers, etc.). , ' ‘ . .
Without a resident veterinarian to visit frequently, sick & injured animals
experience slow a painful deaths, animals continue to breed & there is
no program for rabies & distemper inoculations, no spay/neuter clinics
& no education programs. , ‘ ' '
Hundreds of skeleton-like dogs prowl the streets, roads & e pecially the
trash 8: garbage dump where there is no water. Dying, crip led, mange~
ridden, moaning dogs are a common sight. Litters of puppies of all ages
.‘ are routinely deposited at the dump. Starving mothers give birth in the
fields. Their milk dries up & puppies starve to death. Dogs are reportedly
hung, poisoned, bludgeoned to death. Strychnine & ground glass bait are
placed in the fields by owners of cattle, threatened by'. starving dogs. Hun-
dreds of “owned” horses wander at will, living off sparse grazing —- often
starving, falling ill or struck by cars.
Rebecca Kitterman, a long-time resident of Vieq'ues, has seen many hor-
rors including a horse wandering loose set on fire by kids with
gasoline. Although it didn’t die, it was left blind. A stolen horse was rid-
den until its hooves broke & was left living in pain for 5 days. A horse
with no owner was ridden by kids until it dropped. it was left on the side
of the road for several days until the police shot it. A dog was taken to
the dump & shot but not killed. it was left until someone else beat it to
. death with a stick.

The municipal dum
are brought.

. A mange-encrusted dog e the municipal ‘

' dump.

Reports of a Marine on the base putting cats in pits in the ground to see
how long they would live. Also, this same Marine has allegedly put cats
on live electric wire. Another Marine is said to have set cats on fire & to
have thrown them against a wall. One cat's eye was reportedly knocked
out of its socket. One Marina's pet dog was reportedly taken by other
marines & put in a washing machine with bleach. Two young boys took
a dog to'the beach & set it on fire with gasoline. The dog ran into town
on fire & died an agonizing death -'- no one to put it out of its misery.
Puppies picked up by boys in town & taken, to to the beach where they
were killed, cooked & eaten. Kittens thrown into the ocean by boys while
the mother cat ran frantically back & forth on the beach trying to save them.

‘ The Vieques Humane Society & Animal Rescue can use assistance to
buy dog food, euthanasia supplies. For more information, write to Penny

Miller, Treasurer of the Vieques Humane Society at PO. Box 747, Vie-
ques, Puerto Rico 00765. However, although the efforts of this group are
an immediate stop gap measure, long range plans must be made to en-
sure that such cruel horrors be stopped. The greatest impact can be made

by sending letters to Under Secretary of the Navy H. Lawrence Garrett,

Washington, DC. 20350. ' .

Letters should be polite but point out that the Department of the Navy
has a continuing responsibility to this area; although talks & promises
started one year ago, very little progress has been made. Animal lovers

are concerned that the situation be corrected but that creating a furor

might create a situation in which they would want a clean sWeep by poison
which must be avoided at all costs. We urge that you write a short letter
of concern today. We thank you for your efforts.

. X

's

A beautiful beach on Viequeslsland. Beyond the shore area is pov rty, '

neglect, & animals exist under cruel conditions.
. \

A bloodedwinlured dog curls up a waits to die._ On Vieques island,
puppies are rounded up once a week 1. taken by feny to a veterinarian
who euthanizes them. '-

PHOTOS COURTESY: ANN COTTRELL FREE

 




 

 

 

ERNATIONAL

population expanse.

'«t

 

 

 

ICE GREANVILLE

terest in the matter remains crucial,
however, if policies are to be
adopted in time to stem the
destruction of yet another major
animal habitat. Main source:The
Washington Post and The ANIMALS’
AGENDA correspondents.

PUERTO RICO—

O
yleques _ Hell
In Para Ise

Conditions for animals (and
many people) are wretched
throughout Puerto Rico, long one
of the U.S.’s most embarrassing ex-
amples of chronic poverty and
underdevelopment in its own
backyard. But in few spots of the
commonwealth are animal prob-
lems as clear and pressing as on
the small island of Vieques, just a
few miles off the main island.

Vieques, which measures 21
miles by five miles, is home to
about 8,000 human beings, most of
whom are on welfare. It is also
home to at least 6,000 stray cats and
dogs, and a Comparable number of
horses—since just about everyone
on the island seems to ”own" a
horse, even if little or no attention
is given to their well-being. To
complicate matters further, there’s
no resident veterinarian on the
island, a fact which has compelled
Dr. Cesar Gonzalez, a well-known
Puerto Rican vet, to travel often to
Vieques in order to lend a hand
with some of the most urgent
cases.

For people coming from the

 

States (or Europe), Vieques can
conjure up a Dantesque image of
an animal hell. Hundreds of
skeleton-like dogs prowl the
island’s roads, streets, and fields
searching for scraps of food or
merely a resting place safe from
human interference. Many animals
seek refuge or end up abandoned
at the municipal garbage dump,
where there is no water, and rotten
carcasses crawling with maggots
constitute one of the few possible
avenues of sustenance. There,
among burned out cars, sheets of
rusting metal, and mounds of
trash, mange-ridden dogs in ad-
vanced stages of disease and star-
vation eke out a painful existence.
Quite often, bitches give birth in
the rusted ruins, but their milk
soon dries up and the puppies
starve to death. Meanwhile, all
over the island, dogs are hung,
poisoned, bludgeoned and
macheted to death, especially by
cattle owners who place strychnine
and ground glass bait in the fields
to deter attacks by starving dogs.
(Poisoning of animals is wide—
spread in Vieques, with hundreds
of incidents reported.)

Other animals don’t fare much
better. Hundreds of horses and
cows wander all over at will, walk-
ing skeletons often dropping to
their deaths. Horses alone are said
to cause ten vehicular accidents a
week, but when injuries result,
there’s no one to euthanize the
animals.

Stories of wanton cruelty
abound. Rebecca Kitterman, a
long-time resident of Vieques, pro-
vides the following examples:

0 A horse wandering loose was set

 

(a!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.3.

on fire by kids with gasoline. He
didn’t die, but the bums left him
blind.

0 Another horse with no owner
was ridden by kids until he
dropped. He was left on the side
of the road for several days until
police shot him.

0 Kittens were thrown into the
ocean by boys while the mother cat
ran frantically back and forth on
the beach trying to save them.

0 A dog was taken to the beach by
two kids and set on fire with
gasoline. The dog ran into town on
fire and died a horrible death. No
one put him out of his misery.

0 A US. Marine, at the local Navy
installation, is reported to have set
cats on fire and to have thrown
them, ”for fun,” against the wall.
One cat’s eye was knocked out of
its socket. The same Marine is said
to have put cats on live electric
wire, and in deep pits, to see how
long they’d live.

Can anything be done to rectify
this atrocious situation? The Vie-
ques Animal Emergency Fund has
been set up by concerned in-
dividuals in Vieques and the US.
to carry out a two-part program.
In the first phase, funds are being
sought to collect unwanted pup-
pies and strays for humane
euthanizing, rental of a holding
place, and possibly a free spay-
and-neuter facility. Eventually the
group hopes to ”assist the
municipal government in applying
to the Defense Department for a
sizeable grant for an adequate
animal control and protection pro-
gram (the US. Navy owns two-
thirds of the island). The measure
is also likely to help the island’s

Human and nonhuman animal misery in Vieques.

- Emergency Fund,” 4700 Jamestown

 

Zhrm.

DATELINE: l

Wei.“ rm mans."

prospective tourist business, since
the animal problem could prove a
public health threat and a poten-"
tial visitor ”turn off." Readers
wishing to help can send checks.
payable to the ”Vieques Animal“

Road, Bethesda, MD 20816. For‘
further details phone Ann Cottrell 4
Free, one of the main organizers of:
this fund, at (301) 229-8160. Main'
sources: Ann Cottrell Free, ”Barry,
Morris (The San Iuan Star).

UNITED KINGDOM (I)—
Disposing of
Unwanted
Chicks

Britain’s Ministry of Agriculture
is circulating a leaflet that aptly-
reflects our species' matter—of-fact
attitude toward factory-farmed
birds. Entitled, ”Disposal of un-
wanted day-old chicks, turkey »
poults and hatchery waste,” the‘
leaflet points out that chicks and _
poults are disposed of because, in j
the case of layers, the male chicks ’,
are unwanted (only a small percen-
tage is used for breeding pur-
poses), and, in the case of poultry
birds, the crime is showing "signs
of poor quality or disease.”

The pamphlet advises against
relying on ”smothering in a
polythene bag, drowning, or by
using irritant liquids.” Instead, the ,
authorities recommend 100% car- '
bon dioxide gas, which, it is
claimed, "depresses nervous activ-
ity and causes little or no distress '
to the birds, which rapidly lose
consciousness and die within five

 

at»-.. wq-ﬁuwv»

 

 

 

s' AGENDA

MAY 1988

, -.. . . . . . . j o " . .
‘ ' ~ . . ‘ - mew ~ ..... . A ».~_i.~. .-..=.~.....«.Lv.........._....“an“...s
‘ ’ \-.-Mv~~.a 'v-w. ~m.»~-4‘~va~er¢-<lmH-hWIhmA\*mm:rASMLLw1—b"iv wan—m...» y...“

 

 

MAY 1988

The ANIMAI

i

 




i

l
i

, .—

CAT FANCY JUN; ‘988

 

" BOOK
{@292 REVIEWS

BY KAREN BRADEMEYER

Animal Rights
: From Three
3 Perspectives

t
t-
k
t
.‘
1

THE RIGHTS OF our animal friends

i are often'a subject of controversy.

5 The authors of the books reviewed

1 this month have worked in the heart

l of the struggle to promote animal

, welfare in areas such as laboratory

2 research, factory farming and killing

l for sport. They know their subject

i intimately.

2 Ann Cottrell Free's book, No

i Room, Save in the Heart, is a

i powerful and moving collection of

5; poetry and prose. She is unasham-

' edly anthropomorphic in describing

" the suffering of animals caught up in

man's web. She offers a stark contrast

I‘ between the beauty of nature and the

: monstrous effects that our civilization

_ has had on some animals. The sto-
ries and poems reflect her interpreta—

, tion of Albert Schweitzer's philosophy

. of “reverence for life.” Living by that
rule is very demanding but can be

rewarding as well. I

i The poetic format pierces through

i all the animal rights arguments, pro

and con, and touches our hearts direct-

3; ly. We feel the pain, fear and anxiety

; that men have forced on defenseless

" animals. There are only two short

. poems specifically about domestic

’ cats, neither of which deals with cats
suffering; one is about the peaceful-
ness of a sleeping cat, and the other

‘- has a cat diggingin a flower bed.

. Dogs are not so fortunate, and the

.- poems about them reflect the

1 ambiguity of our relationships to our
pet animals. The book has poems

about the suffering of a laboratory

} dog, a dog killed on the interstate,
one killed at a humane society and
so on. While cats are not described in

; these situations, the poems could just

l as easily apply to them. As cat

owners we need to be concerned not
only with the welfare of our own‘
pets, but also the fate of other less
fortunate species.

This is an extremely powerful book

: and i would recommend that a reader

have a purring kitten on his or her

.~:-_1':l‘aplwhen reading it. Things are not
perfect in the house of nature, and it

is extremely reassuring that one little

 

N'o ROOM.
SAVE
[N THE HEART

 

Ann (.‘umcli Free
1h: Hymn for i‘um

- o ' ' '. .. ‘C 1- " a 6.
.-C3::D~,§:g 595C335: ﬂu} ,v9‘ ‘3» 5' w-

9,-

-‘

 

No Room, Save in the Heart.
Ann Cottrell Free. ( The Flying Fox
Press, 4448 Faraday Pl. NW,
Washington, DC 20016), 1987, 121
pages; softcover. $6.95.

Christianity and the Rights of
Animals. Andrew Linzey. (The
Crossroad Publishing Company,
370 Lexington Ave., New York, NY
10017), 1987, 208 pages; softcover,
$14.95.

The Case for Animal Rights.
Tom Regan. (University of Califor-
nia Press. Berkeley, CA 94720),
1983, 425 pages; softcover, $12.45.

 

 

 

 

portion of nature is in harmony with
us. The love that our pets express
toward us helps us cope when read-
ing about some of the evil that man
has wrought.

Christianity and the Rights
of Animals, by Andrew Linzey.
explores the issue of how we treat
animals from a religious perspective.

in recent years, increasing concern

has been expressed by Christians
regarding our attitudes toward ani-
mals. Previously, the words of such
Christian theologians as St. Augus-
tine and St. Aquinas were used to
justify abuse and neglect of animals.
Linzey points out that their remarks
may have been taken out of context.
In keeping with the general lack of
interest in the topic among secular-
ists, no Christian writer had specifi-
cally presented a theology of ani-
mals. Linzey seeks to remedy this by
offering the first comprehensive and
well-argued theological critique of
current practices and by critiquing
our historical Christian traditions
regarding animals. He found that
there is much more biblical support
for animal rights than for the notion '
that they have no rights. He seeks to
put man back in his proper place in '
nature as a part of God's creation
and shows the compatibility between
Christian beliefs and a concern for
animal welfare.

if Andrew Linzey is the theological
leader of the animal rights move-
ment, Tom Regan is its philosopher.
The Case for Animal Rights is
considered a classic in the field. With
cool logic, Regan develops a cumula-
tive argument for the necessity of
animal rights and its consequent
implications for ethical theory. He
refutes the notion that animals are
“thoughtless brutes" and offers evi-
dence of their sophisticated mental
processes, including beliefs, desires,
memories and expectations. They
may not reason as we do, he says,
but they feel pleasure and pain and
are capable of affection and loyalty.
Like us, animals are individuals who
have a value independent of their
usefulness to others.

Each of these three books takes a
different look at the complex issue of
animal rights. The authors are united
in their belief that man must change
his attitude toward animals to one of
respect for the animals’ needs, wants
and desires. it man cannot learn to
love and respect animals, then he
may be doomed to destroy his natu-
ral environment and everything in it. "

 




ll 'lL'
ANlMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

 

no. BOX 3650 WASHINGION. DC 20917 -» FALL I987 VOL 36. N0. 3

 

. Living free

.Not often, but occasionally, a
book comes along with a love for
all creatures so strong and so
articulate that the very pages
,seem to shimmer. Such a book is
NO ROOM, SAVE IN THE
HEART, a slim paperback by
Ann Cottrell Free. She is an
author who has, from her very
earliest days as a writer, dedi-
cated herself to the appreciation,
glorification and perception of
life. Her interest is so broad and
encompassing that the subtitle
tells it all, “Poetry and Prose on
Reverence for Life—- Animals,
Nature and Humankind.”

 

 

7

45:: - g ‘ 9.
Ann Free covers a lot of terri-
tory, from a five line poem on the
ant to mini essays in verse on
jane Goodall and James Michener.
You’ll be touched by the “Stir
Crazy Laboratory Dog;” brought
up short by “A Veal Calfs
Thoughts” and delight in the
deft irony in “Loneliness” and
“Credo”. This isn’t really a book
to review, it has a .quicksilver
quality that eludes description or
summation. It is, quite simply, a
book to read through in one sit-
ting, read in snatches, read aloud
to a friend or savor oneself. It is a
book to keep and to reread and
to tell others about. _ .

——J0hn Gleiber

 

 

No Room, Save in the Heart is available
from the Flying Fox Press, 4448 Fara-
day Place, NW, Washington, DC
20016. The price is $6.95 postage paid.

 

 

 

 

 




I

.i
gt

CQXQQQ maﬁﬁﬂgﬂﬂ

til-

\‘A

0
.

ll

“Uniquely beautiful—a vibrant mosaic of revered creatures and tempered emotions.”
—John Kullberg, President, ASPCA

g?

‘ 1

l?

“A book of wonder, suffering, Joy and sorrow. 1t awakens the heart of compassion."
- - - —Michael Fox, Vice Pres., Farm Animals and Bioethics, HSUS

l.
J

U

“It belongs 1n the library of every poetry-loving animal advocate."
—Kim Bartlett, Editor, The ANIMALS' AGENDA

.31.
-. 1.? ill

2%

|
f
i

“Ann Free’s deep feeling and great kindness ﬁll each page." _
—-Ingrid Newkirk, Director, PETA

“It made me weep, but it is a unique and wonderful contribution.”
' —Evelyn Kimber, CEASE

No Room, Save in the Heart '

Poetry and Prose
On Reverenee for Life——

by

'Ann Cottrell Free
(Author-editor, Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer)

“Thought-provoking, this book will leave a lasting impression with all who read it.”
-—Jane Goodall, Director, Gombe Stream Research Center, Tanzania

“1 have read much on nature and animals, but this book 15 the TOP!”
‘ —Faith A. Senior, Editor, The PET GAZETTE

“A lovely, touching book that reaches out to all."
' —Cleveland Amory, President, The Fund for Animals

 

: “Everyone should take this Journey int6 the mystical world at animals.”
—Syndee Brinkman, Pres., Nat’l Alliance for Animal Legislation

“This book touches your consciousness.”
' -—Phyllis Wright, Vice-Pres., Companion Animals, HSUS

. “Superb . . . To be read by all who cherish the interwoven threads of Nature’s oneness.”
——Edwin Duvin, ANIMALINES

‘- - The Flying Fox Press
_ $6. 95 postpaid 4448 Faraday Place N.W.
Inquire for quantity rates Washington, DC. 20016

i "' \"-'«n - 7‘." _, .

 




Report submitted by '
hAnn Cottrell Free Albert Schweitzer
. Fellowship annual
meeting, May 23, 1988

ALBERT SCHWEITZER SUMMER FELLOWS PROGRAM, 1988

Two highly motivated, well qualified college students, class
of 1989, have been selected for study this sUmmer at the Center
for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology, Catholic
University of America, Washington,D.C. The program is jointly
sponsored by the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship and the Center for
. Advanced Training. It is now entering its fourth year.

The Fellows were chosen by a committee composed of Center
Director, Dr. Roland Nardone; Dr. Martin L. Stephens, Director of
the Laboratory Animals Department, Humane Society of the United States,
and Ann Cottrell Free, Fellowship Board Member and Program Coordinator.
The goal of the program is to furnish state-of—the art training in
tissue Culture techniques that may result in reduction/replacement of
the use of animals in testing and research. Criteria: academic record,
faculty letters and an eSSay on "How I Expect to Apply Dr. Schweitzer's
Ethic of Reverence for Animal Life in My Professional Career." '

Brief biographies of the 1988 Summer Fellows follow:

, §ANDEEP SINQH, age 21, Home: New Delhi, India, Class of '89,

3 Bloomsburg University, Bloomsburg, PA. Biology Major. Grade

point average, 3.53. Intends to pursue combined Ph.D./M.D. '

degrees concentrating on molecular genetics. Selected as a 1988 ‘////
intern in clinical cytogenetics at Geisinger Medical Center,

Danville, PA.- Served as tutor for chemistry and biology 101

and_as reference library assistant. Extra curricular: organizer of
college symposium on international peace and of its International

Day. Sports: field hockey, soccer, cricket, ping pong. Contributor

to campus newspaper. 1983 winner of the Nehru National Essay Contest,
award conferred by President of India. He has also received awards
for essays on the life and philosophy of Mohandas Gandhi.He was
an—all India merit scholar. (His perceptive essay on Schweitzer—animals
and spiritual, social and techological compatability to be circulated
and/or published.)

BQNNIE MYERS, age 19, Home: Philadephia, PA., Class of '89, Neumann
College, Aston, PA , biology major, grade point average, 3.6 . Intends

to become a research scientist, with special interest in molecular
biology. A few years ago, he participated in the high school level

tissue culture program at the Center for Advanced Training, sponsored

by the American Fund for Alternatives to Animal Research. He has served

as biology lab aide at Neumann and as a hematology aide at Crozier

Chester Medical Center; member of the Medical Technology and Biology clubs.
Served Was editor-in-chief of college yearbook. His essay reveals deep
religious faith that vigorously extends itself to protection and respect for
animals and nature. Inspired by eXample of Dr. Schweitzer, he wrote,

"Just as Albert Schweitzer taught through actions, so do I desire."

 




 




VTECXIESIHRHMUUNE:SKXCHETY’
&:
ANIMALRESCUE

delou: \ 
Vieques, Puerto Rico; 200765

(309) 741-4661’ U. S. Mainland:

‘809, 741-8666 June 1988* 4700 Jamestown Road
. a - Bethesda, MD 20816
(301) 229-8160

Dear Animal Friend:

In the name of the Vieques Humane Society & Animal Rescue, Inc./
Vieques.Animal Emergency Fund may I thank you for your immediate,
warm—hearted reaponse to the sad situation on our little island.

In our efforts to lighten ~and eventually eradicate- the suffer—
ing of the many stray animals we are working toward public aware-
ness and education, sterilization, adOption, leash/fencing ordi-
nances, the enforcement of existing abandonment and cruelty laws,

and —fo# the poor creatures beyond our help- humane euthanasia.

On.a rural island like ours, the Society's concern can not be
limited to just cats and dogs; thoughtlessness and'cruelty extends
to the larger animals as well. Horses and cattle, wandering
freely along the roadways, are often hit by cars and trucks. ﬂith
broken legs and other injuries they are no longer useful to their
owners and are left to slowly die of hunger and thirst.

To combat all these.problems, our main goals are: l. educating
the local pOpulation, 2. compelling the local government to
enforce the existing animal laws; 3. convincing the municipal
assembly to pass strong animal protection ordinances; and,

4. establishing an animal shelter in cooPeration with the local
government.

Although our organization is still in its infancy, we have been
able to establish feeding programs for stray animals at various
points on the island; low—cost sterilization/neutering clinics
for the pet owners with limited financial means; humane eutha—
nasia for the animals beyond any help; and an adOption program
in conjunction with the Animal Shelter at Roosevelt Roads Naval
Base. ~

But, as pointed out above, much more needs to be done. We are
totally dependent on our own fund-raising programs and the contri~
butions that are mailed to us. Financial gifts, therefore; have
been a great help and encouragement to keep us going.

If you are-interested and have the time to further support our

 




work, we would Frently nopreciete it if you would'W?ite a note

to our mayoress, The Hon. Manuela Santiago, City Hall, Vieques,
P.R. 00765; or The President, Municipal Assembly, City Hall,’
Vieques, P.R.A 00765; or The Hon..RnfaeI_Hernendez Colon,
Governor of Puerto Rico, La Fortaleza, Old San Juan, P.R. 009013
or Rear Admiral John A. Moriarty, Commander U.S. Naval Activities
Caribbean, Roosevelt Roads Naval Station, Ceibn, P.R. 00635,
implorinn to help us in accomplishing our goals for the welfare
of the stray animals on the island.

Again, thank you in the name of the Vieques Humane Society and

Animal Rescue, Inc./Vieques Animal Emergency Fund for expressing
your concern.

Sincerely,

Qhristl E. Mitchell
President

 




5 301-229-8160
é 301—229-7533

AbUJCOTTRELL REE
4700 JAMESTOWN ROAD
WESTMORELAND HILLS

BETHESDA, MD 20816

June 27, 1988

. 2 é
._ 4‘ ‘ ,.
' ‘sm

Dear Christine,

Elissa, Virginia Handley and I enjoyed the elephant
reception immensely. Let us hope that a good bill will
emerge and soon! '

Not long ago in New York at a Turtle Bay street fair, I
stopped at table where two women were selling ivory
trinkets. Needless to say I asked them if they didn't feel
bad about contributing to the decimation of the African
elephant. Of course, not at all. Its all ok with Fish and
Wildlife Service? the elephants are not endangered and then
they handed me the attached paper.

I wrote you the other day about Vieques, and sent along
copies of recent articles. I was wondering how the Navy
would handle the letters they are recevingfo Someone sent

me a reply. . I think —- except for a misprinted word in the
middle of the letter —— that it spoke the truth, told it as
it is. I didn't know we would be mentioned. I have

met with Mr. Reinhard several times. He appears to be a very
nice person. The delays are awful. though. HSUS role, I
believe, will be minimal, as all Phyllis Wright promised

was securing of vaccines. Now the Army says it will furnish
it. Whether Barbara Cassidy will go down there, I do not
know, but rather doubt. The last paragraph spoke to the
need: donations from the outside. Also we must get a lot'of
Spanish language animal care literature down there to these
people. ‘

 

Patrice Greanville of AGENDA and I discussed the need for
more Spanish languge material for all of Latin America.
Patrice is Chilean. I am writing John Walsh. He knows about
Vieques, but said he was over extended.

At some point, you may want to carry something about Vieques
in the AWI Quarterl . I think what we would want to push —-
as I believe the Department of Defense might be receptive —-
would be visits by the Army vets at certain intervals,

maybe quarterly. I am not keen on getting a shelter unless
there is money and know—how to maintain it; otherwise it
could be an animal concentration camp run by ignorant
people. There are too few caring Stateside Americans with
know—how to ride herd on a shelter for years and years.

I am keeping abreast of the situation as much as possible,
but to know the whole story might mean a trip back down
there.

Again, many thanks for your help in writing to Secretary
Wienberger. It really electrified the DOD. But we mustn'let
the sizzle fizz e!

Hastily, pxhy/y4rt

 




DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY
(SHIPBUILDING AND LOG1STICS)
WASHINGTON. DC 20360-5000

1 6 JUN 1988.

The Under Secretary of the Navy asked me to let you know
that your concerns about the stray animals on Vieques Island,
Puerto Rico, are important to us and are being addressed.

We first learned about the plight of these dogs and cats
from Mrs. Christine Stevens of the Animal Welfare Institute. She
sent us a report by Mrs. Ann Cottrell Free. We then asked the
U. S. Army for help since they provide veterinarian services for
the military serVices. The Army had their Puerto Rico staff on
the main island visit Vieques and assess the extent of the
problem. This confirmed the need for help.

Since then, several meetings have been held both in Puerto
Rico and Washington with, among others, the Humane Society of the
United States, local Vieques officials, the U. S. Department of
Agriculture staff, and private Puerto Rican veterinarians. As an
outgrowth of these meetings, we were above to take advantage of
the combined expertise of all involved.

I am pleased to report that to—date we have been able to
obtain the necessary waiver to use Department of Defense
resources to help treat privately owned animals and are planning
with the Humane Society to shortly inaugurate a jointly sponsored
humanitarian effort to vaccinate as many animals as possible, and
also identify those animals that need other treatment,
spay/neutering or euthanasia.

I must emphasize, however, that educational programs are the
key to the long term success of the Humane Society efforts. Army
veterinarians plan to consult with Ms. Penny Miller about her
developing a community awareness program. Unfortunately, local
civic and business leadership is just becoming aware of the
problem, and the extent of their involvement for long term
support is not clear. Any personal and financial support,
regardless of how small, you can offer directly to Ms. Miller
will help this program grow.

Sincerely,
E. D. Reinhard, Jr.

Deputy Director
Health and Safety

 




VIEQUES HUMANE SOCIETY
&
ANIMAL RESCUE
Box 1012

Vieques, Puerto Rico 00765
(999) 74" 4136/ . U. S. Mainland:

(309) 741-8666 4700 Jamestown Road
Bethesda, MD 20816
(301) 229-8160

Dear Friend:

The Vieques Humane Society and Animal Rescue, Inc. is in great need of your

help. The Society was incorporated in 1987 to promote education, legisla-
tion and protection for the animals on our Island.

In our endeavor to alleviate the suffering of the many stray animals, we
are working toward public awareness through education, sterilization, leash
and anti—abandonment laws, adoption, and for some of the poor creatures
beyond our help — humane euthanasia.

But our funds are running low and we need your help, either in form of a

donation, a regular monthly pledge, or in joining the Society as a member.
‘ Please help us so we can continue helping our animals.

 




  
     
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
     
 
  

301-229-8160
301-229-7533

ANN COTTRELL FREE
4700 JAMESTOWN ROAD
WESTMORELAND HILLS

BETHESDA, MD 20816

October 27, 1987

Dear Christine,

Again, let me thank you for calling the Viegues problem to
the attention of Secretary Weinberger. As you know, the
Navy is passing the problem on to the Army Veterinary
corps. Just how far the latter will go in helping to
implement the kind of program that will be necessary over
the long haul, I do not know. But I am attaching my memo
which I hope will serve as a basic planning paper.

If the Army veterinarians could go ahead with a euthanasia—
spay neuter program right away, that would be fine. They
could use a Marine facility there. But I do not believe
that this should be the permanent program, for I doubt very
much if any civilian —— municipal, Vieques Humane Society,
general community ——,would be included in a military
solution. Keeping the civilians involved should be to the
military's best interest, as it makes Viegues less of a
colony or occupied territory. A few years ago, resentment
among civilians ran high over fishing rights etc. More and
more Puerto Rican—born persons are becoming involved in
environmental and community improvement.

Clearly, discussing this situation by letter/memo is not the
best way to proceed. I hope to meet with some of the DOD
—Navy—Army officials. One of them sent me a copy of
Undersecretary Garrett's October 1 letter to you. Also I
have a c0py ofa letter from the Roosevelt Roads admiral to
WSPA's John Walsh,which referred the responsibility to

the Army veterinarians.

The Navy must do better than this. It has a grave
responsibility in Vieques —— animals are roaming all over
its lands. Several years ago I tried to get the Navy to
bring some help to the starving cattle on its Vieques
facilities. Nothing happened. At least, hay could have been
brought in, or cattle euthanized. The cattle owners are
given permission to use the Navy land. In fact, the Navy
stimulated the cattle raising. The horse matter is discussed

in my memo.

I believe that we can achieve the goals set out in my

 

memorandum:funds from éﬁe DOD components/, per s working
through the Viegues Economic Adjustment’Trogram—DOD. Your
assistance -- if you think well of the approach —— would be
invaluable.

I look forward to seeing you at the reception for your
significant new book. Thank you for the invitation.

Best’//// /-—""'
/ (/I’I’)

   




VIEQUES HUMANE SOCIETY
8:
ANIMAL RESCUE

Box 1012
Vieques, Puerto Rico 00765

(809) 741-8368 U. S. Mainland:
(809) 741-8666 4700 Jamestown Road
Bethesda, MD 20816

October 25, 1987 (301)229-8160

Mr. Wallace BishOp

Senior Project Officer

Office of Economic Adjustment
The Department of Defense

Suite 200 —— 400 Army-Navy Drive
Arlington, VA 22202

Dear Mr. Bishop,

On Friday, October 23, you requested a copy of the budget the

new Vieques Humane Society and Animal Rescue had drawn up for

the handling of the island's severe animal problem. This tentative
budget was formulated by several officers of the Humane Society
and myself (Board Member, Washington Representative) in
consultation with the Director of Animal Control and

Sheltering, the Humane Society of the United States.

As mentioned on the telephone, this matter had not been

brought to your specific attention earlier, because

we wanted first to get organized and incorporated, identify

our specific goals and to begin building a "track record" based
on volunteer hard work and donations from concerned humanitarians
in Vieques, the main island and the mainland U.S.A. We have
received since last Spring, more than $3,500 and an equal
amount in pledges, but, of course, that is only a 'drop in

the bucket' for ad hoc, emergency needs (food, euthanizing,
subsidized surgical spays, printing, etc.) As of today, we
have about $2,000 in the treasury.

We are pleased that this deplorable situation has been
recognized by the Department of Defense (the Secretary's
office, the Office of Economic Adjustment, the 0.8. Navy,
and the Army's Office of the Surgeon General) as well as the
Vieques municipal government. Most particularly we are
gratified that corrective steps are being considered. Since the
problem was brought to public attention by members of the
Vieques Humane Society, that society would like to be

a part of the planning process and be considered for
handling, under contract, some of the corrective operational
functions, as is the practice in many parts of the United
States, including the District of Columbia.

 




-2-

A permanent program, operated by a local organization, (such
as ours) working closely with municipal and Puerto Rican
governments and most importantly, funded by the Department
of Defense, is justified on the grounds of public health,
economic and political stability, ethics and the law, and
public relations.

Public Health:. It is in the interest of the U.S. Navy, which
controls about two—thirds of the island, to help assure a clean,
disease—free environment. Many of the uncounted numbers of
canines on the island are diseased and at high risk from an
outbreak of rabies among the "wild" animals. Every dog on
the island should be inoculated against rabies. This might

be a better approach than attempting to kill all of the
mongoose. (The extent, if any, of rabies among the mongoose
is not known. Killing them only throws off the balance of
nature, for their predatory role is useful in controlling
certain often destructive animals: rats and snakes.)

A free mandatory rabies control program should be ongoing,
not irregularly held clinics.

 

2. Economic—political stability: . The economic-political
stability of a community is endangered when economic opportunity
is stifled. The Viegues Economic Adjustment program is trying

to redress previous loss of employment opportunity by helping to
plan for the attraction of industry and for increased tourism.
It is not in the best interest of either of the latter to invest
disease—risk environment, which is also aesthetically and
ethically heart rending and repulsive. Many vactioners do

not want to return to a place where their sensibilities are
assaulted by the sight of disease and hunger -—whether human

or animal.

 

3. Ethical and Legal. Ethical considerations have prompted
passage of Puerto Rican laws to protect animals from nearly
types of cruelty. Also the Puerto Rican law mandates proper
sheltering and control of stray and abandoned animals.

For a variety of reasons, these laws have not been enforced.
Municipal laws do not appear to be adequate. There has been
a great movement forward in the United States in recent
years in the field of animals and their legal rights, thus
putting Viegues and the U.S. Navy in a vulnerable position.

 

4. Public Relations. Interest continues from all over the
United States, including the media, on the plight of
Viegues animals. (Donations have been received from persons
in at least 25 states.) The outcome will be watched closely.

 

An animal control program professionally managed by the Viegues
Humane Society —— with major funding from the Department of
Defense —— is the logical approach.

That program should embrace the following:

1. The construction and maintenance of a conveniently located
Shelter building, in which would be located indoor—outdoor
runways, rooms for cages, euthanasia, spay—neuter surgery,
recovery, office, toilet, storage, dead-animals.

 




2. Collection of stray animals from such places as the
municipal dump for euthanasia or, in some cases, adoption.
Also, the receiving of animals given up by their owners rather
than being abandoned.

3. Control of breeding through surgical procedures to reduce
the overpopulation leading to abandonment, spread of disease and
development of wild dog packs.

4. Cruelty investigation, working closely with law
enforcement officers.

5. Sufficient paid professional personnel of at least three
persons, supplemented by Vieques Humane Society volunteers.

6. Education and community outreach: posters, leaflets as
to local ordinances, care of animals, need for spay—neuter
etc. Enhancement of knowledge of the humane ethic in the
schools.

 

(The attached budget does not deal with the free-roaming
horse problem. But a few comments:

The horse problem cannot be dealt with by drastic,
clean—sweep action, such as rounding up and corraling for
disposition in a variety of ways. (This would be costly as
the horses would have to be fed.) The Bureau of Land
Management has been greatly criticized for its round—up
—corraling program in Western states. Since most of these
Vieques horses are owned, the U.S. Navy might be blamed if
these horses were killed or sold (probably for slaughter
for dog food). If the owners reclaimed them, it is
.unlikely that many could confine them to fenced areas.

The solution might have to be a long range one: proper
ordinances, such as grazing permits for a fee,

tattooing the horses with a permit number; removal and
destruction of injured or diseased horses (certification by
the animal control officer or veterinarian); educational
program, including horse crossing signs on highways.)

 

In conclusion, it must be pointed out that the costs
contained in the attached budget are only estimates. The
most expensive items in both Operating and capital budgets
could be greatly reduced if surgery (spay—neutering) could
be performed at no cost by military personnel and if the
shelter could be constructed with Seabee help and materials.

In regard to the spay-neuter program —— which should be
subsidized as a public health type of expenditure -— the
visiting veterinarian from the main island, with his
surgical assistant, including air transportation for two,
could cost as much as $500 a visit. (The veterinarian's
actual take—home would be about $300, the amount he/she
would gross at home office.)

 




Clearly, the subject of who is to handle the spay—neuter

surgery is yet undecided and further discussion on this must
take place, but, in summary, immediate assistance by the
military is needed using its own facility( probably Camp

Garcia) and for the long range, perhaps a mixed military-
civilian veterinary program could be worked out, using the new
Shelter facility. As for euthanasia, immediate help on collecting
and euthanizing abandoned animals is needed. Over the long haul,
two persons at the new shelter would be trained and certified

as competent in administering fatal injections. (Certain
substances, such as T-6l, are outlawed in several states and

we hope that a suitable substitute will be used in Vieques.

I look forward to meeting with you to discuss the problem and the
prOposal in more depth, also to participating in any

general planning discussions being undertaken with Lt. Col
Hoffman, U.S. Navy personnel. When you are next in Puerto Rico,
I hope you will have chance to speak with Dr.Cesar Gonzalez

of Carolina who has been administering to Vieques animals

and may participate in the prOposed spay—neuter program.

Also, the views of Ms. Chris Mitchell (809) 741 —8666,

Ms.Penny Miller (809) 741 8661 may be useful as well as

those of Ms."kitty" Kitterman, Dr. Gonzalez, and Mr. Modesto
Perez.

All of us appreciate your interest in this problem, which
when solved, will redound to the economic well being of
Vieques.

With best wishes.

Sincerely,

Ann Cottrell Free
Washington Representative
Vieques Humane Society and
Animal Rescue

 




TENTATIVE PROPOSED BUDGET FOR ANIMAL CONTROL
AND SHELTERING PROGRAM, CONDUCTED BY THE
VIEQUES HUMANE SOCIETY AND ANIMAL RESCUE

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

Animal Shelter

 

Cinder blocg structure, 1,000 sq. ft

with 5—102bﬂtd60r runways; rooms for cages

for small puppies, injured, diseased animals,

most awaiting euthanasia; room for treatment—surgical
spay, neuter, euthanasia; recovery room, dead animal
room with freezer,storage room, office, small lobby;

Air exchange,at least 12 X/hr. This includes paved,

chain link runways, drains and all utility installations.

Land not included. Space for expansion provided.

Structure can be adapted from Humane Society of the U.S.
blueprints.

Estimated cost at $60 /sq. ft of 1,000 feet, exclusive

of outside runways .................................. $60,000
Stainless steel cages, other equipment, inc. surgical.

office desks, reception room counter, etc.

Vehicle for collecting animals, with cages .......... $10,000

TOTAL ............................................... $80,000

NOTE: If the D.0.D. ( U.S. Navy, Army Surgeon General's
Office) could transfer surplus equipment or facilitate
purchase of same from surplus stocks, costs would be cut
considerably. Also SEABEE construction help would reduce
costs dramatically.

OPERATING PROGRAM ANNUAL COSTS:

Salaries

Executive director—shelter manager—cruelty investigator—
animal collector-euthanizer— kennel cleaner— record
keeper—manager, spay—neuter clinic etc ............ $15,000

 

Assistant executive director, virtually same
duties .............................................. $12,000

Two staff assistants at $8,000 ea ................... $16,000

 




Spay—neuter program
Twice a month subsidized spay—neuter clinic conducted by

veterinarian and assistant from main island, including
transportation for two, all supplies ............... $12,000

Supplies: Office, cleaning, euthanasia substance,
dog food etc ........................................... $6,000

Utilities. Electricity, water, telephone ............... $1,000

 

Vehicle maintenance including fuel,,insurance .......... $1,700

 

Educational Program supplies, signs, etc ................ $5,000

 

TOTAL ................................................... $68,700

GRAND TOTAL ............................................ $148,700

 




 

 

THE HARTFORD COURANT: Wednesday, June 3, 1987 D5

 

    

Editor’s Note: The Courant re-
cently published a series of stories
on the use of pesticides in the United
States. The stories were written 25
years after publication of Rachel
Carson '5 “Silent Spring, ” which
warned of the dangers of chemical
pesticides. The stories were report-
ed and written by Courant writers W.
Joseph Campbell and Daniel P.
Jones. in the course of preparing the
stories, Campbell apparently solved
a literary mystery surrounding the
dedication of “Silent Spring. "

Houghton Mifﬂin Co. of Boston,
which firstpublished “Silent Spring”
in September 1962, will release new
hard-cover and paperback editions
of the landmark work in September.

 

L; W. JOSEPH CAMPBELL
Courant Staff Writer

A most impressive, though not al-
ways well—recognized, element of
Rachel Carson’s “Silent Spring” —-—
the evocative narrative that warned
of the consequences of intense reli-
ance on chemical pesticides -— was
its base of prodigious research.

For each of the 16 principal chap—
ters, author Carson cited a succes-
sion of sources. Carson’s book-end-

? BOOKS
Key to ‘ Silent Spring :’ myStery found in files

ing footnotes, which she called the
“List of Principal Sources,” cover 30
pages in a recent paperback edition.

For all the studious attribution of
“Silent Spring,” a small but endUlz'ing
mystery has surrounded the quota-
tion on the book’s dedication page,

Carson, a cautious and deliberate-
speaking biologist, dedicated “Silent
Spring” to Albert Schweitzer “and
quoted him on the dedication page as
having said:

“Man has lost the capacity to £0 re-
see and to forestall. He will end by
destroying the Earth.”

Carson, however, did not give the
source of the quotation. She gave [,0
clue about its context. She did n1“
cite it in her footnotes.

» The origin of the quotation has;
perplexed Carson’s editor, Paul
Brooks, who said recently, “Nobody
has been able to find where it’s from.
It’s a puzzle.”

It likewise puzzled associates of
Schweitzer, the medical missionary
to Africa who died in 1965, a year
after Carson. Last autumn, a Dutch
woman who worked as a nurse for
Schweitzer in Africa and who ran la
Maison Schweitzer, the doctor’s
homestead in Alsace, asked a visit-
ing American writer and Schweitzer
scholar, Ann Cottrell Free, whether

she could track down the origins and
source of the quotation. “I wish you
could find it for me,” she implored.

Cottrell Free, who wrote “Ani-
mals, Nature and Albert Schweit—
zer,” agreed to conduct a search. Her
curiosity had been piqued long be-
fore. “From the time I read it, I
wondered where [the quotation]
came from. I wondered about the
source,” said Cottrell Free, who
lives and writes in Bethesda, Md.

Her inquiries produced no imme-
diate leads.

Eventually, she solicited the help
of the Beinecke Rare Book and
Manuscript Library at Yale Univer—
sity, to which Carson had left her
papers. Files, notes and resource
material for “Silent Spring” make
up the bulk of the rather disorga-
nized collection.

After receiving Cottrell Free’s in-
quiry, the library assigned a student

intern, who made a brief but unsuc-
cessful search for the quotation.
But last month, after a review of
more than 60 library boxes that in—
‘clude Carson’s research material for
“Silent Spring,” the probable source
‘w-f the Schweitzer quotation was dis-
C‘ 'ivered.
_ In Carson’s files is a loose-leaf
bﬁnder containing the December

1956 bulletin of the International
Union for Conservation of Nature
and Natural Resources, now based in
Gland, Switzerland, which then was
published exclusively in English. On
Page 4 was a brief reference to a
letter written by Schweitzer to a
Frenchman, who had lost his bees
because of a dose of insecticides. The
remark was underlined. in blue ink;
an asterisk was: etched in} the mar»
gin. ‘ .

Schweitzer’s comment differed
slightly from the quotation on the
dedication page of “Silent Spring.”

The remark, as published in the
bulletin, was:

“I am aware of the tragic reper-
cussions of the chemical fight
against insects taking place in
France and elsewhere, and I deplore
them. Modern man no longer knows
how to foresee or to forestall. He will
end by destroying the Earth from
which he and other living creatures
draw their food. Poor bees, poor
birds, poor men. . . .”

Cottrell Free said she was elated
by word of the discovery, calling it
“a mini-bombshell.”

She added: “I think it’s interesting
she used poetic license to change it.”




DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20350-1000

1 October 1987

Ms. Christine Stevens
President

Animal Welfare Institute
P. O. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens:

I am replying to your August 10, 1987, letter to
Secretary Weinberger regarding starving animals on Vieques.

Direct funding for purposes, such as the Vieques initiative,
you describe is not provided for in our budget. However, the
Navy brought your request for support to the attention of the
U.S. Army's Veterinary Corps. The Army responded favorably,
noting it would like to provide some veterinary and infectious
disease assistance. Funding for Army efforts has yet to be
identified, but it is hopeful that arrangements can be made
soon. Someone from the Army's Veterinary Corps will be con—
tacting Ms. Free to obtain more firsthand information regarding
what needs to be done.

Thank you for bringing this matter to our attention.

Sincerely,

L

H. Lawrence Garrett, III
Under Secretary of the Navy

Copy to:
LTGEN Becker, Army Surgeon General

 




August

The Honorable Caspar welnberger
Secretary of Defense

Room 35880

The Pentagon

Washington, DC 20381

Dear Cap:

5....

C} <
"J

(’J

The minute I read the enclose
this,” for I know you won't
island mainly ewned by

C‘)

51)
(“1" U
(7‘ i-w’

U}

K‘)
H
< P“
(i) 5'4
"J‘
C)
I) C"?

I»! 9....
[1) Z)
< (D
5.1

~ (0

I)

("1"
'2)
(“P

The release refers to
Program, set up by the .
redress ' Ques' ecnnemic

C.
3” U!

:3

”'50

E3

aw-

b3‘< C'Jha
'6.)

DVD

:3 C) U) C!)
:3 o
‘4

U)

U) (j
i

233 m

D)

< ('1’
O

P) T.) (D
01

C")

“'1

CD
(“1*

[.1 but
I)
*w‘. “I
"3
ﬂ} .
w r:
U I“.

V
2/3 of th island. Navy 5
ed

U)

U) :5

m }.J. Q
{9

U U?
CL)

area n5 6 on a stand by

PH
53
m
3'1
ti)
Mr:

I m sending a contribution to the Vienues Animal
Fund, but I earnestly hope the Department of Defe nse
previde the modest funding needed to Keep the necesser
feeding and euthanasia prngrams going For at least a yea

F43
WU

~< :3: 5}

J

. 0

i
l

worker whom I’ve known for thirty years, so I an ya
the accure rcy of her reporting. 1 m only eerry crnet 555eu~
was away I didn' t beer of the 5053’ pliant scener.

With much hope

CS:e

Enclosure

 




The Honorable Casper Weinberger
Secretary of Defense

Room 3E880

The Pentagon

mashington, DC 20301

Dear'Cap:

The minute I reed the enclosed I thought: "Cap will solve
this," for I know you won't tolerate canine starvation on an
island mainly owned by the United States Navy.

The release refers to ”the Vieques Economic Adjustment
Program, set up by the Department of Defense to help 7
redress Vieoues' economic loss due to U.S. Navy ownership of
2/3 of the island. Navy actual occupation is minimal, but
area needed on a stend~by strategic defense basis."

I‘m sending a contribution to the Viedues Animal Emergency
Fund, out I earnestly hope the Department of Defense will
provide the modest funding needed to keep the necessary

feeding and euthanasia programs going for at least a year.

Ann Cottrell Free is an established author and animal welfare
worker whom I‘ve known for thirty years, so I can vouch for
the accuracy of her reporting. I'm only sorry that because I
was away I didn‘t hear of the dogs' plight sooner.

With much hope.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




June, 1987
A CALL FOR HELP

from
THE ANIMALS OF VIEQUES ISLAND

This is an urgent cry for help from starving dogs and impover—
ished horses and cattle on the beautiful Caribbean Island of
Vieques of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, where the Puerto

Rican and the American flags fly side by side.
For animals, Vieques can be hell in paradise.

Conditions are similar to those that created the humane movement

in the continental U.S.A. more than 100 years ago.
Many of the 8,000 people on this 21 by 5—mile island, 7 miles
off the main island, are on public assistance, thus no municipal
funds available for animal control—protection. Hence:

*No animal control program —— save starvation.

*No animal protection society.
Hundreds of skeleton—like dogs prowl the streets, roads and

especially the trash and garbage dump where there is no water.
Dying, crippled, mange—ridden, moaning dogs are a common sight.

Litters of puppies of all ages routinely are deposited at the
dump. Large dogs often kill and eat them.

Starving mothers give birth in the fields. Their milk dries
up and puppies starve to death.

Dogs, reportedly, are hung, poisoned, bludgeoned to death.
Strychnine and ground glass bait placed in fields by owners
of cattle, threatened by starving dogs.

During the frequent droughts, the hardy Brahmin cattle become
walking skeletons, often dropping to their deaths. (One year,600).

Cat pOpulation is low.

Hundreds of owned horses wander at will, living off sparse
grazing —— often starving, falling ill or struck by cars.

CAN SOMETHING BE DONE? THE ANSWER IS YES, WITH YOUR HELP!

The Vieques Animal Emergency Fund is being set up by concerned
individuals in Vieques and in continental U.S.A. to carry out a
two—part program: stop gap and long range.

Stop Gap: Funds needed immediately to employ a humane collector

of unwanted puppies and starving strays for once a week delivery

to a veterinarian —~to be employed to fly weekly to Vieques from

the main island ~~for humane euthanizing. Also, for rental of a

proper holding facility, for dog food and possibly free spay—neuter—
ing and vet. care for severe hardship cases plus some public education
(posters, leaflets etc.) on animal care/treatment.

Long Range: Encouraging and assisting municipal government in applying
for sizeable grant for appropriate animal control/protection program
through the Vieques Economic Adjustment Program, set up by the Depart—
ment of Defense to help redress Vieques' economic loss due to U.S. Navy
ownership of 2/3 of the island. Navy actual occupation is minimal, but
area needed on a stand—by strategic defense basis. Adequate space for
civilian expansion: small inns, small manufacturing and agricultural
enterprises.(Unemployment rate of 40 percent already dropping.) But
strong case can be made that presence of starving animals increasingly
is becoming a tourist and business"turn off" and public health threat.
(A clean sweep by poison, however, must be avoided!)

Timing is right. Opportunity is there. We must move fast WITH YOUR HELP
to get started. Spare what you can and send checks, payable to Vieques
Animal Emergency Fund, 4700 Jamestown Road, Bethesda, MD. 20816.Phone:
301—229 8160 for eye witness details. Ask for Ann Cottrell Free.
(Tax—deductibility to be sought.) sea

“11“ .

 




 

June, 1987

A CALL FOR HELP
from
THE ANIMALS OF VIEQUES ISLAND

This is an urgent cry for help from starving dogs and impover—
ished horses and cattle on the beautiful Caribbean Island of
Vieques of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, where the Puerto
Rican and the American flags fly side by side.

For animals, Vieques can be hell in paradise.

Conditions are similar to those that created the humane movement
in the continental U.S.A. more than 100 years ago.

Many of the 8,000 peOple on this 21 by 5—mile island, 7 miles
off the main island, are on public assistance, thus no municipal
funds available for animal control—protection. Hence:

*No animal control program —— save starvation.

*No animal protection society.
Hundreds of skeleton—like dogs prowl the streets, roads and
especially the trash and garbage dump where there is no water.

Dying, crippled, mange—ridden, moaning dogs are a common sight.

Litters of puppies of all ages routinely are deposited at the
dump.

Starving mothers give birth in the fields. Their milk dries
up and puppies starve to death.

Dogs, reportedly, are hung, poisoned, bludgeoned to death.
Strychnine and ground glass bait placed in fields by owners
of cattle, threatened by starving dogs.

During the frequent droughts, the hardy Brahmin cattle become
walking skeletons, often dropping to their deaths. (One year,600).

Cat population is low.

Hundreds of owned horses wander at will, living off sparse
grazing —— often starving, falling ill or struck by cars.

CAN SOMETHING BE DONE? THE ANSWER IS YES, WITH YOUR HELP!

The Vieques Animal Emergency Fund is being set up by concerned
individuals in Vieques and in continental U.S.A. to carry out a
two—part program: stop gap and long range.

 

Stop Gap: Funds needed immediately to employ a humane collector

of unwanted puppies and starving strays for once a week delivery

to a veterinarian ——to be employed to fly weekly to Vieques from

the main island —-for humane euthanizing. Also, for rental of a

proper holding facility, for dog food and possibly free spay—neuter—
ing and vet. care for severe hardship cases plus some public education
(posters, leaflets etc.) on animal care/treatment.

 

Long Range: Encouraging and assisting municipal government in applying
for sizeable grant for appropriate animal control/protection program
through the Vieques Economic Adjustment Program, set up by the Depart—
ment of Defense to help redress Vieques' economic loss due to U.S. Navy
ownership of 2/3 of the island. Navy actual occupation is minimal, but
area needed on a stand—by strategic defense basis. Adequate space for
civilian expansion: small inns, small manufacturing and agricultural
enterprises.(Unemployment rate of 40 percent already dropping.) But
strong case can be made that presence of starving animals increasingly
is becoming a tourist and business"turn off" and public health threat.

(A clean sweep by poison, however, must be avoided!)

 

Timing is right. Opportunity is there. We must move fast WITH YOUR HELP
to get started. Spare what you can and send checks, payable to Vieques
Animal Emergency Fund, 4700 Jamestown Road, Bethesda, MD. 20816.Phone;
301—229 8160 for eye witness details. Ask for Ann Cottrell Free.
(Tax—deductibility to be sought.)

 




 

June, 1987

A CALL FOR HELP
from
THE ANIMALS 0F VIEQUES ISLAND

This is an urgent cry for help from starving dogs and impover—
ished horses and cattle on the beautiful Caribbean Island of
Vieques of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, where the Puerto
Rican and the American flags fly side by side.

For animals, Vieques can be hell in paradise.

Conditions are similar to those that created the humane movement
in the continental U.S.A. more than 100 years ago.

Many of the 8,000 people on this 21 by 5—mile island, 7 miles
off the main island, are on public assistance, thus no municipal
funds available for animal control—protection. Hence:

*No animal control program ~~ save starvation.

*No animal protection society.
Hundreds of skeleton—like dogs prowl the streets, roads and
especially the trash and garbage dump where there is no water.

Dying, crippled, mange~ridden, moaning dogs are a common sight.

Litters of puppies of all ages routinely are deposited at the
dump. Large dogs often kill and eat them.

Starving mothers give birth in the fields. Their milk dries
up and puppies starve to death.

Dogs, reportedly, are hung, poisoned, bludgeoned to death.

Strychnine and ground glass bait placed in fields by owners
of cattle, threatened by starving dogs.

During the frequent droughts, the hardy Brahmin cattle become
walking skeletons, often dropping to their deaths. (One year,600).

Cat population is low.

Hundreds of owned horses wander at will, living off sparse
grazing -— often starving, falling ill or struck by cars.

CAN SOMETHING BE DONE? THE ANSWER IS YES, WITH YOUR HELP!

The Vieques Animal Emergency Fund is being set up by concerned
individuals in Vieques and in continental U.S.A. to carry out a
two—part program: stop gap and long range.

 

StOp Gap: Funds needed immediately to employ a humane collector

of unwanted puppies and starving strays for once a week delivery

to a veterinarian -—to be employed to fly weekly to Vieques from

the main island m—for humane euthanizing. Also, for rental of a

prOper holding facility, for dog food and possibly free spay-neuter—
ing and vet. care for severe hardship cases plus some public education

(posters, leaflets etc.) on animal care/treatment.

Long Range: Encouraging and assisting municipal government in applying
for sizeable grant for appropriate animal control/protection program
through the Vieques EConomic Adjustment Program, set up by the Depart-
ment of Defense to help redress Vieques' economic loss due to U.S. Navy
ownership of 2/3 of the island. Navy actual occupation is minimal, but
area needed on a stand—by strategic defense basis. Adequate space for
civilian expansion: small inns, small manufacturing and agricultural
enterprises.(Unemployment rate of 40 percent already dropping.) But
strong case can be made that presence of starving animals increasingly
is becoming a tourist and business"turn off" and public health threat.
(A clean sweep by poison, however, must be avoided!)

Timing is right. Opportunity is there. We must move fast WITH YOUR HELP
to get started: Spare what you can and send checks, payable to Viequeg
Animal Emergency Fund, 4700 Jamestown Road, Bethesda, MD. 20816.Phone:
301—229 8160 for eye witness details. Ask for Ann Cottrell Free.
(Tax-deductibility to be sought.)

 




Panel: Natl. Alliance for
Animals, June 21, 1987

O

REACHING THE GENERAL PUBLIC THROUGH POETRY
By Ann Cottrell Free

Since the days of Homer, poetry has been a major means of communication.
It reaches for the truth, speaks the language of the heart and tells a
story.

Though its pOpularity with the general public has fluctuated, poetry has
probably had more of a cultural- political-legislative influence than is
generally realized -— especially in the cause of animal protection.

The fi'st animal protective legislation in early 19th century England was
a direct outgrowth of public consciousness-raising by poets such as William.
Blake, Alexander POpe, Percy Shelley, Lord Byron, William COWper, Samuel
Taylor Coleridge. Can we ever forget Blake's:

"A Robin Redbreast in a cage
Puts all Heaven in a rage"

or Coleridge's

"He prayeth well who loveth well
Both man and bird and beast."?

Passionate, crusading Shelley, a vegetarian, wrote in 1821, "Poets are the
unacknowledged legislators of the world." The next year, 1822, (after a
long struggle) Parliament passed its first anti-cruelty law. In 1824,

the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals was founded.

 

The "humane movement" ' on its way. But after the outrage expressed by
the lBth-early 19th ce poets, poetic voices -- with some notable
exceptions —- were not ffective. But the momentum was there, and in the
late 19th century in the U.S.A., virtually all of the State antiecruelty
laws were enacted. Poe r in behalf of animals in those days, was
typically Victorian -- as mixed with pathos. Early 20th century poets
reacted against this .ent alism. For years, any substantive mention?
of animals was missi: their verses. Anthropocentric, involved with
new verse forms and t own Freudian problems, they had little concern

about what happened 0 ”I trap line, in the laboratory or in the slaughter
house.

- ."3 ’3‘

H H (r 9’
C) 1-4
.1

Now, in the ' r .~ :1» ~ :1 “*2 r " , much Federal animal

legi slatior his -.~n iwté?i :n1 -»4 anit ‘ *7.li: movement has been
launched, me: e .: -”- "~si:: ‘ I“: v in 74v their poems are printed
in animal— oriented jou because ' ment" poetry editors and
critics continue to be entered. As I see it, the "animal" poet must
find a way to move into the Cmainstream -- getting into poetry journals
(seemingly thousands!), general magazines, book stores, poetry readings
before college, church and book— club groups. Animal—minded non poetry-
writing friends have an obligation in this by calling the poet's work to

_ the attention of non—animal groups.

 

"Poets have obligations, too. They must show through their poetry that

they care about people. And since their story is often unpalatable:
laboratories, factory farming, guard dogs, rodeo animals, slaughter houses,
they must, therefore, a.oid wordiness, sentimentality.and verbal hand-
wringing. Let only the :eaders‘ tears smear the page, not theirs!

In short, hone the tho;ghts and distill love and anger into.sparse imagery.
Take a look at Blake, Pope and the others and see how they did it. Japanese
poetry forms also offer a chance to capture truth's essence in imagery.

Those are the self— imposed guidelines, followed to a degree in my No Room,
Save in the Heart. I as including on the overleaf short poems (the thoughts
distilleg) on subjects I have dealt with at length as a journalist. Can

we reach more peOple in the general public with 50 words rather than

500 or 5,000? I rather think the answer might be "Yes".

In summary, when poets reacli the general public, they can move mountains.
Look at the mountains Bu ns, Shelley, Coleridge and Blake moved. Without
them, millions of animals would have continued to suffer. There's a long,
long way to go, however. oday' s poets can help to finish the job.

(A Washington journalist, Ann Cottrell Free, is also author—editor of

Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer and a new book of poetry, No Room‘
Save in the Heart.)

 

COpyrig cht 1987 (See overleaf)

 




SELECTIONS FROM
NO ROOM, SAVE IN THE HEART

By Ann Cottrell Free

LADIES IN FUR COATS
Know your fur b)" the company it. leaps. -— advertisement
STIR’CRAZY
LABORATORY DOG
Let the blood drip
Beagle, Beagle Bright and red
Circle, circle Or maybe royal blue
Circle within your cage. Since they think theirs turns
A path to the brook . . . Aristocratic
A path to the hedge. .. \Vhen they are wearing you.
Overthe hill . . .
Down to the meadow . . .
Sniffthe morning . . .
Fresh with dew . . .
You have worn down the grid
But never quite through.

CHARLIE

Hello, my name is Charlie. I am a pork chop
and I live at Bill Smith’s farm—Sign on a
pig's pen at 4-H swine barn at County Fair.

4"

DYING DOG AT rovm DUMP Pork chop Hues,

Vieques Island, Puerto Rico - 1987 That‘s What’s news.

A sad little pig

Growing so big

That he's nobody's pet
Anymore. -

His name's not Wilbur

And no Charlotte's around,
But, wait a few hours:

The killing ground.

You wear Lazarus' sores

On your

Painvracked body,

Quivering in the Caribbean sun.
Call, call, call for Lazarus

(He mav remember.)

You helped him once,

He will noticome,
For he is us,
Lieking our own sores . . . .

COpyright 1987

No Room, Save in the Heart
The Flying Fox Press,
4448 Faraday Place, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20016

 




Poetry and Prose

On Reverence for Life—
Animals, Nature 599 Humankind |

Ann Cottrell Free

“The power of this book lies in the stark contrast between

the beauty and joy of the natural world and the often grim

result of our human stewardship. . . . thought’provoking,

this book will leave a lasting impression with all who read it.”
——Dr. Jane Goodall

Director, Gombe Stream Research Center, Tanzania

The Flying Fox Press

 

 

Established to help animals, the Flying Fox Press offers this book at near cost for quantity orders from animal welfare/rights groups for resale
at a higher price. Quantity

1—9 books $5.95 ea.
10-24 books . . I $4.25 ea.

25 or more books $3.95 ea.

Price to booksellers

Shipping and handling charges: to same address, U.S.A. only (primarily by UPS)
19 books: $1.00 ea.

10—24 books: $.55 ea.

2599 books: $.45 ea.

100 or more books: $.40 ea.

 

Name

 

Organization/Business

 

Address

 

City State Zip

 

Make checks or money orders payable to Flying Fox Press, 4448 Faraday Place, NW, Washington, DC 20016

 

 

 




Poetry and Prose

On Reverence for Life—
Animals, Nature 59’ Humankind _

“Ann Cottrell Fr€€

“The power of this book lies in the stark contrast between

the beauty and joy of the natural world and the often grim

result of our human stewardship. . . . thoughtvprovoking,

this book will leave a lasting impression with all who read it.”
—-Dr. Jane Goodall

Director, Gombe Stream Research Center, Tanzania

The Flying Fox Press

 

 

Established to help animals the Flying Fox Press offers this book at near cost for quantity orders from animal we fare/ rights groups for resale
at a higher price Quantity

19 books $5.95 ea.

10-24 books . . $4.25 ea.
$3.95 ea.

25 or more books

Price to booksellers

Shipping and handling charges: to same address, U.S.A. only (primarily by UPS)
19 books: $1.00 ea.

1024 books: $.55 ea.

2599 books: $.45 ea.

100 or more books: $.40 ea.

 

Name

 

Organization/Business

 

Address

 

 

City State Zip
Make checks or money orders payable to Flying Fox Press, 4448 Faraday Place, NW, Washington, DC 20016

 

 

,i

m

A
ML

QC’

0%

a/

4“
\h

limp

@Kﬂiﬁi

‘ EL
9?: 5

<

L

Ruhr
&. l

a
'1 mi?

Xi
k

6A
\I
3 .l

ii

l.
\

‘
“'y

@3in

9%
C?

E

é};

 




L

301-229-8160 301-229-7533

ANN COTTRELL FREE
4700 JAMESTOWN ROAD

BETHESDA, MD 20816 2 f M f’ f
09va ﬂ/ﬂxﬁ/ P

The two Albert Schweitzer
summer fellowships ——described
in flyer —— could provide
qualified students from the
animal welfare/rights
community a valuable
Opportunity to join in the
actual laboratory search for
more and better alternatives
to live animals in testing and
experimentation.

If you know motivated
students,please pass the word.
Let me know if you need more
flyers.(Or to save time,

could you Xerox yours, please?)
Deadline: pril l, l987.

Summer Fellows Coordinator

6".

 




301-229—8160
301-229-7533

ANN COTTRELL FREE
4700 JAMESTOWN ROAD
WESTMORELAND HILLS

BETHESDA, MD 20816

October 7, 1984

Dear Christine,

Take a look at this, please. Dr. Nardone, with some
suggestions from me, worked up this flyer announcement
of the Schweitzer summer fellowships at the Center
for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology
at Catholic University.

3 .
It will be preégted to the Fellowship board on
October 29 -- possibly it might go out for earlier perusal,
but only after you and I have talked. :

I don't look forward to receiving the third degree
from some of our BJbard members on all the fine points
of cell cultures and other alternatives. I proposed
this idea to Dr. Nardone and got the Fellowship approval,
based on on Ethel Thurston's AAFAR scholarships of
summer students at the Center.

The announcement will go out to more than 4,000
college biology department heads and to a number of
biology and cell culture journals. I think it is a good
idea to show these people that there is such interest
in training students so that they would not always
rely on animal testing. If they know more about
these techniques, they may want to go further in this field.

I hope the essay responses will be revealing so
we can make a prOper choice. Will you help us to decide?
You said you would serve on the committee with Dr.
Nardone and me.

I hope to talk this over with you very §QQn. Your suggestions
will be valuable. It looks okay to me, but“ there may
be questions. I wish you could attend that October 29
board meeting. It is the second item on the agenda. Meeting
starts at 9:30 A.M.

/{ M. M 7W: /% 7% w M

, 2
ﬂ/MK? Lam/71.7 Mme Sam/u w. “/73 /7/U2:/

a 7/ f/m i mug/1901f ﬁ/ MM) a///7Mé
ﬁg ﬁrs/”’7 5 77/55 77/ Pm

 




ALBERT SCHWEITZER SUMMER FELLOWSHIPS
FOR COLLEGE JUNIORS AND SENIORS,
FIRST-YEAR GRADUATE OR MEDICAL STUDENTS

at

THE CENTER FOR ADVANCED TRAINING
IN CELL AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY
The Catholic University of America
Washington, D.C. 20064

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship and The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology are
pleased to announce the availability of two Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellowships for 1987. The Albert
Schweitzer Summer Fellowshipsare intended to provide well-motivated students in biology or medicine with
an opportunity to obtain specialized training in cell and tissue culture and related cell and molecular biology
disciplines.

Recipients of the awards will spend 9-10 weeks, including June and July, at The Center for Advanced Training
in Cell and Molecular Biology where they will attend at least two 5-day training courses, Basic Cell and Tissue
Culture and In Vitro Toxicology, and become involved in a research program dealing with microwave effects
, on cultured cells. Such training will facilitate the development of insights and laboratory skills which may
contribute to a reduction in the use of animals for experimentation and testing.

ELIGIBILITY: The Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellowships are open to currently enrolled first year graduate
students, college juniors or seniors, or first year medical students. Students must be majors in biology or
related disciplines such as biochemistry. The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology and
the Catholic University of America does not discriminate on the basis of race, creed, color, national and
ethnic origin, age or sex.

APPLICATION AND SELECTION: The primary basis of selection by a committee will be academic merit
and an awareness of Dr. Albert Schweitzer’s perspectives on the use of animals for biomedical research. Ap-
plicants must submit a completed application, a current academic transcript, a letter of recommendation from
an appropriate teacher, and a 800-1000 word essay entitled: ”A Personal View of Schweitzer’s Philosophy of
Reverence for Animal Life.” Deadline for submission of application and all other documents is April 1, 1987.

FINANCIAL AWARDS/ TUITION REMISSION: The $1300 tutition and registration fees for the training
courses will be waived. The Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellows also will receive a stipend of $1250 to assist
them in defraying travel, housing, and other expenses. Low cost campus housing will be available. The Albert
Schweitzer Fellowship will provide the stipends for the recipient and an additional $750 for materials.

SPONSORS: The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship is a non-sectarian membership organization which seeks to
foster the ethic of Dr. Schweitzer of reverence for life, and to provide support for continuing his work at the
Albert Schweitzer Hospital at Lambaréne', Gabon. Its headquarters are at 866 United Nations Plaza, New
York, NY. 10017. The Center for Advanced Training is sponsored by the Department of Biology, Catholic
University of America, where doctoral research and instruction are part of a seventy-two year tradition. Fur-
ther information on sponsors may be found on overleaf.

APPLICATION/ INFORMATION
For applications, reading list for orientation, and other information contact:
Dr. Roland M. Nardone, Director
Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology
Catholic University of America
Washington, D.C. 20064; Tel. (202) 635-6161 PLEASE POST

 




A

£80[org Jelnoalow pue’nag
u;
Bugurml paoueApV .10; 1311133 aql

 

'3'0 'NOLBNIHSVM
uL ilWHBd

U IVd
3 SVISOd 'S'n {ygooz D'Cl ’uoiﬁurqse M

“‘19 H 0 1H 0 “d N 0 N VDIHHWV :IO AIISHEIAINH DITOHIVD Ell—LI.

 

 

 

THE CENTER FOR ADVANCED TRAINING
IN CELL AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY
Roland M. Nardone, Ph.D., Director

MISSION: The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology has been established as a National Center to provide expert train-
ing for scientists and technicians. Its focus is on those new and established biomedically-related concepts and technologies which provide the ma-
jor impetus for contemporary research, innovative industrial applications, and sophisticated diagnostic laboratory techniques.

FACILITIES: The Center for Advanced Training is sponsored by the Department of Biology, Catholic University of America, where doctoral
research and instruction are part of a seventy-two year tradition. Hence, the facilities are well-suited for the programs being offered.

STAFF: All courses are staffed by experts drawn from diverse laboratories. Staff members are selected on the basis of their scientific acumen,
laboratory skill, and ability to communicate.

SPECIAL EXPERIENCE AND LOCATION: The Center for Advanced Training recognizes the unique requirements of short training courses
and their participants. Hence, it’s programs avoid ’dead time,’ and use a staggered preparation approach in order to compress into a single session

procedures which may ordinarily span a few days or weeks. Its staff facilitates the exploitation of the scientific and cultural riches of the
Washington, D.C. area by registrants in the courses.

THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER FELLOWSHIP
866 United Nations Plaza
New York, N.Y. 10017

Lawrence Gussman, President — Estelle Linzer, Executive Director
Ann Cottrell Free, Summer Fellows Coordinator

MISSION: The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship was established in 1939 to assist the Schweitzer Hospital in Lambaréne', Gabon (formerly, French
Equatorial Africa) during World War 11. After Dr. Schweitzer’s death in 1965, it broadened its mission to carry out even further Dr. Schweitzer’s
philosophy of ”reverence for life."

PROGRAM: As well as helping the Hospital — now managed by an international foundation — the Fellowship sponsors an American medical
students summer-duty program at the African Hospital. It contributes to the support of Schweitzer archives and museums in Gunsbach, France and
Great Barrington, MA. It publishes and distributes books by and about Dr. Schweitzer and a semi-annual journal, The Courier. In 1985 it in-
augurated the Summer Fellows program with the Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology.

MANAGEMENT: A non-profit, non-sectarian, membership organization, it is managed by a board of directors from the fields of medicine, the
law and judiciary, academia, religion, business and finance, journalism, architecture, music, and animal and environmental protection.

 




ALBERT SCHWEITZER SUMMER FELLOWSHIPS

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship and The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and
Molecular Biology are pleased to announce the availability of two Albert Schweitzer
Summer Fellowships for 1985. The Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellowships are intended
to provide well-motivated students in biology or medicine with an opportunity to
obtain specialized training in cell and tissue culture and related. cell and molecular
biology disciplines. .

Recipients of the awards will spend 9-10 weeks, including June and July, at The Center
for Advanced Training in Cell and.Molecular Biology where they will attend at least
two 5-day training courses, Basic Cell and Tissue Culture and In Vitro Toxicology,
and.become involved in a research program dealing with in vitro neurotoxicology. Such
training will facilitate the development of insights and laboratory skills which may
contribute to a reduction in the use of animals for experimentation.

ELIGIBILITY The Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellowships are open to currently enrolled
first year graduate students, college juniors or seniors, or first year medical students.
Students must be majors in biology or related disciplines such as biochemistry. The
Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology at the Catholic University

of America does not discriminate on the basis of race, creed, color, national and

ethnic origin, age or sex.

 

APPLICATION AND SELECTION The primary basis of selection by a committee will be
academic merit and an awareness of Dr. Albert Schweitzer's perspectives on the use

of animals for biomedical research. Applicants must submit before March 1, 1985 a
completed application, a current academic transcript, a letter of recOmmendation from
an appropriate teacher, and a 800-1000 word essay entitled "Dr. Albert Schweitzer's
Perspectives on Animals and Biomedical Research," OR “A Personal View of Schweitzer's
Philosophy of Reverence for Animal Life."

 

FINANCIAL AWARDS/TUITION REMISSION The $1200 tuition and registration fees for the
training courses will be waived. The Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellows also will
receive a stipend of $1250 to assist them in defraying travel, housing, and other
expenses. Low cost campus housing will be available.

 

SPONSORS The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship is a membership organization which seeks
to foster the ethic of Dr. Schweitzer of reverence for life, and to provide support
for continuing his work at the Albert Schweitzer Hospital at Lambarene, Gabon. Its
'headquarters are at 866 United.Nations Plaza, New York, N.Y. 10017.

The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology has been established
as a National Center to provide expert training for scientists and technicians. Its
focus is on those new and established biomedically—related concepts and technologies
'which provide the major impetus for contemporary research, innovative industrial
applications, and sophisticated diagnostic laboratory techniques. All courses are
staffed by experts drawn from diverse laboratories. The Center for Advanced Training
is sponsored by the Department of Biology, Catholic University of America, where
doctoral research and instruction are part of a seventy year tradition.

APPLICATION/INFORMATION

 

For applications,.reading list for orientation, and other information contact

Dr. Roland.M. Nardone, Director

Center for Advanced Training in Cell and.Molecular Biology
Catholic University of America

washington, D.C. 20064; Tel. (202) 635-6161

 




A SUGGESTION FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF DR. SCHWEITZER'S LEGACY T0 ANIMALS

by
Ann Cottrell Free
Albert Schweitzer International Symposium
St. John's College, Cambridge University

September 2, 1983

3

V

 




and accomplishments. Nor do they know of how he arrived at
his accommodation to the puzzle of "the will to live vs. the

will to live."

Why is this? There are several answers, of course. I

will answer them with more questions. Should not we ask our~
selves whether Schweitzer organizations have given,over the
years,sufficient support to groups and campaigns dedicated to
the alleviation of animal suffering? Would not this have made
the man as visible as the philosophy?

Surely, you will agree that keeping the man and the phrase
together is important, for I believe that the phrase, i.e. the
philosophy, will live on far longer than Dr. Schweitzer's other
great contributions. 'It was for this reason that I volunteered
to edit and write Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer.

Today, I have another suggestion which may help bring the
man and the philosophy together -- a project in which we can
all participate. It is a plan (I hope you will all agree) with
which Dr. Schweitzer would be in enthusiastic accord.

I It is simply this: Lend our efforts to the fast-growing
field of the development of viable substitutes for laboratory
animals. In this instance, I refer in particular to the field
of cell culture and molecular toxicology. An increasing number
of commercial laboratories are employing cell culture procedures

for the screening out of new chemicals with carcinogenic

 




 

  

 

propensities. This is a tremendous saving financially and
ethically: millions of dollars and millions of animals, let
alone years of valuable time. A great deal of new work is
being undertaken (much of it underwritten by industryf at Tufts
University, Catholic University, the Pennsylvania College of
Medicine, Rockefeller University, Johns Hopkins University
to find non—animal substitutes, especially for the painful
Draize tests of placing often searing and ulcerating substances
in the eyes of rabbits. Increased scientific and humanitarian
condemnation of the L.D.—50 test, in which half of the animals
must die, is leading to accelerated research into non-animal
substitutes. Pending in the U.S. Congress is legislation,
5. 657, sponsored by Senator Robert Dole, that would, among
other things, require applicants for Federal grants to demon-
strate that they haVe considered alternative methods should
their proposed research cause pain and distress in an experi-
mental animal. (I might remind you that Dr. Schweitzer endorsed'
the first animal protective legislation ever introdued in the
U.S. Congress.)

In view of all this activity on alternatives (about which
I can only be sketchy) there is clearly the need to train more
scientists in the new techniques and to seek refinements in
their efficacy. The Catholic University of America in Washington,

D.C., has established, therefore, a Center for Advanced Training

 




-4-

in Cell and Molecular Biology for the training of students at
the undergraduate, pre-doctoral and post-doctoral levels.

Here, now, is my suggestion:

I respectfully suggest that the Albert Schweitzer community
-- acting as separate organizations or in concert -— establish
one or several Albert Schweitzer fellowships for study at the
Center at Catholic University. The cost would be relatively
minor ~- only transportation and a stipend for lodging and food.
Its distinguished director, Dr. Roland M. Ndrdone, has generously_
waived the tuition fees, which otherwise would range from approx-
imately $1,100 for a two-month fellowship to nearly $10,000 for

a one-year fellow. For this we owe him a vote of thanks.

 

To be more speciﬁic:

Dr. Nardone, a scientist clearly dedicated to the Schweitzer
ethic, suggests the establishment for the summer of 1984, and
following summers, several Albert Schweitzer fellowships of
either two or three months' duration for either upper division
undergraduates, pre-doctoral or post-doctoral students. Cost
to the sponsoring Schweitzer group would be transportation and
a stipend covering food and lodging. The latter could range
from $400 monthly if the student elects to utilize college living
and food facilities; possibly $600 a month if he/she lived outside.

Dr. Nardone is also amenable to consideration of the estab—

lishment of one 12—month tuition-free Albert Schweitzer fellow-

ship for a pre~doctora1 or post-doctoral student. This arrangement

 




would permit the recipient to engage in Dr. Nardone's on—going
research program in in vitro neurotoxicology and also take
specialized training programs at the Center. If the student
used the college's living and food facilities, cost £6 the
sponsoring group would be in the vicinity of $4,800, but
possibly $7,200 if he/she lived off campus. (As I will point
out later, supplementary financing might be available from
another source if Schweitzer groups could not raise the required

amount.) But I should think that such fellowships would inspire

contributions from many sources. In addition, these students

would have an opportunity to observe work in these fields at

the Food and Drug Administration, the National Institutes of

Health and other centers. .
in appropriate journals

The Center at Catholic University would circularizg/the
availability, and criteria, of the Albert Schweitzer fellowe
ships and it would hope that the Schweitzer sponsors in other
countries would do likewise. The Center would work in coopera-
tion with the sponsors on final selections.

Indeed, in a venture of this type, there are many details
to be worked out. I would be willing in the initial stages to
act as general coordinator, furnish materials on the need to
reduce the use of research animals wherever possible, send

progress reports on research developments and act as a liaison

with Dr. Nardone. (I believe that we would find the American

 




Fund for Alternatives to Animal Research of invaluable assist~

ance, both in scientific advice and perhaps with supplementary

financing should that need arise.)

There can be no doubt of the interest of young scientists
in such training. This summer (1983) 50 science students ~—
under grants from the above Fund —- studied at the Center. Dr.
Nardone reports that requests for assistance arrive at his desk
frequently from young scientists in many countries. Their newly
acquired knowledge can be put to good use. The jobs are waiting
for them in industry. The demand will surge when there is further
relaxation of Federal and international requirements as to testing
procedures in regard to non-animal substitutes.

I am making available material on the Center at Catholic
University, the outstanding curriculum vita of Dr. Nardone. Among
his other honors he is a member of the National Research Council-
National Academy of Sciences Committee on Alternative Models
for Toxicology. I

Thank you for these moments to outline this important Oppor-
tunity that I have initiated and developed with Dr. Nardone. It
is, I believe, an opportunity for us who subscribe to Albert
Schweitzer's philosophy of "reverence for life" to keep the man

and the philosophy together. Also, I believe we would be doing

what Dr. Schweitzer would want us to do. Thank you.

 




(202) 337 2332
November 5, 1986

Ms. Jane Mills
Acropolis Books
2400 17th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20009

'Dear Ms. Mills,

«This is the manuscript/I was trying; somewhat feebly, to
describe when we talked on the telephone. It has been
put together as a response to the overwhelming interest
in animal protection that seems to be growing daily.

Ann had originally conceived of it as a book to be
privately printed and distributed through animal interest
organizations.

Now that I have seen it, I am much more impressed than I
expected to be and feel it has definite potential as a

book for the dedicated animal lover and as an attractively
designed volume that could appeal to the more casual reader.

There is a built in market. Several organizations have been
approached and have tentatively agreed to publicize and
distribute through their membership lests. Ann has previously
edited a paperback on Albert Schweitzer wheth has sold

57966 copies through what can only be described as primitiee
marketing methods. We could probably have done better with a
stand on L Street.

I would hope after you have looked at this that we could sit
down to talk, you and Ann and me. I worked with Acropolis
several hundred years ago on some idiotic bicycle safetiy
book, and this could bring back my lost youth. I’ve always
admired the bold way Al Hackl moved from the safety of
printing into the peril of publishing.

Sincerely,

John Gleiber
Assistant to the Officers
Encl :

cc: Ann Free

 




301-229-8160
301-229-7533

‘ ANN COTTRELL FREE ..
4700 JAME STOWMROAD. "
WESTMORELAND HILLS

BETHESDA, MD 20816

November l5, 1984

Dear Christine,

Here are the flyers that Dr. Nardone is distributing
(about 4,000) to biology departments and other appropriate

scientific outlets.

It is up to us to pass the‘uord, too. I am hopeful that
AWI Quarterly will give it a good story for its next issue.
Note the deadline is March 1, l985.

We will be talking on the telephone, no doubt, about
this. We are counting on you being one of the judges.

Best wishes.

Yours,

 




ALBERT SCHWEITZER SUMMER FELLOWSHIPS
FOR COLLEGE JUNIORS AND SENIORS,
FIRST-YEAR GRADUATE OR MEDICAL STUDENTS
at

THE CENTER FOR ADVANCED TRAINING
IN CELL AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY

The Catholic University of America
Washington, D.C. 20064

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship and The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology
are pleased to announce the availability of two Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellowships for 1985. The
Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellowships are intended to provide well-motivated students in biology
or medicine with an opportunity to obtain specialized training in cell and tissue culture and related
cell and molecular biology disciplines.

Recipients of the awards will spend 9-10 weeks, including June and July, at The Center for Advanced
Training in Cell and Molecular Biology where they will attend at least two 5—day training courses, Basic
Cell and Tissue Culture and In Vitro Toxicology, and become involved in a research program dealing
with in vitro neurotoxicology. Such training will facilitate the development of insights and laboratory
skills which may contribute to a reduction in the use of animals for experimentation.

ELIGIBLITY: The Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellowships are open to currently enrolled first year
graduate students, college juniors or seniors, or first year medical students. Students must be majors
in biology or related disciplines such as biochemistry. The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and
Molecular Biology at the Catholic University of America does not discriminate on the basis of race,
creed, color, national and ethnic origin, age or sex.

APPLICATION AND SELECTION: The primary basis of selection by a committee will be academic
merit and an awareness of Dr. Albert Schweitzer’s perspectives on the use of animals for biomedical
research. Applicants must submit a completed application, a current academic transcript, a letter of
recommendation from an appropriate teacher, and a 800-1000 word essay entitled ”Dr. Albert Schweitzer’s
Perspectives on Animals and Biomedical Research,” OR “A Personal View of Schweitzer’s Philosophy
of Reverence for Animal Life.” Deadline for submission of application and all other documents is March
1, 1985.

FINANCIAL AWARDS/TUITION REMISSION: The $1200 tuition and registration fees for the train-
ing courses will be waived. The Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellows also will receive a stipend of $1250
to assist them in defraying travel, housing, and other expenses. Low cost campus housing will be
available.

SPONSORS: The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship is a membership organization which seeks to foster
the ethic of Dr. Schweitzer of reverence for life, and to provide support for continuing his work at
the Albert Schweitzer Hospital at Lambaréné, Gabon. Its headquarters are at 866 United Nations Plaza,
New York, N .Y. 10017. The Center for Advanced Training is sponsored by the Department of Biology,
Catholic University of America, where doctoral research and instruction are part of a seventy year
tradition.

APPLICATION / IN FORMATION
For applications, reading list for orientation, and other information contact:
Dr. Roland M. Nardone, Director
Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology
Catholic University of America
Washington, D.C. 20064; Tel. (202) 635-6161 PLEASE POST

 




 

'D'Cl 'NOIDNIHSVM
IIA IIWHEId
(IIVJ
HDVLSOcI 'S'ﬂ
'NVDHO lIﬂOtlcl NON

 

 

 

[(801013 .IBII‘IDBIOW pue [[33
m
Suture: 1. paaueApV Jo; Jaiuag) 3111

wooz “o'o ’UOIBUNSBM
VDIHEIWV :IO ALISHEIAINH DI'IOHLVD Ell-LL

THE CENTER FOR ADVANCED TRAINING
IN CELL AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY
Roland M. Nardone, Ph.D., Director

MISSION: The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology has been established as a National Center to provide ex-
pert training for scientists and technicians. Its focus is on those new and established biomedically-related concepts and technologies which
provide the major impetus for contemporary research, innovative industrial applications, and sophisticated diagnostic laboratory techniques.

FACILITIES: The Center for Advanced Training is sponsored by the Department of Biology, Catholic University of America, where
doctoral research and instruction are part of a seventy year tradition. Hence, the facilities are well-suited for the programs being offered.

STAFF: All courses are staffed by experts drawn from diverse laboratories. Staff members are selected on the basis of their scientific
acumen, laboratory skill, and ability to communicate.

SPECIAL EXPERIENCE AND LOCATION: The Center for Advanced Training recognizes the unique requirements of short training
courses and their participants. Hence, it’s programs avoid ’dead time,’ and use a staggered preparation approach in order to compress
into a single session procedures which may ordinarily span a few days or weeks. Its staff facilitates the exploitation of the scientific and
cultural riches of the Washington, DC. area by registrants in the courses.

 




ANIMALS,
NATURE, &
ALBERT
SCHWEITZER

Editing and Commentary
by
Ann Cottrell Free

Published by
The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship
The Albert Schweitzer Center
The Animal Welfare Institute >
The Humane Society of the United States sf I --

 

 

 




 

 




 

ANIMALS, NATURE

and

ALBERT SCHWEITZER

 




 

 

 

SOUTH AMERWP‘

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

     

@

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Copyright 1982 by Ann Cottrell Free

All Rights Reserved

Printed in the United States of America

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 82-71157

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ANIMALS, NATURE

and

ALBERT SCHWEITZER

Editing and Commentary
by Ann Cottrell Free

Photographs by Erica Anderson
Design by Charles F. Herrmann. 111

Published by

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship
The Albert Schweitzer Center
The Animal Welfare Institute
The Humane Society of the United States

 




Dedicated

to
Myrta Pearson Ross

who
in her own life, in Africa and in the
United States, exemplifies the spirit and
dedication of her friends:
Helene and Albert Schweitzer

vi

 

 

 

 

 




 

In Memory
of
Dr. Schweitzer’s animal companions whose
lives ended so tragically in March, 1965

 

vii

 

 




 

 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The cooperation extended by individuals and organizations, dedicated to
the Schweitzer ethic, has been heartening. To them. my appreciation for
their help and interest in the creation of this small volume.

A special word of gratitude to Charles F. Herrmann lll of The Humane
' Society of the United States. He has truly been my partner. through his en-
thusiastic creativity and knowledge of book design.

To Rhena Schweitzer Miller, my deep appreciation, as a fellow board
member of the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship. as president, (on leave) of the
Albert Schweitzer Center, as daughter of Helene and Albert Schweitzer, and
as my friend. When I suggested a book of this kind, and volunteered my ser-
vices, Rhena Miller saw the need, particularly as educational adjunct for the
sponsoring groups.

Valuable information and insight has been generously supplied by other
individuals who were at the Schweitzer Hospital at Lambaréné. My gratitude
to Lee and Dorothy Ellerbrook of Corvina, CA; Ali Silver of the Albert
Schweitzer Central Archives, Gunsbach, France; Dr. Fergus Pope of Burns-
ville, NC; Marie Louise and Cindy Cullum of St. Thomas. U S. Virgin Is-
lands and Myrta Ross of Annandale, VA.

To Estelle Linzer, executive director of the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship.
my deepest appreciation for her interest and assistance. Also to Fellowship
President, Lawrence Gussman; vice-presidents, Mark L. Wolf; fellow direc-
tors: Dr. John Karefa-Smart, Antje B. Lemke. Christine Stevens. George
Marshall,,and Mary 0. Yates. my thanks.

To Christine Stevens. president of the Animal Welfare Institute and
Secretary of the Society for Animal Protection Legislation, my particular grati-

tude— not only for her suggestions, but for her highly effective selfless years

viii

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

in helping animals and guarding the biosphere. Her knowledgeable associ-
ates, Fran Lipscomb and John Gleiber have always been most cooperative.
My thanks to them and to former AWl staffer, Sheryl Stemenberg.

The role of The Humane Society of the United States in making this small
volume possible has been invaluable. My thanks, in addition to Mr. Herr-
mann, to HSUS president, John A. Hoyt; vice-presidents Patricia Forkan
and Patrick 8. Parkes; and General Counsel, Murdaugh S. Madden; Frantz
Dantzler, John Dommers, Liz Maher, Dale Hylton, Thien Huong T. Tram.

At the Albert Schweitzer Center, my gratitude to its acting president,
Antje B. Lemke; board member, Elizabeth Eyre Taylor; executive directors,
Stephen Rose and Anne Williams. I cannot emphasize sufficiently my appre-
ciation for the. use of the late Erica Anderson’s photographs and other
Schweitzer material as the Center’s contribution to the publication of the book.
Mrs. Anderson's work-in photographs, words and deeds—will live on.

The patience and typing skill of a fine humanitarian, Virginia Warren, has
been a great support throughout the editing and compilation process.

To Jean Robitscher, William Ward Nooter, and my husband, James S.
Free, and daughter, Elissa Blake Free, my thanks.

I am grateful to the publishers that so generously granted permis-
sion—noted in the bibliography section—for the reprinting of selections
from Albert Schweitzer’s works.

Ann Cottrell Free
Washington, DC, 1982

 




To think out in every implication the ethic of
love for all creation-this is the difficult task
which confronts our age.

-— Albert Schweitzer

 

 

 

 




 

PREFACE

Albert Schweitzer was a man of many talents and purposes—philosopher,
physician, musician. theologian, author, builder. His life was his argument.
And, indeed, it was his monument as well, because he lives on through the
accomplishments of the Schweitzer Hospital at Lambaréné, Gabon in West
Africa, through his philosophical works, his studies of Jesus, St. Paul,
Goethe and Bach, and through the recorded brilliance of his organ playing.

But perhaps, Albert Schweitzer’s most lasting legacy is found in his
articulation of his basic philosophy through three words: reverence for life.
Dr. Schweitzer grappled with the paradoxes of the man«animal-nature
relationship as no philosopher had done before. As a result, his philosophy
has shaped attitudes, led to passage of laws and, in many ways, has helped
to transform the second half of the 20th century.

This small volume shows, primarily through Dr. Schweitzer’s own words,
how his philosophy developed as his life unfolded. The book has but one
goal: to help keep alive the Albert Schweitzer spirit.

A.C.F.

xi

 

 




xii

 

 




 

 

II.
III.

IV.

VI.

CONTENTS

Young Schweitzer’s Questions

Africa

Reverence for Life

Down to Cases

Animals and Plants Around Him

The World Listens

11

23

, We

41

53

xiii

 




 

 




‘x
NW
N ‘\\\\
‘. I“
‘ ‘
, “I

 

 

 




 

Many
Children
Feel

This Way

A Prayer

That is why Albert Schweitzer was different.
That is why, also, that one day the different
may become the usual.

Etched forever in his memory, the sights
and sounds of suffering inflicted by man on
animals—creatures that had given so much
nourishment to the body and soul of man.
To the young Schweitzer, this was betrayal.

As long as I can remember, I have suffered because
of the great misery I saw in the world. I never really
knew the artless. youthful joy of living, and I believe that
many children feel this way, even when outwardly they
seem to be wholly happy and without a single care.

I used to suffer particularly because the poor animals must
endure so much pain and want. The sight of an old. limp-
ing horse being dragged along by one man while another
man struck him with a stick- he was being driven to the
Colmar slaughterhouse - haunted me for weeks.

I t was quite incomprehensible to me - this was before
Ibegan going to school — why in my evening prayers I
should pray for human beings only. So when my Mother
had prayed with me and had kissed me good-night. I used
to add silently a prayer that I had composed for all living
creatures. It ran like this:

Dear God. protect and bless all living
things. Keep them from evil and let
them sleep in peace.

He felt at home with the birds. the deer.
and the farm animals in the countryside. One
of his earliest ambitions was to be a
swineherd—even though the name
“Schweitzer" was derived from cow herder.

egg/1.- Fag»;




 

‘I I;

JAY .U‘”
Vault. {n||nw‘§ I ‘




 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

lcried over my lot in secret for hours and hours. I felt as
if I were being torn away from nature. To the enthusi-
asm roused in me by the beauties of nature as I learned to
know them on my walks to and from Munster, I tried to
give expression in poetry, but I never got further than the
first two or three rhymes. Once or twice too, I tried to
sketch the hill with the old castle on it which rose from the
other side of the valley, but that, too, was a failure. ...On-
ly in musical improvisation have I ever felt myself —as I
do still— to have any creative ability.

A dreamer during his early student days,
Albert Schweitzer found in music, especially
the organ-~at once tender and majestic—a
way to express his feelings about man and
nature. A new horizon opened when he met
missionaries from Africa, who related stories
of unrelieved suffering from injury and
disease. And yet another vista opened up.
On entering the University of Strasbourg, he
discovered science. But he remained vaguely
dissatisfied. unable to accept the answers to
his questions about the processes of nature.

It seemed to me laughable that the wind, the rain, the
snow, the hail, the formation of the clouds, the spon-
taneous combustion of hay, the trade winds, the Gulf
Stream, thunder and lightning should all have found their
PrOper explanation. The formation of drops of rain, of
8"walakes, and of hailstones had always been a special
Puzzle to me. It hurts me to think that we never acknowl-
edge the absolutely mysterious character of Nature, but
always speak so confidently of explaining her, whereas all
that we have really done is to go into full and more com-
Plicated descriptions which only make the mysterious
more mysterious than ever. Even at that age, it became
clear to me that Force or “Life" remains in its own essen-
tial nature forever inexplicable.

Torn
From Nature

The Mystery
of Life

 

 




 

 

 




 

The path that he followed after leaving the
university would have provided most other
men and women with great fulfillment. But
becoming an acclaimed organist, pastor of a
church, principal of a theological seminary,
and holder of two doctorates was not
enough—mot even the authoring of three
books, all by the time he was 30 years of
age! Thirty was the critical year, for this was
the year he was to carry out the secret and
momentous decision that he had made when
21 years of age.

While still a student, I resolved to devote my life un- A New Path
til I was thirty to the office of preacher, to science

and to music. If by the time Ishould have done what I

hoped in science and music, I would take a path of im-

mediate service to my fellow man.

He did not know exactly what road he
would take, but in 1905, as he reached age
30, he realized the desperate need of the
people in the African Congo for medical
help. Forthwith, he decided to study
medicine so that he could help these victims
of disease and foreign exploitation, who,
even then, were pressed into forced labor—
perhaps slavery. (Schweitzer was unable to
forget a statue in an Alsatian town square of
a strong, but dejected black African,
representative of a people sold in bondage.)
He told his astounded congregation at St.
Nicholas Church of his decision to give up
his European theological career for another
in distant Africa.

 




 

 

Atonement

 

We must make atonement for the terrible crimes we
read about in the newspapers. We must make
atonement for the still worse ones we do not read about in

the papers, crimes that are shrouded in the silence of the
jungle night.

A questing, creative, and somewhat non-
conformist thinker, Albert Schweitzer hoped,
too, that at a distant medical mission he
would be free to work out his own theological
and philosophical concepts—he would make,
therefore, “my life, my argument."

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Pushing
the
Cart

12

I have never seen such overworked horses and mules
as here. On one occasion when [came upon two na-
tives who were perched on a cart heavily laden with
wood which had stuck in the newly mended street, and
with loud shouts were belaboring their poor beast. 1 sim-
ply could not pass by, but compelled them to dismount
and to push behind till the three of us got the cart on the
move.

At the port of Libreville, Gabon. the
Schweitzers transferred to an Ogowé River
paddle wheeler river boat for the wondrous
two-week trip through the jungle to their final
destination.

 

 

 

 




‘V‘h J"
\M
m

.w .

m' w'

u‘fw'

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

On arrival at the inland station with its
ramshackle buildings and overgrown
grounds, he was almost overwhelmed by the
primitive conditions and the hot and steamy
climate. He converted an abandoned chicken
house into a makeshift jungle hospital. but
even so, most of the patients arriving from
their jungle villages, often with their families,
just waited in the open air. They suffered
from sleeping sickness, tuberculosis. leprosy,
ulcerated and swollen leg-s, strangulated
hernias, malaria and a variety of tropical
diseases. Some of his patients were victims of
enraged animals they had tried to kill for their
meat. Dr. Schweitzer often commented on
the protein hunger that drove the natives
even into killing hippopotamuses, gorillas,
monkeys. and elephants. He had no patience
with the old custom of creeping up behind
elephants and crippling them by cutting the
tendons of their hind legs. And he sorrowed
especially over the, terrible price hunters
exacted from the monkeys for their meat.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

O ne can often bring down or wound three or four in Poor

succession and yet never secure their bodies. They Little

get caught among the thick branches or fall into the under- Baby Monkey
growth which covers an impenetrable swamp; and if one
finds the body, one often finds also a poor little baby
monkey, which clings, with lamentations, to its dying

mother.

 

«3" we? ‘azm. Mm I s A v ~wgﬁ7¢W
15

 




 

 

The White
Heron

Fire

16

African wildlife appeared to be so plentiful
that it was hard to believe that some species
could be endangered. But Dr. Schweitzer
noticed what was happening to one creature:
the white heron.

   

"0r

  
 
 

J»!
t

. u i. ‘ . A r I. 1'. . ‘M! 7 , V‘ , 7.5 . ,

may”, " j W - "g. "4. “a. n . Jog . 7 “" v. 'n- Wg‘fw
‘i I” -~"" ' ~ ., ‘\ \ V V 6‘ . ‘ . 4 3-.“ ‘14.,
ﬂu ~{K»¢ermW-d “ﬁtwt*ﬁwfm ~_. 95:1"

 
  

11‘}

   

  

Unfortunately. there are still hunters who pursue the
white heron, whose feathers are the most sought
after in Europe for hat ornaments. More and more these
poor birds are withdrawing into remote and inaccessible
stretches of water where they might hope to remain un-
molested. They are hardly ever seen now on the river.

The custom of clearing the jungle by fire to
make way for cultivation caused him deep
sorrow because of the animals trapped within.

At this time of the year. with the red reflections
against the evening sky. lam seized by compassion
for the poor beasts that perish in these fires. In ancient
China the burning offorests was regarded as a crime. be-
cause it meant painful death to so many creatures...

Every day he witnessed the struggle
between living and dying.

 




 

 

 

 




 




 




 

 

 

 
 




In this solitude I try to set in order thoughts which have Solitude
been stirring in me since 1900, in the hope of giving

some little help to the restoration of civilization. Oh solitude

of the primeval forest, how can I ever thank you enough

for what you have been to me?

Clearly, some essential principle was
missing from modern western man’s concept
of the world around him—a world he tried to
I claim and unmercifully exploit but could

never really own. Could he, Albert Schweitzer,
discover the lost key—or even fashion a new
key—~to a more harmonious relationship
between all living things?

For months on end I lived in a continual state of men- The Iron
talturmoil. Without the least success! let my thinking DOD!
become concentrated, even through my daily work at the

1% hospital, on the real nature of the affirmative attitude and

0 ethics, and the question of what they have in common. I

was wandering about in a thicket in which no path was to

be found. I was leaning with all my might against an iron

door that would not yield.

 

 

The answer that was to unify his thoughts— g .
and may help to change the world—came '
unexpectedly one September day in 1915
while on a slow-moving barge moving up the
Ogowe‘wRiver, on a mission of mercy, to treat " ' ‘
a missionary’s ill wife. It was to be found in a
single phrase, but he did not yet know what
that phrase was to be.

Lost in thought I sat on the deck of the barge, struggl- Struggling
ing to find the elementary and universal conception
l of the ethical which I had not found in any philosophy.
k Sheet after sheet I covered with disconnected sentences,
merely to keep myself concentrated on the problem.

 

21

 

 




 

On the
Third Day

Creative forces were at work. Though
discouraged, he refused to abandon his
writing and crumple up the pages that had
borne no fruit.

Late on the third day, at the very moment, when at
sunset, we were making our way through a herd of
hippopotamuses, there flashed upon my mind, unfore-
seen and unsought, the phrase, “Reverence for Life. ”
The iron door yielded; the path in the thicket had become
visible.

From that moment, Albert Schweitzer was
never the same again. The years of searching
for a philosophy that could express in a few
words his own all-embracing View of life at
last had come to an end.

A new challenge lay ahead: The world’s
acceptance of that philosophy.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

CHAPTER THREE
REVERENCE FOR LIFE

Albert and Helene Schweitzer were
repatriated to Europe by the French in 1917
and held as civilian interns. At war’s end
Albert Schweitzer was in ill health and he
underwent surgery. His spirits, for once, were
low. Burdened by debts from the old hospital
and the need for funds to rebuild and start
again, his income came from serving as a
Strasbourg hospital physician, a clergyman
and concert organist, playing so often the
work of his beloved Johann Sebastian Bach,
about whom he wrote three books. He
lectured at universities in England, Sweden
and Switzerland. He also became the father
of a daughter, Rhena. Before returning alone
to Africa in 1924 to move and rebuild the
hospital, he devoted almost full time to
completion of four books. In his two-volume
Philosophy of Civilization he offered, in all of
its implications, the meaning of Reverence for
Life.

It may seem at first glance as if Reverence for Life were Ethic
something too general and too lifeless to provide the Of Love
content of a living ethic. . .. Anyone who comes under the

inﬂuence of Reverence for Life will very soon be able to

detect, thanks to what that ethic demands from him, what

fire glows in lifeless expression. The ethic of Reverence

for Life is the ethic of love widened into universality...

23

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

Dr. Schweitzer concluded that Western
ethics in regard to animals and nature had
been greatly damaged by the continuing
influence of the 17th century French
philosopher, Rene’ Descartes.

It would seem as if Descartes with his theory that ani-
mals have no souls and are mere machines had be-
witched all philosophy.

Because the extension of the principle of love to ani-
mal creation means so great a revolution for ethics,
philosophy shrinks from this step. It would like to cling to
a system of ethics which prescribes for man his behavior
toward other men in clear, reasonable commandments
without exaggerated demands.

As the housewife who has scrubbed the floor sees to it
that the door is shut, so that the dog does not come
in and undo all her work with his muddy paws, so
religious and philosophical thinkers have gone to some
pains to see that no animals enter and upset their system
of ethics.

Philosophy has totally evaded the problem of man’s
conduct toward other organisms. We might say
that it has played a piano of which a whole series of keys
were considered untouchable.

 

Animal
Machines

Philosophy
Shrinks

Muddy
Paws

Untouchable
Keys

25

 




 

Nature

Mutual
Dependence

26

Not all philosophers, of course, had shrunk
from the horror of animal suffering. But the
inﬂuence of the Eastern philosophers and
Western defenders, such as Plutarch, St.
Francis of Assisi, Jeremy Bentham and
Montaigne had not been sufficiently pervasive.
The walls of European philosophy,
educations, religion—excluding animals and
nature-continued to stand, even though
humane movements were underway in
England and the United States. Clearly for
Dr. Schweitzer this was insufficient.

Albert Schweitzer looked to the integration
of reverence for life into wider teachings of
established society. This, he believed, could
occur only if there was acceptance that man
is part of nature, endowed with the capacity
for compassion.

The deeper we look into nature, the more we realize
that it is full of life, and the more profoundly we
know that all life is a secret and that we are united with all
life that is in nature. Man can no longer live for himself
alone. We must realize that all life is valuable and that we
are united to all life. From this knowledge comes our spir-
itual relationship to the universe.

The important thing is that we are part of life. We are
born of other lives; we possess the capacities to bring
still other lives into existence. In the same way, if we look
into a microscope we see cell producing cell. 80 nature
compels us to recognize the fact of mutual dependence.

each life necessarily helping the other lives which are linked
to it.

 

 

 




 

 

The fact that in nature one creature may cause pain to
another, and even deal with it instinctively in the most
cruel way, is a harsh mystery that weighs upon us as long as
we live. One who has reached the point where he does not
suffer ever again because of this has ceased to be a man.

Whenever I injure any kind of life I must be quite cer-
tain that it is necessary. I must never go beyond

the unavoidable, not even in apparently insignificant
things. The farmer who has mowed down a thousand flow-
ers in his meadow in order to feed his cows must be care—
ful on his way home not to strike the head of] a single
[lower by the side of the road in idle amusement, for he
thereby infringes the law of life without being under the
pressure of necessity.

 

Harsh
Mystery

A Single
Flower

27

 




 

He Shatters
N 0 Ice
Crystal

After
a Ralnstorm

 

Aman is really ethical only when he obeys the con.
straint laid on him to aid all life which he is able to
help, and when he goes out of his way to avoid injuring
anything living. He does not ask how far this or that life
deserves sympathy as valuable in itself, nor how far it is
capable of feeling. To him life as such is sacred. He shat-
ters no ice crystal that sparkles in the sun, tears no leaf
from its tree, breaks off no flower, and is careful not to
crush any insect as he walks. If he works by lamplz’ght on a
summer evening, he prefers to keep the windmv shut and
to breathe stiﬂing air, rather than to see insect after insect
fall on his table with singed and sinking wings,

fhe goes out into the street after a rainstorm and sees a

worm which has strayed there, he reﬂects that it will
certainly dry up in the sunshine, if it does not quickly
regain the damp soil into which it can creep, and so he
helps it back from the deadly paving stones into the lush
grass. Should he pass by an insect which has fallen into a
pool, he spares the time to reach a leaf or stalk on which it
may clamber and save itself.

 

,
”I,
’r
l
- 'urnur "

 

 

 

 




 

 




 

 

Consolation

Nature’s
Goal?

Fﬁend
of Nature

The Masks
Fall

30

Each of us must therefore decide whether to condemn
living creatures to suffering and death out of ines-
capable necessity, and thus incur guilt. Some atonement
for guilt can be found by the man who pledges himself to
neglect no opportunity to help creatures in distress.

Dr. Schweitzer was often rankled by the
low esteem in which animal and nature
protectors were held, as if “animal letting”
and “nature loving" should automatically
mean “people hating,” as if all life was
created for man’s benefit. To him, “life
loVing” included all.

We like to imagine that man is nature’s gent; but the
facts do not support that belief. .

Often feeling quite isolated item ether
people because of his beliefs. there were
times, however, when he realized he was not
alone.

The friend of nature is the man who feels himself in-
wardly united with everything that lives in nature,
who shares in the fate of all creatures, helps them when
he can in their pain and need, and as far as possible
avoids injuring or taking life.

We are afraid of shocking people if we let it be not—
iced how much we are moved by the suffering
man brings to animals. We think that others may have
become more “rational” than we, and may accept as cus-
tomary and as a matter of course the things we have got-
ten excited about. Once in awhile, however, a word sud-
denly slips out which shows that even they have not yet
become reconciled to this suffering. Now they come very
close to us though they were formerly strangers. The
masks with which we were deceiving each other fall off.
Now we learn from each other that no one is able to es-
cape the grip of the cruelty that flourishes ceaselessly
around us.




What is often referred to today as
“conciousness raising" was expressed simply
by Dr. Schweitzer as “thinking." Thinking
about our relationship with animals—-
especially our exploitation—Dr. Schweitzer
believed to be a necessity if that exploitation
is to be terminated. In short, pure thought—
lQSSi’iQSS is the cause of much suffering of
anir‘nals at the hands of human beings.

The man who has become a thinking being feels a com-
pulsion to give: every will-to-live the same reverence
for life that he gives to his own. He experiences that other
life in his own.

He accepts as being good: to preserve life, to pro-
mote hie. to raise to its highest value life which is
capable of detseiopment; and as being evil; to destroy life,
to repress life which is capable of development. This is the
absolute, fundamental principle of the moral, and it is the
necessity of thought.

We rmsi never become callous. When we experi-
ence the conflicts ever more deeply we are living
in truth. The quiet: conscience is an invention of the devil.

Having lived through World War I and
ioreseeing another even more dreadful world
conﬂict. Albert Schweitzer appealed to people
everywhere to stop and think about the
futility of war, how it is born of contempt
rather than reverence for all life. He did not
forget the animal victims of war—cavalry and
artillery horses and mules, carrier pigeons,
first aid and scout dogs, and farm animals
and pets caught in the line of battle.

Thinking

Good
and Evil

The Quiet
Conscience

31

 

 

 

 

 




l//

Victims Today there is an absence of thinking which is charac- /

Of War terized by a contempt for life. We waged war for ques-
tions which, through reason, might have been solved. No
one won. The war killed millions of men, and brought /“
suffering and death to millions of innocent animals. Why?l
Because we did not possess the highest rationality of
Reverence for Life.

 

 

 

32

 




CHAPTER FOUR
DOWN TO CASES

Albert Schweitzer had pronounced views
on various specific and often controversial
aspects of animalwnatureman relationships.
He felt strongly about animals being forced to
fight each other or trained to perform for
man’s amusement.

First among the explanations we hear from lovers of
cruel practices is the statement that nature herself is
full of cruelty. True m but this does not remove my guilt,
when because of my thoughtlessness or delight in the drama
of battle. I still further increase the existing measure of
woe and suffering.

It is a disgrace to our time that animal ﬁghts are still be-
ing staged everywhere, including bull fights and cock
fights and other cruel diversions... In certain southern
(European) regions the Sunday pastime consists in giving
a rat to a dog in a wire cage. Young and old watch with
excitement the vain fight which the rat puts up for its life.

 

Nature's
Cruelty

Animal
Fights

33

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 




 

in keeping with his philosophy of killing
only for necessity, Dr. Schweitzer condoned
the hunting of animalsonly it they were
destructive to man and crops, but they must
he killed as “quickly and painlessly as
possible.” He could find no excuse for
recreational hunting.

When will we reach the point that hunting, the pleas- Sport
are of killing animals for sport, will be regarded as Hunting
a mental aberration?

We must reach the point that killing for sport will be felt as

a disgrace to our civilization.

To visitors who asked what to do with a
young antelope they had purchased from a
hunter who had killed its mother, he said,
“Unsweetened milk, air, sun, shade and love
for the antelope—«but what did you do to the
hunter?”

Having studied medicine, Albert Schweitzer
was well acquainted with the grim life and
death of laboratory animals.

35

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Laboratory
Animals

Pain

Those who experiment upon animals by surgery and ‘,
drugs. or inoculate them with diseases in order to be
able to help mankind by the results obtained... should
never quiet their consciences with the mnvictton that their
cruel action may in general have a worthy outposts. 1
every single instance they must consider whether it is real
ly necessary to demand of an animal this sacrifice for
men. And they must take anxious care that the pain be
mitigated as far as possible. ‘

While a medical student, he had fat: that
much of the suffering inﬂicted on animals was
entirely unnecessary.

How many outrages are committed in seientific in.
stitutions where anesthetics are often omitted to
save time and trouble? How many also when animals are
made to suffer agonizing tortures. only in tiirillélfi’ to dem-
onstrate to students scientific truths which are perfectly
well known?

Expressions of sympathy and caiis for greater
care, he realized were not enough {Only the
United Kingdom offered} any protestion to
experimental animals.) Until public opinion
became stronger and animal substinnes
available. Dr. Schweitzer could oniy take a
compensatory spiritual approach toward
repayment to these animals for their sacrifice.

 

 

 

 

 




The very fact that the animal, as a victim of research.
has in his pain rendered such services to suffering
men, has itself created a new and unique relation of solio
darity between him and ourselves. The result is that a
fresh obligationis laid on each of us to do as much good
as we possibly can to all creatures in all sorts of circum-
stances. Wh-en i help an insect out of his troubles all that I
do is to attempt to remove some of the guilt contracted
through these crimes against animals.

0:. Schweitzer was to become aware years
later that United States’ public opinion——
encouraged by his concern for animals- had
become more insistent on controls over
inhoratary animal suffering along the lines of
the British law. in 1963 he was to express his
approval at legislation introduced in the U.S.
Emmet to regulate experimentation in order
to reduce suffering. Heretofore, he had not
invoived himself in another nation's law
making processes. But he felt Strongly on this
subject.

I you pass such a law in the United States, it will have
importam meaning for the world.

in 1966 the Laboratory Animal Welfare
Act was enacted, but without the specific
pain reduction principles endorsed by Dr.
ﬁci‘iweitzer. Amended three times in ten
years and now called the Animal Welfare
Act. it primarily regulates. acquisition and care
oi seiected species. Humane groups continue
to press for stronger pain-reduction regula-
tion. and for further development and use of
viable substitutes for sentient creatures.

¥ Having witnessed the tragic consequences

of uncontrolled breeding of dags and cats,
Dr. Schweitzer looked to various birth control
measures and euthanasia as the best solution.
in some circumstances obedience to the com-
mand. “not to kill," was false compassion.

Solidarity

Endorsement

37

 

 

 




 

 

 
 




 

 

 




 

 

 




 

 

 

CHAPTER FIVE

ANIMALS AND PLANTS
AROUND HIM

Life without animals around him was, for
Dr. Schweigmr, gearcely a life worth living.
He recordmg m comings, goings and life
events in lggg diaryscrapbooks along with
those of hire human friends. (Dr. Schweitzer
lived only aggmarg months after the authorities
destroyegtl Lg’gg'g‘gbwéné’s dogs, cats and mon—
keys bewggw of a suepected rabies epidemlc.»
thought to Em Spread by bats.)

Dr. Schweitzer was not without his favorites
among lgizg grorggpamon animals, appreciating
not only g'égggrzr grgtelligence, but certain
attributes ggg': girlmmcter usually ascribed to
human berg»

And lg)? mg not forget that some of the more evolved Animal
aﬁlr‘g‘ggzls :«glgow that they have feelings and are cap Feelings
able of imggrgrgglw. sometimes amazing acts of ﬁdelity and

devotion.

 

41

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

on his left arm, which, of course, he dared
not move. This went on for 23 years. Sizi
had been rescued by Dr. Schweitzer when
she was a kitten after he heard her plaintive
“meow” under the floor of a building under
construction. (He was constantly expanding
his village, making room for more patients,
their families, and for the increasing number
of doctors and nurses.)

Another cat, Piccolo, took her siestas on
papers piled on Dr. Schweitzer’s desk. Should
they be in urgent need of his signature for
immediate dispatch, well, too bad.

The more exotic animal companions (that
is exotic to Europeans) were the native
monkeys, gorillas, chimpanzees, pelicans,
antelope. Monkeys abounded.

 

43

 

 




 




 

 

 

“So he proceeded to improvise more beautifully Magic
than I have ever heard him before or since. It MUSiC

was all full of the magic of the African forest, the moon-

light in the jungle and on the river, the merry gambols of

the monkeys in the trees when the sun is shining. . . "

Orphaned or injured young gorillas and
chimpanzees presented more of a problem.
Most of these were brought to the hospital
viiiage by hunters (not necessarily out of
sympathy since they usually had killed their
mothers) because they knew that Dr.
Sehweitzer would reimburse them, as he did
alt who brought other helpless young creatures
it} him.

 

 

Schweuxr’s daughm.
Rhem

Raised like children - especially the
chimpanzee. Fifi, and gorillas. Penelope and
Peter —-- they became too strong and
unpredictable to live free in the compound.
They were too unsophisticated in the ways of

the jungle to be returned to the wild.
45

 




 

 

Regretfully, the only alternative: Zoological
gardens. In all, thirteen gorillas went to zoos
from Lambaréne'. They were accompanied
sometimes by a Lambarene friend such as
Dr. Schweitzer's daughter, Rhena, to help
make the trip and transition easier.

He was especially partial to gorillas.
Whenever a jungle gorilla attacked a human
being, Dr. Schweitzer was quick to point out
that it was not the gorilla that provoked it.

 

The intelligence and close resemblance of
pigs to human beings was not wasted on Dr.
Schweitzer. He gave a home to a series of
Red River hogs-—-—all called Thekla, for an
obscure operatic character. The first. Thekla
was brought to the hospital compound as a
scrawny piglet. Not only did she respond in
weight gain to tender loving care, she became
something of a “problem child." Mischievous,
she seized every opportunity to become a
one-pig hurricane: romping about madly,
knocking against doctors, nurses, furniture,

 

 




 

killing chickens, even snatching food from
patients and their families. Threats were
made on her life. Penning up did no good.
She would dig out. Reluctantly, Dr.
Schweitzer sent her to the London Zoo.
When he visited her there years later, he
called her name and she recognized him.
Clearly, the loss of Thekla left an empty
space in his heart. As he had to her, he often
sang succeeding young Theklas to sleep with
the gentle Brahms Lullaby. _

Music and animals merged time and time
again, most pronouncedly so with the arrival
of three orphaned ﬂedgling pelicans~brought
in for money by the hunter who killed their
mother. They were named for the German
composer, Richard Wagner’s Tristan,
Lohengrin and Parsifal. As soon as they were
trained to live as pelicans, two of them joined
passing pelicans and flew away—but not
Parsifal. He decided to become

 

47

 

 




 

 

Dr.Schweitzer's night watchman, taking up his
perch outside the doctor’s quarters, permitting
no one to pass. He became such a presence
at the hospital that Dr. Schweitzer wrote a
small book, A Pelican Talks About His Life,

in which Parsifal tells his life story. If “M. le
Pelican," as he came to be known, was a
formidable presence, more so, a turkey who
guarded the lane to the outdoor toilet.
pecking at the legs of passersby.

ROULEI

’ ENTEM ENT

 

r 1?. l “5; I” “if"?
q:- :‘l.§l"j 4 ”l »
f \ ... r 3 '9‘ a a ﬂ , .

Dr. Schweitzer asked people entering the
hospital village by car to respect the ducks,
geese and chickens. He erected a large sign
with their pictures and the admonition to
“Drive slowly." He always carried in his
pocket a very small cloth bag of grain and
rice so that he could pause and feed various
fowl. This could have been the reason that
one red hen took a special fancy to Dr.
Schweitzer. She even insisted on spending
the night in his room, but when she decided
to bring a chicken friend, Dr. Schweitzer
shooed them both away.

 




 

 




Not a day passed that Dr. Schweitzer did
not spare some small non~human life—just
as he saved the lives and eased the pain of
patients. A bee that mistakenly had flown
indoors would be captured by an inverted
drinking glass, a cardboard slipped beneath
it, and released. He would step aside rather
than needlessly crush an ant, a beetle, a
worm. When tadpoles were left in small
pools— separated from the river on the
receding tide—he would open up a
passageway to take them back to the river.

 

False In the past we have tried to make a distinction between

Distinctions animals which we acknowledge have some value and
others which, having none. can be liquidated when we
wish. This standard must be abandoned. Everything that
lives has value simply as a living thing, as one of the
manifestations of the mystery that is life.

When constructing new buildings. Dr.
Schweitzer was careful to avoid injury to
small creatures that might be in the way. A
hospital built to save lives certainly should not
be built on a foundation of death and suffering.

Small Before the pile is lowered in the hole, [always look to

Creatures see whether any ants or toads or other creatures

have fallen into it. And ifso, [take them out with my hands,
that they may not be crushed by the pile or later killed by
the pounding down of earth and stones.

 




This considerationwso far as practicable —~—
extended to all other life forms: flowers,
plants, trees. The only real pleasure he
received from floral tributes sent him frequently
when abroad was derived from the kind
thoughts behind the gesture. ln Lambare'ne'
he advised patients, staff and visitors not to
cut the flowers. Not only would he move a
new road to save an orange tree. he once
transplanted a grove of palm trees.

We burden ourselves with some extra work out of Extra
compassion for the palm trees with which the site Work
of our future home is crowded. The simplest plan would

be to cut them all down. An oil palm is valueless. there

are so many of them. But we cannot find it in our heart

to deliver them over to the axe just when delivered of the

creeper vines. they are beginning a new life. So we devote

some of our leisure hours to digging up carefully those

which are transplantable and setting them elsewhere.

though it is heavy work. . .

Dr. Schweitzer lived his philosophy each
day of his life. Whenever called on to make a
life or death judgment, he considered each
case separately, always hoping that the
cor-itinuation of life could be justified.

Nature was constantly repaying man. Dr.
Schweitzer believed. by offering its own
beauty to lift the. sorrowful heart. For those
persons seeing only the dark side of life.
Albert Schweitzer had a few words:

Never say there is nothing beautiful in the world any- Beauty
more. There is always something to make yo:
wonder in the shape of a tree. the trembling of a leaf.

 




 
 
 




 

 

 

CHAPTER SIX
THE WORLD LISTENS

During the dark years of World War ll, Dr.
Schweitzer remained at Lambaréné, short-
staffed and under-supplied, relying on .
supportive groups, particularly the Albert l
Schweitzer Fellowship in the United States.
He emerged from Africa in 1948 to a
wounded, changed and changing world.
Victors and vanquished alike looked to Dr.
Schweitzer’s philosophy for the restoration of
hope and sanity.
In 1952, he was chosen for the Nobel
Peace Prize in recognition of his humanitari—
anism. There could be no peace, he said in
his acceptance speech, no harmony among
men and nations unless prejudice and
nationalism were laid aside, and all human-
kind recognized and embraced the universality
of lifenspecifically, “all living creatures.”

The. human spirit is not dead: It lives on in secret. . .. It Compassion
has come to believe that compassion, in which all

ethics must take root, can only attain its full breadth and

depth if it embraces all living creatures and does not limit

itself to mankind.

Little that Dr. Schweitzer pointed to in
those postwar years showed more clearly the
interrelationship between man and nature
than the effect on man and the biosphere of
continued nuclear testing.

Warning of the insidious effects on
generations of unborn children for centuries
to come, his voice and those of thousands of
scientists were heard by many governments
that ceased their open—air nuclear testing.

 

53

 




 

Nuclear
Fall-out

*l Ma ”kill“ ..

The radioactive elements released in the air by nuclear
tests do not stay there permanently. In the form of
radioactive rain and radioactive snow they fall down on
the earth. They enter the plants through leaves and roots
and stay there. We absorb them through the plants, by
drinking milk from the cows or by eating the meat of ani-
mals which have [ed on them. Radioactive rain infects our
drinking water.

‘ More Americans became aware of Dr.
Schweitzer when in 1949, at age 74, he
made his first trip to the United States to pay
homage to one of the greatest inﬂuences on
his life, the poet-dramatist. Johann Wolfgang
von Goethe, whose 200th anniversary was
being celebrated at Aspen. Colorado. His
debt to Goethe was profound.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




In most communities, humane societies—if
such existed—struggled to make ends meet,
their efforts often denigrated. But now they
saw a leader: at last, a world figure, unafraid
to speak up for animals. Encouraged, they
took their fight for stronger animal protection
to court houses, legislatures and to
Washington’s Capitol Hill. In the years
following Dr. Schweitzer presence in the
United States, when there was only one
animal protective Federal law on the statute
books, soon one after another was to be
enacted. It was not easy. Bitter struggles
ensued and continue today in the effort to
seek broader coverage and better
enforcement. Dr. Schweitzer, clearly realized
that the tide had turned.

In 1954 the Animal Welfare institute
presented to Dr. Schweitzer a gold replica of
its Albert Schweitzer medal, awarded
annually thereafter for outstanding service to
animals. On it, his image with his dog, Tchu
Tchu, and his words:

 

Boundless We need a boundless ethics which will include the
Ethics animals also.

 

 

56

 




 

 

 

_- ”it/g WHICH

Li": a A ~_ g \l‘llLL incwue
got} £33 1; T HE ANU‘AALS
"“ ,ti 4,! . ALSO?

# it a yr six u u

 

in giving his permission to strike the medal,
Dr. Schweitzer wrote to “my companion in
the struggle," AW! president, Christine
Stevens:

lam profanndly moved that you would like to give my Moving
name to the medal you have created. I give you this SW91“?
right with all my heart. I would never have believed that

my philasophy, which incorporates in our ethics 0 com-

passionate attitude toward all creatures, would be noticed

and recognized in my lifetime. I knew this truth would im-

pose itself ane day on human thought, but it is the great

and moving surprise of my life that I should still be able to

witness this progress of ethics.

Greatly inspired by Dr. Schweitzer the
founders of The Humane Society of the
United Stateswtoday the western
hemisphere’s largest humane organization—
dedicated themselves in 1954 to “making

reverence for life a living reality.” It has
57

 




 

 

A New
Humanity

True
Religion

reached out to help—~through direct action,
education at all levels and support of
protective legislation—countless animals in
slaughter houses, laboratories, zoos, pounds,
in the wild, on the high seas. In the 1970's it
became the sponsor of the international
Kindness Club, whose Canadian founder,
Aida Flemming, had invited Dr. Schweitzer in
1959 to serve as honorary president. Having
often observed “the dreadful play” of
uninstructed children with helpless animals,
he gladly accepted, writing:

Our civilization lacks humane feeling. We are humans
who are insufficiently humane! We must realize that
and seek to find a new spirit. We have lost sight of this
ideal because we are solely occupied with thoughts of
men instead of remembering that our goodness and com-
passion should extend to all creatures. Religion and
philosophy have not insisted as much as they should an
the fact that our kindness should include all living
creatures. . . .

The pages that you sent me tell me that you also are seized
with this idea. I am greatly impressed by your letter. I am
profoundly moved, because we aspire to a new humanity.

From Japan in 1961 came the request that
he serve the Japanese Animal Welfare
Society as an honorary patron. In his
acceptance, he wrote:

Any religion or philosophy which is not. based on a
respect for life is not a true religion or philosophy.

By the 19605, more than 45 schools asked
permission to bear his name. On acceptance,
he would write:




Start early to instill in your students an awareness that Heart and
they are on this earth to help and serve others... Reason
May it be the good fortune of this school to have teachers

who not only pass on knowledge to the children on the

road of life, but who also give them the deep realization

that the heart must always play its part as well as reason.

 

The world in the post-war years seemed to
be “beating a path" to Dr. Schweitzer’s
Lambaréné door, so inspired were the
volunteer physicians, nurses, technicians,
theologians, philosophers, journalists by the
example of this selﬂess, many—faceted man.
Sometimes “le grand docteur" would
disappoint them by talking at length about his
animals instead of the great issues of the day!

59

 




 

 




 

 




 

 

 




Albert Schweitzer died at age 90 on
September 4, 1965, at Lambaréné, realizing
that attitudes were changing. He had the
satisfaction of knowing that by persistently
seeking answers to his boyhood questions, he
had given guidance to those whose hearts
were lacerated by animal suffering and the
ravaging of nature. But he had no way of
knowing that in coming years philosophers
and thoughtful men and women everywhere
would no longer shrink from confronting the
last unacknowledged right: the right of an
animalwor even a tree— (communicating
through the conscience of man) to say “No."
Nor could Dr. Schweitzer know that a new
and different future for exploited animals and
nature was evolving, largely because of him.
But by looking to the past, he was well aware
that no revolutionary truth is acceptable to
the majority when it is first introduced.

 

63

 

 




 

 

 

 

The Fate
of Every
Truth

It is the fate of every truth to be an object of ridicule when
it is first acclaimed. It was once considered foolish to
suppose that black men were really human beings and
ought to be treated as such. What was once foolish has
now become a recognized truth. Today it is considered as
exaggeration to proclaim constant respect for every form
of life as being the serious demand of a rational ethic. But
the time is coming when people will be amazed that the
human race existed so long before it recognized that
thoughtless injury to life is incompatible with real ethics.
Ethics is in its unqualified form extended responsibility
with regard to everything that has life.

 

As his life unfolded, Albert Schweitzer
steadily grew into his ideals. It was not
always easy. But he was convinced that
others could do likewise once they gave
serious thought to the possibility of breaking
away from the tyranny of cultural custom and
personal habit.




Very little of the great cruelty shown by men can real-
ly be attributed to cruel instinct. Most of it comes from
thoughtlessness or inherited habit. The roots of cruelty,
therefore, are not so much strong as widespread. But the
time must come when inhumanity protected by custom and
thoughtlessness will succumb before humanity championed
by thought. Let us work that this time may come.

Albert Schweitzer realized that even his
deepest concentration could not solve the
puzzle that dominated his life since
childhood: I am the life which wills to live in
the midst of life which wills to live. But he
came to a kind of terms with the mystery
and showed others how they could do
likewise:

Make judgements with a prayerful and
humble heart, realizing that love cannot be
compartmentalized. lt embraces all life.

 

 

 

I 0 think out in every implication the ethic of love for For All
all creation -——this is the difficult task which confronts Creation
our age.

 




ﬂ nn‘ull .
MUM; W‘Aull.‘ \flrw.

66

 

 

 

 




SOURCES FOR SELECTIONS

 
   

Chapt 1' One: The Young Schweitzer’s Questions

2. Many Children The Animal World of Albert Schweitzer. Edited by
Charles R“ Jay. . "ion: Beacon Press, 1950, p. 44. Hereinafter referred
to as Animaifdoy. l lection translated by Joy from Aus Meiner Kindheit
und Jugendeeit. Hereinafter referred to as Kindheit.)

A Prayer. Albert Schweitzer: Thoughts for Our Times. Edited by Erica
Anderson. Martini Vernon, NY: Peter Pauper Press, 1975. p. 9.
(Selection translated by Anderson from Kindheit.)

NOTE: The prayer quoted in the text is the only Schweitzer prayer for
animals that can be authenticated. The following worthy prayer has been
widely attributed in Dr“ Schweitzer. But his daughter. Rhena Schweitzer
Miller, Schweitzer archivists bibliographers and scholars are unable to
authenticate it. Priest of his authorship would be welcomed, especially for
purposesaf inclusion in any future editions of Animals. Nature and
Albert Sch wettest,

Prayer for Animals

Hear our humble prayer. 0 God, for our friends the animals. especially
for animals who are suffering; for animals that are overworked. under-
fed and cruelly treated; for all wistful creatures in captivity that beat their
wings against bars; for any that are hunted or lost or deserted or
frightened ar hungry; for all that must be put to death. We entreat for
them all Thy i’i‘tﬂrﬂy and. pity, and for those who deal with them we ask
a heart of campassian and gentle hands and kindly words. Make us.
ourselves, to be true friends to animals, and so to share the blessings of
the merciful.

3. Forgiyei‘iess. Memoirs 0f Childhood and Youth. by Albert
Schweitzeti "Translated by CT. Campion from Kindheit. New York:
Macmillan 1955. p. 30. (Hereinafter referred to as Memoirs/Campion.)

4. Worms and Fish. Animal/Joy. p. cit. p. 46. From Kindheit.
Birds and Bells. lbid.. p. 44.

Freedom. lbid.. p. 44.

A Conviction, lbidi, p. 46.

Tom From Nature. Memoirs/"Gammon. op. cit.. p. 22..
Mystery of Life. lbid.. p. 52.

.\'.\’.°‘.U‘P

67

 

 

 

 




 

8. Our Share of Misery, Ibid., p. 61.
9. A New Path. Ibid., p. 61.

10. Atonement. Reverence for Life: Sermons of Albert Schweitzer.
Translated by Reginald Fuller. New York: Harper and Row, 1969, pp.
56—57.

Chapter Two: Africa

12. Pushing the Cart. On the Edge of the Primeval Forest and More
From the Primeval Forest, by Albert Schweitzer. Translated by CT.
Campion from. Zwishen Wasser und Urwald and Das Spittal im Urwald.
New York: Macmillan, p. 11. (Hereinafter referred to as Edge/More)

13. Two Monkey Tails. Ibid., p. 15.
15. Poor Little Baby Monkey. Ibid., p. 49.

16. The White Heron. Animal/Joy, op. cit., p. 16. Translated by
Charles Joy from Afrikanische Jagdegeschichichten.

16. Fire. Albert Schweitzer: An Anthology. Edited by Charles R. Joy.
Boston: Beacon Press. 1947, p. 279. (Hereinafter referred to as An-
thology/ Joy. From Living Age, Sept. 1938.

17. Constant Struggle. Animal/Joy, op. cit., p. 189. Translated by Joy
From Kultur und Ethik.

18. Choices. Out of My Life and Thought. by Albert Schweitzer.
Translated by CT. Campion from Aus Meinen Leben und Denken.
New York: Henry Holt, 1949, p. 234. (Hereinafter referred to as Life.)

19. Man or Nature. Edge/More, op. cit., p. 101.
19. Tragedy. Life, op. cit., p. 153.

20. Questions. Philosophy of Civilization; Part II Civilization and Ethics,
by Albert Schweitzer. Translated by CT. Campion from Kultur und
Ethik. New York: Macmillan, 1949. Reprint, University Presses of
Florida. 1981. p. 86.

21. Solitude. Edge/More, op. cit., p. 100.
21. Struggling. Ibid., p. 155.

21. Iron Door. Life. op. cit., p. 155.

22. Third Day. Ibid., p. 156

Chapter Three: Reverence for Life
23. Ethic of Love. Out of My Life and Thought, p. 232.

68

.‘_..~ ., _- .1. . ,V
.__, :4- . .5} ,7!




24. Some Sort of Help. Animal/Joy, op. cit., p. 191. From Kultur.
24. Interpreting Life. lbid., p. 30. From Kultur.

25. Animal Machines. The Teaching of Reverence for Life, by Albert
Schweitzer. Translated by Richard and Clare Winston. New York: Holt,
Rinehart and Winston. 1965, pp. 49-50). (Hereinafter referred to as
Teaching.)

25. Philosophy Shrinks. Animal/Joy, op. cit., p. 187. From the Inter-
national Journal of Animal Protection, Edinburgh: May 1935.
(Hereinafter referred to as Journal.)

25. Muddy Paws. Teaching, op. cit., p. 49.
25. Untouchable Keys. lbid., p. 50.
26- Nature Anthology/Joy, op. cit., p. 248. From Christian Century,

.vol 51,1934

s26 Mutual Dependence. lbid., p. 272. From Christendom, vol. 1, no.
1 1936.

Q27 Harsh Mystery Animal/Joy op. cit. p. 177. From Atlantis,

Zurich, 1932
27. A Single Flower. Animal/Joy, op. cit., p. 190. From Kultur.

28. He Shatters No lce Crystal. Philosophy of Civilization; Part II,
Civilization and Ethics, by Albert Schweitzer. Translated by John Naish
from Kultur and Ethik. London: A & C Black, 1923, p. 254.
(Hereinafter referred to as Civilization/Naish.)

28. After a Rainstorm. lbid., p. 254.

29. Which Life? Life. op. cit., p. 253.

29. No One May Shut His Eyes. Animal/Joy, op. cit., p. 191.
30. Consolation. Teaching, op. cit., p. 23.

30. Nature’s Goal. Animal/Joy, op. cit., p. 191.

30. Friend of Nature. lbid., p. 191. From Atlantis.

30. Masks Fall. lbid., p. 191. From Kultur.

31. Thinking. Life, op. cit., p. 158.

31. Good and Evil. lbid., p. 158.

31. Quiet Conscience. Animal/Joy, op. cit., p. 190. From Kultur.

32. Victims of War. Anthology/Joy, op. cit., p. 260. From
Christendom.

69

 

 

 




 

 

Chapter Four: Down to Cases

33. Nature's Cruelty. The Animal World of Albert Schweitzer, Joy, p.
177. From Atlantis.

34. Animal Fights. lbid., p. 178.

34. Performing Animals. Memoirs/Campion, op. cit., p. 31.

34. Amusements. Teaching. op. cit.. p. 50.

34. Falconry. Animal/Joy, op. cit., p. 177. From Atlantis.

35. Sport Hunting. Teaching, op. cit.. p. 50.

36. Laboratory Animals. Animal. /Joy, op. cit., p. 190. From Kultur.
37. Pain. Civilization/Naish. op. cit.. p. 264.

37. Solidarity. lbid., p. 264.

37. Endorsement. Letter to US. Senator Maurine Neuberger of Oregon
May 6, 1963.

38. Euthanasia. Indian Thought and Its Development, by Albert
Schweitzer. Translated by Mrs. C.E.B. Russell from Die
Weltanschuauung der indischen Denken. New York: Henry Holt. 1936.
p. 83.

39. Poor Creatures. Unpublished memorandum.
39. Animals lnto Meat. Civilization/Naish. op. cit., p. 253.

Chapter Five: Animals And Plants Around Him

41. Animal Feelings. The Schweitzer Album, by Erica Anderson. New
York: Harper and Row, 1965. p. 42. (Hereinafter referred to as
Album/ Anderson.)

44. Monkeys and More Monkeys. Anthology/Joy. op. cit.. p. 282.
From Christendom.

45. Magic Music. Animal/Joy, p. 26.

50. False Distinctions. Album/Anderson. op. cit., p. 42.
50. Small Creatures. Edge/More, op. cit., p. 112.

51. Beauty. Album/Anderson. op. cit.. p. 39.

51. Extra Work. Edge/More. op. cit., p. 157.

70

 

 

 




 

 

 

Chapter Six: The World Listens

53. Compassion. Nobel Peace Prize address: The Problem of Peace in
the World Today. New York: Harper and Row, 1954. Reprinted, The
Courier, Albert Schweitzer Fellowship, April, 1978, p. 12.

54. Nuclear Fall-out. Peace or Atomic War? New York: Holt, Rinehart
and Winston, 1958. p. 8. (Three broadcasts from Oslo.)

55. Goethe. Albert Schweitzer. Goethe—Five Studies. Translated by
Charles R. Joy. Boston. Beacon Press. 1961. p. 3.

56. Boundless Ethics. Animal/Joy, op. cit., p. 30.

57. Moving Surprise. Letter to Christine Stevens.

58. A New Humanity Letter to Aida Flemming.

58. True Religion. Letter to Japanese Animal Welfare Society.

59. Heart and Reason. Humane Education Magazine. The Humane
Society of the United States. Spring, 1978.

60. Capacity to Foresee. Silent Spring, by Rachel Carson. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin, 1962.

62. A Longer Journey. Album/Anderson, op. cit., p. 20.
64. Fate of Every Truth. Civilization/Naish, op. cit., p. 255.
65. For All Creation. Animal/Joy, op. cit., p. 179. From Journal.

All photographs by Erica Anderson, unless otherwise noted. as follows:

Page lmAnderson, Erica, The Schweitzer Album. New York: Harper and
Row, 1965 (p. 16). Page 4—Department of Interior. Page 5—HSUS/Fran-
cesconi. Page 6-—- The Schweitzer Album (p. 16). Page 8—NOAA Photo-
graph from DOE. Page 10- The Schweitzer Album (p. 26). Page lS—The
Smithsonian Institution. Page 29—V.A. Livingston. Page 32—U.S. Army
Military History Institute, Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania. Page 33—HSUS/
Frantz Dantzler. Page M—HSUS. Page 35—Defenders of Wildlife/Inter-
ior (top), Photographic Section, US. Bureau of Outdoor Recreation (bot-
tom). Page 36 -- La Physiologic Operatoire (p. 125). Page 38—Ann Cottrell
Free. Page 39—HSUS/ Cindy Rossa. Page 40—HSUS. Page 48-The
Schweitzer Album (p. 52). Page 49—Charles R. Joy. Page 54—U.S. Air
Force—~DOE. Page 55—-HSUS/ John Dommers. Pages 56 and 57—
Animal Welfare Institute. Page 61—NASA (top), Rachel Carson Council,
lnc./ Photo by Eric Hartman (bottom).

71

 

 

 

 




 

BIBLIOGRAPHY

The following books have been valuable in the production of Animals,
Nature and Albert Schweitzer. An asterisk denotes those from which
selections have been reprinted by kind permission of their publishers or
copyright holders.

BOOKS BY ALBERT SCHWEITZER

African Notebook. Translated from Afrikanische Geschichten by Mrs.
C.E.B. Russell. New York: Henry Holt and Co. 1939.

Indian Thought and Its Development. Translated from Die
Weltanschauung der indischen Denker by Mrs. C.E.B. Russell. New
York: Henry Holt and Co. 1938.

’ Memoirs of Childhood and Youth. Translated from Aus Meiner
Kindheit und Jugendzeit by CT. Campion. New York: The Macmillan
Co. 1949.

' On the Edge of the Primeval Forest and More from the Primeval
Forest. Translated from Zwishen Wasser und Urwald and Das Spittal im

Urwald by CT. Campion. New York: The Macmillan Co. 1956.

Out of My Life and Thought. Translated from Aus Meinen leben und
Denkin by CT. Campion. New York: Henry Holt and Co. 1949.

The Philosophy of Civilization (Kulturphilosophie) Part I, Decay and
Restoration of Civilization (Ven‘all und Weideraufbau) and Part ll,
Civilization and Ethics (Kultur und Ethik) both translated by CT.
Campion. London: A 8: C Black, 1946, 1949; New York: The
Macmillan Co., 1949; paperback reprint edition, Macmillan 1949 by
permission of Rhena Schweitzer Miller, Tallahassee: University Presses of
Florida, 1981. Part ll, Civilization and Ethics, translated by John Naish.
London: A & C Black, 1923.

‘ Peace or Atomic War? (Three broadcasts from Oslo.) New York:
Holt, Rinehart and Winston. 1958.

‘ The Problem of Peace in the World Today (Nobel Peace Prize
' address). New York: Harper and Row. 1954.

Reverence for Life. Sermons of Albert Schweitzer. Translated by
Reginald Fuller. Harper and Row. 1969.

The Teaching of Reverence for Life. Translated by Richard and Clare
Winston. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston. 1965.

72

 

 

 




 

 

 

SCHWEITZER ANTHOLOGIES

‘ Albert Schweitzer: An Anthology. Edited by Charles R. Joy. Boston:
Beacon Press. 1947.

‘ Albert Schweitzer: Thoughts for Our Times. Edited by Erica
Anderson. Mount Vernon, N.Y.: Peter Pauper Press. 1975.

‘ The Animal World of Albert Schweitzer. Edited and translated by
Charles R. Joy. Boston: Beacon Press. 1950
BOOKS ABOUT ALBERT SCHWEITZER

‘ Anderson, Erica. The Schweitzer Album. New York: Harper and
Row. 1965.

Brabazon, James. Albert Schweitzer. New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons.
1975.

Cousins, Norman (with Clara Urquhart). Dr. Schweitzer of Lambaréne'.
New York: Harper and Brothers. 1960.

Ice, Jackson Lee. Prophet of Radical Theology. Philadelphia: The
Westminster Press. 1971.

Marshall. George and Poling, David. Schweitzer: A Biography. New
York: Doubleday and Co. 1975.

Ratter, Magnus. Albert Schweitzer: Life and Message. Boston: Beacon
Press. 1950.

Seaver, George. Albert Schweitzer, the Man and His Mind. New York:
Harper and Brothers. 1947.

SCHWEITZER PERIODICALS IN U.S.A.
' The Courier, New York: Albert Schweitzer Fellowship. Quarterly.

Reverence, Great Barrington, MA: Albert Schweitzer Center. Occasional.

GUIDES TO MAJOR ALBERT SCHWEITZER MATERIAL

Albert Schweitzer, an International Bibliography. Compiled and edited by
Laura Person, Nancy Griffith, Antje B. Lemke. Boston: G.K. Hall, 70
Lincoln St. (02135) 1982.

Guide to Albert Schweitzer Collections in the United States. Compiled
and edited by Hardee Flinders and Antje B. Lemke. New York: Albert
Schweitzer Fellowship, 866 United Nations Plaza, (10017) 1981.

In Europe: Albert Schweitzer Central Archives, Maison Albert

Schweitzer, F 68140 Gunsbach. Haut-Rhin, France. 73

 

 




 

 




 

ﬁrm C7{:2ttr‘a~3ZE Free as (m (‘mthur‘ poet. jcmmalis: and
ﬁber: Schweitzer A'Iedahst.

(Sharia F. Herrmunn II} is an editor for The
f’iwrmne Sacrmty 0f the United. States and the
«gzuihigur Of s:¢:.;rtes for chifdren.

Erica Anderson was a phomgrapher, auihm.
ummafist who spent many years a: the Schweitzer
Haspz‘ml and win: faumied the Albert SMweirzer
{fa-enter

 

 




THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER FELLOWSHIP

The basic mission of the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship, a non-profit mganization,
is to provide assistance to the Albert Schweitzer Hospital in L,am2_:a2-2n.2. Gabon and
to extend in a variety of ways Dr. Schweitzer's philosophy of "reve rre:2 ce for life. "

The Fellowship was born in 1939 of the urgency to aid the Ht:2sp‘2t:». in its hour of
need during World War ll. American friends of Dr. and Mrs. SCliWGllit .2 established
the Fellowship as a vehicle for receipt of funds to be used for Clollili’ii; . food. medi-
cinals and hospital equipment. Today, the Fellowship maintains its (2:22:222itment to
assist the hospital, which is now governed in cooperation with (Sabonese
government. The hospital treats 20.000 patients annually. The F 221323222»? 21p depends
on contributions for this support, which has helped to modernize and expand the
hospital.

Since 1979 the Fellowship has sponsored a Medical Students l’r-rygiuni that un-
derwrites annual service of medical students from the United States f0: . 22,-.» 2 -c. of duty at
the Hospital.

The Fellowship helps, support at Dr. Schweitzer‘s old horn-22, 2f,;-2_22-:sbach,
France, the world's largest collection of Schweitzer material. it. is 2-: .-:,22-;22ibutirig
member-of the International Association for the Work of Dr. .2'-\lh..22t ‘-.+2‘.§-'222..222itzer.
headquartered in Deventer, Holland. The Fellowship also 23::2‘222-i‘2322t224 to the ac-
tivities and the maintenance of the Albert Schweitzer Center at (1:22-22:2- Eli‘s-2,222:223nm,
Mass.

The Fellowship’s publishing program includes a semi-322.222.22.22 22 The
Courier, a reprint edition by the Florida State University Press of the 5"5i2l2552222'2g:st‘222 of
Civilization. It has also helped to sponsor a Guide to Albert: Sch-2.222212222- 2‘- lit-222.222.2223
in the U. S. A. and a number of other books on and by Dr ‘5:r i2t2.22.s:‘:2t222

The Fellowship cosponsored with the Smithsonian lnstitttttos. the (..'<'*§2.’:’.T>t‘2tltf'ii't of
the Schweitzer Centenary in 1975. It has also sponsored or 2:22:22i2::-2;;2ai2.22i 2:; 22:2.22-222i221
benefits and sympsosia in the United States and Europe.

The Fellowship is managed by a board of directors. 222,2922-25222‘2222132.x: 222' Dr.
Schweitzers varied interests. lts current president is Lawre 22: ("3222;222:2222 lac x
ecutive director Estelle Linzer. It is headquartered at 82:2: i ‘ient "Ll 2222-; i-"Esn-za.
New York N. Y. 10017. -

76

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

4",“

,2 .

3.3

THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

The Annual Welfare Institute was founded in 1951 as a non-profit organization.
dedicate-22:3 to the promotion of the welfare of all animals and to the reduction of pain
and fear ft‘.fl3£.‘.ir3<f.l on animals by man.

AWl gsarticulariy concerned with the elimination of suffering and humane
handliii<213fe \ﬁezliiiﬂnlél animals and the full enforcement of laws and regulations
BOUQH‘IZHI,‘ I it Is also I'.‘.I‘_)iiCI,-lﬂt.’(.l with the development and use of non-animal
method; 2.? 32.:2222e.:3r<:ii wherever possible.

Other III-2.322;}: aims of the lnstitute:

0 PI'I5;2;,I;1‘ anon of species threatened by extinction

0 R32: cruel met liods used in factory farms."

0 82.22.... .:i I}? iruei Inet‘riods of wildlife trapping.

0 line i'Ziiliitfil‘iI-I‘tl moratorium on commercial whaling.

0 PI‘exix-niitiii of painful experiments by untrained youth.

To sniper-2 its" goals KIWI studies current problems in all areas of animal abuse

2:;and cail» :I":iiI~3's"iliiT‘il'i to practical steps needed for correction tl‘fpugh an extensive
_prublica:2-:.2;2. 2222232221Icm liis 333 a quarterly Information report Manuals on housing

and"l3:‘3n:;ifin21 .I'I labor Iiory animal Studies On wildlife and whales books fOI pri-
mary tl 22.2,.22.:2:233i:i airy grades and it has issued several updated editions of Animals

fond Tin-2:222 .. [4? Lights it also issues films. Many of these materials are either dis-
tributed 332' i:.harge or at cost. fhe lnstitute participates in numerous scientific

and until comientions and symposia.

AWl I Is ti‘ie Aibert facliweiizei‘ Medal and $1,000 annually for outstanding
aCthVItzfi'iirr2'":i in the at'lyai'icenieni of animal welfare.

lts 5232.19.22; 2. 2.22 yam/23 on, the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, has played a
forceful? :2: t‘éllfilali‘tll"ig Congressional enactment of major legislation in the fields
of h.I.iI2i23:2-:.2.e :-.i222i2.t2i ter iaboratory animal procurement and handling, wildlife and
marine 2:32:23 protection . l l ‘

Tl'isz: 2'21 :.2:i.-3i if» elfare institute is governed by a board of directors. lts president is
Christin f22‘22322...2i.-2322:s. its mailing address: PO. Box 3650. Washington, DC. 20007.

J

t‘ ' .2
.2 3- ,
r 2 1' f ‘
. I "
in , ’
J
é
I l "
3 -..A-~~ .
I .. .‘ f _.I .' 4 '
' ’ .‘ 1
' I‘ ‘34
. 2 n 2 .2 /
- 2f
; ‘ /
I. V V
.. I .‘ , I
u. ;
._ I Y I .
a _ 2.
l I ' " I
.. 2'. ,
.r
'u "_ C-
. " . '1
. _ .-‘ i"
---------- .;\. 2 I .
.' 4’ ‘l l
-. “,0": ,
~' _ A
’1’: ”3:335“
‘ " f ' '2 '.
. xv” ,i 2
,,; .2' 1 . :2. .
I J . r
._. I,
" . ‘3"
‘ I '-
J ; f I} ‘ 7
I .2

 




THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER CENTER

The Albert Schweitzer Center in Great Barrington, Mass. was founded in 1966
as the Albert Schweitzer Friendship House by the late Erica Anderson. She was Dr.
Schweitzer’s friend and film biographer. Her mission in life after Dr. Schweitzer's
death in 1965 was to keep alive his philosophy of “reverence for life" by establish-
ing a center where tangible evidence of Schweitzer’s life and accomplishments
could be appreciated by the public—especially children—~and studied by scholars.

The Center, situated in a pastoral setting in the Berkshires, consists of a library-
museum, an auditorium, a 150-year-old guest house and a 13—acre nature sanc-
tuary. At the heart of this largest collection in the United States of Schweitzer re-
sources are Mrs. Anderson’s motion picture films and thousands of photographs.
There is a temperature-controlled vault to house films and tapes, a soundproof
room for listening and recording, and facilities for film cutting and c0pying manu~
scripts. The facility also contains books on and by Dr. Schweitzer, newspaper ar-
chives, letters and memorabilia.

Throughout the year, the Center holds special seminars, musicales and informal
discussions. The Center publishes a journal called Reverence. The Center is open
daily, except for Monday, during July and August. During Spring and Fall. it is
open daily except for Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. During the winter months. it
is open by appointment.

By ringing a large bell on the grounds of the Center, visitors may signify their in-
tention to carry out Dr. Schweitzer's pledge to respect all life.

The Center is managed by a board of directors. Its president (on leave) is Rhena
Schweitzer Miller; acting president, Antje B. Lemke; executive directors, Stephen
Rose and Anne Williams. It is located at Hurlburt Road. Great Barrington. Mass.
01230. Telephone: (413) 528-3124.

78

 

 




 

THE HUMANE SOCIETY
OF THE UNITED STATES

Founded in 1954, The Humane Society of the United States is a national non-
profit membership organization that carries forward a number of programs to stop
and reduce animal suffering. Its concerns extend from research laboratories, traplines.
factory farms to puppy mills, zoos, circuses, animal fighting contests. high seas.

The HSUS works to achieve its goals through education. communication, direct
and supportive action, litigation and supportive legislation. lts major divisions in-
clude: the National Association for the Advancement of Humane Education, Shelter-
ing and Animal Control, Wildlife and Environment, Field Services. the Institute for
the Study of Animal Problems.

The HSUS issues five periodical publications The Humane Society of the United
States News, a bi-monthly magazine; Humane Education, a quarterly magazine for
teachers and humane society educators. Kind, a bi-monthly magazine providing
stories on people-animals relationships for children age eight and above; Shelter
Sense, a bi~monthly publication for animal shelter and control personnel; the Inter-
national Journal for the Study of Animal Problems, published quarterly in coopera-
tion with the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

The HSUS conducts in a different major city each year a three-day national lead-
ership conference where workshops in all phases of humane work are held, major
addresses by national leaders are presented, and the annual Joseph Wood Krutch
medal is awarded to an outstanding humanitarian.

Throughout the year, training seminars for shelter and animal control workers
are conducted throughout the country. Also, The HSUS maintains an Animal Con-
trol Training Academy at the University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, Ala.

The HSUS frequently has initiated prosecution on a federal, state and local level,
often in cooperation with other groups, particularly in cases of a precedent setting
nature.

Its officers and staff members are invited frequently to testify before committees
of the US. Congress on pending animal protective legislation.

The HSUS maintains regional offices in California. Connecticut, Florida, Ohio,
New Jersey, Texas. lt is governed by a board of directors. lts president is John A.
Hoyt. The HSUS’ headquarter building is located at 2100 L Street. NW ,
Washington, DC. 20037.

79

 




Animals Nature & Albert Schweitzer may be ordered from any one of the
four publishers.

 

 

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship
866 United Nations Plaza
New York, NY. 10017

The Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC. 20007

The Albert Schweitzer Center
Hurlburt Road
Great Barrington, Mass. 01230

The Humane Society of the United States
2100 L Street, NW.
Washington, DC. 20037

Printed by Peake Printers, Inc.
Cheverly, MD 20781

 




;

 

.. ,5

v

a .r
:m

. at
. r
.

1d. \

7:,
,1.

 

 

 




 

Notes

 




I am the life which wills to live
in the midst of other life
which wills to live.

—-Albert Schweitzer

 




 




ANN COTTRELL FREE _ , . ,
4700 )AMESTOWN ROAD
WASHINGTON, DC. 20016

June 15 , 1981

Dear Christine,

It is good news to hear that Roger is coming
along well. The big problem now will be holding him
down so that he can convalesoe leisurely. (Your job!)
I sent him a card with the same advice -- getting it
from everyone , no doubt.

Here, finally is a first draft of the preposed
small book on Animals Hature and Dr. Schweitzer.
Your suggestions will be most welcome.

ﬂy purpose in volunteering to write, select, edit
the book is simply this: The Fellowship should become
more involved with animals. (You have heard me on
that subject countless times.) Clearly, it has neither
the money nor the means of distribution to bring out
such a book alone. By having it on the publications

list of the Animal Welfare Institute and the Humane

Society of the United States, Schweitzer's words and

life story will become more readily available. Dr.
on Animals and Schweitzer
Joy's book first apppeared in 1950 and was reprinted up

until 1959’: but it is geerally out of of print now.
Also, it includes a lot of material about the hunter
Trader Horn and other extraneous things.

I prepose a small (5" X 7”) book, with some of

Erica's photographs; color, flexible cover.

 




You will notice that I did not foonote this
draft version, but probably will place a code mmber at

the end of each quotation for reference to the

£5—

Schweitzer book from which it 1ens token, printed in

elm“

a.

the back.
In some case, the translations are very cumbersome,

so will either find better ones or -— working with a

, (Iva c.(, a

translator --— do new ones with more up~to~date
or suitable words, if possible. But no time for

these fine points now. My objective now is for

ﬂu», yrs/”lull, - I} ll!

”whirl f7PI'V, fraud

you to take a look at it, and then, let us find time
whenever you are. available, to discuss it. I want to

get new dollar ostamates. Sheryl Sternenberg had

Q

3
in
\3’
\

worked up some figures, indicating that the dolhar
each.

share of the three publishers would run about $5 ,W

But this was predicated on a large, 20,000 press run.

She told me, however, before she left that she didn't

know whether it included all type setting, printing ,

binding, etc. So I will now present the material for

bids to several printers, who do the whole thing.
So that is all for now. Best to both. you and

Roger. Jim and Elissa join me in this.

Yours ,

G /M41“‘ 4.. 700(530‘0‘7 %

re‘dl‘/Ir 7’5fA’LV ’03 ’

W

 




[all/(afloat ”Ufa/W7 ﬂd/lhak-
A, III/Ila/ 4/50””? 755417 ///’ul'/8

/4 11» may. / M4 0— m M’
)9) ad {If 0/: one {1/22}. A}
r57»! [5' 2‘» /n I: {l/ft/‘Iw fncnr.
5’ ﬂ}: 76M ya. i ”MA @051
MW Ac». wmw 301/ m. mm
”73 MA M A597 an A7: ﬂay/u!

MA" 1; w/// t ﬂN’Iﬂl/7 761”.
r W1" A; 041541.4— a: /C {fl/”I401
(fa/ml??? WM? 16» A 5/4”]

 




ANIMALS, NATURE and DR. SCHWEITZER

 




 

 

Ann Cottrell Free
4700 Jamestown Road

Washington, 13.0. 20016
501 229 8166 or 229 7555

 

 




 

ANIMALS, NATURE AND DR. SCHWEITZER

 

 

 




Published by

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship
The Animal welfare Institute
The Humane Society of the United States

 

 




 

Acknowledgements

Appreciation to supporters. Gratitude for COpyright

T-ermissions, etc. etc.

, including photographs by Erica Anderson.

 

 

 




,1 . 2““.m—Hnﬂr >- .— 7“! —- v . ,7 , , V n. .‘ v , . _ ,7 _...2 '_, V A

CONTENTS

.1 YOUTH ' s QUESTIONS

11 AFRICA

111 REVERENCE FOR LIFE

1v DOWN TO CASES

17 ms AROUND 11111

V1 TEE WORLD 111513113 —. AND ACTS

15
18
22
28

 

 




 

—PREFACE—

Albert Schweitzer was a man.of many talents and purposes --
physician, musician, theologian, philos0pher, author, carpenter.

His life was his argument -— and his monument, as well; be—
cause he lives on through the hospital at Lambaréne and generations
of healthier Gabonese. He lives on, too, through his many'philosophical
treatises, especially Civilization and.Ethics , his great studies
of JeSUS,Goethe and Bach, and through the recorded majesty of his
organ.playing.

But Albert Schweitzeris most lasting and widespread legaqy
may be found in his simple articulation of a workable humane attitude
toward animals and nature. He brought the ecological approach.to
the understanding of animals and the humane approach to the under—
standing of nature. Too often,in the world of man these two approaches
had been.kept separate,even.by the most dedicated animal welfaristszLﬂw“m
and the most sincere naturalists. Albert Schweitzer brought them

closer together.

 

This small book attempts to papture this wholeness of Dr.
Schweitzer's approach to man, animals and nature. By presenting
the broad sweep of his life from childhood to his final days, it shows --
" primarily in.his own words -- hOW'hiS philosophy developed, and was§;,;
carried out,ashis life unfolded.

If Animals, Nature and Dr. Schweitzer can do that —— and

possibly inspire its readers to remember and practice his philosopb” —_
then, its goal will have been reached.

-— Ann Cottrell Free

 

 

 




CHAPTER ONE

-4Ioumnrs oussmlons——.

 

7 Not unlike many children, the young Albert Schweitzer
questioned in a child's simple way the paradox of life
divided against itself.

I nee unlike many children, he questioned why his will
to live and to be free of pain should be pitted so often
against the same will held by a horse, a dog, a cat, a bird,
a fish, an insect.

But unlike many children, Albert Schweitzer, who wasp
xi“...

 

 

born in 1875, did not lay aside these questions with his
playthings as he grew up and left his childhood home in an
Alsatian village. ' '

That is why Albert Schweitzer was different.

That is why, also, that one day the different may

 

become the usual .

 

 




 

—-Many Children Feel This Way -~

As long as I can remember, I have suffered
because of the great misery I saw in the world. I
never really knew the artless, youthful joy of
living, and I believe that many children feel this
way, even when outwardly they seem to be wholly
happy and without a single care.

I used to suffer particularly because the poor
animals must endure so much pain and want. The
sight of an old, limping horse being dragged along
by one man while another man struck him with a

stick -- he was being driven to the Colmar slaughter-
house -- tortured me for weeks.
~- A Prayer ~-
It was wholly unreasonable to me -~ this was
even before I had gone to school -- that in my evening

devotions I should pray only for men. So when my
mother had prayed with me and kissed me goodnight,
I used secretly to add another prayer which I had
myself composed for all living creatures. It ran
like this: "Dear God, protect and bless everything
that breathes, keep it from all evil and give it
quiet sleep."

\

He felt at home with the birds, the deer, and the farm
animals in the countryside, and one of his earliest ambi-
tions was to be a swineherd -~ even though the name
”Schweitzer" was derived from cow herder.

Even with his love of animals and nature, the clergy-
man's son struggled -- not always successfully ~- with the

temptation to conform to the general practices and attitudes

 




 

 

toward animals, found not only in his village of Gunsbach,
but nearly everywhere. This meant applying the whip to
the cart horse and the dog that barked at its heels. It
meant snagging a fish with a worm-baited hook or killing

Scnweitzer
birds with a slingshot. Albertﬁdid all these things , but reluct-

—antly% Finally he summoned up the courage to say "No."

-- Worms and Fish --

Twice, in the company of other boys, I went
fishing with a rod.' But then my horror at the mis-
treatment of the impaled worms -~ and at the tearing
of the mouths of the fishes when they were caught
-- made it impossible for me to continue. Indeed,

I even found the courage to dissuade others from
fishing.

-- Birds and Bells —-
One Sunday morning during Lent, a friend persuaded
the eight-year old Albert to go out and kill birds with

their home-made sling shots.

This was a horrible proposal to me, but I dared
not refuse for fear he would laugh at me. So we
came to a tree which was still bare, and on which
the birds were singing out gaily in the morning,
without any fear of us. Then stooping over like an
Indian on the hunt, my companion placed a pebble
in the leather of his sling and stretched it. Obeying
his peremptory glance I did the same, with frightful
twinges of conscience, vowing firmly that I would shoot
when he did. At that very moment the church bells
began to sound, mingling with the song of the birds
in the sunshine. It was the warning bell that came a
half—hour before the main bell. For me it was a

 

 




 

VOlce from heaven. I threw the sling down, scaring
. the birds away, so that they were safe from my compan-
1; ion's sling, and fled home. And ever afterwards when
the bells of Holy Week ring out amidst the leafless
trees in the sunshine I remember with moving gratitude
how they rang into my heart at that time the command-
ment, "Thou shalt not kill."

Years later reflecting on the incident, Albert Schweitzer
realized that particular day marked a turning point in his

life.

-- Freedom --

From that day on I have had the courage to free
myself from all fear of men. Whenever my deepest
convictions were involved I paid less attention than
before to the opinions of others. I tried to escape
from the dread of being laughed at by my comrades.

The great experience of my childhood and youth
was the influence of the commandment that we should
not kill or torture. All other experiences pale
before it. ‘

-— A Conviction --

Out of such heart-breaking experiences that often
shamed me there SKOle arose in me the unshakable con- aw"
viction that we had the right to bring pain and death
to another being only in case of inescapable necessity,
and that all of us must feel the horror that lies in
thoughtless torturing and killing. This conviction
has become increasingly dominant within me. I have
become more and more certain that at bottom we all
think so, and simply do not dare to admit it and
practice it, because we are afraid that others will
laugh at us for being sentimental, and because we
have allowed our better feelings to be dulled.

I was sure that I would never again fear the
reproach of sentimentality.

 




 

A dreamer during his early student days, Albert
Schweitzer found in music, especially the organ -- at
once majestic and tender -- a way to express his feelings
about man and nature. By the time he was sixteen years
of age, he was accompanying a church choir in Brahms'
Reguiem. A new horizon opened when he met missionaries
from Africa, who related stories of human suffering. And
yet another, when, on entering the university, he discov-
ered science. But he remained vaguely dissatisfied, the
answers to questions about the origins and meaning of life

eluding him.

-- The Secret of Life ~-

It seemed to me laughable that the wind, the rain,
the snow, the hail, the formation of the clouds, the
spontaneous combustion of hay, the trade winds, the
Gulf Stream, thunder and lightning should all have
found their proper explanation. . . Even at that age,
it became clear to me that what we label Force or
"Life" remains in its own essential nature forever

inexplicable.

A promising European career lay ahead -- theologian,
heading a great church, a concert organist, an academic
philOSOpher. But at the age of 20, he secretly resolved
to carry out that kind of career only until the age of 30.
Then he would abandon it -— find a way to give his life to
service to others in gratitude for the blessings bestowed

upon him. Thus, as he was approaching the height of his
.powers, he announced that he would study medicine and go to

.C'I.‘

Africa to holp alleviate the s" lering of a people, who had once
been sold in bondage, a peoyle who had no control over their lanr

and raw materials. ”We must make atonement for the terrible

. ° 1: 3 ' 1
031.3188 0 o o 4.1-9 88.1.0:

 

 




 

True to his resolve, Albert Schweitzer followed his plan.

gifter lengthy educational preparations, courtship and mar-

riage to Helene Breslau, who had studied nursing,Aleft
Europe on March 26, 1913, for Lambaréné'in the province

of Gabon in French Equatorial Africa. He was 36 years

old. They were accompanied by seven tremendous boxes of
supplies, a piano lined with zinc to withstand the tropical
humidity -- and their Newfoundland dog, Sultan. But Albert
Schweitzer had failed to prepare himself for one feature

of his life in Africa -- the plight of animals in its cities.

-- Pushing the Cart --

At Dakar, the great harbour of the Colony of
Senegambia, my wife and I set foot for the first
time on the soil of Africa to which we were to devote
our lives, and we felt it as a somewhat solemn moment.
Of Dakar itself I have no kindly remembrance, for I
cannot forget the cruelty to animals which is uni-
versal there. The town lies on a steep slope, the
streets are mostly in very bad condition, and the lot
of the poor beasts of burden which are at the mercy
of the natives is terrible. I have never seen such
overworked horses and mules as here. On one occasion
when I came on two natives who were perched on a cart heavily
laden with wood which had stuck in the newly mended
street, and with loud shouts were belabouring their
poor beast, I simply could not pass by, but compelled
them to dismount and to push behind till the three
of us got the cart on the move. They were much dis-
concerted, but obeyed without replying. "If you cannot

 

 




 

_7...

endure to see animals ill-treated, don't go to
éfrical" said the lieutenant to me when I got back.
You W111 see plenty of that kind of horror here."

At the port of Libreville, Gabon, the Schweitzers

transferred to a paddle wheeler river boat for the two-

week trip up the Ogowe River to their final destination.

-- Two Monkey Tails ~-

River and forest . . . I. Who can really describe
the first impression they make? We seemed to be
dreaming! Pictures of antediluvian scenery which
elsewhere had seemed to be merely the creation of
fancy, are now seen in real life. .

It is impossible to say where the river ends and
the land begins, for a mighty network of roots,
clothed with bright-flowering creepers, project right
into the water. Clumps of palms and palm trees, ,
ordinary trees spreading out widely with green boughs
and huge leaves, single trees of the pine family
shooting up to a towering height in between them,
wide fields of papyrus clumps as tall as a man, with
big fan-like leaves, and amid all this luxuriant green-
ery the rotting stems of dead giants shooting up to
heaven. . . . In every gap in the forest a water
mirror meets the eye; at every bend in the river a
new tributary shows itself. A heron flies heavily up
and then settles on a dead tree trunk; white birds
and blue birds skim over the water, and high in air
a pair of ospreys circle. Then -- yes, there can be
no mistake about it! -- from the branch of a palm
there hang and swing -- two monkey tails! Now the
owners of the tails are visible. We are really in

Africa!

On arrival at the inland station with its ramshackle

buildings and overgrown grounds, he was almost overwhelmed

with the primitive conditions. He converted an abandoned

chicken house into a makeshift jungle hospital, but even so,

 




 

 

L8-

most of the patients arriving from their junglevillages, often with

,their families, just waited in the open air. They suffered from

sleeping sickness, tuberculosis, leprosy, ulcerated and swollen

legs, strangulating hernia, malaria and a variety of tropical

diseases. Some of his patients were victims of enraged

animals they had tried to kill for their flesh. Schweitzer

often commented on the protein hunger that drove the natives

'into killing hippopotamuses, elephants, monkeys, even ’

gorillas. Dr. Schweitzer deplored the super-abundance of

elephants which over-ran and destroyedbananaplantations.

But he had no patience with the old custom of creeping up

behind these mighty creatures, crippling them by cutting

the tendons of their hind legs. And he sorrowed especially
hunf’crs '

over the terrible priceAexacted from the monkeys for their

meat.

Poor Little Baby Monkey

One can often bring down or wound three or four in
Succession and yet never secure their bodies. They
get caught among the thick branches or fall into

the undergrowth which covers an impenetrable swamp;
and if one finds the body, one often finds also a
poor little baby monkey, which clings, with lamenta-
tions, to its dying mother.

The custom of clearing the jungle by fire to make way

for cultivation caused him pain, because of the animals

trapped within.

 

 




X .
f- 9 _

-- Fire in the Forest —-

For some days a blue haze has been hanging over the
forest. At night the low-hanging smoke-clouds are
replaced by myriad darts of flame, stabbing the dark
horizon. For it is the dry season, when the thick
woods must be cleared to make way for new plantations.
Yet, despite the dryness, the heavy timber burns slowly
and incompletely; when the first rains come toward
the end of September, the fallen trees are only par-
tially consumed. As a result, it is quite common to
see corn and banana saplings sprouting up through a
morass of charred branches, logs and stumps.

 

At this time of the year, with the red reflections
against the evening sky, I am seized by compassion for
the poor beasts that perish in these fires. In ancient
China the burning of forests was regarded as a crime,
because it meant painful death to so many creatures.
Here it is necessity for the natives. The forest giants
cannot be cut up and removed. '

1 Every day he witnessed the struggle between living and

dying. --Constant Struggle -—

. I too am subject to division of my will-to-life
againSt itself. In a thousand ways my existence

: stands in conflict with that of others. The necessity
% to destroy and to injure life is imposed upon me. If
i I walk an unfrequented path, my foot brings destruction
W and pain upon the tiny creatures which populate it.
W In order to preserve my own existence, I must defend
J myself against the existence which injures lt.. I .
*i become a persecutor of the little mouse which inhabits
W my house, a murderer of the insect which wants to .
i have its nest there, a mass-murderer of the bacteria
.§ which may endanger my life. I get my food by destroy-
' ing plants and animals. My happiness is built upon
injury done to my fellow-men.

 




-10.-

Becoming a part of life in its most natural state
brought Albert Schweitzer even closer to life's inter-
relationships and with the perpetual drama and dilemma
of the will-to-live versus the-will-to-live being acted
out every day in the African jungle. But in the Europe
he had left behind, there was far greater turmoil and
horror -- certainly unbecoming to those who called
themselves "civilized." The first WOrld war had begun.
He and his wife became prisoners of War of the French.
They were considered German because their once-

French native Alsace was, at that.time, German. He was
forbidden to continue his hospital work, but only tempo-
rarily. The sick, whatever their nationality, needed a
doctor. During this time, Dr. Schweitzer searched his

soul about the reasons for men and nations destroying

themselves.

-- Tragedy --

In modern European thought a tragedy is occurring
in that the original bonds uniting the affirmative
attitude toward the world with ethics are, by a :_
slow but irresistéble process, loosening and finally L/

parting.

—-Questions --

What is the nature of this degeneration in our
civilization and why has it come about? . . . The
disastrous feature of our ciVilization is that it
is far more developed materially than spiritually.
Its balance is disturbed . . . Now come the facts

 

 




 

-11..

to summon us to reflect. They tell us in terribly
harsh language that a civilization which develOps
only on its material.side, and andvnot in the sphere of they-
Splrlt . . . heads for disaster. ” '“”"“” ””” W
He examined the philosophies of the ancient cultures,
especially the Indians and Chinese.meheir influence on
too
European thought and ideas had beennslight, especially

in connection with their Views on animals and nature.

-- Untouchable --

Philosophy has totally evaded the problem.of man's

conduct toward other organisms. We might say that

he has played a piano of which a whole series of'

keys was considered untouchable.

Why did western philOsophy Shrink from an all-embracing
view, he wondered as the palms rustled "an obligato to
the loud music of the crickets and the toads," pierced

at intervals by highepitched and terrifying cries from

the jungle. At his feet, all was peace: a dwarf antelope

and his faithful dog, Caramba.

-- Solitude --

In this solitude I try to set in order thoughts
which have been stirring in me since 1900, in the
hope of giving some little help to the restoration A
of civilfﬂation. Solitude of the primeval forest,
how can I ever thank you enough for what you have

been to me?

 

 




 

   
 
 

-12..

Clearly, some essential principle was missing from

modern man's concept of the world around him.-- a world

 

that man tried to claim and unmercifully exploit but could

 

never really own. Could, he, Albert Schweitzer, discover

  
   
    
 
    
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
    
   
      

the lost key to peace and security?

-- The Iron Door -m

For months on end I lived in a continual state of
mental turmoil. Without the least success I let

my thinking become concentrated, even through my
daily work at the hospital, on the real nature of

the affirmative attitude and ethics, and the question
of what they have in common. I was wandering about
in a thicket in which no path was to be found. I

was leaning with all my might against an iron door
that would not yield. . ,

The answer that was to unify his thoughts -- and which
would help. change the world -- came unexpectedly one
September day in 1915 while on a slow-moving barge moving
up the Ogowe River, on a mission of mercy, to treat a

missionary's ill wife. 'It was to be found in a single phrase.

-- Reverence for Life --

Lost in thought I sat on the deck of the barge,
struggling to find the elementary and universal
conception of the ethical which I had not discovered
in any philosophy. Sheet after sheet I covered with
disconnected sentences, merely to keep myself concen-
trated on the problem. Late on the third day, at
the very moment when, at sunset, we were making our
way through a herd of hippopotamuses, there flashed
upon my mind, unforeseen and unsought, the phrase,
"Reverence for Life." The iron door had yielded;
the path in the thicket had become visible.

 
   

1




 

-19-
CHAPlER THREE
--REVERENCE FOR LIFF—_

Albert Schweitzer. who was to be repatriated to
Europe in 1917 as a civilian intern, used much of the
time between 1915 and his return to Africa in 1924 ex-
plaining in several volumes the meaning of "reverence
for life", trying to give full answers to the questions
he, for so long, had asked. He realized that all thought of
kinship with living creatures -- man's connection with his-
toric roots in nature -- had been swept away by the powerful

17th century French philosopher, René Descartes.

-- Animal Machines ~-

It would seem as if Descartes with his theory
that animals have no souls and are mere machines
had bewitched all philosophy.

-- Philosophy Shrinks ~-

Because the extension of the principle of love

to animal creation means so great a revolution for
ethics, philosophy shrinks from this step. It would
like to cling to a system of ethics which prescribes
for man his behaviour toward other men in clear,
reasonable commandments without exaggerated demands.

-- Churning Screw --

Though the phrase reverence for life may sound so
general as to be rather lifeless, nonetheless its
meaning is something that never leaves a man into
whose thought it has once penetrated. Sympathy and
love and in general every precious enthuSiasm are
contained within it. With an unresting, Vltal

 




 

_l4-

force, reverence for life works upon the mind it
has entered and throws it into the disquietude of

a responsibility which never ceases. Reverence for
life drives a man on as a churning screw drives a
ship through the water.

-— Some Sort of Help --

The ethic of reverence for life prompts us to keep
each other alert to what troubles us and to speak
and act dauntlessly together in discharging the
responsibility that we feel. It keeps us watching
together for Opportunities to bring some sort of
help to animals in recompense for the great misery
that men inflict upon them and thus for a moment we
escape from the incomprehensible horror of existence.

-- Resolve --

I must interpret the life about me as I interpret

the life that is my own. My life is full of meaning
to me. The life around me must be full of signifi-
cance to itself. If I am to expect others to respect
my life, then I must respect the.other life I see, how-
ever strange it may be to mine. And not only other
human life, but all kinds of life: life above mine,
if there be such life; life below mine, as I know

it to exist. Ethics in our western world has hitherto
been largely limited to the relations of man to man.
But that is a limited ethics. We need a boundless
ethics which will include the animals also.

-— The Masks Fall --

We are afraid of shocking people if we let it
be noticed how much we are moved by the suffering
man brings to animals. We think that others may
have become more "rational" than we, and may accept
as customary and as a matter of course the things
we have gotten excited about. Once in awhile, how-
ever, a word suddenly slips out which shows that
even they have not yet become reconciled to this suf-
fering. Now they come very close to us though they

 




    
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
    
  
 
 

-15..

were formerly strangers. The masks with which we
were deceiVing each other fall off. Now we learn
from each other that no one is able to escape the

grip of the cruelty that flourishes ceaselessly
around us.

 

-- No One May Shut His Eyes --

 

Whenever an animal is somehow forced into the service
of men, every one of must be concerned for any
suffering it bears on that account. No one of us

may permit any preventable pain to be inflicted,

even though the responsibility for that pain is

not ours. No one may appease his conscience by think-
ing that he would be interfering in something that
does not concern him. No one may shut his eyes,

and think that the pain, which is therefore not vis-
ible to him, is non-existent.

-- A Single Flower --

  
 
 

  

Whenever I injure any kind of life I must be
quite certain that it is necessary. I must never
go beyond the unavoidable, not even in apparently
insignificant things. The farmer who has mowed
down a thousand flowers in his meadow in order to
feed his cows must be careful on his way home not
to strike the head off a single flower by the side
of the road in idle amusement, for he thereby
infringes the law of life without being under the
pressure of necessity.

 
 
    
   
   
   
    
 
   
 

-- Which Life? --

 
    

To the man who is truly ethical all life is sacred,
including that which from the human point of view
seems lower in the scale. He makes distinctions
only as each case comes before him and under the
pressure of necessity, as, for example, when it
falls to him to decide which of two lives he must
sacrifice in order to preserve the other. But all
through this series of decisions he is conscious
of acting on subjective grounds and arbitrarily,
and knows that he bears the responSibility for the
life which is sacrificed.

 
 
    
   
   
   
   
    
    




 

-l6-

-- Light in Darkness --

It remains a painful enigma how I am to live by

the rule of reverence for life in a world ruled

by creative will which is at the same time destruc-
tive will, and by destructive will which is also
creative.

I can do no other than hold on to the fact
that the will-to-live appears in me as willéto-live
which aims at becoming one with other will-to-live.
This fact is the light which shines for me in the
darkness. My ignorance regarding the real nature
of the objective world no longer troubles me. I
am set free from the world. I have been cast by
my reverence for life into a state of unrest foreign
to the world. By this, too, I am placed in a state
of beatitude which the world cannot give. If in
the happiness induced by our independence of the world
I and another afford each other mutual help in under-
standing and in forgiveness, when otherwise will
would harass other will, then the will-to-live is no
longer at variance with itself. If I rescue an
insect from a pool of water, then life has given
itself for life, and again the self-contradiction
of the will-to-live has been removed. Whenever my
life has given itself out in any way for other life,
my eternal will-to-live experiences union with the
eternal, since all life is one. I possess a cordial
which secures me from dying of thirst in the desert

of life.

-~ Atonement --

Each of us must therefore decide whether to condemn
living creatures to suffering'and death out of ines-
capable necessity, and thus incur guilt. Some
atonement for guilt can be found by the man who
pledges himself to neglect no opportunity to help
creatures in distress.

 

 




-17..

-- A Man Is Really Ethical --

A man is really ethical only when he obeys
the constraint laid on him to help all life which
he is able to succour, and when he goes out of his
way to avoid injuring anything living. He does
not ask how far this or that life deserves sympathy
as valuable in itself, nor how far it is capable
of feeling. To him life as such is sacred. He
shatters no ice crystal that sparkles in the sun,
tears no leaf from its tree, breaks off no flower,
and is careful not to crush any insect as he walks.
If he works by lamplight on a summer evening, he
prefers to keep the window shut and to breathe
stifling air, rather than to see insect after insect
fall on his table with singed and sinking wings.

If he goes out into the street after a rainstorm
and sees a worm which has strayed there, he reflects
that it will certainly dry up in the sunshine, if
it does not quickly regain the damp soil into which
it can creep, and so he helps it back from the deadly
paving stones into the lush grass. Should he pass
by an insect which has fallen into a pool, he spares
the time to reach it a leaf or stalk on which it

may clamber and save itself.

 

 




~18-
CHAPTER FOUR

 

-- DOWN TO CASES —_

Dr. Schweitzer had pronounced views on the various

 

aspects of animal—man relationships.
-- Sport Hunting --

When will we reach the point that hunting, the
pleasure of killing animals for sport, will be
regarded as a mental aberration?

We must reach the state at which killing for
sport will be felt as a disgrace to our civilization.
To visitors who asked what to do with a young ante-
lope they had purchased from a hunter who had killed its
mother, he said, "Unsweetened milk, air, sun, shade,
and love for the antelope -- but what did you do to the

hunter?"

-- Falconry --

And what is there "romantic" in this "Sport"?
Is it that the men of an earlier -- and in many
respects a thoughtless and inhumane -— age
indulged in it?

-- Animal Fights --

It is a disgrace to our time that animal fights
are still being staged everywhere, including bull
fights and cockfights and other cruel diversions. . .
In certain regions the Sunday pastime conSists in
giving a rat to a dog in a wire cage; young and old
watch with excitement the vain fight which the rat
puts up for its life.

 




 
   
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
       

   
 
   

-19..

-- Performing Animals --

   

The exhibiting of trained animals I abhor. What
an amount of suffering and cruel punishment the poor
creatures have to endure in order to give a few

moments of pleasure to men devoid of all thought
and feeling.

-- Amusements --

The time will come when public opinion will
no longer tolerate amusements based on the mistreat—
ment and killing of animals. The time will come,
but when?

-- Laboratory Animals --

Those who experiment upon animals by surgery
and drugs, or inoculate them with diseases in order
to be able to help mankind by the results obtained,
should never quiet their consciences with the con-
viction that their cruel action may in general have
a worthy purpose. In every single instance they
must consider whether it is really necessary to demand
of an animal this sacrifice for men. And they must
take anxious care that the pain be mitigated as far
as possible. How many outrages are committed in
scientific institutions through the failure to
administer anesthetics to save time and trouble!

And how many others by subjecting animals to torture
simply to demonstrate phenomena already generally

known!

By the very fact that animals through these
painful experiments have contributed so much of value
to suffering mankind, a new and special bond of
solidarity has been established between them and
us. From.this arises the obligation for each of us
to do every possible good to all animals everywhere.

 

 




  

  

 
 

-20..

 
   
    

On May 6, 1963, Dr. Schweitzer wrote Senator Maurine

Neuberger of Oregon a letter of support of a proposed(">1AAfL1

law to give protection to laboratory animals:

 

  
 

if you pass such a law in the United States,
it Wlll have important meaning for the world.

 
 
   
  

-- Euthanasia --

 
 

It may happen in many ways that compassion is
less served by slavish obedience to the command not
to kill than by its violation. To put an end by
mercy killing to the suffering of a creature, when
that suffering cannot be alleviated, is more ethical
than to stand aloof from it. It is more cruel to
let domestic animals which can no longer feed starve
painfully to death than it is to bring their lives
to an end quickly and painlessly . . . .

 
 

 

-- Animals into Meat --

From his earliest years, Albert Schweitzer was deeply

moved by the sights and sounds of animals going to the

 

slaughterhouse.

 

 
 

 

Let no one make the burden of his responsibility
light, when so much mistreatment of animals con-
tinues, when the cries of thirsty beasts from our
railway cars die out unheard, when so much brutality
prevails in our slaughterhouses, when animals meet
a painful death in our kitchens from unskilled

hands. . . .

  

 

  

      
 

As time went on, Dr. Schweitzer concluded that he

could live without consuming the flesh of animals. Erica

 

Anderson, his biographer, wrote in 1965:

  




-21...

No bird or animal in the hospital village --
hen or pig or sheep -- is killed for food. Fish
and crocodile meat brought by fishermen are occa-
sionally served at table, but Schweitzer himself
in recent years has given up eating either meat
or fish, even the liver dumplings he used to relish
and enjoy. "I can't eat anything that was alive
any more." When a man questioned him on his
philosophy and said that God made fish and fowl
for people to eat, he answered, "Not at all."

 

During his final illness in 1965, his daughter, Rhena,

offered him.beef broth. He turned it away.

 




__22__
CELMEEE TTVE

-—ANIMALS AROUND HIT—-

Life without animals around him was, for Dr. Schweitzer,
scarcely a life worth living. He recorded their comings,
goings and life events in his diary-scrapbooks along with
the happenings of his human friends. “Dr. Schweitzer lived 1
only seven months after theaauthorities”destroyed the dogs;
cats and monkeys because of ; suspected rabies epidemic
at Lambaréné.

From the very first, back home in Alsace, there were
dogs, such as Syphax and Sultan. In Lambaréné, the list
was long: Caramba, Porto, Cesar, Hannibal, Amos, Tchu Tchu,
were among the favorites. Likewise, the cats played an
important role in his life -- even a domineering one.

Sizi sat on his desk as he wrote, often falling asleep
on his left arm, which, of course, he dared not move.

Sizi had been rescued by Dr. Schweitzer when she was a

kitten when he heard her plaintive "meow" in the walls

of a building under construction. Another, Piccolo, took

her siestas on papers piled on Dr. Schweitzer's desk.

Should they be in urgent need of his signature for immediate

dispatch, well, too bad.
The more exotic animal companions (that is, exotic

to Europeans) were the native monkeys, gorillas, chimpan-

zees, pelicans, antelope. Monkeys abounded.

r'_Y,M‘M;vyK’VinnLA-ém‘lllautumu ”ya”, “4., , .,.. .. r. . . m .

1/‘

 

 

 

 




  

-23..

 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
   

-- Monkeys and More Monkeys --

I have the virtue of caring for all stray monkeys
that come to our gate. (If you have had any exper-
ience with large numbers of monkeys, you know why

I say it is a virtue thus to take care of all comers
until they are old enough or strong enough to be
turned loose, several together, in the forest --

a great occasion for them -- and for me!) Sometimes
there will come to our monkey colony a wee baby
monkey whose mother has been killed, leaving this
orphaned infant. I must find one of the older mon-
keys to adapt and care for the baby. I never have
any difficulty about it, except to decide which
candidate shall be given the responsibility. Many
a time it happens that the seemingly worst-tempered
monkeys are most insistent upon having this sudden
burden of foster parenthood given to them.

?
One of these monkeys was adopted by his Cahadian

C.E.R.
friend and translator,Mrs./f\“Tmnssell. They called the monkey

Canada. Once, when Dr. Schweitzer and Mrs. Russell were

 

in St. Nicholas Church in Strasbourg, Alsace, Dr. Schweitzer
concluded a private organ concert of several Bach preludes
and fugues with an improvised offering to the far-distant

Canada. For them both, wrote Mrs. Russell, it brought

back.Africa.

 

So he proceeded to improvise more beautifully
than I have ever heard him before or since. It
was all full of the magic of the African forest,
the moonlight in the jungle and on the river, the
merry gambols of the monkeys in the trees when

the sun is shining. . . .

   
     




 
  

-2,’4-

   

Orphaned or injured young gorillas and chimpanzees

   

presented more of a problem. Raised like children --

    
 

especially the chimpanzee, Fifi, and gorillas Penelope

   

and Peter -- they became too strong and unpredictable to

 
    

live free in the compound. They were too unsophisticated

 
 

in the ways of the jungle to bereturned to the wild.

   
     
 

Regretfully, the only alternative, European zoos. In

all, thirteen gorillas went to zoos from Lambaréné,

 
 

accompanied sometimes by a Lambaréné friend such as his

 
    
 

daughter, Rhena, to help make the trip and transition

easier.

 
      
  

 

He was especially partial to gorillas. Whenever a

  
 

jungle gorilla attackeda human being, Dr. Schweitzer

was quick to point out that it was not the gorilla that

  
 
    

provoked it.

   

The intelligence and close resemblance of pigs to

human beings was not wasted on Dr. Schweitzer. He gave

 
 

a home to a series of Red River hogs -- all called Thekla,

    
   

named for obscure reasons for an obscure operatic character.

The first Thekla was brought to the hospital compound

  

as a scrawny_piglet, but was not scrawny for long. Not

 
 

only did she respond to tender loving care, she became

 
    

more human than human. Mischievous to a fault, she would

 

 




- 23 -

escape from her chaperones, dig out of her pen, romp
about madly, knocking against doctors, nurses, furniture,
even snatching food from patients and their families.
Reluctantly, Dr. Schweitzer sent her to the London zoo.
Whenever he visited there, he needed only to call her name
and she came running. Clearly, the loss of Thekla left
an empty space in his heart. As he had to her, he often
sang succeeding young Theklas to sleep with the famed
Brahms Lullabye.

Music and animalsmerged time and time again. The
greatest merger came with the arrival of three orphaned
fledgling pelicans, promptly named for Wagner's Tristan,
Lohengrin and Parsifal. As soon as they were trained to
live as pelicans, two of them flew away -- but not Parsifal.
He decided to become Dr. Schweitzer's night watchman, taking
up his perch outside the doctor's quarters, permitting
no one to pass. ~If "M. le Pelican," as he came to be

known, was a formidable presence, more so, a turkey who

guarded the lane to the outdoor toilet, pecking at the

legs of passersby. Dr. Schweitzer asked people entering
the village by car to respect the ducks, geese and
chickens by erecting a large sign with their pictures
and the admonition to "Drive slowly." He always carried

a very small bag of rice so that he could pause and feed

these feathered creatures.

 

 




 

i
1
e
I
J
l
a
i
I

-26...

This could have been the reason that one red hen
took a special fancy to Dr. Schweitzer. She even insisted
on spending the night in his room, but when she decided
to bring a chicken friend, Dr. Schweitzer shooed them
both away.

Among the gentlest of his animal companions were
the graceful antelope, each raised from infancy and housed
close to Dr. Schweitzer's living quarters. The list was
long: Lucie, Leonie, Theodor, Pamela, Caro -- each an
individual.

Dr. Schweitzer often reminded that having so many
animals at Lambaréné served some practical purposes, as
well as providing enjoyment such as the sight of a goat
using a cellar door as a sliding board. Many of them
supplied valuable fertilizer for enriching the earth.

Not a day passed that Dr. Schweitzer did not spare
some small non-human life -- just as he saved the lives

and eased the pain of patients. A.bee that mistakenly

had flown indoors would be captured by an inverted.drinking glass,

a cardboard slipped beneath it, and released. He would
step aside rather than crush an ant, a beetle, a worm.
When tadpolesw were left in small pools -- separated from

the river on the receding tide -- he would open up a

passageway to take them back to the river.

 

 

 




-27..

Within the rooms assigned to visitors and staff,
Dr. Schweitzer posted a long list of "00's and don'ts."
Number 10 on the list:

Do not use insecticides for killing the poor

creatures. Invite them to take a walk outside

in nature. Insecticides are dangerous for

your health.

This consideration -- so far as practicable --
extended to all other life forms: flowers, plants,
trees. The only real pleasure he received from floral
tributes sent him frequently when abroad was derived from
the kind thoughts behind the gesture. In Lambaréné, he
advised patients, staff and visitors not to cut the
flowers. And on one occasion, he moved the direction of
a new road so as to save an orange tree.

Clearly, Dr. Schweitzer lived his philosophy each

day of his life. Whenever called on to make a life or death

judgment, he considered each case separately, always hoping

that the continuation of life could be justified.

 




- 28 -
CHAPTER SIX
THE WORLD LISTENS -- AND ACTS

During the dark Years of WOrld War II, Dr. Schweitzer
remained at Lambarénéz short-staffed and under-supplied,
relying on groups, such as the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship.
He emerged from Africa in 1948 to a wounded, changed
and changing world. Victors and vanquished alike looked
to Dr. Schweitzer's philosophy for the restoration of
hope and sanity. He did not fail them.

In 1952, he was chosen for the Nobel Peace prize
in reCOgnition of his humanitarianism. When he made his
acceptance speech, he said there could be no peace, no
harmony among men and nations unless prejudice and nation-
alism were laid aside, and all human kind recognized and
embraced the universality of life. He reminded:

The human spirit is not dead: it lives on in

secret. . . . It has come to believe that com-

passion, in which all ethics must take root, can

only attain its full breadth and depth if it
embraces all living creatures and does not limit
itself to mankind.

Little that Dr. Schweitzer pointed to in those
early post—war years showed more clearly the interrela-
tionship between man and nature than the effect on man
and the biosphere of continued nuclear testing. Water,

soil, air, animal and human bodies, alike, would be virtually

destroyed unless there was a nuclear test ban. He spoke out,

and most of the world listened and heeded.

\
\

 




_29-

More Americans became aware of Dr. Schweitzer’when at age 7%,
he made his first trip to the United States in 1949 to

pay homage to one of the greatest influences on his life,

the poet-dramatist, Johann WOlfgang von Goethe, whose 200th
anniversary was being celebrated at Aspen, Colorado. His

debt to Goethe was profound.

. . . . what binds us together in the deepest
depths of our being is his philosophy of nature.

Dr. Schweitzer's philOSOphy opened a new dimension
North
to the struggling world ofAAmerican animal welfare, becom-
ing especially noticeable in the early 1950's. For then,
there came into being the Animal Welfare Institute, the

Society for Animal Protective Legislation, the Humane

Society of the United States and the Kindness Club in Canada.

In 1954 the Animal welfare Institute awarded the first LL0}19
.il-ﬂ‘(’

of its annual Albert Schweitzer medals for outstanding ~,;

I-

. . . . ' A , (

service to animals to Dr. Schweitzer himself. On it, his c /-”’
\.

image with his dog, Tchu Tchu, and his words:

We need a boundless ethics that will include
the animals also.

In giving his permission to strike the medal, Dr.

Schweitzer wrote:

I am profoundly moved that you would like to
give my name to the medal you have created. I
give you this right with all my heart. I would never
have believed that my philosophy, which incorporates
in our ethics a compassionate attitude toward all

 




   
 
     
      
      
 

- 30 -

creatures, would be noticed and recognized in m
lifetime. I knew this truth would impose itself
one day on human thought, but it is the great and
mov1ng surprise of my life that I should still be
able to Witness this progress of ethics.

   

 
  
    
    
    
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
  
   
    
   
  
       

Your medal celebrates this °

. . progress: hiloso h
obliged to intervene for animals when up tigl now p Y
it has shown so little interest in them.

The founders of the Humane Society of the United

omen?
States -- todayhthe western hemisphere's largest humane

organizations-- dedicated themselves in 1954 to "making
“ reverence for life a living reality." In the 1970's it
g? became the sponsor of the international Kindness Club,
?; ‘whose Canadian founders in the 1950's had invited Dr.

iii Schweitzer to serve as honorary president. He gladly

accepted:

Our civilization lacks human feeling. We are
humans who are insufficiently humane! We must
realize that and seek to find a new spirit. We
have lost sight of this ideal because we are solely
. occupied with thoughts of men instead of remembering
§;‘ that our goodness and compassion should extend to
E ; all creatures. Religion and philosophy have not
insisted as much as they should on the fact that
our kindness should include all living creatures.

 

In a philosophic work on the relation of moral
ethics and civilization written before the First .
World War, I dared affirm that true goodness requires

us to respect the lives of all creatures, and I

was fortunate in having this idea of reverence for

life approved by men of all nations and of seeing
an immediate start in its teaching to children in

the schools.

The pages that you sent me tell me that you

also are seized with this idea. I am greatly
impressed by your letter. I am profoundly moved,

because we aspire to a new humanity.




 

In his acceptance,

he wrote:

By the 1960's,

to hear his name.

serve others. . . . May it be the

' good fortune
of this school to have teachers who not only pass
on knowledge to the children on the road to life,

ealization that

The world in the

post-war years seemed to be "beating

a path" to Dr. Schweitzer's Lambaréhé'door, so inSpired

were the volunteer physicians, nurses, technicians,

 

theologians, philosophers, journalists. Sometimes "le

grand docteur" would disappoint them by talking at length
about his animals instead of the great issues of the day.
On occasion, he discouraged his admirers from coming

§/ to the now greatly expanded Lambaréné hospital and village,
‘1

 

reminding them that their services probably could be used

 

more effectively at home or elsewhere:

 

Everyone has his Lambaréné.

  
   
  

 
 
   




 

- 32 -

Making her own Lambaréhé in Silver Spring, Maryland,
near waShington, D.C., Was Rachel Carson as she labored,
though weakening from cancer, to alert the world to the
dangers of wrong use of certain "miracle" pesticides,
just as had Dr. Schweitzer warned on the dangers of nuclear
fall-out. She dedicated the 1962 book "Silent Spring"
to Dr. Schweitzer:

To Dr. Albert Schweitzer who said:

Man has lost the capacity to foresee and
forestall. He will end by destroying the
earth.

The great environmental awakening had begun, followed
in the United States by public demand for a National En-
vironmental Policy Act. In Schweitzerian fashion, this
1969 Act required any government agency planning to alter
the environment to justify the action's necessity.

On receiving the Albert Schweitzer Medal in 1962,
Rachel Carson called Dr. Schweitzer "the one truly great
individual our modern times have produced."

If during the coming years we are to find our

way through the problems that beset us, it

will surely be in large part through a Wider

understanding and application of his principles.

During the 52 years he was to head the hospital,

Dr. Schweitzer traveled thirteen times to Europe ~-

always by boat. While in EurOpe, he would play great organs

the works of his beloved Johann Sebastian Bach, about

 




 

_33_

whom.he had written so fully. He would address church
congregations, students and scholars, receive high honors
from kings and queens, visit with world leaders such as
Albert Einstein. A world force, he had time to step
aside for an ant, time to find old companions in the land
of his youth, and time to look to the Alsatian hills,
where he once said "nature had spoken" to him.

In 1957 he left Europe for the last time, carrying
with him the ashes of his wife, Helene, to be placed

in the earth of Lambaréhé:

-- A Longer Journey --

Now I have left the mountains and the castles
and the woods. I stand before the church and see
the swallows once more. The swallows are gathering
for the journey south. We will set out together.
But a time will come when I will not see you when
you gather for this journey, and you will set out
for the south without me, for I will have gone on
a longer journey from one world to another.

Albert Schweitzer died at the age of 90 on September 4,
1965, at Lambaréné, realizing there had been progress,.
attitudes were changing, but much hard work lay ahead.

-- Fate of Every Truth --

It is the fate of every truth to be an object of
ridicule when it is first acclaimed. It was once
considered foolish to suppose that black men were
really human beings and ought to be treated as
such. What was once foolish has now become a
recognized truth. Today it is conSidered as exag-
geration to proclaim constant respect for every

 




-34_

form of life as being the serious demand of a
rational ethic. But the time is coming when people
will be amazed that the human race existed so long
before it recognized that thoughtless injury to

life is incompatible with real ethics. Ethics is

in its unqualified form extended responsibility with
regard to everything that has life.

-- Let Us work --

very little of the great cruelty shown by men
can really be attributed to cruel instinct. Most
of it comes from thoughtlessness or inherited habit.
The roots of cruelty, therefore, are not so much
strong as widespread. But the time must come when
inhumanity protected by custom and thoughtlessness
will succumb before humanity championed by thought.

Let us work that this time may come.

***********

By holding fast to his boyhood questions, and finding within
himself the only answers that made life bearable, Dr. Schweitzer
has guided those whose hearts are lacerated by animal suffering
and ravaging of nature. He has given them strength to go on,

courage to seek those rights so long denied to other forms of

life sharing this planet, Earth.

-end—

 

 




 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 




THE WASHINGTON POST, WEDNESDAY.-MARCH 1's, 1973

../r‘ \

Ann CottrellF;ee .~

 

Canada’s RR. Push for the Baby-Seal. Killers

Like a purple crocuS' pushing up
through an early March snow, the birth
of harp seals comes early. But by the
time of the vernal equinox on March
21, the traditional rites of spring off
Newfoundland are well under way. For
the clubbing, and blooding of the ice,
begins when the dewey-eyed seals are
about three weeks old, their soft white
coats not yet turned a less valuable
gray. ~

This year could mark a new chapter
——with unexpected repercussions—in
the long history of the clubbings. From
their beginnings in the early 18005, the
clubbings were hardly questioned. But
in 1949 a Scottish surgeon showed up
on the ice carrying a camera instead of
a scalpel. Dr. Harry Lillie’s films
showed at what cost in suffering those
treasured white pelts were obtained. A
Saturnalia much of it was, those of us
who saw the films at the Smithsonian
Institution in the mid-19503 agreed.
Some of the infant seals appeared con-
scious while being skinned; their moth-
ers often watched.

Humanitarians blew the whistle.
Movie cameras more sophisticated than
Lillie’s appeared on the ice, along with
movie stars. like Brigitte Bardot. Mem-
bers of Greenpeace, an organization of
marine mammal protectors, tried to
stop the hunting, and thousands of
sympathizers wrote checks to fund var-
ious seal-saving groups. .

The protests paid off. The Canadians
studied different methods: shooting,
carbon dioxide, electrocution. Finally;
it was concluded that, properly used,
the traditional hakaptlc—a club with a
spike—did the job best on the baby
skulls.

The Canadians now feel that along
with their regulatory eye on careless
and brutal hunters, they have cleaned
up the act. They—especially New-
foundlanders—deepiy resent being pic-
tured as savages.

Recently a traveling press confer-
ence, headed by Newfoundland Pree
niier Frank Duff Moores. made a tour
of U.“. cities. Among the speakers: a
veterinary pathologist and a Canadian
animal-welfare leader, both of whom
said the hunts (there are different
types, some including shooting) are as
humanely operated as possible.

Premier Moores also emphasized the
economic aspects: employment of hard«
pressed Newfoundlanders, value re-
ceived from the carcasses (flippers are
a delicacy for some), oil (it goes into
chocolate), and the pelts, which are the
greatest earner.

 

That public-relations defense has
proven a good investment. Seizing on
sympathy for the sealers, the American

'Fur Industry filed suit to eliminate the

ban on importation of baby harp seal
skins. (The Marine Mammal Protection

 

Mrs. Free writes on the relationship
between man and animals.

 

Act prohibits the importation of any
part of a nursing marine mammal or
one less than 8 months old.)

(In addition to presenting what they
call “the other side of the story," the
Canadians have gone to some pains this
year to limit the activity of hunt
protesters and media coverage of their
efforts to interrupt the clubbing.
Under a strict permit system for visit-
ing the ice, several Greenpeacers were
given permits that, reportedly, were
later rescinded. Also, helicopter pilots
have been warned they may be arrest.
ed if they fly Greenpeace activists to
the killing areas.

 

(Rep. Leo Ryan [D~Calif.] and Rep.
James Jeffords [IL-Vt.) have just re-
turned from visiting the “front,” and
both recorded their repulsion for the
scene. Ryan called it “a chamal house
on ice." Jeffords questioned whether
the harp seal population is not being
endangered by the hunts. This year‘
180,000 infant seals are targeted for the
blows of the hakapik.)

Premier Moores has thrown in an.
other argument, just for good measure.
It has a fine cutting edge. But it could
also be a double-edged sword.

“I am not suggesting for one mo—
ment," he said “that the killing of a seal
is a bloodless event. It isn’t. It is, in fact.
a repulsive scene to everyone who is
not used to the slaughter of animals,
and very few of us have experience in
that calling. . . .[But] taken in preper
perspective. our seal fishery is as much
a legitmate commercial operation as
are abattoirs for slaughtering cattle,
sheep, pigs in any city in the United
States.”

The premier. nevertheless, was able

to do what generations of ethical vege-
tarians from Plutarch on up the line
have rarely done so well. He scored one
for the meat animals. Baby Harp seals
became surrogate lambs, piglets, chick-
ens and other youngsters that go to
their deaths, probably even more terri-
fled than Harp seals-despite laws re-
quiring prior stunning by mechanical
or chemical means for many of them.
lnadvertently, the premier has done

.the unpardonable for 3. poiitician in a-

livestock~heavy country. He has made
quite visible the heretofore quite invis-
ible death of innocence all about in
Canada (and herel—nct just on the far-
away ice.

So the question is now joined: Will
the protestors take the hint, rise to the
challenge and move on to the abattoirs
~0r more simply, will all of them stop
eating meat. using animal products and
insist that everyone else do likewise?

If so, Premier Moores could have a
tiger by the tail, and meatpackers, here
and in Canada, will not thank him for
that.

m

 




 

ANN COTTRELL FREE:

NBC's heart was in the
right place when it chose
“Black Beauty" for its re-
cent five-night “family
viewing hour“ special. 80
hugs and kisses, NBC, on
that score.

The anti—cruelty message
came across loud and clear.
Any viewer would under-
stand why this British novel
by Anna Sewall was hailed
in 1890 by its American
discoverers as “The Uncle
Tom's Cabin of the Horse.”

But if murder and may-
hem is to be replaced at
family viewing hours should
another kind of violence be

\

substituted? _

Violence, for example, to
the truth?

Night after night that au-
thoritative off-screen f voice
- at the opening, the sta~
tion breaks, and at the end
of the hour — kept telling us
that the “Black Beuaty" we
were seeing was “exactly
as you remember it."

Remember what?

Remember, for instance,

Mrs. Free, who lives in
Washington, writes, off and
on, about horses and Other
creatures. ‘

(Point of V iew ‘
”i

L..—

 

that the scene of the action
Was in and around Balti-
more and Frederick, Mary.
land —— with a little of Anne
Arundel County thrown in?
We could sWear on a
stack of Biblesthat it all
took place in L'ondon and
the English Countryside.
Nor do We remember
Luke Grey. 'In the NBC
“Black Beauty," there's a

central character by that
name, who is always
searching for his 01’ pal,
“Beauty.”

We’ve searched all of our
editions of “Black Beauty,”
but still can’t discover
Luke. ,

These and a few other
changes may not be so
great a violence to the truth
if we are told the drama-
tization .is “based on" or
“adapted from” the book.

Then, we might shrug it
all off as ”poetic license ——
prompted by the need to
keep up ratings ,and to
snare advertisers of dry-

l

Another kind of Violenc

underarms and bouncy hair
concoctions.

Leveled with this way,
thus grateful for small
favors, we. might even hold
our peace should “Heidi"
be moved from the Swiss
Alps to the American
Rockies or “Hans Brinker”

brought from a Dutch canal

toa Minnesota lake. We
would only sigh in resigna-
tion, instead of screaming

’ in protest, if the entire Ben-

net family of Jane Austen's
“Pride and Prejudice”
were airlifted from England
deep into the heart of
Texas.

e .

“Yes," we Would console
ourselves, “a good imitation
can be more digestible than
the original. Well-labeled
margarine instead of but—
ter, for example”.

The dire and irretriev-
able consequences of pass-
ing 'off imitations —— of
“Black Beauty" or
whatever -— as holy writ
are much too dreadful to
contemplate. But here are a
few of the possibilities:

A child comes across
“Black Beauty” for the
first time. Having heard
that authoritative off-
screen voice about the au-

Fridoy, March 3, 1978

\The WaShington Star

A9.
a:

 

thenticity of the. TV special,
the child quickly exclaims,
“Oh, no.”

For, in thumbing through
the pages, he finds neither
Luke Grey nor any place in
Maryland. The action is all
in England. Surely, this
“Black Beauty” is not the
one he wants. Or else the
author Anna Sewall is the
liar, surely not NBC.

But hold on. More.

Someday, the child may
prove himself right -- after
a fashion. For he will show
us an authoritative—looking
new copy of “Black
Beau-ty”——- profusely illus‘

trated with NBC living.
color pictures.

“This," says the child.
(knowing he has won the
game),"‘is the real “Black

Beauty,” exactly how I

remember it.”

 




 

 

 

S A T U ll l) A, Y .

JUNE 25,1083

 

 

 

 

1“ El?

 

 

 

By Mal

An Insult

. The Post’s editorial “Virginia: Small Vote, Big
Change” [June 17} is an insult to all those who voted in
§ the June 14 primary and to the state that has the old-
; est continuously sitting legislature in the nation.

1 Democracy is a continuous responsibility, not one
‘ that is to be exercised once every two or four years, as
The Post suggests. Virginia has chosen to give elec-
“ tions for local offices the identity and importance that
. they rightly deserve. The Post does us a disservice by
insinuating that holding off-year elections is a plot to
dupe a naive. confused electorate into staying home.

I find it difficult to determine the real purpose of
this editorial. Was it to bemoan the defeat of Marie
T'ravesky and lame it all on Jack Herrity, the ghost. of

A. y“: ... ... 7'... "v- ' -

l

 

A ‘Snarling Carnivorous Colufnn’

Inconsistent treatment of animals by
press and television never ceases to
amaze. Media ambivalence—~especially
The Washington Post’swranges from
good, solid features on Maryland cock-
fighting to the cutesy, admittedly snarl-
ingly carnivorous column by Jerry Knight
[Washington Business. June 20]. The col-
umn’s frivolity in dealing with a serious
subject was reflected in the headline: “Sa-
cred Cows and Vegetarian Baloney." .

Knight’s reportage on vegetarian influ-
ence on the closing of Armour meatpacking
plants and the boycott against Burger King
for selling veal was a tasteless exercise in
punnery that I never found very funnery. A
vegetarian’s statement, for example, Knight
found “hard to swallow.” But that’s only the
beginning. Here are some real Chokers:
“vegetarians sprouting in Arizona”; “Burger
King cowed by vegetarians”; “McChicken
didn’t fly"; and “the company makes no
bones about McRib.”

Referring to Burger King boycotters as
“vegetarian vigilantes.” Knight conjures up
derisive visions of strong-arm protesters in
a manner never applied to crusaders for
human lsexml, racial. religious) rights.

it will come as a real surprise to three
ruin-sectarian vegetarian boycotteis to find

that “much of their metivation, regrettably,

is religious.” True, many Seventh Day Ad-
ventists, most Hindus and Buddhists refrain
from eating meat, but few were out front in
these campaginc‘. Motivation for the Burger
King boycott was to draw attention to the
slaughter of very young calves, known as
veal—the first veal to be offered by a fast-

, food chain. Some of the horror over the cons

ﬁnement (inability to turn in their tie stalls)
of the soocalled “milk-fed” male infant dairy
calves spread to sympathy for all calves.
Knight's defense of consuming “hot ani-
mal flesh” and eating his “sacred cows” is a
classic example of another round in the an-
cient war between anthropocentrism and
anthropomorphism. The former received
its man~centered mandate from Genesis’
insistence on man's dominion over all living
things, with a great boost from the 177th
century’s philosopher, Rene Descartes, who
equated animals wih machines. Anthropo-
morphism, which would endow animals
with human attributes, finds such disparate

bedfellows as pre‘Judeo-Christian animists, ,7,» " "

St. Francis and scientists using we”

 

 

animals as human surrogates. Growing re-
vulsion against the dominion-machine ,

thesis was articulated in 1798 by British
philosopher Jeremy Bentham: “The QUES-
tion is not, Can they reason? nor Can the
talk, but Can they Suffer?” '

Thus the battle was joined, with the"

two “anthros” continuing to have a go at
each other—«the latest salvo coming from
Knight despite progress in legal animal
protection, new animal substitutes for

meat and laboratory, new insights in ani-_

mal behavior and intelligence.

A torn and troubled Albert Schweitzer
tried to mediate such conflicts with enun.
ciation of his philosophy of “reverence for
life.” He would have us ponder, on all oc-
casions, the question: “Is this animal’s
suffering and death really necessary?” In-
deed, Schweitzer might have asked: “Was

Jerry Knight’s column really necessary?" 5’
‘3

a?" "t v
/' .

. I,
, .. I :_

A l

Al

 

.WhoDecides
. Merit _ Pay?

 

 

Like many of his colleagues who have,
without much reflection, jumped aboard the
Reagan “merit pay for teachers” bandwag-
on, William Raspberry ﬂatly says that merit
pay is a good idea without bothering to ana-
lyze the complicated procedure required to
evaluate teachers [op~ed, June 17].

Analogies can be deceptive. it is absurd,
for example, for Raspberry to compare
merit pay for “secretaries, ofﬁce managers,
athletes, and newspaper reporters” with that
of teachers, Consider the situation with a re.
porter or columnist. His performantx: can be

judged very simply. If he consistently has ’

something to say and says it well, these he
will probably be recommended for a raise by
his editor. But establishing the “merit” of a
teacher is much more complex.

Raspberry appears to be high on the pm.
posal by the governor of Temiessce to estab-
lish highsalaried Master Teacher ranks. But

1 he overlooks the flaws in this plan. Acmrd~

ing to the governor’s testimony on AB 5
“Nightline,” the chief means by which the
Master Teacher rank would he established
would be 14 classrmm visitatitms by the
teacher’s “piers’ over a periixl of live ytm
This would mean fewer than two classrwirn
visitations per semester~~a statistic W‘ m

o, ;
.~ ., , _ 1
i” Ll, 3"; )‘,.”:.‘."g: 53",.“ t'ﬁmq ﬁzfﬁgirfrrpvu-L,

'Q

t

x

 

 




 

 

Sacred Cows and Vegetarian Baloney

By Jerry Knight

Washington Post Staff Writer ‘
One of W ashin'gton’ 5 least known pressure

. groups disclosed last week that it is single- . ‘
, handedly revolutionizing the fast-food indus»
tfv and simultaneously trying to destroy an;

. American institution as sacred as apple pie.
A hotbed of vegetarian vigilantes known
as the International Burger King Boycott
' Coalition proclaimed that“1nthé last 1—8

months the coalition has accounﬁéd £91: The .

invithdrawl of‘ﬁeal from mMM‘“ {M

L

 

 

111mm MORNING II

 

“of the Burger King stores, a decline of 85 _,

percent in Burger King s sales of veal, the
introduction of a Burger King salad bar, the
test marketing of salad bars by McDonald 5.
the addition of strawberries, pineapple and

 

I

By Stuart .Auerboch

, Washington Post Bio” Writer V l ‘\

When two giant railroad companies
merged in 1981 into the nation’s largest rail-
way system, the3 called the new company
the CSX Corp. -—“C” for the Chessie. System
“S” for Seaboard Coast Line Industries and

“X” for assorted nonrailroad properties in- '

cluded in the deal.
Since the merger the Richmond- based

.CSX Corp. stripped the “X” of what little

meaning it' hild by selling off mally if the

 

 

 

CSX Primes for Merger Battle

properties carried under that loose heading.
Earlier this month, however CSX acted to
strengthen its X factOr with a $1 billiOn offer

to buy Texas Gas Resources Corp. of Ow-

ensboro, K.y
Besides taking a giant step toward becom-
ing one of the country’ 8 major transportation

and natural resource companies, CSX as-

sumed the position of “white knight” in what
is shaping up as a major takeoVer battle.
CBX appears at ﬁrst blush to have thwarted

_~‘- "‘ +- 513281363,er s

— no .__ quasar. .. ‘

0
2h":

57‘
1 -

,v-rv- - -~—;—u\ .1».-. ..r«.... 1...... ~M—-"‘VMEW‘~'~‘"‘" “-___., .

 

l
f
l
l
I
i
l
l
l
l
l
.l
i
l
l
i
l
'1,
l

-5 ”ﬂ“ 1“ ~"‘ -\

 




1 are we“?
"IL‘ 4.:1.”

. < . , :‘. . 3 I
1:» 1 mu 4. M1»!
2 ﬂ"; “:3 35' Sudan-“xkiﬁﬁm-l .. 11",. .
I .‘ J." 1 ,. 1.. 1‘ ,

1 we”

1'" v

w... «, _-

O

- 11...]. .w#m5.mua.u .WWV-“» Mav . Ww_m—K mam-ﬁx? ., 4313”“ .. .“aw—“Awmvn .. 3.. “x“. d”

.. - TV ‘
no; 15¢ 11-111

JUNE 20,1983

,7 ‘17,:

. and fresh fruit additions

Not only that says Vegetarian voice Nel-
lie. ShriVer of Takoma Park, but pressure,
from the militant anti meat movement is

~'Vvha‘t lead GreV hound Corp to decide to '
' sell its Armour meat packing plants

I haVe to admitup front that I am an

unretonstructed meat eater, a selfncon-
' fessed 1ar111V ore a shameless consumer of
hot animal flesh preferably medium rare

So I found this vegetarian Victory state- ~
ment a little hard to so allow. Either my fel-
1on meat eaters in the media were covering~

, Greyhounds "' chairman. “Armour

VVaSl gton Busmess

want to be identiﬁed with the meat indu'1-

try; she insisted.

The folks at Greyhound say the move to
dump Armour began long before the V'eg-
etarians sprouted in Arizona. “It is a matter.

of simple economics,” said John W; Keets,

Company pays an average 818 an hour in

wage and fringe benefits compared to lesser
.paid by- some .1100 . or: .-
400 other paCkers.” ,-

than $9 an hour

The ofﬁcial Burger King response was

more blunt; “That s ridiculous said a rep- »

up a poVVerlul multinational mOVement or t" 2’

3 ~ .‘_the garden Variety guerrillas VVere trymrJr to

feed the Vegetarian balonev y

_ Nellie. VV hat .eVidence 13 there that
your group “has accounted for" the L
~virtual eradication of Burger King‘s

 

A Veal sandVVich and the impending exile of

Armour to hotdog heaven? . g , _ .
She explained that the militant Vegetar~ . '
“ians haVe been picketing, prote§ting and

. V'idence‘? I asked a" slightly 11erVous C

"’i‘ ‘ simpr turned up btheir noses. . , A g .

‘ "cow 811 Rome :7
VEALBURGERs

pummeling Burger Ki.n g with letters for ”A

menths demanding freedom for veal Eat-

‘ mg a Burger King Veal parmigiana sand

such constitutes cruelty: to Veal calVes. she
said (not mentioning what it might do to:
' ' W11) The burger boycotters have

: eruatives to all-beef patties etc.

«changes have an come abotrt"

g.

. Since‘our letters, sheuassured me; a.

A§ for Arm0ur ShriVer Said, Greyhound

5: announced plans to. sell its meat packing

“4* 5“. ”M“ “'W W‘W‘*’ ““1.“ M- 4..1-e..+.:.awm a I“. “W 13"» 4‘

-. resentatiVe when asked about the claim

‘ TV egetarians.

called Veal boycott. They picketed a couple
Food

1 the boycott on Veal sandwich sales. “You

' ._D1d you eVer taste it‘22"_ he asked

> about McRib, a pressed—pork and sauce

'7

4. ‘.

'i‘ -11. '_

PAGE 7

1 VeU ctan V iglancs VS. Burgers: The All Aan Sacred Cow

— MORNING, From page i
i * g ' peas in VVendV‘s
,. ~ at the Big 81» chain."

When yen look closer, it turns out it’s
that Burger King had been COWGd by the ' not the Burger King “ho has no clothes,
‘VVe are dropping Veal from
many of our locations, but its a marketing

dec' Cision It. has not been caused by the so.

claims. _

Let us not laugh off this Vegetariah hy-
berbole as a just another fish story, an out-
ot our stores, but it had no affect whatso~ rageous eXample of Washington inﬂuence
9‘» 91‘ . peddlers eXaggerating their clout...

«Another source familiar VVith the Burger- More ,3 at stake than mere veal parmi—
King decision also dismissed the impact of ,

VVant to knoVV' why they dropped the veal?- Out hamburgers and eventually all meat.

The Veal burger 1511 t the only fast food , ~ g . ,,
to flop recently McDonald 3 VicChickeh ggng‘ggvzf 39:51:33; hephi‘idmﬁﬁg-
didn‘ t. fly and the company makes no bones '

sandwich that left a multimillion dollar bad I itable.”
taste ati McDonald‘s s. Nobody had to orga-
nize a boycott to get; rid of them; consumers

yOur own choice.
' There- is always room for new entrees m

. the militant vegetarians are not Content to
offer us samples or their soyburgers,
' . sprouts, and rhetorical fare.

 

 

warning anybody Who will claim credit for

thmgs they didn’tdo can just as easily deny

13110113151111; for what they are domg

~~v.~'exercismg£ ti‘l‘,‘1r constitutional right to ex- “‘ g:
' press their. opinion they are: seeking to 1111- >; V '

" pose their personal tastes on the rest of us.

but the boycotters who are making naked

giana. The burger boycotters not. only VV ant;
to free the Veal, they say they want to wipe

“Anything as. energy intensiVe and land ~

. aybe- she .1. thinks its inevitable, '» ~-
' but to a; lotof us, the alternative 7.
is inedible Hamburgers; are as
American as apple pie and so is :_.
\he right to look oV'er the menu and make

*1.“ 2......» rw W- “wwé w~.......L. 4.....mvu-ssw- -Ab- my“... _. l .4“
”V“...

try is going to drop into the sea. Its ll‘lE‘ - 4

’ the Cafeteria of ideas we call America, but ', .

. Their exaggerated claims about the suc- ,'
cess of the burger boycott ought to be a

V Much if their metivation, regrettably, 18 re. ‘ ‘

‘ '3 ligious; Shmer said the boycott is being led

,‘by QeVenth Dav AdVentists, Hindus and
1.1. ' . -.

.-‘f

 




4700 Jamestown Road, Washington, D. C. 200|6

July 1, 1982

Dear Christine,

Here is the blue line. A few small
changes I have indicated on your copy.
I will give you exact costs next week when
final accounting comes from piinter. Looks
as if each copy will cost about $1.25.

@he background color on Which title is

set is a rather nice shade of re . Paperga
will be off white -— 60 lb. Cover, about,98 lbs.

Please get in touch with me on Tuesday.
I am asking eveyyone to do the same. Rhena
is back in States and will see it, too. entje
Lemke ( acting president of the Alb. Schweieeee
Centes)is geﬁbing a cepy to check for
accuracy etc. $~

Hurriedly,

/

/

1/ .

V, L/ [[04 /

 




A SUGGESTION FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF DR. SCHWEITZER'S LEGACY TO ANIMALS

by
Ann Cottrell Free
Albert SChweitzer International Symposium

St. John's College, Cambridge University

September 2, 1983

 




    
   

4

,Albert Schweitzer International Symposium Ann Cottrell Free

St. John‘s College, Cambridge University 4700 Jamestown Road
September 2. 1983 Bethesda, Md. 20816 USA

       
  

A SUGGESTION

   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 

Please let me extend my best wishes to those in attendance
at the Albert Schweitzer International Symposium; also to express
my regret at not being with you -- especially to address in per-
son the important subject of our obligation to Albert Schweitzer
in regard to non-human animals. I expect to outline in the time
allotted to me specific means of carrying out his philosophical
legacy in regard to reducing and/or eliminating -- whenever and
wherever practical -- the painful and discomforting use of animals
in the service of man.

But first let me report the following, based on my observa—
tions as a writer and participator in the field of animal welfare
and rights. Clearly, more than lip service is being paid to the
phrase "reverence for life" by the growing numbers of animal
welfare/rights advocates. Their accomplishments in regard to
protection of marine mammals, other wildlife, companion animals
and their efforts in behalf of factory farm and laboratory animals
have been nothing short of overwhelming, compared to 25 years ago.
The phrase "reverence for life" is often used by these indivi—
duals, but I find, to my dismay, that many members of the younger
generations do not quite connect it with its author, Albert

Schweitzer, Many are vagUe about him and show surprisingly

  

little interest in knowing more about his many—faceted interests




and accomplishments. Nor do they know of how he arrived at
his accommodation to the puzzle of "the will to live vs. the
will to live."

Why is this? There are several answers, of course.. I
will answer them with more questions. Should not we ask our-
selves whether Schweitzer organizations have given,over the
years,sufficient support to groups and campaigns dedicated to
the alleviation of animal suffering? Would not this have made
the man as visible as the philosophy?

Surely, you will agree that keeping the man and the phrase
together is important, for I believe that the phrase, i.e. the
philosophy, will live on far longer than Dr. Schweitzer's other
great contributions. It was for this reason that I volunteered
to edit and write Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer.

Today, I have another suggestion which may help bring the
man and the philosophy together —- a project in which we can
all participate. It is a plan (I hope you will all agree) with

which Dr. Schweitzer would be in enthusiastic accord.

It is simply this: Lend our efforts to the fast-growing

field of the development of viable substitutes for laboratory
animals. In this instance, I refer in particular to the field
of cell culture and molecular toxicology. An increasing number
of commercial laboratories are employing cell culture procedures

for the screening out of new chemicals with carcinogenic

 




propensities. This is a tremendous saving financially and
ethically: millions of dollars and millions of animals, let

alone years of valuable time. A great deal of new work is

being undertaken (much of it underwritten by industry) at Tufts

University, Catholic University, the Pennsylvania College of
Medicine, Rockefeller University, Johns Hopkins University
to find non—animal substitutes, especially for the painful
Draize tests of placing often searing and ulcerating substances
in the eyes of rabbits. Increased scientific and humanitarian
condemnation of the L.D.—50 test, in which half of the animals
must die, is leading to accelerated research into non-animal
substitutes. Pending in the U.S. Congress is legislation,
S. 657, sponsored by Senator Robert Dole, that would, among
other things, require applicants for Federal grants to demon-
strate that they haVe considered alternative methods should
their proposed research cause pain and distress in an experi-
mental animal. (I might remind you that Dr. Schweitzer endorsed‘
the first animal protective legislation ever introdued in the
U.S. Congress.)

In view of all this activity on alternatives (about which
I can only be sketchy) there is clearly the need to train more
Scientists in the new techniques and to seek refinements in
their efficacy. The Catholic University of America in Washington,

D.C., has established, therefore, a Center for Advanced Training

 




in Cell and Molecular Biology for the training of students at
the undergraduate, pre-doctoral and post-doctoral levels.

Here, now, is my suggestion:

I respectfully suggest that the Albert Schweitzer community
—— acting as separate organizations or in concert -- establish
one or several Albert Schweitzer fellowships for study at the
Center at Catholic University. The cost would be relatively
minor —- only transportation and a stipend for lodging and food.
Its distinguished director, Dr. Roland M. Nardone, has generously
waived the tuition fees, which otherwise would range from approx-
imately $1,100 for a two—month fellowship to nearly $10,000 for

a one-year fellow. For this we owe him a vote of thanks.

 

To be more specific:

Dr. Nardone, a scientist clearly dedicated to the Schweitzer
ethic, suggests the establishment for the summer of 1984, and
following summers, several Albert Schweitzer fellowships of
either two or three months' duration for either upper division
undergraduates, pre—doctoral or post-doctoral students. Cost
to the sponsoring Schweitzer group would be transportation and
a stipend covering food and lodging. The latter could range

from $400 monthly if the student elects to utilize college living

and food facilities; possibly $600 a month if he/she lived outside.

Dr. Nardone is also amenable to consideration of the estab-
lishment of one 12-month tuition-free Albert Schweitzer fellow-

ship for a pre-doctoral or post-doctoral student. This arrangement

 




would permit the recipient to engage in Dr. Nardone's on—going
research program in in vitro neurotoxicology and also take
specialized training programs at the Center. If the student
used the college's living and food facilities, cost to the
sponsoring group would be in the vicinity of $4,800, but
possibly $7,200 if he/she lived off campus. (As I will point
out later, supplementary financing might be available from
another source if Schweitzer groups could not raise the required
amount.) But I should think that such fellowships would inspire

contributions from many sources. In addition, these students

would have an opportunity to observe work in these fields at

the Food and Drug Administration, the National Institutes of
Health and other centers.
in appropriate journals

The Center at Catholic University would circularizs/the
availability, and criteria, of the Albert Schweitzer fellow—
ships and it would hope that the Schweitzer sponsors in other
countries would do likewise. The Center would work in coopera—
tion with the sponsors on final selections.

Indeed, in a venture of this type, there are many details
to be worked out. I would be willing in the initial stages to
act as general coordinator, furnish materials on the need to
reduce the use of research animals wherever possible, send

progress reports on research developments and act as a liaison

with Dr. Nardone. (I believe that we would find-the American

 




Fund for Alternatives to Animal Research of invaluable assist-
ance, both in scientific advice and perhaps with supplementary
financing should that need arise.)

There can be no doubt of the interest of young scientists
in such training. This summer (1983) 50 science students --
under grants from the above Fund -- studied at the Center. Dr.
Nardone reports that requests for assistance arrive at his desk
frequently from young scientists in many countries. Their newly
acquired knowledge can be put to good use. The jobs are waiting
for them in industry. The demand will surge when there is further
relaxation of Federal and international requirements as to testing
procedures in regard to non-animal substitutes.

I am making available material on the Center at Catholic
University, the outstanding curriculum vita of Dr. Nardone. Among
his other honors he is a member of the National Research Council-
National Academy of Sciences Committee on Alternative Models
for Toxicology.

Thank you for these moments to outline this important oppor-

tunity that I have initiated and developed with Dr. Nardone. It

is, I believe, an opportunity for us who subscribe to Albert
Schweitzer's philosophy of "reverence for life" to keep the man
and the philosophy together. Also, I believe we would be doing

what Dr. Schweitzer would want us to do. Thank you.

 




Roland M. Nardone

Professor Roland M. Nardone was born in Brooklyn, New York, on March 29, l928.
He obtained the Ph.D. degree from Fordham University in I95]. His faculty
appointments are as follows: Instructor (l948-I9SI), St. Francis College;
Instructor (I95I-l952), St. Louis University; Assistant Professor (l952-l957),
Associate Professor (1957-l963), Professor (l963-present), Catholic University
of America. He teaches cell physiology to graduate students and General Biology
to undergraduates.

His research and that of his students has centered around the general problem
of cell growth, division and metabolism and the effect of radiation and oxygen
toxicity on cells grown in vitro.

He has been engaged in in vitro toxicity studies for about two decades, including
screening studies on antirradiation drugs. Also, he directed a course on in
Vitro Toxicity at the w. Alton Jones Cell Science Center in 197%, and participated
in a course on Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, and Toxicity Testing in l976.

He is a member of the American Society for Cell Biology and the Tissue Culture
Association.

The following is a list of his recent extra-University activities:

Chairman and Arranger, Tissue Culture Association Annual Symposium, I970: Cell
Cycles and Programmed Macromolecular Synthesis.

Member, Editorial Board, In Vitro, l969-I970.
Member, Program Committee, Tissue Culture Association, I969-

Chairman, Section on Molecular Mechanisms, Radiation Research Society Annual
Meeting, I967.

Convener, Toxicity Testing Sections, Annual Meeting of the Tissue Culture
Association.

Research paper reviewer for Science, Journal of National Cancer Institute, and
In Vitro.

Panel Member, NSF grant reviews.

Visiting Biologist, American Institute of Biological Sciences, 1971-1977.

Chairman and Organizer, Round-table Session and Committee on ”In Vitro Research
and Human Values” (Annual Meeting) Tissue Culture Association, I972, I973-

Secretary, Tissue Culture Association, l972-76.

President, National Capital Area Branch of the Tissue Culture Association, l977-

l979.

Co-Chairman, Committee on Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, and Toxicity Testing of
the Tissue Culture Association, l97h-l978.

Director, The Center for Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology, l982-

Member, National Research Council Committee on Improved Models for Toxicity
Testing. 1982-83.

 




R.M. Nardone, cont.:

 

Chairman, Third Decennial Review Conference on Tissue Culture, 1976.

Consultant, Woodward Research Corporation -- EPA Contract on in Vitro Methodology
as Applied to Toxicology, 1973.

_Consultant, National Center for Toxicological Research, l97h'19iﬁ- . .

Consultant, Tracor-Jitco -- Department of the Army Project on Short-term Testing,

1977.

Consultant, Monsanto Research Corp and others l976-present.

Member, Committee on Alternative Models for Toxicology, National Research
Council—National Academy of Sciences, l982-present.

 




ANN COTTRELL FREE

Address: 4700 Jamestown Road, Bethesda, MD 20816

Education: B.A. degree, Barnard College, Columbia University

 

Journalism: Reporter, The Richmond Times-Dispatch, Newsweek Magazine;
.Washington bureau , TheIChicago Sun, the New York Herald
Tribune. Contributor, Nbrth American Newspaper Alliance,
ESE—HECIure'Syndicate the Women's News Service, American
Hagazine,Colliers, This Week, The WashingtonzPost, The
Washington Star, Baltimore Sun, Defenders of Wildlife News
Ethics and Animals, Washingtonian Magazine, Washington
éditor, EnviroSouth Hagazine, etc. etc.

Chief of Information, United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation

,Administration, Shanghai, China. Chief roving correspondent,
"the Marshall Plan." Hbreign correspondent, N.YL_ Herald Tribune

 

ANIMAL—CONNECTED PROFESSIONAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL ACTIVITIES:

.

Organizational : Former board chairman and re-organizer, Montgomery
County (MD) Humane Society, former board member and
re-organizer)$he Washington Humane Society/SPCA. Former
board member: Society for the Study of Ethics and
Animals and Rachel Carson Council. Current board

member, The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship and advisory
member, Albert Schweitzer Animal Welfare Suggestion Fund.

 

fpblications: Numerous newspaper and magazine articles on virtually
all phases of animal welfare/rights, endangered species,
overpopulation, euthanasia, laboratory and "livestock",
companion animals, alternatives to animals etc.?, ' ‘

Author, Forever the Wild Mare, ( Dodd, Mead, 1963),
author..— editor, Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzgg,/4li
’published by consortium of Shhweitzer and animal welfare
groups. ’ ' ' ‘ , ‘

 

Humanitarian of the Year awards, Washington Animal
.Resoue League, the Tail-Waggers Glub and Clinic, the
thhington.Humane Society/SPCA, Montgomery County
Humane Society. (Note: recipient had no governing
connection.with any of the above organizations when
awards given) ‘

The Albert Schweitzer Medal from the Animal Welfare
(for articles and work in_leboratory animal protection.
1963

Citation, Interior Department for role in suggesting
and establishing the Rachel Carson.Nafional Wildlife
Refuge, Maine.

Awards from Dog Writers' Association for news and
magazine writing.

 




 1

NEWS

WAS} HN(}'I‘( )N HIIMANE SOCIETY o THE SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
7319 GEORGIA AVENUE, NW 0 WASHINGTON, DC. 20012 O 1983

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

113 YEARS OF HELPING ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

IN THIS ISSUE——
0 Hexagon Benefits WHS/SPCA

d m’s Ste ———A dog’s true story . .
: ﬁaﬁing thenlilational Zoo’s Deer Hunt—An InterVIew

with Ann Cottrell Free

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

CONTENTS

 

WHS/SPCA PROGRAMS

Animal Control Report 2
Humane Law Enforcement

Program 3
Adoptions 12
NEWS IN BRIEF 6

Maryland High Court Rules

on Silver Spring Monkey Case
Animals Shot in Wound Labs
New D.C. Veterinary Practice Act
P-A°L Promotes Human-

Animal Bond

 

WHS/SPCA

NEWSLETTER
7319 Georgia Ave., NW

  

 

Editors
Jean Goldenberg
Sandra Miller
Muffin

 

Published by the WHS/SPCA. Sent
without charge to members and
contributors. Comments from
readers are welcomed.

 

HEXAGON ’5 “Fair Game”

Musical Comedy Revue Benefits
WHS/SPCA

FEATURES
Adam’s Story—A dog’s true
story
Interview with Ann Cottrell Free
Halting the National Zoo’s
Deer Hunt

ANIMAL PROTECTION
LEGISLATION

Pending in US. Congress

1

4

10

BOOK REVIEW 11

Animals, Nature and Albert
Schweitzer
Ann Cottrell Free

 

 

OFFICERS AND
DIRECTORS

President
Bianca Beary

Vice President
Nadine Edles

Treasurer
George Esherick

Secretary
Judith L. Smith

Executive Director
Jean V. Goldenberg

Directors
Euretta Adair
Sophie Engelhard
Andrea Grossman
Kristina Harper
Ruth Hubbard
Celeste Loar
Frances Lipscomb
Marian Newman
Carolyn Peachey

Counsel
Miles P. Kauffman, Esq.

 




 

 

Hexagon’s “Fair Game” Benefits the
Washlngton Humane Society

 

WHS/SPCA

From left: Bianca Beary, WHS/SPCA President; Jean Golden-
berg, WHS/SPCA Executive Director; Marian Newman, WHS/
SPCA Director and Chairman of the Hexagon Gala Arrange-
ments Committee; and Laurie Hein, Advertising Committee
Chairman.

Hexagon, lnc.. a non-profit, all-volunteer theatrical organ-
ization, annually presents an original comedy revue for the
benefit of a Washington-area charity. And, as many of you
know, the WHSSPCA had the good fortune to be selected as
Hexagon’s 1983 charity.

Hexagon‘s delightful musical comedy revue, “Fair Game”,
Played at the Trinity Theatre in Georgetown from March 2
through March 26. Highlighting the run was a Gala Perform-
ance and after-theatre Gala Dinner held at Georgetown Park
On March 6. WHS/SPCA supporters and members of Hexagon
enjoyed an exciting evening of dinner and dancing to the
music of The Federal Jazz Commission. During intermissmn at

WHS/SPCA

Frances Lipscomb and Tina Harper, WHS/SPCA Directors and
members of the Hexagon Gala Arrangements Committee.

the final performance, Hexagon announced that the “Fair
Game” production and Gala Night activities had netted
$70,000 for the Washington Humane Society—an amount that
has allowed many of the Society’s dreams for growth and
improvement to come true.

The Hexagon proceeds have already been put to use. The
WHS/SPCA now has three radio-dispatched, air-conditioned
vans, which are used by the Humane Officers to investigate
complaints of cruelty to animals and to transport animals to
our shelter and to veterinarians. The kennel facility at the

 

WHS SPCA

At left, Rose Marie Bogley, WHS/SPCA Honorary Director and
Hexagon Corporate Sponsor, poses with Mary Ann Lundgren, a
WHS/SPCA supporter.

WHS/SPCA Animal Shelter has also undergone a much-needed
major renovation. The comfort of the animals in our care and
the safety of our staff have been tremendously enhanced by
these acquisitions and improvements. '

The WHS/SPCA is indebted to the many people who made
this special event possible. Our first thanks go to the Directors
of Hexagon for choosing the WHS/SPCA as their 1983 charity.
and to the cast of the show and other Hexagon members who,
through their talent and dedication, made “Fair Game" such a
great success. Our special thanks go to Mrs. Eugene Carusi.
Mr. David Lloyd Kreeger, Mrs. Peter McCoy and Mrs. Roger
Stevens, who served as Co-Chairpersons of the Benefit Com-
mittee; and to WHS/SPCA board member Marian Newman, who
was the tireless Chairwoman of the Gala Arrangements Com-
mittee. Their efforts, and those of so many others who worked
on the Gala events, were invaluable. And, our appreciation and
thanks go to all of the loyal WHS/SPCA sponsors who attended
the Gala festivities or contributed to the benefit. We were
thrilled to see so many caring people show their support of
our work for the welfare of animals.

THANK YOU ALL!

 

 

 

 

 

 




 
 

WHS/SPCA
Animal Caretaker Crystal Banks loads animals for a trip to the
veterinarian for sterilization surgery.

 

' WHS/SPCA

Animal Control Officer Warren Robinson checks a dog being
admitted to the shelter.

The Washington Humane Society is now completing three
years of service as the Animal Control Agency for the District
of Columbia. The benefits of the WHS/SPCA providing this
city service are readily apparent. The care and attention ani-
mals receive at the shelter; the high level of sanitation at the
shelter; and the immediate response to complaints of injured
and distressed animals all reflect the work of the people who
genuinely care about the animals they handle.

The number of animals handled at the shelter has shot up
dramatically under WHS/SPCA management. In FY 1982 the
Animal Control Agency, providing 24-hour-a-day services,
handled 15,044 animals. This is in comparison with the 8,452
animals handled in FY 1980, the last year the District of
Columbia operated the animal shelter facility.

The D.C. Animal Shelter underwent major renovation this
year. Ten new indoor-outdoor runs were added to the existing
facility. Central air conditioning was installed and interior
space was rearranged to provide larger, more attractive cat
rooms. A major addition to the existing facility was con-
structed to provide additional office space and house a Spay-
Neuter Clinic.

Spay-Neuter Clinic to Open

The recently constructed Spay-Neuter Clinic at the D.C.
Animal Shelter now awaits funding to begin operations. The
large stray and unwanted animal population in the city, com-
bined with a large low—income human population, creates a
compelling need for low-cost animal sterilization services.
Government officials, who struggle to obtain adequate funding

 

CITY ANIMAL CONTROL REPORT

 
   

 

    

Photo by Tina Garmaise

A gentle mixed shepherd unclaimed at the D.C. Animal
Shelter—typical of thousands that make up the city’s
tragic over-population problem.

for many essential city programs, assure the WHS/SPCA that
funding for the Spay—Neuter Clinic is a priority and will be
accomplished as soon as possible. Low-cost sterilization serv-
ices are currently available through the D.C. Animal Shelter.
Animals brought in for sterilization are transported to the
Animal Clinic of Anacostia for surgery. Any promotion, how-
ever, of low cost sterilization services would result in a de-
mand far greater than could be accommodated with our cur-
rent program.

Rabies Epidemic Impact

From October 1982 through July 1983, 114 animals in the
District of Columbia were found to be rabid, placing the city in
the middle of what the Center for Disease Control has called
the country’s worst rabies epidemic in 22 years. The Animal
Control Agency has experienced a tremendous increase in
workload as a result of the epidemic. In addition to the scores
of rabies information requests handled daily, we apprehend
rabies suspect animals, enforce quarantine regulations, pro-
vide rabies vaccinations and remove the brains of certain
animals for subsequent rabies testing.

Through the wide distribution of pamphlets and posters on
rabies prevention the WHS/SPCA urges animal owners to keep
their dogs and cats under control and make certain that they
have up-to-date rabies vaccinations. People are advised to
make their property unattractive to wildlife and to stay away
from wild animals. Rabies information is available from the
D.C. Animal Shelter (576-6664) and the WHS/SPCA Animal
Shelter (333-4010).

 

 




 

WHS/SPCA HUMANE LAW ENFORCEMENT
PROGRAM

Nothing seems to interrupt the flow of reports of animal
abuse and neglect that are received daily at the Washington
Humane Society. WHS/SPCA Humane Officers received and
investigated 1350 new cases between April 1, 1982 and March
31, 1983. In that period, eight persons were arrested and
charged with cruelty to animals. Nineteen others were sum-
moned to hearings at the United States Attorney’s Office. They
were advised of their legal responsibility to provide an animal
with proper care and were warned of the serious conse-
quences should they neglect or abuse another animal. In addi-
tion, three search warrants were obtained to remove neg-
lected animals from inside dwellings.

WHS/SPCA cruelty cases run the gamut from instances of
ignorant neglect, readily corrected by education, to blatant,
willful acts of extreme abuse and neglect. Each complaint of
cruelty to animals received is fully investigated and is not
closed until compliance with proper animal care standards
has been achieved. In most cases, WHS/SPCA Humane Officers
are able to correct neglectful treatment of animals by edu-
cating the owners about proper care. There are, however, a
number of far more serious instances of cruelty in which
animals are found starved, beaten, or suffering from untreated
disease or injury. In cases such as these, the WHS/SPCA takes

    

WCHS/SPA
WHS Humane Officer Pam Chapman in the field investigating
a valid complaint of a neglected dog.

immediate action to remove the animal from the situation and
relieve its suffering. The animal’s owner or custodian may
then be arrested and prosecuted for cruelty to animals.

In an unusual case, the WHS/SPCA this year obtained an
arrest warrant charging a DC. veterinarian, Dr. Daniel P. Dodd
of Bosley Animal Hospital, with cruelty to animals. Acting on a
citizen’s complaint that her young, healthy cat had died at
Bosley Animal Hospital, seven days after what should have
been a routine spay surgery, WHS/SPCA Humane Officer Keller
Haden investigated the matter. She found evidence that,
though the cat was under his daily care, Dr. Dodd did not know
that anything was wrong with the cat until it died. (It was Dr.
Dodd’s practice to keep animals at his hospital for seven days
after spay surgery.) A necropsy of the cat’s body revealed that
there were no stitches present at the surgical site and that the
Edges of the incision had healed separately from one another.
The open surgical site allowed direct communication between
the exterior environment and the peritoneal cavity. As a result,
the cat had died of infection—post-surgical peritonitis. The
WHS/SPCA consulted with four local veterinarians, who agreed
that the open surgical site and subsequent bacterial con-
tamination resulting in death could have been prevented but
for Dr. Dodd’s gross departure from standard veterinary prac-
tices, and that such departure constituted wanton and flagrant
neglect of the cat.

        

Photo by Jose Maneechai

WHS Humane Officer Carrie Randel sets a humane trap for a
shy cat stranded on a roof.

‘5

 

  
  

, x f a? gnaw,“ W .
1. WHS/SPCA
WHS Humane Officers Keller Haden (left) and Brenda Purvis

(right) make calls and write up cases after a long day on the

road.

As a first-time offender Dr. Dodd was offered a diversion
program in lieu of prosecution by the United States Attorney’s
Office. That Office required Dr. Dodd to surrender his license
to practice veterinary medicine in the District of Columbia and
to agree to participate in a community service program in
order to qualify for diversion. Dr. Dodd surrendered his D.C.
license and agreed never to practice medicine in the District
or in any other jurisdiction.

Unfortunately, this action came too late for a lot of animals.
Dr. Dodd had been practicing veterinary medicine for many
years and was in the process of retiring when he was charged
with cruelty to animals. Over the years the WHS/SPCA had
received many complaints alleging that animals had died
under suspicious circumstances at Bosley Animal Hospital or
had been maltreated there. The lack of an effective Veterinary
Practice Act in the District of Columbia had, however, made it
impossible to review Dr. Dodd’s practices and to issue
sanctions against any malpractice. Provisions in the new D.C.
Veterinary Practice Act will make it possible for a
veterinarian’s license to be suspended or revoked and for fines
to be imposed if there is a finding by the Board of Examiners in
Veterinary Medicine of malpractice or other professional

misconduct.

 

 

 




 

 

Adam’s Story

 

WHS/SPCA

A starved dog—like Adam—moments after being rescued by a
Washington Humane Society Humane Officer.

It was another night, just like the other night, every other
night for as long as he could recall. Maybe . . . maybe always?
No. There had been another place once, another way, but
when? With no sense of time he couldn’t be sure, and at this
point in his life he couldn’t care. He only knew it was not that
way now. 7

Suddenly, there was a rustling noise back along the fence.
He knew he should leap, bark, and warn, but his body just
couldn’t respond. And why should he? As soon as he would
move, the collar would tighten, the chain go taut and he’d be
thrown to the ground, the bark strangled in his throat. It had
happened so many countless times that he’d finally come to
View the collar and chain as his owners, unyielding and god-
like. Obviously, they disliked the noise, and didn’t feel the
need to be warned.

The rustle came closer. Perhaps a mouse? If he could just
catch it, he could eat it, and his mouth watered at the thought.
But where would the energy to catch it come from? Not from
the gaunt and emaciated body. And how would he lure the
clever creature within the unmerciful chain’s boundary?
No . . . it would be the world’s stupidest mouse to allow itself
to be captured by such a sorry example of a dog.

A slight drizzle began. Eagerly he licked the collecting drop-
lets from his coat. Perhaps it might rain enough to collect in
the hole he’d dug days before. The thought only served to
torture his parched throat as the cloud passed on and dis-
sipated quickly, leaving just enough to drench and chill. He
shivered and wondered how the chain and collar could per-
form such magic and how much longer his heart could take
the abuse. Even now its dulled ringing sounded in his ears.

Shivering, he placed his head in the small wooden box. Thin
as he was, he couldn’t crawl inside the tiny entrance to the
promise of shelter, dryness, and warmth. He decided the chain
and collar were responsible for this also, but in his present
condition he couldn’t even summon up the strength to hate

by Kathy O’Malley

 

Kathy O’Malley is a freelance writer who is currently
employed as a veterinary technician at the Animal Clinic
of Anacostia. She is a former employee of the Washing-
ton Humane Society and has been working with and
writing about animals since 1968.

”Adam’s Story” was first published in The Doberman
Quarterly and is the true account of a WHS/SPCA cruelty
case, seen through the eyes of the neglected dog. Adam,
a Doberman Pinscher, had been abused and starved, and
was near death when he was seized by a WHS/SPCA
Humane Officer. Adam was brought back to health and
placed in a new home by Mrs. Zelda Stout, who heads the
Rescue Program of the Doberman Pinscher Club of the
National Capitol Area.

Sadly, dogs like Adam are legion in Washington, DC.

 

 

 

them. He’d come to accept them, and his fate, and knew, with
the special knowledge that animals have, that it would soon be
over. His death would relieve him, and he looked forward to its
arrival.

There had been a time when he’d had that strength, that zest
for life, but that was long ago, when he was huge and powerful
and the sun caused his deep brown coat to glisten red and
sparkling. He was Visited regularly then, and there was always
food and water, and the man who brought them was kind, with
a pat and a smile and warm words. He was bored and lonely
out in the yard, and occupied his time running along the fence,
threatening the neighborhood strays. Then came the days
when he and the man travelled. Short trips and strangers, and
one day in a basement there was another like himself hurtling
out of a corner, snarling, screaming, trying to kill. He’d saved
himself, quickly but very confused, and there was praise and
food from the man.

The trips increased, the strangers, and more and more dogs
until finally he was the mad one, hurtling from the corner
knowing it was his life or theirs. But he grew heart-sick
through it all and began to lose.

The food, the water, came less frequently, and there was no
more praise, only angry words and abuse. He steeled his great
heart, learned to live without the man-love he needed, and
endured. And now there was this place and these owners. The
man came hardly at all now, there was almost never any food,
and hardly any water, and the great brown dog’s heart rang
louder in his ears. .

The rustle again. Perhaps it was death. The thought com-
forted the dog. Death, he was sure, was the only thing left that
could conquer his owners.

“Hey there, fella! Hey!” The voice was soft, inviting. He knew
it was a lie.

“C’mon, boy, look at me, please?” Glancing up, he saw
someone climbing his fence, entering his territory. Another
time he would have warned with his bark, his fierceness, but
now he didn’t care, nor could he fear whatever new pain would
soon arrive with the intruder.

“Sweetheart, look at me, good boy, look at me, boy.” It was a
woman, and she approached slowly, and with obvious caution,
as if the dog’s presence was something to be respected. He
wondered if she meant to mock him, like the children who
teased and threw stones.

 

 




 

“I’m taking you with me, boy, I’m taking you out of here if
you let me, how’s that! You gonna let me pet you, boy?”

He didn’t wince from the touch, nor did he relish it. Who
could tell what deceit lay behind the soft voice? There was a
strange tool in her hand. Was it like the blunt pipe that
slammed down on his ribs when he wouldn’t fight? He
wouldn’t cower if it was, but he would turn his head so as not

‘ to see.

There was a small touch on his neck, a pinch, a snap, and
the collar and chain fell to the ground, dead. She had killed
them with the tool. For the first time the dog looked up into
the face of this person, and read the character in her eyes. It
was still dark, but he could see well enough, and it had been an
uncountable time since he had seen the story there. He didn’t
resist her strong arms when they encircled him, lifting him
from the mud and his own feces, away from his owners and the
tiny shelter. Laying his head over her shoulder he took a
distant pleasure in watching the pen recede as they ap-
proached her car.

She took him to a warm building, and he rested on a thick
coat, her coat, and she stayed with him the whole time. There
were other people there, and his nose told him there were
animals elsewhere, but they were quiet so he didn’t concern
himself with them. Strangers walked about in white, very clean
and sharp smelling. They’d stop to look at him, shake their
heads and mutter. One woman wept. He began to feel ashamed
and refused to look at them, as though by ignoring them they
would cease to be. He could sense their disgust at him, their
revulsion, and he couldn’t tell them it wasn’t his fault. The
collar. . . the chain . . .they did it . . . they did . ..

He couldn’t sleep and his heart rang louder.

Through it all the woman never left him, always spoke
softly, with warm, encouraging words. The dog was comforted
by her presence and pushed. his own guilt away. He knew her
words, they were old ones, beautiful dog, sweet boy, good dog.
She spoke to a white-coated man, and then turned to the dog
calling good boy, come here, come here. He desperately did
not want her to know he couldn’t stand, that the strength had
left him days ago, and so he turned his face, hoping she would
think him aloof. Good boy, she praised, good boy, and kissed
the back of his head.

Suddenly, he heaved his insides all at once and yesterday’s
meal erupted on the floor. He knew he would surely be beaten
now for this disgusting scene. Rags, mud, excrement, stones
and paper lay mixed with the blood and bile of his stomach all
along the clean floor, staining the thick, comfortable coat. This
must bring an end to the kindness, and sorrow welled up in his
flagging heart. The woman reached over to him, pulling him
away from the sopping mess, wiping his face and throat with a
warm cloth. She cleaned the coat quickly, efficiently, as
though she’s done it many times before; she praised him
softly, kissed him again. Others removed the undigested meal.

There were no rebukes, only a warm syrup in a deep bowl,
and he lapped eagerly, remembering for a moment when simi-
lar food was held before him as a young whelp with his si-
blings jostling all around him. He felt contentment soothe the
terrible pains in his abused stomach. He knew, even before the
woman did, there would be no death now, she’d stolen him
from its grip, even as she filled him with the love he needed to
live. He nestled back against her with a sigh, and slept. His
heart grew in strength, and the ringing stopped.

 

USED CLOTHES HELP
WHS/ SPCA

 

ﬁHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOUR f

/V /—’
"rév’gt' ’ggﬂ‘4Q/AJ 2 ‘v‘ﬁcilt

\M

. CAT HAD A REAL CATNIP TOY? i;

Qd NOW THE REAL CATNIP MOUSE IS BACK!!
“Catnip Critters” offers colorful, sturdy catnip mice
stuffed with the leaves and blossoms of wild, mountain
grown catnip—Our catnip is all natural, gathered fresh
from slopes of the blue ridge mountains—Cat‘s love it!

4 ‘7‘”
/ veg,

* Now you can treat your cat and the Washington
Humane Society at the same time. For every catnip
mouse you purchase “Catnip Critters” will make a
donation to W.H.S. So order yours today!

\—\r-t~
. E-
Make check or money order payable to “Catnip Critters”
Please send __.Catnip Critters ((1 $3.50 ppd.

Your Children’s Clothes Can
Bring You Cash and Beneﬁt
The WHS/SPCA

I

SECOND CHILDHOOD, a children’s consignment shop-
run by our Vice President, Nadine Edles, will donate the
proceeds of clothes and toys brought in by WHS/SPCA
SUpporters. If you consign your items, you will receive
50% of the sales price and the WHS/SPCA will receive the
other 50%. Or, if you donate your items, the WHS/SPCA
will receive 100% of the sales price and you will get a
receipt for a charitable deduction on your taxes.

 

 

Clothing must be in season, in style, clean, and not in

 

 

need of ironing or mending. Toys and equipment must Name
- be clean and in working order. Books, shoes and small Address _ﬁ__~
furniture are also welcome.
City State Zip

 

 

SECOND CHILDHOOD is just four minutes from Key
Bridge at 2647 North Pershing Drive in Arlington. Call
276-7740 for directions. Hours are 10-6 Monday through
Saturday, except on Thursdays, when they are 12-8.

Mail to: Catnip Critters
c/o W.H.S.
7319 Georgia Ave, NW.
Washington, DC. 20012

4%.

WHS SPCA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

P.A.L. Board Member Ruth Hanessian introduces parakeets in a home for the elderly.

NEWS IN BRIEF

Maryland High Court Rules on
Researcher’s Cruelty Conviction

On August 11, 1983 the Maryland Court of Appeals over-
turned the conviction of Edward Taub for cruelty to animals.
The court ruled that the Maryland anti-cruelty law was not
intended to cover research facilities, and that Taub’s federally
funded project should be regulated by the federal Animal
Welfare Act. This reversal of the Maryland District and sub-
sequent Circuit Court cruelty convictions does not exonerate
Dr. Taub. The court’s decision was based on a legal technical-
ity, not the merits of the case. Taub, a research scientist, had
been arrested and charged with cruelty to animals after de-
plorable conditions, including primates suffering from un-
treated sores and broken bones, were discovered at his fa-
cility.

The inadequacies of the federal Animal Welfare Act have
been glaring in this case. Taub’s laboratory was being inspec-
ted and routinely approved by a federal inspector at the same
time that gross filth and numerous other blatant violations of
state and federal animal protection laws were found in the
laboratory.

After reviewing Maryland’s evidence against Dr. Taub, the
National Institutes of Health did revoke his federal grant. Dr.
Taub is currently appealing the NIH. revocation action. The
fate of the primates involved in this case remains uncertain.
They are now housed at N.I.H.’s animal research facility in
Poolesville, Maryland.

Animals Shot in Wound Labs

Defense Department plans to open a new laboratory where
dogs would be shot so that students and researchers could
study wounds was made public in July by People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals, a Washington-based animal
rights group. Caspar Weinberger, Secretary of Defense,
responded immediately by issuing an order that no dogs were
to be shot for medical experimentation or training. The fate of

thousands of other animals—goats, pigs, monkeys and cats—
that are being shot for wound testing in two other laboratories
remains uncertain. Defense Department Task Forces are cur-
rently studying the merits of continuing this research. Mean-
while, hundreds of physicians have spoken out against gun-
shot wound testing, which was first done in 1894. Animals
wounded for surgical training purposes are reportedly an-
esthetized. There is no guarantee, however, that animals
wounded for research purposes are given anesthetics.

New Veterinary Practice Act in D. C.

The long-awaited District of Columbia Veterinary Practice
Act became law on March 9, 1983. Prior to the passage of this
law the practice of veterinary medicine in the city was gov-
erned by a 1907 law which allowed a license to be revoked or
suspended only in cases of fraud in obtaining a license,
chronic inebriety or conviction of a crime involving moral
turpitude.‘The new law fully regulates the practice of veterin-
ary medicine and provides for licenses to be denied, sus-
pended or revoked and fines to be levied in cases of mal-
practice.

Benefits of the Human-Animal Bond

Washington, D.C. now has an active group promoting the
benefits of pet therapy. P.A.L (People—Animals—Love) prO-
grams are showing that the mutual sharing of love between
pets and people can enhance the quality of life for many,
particularly for elderly people and those who live in insti-
tutions. The group, which is directed by Earl Strimple, D.V.M.,
has successfully placed pets in nursing homes and hospital
settings and has assisted elderly pet owners in managing the
care of their animals. PAL. has also introduced a pet therapy
program at Lorton prison which has been received enthusi—
astically by participating inmates. Volunteers are needed by
PAL. If you would like information about such work, please
call PAL. at 686-5696.

 

 

 




 

 

 

“I give, devise, and bequeath to the
Washington Humane Society, the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, 7319 Georgia Ave, NW,
Washington, DC . . .”

 

PLEASE HELP
WHS/ SPCA

HELP ANIMALS

   

 

 

Please remember the
WHS/SPCA in your will.
Help guarantee the
continuation of our efforts
on behalf of animals.

 

 




P.A.L. Board Member Ruth Hanessian introduces parakeets in a home for the elderly.

NEWS IN BR

Maryland High Court Rules on -
Researcher’s Cruelty Conviction

On August 11, 1983 the Maryland Court of Appeals over-
turned the conviction of Edward Taub for cruelty to animals.
The court ruled that the Maryland anti-cruelty law was not
intended to cover research facilities, and that Taub’s federally
funded project should be regulated by the federal Animal
Welfare Act. This reversal of the Maryland District and sub-
sequent Circuit Court cruelty convictions does not exonerate
Dr. Taub. The court’s decision was based on a legal technical-
ity, not the merits of the case. Taub, a research scientist, had
been arrested and charged with cruelty to animals after de-
plorable conditions, including primates suffering from un—
treated sores and broken bones, were discovered at his fa-
cility.

The inadequacies of the federal Animal Welfare Act have
been glaring in this case. Taub’s laboratory was being inspec-
ted and routinely approved by a federal inspector at the same
time that gross filth and numerous other blatant violations of
state and federal animal protection laws were found in the
laboratory.

After reviewing Maryland’s evidence against Dr. Taub, the
National Institutes of Health did revoke his federal grant. Dr.
Taub is currently appealing the NIH. revocation action. The
fate of the primates involved in this case remains uncertain.
They are now housed at N.I.H.’s animal research facility in
Poolesville, Maryland.

Animals Shot in Wound Labs

Defense Department plans to open a new laboratory where
dogs would be shot so that students and researchers could
study wounds was made public in July by People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals, a Washington-based animal
rights group. Caspar Weinberger, Secretary of Defense,
responded immediately by issuing an order that no dogs were
to be shot for medical experimentation or training. The fate of

 

     
  

wounded
esthetize
wounded

turpitude.
ary medi
pended c
practice.

 

Enclosed is my contribution to the Washington Humane Society

 

Name

Address

 

\Zip\

W\_ State

Ci

 




 

About the WHS/SPCA
The WHS/SPCA is one of the old

est humane organizations in the country. it was
chartered in 1870 by the 4i-st Co

ngress of the United States for the purpose of

rough humane education and enforcement of anti—
cruelty laws, and has been in c

ontinuous existence since its creation. The
WHS/SPCA is a non-profit charitable organization. All contributions are tax~
deductible.

 

 

 

on behalf of

continuation of our efforts

Help guarantee the
anlm

Please remember the
WHS/SPCA in your will.

als.

“I give, d

8018

g
%
a
as"
a
P
b
('3

0;
8o
>2.
:(‘b
5‘2
35”
a:
slog
N“:
tax
as
:32:
mm
c:
*2".
".36
:‘3
“$3:
96
‘t
E:
m
N
“Q

Washington Humane Society, the

e, and bequeath to the

 

 




 

 

NEWS [N B

Maryland High Court Rules on
Researcher’s Cruelty Conviction

On August 11, 1983 the Maryland Court of Appeals over-
turned the conviction of Edward Taub for cruelty to animals.
The court ruled that the Maryland anti-cruelty law was not
intended to cover research facilities, and that Taub’s federally
funded project should be regulated by the federal Animal
Welfare Act. This reversal of the Maryland District and sub-
sequent Circuit Court cruelty convictions does not exonerate
Dr. Taub. The court’s decision was based on a legal technical-
ity, not the merits of the case. Taub, a research scientist, had
been arrested and charged with cruelty to animals after de-
plorable conditions, including primates suffering from un-
treated sores and broken bones, were discovered at his fa-
cility.

The inadequacies of the federal Animal Welfare Act have
been glaring in this case. Taub’s laboratory was being inspec-
ted and routinely approved by a federal inspector at the same
time that gross filth and numerous other blatant violations of
state and federal animal protection laws were found in the
laboratory.

After reviewing Maryland’s evidence against Dr. Taub, the
National Institutes of Health did revoke his federal grant. Dr.
Taub is currently appealing the NIH. revocation action. The
fate of the primates involved in this case remains uncertain.
They are now housed at N.l.H.’s animal research facility in
Poolesville, Maryland.

Animals Shot in Wound Labs

Defense Department plans to open a new laboratory where
dogs would be shot so that students and researchers could
study wounds was made public in July by People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals, a Washington—based animal
rights group. Caspar Weinberger, Secretary of Defense,
responded immediately by issuing an order that no dogs were
to be shot for medical experimentation or training. The fate of

  

thousan
that are

   
 
  

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

The 1
Act bec 5 (7‘0
law the Q :5
erned b g
suspen 5- 9
chronic (Q 0 E (l
turpitu 3' (a a l
ary ding ‘3 5' a l
pen e d:
practic ,0 E 1
n m 9
M .
Bene 8 _2
Was I?) E
beneﬁt

   

 

 
  
 

 

 
 

aJaH
dwezs
aaeld

asea|d

 

  

 

 

 




“I give, devise, and bequeath to the
ashington Humane Society, the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, 7319 Georgia Ave, ,
Washington, DC . . . ”

 

c ‘4. a

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

Please remember the
WHS/SPCA in your will.
Help guarantee the
continuation of our efforts
on behalf of animals.

 

 




 

 

INTERVIEW WITH ANN COTTRELL FREE
Halting the National Zoo Deer Hunt

Our readers will remember the furor caused by the reve-
lation that the National Zoo was planning a deer hunt at its
Front Royal Conservation and Research Center in the fall of
1982. The hunt was supposedly to be conducted in the name of
population control, but the barbaric and unsporting nature of
the projected hunt aroused the indignation of many hunters,
not to mention that of those adamantly opposed to hunting of
any kind. In the following interview with the Washington Hu-
mane Society’s Honorary Director Ann Cottrell Free, our Exec-
utive Director, Jean Goldenberg, got the inside story from the
mouth of the woman who did more, perhaps, than any other
individual to stop the Front Royal massacre.

Q. First, Ann, how in the world did you discover the
proposed hunt way up there in Warren County in
the Shenandoah Valley area?

A. Merely by chance, Jean. On October 12, 1982 I visited the
National Zoo’s Front Royal Center with two other jour-
nalists to see the rare animals quartered there on the
lovely, rolling 3,000 acre reservation that was once the
Army “Remount Station” for raising “blue-blooded”
horses. Later, the Agriculture Department had used it.
While being shown around, I began to notice a number of
rather tame Virginia white-tailed deer grazing within the
fenced grounds. In fact, one was so tame that I was able
to walk up to it before it bounded away. It was then that a
man on the Zoo staff told me that public and employee
bow-and-arrow and shotgun hunts were to be held there
next month.

Q. What reason did he give for the hunts? And what
did you do then?

A. Naturally, I couldn’t believe my ears. These deer were
fenced in. You see, around the entire perimeter of the
Center there was a fence, and the exotics—such as the
extinct-in-the-wild Pere David’s deer, the Saharan oryx,
and the Bactrian camels—are kept in their large but
separate enclosures. I asked the reason for the hunt and
was told that the deer population within the fenced-in
reservation was growing too fast and might run out of
forage. I started protesting immediately, asking about the
actual size of the deer population, asking why they didn’t
lower the fences and drive them out—or, if absolutely
necessary, have sharpshooters cull the deer. But I saw no
sign of a dwindling food supply for the deer. Then I
learned that hunts had traditionally been held on this
property since the old Army-Remount days and that the
local people looked forward to them. But I assumed that
all the hunting was prior to the fencing by the zoo.

Q. So you took your case to higher authorities, didn’t
you?

A. Indeed I did, but not to Secretary of the Smithsonian S.
Dillon Ripley, who was out of town. I worked through the
normal channels of command at the National Zoo——
made my suggestions for alternatives, and warned of a
public relations disaster if the public learned that the
Smithsonian was sponsoring such an inappropriate, even
barbaric, hunt. I feared, especially, for the wounding of
the deer by the arrows of unskilled bow hunters.

Q. Couldn’t they see the light? Did you warn them that
you would have to make public your information if
corrective action wasn’t taken?

A. Smithsonian officials stuck to their guns——and, I might
say, to their bows and arrows—so, after giving them time
to reconsider, l notified John Hoyt, president of the
nation’s largest humane organization, the Humane So—
ciety of the United States. This, I felt, was a national
issue, especially since (I had been appalled to learn) a
hunt had taken place the previous year at Front Royal
and no one had spoken up.

Q. But didn’t Fran Lipscomb (who is on our WHS/SPCA
Board of Directors and was with the Animal Wel-
fare Institute before she joined the staff of the
National Audubon Society) know about it?

A. I called Fran while I was having my “go-round” with the
Zoo—as she is normally so very knowledgeable about

what’s going on. She didn’t know about it, but on her own
notified another WHS/SPCA Board member, Lewis Re-
genstein. Lew is Vice-President of the Fund for Animals,
headed by Cleveland Amory. (Fran, Lew and Cleveland
are very involved with wildlife issues.) Lew then notified
the media.

. How did Congress get into the act so quickly?

. Well, as you know, Jean, the newspapers, radio and TV.
went all out on this story because it was really in the
“man bites dog” category. The Zoo, the media believed,
should be for preservation, not for fun and games hunt-
ing. The news caught the eye of a former Indiana Senator,
Vance Hartke, who lives in Falls Church, Virginia. He has
a law office now and often teams up with another animal—
minded friend, who pushes public—interest issues on the
Hill, John Studebaker. These gentlemen called the matter
to the attention of the Chairman of the House Appropri-
ations Interior Subcommittee handling Smithsonian
funds.

>0

     

3'. .

 

Ann Cottrell Free testifies before a House Appropriations Sub-
committee about the proposed Front Royal deer hunt. (To her
right, Senator Vance Hartke.)

Q. Who is the Chairman of the Subcommittee, and
what did he do?

A. He’s Congressman Sidney R. Yates of Illinois. He called
for an immediate postponement of the hunt pending a
Congressional hearing on November 4, right after elec-
tion day.

Q. Some bombshell, I’d say. But in the meantime,
didn’t you get involved with the Friends of the
National Zoo in the hope that the FONZ would sup-
port cancellation?

 

 




.31

 

A.

>0

Q.

Q.

As a life member and founder of FONZ in the late 1950’s (I
helped to frame the articles of incorporation and by-
laws, and wrote, as a volunteer, the earliest membership
solicitation literature), I felt that I had the credentials, as
well as a reason, to address the FONZ annual meeting on
October 21. Let me say, parenthetically, that I helped to
start FONZ because the Zoo at that time was such a
miserable place for animals. Horrible!

Didn’t the Zoo people put on quite a presentation
first at the FONZ meeting?

. And how! Dr. Christian Wemmer, the Front Royal Center

Curator, gave an illustrated lecture. He was backed up by
an assistant, Linwood Williamson, who regaled us with
killing methods, entrail removal procedures, carcass
weights, etc. Dr. Wemmer, who is Acting Director of the
Zoo now that the Director, Dr. Theodore Reed, has sud-
denly retired, argued that the Virginia deer were eating
alfalfa that had been planted for Zoo animals. Also, he
spoke of some of the Ellipse Christmas pageant reindeer,
which are quartered at Front Royal, having been killed by
meningeal worms dropped by the Virginia deer.

Did you have an answer to those claims?

. Not at that moment. My position was that the hunt was a

public relations move, encouraged by the pro-hunting
Virginia Game Commission. But in a few days I had an
answer to Dr. Wemmer’s claims.

You mean, about the alfalfa and the diseased rein-
deer?

. Yes. I returned to Front Royal on October 26. l was joined

by Senator Hartke, Mr. Studebaker and Charles Yates, a
local hunter who opposed the Zoo hunt. We discovered
that the alfalfa, by and large, was healthy and un-
trampled, and were told also that all but forty of the
threatening one thousand deer had been removed from
this section. Frankly, if there were one thousand deer on
that entire reservation, they were certainly well hidden.
Also, while there, I discovered that, if the fences were
removed or lowered, deer could be driven from the re-
servation into the adjoining Shenandoah National Park,
where no hunting is allowed.

You mean, their claims about the alfalfa were be-
ginning to fall apart?
So it seemed.

What about the reindeer?

. Oh, yes. Well, first, I discovered that basic veterinary

textbooks do caution against placing reindeer in the
close vicinity of Virginia white-tailed deer. They and
moose are very susceptible to the Virginia deer parasite.
I checked it out thoroughly with wildlife disease experts
at the University of Georgia School of Veterinary Med-
icine, who specialize in the parasite Parelaphostrongulus
tenuis. No reindeer should be kept close to Virginia deer.
Just a trimming of the herd—what the Zoo was
planning—would not eradicate the worm and adequately
protect the reindeer.

Did you cover some of this ground in your testi-
mony on November 4 before the Congressional
Subcommittee?

A. Yes. I also offered photographs of the alfalfa and the

fencing, and scientific studies on the meningeal worm
when l testified.

The hearing, I understand, was “standing room
only”. I guess those half-page ads “Should the

National Zoo Slaughter Deer?”, placed in several
major newspapers by HSUS, created a lot of inter-
est and contributed to the crowd. Weren’t you and
others on T.V. a lot, too?

A. Yes, there was quite a crowd, and intense media interest.
The Smithsonian brought a battery of experts, including
state game commissioners, representatives of the
National Wildlife Federation and other pro-hunting
groups.

Q. But this wasn’t a hunting/anti-hunting issue, was it?

A. No, but an issue on the propriety of the Smithsonian
sponsoring public hunting, though the National Rifle As-
sociation (which helped to sponsor a mass meeting at
Front Royal that I attended) didn’t see it that way.

Q. Who testified against the hunt?

A. The list was long, but it included Senator Hartke, John
Grandy, who is Vice-President of HSUS, Cleveland Amory,
representatives from the People for the Ethical Treat-
ment of Animals, Charles Yates and other people from
Front Royal who opposed the hunt—and me.

Q. Was the decision to cancel the hunt made immedi-

ately?

A. No. Subcommittee Chairman Yates—a very fair-minded
individual—left the decision to the Smithsonian, as well
as finding a solution to handling the purported deer
overpopulation. On November 9, the Smithsonian an-
nounced cancellation of the hunt. The Subcommittee
then considered a huge appropriation of more than half a
million dollars for higher fences. It was turned down. The
Zoo also wanted to relocate some of the deer—which are
very expensive to capture and transport.

 

Photo by Ann Cottrell Free

Reprieved! A Virginia white-tailed deer bounds away at the
National Zoo’s Front Royal facility.

Q. What were you doing in the meantime?

A. l was busy finding a less expensive solution. I had always
urged lowering the fences and driving out the deer. This
had been done to some degree earlier, but it was clear to
me that the sponsors of the hunt only wanted to get rid of
a few hundred deer—not all. They wanted to leave plenty
to renew the herd each year for more hunting—a never—

 




 

 

 

 

ending cycle of hunts, all in the name of getting rid of
overpopulation. I got in touch with the manufacturers of
the deer-proof fencing used at the Cary Arboretum in
New York State and gave their material to a very reason—
able man, Philip S. Hughes, Undersecretary of the Smith-
sonian. Several representatives of national humane or-
ganizations also joined with me in follow-up meetings
with Undersecretary Hughes. We were very hopeful that
our suggestions would be adopted.

. The Smithsonian and the Zoo came up with a new
plan that would permit the deer to go free yet pro-
tect the exotics. Can you tell me about it?

. The plan sounded pretty good to me. Certain sections of
the perimeter fence would be virtually removed, leaving
a one-strand wire only four feet high—even a fawn could
clear it. So, if the deer ran out of food at the Center, they
could go elsewhere—probably into the Shenandoah
National Park. Also, the exotics would get greater pro-
tection by the construction of a second fence around
current and projected high-use areas. This and other
anti-worm barriers would halt the spread of the me-
ningeal worm of the Virginia white-tailed deer to rein-
deer and other susceptible exotics. The most heartening
news, of course, was that there would be no more public
hunting. If deer congregated too thickly in certain places,
they could be driven out.

Q. What are your reactions to all this besides relief? It
must have been a strain, collecting all that proof
and getting everyone involved.

 

A. Jean, as you well know, you take a risk when you blow
the whistle. You pay a price. You have to give up much of
your regular life—in my case, a book I was working on.
You spend a lot of your own money. You get very tired.
But you know that if you succeed, it was worth it. In this
case, success was good for the deer, good for the Smith-
sonian, and good for the National Zoo. If you 105e, you
will have tried, you will have done your best, and you can
live with your conscience.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ann Cottrell Free, at present an Honorary Director of
the Washington Humane Society, is a former member of
the Board of Directors who took a leading role in the
reorganization of the Society in the early 1960’s. Mrs.
Free is an author and journalist who uses her pen and
expertise on behalf of creatures who cannot speak for
themselves. She is an Albert Schweitzer Medalist, and on
her agenda for August is a speaking engagement at the
International Albert Schweitzer Symposium at St. John’s
College of Cambridge University in England. Her latest
book,Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer, is reviewed
elsewhere in this issue of the Newsletter. For her work in
preventing the National Zoo’s Front Royal deer hunt, as
well as for her constant activity on behalf of animals over
the years, Ann Cottrell Free was given the WHS/SPCA
Humanitarian Award and Medal at this year’s annual
meeting in May.

 

 

 

 

 

Animal Protection Legislation Pending
in U.S. Congress

Laboratory Animals:

Senator Bob Dole (R—KS) has introduced and held hearings
on S 657, an amendment to strengthen the Federal Animal
Welfare Act. This is the most far-reaching piece of legislation
being considered in Congress this session. It requires insti—
tutions that use animals to appoint to an Animal Studies
Committee a public member not paid by the institution. This
member is responsible for representing community concerns
for the welfare of the animal subjects. The Animal Studies
Committee must inspect the animal laboratories at least twice
a year and report any improper conditions to the funding
agency and the veterinary inspectors of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. The bill also protects any worker in a laboratory
who reports mistreatment of an animal, and it mandates an
information service in the National Agricultural Library in
cooperation with the National Library of Medicine providing
information to reduce or replace animal use, minimize pain
and distress, and prevent unnecessary duplication of animal
experimentation. A series of eight assurances are required
from each registered research facility, all aimed directly at the
protection of animals.

In the House, two Walgren (D—PA) provisions have been
incorporated into HR 2350, the National Institute of Health
(NIH) authorization bill. One directs $20 million over the next
three years into basic research to develop alternatives to
laboratory animal experimentation. The other requires NIH
grantees and contractors to have an active and viable Animal
Care Committee, which. must include a veterinarian and a
public member representing community concerns.

10

What you can do:

Write or contact your Senators to co—sponsor S 657. They may
be addressed at Senate Office Building, Washington, DC. 20510.

HR 2350 will be voted on by your Congressman after Sep-
tember 12. Contact your representative to support the bill with
the laboratory animal provisions and to oppose any weakening
amendments. House members may be addressed at House
Office Building, Washington, DC. 20515.

Trapping:

Congressman Clarence Long (D—MD) has introduced his bill
HR 1797 to ban interstate and foreign commerce in steel—jaw
leghold traps and any article of fur derived from an animal that
was trapped in a steel-jaw leghold trap. Fines are $1000 for the
first offense and $5000 for any subsequent offense. Please urge
your Representative to cosponsor HR 1797 and to work f0!”
scheduling of hearings in the House Committee on Energy and
Commerce.

Pets in Public Housing:

Senator William Proxmire (D—WI) has put a provision t0

allow pets in publicly funded public housing for the elderIy .
Act of 1983.

into the Housing and Community Development
which will be voted on in September. Although provision was
made for landlords to be able to establish guidelines.

this IS a ,

 

 




 

 

inﬁll
.19qu ‘--;~‘4v

ﬁxﬁax

 

 

major first step in recognizing the value of pets to their human
companions. Contact your Senator to urge his support for this
bill with the provision for pets.

Farm Bill:

HR 3170, introduced by Jim Howard (D—NJ), establishes a
committee to investigate modern farm animal practices, to
determine if these practices have an adverse effect on human
health, and to evaluate the economic, scientific and ethical
impact of intensive farming.

Wild Horses:

S 457, an amendment to the Wild Free-Ranging Horse and
Burro Act, introduced by James McClure (R—ID), would allow
the public sale of horses, the very provision that stimulated
the passage of wild horse protection legislation in the first
place. Hearings were held in Senator McClure’s Energy and
Natural Resources Committee in April, but the bill is still in
Committee. It should stay there!

 

 

REVERENCE FOR LIFE

Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer. Editing and
commentary by Ann Cottrell Free. The Albert Schweitzer F el-
lowship, The Albert Schweitzer Center, The Animal Welfare
Institute, and The Humane Society of the United States, 1982.

Paper. Review by Sandra M. Miller

The preoccupation of Western Philosophy has been the
definition of the world in its relation to Man: scant attention
has been paid to defining Man’s place in relation to the world.
Even theologically directed philosophies have historically
been interested in what God has done and will do for Man.

Albert Schweitzer’s philosophy of Reverence for Life con-
stitutes a healthy exception to this rule. Briefly stated, Rever-
ence for Life is the recognition that life other than Man’s is
sacred and that Man has a duty to avoid destroying and caus-
ing suffering to that life whenever possible. In Animals, Nature
and Albert Schweitzer Ann Cottrell Free has not offered a
critique or explanation of Schweitzer’s ideas: instead, she has
let Schweitzer, who was a clear thinker and writer, propound
his own Views on “Animals, Nature and Man”. Mrs. Free sets
the pertinent quotations from his works in a mortar of bio-
graphical background to show how the edifice of his philos-
ophy was built. There is also an excellent selection of photo—
graphs to accompany the text.

Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer is in itself an indis-
pensable companion for- those interested in animal welfare, as
well as an encouragement to become acquainted with
Schweitzer’s complete works. The format of the book (de-
signed by Charles F. Hermann, III) is attractive and makes
reference to the ideas contained therein easy.

This volume is also one of the “good” paperbacks that is
oversize, easy to read, and durable. Here is a handy store-
house of ammunition for flinging at the heads of the wicked in

 

l

l NATURE &

 

 

 

 

one’s next conversation with those who think that men can do
pretty well as they please to the rest of Creation.

Mrs. Free’s book is also by its nature suitable for the young.
Schweitzer’s philosophy is ethical and is free of the burden of
technical terms which, while they may be useful for the expert,
are discouraging to the layman. His first thoughts as a child
are here, as well as his mature reflections, and the delightful
pictures of animals are in themselves a reward to the reader of
any age.

But this is not a “cute” book. In Schweitzer’s words one
finds a challenge to do the difficult. “Let no one regard as light
the burden of his responsibility. While so much ill-treatment
of animals goes on . . .we all bear guilt for it.” “The quiet
conscience is an invention of the devil.” “Some atonement for
this guilt can be found by the man who pledges himself to
neglect no opportunity to help creatures in distress.”

 

 

Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer can be ordered
from:

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship
866 United Nations Plaza
New York, New York 10017

The Animal Welfare Institute
P. O. Box 3650
Washington, D. C. 20007

The Humane Society of the United States
2100 L Street, N. W
Washington, D. C. 20037

The cost, postage paid, is $3.50. All profits from the sale of this
book go to further the work of these organizations.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

DON’T BUY—ADOPT!

One way that you and your friends can di-
rectly combat the tragic overpopulation of pet
animals is by adopting an animal from a hu-
mane shelter. As long as people buy pets from
pet stores, unscrupulous puppy and kitty mills
will turn out more inbred, disease-ridden dogs
and cats to be sold at outrageous prices to
unsuspecting people. Adopting at a shelter is
an ethical way of getting a little affection in
your life.

Pet stores sell only puppies and kittens, but a

 

shelter also offers adult dogs and cats for
those who want a more mature companion.
We can match you up with a wagging tail or a
purr that will change your life.

The Washington Humane Society shelters
adopt to qualified people throughout the
greater D.C. metropolitan area. We do house
checks for every adoption to ensure that the
right animal goes to the right home.

We urge you to help us
promote adopting an
animal from a shelter
by giving our adoption
poster to a friend who
may be interested in
adopting an animal, or
by posting it on a bul-
letin board in your
neighborhood.

If You Can’t Adopt, Provide A Foster Home

Can you provide a caring, responsible foster
home for an animal until just the right per-
manent home is found?

Realistically, we know that good homes
cannot be found for all the millions of animals
that are abandoned or given up every year...

But some individual animals would have a
better shot at a ‘second chance’ if more
interim foster homes were available.

The animals that benefit most from a foster
home are those that are particularly adopt-
able, but who just don’t get adopted within the

12

period that they
shelter.

Other animals most deserving of the chance
a foster home can give them are those who
have known the extremes of cruelty and ne-
glect, but who will be excellent companions
after a rehabilitation period.

If you would like to talk about taking on the
responsibilities of being a foster home, please
call Pam Chapman, Shelter Manager at
333-4010. The rewards, as well as the respon-
sibilities can be great.

can reasonably be held in a

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

4““...— -m.._\.

“HM. .

 

 

 

Good Homes
Needed for
Homeless Animals

We have many cats,
dogs, puppies and kittens
in need of loving,
responsible owners.
Visit our facilities
and choose the
perfect
companion.

 
  
 
  

—"/

  

Adopt-A-Pet

' from the

x " Washington
Humane Society

WHS/ SPCA

District of Columbia Animal Shelter WHS/ SPCA Animal Shelter
(Operated by the WHS/ SPCA) 7319 Georgia Avenue, NW.

1201 New York Avenue, NE. Washington, DC. 20012
Washington, DC. 20002 Telephone 3334010
Telephone 576-6664

Adoptions to DC, Md. and Va. residents

 

 

 

 

13

 




“The human spirit is not
dead: It lives on in
secret. . . . It has come to
believe that compassion, in
which all ethics must take
root, can only attain its full
breadth and depth if it
embraces all living
creatures and does not limit
itself to mankind. ”

Albert Schweitzer

 

Non-Profit Org.

Washington Humane Society us. Postage

PAID

WHS/SPCA Washington. DC.
Permit No. 2253

7319 Georgia Avenue, NW. Washington. 0.0. 20012 202/333-4010 ‘4

 

 

 

,perczegﬁ
1i .1 ‘3'

 




Vol. IV, No. 3 ALAMEDA, CALIFORNIA SUMMER 1983

 

Interdisciplinary Conferences on the H/AB

Successful Meetings in Minnesota and Califomia

Of
In This Issue...

Interdisciplinary Conferences . . . . 1

Gaines Programs
for Humane Shelters .......... 7

Children/Animal Stamps
in Holland ................... 7

New HIAB Center at Purdue ...... 7

My Ears Have a Cold Nose ....... 8

In mid-dune a tOtal Of a thousand Friendliness & Pigs ............. 9
veterinarians, human health practi-
tioners, social scientists, humane PFT‘" New Y°rk --------------- 9
and animal control administrators Animals, Nature and
and people from a score of other Albert Schweitzer ............ 10
disciplines gathered atthe Radisson
South Hotel in Minneapolis and the
Sheraton Newport Hotel in Irvine,

. , . ........ . ,.: , California, for two, two-day back-to- PFT for Special Need
California Volunteer Service Chairperson, Mrs. back conferences on the human- Youngsters in Massachusetts. . 12
Betty Winchester, and Conference Chairman Dr. -
William Winchester. animal bond. . Delinquent Needs Met in

Continued 0” ”9’“ page Dog Companionship ......... 13

 

An Idyllic New Jersey
Humane Facility ............. 11

Scientists Center for Animal
Welfare Conference Proceedings
and Year in Review ........... 14

Unique Seminar at
Green Chimneys ............. 16

 

 

 

 

 

 

Handicapped Children and Pets
in Indiana .................. 17

 

Pet Therapy for the Elderly ..... 18
Kudos for Latham Films ........ 18
Hospice-Style Care for Pets ..... 19
The London Letter ............. 20

Vienna HIAB Conference ....... 20

a ,.

(L to R): Chairman Diesch; Lennie Marie Tolliver, Commissioner on Aging .
Human Services; Gerald Bloedow, Executive Secretary, Minnesota Council on Aging; Robert K. Anderson,
Cha'rman, Scientific Program Committee, Minnesota.

, US. Department of Health and What about the Pet
in Pet Therapy? ............. 21

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE
[E LATHAM
LETTER
© Latham Foundation 1983

Published Quarterly By
THE LATHAM FOUNDATION
CLEMENT AND SCHILLER STREETS
ALAMEDA, CALIFORNIA 94501
Annual Subscription Rate $6.00

PUBLISHER
Hugh H. Tebault

EDITOR

Wallace Jamie

CONTRIBUTING EDITORS
R.W. Medernach, DVM
Marianna Burt

CORRESPONDENT/UNITED KINGDOM
Clem Fennell, MRCVS

CORRESPONDENT/AUSTRALIA
R.S. Hogarth-Scott, BVSc (Hons. ), MRCVS,
MACVSc, PhD

EDITORIAL ADVISOR
Dezsoe (Steve) Nagy

ORIGINAL ILLUSTRATIONS
Bill Reagh
Original Sketches, pp. 7, 11 and 12, Eileen Rosen

GRAPHIC DESIGN/TYPESETTING
Publishers Art Service

OFFICERS and DIRECTORS OF
THE LATHAM FOUNDATION
President
Hugh H. Tebault
Vice President and
Assistant Secretary
Wallace Jamie
Secretary-Treasurer
Don R. DeLemos

James C. Calkins
R.W Medernach, DVM
Marion Holt
James Vandever
Frank A. Wittwer, PhD
Robert E. Ziegler, PhD

COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN

Education
Frank W. Wittwer, PhD
Public Relations
Barbara Royer
Membership & Nominating
James C. Calkins

 

 

 

From preceding page

The meetings were under the
auspices of the University of Min-
nesota and the University of
California.

Attendees heard scores of pre-
senters and attended many poster
sessions dealing with fresh aspects
of the phenomena of human-animal
relationships. Fromthe opening ses-
sion through two days of lively ex-
change, participants appeared to feel
a special kind of excitement and ex-
hibited dedicated interest in every
topic presented. Audience makeup
in both cities reflected the inter-
disciplinary character of the con-
ference. Presenters, sponsors and
endorsers were also from diverse
fields, but all had a common interest
in the bond.

Page 2

The Program at Minnesota

The program at Minnesota was
under the auspices of CENSHARE,
The Centerto Study Human-Animal
Relationships and Environments.
The Center is sponsored by the
University’s College of Veterinary
Medicine and its School of Public
Heanh.

Greeting over 500 registrants
were: Commissioner Jim Nichols,
Department of Agriculture, State of
Minnesota; Dr. Neal A. Vanselow,
Vice President for Health Services,
University of Minnesota; Dr. Richard
J. Sauer, Director, Agricultural Ex-
periment Station, University of Min-
nesota; Dr. Edith D. Leyasmeyer,
Acting Dean, School ofPublic Health,
University of Minnesota; Dr. Robert
Dunlop, Dean, College of Veterinary
Medicine, University of Minnesota;
Mr. Hugh H. Tebault, President,
Latham Foundation; Dr. Leo K. Bus-
tad, President, Delta Society; Dr.
William J. Winchester, California
Conference Chairman; Dr. Thomas
J. Hagerty, President, Minnesota
Veterinary Medical Association; Bet-
ty White Ludden, TV and film per-
sonality and President, Morris
Animal Foundation.

A‘éhx

 

Betty White could not be present,
but she greeted the conferees
through a film produced by The
Latham Foundation and wished them
a sucCessful meeting. Her words,
which bear reporting, were inspiring
to the audience. Betty White said:

“Hello, good friends, I know you
are friends to be gathered forthis im-
portant two days of conference—all
of you who are studying the inter-
disciplinary perspectives of the
human-animal bond. lwish I could be
there to sit and listen and learn, but
even as you’re gathered there I will be
in Denver atthe annual meeting ofthe
Morris Animal Foundation, and we’ll

be talking about related topics. Be-
lieve me, if itwere possible to be in two
places at once, I’d be there.

“I was very honored when Dr.
Diesch invited me to extend this ab-
sent greeting, and I’m deeply in-
debted to The Latham Foundation for
making it possible.

“It was exciting to learn that the
College of Medicine of the Universi-
ty of California and CENSHARE at
the University of Minnesota have
agreed to do research on the subject
of human/companion animal bond-
mg.

“I don’t think it comes as any sur-
prise that animals are and always
have been avery important part of my
life. Timothy is a good case in point,
and the burgeoning interest and
awareness of the human-animal
bond is wonderfully heartening. Of
course, since the beginnings of peo-
ple and animals, the relationship has
been an important one, but it’s only
been in very recent years that people
like you, scientists, veterinarians,
health professionals, humane and
animal control administrators and
many others with varied qualifica-
tions relevant to the bond have sat
downtogethertotryto begintodocu-
ment the significance of the human-
animal relationship.Allofuswhoare
deeply interested in the bond and
sensitive to it are expecting new find-
ings, fresh insights and conclusions
never before reached. The meetings
between professionals, as you all are,
have been so few—Dundee, Scot-
land; London, Philadelphia and now
Minneapolisandlrvine,California—
so we will be looking forward to what
you find and what you discuss.

“We’re onthe edgeofawhole new
landscape, and we’rejust beginning
to realize the importance of the
animal presence to all of us.

“I wish for you wisdom in your
deliberations, harmony in your rela-
tionships, joy in yourdiscoveries and
cogency in your conclusions.

“Have a wonderful conference,
and may the world have a better
understanding of the bond because
you met together.”

Topics Covered at Minneapolis

Plenary topics at Minnesota and the
presenters were: Historical perspectives of
human values for animals and vulnerable
people. Robert ten Bensel, M.D., M.P.H.,
Director, Program in Material and Child Health,
and Centerto Study Human-Animal Relation-

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ships and Environments, University of
Minnesota.

An overview of the human-animal bond:
past, present and future. William F.
McCulloch,D.V.M., M.P.H.,Chairman,Com-
mittee on the Human-Animal Bond, American
Veterinary Medical Association, Department
of Veterinary Public Health, College of
Veterinary Medicine, TexasA & M University.

Perspectives on aging and the role of com-
panion animals: an overview and future
needs. Lennie Marie Tolliver, M.A., Ph.D.,
Commissioner on Aging, US. Department of
Health and Human Services, Administration
on Aging, Washington, DC.

Farm animal management, behavior and
well-being: an overview. Ronald Kilgour,
M.A. (hon.), D.Phil., RuakuraAnimal Research
Station, Hamilton, New Zealand.

Followingthe general session on the morn-
ing of day one, the audience separated to at-
tend eleven separate sessions. Sessions I
through Vl dealtwith companion animals and
people, Vll th rough IX, research, behavior and
well-being of farm animals. Session X con-
sisted of posters and educational exhibits and
Session XI, film and videotape presentations.

Co-chairpersons of Session I were Joseph
S. Quigley, D.V.M., Deputy Director, Centerto
Study Human-Animal Relationships and En-
vironments, School of Public Health, Univer-
sity ofMinnesota and Thomas Wolfle, D.V.M.,
Ph.D., President, American Society of
Veterinary Ethology, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

Responsible for chairing Session ”A were
John Kelly, MD, MPH, Department of Fami-
ly Practice and Community Health, Depart-
ment of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, and
Centerto Study Human-Animal Relationships
and Environments, University of Minnesota;
and Judith Garrard, Ph.D., Acting Director,
Program in Health Psychology, and Centerto

- Study Human-Animal Relationships and En-
vironments, School of Public Health, Univer-
sity of Minnesota.

lnchargeofllB, Leo Bustad, D.V.M., Ph.D.,
President, The Delta Society, and Dean, Col-
lege of Veterinary Medicine, Washington State
University; and Keith M. Sehnert, M.D., Presi-
dent, Wellness Connection, lnc., Minneapolis,
and Medical Consultant, Health and Wellness
Center, Bloomington, and former Special Con-
sultant, Vinland National Center of

- Minneapolis.

Co-chairing the sessions on pet facilitated
therapy (IIIA): Ruth Stryker-Gordon, M.S.,
Associate Director, Long Term Care Ad-
ministration, School of Public Health, Center
to Study Human-Animal Relationships and En-
Vironments, University of Minnesota; and
Michael Gibson, Administrator, Shady Lane
Nursmg Home,Wadena, MN, and Chairman,
Minnesota Association of Homes for the Ag-
Ing, and Chairman, Minnesota State Board of
Examiners for Nursing Home Administrators.

People-animal interaction Chairpersons,
IVA: ShirleyJohnston, D.V.M., Ph.D., Depart-
ment of Small Animal Clinical Sciences, and
Centerto Study Human-Animal Relationships
and Environments, College of Veterinary
Medicme, University of Minnesota; and Robert
M. Hardy, D.V.M., M.S., Department omeall
Animal Clinical Sciences, and Center to Study

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

    

r“, /A

Stauerff Robert H. Dunlop

 

Dean '

Human-Animal Relationships and En-
vironments, College of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Minnesota.

Session V was introduced by: Ruth Stryker-
Gordon and Dale Thompson, B.A., President,
Minnesota Association of Health Care
Facilities, and Administrator, Cambridge Nur-
sing Care Center.

The sessions on research on behavior and
temperament (VI): Carl Osborne, D.V.M.,
Ph.D., Chairman, Department of Small Animal
Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary
Medicine, and Centerto Study Human-Animal
Relationships and Environments, University
of Minnesota; and Michael McMenomy,
D.V.M., President, Midwest Small Animal
Hospital Association, Minneapolis.

Research on management, behavior and
well-being of swine (VII): Chaired by Diane
Halverson, Research Associate, Animal
Welfare Institute, Washington, DC; and
William Hall, B.V.Sc., M.S., Research
Associate,CollegeofVeterinaryMedicineand
Centerto Study Human-Animal Relationships
and Environments, University of Minnesota;
of poultry (Vll) by Neal Black, President,
Livestock Conservation Institute, St. Paul, MN;
and Richard Phillips, Ph.D., Professor, Dept.
of Animal Science, University of Minnesota; of
cattle and sheep (lX) by Richard Goodrich,
Ph.D., Professor, Dept. of Animal Science,
University of Minnesota; and John Anderson,
D.V.M., M.S., Professor, College ofVeterinary
Medicine, University of Minnesota.

Film and videotape presentations were
made by: Judith Gaston, M.S., Director, Audio
Visual Library Services, University of Min-
nesota; and Michael M. Pullen, D.V.M., M.S.,
M.P.V.M., Continuing Education, and CEN-
SHARE, College of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Minnesota.

Films shown were: ThreelsCompany. . .Not
A Crowd, Phenomenonofthe Human/Compan-
ion Animal Bond *,Puppy Temperament E valua-
tion and Obedience Training, Pet Pals, Com-
panions, Down on the Factory Farm, Animal
Welfare. . . The Farmer’s Story, Alternative
Systems of Pig Housing, Canine Companions
for Independence", Animals Are Crying,
Manimal, Ability Not Disabilityt Just A Little
Hope*, Pet Facilitated Therapy. *
* Produced by The Latham Foundation

Committee Constituencies
at Minnesota

Conference Chairman _
Stanley L. Diesch, D.V.M., Director,
CENSHARE.

Conferences Coordinators
Minnesota-California Conferences—The
Latham Foundation, Hugh Tebault, PreSIdent;

University of Minnesota Conference—

    

Office of Special Programs, Agricultural Exten-
sion Service, Health Sciences-Continuing
Education, College of Veterinary Medicine,
Continuing Education.

James 0. Hanson, D.V.M., DirectorofCon-
tinuing Education and Veterinary Extension,
College of Veterinary Medicine, University of
Minnesota; Gerry Wagner, Ph.D., Office of
Special Programs, University of Minnesota.

Executive Conferences Committee
Stanley L. Diesch, D.V.M., and WilliamJ. Win-
chester, D.V.M., Co-chairmen; Robert K.
Anderson, D.V.M., CENSHARE, School of
Public Health, University of Minnesota; Robert
H. Dunlop, D.V.M., Dean, College of Veterinary
Medicine, University of Minnesota; Benjamin
L. Hart, D.V.M., School ofVeterinary Medicine,
University of California; Edward A. Rhode,
D.V.M., Dean, School of Veterinary Medicine,
University of California; Edith D. Leyasmeyer,
Ph.D., Acting Dean, School of Public Health,
University of Minnesota; Stanley van den
Noort, M.D., Dean, College of Medicine,
University of California; Ex Officio, Wallace
Jamie, M.B.A., Vice president, The Latham
Foundation.

Scientific Program Committee

Chairman, Robert K. Anderson, D.V.M., CEN-
SHARE, Epidemiology and Veterinary Public
Health, University of Minnesota; Eric Ander-
son, Ph.D., CENSHARE, Health Psychology,
School ofPublic Health, Minneapolis, Univer-
sityofMinnesota; William Hall, B.V.Sc., CEN-
SHARE, Large Animal Clinical Sciences, Col-
lege of Veterinary Medicine, University of Min-
nesota; ShirleyJohnston, D.V.M, CENSHARE,
Small Animal Clinical Sciences, College of
Veterinary Medicine, U niversity of Minnesota;
Aaron H. Katcher, M.D., School of Dentistry,
University of Pennsylvania; John T. Kelly,
MD, Family Practice and Community Health,
School of Medicine, University of Minnesota;
Michael McCulloch, M.D., School of Veterinary
Medicine, Oregon State University; William
McCulloch, D.V.M., College of Veterinary
Medicine, Texas A & M University; Joseph
Quigley, D.V.M., CENSHARE, Veterinary
Public Health, School of Public Health, Univer-
sity of Minnesota; Ruth Stryker-Gordon, M.S.,
CENSHARE, LongTerm Care Administration,
School of Public Health, University of
Minnesota.

The Program at California

At the Sheraton Newport Hotel
seven distinguished “welcomers”
kicked off an equally lively series of
sessions. They were: William J. Win-
chester, D.V.M., Conferences Co-
chairman; Dean Stanley van den
Noort, College of Medicine, UC lr-
vine; Mr. Hugh Tebault, President,
Latham Foundation; Dr. Stanley
Diesch, Conferences Co-chairman,
U of Minnesota; Dr. Joe R. Held,
Assistant Surgeon-General, Chief
Veterinary Officer, United States
Public Health Service; Betty White,
noted film and TV personality, Presi-

dent, Morris Animal Foundation.
Continued on next page

Page 3

 

 

 




 

From preceding page

(Betty White, still involved with her
own Foundation’s annual meeting in
Denver, again presented a special
messagethrough Latham-produced
film.)

Topics Covered at Irvine

“The Human-Animal Bond: An Overview,”
Leo K. Bustad, M.S., D.V.M., Ph.D.,
Washington State University; “The Most In-
tense Man-Animal Bond,” Calvin W. Schwabe,
D.V.M., M.P.H., ScD, University ofCaIifornia,
Davis; “Historical Perspectives on Human
Values for Animals and Vulnerable People,”

RobertW. ten Bensel, M.D., M.P.H., Univer-
sity of Minnesota; “Disruptive Effects of the
Human-Animal Bond on Family Relationships
and Psychological Growth,” Leonard J.
Simon, Ph.D., Clinical Psychologist, New York
City; “Children/Family and the Human-Animal
Bond,” Moderator: Thos. L. Nelson, M.D.,
University of California, Irvine; “Abused
Children and Their Pet Animals,” M. Robin,
M.S.W., R. ten Bensel, M.D., M.P.H., J.
Quigley,D.V.M.,R.Anderson,D.V.M.,M.P.H.;
“Animal Bond Differences Among Children
with Attention Deficit Disorders Versus Con-
trols,” L. Gislason, M.D., E.S. Martinez, B.A.,
J. Swanson, Ph.D.

“Pupil Behavior and Animal Affection,”
D.M. Kaye, MA; “The New and Gentle
Science: ACurriculum for School Children on
Animal Behavior and the Human-Companion
Animal Bond,” B: Jones, Ph.D., A.H. Katcher,
M.D., A. Beck, Sc.D.; “An Analysis of the Costs
and Benefits of Pet Ownership as Seen by Dog
Owners,” D.B. Case, MA; “A Study of the
Human/Companion Animal Bond in Military
Communities in the United States,” Thomas
E. Catanzaro, D.V.M., Lt. Col.; “Dolphins Plus
Autism: Using Dolphins as Facilitators to Elicit
Communicative Responses from the Autistic
Person,” Betsy A. Smith, Ph.D.; “Pet
Facilitated Therapy and Long Term Care Pro-
grams,” Moderator: Linda Hines, M .A., Wash-
ington State University; “Contemplation ofan
Aquarium as a Means of Reducing Anxiety in
Surgical Patients,” A.H. Katcher, M.D., H.
Segal, D.M.D., A.M. Beck, Sc.D.; “Depression
in the Nursing Home: A Pilot Study Using Pet
Facilitated Psychotherapy,” C.M. Brickel,
M.A.

     

\\ \

a. \ -:, , j'j.:l~'-'

Latham’s President, Hugh H. Tebault (left),
receives award from California Conference Chair-
man, Dr. William Winchester.

“The Effects of Pets on the Health, Personal
Care and Sociability of Nursing Home
Residents,” Helen Hendy, Ph.D.; “Analysis of
Laws and Regulations of50 States Regarding
Pets in Long Term Care Facilities,” R.K. Ander—
son, D.V.M., M.P.H., J. Quigley, D.V.M.;

Page 4

   

   

“Human/AnimalBond:Made. . .Strained. . .
and Broken,” Moderator: Leslie Cooper,
D.V.M., University of California, Davis; “A
Comparative Study of Human-Human and
Human-Animal Relationships from a
Psychological Perspective,” Lisa Okoniewski,
M.S.; “Personality Characteristics of Horse,
Turtle/Tortoise, Snake and Bird Owners,” A.H.
Kidd, Ph.D., H.T. Kelley, M.A., R.M. Kidd,
M.A.; “Factors Influencing the Socialization
of Cats to People,” Eileen B. Karsh, Ph.D.;
“The Ties That Do Not Bind: A Study of the
Human-Animal Bonds which Fail,” Philip S.
Arkow, Shelby Dow; “Euthanasia—Animal
Death—Human Grief: Is the Veterinarian
Educationally Prepared to Cope?” Alice De
Groot, M.S., D.V.M.; “Death, Grief, Bereave-
ment, and Euthanasia,” James M. Harris,
B.S., D.V.M.

,4. -'-Z;'/' .

    

Dean Stanley van den Noort

Especially noteworthy is the fact
that at the U niversity ofCaIifornia two
special workshops convened.

One dealt with the perspectives on
the bond by members ofthe National
Association of Social Workers. Its
moderator was Barbara De Noon,
M.S.W, A.C.S.W

The other was a three hour work-
shoptitled, “Animal Care and Control
Group Workshop,” attended prin-
cipally by humane and animal control
administrators. It produced a fresh
report on humane perspectives on
the bond. The workshop was co-
chaired by Phil Arkow, secretary of
the National Animal Control Associa-
tion, and Dennis White, Director,
Animal Protection Division of the
American Humane Association. Mr.
Arkow reported to the closing plenary
session at Irvine as follows. (His
reportwillbeincludedinthejointpro-
ceedings of the Conferences.)

Report on the
Animal Care

and Control
Group Workshop

/, by PhiIArkow

“As initiators and implementers of many
successful pet-facilitated therapy programs,
and with an historical tradition to preventcruel-

ty to all living things and to protect public health
and safety, the animal protection community
has expressed some concerns about the
human/animal bond and was very pleased to
be able to conduct a working workshop and
present its perspective to the delegates to this
conference. All of the animal care and control
shelter personnel, veterinarians, animal health
technicians, animal rights activists and others
who participated in the workshop were quite
concerned about the tragic loss of animal life
which occurs as a result of the mass destruc-
tion of animals in our nation’s shelters, and
about the broken bonds and the bonds which
never develop which send millions of pets to
our humane societies, SPCA’s and animal
control shelters each year. We attempted,
therefore, to identify areas of mutual concern,
totryto establish some goals and recommen-
dations for the future, and to define some
workable strategies for successful, coopera-
tive ventures and individual PFT programs.

“We asked a number of provocative ques-
tions. First, what doesthe human/animal bond
mean to us in the animal protection field? We
concluded that recent public awareness and
acceptance of the bond is an example of a
changing social attitude, similar, perhaps to
other widespread social concerns, and that
awareness ofthe bond might change public at-
titudes and raise society’s level of compassion.
As American society continues its transition
from an agrarian to an urban society, and as
we get farther away from nature, we find the
bond to be a positive bright spot, and a tool,
whereby we can access new audiences and
educate greater numbers ofthe general public.
We found the bond to be an opportunity for
many different professional groups to agree on
the wider scope of animal and human welfare,
and to be the real reason for the existence of
animal protection agencies. Animals used in
PFT programs were called the ambassadors
to the wider world of the animal kingdom, a
world many of us may 'never see, and were
described as catalysts to kindness. It was em-
phasized that the bond holds a special and per-
sonal involvement for those of us working in
animal shelters.

“Secondly, we asked what gaps exist be-
tween the academic and service communities,
and what can be done to bridge those gaps. We
agreed that these two sides need to work
together, that we have different perspectives
on the bond, and that all of us—both in the
universities and in the shelters—desperately
need more data. It was noted that the scientific
community is often unfamiliarwith what occurs
daily in our nation’s shelters, and often does
not take the animal protection community
seriously because we lack proper credentials.
It was generally recognized that the humane
groups have neither the time nor the funding
to do the necessary clinical research on the
bond, and thatthe scientific community has a
unique opportunity to conduct the research
which generates positive publicity which, in
turn, can lead to more widespread public
cherishing ofanimals and more adoptionsfrom
shelters. Though we noted that restrictive
animal control ordinances may hinder the
researchers’ abilities to gather statistical data,
both the academic and shelter communities
need to work together in a team approach.

“We asked what role the animal protection
community plays in the bond, and decided that
our purpose is to foster individual responsible

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

pet ownership which enhances the bond and
which allows the psychological symbiosis of
the bond to work. We noted that we are con-
fronted with a challenge to develop more
positive human-animal relationships in order
that the mass destruction of animals in our
shelters decrease. It was felt that the public
would be less likely to ignore the overpopula-
tion problem if they are made aware of it.

“We asked how the animals benefit from
bond programs, what precautions must be
taken to ensure their health and safety, and
asked the philosophical question of whether
participating animals are “exploited, ” as some
have charged. The workshop concluded that
there will always be some aspect of PFT
animals being “used, ” but thatwe can balance
this with proper respect forthe animal and its
needs. We agreed that we need guidelines to
insure the safety and protection ofthe animals
in orderthatthey might live their lives as nature
intended. We agreed that we should all exer-
cise judgment and selectivity in choosing
animalsfor participation in PFT programs, and
to select animals which have the proper
temperament. We observed that there is a
potential for stress for the animals no matter
how well they are received in a program, and
that there are some philosophical dilemmas
confronting the animal protection field.

“We recognized some general concerns.
We agreed that for many people, and animals,
the bond fails, and we in the shelters are frus-
trated: we all need more research as to why the
bonds are broken or never mature. We agreed
that animals in contemporary American soci—
ety are not a luxury, but they are necessary,
with the proviso that they are likewise a respon-
sibility, not a right. We expressed fears that,
sooner or later, there may be aserious incident
affecting human or animal health at an un-
disciplined PFT program, and that adequate
supervision and controls are needed to prevent
a backfire which could affect all our programs.
We agreed to promote the need for additional
funding for the necessary research affecting
both the scientific and field applications of PFT.

“It was agreed that the bond is a common
theme linking our two perspectives which can
give us all more public credibility: awayto help
us reach more non—pet-owners to show them
that we’re not just a bunch of crazy animal
lovers. We felt that animal control and animal
welfare agencies have a major role in helping,
supporting and promoting PFT programs, and
since we in the shelters are not equipped to do
many ofthese programs full-time we can pro-
vide the assistance so they may be undertaken
by the people running the institutions, agen-
cies and facilities caring for human recipients
of bond programs. The animal protection com-
munity can be a valuable resource for ensur-
mQ Proper breed selection, for gathering
research data, for fostering group interactions
within acommunity, and fortraining prospec-
tive human recipients of bond programming.
It was also emphasized that animal protection
groups can provide the volunteer support
necessary to deliver the services to enable
elderly and other needy people to keep com-
panion animals in their homes, thereby keep-
Ing these people out of the nursing homes.

“We also recognizedthatveterinarians will
Play an increasing and new role in the bond,
focusing with increasing concern on the
human health aspects oftheir profession and
on public awareness of the bond. And it was

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

agreed that there will be more legislation to
facilitate the keeping of companion animals in
therapeutic situations.

“Finally, we attempted to list some
strategies whereby individual bonds can be
enhanced and by which the academic and
animal protection communities can com-
municate and cooperate. We suggested
educational efforts to counsel prospective pet
owners before they acquire an animal. We con-
sidered licensing pet owners rather than licen-
sing pets. We encouraged positive publicity
focusing on successful human-animal interac-
tions and on responsible pet ownership. We
agreed that both adult and school education
programs are necessary. We suggested sen-
ding university graduate students to our
shelters and door-to-door with license can-
vassers to gather the census data of animal
populations we all need. We recognized a need
for research to compare American pet owner-
ship attitudes and trends with other western
countries. We suggested applying the exper-
tise of academic economics and political
science experts to help cities and counties
understand their animal control and animal
welfare problems and to enact appropriate
legislation, since most legislation to date has
been achieved through emotional ratherthan
data-based approaches. We invited the
academic communitytovisitour shelters and
to see, first-hand, the frustrations we face daily,
and we encouraged animal protection com-
munities to seek out academic sources for
research. It was noted that the concept of the
bond is often not fully recognized, even within
the academic sphere, and that persistent, and
even back-door, efforts will be necessary. And
we encouraged the animal protection com-
munity to conduct further research into the
bond, to invest in young people to do a job.”

Committee Constituencies
at California

The Executive Conferences Committee
identified earlier in this article served the
University of California as well as the Univer-
sity of Minnesota.

Committees responsible for the California
Conference were: Conference Chairman:
William J. Winchester, D.V.M.,Assistant Dean,
College of Medicine, University ofCalifornia,
Irvine, School of Veterinary Medicine, Univer-
sity of California, Davis.

Co-chairmen: Benjamin L. Hart, D.V.M.,
Ph.D., Professor of Neurobiology & Behavior,
Department of Physiological Sciences, School
of Veterinary Medicine, University of Califor-
nia,‘ Davis; William J. Winchester, D.V.M.,
Assistant Dean, University of California; Ralph
Emerson, Associate Dean-Community Affairs,
College of Medicine, University ofCalifornia,

 

lrvine; Lee Gislason, MD, Associate Clinical
Professor, Department of Psychiatry, College
of Medicine, UCl Medical Center, University
of California, Irvine; Norman L. McBride,
D.V.M., Coordinator-Continuing Veterinary
Medical Education, College of Medicine,
University of California, Irvine; Beverly
Morgan, MD, Professor &Chair, Department
of Pediatrics, College ofMedicine, University
of California, Irvine; Charles C. Hunter, D.V.M.,
Veterinary Resources, School of Medicine,
Loma Linda University; Michael Muldavin, At-
torney/Epidemiologist, Office of the Dean, Col-
lege of Medicine, University of California, lr-
vine; Thomas L. Nelson, M.D., Associate
Dean-Academic Affairs, Professor of
Pediatrics, College of Medicine, University of
California, lrvine; James Swanson, Ph.D.,
Associate Professor-in-Residence, Depart-
ment of Psychiatry, College of Medicine,
University ofCalifornia, lrvine; Jerome Tobis,
MD, Professor & Director, Geriatric
Medicine/Gerontology Program, College of
Medicine, University of California, Davis;
Robert A. Whitney, Jr., D.V.M., Chief,
Veterinary Resources Branch, National ln-
stitutes of Health, Washington, DC; Robert
K. Anderson, D.V.M., ex officio, University of
Minnesota; Stanley L. Diesch, D.V.M., ex of-
ficio, U niversity of Minnesota; Wallace Jamie,
exofficio, The Latham Foundation; William F.
McCulloch, D.V.M., ex officio, The Delta
Society.

 

Benjamin L. Hart

Abstract Review Committee—Contrib-
uted Papers & Posters: Leslie Cooper,
D.V.M., Resident, Behavior Therapy,
Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital, Univer-
sity of California, Davis; Member, California
VMA Committee on the Human/Companion
Animal Bond; Benjamin L. Hart, D.V.M.,
University of California, Davis; Lynette A.
Geyer, Ph.D., Animal Behaviorist, School of
Veterinary Medicine, University ofCalifornia,
Davis.

Advisors on Scientific Aspects of Pro-
gram: The Delta Society, Leo Bustad, D.V.M .,
President.

Communications: Joel Don, Public Infor-
mation Representative, University ofCalifor-
nia, lrvine; RichardJernstedt—Kathy Rand, ex
officio, Pet Food Institute; Wallace Jamie, ex
officio, The Latham Foundation.

Finance: Carleen Brown, Ofc of Continuing
Veterinary Medical Education, College of
Medicine, University of California, Irvine;
Wallace Jamie, ex officio, The Latham
Foundaﬁon.

Continued on next page

Page 5

 

 

 




 

 

From preceding page

Conference Coordinators: Carleen Brown,
Ofc of Continuing Veterinary Medical Edu-
cation, College of Medicine, University of
California, Irvine; WallaceJamie, exofficio, The
Latham Foundation. '

Volunteer Services: Coordinator: Mrs.
Betty Winchester.

The Interdisciplinary Resource Committee
serving both meetings had this constituency:
Robert K. Anderson, D.V.M.
Eric Anderson, Ph.D.
Carleen Brown
Leo Bustad, D.V.M.

R.L. Collinson, D.V.M.
Stanley L. Diesch, D.V.M.
Ralph Emerson

Lee Gislason, M.D.

William Hall, B.V.Sc.
Benjamin L. Hart, D.V.M.
Alton Hopkins, D.V.M.
Charles Hunter, D.V.M.
Shirley Johnson, D.V.S.
Aaron H. Katcher, MD.
John T. Kelly, M.D.
Norman L. McBride, D.V.M.
Michael McCulloch, M.D.
William McCulloch, D.V.M.
Beverly Morgan, M.D.
Jacob Mosier, D.V.M.
Michael Muldavin

Thomas L. Nelson, M.D.
Joseph Quigley, D.V.M.
Ruth Stryker-Gordon, M.S.
James Swanson, Ph.D.
Robert ten Bensel, M.D.
Jerome Tobis, M.D.

William J. Winchester, D.V.M.
Robert A. Whitney, Jr., D.V.M.
Thomas L. Wolfle, D.\/. M.
Ex Officio:

William Grant, D.V.M.
Wallace Jamie, M.B.A.

        

William McCulloch

Ronald Kilgour

Organizations Providing Financial
Assistance to the Conferences:

Special thanks was expressed by both
universities to the following companies and
organizations which contributed substantial-
IytothefinancialsuccessoftheConferences.

The Latham Foundation

Kal Kan Foods, Inc.

Carnation Company-Friskies Pet Foods
Division

Gaines Dog Care Center

Western World Pet Supply Association

Allen Products Company, Inc. (ALPO)

Pet Food Institute

The Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation

Nabisco Brands, Inc.

Norden Laboratories

Page 6

The Pet Industry Joint Advisory Council

Minnesota Veterinary Medical Association

American Animal Hospital Association

PROVIMI, Inc.

Humane Information Services, Inc., Florida

Animal Welfare Institute

E.R. Squibb and Sons, Inc.

Beecham Laboratories

American Humane Association

Council for Livestock Protection

Minnesota Academy of Veterinary Practice

Metropolitan Animal Hospital Association——
Greater Minneapolis/St. Paul

National Cattlemen’s Association

Cosponsors of the Conferences

The following organizations, which en-
dorsed the conferences, reflected the inter-
disciplinary nature of the meetings. Their
assistance in bringing word of the meetingsto
the attention of their memberships was signifi-
cant and greatly appreciated by the Con-
ferences sponsors.

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship

American Animal Hospital Association

American Association of Homes forthe Aging

American Humane Association

American Veterinary Medical Association

Animal Health Foundation

Animal Medical Center, New York

Animal Welfare Institute

Australian Veterinary Medical Association,
Ltd.

California Academy of Veterinary Medicine

California Animal Health Technicians
Association

California Veterinary Medical Association

Council for Livestock Protection, Inc.

Delta Society

Hawaiian Veterinary Medical Association

Japanese Animal Hospital Association

The Latham Foundation

Livestock Conservation Institute

Metropolitan Animal Hospital Association——
Greater Minneapolis/St. Paul

Minnesota Academy of Veterinary Medical
Practice

Minnesota Veterinary Medical Association

National Animal Control Association

National Association of Social Workers

Society of Animal Welfare Administrators

Southern California Veterinary Medical
Association

United States Animal Health Association

World Society for the Protection of Animals
(London)

  

Dr. A.H. Kidd, Mills College psyc
a plenary presenter, reviewed aspects of the bond
phenomenon with “Alexander,” Sheraton
Newport Hotel’s resident gorilla.

Special Thanks To:
An “acknowledgment” in the California pro-
gram read, “The Carnation Company, Friskies

Pet Foods Division, in addition to providing
funding assistance to the Conferences, has
provided grants to each U niversity for support
of research/education projects concerned with
the general area of the human/companion
animal interaction.

“The Conferences Committees would like
to acknowledge the support and assistance of
The Latham Foundation, which as Confer-
ences Coordinator provided a variety of ser-
vices instrumental to the success of the
meetings. Special thanks and appreciation go
to Mr. Wallace Jamie of the Latham Founda-
tion who spent considerable time and effort in
fund raising and public relations for the Con-
ferences, and has enthusiastically served as
spokesman on behalf ofthe Conferences and
the phenomenon of the ‘human/companion
animal bond’.”

Mr. Hugh Tebault, PresidentofThe Latham
Foundation, received an award at both con-
ferences acknowledging the Foundation’s
support of the meetings.

Special appreciation was extended by the
respective chairmen from the platforms and in
programs and other printed material to Kal Kan
Foods for sponsoring well-attended wine and
cheese parties at each locus. These happy
social events provided opportunity for
registrants representing diversified interests
in the bond, and coming from remote parts of
the U .S. and abroad, to meet and discuss their
common interest.

Conveners and attendees alike also felt
deep appreciation forthe other organizations
which provided generous financial support for
the programs. Gaines Dog Care Center under-
wrote the cost of publishing the Abstracts, a
free copy of which was given to every
registrant. Nabisco paid the full cost of
publishing both programs. Unrestricted gifts
from 20 other organizations were also received
with special gratitude.

Conveners promised early publication ofthe
joint proceedings at both conferences. These
are already being edited by a distinguished
editorial board including representatives of
both universities. Attendees signed up in con—
siderable numbers to receive the publication
when available. A very substantial part of the
cost of publishing the proceedings has also
been underwritten by Kal Kan. The fall issue
of The Latham Lefterwill report when and on
what basis the joint proceedings will be
available.

The human/animal bond as a serious field
of study has begun to emerge principally dur-
ing the last five years. A modest meeting of
scientists in Dundee, Scotland, followed by a
well-attended conference in London preced-
ed the first meeting on the bond in this
hemisphere which was sponsored at the
University of Pennsylvania by a group of The
Latham Foundation.

The fact that attendance at the Minnesota/
California conferences was greater than that
of the three preceding meetings testifies to
sustained and increasing appreciation of the
significance ofthe human/animal bond. More-
over, the diversity of disciplines represented
atthe Min nesota/California conferences was
unprecedented. The bond is important to
everyone, and the factthat human health prac-
titioners and social scientists are beginning to
document its significance from their perspec-
tives is a meaningful step forward in H/AB
research. IF

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

 

 

 




 

 

 

Gaines Unveils
Programs to Aid
Humane Groups

The formation of two nationwide
programs designed to provide much-
needed support to animal shelters,
humane societies and animal rescue
leagues was announced at the an-
nual American Humane Association
convention recently by A.S. Willett,
Director of Gaines Professional
Services.

The Gaines Shelter Cash-ln Plan
provides monetary support for
shelter activities by inviting shelters
to collect and redeem starred price
markers from Gaines packages. An
entire community can participate,
with all dog owners saving the
markers and the shelter mailing them
to Gaines for cash. It 500 proofs are
sent, the shelter will receive
$25—five cents for each marker. If
1,000 are sent, Gaines will send
$100—100ents for each. lf5,000 are
sent, the shelter will receive
$750—15 cents for each. Redemp-
tions may be made as often as
possible.

The Gaines Adoption Reward Pro-
gram provides shelters with cer-
tificates entitling a person to a $5
reward for adopting a dog. To collect
the reward,the newdog owner mails
the certificate to Gaines along with a
specified number of proofs of pur-
chase from Gaines products.

Both programs are available at no
cost to all shelters, humane societies
and animal rescue leagues in the
United States. In addition, free
materials such as direct mail promo-
tion pieces, posters, press releases
and dog care booklets will be sup—
plied by Gaines.

Additional information and enroll-
ment applicationsfor both plans can
be obtained by writing to the Gaines
Dog Care Center, 250 North Street,
White Plains, NY 10625. a:

 

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

Dutch Stamps Feature
Children and Animals

 

Always attractively designed and
meaningful in theme, the annual
Child Welfare stamp set of the
Netherlands is welcomed by stamp
collectors throughout the world.

This year’s set consists of four
values with surcharge to benefit
children’s institutions in the
Netherlands. The designs feature
sketches of children playing with
animals. Thetheme is “how children
relate to their animal friends.”

The 50 cents plus 30 shows a child
with his head in a bird’s nest, as little
birds come in for a feeding. The 60-c
plus 20 illustrates a youngster with his
arm around his cat as they walk
together. The 65-c plus 20 depicts a
boy and his rabbit. The 70-c plus 30
pictures an older boy and his cocka-
too.

The designer, Peter Vos of Amster-
dam, says, “In the relationship be-
tween a child and an animal we can
see a growing-up process, one in
which emotional tendencies de-
crease while rational thinking
increases.” “

Retired New York

Police Horses

Available for Riding Programs
for the Handicapped

Sixty of these animals which, the
sponsor advises, “must be ridden in
a very gentle manner,” may be ob-
tained without cost through Mr.
Richard Brodie, Secretary, New York
Riding Program for the Handi-
capped, lnc., 336 East 71st Street
(#3-D), New York, NY 10021, (212)
535-3917.

Throughout the country, there is a
growing use of horse riding in recrea-
tion and rehabilitation programs for
the disabled.

Horse riding has proven to be

highly effective in the rehabilitation of
individuals with a wide range of
disabilities, including cerebral palsy,
muscular dystrophy, mental retarda-
tion, learning disabilities and blind-
ness. .
The New York Riding Program for
the Handicapped, a non-profit, tax-
exempt organization, is now develop-
ing therapeutic riding programs for
disabled adults and children livingin
the five boroughs of New York.

The New York Riding Program for
the Handicapped, Inc., will be work-
ing closely with major hospitals and
rehabilitation agencies in the devel-
opment of the organization’s pro-
grams. a

 

Human/Animal Interaction Study Center
Established at Purdue University

The establishment of a Center for
Applied Ethology and Human/Ani-
mal Interactions at Lafayette, ln-
diana, was announced recently.

According to Dr. Jack Stockton,
Dean of the School of Veterinary
Medicine, the center will have these
principal objectives:

To nurture interdisciplinary re-
search by serving as afocal point for
the exchange of and reaction to

ideas.

To promoteascholarly approachto
the objective study of animal beha-
vior and human/animal interactions,
but not assume an advocacy role for
any particular position;

To plan and implement seminars
and other information-relating activi-
ties;

To provide aconsulting servicefor
afeethroughtheVeterinary Medical
Teaching Hospital for clients faced
with animal behavior problems;

To promote the acquisition and
organization of library materials and
other resources.

“We would,” said Jack Albright,
Professor of Animal Sciences and
Veterinary Medicine, “for instance
like to take a closer look at animals
right from birth using video tape
equipment and seeing when so-
called ‘stereotypic’ behavior might
develop,” such as “tail-biting by
swine when they are in groups, peck-
ing and even cannibalism by
chickens in coops.” a:

Page 7

 

 

 




 

 

My Ears Have a Cold Nose

Wifeline, the magazine for Navy
families, originally, published this ar-
ticle in its winter, 1982 issue. The
Latham Letteris pleased to have per-
mission to reprint.

by J03 Lynn Jenkins

“My ears have a cold nose,” said
Elan Mecek. Elan is a Navy wife who
lives in Port Hueneme, Calif. She
laughed as she went on to explain
that the small active ball of fur in her
lap was Miss Squiggy, a Hearing Aid
Dog.

Elan, the wife of Master Chief Fire
Control Technician Tom Mecek who
is stationed aboard USS Norton
Sound (AVM 1 ) has had a hearing im-
pairmentsince birth. Even ifthe mot-
to “My ears have acold nose” is cute,
it is also quite true. For Elan and her
children, it can mean the difference
between life and death.

Miss Squiggy, a pug/mixed breed,
has been trained in much the same
manner as a Seeing Eye dog except
instead of seeing, Miss Squiggy
hears for Elan. The pup underwent
specialtraining for one year after be-
ing donated by the animal shelter.

All the dogs used in the hearing
dog program are either donated or
come from the shelter. The dogs are
tested for their hearing ability, will-
ingness to retrieve and for aggres-
sion. “They are not looking for dogs
that are too aggressive, they want
animals that are friendly and good
with children,” explained Elan.

The Training Program

The dogs are trained to respond to
six sounds.Two ofthe sounds are re-
quired learning, and the dog’s master
selects four sounds for the dog to
learn. The sound of a door knock and
a smoke alarm are required. Elan ex-
plainedthe requirement: “l thinkthe
smoke alarm is obvious, but the
reason for the door knock vs. a door
bell is in case of an emergency. lfafire
broke out in a hotel, people would run
from room to room knocking on the
doors to awaken all the residents, but
they don ’t usually waitto see if some-
one has heard their knock. Many deaf
people have burned to death be-
cause they didn’t hear the knock.

Page 8

Miss Squiggy would hear the knock
and wake me up.”

The other sounds that Miss Squig-
gy responds to are an alarm clock,
microwave oven timer, phone and the
kids calling “mommy.” “I chose
mommy over Elan because if my
children were in trouble they would
panic and call for mommy ratherthan
Elan,” said Elan.

How the Program Works

How does Miss Squiggy work?
Elan explains, “If my daughter,
Donielle, were to call me from her
bedroom, Miss Squiggy would find
where the sound was coming from,
then return to me and take me to her.”
The same applies to the phone,
microwave and door knock. “In the
case ofthe alarm clock, Miss Squiggy
jumps on the bed to awaken me.

“Miss Squiggy is one of the few
dogstrained thatwas able to pick up
eye contact. This means if she hears
a door knock, she will locate the
sound and come look at me to
establish eye contact; if she has my
attention, she will run to the door to
show me where the sound came
from. If I don’t see her attempt to
make eye contact, she will jump upon
my leg to get my attention,” said Elan.

Elan has been working with Miss
Squiggy for several months, and she

 

says “we still have some problems
that need ironing out. It takes about
one year for a dog and masterto learn
to work together well. Miss Squiggy
and l train every day.”

Elan was warned to be careful so
that her children wouldn’t become
jealous ofMiss Squiggyandthetime
Elan must spend with her. To avoid
this, Elan has her children help in
training Miss Squiggy. Although total
responsibility for Miss Squiggy has to
be Elan’s—from feeding to brushing
and training—she finds ways the kids
can help.

Miss Squiggy is approximatelytwo
years old and her training cost
$1,400. Elan had to pay $150 to cover
the cost of her room and board while
she was training with Miss Squiggy,
and she is looking for sponsors to
help pay the rest.

Weighing approximately 12
pounds, Miss Squiggy is one of the
smallest dogs ever placed, which
Elan explains can cause problems.
“When people hearl have a Hearing
Aid Dog, they expect a German
Shepard, like the Seeing Eye dogs.
But being a Navy wife, I don’t know
where I may end up. I need a smaller
dog.”

Are Hearing Dogs Welcome?

Being small is notthe only problem
Miss Squiggy and Elan have. “I am
stopped frequently and asked to take
my dog out of a store or restaurant.
People are just not familiarwith Hear-
ing Aid Dogs.” Miss Squiggy is re-
quired by law to wear a yellow
harness, and Elan possesses an ID
card which identifies both her and
Miss Squiggy. “But some people still
refuse to believe me,” said Elan. “I
hope that I can inform more people
about the program and that someday
Hearing Aid Dogs will be as accepted
as the Seeing Eye dog,” said Elan.

Elan went on to explain that Miss
Squiggy is allowed in Navy Ex-
changes and Commissary Stores.
The Commissary Store manager at
Port Hueneme has even offered to let
Elan shop before or after regular
commissary hours, if that would be
easier for her. Miss Squiggy has
never been to a Navy medical facili-
ty, but Navy policy does allow guide
animals in an outpatient clinic, as
long as the animal remains underthe
control of the handler.

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

 

 

 




 

 

 

Communication Is Critical

Another common problem for
Elan, she continued, is people not
' recognizing her handicap. Being
deaf or hearing impaired is an invisi-
ble handicap. Unlike a blind person,
whose visual aids identify them as
blind, adeaf person is often mistaken
as being rude or aloof. “Many times
I have received an eblow in the ribs
because I didn’t move when some-
one said excuse me. I can’t hear
them. With Miss Squiggy, people will
recognize me as deaf and can let me
know their requests in other ways.”

Elan was taught at the school
where she got Miss Squiggy that
communication is all that allows one
person to relate to another, and when
adeaf person cannotcommunicate,
he or she loses the right to become a

 

part of society. Elan explained, “I
wasn’t accepting the fact that I am a
hearing impaired person.”

Elan can hear some sounds with

the help of her hearing aid, although
withoutthe aid she is deaf. She says,
“Nowinstead oftryingto hide myim-
pairment, I am open about it so that
people will not think I’m stuck up or
rude. If I don’t answer or move out of
the way, I just couldn’t hear you. I
would rather be slightly startled by a
tap on the shoulderthan have some-
one walk away thinking l’m rude. I
decided it is better to be labeled, as
Miss Squiggylabels me as deaf,than
ignored.

“I would recommend adogto any-
one as long as the person is capable
of taking the responsibility to work
withthe dog every day. It is so terribly
hard to learn to rely on a dog, but I feel
I am a more well-rounded person.”

She added, most importantly, “It’s
nice to know I will know when my
children need me.” a:

 

          

RW‘W\ .

Writes the “International Journal For
the Study ofAnimal Problems, ” (April-
June, 1982):

Hemsworth et al. (1980) have
shown that the reproductive perfor-
mance of sowsis enhanced whenthe
animals are treated with “tender lov-
ing care,” as reflected bytheir lack of
fear toward strangers (observers).

Stockmen who spend little time
with the animals, so that they are not
well socialized to people, will have
sows that are easily disturbed and
even fearful of human proximity
which, as these researchers have
shown, adversely affects prod uctivi-
ty (16.5 live piglets per sow per year,
versus 21 on farms where there was
a good sow-farmer relationship).

In a second study with two groups
of pigs, stockmen either deliberate-
ly socialized growing pigs by stroking
and talking tothem or repulsed them
and handled them roughly. “Good”
and “bad’ ’ treatments were given for
2 minutes three times per week from
11 to 22 weeks of age. The “loved”
pigs grew 5 percent faster than the
“unloved” ones. (Abstracted from
LiVestock Prod Sci8:67-74.) 5.:

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

ASPCA’s Pet Assisted Therapy Program

In recent years, and, very notably,
in the last two years, pet facilitated
therapyprojects have been activated
in scores of cities across the conti-
nent. This is probably, in part, a con-
sequence of the phenomenal publici-
ty following the October, 1981, Inter-
national Conference on the Hu-
man/Companion Animal Bond spon-
sored by the University of Penn-
sylvania and the Delta Group of the
Latham Foundation. 80 numerous
are the new programs thatidentifying
and describing them presents a for-
midable challenge. According/y, PF T
activity is necessarily spotti/y chron-
icled.

The long—established, highly re-
garded American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in
New York sponsors one of the most
extensive and professionally ad-
ministered PFTprogram. Thatsocie—
ty’s publication recently reported on
its activity as follows.

Pet Assisted Therapy is a unique
program that brings joy and comfort
into the lives of people confined to
hospitals, nursing homes, and other
institutions. In this exciting project,
the only one of its kind in the New York
metropolitan area, ASPCA shelter
animals and a staff of dedicated
volunteers visit and mingle with
senior citizens, children, the handi-
capped, and other institutionalized
residents in their confined settings.

As dogs, cats, and other assorted
pets lick, purr, and scratch their way
into everyone’s heart, residents hold
and fondle the animals and receive
personal attention from both volun-
teers and animals. This program is
also one of mutual benefit, since the
animals receive the love and atten-
tion they crave.

In just a few short years, this
ASPCA program has already a-
chieved remarkable results in aiding
the institutionalized to enjoy happier,
healthier, more active lives. Ad-
ministrators and activities directors
have reported that the animals are
“the best tonic in the world for our
residents.” In addition, studies con-
ducted throughout the United States
are increasingly demonstrating that
animals can play a significant ther-
apeutic role in the treatment ofthe a-
ged, physically disabled, and emo-
tionally disturbed. Researcher after
researcher has been forced to con—
clude that animals, with their affec-
tionate spontaneity and unquestion-
ing nature, simply bring out the best
in many lonely and isolated people,
establishing a rapport with even the
most withdrawn individuals.

ASPCA’s Pet Assisted Therapy
Program is projected to expand so
that it will include more nursing
homes, hospital wards, senior
citizens centers, and other institu-
tions. arr

Page 9

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

. :1» Q
y"

:' ~11-

2?.
5'}

 

kelecvant Reading

Animals, Nature and Albert
Schweitzer

Published in 1982 by:

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship
866 United Nations Plaza
New York, NY 10017

The Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

The Albert Schweitzer Center
Hurlburt Road
Great Barrington, MA 01230

The Humane Society of the United
States

2100 L Street, MW

Washington, DC 20037

Available for $3.50, postpaid,
through any ofthe above publishers.

This 82 page overview of six peri-
ods in the life of “le grand docteur”
merits broad circulation and reader-
ship. Editor and commentator, Ann
Cottrell Free, after reviewing fifteen
of Schweitzer’s own books and an-
thologies, seven books about him,
the two Schweitzer periodicals in the
US. and three guides to Albert
Schweitzer material has produced a
remarkable, sympathetic document
which in its briefspan presents a real
sense and flavor of the world-ac-
knowledged humanitarian and envi-
ronmentalist.

In her preface, Ann Free writes,
“This small volume, created for all
ages, shows, primarily through Dr.
Schweitzer’s own words, how his
philosophy developed as his life un-
folded. The book has but one goal,
hopefully, to help keep alive the
Albert Schweitzer spirit.” Indeed, the
book is comprised most importantly
of thoughtfully selected fragments
from Schweitzer’s own writings. Its
tone and focus hold interest and ap-

 

Page 10

/
IQ,

peal and, most important, instruction
for readers of every age.

The book’s six chapters and the
selections and commentary compris-
ing each give a good beginning sense
of Schweitzer’s development, sen-
sitivity, travail, perception, philos-
ophy, greatness. Their titles: Young
Schweitzer’s Questions, Africa,
Reverence for Life, Down to Cases,
Animals and Plants Around Him, and
The World Listens.

Schweitzerhimselfwaseminently
quotable. This book overflows with
succinctly phrased pieces ofwisdom.
Chapter5 which highlights Schweit-
zer’s appreciation of companion ani-
mals and his evaluation ofthe mean-
ing and strength of the companion

   

    

animal bond, is an especially happy

segment particularly for those sen-
sitive to the bond’s significance.

“Life without animals around
him,” writes Editor Free, “was for Dr.
Schweitzer scarcely a life worth liv-
ing. He recorded their comings, go-
ings and life events in his diary—
scrapbooks along with those of hu-
man friends.”

Schweitzer had dogs and cats from
the first, but his African experience of-
fered him also more exotic animal
companions—monkeys, chimpan-
zees, antelope and pelicans. Three
orphaned fledgling pelicans brought
in by the hunter who killed their
mother were named Tristan,
Lohengrin and Parcifal. As soon as
they were trained to live as pelicans,
twojoined the passing pelicans and
flew away, but not Parcifal. He decid-
ed to become Dr. Schweitzer’s night
watchman permitting no one to pass.
M. le Pelican became such a pres-
ence at the hospital that Dr. Schweit-
zer wrote a small book, “A Pelican
Talks About His Life.”

 

Ann Cottrell Free and “Angel”
Photo Dekun, Inc.

Ann Cottrell Free writing us at
Latham said, “I want to see as many
people, especially students of all
ages, become acquainted with
Schweitzer. Latham has a long
reach.”

We agree thatthis document, pro-
duced by caring people and available
at cost, is very appropriate for that
target audience. It is already, through
its foursponsors, in good circulation.
We hope this brief reviewwill effect its
even broader distribution. We’d like
to see it become a tool for humane in-
struction in schools. We’d like to see
it in many more libraries.

Medical & Genetic Aspects of Pure-
bred Dogs

Contributors: more than 200

breeders and veterinarians; edited by
Joan R. Stainer and Ross D. Clark,
DVM. »
Hardbound, 583 pages, 50 full-
color photographs, approximately
300 b/w photographs, 50-page refer-
ence chart on hereditary and con-
genital diseases.

Prepublication price: $45. Veteri-
nary Medicine Publishing Company,
690 S. 4th Street, Edwardsville, Kan-
sas 66111.

Medical & Genetic Aspects of
Purebred Dogs is the first com-
prehensive volume written specifical-
ly for breeders and veterinarians by
breeders and veterinarians. The
book explores the medical problems
inherent in each of approximately 130
AKC-recognized breeds. ' It also
covers breeding and whelping, den-
tition, temperament, and old age.

Reprinting of photographs bythe late
Erica Anderson accompanying this
review is with permission of Ann Cot-
trell Free and the Albert Schweitzer
Center. 39

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

 

ﬂ.» ,_A’_-,_._ﬁ.____—’——

 

 

 




 

 

 

An Idyllic New Jersey Humane Facility
St. Hubert’s Giralda Animal \Welfare and Education Center

Loren Spiotta-DiMare

The primary objective of most
animal shelters is to rescue neglect-
ed, mistreated or abandoned ani-
mals, provide immediate health care
and find original or new adoptive
owners. Unlike many shelters, St.
Hubert’s Giralda, located in Madison,
New Jersey, does this and much
more.

Situated on 16 parklike acres, once
belonging to the Geraldine Rocke-
feller Dodge estate, St. Hubert’s
handles over2,000 small animals an-
nually.Adedicated staff respondsto
15,000 calls regarding lost, injured or
mistreated animals as well as in-
quiries about pet care and related
problems.

Injured or unhealthy animals re-
ceive immediate medical care. The
lost await return to their owners, and
the homeless are placed for adop-
tion. Since animals sitting for days on
end in cages without love and atten-
tion become bored and listless, mak-
ing them less appealing to prospec-
tive owners, the charges at St.
Hubert’s are each personally evalu-
ated and given a great deal of in-
dividual attention, to keep their spirits
up and make them “more adop-
table.” Because of this staff interac—
tion and well-kept, sanitary condi-
tions, St. Hubert’s boasts an unusual-
ly high placement rate. In fact, in
recognition of its fine achievements
in animal welfare, St. Hubert’s
became the first and only animal
shelter in New Jersey to be ac-
credited by The Humane Society of
the United States.

Aside from their animal control ser-
vices, the shelter also has an educa-
tion program held in conjunction with
local schools. The goal of the pro-
gram is to acquaint children with the
needs and habits ofdomestic as well
as wild animals, to reinforce the
necessity of pet owner responsibility
and most important to help develop
an understanding and respect for all
living creatures. Humane educators
feel it is easier to instill these values
at an early age rather than to try and
change adult attitudes.

St. Hubert’s has a wide variety of
reference materials, prepared lesson

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

plans and suggested classroom ac-
tivities available. Humane educators
visit local elementary schools to give
presentations or teachers can ar-
range afield trip to the shelter which
is equipped with a new 100 seat
auditorium. To enhance presenta-
tions, three shelter mascots, Ding-A-
Ling (Ling), a Pekingese; Sara, a
Laborador Retriever mix and Ster-
ling, a silver gray tiger cat, accom-
pany the humane educators to in-
teract with the children and give
demonstrations. Video tapes, films
and games are also used to stim ulate
interest.

St. Hubert’s also publishes a
humane education newsletter,
REACHING BY TEACHING, which is
sent to teachers each semester
describing new programs and ideas
for animal-related classroom ac-
tivities. Teacher workshops and a
variety of curriculum integrated
humane education materials are also
made available through the shelter.

Because children seem to be gen-
uinely interested in animals the
achievements of the program are
twofold. Students learn about animal
needs and human responsibility to
those needs, and teachers can take
advantage of their interest to moti-
vate learning in traditional subjects.
For example, in relation to science
and social studies, children can learn
about the origins of dogs and cats as
pets.

    

Humane Educator Donna Schmidt introduces one
of St. Hubert’s canine mascots, DING-A-LING, to
a student at The Westlake School at Children’s
Specialized Hospital in Mountainside, New
Jersey.

In the past year, St. Hubert’s has
added to its programs by becoming
involved in pettherapy. Becausethe
mascots were such a hit with stu-
dents, staff members feltthey should
also be enjoyed by other groups.

The Recreation Director of a local
nursing home, Pine Acres, was con-
tacted about trying a pet therapy pro-
gram. She was receptive to the idea
and soon afterward Ding-A—Ling and
Sterling made their first visit. Nora
Bailey, Director of Education at St.
Hubert’s, took the two mascots to the
day rooms and slowly made her way
through the entire home. The furry
guests were well-received. Though
Nora had heard stories ofthe benefits
of pet therapy, she was amazed to
seethe reaction ofthe residents. Peo-
ple who usually had little or nothingto
say, talked with her about Ling and
Sterling or recounted tales of pets
they had once owned. Even more
heartwarming, residents began inter-
acting with each other in a way they
never had before.

Becausethe initial visit was such a
success, Nora and the mascots re-
turn to Pine Acres every six weeks or
so, and the program has expanded to
include other nursing homes, chil-
dren’s hospitals and a residence for
handicapped adults. Sara often ac-
companies Ling and Sterling on
these trips, giving obedience demon-
strations to wide-eyed, receptive au-
diences. Because she is a big but af-
fectionate dog she helps alleviate the
fear many have of larger dogs. Ling
and Sterling are soft, cuddly, lap-size
creatures who give love and comfort
tothose in need of it. Nora particular-
ly enjoys taking the mascots to
children’s hospitals because the pa-
tients are always happy to see the
animals and many make a special
effort—despite their handicaps—to
interact with them.

Recently, Ling, Sara and Sterling
paid a visitto the Morris CountyAdult
Day Care Center, a facility where
adults who are active but unable to
stay alone spend the day while those
with whom they live are at work. The
animals were such a success, that
the residents now want a live-in
therapy dog!

St. Hubert’s, with its many services
and educational programs, is doing
much to help the community as well
as to strive toward its ultimate goal—
to promote a reverence for all life. rs

 

.650

8. mm

 

Page 11

 

 

 




 

 

 

Delinquents Can Find Challenge,
Continuity in Companionship with a Dog

80/ Roy Rosenthal, MD, Ph.D.
Professor of Preventive Medicine

Founder and Former Director,
ITR Biomedical Research,
University of Illinois

The rate of delinquency in the
schools is increasing greatly not-
withstanding the concentrated ef-
forts being made bythe federal, state
and city governmentagenciesto ad-
dress the delinquency problem. My
thesis is that in delinquents the body
is not in a receptive mood to respond
to what seemsto be logical and sound
procedures.

The program for delinquents that is
recommended is first a Wilderness
Adventure Program which has been
shown repeatedlyto snap them out of
their defeating pattern. Since such
activities are only short-lasting, they
must be followed up throughout the
year by a program of Challenge Ex-
ercise. Equally important, the delin-
quent needs continuity and compan-
ionshipto help bolsterhis ego.Adog
is a companion and one with whom
he may carry out daily challenge ex-
ercises and adventures.

The use of adventure activities as
atherapeutic vehicle stands in sharp
contrast to the vicarious nature of
traditional counseling in clinical set-
tings. Most traditional therapies are
primarily introspective and analyti-
cal. These “talking therapies” pre-
suppose a verbal ability that is often
absent in the offender population.
Wilderness programs assume that
experience is more therapeutic than
analysis. Whereas most psycholo-
gists use counseling to change at-
titudes in order to modify behavior,
Wilderness Adventure therapy
assumes that attitudinal change can
best follow behavioral change.

Further evidence that one may
substitute Challenge Exercise for
acts ofviolence was demonstrated in
the following two studies conducted
by the author. Mental and physical
reactions to Challenge Exercise (CE)
sports in over 700 individuals were
compared to similar reactions in
some 600 university students in-
volved in demonstrations and oft-

Page 12

 

Sol Roy Rosenthal

times rioting. It was found that the
rates of well-being and euphoria
found in those engaged in CE sports
were similar to those found in
students who had participated in
violent demonstrations. The dif-
ferences were not statistically signifi-
cant. Demonstrators rarely par-
ticipated in CE sports. Can one
postulate that one might have
substituted CE for acts of violence?

In another publication aCE student
program is presented. CE is pro-
posed before, during and after
school. The suggested activities are:
Before school, ten to fifteen minutes
is all that is required. Jogging, bicy-
cling, yoga, karate, aikido, tram-
poline, pogo stick, stilts, skating,
skateboards, etc. could be con-
sidered. During school, a series of
obstacle courses could be con-
structed atvarious risk levels depen-
ding upon the age and proficiency of
the child. The time to complete a
course, the accuracy of execution
and the attendance in the events dur-
ing the period would be graded and
corresponding points given. Other
considerations could be gymnastics,
karate, yoga, aikido, pogo sticks, etc.
After school, in addition to school
team sports such as soccer, football,
baseball, volleyball, basketball, etc.,
individual sports should be en-
couraged such as horseback riding,
sailing, water and snow skiing, jog-
ging, motorcycling, trampoline, pogo
sticks,stilts,surfing,swimming,etc.
Individual sports have the added ad-
vantage of being able to be contin ued
throughout one’s life. Parent involve-
ment in these activities is urged. Un-
fortunately the great majority of delin-

quents come from broken homes.
Often when the child comes home,
there is no one to greet and console
him—parents are working or have
other personal problems or interests.
It is understandablethatsuch achild
seeks companionship. lfachild could
come hometo adog asacompanion
with whom he could run, play, ride his
bicycle, and so forth, the child will feel
that he belongs and has agood friend
that he can call upon at any time and
even talk to.

It is hypothesized that during
evolution challenge-taking was adai-
ly occurrence. Ourgenes have been
coded, so to speak, to receive the end
products of such challenges, and
thus most of us are suffering from a
deficiency, hormonal or otherwise—
for example, increases in endorphins
and en kephalins have been reported
after acute expenditure of energy.
This deficiency makes one poorly
receptive to what appears to be a ra-
tional approach in addressing delin-
quency.

The drive that led our ancestors to
take on challenges was initiated by in-
bred aggression. Konrad Lorenz,
who won the Nobel Prize in medicine
for his studies on aggression, states
that“. . . if stimuli normally releasing
such behaviorfail to appearfor an ap-
preciable period, the organism is
thrown into a state of general unrest
and begins to search actively forthe
missing stimulus.” This search for
the missing stimulus may lead oneto
embrace adogmaofdelinquency, in-
cluding gangs, drugs and crime. 3?

 

 

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

 




 

SCAW Conference Proceedings

- Published
SCAW/’5 Year in Review

The Latham Letter reported the
conference of the Scientists Center
for Animal Welfare in its winter
1981-1982 issue. With publication of
Scientific Perspectives on Animal
Welfare, edited by W. Jean Dodds and
Barbara Orlans, more details of that
significant meeting relevant to read-
ers concerned with the human-ani-
mal bond become available.

The Scientists Center for Animal
Welfare is an unique organization
dedicated to the principle that hu-
maneconcernforanimalsshould be
incorporated into the conduct of
science. Established in 1978 its
members are scientistswho studyor
are concerned about our respon-
sibilities to laboratory animals,
domesticated farm animals and wild-
life. SCAWis a registered, non-profit
organization based in Washington,
DC.

Recognizing that many practical,
economic and ethical issues arise
from our treatment of animals, the
Center promotes animal welfare
through various activities. It en—
cou rages discussion and advocates
public accountability, public policy
and establishment of individual sci-
entists’ responsibilities regarding
proper standards of animal care and
use.

SCAW acts to foster humane
stewardship ofanimals byeducating
the public aboutanimalwelfare, pro-
motes intelligent and humane public
policies governing the use of animals
in education and biomedical experi-
mentation, agricultural animals and
wildlife management and conserva-
tion; encourages universities and
professional schools to offer courses
on ethical aspects of our interrelation-
ship with animals and on technical
skills involved in handling animals;
advances research on practical ani-
mal care issues such as good hus-
bandry in transportation methods;
and corrects public misinformation
on animal welfare issues with scien-
tific facts ,and objective policies.

The conference on which the pro-
ceedings have recently been pub—
lished was held in Washington on
November 11, 1981. The meeting

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

 

Dr. F. Barbara Orlans
Photo courtesy
American Humane Education Association

represented the beginnings of a coor-
dinated national effort by scientists to
take the initiative for responsible use
of animals in research. Ninety scien-
tists participated in the conference.
They represented a variety of scien-
tific backgrounds from research in-
stitutions, universities, industrial
laboratories and professional scien-
tific associations. There were 44
veterinarians, 33 research scientists
with Ph.D. degrees, twelve physi-
cians and one dentist. Attendees
came from throughout the United
States and from Sweden, Australia,
England and Canada.

A major objective of Scientists
Center was achieved through the
conference. The meeting helped
sensitize scientists to the issues in-
volved in the humane treatment of
animals and emphasized the Cen-
ter’s conviction that all matters of
public concern should be freely dis-
cussed and that the scientists them-
selves should take the initiative in
establishing and maintaining a high
credibility and accountability in mat-
ters of public conscience.

The introduction to the proceed-
ings makes the following overview
comments.

“Public concern about the
humane use of animals in bio-
medical experimentation has
been increaSing steadily over re-
cent decades while animals have
continued to play an indispen-
sable role in scientific research.
The papers comprising this book
communicate the first attempts by

scientists to show that the ad-
vancement of science and hu-
mane ethics are consonant and
complementary.

"Accountabilityofscientistsfor
the proper use of animals in ex-
perimentation can be achieved by
a series of review procedures.
Thesecorrespondtothefoursec-
tions of the proceedings report.
The first discusses the role of the
investigator who develops the
idea and plans the experimental
protocol. The second involvesthe
research institution which is re-
sponsible for insuring compliance
with local, national and federal
standards of animal welfare. The
third involves the funding agency.
Here the animal research pro-
tocols are reviewed and assessed
for both scientific merit and the
humaneness of experimental pro-
cedures. The fourth is publication
of the completed work that in-
cludes editorial responsibility for
review of manuscripts, for ade—
quate description of the experi-
mental procedures and for scien-
tific merit.

“Invited speakers at the con-
ference addressed each of the
topics and represented a wide
range of scientific interests and
viewpoints. They discussed cur-
rent issues of concern including
the welfare of research animals,
the feasibility of reducing the
numberoftheanimals used orthe
invasiveness of the experimental
procedures and the economic and
ethical costs of animals in experi-
mentation.

“Workshopswereconvenedto
address other issues and con-
cerns. Recommendations are
compiled at the end of the pro-
cedures report.”

The procedures report, in addition
to the four parts indicated, includes
special chapters on the historical
background of animal experimenta—
tion, on public policy issues and on
the move toward perfecting policies
and standards for animal welfare.

Section 1 ofthe proceedings report
is titled, “The lnvestigator’s Respon-
sibilities in Animal Experimentation.”
Four presenters dealt with this topic
as follows: Frederick W.L. Kerr
presented a paper titled “The In-

Continued on next page

Page 13

 

 

 

 

 




 

From preceding page
vestigator’s Responsibilities in Re-
search Using Animals,” Mark E.
Weksler discussed, “Animal Ex-
perimentation and the Scientist,”
Perrie M. Adams presented a docu-
ment titled, “Investigator Respon-
sibilities in Animal Experimentation.”
Harry C. Rowsell presented a sum—
mary of the workshop on investigator
responsibilities.

Section 2 of the conference, “In-
stitutional Responsibilities in Animal
Experimentation,” were handled by
Henry J. Baker, J. Russell Lindsey
and Craig A. DaRif. KarlJohan Obrink
discussed the background on “Swe-
dish Law on Laboratory Animals.”
James G. Fox presented “Institu-
tional Responsibilities: The Commit-
tee’s Role.” The summary of the
workshop on institutional respon-
sibilities was by Richard C. Sim-
monds.

Section 3 of the presentations,
“Funding Agency Responsibilities in
Animal Experimentation,” was cov-
ered by four presenters. Carlos E.
Eyzaguirre considered, “Respon-
sibilities of Funding Agencies for
Animal Experimentation,” David J.
Ramsay and Joseph S. Spinelli dis-
cussed, “Responsibility of Funding
Agencies: Central or Local Control?”
Keith Kraner presented a document
titled, “Funding Agency Respon-
sibilities in Animal Experimentation. ”
F. Barbara Orlans summarized the
workshop on funding agency
responsibilities.

Section 4 of the conference again
featured four presenters. “Editorial
Responsibilities in Animal Re-
search” was handled by Frank B.
Golley, Garth J. Thomas spoke on
“Editorial Policy for Animal Experi-
mentation,” Robert M. Berne ad-
dressed the topic, “Editorial Respon-
sibilities in the Care and Manage-
ment ofAnimals Used in Research.”
The workshop on editorial respon-
sibilities was summarized by Michael
W Fox.

The fifth and last section ofthe con-
ference, “Public Policy and Recom-
mendations,” involved a presenta-
tion on the topic, “The Responsibili-
ty of Scientists in Determination of
Public Policy for the Use of Animals
in Biomedical Research” by Harlan
0. Halvorson.

A summary of recommendations
on animal experimentation conclud-

ed the conference.

Page 14

Many of the presenters identified
above are known to Latham Letter
readers. Some are not. To highlight
the impressiveness and responsibili-
ty of contributors to the SCAW con-
ference the professional background
and/or academic or other association
ofthose involved is indicated below:

Perrie M. Adams, Ph.D., Associate
Professor, Department of Psychiatry
and Behavioral Sciences, University
of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston,
Texas.

HenryJ. Baker, D.V.M.,‘Professorand
Chairman, Department of Com-
parative Medicine, University of
Alabama, Birmingham, Alabama.

Robert M. Berne, M.D., Chairman
and Charles Slaughter Professor of
Physiology, Department of Physi-
ology, University of Virginia School of
Medicine, Charlottesvi/le, Virginia.

Craig A. DaRif, D.V.M., Associate
Director, Experimental Animal
Resources, Department of Com-
parative Medicine, University of
Alabama, Birmingham, Alabama.

Carlos E. Eyzaguirre, M.D., Pro-
fessor and Head, Department of
Physiology, University of Utah College
of Medicine, Salt Lake City, Utah.

James G. Fox, D.V.M., Director, Divi-
sion of Comparative Medicine, Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts.

MichaelW Fox, D.Sc., Ph.D., B.Vet.
Med., M.R.C.V.S., Director, Institute
for the Study of Animal Problems,
Washington, DC.

Frank B. Golley, Ph.D., Research Pro-
fessor of Ecology, Institute of Ecology,
University of Georgia, Athens,
Georgia.

Harlyn O. Halvorson, Ph.D., Director,
Rosensteil Basic Medical Sciences
Research Center, Brandeis Universi-
ty, Waltham, Massachusetts.

FrederickWL. Kerr, MD, Professor,
Department of Neurologic Surgery,
Mayo Foundation and Medical
School, Rochester, Minnesota.

Keith Kraner, D.V.M., Executive
Secretary, Surgery, Anesthesiology
and Trauma Study Section, National
Institutes ofHea/th, Bethesda, Mary-
land.

J. Russell Lindsey, D.V.M., Professor,
Department of Comparative
Medicine, University ofAlabama, Bir-
mingham, Alabama.

Franklin M. Loew, D.V.M. , Ph.D.,
Director and Professor, Division of
Comparative Medicine, The Johns
Hopkins University School of Medi-
cine, Baltimore, Maryland.

Thomas E. Malone, Ph.D., Acting
Director, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland.

KarlJohanObrink,M.D.,Ph.D.,Pro-
fessor, Department of Physiology,
Uppsa/a University, Uppsa/a,
Sweden.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., Scientific
Officer, National Heart, Lung, and
Blood Institute, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

David J. Ramsay, B.M., D.Phi|., Pro-
fessor, Department of Physiology,
University of California School of
Medicine, San Francisco, California.

Harry C. Rowsell, D.V.M., Ph.D., Ex-
ecutive Director, Canadian Council on
Animal Care, and Professor, Depart-
ment of Pathology, University of Ot-
ta wa, Ontario, Canada.

Richard C. Simmonds, D.V.M., Direc-
tor, DepartmentofLaboratoryAnimal
Medicine, Uniformed Services Uni-
versity of the Health Sciences,
Bethesda, Maryland.

Joseph S. Spinelli, D.V.M., Director,
Animal Care Facility, University of
California School of Medicine, San
Francisco, California.

Garth J. Thomas, Ph.D., Professor,
Center for Brain Research, Universi-
ty of Rochester Medical Center,
Rochester, New York.

Marc E. Weksler, M.D., Wright Pro-
fessor of Medicine, Division of
Geriatrics and Gerontology, Depart-
ment of Medicine, Cornell University
Medical College, New York, New
York.

“Participants,” in addition to those
identified above, were equally distin-
guished, academically and other-
wise. They are identified in an appen-
dix to the proceedings report.

SCAW’s Year in Review

Dr. F. Barbara Orlans, President
and one ofthe founders ofthe Center,

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

 

. ,_. ;:

 

 




 

 

_!‘

 

described 1982 as being “marked by
significantaccomplishments andthe
initiation of new programs.”

During the year, the Center’s
fourth of operation, according to
President Orlans, SCAW:

0 Published the proceedings of its
pioneering conference on Scientific
Perspectives on Animal Welfare.

- Initiated a roster of scientists in-
terested in animal welfare issues who
are willing and competent to serve on
peer review committees.

0 Continued-to work with profes-
sional scientific organizations in
developing humane guidelines gov-
erning the use of animals in educa-
tion and biomedical experimenta-
tion.

0 Disseminated information on
current issues related to science and

animal welfare through its newsletter

and other materials.
0 Continued its journalism awards

program for a second year.

0 Presented written, expert testi-

mony to a congressional committee
considering federal legislation on
animal welfare issues.

Two new trustees were appointed
to the Center’s BOard. They are Dr.
HenryJ. Baker, Jr., Chairman of the
Department of Comparative Medi-
cine of the University of Alabama in
Birmingham, and Dr. David Ramsay,
Vice PresidentforAcademicAffairs,
University of California School of
Medicine, San Francisco.

In 1983, President Orlans in-
dicated, the Center plansto develop
additional new programs according
to its resources. “We believe we have
already had significant impact within
the scientific community to improve
the welfare of animals. We seek in the
years ahead toincreasethatimpact.”

Dr. Orlans received her Ph.D. in
physiologyfrom London University in
1956. Soon after she joined the Na-
tional Institutes of Health (NIH) in
Bethesda, Maryland as a research
physiologist. Dr. Orlans is past Chair

of the Committee on Animal Welfare
of the National Science Teachers
Association, has served as a review-
er of grant proposals on animal wel-
fare issues for the National Science
Foundation and has been a member
of the Institute of Laboratory Animal
Resources Committee on conserva-
tion of laboratory animals. She fre-
quently authors articles on animal
welfare and the ethics of animal ex-
perimentation and is the author of a
book, Animal Care: From Protozoa To
Small Animals, a text for biology
teachers, students and laboratory
technicians.

The 132—page hardbound pro-
ceedings publication of SCAW was
produced by Academic Press, a sub-
sidiary of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich,
Publishers, '111 Fifth Avenue, New
York 10003. The United Kingdom Edi-
tion was published by Academic
Press, Incorporated (London) Lts.,
24/28 Oval Road, London, N W1 7DX.JF

 

Green Chimneys Seminar on “Plants, Pets
and People” Presents Fresh Perspectives

The fast-becoming familiar ab—
breviation, “PFT,” is beginningto be
subject to dual interpretation. “P”
has traditionally meant “pets.” In
many contextsthe word “plants” can
be substituted. Or—bestofall worlds-
—“PPFT = Pet/Plant Facilitated
Therapy.”

In April in Brewster, New York, the
increasingly heard from and forvvard-
looking humane education facility,
“Green Chimneys,” invited national
authoritiesto present new views and
findings.

A dachsund or African violet may
be bettertherapyforsomedisturbed
person than a psychologist.

For others, keeping a pet or plant
provides a catalyst to traditional
therapy.

Unlike traditional therapies, pets
and plants can be used on persons
with a wide variety of problems, ac-
cording to a preliminary study done
at Green Chimneys School.

Boris Levinson, respected H/AB
authority, said much mental illness is
caused by “our feeling anxious and
powerless in our effortto be scientific.
We are no longer entitled to feel but
have to think and evaluate. There is
nothing to hold onto and feel sacred.”

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

     

Greens
Chimneys

 

He added, “We’ve alienated
ourselves not onlyfrom our own inner
beings but also from our natural
allies—animals. And we end up go-
ing to therapists who have sprung up
around us like weeds.

“Animals, from primeval times,
have been used as a source of com-
fort and psychological well-being.”

While stroking his pet, a person
often reveals his innermost feelings
as well as experiences a loving ac-
ceptance that he may never receive
from another human, Levinson said.
There is no pressure forthe person to
change himself, so there is no need
to comply with orto rebel against this
pressure, he said.

In additiontothis link with ourinner

selves, a pet unites us with nature and -
with the universe, he added.

Damon Olszowy, another seminar
presenter, said, “We are genetically
programmed to live with plants.”

Since growing a plant impacts a
sense of responsibility, it is an
especially valuable tool to provide a
purpose in life for nursing home
patients.

Watchingaplantgerminatefroma
seemingly lifeless seed “can have a
positive effect on a person who has
stopped living,” he said.

At the Green Chimneys residential
treatment center which houses 90
children, plant and animal therapies
are used in conjunction with more
traditional therapies, said Martin
Vigdor, staff psychologist.

While the center is not operated for
research, two interns from Fordham
University used their time there to
survey staff and students about the
effectiveness of programs on per-
sons with varying diagnoses of emo-
tional or mental disorders.

They concluded that, while tradi-
tional work and verbal therapies are
limited to specific diagnoses, pets
and plants can be used with every-
one.

For more information write Samuel B.
Ross, Jr., Executive Director, Green
Chimneys, Brewster, New York
10509, (914) 279-2996. s:

Page 15

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

PhD Study Reports on
Handicapped Children and Pets

Jamia JasperJacobsen, an Indiana
University doctoral candidate, has
recently completed compiling her
dissertation information on the use of
pets and plants to facilitate change in
the social beha vior of mild/y mentally
retarded children.

 

Jamia Jacobsen '

“The purpose of this study was to
investigate changes in the social be-
avior of institutionalized mildly men-
tally retarded youths following ex-
periences with a pet and plant or no
treatment. To demonstrate change in
social behavior, 21 children were
observed over a period of seven
weeks during which they individual-
ly interacted for daily 15 minute
periods to experiences with pet,
plant, or no intervention. Changes in
behaviors in the classroom between
the three baselines and pre- and post-
treatment were examined for each
subject. Following Baseline |, seven
students randomly assigned partici-
pated in pet treatment, seven par-
ticipated in plant treatment, and
seven students received no treat-
ment. Following Baseline ll, seven
students who participated with pet
participated with plant treatment,
seven who participated with plant
received a pet, and the group who
received no treatment remained con-
stant. These intervention sessions
were conducted fifteen minutes dai-
ly for four weeks.

“The evaluation of the intervention
program was conducted through the
use of systematic classroom obser-
vation by three randomly assigned
observers. The percentage of time

Page 16

 

the target child was engaged in ap-
propriate behavior served as the
dependent measure for each sub-
ject. The Pine Bridge Social Interac-
tion Scale was employed to record
observational data. A six item inter-
view was used to determine pre-post
experience of preferences involving
plants or pets. Two ward workers and
two teachers were queried weekly
concerning children’s behavior dur-
ing the seven weeks of the study.
The MACC Behavioral Adjustment
Scale, Revised 1971 ,was the instru-
ment. An N of 1 design was employed
and an analysis ofvariance (ANOVA)
was used for both within and between
group comparison. Content analysis
of videotapes of treatment sessions
was also used. Results indicated that
inappropriate behaviors were not
significantly effected by treatments.
Discussion of difficulties encoun-
tered in systematic observation in a
naturalistic setting is provided.

“Subtle differences in subjects,
observers and surrounding staff
could have greatly influenced the
study’soutcome. The mostvaluable
outcomes of the study may be a
demonstration ofthe use of pets with
children in a scientifically reported
methodology. Not all the hopes and
intentions of this investigation have
been realized in this study. A begin-
ning, but only a beginning has been
made in researching the use of pets
with handicapped children.

“Essentially, because pet and
plant therapy were found to be inef-
fective in this setting, future research
will have to be conducted to answer
several questions. Such questions
might be:

1 . ls pet therapy an effective treat-
ment for children who are motivated
to change their behavior?

2. Would pet therapy be effective
for noninstitutionalized children?

3. Would it be more helpful to have
children self-monitor behavior?

4. Would pet therapy be‘more ef-
fective over a longer duration of time?

5. Would pet therapy be an effec—
tivetreatmentifthe children were not
removed from their school class-
rooms but was conducted on the
ward area?

6. Would a less structured treat-
mentsite (i.e., open times to playwith
a pet, timetaken to walk ortalkto a pet
at will) motivate a child to improve
behavior?

7. Would pet therapy prove more
effective for youths who have ex-
perienced parental rejection?

8. Would pet therapy prove more
effective for acting out versus with-
drawn children?”

Jamia Jacobsen is Executive Direc-
tor of the Family Support Center, 15 75
North western A venue, Indianapolis,
Indiana 46202. .14;

 

Of Interest

to Humane and
Animal Control
Groups

A free series of TV public service
announcements on Responsible Pet
Ownership is now available from
Norden Laboratories. Write to PO.
Box 83207, Lincoln, NE 68501.

A field manual on chemical im-
mobilization in urban animal control
has been developed by the Wiscon-
sin Humane Society. Copies are
available at $7. Write to WHS, 4151 N.
Humboldt Ave., Milwaukee, WI
53212.

The North Carolina Humane
Federation has produced a pro—
cedures manual, “The Humane
Handbook of North Carolina.” Cost
is $12 each or two for $20. Write to
PO. Box 892, Chapel Hill, NC 27514.

A dog care booklet with useful tips
onthe selection,care andtraining of
dogs, plus information on accidents
and common health problems, is
available for $.75 from the Cornell
Distribution Center, 7 Research Park,
Ithaca, NY 14850. Ask for booklet
M-4-24.

Thirty-second Public Service An-
nouncements, which include 10 sec-
onds for local humane or animal con-
trol organization identification, are
available for $10 each from The
Latham Foundation, Clement and
Schiller Sts., Alameda, CA 94501.
Some feature TV personality Betty
White. at:

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

 

 




“~4Mw__wuv_._yk—fv—+w z. . . .. A.

 

 

Pet Therapy for the Elderly—
An Alternative Approach

Abstract of a Senior Project at California State University

Hayward, California

Linda Day Otis

The staff at Latham Foundation
was both impressed and moved to
receive a copy of a highly profes-
sional 30 page treatise from a young
woman who recently visited the
Foundation and utilized some of its
resources.

The abstract of Linda’s paper is
quoted below:

“Can your dog help extend your
life? Can your cat keep you healthier
and happier? People involved in pet
facilitated therapy (PFT)—the use of
companion animals in a therapeutic
relationship—say ‘yes.’ Recent
research studies support their posi-
tion, and reportthat pet ownership (or
constant contact with pets) may lower
blood pressure, extend the life of cor-
onary heart patients and add to
general well-being and quality of life.

Using pets as a therapeutic tool
may be especially important for the
elderly. As people age they tend to
lose physical capabilities, relatives
and friends limiting the satisfaction of
their needs for affection, companion-
ship and the opportunity to interact
with others. Identifying with a pet can
make the aged person feel more
loved and needed, help improve his
self image and ability to cope with
changes in his life.

Current PFT for the elderly in-
cludes: ‘prescription’ pets for those
who live alone; pet visitation pro-
grams (selected animals are taken to
convalescent hospitals for visits); and
permanent pet placements (an ani-
mal is ‘adopted’ by a convalescent
hosphaD.

A literature review of pet therapy,
observations of local pet therapy pro-
grams, and interviews with staff
members of convalescent hospitals
and SPCAs were carried out in an ef-
fort to determine if PFT is a viable
form of therapy for the elderly.

The results of my study supportthe
view that PFT is an effective
therapeutic approach, although
more controlled studies are needed
in order to scientifically document
results.”

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

One section of Linda’s report in-
cludes practical advice for volunteers
taking pets to institutions.

“PFT forthe institutionalized elder-
ly usually involves pet visitation pro-
grams or permanent pet placement.

In visitation programs, the health of
selected animals (puppies, kittens,
rabbits, guinea pigs, birds, or other
small animals) is first checked by
veterinarians and (if necessary) the
animal is freed from parasites, dis-
ease, etc. They are then taken to visit
with the institutionalized elderly,
typically by one or more SPCAvolun-

teer/staff, orbyvolunteerindividuals .

orgroupsfrom other privateor public
organizationsthatsponsorpetvisita-
tion programs. The volunteers are
educated in terms of both animals
and the elderly and supervised dur-
ing initial visits. Sue Crouch, Ad-
ministrative Associate at Latham
Foundation, Alameda, CA, who
trains visitation volunteers for both
the Latham Foundation (established
in 1918 for the promotion of humane
education), and the Oakland SPCA,
describes their training program as
follows:

‘The volunteers need some
knowledge ofwhat to expect from the
people they will visit, and of the
responsibilities toward the animal,
and someone to go out with the first
timeto orient him/her. lshowafilm on
pets and therapy, and different
aspects ofthe human/animal bond so
they’ll be familiar with the fact that
there are different animal-assisted
therapy programs.

‘I try to talkto them about the elder-
ly ifthey’re visiting nursing homes to
try to give them an idea of what kind
of people they’re going to meet, and
some pointers on how to respond in
certain situations.

‘The other thing is to talk to the
volunteers about the animals. They
need to be prepared with a towel, a
water bowl, and newspapers and
handiwipesforaccidents.The animal
should be allowed to run around for
short periods of time between periods
of being held and petted. A puppy

can’t go very long without having
some time to be on its own.

‘Then I tell them about the pro-
cedures that each SPCA has for the
volunteers so that the office staff at
the SPCA will know who they are
when they go to pick up an animal.

‘The volunteers usually ‘adopt’
one or more convalescent homes to
visit, then set up their own visitation
schedule, in coordination with the Ac-
tivities Director of the place.’

During the course of the animal
visits, as many residents as possible
are given the opportunity to touch,
hold, feel the warmth of, and respond
to the animal.

One beneficial aspect of pet visita-
tion programs isthat it is a simple pro-
cedure which can be done by non-
professionals and by different age
groups. This means that there is a
potentially unlimited resource of
volunteers and that the elderly have
the opportunity to interactwith young
people—often a rare occurrence for
the institutionalized elderly.” a

Latham Films Rate Kudos

Compliments forLatham’szTH-
lT film series consistently come from
many quarters. Some recent com-
ments:

From Superintendent George P.
Gintoli of Lima State Hospital (Ohio):
“I would like to take this opportunity
tothank you forthe fine work you have
done in promoting the positive work
that our pettherapy program has pro-
vided at Lima State Hospital for our
patients.

“The hospital’s Citizens’ Advisory
Board viewed the film this morning,
and they felt it was an excellent film
and very well done. The members ap-
preciated hearing howthe family ofa
patient felt the program had helped
them.

“Again,thankyouforgiving ourpet
therapy positive exposure.”

Typical of many like comments
from scores of film viewers in the
many different contexts reached by
WlTHlT programs, this from Christie
Lynch, children’s librarian at the
SouthwestGeorgia Regional Library:
“Thefilm, HOW TO RAISEA PUPPY,
was excellent. Over 400 children
ages 3 to 9 saw it during this special
Be Kind To Animals Week. Please
pass on our remarks to the ap-
propriate folks—how effective and
enjoyable it was.” a

 

Page 17

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Attention Humane Administrators:

In Massachusetts—A Unique PFT Program

for Special Need Youngsters

Your Education Department May Wish to Copy

 

AHES

omericon
humone

education ,
socrety

For many years, the American
Humane Education Society, educa-
tional affiliate of the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, has been bringing people
and animals together. Their long-
standing pet therapy program, co-
sponsored by the Junior League of
Boston, enables residential care
facilities to access permanent live-in
pets. In addition, their newly organ-
ized volunteer program provides
companion animal visits fora number
of area nursing homes. Most recent-
ly, the Society has combined its ex-
pertise in education with its know-
ledge of animal companionship to
develop a course for special needs
youngsters.

Duringtwelve weekly visits AHES
hosted thirty special needs students.
The group included one elementary
school Hispanic emotionally dis-
turbed class, one middle school men-
tally retarded class and one high
school mentally retarded class. Each
class was taught separately by an
AH ES instructor with the assistance
ofthe regular classroom teacher and
a teacher’s aide.

U sing farm animals to catalyze the
learning process, teachers and
pupils investigated basic animal
needs. Through observation and ex-
perience students soon learned that
people and animals share many of
the same needs. Capitalizing on this
understanding, instructors helped
students discover how to satisfy the
requirements of humans and other
animals. In so doing the students
learned the importance of maintain-
ing their own health, nutrition and
grooming. In addition, they became
aware of more subtle human re-
quirements such as the needs of
association, communication and ap-
propriate behavior.

 

 

Page 18

The key to the program’s success
was in the planning. Initially, AHES
staff reviewed curricula submitted by
the school system’s special needs
department. Fromthose documents,
pertinent learning skills and content
areas were drawn. After several
meetings with classroom teachers,
AHES prioritized its initial list and
reduced itto aworkable length. This
done, it became relatively easy to
develop a curriculum that satisfied
the school’s academic requirements
and the Society’s humane education
objectives.

 

The final curriculum outlined
seven objectives to be taught in
twelve lessons. Each lesson plan in-
cluded previsit classroom prepara-
tion, on-site AHES classroom ac-
tivities and structured visits to the
Society’s farm animals. This three-
way approach provided triple rein-
forcement for each concept.

For example, in orderto introduce
the idea of basic needs, students
were asked to cut out pictures of
various animal activities. These pic-
tures were brought to the AHES
classroom where each activity was
discussed and categorized accor-
ding to the need it illustrated. Later
each class made a collage illustrating

all the concepts discussed in the
classroom.

 

The final and most exciting portion
of the lesson was a visit to the farm.
In the barns, students discussed the
activities and needs of each animal.
They were allowed to provide for
these needs by feeding, grooming
and giving drinking water to specific
animals. To emphasize the need for
health care, each student was given
a pictorial health check chart and a
stethoscope. It was fascinating to
watch the children carefully observ-
ing eyes, ears and noses for signs of
mucous discharge and listening in-
tently to heart beats.

When the entire program was com-
pleted, classroom teachers were
asked to complete an evaluation
form. When asked “What percent of
yourclass was completelyuntouched
by the program,” classroom teach-
ers all replied “None.”Aminimum of
forty percent of one class to a max-
imum of 100 percentofanotherwere
judged by their teachers to have
learned and retained specific infor-
mation. Specific information learned
corresponded to the AH ES unit goal,
e.g., the students learned the basic
needs common to people and other
animals. A minimum of one-half of
one class to 100 percent of the other
two classes were judged to have
gained general understandings and
developed new attitudes. Teachers
cited sensitivity to animals, under-
standing animal needs, ability to
relate to an unfamiliar instructor and
sensitivity to people among the
understandings and attitudes ac-
crued during the course.

In coming months AHES will have
other opportunities to use the insights
gained through this experience.
There is no doubt that children and
many adults learn more readily when
animal subjects are involved. We all
look forward to a time when such
teaching techniques have been re-
fined and standardized. In the mean-
time humane societies, colleges of
education and school departments
would do well to utilize their expertise
and resources to further this effort.

For more information write Judith
Star, Director, American Humane
Education Society, P. O. Box 2244,
450 Salem End Road, Framingham
Center, Massachusetts 01701 (617)
879—5345. if

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Hospice—Style Care for Pets

Jennifer Bassing
Oakland, California

Hospice care for people is receiv-
ing a lot of attention lately. A concept
as old as the Roman Empire, the
original hospice served as a refuge
where wearytravelers and wounded,
war-worn soldiers could stop to rest
and recuperate.

’In the Middle Ages, the hospice
movement widened to include the
needs ofthe dying. But it was not un-
til the 19th century in England that an
institution was founded specifically to
treat and comfort dying patients.

Hospice cameto the United States
in 1974 with the opening ofa hospice
in New Haven, Connecticut. Today,
approximately 400 hospices are ac-
tive across the country.

The modern hospice is not so
much a place as it is a system. Many
hospices do not have facilities in
which to house or treat patients at all
but, rather, are geared to teaching
families how to care for loved ones
who are dying. The hospice staff ar-
ranges for medical treatments and
nursing support and provides a net-
work of psychological and spiritual
advisors to help the patient and the
family.

Anotherimportanthospice service
is that of respite care. When family
members need a “break,” hospice
staffor volunteers can be called on to
give home care tothe patient. In other
respite arrangements, the patient
might be admitted to a respite bed at
a local hospital for a short time while
the family recoups its strength.

Emphasis in hospice care is placed
on creating a pain-free environment
forthe patient. Since the patient is dy-
ing, potentially habit-forming doses
of pain-killing drugs are not avoided.
Atthe sametime, every effortis made
to keep the patient alert and aware of
the supportive home surroundings.
This careful balance is maintained by
the hospiceteam, usually consisting
of doctors, nurses, psychologists,
clergy, social workers and support
volunteers.

. The alternative to hospice is con—
finement in a hospital. Regardless of
how sensitive the hospital staff is or

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

how often family members visit,
nothing can replace the warmth of
home for the dying patient.

Instead of isolating the patient from
everything that has been special in
life—a house, a favorite chair, next-
door neighbors, a pet, grandchildren-
—the hospice movement allows the
dying person to remain in life’s
mainstream. It is, in effect, saying,
“We’re all going to die. In your case,
we have a better idea when that will
be. But, despite knowing that death
willcome, you are stillapartofus.You
are important.

Jennifer Bassmg

There is no small irony to the fact
that some hospice patients have
done sowellthattheywere eventual-
ly removed from the hospice pro-
gram! Miracles? Maybe not. But most
families who have experienced hos-
pice will saythat they have no regrets
for whatever special efforts they
made. It is from these survivors that
hospice programs draw the greatest
number of volunteers.

The hospice experience is largely
a positive one for the family. It is the
ultimate expression of family love.

Families of hospice patients are
not deserted when the patient dies.
Programmed into the hospice sys-
tem is grieftherapythat begins, first,
preparing the family, and, finally,
takes the family through grief
recovery.

The inevitability ofdeath is so hor-
rifying to many of us that it has taken

 

a monumental effort on the parts of
health care and human services pro-
fessionals to bring the hospice move-
ment out of a dark closet. The suc-
cess of hospice would seem to prove
that it is filling a long-neglected need.

In light ofthe current strong interest
in pet-human bonds, it may be useful
to consider applications of the hos-
pice movement in the treatment of
terminally-ill pets. The idea is no
strangerthan is the use of pet health
insurance. And,to be sure, there are
veterinarians who have already been
using hospice techniques without ac-
tually using the terminology.

Hospice for pets was brought to me
while visiting afriend whose dog is dy-
ing of bone cancer. The dog is in good
spirits and, thanks to a balanced
dosage of medication, is not in pain.
She hobbies and creeks but she can
still wag her tail to beat the band.

The dog’s owner and the veteri-
narian are working as a team to
squeeze outevery bit of goodness of
life that is still left for that animal. It
was a conscious decision that took in-
to account quality of life for the
animal, quality oflifeforthe animal’s
owner, expense of treatment and
treatment options.

Normally the dog can be with her
owner during the business day, but
for those times when it was neces-
sary for the owner to be out of town,
friends were recruited to pinch hit.
The veterinarian made himself gen-
erally available to the dog’s owner,
not merely as a practitioner but as a
resource to resolve doubts and calm
fears.

The dog became the center of its
owner’s life and became the focal
point of various social contacts with
friends. It seemed only fitting, for after
all, hadn’tthe owner been the center
of the dog’s life all these years.

So now, in her dying days, time has
been stretched to share more of it
with her and thoughts of putting her
down are discussed in concrete
terms of pain control and quality of
living.

This is not apet owner unwillingto
let go. When the pain is beyond con-
trol or life becomes too crippled, he
will. But, ratherthan rush to the deci-
sion of euthanasia because specters
of big veterinary bills or extended
home care were looming up, this
animal’s owner decided that an

Continued on next page

Page 19

 

 




 

 

 

 

From preceding page
animal’s life well lived must also in-
clude a loving easing into death.
We know that it’s not easy to lose
a pet. What hospice shows us is that
we can soften that loss by relieving
pain, by avoiding extended hospital-
ization and by providing an emotional
support systemthatenables patients
' and loved ones (pets and pet owners)
to face dying in comfort and with
dignity.

Extended home care for terminal-
ly-iIl pets is an area ripe for develop-
ment. Based on the human hospice
model, veterinarians, animal health
technicians and human services pro-
fessionals and volunteers could offer
the medical and psychological sup-
port needed to guide a pet and its
owner through the final stage of the
animal’s life.

A respite kennel or cage? Grief

‘ counseling? A network of volunteers
to assist with home care drawn from
pet owners who have experienced
the death of a pet?

Of all the things we do in life, dying
may be the hardest. Hospice care for
people makes dying easier. Itcan do
the same for terminally-ill pets and
their families.

Jennifer Bassing’s writing activities
include a regular column for ‘ ‘Califor—
nia Veterinarian, ’ ’ and feature articles

for the American Kennel Club’s '

“Gazette” magazine. Her features
have also appeared in “Dog Fancy”
and ”Cat Fancy” magazines. She is
a syndicated writer with International
Eco Features and a two-time winner
of the Dog Writers’ Association of
America’s first-place award for best
newspaper animal column. A mem-
ber of the Public Relations Society of
America, Bassing is the director of
public relations at Guide Dogs for the
Blind, Inc., in San Rafael, Calif. Her
special field ofinterest is in the human-
animal bond, particularly as it applies
to working animals.

Permission to reprint this article was
given by its author, Jennifer Bassing,
and by the magazine, California
Veterinarian, in which it was first
published. a,

 

With the qualities of cleanliness, discretion, afr
fection, patience, dignity, and courage that cats
have, how many of us, I ask you, would be
capable of being cats?

—Fernand Mery

 

Page 2 0

- The London
Letter

The Society forCompanion Animal
Studies of the UK hasjust published
an attractive pamphlet, available to
anyone writing Honorary Secretary,
Peter R. Messent, MA, D Phil, Animal
Studies Centre, Freeby Lane,
Waltham-on-the-Wolds, Melton
Mowbray, Leicestershire LE144RT.
Telephone 0664 64171.

The brochure identifies the aims of
the Society as follows:

1. To study the nature of the emo-
tional and psychological bond be-
tween people and companion ani-
mals.

2. To studythe consequence ofthis
bonding onthe emotional and physi-
cal well-being and mental health of
people and their pets.

3. To assess the role that com pan-
ion animals serve within society.

4.Tostudyand disseminate results
on benefits companion animals can
give to the work of health and social
care professionals.

5. To facilitate interdisciplinary
contacts in companion animal re-
search.

6. To act as an information
resource for people researching the
field.

7. To communicatethe findings of
the Society to interested professions
and the public alike, via meetings,
writing and other media contact.

 

Successful meetings were held in
the UK. on the 19th March and the
7th April and the Annual General
Meeting isto be held in Edinburgh on
the 26th November 1983.

One of the most helpful papers
presented recently on the Compan-
ion Animal Bond was by Mary Stewart
of the University of Glasgow Vet-
erinary School, dealing with ‘Chil-
dren’s Attitudes to Companion Ani-
mals, The Controversial Cat.’ (This
was at the half-day meeting held
before the British Small Animal Vet-
erinary Association Congress in
April.)

The paper was based on a survey
relating to 750 children from eight
schools in and around the Glasgow
area. On pet ownership the figures
were: Ten percent had never had an
animal; 60% have had fish; 55%
dogs; 44% cats; 32% budgies; 22%
small rodents (hamster most com-

 

mon); 15% rabbits.

—and so one could go on—Iots of
facts and figures which make ex-
cellent background material for the
small-animal veterinary surgeon.

So, there’s plenty happening in
this exciting area of the profession,
but there’s so much mere to do.

Yours sincerely,

C. Fennel, MRCVS a:

 

Upcoming

Event
I

The Austrian Academy of Science
and the Institute for Interdisciplinary
Research on the Human-Pet Rela-
tionship have organized an inter-
national symposium on the human-
pet relationship on the occasion of
the 80th birthday of Nobel Prize win-
ner Prof. Dr. Dr. Konrad Lorenz to
convene in Vienna on October 27-28.

Speakers will include, from the
USA: Dr. Leo Bustad, Dr. Eckhard H.
Hess, Dr. Aaron H. Katcher, Dr.
Stephen Kellert, Dr. Dan Lago, Dr.
Michael McCulloch; from Austria: Dr.
Giselher Guttmann, Dr. Walter
Poduschka, Dr. Oswald Ruso, Dr.
Walter Schlerer; from England: Mr. J.
Stuart Hutton, Dr. RogerA. Mugford,
Dr. James A. Serpell, Dr. Peter R.
Messent; from Australia: Mr. Jim Eve;
fromthe German Deutsch Republic:
Dr. Jurgen Lange; Dr. Hans-Albrecht
Freye, Dr. Renate Siegmund, Dr.
Paul Leyhausen; from France: Dr.
Hubert Montagner; from Sweden: Dr.
Ingemar Norling; from Norway: Dr.
Torbjorn Owren; from Finland: Dr.
Saki Paatama; from Hungary: Dr.
George Pethes; from Switzerland: Dr.
Dennis C. Turner; from Italy: Dr.
Marina Verga; from SSSR: Dr.
Zdenek Veselovsky.

Queries concerning the meeting
should be addressed to:

lEMT (Institute fur lnterdiszipinare
Erforschung der Mensch-Tier-
Beziehung)

Johann Blobner Gasse 2

A-1120 Wien

Austria

Phone: (0222) 85 41 83

Telex: 116060 apr a 1‘

 

 

 

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Pet Programs for the Elderly

Are We Doing Right by the Animals We Enlist?

l-l/CAB afficianados—especia/Iy
those who are therapy oriented—who
may not have caught the remarkable
array of relevant articles in the
September-October 1982 issue ong-
ing magazine would do well to ac-
quire it. (See instruction at end of this
article.) No fewer than five articles by
authorities on the subject of human
animal bonding are presented in this
one publication. They bear these
titles:

Are Companion Animals Good for
Your Health ?—A Review of the
Evidence

No Room for Pets

PA CT—A Pet Placement Organiza-
tion for the Elderly Living at Home

Pet Therapy for the Elderly, and

Pet Programs for the Elderly—
Rewards and Responsibilities

The lastmentioned piece, authored
by Susan Bury Stauffer, former editor
of S helter Sense magazine, an official
publication of the Humane Society of
the United Sta tes, is reproduced here
with permission of thatsociety and of
Aging magazine. We believe this
feature is especially noteworthy in
that it highlights responsibility to the
animals in PF T projects and refers to
some of the problems and negative
factors in making pets available to the
elderly.

Researchers of human social
problems are discovering what
animal lovers have known all
along—that pets are good for people.

But what about the pet in pet
therapy? Animals come with their
own sets of requirements, and
meeting those requirements is a big
responsibility.

Phyllis Wright of The Humane
Society ofthe United States (HSUS)
notes that many local animal welfare
organizations are starting programs
to bring elderly people and pets
together—bytaking pets to visit nur-
sing homes, helping elderly people
adopt pets, and involving elderly
volunteers in programs.

“The responsibility of the humane
organization isto seethatthe animals
involved are suited to the situation
and that they’re properly cared for,”

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

Wright says. “What starts out as a
promising program can turn into a
bad experience for everyone ifthese
precautions aren’t taken.”

Social gerontologist Virginia Car-
dinale organized a program for the
Erie County SPCA in Tonawanda,
New York, in which volunteers took
animals from the shelter to visit
residents in nursing homes. Car-
dinale says the visiting dogs served
asa communication linkforthe elder-
ly people, stirring memories of
animals they had owned over the
years. She points out, however, that
the animals were chosen carefully—
they had to have good temperaments
and be accustomed to people. The
elderly people in Ms. Cardinale’s pro-
gram were extremely impaired, and
volunteers constantly assisted them
with the animals, for everyone’s
protection.

The CarrollCounty Humane Soci-

' ety in Westminster, Maryland, takes

animals to visit all the nursing homes
and day centers forthe elderly in the
county. Project director Sheila
McNamara says different animals
are taken on each round of visits for
variety. The few elderly participants
whodon’tparticularlywantto pickup
and hold the animals still seem to en-
joy the event. Ms. McNamara says
the nursing home residents “are a lot
like grandparents on these visits.
They look forward to our coming but
they’re tired when we leave and
they’re ready for us to go home. We
have mixed emotions about perma-
nent pets in” nursing homes,” Ms.
McNamara says, “because of the ex-
ercise requirements and other re-
sponsibilities. When we take our
dogsforvisits, we knowtheirdisposi-
tions, and we know they’ve been
wormed, fed and cleaned up—in
short, we do all the work. Nursing
home attendants work hard, and they
arejust too busy to take care of a pet,
too.”

The CarrollCounty Humane Soci-
etytakes special care in placing pets
with elderlypeoplelivingintheirown
homes. The group counsels the
elderly adopter on choosing suitable

pets,generally recommending older
dogs rather than puppies. Ms.
McNamara says the older adopters
usually prefer smaller dogs that are
already spayed or neutered.
Because Carroll County is a small
community, the Society can keep in
touch with adopters and help outwith
any problems. .
The companionship of a pet can
bring a new dimension to an older
person’s life, whether the relation-
ship takes place in a housing facility
or in the person’own home. Havingto
care fortheir own pets at home gives
many people a sense of being need-
ed—a concern certainly not ex-
clusive to the elderly. Because the
costs of pet ownership can be
substantial, though, many com-
munities are taking measures to help
elderly people afford their own pets.

Fort Wayne, Indiana; Palm Beach
County, Florida; Albuquerque, New
Mexico; and Multnomah County,
Oregon, are among the communities
that set reduced fees for pet licenses
or pet neutering surgery for owners
65 and older. The Mobile, Alabama,
SPCA—an animal welfare agency
staffed entirely by volunteers—helps
elderly people by transporting their
pets to veterinarians.

The Humane Society of Missouri in
St. Louis raised a special fund to buy
food for pets belongingto elderly peo-
ple in need. During past winters, the
Morris County, New Jersey, Welfare
Department has boarded the pets of
elderly people who had to be given
temporary housing when they could
not pay their heating bills.

The Animal Medical Center in New
York City offers free care for pets
belonging to elderly people with
limited incomes. The Seniors’ Animal
Veterinary Endowment funds this
program, the founder and biggest
contributor being the Vincent Astor
Foundaﬂon.

The program has served 2,500
elderly pet owners during the last six
years, although the hospital reports
thatthelow-income elderlyare by no
means the majority of elderly pet
owners who use the hospital. Dr.
Stephen Kritsick, director of
emergency services at the center, is
very enthusiastic about the benefits
of pet ownership to elderly people.
“Elderly people sometimes get
pushed away from society,” Dr. Krit-

Continued on next page

Page 21

 




 

 

From preceding page

sick says, “sometimes by their own
families. The pet is someone to take
care of, someone who depends on
the person.”

Many of the pets cared for at the
center are older, not because older
people tend to choose older pets but
because those pets have been with
their owners for many years. In fact,
Dr. Kritsick says, elderly people may
be even better pet owners than
younger people because they have
more time duringthe dayto attend to
medical problems. He says the only
difficulty his elderly clients may have
isfinding transportation to the center.

Some elderly people considering
new pets worry about their pets sur-
viving them. Dr. Kritsick says that,
although this is certainly a legitimate
concern of a responsible pet owner,
arrangements can generally be
made with family members or the
local humane society.

He also thinks an elderly person
might be better able to cope with the
death of a pet because “they have a
better understanding of life and
death. It’s hard for the elderly to lose
pets, just as it isfor anyone, but many
older persons have already dealt with
those feelings more than younger
people have.”

Elderly people should choose pets
they can enjoy and take care of com-
fortably, pets that can adapt to their
particular situations. Jane Karp and
Juretta Mannix are two elderly San
Francisco pet owners who live in very
different situations. Jane Karp de-
scribes herself as an “antistereo-
type.” She drives her own car and
has few of the health problems many
elderly people must cope with. She
adopted a dog from the San Fran-
cisco SPCA through their Old F riend-
ships program, which offers reduced
adoption fees to older people adop-
ting pets more than one year old.
Jane’s dog is abouttwo, and She says
they enjoy long daily walks in Golden
Gate Park.

Juretta Mannix is a resident in
public housing and is confined to a
wheelchair. Some 17years ago, her
son found a cat abandoned in a gar-
bage can and brought it to Juretta.
She’s kept it ever since. Juretta says,
“If he wasn’t in the house, I don’t
know what I’d do. He’sjust like a pal
to me. ” Juretta has a helper who at-
tends herdailyfrom10a.m.to5 pm.
This helper also feeds the cat, and

Page 22

 

when he needs veterinary attention,
she combines a trip to the veteri-
narian’s office with other errands.

In 1981, the State of California
passed a law which is very significant
to people likeJuretta. The law allows
elderly persons living in public hous-
ing to keep up to two pets, as long as
the owners follow regulations.

The San Francisco SPCA has a
number of programs to help elderly
people enjoythe benefits of pet com-
panionship. The administrators of
one nursing home with 225 beds saw
television reports about pet therapy
and asked the SPCA to help them
bring in animals to live at the home.
One part ofthe lounge was set aside
fora rabbit, kept in acage built bythe
local 4-H club. Other animals will be
added.

The SPCA’s Ken White, whose
background is in special education
and work with the elderly, says the
animals placed in long-term care
facilities are cared for by the elderly
residents themselves as well as by
the staff. The SPCA gives training in
the basics of pet care. In addition to
the Old Friendships program, Mr.
White is developing a New Friend-
ships program, in which young peo-
ple (for example, Girl Scouts) will take
animals to visit elderly people in nur-
sing homes. The SPCA also helps
place animalsin group homes forthe
elderly, and the SPCA veterinary
hospital provides free care to animals
belonging to elderly people whose in-
comes qualify.

Mr. White points out that while it is
the responsibility of the therapist to
look afterthe needs of the human par-
ticipants in a program, it is the respon-
sibility of the animal welfare agency
to look after the animal—and a suc-
cessful pet therapy program de-
pends on cooperation.

An organization that has been
placing pets in nursing homes since
1976 is the American Humane
Education Society (AH ES), part ofthe
Massachusetts SPCA. Judith Star of
AHES says the program wouldn’t
work without the hours of volunteer
work provided by the co-sponsoring
organization, the Junior League of
Boston. Junior League volunteers
locate nursing homes interested in
havmg permanent pets (only those
homes in which the residents are am-
bulatory can participate.)

These volunteers and AH ES staff

 

members meet with the home ad-
ministrators to make sure they’re
prepared for the responsibilities of
pet ownership.

A suitable animal is then chosen
from the Massachusetts SPCA
shelters. The animal must be at least
one year old, must have been sur-
rendered rather than picked up as a
stray (so there is some information on
its health and background), must be
houseb‘roken, and must be small
enoughforeasyhandling bythenur-
sing home residents. It can take as
long as three months forthe right pet
to be found, and then it is carefully
observed bytheAHES staff. Ms. Star
says, “Some dogs aren’t suitable
because they don’t adapt to being
owned by a group—they need a
single person. ” When a pet has been
placed, Junior League volunteers
take over with followup visits and
assistance whenever problems a-
rise. About 30 animals have been
placed since the program began.

In Minnesota, legislation has been
passed to allow nursing homes to
have pets, but until accompanying
rules are established, the homes can
acquire pets by applying to the State
health departmentforawaiverofthe
old rules banning pets. Clarice
Seufert is on a committee of health
department managers which reviews
the requests for resident pets. She
reports that about 100 nursing homes
have requested the waiver, and a-
mong the pets approved have been

,a rooster, agoat, guinea pigs, gerbils,

dogs, cats, and a parrot. To set the
criteria for approving pets, Ms.
Seufert consulted with veterinary
groups and obtained literature about
pet care from the Hennepin County
Humane Society (of which she hap-
pens to be a member). The commit-
tee considers the appropriateness of
the pet forthe particular home and re-
quires that one person be responsi-
ble for the pet. The Retirement
Center ofWrightCounty, Minnesota,
has received waivers for several pets
under this system—two dogs, three
9Uinea pigs, two hamsters, four fin-
ches, two doves, and a rabbit.
Jean Grover, a member of the
Humane Society of Wright County,
began taking her own animals to visrt
the Retirement Center about three
Years ago. She suggested that the
Center acquire permanent pets and
was eventually given a full time pOSI-

The Latham Letter, Summer 1983

 

 

 




 

 

tion to supervise the program. She
continues her study of pet therapy
throughthe Centerto StudyHuman-
Animal Relationsips and En-
vironments at the University of
Minnesota.

Ms. Grover is atthe centersix days
aweek and, since she lives onlyfour
miles away, she is always available.
The animals comefromthe Humane
Society of Wright County. The presi-
dent of this group is a veterinarian
who provides medical care.

Ms. Grover says the nursing home
staff resisted the idea of permanent
petsfirst, particularly because ofthe
extra work involved. Even some of
the residents didn’t understand what
the animals were doing there, butshe
says the staff is now enthusiastic
aboutthe positive effects the animals
have had on the elderly.

Ms. Grover says that she’s had to
solve several problems which no one
anticipated at the beginning of the
program. She found that visitors at
the center oftentold their childrento
“go play with the animals,” until the
center halted this practice. Even the
guinea pig cages had to be locked to
keep visiting children from trying to
remove the animals.

In addition, one of the dogs is
oven/veight, and the elderly residents
have aggravated her condition by giv-
ing her snacks from their own trays.
Ms. Grover says, however, she can
sympathize with the desire of the
elderly people to share their food.
“They need to relate to the dog by giv-
ing her something and this is the on-
ly thing they can manage. Some are
very confused and just forgetthey’ve
been told not to feed her. Some have
poor eyesight and literally can’t see
that she shouldn’t be getting
snacksﬂ’

Confining the dog wasn’t suc-
cessful because many of the elderly
residents complained that it was
cruel. Since the dog is very attached
to the home, Jean Grover and the
staff are continuing to look for solu-
tions to this problem.

What needs to be done to bring
elderly people and pets together
successfully?

Phyllis Wright comments, “We are
concerned because so many people
just don’t understand animal be-
havior or pet needs. If you want to
work with animals in a program, you
need to understand what makes

The Latham— Letter, Summer 1983

them tick. You have to understand for
example, that if you pick up a cat the
wrong way, it’s goingto feel insecure
and it’s probably going to scratch
you.

“If you’re working with a local
humane society on a program ofthis
kind and they seem fussy about
what’s happening tothe animals, it’s
because they’re doing their job.
That’s the kind of quality humane
society you should be working with.”

Here are other guidelines Ms.
Wright offers:

0 Make sure you have the right pet
in the right situation—no German
shepherds in efficiency apartments.
Many elderly people may feel com-
pelledto getlarge dogsforprotection,
but a large dog can be hard for an
older person to handle—and an
attack-trained dog is a definite
danger

0 Elderly adopters must choose
carefully between quieter, more
mature dogs, and puppies, which are
fun and playful but also require
careful and patient training. Cats can
live indoors all the time and keep
themselves quite clean, although the
litter box needs to be changed regu-
larly. However, taking adog forawalk
can be a pleasant excursion for an
elderly person.

0 Different breeds of dogs and
cats tend to have specific
characteristics, and that is another
consideration for placing a pet. For
example, dachshunds, poodles and
some of the terrier breeds have par-
ticularly good pet personalities. Also,
every animal has its own background
which has contributed to its per-
sonality.

0 If an elderly person becomes
unabletocareforapet,whethernew-
ly adopted or a long-time companion,
reliablealternatearrangements need
to be made, preferably allowing the
person to keep the animal.

0 If a pet is to be placed in a nurs-
ing home, one person must be made
responsible for its care, and that per-
son should have sometraining in pet
behavior and requirements. The ad-
ministrators and staff must support
the program.

0 The pet in the nursing home or
the group residence for the elderly
must have a place of its own where it
can rest and sleep—this contributes
to its own sense of security and
makes itabetterpet.The schedule of

feeding and exercise must be fol-
lowed faithfully.

- Differentfacilities are subjectto
different regulations, and these
regulations must be checked and
followed. It would be a hardship for
everyoneifapetprogram ended sud-
denly because the rules were ignored
or misunderstood.

- if your interest is in pets to visit
elderly care facilities, find a reputable
animal agency to work with. (r he
Humane Society of the United States
is not an umbrella organization for
local animal shelters, but Phyllis
Wright can send you information on
how to evaluate an animal agency.)

Finally, remember that while
animals bring much joy and fulfill-
ment to many people’s lives, they
cannot solve social problems. They
shouldn’t be blamed if a particular
person fails to respond to them, and
they shouldn’t be expected to work
miracles.

Anyone who has owned a beloved
pet knows how much the animals
have to offer. But in return, they need
proper care and companionship
themselves. When their needs are
understood and met, they can help
remedy loneliness and lack of pur-
pose for elderly people by providing
a warm and fulfilling relationship.

RESOURCES

Phyllis Wright, Director of Animal Sheltering
and Control, The Humane Society of the
U nited States, 2100 L Street, NW, Washington,
DC 20037.

Judith Star, American Humane Education
Society, Massachusetts SPCA, 450 Salem End
Road, Framingham Center, MA 01701.

Ken White, San Francisco SPCA, 2500 16th
Street, San Francisco, CA 94103.

REFERENCES

Bustad, Leo K., (Dean, College of Veterinary
Medicine, Washington State University),
Animals, Aging and the Aged, The U niversity
of Minnesota Press, 1980.

Caras, Roger, The Roger Caras Dog Book: A
Guide to Purebred Dogs (information on the
temperaments of different dog breeds), Holt,
Rinehart and Winston, NY, 1980.

Fox, Dr. Michael W., Understanding Your Pet,
Coward, McCann and Geoghegan, Inc., New
York, 1978.

Levinson, Boris M., Ph.D., Pets and Human
Development, Charles C. Thomas, Publisher,
Springfield, IL, 1972. g

Page 23

 




D

rawing by W Miller.

 

37981 The New Yorker Magazi

 

I79

 

Inc

. Republished with

.

 

The Lathum Letter, Summer 198.3

perm/SSIon.

 




September 22. 1982

Mr. Charles F. HErrmann, III. Editor
Kind Magazine

2100 L Street. N. W.

Washington, D. C. 20037

Dear Charles:

Thanks for sanding your raview of “Animals, nature and
Albert Schweitzer." It caught the spirit of the book.

and your iﬂaa of making it a Christmas present is a
good onewwtimmly, too.

I hope a whole new generation of readers will be
aelighted by his still unorthodox viewso

Sincerely.

Christine Stevens
President

 




 

 

2100 L St., N.W., Washington, D. C. 20037

September 2, 1982

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President
The Animal Welfare Institute

Post Office Box 3650

Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Enclosed is the September-October edition of Kind magazine.
I thought you might like to see the review of Ann Free's
"Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer" book which I wrote
for Kind. Please see page 15. All other HSUS periodicals
will feature reviews in the months ahead.

I'm pleased with the way the book came out (even though I
did find a few typos). I hope you are, too.

Kind regards,

W1 ’ “W1

Charles F. Herrmann III
Editor, Kind magazine

CFH/lbm
enclosure

Kind is the official youth publication of The Humane Society of the United States

 




I“

. g i
"m umw r' 7' “ba'vmczﬁfr'kwif’z “i”- ‘59 ‘33:: «~ ‘1, Lw-«v-éwf (2;. “L‘ '1 - w I
k

i V 5}! §
.. :q’z ‘3'“ ﬁt} 0 M r)? ahivrwa wﬂwsﬂk ’1‘} «mi; k _.

, _ ‘ r . I,
4-444» "3 ”" «mg... 214-43. . 4+ A)" W A.“ ﬁnk!» fizwmxm'w: :4; .

I
,_ , 3, . ‘ q w + i- r f r. 4 V ' .

'. _ .1

' I
L \r ’ .
x 1" w? 4‘ “ﬂ

ﬁ ,2
///[//f iii/76,4? £34. 4/ / / i)” ‘ £7 1’
,4 V ”I
f
j.

42/ M MW/ ./

,5 ﬂaws/5454 ['4 A

Hafiz/7 [Ida ﬂat» 2% {721,4 [441/4 ~ 54 «ax/“*3

NV, i A ' 7...; 4’4,»
4% 44 4 47:; 444’ 44 U, ,, /

v- . . , '. .' p Z, ,4 -1" 4 7 4-“ ’ ‘4'? /:Fr‘_'_/‘)/
”11/ {44/ If [1,2347 yd é/u mff 177‘: 5’“ 49/4424 '5 War/Jet J, #5234 7261/15 4w" 4/7

.. 4 [j
'j' "' /~/" ( {Hp/2..
,/».,k77§5;w ,1?” < 4,4 Min/Av 4: I
f“

 




ANIMALS, NA TURE AND ALBERT SCHWEITZER

Editing and Commentary
by
Ann Cottrell Free

Schweitzer Medalist, 1963

Photographs by Erica Anderson

This unique small volume shows -- primarily through Dr.
Schweitzer’s own words -- how his philosophy of reverence
for life developed as his life unfolded. It describes his
bond with individual animals. It presents his solution to
the paradox of the will-to—live vs. the will-to-live. It offers
Dr. Schweitzer’s guidance to all persons concerned

with the degradation of the environment and disrespect
for living creatures.

Published by

The Animal Welfare Institute, Washington, D.C.; The Albert Schweitzer
Fellowship, New York, N.Y.; the Humane Society of the United States,

Washington, D.C.; in cooperation with the Albert Schweitzer Center, Great
Barrington, Mass.

For further information:
The Animal Welfare Institute

PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007
or any of the above.

PUBLICA TION DA TE: JA N UAR Y, I 982

 




/

SATURDAY,OCTOBER,17,

1931

 

 

 

Ann Cottrell Free

 

Animal Lovers Are Not Peeple Haters

This is a plea to people who call me, and those like me,
an “animal lover.” Please don’ t call me that until you uno
derstand what it really means

When someone calls me an “animal lover,” as William

Raspberry [op-ed, Oct. 14] called the rescuers of the 17 .

laboratory monkeys, it usually means one thing: people
hater. It means that we care nothing for distressed human
beings. Somehow, we must abolish the mind-set about the
term, erase it completely from our lexicon, until it is clearly
understood that it is part and parcel of life—loving.

Today’s “animal lovers” are coincidentally acting in the
18th century Quaker tradition; Quaker abolitionist John
Woolman would not ride in a stage coach, so distressed was
he by the sight, of the exhausted drivers and horses. Later,
his co-religionists helped set up the underground railway
and secretly taught slaves to read and write.

The false equation—that animal loving equals people
hating—had nothing to do with getting the police to seize

the 17 monkeys on grounds of violating the Maryland ant1~ .

cruelty law. (Those individuals have a record of helping
human beings, as well.)

The equation has nothing to do with picking up a lost dog
' or kitten off the streets. In the 19505, it had nothing to do
with seeking a federal law providing a more merciful death to
pigs, sheep and cattle. In the 1960s, it had nothing to do with
passing laws to clean up laboratory animal dealers and labs
Today it has nothing to do with trying to get Congress to
overhaul and sufﬁciently fund the Animal Welfare Act, and

to try to get the Agriculture Departuient inspectors to stop
glossing over gross violations Nor does it have any bearing on
trying to get members of the public on annual care commit-
tees so that scientists will not be the only policemen. Animal
loving/people hating has nothing to do with the push for
more funding for research into non-animal substitutes, at a
great saving of federal funds.

Certainly, animal loving/people hating has nothing to do
with the growing movement to bring more companion ani-
mals to the homes for the aged, infirm, mentally disturbed
or criminally incarcerated. This is a new role for compan~
ion peanimals (a more meaningful and digniﬁed term than

ts”.) Now animals, in addition to giving their bodies for
testing, are giving us, in another kind of institutional set-
ting, their souls—win a sense-4.0 get us well another way,
their way: people loving. (Fortunately, these animal “pee.
ple lovers” are not usually classiﬁed as “animal haters )

Proof that a pet is better than a pill is being sc1ent1f’ cally
documented (not that we didn’t know it all along.) Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania scientists studied 92 cardiac patients
and canie up with the fact that of the 53 with pets, only

' three died in the following year. Of the 39 Without pets,

alas, 11 died. Pets are proving to be blood pressure lower.
ers, too, so potential stroke victims should take heed.

I invite those who denigratingly call me and my type “ani-
mal lovers” to join me. Come with me to the Hurt Home for
the Blind There, visit with me the black and white, men and
women, all m their 805 and 9011. Stand there and Watch as I

it? Susan Dims

remove a tattered and worn toy dog from the lap of one blind
lady, who sits motionless nearly all day She has trouble get-
ting about since she broke her hip. Watch as I placela a gray
kitten adopted from the Animal Rescue League in her-la p. '
The ooIOr returns to her pale face. She strokes, hugs and.
even km the kitten or dog. Sometimes she recites long—
remembered verses about animals. She is happy and at peace. . a. .
Now, I ask you, is this‘ ‘animal lover” really the “peOple ~f
hater” that legend Would have me, and my kind, be? ' -. '

 

Ann Cottrell Free, axfree-lance writer, is the edi-
tor of “Animals, Nature mid Albert Schweitzer.”

. A“,

 

w,-

 

 




October 27, 1979

TO: Board of Directors, Albert Schweitzer Fellowship

FROM: Ann Cottrell Free

Statement No. 1: Image of ASF, its role, mission of board.

IMAGE:

My concept of ASF is in keeping with the goal found in
the Courier, "to foster the ideals of Albert Schweitzer and to pro~
vide support for continuing his work at the hospital at Lambaréné. ”
That statement seems to reflect Dr. Schweitzer' s wishes, as expressed
in 1955, leaving it to ASF' s judgment how best“to advance the prin-
ciples and services of my philosophy of reverence for life."

WHAT ITS ROLE IS OR SHOULD BE:

In addition to our hospital obligations, the ASF must find
a workable means to carry forth Schweitzer's philosophy. This could
be done in two major ways. One, establishment of several channels
of implementation and two, division of the board into several sec-
tions, reflecting subject areas identified with Dr. Schweitzer.

Channels: We should be a resource organization providing
at lowest poss1ble cost the works of Dr. Schweitzer, anthologies,
books and articles about him. We must find means of distributing
these materials through groups already practicing the Schweitzerian
ethic perhaps on an at-cost rate. If they chose to mark them up
slightly to help their organizations, this would be permissable as
long as cleared with us. Bookstore and library distribution should
be explored, as well. We should originate publications: an enlarged
quarterly and reprints of symposia, etc.

We should be a support organization, carrying
forth the Schweitzerian philosophy in regard to today' 5 central
issues, such as world peace, world hunger, aged, indigent, homeless,
overpopulation, environment, animal welfare. This would mean lending
our name to ad hoc causes, petitions, legislation as long as we do not
jeopardize our tax-free standing. In short, stand up and be counted
on issues that deeply concerned Albert Schweitzer. On occasion, if
we can afford it, we should make financial contributions to worth-
while, struggling organizations and "causes."

Subject Area Sections: The above outlined channels of
implementation will be of little use unless we know how to use them.
The board, as a whole, is in no position to make judgments as would
Dr. Schweitzer, as no one member is the skilled interdisciplinarian:
medicine, music, ecology, theology. Each of us represents one or two
of these disciplines; therefore, those skilled in the same subjects
should be grouped together in sections. Each section, then, could
make the judgments of how to carry out the Schweitzerian philosophy
in that subject area: such as distribution of educational materials,
lending of support to groups and causes, etc. Final approval of the
use of specific channels would come from the full Board -~ which would
have time to study each section's specific proposals.

 




i

'From Ann Cottrell Free

For example, if we establish an ecology section, embracing 4 /
general environment and animal welfare -- probably composed of Christine ;
Stevens, Eric van Loon, Jackson Ice and myself -- we could order our
priorities in this area and make proposals of how to proceed.

Likewise, medical, hOSpital, world peace and social order, music,

etc., sections could order and screen their priorities and report to
the full Board.

In short, the full Board would try to represent the "whole person"
-- i.e. Dr. Schweitzer, and the sections would represent his many
talents and interests.

The sections should be as specific as possible, thus making unneces-
sary a catch-all, omnibus section on "philosophy and ethics."

M

 

.-.._——~
./—

 




October 27, 1979

TO: Albert Schweitzer Fellowship Board

FROM: Ann Cottrell Free

Statement No. 2. Your own image of why asked to serve on board and
assessment of utilization of capabilities.

IMAGE:

My identification with, and involvement in, environmental and
animal welfare issues for the past 25 years, as a newspaper corres-

pondent and writer, may have had something to do with my election
to the board.

Also my assistance in producing the Albert Schweitzer Centennial
at the Smithsonian Institution and my "connection" with Albert
Schweitzer as a recipient of the Albert Schweitzer medal might have
been another reason for my election to the board.

It might also have been known that I had served in China,
India and Europe with the United Nations Relief and with the pre-
cursor of the Agency for International Development. Thus, I would
bring an understanding of populations in the less developed nations.

UTILIZATION:

Frankly, I feel underutilized, particularly when I observe many
opportunities for the Schweitzerian philosophy to be applied with
beneficial results. Living in washington and involved in animal wel-
fare and environmental issues, I try to keep up to date and thus
believe there are many ways that I could be helpful, working strictly
within the guidelines of the board (and/or the Subject Area Section
should one on ecology be established). .

I could be of assistance in working out arrangements with con-
servation and animal welfare groups for the sale of Schweitzerian
materials in such a manner that both the ASP and the specific organ-
ization could realize a small profit to plough back into operations.

I could call to the board's attention new organizations that need
our support. By way of illustration, I am distributing copies of a
recent newsletter issued by an organization that would have met with
Dr. Schweitzer's approval: The Scientists Center for Animal Welfare.

Its purpose clearly reflects Dr. Schweitzer's view of the use of ani-
mals. A

 




October 27, 1979
T0: Albert Schweitzer Fellowship Board

FROM: Ann Cottrell Free

Statement No. 3. Image of effective way board is meeting its role
as you define it.

No one can fault the board for its effective role in helping
the hospital at Lambaréhé nor its new Harvard medical intern
program. Splendid.

The beginnings of a literature-resource program seem to be.
shaping up. But it must be expanded. If we can set up the subject

area sections, each can explore needs for Schweitzer material and ways
and means of distributing it.

The Courier -- so well edited by Estelle Linzer -- is excellent,
but it should be greatly expanded in size and circulation. It could
carry a letters-to-the editor column, a question and answer column,
and it could solicit from readership their views on how Dr. Schweitzer
would handle certain problems. We could get a debate going on
the energy issue in light of Schweitzer' 8 philosophy. We could get
third world people to write for it. we could have a ”news and notes"
section reporting on our activities in each discipline and what other
Schweitzer groups are doing. Also news items from Lambarénél We
could call on doctors, lawyers, authors, naturalists, musicians to
give us their views of ”reverence— for life," etc., etc. The Courier,
particularly if it makes a strong appeal for funds, will pay for its
expansion and give us additional funds for other projects.

We should have greater membership involvement on our investment
portfolio, and perhaps look to larger returns on our investments,
particularly while interest rates are so high.

To keep Dr. Schweitzer's ethic alive, we should try to view
and act on issues in the manner we believe he would view them, and
thus not drag our feet nor act impulsively. we must take a few risks,
perhaps suffer a few failures in judgment, but we will and must keep
alivee- and visible.

 




4» «n- '
5fgag§¥$¥
923‘." V

 

:NM
_ a; -
LIV -‘

I“
’14 ‘
raw?!"

 




 

Animals

December 1978
Volume 111 Number 6

Editor
Deborah Salem

Managing Editor
Susan Burns

Art Director
Malcolm Mansﬁeld

Editorial Assistant
Deborah Kowitz

Book Review Editor
Mimi E. B. Steadman

Circulation Coordinator
Patricia MacDougall

Editorial and Business
Ofﬁce: 350 South Huntington Ave.
Boston, Mass. 02130 (617) 522-5055

Published six times a year,

February, April, J une,

August, October,

December by The Massachusetts

Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals. and its affiliates, The
American Humane Education Society

and The American Fondoult

Maintenance Committee, 350 South
Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass. 02130.
Subscription, $6.50 per year. Second

class postage paid at Boston, Massachusetts.
Printed by Foremost Lithograph. Ali publication
rights reserved. Contents reprinted only

by permission of the editor.

This publication is available in Microfortn from

Xerox University Microfilm
300 North Zeeb Road
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106

Complete information available by mail

POSTMASTER: Please send Form 3579
to Animals Magazine. 350 South
Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass. 02130

A Note to Contributors
Manuscripts, drawings, and photographs having
to do with animals, wild or domestic, may

be submitted to our editorial office for
consideration. Although we cannot assume
responsibility for loss or damage, we do treat all
material in our possession with care. To ensure
the safe return of work submitted, please
enclose a stamped, selfoaddressed envelope of
appropriate size with each contribution.

To obtain a copy of our Editorial Guidelines
send a stamped, self-addressed envelope to
Animals, 350 South Huntington Avenue,
Boston 02130.

Cover & 20

How does a baboon let other baboons know that
it is afraid? How does a bird tell a man where a
cache of honey is located? If the concept of
animal communication leaves you speechless, let
linguist Thomas A. Sebeok introduce you to his
fascinating specialty in “‘Talking’ With Animals:
Zoosemiotics Explained.” Cover illustration by
Plunkett Dodge.

10
A Letter to
Mr. James Michener

11

" A Hospice in Morocco

Returning to the American Fondouk after a
sixteen-year absence, Walter E. Kilroy reports
on the good works of this special hospital.

17
Calendar Gallery

The MSPCA’s 1979 calendar is better than ever.
As a holiday gift to our readers, we offer a poster
from this year’s gallery of stars.

24
The Lurcher

In the tradition of Lassie Come Home and 01d
Yeller is this unforgettable story of a dog’s strug-
gle to survive. An excerpt from the new novel by
Frank Walker.

28 .
Memories of Coyotes Past

Robert Joe Stout’s boyhood memories of a
coyote named Lizzie dispel the myths surround-
ing this intelligent and playful canid.

2 Macomber ’78
3 Message from the President
4, Letters '
6 Dateline: Animals
32 Bookshelf
34 Angell On Call

 




A Letter to M r. James M iehener

Dear Mr. Michener, This, I thought you would like to know. by Ann COUTCH Free

At a cocktail-buffet in Washington, the summer of ’78
Raves, raves, raves about your book,

Chesapeake.

All the little stores on the Eastern Shore

Are selling it.

An agreeable Mr. and Mrs. I talked to (never caught their name)
Told me how wonderful it is to have

You there, living near their second home—the place

They like the best when the Canadas are ﬂying high.

They loved what you wrote about the geese.

And we talked about what you wrote about those geese
Mating for life.

We talked about how well you handled the part about

The wounded goose wife. Shot by hunters.

But saved by the gander

So they could fly, ﬂy, fly northward

(Some even over the Cape)

Raise another family and again and again

Escape, escape.

The Mr. and Mrs. said it was too bad that man has to kill the geese.
Since there are no more wolves around

To do it. -

Killing the. geese helps the farmers, so they wanted

To give the farmers a hand, save the cr0ps and all that.
(Seems'to me I’ve heard these arguments before—never
That it’s so much fun.) '
'And they also told me that their dog was helping them

Take the wolves’ place, too.

They had sent him to retriever school and they missed him
Something fierce.

And hoped he would be home soon.

And the hunting (or is it “shooting”?) season

Couldn’t come soon enough.

(Come and gone, by now, no doubt.)

The conversation went on and on-you, geese, dogs, wolves;
And then the-Mr. of the couple,whose name I never caught,
Told me proudly ’ I '

Of what once he had done:

“I got two geese with one shot once,”

He said. (He really did.)

Oh, Mr. Michener, did I blow my cool

When I said real soft and low

To this agreeable, partying pair

(Maybe they did not hear.)

“I hope they were Mr. and Mrs.

“So neither would be left to mourn— _

‘ ‘Or, for that matter, to go to parties alone. ”

 




4700 Jamestown Road, Washington, D. C. IZOOIG

71A.“ .’ 'r 4’ . if
{ff N , ‘ J ‘1 7‘ ‘ E 'C I if:
' —-—- ,1 7 ' , g: .« My; 9 g
s . 9‘ . v 3: ,y
‘ " I "'
n ‘r ' :35. j“ I 1‘.
I I» ' ‘1 {2‘

72) Wad/61:. g/éWJ/(rpﬂwr—

a; fie/cc. #10”de f4/ranfrll, Mo .

ﬁt“ 05783:; (on: 5 510/.) 0/. a;
M50110“ﬂ /*¢7IM~ ”0“) All f’LX/t/oL
/S I; 6 [c/A ﬂat»! art/7m. /&A—,
fuﬁxV/o’ 520v aﬁ/Fa 7'4 Fan/5%
{0447 7115.03; Kuf *ﬁv Mas—aw /Wt’c_’
”ﬂ,” o/eru: tori/l 7’. /ﬁ‘aa.M/l .. /Z,u ,',

mph???” (%,k A, /mw\.) ﬁrm“
/ 720%- /la( 4 7741/30". ﬁend (IA—— I

[07/ (Lb k WW, hymn-ﬂ K/JuL/Q
ﬂax' WPOL //$¢o . szgx' MT-

 




Con/mum! m Mao/9 if Jar, (
M Ivan) 70¢ 22,» .rP-yi‘IS/‘ZAJ‘
ﬁ/ﬂvo’e [ﬁfe Amy M ,L ﬁ/t/Ad
In 7”, /K{S/rm.. fame 0/Ha/ Aalé/p/
9/, 7C Alena/sh, ﬂtu XZA‘ % ﬂuid,

AWA 04mm“ ’
/

I: m not

col/WK

/44 [07% w/ég/v 7M7 ﬂ

jab U AA”? Vt [£57.

gm
ﬂ»

if X} ”PM 1014 6// M 574/)! ﬁJ’aF
HIM,“ [Vi—g Irina/4d, i4». aﬂyu-

 




I33. Innnn Innn.
333m; gtnn *3 3 I3.- 8..

Inn? 3.33113

3 I nnn InInmnInﬁ In :33 In? 39% hnnbnné 3:3 Iﬂinln nn Ihn
III’I‘InnlIInn 3f gnItIng Inn 333333133 II III-I In Innis 333333333
Imnn. III anInn nnnn "III “I In In fwﬁiﬁmma I $13333?“
333333 Ihnt . ﬁnring III we nnI Inhntn €322 33W 3333613 nanny I'm
3 WEE Wﬁﬁ t9 gﬁﬁ’ $3? :33 £73.? thﬁ W affi‘alfa Ihnm Inland IMI
nnm II 3&an Mnnwnninn nlninnﬁ In In main In gnvnmnnm
Inkwntnrins vanilla 33,333 IIznfn. II 153 all vary nnnfnn ' ' : ,
3mg} 3; 33—333: 333.33, iqnnnII-nns nI" Innrin in nninncn, baing In;
3333333333 . In 33333 In nnjnnIzIIInnn, n33 nubInnIIn 33.3. 3?an If
33.333333333333333 frnn II In In £33m- ; I thInI: II 33mm In Inn?
InInnnnisIng If Jim nn 331:3; ntInn n Inn nf Ihnnn 333312333 III-313333 I
113313 33333., 9333311313, I mum In 333% Intnnnntné In In nrnIng
233333. Thnrn nnn In nnny 13333 :I’Iggnrnn nus} lnrgn gnnnnnIInnIIzmn
3233333 In Innrimn Inn“; dabntn nn 33333 Inn 33331333. mnmmn 332333
Ina 313nm nannnn In In nnn‘mnII nny npnnIfIn (inn-$333.33 nninnd 33me
nhnI I’m III 3333333 ﬁfﬁﬁﬁ. 333333 II ny-nrnn In 3 nvnn h Ihn 333m nnprnnn
I333; IInn IIIII Inn nnnh 3:33 3 ii? 333-3311? IIVW 359 3135533 33315 nnny.

33333; nInMw

353’: 33353133“:

 




August 22, 1959

Dear Christine:

Your note about Jim‘s column on N.I.H.
was very interesting. I have delayed acknowledging
it partly because I thought I would be able
to comment more fully on that general subject.
It happens that I am doing some research on
an article that has a bearing on N.I.H. But
at the moment I can't generalize because I
don't know enough. Véty COM/[III 7X15 (0/4/49 1M7.

Jim's objective in his column was to get
the government to give more attentionr~i.e. to
do full and frank testing, to medical drugs
developed "by one man and a boy" as well as
these from the big pharmaceutical houses.

It is so difficult for the layman to judge

when the outsidersT-that is, people not in

the regular drug business claim they have
something that will effec a cure. Consequently,
government should bend over backwards -- so

it seems to me ~- to see that these people get

a fair shake.

When I see you I would like very much
to discuss some other angles along this line
withéyou, which might help in the experimental
animal picture.

Looks like the horse bill went as scheduled;
I will make some inquiries on the Senate side
the first of the week. If I turn up anything
I'll drop you a note pronto!

Your ,

//’

 




A7272 Camel! Free/I . jl /

 

f

’x

V}: ,
K a.

W,
QM“ (92/! 1.947! s.‘ ("T gt,“ ,

ﬂ; a/ézzéd ﬂit! [wavy
:mMow o/ra/az' ('sz Adz/041?;
M/éﬂrtd Lf‘ #67 0'”

ﬂp Mai-f 25/“

”ref/Ll
Z7 WWI/79917 A” P/a/é

faireoo’ MMM ﬂfﬁuéﬂé
ﬂmb /6' a// 742V 700/

fpﬂm (/Zﬂﬁlé , .
CPTO/

 




/ loll/ “1711/: 744 aid/l,
50m, ﬂaw 4w JIUSAJ
7%04’045; I’M/4 (/quM/fgfffewd/
/~ fﬁ/M/A-A/é/ MIM/s /

Mat é ’éF/L You Ileana
)

I)” V” (Baum; ﬁr; 011,.

74::0/
,4.

 




§ , 11:33.. 313333 11333

113333 5133 33333 1311331.. 113 331 :31 3133 133133313 31 1133 ”1’33. ' 1'13 2331 W7
_ 13 33:33 1.33 3333' 313331.313 3W, 13.33 1 1131.331: 331331.33 333.3131 13 1:33: -_‘.:1.‘333 ; «:13 3333 313333
11:33: 33331. 31‘ 3.3333 3331 33331 3.333 3.31 33311333 3:33.31. 3331 1333 311:1: 33.3313 5
’ ‘ ' ‘ 3133, 1 11331311 11331 113 33331331133 331? 331.3313 1.3 11333 33
_ . ' “* ' ‘ 3333.1 33.333313 1.3 333-3 1.333.333, 133' 33.3.3313
:13 33;” 3.131131 3173 331,. 1 333 «313; .1331 33 3313.331 33 1133333 33313.1. 033 3313‘
5-. . . " . 3 311.333 3. 1.33 31:13 31 133333 1333.13 31 3333311333 33333 3
3 1‘ 31 333313 131.13 333 1.1331 3; W333: 33331333 3.33313 33 3:1 3331131133333 M3311
413333 11. 11131333 13311321313313, 1133 311333 1:33:31, 333. “3333 33:33 3.3333 3331 3133331331 in .
' 3331:3113, 3.331% 311333133 1:3...131 1.3 1:33 .3 33:33 13 3. 3 11.3 33333 1333313331 1133
1.131 Wit ﬂ ‘ . .

1:331 31 1133 3333333 113331. 11‘ 33:31. 33313331. 313333 1333‘ 33, 1:31 3311333 1333 13133
333333 333.313 .3333 :13. 3333 3:1." 3.13333, :13 11:33 1’ 131.33 31.33.13 3; 1.133 3333 3333
I 333 313331 1331‘ 33131131333: 13 133333 13 3313.33.33 33331 32333331. 3331333 3 3.331 33
33311.3 1332:: 3333333131 3331 333333333 11333: 3. 1333313333 33:13:31.3 315. 1133 ' 3 :13 3.. 33331
. 3. 1.33 313131333 3333. 1.3 1.133 3333 3333333313 1333,, 11." 13333 33331333 = :31 31 33:3. 3133‘: .33 1.3
33131311313 33: 3.1.. 1.1333 3133 1333 :33 133 33.3.. 33:33 1.1333333 33.31313 33313 13:33 33333333133 13 133
. 1‘33 333 33333.33 333.13%“ 3331: 333.1 3.3 333.3331 1.1., 333.31. 333313 133 133:}: 1‘11 3 .-.§"3 3:13:33 1331 133‘ '
3333133331133 31 33331333313 3:“: 333311 3 3.33; 33:31 :11 1.33.311 3333.331313 1:: 1333 1.1333.

113 21.1.3133 133.1133 31 31331133, 13333 3333 3:31... 3333 13 111‘. 11.3133 1:33: 1:331.) 3333 3331.313
3331333 3133311 311.1133 ‘13 53 313333 13333.3 3.31 1-3 113331 33231 :11" 1.13333 :13 3333‘ 333313311333 13
333131.333 113331. 3133 333333 31*? . . _

11333133 1333 333313.33 3. 33333 3.3 113‘. “1333 3 1311.1... 11 333333 33 11.33 33333 11:33 333
3.3333 1.1, 1.331 133 333311 33313“. 3333313 3 3333313321. 133 3331' 13133331333: 33.3. 33.33 ‘
331 33 3113 33 313 1.13 #1333333 133‘ 3 133333133; 33331 3133 13333133313331 3331339131 33 1‘1.
I 31311313 1133 31331333313 331.131.1313 33 33333333, 1331 '1 33333 3: 3333;! 3.1331333 313331 31
13313 33 1:: 3333.33.13 31:31 13 31,333 333 3.31 33 13 3313311333 113333 333 313.3313: 31 3-“ 3

' 33* -' “1.33 133133 33 1.1.1 33 31:33 333-195 31 1213314333331 3:313 33.133.33- 1
.1: 3:3 331‘. 3 21:33 13 331.3. 31' 3133 333313135?
133‘ 12313331. '* -” 13131313333313 33333331333313 3333 3331-. 333321.31 11.133 13 3333333333
11313 33333331 31 1113 13.113. 1.1 1 33.33.321.31 331. 3 11.11.1313 3333 1313.333 1.333 333 11. .1". 33.33.3333.
1.1331 3 31313.33 1:31 111. 1333 1333333 33333331 1:33 1113 1313 31 113333313; ”13.31 11331 33 333.313
31 1133 1.3333 :13 133333313 33333321 11333 1133 33.313 1333 1333 33 311331 31‘ 3.33. 1.3333 3313
ﬁffmg '

 




fﬁa haﬁ‘& iat$$f ﬁrﬁm Irﬁiaﬂﬁ rﬁﬂﬁﬁtly ahawing a gruaaama yiéturﬁ 02.2222231
'ang‘mﬁm: and the strapmd Emmy, I 222:2 mam this 1% bad. fez-r 02223:? 'wfamigm
minimum . Tim 9122mm 22w 2222:2922 warm ﬁlm; aw that prWc‘i 222.2 22222 Marinara
Preﬁa. Emﬁia2aagﬁeiakxy is likﬂzy 2g ﬁat vary fad up-with as an thig matter.
23333112.?- 3: maﬁa. 2,23- the; Army, gm; 3' mimwgraphaé 32233132 «2222232 Wham 1:" Emma £22232
facts (this! mmaagragscheé regal}? 22222:; 23222222222; but npimimz- ﬁrm at 2222221122: 2221222222222
m2) get 222:: reply” at all». The magma 3322:2222 22222212342229 mm t3“?! 222232212275» 2‘
mt.- aéz all wﬁmamml hut @215 12312252 2:22-29; 22m .22: 220152. mgivﬁr d 3 the 292222.

Y Ammmntly mam are mm pmblam with 2.2122 Eiamr-Cmihear $2222.22 2:212 mink;
but; it; is 32221333 222222221 3212?)? 2211325: in 222222222, trawﬁng and a 3 2317 2302222322, $2223 bulk
9f trmﬁﬂmﬂ arﬁmalzs are magmats. if; Mpg to ~22 22:2 222,512 2229 Aging: Trap {3232223332232
ﬁﬁmﬁﬁﬁﬁm 8092‘? mm get all “him 12.2mm; 3.22%.?222225232222.

222222122 yam and Jim 'iike to £9 to 22222 {iamocmtic 1321222222222 with 2:23 2:222 Efabmasry 21823.22? '
22a “WM 122% 1323 2222282021 1:22 92122-222222» «s; we have 22 2222312 22222.2. :22. 222222222 2222 a mag
3112222232;- ta 522222 yea. - .

B2231; 222.222: 2:25 ,

ﬁfmwmlgr:

 




’PJCniieb ﬁiafez ﬁeréfe

PRESS GALLERY

Feb. 7, 1959
Dear Christine:

Thank.you for the valuable "Facts About Furs"
pamphlet and the convincing Outdoor Life article.

I intended to write before this, but have been
checking up on a few things of mutual interest. Dick Neuberger's
office says to wait and see if he plans to re-introduce the
trap bill. He is due back next week. I talked to Billy Twyne
and she told me that the Defenders of Fur Bearers feel that
the last manufactured Conibear traps had inferior springs.

(but you know more about this whole story than I do -- though
I hope at some point to work up a newspaper story if it would
prove helpful.)

My principal efforts recently -- other than tﬁ:ying
to meet a deadline on my book —- have been directed toward g
finding the truth about the extent of dead feeding of snakes?
at the National Zoo.

The picture shapes up something like this: no
live chickens or live rabbits are now being fed. (I have this

in writing from Director Ted Reed.) The feeding of live mice,
rats to snakes unwilling to take dead ones has been resumed.

I do not know exactly how many snakes are involved as I am
awaiting hppefully the results of a very éngenious device that
may attract these obstinate reptiles to dead food.

If this works, it could be of great interest else-
where. The small motors of electric razors (in this case redondition-
ed Schicks) are to be used to simulate life in dead rodents.
The vibration may cause the snakes to think the food is moving.
The plan is to attach the motor to a little platter and the
mouse is put on it. Or perhaps they can attach it to the mouse
itself. Dr. Reed admits running into technical difficulties
already. But apparently this idea has been used at Tulane U.
by a zoologist with some success. I will let you know how
it works out.

Getting full and frank information from the directors
on this entire matter has been semewhat trying. Dr. Reed passed
the responsibility to the Assoc. Director Lear Grimmer who is
a herpetologist. At first all dead food was fed and feeding
charts were kept for about four or five weeks. Then Grimmer
went to Alaska for weeks, returned briefly at Chrismmas, then
off again to South America. In the meantime I had a hard time
finding out what was really going on. But what I have reported
above, I think, is the story as it stands today.

 




 

~UPI Photo

A lady monkey named “Miss Patience” showed congressmen at a Hill hearing how she
is being trained to travel in space. Miss Patience was strapped in a chair and pulled a
lever every time a light flashed. (If she didn’t, she got a mild electric shock.) After her
demonstration, Miss Patience was fed an apple by Rep. James G. Fulton (1%., Pa.)

 




 

 

 

 

-'l~“.k‘ﬂ '

x ,2, -
‘ ,
1;! .W

s4, ‘
-: .« hf ‘

5N

    

f:

  

.' "5‘“

YP' (.3

as

 

v!
,

‘0!

 

 

 

      

 
    

13?;

Us

                    
                   

”It," $4“!- 49‘ 13?: e
3 5.3x. fake

I 'r.
‘l

3.

4
5:.

!
who

i

'4}

 

.'\

           
          

 

3 q. ‘ I~ .
{JCLQ UVLV 29*

:2
Q ‘4 (

.__' ‘ ‘

.
u

      
      

P ., Ii"
9‘},

   

7“ ,w .«
Lsir’ﬂ'.

 

 
 

1.; r, \J ‘2: r.

>9 n, yr,“ v, 5

3‘

 

1‘4

§

w

1..

3

a
. 1‘
kiwi-

n1.

 

 

 




4500 Que “ans N.W.

Sept. 12, 1958

Dear Christine:

Your kind note on my role
in the passage of the humane slaughter leg-
islation was more than generous. I do
appreciate it. As I have said before your
constant hard work, inspiration and devotion
was a most major factor/ in the success of
the bill.

I am.a bit miffed by the
failure of the Dept. of Agric. to include
either one of your organizations in the humane
group listing for naming persons to the
Edvisory Committee. Surely, they are national.

Before mailing this I talked
to Helen Jones at the Humane Society of the U.So

to see if they’d seen this attached press re—
lease. Also to say what I have in the above
paragﬁph. Fred may have phoned you or Stella
by now, but I am sending this along anyway as
it is important for you to kwow about this.

If this is a deliberate slight
perhaps a story might be in order. Do let me
know -- as we must get you represented if you
qualify under the law.

Also if you can get in touch
with me soon, I have something rather important
to discuss with you about feeding live animals
to reptiles. I have the statement, obtained by
your AWI from Oliver at the Broni Zoo, about
the very small- lOi% -- which are fed live create
urea. But I have a concern in another place.

I have something specific in mind.

Alliﬂm best ...

ﬂ/

 




You asked about the Friends of the National Zoo when
we talked on the phone not long ago. I became active for
one reason only: to be in the most effective position
possible to help the animals.

( I would not have known about the live food being fed
snakes if I had not been making a behind the scenes tour of
the Zoo to get material for the brochure I wrote for the
organization.)

I have tried to remind my fellow board members of the 1
needs of the animals as well as their viewers. (Incidently,
the President is a former legislative aide to Sen. Humphrey ~-
Max Kampplaﬂlan. Though the snake feeding problem has not ger
been brought before the Board, Max -- knowing about the power
of the humanitarians on the humane slaughter issue-- advised
the Zoo directors informally to feed dead fooquj /4d 5/,»oémy éﬂem)

I am steering clear of the public relations side, but

will handle any publications the group puts out and thus

an create a feeling favorable to animal needs. If and
when the $00 gets more money from Congress, among other
things, outdoor runs must be attached to the dark and
miserable fortress called the Small Mammal House. Some of
these animals are nocturnal and do not need to see the
sky, but think of those that do have that need ~- huddled
in their lonely cages day after day.

Whether "humanitarians" in this kind of organization
can be helpful, I don't know. But I am giving it a try.
I would be happy if you were a fellow member. But whether
this would put you in the position of endorsing Zoos is the
question. Anyway I am sending the invitation brochure along
as you said you would like to see it.

“(120,4 .

I am enclosingABaring3(D. Nev.) bill banning use of
aircraft to hunt horses burros on Federal land. Most of
the land in Nev. is Federal. Judiciary may have hearings on
this —- I am to check back next week. He put it in last year
too, but nothing happened.

From the length of this le ter, you can get some indication
how much I would like to discuss various things with you. Your
last blue bulletin was full of valuable information. I look'fonward
to the time I can put more time on more stories on animals.

The Air Force had the insensitivity to bring some little monkeys
down here to show the Senators of the Space Committee how they
candition them for space travel. One T.V. show was gruesome --
monkey flat on back, all, ut head strait~jacketed down, and he
was twirled. Joe.McCaffeny, the local WMIL newsman, did remind

the audience that the monkeys didn't volunteer. He's a good guy ——
put in some plugs for humane slaughter last year. PTO

 




’PJCnifeB ﬁfafeﬁ $enafe

PRESS GALLERY

I can't find that clipping about the Air Force animal training,
but it is at Wright Field, Dayton,0hio.

,ﬂ~— _
Give my regards to Sittn Stella and your family.

Sincerely,

ﬂee

 




