 

 

INTRODUCTION

New York’s Wild Bird Law was signed by the Governor in
August 1984. The law states “Except as permitted by rule and
regulation of the department, [Department of Environmental
Conservation] no person shall sell live wild birds... unless such
birds were born and raised in captivity.” The New York State
Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC), with input
from the public and an advisory group comprised of
representatives of the pet industry, bird breeders, veterinarians,
ornithologists, and various humane groups, developed
regulations which became effective November 1, 1985.

This booklet was prepared to help provide clear answers to
many of the common questions that the public may have
regarding the Wild Bird Law. The questions and answers
contained herein are general, and may not apply to all
situations. For more complete information, please refer to the
regulations (6 NYCRR Part 174). A copy of the regulations is

‘ included as Appendix A.

 




QUESTIONS & ANSWERS
1. Q What does the law prohibit?

A No person may sell, or offer for sale, in New York
State, any live bird or bird egg which was taken from
the wild. All birds sold, or offered for sale in the state
must have been born and raised in captivity.

. u i

There are some limited exemptions to this prohibition
which are described in section 174.3 of the attached
regulations (see Appendix A).

we, T
#2.:

This law does not prohibit the possession of a wild
caught bird; only the sale of such birds is regulated
within New York State. ’

r
’c ' .
lit:
t3}

, 2 fl
P514

The provisions of this law apply to private as well as
commercial sale of live wild birds.

77

2. Q What is meant by “sale or offering for sale?

“Sale” means any delivery or transfer of title or
possession for monetary gain or any other consideration.
This also includes, but is not limited solely to, trade,
barter or exchange for other items.

“Offer for sale” means offering or exposing for sale. This
includes display for sale, and soliciting for sale in
catalogs, newspapers, magazines or other advertising
matter.

3. Q Who may sell birds?

Anyone may sell birds that are exempt (see QUeStion 5)’
marked with a seamless leg band (see Question 6) 01‘
marked with a butt-end leg band applied by a licensed
NYS Bird Breeder to the leg of a bird that he or she
produced (see Question 7)

 




.......

State, Federal or local governmental agencies may sell
birds without regulation.

Scientific, zoological or educational institutions having a
permit issued pursuant to section 11—0515 of the
Environmental Conservation Law may sell live wild

birds.

Domestic game birds may be sold by a domestic game
bird breeder licensed pursuant to section 11-1901 of the
Environmental Conservation Law. After November 1,
1991, all birds sold shall be captive raised.

My business depends on the sale of birds. What birds
will I be able to legally sell?

You will be able to sell birds that meet the following
criteria:

a. Any bird that appears on the exempt list (see
Question 5).

b. Any captive raised bird marked with an acceptable
seamless leg band placed on the bird at birth.

c. Any bird obtained from a licensed NYS Bird Breeder
which is marked with an approved, numbered, butt-
end leg band placed on the bird by that licensed
NYS Bird Breeder attesting to the bird’s captive
birth.

d. Any bird acquired before May 1, 1986 may be sold
between May 1, 1986 and November 1, 1986
provided that the seller furnishes a written statement,
proof of possession, that such bird was in his or her
legal possession prior to May 1, 1986. A sample
proof of possession statement is included in
Appendix B.

After November 1, 1986, any regulated bird
remaining in your inventory may not be offered for

 




,\
. .
- i
'0!
l
i’V'.
.122"
in
‘ .‘
EY
)1', S
‘1

gr
{if
\‘I

»‘ Away—2.- “a.
~52: M - ~

sk—‘v;
‘Llﬁs

,-

“h

grim

,p,
."

-71. v. {5?
23.22312"

\—.' ‘.e,- g: ‘
‘ V..u‘;_1.‘..~:' “‘2 1‘ 'i

 

sale without a proof of possession statement and a
Wild Bird Permit issued by DEC. The cost of this
Wild Bird Permit is $10.00 per bird. The Wild Bird
Permit must be signed by the buyer when the bird is
sold and must be displayed in a prominent location
in the shop.

e. You may sell birds to licensed NYS Bird Breeders.
5. Q Which birds are considered exempt from the regulations?

A The following captive raised birds are exempt and may
be sold at anytime without regulation.

Canary and all varieties
Budgerigar

Cockatiel and all mutations
Zebra finch

(Lady) Gouldian finch
Bengalese (society) finch
Diamond dove

Java sparrow* *

Blue masked lovebird
Crimson rosella

Eastern rosella
Pale-headed (blue) rosella
Red-rumped parrot (and all mutations)
Bourke’s parrot

NOTE: These are common names for these birds.
Because of variations in terminology and specialized
trade names, refer to the regulations for the scientific
names of individual species. The department may
consider petitions for additions or deletions to the list
provided that the inclusion of a species of bird on the list
will not cause additional birds to be captured in the wild.

Federal law prohibits importation of the Java sparrow.




W 13' x“.
T\l".\:' 1.;
w “.11; l llff.

6. Q What will DEC consider an acceptable seamless leg
band?

A An acceptable seamless leg band is a solid—ring leg band
of sufficient design and construction to ensure that it
cannot be removed when the bird has reached adult size
without destroying the band. This band must be applied
to the leg of a newly hatched captive bird by the
breeder. The DEC does not require breeders to be
licensed to use seamless bands nor are specific
identification numbers or other markings on seamless
bands required (see Appendix C).

7. Q What is an approved butt-end leg band?

A An approved butt-end leg band is an open ring band
applied to the leg of a live wild bird of any age. The
band must bear the prefix “NYS” followed by the license
number of the NYS Bird Breeder who produced the
bird. A licensed NYS Bird breeder may apply bands
only to those birds which he or she produced. (see
Appendix C)

8. Q My shop inventory includes many wild caught birds
purchased before the law went into effect. Can Isell
these birds to someone else?

A Yes. If you have a bill of sale or other proof that the
bird was obtained prior to May 1, 1986, the effective
date of the Law, you may sell the bird until November
1, 1986 without a Wild Bird Permit. The department will
accept a written statement that the bird being sold was in
your possession prior to May 1, 1986 and bearing a
form notice that a false statement made therein is
punishable pursuant to Section 210.45 of the NYS
Penal law.

 




 

9. Q
10. Q
A

An acceptable proof of possession statement has been
developed for your use (see Appendix B.)

After November 1, 1986 you must have acceptable
proof of possession and a permit from the department to
sell each bird you owned before May 1, 1986. This
permit, known as a Wild Bird Permit, costs $10.00 per
bird and must be obtained before a bird can be offered
for sale after November 1, 1986.

How do [get a Wild Bird Permit?

In order to obtain a Wild Bird Permit you must write to
the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation,
Special Licenses Unit, 50 Wolf Road, Albany, NY
12233 and request a Wild Bird Permit/ Application.
Your request must include;

1. Your Name

2. Your Address

3. Area Code and Telephone Number .
4. The TOTAL NUMBER OF BIRDS YOU ARE

OFFERING FOR SALE WHICH WILL NEED A
PERMIT.

If you are in the business of selling birds, it would be
wise to plan your inventory so that you have sold most
of your non—exempt unbanded birds prior to November
1, 1986. After November 1, each bird sold will cost you

an additional $10 for a Wild Bird Permit before you can
offer it for sale. .

Does this law prohibit the sale of imported birds?

No, birds may be imported and sold provided they are
one of the exempt species listed in the regulation, or
they are captive raised birds marked with an acceptable
seamless leg band placed on the bird at birth.

' 1%“




11. o

12. Q

The sale of birds bearing butt-end leg bands, will be
allowed only if the butt—end band is of the type
approved by DEC and attached to a captive raised bird
by the licensed NYS Bird Breeder who produced the
bird.

May [purchase a bird from an out of state dealer by
mail or phone and have it delivered in New York?

You may not have a bird delivered in New York State
unless it is one of the exempt species or marked with an
approved seamless leg band.

A licensed NYS Bird Breeder may purchase any live
wild bird for use as breeding stock. Regulated birds
purchased by a breeder under this exemption may not
be resold except as permitted under section 174.4 of the
regulations (Appendix A).

Ibreed and raise birds as a hobby. Will I have to
become a licensed NYS Bird Breeder?

For most amateur breeders, very few restrictions will
apply.

If you don’t sell or barter any of your birds you will not
need to become a licensed NYS Bird Breeder.

A NYS Bird Breeder’s license won’t be required to breed
and sell any of the birds on the exempt list.

If you band the young birds you have hatched with
approved seamless leg bands placed on the birds at
birth, they may also be sold without a license or permit
regardless of species.

The only instances which will require you to be a
licensed NYS Bird Breeder is if you wish to acquire un—
banded birds (therefore presumed wild caught) to
supplement your breeding stock or wish to have the

 




option to apply approved butt-end leg bands to captive
born and raised stock that you wish to sell. Licensed
NYS Breeders will be required to maintain records of
purchase and sale of birds, application of butt-end
bands, transfers, breeding loans and births and deaths of
birds held pursuant to the license.

13. Q How do I get a NYS Bird Breeder license?

A If you feel that you will need to become a licensed NYS
Bird Breeder, please write to the NYS Department of
Environmental Conservation—Special Licenses Unit, 50
Wolf Road, Albany, NY 12233 and request an
application for a NYS Bird Breeder license. You must be
a legal resident and conduct your breeding operation in
New York state to be issued a NYS Bird Breeders
License. Certain restrictions and conditions apply to all
licensed NYS Bird Breeders (see Regulations Section
1745—1749).

 

14. Q What birds must 1 band?

You need not band the exempt species in order to sell
them.

If you put acceptable seamless leg bands on your birds
at birth, you do not need to be a licensed NYS Bird
Breeder nor do you need to be a resident of NYS.

If you wish to have the option of applying approved
butt-end leg bands to the birds that you raise, you must
become a licensed NYS Bird Breeder.

Unless otherwise permitted in the regulations, you need
to band only those birds which you intend to sell.
However, it would be to your advantage to band all the
young birds that you raise so that they may be sold at a
later date if you should choose.

 

 




15. Q

16. Q

What is the penalty for violating this law?

A violation of this law is punishable by a fine of not
more than $250.00 or imprisonment for not more than
15 days or both. In addition, a person may be liable for
a civil penalty of $60.00 and an additional penalty of
$25.00 for each bird involved in the violation.

1 have other questions concerning New York’s Wild Bird
Law. Who should I contact?

For further information on the Wild Bird Law write to:

WILD BIRDS

NYSDEC—Special Licenses

50 WOLF ROAD

ALBANY, NEW YORK 12233-0001

 

 




10

APPENDIX A PART ‘74

SALE OF LIVE WILD BIRDS
(Statutory authority: Environmental Conservation Law, § 11-1728)

Sec. Sec.

174.1 Definitions 174.6 Bird breeder’s license; issuance

174.2 Prohibition by department

174.3 Permitted sales 174.7 Bird breeder’s license; conditions

174.4 Bird breeder’s license 174.8 Bird breeder’s license; fee

174.5 Bird breeder's license; 174.9 Identification of live wild birds
application 174.10 Penalties and enforcement

Historical Note

Part (§§ 174.1-174.10) filed Oct. 31, 1985 eff. Nov.
1, 1985.

Section 114.1 Definitions. As used in this Part, the following terms have the
following meanings:

 

(a) Bird breeder means a person licensed pursuant to this Part to sell live wild birds
and their eggs, and to apply butt-end leg bands.

(b) Butt-end leg band means an open-ring leg band applied to the leg of a live wild bird
of any age, using pliers or a similar tool.

(c) Seamless leg band means a solid-ring leg band applied to the leg of a newly

hatched live wild bird, incapable of being removed when the bird has reached adult size
without destroying the band.

(d). Captive-raised means live wild birds hatched from eggs produced by captive
parents and raised in captivity.

 

(e) Department means the Department of Environmental Conservation.

(f) Live wild bird means all birds except domesticated birds such as chickens, tur-
keys, guinea fowl, geese, ducks, pigeons and peafowl.

(g) Person means an individual, a copartnership,
tion.

an association, a firm or a corpora-
(h) Sale means any delivery or transfer of title to or possession of a live wild bird for a
consideration, and includes offering or exposing for sale, and soliciting for sale by
catalogs, newspapers, magazines or other advertising matter.
Historical Note
Sec. filed Oct. 31, 1985 eff. Nov. 1, 1985.

174.1 Prohibition. Except as permitted by section 174.3 of thi
sell live wild birds or their eggs within the State of New York.

Historical Note
Sec. filed Oct. 31, 1985 eff. Nov. 1, 1985.

3 Part, no person may

174.3 Permitted sales.
(a) (1) The following captive-raised species1'nay be sold:

Species common name

Species scientific name
Diamond dove Geopelia cuneata
Cockatiel (including mutations) Nymphicus hollandicus
Crimson rosella Platycercus elegans

60.136h CN 10-31-85

 




Species common name

Eastern rosella

Pale-headed (blue) rosella

Red-rumped parrot (including
all mutations)

Bourke 's parrot

Budgerigar (including all
mutations)

Blue-masked lovebird

Zebra finch

(Lady) Gouldian finch

Society (Bengalese) finch

Java sparrow

Common canary (including all
varieties)

ll

Species scientific name

Platycercus eximius
Platycercus adscitus

Psephotus haematonotus
Neophema bourk ii

M elopsittacus undulatus

A gapomis personata Var.
Poephila guttata

Chloebia gouldiae

Lonchura striata

Padda (Lonchura ) oryzivora

Serinus canaria

(2) The department may at any time consider petitions from persons regarding
additions to or deletions from the above list of species of live wild birds whose sale is
permitted pursuant to this Part. Each such petition shall contain information sufficient
to enable the department to determine whether such species is predominantly captive-
raised, and that their inclusion on such list will not cause additional birds to be
captured in the wild.

(b) Until November 1, 1986, live wild birds or their eggs which were possessed prior to
May 1, 1986 may be sold, provided that the seller furnishes proof, acceptable to the
department, that such live wild bird was possessed prior to such date. The department
shall accept as proof a written instrument stating that such wild bird or egg was in the
seller’s possession prior to May 1, 1986, and bearing a form notice that a false statement
made therein is punishable pursuant to section 210.45 of the Penal Law. Effective No-
vember 1, 1986, each such live wild bird possessed prior to May 1, 1986 may be sold only
pursuant to a permit issued by the department. The fee for such permit shall be $10.

(c) Live wild birds bearing the identification required by section 174.9 of this Part
may be sold.

((1) Live wild birds or their eggs may be sold to bird breeders licensed pursuant to
section 174.4 of this Part.

(8) State, Federal or local governmental agencies may sell live wild birds.

(1’) Scientific, zoological or educational institutions having a permit issued by the
department, pursuant to section 110615 of the Environmental Conservation Law, may
sell live wild birds.

(8) Domestic game birds or their eggs may be sold by a domestic game bird breeder
licensed pursuant to section 11-1901 of the Environmental Conservation Law. provided
that. after November 1, 1991, all birds sold shall be captive-raised.

(h) The department may authorize the sale of live wild birds by permit issued pursu-

ant to section 11-0535 or 11-0536 of the Environmental Conservation Law or Part 182 of this
Title.

(1) The department may authorize other sales which will accomplish the purposes of
section 11-1728 of the Environmental Conservation Law and this Part.

Historical Note
Sec. filed Oct. 31, 1986 eff. Nov. 1, 1985.

50.1361 CN 10-31-85

 

 




 

 

12

174.4 Bird breeder’s license. A bird breeder’s license issued by the department
entitles the holder to take the actions specified in this section.

(a) Until November 1, 1991, a licensee may sell live wild birds or their eggs of any
species, whether or not captive-raised. except endangered species listed in Part 182 of
this Title, to other bird breeders licensed pursuant to this Part and to scientific, zoologi-
cal or educational institutions licensed pursuant to section 11-0516 of the Environmental
Conservation Law. Such live wild birds need not be marked as required by section 174.9
of this Part.

(b) On and after November 1, 1991, a licensee may sell live wild birds that are captive-
raised or acquired before November 1, 1991 to other bird breeders licensed pursuant to
this Part, and to scientific, zoological or educational institutions licensed pursuant to
section 11-0515 of the Environmental Conservation Law. The seller must provide proof.
acceptable to the department, that such live wild bird was in his or her possession prior

to such date. Such live wild birds need not be marked as required in section 174.9 of this
Part.

(c) A licensee may apply butt-end leg bands to captive-raised birds produced by the
licensee. Such bands must be obtained from suppliers designated or approved by the
department, and must be of a type and style required by the department.

Historical Note
Sec. filed Oct. 31, 1985 eff. Nov. 1, 1985.

114.5 Bird breeder’s license; application. A person who wishes to be a licensed
bird breeder shall submit, on forms provided by the department:

(a) a statement generally describing the applicant’s purpose for applying for such
license;

(b) the number and species, by common and scientific name, of live wild birds to be
held for breeding purposes;

(c) the address of the facility where live wild birds will be possessed and bred, with a
description of the area and facilities to be used for breeding purposes;

(d) a summary of the experience and technical expertise the applicant has had in the
raising and breeding of live wild birds, and the species and numbers bred; and

(e) any other information which the department may deem pertinent or necessary.

Historical Note
Sec. filed Oct. 31, 1986 eff. Nov. 1, 1985.

114.6 Bird breeder’s license; issuance by department. In determining whether or

not to issue a bird breeder's license, the department shall give consideration to the
following factors:

(a) whether the live wild birds will be used for bona fide breeding purposes;

(b) whether the facilities described in the application are sufficient and adequate for

the purpose of humanely and successfully breeding and raising captive live wild birds of
the species described;

(c) whether the applicant, by virtue of his background, experience and knowledge.

can reasonably be expected to humanely and successfully breed and raise captive wild
birds of the species described; and

50.136j CN 10-31-85




13

(d) the applicant’s prior record of compliance with the provisions of the Environmen-
tal Conservation Law, with regulations adopted pursuant to the Environmental Conser-
vation Law. and with the conditions of licenses or permits issued pursuant to said law
and regulations.

Historical Note
Sec. filed Oct. 31. 1985 eff. Nov. 1. 1985.

174.7 Bird breeder’s license; conditions. Each bird breeder’s license shall:
(a) be valid for one year and expire on the date stamped on the front of the license;

(b) require that the licensee keep and maintain complete records of the purchase and
sale, application of butt-end leg bands, transfers, breeding loans. and births and deaths
of live wild birds held pursuant to such license;

(0) require that all live wild birds possessed pursuant to such license be confined in
the facility and premises described on the license, or be on breeding loan to a licensed
resident bird breeder or bona fide nonresident bird breeder; and

(d) contain such other conditions as the department deems necessary and proper.

Historical Note
Sec. filed Oct. 31, 1985 eff. Nov. 1. 1985.

174.. Bird breeder’s license; fee. The fee for a bird breeder’s license is $50 for the
initial license and $10 annually thereafter.
Historical Note
See. filed Oct. 31, 1985 eff. Nov. 1. 1985.

174.9 Identification of live wild birds. (a) All live wild birds subject to the provi-
sions of this Part shall be marked with (1) a seamless leg band, or (2) a butt-end leg band,
applied by a bird breeder licensed pursuant to section 174.4 of this Part, when the bird is
offered for sale or sold, except as otherwise permitted pursuant to sections 174.3 and
174.4 of this Part.

(b) In the event that a band is removed for medical reasons. a veterinarian licensed in
the State of New York shall either apply his or her own band with his or her identifying
number or apply the band of a licensed wild bird breeder. The veterinarian must notify
the department within 10 days of replacement of the band.

Historical Note
Sec. filed Oct. 31, 1985 eff. Nov. 1. 1985.

174.1. Penalties and enforcement. A violation of any provision of this Part is
punishable by a fine of not more than $250 or by imprisonment for not more than 15 days.
or by both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, a person who violates any provision
of this Part is liable to a civil penalty of $60 and an additional penalty of $25 for each live
wild bird involved in the violation. A violation may also result in revocation of any
license or permit issued pursuant to this Part.

Historical Note
Sec. filed Oct. 31, 1985 eff. Nov. 1. 1985.

50.1361! CN 10-31-85

 




 

 

14

APPENDIX B
Proof of Possession

The DEC will accept as ‘proof of possession’ for the sale of
live wild birds, a bill of sale or a written instrument which lists:

1. a statement that the listed wild bird or egg was in the
seller’s possession prior to May 1, 1986:

2. The Common and/or Scientific Name of the wild bird or
egg being sold;

3. The Form Notice: I hereby affirm under penalty of
perjury that information provided on this form is true to
the best of my knowledge and belief. Pursuant to ECL
Section 3-0301(2Q), false statements made herein are
punishable pursuant to Section 210.45 of the NYS
Penal Law.

Signature of Seller;

The date of the sale.

A sample ‘Proof of Possession’ is provided on the next page.
Copies may be made for use as needed.

 




15

SAMPLE

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

New York State Department of Environmental Conservation

I hereby affirm that the live wild bird or egg listed below was in my
possession prior to May 1, 1986:

 

Common Name and/or

 

Scientific Name

NOTICE: I hereby affirm under penalty of perjury that information provided on
this form is true to the best of my knowledge and belief. Pursuant to ECL
Section 3-0301 (2Q), false statements made herein are punishable pursuant to
Section 210.45 of the NYS Penal Law.

 

(Signature of Seller) (Date)

 

...................................................................................
........................................................................................................

New York State Department of Environmental Conservation

I hereby affirm that the live wild bird or egg listed below was in my
possession prior to May 1, 1986:

 

Common Name and/or

 

Scientific Name

NOTICE: I hereby affirm under penalty of perjury that information provided on
this form is true to the best of my knowledge and belief. Pursuant to ECL
Section 3—0301 (2Q), false statements made herein are punishable pursuant to
Section 210.45 of the NYS Penal Law.

 

(Signature of Seller) (Date)

 

 

 




 

16

APPENDIX C

Partial List of Bird Band Suppliers

The Department of Environmental Conservation has described
approved leg bands in the “Conditions” section of its Bird
Breeders License. (See Questions 6 and 7) Butt-end leg bands
must be imprinted with the prefix NYS and the license number
of the licensed NYS Bird Breeder who applies the band.

Any company which can provide bands that meet this criteria,
may be considered an acceptable supplier.

The following is a partial list of suppliers of bird bands:

1) The Bird’s Nest
Emerald Circle
Goftstown, NH. 03045
Ph. —603-472-BIRD

3) L & M Bird Leg Bands
PO. Box 2943
San Bernadino, CA 92406

5) Gey Band & Tag Company
PO. Box 363
Norristown, PA 19404
Ph. #215-277-3280

7) AC. Hughes
1 High Street
Hampton Hill
Meddlesex, England, TW 12 1NA
Ph. #01-979—1366 (thru Operator)
or 011-441-979—1366 (direct dial)

9) CH. McCreery & Sons Ltd.
Hazel Croft
Shipley
West Yorkshire, BD18, 2DZ,
England

2)

Red Bird Products, Inc.
2786 Fruitridge Road

PO. Box 20004 (Dept. Bl)
Sacramento, CA 95820

Donna G. Corp
4903 North Ardsley Drive
Temple City, CA 91780

National Band & Tag Co.
721 York Street
Newport, KY 41072

Ph. #606-261—2035

Lambournes, Ltd.

Mr. Mike Brown

Ryelands Road

Herefordshire HX6 8N2, England

10) A-E Leg Bands

Box 523
Miami, FL 33265—0523

 




ROBER C. BY , WEST VIRGINIA, CHAIRMAN

DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAWA MARK O. HATFIELD, OREGON
ERNEST F. HOLLINGS, SOU CAR INA TED STEVENS, ALASKA

J. BENNETT JOHNSTON, LO ISIANA THAD COCHRAN, MISSISSIPPI
PATRICK J. LEAHY, VERMON ' ALFONSE M. D'AMATO, NEW YORK

p
JIM SASSER, TENNESSEE ‘_ I ~. ' ARLEN SPECTER, PENNSYLVANIA
DENNIS DECONCINI, ARIZONA PETE V. DOMENICI. NEW MEXICO
DALE BUMPERS, ARKANSAS DON NICKLES, OKLAHOMA
FRANK R. LAUTENBERG, NEW JERSEY PHIL GRAMM, TEXAS 1T
TOM HARKIN, IOWA CHRISTOPHER S. BOND, MISSOURI COMMI EE ON APPROPRIATIONS

BARBARA A. MIKULSKI. MARYLAND SLADE GORTON, WASHINGTON

HARRY REID, NEVADA MITCH MCCONNELL, KENTUCKY WASHINGTON’ DC 205 10-6025
J. ROBERT KERREY, NEBRASKA CONNIE MACK, FLORIDA

HERB KOHL, WISCONSIN CONRAD BURNS, MONTANA

PATTY MURRAY, WASHINGTON

DIANNE FEINSTEIN, CALIFORNIA

JAMES H. ENGLISH, STAFF DIRECTOR Apr 1 l 8 , l 9 9 3

J. KEITH KENNEDY, MINORITY STAFF DIRECTOR

John Gleiber

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
P.O. Box 3719

Georgetwon Station

Washington, DC 20007

Dear Mr. Gleiber:
Thank you for your request to testify before the

Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services,
Education and Related Agencies.

I am pleased to schedule your testimony for the hearing on
Monday, May 3, 1993. The hearing will start at 1:00 pm
in room 192 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building.

7Due to the number of requests received this year, we ask
that you limit your oral summary to three minutes. The complete
text of your prepared testimony will be printed in the hearing
record.

Your prepared testimony must not exceed three single
spaced pages and should include a paragraph with your specific
recommendations. We also request that you deliver to us ten
copies of your prepared testimony at least five working days
before the hearing. Please send it to:

Ed Long, Staff Director

Senate Appropriations Committee
LaboerHS-Education Subcommittee, Dirksen-186
Washington, DC 20510

It is important that you submit your prepared testimony
on time in order to accommodate the hearing process. If you are
not to be the witness for your organization then it is very
important that you immediately provide the subcommittee with the
name of the witness. The Subcommittee looks forward to receiving
your testimony.

With best regards,
Sincerely,

22M

Tom Harkin, Chairman
Labor, HHS, and Education
Appropriations Subcommittee

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D.C. 20007

(202) 337-2334

Statement in Support of
$23 Million for Enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act,
$750 Thousand for the Animal Welfare Information Center,
$500 Thousand for Enforcement of the Horse Protection Act,
and an Increased Allocation of ADC Funds for Non—lethal* Research
for FY 1994

Before the House ApprOpriations
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Deve10pment,
Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies

by Christine Stevens, Secretary

March 24, 1993

We believe that the reorganization of the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service (APHIS) in 1988 had a severely adverse
effect on enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act. Combined with
insufficient funding, the directions to the staff of Regulatory
Enforcement and Animal Care (REAC) from the former Administrator
and former Deputy Administrator of APHIS downplayed serious
inspections and enforcement in favor of vague goals described as
t"educational". Fortunately, committed inspectors and other staff
continued to carry out their work despite lack of encouragement.

President Clinton has stated: "I have always loved and
respected animals and abhorred any cruelty toward them. Please
be assured that a Clinton Administration would be extremely
sensitive to these issues and concerns." The new Administration
must be given the opportunity to honor the standards of the
federal Animal Welfare Act (AWA) and revivify the nation's only
comprehensive federal law on the welfare of animals. To do that
a minimum of twenty-three million dollars must be appropriated.

RULING ON IMPROVED STANDARDS FOR LABORATORY ANIMALS AMENDMENTS

On February 25, 1993, more than seven years after Congress
enacted the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals (ISLA)
Amendments to the AWA, US District Court Judge Richey issued a
ruling upholding the Congressional Mandate for exercise for
laboratory dogs and an environment adequate to promote
psychological well-being of laboratory primates. Judge Richey
found the final regulations promulgated by USDA, which rely on
"performance standards", arbitrary and capricious.

In issuing his ruling the judge stated that the regulations
"...do not provide the minimum requirements mandated in the Act.
'A dog is man's best friend' is an old adage which the Defendants

 

 




-2-

[USDA, Health and Human Services, and the Office of Management
and Budget] have either forgotten or decided to ignore.

Hopefully the new Secretary will ensure that the bureaucracy he
inherits and the special interest groups with which he must
contend will be forced to remember this sentiment and comply with
the law."

Referring to Special interest groups' efforts to delay
implementation of requirements under ISLA, the judge stated,
"...former Judge J. Skelly Wright of our Court of Appeals once
said, in essence, that the regulators in Washington are regulated
by the regulated. This may well be the case here. If this is so
here, then something needs to be done to change the process."

The judge's order states that USDA must promulgate new
regulations, "without unnecessary delay", under ISLA. The judge
further ordered that the Plaintiffs [Animal Legal Defense Fund,
Society for Animal Protective Legislation, Drs. Roger Fouts,
Bernard Migler, and William Strauss] "may make further
application to this Court in the event that the Defendants do not
act with all deliberate speed...."

The Plaintiffs look forward to the prompt promulgation of
sound regulations.

ANIMAL WELFARE ACT ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES OF USDA

The U.S. Department of Agriculture has a tremendous
responsibility in assuring that the minimum standards of the
Animal Welfare Act are met at research facilities, dealers'
premises, animal exhibits, and during transportation by
intermediate handlers and carriers. The number of sites in need
of inspection are greater than ever before because the number of
facilities regulated by USDA has continued to increase. In 1992
there were 1,474 research facilities (with 3,495 separate sites),
4,400 animal dealers, 1,495 exhibitors and 442 animal carriers
and handlers. Currently, the field staff consists of 49
Veterinary Medical Officers (VMO's) and 37 Animal Care Inspectors
(ACI's) for a total of only 86.

Additional monies are desperately needed for more field
inspectors so that every site can be visited at least three times
a year. This is the minimum number of inspections necessary to
assure steadfast, nationwide compliance with the law. Strict
enforcement including prompt legal action must be pursued if the
minimum standards are not met.

In our testimony before this distinguished subcommittee last
year we requested an appropriation of $23,048,399 to enable the
Agency to carry out its responsibilities. Attached is a copy of
the statement submitted last year by the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation on behalf of more than 200 animal
protective organizations who want to see the Animal Welfare ACt
adequately funded and properly administered.

 




-3-

OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL AUDIT

The report from the Office of the Inspector General (OIG)
(March 1992) shows clearly the damage done under the Department's
previous administration. The recent book, Stolen for Profit, by
Judith Reitman details the regrettable performance by the former
APHIS Administrator and his Deputy from an outside perspective.

The Animal Welfare Act must be enforced. Its requirements
for minimum standards can no longer be allowed to be routinely
violated as the Inspector General's Audit clearly shows them to
have been. For the use of this distinguished Subcommittee, I
submit a copy of the Inspector General's findings, some of which
are listed below.

"Our audit concluded that APHIS cannot ensure the humane
care and treatment of animals at all dealer facilities as
required by the act. APHIS did not inspect dealer facilities
with a reliable frequency, and it did not enforce timely
correction of violations found during inspections."

16.2 % of facilities whose inspection reports were reviewed
had not received even one inspection in the past year! More than
half of the facilities were not in compliance with the Act.

80.8% of the facilities with violations had not received timely
follow-up inspections.

"The infrequency of inspections occurred because APHIS
expects a limited number of qualified inspectors to perform a
large number of inspections.’I

There were seven dealers identified who had violations which
were not corrected and were cited during 3 or more inspections.

"Of the 22 licensed breeding facilities we visited, 17 had
not properly identified the animals. In addition, 14 of these
facilities did not maintain adequate inventory records.“

"...85.6% of inspections performed in Missouri required a
follow—up inspection because of identified violations."

We agree with the Inspector General's audit that facilities
which do not meet the minimum standards of the Animal Welfare Act
should not be in business. The audit stated that of 284 licensed
facilities reviewed, 49 licenses were renewed despite the fact
that the facilities were not in compliance with the Act's minimum
standards. Licenses should not be renewed for facilities that
have repeatedly failed to meet the minimum standards.

As stated in the audit, distribution of memoranda as was
done when Veterinary Services was administering the Animal
Welfare Act (prior to the reorganization) should be reinstated.
It is essential that the entire field staff receive the same
instruction, the information is available for future reference,
and the position of the Department is clear to all.

The Audit itself has not been supplied to the field staff.
Instead, bland statements, that the inspectors were told to use
as responses when they receive inquiries about the Inspector
General's highly critical report, were handed out. This question
and answer sheet is attached.

 




4...

REGULATIONS ON PET THEFT ACT AND EXOTIC ANIMAL AUCTIONS

Lifting of the regulatory freeze will allow regulations on
pet theft and exotic animal auctions, which have been found to be
highly abusive, to be published this year.

The American public demands that serious attention be given
to ending fraud and theft by laboratory animal dealers selling
dogs and cats. The regulations on pet theft are in the final
stage of departmental clearance.

This February, following a year-long investigation, the
Operators of D & T Kennels were convicted of criminal conspiracy
and attempting to defraud the USDA. The defendants were
obtaining random source dogs by answering ads offering animals
"free to good home". The pets were then "sold" to D & T Kennels,
a licensed dealer, using fictitious names in the records. The
animals were then sold by D & T Kennels for use in medical
research. Only one dog, Charlie, survived the experimental
research and was rescued.

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation is a strong
supporter of the Animal Welfare Act and its enforcement by USDA.
We hope that sufficient funding can be forthcoming to assure
well—being of animals under the law.

ANIMAL WELFARE INFORMATION CENTER

An appropriation of $750,000 should be designated as a line
item for the Animal Welfare Information Center (AWIC) at the
National Agricultural Library. The Center was established in
accordance with the mandate in the Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals Amendments calling for an information service
to assist with laboratory animal employee training, to prevent
unintended duplication of animal experiments, to help reduce or
replace use of animals where possible, and to minimize animal
pain and distress.

The AWIC has been a much needed resource to the research
community (researchers, Institutional Animal Care and Use
Committees, veterinarians and librarians) and can be to the staff
of REAC. In the past AWIC has conducted workshOps, provided
grants, and exhibited at conferences. Unfortunately, an
increasing percentage of monies designated for AWIC have been
used to cover other programs within the National Agricultural
Library. Committee report language should designate the
appropriation solely for the AWIC and not for other purposes.

THE HORSE PROTECTION ACT

Limited funding has permitted inspection of only about 1/10
of the horse shows conducted in a given year. USDA is under
great pressure from the Tennessee Walking Horse industry.
$500,000 is needed to permit inspection of more horse shows.

 




-5-

THE ANIMAL DAMAGE CONTROL PROGRAM

Research efforts on non-lethal* projects must intensify to
meet the needs of the Animal Damage Control (ADC) field
Operations. An increased allocation of funding should go to non—
lethal* projects conducted by the Denver Wildlife Research Center
(DWRC); we propose an increase from 55% to 70%. Funding for
animal damage control field operations should be cut back until
it can be demonstrated that new technologies are being employed
and the proper treatment of animals is a priority.

ADC Research Operations

Investigations should continue and expand on a number of
worthwhile projects including chemical bird and mammal
repellents, immunocontraception and "scare" devices.

We support appropriation of funds for the relocation of DWRC
to Fort Collins with committee report language identifying the
objective to accelerate research, availability and use of a
variety of non-lethal* control methods.

ADC Eield Operations

While the DWRC is making some progress in working on
innovative techniques for less cruel means for controlling
problem wildlife situations, the field program appears to be
stagnating. Methods used, such as steel jaw traps, denning,
poison baits and aerial gunning, are inhumane, indiscriminate and

provide a large ''body count" but not a long term solution to the
predation.

Lack of concern about pain and suffering inflicted on
depredating animals is prevalent. ADC continues to use the
barbaric steel jaw trap, banned in more than 60 countries, and
lobbies against prohibitions on steel traps before state and
local legislatures.

Federal ADC trappers have long Operated with an exemption
from state game laws on checking for animals caught in traps.
Many ADC trappers are only required to check traps twice a week!
Any restraining trap will cause immeasurable suffering when
holding an animal (which could be a non-target victim) for this
length of time. In New Mexico recently, the State Land
Commissioner banned federal ADC trappers from trapping on state
lands because of their refusal to comply with the state trapping
law regarding checking traps..

The archaic field program was best described by a state
ADC officer who said, "We're feeding a dinosaur, and we'll go the
way of the dinosaur."

*Non-lethal refers to methods such as repellents, chemosterilants
and aversive techniques. We propose a research budget increase
from 55% to 70% for non—lethal work.

 




THE WASHINGTON POST

 

March 6,

Colman McCarthy
Leashing
Animal
Research

Whilebidingtheirtomientedtimein
hhoratory mptivity and awaiting hi0-
medical experiments by their eagers,
someprimatesanddogsarelikelytohe

 

suffering less in coming years. A ruling ,

by Judge Charles R. Richey in federal
district court in Washington on Feb. 25
found that ofﬁcials in the Department of

Agriculture were ignoring the Improved

Standards for Laboratory Animals Act of '
1985.1‘helaw.anamendmenttotheu
AriiimlWelfareActdl966.fequh'eB .
‘ﬁehmnanehandlingamtreatment.
andﬁansportationofanhmlshydealerg,
researchfadlitiesandmhiton.’ Some
1,000 research groups receive NIH,’

grants, underregulationbyUSDA.

rmmrmmw'
Richey"
samdsasifafewUSDAoﬁcialsde"

of his 22-page decision. Judge

served to be stuffed into cages them-
selves. He referred to them as “bloated
bureaucrats.” people full of their own

power. Richeywrote: “Adogisaman’s.

bestfriend' ismoldadagewhidi [the
USDA ofﬁcials] have either forgotten or

decidedtoignore" intheirresponsiiilityt

tooverseeanimalreeearch.
Mudddnmhgmmmm'

malahunmistreatmentoraﬂow'mgthe

dmgcompaniestodoastheypleaseth.

was the latter. in Richey's opinion. Tor:
merJudgeJ.SkenyWrightdomcmirt
ofappealsonoesaidﬁnessencethatthe
regulatorsinWashingtmarereguhted
bytheregulatedThisnnyweilbethe
casehere.‘
Thelawwasbrokenbecamem'ch
labswerepermittedbytheUSDAtocut
as many ﬁnancial corners as they
wished. Tln's meantsavingmcneyby
not exercising the dogs or fail. to
create. as the 1985 act remind. ‘a
physicalenviromnentadeqmtetopm-
mote the psychological well-being of
prmtates.’ Richey. hisjtxha'alhiteas
nieanaslﬁsbarkmuwedtheviola’i
tionswere‘hsedmoremthe '
dollarthanthemlfareoftheanimals.’

1993

extravagantorofdubiouswmth'l'he
Ridieydecisionofiers protectiononly
beforetheexperiments,notduringor
after them. That limitation was written
intothe1985law.

The lawyer who ﬁled the suit on
behalf of the Animal Legal Defense
FundandtheSociety forAnimalPro-
tectiveLegislationisValerieStanley,a
1982 graduate of Catholic University
lawSchoolandoneofmlyafewanimal
rightsattorneysinthecoumtry. Since
takingtheasein1988, shehasputin

ﬁrstversiondtheAnimalWelfareAct
wasmderconsiderationileﬁZGuess
what? Animal experimenters med'the
same arguments to stormll then as
new.0ne.there'smprobiem.Two,the
lawwilcosttoormHL'l'hreeJhere’s
noevidenoeanewlawwmldimprove
cmditions.Four.letusdevrse° ourown
www.mmmmtﬂle
animalshmnanely.’
Congxmsaidnoin1966,andmwa
federalcourtsaysnoagah‘l‘hemes-
sagetotheUSDAaboutthereseardi
indmtryisthesameasneighhorssend
theownerofanmrulydogzl’utitona
strongleash.
Researchgrwpsplantoaskthede
partrnenttoappealthedecisiortlnoth-
erwordsletthelanmsdtheReagan-
BmhenconthrmlheRicheymling ,
ﬁecmgthousandsofreseuchcenters}
ea majmvictoryforanimal welfare.
The Clinton USDAought to support,

notresist.thesuooess.

 




SOCOETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLAHON
P. O. Box 3710
(awnnwwnsuWNi

Washington. 0.0. 20007
(202) 337-2334

Statement in Support of
$23 Million for Enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act,
$500 Thousand for Enforcement of the Horse Protection Act and
an Increased Allocation of ADC Funds for Non-lethal Research*

for FY 1993

Submitted to the Senate Agriculture, Rural Development, and
Related Agencies Subcommittee on Appropriations

by Christine Stevens, Secretary

April 15. 1992

The Animal Welfare Act is the chief law for protection of
animals in the United States. It must not be undermined by
lack of the most basic necessities for enforcement of its
minimum standards. We support strong enforcement by USDA to
obtain compliance from the many entities it must regulate.
however USDA needs the resources to enable it to enforce its
mandate. (See breakdown of appropriations needed on page 5.)

Major new responsibilities continue to be added to the work
of Regulatory Enforcement and Animal Care (REAC) within the
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. Meanwhile. lack
of funds has prevented proper enforcement of the Animal
Welfare Act. REAC needs to double the number of inspections
it conducts in a year to help assure compliance with law at.
the same time that its workload has more than doubled. It is
essential that the funding for animal welfare enforcement be

increased to a minimum of $23 million.

APHIS's 83 field inspectors are responsible for inspection of
more than 3,234 research Sites. 4.268 animal dealer premises,
and 1.415 exhibitors. In addition there are approximately

400 intermediate handlers and carriers whose animal shipments

must be inspected as frequently as possible.

*Non-lethal research refers to methods such as repellents.
chemosterilants. and aversive techniques. We propose a
research budget increase from SS8 to 70% for non-lethal

work.

 

 

 




nice. Rats and 81rd:

A 1970 amendment to the Animal Welfare Act called for the
inclusion of all species of warm-blooded animals used in
research and the wholesale pet and exhibition trades. At the
discretion of the Secretary of Agriculture, mice, rats and
birds have been excluded from this requirement. Now, more
than twenty years later, a federal judge has ruled that mice,
rats and birds must be given protection under the Animal

Welfare Act.

The judge stated, “The defendants' failure to pursue the
humane care and treatment of birds, rats and mice, both by
excluding them from the definition of 'animal' and by
refusing to issue regulations governing their care, flies in
the face of that mandate and indicates that the agency has
'been blind to the source of its delegated power'....This
inertia on the part of the agency allows the mistreatment of
birds, rats and mice to continue unchecked by the agency
charged with the protection of laboratory animals. The Court
cannot believe that this is what Congress had in mind.‘

Mice, rats and birds constitute at least 85% of the animals
used in research. Therefore the cost for the preparation of
regulations and enforcement will be significant. By the
Department's own estimates, it will be a minimum of $3
million, with more recent USDA estimates closer to $9-10
million. The USDA expects this to more than double their

workload.

On March 4, USDA appealed the decision, however, the
coverage must be extended. Only if the decision were
overturned, which we believe to be unlikely, would the USDA
be relieved of this duty. .

Qverburdeoed Staff

Following the reorganization of the Animal Welfare Program in
1988 there were a total of only 63 inspectors covering the
entire US and this figure has slowly increased to a total of
83. Currently APHIS is conducting an average of 1.5
inspections per facility annually. (Note that this figure
includes reinspections, which may be only partial
inspections.) Adequate funding would permit doubling of the
field staff, so they could conduct more, better quality
inspections and reduce travel time which accomplishes

nothing. '

Only veterinary medical officers can inspect animals in
research facilities. In 1988 there were 42 veterinary
inspectors, and this number has only risen to 48. It should
be at least doubled in order to cover inspection of
laboratory mice, rats and birds.

 




Bet Theft Act

The Pet Theft Act was enacted into law as Sections 28 and 29
of the 1990 Farm bill. ‘The new requirements are intended to
allow pet owners to recover their pets from pounds before
they are sold to dealers. under Section 28, REAC should
ensure that proper records are kept on each deg or cat by the
pounds, the dealers, and the laboratories and that valid
certification of the specific source of each animal is
provided. There are approximately 3,500 pounds in the United
States. Authority to apply for injunctions is contained in

Section 29:

Wherever the Secretary has reason to believe that
any dealer, carrier, exhibitor, or intermediate
handler is dealing in stolen animals, or is placing
the health of any animal in serious danger in
violation of this Act or the regulations or
standards promulgated thereunder, the Secretary
shall notify the Attorney General...

Enfcrcemcnt 0: Imprcvcd Standards far Laboratory Animals and
Regulation of Earm Animals Used in Biomedical Research

Final regulations implementing the 1985 amendments to the
Animal Welfare Act were published on February 14, 1991.
Unfortunately significant parts of these regulations are in a
form called Iperformance standards'. As a result inspectors
will require much additional time to complete an inspection.
Prosecution of violations, likewise, will be an even more
labor-intensive task for APHIS's Regulatory Enforcement and
the Office of General CounSel under this form of regulation.

The inspector must first evaluate the individual plan
prepared by the facility to see if the plan meets the
requirements of the law and regulations; next the facility
must be inspected to determine whether it is adhering to its
own plan (in the absence of record-keeping requirements):
each individual dog and primate should be carefully observed
to assure that they are meeting the performance-based
requirements and then the inspector must mark the inspection
report form in a comprehensible fashion. Every facility is
at liberty to write a different plan both for exercise of

dogs and well-being of primates. ’

APHIS has further expanded its duties, and will begin
inspection of farm animals used in biomedical research.

There are approximately 2,400 research facility sites which
house dogs, primates and farm animals used in biomedical
research and approximately 4,000 dealers and 1,000 exhibitors

in these animals. ‘
\

 




Headquarters staff current estimate for the additional time
required during inspections to assure compliance with the
requirements for exercise for laboratory dogs, psychological
well-being of primates and inspection of farm animals used
for biomedical research; is 2 hours per facility for the
first inspection and 1 hour for each inspection thereafter.
We are convinced that the actual additional time needed will
be at least double that proposed by headquarters staff.

Exotic Animal Auctions

APHIS is preparing regulations to cover exotic animal
auctions. Headquarters staff estimates that there are 25
such auction sites which must be licensed, requiring
announced pre-licensing inspections in addition to
unannounced compliance inspections. License applicants are
permitted up to 3 pre-licensing inspections to meet APHIS ~

standards.

Drafting Regulations

During the year APHIS must draft and finalize regulations
regarding use of farm animals in biomedical research, sales
of exotic animals at auctions, transfer of animals to and
from pounds, shelters and dealers per the requirements of the
Pet Theft Act, and use of mice, rats and birds per the
requirements of the Animal Welfare Act.

Anim-l Welfare Act Budget

Page 5 of this testimony contains a breakdown of our estimate
for the Animal Welfare Act enforcement budget from our
testimony before this Subcommittee last year. In FY 1992 the
appropriation did not increase significantly, yet the
responsibilities of USDA increased enormously. In addition
to the $20,048,399 that we calculated was needed for FY 1992,
we added $3,000,000 to enable USDA to begin coverage of mice,
rats and birds for a total request of $23,048,399 for FY

1993.

The Animal Damage Control Program

The Denver Wildlife Research Center (DWRC) is to be commended
for its research on non—lethal methods which now comprise
over one-half (55%) of the research budget up from 47% last
year. This forward-thinking approach should continue and
expand. In addition to aversive and repellent methods, a key
alternative technology to be pursued is immunocontraception.
We Propose that 201 of the research budget be directed touatd
nonzlethal projects. This is a prudent, economical, Viable,
and humane means of planning for:the future of wildlife

management.

 




(2WD33W233!

April 10 , 1992

The Honorable Quentin N. Hurdick
Chairman, Senate Appropriations
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural.

DevelOpment, and Related Agencies
140 Dirksen Senate Office Building
Washington, DC 20510

Dear Mr. Chairman:

The animal welfare organizations listed below support the
testimony of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
requesting an apprOpriation of $23 million for enforcement of
the Animal Welfare Act, $500 thousand for enforcement of the
Horse Protection Act and an increased allocation of Animal
Damage Control funds for non-lethal research.

With appreciation for your consideration,

Sincerely,

(scat. 5me

Christine Stevens
Secretary

Action 81

Action for Animals' Rights (CA)

Adopt-A-Pet (NY)

Alabama Animal Adoption Society

Alaska Animal Rights Coalition

Albert. Schweitzer Council on Animals and the Environment
Allies of Animals (NY) -

American Association for Science and Public Pol icy
American Humane Association

American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
Anderson County Humane Society (SC)

Animal Advocates (PA)

Animal Allies (VA)
Animal Assistance League of Orange County ((1)

Animal Care and Welfare/SPG (PA)
Animal Care Society (VA)

Animal Defense Council (AZ) ,3
Animal Friends (PA) '
Animal Fund (NC)

Animal Legal Defense Fund

 




<01» magma

 

 

 

 

. 1h _ .
l/ l (I t l.‘ \IIW- | N v
, n/I .- ‘ w .a r ‘
. , I .( .I\.I|I\ I
I.) 1 . v / MI» /, I» 1/
(v. ., . C aahuuzlnr/
. ....... ,_ , if , é
/ 1 ‘ .1

 

’ 20$ <0 1A m8?”

[095239; om m:<:o:3m:.8_ noswmzmso:

 

 




Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal
Animal

Argus Archives

Press (CA) ,

Lifeline of Iowa. ,

Protection Institute of America
Protection League of Johnson County (IA)
Protective League (OH)

Protective League, Inc. (WI)

Rescue
Rights
Rights
Rights
Rights
Rights
Rights
Rights

Welfare League of Racine, Inc.

League of Pittsburgh (PA)

Coalitions

Forum (VT)

Foundation of Florida

Information and Educational Service (CT)
Information Service (NY)

Kinship, Inc. (TX)

Mobilization
(WI)

Welfare Society of AJlegany County (MD)

Animals' Agenda
Anti-Cruelty Society (IL)

.Associated Humane Societies (NJ)
Association of Veterinarians for Animal Rights

Austin Animal Defense

(TX)

Bangor Humane Society (HE)

Beauty Without Cruelty

Beaver County Humane Society (PA)

Benton-Franklin Humane Society/Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals (WA)

Bergen County Animal Shelter Society (NJ)

Brooke County Animal Welfare League (WV)

Cabarrus Animal Protection Association (NC)

Care About the Strays (0H)

Central Vermont Humane Society, Inc.

Chattahoochee Humane Society (AL)

CHEETA (IN)
Citizen's Committee for Laboratory Animal Liberation (NY)

Citizens to End Animal SufferingIand Exploitation
Citizens United for Animals (WI)

Coalition for Responsible Trapping Laws (00)
Collin County Humane Society (TX)

Colorado University Animal Rights Group

Concerned Citizens for Animals, Inc.

(HA)

Connecticut Cetacean Society
Dahlonega-Lumpkin County Humane Shelter (GA)

Dixie Humane Education Bureau (AL)

Dubl in-Laurens County Humane Association (GA)
Eagle vail Humane Society (00)

Ecology Center of California

El Paso County Humane Society (Tl‘l)

Elsa Wild Animal Appeal

!

Erie County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (NY)

 




Farm Animal Reform Movement
Flagler County Humane Society (FL)
Florida Federation of Humane Societies
Franklin County Animal Shelter (HE)
Fund for Animals
Garland Humane Society (TX)
Greater Derry Humane Society, Inc.
Greenhill Humane Society (OR)
Hardin County Pet Protection (KY)
Haven Humane Society (CA)
Heartland Humane Society (OR)
Helping Paws (IL)
Hiawatha Humane Society (HN)

Houston Animal Rights Team (TX)
Association of Central New York
Education Committee (NY)
Education for Animals (KY)
Education Network

Society and SPCA (WA)

Society, Inc. (ND)

Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane
Humane

Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society
Society

of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of

Avery CDUnty (NC)
Helleville (IL)
Cascade County (HT)
Charlotte (NC)
Cowlitz County (WA)
Crawford County (KS)
Fairfax county (VA)
Harford County (MD)
Harrison County (TX)
Hernando County (FL)
Kansas

Kent County (MD)
Kent County (HI)
Larimar County (CO)
Manatee County (FL)
HcDowell County (WV)
Missouri

Monroe (HI)
Nacogdoches (TX)
Napa County (CA)

New York

North Iowa

Port Jervis/Deerpark, Inc.

Shenandoah County (VA)
South Shore (HA)
Southern Nevada & SPO
Sullivan County (TN)
mmmrmmw(ﬂ)

the United States
Tippecanoe (IN)

Tucson (AZ)

.-~ -tW-nu—pqnnﬁrm—u-t” “m-

-;»:\ "'7. "z-m'ﬁl‘ ‘f‘ ' ' .

 




Humane Society of Ventura County (on

Humanitarian: of Florida. Inc.

Hunterdon County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (NJ)

Huntington Humane Society (WV)

Interfaith Council for Protection of Animals and Nature

International Ecoloqy Society

International Fund for Animal Welfare

International Wildlife Coalition

Jacksonville Humane Society (PL)

JOplin Humane Society (MO)

Kauai Humane Society (HI)

Laguna Beach Animal Shelter (CA)

Lake City Animal Shelter (FL)

Lake County Animal Protection (IL) _

Lawton Humane Society & Animal Shelter (OK)

Leesburg Humane Society, Inc. (PL)

Leflore County Humane Society (MS)

Lewis and Clark Humane Society (MT)

Marion County Humane Society (KY)

Maryland Federation of Humane Organizations

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals

Mecca Wildlife Task Force (MN)

Medical Research Modernization Committee

Minnesota Committee to Protect the Mourning Dove

Montana State Humane Society

Morris Animal Refuge (PA)

National Cat Protection Society

Nevada Federation of Animal Protection Organizations

New Fairfield Animal Welfare (CT)

New Jersey Animal Rights Alliance

Newton Animal Rescue League (IA)

North Central Ohio Nature Preservation League

North County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals (NY)
Owensboro Humane Society (KY)
Panhandle Humane Society (NB)
Peaceable Kingdom (SC)
Pennsylvania Animal Welfare Society
People for Animal Rights (KS)
PeOple for Animal Rights (NY)
People for Animal Rights (OR)
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
People to End Animal Cruelty and Exploitation (AL)
Pet Adoption League (NJ)
Physicians committee for Responsible Medicine
Pinellas County Animal Protection Association (FL)
Pomona Valley Humane Society (Q)
Progressive Animal Welfare Society (WA)
Progressive Humane Association, Inc. (NY)

 




Promote Animal Rights - Write for Animals

Protect Our Earth's Treasures (OH)

Quincy Animal League, Inc. (NA)

Riley County Humane Society (KS)

Roanoke County Animal Control (“5)

Rutherford County Humane Society (TN)

Salem County Humane Society (NJ)

Santa Cruz Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals (CA)

Sauk Valley Humane Society (IL)

Save-A-Dolphin

Seneca Humane Society, Inc. (NY)

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Anne

Arundel County (ND)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of West

Pasco (FL)

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in
Cattaraugus County (NY)

SOS Animals (NY)

Standish Humane Society (HA)

Sun City Friends of Animals (CA)

Susquehanna Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals (NY)

United Animal Nations

Vancouver Humane Society and Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals (WA)

vermont Humane Society

Vilas County Animal Shelter (WI)

Virginia Federation of Humane Societies

VOices for Animals (VA) '

Volunteer Services for Animals (RI)

Voters for Animal Rights (OH)

Wasatch Humane (UT)

Washington County Humane Society (OH)

Washington county Humane Society (WI)

Washington Humane Society (DC):

Wenatchee valley Humane Society (WA)

Western Pennsylvania Humane Society

Whale Protection Federation (IL)

Wisconsin Humane Society

Wolf Defenders (CA)

Women's SPCA of Pennsylvania

Yuma County Humane Society (A!)

 




HEADQUARTERS ms

 

ANINAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE
INPLENENTATION OF THE ANINAL HELFARE ACT
HASHINGTON. D.C.
AUDIT REPORT NO. 33002-OOOI-Ch

MARCH 1992

 

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL - AUDIT
NIDHEST REGION
111 NORTH CANAL STREET - SUITE 1130
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60606

 

 




UnlIeC States , Olhce ol Washingtor
Department ct msoeoor D C
AgrnCuHure General 35250

DATE: MAR 1 6 1992

REPLY TO
ATTN 0F: 33002-0001-Ch

SUBJECT: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service - Implementation
of the Animal Welfare Act

TO: Robert B. Melland
Administrator
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

Donald Husnik
Acting Deputy Administrator for
Management and Budget

This report presents the results of our audit of the Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service’s compliance with requirements of the Animal Welfare
,Act. Your January 17, 1992, response to the draft report is included as
exhibit B with excerpts and the Office of Inspector General’s position A
incorporated into the recommendation sections of the report.

Based on your response to Recommendation No. 3c in the draft report, we 'have
removed this recommendation along with the related details from the final
report. Management decisions have not yet been reached for any of the
recommendations contained in the report. The Findings and Recommendations '
section of the report includes a description of the status of the management
decision for each recommendation.

In accordance with Departmental Regulation 1720-1, please furnish a reply
within 60 days describing the planned corrective actions and timeframes for
implementation for those recommendations for which a management decision has
not yet been reached. Please note that the regulation requires a management
decision to be reached on all findings and recommendations within a maximum
of 6 months from report issuance, and final action to be taken within 1 year
of the management decision. Correspondence concerning final actions should be
addressed to the Office of Finance and Management.

(M

JAMES R. EBBITT
Assistant Inspector General
for Audit

Attachment

 

 

 




‘ ' A 3 ~ . r V, .
- ‘m 'i '2, :f‘alzhawx'mmgu-g r .. .

. 0

33OOZ-OOOI-Ch

1531.: or comm

I - SCOPE AND SUMMARY

 

II - BACKGROUND INFORMATION
III - FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

I. INSPECTIONS OF ANIMAL DEALER FACILITIES HERE NOT
PERFORMED IN A TIMELY MANNER

Recommendatfons

APHIS DOES NOT ENFORCE TIMELY CORRECTIONS
OF VIOLATIONS

Recommendations

BREEDERS' IDENTIFICATION AND INVENTORY RECORDS HERE
INADEOUATE

‘Recommendations

EXHIBIT A - SUMMARY OF MATERIAL INTERNAL CONTROL HEAKNESSES

EXHIBIT 8 - APHIS’ RESPONSE TO THE DRAFT REPORT

 

 




33002-0001-Ch

I - SCOPE AND SUMMARY

Sc 2e,

This report presents the results of our audit of the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service’s (APHIS) compliance with requirements of the
Animal Welfare Act. The audit objectives were to determine (I) if
APHIS is fulfilling its responsibilities under the act, (2) if
ainternal controls are adequate to ensure the proper operation of the
program, and (3) if followup actions are adequate when unsatisfactory
conditions are noted.

 

Audit work »was performed at the agency’s headquarters office in
Hyattsville, Maryland, and at sector offices in Ft. Worth, Texas, and
Minneapolis, Minnesota. Licensed and registered facilities in Illinois,
Indiana, Missouri, and Wisconsin were reviewed to evaluate the quality
of animal care facilities under the jurisdiction of the act and subject
to review by APHIS. These States contain about 40 percent of the
facilities under the control of the act. Our audit was conducted from
May through September of 1991, and covered activities performed by
APHIS during fiscal years 1990 and 1991.

We interviewed officials at the agency’s headquarters to determine the
operating procedures (APHIS regulations) developed to implement the act,
supervision and guidance provided to field offices, and the procedures
established to ensure adequate training of inspectors. At the sector
offices, we reviewed procedures for performing prelicensing and
compliance inspections, procedures for followup inspections when
violations were noted, documentation supporting training provided to
field inspectors, and coordination activities between the animal care
and regulatory enforcement staffs.

He reviewed a judgmental sample selected based on facility locations of
284 of the 3,051 facility inspection reports maintained at the sector
offices. Then, we selected a sample of 30 facilities from the
284 inspection reports for site visits. This judgmental sample was
selected based on our analyses of the 284 inspection reports and the
geographical locations of the facilities. Accompanied by an
APHIS inspector, we performed reviews at the 30 facilities to test
the accuracy. efficiency, and effectiveness of existing APHIS inspec-
tion procedures. The audit was conducted in accordance with generally
accepted government auditing standards.

Summar

Our audit concluded that APHIS cannot ensure the humane care and
treatment of animals at all dealer facilities as required by the act.
APHIS did not inspect dealer facilities with a reliable frequency, and
it did not enforce timely correction of violations found during
inspections. Specifically, we found the following conditions:

 

 




33002-0001~Ch

Of 284 facilities reviewed, 46 or 16.2 percent of the facilities had
received no annual inspection and another 126 or 80.8 percent of
156 facilities found to be in violation of the act had received no
followup inspections in the required time period. The infrequency of
inspections occurred because APHIS expects a limited number of
qualified inspectors to perform a large number of inspections. He
calculated that APHIS’ 68 animal care inspectors would need to
perform 15,070 inspections annually nationwide to meet APHIS’
requirements.

APHIS does not have an effective inspection monitoring system, and it
does not have formal procedures which set the frequency of
inspections or of followup inspections when regulatory violations are
disclosed.

APHIS had not timely penalized facilities found to be in violation of
the act. During a review of 30 facilities, we found that 7 dealers
had not corrected violations identified during 3 or more inspections.
In one case, these continuous violations were noted as far back as
July 1988. He also noted that for the 284 facility inspection
reports reviewed, 49 facility licenses were renewed by APHIS when the
facilities were known to be in violation of the act.

APHIS regulations need to be enforced to ensure the proper
identification of animals and the accuracy of inventory records
maintained at dealer facilities. Although APHIS regulations were
specific about how dealers were to maintain inventory records and
identify animals, the regulations were not being followed. 0f the

22 licensed breeding facilities we visited, 17 had not properly
identified the animals. In addition, 14 of these facilities did not
maintain adequate inventory records.

APHIS had identified in its fiscal year 1989 yearend Financial Managers’
Financial Integrity Act report that animal welfare was an assessable
unit and scheduled an internal control review for 1993. Therefore,
APHIS had not reported any of the control weaknesses identified.
Internal control weaknesses disclosed during the audit are identified in
exhibit A.

 

 




33002-0001-Ch

II - BACKGROUND INFORMATION

The Animal Welfare Act of 1966 and subsequent amendments outline the
U.S. Department of Agriculture’s responsibilities to ensure humane
care and treatment of warmblooded animals used for research and
exhibition, and sold as pets through wholesalers. Through the Secretary
of Agriculture’s mandate in April 1972, these responsibilities were
delegated to APHIS. The primary mission of APHIS is to protect the
animal and plant resources of the nation from diseases and pests in
order to preserve the marketability of U.S. agricultural products within
this country and abroad. Compliance with the requirements of the act
is controlled by the regulatory enforcement animal care unit,
created by a reorganization within APHIS during fiscal year‘ 1989.
The regulatory enforcement animal care unit is composed of 5 sector
offices, overseeing about 5,638 licensed and 1,917 registered
facilities (see Figure 1).

 

REA C SECTOR OFFICES

?\ NORTH CENTRAL SECTOR NORTH EAST SECTDR(E’\

”Emmi? EDEALERS1417'\:VZ QM ’ w)
oeuERsau ( A -~_.__ Rauanamaumnmsvui v”:F3 (/1222;

, 1-” tuauasxns—w

“—1“. .
scum CENTRAL SECTOR
..._______j "
_..._ ,_..__.._. ,

.aaumszan } 7
"~—»~L . l llmunuzali
HEW .-—-' 3
‘5‘- I L
‘ Aucmnuswvs_ “T“.L
- .+.R£unncwauuun£run
\ V .WW
°”“”’“3 ovumCAaL

7. x
'

\.

'I

Figure 1

In addition to ensuring humane care and treatment of warmblooded animals
used for authorized purposes, APHIS is responsible for ensuring the
humane care of regulated animals when transported in interstate or
intrastate commerce and for preventing the sale of animals that are
stolen.

 

 

 




33002-0001-Ch

Sector office supervisors and animal care specialists are responsible
for facility licensing, registration, inspections, and investigations
of complaints. The field staff of veterinary medical officers, animal
health technicians, and investigators perform compliance inspections and

investigations.

Facilities regulated by the act are either licensed or registered.
Vendors of animals are] licensed in three classes: Class A licensees
(dealers) are breeders who deal only in animals which they breed and
raise; class B licensees (dealers) are those who acquire animals from a
variety of sources, and in turn sell the animals; and class C licensees
(exhibitors) are those who display animals to the public. In order to
qualify for a license, a vendor must meet minimal standards for
facilities and care.

Facilities registered under the act include research facilities,
carriers, intermediate handlers, and certain exhibitors. Adherence to
APHIS regulations is ensured by having a trained inspector perform an
initial prelicensing inspection, make at least one annual unannounced
inspection of all facilities covered by the act, and investigate
alleged violations of applicable laws and regulations.

 

The act requires all non-Federal research facilities to register with
the U.S. Department of Agriculture every 3 years, be inspected once
a year by a USDA official, and submit an annual activity report to.
the APHIS regulatory enforcement animal care sector supervisor in
charge of the State where the facility is located. By law, the
-Secretary of Agriculture is required to propose standards to govern the
humane handling, care, treatment, and transportation of ' animals by
research facilities. This includes minimum requirements for handling,
housing, feeding, and watering; sanitation, ventilation, and shelter
from extremes of weather; and adequate veterinary care, which would
include the appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, or
tranquillizing drugs. The law, however, precludes the Secretary from
developing rules, regulations, or orders with regard to design,
outlines, guidelines, or performance of actual research or
experimentation carried out by research facilities.

The Food Security Act of 1985 directs the Secretary to require each
research facility to establish an institutional animal care and use
committee to assess animal care, treatment, and practices in
experimental research as determined by the needs of the research
facility. The committee would represent society’s concerns regarding‘
the welfare of animals used at each facility for research. By law, the
institutional animal care and use committee must consist of at least
three members: A chairman, a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine, and a
third member not affiliated with the facility to , represent -the
general public. This committee is required to prepare a semiannual
evaluation regarding the research facility’s program for humane care and
use of the animals and facilities, including the research study areas.

 

.» . ‘, .r‘. Fw‘rn'rxwwmwgyi.w.wy . .. y.
. _ . ' ‘0 ‘ 1' .

 




33002-0001-Ch

For fiscal year 1990, the Animal Welfare Program received
$7.46 million in appropriations. An estimated 13,050 compliance
inspections of 7,555 licensees and registrants were made.

During fiscal year 1991, the regulatory enforcement animal care unit
established a task force to address concerns from the general public
and the animal industry regarding the humane care and treatment of
animals. The task force’s mission includes the development of
alternatives to improve the welfare of animals and overall
administration of the Animal Helfare Act. The primary focus of the
task force is commercial pet breeders and distributors within APHIS’
authority. However, the task force’s mission gives it the flexibility
to explore related issues and identify problems that affect the welfare
of dogs and cats in the pet industry, not just problems with dealers.

 

 

 

 

 




33002-OOOI-Ch

III - FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

1.

INSPECTIONS or ANINAL DEALER FACILITIES NERE NOT PERFORMED IN A
TIHELY NANNER T“

Inspectors were unable to inspect animal dealer facilities in a
timely manner because APHIS required a large number of examinations
to be performed by a limited number of qualified inspectors, and
because the system used to monitor facility inspections was
ineffective. As a result, APHIS cannot ensure humane care and
treatment of animals at all facilities covered by the Animal Welfare
Act (act) of 1966.

The act, most recently amended December 17, 1985, requires that the
U.S. Department of Agriculture ensure humane care and treatment of
animals maintained at dealer facilities. The regulations do not
specify the number or frequency of compliance inspections, or the'
frequency of followup inspections to meet the mandates of the
act. The Deputy Administrator of regulatory enforcement animal care
told us that facility inspectors were instructed to perform at least
one annual compliance inspection of each facility under the
jurisdiction of the act. To ensure that facilities take timely
corrective action, the Deputy Administrator issued a draft
memorandum in 1990 requesting that followup inspections be performed
within 30 days after the established corrective action deadline,
when noncompliance items are identified.

To determine the timeliness of inspections, we reviewed inspection
reports for 284 facilities out of 3,051 reports filed for as many
licensed and registered facilities in Missouri and the North Central
Sector. Our objectives were to determine if all facilities were
inspected and if proper followup examinations were made when
violations were disclosed. Of the 284 facilities whose reports we
reviewed, 46 or 16.2 percent of the facilities had received no
annual inspection. Of the remaining, APHIS had reported 156 in
violation of regulations but had not performed followup
inspections within the required timeframes for 126 or
80.8 percent of the facilities found to be in violation of the act.
Forty-nine of the 156 facilities were granted license renewals
while they were in violation of the act. Figure 2 indicates the
results of our review of the 284 inspection reports.

We found that APHIS procedures do not distinguish the severity of
violations of the act between serious or minor violations. We
believe that if violations are prioritized in accordance with the
severity of the situation, APHIS may not be required to perform
immediate followup inspections for facilities with minor violations
where the animals’ health is not in jeopardy. If this procedure was
implemented, this may reduce the number of facility inspections that
APHIS inspectors are required to make.

 

 

 




 

l

 

33002-0001-Ch

Our audit also disclosed that a limited number of regulatory
enforcement animal care inspectors are expected to perform a large
number of inspections. To determine the number of site visits which
would need to be performed to adequately complete all required
inspections, we calculated the number of facility inspections
performed in Missouri during July 1991. To be effective,
inspections must be unannounced; however, we found that
18.7 percent of the unannounced inspections could not be conducted
because key facility personnel were absent on the days selected. In
addition, our review disclosed that about 85.6 percent of
inspections performed in Missouri required a followup inspection
because of identified violations. As a result, based on Missouri’s
1,199 animal care facilities, 2,442 compliance inspections could be
required to meet the mandates of the act. Taking into account the
percentage of facilities that would require return visits to
complete inspections, APHIS could be required to make 15,070 site
visits nationwide each year. At the time of our audit, APHIS had a
field staff of 68 animal care inspectors.

FACIUTY INSPECTION REPORTS REVIEWED

FACﬂInES
an

an 12594

 

zoo
19

m

‘: ”W/A

T
TDTALFPCLTTYFILB WMWU’
m
[‘“‘~o,~"u~JN,1cnous . _Aoeouxnut1um~ue |Illxzacimtuamaownw
~—J E§§umw1cnow Illmouurxe
@ rmumnow WWW
uuwicnows

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@mmm

Figure 2

The time required to inspect each facility varied; depending on the
size and the condition of the facility, inspections could take up
to 3 hours. It appears that under existing APHIS policy, to perform
annual inspections for all facilities and follow up within 30 days
after the established corrective action deadline, when violations
are disclosed, APHIS needs to implement a ranking system for
facility inspections based on the compliance history of animal care
facilities. The result would be to reduce the number of required
facility visits.

 

 

 




33002-0001-Ch

He also reviewed existing monitoring systems used by APHIS to
control required inspections. He found that a nationwide monitoring
system had not been implemented. The Deputy Administrator for
regulatory enforcement animal care told us that the animal care unit
plans to implement a computerized monitoring system but that only
limited systems development operations had been performed. Hithout
some system to monitor inspections, APHIS cannot properly control
the number of inspections and reinspections required to ensure the
humane care and treatment of animals at dealer facilities.

Although APHIS regulations are very specific regarding inspections
at research facilities, we could not locate regulations requiring
inspections of dealer facilities. The Deputy Administrator for
regulatory enforcement animal care informed us that the
above-mentioned policies regarding inspections at dealer facilities
have not been officially documented in APHIS regulations. We
believe that for APHIS to properly document the requirements to
meet the mandates of the act, it should include dealer facility
inspection requirements in its official agency regulations.

Recommendation No. la

Establish a written policy documenting the severity of violations
and followup action required by inspectors.

APHIS Response

APHIS maintained that written policy is already in place covering
violations and inspections. Regulations such as veterinary services
Memorandum 595.7, Inspection Procedures Relative to Documentation of
Deficiencies, apply to this recommendation. Under the 1988 agency
reorganization, there was. a carryover of written policy
(VS Memoranda) to provide direction to regulatory enforcement animal
care inspections. To facilitate this carryover, they have changed
the numbers of certain official forms and formal memoranda from
veterinary services to regulatory enforcement animal care, and they
indicated this process will continue as necessary.

016 Position

Although specifically requested during the audit, we were not
provided written procedures which identify the severity of Animal
Welfare Act violations. Therefore, based on our discussions with
the regulatory enforcement animal care officials, the carryover of
written policy to the regulatory enforcement animal care unit, as
disclosed in the agency’s response, had not been accomplished at the
time of our review. Based on the memoranda numbers for the policies
provided by APHIS in their response to the report, it appears that
the conversion had not been completed as of January 17, 1992. To
accomplish the objectives of the recommendation, APHIS should
complete their conversion of veterinary services memoranda into the
regulatory enforcement animal care unit regulations.

 




33002-0001-Ch

To reach management decision, APHIS needs to provide a time-phased
action plan to complete their conversion of veterinary services
memoranda into regulatory enforcement animal care unit procedures.

Recommendation No. lb

Establish a risk-based facility inspection ranking system, allowing
facilities that continuously meet APHIS regulations to be inspected
less often than facilities with continuous violations.

APHIS Response

APHIS indicated that the regulatory enforcement animal care unit
adheres to APHIS’ written policy veterinary services Memorandum
595.7. Procedure C priorities, which states, in part,
"Deficiencies identified as "Major” will take priority over other
deficiencies for reinspection in the utilization of available
resources." Regulatory enforcement animal care uses the same
approach as veterinary services since resources are limited for a
vast and growing program. The regulatory enforcement animal care
program field staff has prioritized reinspections by limiting them
to those facilities of major concern. Minor deficiencies are
addressed on the subsequent routine inspection. Minor deficiencies
do not fall under a 30-day limitation for compliance unless they are
chronic in nature and have reached a point whereby the inspector
recommends a case be developed against the violator. Inspectors are
well trained to initiate a decision to file a case if circumstances
dictate.

016 Position

As stated in 016 Position for Recommendation No. 1a, the carryover
of veterinary services memoranda to the regulatory enforcement
animal care unit regulations has not been completed by APHIS. In
addition, veterinary services Memorandum No. 595.7 does not fully
address Recommendation No. lb. APHIS needs to establish a
risk-based facility ranking system to monitor the larger number of
facilities covered by the Animal Welfare Act with the present field
staff. Our audit disclosed that all expected inspections and
necessary followup activities could not be performed in a timely
manner. The risk-based facility ranking system would allow for
reducing the number of inspections for facilities that continuously
experience no violations.

To reach management decision, APHIS needs to provide additional
regulations to supplement veterinary services Memorandum 595.7,
which will allow for reducing the expected number of inspections, or
provide a time-phased action plan to implement a risk-based facility
ranking system.

 

1 . . roof—i'rr':~~“~-:wvf§r‘l :Tprpyvﬁ‘ 7W: _ ﬂirt»: awn. mvyl vim

 




 

33002-0001-Ch

Recommendation No. 1c

Establish a nationwide data base of registered and licensed
facilities to track inspections and monitor followup inspections of
noted violations.

APHIS Response

APHIS responded that they have developed the Nationwide Computer

System, License and Registration System. They indicated the

regulatory enforcement animal care’s Northeast Sector will be

utilizing the system next month and will enter beta test (the first

product on-line test phase). They stated all five sectors will have

the same data base by the end-of fiscal year 1992, and APHIS will be
fully computerized for optimum efficiency.

016 Position

The agency response failed to provide sufficient information to
indicate’ how the Nationwide Computer System would track inspections
and monitor needed followup inspections. -In order for a nationwide
data base system to effectively monitor required APHIS activities,
the system must allow for functions to track inspections and monitor
required followup activities.

To reach management decision, APHIS needs to provide necessary
{documentation to show that the proposed computer system will track
inspections and monitor needed followup activities.

Recommendation No. 1d

Develop and issue regulations to clarify the required frequency
of dealer facility inspections and followup inspections when
violations are disclosed.

APHIS Response

APHIS replied that they depend upon supervisory instruction and
written policy (such as veterinary services memoranda identified in
their response to recommendation 1a) to prioritize inspections
based on the compliance level of individual facilities. In
addition, APHIS indicated that in line with industry and regulatory
commitment to performance standards, the regulatory enforcement
animal care unit has provided intensive training to inspectors so
they make the best uniform professional judgement concerning
inspections.

016 Position

As stated in Recommendation No. 1a, the carryover of veterinary
services’ memoranda to regulatory enforcement animal care unit
regulations has not been completed by APHIS. In addition, our
review of the veterinary services’ memoranda provided in the

 




33OOZoOOOI-Ch

agency’s response did not disclose a regulation which provides for
inspecting facilities within required intervals. Our audit
[disclosed the existing regulatory enforcement animal care procedures
require research facilities to be inspected by APHIS inspectors at
least once annually. However, existing regulatory enforcement
animal care procedures do not specify the required frequency of
inspections for other facilities under control of the act. To
standardize the frequency of required inspections of all animal care
facilities, APHIS needs to implement regulations to specify when
facilities should be inspected and any required followup activities
when problems are identified.

 

To reach management decision, APHIS needs to provide additional
regulations outlining the frequency of inspections of animal care
facilities, and provide a time-phased action plan to incorporate the
procedures into the regulatory enforcement animal care regulations.

APHIS DOES NOT ENFORCE TIHELY CORRECTIONS OF VIOLATIONS

 

i APHIS had not timely penalized facilities found to be in violation
of the act. This condition exists because APHIS interprets
the act to require court hearings to apply civil penalties for
violators. In addition, APHIS regulations do not require that
facilities be in compliance with the act to obtain license renewals.
As a result, there is reduced assurance that animal care facilities
will make required corrections to comply with the provisions of the
act to ensure the humane care and treatment of animals.

 

’The act authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to suspend, for up
to 21 days, the license of any facility that has violated any
provision of the act or any of the rules, regulations or standards
promulgated by the Secretary. In addition, the Secretary may
assess a civil penalty of up to $1,500 for each violation, and also
order facilities to cease and desist when animal care facilities are
found to be out of compliance. These penalties are to be assessed
only after proper notice is given and hearings have been conducted
on the identified violations. Each violation and each day during
which a violation continues shall be a separate offense.

In addition, 9 CFR 2.31, dated August 31, 1989, requires the
institutional animal care and use committee to assess animal care,
treatment, and practices of research facilities. Each committee is
charged with preparing a written evaluation at least once every
6 months of its research facility’s program for humane care and use
of the animals and facilities, including the research study areas.

lAs part of our audit, we visited 30 licensed and registered animal
care facilities in Illinois, Indiana, Missouri, and Wisconsin.
Fourteen of these facilities had been cited for violations during
the last inspection made by APHIS inspectors. Seven of these
facilities had experienced repeated violations, 'and the inspector
who accompanied us verified that these conditions continued to
exist. The most serious violations included inadequate veterinary

 

 

 

 




 

 

33002-0001~Ch

care and fsufficient animal living space. Both of these conditions
Jeopardized the health and well-being of the animals.
Figure 3 summarizes the results of our reviews at the 30 animal care

facilities. ,
FACILITY COMPLIANCE INSPECTIONS

FACHJUES
:3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IFBFECTED

Q WP“ DWFKIJTB “WEBER!

' m WWW mum

g mmrwin meXJUTEB comm?
m «summons mm

Figure 3

One facility’s inspection reports indicated that repeat violations
had occurred continuously since July 1988. The repeat violations
included inadequate living space, sanitation of the overall
facility, veterinary care for the animals, and too few employees to
operate the facility. Other repeat violations disclosed during our
audit directly affected the well~being of the animals maintained
'at the facility. At one facility, we found that the health of three
dogs was in jeopardy due to inadequate veterinary care. For
example, one dog had lacerations around the neck, and another had an
infected eye. At this facility, we found 13 APHIS regulatory
iolations, including 7 repeat violations.

Our review further disclosed that the institutional animal care and
use committee at one of the five research facilities visited was not
approving all protocols for experiments as required by
APHIS regulations. The committee at this facility was unaware of
the requirement for protocol review and approval prior to
experiments.

Animal protocols document tests and procedures to be performed on
the animals. the pain the animals may expect to experience, the
number of animals to be used, and the expected results and benefits
to be derived from the experiment. The lack of documented approval
of a protocol does not indicate that improper actions were taken by
the research facility, but the facility is not in full compliance
with the act if the committee has not approved all protocols in
advance of experimentation. ‘

 




 

33002-0001-Ch

The Deputy Administrator for regulatory enforcement animal care
dichssed the lengthy process currently used to assess civil
penalties for continuous violations of the act. As identified in
9 CFR 4.1, dated February 25, 1977, APHIS currently follows the
"Uniform Rules of Practice for the Department of Agriculture,”
promulgated in 7 CFR 1.131, to assess civil penalties for violators
of the act. The rules of practice in this subpart require
APHIS officials to use the court system to apply penalties
authorized by the act. Under this method, certain procedures of
evidence must be followed, which e believe result in

' ' of t' . or examp e, at
1 faci ity, APHIS inspectors identified violations on 13 separate
occasions between September 1988 and February 1989. Final actions
to implement civil penalties were not completed, until April 1991.
The administrative law judge assessed a civil penalty of $26,000 and
issued a 1-year cease and desist order. '

The act allows the Secretary to assess civil penalties and issue
cease and desist orders after the facility owner is given notice and
any requested hearings are held. We believe a more effective method
would be to institute local administrative hearings, whereby civil
penalties could be assessed and cease and desist orders issued for
continuous violations. Local administrative hearings would continue
to allow facility owners the opportunity to appeal hearing
decisions. The administrative hearing process could greatly reduce
the amount of time now used to assess civil penalties and could

provide more incentive for facilities to adhere to the regulations.

 

.i

The Deputy Administrator also informed us that to reduce the time
necessary to assess civil penalties, effective September 1991,
stipulation procedures were implemented. Stipulation procedures
would allow certain violations of the act and the APHIS regulations
to be resolved without resorting to legal disciplinary proceedings.
However, without the approval of the animal care facility operator,
the stipulation procedures cannot be enforced. Based on that
requirement, we believe APHIS will need to monitor closely the

actual results obtained. We support the application of strict civil

penalties for repeat violators of APHIS regulations an question
e er, under the stipu ation procedures, compliance with the
intent of the act will be accomplished.

We found that, although facilities must meet the requirements of the
act to obtain their original license, license renewals were being
granted to facilities that were not in compliance with
APHIS regulations. Our review disclosed that license renewals had
been granted to 49 of 156 facilities in violation of the act. In
addition, license certificates displayed at facility premises were
not updated to indicate the current status of the license. During
discussions with APHIS sector office officials, we were informed
that attempts were being made to recover licenses that were revoked
or suspended. However, the officials could not ensure the

 

 

 




33002-0001-Ch

certificates were returned. Therefore, expired or revoked licenses
could exist at some animal care facilities and be construed as
valid licenses by the general public and/or potential customers.

He believe APHIS should ensure that dealer facilities are in
compliance with the intent of the Animal Welfare Act prior to
issuance of license renewals. To protect the public, we also
believe licenses displayed at animal care facilities should be
updated annually with proper status indicators.

To provide an additional incentive for animal care facilities to
remain in compliance with the act, APHIS should develop regulations
to implement an animal care certification process. Under this
process, APHIS could provide certificates to breeders, after a
facility inspection determined that no violations exist.
A certificate would then accompany each animal to the retail outlet,
providing the public the assurance that the animal has been
handled only by APHIS licensed facilities. We believe that a
certification process to identify to potential purchasers, including
consumers, that animals originated from and were handled by approved
facilities could enhance the marketability of animals, and provide
an added incentive for dealers and handlers to remain in compliance
with the act.

We believe that APHIS should implement an administrative hearing
process to reduce the time now used to assess civil penalties when
facilities have been cited for continuous violations. He also
believe that APHIS should ensure that dealer facilities are in
compliance with the intent of the Animal welfare Act through the use
of compliance inspections prior to the renewal of licenses. To
protect the public, we also believe licenses displayed at animal
care facilities should be updated annually with proper status
indicators. Finally, we believe that an APHIS certificate
documenting that the animal originated from breeders meeting Animal
Welfare Act standards could enhance the marketability of these
animals and force breeders to meet standards.

wj

Recommendation No. 2a

Establish local administrative hearing procedures to expedite the
civil penalties process, to enforce compliance with the requ1rements

of the act.

APHIS Response

APHIS responded that the present system of Administrative Law Judges
(ALJ) presiding over cases is dictated by the Department Rules of
Practice. They indicated they have no control over the manner “in
which the ALJ system is administered. APHIS stated that according
to the Office of General Counsel, 99 percent of the hearings are
conducted near the vicinity of the respondent. APHIS said that

 

 

 

 




33002-0001-Ch

there are five administrative law judges for 10 major programs.
APHIS further stated that the cost of additional legal
accommodations to expedite cases would be prohibitive.

W

Our audit disclosed, because APHIS currently uses the Administrative
Law Judge system, excessive time is required to remove problem
animal care facilities from the program. The Animal Welfare Act
provides for civil penalty remedies, including monetary fines and
cease and desist orders, by the Secretary of Agriculture.
Currently, APHIS is controlled by the Department Rules of Practice
which specifically requires the use of the Administrative Law Judge
system. To decrease the time necessary to adjudicate cases,
APHIS should implement procedures which would allow for hearing
cases outside the Administrative Law Judge system. Therefore,
APHIS should request from the Secretary of Agriculture a waiver from
the requirements of the Department Rules of Practice for facilities
continuously violating the Animal welfare Act.

To reach management decision, APHIS needs to provide a time-phased
action plan to obtain necessary waivers from the Secretary and
implement local administrative procedures to expedite the civil
penalties.process authorized by the Animal Welfare Act.

Becomendati on No .__2_t_i

Require facilities to certify, on the annual license renewal form,
that the facility is in compliance with all regulations promulgated
to implement the act. If the facility is not in compliance with the
intent of the act, license renewal should not be granted.

APHIS Response

APHIS stated that the Animal Welfare Act does not include a
provision for withholding renewal of a license due to lack of
facility compliance. This issue was also addressed by OGC, who
advised that APHIS lacks authority to withhold renewals.

W

tlhe Animal Welfare Act provides the authority to suspend and revoke
license when animal care facilities are in violation of the act.
would appear that the intent of Congress, although not specifically
, ld be to allow the Secretary to withhold license renewals
when a license has been suspended or revoked. This authority would
greatly assist the Secretary in fulfilling the duties specified
under the act. Because the Office of General Counsel has provided
an opinion regarding the lack of authority to withhold licenses,
APHIS should seek legislation to obtain the authority to withhold
license renewals when facilities are known to be in violation 0‘ the

act.

 

 

 

 

 




33002-0001.Ch

To reach management decision, APHIS should provide a time-phased
action plan to seek legislation to obtain authority to withhold
license renewals when deemed necessary by the Secretary.

Recommendation No. 2c

Reissue animal care facility licenses on an annual basis that would
clearly show the current status of the facility.

APHIS Response

APHIS responded that each sector office presently renews licenses
annually to dealers/exhibitors who meet regulatory licensing
requirements. If legal action has been brought against a licensee,
the cause for withholding of renewal would be determined and
recommended by legal counsel. (See APHIS’ response to 2b above.)

016 Position

 

The agency’s response does not address the recommendation. From
visually reviewing the license at a facility, the public should be
able to determine if the facility is currently in compliance with
APHIS regulations. Through the use of an expiration date
prominently displayed on the license, the public would be aware of
the current status of the license. Also, the intent of the
recommendation was to ensure that licenses were updated annually to
visually show their compliance with the act. In order to reach
management decision, APHIS needs to provide a time-phased plan of
action to implement procedures to regujre gxpjnation dates on
license certificates maintained at anima care facilities.

v __

Recommendation No. 2d

Initiate a procedure whereby APHIS would issue certificates to
licensed breeders who operate in accordance with standards of the
act, authenticating that animals originated from an APHIS-licensed
breeder. This certificate should accompany the animal to the '
consumer.

APHIS Response

APHIS stated that the act limits the activities of the Department to
ensuring that the licensee complies with the animal care standards
including transportation of the animals. They said it does not
permit a certification process which could be interpreted by the
public that the facility meets more than minimum standards for their
individual animals. In addition, they indicated present resources
limit certification even if the act did not permit its use.

016 Position

In order to realize the full impact of the recommendations contained
in this report, the certification process would be a control over

 

.- 4 '- I ' .¥-“ I .- -
'_‘-. ~.~--i~ —'x-r~f-1~ar¢'-"v'.' "

 




3.

33OOZ-OOOI—Ch

all facilities handling animals. Through this process, a consumer
could determine at the time of purchase that the animal had been
cared for by only APHIS-approved animal care facilities. Since
APHIS indicates that the act limits their activities to ensuring a
licensee complies with animal care standards, we recommend that
APHIS seek legislation to establish a certification process.

To reach management decision, APHIS should develop a time-phased
action plan to seek legislation to allow for a certification process
to authenticate that animals originated from and were handled by an
APHIS licensed facility.

BREEDERS’ IDENTIFICATION AND INVENTORY RECORDS HER§¥INADEQUAI§

Animals at 17 of the 22 licensed facilities we visited were not
properly identified. In addition, 14 of 22 facilities did not
maintain sufficient inventory records on their animals. These
facilities have not complied with the APHIS regulations to
identify animals with tattoos and tags, and to adequately maintain
complete inventory records. As a result, APHIS inspectors cannot
be assured that animals maintained at the facility are the same
animals reported to APHIS as breeding stock.

As required by 9 CFR 2.50 (A) (1), dated August 31, 1989, breeders
shall identify all live animals on their premises with either an
official tag affixed to the animal’s neck by means of an approved
collar, or by a legible tattoo approved by the APHIS administrator.
Further, 9 CFR 2.75, dated August 31, 1989, states that each dealer
‘shall maintain records which fully and correctly disclose detailed
information concerning each animal purchased or otherwise acquired.

He could not reconcile the number of animals we counted during our
inspections with the number of animals listed on licensees’
inventories, when inventories were actually maintained. At 12 of
22 facilities, we noted that licensees were not properly tagging or
attooing animals. For example, tattoos did not include the
facility license number. He found that for 14 of 22 licensed dealer
facilities reviewed, the licensees had not maintained accurate and
up-to-date animal inventory records. He found APHIS had developed
forms for breeders to document the inventory of animals on hand or
the disposition of animals; however, breeders were not using the
forms to maintain appropriate records. We believe, that to ensure
accurate inventory records are maintained, APHIS should require all
facilities to use approved identification methods and inventory
control forms. Figure 4 shows the results of our inventory
maintenance and animal inventory review.

 

 




33002-0001-Cn

UCENSEE NON-COMPUANCE

 

 

,

 

 

 

 

/

 

m

mmm mm mm:
E22 m D om ““"u'n‘ ~ mm"..a°"°"

Figure 4

Recommendation No. 3a

Require that animal care facilities use APHIS Veterinary Services
Form 18-5, ”Record of Dogs and Cats on Hand," and Veterinary
Services Form 18—6, “Record of Disposition of Dogs and Cats."

APHIS Response

APHIS indicated that many licensees use their own forms to record
data required by VS Forms 18-5 and 18-6. They said other licensees
elect to utilize the APHIS VS forms. They believe that the
information recorded by animal care facilities on their own forms is
adequate. APHIS stated they will, however, continue to review this

issue.

016 Position

Our audit disclosed that licensees were either not *maintaining
records, or records were incomplete. Although APHIS allowed
facility owners to use unofficial forms to ensure that proper
inventory records were maintained, the process was not followed by
all facilities. The regulatory enforcement animal care evaluation
task force also proposed a similar recommendation in their draft
report to the APHIS administrator. The task force proposed that
APHIS develop regulations requiring facilities to maintain mandatory
records which are complete and uniform throughout the industry.

To reach management decision, APHIS needs to provide a time-phased
plan of action to require facilities to maintain accurate and

up-to-date inventory records.

 

 




33002-0001-Ch

Recommendation No. 3b

Require animal care facilities to use approved identification
methods to properly describe animals.

APHIS Response

APHIS responded that the regulations for animal identification
clearly stipulate that - each animal is to be appropriately
identified. APHIS recently adopted a new tattoo system that assists
the licensee in applying permanent identification of each animal for
trace back to the designated licensee.

016 Position

OIG agrees with the action taken by APHIS to ensure that an adequate
identification method is in place. To reach management decision,
APHIS needs to provide a time~phased action plan to fully implement
the newly adopted tattoo system.

 

 

 




33002-OOOI-Ch

SUMMARY OF MATERIAL INTERNAL CONTROL NEAKNESSES

Causal
Factors Included in
Finding Internal Control Weaknesses 1 2 3 Agency FMFIA

1 APHIS has no existing written
policy, except for research
facilities, identifying the
frequency of facility compliance
inspections in order to meet the
mandates of the Animal Welfare
Act. '

 

APHIS does not perform followup
inspections within established
timeframes, when violations are
disclosed by the maintenance
inspections.

Causal Factors
1. Not Prescribed

2. Not Adequate as Przscribed
3. Adequate But Not Functioning as Prescribed

EXHIBIT A

 

 




APHIS' RESPONSE TO THE DRAFT REPORT

United States Animal and 33002'0001-Cn

Department 0! Piant Heann
Agnculture Inspection
Sconce

Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APEIS)
Implementation of the Animal welfare Act (AHA)

James R. Ebhitt 0-": JAN 17 1992

Assistant Inspector General
for Audit, 010

This correspondence represents our response to the Office of the Inspector
General (015) review of the APHIS implementation of the AHA“ Recommendations
are addressed as they appear in the report.

016 Recommendation la:

Establish a written policy documenting the severity of violations and followup
action required by inspectors.

APHIS Response:

Written policy is already in_place covering violations and inspections. The
regulations listed below are Veterinary Services (VS) Hemoranda (copies
enclosed) which apply to this 016 recommendation:

No. 595.7 - Inspection Procedures Relative to Documentation of
Deficiencies

No. 595.12 Inspection and Related Activities of Research Facilities
Ho. $95.13 Guidelines for Inspection of Exhibitors and Pet Stores

No. 595.16 Animal Welfare Act. Guidelines for Inspection of Common
Carriers and Intermediate Handlers

Under the 1988 Agency reorganization. there was a carryover of written policy
(VS Hemoranda) to provide direction to Regulatory Enforcement and Animal Care
(REAC) inspectors. To facilitate this carryover, we have changed the numbers
of certain official forms and formal Hemoranda from VS to REAC. and this
process will continue as necessary.

OIC Recommendation 1b:
Establish a risk-based facility inspection ranking system allowing facilities

that meet APHIS regulations to be inspected less often than facilities with
continuous violations.

w APHIS—hetemmo Amencen Wm

EXHIBIT 8
Page 1 of S

"s... a

 

 




33002-OOOl-Cn
James R. Ebbitt

APHIS Response:

REAC adheres to APHIS' written policy. VS Memorandum 595.7 (enclosed), IV.
Procedure, C. Priorities, states in part: 'Deficiencies identified as 'Hajor'
will take priority over other deficiencies for reinspection in the utilization
of available resources.“ REAC uses the same approach as VS since resources are
limited for a vast and growing program. The REAC program field staff has
prioritized.reinspections by limiting them to those facilities of major concern.
Minor deficiencies are addressed on the subsequent routine inspection. Minor
deficiencies do not fall under a 30-day limitation for compliance unless they are
chronic in nature and have reached a point whereby the inspector recommends a
case be developed against the violator. Inspectors are well trained to initiate
a decision to file a case if circumstances dictate.

OlG Recommendation lc:

Establish a nationwide data base of registered and licensed facilities to track
inspections and monitor followup inspections of noted violations.

APHIS Response:

We have developed the Nationwide Computer System, License and Registration
SyStem. REAC's Northeast Sector will be utilizing the System next month and
will enter Beta test (the first product online test phase). All five Sectors
will have the same data base by the end of Fiscal Year 1992, and APHIS will be
fully computerized for optimum efficiency.

OIG Recommendation ld:

Develop and issue regulations to clarify the required frequency of dealer
facility inspections and followup inspections when violations are disclosed.

APHIS Response:
W

The Agency relies upon supervisory instruction and written policy (VS Hemoranda
identified in our response to Recommendation la) to prioritize inspections based
on the compliance level of individual facilities. In line with industry and
regulatory commitment to performance standards. REAC has provided intensive
training to inspectors so they make the best uniform professional judgment
s———'*~\

concerning inspections.

OIC Recommendation 2a:

Establish local administrative procedures to expedite the civil penalties process
to enforce compliance with the requirements of the ADA.

APHIS Response:

The present system of Administrative Law Judges (ALJ) presiding over cases is
dictated by the Department Rules of Practice. APHIS has no control over

EXHIBIT 8 '
Page 2 of o

 




James R. Ebbitt

the manner in which the ALJ system is administered. According to the Office
of General Counsel (DOB), 99 percent of the cases conduct a hearing near the
vicinity of the respondent. There are five AlJ's for ten major programs. The
cost of additional legal accommodation to expedite cases would be prohibitive.

OIC Recommendation 2b:

Require facilities to certify, on the annual license renewal form, that the
facility is in compliance with all regulations promulgated to implement the
Act. If the facility is not in compliance with the intent of the Act. license
renewal should not be granted.

APHIS Response:

The AHA (copy enclosed) does not include a provision for withholding renewal
.of a license due to lack of facility compliance. This issue was also I
addressed by OCC, who advised that APHIS lacks authority to withhold renewals.

OIG Recommendation 2c:

Reissue Animal Care facility licenses on an annual basis that would clearly
show the current status of the facility.

APHIS Response:

Each Sector office presently renews licenses annually to dealers/exhibitors
who meet regulatory licensing requirements. If legal action has been brought
against a licensee, the cause for withholding of renewal would be determined
and recommended by legal counsel. (See Response to 2b above.)

016 Recommendation 2d:

Initiate a procedure whereby APHIS would issue certificates to licensed
breeders who operate in accordance with standards of the Act, authenticating
that animals originated from an APHIS licensed breeder. The certificate
should accompany the animal to the consumer.

APHIS Response:

The Act limits the activities of the Department to ensuring that the licensee
complies with the Animal Care Standards including transportation of the
animals. It does not permit a certification process which could be
interpreted by the public that the facility meets more than minimum standards
for their individual animals. In addition. present resources limit
certification even if the Act did permit its use.

EXHIBIT 8
Page 3 of 5

 

 

 

, , ‘1' -;.r‘-—q~ ‘ ‘r'vv' .'-':L"'" ’10-, . , . . '. '-

 




33002-0001-Cn

James R. Ebbitt

OIG Recommendation 3a:

Require that animal care facilities use APHIS Form 18-5, Record of Dogs and
Cats on Hand, and VS Form 18-6, Record of Disposition of Dogs and Cats.

APHIS Response:

Many licensees use their own forms to record data required by VS Forms 18-5
and 18-6. Other licensees elect to utilize the APHIS-VS Forms. We believe
that the information recorded By animal care facilities on their own forms is

adequate. We will. however, continue to review this issue.

016 Recommendation 3b:

 

Require animal care facilities to use approved identification methods to
properly describe animals.

APHIS Response:

The regulations for animal identification clearly stipulate that each animal
is to be appropriately identified. We recently adopted a new tattoo system
that assists the licensee in applying permanent identification of each animal
for traceback to the designated licensee.

OIG Recommendation 3c:

Issue procedures to establish guidelines for breeders to control breeding
during the animal exercise process.

APHIS Response:

APHIS is not authorized to issue guidelines directed toward breeding programs,
as long as breeders meet good veterinary care practices. The industry as a
group is familiar with their canine and feline breeding program requirements.
Observant animal care givers can discern estrus in the female. Inte e
resistance by industry cguld make it extremely difficult for the Department tog
'EEEErry taEing‘iction to separate the males.‘"We emphasize prEEEr veterinary _‘

‘”EE??T'EEH~§?‘IBHITE?“Ehose programs for compliance. APHIS. REAC offers
assistance to licensees/registrants regarding their veterinary care program so
they may elevate their level of compliance and cooperate more fully with their
veterinarian to achieve improved animal health care. (See 9 CFR, Animal
welfare. Section 2.40, Veterinary Care Regulations.)

In addition to 595.7. the enclosed Hemoranda are frequently used for reference
and guidance in the Animal Welfare program:

VS memorandum No. 595.1. Responsibilities and Accountability for Animal

Care Program Activities
VS Memorandum No. 595.2. Animal Care Coordinator

 

EXHIBIT 8
Page 4 of 5

> _ . . .. ,"hy--....,.
" "1:" ‘W‘rrvtro'rm‘ 73".“ «‘43 1- m - 9» "’Pw“ " - ‘ ‘

 




James R. Ebbitt

VS Memorandum No.

Facilities

VS Memorandum No.

(9 CFR. Section

VS Memorandum No.

Facilities

VS Memorandum No.

Stores. Oct. 2,

VS Memorandum No.

Monies - Animal

VS Memorandum No.

33002—OOOl-Cn

595.5, Impervious Surfaces and Indoor and Outdoor

595.6, Automatic Termination of License - Animal Welfare
2.5(b))
595.12, Inspection and Related Activities of Research

595.13, Guidelines for Inspection of Exhibitors and Pet
1972 and March 13. 1981

595.14, Procedure in Handling License Applications and
Welfare Program

595.17, Animal welfare Act - Program Forms ANH 18-3

Through ANH 18.12 - Instruction Guidelines
595-19, Instructions for Submitting the Research
Report - VS Form 18-23, Annual Report of Research

VS Memorandum No.

Facility Annual
Facility

VS Memorandum No.

for Animals

VS Memorandum No.
VS Memorandum No.

Involving the U

VS Memorandum No.

595.20, Animal Welfare Act - Tattoo Identification

595.21. Veterinary Care Under Animal welfare Regulations
575.4, Prohibited Conduct in Criminal or Civil Cases

.5. Government

576.3, Submission of Animal Quarantine, Animal Welfare.

and Horse Protection Apparent Violation Cases

Thank you for the opportunity to respond to the recommendations identified

in the audit report.

Please advise us if we have satisfied OIG's

resolution requirements.

@141. .2

Robert Melland
Administrator

20 Enclosures

016 NOTE:

Enclosures not included with report.

EXHIBIT 8

Dane C 0‘ F

+.f-..~n-_-y~.. ‘ ’1~“‘1'-""I".""1-"I:"“

o—r—w y.

2.x? --».r

. . . . . , A. .. * :.‘.. .. . . . 'I " ' .' _‘ [“1“ ’ {im'rjigxi'
.é- WWWEWW' ‘ 4“. 153,41...“ ‘1"; Alarm -‘x.|.a'ni}..a.' .lzmmummmug amid in.“ Jﬂ.ul:n. H:

 

 




Informational copies of this report have been distributed to:

Genera] Accounting Office
Office of Finance and Management
Director
Audit Liaison Office

 

 

 

 




.51? United States Animal and Le islative F a a n
,. ' {\ ‘~\, Department of Plant Health an?! Hiatetgavilleedglo
. \.;3-/ Agriculture "1506"” Public Aﬂairs 20732 '
[Vice

.LPA ADVISORY TO ALL REAC EMPLOYEES

Through: Dr. Joan Arnoldi r\§$>§?\

Deputy Administrator
Regulatory Enforcement and mal Care

The following statement should be used to respond to inquiries
regarding the findings of an internal audit of the Animal and
Plant Health Service by the 0.8. Department of Agriculture's
Office of Inspector General (GIG):

Based on recommendations by the 0.8. Department of
Agriculture's Office of Inspector General, the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service is developing changes to
strengthen its ability to enforce the Animal Welfare Act.

Calls should be responded to at the local level, however, do not
speculate on any aspect of the 016 report. Attached are
recommended answers to possible questions about REAC enforcement
activities. For guidance concerning questions beyond the scope
of the statement and attached questions, contact Kendra Pratt or
Robin Porter at 301-436-7799. Media calls should be referred to
LPA after discussing the situation with Ms. Pratt or Ms. Porter.

cc: Robert Melland
Dr. Joan Arnoldi

w APHls-onlechng Amencan Agncuﬂum

 




Becomsrmsn answsns TLQQIBLE gangrene neon; THE ore AUDIT:

Question: What is APHIS' response to the DIS report?
Response: In order to strengthen its enforcement
activities, APHIS officials are implementing policy and
procedural changes based on OIG's recommendations.

Question: How did 016 gather data for the report?

v Response: OIG interviewed APHIS employees, reviewed a
sample of inspection reports, and visited a select number of
licensed animal dealers and breeders in the Midwest. [Refer
technical questions about the report or audit methods to

I '5 Freedom of Information Act office at (202) 720-5242.]

Question: What changes will he made in response to the report?
Response: APHIS plans several changes, including the
implementation of a national data base to track the quality
and frequency of inspections.

Question: How soon would changes be implemented?
Response: All changes are expected to be completed no later
than early 1993. -

Question: How often does APHIS inspect licensed facilities?
Response: In 1990, APHIS' Regulatory Enforcement and Animal
Care (REAC) staff conducted a national average of 1.4
unannounced inspections per site, an 18 percent increase
from 1989. [Figures are unavailable for FY 1991, and 1992.]

Question: If APHIB conducted an average of 1.4 inspections per
site, why does the OIG report state that 16 percent of the sites
were not inspected at all?
Response: OIG's figures are based on a small sampling of
liCensed facilities in the Midwest. APHIS' national
inspection average is 1.4 percent.’

Question: How many inspections were made during 1990?
APHIS conducted 13,050 compliance inspections at 7,555
facilities (9,319 sites). Additionally, APHIS conducted
2,029 prelicensing inspections and 1,074 in-transit
inspections.

Question: How many inspectors does APHIB have?-
Response: Eighty-three animal care inspectors.

Question: Does APHIB prioritize inspections of licensed

facilities? . , .
Response: Yes. Licensed facilities with serious or chronic

compliance problems are inspected more frequently than
others.

 

 

 

 

 




Question: Are there some facilities that don't get inspected at
least once a year? .
Response: REAC strives to inSpect every facility at least
once a year.

Question: How does APHIB enforce the Animal Welfare Act?
Response: APHIS conducts unannounced inspections of
licensed facilities as needed to ensure that the business
remains in compliance with the Animal Welfare Act. The goal
is to bring all licensed facilities into compliance with the
law. However, if repeated violations are found, APHIS has
the authority to revoke and suspend licenses, assess fines,
and confiscate animals.

 




SOCIEW FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

Statement in Support of an
Additional $1.5 Million for the National Institute of
Environmental Health Sciences
and
an Additional $10 Million for NIH's Biological Models
and Materials Research Program

By Christine Stevens, Secretary
May 3, 1993

Before the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education of the Senate Appropriations Committee

On behalf of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
and the American Humane Association, we respectfully request
an additional appr0priation of $1.5 million for the National
Institutes of Health's National Institute of Environmental
Health Sciences (NIEHS) and an additional appropriation of
$10 million for NIH's Biological Models and Materials
Research Program (BMMR) for the fiscal year 1994. These
monies will support a variety of initiatives to ensure strong
progress in reducing our reliance on use of animals in
experimentation through refinement of protocols to lessen
animal pain and suffering, reduction in the numbers of
animals used and replacement of animals with appropriate
models (known as the the ”3R's”).

On February 1, 1993, John Gibbons, Director of the White
House Office of Science and Technology Policy stated, ”Animal
experimentation is justified when there is no alternative,
but technology is providing non-animal methods that should be
encouraged." Congress has been supportive of these efforts
in the past and we hope that this will continue so that
biomedical research can reap the rewards through better test
methods and reduced animal suffering.

Hetienel Institute of Environmental Health Sciences INIEHSL

An increase in funding for NIEHS would permit the
establishment of an Acute Toxicity Laboratory at a cost of
$450,000. Establishment of a Validation Program including
workshOps on validation of new methods will be possible at a
cost of $1,050,000. Before existing animal tests can be
replaced, it is necessary to conduct rigorous evaluation of
new methods which are deve10ped. This is vital to ensure

 




that the new methods will be accepted as replacements for
existing ones. $45,000 would permit conduct of a Consensus
Conference on New Methods. The conference would focus on the
evaluation of existing toxicological methods, review problem
areas that need to be addressed and encourage acceptance and
use of new techniques.

Biomedical Models and Materials Research Erogram LEMMBBL

Following congressional mandate, the BMMRP was established by
the National Institutes of Health to provide for the
deve10pment and support of non-mammalian models, such as cell
systems and non-biological systems for biomedical research.
BMMRP supports both the American Type Culture Collection,
responsible for distribution of cultures and micro-organisms
to researchers and the Yeast Genetic Stock Center, which
maintains and distributes yeast strains.

If provided the additional funding, the BMMRP would be able
to expand its current proqram by using $5 million for new
investigative grants (ROl's) for the deve10pment of

cell systems research and mathematical and computer modeling.
An additional $5 million would be used to expand pre-existing
facilities for housing of marine and freshwater organisms.

Regulations for Enforcement of the Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals Amendments to the Animal Welfare Act

On February 25, 1993, more than seven years after Congress
enacted the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals (ISLA)
amendments to the Animal Welfare Act, US District Court Judge
Richey issued a ruling upholding the Congressional Mandate
for exercise for laboratory dogs and an environment adequate
to promote psychological well-being of laboratory primates.
Judge Richey found the final regulations, promulgated by USDA
with strong guidance from the National Institutes of Health,
arbitrary and capricious. These regulations rely on
"performance based standards".

In issuing his ruling the judge stated that the regulations
"...do not provide the minimum requirements mandated in the
Act. 'A dog is man's best friend' is an old adage which the
Defendants [USDA, HHS and OMB] have either forgotten or
decided to ignore. HOpefully the new Secretary will ensure
that the bureaucracy he inherits and the special interest
groups with which he must contend will be forced to remember
this sentiment and comply with the law.’I

 

 




Referring to special interest groups' efforts to delay
implementation of requirements under ISLA, the judge stated,
"...former Judge J. Skelly Wright of our Court of Appeals
once said, in essence, that the regulators in Washington are
regulated by the regulated. This may well be the case here.
If this is so here, then something needs to be done to change
the process.”

The judge's order states that USDA must promulgate new
regulations, "without unnecessary delay", under ISLA. The
judge further ordered that the Plaintiffs [Animal Legal
Defense Fund, Society for Animal Protective Legislation, Dr.
Roger Fouts, Dr. Bernard Migler and William Strauss] "may
make further application to this Court in the event that the
Defendants do not act with all deliberate speed...."

The National Association for Biomedical Research, a special
interest group, made a motion to intervene on behalf of the
Defendants, which was denied by the judge, but is under
appeal. On April 26, 1993, the Defendants announced their
intention to appeal Judge Richey's decision.

Members of this distinguished subcommittee can help achieve

modest, but much-needed improvements in conditions for these
laboratory animals by urging the Defendants to fulfill the
mandate of Congress by withdrawing their appeal of Judge
Richey's prudent decision and pursuing promulgation of sound
regulations without further delay.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

TESTIMONY IN SUPPORT OF AN INCREASE OF $28,442,000 FOR
THE LAw ENFORCEMENT DIVISION OF THE FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE,
$1 MILLION FOR THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY, AND
$1 MILLION FOR THE CLARK R. BAVIN NATIONAL
FISH AND WILDLIFE FORENSIC LABORATORY FOR FY 1994

Before the Interior and Related Agencies Subcommittee
of the Senate Committee on Appropriations

by Christine Stevens, Secretary

April 2, 1993

On behalf of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation, I
request a total of $28,442,000 for the additional Special Agents
and Wildlife Inspectors needed to enforce the wildlife protection
laws of the United States.

The uncontrolled U.S. demand for exotic birds aS pets has pushed
some of the world's most beautiful species to the brink of
extinction. Millions of birds have died en route in appalling
conditions. Hundreds of thousands of protected birds were
laundered into the “legal" trade. At last the Wild Bird
Conservation Act was enacted and became effective October 23rd of
last year. The Society for Animal Protective Legislation
estimates the cost of enforcing this legislation, for which no
funds at all have yet been made available, at $770,000, which
would provide three additional Special Agents, eight Wildlife
Inspectors, and two clerical personnel, plus estimated $55,000
for travel expenses.

The Office of Management Authority must promulgate regulations to
enforce the new law, monitor trade and biological status of the
birds, and process petitions and permits. Additional funding of
$700,000 is needed for these mandated activities.

The 1994 Conference of the Parties to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) is scheduled to take place in the United States. An
apprOpriation of $300,000 is needed for this purpose.

 

 




The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) is expected to
result in a major increase of wildlife trade across the United
States' borders with Mexico and Canada. Already the Fish and
Wildlife Service Law Enforcement Division is so Shorthanded that
severe smuggling operations, especially with respect to wild
birds, cannot be prevented. FWS has to rely largely on the U. S.
Customs Service inspectors to monitor wildlife trade, but Customs
puts a low priority on wildlife inspections. FWS agents have
recently trained 92 Mexican border inspectors to enforce
requirements of the CITES, but the U. S. itself has only seven
inspectors on the border! .

Additional Wildlife Inspectors and Special Agents are needed at
El Paso, Houston, McAllen, Laredo, and Del Rio, Texas; Nogales,
Arizona; and San Diego, California. Congressman Richard Lehman,
when he conducted oversight hearings last year, stated that only
9% of wildlife shipments were inspected in San Diego—-this prior
to any action on NAFTA.

With respect to Canada, the ports of Buffalo, New York; Pembina,
North Dakota; Detroit, Michigan; Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minnesota;
and Blaine, Washington do not have adequate coverage to deal with

NAFTA .

Enforcement of wildlife law in the Pacific Islands has fallen far
behind the need because of a rapidly growing trade in products
made from sea turtles, a variety of reptiles, and ivory. We
recommend that two Special Agents and two Wildlife Inspectors are

be assigned to this duty.

Another Special Agent is badly needed in Bethel, Alaska,
centrally located in the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, to enforce the
Migratory Bird Treaty and legislation protecting four species of
wild geese that are being overexploited.

Besides necessary increases in enforcement personnel, $1,000,000
is necessary to meet the increased workload at the National Fish
and Wildlife Forensic Laboratory. In addition, construction of
an area for handling hazardous materials, including disease
vectors, is being urged by the U. S. Department of Agriculture to
ensure that the items shipped from locations throughout the world
do not endanger the health of animals in the United States.

 

 

 




-3-

In conclusion, it is important to note that the Special Agent
force has not increased despite the increase in wildlife
protection laws and public concerns over the past twenty years.
During the same period, species listed as threatened or
endangered increased from 191 to 1,137. Following are Fiscal
Year 1991 figures that demonstrate the urgent need for increasing
numbers of Wildlife Inspectors: Of 69,859 shipments through U.
S. ports of entry, only 20% were physically inspected by Service'
Wildlife Inspectors. Of the 20% inspected, 28% did not "clear"
inspection. The estimated value of the shipments was
$760,222,964. These statistics imply that potentially millions
of dollars in illegal wildlife are being imported/exported
annually as U.S. animal dealers continue to prey on the wildlife
of developing countries.

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation and its allies in
seeking effective enforcement of wildlife law strongly urge
appropriation of funds adequate to apprehend the wildlife
criminals that are destroying our nation's heritage and that of
many other countries throughout the world.

The organizations listed below support this testimony of the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation requesting an increase
of $28,442,000 for the Law Enforcement Division of the Fish and
Wildlife Service, $1 million for the Office of Management

Authority, and $1 million for the Clark R. Bavin National Fish
and Wildlife Forensic Laboratory.

Albert Schweitzer Council on Animals and the Environment

American Humane Association

Animal Care and Welfare/SPCA

Animal Protection Institute

Beauty Without Cruelty

Citizens to End Animal Suffering and Exploitation
Doris Day Animal League

Elsa Wild Animal Appeal

Environmental Investigation Agency

Fund for Animals

Humane Society of the United States
International Fund for Animal Welfare
International Primate Protection League
International Wildlife Coalition
Washington Humane Society

 

 

 




We support the relocation of DHRC to Port Cbllins to allow
the facility to conduct its alternatives research program as
aggressively as possible, and to accelerate the rate at which
non-lethal alternative methods are deve10ped for animal

damage control. ‘

The Animal Damage Control field program currently receives a
budget of nearly $26,000,000, and we support a reduction in
funding because of the eXtreme cruelty, lack of efficiency,
outdated methods and strategies often used by ADC in the
field. The field Operations budget is not being put to
constructive use, relying more on a ”body count' than
successful long-term results. Until such time as there is a
major shift in emphasis within the program, including the
incorporation of new technologies being develOped, we believe
that taxpayers' monies can be more wisely spent elsewhere.

Minimum Appropriations Needed to Enforce
the Animal Welfare Act

Operating Budget for FY 1989........... .. ....... $ 6,197,000

(less than 1.20 inspections per site were made)

ADDITIONAL (DSTS BECAUSE 0!" ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
AND AN INCREASED WORKLOAD: V
Additional Unannounced Inspections (1.80 per site,

for a total of 3 inspections)........... .......... 2,300,069
Addition of Assistant Sector Supervisors and

Computer Assistants.......;.. ...... .. ......... ..289,l38
Inspection of Carriers and Handlers.... . ......265,018
Pet Theft Act.......................................3,200,000
Inspection for Cbmpliance with ISLA & Farm Animals

Used in Biomedical Research Regulations.;.........l,078,000
Inspection of Exotic Animal Auctions...................11,400
Drafting Regulations..................................237,362
Increased Prelicensing Inspections....................l65,423
Investigating Increased Number of Cbmplaints...........61,332
Regulatory Enforcement..............................2,000,000
Acquisition of Needed Bquipment.....................l,199,600
Training..............................................612,000
Benefits, communications, Travel and Overhead.......l,300,000
Inflation...........................................l,132,057
TOTAL REQUESTED LAST YBAR.........................$20,048,399

Mice, Rats and Birds..............................$ 3,000,000
NT“ MUEST FOR P? 1993eeeoooeoooeoeeeeeeeeeeeee$2310481399

 




