THE

FAILURE OF VIVISECTION

AND THE

FUTURE OF MEDICAL
RESEARCH

JBeing the [prise 1555219111 aﬂompetttion

INSTITUTED BY THE

LEIGH BROWNE ENDOWMENT

BY

ARABELLA KENEALY, L.R.C.P. & L.M. (DUBLIN)

PRINTED FOR THE ENDOWMENT BY

ERNEST BELL, YORK. HOUSE, PORTUGAL STREET
LONDON, W.C.

PRICE TWOPENCE

 




 

“VVhatsoever that be which thinks, which understands, which acts,
that is divine and celestial, and must necessarily be Eternal.”——CICERO.

“Nature continually presents us with ready-made experiments of the
most delicate and suggestive kind, impossible for mechanical artiﬁce to
realise, on account 01' the conditions under which artiﬁce must necessarily
w01‘k.”—PROF. CHARCOT. '

:5,‘

, __._ug.
a.“ “x

5: guy)

i<_._z:‘

 

 

 

4*“ _, . _<_‘-.u

~—--._« n‘ v“




 

 

 

I .‘
i
‘3

I
h

4.-A A“ __.

 

THE

FAILURE OF VIVISECTION

AND THE

FUTURE OF M EDICAL
RESEARCH

JBeing the prise Essay in a (tempetttion

INSTITUTED BY THE

LEIGH BROWNE ENDOWMENT

BY

ARABELLA KENEALY, L.R.C.P. & L.M. (DUBLIN)

PRINTED FOR THE ENDOWMENT BY

ERNEST BELL, YORK HOUSE, PORTUGAL STREET
LONDON, W.C.

 




 

 

 

 

 

To this Essay was awarded the Prize of £50 oﬂered
by the LEIGH BROWNE ENDOWMENT for the best
Essay on the following subject, namely——

The Failure of Vivisection as a Means of
Promoting the Healing Art in Man, with
Suggested Lines for Future Medical Research
Work without employing Experimentation
on Animals.

 

 

 

 

 




 

5- _ _
r-f:

THE FAILURE OF VIVISECTION

AND THE

FUTURE OF MEDICAL RESEARCH

THE Failure of Vivisection as a means of promoting the
Healing Art in man is proved by two facts :

I. That since the ﬁrst Royal Commission, by sanctioning,
conferred upon this survival from barbaric times a ﬁctitious
and unmerited value, it has formed the main basis of Medical
Science ;

2. And that while all the other Sciences have made notable
strides, keeping so well ahead of material progress as to have
equipped themselves with knowledge and with resources
greatly in advance of human needs, Medical Science has been
left far behind, outpaced and powerless before the alarming
inroads of a Disease and Degeneracy which have been ever
increasing in ratio, ever intensifying in degree. And this
despite the circumstance that other Sciences have by their
achievements placed new and valuable resources at its dis-
posal.

Increased knowledge of Sanitation, of Personal Hygiene,
of Dietetics, and of Nursing have added greatly to our
methods of dealing with our sick. But nobody can pretend
that these arts have been in any way furthered by the
mutilation of living animals.

The modern achievements in Surgery are further evidences
of the Failure of Medicine—it being the function of the Art
Of Healing to arrest disease in its early stages. They are
signs, too, no doubt, of a constitutional degeneracy which

3 1—2

 




 

 

 

 

4 THE FAILURE OF VIVISECTION

tolerates abnormal mutilations and deprivation of organs
(That Surgery owes nothing to Vivisection is shown by the
fact that the President of the Royal College of Surgeons
stated before the recent Royal Commission that he had
attained his eminent position and had, moreover, earned
his reputation for operations on the kidney without having
made one experiment on animals.)

The Failure of Modern Medical Science, then, is self—
evident in face of the prevalence among us (despite our
immensely improved social and hygienic conditions) of In-
sanity, of Tuberculosis, and of an almost universal De—
generacy, as shown by our spectacled, adenoid- afﬂicted,
mentally and otherwise deﬁcient children, by our anaemic,
neurotic, and precocious girls and boys; and by our vale-
tudinarian adults, of whom, according to Dr. W. Ogle in the
Registrar-General’s Report for 1889, one out of every
twenty—one men and one out of every twelve women who
have reached the age of thirty-ﬁve may anticipate as a
certainty the terrible scourge of Cancer.

And it has been notably within the last half—century,
during which the Vivisectional method of Medical Research
has been paramount, hindering and misleading Medical
Science, that this deplorable inadequacy of the healing art
has become so signal.

For, in addition to the fallacious and misleading results
which must inevitably come from the application to man
of conclusions based on phenomena in lower creatures,
mutilated, in pain, narcotised and anaesthetised, or suffering
from diseases artiﬁcially induced, Animal Experimentation
has taken the place of other and truly valuable methods of
research.

So profoundly, indeed, does this fetish-faith in the re—~
sources of mutilated animals obsess and obscure the medical
horizon, that when Animal Experimentation has failed to
elucidate one of the many problems bafﬂing us, the situation
is regarded as hopeless. The expedient of attacking it from
broader and from more enlightened standpoints seems not;

to present itself.

 

 

', 7 ‘ : ‘AI. , Ajiprfr‘nnrw v ' ‘ mm , WW~W~“""" “" "‘ ' " " ""' """““" '

 




 

THE FAILURE OF VIVISECTION 5

Our Medical Scientists of the Twentieth Century take up
the false and mortifying position of protesting, “ Deprive
us of our guinea—pigs and rabbits, and the whole structure
and future of the great Art of Human Healing must fall to
the ground!”

Yet so little has Medical Science contributed in recent years
to the Art of :;Healing that we ﬁnd all our wisest and most suc—
cessful physicians relying more and more upon mere common—
sense principles derived from everyday and clinical experiences.

So, although they may pen you a routine prescription,
they put but little faith in drugging. They will, however,
give you most explicit instructions regarding diet, personal
hygiene, and habits of rest and sleep, fresh air and exercise,
perhaps of medicated baths and of mineral waters to wash
out waste materials from the system. But these cannot be
claimed as in any way the products of Vivisection.

Every day are being more and more realised (outside
Medical Science) the complex nature of man’s constitution,
the mysterious and incalculable forces with which it is
instinct, the immense inﬂuence which the mind and environ-
ment exert upon physical health.

Yet within the precincts of orthodox Medical Science
these larger, more complex, and more comprehensive truths
are virtually ignored, the attention of our Medical Scientists
being for the most part concentrated upon the purely arti-
ﬁcial phenomena of diseases artiﬁcially induced in mice and
guinea-pigs.

Owing to some constitutional inherency, hereditary or
acquired, to mental or physical overstrain, to mechanical
injury, or to the shock of a great grief, a man’s central
nervous balance may be so disturbed that his physical con-
science (the function which maintains the tissues in a state
of health) lapses from its standard, and permits a lower form
of tissue to develop—a form which, it may be, is a mere
reversion to an earlier period of his evolution. These
degenerated cells, a little group of disaffected aliens, mul-
tiply locally, perhaps migrate and form other centres of dis-
affection, causing the phenomenon we know as “ Cancer.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 THE FAILURE OF VIVISECTION

The normal healthy cells in their neighbourhood rebel
against, attempt to segregate and to cast off their degenerate
neighbours, thus giving rise to pain, inﬂammation, ulcera-
tion, and constitutional exhaustion.

It becomes a battle between the general system and the
local enemy, to end usually, alas ! in the defeat and death
of the general system’———a defeat and death which are never—
theless an attestation of health, the body succumbing in its
strenuous war upon, instead of tolerating further existence
side by side with, its degenerate invaders.

Now Medical Science, in the place of going to the fountain-
head and studying the racial, social, family, and personal
causes at the back of this cell—degeneration, snips off portions
of the cancer, takes Ioo,ooo mice, and attempts to grow
Ioo,ooo little tumours in them, with the hope of explaining
the phenomenon, and, it may be, of inventing a mouse—
serum which, injected into the blood of men, will prevent

‘ them from suffering the natural and inevitable ill-effects

of prolonged mental or nervous overstrain, of mechanical
injury, of shock, or of grief.

But in experimenting on the cancer, isolated from the
man, they have lost all touch with the causal com/moms. It
is probably mere idiosyncrasy which determines whether this
degenerative cause shall produce cancer, or diabetes, or
some other nervous affection. The Whole crux of the matter
lies in this .: There are certain lines—broad in the healthy,
narrow in the unhealthy—between which man may travel
without suffering structural degeneration. But if he over—
step these lines, his tissues degenerate. In other words,
like other human powers, the capacity of tissues for resisting
deleterious agencies has limits.

That is intelligible. Nature requires not only to insist
upon conditions which shall be most conducive to the
present health of the individual, but to insist also upon con—
ditions which shall conduce to his remote constitutional
integrity, to his future development, and, further, to the
evolution in him of the race.

Nature’s aim is not only the preservation of the individual,

 




 

THE FAILURE OF VIVISECTION 7

but also the preservation and the evolution of the type.
And having in her mind a deﬁnite idea of the perfectly
evolved man, she has been compelled (unless she would
make him superhuman) to restrict the limits within which
his health can be maintained and his evolution can proceed.

The thing we require to know of Medical Science is not
the nature and effects of Ioo,ooo little tumours artiﬁcially
produced in 100,000 little mice by transplanting a man’s
cancer into them, but the cause or causes in the man, in his
progenitors, or in his life-conditions which led to such grave
tissue-degeneration as constitutes cancer.

You can no more acquire knowledge of the human con—
stitution and of the laws subtending it by experimenting
with the micro—organisms and tumours which infect man,
when he departs from those laws, than you could learn the
sanitary system of a city by experimenting with the fungi
and vermin which might invade its houses as a result of
some defects in that sanitary system.

And you can still less ﬁnd remedies. For whereas you
might poison the vermin and destroy the fungi of the city,
you cannot, short of the knife, destroy the tumours or the
bacteria in man without otherwise injuring him.

Professor Metchnikoff, one of our greatest Medical Scien-‘
tists, calculates that the daily increase of bacteria in the
human intestine numbers 128,ooo,ooo,ooo,ooo. Also, “I
have examined grapes microscopically,” he states, “ to ﬁnd
billions of the most deadly microbes swarming over the skins.

Eating grapes is suicidal, and to give them to a child
is a crime.”

Professor W. D. Miller, an eminent authority on Dental
Bacteriology, estimates that one milliard one hundred and
thirty millions of micro—organisms can be present in one day
in a single uncleansed mouth.

Having regard to these colossal numbers, to this over—
whelming proliferation, the sane man placidly realises that
these micro-organisms must be, like himself, included in
the plan 'of Nature ,_ and must doubtless play an important
part.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8 THE FAILURE OF VIVISECTION

Not so the Medical Scientist. Detecting under his
microscope this enormous daily proliferation of bacteria,
he does not use his common sense and realise that, despite
these billions of “ deadly organisms ” crawling over grapes,
grapes have nevertheless from time immemorial formed a
nutritive and a gratefully refreshing food in sickness and in
health. He does not tell himself that, despite the bacteria
in his intestine, man’s evolution has nevertheless proceeded
for some millions of years quite satisfactorily.

On the contrary, he cries in a panic, “ Here now are
ﬂagrant errors on the part of Nature ! Let every man who
hereinafter gives to his child a grape be punished as a
criminal. Let every person, sooner or later, be relieved by
a surgical operation of this large intestine, ‘ an organ which
has become useless,’ and which is, moreover,- a breeding-
ground of deadly organisms.”

Professor Metchnikoff proposes, too, to “ immunise ” men
against old age by injecting into their blood a serum derived
from some lower creature which should have been pre-
viously injected with extracts of human liver and of other

organs.
Extreme in his views, he is the advance—guard of modern

Medical Science.

“ Here is that incompetent Dame Nature,” it complains,
“ recklessly sowing grape—skins with deadly organisms——
sowing man’s body with them. Here she is carelessly leaving
in his interior appendices and large intestines and other
dangerous and superﬂuous impedimenta. Come, now, let us
proceed to rectify these glaring errors! Had it not been
that Lady Mary Wortley Montagu chanced to bring back
from her foreign travels the disgusting practice of inoculating
healthy persons with small—pox (subsequently modiﬁed by
Jenner to vaccination), we should doubtless ere this have

been swept out of existence. Had it not been for the for»

tunate chance that Pasteur one day detected a microbe in
a test-tube, who would be living to—day P”

And yet ! And yet ! This same Science of Nature has,
by the marvellous working of the great plan of evolution,

 




 

 

THE FAILURE OF VIVISECTION g

steadfastly and patiently evolved from, it may be an ion
and an electron (the smallest calculable atoms of matter and
of force), the complex physical, intellectual, and moral
organisation which we know to—day as man.

By plague, pestilence, and famine, she has taught, has
disciplined, and has led us. For every lesson she has given
reward; for every pain a blessing. Every hard step and
abstinence and onward effort has been crowned by some
or another added power or privilege. For the pain and the
blood and the suffering of the individual she has rewarded
the type—that type which is so dear to her, whose ultimate
perfection is her strenuous aim.

By making decomposition obnoxious to the senses and
injurious to health, she ﬁrst taught us to restore to the
earth (in more highly vitalised condition) material derived
from it. In her Schoolhouse of Disease we are instructed
in the laws of Hygiene, of Self—Discipline,- of Self-Respect.
By Malaria we learn to drain and to cultivate the soil ; by
infection, to free our air, our rivers, and our food from taint ;
by penalties of suffering, we learn self—restraint and moral
effort. And, each task and exaction stimulating and
evolving faculty, we are making ourselves no longer creature,
but master of our material environment ; we now no longer
need to adapt our development to it, but we begin to adapt
it to our development.

Nevertheless, with these facts of evolution before
them, the chief aim of Medical Scientists is in the. direc-
tion of opposing and subverting natural methods, as I
shall presently show in my remarks on Serum—Therapy and
Immunity.

And yet, no more than an ant in a crevice of a mighty
locomotive, can we inﬂuence the pace of Nature or the
direction she is taking—although, like the ant, we may get
under the wheels. And not all the scientists of all the
nations could heal a pin—scratch on a baby’s arm were
Nature not to set in operation her beautiful law of

repair.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IO TYPICAL FAILURES IN PHYSIOLOGY

TYPICAL FAILURES IN PHYSIOLOGY

THE life of Physiology is a span of three years. In these
three years the errors derived from experiments on animals
are supplanted by further errors derived from further
experiments on animals. The “ discoveries ” which our
Physiologists triennially boast are mere changes in the forms
of error.

So, too, all our Physiology is stultiﬁed by the circum-
stances that the greater part of it is derived, in the ﬁrst
place, from dogs and cats and rabbits, between which crea—
tures and man perhaps ten million years of evolutionary
development have occurred ; in the second place, because all
the observations have been made upon creatures in the ab-
normal states of mutilation, of narcotisation, of anaesthetisa-
tion, or of supreme suffering.

The greatest truths of Physiology were discovered inde-
pendently of animal experimentation :

I. The recognition of the cell as the basis of all life—the
fundamental truth, indeed, of the whole Science—was
discovered by Schleiden from his investigations in the
vegetable world.

2. The recognition that the brain is the seat of conscious—
ness was made B.C. by Alkmaon without experiment on
living animals.

3. The recognition that there exists in the brain some
sort of localisation of function was discovered by a French
physician named Broca, who observed that, in cases of dis—
ease affecting a certain brain area, aphasia, or loss of the
power of speech, resulted.

So, too, as Darwin admitted before the First Royal Com—
mission, his great truth of the Origin of Species was worked
out by watching the life-habits of creatures under normal
conditions and without vivisectional experiments.

 

 




 

 

TYPICAL FAILURES IN. MEDICAL SCIENCE II

TYPICALFAILURES IN MEDICAL SCIENCE

LOOKING back upon Medical history, we perceive with
regret that it has been mainly from without, and not from
within Medical Science that reform and progress in the Art
of Healing have come. For, strange to say, although, of
course, progressive and noble-hearted members of the
medical world have allied themselves with such, all the way
along progress and reforms have originated, not in the
Medical but in the Moral Idea.

I. The impulse toward Asepsis, expressed in the proverb
“ Cleanliness is next to godliness,” was ﬁrst of all a religious
and a moral one.

2. So, too, the Temperance movement. Medical Science
has been late indeed in discovering the physiological evils
occasioned by alcohol, which were long since demonstrated
by the moral evils occasioned by it.

3. The Vegetarian movement, leading to our present
rational moderation in ﬂesh-eating, and no doubt in time to
a strictly non-animal dietary, originated in the humane
dislike to killing creatures.

4. The Agitation against Child—Labour, so disastrous to
racial health and development, has not emanated from
Medical Science, but took source in the public senses of
justice and of pity.

5. Our modern improved and intelligent Methods of
Dealing with the Insane originated in the humane sense,‘
which was shocked to see the mentally afﬂicted conﬁned in
cages, strapped to their beds, chained to rings in walls, and
otherwise forcibly restrained.

6. Medical Science, despite the disastrous consequences
of Immorality to human health, has never set before the laity
the plain truth that this, no doubt, poisoning life at its source,
has been the primary origin of all disease. The movements
for social and personal purity have been Wholly inspired by
the Moral Idea.

Indeed, Medical Science is even now seeking methods of
artiﬁcial immunity whereby to defeat the great moral lesson

 




 

 

Iz RESUSCITATION FROM DROWNING

which Nature teaches in this relation by inﬂicting penalties
for violation of her laws.

So, too, I profoundly believe the Movement for the Pro-
tection of Animals against Vivisection, originating in the
moral and humane ideas, is the advance wave of a great and
progressive impulse which will develop a new, an enlight-
ened, and a truly noble Medical Science which shall be
worthy of our age.

Instead of dealing brieﬂy with the many, I propose to
indicate at length a few of the typical fallacies and dangers
into which the Art of Healing has been betrayed by the
crude and misleading Methods of Animal Experimentation.
I have chosen such as particularly emphasize the obstructive
and unintelligent attitudes of our present-day Medical
Scientists.

And, ﬁrst, let me disclaim any intention of classing with
Medical Scientists that ﬁne and intelligent body of doctors
who, having neither time nor opportunity for medical
research, yet practise a sane and intelligent medical art,
which has been handed down from their fathers, and is
supplemented by their own practical experiences and wit.
These men suffer seriously, as do their patients, from the
fact that the leaders of medical thought, absorbed in labora-
tories over mutilated and artiﬁcially diseased lower crea-
tures, playing games of physiological and pharmacological
ping—pong with the blood-discs of rabbits and cats, are wholly
out of touch with human needs, and merely befog and mis—
lead the practitioners of a great Art, in the place of equipping
them with new resources.

RESUSCITATION FROM DROWNING

PROFESSOR SCHAFER claims to have shown, by his experi-
ments on dogs, that the admirable Sylvester method, so
long and so notably successful, even in cases apparently
hopeless, is a mistaken method, and that the prone position
is superior to the supine for resuscitating drowned persons.

Now, the main point to be considered is the position in

 




 

 

 

 

 

RESUSCITATION FROM DROWNING 13

which the human chest most readily expands. Every fact
of anatomy and physiology shows that for man this is in
the erect and in the supine positions. According to Halli-
burton’s “ Physiology,” “ The movements of the lung . . .
depend on the changes of shape of the closed cavity [the
chest] in which they are contained.”

Now, the chest is a dilatable and compressible box which
expands and enlarges with the drawing in of each breath.
It is almost absolutely rigid, undilatable, and incompressible
at the back, where the ribs are strong and are ﬁrmly attached
to the spine, “ the hinder ends [of the ribs],” states Kirkes,
“ being prevented from performing any upward movement
by their attachment to the spine.” But the chest is
freely dilatable and expansile in front and at the sides,
but more especially in front, where the ribs are joined
to the breast-bone by lengths of soft elastic cartilage. The
abdomen, too, which plays an important part in respiration,
is lax and most compressible. If, then, you have a box
which is rigid and heavy and ﬁrm on its under side, and light
and expansile and compressible on its upper side, when you
wish to expand it to its utmost you will, of course, place it
with itsvexpansile, compressible surface uppermost ; while if
you wish to compress it you will place it with its heavy,
rigid side weighing down upon its yielding, expansile one.

Professor Schafer, however, wishing to expand the human
box and lung, places the drowned, insensible man prone,
with all the weight of his rigid trunk and back muscles
bearing down upon the elastic, compressible front of the
chest and upon the yielding, compressible abdomen. More-
over, it is just this upper front of the chest, which in the
human being mainly ﬁlls with the “ tidal air ” of breathing,
upon which in the prone position his weight will rest, com-
pressing not only the most required and most expansile part
of the chest, but also bearing heavily upon and hampering
the heart and large bloodvessels.

(In the Sylvester method, the prone position is adopted
for a ﬁrst, brief interval before attempting to restore respira-
tion, in order to empty the chest and the stomach of water—~

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

I4 RESUSCITATION FROM DROWNING

an admirable proof that the prone position is the one most
suited to the emptying and not to the ﬁlling of the lungs.)

Again, in the prone position, the shoulders and arms drop
forward and contract the chest, while in the supine they fall
backward and upward and expand the chest. (The main
business of drilling, indeed, is to set back the shoulders in
order to expand the chest and lungs.)

Further, in the prone position, the face of a drowned
person will be liable to injury from pressure upon the ground
or beach, and in a woman the bosom will also be bruised.

Then, too, the face in the supine position can be closely
watched for signs of reanimation.

That the prone is the better position for resuscitating a
drowned dog I accept without hesitation upon the word
of an eminent physiologist. But a dog is a dog; a man is
a man. .

The horizontal, prone position of the trunk is normal to
the dog. He assumes it when he pants for breath. It is
doubtless, being his normal, his best attitude for breathing,
just as in man his best attitude is the erect. In that position
air more freely enters and more freely circulates in the
lungs. . .

In the dog, too, the forelegs are attached to the chest
quite differently from the attachment of the arms to the
human chest. They cannot be extended and uplifted in
such a manner as to broaden the chest and to expand the
lungs, as they can be made to do in man.

~ Had Professor Schafer derived his knowledge from human
beings instead of from dogs, he would have asked himself,
What position is chosen by a man who is suffering from
difﬁcult breathing ? Would he see such a person in a sick-
ward voluntarily lying prone P

On the contrary, he would see him propped forward in
order to raise the shoulders and so to assist the expansion
of the lungs and chest. .

An insensible man cannot, of course, sit-up, and, more-
over, the horizontal position is necessary in order to lessen
the labour of the circulation when this is restored.

 




 

ASEPSIS AND ANTISEPSIS 15

All of Professor Schafer’s elaborate demonstrations can,
in the course of thirty seconds, be controverted by any in-
telligent layman who will take the trouble to place, himself
prone, a dead—weight on the ﬂoor, and compare the em—
barrassment he will ﬁnd in breathing with the ease which
will immediately follow upon changing to the supine posi-
tion.

The truth is that it is absurd to argue from a creature
whose normal attitude, walking or lying, is with the body
horizontal and prone, to a man, whose normal attitude,
walking, is the, erect, and lying the supine.

Professor Starling told the recent Royal Commission on

Vivisection that Professor Sch'afer proved to him and to
others the advantages of the prone position by demonstra—
tion on a living man—Without, of course, having previously
drowned him. If, therefore, the thing were demonstrable
on a living man, who needed merely to lie down for a few
minutes on a couch while pressure was made on his trunk,
why subject a number of miserable dogs to supreme suffer-
ing? (The error arose, of course, from the bias given by
Animal Experimentation, and from the fact that in this man
the lung was not collapsed and airless, as it is in a drowned
body)
. At all events, I personally hope that, should I at any time
be in danger of death from drowning, all eminent physiolo—
gists will be safely locked up in their laboratories, and that
my resuscitation may be undertaken by a practical doctor
whose experience has been derived from his own kind, and
not from dogs.

ASEPSIS AND ANTISEPSIS

WITHOUT in the least wishing to depreciate the valuable
work of Pasteur and Lister, it must in justice be insisted
that the true founder of the doctrine of Asepsis, vaunted
so freely as a product of Animal Experimentation, was
Semmelweiss, a German physician.

Semmelweiss, in 1847, as Mr. Paget, in his book “ Experi—

 




 

 

 

 

16 ASEPSIS AND ANTISEPSIS

ments on Animals,” points out, “ by a long series of clinical
observations, and, so far as we know, without any experi-
ments on animals, discovered that the ghastly mortality
from puerperal fever in the great general Hospital of Vienna
was due to direct-infection.” “ Not only,” he stated, “ can
the particles from dead bodies generate puerperal fever, but
anypdecomposed material from the living body can also
generate it, and so can air contaminated by such materials.”

Accordingly he isolated all infected cases, and made the
use of cleanliness and of disinfectants compulsory, with the
result that the mortality dropped in ten months from
12-24 per cent. to 3-04, and in the following year to 1-27.

Here, now, is the truth : Semmelweiss, from clinical
observations, developed not only the theory of septic
infectivity, but also the practice of Asepsis.

Pasteur later, by means of the microscope, saw that the
“ particles ” which Semmelweiss had described as the offend—
ing matter were associated with certain vegetable organisms ;
but, although credit be given to him and to the micro-
scope, the truth is that this was a mere detail in the great
comprehensive truth which Semmelweiss had formulated.

Mr. Paget continues, that Semmelweiss “ could show them
how their patients died, why they died, and where the
fault lay, but he could not show them a microbe in a test-
tube, in an inoculated rabbit, and in the patient’s tissues.”
Pasteur was able to do this; and while Semmelweiss, the true
discoverer, was for his discovery deprived of his Professor-
ship and persecuted by his colleagues until he became
insane from grief, Pasteur, because “ he could show them a
microbe in a test-tube,” reaped all the honours of his pre-
decessor’s discovery.

Going on to describe how Lister further developed the
antiseptic theory from Pasteur’s discovery that Semmel—
weiss’s “ particles ” were associated with micro-organisms,
Mr. Paget repeats the time—honoured statement that bacteri-
ology was based on Animal Experimentation.

Bacteriology was based on Semmelweiss’s discovery of the
infective nature of “ particles ” from the dead or living body,

 




 

ASEPSIS AND ANTISEPSIS I7

and from Pasteur’s later observation, by means of the
microscope, that there were present in these particles certain
micro-organisms which have since been regarded as the
causes of infection, although their precise function has not
been deﬁnitely proved.

As to testing by the inoculation of animals—what need
was there of this P Here were the patients in the hospital
being daily inoculated by students fresh from the dissecting—
rooms, by the uncleansed hands of doctors and of nurses,
and by one another !

The secretions of these patients would show bacteria
when examined under the microscope. And the microbes
could, if required, be grown in test-tubes. What need of
rats and rabbits P

(The inadequacy of rats and rabbits to solve the problem
is shown by the fact that an authority so eminent as Dr.
Granville Bantock has collected weighty evidence to prove
that these micro-organisms are incidents in, but are not the
causes of, infection.)

That which really did result from experiments on animals
was in this, as in other cases, a travesty of the truth. The
extravagant practices of Listerism, with its fetishes of car-
bolic spraying, and of free and excessive applications of
carbolic acid and, other antiseptics, whereby Nature’s phe-
nomenon of micro—organisms was to be fought at every turn,
are now discontinued. But they were not discontinued
until they had claimed in discomfort, in suffering, and in
death numbers of hapless victims.

Let us now see what has happened to this Antiseptic
method.

Practical experience over many years having shown its
dangers and disadvantages, a whole revulsion of thought
is setting in against it. In the perpetual contest which
Medical Science wages against Nature, Nature has once
again, as ever, been shown to be right. '

In a paper read before the last British Medical Association
at Toronto, Dr. G. W. Ross stated: “ In surgery even the
efﬁcacy of antiseptics is being more and more questioned.

2

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I8 DIPHTHERIA AND ANTITOXIN

There is a large increasing school that practises asepsis. . . .
And furthermore,” he continued, “ Sir Almroth Wright has
recently shown that the application of antiseptics to a
healthy wound may predispose to bacterial invasion, because
of the fact that the natural bacteriotropic substances 0/ the
body-ﬂuids are completely neutralised, even by weak solutions
of antiseptics.”

No doubt, when useful, the true value of these so—called
antiseptics lies in some stimulating and alterative effects
they produce upon the local blood and nerve currents, and
not at all in their vaunted bactericidal properties.

In a paper—-—“ Science in Medicine ”———which appeared in
Science Progress, October, 1907, Dr. A. C. Inman says :, “ As
time goes on . . . aseptic surgery is gradually ousting anti-
septic surgery from the ﬁeld. . . . It is doubtful whether
the practice of using antiseptics in the dressing of septic
wounds is advisable, since the action of a large number of
them, at any rate, is in direct antagonism to the action of the
protective substances in the blood, which must be regarded as
the prime factors in the art of healing.”

An interesting light is thrown upon the devitalising effects
which attend the bactericidal properties of antiseptics by
the fact that in injury to extremities, to the ﬁngers in
particular, the use of carbolic acid as lotion or as dressing
has been found to cause gangrene.

DIPHTHERIA AND ANTITOXIN

'BY means of the Antitoxin treatment of Diphtheria the

upholders of Vivisection claim to have reduced the mortality
from 22-5 to 8-3 per cent. , Nevertheless, the general mor—
tality from Diphtheria in the United Kingdom is now greater
than it has ever before been.

Statistics are especially misleading in the case of a disease

, so variable in its degrees of intensity as is Diphtheria.

In Quain’s “ Dictionary of Medicine ” for I886 (before the
introduction of antitoxin) it is stated that in some epidemics
scarcely any patients died, while in an epidemic in Paris in
1847, 91 per cent. of those affected died.

 




 

DIPHTHERIA AND ANTITOXIN 19

As regards more recent ﬁgures to set against statistics
of the successful treatment of Diphtheria by antitoxin, we
have the Medical Supplement of our Metropolitan Asylums
Board for 1906, which reports a mortality of 10-4 per cent.
of cases treated with antitoxin, while of cases treated without
antitoxin a mortality only of 1-5 per cent.

The Medical Health Ofﬁcer for Toronto also has given, in
his Report for 1904, statistics of 5,100 cases of Diphtheria
treated in hospital during the preceding ten years. Of
these, 16 per cent. of those treated with antitoxin died,
while of those treated without antitoxin only 12-2 per cent.
died. ’

The advocates of antitoxin claim that in a case of Diph—
theria an injection of antitoxin causes a speedy diminution
of throat symptoms. This happens naturally, of course,
the tendency of all diseases being toward spontaneous
recovery. It happens also as a result of local remedies——
sulphurous acid, for example. But when it happens natur—
ally, because the poison has spent itself, or as the result of
'tonics or of local applications which directly increase the
constitutional or local resisting power, it is well.

But as a result of antitoxin, a substance which produces
some or another violent reaction of the system to it, it is
not well; for it disturbs the plan of Nature. It withdraws
the poison'from the throat, which Nature had selected as
the best eliminant organ, and, in so withdrawing, throws
back the poison into the blood and tissues.

In the Report for 1904 of the Lister Institute (where anti—
toxin is prepared) occurs the following: “ The increased
"number of cases of paralysis following the use of antitoxin
has by certain individuals been attributed to the use of anti-
toxin.” . .

The Report goes on: “ As experimemally antitoxin pro—
tects against the paralysing substance, the increase in the
number of such cases must be attributed to paralysis occur:
ring in cases which, had antitoxin not been used, would have
proved fatal in the early stages of the disease.”

But by this specious method of reasoning any injurious

2—2

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20 DIPHTHERIA AND ANTITOXIN

treatment could be regarded as having in reality beneﬁted
a patient, the aggravation of bad symptoms being inter-
preted as proof that but for the remedy he would have
died !

We take it, therefore, that the use of antitoxin has notably
increased the number of cases of paralysis in Diphtheria.
Well, paralysis is perhaps the gravest danger of Diphtheria.
So that if antitoxin relieves the throat and throws the poison
back into the system to paralyse, it may be, the heart, we
can scarcely regard it as a satisfactory, or, indeed, as a
justiﬁable remedy.

' But this is not all that antitoxin does.

According to the same Report, Anti-Diphtheric Serum
causes a great number of cases of fever and rashes, and pain
and swelling of joints. The Report attributes these to “ some—
thing inherent in the serum of the horses or other animals.”
It states that they may develop from four days to six weeks
after the injection.

In “The Extra Pharmacopoeia,” by Martindale and
Westcott, I ﬁnd under the head of Serum Anti-Diphthericum

“ Of complications following injectionwif abscesses and
septic infection occur, the serum may have been contami~
nated, yet haemorrhage occurs occasionally. Albuminuria
is less frequent under antitoxin than formerly.” Again :.
“ Sudden death may follow injection.”

80 that, considering all things———“ the increased number of
cases of paralysis,” abscesses, septicaemia, albuminuria,
sudden death, fever, rashes, and joint-affections, to say
nothing of convulsions, which some authorities have recorded
as a result of antitoxin—antitoxin must be confessed a very
dangerous addition to our Pharmacopoeia, and one which is
anything but a credit to the doctrine of Serum-therapy.

As to the “ case mortality,” the statistics are made, not
from the number of patients who are known to have had.
Diphtheria, but from the number of patients who, having
sore throats and being suspected to be suffering from Diph-
theria, have received a routine injection of antitoxin.
And as Diphtheria is most diﬂicult in the early stages to.

 




 

DIPHTHERIA AND ANTITOXIN 21

diagnose from other and simple throat affections, an im-
mense number of persons, of course, with simple or follicular
tonsillitis swell the “ successful recoveries ” from antitoxin
treatment. I

As to the value of bacteriological conﬁrmation, a person
may have so-called Diphtheria bacilli in his throat, and may
yet never develop Diphtheria ; or he may not have Diph-
theria bacilli in his throat, and yet may develop Diphtheria.

In an outbreak of Diphtheria in the Willard State Hos-
pital, Salmon found undoubted Diphtheria bacilli in 189
out of 1,423 perfectly healthy persons ; while Graham Smith
states that the true Diphtheria bacillus (Klebs—Loefﬂer) was
found only in 72 per cent. of 27,000 cases of certiﬁed Diph—
theria. And in twelve metropolitan districts the Diphtheria
bacillus was found in only 32-7 per cent. of the “ swabs ”
sent by medical men for examination.

This means that of every 100 persons Whom their
doctors believed to be suffering from Diphtheria, nearly
68 had not Diphtheria at all ! So that, even when a
bacteriological examination conﬁrms the diagnosis upon
which an antitoxin injeCtion has been given, Diphtheria
is a disease from which it is impossible to make statistics.

Now as to the theory of antitoxin. It was assumed that
the diphtheric poison was a speciﬁc substance against which,
when it entered the blood, the blood manufactured a speciﬁc
antidote—a speciﬁc antitoxin, that is, to neutralise a speciﬁc
toxin.

The theory was that,.by injecting a horse repeatedly with
the toxin, its blood became a sort of factory in which large
quantities of antitoxin were produced.

Now, the whole value of the theory rested upon the speciﬁc
antidotal nature of this antitoxin. Let us keep horses to
manufacture in their blood this antidote, as chemists manu-
facture drugs in their laboratories.

Then it began to be claimed that diphtheric antitoxin
would cure other things besides Diphtheria. Dr. Mont-
gomerie Paton claims as a result of experiments made upon
human patients over a period of eight years that diphtheric

 

 




  

 

 

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

22 DIPHTHERIA AND ANTITOXIN

antitoxin serum is “ curative ” in the majority of affections,
from appendicitis, indeed, to broken limbs.

It can no longer, then, be regarded as a speciﬁc antidote
to Diphtheria.

Further, it appears that this substance, called anti-
diphtheric toxin,” is found in the blood of from 20 to 30 per
cent. of healthy horses. * (Clinical Diphtheria is unknown
. in horses.)

Now, as it is absurd to suppose that a horse manufactures
in its blood a speciﬁc antidote to a poison which has never
been, and is unlikely ever to be, in its blood, the whole anti-
dotal hypothesis falls to the ground.

Moreover, it begins now to be realised that the resisting
power'against disease is not an affair of antidotes in the
blood, but resides in, and is a normal property of, the tissues
of the body.

At an International Congress on Hygiene, Roux stated
that antitoxicity must be regarded as the action of the
living cell. Pfeiffer has expressed the same belief.

At a meeting of naturalists in Vienna, Wasserman said:
“ A very great number of individuals who never had Diph-
. theria show 1n their systems some pronounced qualiﬁcations
for the destruction of the diphtheric poison.”

Armand Gautier,’r a notable authority,reduces the elimina-
tion of the toxins to two factors—namely, oxidation, and
excretion by the kidneys.

In short, we get back to the creed of our grandmothers——
namely, that the power of resistance to infection is a vital
property of healthy tissues—in other words, “ Health.” .

But if this be so——-—if there are no speciﬁc substances to be
obtained from the blood of horses by previOusly injecting
speciﬁc poisons into it, and if we can believe that health is
something which can be decanted from the blood of horses,
why do we continue to inject these ﬁrst with diphtheric
poisons P Being a health principle, it will be better obtained,-
surely, from the blood of healthy horses. Why not, there-
fore, tap any healthy horse in the street for it P

(C

* “ Studies on Immunity,” by Professor Ehrlich.
1‘ “Les Toxines, Microbiennes et Animales.”

 

 

 

  




 

 

SMALL-POX AND VACCINATION 23

SMALL-POX AND VACCINATION

WITH the statistics of Small—pox and Vaccination I do not
propose to deal. I would merely point out that Leprosy,
Plague, and Typhus Fever, which were once common
in England, have been stamped out more effectually than
Small-pox has been, by means of Sanitation.

But let us assume for a moment that Vaccination has
stamped out Small-pox,- and another consideration arises.
As Nature’s plan is wise and is beneﬁcent, in our absolute
ignorance of her aims and methods, how can we say but that
this same Small-pox is a developmental step, inherent or
acquired, without which certain human stock is unable to
continue its evolutionary progress P

Being part of the plan of Nature, we are dealing danger—
ously when we—if indeed we are able to—-—divert the normal
course of human phenomena.

In “ Small—pox and Inoculation in China,” by Professor
C. H. Parker, of the Victoria University, Manchester (British
Medical Journal, January 12, 1907), the following occurs :

“ In the southern and western parts of China, so far as I
remember, pock-marked persons are the exception, not to
say very rare. And I believe, from inquiries recently made,
that Small—pox is, as a matter of fact, comparatively un-
common south of the Yangtse, where alone, on the other hand,
leprosy is found.”

Here, now, is a fact requiring investigation! It is well
known that, with evolution, diseases change their type.
Small-pox is bad enough, but Leprosy is inﬁnitely worse.
Suppose that Small—pox took the place of Plague, of
Typhus, and of Leprosy in England? Was not that a .
beneﬁcent substitution ?

There are, too, other considerations with regard to the
abnormal practices of inoculation and vaccination.

It is claimed for them that they transfer to a human being
an immunity against infection which has been artiﬁcially
induced in a lower animal—that is, that they so alter for
ever afterwards, or for a number of years, the normal

 

 




24 SMALL-POX AND VACCINATION

character of healthy human blood, that it will not react
against elements of infection or disease which may enter it.
(A burn will so alter the character of normal skin that for
ever afterwards, instead of healthy normal skin, scar-tissue
is produced at the site of the injury.)

The question arises, Is this tolerance of the presence of
the elements of disease a real and intrinsic, or is it merely
an apparent benefit, for which in the long-run the individual
and the race must pay heavily ?

For We cannot so monstrously delude ourselves as to
believe that, if we take a clean-blooded, healthy human
infant, the child of clean-blooded, cultured parents, and

from Small—pox) is that it does so by compelling the tissues
to tolerate stupidly, instead of vehemently repelling, such
Small-pox poison as may one day invade them.

In Yellow-F ever districts a great number of persons,
more particularly children, are what is called “ immunes ”—
that is, they show no symptoms of disease; their systems
make no rebellious attempt to throw out the poison-—
although the “ plasmodium ” is in their blood and they are
capable of infecting others. .

Another suggestive example is that of the so-called
“ typhoid-carriers ”——“ immunes,” that is, to the typhoid
poison. These are persons who appear to be in health,
despite the facts that they manufacture typhoid poisons and

 

 

poisons.

Yet they are able to disseminate typhoid fever wheresoever
they go. A case has been described by Soper of New York,
in which a female cook, a “ typhoid-carrier,” herself appar-
ently in perfect health, had in the course of ﬁve years occa-

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE DOCTRINE OF IMMUNITY 25

sioned typhoid epidemics in seven different households. To
such states will our Immunists bring us !

In the normal infectivity of diseases, increasing with
the complexity of development, may be seen, I think,-
Nature’s expedient for linking the race in a Universal
Brotherhood. “ Races,” she says, “ shall progress as a
great Unity. The many shall suffer for the few, the few for
the many. Injury to the meanest shall react upon the
highest. Am I my brother’s keeper? If not, Lazarus at
the gates, full of sores, shall breed an evil which shall slay
the Monarch!”

THE DOCTRINE OF IMMUNITY

THE whole doctrine of Immunity is fraught with dangerous
issues. Immunity—or Impunity——against deleterious fac—
tors is the parent of Degeneracy. '

One may make himself “immune ” to degrees of cold
which deteriorate his tissues (there being a certain range of
temperature conducive to the best tissue health). He may
make himself “immune ” to excesses of alcohol, to opium,
hashisch, arsenic, sewer gas. But the moment the healthy
resistance of his tissues to these injurious factors ceases,
these factors begin to circulate freely in his blood and freely
to attack his vital organs.

One knows persons who are immune to fatigue, and,
being immune to fatigue (having lost, that is, the healthy
sensitiveness which would warn them when their tissues have
exhausted their store of available force and require rest for
renewal), they continue their activities, and so draw upon
their constitutional reserve forces until physical wreckage
results.

The maintenance of health and the progress of develop—
ment, indeed, depend absolutely upon a normal delicate
sensitiveness and reactivity to the conditions of the environ-
ment, whether deleterious or beneﬁcial. That such sensi-
tiveness to exterior inﬂuences is a symptom of health is

 

\
1
'4
..
‘n
x}.
I

 

, v ,H -m“ ‘ ‘fm""“.:m“ , ”mm—rm m . “mm“? ‘1’“
_ ...

 




 

 

 

 

 

26 THE DOCTRINE OF IMMUNITY

proved by the case of children, who react far more readily
than do adults to all agencies, and who are, of course, in
more highly vitalised states of health than are their elders.

With advancing age, Immunity to infection and impunity
against deteriorating agencies become established. The
functional diseases of youth—protests of still healthy organs
against some or another trespass against them—pass into
structural changes—changes leading to the degeneration of
tissue which constitutes old age.

And there is an even graver consideration with regard to
artiﬁcial Immunity. If we are indeed able to convey from a
lower creature to a human being its special immunities, how
can we reasonably suppose that we can do this without at
the same time transmitting its special susceptibilities?

We may, then, in vaccinating a child against such a tem-
porary affection as Small-pox, transmit to it a grave consti-
tutional disease to which the calf from which the lymph was
obtained possessed a special liability. In the British
Medical journal of March 30, 1907, Dr. W. Collingridge is
reported as quoting before the Sanitary Committee of the
Public Health Department (London) the statistics of Mr.
J. King, who found that, of 500 carcasses of cows examined
by him, 244 (nearly 50 per cent.) showed tuberculous
lesions.

Is it not, then, more than probable that, in vaccinating
children in the susceptible infant years against the rare
chance of Small—pox, we are conveying to~ them the great
liabiltiy of calves to tuberculosis, and so propagating tuber-
culosis wholesale ?

Finally, since the physiological and the psychological are
closely allied, who shall say but that in these morbid and
unnatural comminglings of human blood iwith calf- and
horse-serums we do not also seal the treaty of a terrible
moral devolution ?

Nature has isolated and safeguarded the blood of every
creature, man or lower animal, from that of every other
creature by means of a vital shield, the skin. When it is
considered that by a breach in this shield, by the prick even

 

 

 




 

THE DOCTRINE OF IMMUNITY 27

of a mosquito, or by other forms of inoculation, inten-
tional or accidental, in one moment there may enter through
this breach a virus, a poison, a bacterium——call it what you
will—something which has the power to effectually wreck
the health, to blight the development, even to kill in the
course of a few hOurs, the vital importance of this shield of
the skin with which Nature has protected us is evident.

That effects are not immediate proves nothing. Rabies
has lain dormant in the system, and has developed ten years
after the bite of a rabid dog. Other inoculated poisons also
lie latent for long periods, but are all the while producing
constitutional deterioration.

As an example of the pseudo—scientiﬁc triﬂings of modern
Scientists, I commend Professor Ehrlich’s “ Studies on
Immunity.”

Professor Ehrlich, an authority of whom Medical Scien—
tists speak with bated breath, is the author of the famous
“ Side—chain theory.” It is a system of hypothetical assump-
tions, based upon the action of such abnormal factors as the
effect on the blood of a sheep when it is mixed with the
blood of “a goat which had been during eight months
subcutaneously injected with . . . sheep-serum rich in
blood—corpuscles 1”

Professor Ehrlich, to explain such phenomena, has in—
vented an elaborate chemistry of the blood. It includes
“ Haptophore groups,” “ Toxophore groups,” “ Receptors ”
of the First, of the Second, and of the Third Orders, “ Ambo—
ceptors,” “ Anti-amboceptors,” “ Toxins,” “ Toxons,”
“ Toxoids,” “ Complements,” “ Anti—complements,” “ Com-
plementoids,” and a host of other purely hypothetical
factors.

Dog—serum, he observes—«normal dog-serum without any
previous admixture with "guinea-pigs’ blood——will dissolve
guinea-pigs’ blood “ with great energy ” !

He accounts for this by assuming that “ a multiplicity

of Interbodies and of corresponding Complements effects
this action.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

28 THE DOCTRINE OF IMMUNITY

He plainly believes that this power in the blood of dogs
of dissolving the blood of guinea-pigs is a premeditated part
of the plan of creation, and that Nature has provided the
blood of dogs with a “ multiplicity ” of complex substances
to this end. Yet who can suppose that Nature, in her
maddest moments, can have prepared for these experiments
of twentieth-century Scientists, can have made provision
for the absolutely abnormal exploit of injecting the blood
of a dog into a guinea-pig ?

“A serum derived from rabbits,” continues Professor
Ehrlich, “after these had been treated with goat-serum,
protected the rabbit blood—corpuscles against solution by
goat-serum. At the same time, however, it protected the
blood of guinea-pigs and mts against the same inﬂuence, and
even prevented the haemolytz'c action of dog-serum on rabbit-
blood. From this fact we must conclude that immunisation
with one serum produces a whole series of different anti-
lysins.”

“ Clearly this,” he goes on, “is to be explained by as—
suming ” (here he is again assuming) “ that a serum contains
a great number of different complexes possessing haptophore
groups, of which many, whether they are toxic or not, are
able to excite the production of corresponding anti-bodies.”

To the confusion of his theory, however, he ﬁnds that
“ Goat-serum at one time possesses a slight solvent action
on sheeps’ blood; at other times this is entirely absent.
Dog-serum in one case dissolves the red cells of cats very
strongly; in another case it does not do so at all. The
action of rabbit-serum on guinea-pigs’ blood shows a special
variability. A very interesting example is afforded by
lamprey-serum, which, as is well known, possesses an extra-
ordinary toxic action for laboratory animals in general.”

“ And yet,” he goes on, “ the serum of a not inconsider-
able number of lampreys possesses no toxic action at all,
so that it could be injected into rabbits intravenously in
amounts of 2 c.c. without any damage whatever.”

Now, let not the modest layman believe. that these are
mysteries too subtle and profound for his comprehension.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE DOCTRINE OF IMMUNITY 29

There is neither subtlety nor profundity about them. They
are, in plain terms, mere nonsense. The action of the blood
of a lamprey when injected into the blood of a sheep, which
had been previously injected with the blood of a goose, is
an absurdly artiﬁcial phenomenon which can have no relation
to Natural Science. Modern Medical Science, based on such
phenomena, will be incomplete until it'has tested the effect
upon every creature of the blood of every other creature
which has previously been injected with the blood of every
other creature.

As Goethe has said, “ It uettles mau to ﬁud that truth
should be so simple.” And Du Prel : “ Nature is more simple
than our conception thereof; we begiu with very complicated
theories and end with the most simple.”

Newton one day, sitting in an orchard, saw an apple fall
to the ground. In a moment his great mind leapt beyond
the trivial happening to the great Law subtending it—«the
Law of Gravity, so vast that it suspends the mighty solar
system of the Universe, so simple that it brings the apple
to the ground. Had Newton been an experimental physi~
ologist, he would have spent the remainder of his days in
experimenting upon apples in order to discover in them the
micro-organism which caused one to fall to the ground.

One day an equally great and simple mind will discover
the degree to which the phenomena of human life are the
resultant of some Vast Force exterior to it. Indeed, the
developments of Evolution may be mere applications of the
Law of Gravity—Force radiating centrifugally from some
all-potent Centre into Space, then seeking back, centri-
petally, along paths of afﬁnity by way of ever more complex
conditions.

The aim of modern physiologists is to show that in Physi-
ology there is nothing beyond Chemistry and Physics.
And yet it is impossible to explain physiological phenomena
Without admitting another factor—Vital Force.

And no doubt this Vital Force it is which makes blood
so Protean and mysterious a ﬂuid, deluding our modern
physiologists, as in other ages it bafﬂed and deluded

 

 

 

 

 




30 THE DOCTRINE OF IMMUNITY

necromancers and alchemists a-search for the philosopher’s
stone.

Chemists and Physicists, denying Vital Force, profess
that the mysteries of animal metabolism are wholly explained
by the chemical interchange of molecules.

Now, in the chemical dissociation of inorganic molecules,
there is given off, in the form of electricity, the force which
occasioned, and was imprisoned by, their combination.

So, too, in the chemical dissociation of vegetable and
animal molecules which takes place in digestion, in addition
to the freed molecules which the body builds into itself,
there must also be freed that mysterious Vital Force which
occasioned the complex progressive grouping of vegetable
and animal molecules which we call Life and Growth.

‘ (It is possibly this Force which, transformed and stored
as potential light and heat, and recoverable in the dissocia-
tion of the oxygen molecule, is the cause of the phenomena
we call oxidation.)

Doubtless the ultimate dissociation of molecules, which
isthe object of digestion, is directed less even toward the
appropriation of the chemical molecule than it is to the
appropriation of the evolutionary force imprisoned between
the molecules.

Imperfect metabolism, by failing to set free all this avail—
able Force for the uses of the animal organisation, fails to
supply it with its most vital need. This Force, it may be,
which expresses itself in vital and psychical equivalents
when released by the dissociation of the molecules com-
posing mineral and vegetable medicaments.

It is this Force, perhaps, which creates the phenomena
attributed to so-called “ catalysts ” and “ ferments.”
It may be stored in the nucleus of the cell, for which
Science has hitherto found no function. -

' Perhaps Cancer originates in cells which have lost their
capacity to store this Vital Force, and so have become spots
of degeneracy.

The leucocytes no doubt possess it in large amount, and,
moving in the blood currents, carry it to tissues in especial

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

SUGGESTIONS FOR MEDICAL RESEARCH 31

need of it. This would explain the important part they play
in disease. I suggest that Mesmerism, Hypnotism, Tele-
pathy and allied manifestations, have their source in this
mysterious principle, which, pervading creation, the Great
Mind of the Universe, is the force about which the pheno-
mena of evolution group themselves.

SOoner or later our Scientists must recognise It, and in
doing so will ﬁnd the ﬁeld of Medical knowledge ﬂooded
with new light.

SUGGESTIONS FOR FUTURE MEDICAL RESEARCH
WITHOUT VIVISECTION '

FIRST it must be realised that that which is needed is not
a further aggravation of our confusion and ignorance by
amassing further perplexing and conﬂicting facts, but a
sane and scientiﬁc explanation of the perplexing and con—
ﬂicting facts which are before us. Determine the law
governing these, and the facts and perplexities will group
themselves about it as do the pieces of a puzzle round their
key.

Every natural phenomenon is the casket of a truth—all, it
may be, portions of one Great Simple Truth. We need to
ﬁnd the truths within the myriad caskets round us, not to
manufacture spurious caskets which, if they contain any-
thing at all, contain error.

To begin, we must make a clear and satisfactory deﬁnition
of what constitutes Health. For unless we determine our
goal, how shall we be able to decide upon the direction we
must take in order to arrive at it ?

For the present, muscular capacity is the main (and
wholly mistaken) gauge by which the doctor and the layman
alike decides his condition. In point of fact, muscular
energy is but small test of health. Muscular energy may
be, indeed, a species of nerve diarrhoea,- which exhausts
other vital and more important capacities and keeps the
general system at a low ebb. '

“ I am well,” says a man ; “ I can eat and drink anything
without suffering from it.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

“WWM_—~w~

32 SUGGESTIONS FOR MEDICAL RESEARCH

And yet this very symptom may be the sign—manual of an
abnormal state. He may be able to eat and to drink and
to digest substances and quantities which are all the while
causing remote injury to him—injury which will one day
show itself in structural disease.

“ Sick babies,” it has been said,“ are healthy babies” ~—
not because it is healthy to be sick, but because, given more
than the digestive powers can cope with, the intelligent
stomach protects the later digestive. functions by promptly
rejecting the surplus.

So the man without functional symptoms, who regards
himself in consequence as a type of health, may be in truth
in a bad way. His lack of symptoms may arise from a
morbid insensitiveness on the part of his organs, which
permits without protest excesses of diet, of alcohol, or of
other evil agencies.

Clearly the absence of symptoms may be a far worse evil
than is the occurrence of illness. For the sick man, taught
by his symptoms, treats his condition and recruits his
strength, and, if also a wise ”man, avoids for the future the
ills which led to his disablement.

Again, nobody who has watched the effects upon his
fellows of that we style Disease can help realising that
Disease may be a mere symptom of Development. The
forces are being redistributed, and some or another lesser
factor suffers.

The hoyden-girl grows languid and anaemic when her
system is ﬁrst learning to store her forces for the race. Sex—
development and the evolution of a new world of capacities
and emotions are drawing off resources from the muscular
plane of crude, undifferentiated energy, and placing them
upon more highly differentiated planes.

The strong man struck down by paralysis for the ﬁrst
time feels in him the thews and sinews of a nascent imagina—
tion. (It is a matter of observation that negroes who
evolve beyond their fellows in intellectual or moral
powers are particularly prone to tuberculosis or. to blind-

ness .)

 

 




 

SUGGESTIONS EOR MEDICAL RESEARCH 33

We need, therefore,- a deﬁnition of the line across which
Development passes into Disease.

The indication of the Art of Healing would be, of course,
to check such too speedy development and to bring back
the patient into the domain of Health. For Evolution
should be a gradual and imperceptible, not a morbid and
violent process. (The fact that acquired faculties are not
transmitted to offspring has also a direct bearing upon this
question of too rapid development, showing as it does that
such development is achieved at the expense of offspring.)

Disease being a process of Nature whereby the individual
is taught the errors and evils of the environment he creates
about himself, and his limits of achievement and endurance,
it follows that all methods which aim at stiﬂing the warnings
of Disease and at suppressing symptoms are harmful and
unscientiﬁc.

If we can get at the back of the symptom and abolish
the cause, well and good. When the ptomaines of an ill-
digested and unwholesome meal are causing Sickness and
diarrhoea, good practice is to purge out the offending matter.
But to suppress the sickness and diarrhoea, which are con-
servative, before having got rid of the offending matter of
which these are endeavouring to free the system, is un-
scientific and injurious.

The majority of symptoms which we call illness, however,
are neither so simple of origin nor of cure. They may be so
obscure that we are unable to diagnose their source. They
may be signs of structural defects we are powerless to
remedy. They may be the escape, through safety-valves of
functional activity, of forces or elements which, dammed
back by treatment, might expend themselves dangerously
upon vital centres.

All we can do, then, is to place the patient, by rest and by
hygienic rule, under the best conditions for his system to
work out its own cure, to divert symptoms into channels less
harmful, or even to aggravate them, when we recognise that
to do so will be to further open escape-valves which are
relieving the system.

3

 

 

 




 

 

3A, SUGGESTIONS FOR MEDICAL RESEARCH

Within the scope of this paper all that can be attempted
is to show that the true Art of Healing lies in the direction
of closely watching, correctly interpreting, and assisting,
instead of opposing, the natural process by which we per-
ceive a patient’s system is striving to recruit itself. That
which may be styled the physical conscience (the centre of
subconscious intelligence, whose function it is to preserve the
health) is in intimate touch with all the constitutional facts
of the individualmhis defects and resources—which are
hidden from us.

Accordingly,» recognising Disease as a conservative
process—a temporary low ebb of the forces at one spot in
order that the tidal health may be sustained at higher levels
at some spot whereat repair is taking place, or a temporary
general disablement in order that impoverished forces may
be restored—and recognising symptoms as intelligent
efforts toward that recuperative process, we shall be careful
always to treat the patient, and not the disease.

The successful physician is not he who makes exact
calculations of the number of his patient’s blood-corpuscles,
or describes the course of— his disease by parabolic curves,
but the man of sympathy and intuitive power, who, by a
process akin to divination (assisted, of course, by physical
investigation), puts his mental ﬁnger, not on the organ or
function which is deranged, but upon the cause or source
of derangement of that organ or function.

The form in which disease shows itself is a mere detail.
The cause is the fact to be discovered and attacked.

Indeed, the matter resolves itself into the self-evident
truth that, since in the whole range of Medicine by the
nature of things there cannot exist a “ cure ” for disease,
but that only out of the patient’s own resources can the
return to health be secured, the main feature of Medical
Science must lie in the direction of increasing the health
resources of the individual, and eventually of eliminating
from our social and personal conditions the factors which
lead to aberrations from health.

Having deﬁned the broad general features of Health, we

 




rm ANS“ \

SUGGESTIONS FOR MEDICAL RESEARCH 35

must determine the Positive and the Relative Importance
of each Organ and Function of the body in maintaining that
condition.

The only satisfactory and scientiﬁc method of arriving
at this knowledge would be by making exact and exhaustive
observations upon human subjects, beginning with those
who most -nearly. approximate our Health definition, and
passing on to those who show deviations from the normal,
from the slightest functional to the gravest and last stages
of fatal disease, and by later carefully comparing the various
stages and phases in the light of conditions found after
death.

The subjects should be classiﬁed, not only according to
the organs affected, but also according to the anatomical
and histological sites of disease. By such careful and ex-
haustive observations, by examinations and chemical
analyses of secretions and excretions, revealing facts and
variations of metabolism, not only the physiological, but
also the pathological, importance of every organ and group
of organs could in time be estimated. Also, with the physio—
logical, the psychological inﬂuences of organs might be
determined by means of the mental and psychical effects
of aberrations from their normal.

By the same means the Values of Foods and of other
articles of general diet could be judged in their relation and
application to derangement of special organs. '

To assist these observations, valuable indications might
be found in Comparative Biology, by studying the life-habits
and the characteristics of those lower creatures in which
organs common to them and to man are found specially
developed.

For example, in the guinea—pig, the supra-renal bodies,
of the function of which we are wholly ignorant, are particu-
larly large and well—developed. Not by mutilating their
bodies, but by carefully noting their living characteristics,
their dailyj"metabolism, and the diseases to which they are
subject, and by comparing these with data obtained from
other animals in which these bodies exist in ascending and

3-——2

 

 




 

 

36 SUGGESTIONS FOR MEDICAL RESEARCH

descending scales of development, indications of the true
and intrinsic functions of these organs might be obtained.

From elephant to electrical eel, with its strange properties,
Nature has ﬁlled the world, her kindergarten school, with
object—lessons, which not only show to man, in the concrete,
ideals of faculty and achievement, savagery and gentleness,
sloth and swiftness, treachery and ﬁdelity, rapacity and
unselﬁshness, but supply him also with rudimentary lessons
in Physiology.

Valuable light might be thrown upon Development and
Disease from the scientiﬁc observation of children in Schools
and Institutions.

The phenomena of Normal, of Precocious, and of Arrested
Development require investigation and classiﬁcation. Com-
plexion, Conﬁguration, and Temperamental Characteristics
afford interesting material for study.

The Health and Development, physical and mental, of
children in Schools and Institutions require scientiﬁc com-
parison with that of children brought up in the natural atmo—
sphere and environment of the family into which they were
born. Information is needed as to whether this natural
environment of the family is not, indeed, the one most con-
ducive to health and to the evolution of faculty.

An interesting possibility is that the Communised Life of
the School, as opposed to the Individualised Life of the
Family, may so deteriorate the type as to produce later in
life, when marriage takes place, effects similar to that of
breeding in and in, the best results in offspring being from
persons of highly specialised and opposite types.

The Effect upon the Offspring of the Marriage of persons
of Different Diatheses is worth investigation—e.g., whether
in the union of a tuberculous with a gouty person the dia-
thesis of each will exert such a corrective inﬂuence that the
offspring may revert to the normal. Some such law would
explain the natural inclination of persons to those of dis-
similar type. '

A most valuable ﬁeld of inquiry lies in the Effects upon
Offspring of the Prenatal Conditions of the Parentsm—and




 

THE TESTING OF DRUGS 37

more especially of the Mother. Data are needed to decide
whether the Employment of the Mother in the Labour market
does not so exhaust her powers as to leave only the dregs
of her resources for the development of her child. The
degree to which rest, hygienic conditions, and the Conserva—
tion of the Maternal Energies would correct degenerative
tendencies should be determined.

Deﬁnite observations are needed to discover whether our
present system is not gravely mistaken in its method of
exhausting, by intellectual and athletic strains, boys and
girls, precisely during those years when the development of
sex (in which is bound up the parental efﬁciency of the race)
is already seriously taxing their powers.

The degree to which, by deferring all educative strain,
Nature would apply the resources thus conserved to the
Eradication of Disease Spots, and even to the correction of
structural defects (for example, of defects of vision), is an
important point.

The Inﬂuence of Sex (in which is bound up the evolu—
tionary impulse of the race) upon physical health and
mental and moral development offers a valuable ﬁeld of
study. It should be determined whether personal develop—
ment should be subordinated to sex-capacity, or sex-capacity
(and the racial future) to personal development.

THE TESTING OF DRUGS

As regards the Action of Drugs, it would be impossible to
improve upon the intelligent and scientiﬁc methods of the
Homoeopaths, described before the recent Royal Commis-
sion by Dr. G. H. Burtord. The tests are made upon volun-
teer human subjects.

“ The experimenters are always healthy human beings——
healthy in the ﬁrst place in order that the vitiating results
of sickness may be eliminated, human in the second place
in that the major part of a medical man’s work deals with
human beings; and conscious human beings in the third
place in that the great variety of subjective symptoms and

 

 

 

 

 




 

38 THE TESTING OF DRUGS

mental conditions, which are unattainable by experimenta-
tion on animals, may be added to the objective ﬁndings.”

The experiments begin with small and gradually increased
doses (without any relation at all to the quantities in use by
Homoeopathy). During administration the subjects are
closely observed by experts, who make exhaustive examina-
tions as to temperature, pulse, blood—pressure, blood char-
acter, secretions, excretions, etc.

Many of the most—used and accredited drugs now em-
ployed by our own Allopathy were ﬁrst introduced into
medicine by Homoeopathy.

“ Homoeopathy,” Dr. Burford stated, “ ﬁnds that experi-
ments on healthy human beings yield results more ample,
more direct, more fertile, and more reliable, than the details
obtained by experiments on animals.”

In point of fact, by this only, allied with clinical methods,
can reliable information be acquired.

In mutilated, anaesthetised, narcotised, and unconscious

animals, results are necessarily vitiated or nulliﬁed.

In the cases of animals, too, the valuable subjective
effects of drugs are hidden.

Finally, of course, all results obtained on healthy man
must be tested upon sick man. For the action of drugs
differs in health and in sickness.

In practice, the intelligent and observant doctor reduces
year by year the number of remedies upon which he relies,
experience showing him the valuelessness, or, worse still, the
dangers, of many of the drugs with which, as a result of
Animal Experimentation, pharmacologists ﬂood the markets.

Therefore it results absurdly that the true laboratory
values of drugs are not obtained until long after practising
doctors have discarded the drugs as of any remedial value.

The growing practice of Hypodermic Injection of drugs is,
I think, to be strongly condemned, save in cases of extreme
urgency. The method is abnormal, the far-reaching results
of substances introduced directly into the blood are not
understood, and the mental effect upon the patient is a
morbid one.




_.‘4 ,_‘1 4

 

 

HYPNOTISM AND ALLIED AGENCIES 39

Nobody who has seen a patient fall soundly asleep after
a hypodermic injection of pure water (which he believed to
be his accustomed morphia dose) could rationally rely upon
results obtained by hypodermic medication. These must
and do vary enormously with the potency of faith of the
patient and with the “ suggestive ” power of the physician,
doubtless also with the presence or absence of that healing
magnetism which some persons undoubtedly possess.

HYPNOTISM AND ALLIED AGENCIES

FOR the present, orthodox Medical Science ignores
Hypnotism, “ Suggestion,” and other allied phenomena.

Yet nobody who has intelligently considered these inter-
esting, suggestive, and promising phenomena can doubt but
that in this ﬁeld and in the subconscious plane of mind
which are their source lies the future of Medical Science and
of the Healing Art.

How superﬂuous to burden our minds with the physiology
of cats and guinea—pigs at an era when human physiology IS
lifting itself on to the plane of psychology !

How superﬂuous to spend our lives in investigating the
action of a mineral or a vegetable upon the pancreas of a
dog when, by the development and cultivation of new powers
now evolving, the physician may be able, by means of his
higher intelligence, and by the medium of his subconscious
intelligence, so to bring himself into relation with the
psychology of his patient that the patient’s physiology
(which is its lower expression) will be subject to the phy—
sician’s will.

Closely allied with this subject is that of the Nervous
Inﬂuence, benign or injurious, which persons exert upon
one another, and the degree to which those whose nervous
forces are exhausted by starvation, by ill—health, or by over-
activity draw upon the nervous forces of others. In this
ﬁeld lies a whole new Science. Constitutional exhaustion of
another by a “ consumptive ” living in the same house by
means of this absorption of vital force plays, I am convinced,

 

 

 




.5
Us
,‘
-\

I.

c:
40 HYPNOTISM AND ALLIED AGENCIES / i?

a far more important part in the communication of phthisis
than does the tubercle bacillus. In my oWn practice I have '
obtained “ cures ” apparently miraculous by merely re—
moving sufferers from association with some relative who
, p was so draining their powers. 1
i A striking example was that of an exhausted woman, g'
of nevertheless tireless activity, who, upon four separate ' ,
occasions when expectant motherhood was draining her
strength, reduced to death’s door, by drawing upon its .
Vitality, a child who was closely in association with her. ‘
On each occasion the child’s life was saved only by sending

it to a distance from its mother; whereupon the mother,
deprived of her source of vital energy, herself fell ill. 1

In such phenomena appears again Nature’s method of
preserving a great level average of health and development,
and of preventing the individual from outstripping the race. ' I

Here, again, excellent reason is shown for'improving the ”
life-conditions of our poorer brothers, lest their starved and ‘
devitalised bodies prove a perpetual drain upon the nerve-
forces of better-nurtured systems.

To sum up .: The thing required to-day in Medical Science
is a new and higher standpoint. F rom a higher elevation 1»
a broader and more comprehensive View is possible, and the
true dimensions and relations of things are revealed.

The orthodox unprogressive majority, represented by
present—day Medical Scientists, must yield before the thin
end of the wedge of a progressive minority. History shows
that by the time a creed, political, religious, or scientiﬁc, has
become orthodox it is already out of date.

We must move forward with the mighty tide of Evolution.
We must adjust ourselves to new conditions. Otherwise,
the mighty tide of Evolution will engulf us. Then Nature
will begin again. ‘ She has begun again many times. And
always it has been from disregarding or ﬁghting her laws
that races have gone under.

A steadily advancing, ever-evolving race, intelligently
developing its forces in line with and in co—operation with~
Nature, has yet to be born.

m'Z‘Luw—JJL. .'._ .Y. ..

—~..-

u». may--

 

.‘ M‘ ‘1;

r .
. M. ‘4 x: ._ w v, ‘waEA»-<;m; «pm—- a». _;._

 

 

 




 

, .v
v i‘. ‘ , I «3!. . i 7 ... , . I, .n..l ‘ .ii In . r ,-.I‘:c..f‘§; . .. - .. Ill. » 11.“..553x1l . .v .. ‘ . . , . |, J / . CI .‘ .,. n.1, .ﬁ 4 II.,II.!L..II.JI&IK Sllnililittll f ,

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE LEIGH BROWNE ENDOWMENT

FOR THE PROMOTION OF

PAINLESS RESEARCH IN THE BIOLOGICAL
SCIENCES.

Among the [Vet/20d: of Promoz‘z'ng z‘lze Oojecz‘s of Me Endozomm‘i
are 2/16 following :

.I. A yearly subsidy for students or lecturers engaged in
original research.

2. The delivery of lectures to illustrate the main object.

3, Prizes for essays on the subject, and help towards,
publications.

4. Provision of books, etc., for classes, with a place for
the custody of books, illustrations, apparatus, and
specimens, intended to facilitate such study.‘

H072. Sec. : ERNEST BELL.

 

 

 

 

 




