Teach Children Kindness

By G. KENDALL

more one looks into its merits the more penetrating this spiritualizing

inﬂuence proves to be, causing a change of conduct, inspiring justice

and compassion in the place of selﬁshness and cruelty; training the mind to
apprehend, and the heart to sympathize with the needs of the lowly creatures
who form the theoretical object lesson of such surpassing interest to the
young; obviously the fprotecting sympathy’ which a child may be taught to
feel towards the helpless dumb companion, may in after years inspire the
life of the philanthropist.

How much such teaching is needed is demonstrated by the incredibly
cruel deeds perpetrated by childern even of tender years, which call forth '
neither remonstrance nor reproof from parent or guardian.

T HIS teaching kindness to animals may seem a simple thing; but the

Our Band of Mercy pledge: “I will try to be kind to all helpless creatures.”

‘32”???

Parents—Deal Gently and Patiently With Your Children.

Inspire them to love, trust and conﬁde in you,_..not to fear you, or dread
your approach.

Fear lowers vitality. It paralyzes effort. It shrivels up every emotion towards
better b'ehavior. ~

Never strike or scold them. The blow injures and bruises the spirit—even
more than it does the ﬂesh.

Please remember that your child has diﬂicult, nervous days, just as you yourself
have. ‘

Do not scold and thus add to his discouraged mood.

Divert the child mind with a new thought or some triﬂing new activity, and
thus dispel the gloomy, disobedient mood.

Do not try to break the will. Guide it into better thinking. Do not break it.

‘Remember, the gentle answer turneth away wrath. Make life pleasant and
happy, and thus make easier your own.

_ Rarey tells us that a harsh word to a sensitive horse will increase his pulse ten
beats to the minute. i

“A child is such a tender little thing,” said the clear Bishop—the head of a
girl’s school—this sympathetic comment being intended more for the complaining

teacher than for the child complained of.
Lesson Leaﬂets Published by
AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, Boston, Mass.

Printed by THE QUEST, 13 Astor Place, N. Y. C.
100—25c; soc—$1.00; 1M——.$1.75

'7 ‘v‘ . :0, -. , JV.“ :1
41m: . , when“ :i in!“

 




 




