 

WHAT THE EXPERT SAYS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE BY

1 PROF.
USELEOESNESS LAWSON

TAIT,
VIYISEGTION m, I

AS A METHOD MM

Birmingham

"OF SCIENTIFIC 3333??”

April 20, [882,
and reprinted

RESEARCH. mix

Transactions.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRICE 3”-

 

 

Published by
I THE BRITISH union FOR I
THE ABOLITION OF VIVISEOTION,
32 CHARING GROSS, LONDON, 8.W.
Send Orders to Muss B. E. KIDD, Secretary.

 

'-'v ‘f'c‘rn
a?

 




 

The British Union
for the Abolition of Vivisection.

(The British Anti-Vivisection Society.)

Headquarters: 3'2, CHAMNG Guess, \VHITEHALL, LONDON, S.W.

~-——»—~~-W————-——-
Foundress: FRANCES POWER COBBE.

 

President and Hon. Secretary:
WALTER R. IIADWEN, Esq, J.P., M.D., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., etc.

Hon. Treasurer:
The Rev. J. STRATTON, MA.

Secretary:
Miss B. E. KIDD.
Nurse CROSS. Hon. Solicitor : E. HEYS-JONES, Esq.

Organising Secretary :
Central Executive Committee:
Chairman: Rev. B. I). Monro, BLA.

The Lady KATHLEEN BUSHB. l R. I). PRANKERD, Esq., M.D.
ALF. H. Ross, ESQ.

Miss MARGARET BRADISH.

H. G. CHANCELLOR, Esq., MT. The Lady ROSMEAD.

J. FRASER stss, Esq. Miss E. SAWERS.

Miss E. DOUGLAS HUME. ‘ \V. ScoTT TEBB, Esq., M.D.
E. HEYﬂ—JONES, Esq. i Rev. P. W. SPARLING, MA.

The Baroness DE KNOOI’. LORD TBNTERDEN.
Miss S. S. MONRO. The Lady TENTERDBN.
HARRY DE PASS, Esq. Rev. J. VERSCHOYLE, M.A.

Miss A. F. \VHITELBY.
Bankers :

LLorns BANK, LIMITED, 16, St. Jam

;/M//:
“T HE ABOLITIONIST."

Monthly Organ of the British Union.

CONTAINING
High-class Articles on the Moral, Scientific,
Aspects of the Anti-Vivisection Question ;
Replies to the Research Defence Society ;
Racy Criticism of New Vivisectional H Cures” ;
Chronicle of the Month’s Work, Ste.

es’ Street, London, S.W.

and Historical

 

 

 

W

W... ”If/##—
Should be read by all Humanitarians;

e to any address.

 

 

Speciman Copy sent post he

YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION (“$325,323 3/- per annum.

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE

USELESSNESS 0f VIVISECTION

AS A METHOD OF SCIENTIFIC
RESEARCH.

BY

LAWSON TAIT, F.R.C.S., ETC.

NEW EDITION, WITH NOTES.

 

READ BEFORE THE BIRMINGHAM PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
APRIL 20TH, I882,
AND REPRINTED FROM THE SOCIETY’S TRANSACTIONS.

 

REPRINTED BY THE

BRITISH UNION FOR THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION
(THE BRITISH ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY),
32 CHARING CROSS, LONDON, SW.

 

Price Threepence.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECT‘ION

AS A METHOD OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH.

AAA
V'V

I NEED not go into the general history of Vivisection, for it hardly
bears upon the question to which I desire to limit myself; but I
think it advisable to formulate a few preliminary conclusions before
I come to my immediate subject, in order that I may clear the way
for discussion, and Show at once the grounds upon which I stand,
for I ﬁnd myself in a position adverse to the View adopted by the
great majority of my professional brethren.

I dismiss at once the employment of experiments on living
animals for the purpose of mere instruction, as absolutely unneces—r
sary, and to be put an end to by legislation without any kind of
reserve whatever. In my own education I went through the most
complete course of instruction in the University of Edinburgh
without ever witnessing a single experiment on a living animal. It
has been my duty as a teacher to keep myself closely conversant
with the progress of physiology until within the last four years, and
up to that date I remained perfectly ignorant of any necessity for
vivisection as a means of instructing pupils, and I can ﬁnd no
reason whatever for its introduction into English schools, save a
desire for imitating what has been witnessed on the Continent by
some of our most recent additions to physiological teaching. In
Trinity College, Dublin, the practice has been wholly prevented,

and on a recent visit to that institution I could not ﬁnd, after much _

careful inquiry, the slightest reason to believe that any detriment
’ was being inﬂicted upon the teaching or upon those taught.

Claims of Vivisection Denied.

The position of vivisection as a method of scientiﬁc research
stands alone amongst the inﬁnite variety of roads for the discovery
of Nature’s secrets as being Open to strong primal facz‘e objection.
No one can urge the slightest ground of objection against the

 

 




 

 

4 THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION.

astronomer, the chemist, the electrician, or the geologist in their
ways of working; and the great commendation of all other workers
is the comparative certainty of their results. But for the physiolo-
gist, working upon a living animal, there are two strong objections .
that he is violating a strong and widespread public sentiment, and
that he tabulates results of the most uncertain and often quite
contradictory kind.

I do not propose to deal with the sentimental side of the
question at all, though no one can doubt it is a very strong element
in the case as maintained by public opinion. I shall deal simply
with the inquiry: Has this method of scientiﬁc research—Vivisec-
tion—contributed so much to the relief of suffering or to the
advance of human knowledge as to justify its continuance in spite
of the manifest objections to it? My own answer I shall try to
give in the following pnges, merely premising that an answer to
justify Vivisection must be clear and decisive, must be free from
doubt of any kind, and, above all, it must not assume the protection
of a “ privileged mystery.” This is a question, I maintain, which
can be discussed by an educated layman just as well, perhaps
better, than by a physician or a surgeon or a professional physiolo-
gist. It is a question chieﬂy of historical criticism, and we must
have a conclusive answer concerning each advance which is quoted
as an instance, how much of it has been due to vivisectional
experiment and how much to other sources, and this amount must be
clearly and accurately ascertained. It will not do, as has been the
case in many of the arguments, to draw such a picture as that of an
amputation in the seventeenth century and one performed last year,
and say that the change is due to Vivisection. We might just as
well point to the prisons of the Inquisition and then to one of our
present convict establishments and claim all the credit of the
change for the fact that our judges wear wigs. The real questions
are: What advances in detail are due to Vivisection? Could these
advances have been made without Vivisection? If Vivisection
was necessary for elementary and primitive research is it any
longer necessary, seeing that we have such splendid and rapidly-
deve10ping methods in hundreds of other directions? Have we
made complete and exhaustive use of all other valuable methods,
not open to objection? And ﬁnally, are the advances based upon
Vivisection of animals capable of being adapted conclusively for
mankind, for whose beneﬁt they are professedly made ?

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE 'USELESSNESS OF VIVISECTION. 5

1 It must be perfectly clear that to answer all these questions

speciﬁc instances must be given, and that they must be analysed
hiStorically with great care. This has already been done in many
instances, and I am bound to say, in every case known to me, to the
utter disestablishment of the claims of vivisection.

The Circulation of the Blood.

Take the case of the alleged discovery of the circulation of the
blood by Harvey, and it can be clearly shown that quite as
much as Harvey knew was known before his time, and that it is
only our insular pride which has claimed for him the merit of
the discovery. That he made any solid contribution to the facts of
the case by vivisection is conclusively disproved, and this was
practically admitted before the Commission by such good
authorities as Dr. Acland and Dr. Lauder-Brunton.* The
circulation was not proved till Malphigi used the microscope, and
though in that observation he used a vivisectional experiment his
proceeding was wholly unnecessary, for he could have better and
more easily have used the web of the frog’s foot than its lung. It
is, moreover, perfectly clear, that were it incumbent on any one to
prove the circulation of the blood now as a new theme, it could not
be done by any vivisectional process, but could at once be
satisfactorily established by a dead body and an injecting syringe.
In fact, I think I might almost say that the systemic circulation
remained incompletely proved until the examination of injected
tissues by the microscope had been made.

But supposing we grant, for the sake of argument, that such an
important discovery had been made by vivisection, and by it alone,
there still remains the all-important question, Is it necessary to use
such mediaeval methods for modern research? No one can doubt
that the rude methods employed in Charles II.’s reign for obtaining
evidence—the rack, the boot, the thumb-screw, and the burning
match—were occasionally the means of accomplishing the ends of
justice, but need we go back to them now? The very necessity for
ending them brought into use fresh and far less fallible methods,
and' I am inclined to make the claim for physiology, pathology, and
the practice of medicine and surgery that the very retention of this
cruel method of research is hindering real progress, that if utterly

stopped the result would certainly be the search for, and the ﬁnding
* See Appendix.

 




 

 

 

6 THE USELESSNESS OF VIVISECTION.

of far better and more certain means of discovery. To urge its ‘
continuance on the ground that it was useful in the seventeenth
century is just as reasonable as to ask the astronomer to go back 'to
the cumbrous tackle by which Huyghens ﬁrst worked his lenses.

If the method of obtaining evidence by torture was occasionally
successful, there can be little doubt that as a rule it failed and led
the. inquirers astray. So I say it has been with vivisection as a
method of research, it has constantly led those who have employed
it into altogether erroneous conclusions, and the records teem with
instances in which not only have animals been fruitlessly sacriﬁced,
but human lives have been added to the list of victims by reason of
its false light.

Those who have recently advocated vivisection seem to have
forgotten or to have ignored this most fatal objection, and as a rule
they have indulged in a line of argument which is little more than
assertion. For the purpose of this paper I haVe gone carefully over
a large mass of literature upon the subject, and ﬁnd that the bulk
of it is altogether beyond criticism, because it does not deal with
fact. Thus in a recent address on the subject by Professor
Humphry, of, Cambridge, there is a long list of advances in
medicine and surgery, every one of whiCh is attributed to
vivisection solely because some experiments were mixed up in the
history of each instance; but not an effort was made to show that
the advances were due to vivisection. The proper method for the
' discuss1on of this subject is to take up a number of special
instances and to subject them to careful criticism, chieﬂy by
historical evidence, and as soon as the advocates of vivisection do
this successfully I am prepared to grant their case. But hitherto
they have failed.

Fevers and Drugs.

'Serial literature during the last few months has been singularly
fertile in articles on the question of vivisection, and one
commanding attention as an editorial is to be found in Nature of
March 9th.

There the a priorz‘ argument for vivisection is put in the familiar
illustration that “ it would be more reasonable to hope to make out
the machinery of a watch by looking at it, than to hope to

 

 




 

 

 

THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION. 7

understand the mechanism of a living animal by mere
‘ contemplation.” Unfortunately there is a fault in the analogy, and
it may be far more truly put in the converse, that it would be
wholly impossible to repair the damaged movements of a watch by
experimenting with an upright pendulum clock. There is a
perfectly parallel dissimilarity between the functions and the
diseases of animals and those of man.

In the same article is a quotation from the article of Sir William
Gull, to the effect that the experiments of Bernard, in baking living
dogs to death in an oven, have opened the way to our understanding
the pathology of fever. In zymotic diseases the elevated
temperature is not a cause of the disease but its consequence, and
the answer to the argument is that not a single contribution of any
kind has yet been made to the cure-of scarlet fever. Its course
cannot be shortened by one hour. Medicine is powerless for the
cure of zymotics, whilst hygiene is all-powerful in their prevention,
and the medicine of the future lies wholly in this direction. Drugs
are impotent, but sanitary laws can and will banish all these
diseases, when they are completely understood and fulﬁlled.

The article continues that “between 1864 and 1867 seven new
drugs were added to the Pharmacopoeia, of which at least the two
most useful, carbolic acid and physostigma, are due to Vivisection.”
Upon the question of new drugs I can speak only with great
reserve, for such a wholesome scepticism concerning drugs has
been introduced by the medical schism of homoeopathy, that I look
upon all new drugs with great suspicion. Sir William Gull himself
says he has not much belief in drugs. I fear most new drugs do
more harm than good; some of them, such as chloral, most
certainly have done so. I cannot learn that physostigma is of any
practical service, and I have shown in my published writings that
carbolic acid has done far more harm than good. Perhaps it would
have been better if we had never heard of it. The question of the
investigation of the actions of drugs by experiments on animals I
have to confess is a very difﬁcult one, because after we have found
out what they do in one animal we ﬁnd that in another the results
are wholly different, and the process of investigation has to be
repeated in man. Not only so, but in human individuals the
actions of drugs in very many cases vary so much, that each fresh
patient may form really a new research. Pharmacy forms,

 




 

 

 

‘Y

8 V THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION.
therefore, at least, a very shaky argument for vivisection.

Finally, the Editor of Nature deals with the argument of
proportion, which is stated to the effect that the proportion of pain
inﬂicted by vivisection bears but small ratio to the pain relieved by
the discoveries effected in that way. But if this question be
examined historically, as it must be for the sake of justness, it will
be found that the argument is all the other way. To take the case
of Ferrier’s experiments, if the history of the point be examined,
even from the period of Saucerotte till now, the number of
experiments recorded is perfectly awful, and we can easily imagine
that many more were performed and not put on record.
Concerning the arteries this is still more true; and it is, to say the
least of it, very doubtful if any permanent good has been done by
them. What we do really know about both of these matters with
certainty has been derived from the post-mortem examinations of
our failures in human subjects, and not from vivisection
experiments.

In a work published within the last few weeks by a distinguished
member of this Society, Dr. George Gore, entitled “The Scientiﬁc
Basis of National Progress,” and at p. 80, will be found the
following sentence: “ The Antivivisection movement is but one of
the phases of the ever-existing conﬂict between the advancing and
retarding sections of mankind.”

I do not know whetherI belong to the antivivisection movement or
not, but I certainly cannot rank myself with those who attribute to
vivisection the merit which distinctly belongs to other causes. So
far I am an antivivisectionist most thoroughly.

Brain Surgery.

Similarly I do not know whether or not I am to be regarded as
belonging to the “ retarding section of mankind.” If I am so classed I
fear I shall be in company as strange to me as I shall be
objectionable to it. But my relief is great as I read further in Dr.
Gore’s book and see upon what grounds he has built his conclusion.
I have never heard that Dr. Gore has conducted any vivisection
research himself, and therefore I assumed that he took his
argument from some other source. He was kind enough to give

 

 




 

 

THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION. 9

me his reference for the following statement, which he makes at
page 81: “Ferrier’s comparatively recent vivisection experiments
have already enabled medical men to treat more successfully those
formidable diseases, epilepsy and abscess of the brain.” His
authority is an anonymous article in the British Medical Journal
of November 19th, 1881, in which a series of cases is given in
support of this extraordinary statement. The purport of it is that
the experiments of Ferrier have led to greater certainty in applying
the trephine for the removal of depressed fractures, &c., which had
produced serious symptoms, or “for the relief of matter in cerebral
abscesses.

I do not propose now to go into this very wide and difﬁcult
question, because I shall have a fuller opportunity on another
occasion. I shall only say that Ferrier’s ﬁrst experiments were
published in 1873, and that previous to that time a large number of
cases are on record where the seat of injury was ascertained with
perfect accuracy by simpler and less misleading methods—in one
case by myself in 1868. The a priori difﬁculties in the application
of Ferrier's conclusions are enormous and, as it seems to me,
insuperable; and, after a most careful historical consideration of
the illustration quoted by Dr. Gore, my verdict is most decidedly
that of not prove”.

The application of the trephine for the treatment of epilepsy is
of course absolutely limited to cases where the disease is the result
of injury to the skull. No one has ever dreamed of applying it to
other cases. I ﬁnd that the ﬁrst operation of this kind was
performed in 1705, by Guillaume Mauquest de la Motte with partial
success, and it was repeated with complete success by Mr. Birch of
St. Thomas’s Hospital, 1804. Between 1804 and 1865 there are 50
cases on record (collected by Dr. James Russell, British Medical
Journal, 1865), and of these 44 recovered, the results being
satisfactory in 39 of them. This paper of Dr. Russell’s was
published years :before any of F errier's experiments were
undertaken, and the results of trephining for epilepsy published
since are not so good as those published by Dr. Russell. The most
recent contribution to the subject is a paper by Mr. J. F. West, who
asks the question “Are our indications. in any given case, either of
paralysis or epilepsy, sufﬁciently precise and well-marked to
warrant us in recommending the use of the trephine at a particular

 




 

 

 

 

 

It

10 THE USELESSNESS OF VIVISECTION.

point of the skull? and he answers it thus: “ It will be a long time
before it is deﬁnitely settled, but such cases as those alluded to give
encouragement.” This answer of a practical surgeon is very
different from that of Dr. Gore.

Even if the conclusions which are attributed to Dr. Ferrier’s
researches were to be regarded as indisputable, my answer would
be that they might have been arrived at, and certainly would soon
be enormously extended, if our clinical research were conducted
upon reasonable and scientiﬁc principles. The chief reason of the
slow advance of the arts of medicine and surgery is the reckless
waste of the material so plentifully supplied by disease, and the
ﬁrst remedy will consist in the sub-division of the labour, a remedy
against which, unfortunately, the medical profession protests most
vigorously.

A Useless Method.

It is of course perfectly impossible to deal with all of the
illustrations in favour of Vivisection which have recently been
advanced in the limits of an ordinary paper, and I prefer to take
those which deal with points of practical utility, rather than with
such as have as yet only a possibility of being useful in the future.
1 shall deal, therefore, at present chieﬂy with the illustrations which
have been gathered from the ﬁeld of practical medicine and surgery,
for in them, of course, the public see the strongest arguments. If
it is publicly announced, as has been done of late very widely, that
human diseases have been cured and human suffering lessened by
experiments on the lower animals, the public must therein see a
strong argument for Vivisection. But such announcements are
open to the test of historical examination, and to this I propose to
subject the most important of them. I am equally open to discuss
in the same way those points of less apparent usefulness, the
matters of mere physiological discovery, on some future occasion, if
it should arise; but, as with these the only defence can be that

, some day they may prove of service, it is clearly best to deal ﬁrst

with those for which an actual and not merely a potential utility-is
claimed.

Those of my professional brethren” who take the Other side may
probably complain that I have selected a lay audience for the

 

 




 

ﬂe——F

 

THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION. ' II

discussion ; but the answer is, that by the circulation of pamphlets,
and by communicated paragraphs in newspapers, they have already

taken the initiative, and I am but meeting them on their own
ground.

I am quite well aware that I am one of a small minority of my
profession in my View that Vivisection is useless as a method of
research, but the answer I am disposed to offer on this point is, that
not one in a hundred of my professional brethren have ever
seriously examined the question. Ninety-nine take for granted the
statements of the hundredth, and he, in turn,’ has not gone into the
the matter upon that side from which alone a safe answer can be
given—that of historical criticism.

The dispute, as I have already said, is not to be settled by mere
statement of opinion, one way or the other; nor is it a question of
authority. On the argument of authority a very singular answer
has been given by the supporters of Vivisection in the case of the
late Sir William Fergusson, who stated in his evidence before the
Royal Commission that in his opinion nothing had been gained for
surgery by experiments on the lower animals-«an opinion which I
entirely endorse. During his lifetime, Sir William Fergusson had
heaped upon him all the distinctions which his Queen, his country,
and his profession had it in their power to bestow. He was the
titular head of his profession, its most successful operator, one of
its greatest anatomists, its most widely employed practitioner, its
most successful teacher, the author of its principal text-book on
surgery—but now, when he is dead, we are told he was not a
scientiﬁc surgeon, because he did not believe in Vivisection.
Nobody said this in his lifetime, and so late as 1873 he was elected
President of the British Medical Association, over all the
profoundly scientiﬁc surgeons of the Metropolis. I share Sir
William’s opinions concerning Vivisection, and I am quite content
to rank with him on that account as an unscientiﬁc surgeon.

Apamphlet has recently been published in this town on “The
Inﬂuence of Vivisection on Human Surgery,” by Mr. Samson
Gamgee, in which the proposition is set forth that without
experiments on living animals “scientiﬁc surgery could not have
been founded, and its present humane and safe practice would have
been impossible.” Mr. Gamgee supports this proposition by a
series of instances which we may presume are the best and

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12 THE USELESSNESS OF~ VIVISECTION.

strongest he could ﬁnd. These I tabulate as follows, and I shall
discuss them historically in this order.
1. Treatment of injuries of the head, and the theory of
Contre—coup.
II. Amputation of the Hip—joint.
III. Paracentesis Thoracis.
IV. Sub-cutaneous Tenotomy.
V. Treatment of Aneurism, Ligature, and Torsion of
Arteries.
VI. Transfusion.
VII. Abdominal Surgery.
VIII. Function of periosteum.
IX. The Ecraseur.
X. Detection of Poison.

1.——-Injuries of the Head.

Mr. Gamgee tells us that the Academie de Chirurgie gave out
the subject of contre-coup, and its inﬂuenCe in injuries of the head,
as the subject for a prize competition, and that the prize was
obtained in 1778 by M. Saucerotte, whose essay was based “on
literary research, clinical observations, and twenty—one experiments
on living dogs.”* He omits, however, to make any estimate of the
value of the experiments on the dogs, which seems to me to be
absolutely nothing ; and he quite forgets to mention that the theory
of contre—coup had been cOmpletely established for nearly two
centuries before, and had been particularly the subject of Paul
Ammannus of Leipsic, who wrote a well-known work, “ De resonitu
seu‘contra ﬁssura crannii,” in 1674, in which trepanning is
recommended at the point of contre-coup, as had been practised by
Paul Barbette, of Amsterdam, thirteen years before that. The
theory of contre-coup, and the fatal practises arising from it, are
happily now buried in oblivion, in spite of Saucerotte’s vivisection,
and would never again have been alluded to but for Mr. Gamgee’s
, unfortunate resurrection of them.

The modern verdict concerning fractures of the skull is given
tersely in Mr. Flint South’s words, “the less done as regards
meddling with them the better,” and “a knowledge of counter-

fractures is quite uncertain.” In fact nothing could be more

*Mémoire sur less Contre—coups dans les Lésions de la Téte, par M.
Saucerotte (Couronné en I768), Mem. Acad. de Chirurgie, tom. x. p. 327,
et seq.




 

 

THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION. I3

unfortunate than the Selection of M. Saucerotte’s experiments as an
illustration of the value of Vivisection, for they were performed for

a purpose which was long ago recognised as futile, and in support
of a practice universally condemned.

M. Saucerotte says—“ Pour établir le diagnostic des lésions des
différentes parties du viscere, j’ai cru devoir prendre la voie de
l’expérience et de l’observation. Ce ne sont point ici des
consequences hasardées, ce sont les resultats de faits pénibles, qui
formeront, a ce que j’espere, un foyer lumineux, dont les rayons
répondront le plus grand jour sur la pratique.” He anticipated
many of Ferrier’s experiments by more than a hundred years, and
when he trephined the skulls of dogs and injured their brains on
the right side, he found that they became somewhat feeble on their
left sides, and vice versa, a fact that had been established by
pathology long before. His idea of imitating the injury of contre-
coup, was to pass a knife right through the substance of the brain,
till it impinged on the inner surface of the skull opposite the
trephine hole, a most absurd experiment, as the contre—coup injures
at the opposite surface only, and not necessarily at all the
intervening brain substance.

Reading his experiments, they seem so like Ferrier’s that I
fancy if Dr. Ferrier had known of the existence of this essay he
would have found little need to repeat its work.

Many of the conclusions of Saucerotte’s experiments are
eminently absurd, and, save that of the decussation of the ﬁbres,
which was known before, I can ﬁnd few that have been since
accepted, and those that haVe been he candidly avows were
previously observed in cases of disease. Finally, the conclusions
concerning treatment of injuries of the head which he draws from
his experiments are not such as would be listened to in modern
surgery, and it is certain that if they were ever actedlupon they!
must have had results almost uniformly disastrous.

The fact is, that the whole run of Vivisectional experiments on the
brains Of animals, now extending over hundreds of years, have given
no sort of assistance to the elucidation of the physiology of that
wonderful organ, so contradictory have been the results. On this
subject Dr. W. B. Carpenter, who curiously enough has recently
appeared as an ardent supporter of Vivisection, says, in the seventh
edition of his standard work on the “ Principles of Human

E

 




 

 

 

 

 

.14 THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION.

Physiology,” p. 645, “The results of partial mutilations are usually
in the ﬁrst instance a general disturbance of the cerebral functions;
which subsequently, however, more or less quickly subsides, leaving
but little apparent affection of the animal functions, except
muscular weakness. The whole of one hemisphere has been
removed in this way, without any evident consequence, save a
temporary feebleness of the limbs on the opposite side of the body,
and what was supposed to be a deﬁciency of sight through the
opposite eye.* * * So far as any inferences can be safely drawn
from them these experiments fully bear out the conclusion that the
cerebrum is the organ of Intelligence,” a conclusion which surely
has never been doubted, since it was ﬁrst the object of the then
savage club to destroy the intelligence of a foe by cracking his
skull. Continuing his researches on such experiments as those of
Saucerotte and Ferrier, Dr. Carpenter tersely sums up the prima
facie objections to them, objections which seem to him, as they
seem to me, to be fatal to their utility : “It is obvious that much of
the disturbance of the sensorial powers which is occasioned by this
operation is fairly attributable to/the laying open of the cranial
cavity, to the disturbance of the normal vascular pressure, and to
- the injury necessarily done to the parts which are left by their
severance from the cerebellum.” Dr. Marshall Hall also pointed
out long ago that injury to the dura—mater is an important
factor in the results obtained.

II.——AMPUTATION OF THE HIP JOINT.

At page 8 of his pamphlet, Mr. Gamgee makes the astonishing
statement that this operation was only attempted after it was
proved safe by vivisection. The authority he has been kind enough
to give me for this is a brief sentence in the preface to the ninth
volume of the “ Mémoires de l’Académie de Chirurgie,” written by
the Secretary General and published in I 778.

But the ﬁrst hint we getof amputation of the hip-joint is from a
German surgeon named Vohler, who was in practice about 1690.
It is doubtful if he ever performed it on a living patient, but it is on
record that he tried on the dead body. But it was performed by M.
la Croix, of Orleans, in I748, not only on one limb, but on both
limbs of the same patient, the ﬁrst operation being successful, and
the second almost so. This was nearly thirty years before the
publication of the vivisection of dogs; and there are many other
cases of success previous to Mr. Gamgee’s alleged origin of the

r‘.




 

 

THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION. IS

operation, one being by the celebrated Ker of Northampton, in
I773; and, as Mr. Gamgee has published ‘ a large book on
amputation of the hip—joint, it is surprising that he did not know
something more about the history of the operation.

III.—-PARACENTESIS THORACIS.

Mr. Gamgee makes another most unfortunate selection in the
case of William Hewson, who based a theoretical operation for
pneumothorax upon experiments on living dogs and rabbits so long
ago as I769. He made a wound in the side of the chest and
admitted air into the pleura, where no air ought to be, and then be
operated to get it out again. When such a condition is brought
about in man‘,’ and no vital organ seriously injured, the patient gets
perfectly well without any operation. I cannot learn that
Hewson’s operation for the removal of air has ever been performed
on man. When pneumothorax occurs from disease it is generally
associated with conditions necessarily fatal, for which no operation
is advisable. On this point the greatest authority, Dr. Bowditch of
New York, says, “I have operated once in pneumo-hydrothorax,
with temporary relief and comparative ease for several days.
Many theoretical objections may be urged against the operation in
such a case; but as the operation can do no harm and may give
much relief, I shall operate again in such a case.” The proceeding
is therefore doubtful, the conditions are extremely rare, pure
pneumothorax, such as Hewson invented his proceedings for, never
needs it, and therefore his experiments on living dOgs and rabbits
were useless.

Finally, tapping for the removal of ﬂuid in the chest was
practised long before Hewson’s time, and therefore his research was
needless. Hewson really based his proposal on this well-known
practice, but in this he was anticipated in the most favourable cases
——those of wounds——for Anel, of Amsterdam, published quite the
same proposal in 1707, and it has been uniformly condemned by
every writer on military surgery since, because the removal of the
air merely induces bleeding.* Anel devised a syringe for the
purpose, which has been revived as the modern aspirator. l Had
Mr. Gamgee known anything of Dominic Anel he would never have
mentioned William Hewson. '

* Flint South’s edition of Chelms, vol. i p. 452.

‘l‘L’Art de Sucer 'les Plaies sans se servir de la bouche d’un homme.
Amsterdam, 1707.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16 THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION.

IV.——SUBCUTANEOUS TENOTOMY.

Ihave traced the history of the surgery of tendons, and I cannot
see the slightest reason to attribute any of the advances in this
department to the alleged vivisections of John Hunter. I cannot
ﬁnd any record of these experiments, beyond the allusions to them
by Drewry Ottley, and Palmer in his life of Hunter.

The same accident which happened to Hunter in 1767 happened
to the first Monro in 1726, and from the latter instance a very
marked advance in surgical practice was at once made and a
contrivance invented by Monro himself, for his own case is still in
use and goes by his name. No such advance was made from
Hunter’s accident or from his vivisections. In their histories of the
progress of orthopoedic surgery Little and Adams make no such
claim for Hunter. Adams points out clearly, and with justice, that
Hunter established the principles on which subcutaneous surgery is
now conducted ;‘but these he established from clinical observations,
not from experiments upon animals. And in his lecture on
“ Ruptural Tendons ” (vol. i. p. 436), Hunter says not one word about
his vivisections, or any conclusions he derived from them as to the
method of repair of tendons. If he ever made any such experiments
he must have placed very little value upon them.

If we trace the development'of tenotomy we ﬁnd that Hunter's
experiments had no inﬂuence upon it at all. They were performed,
itlis said, in 1767. But the ﬁrst tenotomy was not performed till
1784, by Lorenz, at Frankfort, and then the conditions were
absolutely in deﬁance of the principals of subcutaneous surgery.
It was done by an open wound, and this practice was continued with
hardly any modiﬁcation till far on in this century. In fact, as Adams
points out, it is from 1831 that the commencement of scientiﬁc
tenotomy dates, at the hands of Stromeyer. If this is so, and Adams
makes his case out most conclusively (Club-Foot, 187 3), how utterly
useless Hunter’s experiments on dogs must have been, to lie
forgotten and unnoticed till unearthed in Mr. Gamgee’s pamphlet of
1882, one hundred and ﬁfteen years after they were performed; or
how singularly careless and inattentive to the teachings of
vivisection the medical profession must be, that they should allow
thls immense discovery to lie neglected frOm 1767 till 1831.

'To bring forward so rash an illustration as this for the value of
vivisection is to cast a terrible slur at the profession of surgery, a
slur which I do not think at all deserved if the true history of such

I

-‘* k,

 




._‘ l, I

THE USELESSNESS OF VIVISECTION. I7

advances is carefully investigated, and the moving causes of them

‘ properly credited.

V.—TREATMENT OF ANEURISM, LIGATURE, AND
TORSION OF ARTERIES.

Mr. Gamgee alludes to the oft-quoted story of the Hunterian
operation for aneurism as a proof Of the aid vivisection has given to
surgery. This illustration has been so completely and so often
destroyed, that it is absolutely unnecessary to allude to it further
than to explain that Hunter modiﬁed Anel’s operation merely
because he found the artery near to the seat of disease would not
hold the ligature, and the patients bled to death. As the arteries Of
animals never suffer from the disease in question, experiments upon
them could not have helped Hunter in any way whatever. Sir James
Paget, who has lately appeared as an ardent advocate for vivisection,
and, therefore, may be appealed to by me as a witness not biassed to
my View, has recorded his opinion in the Hunterian oration given at
the College of Surgeons in 1877, that Hunter’s improvement in the
treatment of aneurism “was not the result of any laborious
physiological induction; it Was mainly derived from facts very
cautiously observed in the wards and deadhouse.” In this opinion
Sir James Paget is undoubtedly correct.

Concerning the tying and torsion of arteries I am in a position
to speak with some authority, because I have myself performed
experiments on living animals, and have found how futile they are,
and how uncertain and untrustworthy are their results. Mr.
Gamgee tells us that some local worthies, who were distinguished
by early performances of serious operations, practised their ’prentice
hands on living animals. This is not scientiﬁe experimentation, but
culpable and wholly unnecessary cruelty. It is on the dissecting
table that a surgeon prepares his hand for his work, and not On the
bodies of living animals. I have'never known nor heard of such an
instance before, and I trust there are no more to be quoted. _Any
surgeon who did this now would, I am sure, receive a universal
condemnation from his professional brethren.

Mr. Gamgee quotes Jones’s experiments on the arteries of
animals as an instance of a valuable contribution to surgical
progress by experiments on animals, and I do not think any more
complete illustration could be quoted in support of the uselessness
0f vivisection as a method of scientiﬁc research than that of

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I8 THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION.

the history of the physiological and pathological processes to be
observed in arteries. If we consider the question from what some
would call the purely scientiﬁc side, that is apart altogether from
any practical bearings it may have for the relief of human sufferings
and the care of human disease, it consists merely of a mass of ~
observations in which each observer contradicts some other. Upon
this subject I wrote as follows so long ago as 1865 :——

“John Hunter warned surgeons to avoid injuring any of the
coats of an artery, and to this effect advised that the ligature should
not be drawn so tight as to cut them; While many of his contem-
poraries and successors dreaded any injuries so much that they used
all sorts of clumsy contrivances to avoid it—such as pads of lint and
bits of cork inserted between the arteries and ligature. Again,
Travers, in his experiments on ligatures of arteries, demonstrated
that Jones was quite wrong when he insisted that it was necessary
to divide the inner coats: and Mr. Dalrymple, of Norwich, proved
by his experiments that while simple and continued contact of the
parietes of a vessel, without the slightest wound of any of the coats,
was sufﬁcient to produce permanent adhesion and obliteration, yet
that division of the internal and middle coats without continued
coaptation invariably failed to produce adhesion. Hodgson says
that he cannot substantiate Jones’s statement that division of the
coats is essential, and strongly supports the opinion that coaptation
of the walls, without rupture of any of the coats, will produce
occlusion. The theories of Dr. Jones were strongly supported by
Professor Thompson, his teacher, but were strongly opposed by Sir
Phillip Crampton, who insisted that the division of the coats not
only was unnecessary, but that it frequently defeats its own object.”
~—(Medieal Times and Gazette, I 865. )

I quote this at length to show that ﬁfteen years ago I found
authorities differing so much on this scientiﬁc question that I
thought it advisible to institute a new series of vivisectional
experiments to decide it. The experiments performed by myself
only added to the confusion, though nobody saw that at the time.
What we were working at was to get quit of the ligature altogether,
and to secure arteries by temporary compression of some kind
without injuring the coats. Acupressure promised to accomplish
this; but it failed, for reasons I need not enter into here. The desire
to get quit of the ligature was due to the fact that after a vessel was
tied one end of the ligature was cut off and the other left hanging
out of the wound, Where it remained for weeks, sometimes for
months, and occasionally (as in Lord Nelson’s case) for years.

 




THE USELESSNESS OF VIVISECTION. 19

The amazing thing is that with all the experiments made upon
animals nobody ever thought of cutting both ends of the ligature
quite short and closing the wound over it. As a matter of fact,
from the time of Ambrose Pare to that of Simpson, an interval of
over 300 years, we went bungling on with experiments on animals
when the whole thing lay clear before us. It was the successful
experiments of Baker Brown and Thomas Keith upon women suffering
from ovarian tumours which showed us that if we use pure silk, cut
the ends of the ligatures short, and close the wound carefully over
them, success will be certain. Yet, not content with this, we hear of
fresh experiments on animals with carbolised catgut, chromicised
catgut, kangaroo tendons and other novelties, which speedily die out
when applied to human beings.

l
d x

In the case of the arteries, therefore, experimentation on animals

has proved to be “science, falsely so-called.” What we have done
in this direction is entirely the result of clinical experience, and that
only.

VI.—-—TRANSFUSION.

This operation was not initiated, as asserted by Mr. Gamgee, in
the second half of the seventeenth century by Dr. Lower, of Oxford,
nor was it ﬁrst proposed as a legitimate surgical operation at all.
It was proposed, and in all probability was really practised, by the
alchemists of the sixteenth century as an attempt to obtain for the
wealthy aged a renewal of their lease of life, after the theory and
legend of F austus. Certain it is that allusions to it are frequent,
though the ﬁrst actual account of its performance is given by
Andre Libavius, Professor of Medicine at Halle (Helmst. 1602), as
having been performed by him in I 594, the blood of a young healthy
man being transfused into a man aged and decrepit, but able and

i willing to pay for the supposed advantage. In the early part of the
seventeenth century it was a good deal discussed from this point of
View, forgotten for a while, and then after the Restoration it was
reconsidered, and a great deal written about it in this country and

 

on the Continent. An extremely interesting allusion to the
eXperiments is to be found in the wonderful Diary of Samuel
Pepys :—-‘

- “ November 14th, I666.——Dr. Croone told me that at the
Meeting at Gresham College to—night (which it seems, they now
have every Wednesday again) there was a pretty experiment of the

blood of one dog let out (till he died) into the body of another on

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20 THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION.

one side, while all his own run out on the other side. The ﬁrst
died upon the place, and the other is very well, and likely to do well.
This did give occasion to many pretty wishes, as of the blood of a
Quaker to be let into an Archbishop, and such like; but, as Dr.
Croone says, may, if it takes, be of mighty use to man’s health, for
the amending of bad blood by borrowing from a better body.”

“ I6th.——This noon I met with Mr. Hooke, and he tells me the
dog which was ﬁlled with another dog’s blood at the College the
other day is very well, and like to be so as ever, and doubt not it’s
being found of great use to men, and so does Dr. Whistler, who
dined with us at the Tavern.”

The scheme of transfusion in all the experiments of the seven-
teenth century, descriptions of which I have seen, was to take
arterial blood from an animal and pass it into the veins of another,
and that this was successful is not surprising. But this has never
been attempted in modern times upon man. It certainly would not
be justiﬁable ; because, to interfere with a large artery—and a large
artery would be required*in a man is always an extremely risky
thing. Dr. Lower, who is Mr. Gamgee’s authority, in 1667 injected
or tried to inject arterial blood from a lamb into a man, but the
operation was so badly done that I do not believe any blood really
passed. If Pepys’ idea could have been carried out, of transferring
some of the peaceful blood from the arteries of a member of the
Society of Friends, for the replacement of the turbulent and brutal
spirit of Archbishop Laud, some good might have been done, much
of the terrible history of that time need not have been written, and I
might not have appeared here as a critic of such experiments. But
no such or any other good result was obtained. A large army of
experimenters rushed into the ﬁeld, a ﬁerce controversy took place ;
but before the eighteenth century dawned the whole thing was
discredited and forgotten. Mr. Flint Smith gives a succinct history
of the matter, and tells us that it was revived by the plan of mediate
transfusion in the early part of the present century. The former
experiments were fruitlessly repeated and others tried. The result
is that the operation has a very inseCure hold on professional
opinion. Ihave seen it performed seven times without success in
a single instance. I have twice been asked to do it, and have
declined, and both patients are now alive and well. We hear a
great deal of cases in which patients have survived after transfusion
has been performed, but we hear little or nothing of its failures.
Personally, I have no conﬁdence in the proceeding.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION. 21

VII.——ABDOMINAL SURGERY.

Mr. Gamgee aludes to a vivisection experiment made by John
Shipton, and published in I703, as having laid the foundation for
the recent advances of abdominal surgery, which are attracting the
admiration of the whole professional world, and the instances he
quotes date so late as 1880. If Shipton’s experiment has been so
fertile, why has the. crop been delayed for a hundred and seventy-
seven years P .

But even here Mr. Gamgee is wrong in his» history. The Whole
progress of abdominal surgery dates from the ﬁrst successful case
of ovariotomy performed by Robert Houston in I70I. Failing to
see the lesson taught by this, and led astray by vivisectiOn, no
further success was achieved till I809, by Ephraim McDowell, and it
was not till 1867 that any substantial gain was made. Disregarding
all the conclusions of experiment, Baker: Brown showed us how to
bring our mortality of ovariotomy down to IO per cent. ; and again,
in 1876, Keith proved that it might be still further reduced. The
methods of this reduction were such as only experience on human
patients could indicate; experiments on animals could and did teach
nothing, for operations have been performed on thousands of
animals every year for centuries, and nothing whatever has been
learnt from this wholesale vivisection.

As soon as Keith’s results were established abdominal surgery
advanqed so rapidly that now, only six years after, there is not a
single organ in the abdomen that has not had numerous operations
performed upon it successfully. I have had, as is well known, some
share in this advance, and I say, without hesitation, that I have
been led astray again and again by the published results of
experiments on animals, and I have had to discard them entirely.

Speaking on some recent attempts which have been made to
operate on cases of cancer of the stomach, Mr. Gamgee says:
“Warranting, as such cases do, the placing of cancer of the
stomach amongst diseases curable by the knife, do they not also
justify the vivisection of dogs by Shipton and Travers, who, by
their experiments, laid the ﬁrst scientiﬁc foundation of intra-
abdominal surgery?” Such a statement as this must be so
completely qualiﬁed as to be regarded as altogether inaccurate.
No form of cancer is yet known ever to have been cured, either by
operation or anything else. If removed it invariably returns, and in
all these cases of cancer of the stomach quoted by Mr. Gamgee, save

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

22 THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION.

one, the disease speedily returned and killed the patients. Theone
exception has not yet been under trial long enough to enable us to
give an opinion. Doubtless it will have the same end as the others.

VIII.-—FUNCTION OF PERIOSTEUM.

The history of the development of our knowledge of the formation
and growth of bone is extremely interesting, because it shows how
completely misleading are the conclusions based upon vivisectional
experiments, and how perfectly the secrets of Nature may be
unravelled by a careful and intelligent examination of her own
experiments. No one can look now at a necrosed bone without
seeing how completely the whole story is there written. The history
also exempliﬁes the fact that it is not only the purely practical
details of surgery which are independent of vivisection for their
development, but what are called the more scientiﬁc developments
of physiological knowledge are equally possible without its aid, and
are often retarded by its misguidance.

The ﬁrst real observer in this department was Jean Guichard
Duverney, born in 1648, who achieved such distinction that Peyer,
in a dedicatory epistle, says to him, “ Sempiterna te (Duverneyum)
quondam trophoea manebunt et Regi vestro, Academiae Urbique
gloriosum erit tantum aluisse civem.” He studied closely, and
wrote a great deal about the anatomy, physiology, and surgery of
bones, and in his books* he fully describes the method of owth
and ossiﬁcation of bone, its dependence for its nutrition and growth
upon the periosteum; the only thing he lacks is the microscopical
knowledge of modern times. He also performed vivisections, not
upon the periosteum but on the medulla, and they led him into
erroneous conclusions. He cut through the thigh bone of a living
animal, and repeatedly plunged a stilette into the medulla, and the
animal gave evidence of great suffering. The marrow, he therefore
concluded, received a great‘number of nerves, which passed through
the canals in the bone, but which existed only in his imagination.
As long as he kept to his clinical observations and anatomical
dissections he reached exact conclusions, but as soon as he entered
the arena of vivisection he went all astray.

The next author of note was Francois Hunauld, born in 1701,
who. published in I730 “Recherches Anatomique sur les Os du
crane de l’homme,” in which he describes with the utmost accuracy

*Traité des Maladies des OS, 1751, Paris. (Euvres Anatomiques, Paris, I76I,

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVI‘SECTION. 23

the os'siﬁcation by the membranes, between which the cranial bones
are developed. The only errors he made were hypothetical
descriptions of things he could not have seen without a microscope,
and that he evidently had not used.

Next comes Robert Nesbit, a Scotch surgeon, settled in London,
who published in I736 an essay, entitled “Human Osteogeny,
explained in two lectures.”

He was the ﬁrst to demonstrate the construction of bone by the
now familiar experiment of dissolving out the mineral matter, and
leaving, as he most accurately says, a spongy substance altogether
different from cartilage. Cartilage he referred to its proper function;
but he describes it as vascular, in this showing the want of
microscopical investigation; but concerning the process of
ossiﬁcation he had got quite as far as we have at the present day.
He tells us that in the blood, or in a liquid separated from it, there
is an ossifying ﬂuid, a ﬂuid containing the material out of which
bone is built up, composed of parts which are not sensible; that
whenever Nature determines upon an ossiﬁcation Within a
membrane, from which all bones are developed, or in a cartilage,
she directs by some means, the nature of which we are ignorant of,
a larger quantity of blood to the vessels of the membranes, so that
they become distended and visible, whereas before they were
invisible. He describes the process of ossiﬁcation only with such
errors as are due to the absence of the microscope, and says : “ Thus
the membranes (periosteum) and the cartilages are the reservoirs in
which the osseous particles are deposited and moulded.” He denied
the existence (and quite correctly) of an internal periosteum which
had become about that time a matter of great contention.

The celebrated discovery of the property of madder for staining
growing bone, when used as food by animals, was published by
John Belchier in the Philosophical Transactions for I736, and he
fully disclosed thereby the method of growth of bone from

‘periosteum, and many other most interesting and valuable

discoveries concerning bone.

Between I739 and I743 Henri Louis Dunamel—Dumonceau
published eight memoirs on the growth and repair of bones, largely
based on the suggestive discovery of Belchier. Up to this time the
formation of callus was thought to be due to an effusion of osseous
juice—a belief which pervaded the surgical teaching of a
distinguished professor of the University of Edinburgh so late as

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24 THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION.

my own student days———but Duhamel proved its real origin. He
also completely established the fact that bones grow in thickness by
the addition of osseous layers originating from the periosteum.

Duhamel performed many vivisections, but it is quite clear from
his own descriptions that they were failures and did not help him.
He says himself that his conclusions were based on sections which
he made of specimens of fractures which were in the collections of
Winslow, Moraud, and Hunauld. In fact, to any intelligent
observer who looks at a preparation of necrosis it is evident that no
vivisection was needed to show the whole process and growth of
repairs of bone; and, even if vivisection were necessary, history
displays with certainty that Syme and Ollier, to whom Mr. Gamgee
attributes the merit 'of these discoveries, were only uselessly
repeating the attempts of Duhamel more than a century old, and
were only attempting to establish what had long before proved.

Since Duhamel’s time thousands upon thousands of experiments
upon animals are on record, some to prove that the periosteum has
nothing whatever to do with the formation of bone or with the
production of callus, and others to prove that we owe everything
to the periosteum, and yet it has been settled absolutely only by the
experiments of disease upon our own bodies, and not by experiments
on animals. It would be really amusing to read the account of the
researches 'of Sue, Bordenave, Delius, Dethleef, Fongerous, Haller,
and countless others, were not the humour of their mutual
contradictions sadly marred by the accounts of the tortures they
inﬂicted uselesslyon myriads of animals.

The experiments of Dethleef of Gottingen in I752 were far
more scientiﬁc than those of Mr. Syme in 1837, and the conclusions
of both seem to me to be equally erroneous. At any rate Mr. Syme
did not help us one bit in advance of Duhamel and Fongeroux.
Haller made numerous vivisectional experiments, and he was
the most distinguished physiologist of his time; yet he
records his conclusion that the periosteum has nothing whatever to
do with the formation of bone, and as a proof of this he quotes the
formation of exostoses on teeth. The fact is, that as long as
dependence was placed on vivisection, so long did one experimenter
investigate after another fruitlessly, and with conclusions absolutely
contradictory. On pathological research alone has the true conclusion
been established. Haller made a long series of vivisectional

 

 

 




THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION. 25

experiments, published in two memoirs,* and triumphantly proved
that the periosteum can have nothing to do with the formation of
bone. He concluded from his vast array of experiments that bone
grew from the middle and not from the outside, together with many
other absurdities, only to be matched in the modern researches of
Bennett and Rutherford on the function of the liver, also based on
fallacious vivisections.

The whole of the physiology and pathology of bone have been
laid bare by the accident of the pigs of the dyer with whom Belchier
dined, by microscopic research, and the observations of disease. Yet
Hunter and Stanley thought it necessary to conﬁrm the conclusions
of the madder stain by such a clumsy device as ﬁxing a ring of
metal round the growing bones of a young animal, letting the ring
remain for months or years, and then examining to ﬁnd—~what?
absolutely nothing, save that the ring had been more or less covered,
just as it would have been on a tree, thus only repeating Duhamel’s
conclusions. Other observers bored holes in bones and ﬁlled them
with metal plugs and shot to ﬁnd only that the conclusions of
disease, that long bones grow from the epiphyses, is absolutely
correct. Then we come to Mr. Syme’s paper in I837, “ On the
power of the periosteum to produce new bone.” Mr. Syme almost
every week was in the habit of cutting through great thicknesses of
new bone attached to and growing from the periosteum to get at
dead old bone from which the periosteum had been separated ; and
the new bone, being between the periosteum and the old bone, must
of necessity have grown from the periosteum; there was nothing else
it could grow from. Therefore, If Mr. Syme found it necessary to
cut up animals to ﬁnd out what was constantly staring him in the
face, he was a profoundly unscientiﬁc surgeon, whose researches

. were as badly conducted as they were useless.

When Mr. Gamgee read his paper at the local Medical Society
and quoted these experiments of Mr. Syme, I said that, as far as I
could recollect, the fact was that their conclusions had been
absolutely upset by Mr. Goodsir, who did not make experiments
upon animals, but followed a far more scientiﬁc method of research

i +microscopic examination. On refreshing my memory I ﬁnd this
is the case. In a paper read before the Royal Society of
Edinburgh’r in answer to Mr. Syme, Mr. Goodsir shows that Mr.

 

 

* Sur la. Formation des Os, Causanne, 1758.
T Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin., vol. xiv.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26 THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION.

Syme’s method of research was so bad that the experiments could
not be performed accurately. Mr. Syme was pre—eminently an
unscientiﬁc surgeon, for he knew nothing of the microscope; in fact
it may be doubted if he ever looked through one. Mr. Goodsir, on
the contrary, may be! looked upon as the father of modern
histological research. He proves conclusively that Mr. Syme’s
experiments were absurd in their conception and futile in their
application. Mr. Goodsir’s conclusions are, on the cantrary,
uniformly accepted, and as to his method he says that they were
made upon the shafts of human bones which had died,—-—museum
specimens, just as Duhamel’s were. *They showed that whilst the
periosteum is the matrix and machine by which the new bone is
made, the real agency is in the layer of osteal cells, and so he
ﬁnally solved the riddle. He did this by microscopic and patho-
logical research. He condemned the employment of vivisection as
useless and misleading, and to him we owe the completion of
Belcher’s and Duhamel’s research——a completion, which was
hindered for a century by the blunders of vivisectionists.

After this I need not stop to discuss the useless repetition of
of Mr. Syme’s experiments, with variations of Ollier of Lyons, for
it would be merely a waste of time.

IX.——THE ECRASEUR.

Mr. Gamgee quotes the introduction of the ecraseur as an
instance of the inﬂuence of vivisection on the process of human
surgery. No more unfortunate instance could be quoted. The
principle of the instrument is that it crushes and tears the tissues
instead of cutting them as by the knife. The surgical aphorism
that “torn arteries don’t bleed” was in existence long before M.
Chassaignac was born, and if he had based his employment on that
alone he could have done all that his. instrument has effected.
But unfortunately he performed experiments upon animals, and
immediately he was led astray. I once saw the leg of a favourite
dog amputated at the hip-joint on account of disease, and when the
limb was removed not a single vessel bled, and the main artery
was tied only as a matter of precaution. In the human subject I
have seen twelve or ﬁfteen arteries tied in the same operation, for
with us the smallest arteries bleed and require to be secured. Our
arteries act in ways altogether different from those seen in the
lower animals. Their patholgy and physiology are absolutely

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION. 27

different, as may be seen in the frequency of apoplexy and
aneurism with us, and the almost complete immunity from them of
all the lower animals, even in extreme old age. Hunter tried his
.best to induce aneurism to the lower animals and failed. Injuries
to arteries in the lower animals are repaired with the utmost
certainty and readiness, but in man it is altogether different. It
may be easily imagined, therefore, that M. Chassaignac’s applica-
tion of the ecraseur to the lower animals was found wholly
misleading when man was the subject, and now in human surgery its
utility is extremely limited; that is, it is entirely conﬁned to
operations where only very small arteries are divided. Speaking
for my own practice, I may say that it might be dispensed with
and never missed.

Mr. Gamgee’s quotation of its application to the ovarian
arteries of the cow is peculiarly unfortunate, .seeing that when it
was used for the same purpose in the human subject it had speedily
to be given up on account of its failure.

X.—DETECTION OF POISON.

A great deal has been made of the successful experiments
recently performed by the medical experts for the conviction of
Lamson, for that worst of all crimes, the most unpardonable,
murder by poisoning. At ﬁrst sight this doesseem a case in which
experiments upon animals may be justiﬁed. Certainly anything
- and everything ought to be done to convict a poisoner, and if
nothing short of that would do, I would advocate the performance
of a hecatomb rather than that such a scoundrel as Lamson should
escape. So late as a few weeks ago I made a reservation on this
point in my condemnation of Vivisection as a method of research,
but it seems to me, from a closer consideration of the facts of the
case, that it forms really a very strong argument for the complete
abolition of viVisection, and, at the same time, unfortunately it is a
matter of grave reproach to modern science,

Fortunately the conviction of a poisoner is almost certain. If
he is not a doctor he commits the crime so clumsily that he cannot
escape. If he is a doctor he must have an interest in the Victim’s
death, is almost certain to be in pecuniary difﬁculties, and is sure to
have had a bad character previous to his great crime. The only
difﬁculty lies in the proof of the presence of the poison. With all
poisons but the alkaloids this is a matter of such ease that failure

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28 THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION.

is impossible, and as the alkaloids are almost exclusively in the
hands of chemists and doctors the limitation of their use is very
close.

The most notorious case in which an alkaloid was used, or
supposed to have been used, by a poisoner was that of Parsons
Cook. The alkaloid was supposed to be strychnine, and I say
supposed, because I rise from the perusal of that trialwith much
doubt as to whether Parsons Cook really died of strychnine
poisoning. Certainly I cannot accept it as proved, and I think if
the trial Were to occur now the same evidence which convicted
Palmer would probably break down. I am perfectly satisﬁed, how-
ever, that Palmer received substantial justice.

In Palmer’s case the principal witnesses for the prosecution
were the late Dr. Alfred Swayne Taylor, and the late Sir Robert
Christison, certainly the greatest toxicologists of this century.
Strychnine was not discovered in the body of Cook, and Dr. Taylor
had to admit that the best tests then known were insufﬁcient to
discover one ﬁftieth of a grain, and that even half a grain might
remain undetected amongst food in the stomach. Palmer was
sentenced to death upon the 27th of May, 1856, and in July of the
same year a method of chemical analysis was published by
Copney in the Pharmaceutical Journal, by which one ﬁve hundred
thousandth of a grain of strychnine could be detected with certainty
after separation. In his evidence Dr. Taylor admitted that the
experiments he had performed upon animals with strychnine were '-
practically worthless for any application to man, and in the Royal
Commission of 1876 he condemned such experiments, particularly
those which are directed towards the discovery of an antidote to
snake bite.

Strychnine was discoverd in 1818, and was ﬁrst used as a poison
in 1831, and again in the case of Mrs. Sergison Smith in 1847, and
it was no new matter the toxologist had to do with in the trial
of Palmer. It must be regarded, therefore, as a matter for deep
regret that it was not till after the trial and execution of Palmer
that the chemistry of strychnine was exhaustively examined, and
deﬁnite and certain tests for it obtained. At the trial there was a
sort of competition among the vivisectionists, and Serjeant Shee
actually urged as an argument for the defence that his witnesses
had performed ten times more experiments to prove that there was
no strychnine, than the witnesses for the prosecution had performed

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION. 29

to prove what never’ was proved, that strychnine was used at all.-
Yet in two months chemical processes were devised, without the
slightest aid from vivisection, which detected half-a-millionth of a
grain with certainty.

At the trial Professor Christison said that another alkaloid was
known, of a deadly poisonous character, which it was impossible to
detect, but under the judge’s direction he refused to make its name
known. There were really many alkaloids of a deadly poisonous
character at that time quite well known, and aconitine was one.
The ﬁrst case to bring this poison under notice as a criminal agent
was in I841, and the notorious Pritchard destroyed his victims with
it in I865. Dr. Penny, of Glasgow, resorted to experiments on
animals in order to bring the crime home to Pritchard, and
succeeded. Yet I have looked in vain for any record of a research
for a method which will detect aconitine with certainty by chemical
analysis, as strychnine can be detected, and Dr. Stephenson admitted
in evidence that there was no such test.

I daresay such a method will be shortly published, and what I
desire to point out is that this discovery ought to have been made
long ago in the interest of public safety, not only with regard to
aconitine, but with regard to many other alkaloids which may be
used in the same way, and which cannot be discriminated from
aconitine, even by experiments on animals. At present, when need
arises, we must go back to the uncertain method of experimenting
upon animals. BUt this is not science, if by that word we are to
speak of exact knowledge. The very weakness of this method has
led to a serious infraction of the principles of our judicial proceed-
ings, for the Home Secretary announced in the House of Commons
only a few nights ago that the Government, in a case such as
Lamson’s, could not allow the proceedings of the medical experts
for the prosecution to be watched by other experts on behalf of the
defence.

This is altogether unfair, for with such an uncertain and incon-
clusive method as that of experimentation on animals two men,
even if appointed by the Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, and
not by the Treasury, may be mistaken, whereas by chemical or
spectroscopic analysis mistakes are extremely unlikely, and the more
observers there are the better.

The general conclusion therefore is, that for such purposes
experiments on animals should be entirely prohibited, and that an

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

30 THE USELESSNESS OF VIVISECTION.

I exhaustive research should at once be undertaken at the expense
of the State, upon the spectrum and chemical analysis of all sub-
stances which may be used for criminal purposes. There is no
known substance of constant character which has resisted the
chemists’ effort to identify it when it has been properly investigated.

If all these alkaloids had been subjected to an exhaustive
investigation as strychnine was after Palmer’s trial, there would
have been no need to revert to vivisection in order to convict
Lamson, and I do not think it would now be contended as necessary
for the detection of a poisonous dose of strychnine that experiments
on animals should be made. Vivisection in this case is therefore
not the weapon of science, but is the refuge of incomplete work.

I have now gone over. all the points urged in favour of vivi-
section as contributory to surgical advance as given in Mr. Gamgee’s
pamphlet, and with the result, to my mind, of proving that in'every
instance the claim is groundless. Had I time at my disposal I could
examine in detail numerous other claims equally fallacious. So far,
indeed, as I have already said, I have not met with a single case
capable of substantiation, not even the most recent—that of Pasteur’s
discovery of the prevention of zymotic diseases in domesticated
animals by inoculation of cultivated virus.

From a Veterinary point of View.

In the Nineteenth Century for March will be found an article by
a well—known veterinary surgeon,.Mr. Fleming, on this subject. He
describes the ravages of such diseases as anthrax, splenic fever,
rinderpest, swine plague, &c., among the animals which form our
food supply, and I admit the accuracy of his statements. Quite
recently M. Pasteur has discovered, and his statements have been
amply conﬁrmed, *that the speciﬁc organisms which form the

“It must be.remembered that Lawson Tait read this paper in 1882, before
he had freed himself from the inﬂuence of the tremendous wave of enthusiasm
with which Pasteur’s work was at ﬁrst received by the medical profession.
Later, he discarded his belief in Pasteur so thoroughly that he wrote to the
“ Medical Press and Circular," May 1899—“ Such experiments (on animals)
never have succeeded and never can, and'they have, as in the cases of Koch,
Pasteur and Lister, not only hindered true progress, but have covered our pro-
fession with ridicule.” Whether his opinion of Jenner remained of the
orthodox and ignorant type to the end of his life we have no means of know-
ing ; it is probable that he never found time to study the subject of vaccination.
His remarks in this connection upon the true method of stamping out disease
show a far-sightedness which is very remarkable in one who had, nevertheless,
accepted the current theories, pending further inquiry. They showthat he
was already on the right track, and the ultimate goal of that track is inevitable.

 

 

 

, _._ _.__

 

 




 

 

 

THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION. .31

poisons of these diseases may be so artiﬁcially cultivated as to. be
capable of producing by inoculation a mild form of the original
disease, which mild form is largely protective from the severe and
fatal form of the same malady. In fact there is a perfect analogy
between this discovery of Pasteur and that of Jenner.

The argument is that by their inoculation the zymotics of
domestic animals may be stamped out, and the claim is that it is a
great advance brought about by vivisection. But on a little exami—
nation it seems to me that both argument and claim break completely
down. If it is really an advance from vivisection, then those who
beneﬁt are the animals experimented upon, and that may be
legitimate enough—they at least would share largely in the beneﬁt.

But the case must be examined from another side. There are
some twenty zymotics amongst our domestic animals to be provided.
against. Are we to have each of them inoculated some ten or twelve
different times, each time for a different disease? The afﬁrmative
reply posesses a strong pecuniary interest for a veterinary surgeon,
but a practical man will only smile at it.

But, to go deeper into the question, we ﬁnd another and a much
stronger objection. Such a process as protective inoculation must
always be an inefﬁcient and a temporary measure. To take the case
of vaccination and small-pox, it is beyond dispute that vaccination
protects the individual to a large extent from small—pox, but it does
not protect the community—as may be seen from the ravages it is

making at the present time in neighbouring towns and counties.‘

The machinery of vaccination never can be so perfect as to stamp
out the disease, and it must be regarded purely as a temporary ex-
pedient. The real agent for the stamping—out of small-pox is the
machinery of a system of sanitary police, such as we have here; and
even on the small scale in which we have had it for six years it has
worked marvels. It will stamp out not only small-pox but every
other zymotic at the same time, and by the same measures, and then
we need not trouble about vaccination—~certainly it need not be com-
pulsory.

But the case is still stronger with the lower animals. With them,
as with us, civilisation has introduced 'zymotic poisons, which are
absolutely unknown to the wild animal, and the reasons are not far
to seek. In my capacity as one of the managers of a large public
institution, I had recently to investigate the cause of an epidemic of
swine plague, and I found a state of matters which had caused at

 

 

 

 

 




 

32 THE USELESSNESS 0F VIVISECTION.

the same time typhoid fever in a human patient.

Look at the arrangements of an ordinary British farmyard, and
then believe that it is a matter of no wonder that rinderpest destroys
the cattle, and diphtheria the farmer’s children. The animals spend
their lives in houses not lighted and not ventilated, or walk about in
a mass of seething ﬁlth, on one side of which stands the farm
house, every room reeking with the stench of the cattle-yard.

When it begins to dawn on the mind of the British public that
all these diseases, both for man and animals, are absolutely pre-
ventible by the simple means of securing fresh air, pure water, and
abundant light, they will be banished. Meantime inoculation may,
and probably will, prevent individuals being attacked, but it will not
stamp out the diseases, and it must be regarded as really a retrograde
proposal when we have in our hands the means of complete
prevention. "

I hope I have thus made it clear that, deeply as I feel the
strength of the objection to the practice of vivisection upon the
various grounds I indicated at the beginning of my paper, I urge
against it a far stronger argument than these; that it has proved
useless and misleading, and that in the interests of true science its
employment should be stopped, so that the energy and skill of
scientiﬁc investigators should be directed into better and safer
channels. I hail with satisfaction the rousing which is evident in the
public mind upon this question, and I feel conﬁdent that before long
the alteration of opinion, which I have had to confess in my own
case, will spread widely amongst the members of my useful
profession.

 

 




 

 

 

APPENDIX.

*My attentiOn has been drawn to a book which has just been published
under the title of “Physiological Cruelty : or, Fact 42. Fancy, by Philanthropos.”
This book purports to be a scientiﬁc contribution to the much-discussed question
of Vivisection, but its author departs from the usual custom of writers on
scientiﬁc subjects in that hisbook if anonymous. There is, I think, sufﬁcient
evidence to reveal to any reader who is fairly well acquainted with the literature
of this question the identity of the author, and if it would serve any good
purpose I think I could name him. He is either ashamed of his book and his
cause, or he has acowardly nature, and for the present I shall let him accept
which of the two stigmas he prefers.

He attacks me on several points, and I think it worth while to reply to him,
the more that one of the points of his criticism has been enlarged upon in a
paper by Mr. E. P. Copas, read before the Birmingham Philosophical Society on
June let, 1883. This paper, together with the remarks of “ Philanthropos,”
form the only adverse criticisms of my paper on the “ Uselessness of Vivisection
as a Method of Scientiﬁc Research ” which I have seen, though it is now ﬁfteen
months since the paper was published. Mr. Copas did not make up his mind to
criticise me for more than a year after the publication of the pamphlet, and
after this long period of incubation his criticism was of the most trumpery kind.
It was to the effect that I had misrepresented Dr. Acland of Oxford, and
Dr. T. Lauder-Brunton, of London, when I said (p. 125)——“ That Harvey made
any solid contribution to the facts of the case (the discovery of the circulation of
the blood) by Vivisection is conclusively disproved, and this was practically
admitted before the Commission by such good authorities as Dr. Acland and Dr.
Lauder- Brim ton .

I have italicised the words objected to by Mr. Copas, who is a Bachelor of
Arts of Oxford, and a Schoolmaster. His charge was, and it was supported by
letters he had received from Dr. Acland and Dr. Lauder-Brunton, that they had
made no such admission and entertained no such view.

It will be observed that I had cautiously used the words “practically admitted,”
though I am of opinion that I might have used a very much stronger expression
and have said “ actually admitted.” Certainly this is the case with Dr. Acland.

The question of the discovery of the circulation of the blood has really
nothing to do with the question of vivisection.

In the ﬁrst place it is denied by many (and I made the denial years before I
ever took part in the vivisection controversy) that the merit of this discovery is
to be credited to Harvey. There are at least two other claimants for it, and as
the elements of the controversy seem in every instance to be more in support of
national prestige than of individual merit, the discussion has become somewhat
farcical. But even if Harvey be admitted as the successful claimant there
remains the question,-—Did he make any substantial contribution to his discovery
by means of vivisection? and, if he did, does it follow that such a course of
experimentation as the one he pursued (without any deﬁnite purpose at all as it
seems to me) need be followed now ? To answer the second question ﬁrst, and
dismiss it, every one must say, No, emphatically. The circulation of the blood
could neither be discovered nor demonstrated now by anything but a dead body

 




2

and a syringe. In fact the only approach to satisfactory and scientiﬁc experi-
mentation which I ﬁnd in Harvey’s work on the circulation is given in a letter
to Paul Slegel, where he describes an experiment with a clyster bag on a dead
body. If he had pursued this line of research, and left living animals alone, he
would have anticipated many very important discoveries which have been made
since, and would have left no doubt whatever as to his claim to the establish-
ment of the scheme of the circulation.

To answer the second question, and to reply alike to Mr. Copas and
“ Philanthropos,” it is necessary to go carefully over the greater part of the
evidence published by the Royal Commission. The ﬁrst four witnesses examined,
Sir Thomas Watson, Sir George Burrows, Sir James Paget, and Professor
Sharpey, went largely into the discoveries concerning the circulation alleged to
have been made by vivisection research, and (with the exception of Sir James
Paget) they all boldly claimed Harvey’s alleged discovery as to the chiefest
value. They gave their evidence on the 5th and 6th of July, 1875, and it may be
summed up in a sentence taken from the answer to question 304, by Professor
Sharpey : “ Then Harvey, as every one knows, discovered the true motion of the
blood. That was by vivisection.” A week elapsed, and by the 12th of July it
was discovered that this was a statement which might easily be disputed, and
could not be substantiated, and therefore Dr. Acland on the same point (991), in
answer to Lord VVinmarleigh, said, “ It is not quite certain what argumentation
led Harvey to that (the discovery of the circulation of the blood), whether it was
the observation of the living structure or the contemplation of the dead struc-
ture.” Now I submit that on the part of Dr. Acland this answer is not only a
practical but an actual admission such as I have claimed.

In the work of “Philanthropos,” at p. 146, that critic says : “With great care,
therefore, I turn to the proceedings of the Royal Commission, to seek for the
admission of the highly respectable authorities named (Dr. Acland and Dr.
Lauder-Brunton). And I ﬁnd that neither of these gentlemen says one word on
the subject, or even indirectly refers to it." All I can say is, that in the copy
of the Report of the Royal Commission now before me, at page 47, there is the
admission of Dr. Acland which I have quoted.

 

Concerning Dr. Lauder-Brunton , the evidence is less direct, but to my mind it
is quite conclusive, and I adhere to my statement that he made “a practical
admission.” Dr. Lauder-Brunton’s name had been introduced specially in the
evidence concerning the circulation. After Dr. Acland's evidence not a single
contravention of his correction of Dr. Sharpey occurs. Therefore I take it that
all the subsequent witnesses agree with him. I might have taken any one or all
of twenty-four names, but for a Special reason I picked out that of Dr. Brunton.
In a letter from Dr. Brunton, read by Mr. Copas in the papers I have quoted
(the exact words of which I cannot give as it has not yet been published),
Dr. Brunton intimated that he had never held the views concerning Harvey for
which I claim his admission ; but in his work “ Pharmacology and Therapeutics ”
(Macmillan,:1880), pp. 120-121, are the following words: “ Harvey found valves
in the veins, and therefore thought it probable that the blood circulated, instead
of oscillating backwards and forwards. * * * 1f the blood circulates,
pressure on the veins must make them empty above and full below the point of i
constriction. * 9* 4‘ The experiment was tried,——the expected result
followed, and thus the thoughts of Harvey passed from the region of speculation
into that of ascertained fact.” Possibly this is quite enough for Dr. Brunton.
Harvey worked and wrote early in the seventeenth century, a time when the
rights of human beings had but scant consideration, a time when men’s thoughts

 

 

 

 




 

 

3

were rough and rude on almost all questions, and when science was in its
infancy. We cannot blame Harvey for not being in advance of his time, and for
being incapable of a reasoning power which has been granted to those who follow
him in the nineteenth century. But we must blame those of our own time who
remain wilfully blind to the logical conclusions of the facts given by Harvey
himself. When I say, as my general argument, that vivisectional experiments
are useless and misleading, I merely say what Harvey himself proves in numerous
instances. He had not seen the logical conclusions of his facts, but he states the
facts clearly enough. The following illustrations I take from his-works almost at
random. (Willis’s Edition, Old Sydenham Society.)

P. 16. Speaking of Galen’s most meaningless and utterly useless experiment
of dividing the trachea of a living dog, forcibly distending the lungs with a pair
of bellows, and then tying the trachea securely, he says : “ Who, indeed, doubts
that, did he inﬂate the lungs of a subject in the dissecting-room, he would
instantly see the air making its way by this route, were there actually any
passage for it ? ” In this case Harvey was clearly of opinion that vivisection
was useless.

P. 50. “ This truth, indeed, presents itself obviously before us when we
consider what happens in the dissection of living animals ; the great artery need
not be divided, but a very small branch only (as Galen even proves in regard to
man), to have the whole of the blood in the body, as well that of the veins as of
the arteries, drained away in the course of no long time—some half hour or less.
Butchers are well aware of the fact, and can bear witness to it, for, cutting the
throat of an 0x and so dividing the vessels of the neck, in less than a quarter of an
hour they have all the vessels bloodless. The same thing also occasionally occurs
with great rapidity in performing amputations and removing tumours in the
human subject.” Here vivisection experiment was therefore wholly unnecessary,
but Harvey did not see it.

P. 126. “ The internal jugular vein ofa live fallow deer havingbeen exposed
(many of the nobility and his most serene Majesty the King, my master, being
present), was divided, but a few drops of blood were observed to escape from the
lower oriﬁce rising up from under the clavicle; whilst from the superior oriﬁce
of the vein, and coming down from the head, a round torrent of blood gushed
forth. You may observe the same fact any day in practising phlebotomy: if
with a ﬁnger you compress the vein a little below the oriﬁce, the blood is imme-
diately arrested ; but, the pressure being removed, forthwith the ﬂow returns as
before.”

The experiment alluded to here is, as far as I can discover, the basis of
Hannay’s well-known picture, Which affords the British public the proof of
Harvey’s claim as the discoverer of the circulation, very much as popular theology
is drawn from Milton’s “ Paradise Lost.” But Harvey admits in the last sen-
tence that the experiment was wholly unnecessary. ‘

Again, if we go into Harvey’s mistakes we ﬁnd further proof of the misleading
nature of vivisectional research. Thus at p. 103 he says : “I can therefore boldly
afﬁrm, that there is neither any anastomosis of the venae portae with the cava,
of the arteries with the veins,” &c. , &c. (concerning the liver) ; and we ﬁnd his
experiments giving conclusions wholly at variance with the facts displayed by
the injecting syringe.

What I said therefore originally on this subject I adhere to ; nay, I say more,
for I am convinced that the vague and, in many instances, unintelligible descrip-
tions and conclusions of Harvey would have been simpler, clearer, and more
correct if he had never made any vivisectional experiments at all.

 




 

4

“ Philanthropos ” criticises my views about Listerism and carbolic acid. He
evidently knows nothing about surgery, or he would know that my views are now,
with one exception, adopted by all those who practice my department of the art.
The same thing is true about the use of catgut. Let him look at the preparation
of a case of subclavian aneurism now in the Hunterian Museum, added to the
collection last year, and study the question a little more.

Further, I think I may say without egotism, that my surgical practice is now
one of the largest of its kind in the world. I have entirely dispensed with the
use of carbolic acid or any other such substance, greatly to the beneﬁt of my
patients. Medical visitors come from all parts of the globe to see how it is done,
and they go away satisﬁed that the days of Listerism are numbered.

Let him, or any of our readers, peruse my chapter on the “ History of
Ovariotomy ” (Disease of the Ovaries, 4th edition, 1883), and then make a con-
trast with the facts there given and the nonsense he writes about Mr. Spencer
‘Nells on page 28 ’of his “ Physiological Cruelty.”

Finally, I have to complain that all through his book ‘,‘ Philanthropos ’ ’ makes
charges of ignorance and mendacity against his opponents to which we cannot
retaliate unless we know exactly who he is. Particularly he throws doubt on
an account given by me of an amputation of the leg of a dog. If “ Philan-
thropos” will reveal himself, I then shall be able to reply to his insinuation.
But it is quite impossible to reply to any utterance of this kind on the part of
an anonymous writer.

July, 24, 1883. ‘ L. T.

 

 

 

 




 

 

The British Union
for the Abolition of Vivisection.

(The British Anti=Vivisection Society.)

 

Fouxnnnss: FRANCES POWER COBBE.

Hon. Sec .' Hon. T reasmer :

WALTER R. HADWEN, J.P., M.D., etc. The Rev. J. STRATTON, M.A.
Secretary: Miss B. E. KIDD.

Oﬁces: 3‘2. CHARING Cnoss, LONDON, S.\V.

From the Autobiography of Miss F. P. COBBE.

“To those of my readers who may desire to contribute to the
Anti-Vivisection Cause. and who have shared my views on it as set
forth in my numberless pamphlets and letters, and to those specially
who. like myslf, intend to bequeath money to carry on the war
against scientific cruelty, I now earnestly say as my final counsel :

“ Support the British Union.”

 

In the case of benefactors desiring to bequeath legacies in support
of the Cause, they are respectfully urged to clearly state in their
Wills, “The British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection,” and to
make them payable to the Treasurer for the time being.

.Form of Bequest.

I bequeath unto the Society called THE BRITISH UNION
FOR THE ABOLITION 0F VIVISECTION, the sum of ........................
free of Legacy Duty, and 1 direct that the same shall be paid to
the Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society,
exclusively out of such part of my personal estate as may legally

be bequeathed for charitable purposes, and in priority to all other
payments.

By virtue of the Act of Victoria, cap. 26, all “ﬁlls and Codicils must be in

writing, signed by the Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the
Testator and of each other.

 

A Donation of Five Pounds and upwards constitutes a Life Member.
An Annual Subscription of Ten Shillings constitutes an Annual Member.

Remittances by Crossed Cheque or Postal Order. Smaller Donations gratefully
accepted.

An Annual Payment of 2s. 6d. constitutes an Associate of the Union.

1% ‘ rf.

Ir

 




 

 

SELECTED ANTI=VlVlSECTlON
LITERATURE.

Pamphlets by Dr. HADWEN J. P.

P??? For
Dom. 100

 

 

Some Recent Viv isection Practices In English
Laboratories = - = =- -= 15’- 7/5

A Medical View of the Vivisection Question 2]- 12/6

Vivisection: its Follies and, Cruelties and
the Way to ﬁght it - = = 1/- 7/6

The Antitoxin Treatment of Diphtheria = 1/6 10/-
Vivisection at the Brown Institution = = 4d. 21/3
The Cult of the Vivisector = 4d 2/3
The Humour of the Vivisector = 6d, 2/6
Tuberculosis and Cow’s Milk r 1/- 7/6
Was Jenner a Charlatan ? =- , 1/- 7/6

Debate between Dr. Hadwen and Mr. Stephen
Paget at Shrewsbury. - - - 1/6 10/-

Debate between Dr. Hadwen and Dr. Eastham 1/.- 7/6

Correspondence between Dr. Hadwen and
Sir Victor Horsley =- .. — = 1/- 7/6

Views of Men and Women of Note on the
Vivisection Question - = - - 2/— 12/6
(Illustrated with Poxtraite).
The Case against Vaccination - - _ 1/- 7/6
The Controv ersy in “The Standard” ' — 2/6 15/-

A Vivisection Controversy —-- Mr. Stephen
Paget'sclaims,and Dr. Hadwen’s answers 2/- 10/-

By Miss FRANCES POWER COBBE.

The Early History of the Anti- Vivisection Movement. 3d.
Light in Dark Places .. .. .. . .. Wit”,- 31!.

By BEATRiCE E. KIDD.
Why We Object to 3 Restriction Bill. 9d. doz., 5/- [00.
Anti- Vivisection Politics. 4d. per doz., 2/3 per [00.
Do you Know? (Illustrated). 4d. per doz., 2/3 per 100.
The Inspector's Returns for 1908. 3d. per doz., 2/- per [00.
The Policy of Abolition. l/- per doz., 7/6 per [00.

By Miss A. F. WHITELEY.

Some Medical Views of Vivisection. 3d. each, 2,.-"- doz.

 

 

 

l". ..'. l;:’.(_,-I,-\:\’ l". 1’1311ter .m i [lvok'rinlcn 2 V‘v'estgutv Skeet. G!0‘.1'a-.<rc:‘. 19981

 

 




