The Ofﬁcial Journal of the League for 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports. Westminster, S.W.l.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

 

 

5'

VOL. IX. NO. 10. OCTOBER, 1935. I 2d. MONTHLiésE/fgezerannum

 

 

CONTENTS.
PAGE

VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR 74 PROTECT WILD ANIMALS, TOO.
BY HAMILTON FYFE

SPECIAL APPEAL FOR FUNDS. SHALL WE STAG-HUNT?
BY HON. TREASURER 75 ‘ CHILDREN AND HUNTING

T/ie Editor accept; no respomioi/ity for opinion: expreuod i7: signed ortiola.

PA GE

76

78

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now. read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 




 

Page Seventy—four

CRUEL SPORTS

. October, l 935

VIEWS AND NEWS

By The Editor, HENR Y B. AMOS.

Appeal for Funds

On another page we print a Special Appeal
for Funds, by our Hen. Treasurer, Canon F. L.
Donaldson. This is our Annual Appeal to help
cover the cost of the winter’s work and is one
which we need hardly say we most warmly com-
mend to our supporters everywhere. In urging
this Appeal we would like to state that we do
not under estimate the many other claims made
upon. our friends but would point out that we
are a. pioneer society in protesting against cruelty
to animals as an amusement and so in a. unique
position. Most other cruelties to animals occur
in connection with food transit, fur and feather
getting, pit ponies, worn-out horse trafﬁc, etc.,
etc., and so are mixed up in business with some
sort of vested interest attached to them. We
must have no vested interest in cruelty as
pleasure. We trust therefore those who can: will
respond promptly and generously to our Appeal.
Cur NEED is great. The scope of our winter’s
work waits upon your practical col-Operation.

A Hare-Coursing ‘Drive’ by the President

The President of the League has given a lead
in an article reprinted in this issue, to a strong
effort to be made to stop Hare—Coursing. He has,
in this issue, elaborated his ideas in a practical
way in some notes “ How to Help,” and a Con-
ference of local animal workers has been arranged
to be held in Liverpool in. October to formulate
a. plan of campaign. Hamilton Fyfe- will be pre-
sent, and everyone interested is very cordially
invited.

Public Meeting at Bristol

Under the auspices of the Bristol Branch of
the League, a Public Meeting Against Cruel

Sports will be held in the Bedland Park Hall,

Bristol, on Thursday, October 81st, at 8 pm.
The speakers will include Air-Commodore L. E.
0. Charlton, C.B., C.M.Gr., D.S.O., Comman-
der J. L. Cather, B.N., and A. Denis Fry, Esq.
It is hoped all friends interested will make a.
point of attending and so give a good push off
to the local work of the winter. Full particulars
from Mrs. Trewman, 9, Sion Hill, Clifton,
Bristol, 8, Hon. Sec. of the Branch, or Miss M.
L. Brown, 13, Alexandra Road, Bristol, 8.

Cruel A nimal Films 3

Miss K. J. Millward is to be congratulated on
the success of the protest she promoted against
certain episodes in ‘ Delhi Days,’ a ﬁlm at the
Imperial Institute Cinema. The ﬁlm included
a display of pig-sticking, during which the
wretched animal writhes in agony whilst the
huntsman twists and turns a long-handled spear,
after a long run, in- the most vital part of its
body. “ It was a morbid and horrible picture,”
wrote Miss Millward to the Secretary of the
League, ‘ and only a. sadistic mind could ﬁnd
pleasure in it.” With some friends she wrote
to the secretary of the Imperial Institute pro—
testing against the picture. The Secretary of
the League also wrote and he has received a
reply in which it states that the offending epi-
sodes have “ now been cut from the ﬁlm.”

This is a happy consummation to a pernicious
incident and we hope other readers will be
equally vigilant when they see similar ﬁlms.

“The Field” on Hunting Costs

Hunting must be in a very bad way when a
paper like The Field has to write of it as it did
in its issue of July 20th:—

“Hun-ting,” it wrote, “it is generally agreed,
seems to be more costly as season succeeds season.
Recently, when the Exmoor held their annual
general meeting, no suitable Master could be
found, so it was decided to hunt the country
three days a week. The Exmoor, who hunt
a ﬁne sporting country, are not the only
pack who ﬁnd it hard to make ﬁnancial
ends meet. Many other packs are in the same
plight, and everyone should do all they can to
assist the Hunt. Nor need it be necessarily with
hard cash. It is possible to assist in other ways
by giving meal and ﬂesh, oats and hay, summer-
ing hunt horses, walking puppies, arranging whist
drives, concerts and dances. All these keep the
hunting spirit alive in the countrysidef”

Shades of Jorr-ocks, Osbaldistone, Beckford
and Meynell! Who would have thought that the
‘ Sport of Kings ’ would ever be reduced to
begging for fodder for their horses, in order to
‘keep alive’ the hunting spirit in the country?

A nimals’ Fair

We are advised that the Annual Animals’

:Fair will be held this year on November 30th

and in the Central Hall, Westminster, as usual.
Fuller details will appear in our next issue,
meantime, we ask our friends to note the date,
also that we shall be grateful for articles, books,
or other gifts suitable for the League’s Stall sent
to the ofﬁce at 101, Chandos House, S.VV.1.

 

t




 

1;

October, l 935

Miss Edith .Sitwell
Replies to the 860., B.F.S. Society.

If he were not either the secretary or a mem-
ber of the British Field Sports Society, he
would probably be aware that the mere fact of
preserving game of- any kind necessarily in-
creases its numbers.

But, as it is, what is taken for granted by
people outside the sporting fold as being an

. automatic result of a certain policy, appears to

him as a matter for congratulation tinged with
amazement that such marvels can be.

If he will extend his observation he will be
able to note that where, for instance, there is
compulsory conscription—which might be called
“preserving” men for the purpose of being killed
——there is a larger army in time of peace than
where enlistment is purely voluntary.

So little do human being understand their
privileges I
. I have .many friends and relations who hunt,
and I am extremely attached to them as people,
but that does not affect my opinion of blood
Sport-s.

EDITH SITWELL.

Sunday Referee. ‘

“Cruelty” of Live Bait

A lively argument has been provoked in New
Zealand ﬁshing circles on the question whet-her
the use of live bait for ﬁshing is a cruel practice.
It arose from a discussion at a meeting of the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

A letter received by the Canterbury S.P.C.A.
described the use of live “bullies” as bait as
very inhuman, and set out that the practice, was
to use two “bullies,” through the bodies of
which hooks were passed.

The question had since been referred to the
Professor of Biology at Canterbury University
College, Professor E. Percival, and other
authorities, who express the opinion that, as far
as can be known, ﬁsh do not feel pain in the
same way as human beings. They say that evi-
dence shows that the power to feel pain is con-
ﬁnedtto highly organised central nervous systems
such as those of the higher mammals. Fish have
highly specialised and low central nervous sys-
tems, and their capacity to feel pain is there-
fore not as great as with animals

» Morning Post, July 6.

 

The Alternative to Stag~Hunting

The following letter was sent by the Secretary
of the League to the “ Western Morning News,”
but was not inserted :—

Sir.——At our recent Taunton meeting, Mr. Fred
Beadle remarked that “ the talk of sending men
from London to shoot the deer on Exmoor was

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Seventy-nine

*-

futile.” Now I am not aware that any speaker
proposed sending men from London for that
purpose. '

“ According to press report of Feb. 3rd, 1933,
the Devon and Somerset Hunt itself shot a
number of deer to provide the unemployed of
Minehead with venison, and we know of others
who have on occasion killed the deer by riﬂe
shot.

This aspect of the vexed question can be
summed up in the words of the old adage:
“ Where there’s a will, there’s a way,” and as
long as people derive pleasure from stag-hunting
there never will be the desire to adopt a humane
alternative. Hence we must press for the aboli-
tion of this shameful sport.

Otter-Hunting

The Northern Counties and Dumfriesshire
Otter Hounds spent a week on the Tweed early
in August. The opening meet was at Mertoun
Bridge, where, although they drew a long stretch
of water right up to the Melrose Suspension
Bridge, they failed to ﬁnd “ for the ﬁrst time
within the memory of man.”

Another meet was at Till Mouth Island, which
the Yorkshire Post says furnished “ the ﬁnest
hunt of the visit, (the pack) twice swimming
some distance downstream before returning and
running rings round the big island with every
hound roaring at his rudder, following which
they forced him to face a long swim downwater
through the famous Milne-Graden pool and over
the dam at the bottom. He tried hard to get
back into the pool, but was bustled about until
he took refuge in a rock-bolt, where hounds
nearly had him. Taking a ﬂying leap on to old
Cruiser’s back he again made off downstream
with odds on hounds catching him any minute.
However, landing in a veritable jungle with only
ﬁve yards to spare, he got to ground in a bad
drain under the railway, where he had to be left.”

A Plea for the Otter

As an annual visitor to your beautiful islands,
I ﬁnd everything to admire and nothing to
criticise. in Orkney. I was, therefore, the more
grieved to notice for sale in a leading Shop in
Kirkwall a number of otter skins, taken from
native otters. Are the people of Orkney going
to allow these beautiful and harmless creatures
to be ruthlessly destroyed for the sake. of the
few pounds their skins will fetch? There can be
no justiﬁcation for exterminating the otters, yet
their numbers are decreasing and they will soon
die out unless public opinion is aroused to prevent
it. May I implore all lovers of Nature to join in
protecting the few remaining otters?

77

—“ FERRY-LOUPER in Orcadian, Aug. 22.

 




_Page Eighty

CRUEL SPORTS

i October, I 93 5.;

 

The League F or The Prohibition Of Cruel . Sports

10], Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.I. Phone: Victoria 8496."

PTesident.-——HAMILTON FYFE,

LADY CLARE ANNESLEY,
SIR HERBERT BARKER.
MISS MARJORIE BOWEN, F.R.Soc.Lit.
ALD, M. CONWAY, J .P.

(Ex-Pres, Nat. Un. Tchers.).
CANON DONALDSON (Westminster).

BRANCHES (Hon. Secretaries):

BRISTOL: Mrs. Trewman, 9, Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol, 8.

HASTINGS: Mrs. Coleman, 11, Laton Road, Hastings.

LEEDS: Mrs. D. M. Beaumont, “The Valkyrie,” Allerton
Drive, East Keswick, Nr. Leeds.

SOUTHPORT: Miss M. A. Cummins, 46, Alma Road, Birk-
dale, Southport,

SOUTH-WESTERN: Mrs. Crosse, Rokeby,
Exeter. Mr. W. P. H. Warner,
Torquay.

Pennsylvania,
’7 3, Union Street,

Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALDSON.
Vice-Presidents—

G, P. Goocn, D.Litt
GERALD GOULD, ESq,
DONALD MAcLEOD, Esq.
(Ex-Mbr. Brit, Olympic CL).

Secretary—J. C. SHARP.

E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq.
HENRY W, NEVINSON, Esq,_
BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
EDEN PHILLPOTS, Es .
PERCY A, SCHOLES, Esq.
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE,

WORKING GROUPS' (Hon. Dist. Representatives):
BOLTON: Mrs. Margaret Tripp, Heaton Vicarage, Bolton.
OARLISLE: Mr. George T. Miller, 4, Cumwhinton Road,

Harraby, Carlisle.

GOLGH ESTER: Mr. E. Womack. 138, North Station Road,

L‘olchester.

HOVE: Miss M. M. Reynolds, 42, Osborn Villas, Hove, 3.
IPSWICH: Miss R. M, King, 45, Oxford Road, Ipswich.
NOTTINGHAM: Miss F. M. Roper, Belvoir Mount, Sneinton,

Nottingham

 

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”I

IT CONDEMNS fox, deer, hare, and otter-hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaﬂet “ Blood Sports Condemned.” )

IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting.”)

IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation
leaﬂet .“ Blooded.” ) r?” .

AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application.
We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church Group, etc., if
out-of-pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also available.

JOIN THE LEAGUE

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

 

( See

 

I enclose herewith*. .. ...........................................

State
Whether
Mr., Mrs.,
or Miss.

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 0.0....‘0OOIOOOODODDOOIOOI..IICOOIOOCIIOIDOOOIOCIIIIOOOOOOOQ

*5/- per annum includes Oﬂicial Journal month13. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members £5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L.P.C.S., 101, Chanda: House, Westminster, S.W.I.

FORM OF BEQU EST.

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :— .

I bequeath unto the Soczety called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORrs, London, the sum
of .............................. free of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be pazd to the
Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society.

By virtue of the Act. of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

BEAUTIFUL BUTTERMEREV—National Trust’s supreme
Lakeland purchase. Victoria Golf Hotel modernised
and enlarged. Extensive woodland grounds. Bathlng
pool. Many rare birds and plants. Photographer’s
paradise.

B R I G H TO N .___Idea1 Boarding Establishment, pure
generous varied diet, Bedrooms h. and 0. water, gas
ﬁres, good garden, central, near Sea and Downs, inclu-
sive terms—Tariff: Mr. and Mrs. Massingham. l6 and
17. Norfolk Terrace.

WANTED, SEAMP?J induse before 1880.—Sewe11. 51,

caster ate. on on. .

LADY (humanitarian) seeks post. Secretarial, HUMANE FUR! (fabric)._104, George Street, W.1., Wel~
shorthand—D, 19, Compton Road, London, N1 beck 7257. .

Small prepaid advertisements are inserted at the rate of led. per word per insertion or 2/6d, per 11116, for twelve

insertions and they should be received at the ofﬁce by the 15th of the month tor the followmg month s Issue.

Lan-

typing,

Published by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster
S.W.1; and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS, LTD., Bond Gate, Nuneaton.

 




