Junior Series, No. 2.
Forty-eighth Thousand.

HUNTING THE FOX'  
TO DEATH.

Coﬁyrzg/zt, UUUbLAb ENuLLSH.

SUPPOSE you all know something about foxes and hounds and
the people who go out on horseback hunting the fox fora day’s
sport. You have some idea of what hunting means to these men and
women, boys and girls, galloping across country, jumping hedges and
ditches, meeting their friends, and enjoying the day in the way they
have chosen of their own free will to spend it.

But what about the fox? F ox-hunting means something more
serious than ‘sport’ to him.

We are sometimes told ‘the fox enjoys the hunt too.’ Let people
who say that prove the truth of it by putting themselves in the place
of a fox, running their hardest, hiding in holes, being dug out of them
by their tormentors, or ﬁnding their holes stopped up—running till
their eyes bulge, their hearts nearly burst and their tongues hang out
with pain and exhaustion. Could they enjoy it? And although men
and foxes are different in many ways, we know they both suffer hunger,
thirst, fatigue and fear. Is not that suﬂicient reason for trying to treat
wild animals as fairly as we should wish to be treated ourselves?

We want you to look at fox hunting from the fox’s position, not
from the Sportsman’s. Here is a description of one hunt, which is by
no means so unpleasant as some I could quote, though it is bad enough.

After ﬁnding a fox, this account says: “We ran him for about
ten minutes to Longdon Hall, where he went into another drainand
afterwards through the churchyard. The run was about nine or ten
miles and lasted an hour. For a further half hour he eluded us by
darting in and out of back-yards and gardens. Townspeople joined
in the chase and there was great excitement. The fox crawled along

 




the garden fences in one street and ﬁnally entered the Bishop 5 garden.
We killed him against the wall.”

The ‘kill’ is the part of this sport that some hunting people do not
pretend to like—they prefer not to look on. But it is part of the ‘sport’
you know! This ceremony of the ‘death’ often concludes with a boy
or a girl who has ridden with the rest having his or her face smeared
with the still warm blood of the dead fox. I wonder what future
generations will think when they read of such happenings in England
as recently as 1934!

People will tell you that foxes must be hunted because of the damage
they do to poultry, etc. But is that really true? No; for in many
parts foxes are preserved and even ‘imported’ for hunting. It is
just about 150 years since fox-hunting became a very fashionable and
popular sport; and during that time foxes have increased so that in
many agricultural districts they are much more numerous than of old.

I appeal to the boys and girls of to—day who are learning so quickly
to reason and think out things for themselves, using their imagination
as well as their growing sympathy for all living creatures, to range
themselves 011 the side of the movement which would make ‘killing for
fun’ an offence against humane feeling and against the law of the land.

The National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports is in
favour of the protection of the fox as of all other wild animals, so
long as they are in their natural surroundings and are not doing damage.
They should be got rid of as humanely as possible—that is in the
districts where they are a pest or where they have to be introduced for
sport. If hunting ceased Reynard could still exist in the wilder parts
of the country where he would do small harm..

You may often hear it said that fox-hunting is one of England’s
most time-honoured institutions. All things are not good because they

of this. Bull-baiting and Cock—ﬁghting were also old English sports!
They were cruel and cowardly and have long been stopped by law;
and to—day we can see clearly that they were wrong, simply because we
are not used to them.

Remember that many people who were brought up in the midst
of ‘sport’ and naturally thought it all right have since given it up on
account of its cruelty; and many others think with one who lately
wrote: “I am glad I was not brought up amongst a hunting set, or
perhaps I too should be counted with those who think it ‘jolly good
fun.” And remember, too, that every schoolgirl and boy of to- day
may be helping or hindering the cause of wild animal protection.
Which will you do. ? You cannot really believe in ‘kindness to animals
one day and ride the day after to see a wretched fox hunted to death.

.__._.- J w
Ot/zer “Junior Series ” Leaflets .'
(I) What do Young People think about hunting Animals?
(3) The Gentle Deer and the Gentle Men.
(4) The Coursing of ﬂares and Rabbits.
(5) Is Otter-hunting Fair Sport?
of Shooting.
jﬁE immunogmemgpmjﬁgo THE ABOLITION OF
éP\1\JJ.I.JD‘—-S RTS,

mm
Aﬁ%;ti<A'£dDWk Square, London, W.C. I.
80, lVaOsgcv Tgc’cfga dime/1 01 2 copies for 15.

MANCHESETER.

 

 




