 

 

 

'1‘ H E ANS-GU

That protection for dumb animals is needed every day no one can deny
who thinks at all upon the subject, and that education in this respect is equally
needed is evinced by the indifference that one meets in very many cases where
our duty toward animals is urged. One proof of this fact is seen in the gen—
eral use of such a dangerous plaything as the air—gun. To a lover of animals,
it seems astonishing that any parent can give into the hands of a child a toy
that is as dangerous as a small revolver. Armed with this means of destruc—
tion, and with small ability as a marksman, the child becomes an active
element of danger to every one in his neighborhood. Many accidents
to other children have already happened from the use of air—guns, and t e
lessons of cruelty that the boy himself receives and gives to others in shooting
at birds, cats and dogs, are countless and evil in results. To kill for the mere
sake of killing, to wound and inﬂict a lingering, agonizing death on harmless
and inoffensive creatures, is a certain way to learn brutality and indifference
to suffering that is sure to end in crime.

Legislation that will place the air—gun on the list of articles whose unre—
stricted sale is illegal is much to be desired, and effort ought to be made at
once to obtain itfx‘ The much—abused sparrow has friends among naturalists
who declare him to be a useful insect-eating bird, while others declare him a
pest. If it is decided, however, that he is a nuisance and must be extermin—
ated, let the work be given to some responsible person who will see that the
birds are killed with as little suffering as possible. A bounty for their heads
ought never to be offered, as it gives liberty for indiscriminate slaughter. The
experience in Illinois resulting from such a course is ample proof of its folly.

The Humane Journal, published in Chicago, says of it: “ Many cases of
eyes partially ’or wholly destroyed by air—guns were reported by surgeons in
the ﬁrst fortnight after the bounty was offered, and between 1,000,000 spar—
rows or 10,000 boys armed with the air—gun, any sensible two—eyed person will
choose the sparrow every time.”

 

* NOTE.—-A law was passed by the Rhode Island legislature (June, 1892,) prohibiting the use of air and
springr guns, and any contrivance arranged to discharge nnssrles, as well as of ordinary guns, etc., in highways
and on private property without the consent of the owner.

(I)

 

 

 




 

iJenkin Lloyd Jones says: “It is the boys I am concerned about more
than the sparrows,” and be seriously objects to “this putting incipient murder
into the hearts of our boys.”

 

WHAT THE AIR—GUN ’l‘EACHES.

Every day we read of tragedies in which the ever-ready, pistol plays a
prominent part, in answer to any fancied or real grievance or in pursuit of
what is called “sport.” Such facts certainly prove the necessity of
teaching children the sacredness of life and the habit of self-control. These
lessons are not given by allowing them to play with such toys as toy pistols
or cannons, or most dangerous of all, the air-guns that so many thoughtless
parents or friends too readily give into‘their hands. To suggest to a child
that a pleasant holiday is time Spent in'the woods with a death-dealing toy—~—
sport that means for the innocent birds suffering and death—is dangerous
education for the young. It is education'that makes the boy hard, cruel,
unfeeling,——— teaches him to look at the agony of a creature with indifference
that cannot but end in brutality. It is no uncommon sight to see on Satur—
days or other holidays, boys with air~guns on shoulder starting off on a tramp.
The thoughtful man or woman who sees them can, but Wonder at the. blinds
ness of the parents and the indifference of. a community that will. allow the
unrestricted sale of so dangerous a'itoy. We want mom kindness in the world,
not less; more good men and women who will help the helpless and protect
the weak. We want to train our children into the belief that arbitration is
better than war, honesty better than trickery, kindness better than cruelty.
Is, it a good way to reach this end to give to them for pastime the means of
causing suffering and death?

“Humanity to animals is a duty reposing on the same foundations as the
claims of. man to humanity,” said Jeremy Bentham. It is an undoubted fact
that animals suffer terribly from the indifference or cruelty of men. 'Vv’hat
can we do to prevent or lessen this evil? Punishment for the sin is the first
remedy that suggests itself, but a better method with more lasting effect is to
mm by the education of the young in mercy, patience and kindness. Many
gOOd people are earnestly at work in this direction, and they all deplore the
obstacle that such atoy as the air-gun places in their path. Give your ooy (m
opera-gloss and semi lzz'm z'm‘o z‘lzo woo/1’5 to Zoom 1/26 Iom‘z'oizoo, ingenuity and 27111272152932
of oz'm’s. Let him learn to distinguish the song of one bird from another.
Arouse his curiosity as to their habits, and give him the innocent delight that
the study of Natural History is sure to bring into his life and holiday pleasure.
Teach him the cowardice of torturing helpless birds. Let him know their
value as insect—eaters, and that we want a great many more birds in our woods
and near our homes than we now have. Take away the air—gun, and insist
that the coming generation shall realize the sin of cruelty and the bad ten—
dency of. any act that gives the question. of. life or death. into irresponsible hands.

 

Let: us teach the youngest children, even in our nurseries and kindergar—
tens, to say, “ The birds are our good friends,” and help them ‘to understand
the reason why they are. - - ' “ﬁfoon‘ Col/fun.”

John Burroughs says,— “ Our birds are hunted and cut off, and all in the
name of science, as if science had not long ago ﬁnished with these birds.
She has weighed and measured and dissected and described them and their
nests and eggs, and placed them in her cabinet, and the interest of science

,(2)‘




and humanity now, is that this wholesale nest—robbing cease. . . . The
professional nest—robber and skin—collector should be put down.”

Professor E. E. Fish says :—~ “ Nearly all our native birds have been iden-
tiﬁed and described; little more can be accomplished in this direction, and
the man who shoots a thousand birds for anatomical or technical examination
learns less than he who carefully studies the habits and thoroughly learns the
song of one.” ‘

We quote from “ Study of Animal Life: ” i “ Surely no man can pretend
to the name of a naturalist who, knowing the rapid diminution of our most
beautiful species, thinks of nothing but how to kill one more individual, that
it may appear in his own collection, especially when there are so many ﬁne
public collections easily available for purposes of reference and study. Some,
at least, there are, on the other hand, once enthusiastic collectors, who recog—
nize the danger and the changed circumstances of the day, and have. entirely
abandoned the gun for the ﬁeld-glass. A stuffed bird is, after all, a poor
caricature of the living animal. What is best worth study in any class of ani-
mals is surely that which is most characteristic of that class—in birds,
undoubtedly, the gift of song, the gift of. ﬂight, and their beautiful care for
their young. Yet we silence the song of a bird that we may acquire the skin
from which it issued ; his wings we smash with a shot that we may admire the
means of his ﬁight,'and his eggs we purloin from the nest to prevent his
being born at all.”

\V alter K. James says: “ Those who are identiﬁed with the destruction
of bird life must be educated away from it. The pulpit, the press, the law,
societies for the protection of birds, may do much; but it is to the educators
of: the coming man and woman, especially to the teachers of our schools, that
this divine mission of touching the hearts and minds of the generation which
will be shortly stepping into our place, has been delegated; and inﬂuence
exerted in this direction cannot but be in the truest sense a work for God and
humanity.”

Mr. George T. Angell in his address before the National Association of
Superintendents of Public Schools says in effect that in our public schools
to—day are children who may become criminals or who may become good
citizens. He says, “ It is simplypa question of education. We may put into '
his little hands, as ﬁrst toys, whips, guns and swords, or may teach him as the
Quakers do, that war and cruelty are crimes. We may teach him to shoot the
little song bird in springtime, with its nest full of young, or we-may‘teach him
to feed the bird and spare its nest. We may go into the schools now with
book, picture, song and story, and make neglected boys merciful, or we may
let them drift until, as men they become sufﬁciently lawless and cruel to throw~
our railway trains off the track, place dynamite under our dwelling houses 01
public buildings, assassinate our President, burn half our city, or involve the
nation in civil war.

“ [5 it 710! largely, if 7102‘ 70lmlly, a (/llé’é‘ZlO/l 0f all/rally” .9

“ I am sometimes asked, ‘Why do you spend so much of your time and
money in talking about kindness 2‘0 animals, when there is so much cruelty to
men P And I answer, ‘[ am worlcz'izg az‘ ilze 7002193 Every humane publication,
every lecture, every step, in doing or teaching kindness to them is a step to
prevent crime, a step in promoting the growth of those qualities of heart which
will elevate human souls, even in the dens, of sin and shame, and prepare the
way for the coming of peace on earth and good will to men.” '

(3)

 

 




 

  

'l‘HOUGHTLESSNESS.

“ The word. cruelty is allied to the word crude. It is related to ignorance.
Oh l Stupidity is the mother of suffering, and thoughtlessness is the father of
woe. Both are allied to selﬁshness. If he thought of the suffering of the
turtle, of course the boy would not leave him on his back. If he thought of
the starving birdling in the nest, of course he would not kill the mother provi-
dence. If the woman thought of all this great desolation caused by the strip-
ping of the world of its birds of song and plumage, of course she would never
trim her hats with another feather.

‘ The birds are the poets’ own,’ says Burroughs.

A bird seems to be at the top of the scale, so vehement and intense is his
life -——~ large brain, large lung, hot, ecstatic, his frame charged with buoyancy,
and his heart with song. .

Of course, if the woman had thought of all this, realized it, she would never
have wanted a bird cold and dead on her bonnet. And she would teach her
boy to go hunting and ﬁshing, like Thoreau, ‘without rod or gun,’ and the
boy would grow up to admire the hero of forbearance, and Say, with Emerson:

‘ Hast thou named all the birds without a gun,
Loved the wood—rose and left it on its stalk?
Uh ! be my friend and teach me to be thine.’

such a boy would realize, like the Walden seer, that a ﬁeld-glass
the real bird nearer to him than any gun can. And the father would not
need the rebuke which the little boy gave with tearful eyes when his father
brought to him for his pleasure a bright—pluinaged bird, bleeding and dead.
‘Father, that bird will never, never sing againl’ Such a rebuke ought to

teach the father the lesson which \Vilfred Cumbermede in George Blac-
donald’s story learned. When the lad, grieving over the wrong he did to a
slaughtered bird, was consoled by some one who said, ‘God will forgive you
for the unintentional crime,’ he indignantly replied, ‘Don’t tell me that.
What do I care for the forgiveness of God as long as the little bird can
never forgive me P ’ -

Yes, I believe that it is thoughtlessness that underlies the brutalities of
the pleasure-seeker which, in their aggregate, are greater than the brutalities
of the battle—ﬁeld. Think of the fox—hunting, deer—stalking, pigeon—shooting,
and the horse—racing atrOcities. Think of the cruel suffering perpetrated by
the fashionable woman who drives her horse mutilated in the tail and tor—
tured into the most unnatural positiOn with that contrivance worthxr the
Spanish inquisition ﬁ—the over-check. Is it thrmghtlessness? But thdught-
essness is so selﬁsh, and selﬁshness is. sin, and it will never vanish until

religion rebukes and redeems the soul into thoughtfulness.”-—— JENKIN LLOYD
JONEs

will bring

 

 

 

This leaflet can be obtained by addressing M. L. H
for 2o copies or 40 cents per hundred. postage paid.

At same address may be obtained other leaflets, books, etc., on the care and kind treatment of animals
suitable for use in schools and Bands of Mercy. Also SONGS OF HAPPY LIFE—a collection of songs for
schools, homes, and Bands of Mercy.

Send postage stamp for {Srice list.
A sample set of leaﬂets will be sent on receipt of 25 cents.

all, 126 Ridge Street, Providence, R. I. Price 10 cents,

 

 

 

 




 

To get animals from burning barns withinit trouble, tie a bag or piece of cloth over cows
eves and a saddle or piece of harness on a horse.

"No cruel man can enter the Kingdom of Heaven.”

It is a Cruel act to go away andl ‘ave a cat without anyone to care for her. These deserted,
homeless cats not only sutl'er themselves, but they cause human beings to suffer by hearing their
pitiful cries. It is our duty to take good care of our dogs and cats for their sake, as well, as
for that of our neighbors. A

Very often dogs and fats do not have, proper care. They should have fresh water where
they can always get it, should he fed regularly twice a day, and should be kept in the house at
night. A eat that is half starved loses its keenness of scent and is not so likely to be able
to catch mice.

()ne great secret of keeping horses, cattle, dogs and cats in good condition is to see that
they have plenty of clean, pure water to drink. Dogs, especially, should have water always
within riaeh in the house or in their kennels.

As the world advances in civilization the time will surely come when it will not be
considered “sport" to go out and shoot something. NOTHING WILL 'rIIItN 1m CONSIDERED
sron'r 'l‘lIA'l‘ muss inIsIvIcnIxG on DICA'l'lI' 'ro ANY LIVING en.1<:.vrm:n

BLINnnns. Few persons think of the .s'ujl'erz'ilg caused to horses froI'n the use of blinders.
The horses eyes are placed at the side of the head, but the blinders shut off the side view and
compel him to look ahead, hence they cause a constant strain, which veterinary surgeons tell us
[ends to produce weakness of elsz‘on (Mil blind/less.

(‘.\'r'rI,n Nani) SHADE IN “or \VIGA'I‘IIICIL If the pasture has no shade trees, erect sup-
ports, across which place straw or grass, grass sods, or boards nailed on posts; thus making
shade in which animals can rest from the heat of the sun.

The Gern‘Ians take fare of their wild birds during the winter. Shelters from snow are
built in public parks and private gardens, and plentifully supplied with food of various kinds.
In the spring many of the birds build nests in these shelters.

0111' cities are poorly provided with drinking places which small animals :an reach. There
are not enough tri'mghs for horses, and fewer for dogs. No doubt tits are soInetin'Ies caused
by extreme thirst.

An ﬁnglish writer, who is despondent over the cruelties of the world, says: “Our very
pastime is murder, and our ‘spOrts‘ involve some other creature's wounds and agony."

When a. child is speaking or acting kindly, whether to a playmate or to an animal, he is
developing and strengthening the tender and noble side of his character; when thoughtless or
cruel, the lower and brutal elements of his nature are (ileveloped.

You are doing right when you treat every living creature as you would wish to be treated.
If you drive a horse, or own a horse, think how you would like to be treated it you were that
horse. Treat your dog and cat as you would like to be treated if you. were that dog or cat.

The world would be in a happier condition if legislators spent half as much time and labor
to PREVENT crime as they do to I’ITNISH it.~—L3/(ll(t Marla Child.

\Vhat we sow in the home and the school, we ramp in the nation.

They cannot recompense you, but Ye shall be recompensell in, the resurrection of the

jusl.”——Bible.

A driver should be his horse‘s best friend and should study his cmnfort.
OVER

 




Influence.

We scatter seeds with careless hands

And deem we ne‘er shall‘see them more.

Yet for a thousand years their fruit appears,

In weeds that mar the land— '

Or heathful store.

The deeds we do, the words we speak,

Into the air they seem to ﬂeet

We count them past,

But they shall last;

In the dread judgment they and we shall meet.
~Ree. John Keble.

 

Whoever restores a young bird to the limb,

()r gladdens the lives of dumb creatures in need,

Is one of Christ's helpers, whatever his creed,
Clasps hands with “the angel that comforted Him.”
But whoever ﬁnds pleasure in adding one hurt

To an innocent life, be it insect or dove,

ls somehow in league with those who found sport
in nailing the hands of the World's Greatest Love.
011, how dare we ask a just God to bestow

'l‘he mercy we grant not to creatures below!

 

The Cry of the Suffering Creatures.

0, that they had pity, the men we serve so truly !
0, that they had kindness, the men we love so well !
'l‘hey call us dull and stupid, and vicious and unruly,
And they think not we can suffer but only would rebel.

’l‘hey brand us and they beat us; they spill our ‘blood like water,
We die that they might live, ten thousand in a day!

H, that they had mercy, for in their dens of slaughter
’l‘hey afﬂict us and affright us and. do far worse than slay.

If they would only love us, would learn our strength and weakness,
if only with our sufferings their hearts could sympathize,

'l‘hen they would know what truth is, what patience is and meekness
And read our heart‘s devotion in the softness of our eyes.

If they would but teach their children to treat the subject creatures
As humble friends, as servants who strive their hearts to win,
Then they would see how joyous, how kindly are our natures,
And a sucoND day of Eden would on the earth begin.

 




