(the Significance of lDivisection‘

BY

FRANCES P0 WER COBBE’.

THE most portentous fact concerning Vivisection is not that

it is a cruel practice; but that it is ajustiﬁed cruelty. It is
not the lingering relic of old barbarism, condemned by every
enlightened and educated mind; but the upspringing of a new
vice in the hot-beds of our highest culture. In every age and
country cruel men and women have existed, and in ancient
times and savage lands no public opinion condemned them. But
that now and here, where the tide of humane sentiment has
reached a higher level than ever before on the globe, there
should arise and ﬂourish a practice involving the extremest
cruelty, and that that practice should be largely approved by the
educated Classes of the community—this is a fact assuredly

fraught with terrible significance.

How has this paradox come to pass ? How is it that while
we see multitudes of .well-meaning persons exhibiting maudlin '
anxiety lest the most ferocious criminals should taste any degree
of bodily pain, and when no Government would have power to
restore to the Statute Book a single one of the older and severer
penalties—even for the wholesale murder of shiploads or trains-
full of human beings—how is it, we ask bewildered, that in
such an age, and in England, the very focus of zoophily, the
Vivisection of unoffending animals is not only practised, but
tolerated, justiﬁed and approved ?

When the agitation against scientiﬁc cruelty began twenty-

ﬁve years ago, the practice was regarded generally as a frightful
exception to the regular progress. of humanity which had

 




 

prevailed since the beginning of the century 5 a backwater and
eddy in a narrow reach of the great onﬂowing current. We
deemed—ah ! sanguine men, women, that we were !--—that the
evil might be shortly and sharply checked. One good Act of
Parliament would, we conﬁdently trusted, eliminate the
transitory, accidental evil, put a stop to the vile new fashion,
and restore English scientists to the ranks of English
humanitarians.

It was not to be; and those amongst us who shared those
early hopes and struggles, could almost smile sadly now at the
vanity of the anticipation that an evil so deep-seated should be
conquerable in a single Session of Parliament—nay, in a single
generation !

It is certainly true that the present generation, enervated by
luxury as it is, cares much more for material comfort than did
the last, and is inclined to regard Pain as a much worse evil
than wrong-doing; a disposition which the vastly-increased
inﬂuence of 'the medical profession in no way tends to dis-
courage. Human nature, no doubt, has been always prone to
egoism rather than to altruism. The distinctive feature of our
time is nOt that men are selﬁsh; but that they now justify and
systematize selfishness. Darwinism seems to have supplied
those who wished for it with a sort of Philosophy of Selﬁshness
which enables them to formulate without a blush, principles of
action which, heretofore, even when acted upon, were decently
cloaked in some travesty of regard for honour or probity.
DAUDET describes well the “ Strugglefor-lzfeurs : ” “ Cette
race nonvelle de petite fé'roees c‘o qui la bonne invention
Darwinnienne de ‘la lutte pour la vie ’ sevrt d’exeuse scientiﬁque
en toutes sortes de vilenies.”

In the last century RUTHERFORD and PALEY degraded
Virtue by teaching that it consisted only in far-seeing

 




Prudence; in doing GOD’S-Will for the sake of the rewardof

Heaven; and brave CHARLES KINGSLEY had good reasOn to
ask:
“ Is Selﬁshness,
For time a sin; stretched out into eternity,
Celestial Prudence 3" '

But poor as was the moral philOSOphy of that age, at least
it taught a long-Sighted selﬁshness, with a holy Heaven after
death for its goal, and self—sacriﬁce in this world for its method
of reaching the same. Now we have Selﬁshnesspur et
simple, rough and ready, cowardly’and cruel, having this
earthly life for its alpha and omega ;—yet, for all its unqualiﬁed
earthiness, appealed to by the host of advocates of vivisection'
as if it were the recognised law of humankind, as of the beasts
of prey! We are formally invited—having it is presumed
quitted the schools of KANT and PLATO, PAUL and CHRIST
——to take lessons from those humble vivisectors, polecats and
waSps.* “Upon the question of Utility hangs the moral

,

aspects of Vivisection,’ wrote Dr. GUBBIN in the Hospital
Gazette ;+ and scores of other doctors every day practically
repeat the same shamelessly: “If we can get (my good of it,
then it is right l” Is it any wonder that when things have
come to this pass we should behold some startling symptoms

of the moral degenerescence which is going forward?

To contend against Vivisection is, then, to contend, not
against any exceptional or transitory evil, but against those
besetting sins of the age of which it is the outcome,—
Selﬁshness and Cowardice, and the pitilessness Characteristic
of cowards; overestimate of the Body as compared to the
Soul; overestimate of Knowledge as compared to Love.

The obstaclesiwe encounter on all sides,——determined and

 

3“ Dr. GORE on The Utility and Morality of Vivisection. KOLKMAN, 1884!.
1* Hospital Gazette, May 2nd, 1891.

 




>4

unScrupulousopposition in some quarters; callOusness and
indifference in others; falsehoods scattered broadcast and
greedily believed on the ipse dixit of “the doctor ”5 refusals
to listen to the facts we would reveal precisely because they
are “ horrors,” and would deprive the bearer of sleep ;—these
things must not discourage us. Could we, indeed, have hoped
it vVOuld'be.’ smooth sailing for us, when we dare to place
ourselves,%few and weak as we are—in antagonism to the

very [Spirit of the Age i?

Letiusrnever conceal from ourselves the fact that we have

undertaken a tremendous task; and that Vivisection is not
only an “abominable sin:” but a sin which has a profound
and dreadful signiﬁcance. Vivisection is like the bubble which
rises out of a dark .pool wherein something which once had
life; lies rotting.

 

 

J‘Piiblishéd by: the BRITISH UNION FOR‘V’ABOL'IVTION: "O‘F VIVISECTION '(in‘
alliance with the LONDON: ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY), 14, C St;
James’s Barton, Bristol.

 

HENRY HILL, PRINTER; x1 ST. JOHN STREET, BRISTOL.

 




