Leaﬂet NO. 69.

f STREET PAVEMENT AND ANIMAL PROTECTION

BY HON. ROBERT TUCKER, PORTLAND, OREGON

President Oregon Humane Society W

[Paper read before The American Humane Association, October, 1911, at ‘
San Francisco, Cal.]

The diagnosis of the trouble is an easy matter—the remedy and
treatment difﬁcult. The motor cars and trucks demand smooth
surface—the horse requires'a footing. Many feel that in the evo—
lution of our commercial activities the horse is to retire from the
busy marts Of trade and by this equitable distribution Of duties and
leveling of requirements, the four—footed creatures will be spared
the punishment of the modern pavements. Be that as it may, we
as organized bodies of Humane Societies are looked to for at least
some suggestions or recommendations to- the municipalities earnestly
struggling with the pavement question.

Experience in handling horses on the different kinds of pavements
is; the best source of information on the subject and our time would
perhaps be well spent in collecting the information and the result Of
‘ experience of the observing and humanely inclined road builders.
The conditions prevailing in the different cities Of the country are
different climatic and geographical conditions bringing about entirely
different results with the same kind of pavements, but after all we
are obliged tO eliminate the scientiﬁc question entirely, also the
durability of pavements, for it is the surface of the pavements which
concern the horse, yet we are unable to consider pavements with a
desired surface which do not possess the requisite qualities of dura—
bility and economy in construction. The surface of the streets has
been subjected to treatment in many forms looking to the one end—-
a foot hold. The experience in different cities with the different
kinds of pavements will prove of value as precedents and the
methods adopted to relieve and assist the horse will be of especial
interest.

Mr. John B. Hittell, chief engineer of streets of the City of
Chicago, states that there are 1,590.52 miles of improved streets,
and 140 miles of improved alleys in the City Of Chicago, divided
as follows:

Asphalt . . Miles
Brick . . ....................... “
Creosoted Block “
Granite . . “
Macadam . .

I

 




 

Mr. Hittell says that the Cedar Block pavements are being gradu-
ally replaced by other pavements, the City of Chicago having dis-
continued using the Cedar Block for pavements. There are also
a few miscellaneous pavements, as Asphalt Block, Concrete, Medina
pavement, Novaculite, rock asphalt and slag. He gives as a table
of durability the following:

Asphalt . . ....................... 10 Years
Brick . . ......................... IO “
Creosoted Block .................. 12 “
Granite . . ........................ 25 “
Macadam . . ...................... 5 “

He concludes that the pavement that will stand the heaviest trafﬁc
is the granite block- pavement. Mr. I-Iittell concludes that of the
pavements mentioned, Macadam is the best when consideration of
the horse only is concerned. He; states, “ with the advent of the
automobile the water—bound Macadam pavement is rapidly being
replaced by the other kinds, or else the metal in the same is bounded
with a bitumen which makes its characteristics those of an asphalt
pavement. In dry weather, on gradients under three per cent., I
would next. place creosoted block. Under a wet and slippery con-
dition a brick pavement is the least objectionable.” The following
from the Engineering N cws, New York, under date of April 29,
1909, indicates the trend of thought as to selection of pavements.

“ Whether wood block or granite paving should be laid on Market
Street, in Philadelphia, is at. present a subject of contention in that
city. The merchants along the street are said to favor the wood
block paving, while the owners of teams oppose it.

“The point we would like to emphasize is that the success of
wood paving in London, where it is used far more largely than in
any other city of the world, is due to the thorough system of street
cleaning and sprinkling with gravel. A wood pavement coated with
dirt and a slight amount of moisture or frost is exceedingly slippery.
In London there are bins ﬁlled with clean gravel placed at frequent
intervals on every street, and as soon as a light fall of rain makes
a street slippery the street cleaner spreads a very little gravel over
the surface. This is at once crushed and distributed by the wheels
and hoofs, and enables the horses, which are shod with ﬂat shoes
without calks, to get a secure foothold.

“In New York, where wood pavement has been laid on many
streets in the lower part of the city, there is no such provision, and
on many days the streets with slight grades are almost impassable
for loaded teams. In fact, without a change in the American sys—
tem of horse shoeing, it is doubtful whether the sprinkling with
gravel would be as effective here as it is in London, if the system
were introduced.”

There seems to prevail among many people the idea that the wood
pavement presents the best surface for the horse in climates where

2

“ “—4 \.

(“x .
9.. .

 

 




 

 

 

the pavement is not exposed to freezing and surface frosts. How-
ever, the result of an investigation of wood paving made by the
Pennsylvania Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in con—
junction with the Women’s Pennsylvania Society is quite to the
contrary.

“After three years’ experience with wooden block paving in
New York, various mercantile associations representing a large
number of business concerns in that city have recently gone on
record as opposed to wooden block paving on streets of heavy
trafﬁc.”

Mayor Joseph Haussling of Newark, New Jersey, on December
16th of last year, not only vetoed a measure providing for the lay—
ing of wooden blocks on Market Street of that city, but also
announced that he would always oppose wood block paving on
streets where trafﬁc was heavy. Mayor Haussling took this action
in compliance with the urgent demand of nearly three hundred mer-
chants of Newark who had investigated the wooden block paving
in New York City.

WOODEN BLOCK MOST EXPENSIVE

Assistant City 'Engineer Branley of Newark, who investigated
the merits of wood paving for Mayor Haussling, says that one
great objection to wood block paving is the cost to maintain and
keep it in repair. It costs, according to Engineer Branley’s calcu-
lation, ﬁve per cent. more to maintain and repair wood block pave—
ment than either asphalt or stone paving.

“ Business and trafﬁc conditions,” he asserts, “ on Market Street,
Newark, are similar to those on Market Street, Philadelphia,
except that the hauling on the former is not nearly as heavy as on
the latter.” Referring to the condition on Market Street, Newark,
City Engineer Branley said:

“ Investigation shows that wooden block paving would not stand
the wear and tear of the trafﬁc on a street like Market Street,
Philadelphia. Another very objectionable feature about wooden
block paving on streets where trafﬁc is heavy, is that it gets slip—
pery on damp and rainy days, which is very hard on horses and
causes constant blocking of trafﬁc. 'VVooden paving is good for
residential sections of a city, where there is no trade, but in my
judgment ;—small, well cut granite blocks laid on a concrete base is
the best paving for heavy trafﬁc. If the blocks are smooth ﬁnished
the noise would be almost minimized.”

EMINENT ENGINEER ENDORSES GRANITE BLOCK
Mr. Ernest Flagg, an engineer and architect of world—wide

renown, who designed the plans for the Singer Building, the
highest ofﬁce building in New York and the world, and who is

3

 




 

generally acknowledged to be an authority on the subject of paving,

in giving his opinion of the relative merits of wood and stone
pavements, said last week: .

“ Wooden block paving will not stand heavy trafﬁc. One of the
best proofs of this fact is that the wooden paving which waslaid
on Broadway a little less than three years ago is now going to
pieces. I believe stone paving, is the only kind for trafﬁc, traction,
durability and economy. Wooden block paving is very expensive
both to lay and-to keep in repair. Stone give-s much better foothold
for the horses and is the cheapest and by far the best pavement in
the long run. A pavement of small granite blocks which was laid
in Liverpool thirty years ago, on streets where trafﬁc is the heaviest,
is still in excellent condition. It was laid on a ﬁrm base with several
inches of sand as a cushion.”

Mr. Flagg’s ofﬁces are at 33 Wall Street. In addition to his
high character as an architect and engineer, he is recognized as a
philanthropist. In this connection the authorities of New York
City have given Mr. Flagg permission to lay a granite pavement
in front of the New York City Hall to demonstrate its qualities.
The cost of this test pavement. will be borne jointly by Mr. Flagg
and a number of merchants who are anxious to improve the pav-
ing conditions in that city.

SPRINKLING MAKES WOODEN BLOCK PAVEMENT UNSAFE AND
SANDING IS EXPENSIVE

In addition to the ﬁve per cent. increased cost of maintaining
wood paving over and above the amount that it takes to keep granite
block and asphalt paving in good condition, the taxpayers of New
York are now confronted with the absolute necessity of spending
approximately $100,000 annually for sand to- spread on wooden
block paving as a means of keeping trafﬁc open, and to render the
streets passable to pedestrians and horses in damp, rainy and freez—
ing weather.

Investigation by President Wagstaff of the American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, working in conjunction with
the representatives of the various mercantile organizations of New
York, showed that even the ordinary sprinkling of wooden paved
thoroughfares makes them unsafe for trafﬁc and pedestrians.

Mr. Wagstaff, in a speech before a gathering, at the Mayor’s
ofﬁce in New York City, of representatives of trade organizations
and business men who were interested in lessening the accidents
due to the slippery conditions of wet asphalt and wood paved
streets, said: '

“ Sprinkling does not remove ﬁlth, germ laden and disease carry—
ing refuse, but only makes a slime dangerous to health, dangerous
to horses and equally dangerous to automobiles and their occupants,
since it results in skidding.”

4

<2




 

_ As a result of the combined opposition of horse owners, either
as individuals or through various associations, to- the sprinkling of
wooden block streets in business hours, Alderman B. W. B. Brown—
has introduced the following resolution:

“ No person or persons, corporation or corporations shall sprinkle or ﬂush
the surface between the curbs of any streets paved with asphalt, wood block
or other smooth surface pavement between the hours of 8 A. M. and 6 P. M.
A violation of this ordinance shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a ﬁne of
not more than Ten ($10) Dollars or by imprisonment not exceeding ten (10)
days for each offense. This ordinance shall take effect immediately.”

Among the New York associations urging the passage of this
measure are the Automobile Club of America, Merchants’ Asso—
ciation, Adams’, Express Company, Bakers’ Association, American
Express Company, New York Warehousing Company, Borden’s
Condensed Milk Company, National Express Company, Truck
Owners’ AsSociation, Westcott Express Company and the Ameri-
can Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

DEATH AND ACCIDENTS ON WOODEN BLOCKS

An idea of the attitude in general of the New York Associations
toward wooden block and asphalt paving on heavy trafﬁc streets. is
portrayed in the following communications, which are copies of
those received by President VVagstaff of the American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. There is also copied an
excerpt of a letter written to Mayor McClellan by President Wag-
staff of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, suggesting the application of sand on wood paved streets:

NEW YORK, December 4th, 1908.

“We represent the American, National and Westcott Express Companies
in this city, and are working in Manhattan south of 110th Street daily 1,370
horses. We ﬁgure on IO per cent. of our horses being unable to work, and
at least 50 per cent. of our invalids are disabled by falling on the slippery
streets. During September 15th, 19th and 24th, we lost a horse each day
with a fractured limb which had to be destroyed. We not only suffer by our
horses being injured and crippled, but we have the misfortune quite fre-
quently to injure pedestrians, notwithstanding the fact that all our wagons
are equipped with brakes, and our horses shod with rubber pads.

“Trusting that the ﬁght Will be on, I remain,

Sincerely yours,
(Signed) 'W. T. B. WHITTEN, Superintendent.

NEW YORK CITY, Dec. 4th, 1908.

“This company to-day works over three thousand horses; out of this
number 1,783 are worked in Greater New York. Most of the lameness in
our horses comes from slipping on the asphalt and wooden block pavement
when slightly wet. It would take some time to look over our records for
the last two years to give the exact number of horses that have become
spavined through not being able to get a footing. Also the number of
horses that have become hipped by slipping and falling on such treacherous
pavement.

5

 

 




 

 

“ These cases you never hear of owing to our own ambulance and hospital
service. "We will endeavor to have a representative at the meeting next
Monday.”

Very truly yours,

BORDEN’S CONDENSED MILK CO.
Route Department,
(Signed) W. T. IRVIN.

Excerpt from President PVagstaﬁC’s Letter to Mayor McClellan—Dated

November 25th, 1908.

“ Within the past six months agents of this Society have been called upon
to mercifully destroy 30 horses injured beyond hopeof recovery by falling
on wood paved streets. This Society has no record of the hundred of minor
injuries to horses resultant in the same way, but its horse ambulances aver-
age two runs daily and the thought of the total is appalling.

“The city having assumed the responsibility of adopting this pavement
and laying it on grades, it should be incumbent upon the authorities to pro—
vide means of making it safe for horse travel and to avert all possibility of
danger at any time. In the case of rain or snow the remedy, though simple,
might be made effectual if it were thoroughly applied. It is merely to
sprinkle sand upon the streets whenever they are slippery.”

William K. Horton, General Manager of the Society, is authority
for the statement that it cost the Society $400 a day to sand the
wooden block streets on several severe days this winter.

The Board of Aldermen have recently referred to their Finance
Committee a proposition to appropriate at once $25,000 for sanding
wood paved streets on rainy days during the summer months.

Mayor McClellan of New York has been petitioned by the Truck
Owners’ Association of that city to tear up the asphalt and wood
paving in the business section of New York City, and replace it
with granite block. -

There follows a copy of the petition:

NEW YORK, November 18, 1908.
To his Honor, the Mayor, GEORGE B. MCCLELLAN:

SIR: It has come to our notice that, outside of the trafﬁc regulation,
there is, doubtless, nothing in New York City which works a greater hard—
ship to the teaming interests than the distribution of water upon wooden
block or asphalt pavements. ,

To our own knowledge, within the last six weeks, on Chambers Street,
between Washington and Hudson Streets, and on Duane Street, between
Washington and West Streets, six (6,) horses have slipped and broken their
legs, and, as a consequence, had to be destroyed.

All the records of the police department will show over 40 members of
the mounted force have been disabled and a number of horses injured from
the same cause.

One of our representative truckmen downtown, also informs me that he
has, at the present, ﬁve ('5) horses, all injured as the result of falls in the
immediate vicinity of the place at which he is conducting business, these
horses having been thrown on a wooden pavement which had been sprinkled
by a street—sprinkling corporation. ‘

We, therefore, earnestly petition you, the Mayor of Greater New York,
to revoke the permit now granted to the corporation or individual interested
regarding the distribution of water upon block or asphalt pavements in New
York City.

6

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

We also earnestly petition you to stop the paving of streets in New York
City, below Fourteenth Street, With asphalt or wood blocks, and replace
those that are laid, with granite blocks.

Respectfully yours,

A NEW YORK NEWSPAPER DISCUSSES STREET PAVEMENTS

An editorial on the subject which appeared in the Brooklyn Daily
Eagle on December 7, 1908, reads as follows:

“ Sprinkling streets is done as a means. of keeping the dust down, which is,
as we all know, a great vexation. Flushing is a means of rapid street clean-
ing. To pass such a resolution is to interfere in degree with these laudable
ends. But, all the same, the resolutlon should be passed. A wet pavement,
especially when of wood, is dangerous to trafﬁc. But why lop off a few
branches when the root of the ev1l should be attacked? The laying of wood
pavements in streets of heavy trafﬁc is almost a crime.

“ As a matter of fact, neither wood nor asphalt should be laid in streets of
heavy trafﬁc. There are a number of such in the business parts of the city
to enter upon which is to risk the lives and the values of horses. All of
these pavements should be removed and stone pavements laid in their stead.
They are an outrage as they now exist.”

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

through its President, Mr. Wagstaff, has made an investigation in
New York City with the following result:

He states that in New York City there are dirt roads, macadam,
brick, asphalt (brick and sheet) wood block, cobble, Belgium and
granite block. The Belgium and granite block paving are used in
streets given over to heavy trafﬁc. The cobble, macadam and vitri—

ﬁed brick are used in the outlying sections, and the asphalt (brick »

and sheet) and wood block on the residence streets and business
sections. He states that the experience in New York is that the
best pavement for the horse is the granite block, and the most
dangerous pavements to contend with are wood block and asphalt.
He says that the wood pavement exudes an oily substance which
makes the surface, in damp weather, as slippery as a piece of glass.
Frost congeals and solidiﬁes the moisture on the asphalt and wood,
and the surface then becomes a veritable skating pond, a condition
dangerous to the life and limbs of horses. As a result, the Special
Agents of the Humane Societies are called upon to destroy hun—
dreds of horses injured by falling upon the slippery pavements.
President W agstaff calls attention to the fact of the attempt of
horse owners to protect the horse with rubber pads and three-quarter
slippers. Pads are used on the horses of the ﬁre, police, health and
street cleaning departments and large department stores, and truck-
ing companies are gradually adopting the rubber pad shoes. They
do not enable the horse to stand up and perform its work under all
conditions, but they minimize the danger from falling. In sum—
marizing, he states that the rough surface pavements are the best,
and the granite block, when properly laid, is best of all.

Mr. George Renner, Manager of the Draymen’s Association of
San Francisco, informs the writer that in h1s Judgment, after an
experience of many years of the bus1ness parts of San Franc1sco,

7

 

 




 

that for that part of the city basalt block should be used in a con- ‘
crete foundation, or on a bed of ten inches of sand, by using a liquid
grouting to overﬂow the surface, the pavement becomes compara-
tively noiseless. This kind of _ construction will outwear brick,
wood or asphalt and the maintenance of basalt block is very small.

In the city of Portland, Oregon, there are several kinds of pave-
ments in use and many of the objections urged against wood block
do not seem to obtain here. Very little cold weather is experienced
and the frosts do not affect the pavements as elsewhere. However,
it is the observation that the business sections which have the granite
block give the horse the best chance for a footing. There is a
pavement now being placed in many streets of Portland which the
tcamsters claim gives the horse a better chance by reason of the
rough surface which is given the pavement when it is laid, and
which is called the Hassam. Many drivers throughout the city of
Portland have called the attention of the writer to this fact. The
surface is somewhat corrugated and from observation it seems the
horse is able to sustain himself better than on the smoother surfaces.

The writer has observed teamsters using the gunny sack when the
horse is unable to stand, and as this is a crude method yet it pro—
duces results. The Portland Society is making arrangements to
have cloth,or some durable fabric manufactured in such shape and
equipped with such string and attachments as will enable the driver
to alight from his vehicle and quickly tie the crude improvised cloth
shoe to the horse’s hoof. These can be made for about IO cents
a piece and when not in use they form a very comfortable cushion
on the seat for the driver.

Arrangements have been made with some of the large department
stores whereby the entire delivery wagons will be provided so that
when the horse reaches a slippery grade, or is in difﬁculty on a
smOoth pavement, the driver will have at hand some relief, however
crude, and will give the horse a chance. Our Society has obtained
the assistance of the city in having sand boxes placed at well known
dangerous places and we have placed signs at street corners direct—
ing drivers to avoid certain grades known to be dangerous in the
vicinity of the signs.

[Editor’s Note :———It is to be regretted that this important problem of
humane and commercially satisfactory street pavements does not seem to

have been settled as yet, although certain dangerous ones, such as asphalt
and wooden block, are Justly condemned]

[Note—Copies of this address, and other humane literature, may be
obtained from The American Humane Association, Albany, N. Y.]

 




