VOLUME

'JUNE |98l 4

ANIMAL
MISBEHAVIOUR

Unofficial Orgasm of the ANIMAL M/SBEHA V/Oi? SOC/ET)”.
All other versions are official and should he treated as such.
Published without cooperation of any other society, living
or dead.

 

 

 

 

EDITORS AND AUTHOR SI

Know better than to reveal their true
identities or professional afflictions.

 

KNOXIOUSVILLE ?°? TN.

 

 

 

 




 

Animal Misbehaviour Society

President: E. O. Priceless, Universe gf California, Devious
First President-Elect: Rack Rainman, University of waupun
Second President-Elect: John Urineberg, Puberty, N.C.

Past President: Grudge Tarlow, University 9£_California, Smirkly

 

 

 

Secretary: Dancin Deadman, National Pew (Smithsonian Mortuary)

 

Treasurer: I. B. Brave, Chickenhouse £2, Poultry Park, P§_

 

 

 

 

 

Program Officer: Verry Christlike, Martyrs Hall, Onelane University
Editor: Jeanne Allwoman, Chicago Perversity
Editorial Board: Seeme Paranoid, Beebee Wreck, Marquise Le Menses

 

Members-atharge: Kickme Gutless, Giveme New Porsche, Warden B. Urghardt

1. Animal Misbehaviour publishes just about anything that is submitted. Papers
presented at professional meetings of any kind and submitted to A.M. are
subject to all sorts of ridicule and scorn. Authors of such manuscripts will
pay dearly. They receive harassing phone calls and have their names and
addresses submitted to the mailing list of the Moral Majority.

 

2. All contributions to A.M. should be sent in plain wrapping, manuscripts are
received blindly, so please don't indicate who you are.

3. Papers accepted for publication may be submitted by the Editor to Dell Comics.
Don’t be surprised if you find it there.

4. Instructions fer authors can be had by taking the first word in every other
article and finding the corresponding code word in our special A.M. decoder
manual. Sent $4.95 for the manual if you don’t have one yet.

1981 All rights reserved. Note to tho
reproducing part of this publication:
with a sensitive ink that will explode

se attempting to Violate copyright law by
Randomly selected pages have been printed
if illuminated by a photocopying machine-

 




 

   

STANDARD COMMON NAMES FOR BABY ANIMALS

Pat McGroin, Ben Dover, and Phil McCrackin
The John Davidson Incredible Animal Hospital

It is unfortunate but true. Many
common names of animals are not used
all that commonly. This situation has
been rectified by a few workers. For
example Collins et a1 (]978a) providv
ed us with a listing of the common
names of North American reptiles and
amphibians. Later Collins et al
(]978b) revealed their rationale for
changing some of the names, lending
an air of respectability to common
name-dropping by employing practises
normally associated with the binomr
ial system. But we should not limit
vernacular names to species names.
Equally important, we feel, is the

The List:

Tick — Tickling

Walking Stick - Walking splinter
Chigger - Chiglet

.Ferret - Ferrette

Woodpecker - Woodprick

Starfish - Starfingerling

Big horn sheep — Little horn sheep
"Sea horse - Sea foal

Peafowl - Chickpea

'Tamandua - Baby tamandua
Manatee — Boyardee

Mongoose - Mongosling

Tuna - Onea

Ocelot — Ocelittle

Amoeba - Vacuole

REFERENCES

naming of baby animals. Now we are all
familiar with baby kangaroos being
referred to as joeys, and swans as
cygnets. But what do you call a baby
tamandua, for instance? And Whatever
were baby moas called when there were
baby moas - lessas perhaps? Well we
may never know the terms for extinct
animals, but there is no reason why we
should not know the names for living
ones. We provide here one such list.
This is not meant to be exhaustive by
any means. Others will no doubt add to
it, and perhaps one day we will have
common names for pubescent, ill,dead,
and decomposing animals as well.

Bear - Bearly

Gnu — Brand gnu

Wallaby - Wallababy

Waxwing - Waxwingling

Mayfly - Mightfly

Termite - Termette

Echidna - Ekidna

Sea squirt - Sea squirt squirt
Cardinal — Priest

Honey guide — Honey tourist
Hammerhead shark — Tackhammerette
Scarlet tanager - Scarlet tanagerine

Bird of Paradise - Nestling of Purgatory

Whooping crane - Wheezer
Black widow spider - Black debutante

Large mouth bass - Large mouth bassinet

Collins et al. 1978a. Standard common names for North American reptiles and
amphibians. Nightcrawler Gazette 135: 1

Collins et al. 1978b. The rationale for name-changes in the common names list.

Herpervert. Rev. 8:1

 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

  

     




 

  

STONING THE DAYLIGHTS OUT OF SOME BABOONS

 

Jeanne Allwoman and Glenoid Hausfossa
Primate Daycare Center

Knome , AL

Rock-throwing at humans by baboons
is so well documented that no review of
this phenomenon is necessary; nor are
readers herewith provided with one as
most of you should have access to your
own library, and you should use it.

But scientific rock-throwing at ba-
boons? Now that is new and it deserves
mention. We were fortunate to be part
of an expedition consisting of etholo-
gists and some actual scientists who
were eager to even the score with these
little rascals. This is our report.

Several baboons, and much to our
delight, a few carrying their young
were spied as they peacefully foraged
for nuts, or whatever it is that ba-
boons eat. Before we were seen, each
of our party had taken a large stone
in hand. Some of us had to resort to
prying up hard chunks of soil, but it
was hypothesized by one of us (JA)
that this would have essentially the
same effect on the baboons as would
most any rock. So we proceeded. We
were about 20 m away from the troop

when one of them stretched its neck,
spottéd us, and sounded an alarm. They
bolted toward some dense foliage. Hot

NT - Do animals hav
humans in the ring

formidable opponents.
few rounds every day,
Anyone interested in c
competition shoul
Poultry Park, PA.

I should know.
and even with b

e rights? You bet they do,

Why should they be denied thrills we
specifics? And let's

the retaliator ESS?

on their heels and with a barrage of
rocks and mud fragments preceeding us,
we started after them. Screaming and
piloerection were their most notable
responses. In fact the baboon that first
took note of our approach just screamed
bloody murder when it connected with
several large rocks (igneous rocks
probably). On the other hand, the babies,
which were sitting ducks from the start
and very easy to hit, failed to scream
when they were struck. Indeed, socio-
biological theory would predict that
they would be the least likely to
vocalize under such conditions.

 

Rather than squander their energy
on screaming, the babies should (in fact,
they did) attempt to channel their ener-
gies into clinging to their mothers.
Another troop of baboons was discovered
several days later, and they were left
undisturbed. No screaming was heard here,
thus underscoring our conclusions based
on our observations of the rock—pelted
troop. We would like to hear more about
rock-throwing and other spiteful actions
inflicted on our animal friends and foes.

If this isn't a job for ethologists, we
don't know what is.

including the

face it. If a fly approaches and buzzes

or she can't complain if I pull its little

 




" .__. ¢L “in... __-_.._‘ <- < ' A' <

NATURAL BEHAVIORS IN DEAD ANIMALS

Mort Ischan
Earthmaster Coffins Inc.
Trenchton, NJ

Since the.groundbreaking discov-
ery of taste—aversion learning in dead
rats, there has been an outbreak of
interest in the natural behaviors
shown by these animals. Dead animals
are extremely appropriate preparations
for studying a variety of laboratory
and field behavioral phenomena. Cost-
conscious universities will recognize
the savings in animal care costs for
research programs using dead animals.
Ethical considerations also are more
readily dismissed, as deceased sub-
jects exhibit pain responses to very
few experimental procedures.

'Compared to live controls, dead
rats show rapid extinction, more
quickly learn a passive avoidance
task, and they excel on a differen-
tial reinforcement (DRD) schedule
(the animal must not make a given
response for reinforcement). Species—
specific defense reactions typically
include freezing, and classically—
trained ethologists will note endur-

‘ing and stable fixed action patterns.

Dead animals also are excellent con-
formers with respect to many environ-
mental variables (temperature, etc.),
and improve their conformity as they
acclimatize. There has been some
debate as to whether this represents
a behavioral or a physiological mech—
anism, but this is clearly a matter
for future inquiry.

Although most of the behavioral
differences between dead and live

animals hold for both between- and
within-subject comparisons, there are
still puzzling discrepancies. Dead ani-
mals are notoriously insensitive to
brain-stimulation reward (BSR) under the
most diverse reinforcement contingencies
and stimulation parameters. Setting aside
the methodological issue of electrode
placement verification, theories of re-
inforcement and behavior depend heavily
upon a neural network of "positive" and
"negative" brain sites will find dead
animals to be a particularly odiferous
stumblingblock. In fact, dead organisms
may open a whole can of worms for most
current neural theories of behavior. Dead
rats have very poor memory spans -— does
this mean that a reduction in nerve con-
duction has increased the rate of decay
of the "engram" (or any equivalent con-
struct)? How can this be? Perhaps these
phenomena result from reductions in
neural crosstalk, or they may represent
some sort of release from neural inhibi-
tion. Death might also increase the probab—
ility of certain acts by selectively
inhibiting collateral behaviors.

Behavioral or physiological? Active
or passive? These and other questions avait
researchers in this lively field. All ani-
mals die, so we should not neglect this
important developmental stage in construCt-
ing and validating our theories. And most
of the animals that ever lived are dead.
What better group to work with, then, if
generalizations about animal behavior are
your style.

 




 

   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
    

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
   
  

   
 

 

 

  
  
   
 
  

 

THE EXQUISITE SILLINESS OF BIRDS

 

Pee Wee Spears and O. K. Bymee

Unaffiliated

The decided functionality of
obviously adaptive traits is known
to occur in nature (Wilson, 1974).
This idea has achieved currency and,
oddly enough, it is now widely accept-
ed (Wilson, 1974). But does this
truism hold for organisms with feath—
ers? To test this hypothesis, several
feathered organisms, birds in this
case, were collected and observed so
that a fuller appreciation of this
phenomenon might be had. It was hop-
ed also that we might understand a
little more about it.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

The birds that we observed are
currently being formally described.
So rather than commit the faux pas of
generating de novo a nomen nudum we
will not say anything more about them,
other than we suspect them to be
homeotherms (Bakker and Galton, 1975),
they have functionally operative beaks,
they were literally festooned with
feathers, as alluded to above (vide
supra), and they have scales on their
legs, indicating that members of this

genus, at least, evolved from reptiles
(pers. comm.).

ANNOUNCING FORMATION OF A NEW EXCLUSIVE SOCIETY

Voting for officers has been elimin
(M30). Rating = Y (R x l/S) where Y
K.-
using pink preprinted f

- no. of rejections. Extra points fo

DISCUSSION

Not too much has been said
about play behavior yet, and this
paper will set no precedent in this
area. And it would be foolish to
raise the issue of haplodiploidy
since not too much is known about
it, though this does not seem to
curtail other discussions on this
topic by authors eager to hop on
the sociobiology bandwagon. What
then will we discuss? We have con-
ferred with several of our colleagues
gifted in the art of discussing
various and sundry things (Ricky
Dawsins, Danny Jansun, and Petey
Mauler), and they couldn't think of
anything either. That's when we gave
up. Obviously, then, further
research is needed on this subject,
not so much to clear up any burning
issues, but just to provide us with
something to discuss.

REFERENCES

References appear somewhere else in
this volume. Try to find them.

- Retired Journal Editors Club.

ated in our new performance-based system
years as editor, S = no. of submissions,

. . r rejection of resubmitted papers and
111-1n~the-blank rejection letters.
standards. Join today! Write Rack Rainman,

Help maintain high
RJEC, Horicon, WI.

 

 




 

HUMAN-OVINE PAIR BONDING

Martin Kallikak VIII
University of Oldfbrk on the Ewe

While occasional interspecies mat-
ings are known to occur among verteﬁ
brates, these are usually considered to
result from artificial laboratory condir
tdons, unusual deprivation, or derange-
ments of the normal maturational procesy-
es - freaks of nature, so called.
Actual interspecies pair bonding is a
rare phenomenon. It has only been
thoroughly documented in the case of
human-canine pairs (see Roff, 1969). We
report another instance of this remark-
able behavior, this time involving H.
sapiens and O. aries.

In the upper reaches of the
Capridian Mountains of Lower Slobbovia,
the natives participate in a traditional
pastoral culture. The young men migrate
yearly, tending their herds, to the up—
per pastures, for the duration of the
warm weather. They become quite attached
to their respective herds during this
time, often marrying into them. These
unions are often polygymous, in spite of
official discouragement of plural mar-
riages by the Slobbovian Department of
Internal Affairs and Entrances. It is

w\‘

/
“(,0 \\
/////u[x \\\ \Q

/’ﬂ?(
' ff/ . .3 (5
WM'J‘UK’ 9 a

’l;.
1ikr'

\\Q\

    

   

not unusual for secondary mates to
join the family nucleus, giving rise
to tremendously elaborate kinship
systems, the nuts and bolts of which
are currently being filmed by the
author.

Replicating Roff's (1969) obser~
vations of human—canine pair bonding,
gender-species association was observ-
ed to be the norm in Slobbovia as well.
In this case, however, the human member
(and the human's member) is almost al-
ways male. Figure 1 displays a typical
bonded pair.

The profound and exciting socio-
biological implications of this dis—
covery cannot be overestimated, in
particular as it suggests.a far greater
plasticity in the social behavior of
gene pools than has heretofore been
suspected. The discovery of a second
interspecific kinship system, also
involving humans, suggests a possible
preadaptation in H. sapiens for inter«
species pair bonding,.in agreement
with current findings (see Barefut-

Fig. 1 Typical farm couple

 

 

 




 

Smythe, 1978; Magruder and Magruder,
1979), thereby emphasizing the need for

a complete revision of the accepted
accounts of human evolution, in order to
I move towards a more ecologically balanc—
] ed treatment of the contributions of

i‘fiﬂ other species. The experimental research-
E | es of Czkwfhqu (1980), at the Slobbovian

  

 

 

 

5 7M REFERENCES

of Animal Science 15: 215-216.

Roff, A. K. S. 1969.
on residual exci

field studies, and interpersonal s
as a moderator variable of pet own
Benchmark Papers in Animal Husband

There's many a thin
From this intriguin

For it makes the 1
And squirm about wi
And guided by their

Barefut-Smythe, Chuck N. 1978. Why 57% of American men prefer camels. Bull.

Czkwfhqu, Joan. 1980. Apparent redirection of courtship search image in

humans and anthropoid apes: Are great apes really great? Anals of the
Academy of Pan-Sexual Behavior 23: 238-246.

Magruder, zeb and Clem Magruder. 1979. Towards a bar
bonding. J. Applied Sociobiology 3: 57-82.

Attribution of apparent arousal from sympathetic activation
tation of the reverberating neural substrate
nting responses in humans and canids - Revie

ODE TO A SPANISH FLY

  

6

 
    
 

Institute of Animal Husbandry,
have already provided the first
empirical evidence of a homo-
logous behavioral substrate for
interspecies pair bonding, shared
by humans, anthropoid apes, and
snail darters.

 
   
        
    
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
 

nyard model of affectional

 

s of delayed
w of surveys,

imulations of interspecies role congruence
ership. In: Sleazor, Sir Sidney (Ed.),

ry, Tijuana: The Sailor Press. pga. 326-
518.

g we've yet to learn
g Dipteran
It's probably mutational

And those who are vacational
Often find them in their food
A practice I regard as crude

adies want to dance
thin their pants

compound eyes
Hybridize with open flies

 
  
 

by James A. Cohen
Department of Zoology
Univ. of Florida
Gainesville, FL 32611

  




 

.. “ht. “xi-.- _4-. ~4u"— :‘é,w;" -~ . ‘ ‘1'“ ‘ " t

_ “'5'- ﬁésj-‘Ssawsa ~

THE DICTOGRAPH AS A RELIABILITY TEST FOR ONOMATOPOETIC
REPRESENTATIONS OF ANIMAL SOUNDS

Naughtso Asmart

Calling U.

Meander, TN

Much to my consternation,
Blowveryhard (1981) has referred to
one of the vocalizations of the chick
as 'peep peep'. Now this is after I
have repeatedly called it 'cheep
cheep'. This discrepancy could, of
course,lead to serious confusion later
unless settled once and for all. This
I do here. I have discovered that a
dictograph can provide a reliable and
objective onomatopoetic representation
of animal sounds, as you might have
gathered from having read the title
of this paper (assuming that you did
read it. If not go back to it now).

MATERIALS AND METHODS

I borrowed a dictograph from
the speech pathology departmental
secretary, Miss Norma L. Taulk. I
suspect though that any dictograph,
stolen, borrowed, or purchased legit—
mately would work as well, and it need
not come from the desk of a secretary,
though admittedly, these are the people
that seem to be sporting most dicto-
graphs these days. A chick was then
coerced into vocalizing. The read-
out was examined.

REFERENCES

RESULTS

Sure enough. It read 'cheep cheep'.

DISCUSSION

It\is all too obvious by now that
no animal will ever make so much as a
token gesture to master any form of
human language. So, if we as serious
ethologists ever wish to converse with
lower animals, we will have to be the
ones to take the first step. Let us
not reduce ourselves to the act of en-
gaging in stifled discourSe with them.
Our colleagues in cellular and molecu—
lar biology might be willing to toler---~
ate tedious company (indeed they seem
to thrive on it), but here is no
guarantee that our animal friends will.

This Study represents a great stride
forward in closing the communication gap.
Let's face it. Not all animals can learn
American Sign Language. How far do you
think we could get with eels or snakes,
for example? Not very, I suspect. Dicto-
graphs may be the answer.

Blowveryhard, I. 1969. Do we keep 'peep peep' or 'cheep cheep'? Animal Saviour XXI

 

Animals depressed in the field? Order now,while the supply lasts,Mancar's
portable electro—shock therapy unit. Put smiles back on those frowning
snouts. And if your animals aren't cute, then they can at least be

electrocute.

 




 

 

SOME OBSERVATIONS ON ASEXUAL BUDDING IN RATS

'Bud and Jack Offner
Buds and Spuds Inc.
Des Moines, IO

Recently, the possibility of
c10ning so-called "higher" animals
(e.g. man) resulted in a nervous tic
of attention from the public. This was
spawned by the discovery that certain
one~celled organisms regularly repro-
duce by cloning, despite the availrv““
ability of birth control, and alterna-
tive forms of reproduction.

Scientists and people have been
interested in cloning rodents so as to
produce a more perfect laboratory ani-
nal. "... They believe that in study-
ing the rat they are studying all or
unearly all that is important in be-
havior..." (Beach, 1950). The albino
rat, what R. B. Lockard. (1968) call-
ed albinus, appeared a likely candi-
date of cloning for two reasons: 1)
as Lockard’ (1968) stated "... one
may expect albinus to be in the pro-
cess of becoming one of the more ex-
treme domestic animals...". And 2)
cloning and asexual budding have
been observed in as diverse groups
of animals as hydra, amoeba, straw—
berry, lizard, mouse, and tenured
faculty (pers. observ.).

However, when scientists began
cloning procedures on rat cells, they
failed to consult or insult the ani—
mal caretakers. Otherwise, it would
have become known much earlier than
this that female albino rats regularly
reproduce by the formation of asexual
buds. Companies responsible for great
rat lines depend On this! This form

' Imminﬂmwmn ...-_ r . ., . s

of reproduction occurs only when male
rats are completely absent, hence its
extreme rarity. The present paper
documents some observations of this
phenomenon.

METHODS

After the bud was observed, ob-
servers observed at regular observa-
tion times. Observations were possible
because observers observed the obser—
vation schedule regularly.

The albino rats observed were all
female and were housed individually.
There were no males present, and vent—
ilation control assured that no scent
of males was about either. No lurid mail
was delivered either.

RESULTS

There appeared to be three stages
of bud development: the beginning, the
middle, and the terminal, or end stage.
The beginning stage was characterized
by the mother rat eating a great deal
and showing signs of restlessness and
boredom (Fig. 1)-During this time, she

 

 




 

began to lick at a spot on her left
thigh. Soon thereafter she licked all
the hair off this spot and the middle
stage would begin.

\
‘33 \ , \

1 ., < _.’)7~:":‘~\ ‘ ’///
u . 3.‘
K‘: / "MA [I (”"1 ”K

(H.

Figure 2.
In this stage (Fig. 2), a bulge
‘appeared at the hairless spot on the
rat's thigh. Eventually this bulge
began to resolve itself into a small
female rat. At about day nine, the
small rat began kicking, at which time
the mother banged it against the cage
walls. The small rat would then cry,
and the mother would either resume
eating or gaze off as if in the pro-
cess of giving her predicament some
mature consideration.

The terminal stage began at about
day 15 when the smaller rat's legs
reached the floor. At this time, the
smaller rat began banging the mother
rat against the cage walls. We would
sob, and a bout of reciprocal wall—
banging ensued.

On days 16, l7, 18 or 19, the
small rat chewed rapidly through the
then dead connective tissue. After
this, the two rats went to opposite
ends of the cage and stared at each
other in obvious disgust (Fig. 3).

9

Since these results obtained
in all cases, they were determined
to be significant (C!3 0.5, df=
4. 5 weather permitting) using the
U Gross Turkey test for unkempt medians
and meaningless means.

DISCUSSION

The rats' intense and obvious
dislike for each other at the terminal
stage was obvious. It is my opinion
that this attitude stemmed from the
extreme situation the rats were in.
Asexual budding in response to selec-
tion pressure evoked disgust for both
parties involved and a guilt complex
about ethology.

Their situation (no males present)
is extremely rare in nature, and come
paratively so in lab populations. This
accounts for the extreme pressure. That
there are selection pressures in rat
colonies was substantiated by R. B.
Lockard (1968), "... there are distinct
colonies with little or no gene exchange
and different selection pressures within
each colony". Also S. H. Bartley (1974)
has stated that there are three kinds of
data to be found in psychology, and all
of them suck. So let us not quibble over
that.

What should be undertaken is some
inquiry into why these animals were forc~
ed into such shameful acts. Do we have
the right to bore our albino rats to the
rpoint where they take such drastic
actions? Yes, we do.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

10

YOU CAN TEACH AN OLD TECHNOLOGY NEW TRICKS

Or:

IF BRER RABBIT IS OUR BROTHER,LET US NOT FORGET ABOUT CAIN AND ABLE

James F. Thompson

Society for the Perpetuation of Cruelty to Animals

It is a well~known fact that
behavioral psychologists often have re~

search interests that serve as the stime

ulus and impetus for important inter—
disciplinary studies. In general, this
is due to the ability of behavioral
psychologists to see beyond the super-
ficial chaos of current events and
social trends, and to detect the uni-
fying themes that ultimately explain
and mold human behaviors. What may be
seen initially as scientific progress
occurring fortuitously in an environ-
ment of coincidental historical events
can be seen in retrospect to have been
guided early on by basic research in
the field of animal psychology. Such

a juncture of history, social needs,
and science is reported herein.

Environmental pressures rarely
act independently on the human species.
Seemingly unrelated social problems
often benefit from common technological
solutions. Among the foremost practical
problems of today is the so—called
"energy crisis". One need not dwell
on the many alternative power sources
that have been proposed lately, nor on
the need for conservation of energy
sources in every facet of human activ—
ity. However, it is often the case that
such suggestions do not penetrate with
equal speed or ease into every realm
of social organization. Keep that in
mind as a seemingly unrelated social
trend is introduced.

The much touted trend toward
conservatism in American politics
in the '80's includes a renewed

interest in capital punishment by both.the
judicial and penal authorities, and the
general public and electorate as well.
After a several year hiatus in capital
punishment, several states have rewritten
their laws, met the current interpretations
of constitutional authority and resumed
the executions of capital offenders. Nat-
urally this has greatly stimulated the
controversy over the efficacy of capital
punishment, not only as the solution to
the individuals so condemned, but its
alleged larger role of capitol punishment
as a deterrant to future offenders. If we
take capital punishment as a given aspect
of our current social milieu, and certain-
ly as a historical axiom of man's higher
cultural organizations throughout history,
the obligation of the state to deal in
some way with these social miscreants we
now term the capital offenders, then it
behooves the scientific community to neat
this issue, not just in emotional or
moralistic terms, but also with the full
rigor of the scientific method.

This should immediately remind the
reader that the technology of capital
punishment has rarely benefitted from
efficiency analysis and therefore techno“
logical innovation has been minimal in
recent years. The ancient modes of.execu*
tion by strangulation (hanging in modern
times), impalement or stabbing (and later‘
penetration of the corpus by bullets},
poisoning (and its modern equivalent, the
gas chamber), immolation (and the more
recent burning provided by the electric
chair), and decapitation are all with Us
today. There have been no new or unfore—
seen technologies of execution since the

 

 




 

ll

industrial revolution. jUSt the OC- But, is it enough to cry energy
casional sophistication of ancient meth- efficiency? Certainly not! And further—
ods by modern technological improvements. more, to do so is to misa the tremendous
potential this technology offers the
And many of these recent so-called behavioral scientist directly, and to
improvements are not useful modifications other disciplines indirectly.
at all, when viewed from the perspective

of energy conservation. For example, To what other social and scientif-
electrocutions even decades ago were ic questions does an investigation of
capable of producing brown-outs in major execution by the guillotine contribute?

cities; while gas chambers require costly There are many, spanning a number of dies
and expensive—to-maintain facilities, and ciplines from criminology to metaphysics.

deal in hazardous chemicals. Bullets, But before speculating on the future of
while less expensive in the short run,can such research in its broadest implications, 1
also be viewed as high technology enter— allow me to report on my current studies.
prise, to say nothing of the noise pol-
lution. This leaves only hanging and de- What is the best current definition
capitation as energy-conserving alterna- ' of death from the medico—legal standpoint?
tives. It is the cessation of brain function.
Except in the case of direct trauma, the
Unfortunately, hanging has been proximate mechanism Of this cessation is
correctly criticized as a cruel and often failure in the supply of oxygen to the
inefficient means of execution, leaving brain. Within limits of experimental
the subject to gag and choke in agony for error, this period of cessation lags be—
minutes, even hours, before life forces hind the stoppage of Oxygen delivery to
are extinguished; and this despite numer- the tissues by between three and four
ous efforts to produce "instantaneous minutes. It is this lag phase in brain

death" by mapping the cervical vertebrae death that rm: experiments have exploited.
and thus the spinal cord.
It became obvious that if one is to

Therefore we must turn again to de4 study,decapitation in animals, many
capitation as the humane and energy- standard behavioral meaSures such as time
efficient procedure for capital punish— ed performance in running a maze or pre~
ment. And here is where those seemingly experimental conditioning to stimulus—
coincidental threads of history come response by pressing on a lever would be
together for the behavioral scientists. inappropriate. More direct methods deal—

ing with the head and the brain itself

The last and best technological are called for. While there has been
advance in decapitation came in 18th almost no prior research in the field,
century France with the development of certain earlier methods of monitoring
the guillotine. Here we see a simple head and brain functions have been
efficient device powered by human mus— adapted for my purposes, such as.dental
cle (and then gravity), with few moving force transducers, eye—blink and pupil-
Parts, no special housings, nor the lary responses etc.
use or discharge of hazardous wastes.

Obviously, this is the ideal technol- Initially I was interested only in
08y for the modern age. I studying the physiology of brain-death

 

Are you too bashful to speak up for your professional rights? Do editors intimidate
You? Colleagues step on you? Contact Grudge (Hired Gun) Tarlow. Satisfaction

guaranteed. Cheap.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

following decapitation. Therefore I
established populations of laboratory
mice and rats, reared in optimal en-
vironments, and then decapitated by a
Carolina Biological Supply small—animal
guillotine (#10—237), with a 45° di-
agonal blade. My results are shown in
Figure 1.

Thompson's Fig. l was so poorly
prepared that we decided not to
bother you with it. You can use
this space as you see fit. Be
creative! - The Editor

For a control, I dropped an
equivalent weight (to that of the guil-
lotine blade) onto the subject's
shoulders. This represented the con-
tact the experimental group received
with the real blade. A sharp tap on the
forehead with a wooden mallet represent-
ed the impact of the head's fall into
the wooden "receiving basket" after de-
capitation. I will report the results
from the control subjects in the 1983
issue of Animal Misbehaviour if it is
still with us.

I am currently negotiating with
representatives of the Iranian parla—

12

ment to conduct human studies in a re-
search facility in Tehran. The strict
Iranian laws provide a better supply of
capital offenders, and further, the
Iranian Academy of Science (N = 3) has
established far less stringent rules for
study evaluation by its Committee on
Human Rights and Experimentation (N = 2),
I anticipate taking random samples of
100 from the approximately 300 to 500
subjects, i.e., capitol offenders generat-
ed by the Iranian legal processes weekly.

What is the future for decapitation
studies? How much can we learn from the
decapitated head before brain function
fails? No doubt the most immediate gains
will be in the judicial and legal fields.
By catching the decapitated head in the
proper receptacle it should be possibletm
do a bit of post-decapitation interroga—
tion, perhaps resolving questions of evi-
dence, complicity, and the like. Questions
in the form appropriate to yes/no answers
could be responded to by eyeblinks, or
other sorts of agreed—upon responses.fﬂds
night imbue in the capital offender a same
of usefullness and the spirit of coopera-
tion with the authorities. Of greater im-
portance, the question of the efficacy of
capital punishment could finally be assess
ed. For we could determine once and for an
if the offender is stricken with remorse.

 

A TRIED AND TRUE METHOD FOR STUDYING TIDAL RHYTHMS IN LOBSTERS

High Tide Transitional Phase

Low Tide

 

lobster n_~‘ pull string and move brick

 

 

 

water

 

 




5*
d1

 

 

-l3
SHORT COMMUNICATIONS

THE USE OF ANTLERS BY ROE(BUCK) DEER TO OPEN DISCARDED
MAXWELL COFFEE CANS FROM THE WRONG END IN TANZANIA

Jane Goodmost, William McGrow, Ben Peck and Cheetum*
Tool and Garden Department
J. C. Penny's
Sawville, NC

They did it twice. We thought to ourselves, "This is the use of a tool".

* Currently at the Catskill Game Farm, Primate Division, 4th cage on right

 

AN HISTORICAL OVERVIEW OF THE NATURE-NURTURE
CONTROVERY WITH A RESOLUTION

Konrad Lorenz, Niko Tinbergen and Prisella Presley
On the road

This issue has been raging on for years. Let's just forget about it.

 

MARK TWAIN: WAS HE THE ETHOLOGIST
HE WAS CRACKED UP TO BE?

Mike Rocephalic
(address withheld by request)

Mark TWain once said that man is the only animal that laughs, or that
needs to. Obviously he never heard of hyaenas. They need to.

 

DO PLANTS BEHAVE LIKE ANIMALS DO?
B. Hive*

No, not as far as I can tell. Plants, it appears, don't move nearly as
much. But we should not avert our gaze from them in case they start up.

* I didn't get tenure so I'm not going to tell you where I was when I
wrote this. A

 




14

BOOK REVIEWS

STRIPE IS RIFE IN THE BARNYARD by Ella Phant; Reviewed by Jerry Hershee.

Strife is Rife in the Barnyard is without a doubt the most incisive and
complete non-edited volume on the behavior and care of domesticated animals
since Darwin treated the subject over a 100 years ago. Phant narrates in a
warm and moving style the saga of the barnyard of characters torn between
their selfless drive for one another's preservation and the desperation for
their own individual relief from the cruel hand of their nemesis - Farmer
Brown. We see Henny Penny forced into a cold and sordid affair with Ricky
Rooster, an exemplar cock if there ever was one. And heart-tending is the
tail of Betsey the Cow, who's failure to produce ample quantities of milk
for the greedy Brown causes her utter anguish. This synthetic treatment is
an outstanding contribution, both culturally and agriculturally. The reading
of the 1-inch high letters goes smoothly and I, for one, hope that other
publishers of such books on ethology will follow suit.

 

THE TOTAL ,OBFUSCATION 0F STATISTICAL PROCEDURES USED IN THE BEHAVIORAL
SCIENCES by Stymie Stalemate; Reviewed by Jerry Atric.

Chi-square tests made as convoluted as multiple regression analysis? The
ranking of data scores as mind—boggling as long tax forms? Correlation
coefficients that require the simultaneous use of a slide rule, pocket
calculator, and an abacus? These aren't easy things to conjure up, but
neither is anything else in this awesome tome. Stalemate's flare for
blanketting the field of behavioral statistics with an inpenetrable smoke-
screen of ambiguous prose, impossible formulae, and incorrect or nonexistent
(but referred to) tables is unmatched. It's a good taste for anyone entering
the field of behavioral statistics as to what may lie ahead.

 

 

 

ON THE EXPRESSION OF EMOTIONS BY MAN AND ANIMALS by Chuck Darwin; Reviewed
by Ethyl Twobooks.

I haven't finished with it yet. Sorry.

 

BOOKS RECEIVED*

 

A GUIDE TO DUSTBATHING IN THE MEDITERRANEAN
191 QUESTIONS ABOUT MODAL ACTION PATTERNS Y0
THE WORLD IN ACCORDANCE WITH GOLDFISH A
CARIBOU AS PETS

ALL CREATURES SMALL AND MORIBUND

ALL THINGS TINY, CUTE, AND BRAIN-DAMAGED
ALL THINGS CONSIDERED

U WERE AFRAID TO ASK
ND MEMBERS OF THEIR FAMILY

* Authors names upon request. Write to them yourselves.

 

 

 

 




 

15
ANNOUNCEMENTS

Positions Open:

Misogynistically inclined ethologists needed for Rely Tampon behavioral
pharmacological studies.

Stress research on zoology graduate students seeking employment - Human
ethologists need not waste their time applying, nor, for that matter, should'
any psychologists. No zoologists either. We want our subjects stressed and
won't have them getting wind of any job openings.

Animal Saviour needs reviewers to bless manuscripts. Please direct all
correspondence to Benedict Shun.

Panamerican Surrealist has staff position open for overseeing the placement
of manuscripts in cold storage.

Are you a seminal ethologist? Have you devised classical positions or
tested the performance of models? To audition for inclusion in anderperson
book write Don Doonesbury, Seminole Village, FL 66999

Position open for field research on planarian ethology. Candidates must
have all fundamental spinal reflexes intact. Those with lower brainstem
function preferred. Ph.D. required.

Postdocs needed immediately to study tool use and its cultural transmiSSion
among graduate students. Very rare opportunity. '

Study we for open have a research dyslexia. We can about talk your salary.
Journals, Books, etc.:

Tired of being crucified by reviewers? Send yomrcontributions to Animal
Saviour. '

Add another line to your C.V. today. Send us your erratum. Landmark Errata
in Ethology. Make no mistake about it.

We know you'll be pleased to hear that we at Academic Press within the last
three weeks have not published a single new volume on sociobiology, human
or otherwise.

Miscellaneous:

PTL Club and The Moral Majority has endowed a $250,000 Ronald Reagan
Memorial Fund for any photographs of evolution taking place in the field.

Let it herewith be known that Hugh Drumstick, an aspiring young ethologist
from Mexico, has legally changed his name to Anonymous Reviewer. Hugh wishes
to thank one and all for expressing their thanks to him for improved
manuscripts.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16

ANNOUNCEMENTS cont'd

Sociobiologists who want to GET AHEAD. You need your own model. Why labor on
other people's theories. Have one of your own. It may not be better but it 11
be you. Acronyms our specialty. Write: Obfuscation Unltd. Box BS, Museum of

Combatative Zoology, Cambridge, MA.

Meeting Announcement. Plan to attend the annual meeting of the Animal Saviour
Society, September ﬂ—9, Kings Cross U Station, London. Featured speaker flying
in direct from.Munchkin will be Erroneous Bible-Biblesbelt. Hear a stirring
testimonial on the evils of almost everything by one who has been almost every-
where. Erroneous is a leader of the charismatic Fundamentalists, author of
Theology: The Biology of the Saviour and other recently resurrected works.

Animal Misbehaviour (A.M.) would like to announce (WLTA) that it has a new
policy (TIHANP) on (O) abbreviations (A's). Please! (PI), use them wherever
you can. This should save us precious space and will cut down on publishing
costs (UTWYCTSSUPSAWCDOPC'S).

WIIBTYIAFBTJ. MOYWPBI (Ha Ha!). WSYL.

 

‘On the ecology of the crab louse (Phthirus pubis)
LOLA, LOWLY LOUSE

What niches in my britches could.support the lowly louse
Which in late July had made a silent entrance to my house?
A vast and tiring journey for one quite so small as she,
Ah, but Lola, lowly louse has laid her lovely eggs on me.

We are chosen people, or I've heard it's sometimes said,
With parasites between our toes, inside our ears and head
But never have I woken up in such a crabby mood

As the morning I discovered I was Lola's babies' food.

Now, I support the wildlife fund, and I pay my yearly dues,

But to treat me as mere habitat is unjustified abuse

And though my netherlands make luscious vegetation, moist and dark,
Damned if I'll be warden of this lousy animal park!

by James A. Cohen
Department of Zoology
Univ. of Florida
Gainesville, FL 32511

 

 

 

 




 

EVOLUTION
by Langdon Smith

when you were a tadpole and I was a fish,
In the Paleozoic time,

And side by side on the ebbing tide

We sprawled through the ooze and slime,
0r skittered with many a caudal flip
Through the depths of the Cambrian fen,
My heart was rife with the joy of life,
For I loved you even then.

Mindless we lived and mindless we loved,

And mindless at last we died;

And deep in a rift of the Caradoc drift

we slumbered side by side.

The world turned on in the lathe of time,

The hot lands heaved again,

Till we caught our breath from the womb of death,
And crept into light again.

we were Amphibians, scaled and tailed,

And drab as a dead man's hand;

We coiled at ease ’neath the dripping trees,
Or trailed through the mud and sand,

Croaking and blind, with our three-clawed feet
writing a language dumb,

With never a spark in the empty dark

To hint at a life to come.

Yet happy we lived, and happy we loved,
And happy we died once more;

Our forms were rolled in the clinging mold
Of a Neocomian shore.

The eons care, and the eons fled,

And the sleep that wrapped us fast

was riven away in a newer day,

And the night of death was past.

Then light and swift through the jungle trees
We swung in our airy flights,

Or breathed in the balms of the fronded palms,
In the hush of the moonless nights.

And oh! what beautiful years were these,

When our hearts clung each to each;

When life was filled, and our senses thrilled
In the first faint dawn of speech.

Thus life by life, and love by love,

we passed through the cycles strange,

And breath by breath, and death by death,
We followed the chain of change.

Till there came a time in the Jaw of life
When over the nursing sod

The shadows broke, and the soul awoke

In a strange, dim dream of god-

I was thewed like an Auroch bull,
And tusked like the great Cave Bear;
And you, my sweet, from head to feet,
Were gowned in your glorious hair.

Deep in the gloom of a fireless cave,
When the night fell o'er the plain,

And the moon hung red o’er the river bed,
we mumbled the bones of the slain.

I flaked a flint to a cutting edge,

And shaped it with brutish craft;

I broke a shank from the woodland dank,
And fitted it, head and haft.

Then I hid me close to the reedy tarn,
Where the Mammoth came to drink;

Through brawn and bone I drave the stone,
And slew him upon the brink.

Loud I howled through.the moonlit wastes,
Loud answered our kith and kin;

From west and east to the crimson feast
The clan came trooping in.

o’er joint and gristle and padded hoof,
We fought and clawed and tore, I
And cheek by jowl, with many a growl,

We talked the marvel o'er.

I carved that fight on a reindeer bone,

With rude and hairy hand,

I pictured his fall on the cavern wall

That men might understand.

For we lived by blood, and the right of might,
Ere human laws were drawn,

And the Age of Sin did not begin

Till our brutal tusks were gone.

And that was a mission years ago

In a time that no man knows;

Yet here tonight in the mellow light,
we sit at Delmonico’s;

Your eyes are deep at the Devon Springs,
Your hair is as dark as jet,

Your years are.few, your life is new,
Your soul untried, and yet~~

Our trail is on the Kimmeridge clay,

And the scarp of the Purbeck flags,

We have left our bones in the Bagshot stones,
And deep in the Coraline crags; '
Our love is old, our lives are old,

And death shall come amain;

Should it come today, what man may say

We shall not live again?

God wrought our soul from the Tremadoc beds
And furnished them wings to fly; '

He sowed our spawn in the world’s dim dawn,
And I know that it shall not die;

Though cities have sprung above the graves
Where the crook—boned men made war,

And the ox—wain creaks o’er the buried caves
Where the mummied mammoths are.

Then as we linger at luncheon here,
o’er many a dainty dish,

Let us drink anew to the time when you
Were a Tadpole and I was a Fish.

 




 

 

 




