HE WAY TO THE CIRCUS.

:From Our Fourfooted Fricnds._

 

 

math-x».

“Among the noblest in the land,

(Though he may count himself the least,)
That man I honor and revere,

Who, without favor, Without fear,

In the great city dares to stand

The friend of every friendless beast,

And tames with an unshrinking hand

The BRUTES that Wear om" form and face,

The WEHR-WOLVES of the human race.”
— Longfeﬂng

 

 

x Taken from :1 photograph illustrating how tigers and lions are caught tor the i
I . II . .V‘. l, V ‘ V . I u 1'
menagerles and zoological gardens, by permisslon of hid/lure 5 Magazine, ‘3

I o
‘) Circus,
. 1"

i
f
I

f

 




 

 

[ i r i ’ _ -_._ , 727 A”
92:63/ {if gf/ﬁl/d/ 7/1” “3%“ €Lﬁ334/ 7‘3; ,0 1% ..

THE WAY TO THE CIRCUS.

' PRETTY little kid lay by his mother‘s side in
the soft green grass. The sun was shining
through the branches of the big pine tree over
his head. His mother had just given him. his
breakfast of sweet milk and he was"a very happy little kid.

Suddenly two men came in sight. The mother started
up and said to her little one, “Let us go farther into the
bushes ; I am afraid of those men.” But she was not quick
enough and in a moment they had caught the little kid with
a slip-noose around his neck and in spite of his loud cries
they dragged him away. His mother followed him, crying
as she went, then there was the sound of a shot and the poor
mother followed no longer. i

The men dragged the frightened little kid along through
the woods until he was too weak to walk any longer, then
they carried/him in a rough, cruel way with his head hang—
ing down. At‘last they reached a place in the heart of the
forest where a deep pit had been dug and over it had been
put branches of trees to hide it. On the edge of this pit they
tied the weak and trembling little kid by his four little legs
and they tied him so tightly that he could not move without
great pain.

Then they left him alone by the deep pit and his cries
were so loud and so pitiful that they echoed through the
forest. It seemed strange that any man living could hear
these cries without pity, but the men who trap animals for
the circus have no pity and no mercy. They were setting
him as a trap to catch a tiger which they wanted for a circus
man. ,

A. few miles away in the woods a mother tiger, called a
tigress, was licking her baby tigers’ faces, washing them
clean with her rough tongue. “”‘Y’O‘u are hungry, my
babies,” she said, “and I must go out and ﬁnd something
for you to eat. Your father has not come back and I fear
some of those strange and cruel animals called men have

 

 

A PLEA F

Every horse will wor
ample mea 3 daily; pl
sharpene in, slipper

SPARE THE WHIP

OR THE HORSE

I: better and longer if given three
enty of pure water; proper shoes
y weather; a blanket in cold
or enough room to lie down. a fl
weeks vacation each year. , y




killed him. I will have to leave you a little while, my dears,
and see what I can ﬁnd for your supper.”

fl‘he tigress wandered far through the woods and heard
the cries of the little kid. She crept softly through the
bushes and saw the little creature tied, and struggling to get
free. She was so hungry she did not take as much care as
usual to avoid traps, so she made one spring and in a mo-
ment she and the little kid lay in the bottom of the deep pit.
The. little kid’s sufferings were soon over for the ﬁrst blow
of the tigress’ powerful paw had killed him; but the suffer-
ings of the poor, hungry mother, seeking food for herself
and her babies, had just begun and were to last for many
weary months.

She fell into a big net and though she bit at it and tore
at it with her claws she could not get free to go back to her
little ones. When she was all worn out with struggling and
roaring for help, and her sides were bleeding with her efforts
to get out of the pit, four men who had been watching her
struggles came and looked down into the pit at the wretched
mother so tangled up in the net andso worn out with her
frantic struggles she was not quite as dangerous as she was
at ﬁrst. They had strong ropes and guns, and iron bars to
beat their prey with if she was not quiet, and they ventured
to pull up the net. There was another terrible struggle,
but what could one tiger do against four cunning men with
’ iron bars and ropes.

“ VVe’ll carry her along now and starve her a few days,
then I don’t think we’ll have much more trouble.”

So the big tiger was carried across the ocean for chil-
dren, big and little, to stare at in the circus and afterward
in a “ Zoo,” and in the beautiful forest four baby tigers
cried and whimpered for their mother until they grew too
weak to cry any longer, then they died.

ANNA HARRIS SMITH.

The world is not yet civilized. When it has got far enough along
on the way to civilization the unnecessary suffering now inﬂicted on
the lower animals will be considered a crime, and there will be no
more circuses, menageries, or zoological gardens Where Wild animals

are exhibited or kept in conﬁnement-A. H. S.

 




THE ANIMAL TRAINER

The din of music, loud, mechanical,

A thoughtless, laughing crowd that fronts a stage '
A trainer bowing to its loud applause,

As though he were the hero of the age;

Alas, he is no herol Listen, look!

The whip descends as from the arena’s rear

Leaps into line a crowd of animals,

Whose eyes are piteous with the light of fear.

V

Then comes the “grand performance.‘ High trapeze
And stools and ladders, swinging rings and balls
Confront these cringing creatures who are trained
To a precocityunnatural.

The leopards mount their stools. The monkeys leap
All tremulous with fear from dizzy height ;”
The kangaroos perform a “ boxing match ;"
The camel H says its prayers ” and hows “ good night ;”
The clumsy bear climbs in his little swing;
The pony bows to questions, grave replies;
The dogs go gaily dancing round the ring;
But, oh, the pathos, could one see their eyes!
For tricks well done the Judas kiss is given;
if not, there are but few who would not moan
To gaze upon the cruel punishment ”
When trainer with his pupil is alone.
Ah, these poor pupils mastered by the whip—--
God never meant them for a life like this.
Kind Pity, sweep such scenes as these from earth
And turn the loud applause to scathing hiss l

WM «—~»-Wm.m.._.,

ALICE JEAN CLEATOR.
East Claridon, Ohio.

Copies of this leaﬂet may be had from THE ANIMAL Reset}; LEAGUE, 51 Carver Street,
Boston. Price, per hundred, 60 cts.; per dozen, 12 cts.; single copies, 2 cts. Postage paid.

 




