   
      
       
   
   
   
        
      
   
   
   
   
   
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
   
     
        
    
        
 
         
     
   
   
     

 
 

Letter from

COL. ROBERT G. INGERSOLL

t0
PHILIP G. PEABODY, ESQ.

LAW OFFICE,
ROBERT G. INGERSOLL, 45 WALL STREET,
7 NEW YORK, May 27, 1890.
PHILIP_G. PEABODY, Esq.,
Boston, Mass.:

My dear F riend,—-—

Vivisection is the Inquisition—the Hell— of
Science. All the cruelty which the human —or rather the
inhuman—heart is capable of inﬂicting, is in this one
word. Below this there is no depth. This word lies like
a coiled serpent at the bottom of the abyss.

We can excuse, in part, the crimes of passion. We take
into consideration the fact that man is liable to be caught
by the whirlwind, and that from a brain on ﬁre the soul
rushes to a crime. But what excuse can ingenuity form
for a man who deliberately — with an unaccelerated pulse
——with the calmness of John Calvin at the murder of
Servetus—seeks, with curious and cunning knives, in the
living, quivering ﬂesh of a dog, for all the throbbing nerves
of pain? The wretches who commit these infamous
crimes pretend that they are working for the good of man ;
that they are actuated by philanthropy ; and that their pity
for the sufferings of the human race drives out all pity for
the animals they slowly torture to death. But those who
are incapable of pitying animals are, as a matter of fact,
incapable of pitying men. A physician who would cut a
living rabbit, in pieces—~laying bare the nerves, denuding
them with knives, pulling them out with forceps—would
not hesitate to try. experiments with men and women for
the gratiﬁcation of his curiosity.

To settle some theory, he would triﬂe with the life of any
patient in his power. By the same reasoning he will justify
the vivisection of animals and patients. He will say that
ivziaammiLis-T...better-that,.a. few animals should suffer than that one.
human being should die,- and that it is far better that one
patient should die, if through the sacriﬁce of that one,
several may be saved.

Brain without heart is far more dangerous than heart
without brain.

Have these scientiﬁc assassins discovered anything of
value? They may have settled some disputes as to the
action of some organ, but have they added to the useful
knowledge of the race?

It is not necessary for a man. to be a specialist in order
to have and express his opinion as to the right or wrong of
vivisection. It is not necessary to be a scientist or a
naturalist to detest cruelty and to love mercy. Above all
the discoveries of the thinkers, above all the inventions
of the ingenious, above all the victories won on ﬁelds of
intellectual conﬂict, rise human sympathy and a sense of
Justice.

I know that good for the human race can never be
accomplished by torture. I also know that all that has
been ascertained by vivisection could have been done by
the dissection of the dead. I know that all the torture has
been useless. All the agony inﬂicted has simply hardened
the hearts of the criminals, without enlightening their
minds.

It may be that the human race might be physically im-
proved if all the sickly and deformed babes were killed,
and if all the paupers, liars, drunkards, thieves, villains,
and vivisectionists were murdered. All this might, in a
few ages, result in the production of a generation of
physically perfect men and women; but what would such
beings be worth,— men and women healthy and heartless,
muscular and cruel—that is to say, intelligent wild
beasts?

Never can I be the friend of one who vivisects his
fellow-creatures. I do not wish to touch his hand.

When the angel of pity is driven from the heart; when
the fountain of tears is dry,—— the soul becomes a serpent
crawling in the dust of a desert.

Thanking you for the good you are doing, and wishing
you the greatest success, I remain,

Yours always,
R. G. INGERSOLL.

 




 




