A SAVAGE 8mm

The Caw against C©ursing

BY

To E. B, CLARKE

THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION
OF CRUEL SPORTS

4 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.I

Pub/2mm” N 0. 25 Price One Peizigy

 




 




A SAVAGE SPORT"

The Case against Coursing
By T. E. B. CLARKE '

“ Each outcry of the hunted hare
A ﬁbre from the brain doth tear.”
WILLIAM BLAKE.

“What greater pleasure is there to be felt, when a dog followeth a hare, '
than when a dog followeth a dog? For one thing is done in both, that is to
say running, if thou hast pleasure therein. But if the hope of slaughter and
expectation of tearing in pieces the beast doth please thee: thou shouldst
rather be moved with pity to see a silly, innocent hare murdered of a dog.
the weak of the stronger, the fearful of the ﬁerce, the innocent of the cruel
and unmerciful . . . The which pleasure in beholding death they (i.e., the
Utopians) think doth rise in the very beasts, either of a cruel affection of
mind, or else to be changed in continuance of time into cruelty, by long use
of so cruel a pleasure. These therefore and such like, they do plainly deter-
mine to have no afﬁnity with true and right pleasure.” I

sIR THOMAS MORE (1516)

NE day in 1934, a policeman on duty at Wimbledon, in South
London, saw a man leading three greyhounds towards an open
. space. With him was another man carrying a sack in which some-

thing appeared to be moving.

As the policeman watched, this man opened the sack and took
from it a live rabbit. At the same time, his companion released the
dogs. The rabbit was then held over them to tantalise them. One
dog made a leap for the wretched animal, and seized it; all three
then tore it to pieces. “We were just having a bit of rabbit
coursing,” said one man when spoken to.

The men subsequently made an appearance at Wimbledon Police
Court on a charge of “cruelly ill—treating a rabbit.” They were
fined £10. each, or one month’s imprisonment in default.

N ow, rabbits and hares may be slightly different animals; but
both creatures suffer to the same extent when subjected to brutal
treatment. Very well, them. Every year, at the Waterloo Cup
Meeting, more than a hundred hares are cruelly ill-treated ; they are
coursed by grey-hounds, and in many cases torn to pieces.

3

 




 

 

Are there any ﬁnes or threats of imprisonment? .No—on the
contrary. A handsome cup is won by the dog that has tortured
and killed the greatest number of hares.

This horrible exhibition—which takes place yearly at Altcar,
near Liverpool, and is known as the “ Blue Riband ” of coursing——

7)

, and

is chronicled in the neWSpapers under the heading of “ Sport
not on that page devoted to police—court cases.

VVhy the wide, discrepancy between the way in which these
goings-on in Lancashire, and those others in South London are
regarded? Surely it is only a question of degree? _ In each case
we see defenceless creatures subjected to needless suffering in the

H ’3
name of sport.

I cannot refrain from pointing out that the Wimbledon men’s
act of cruelty was, in my opinion, no worse than thousands of acts
of much the same character which are perpetrated in many of
England’s country districts throughout the winter, and which are
allowed to go unpunished. If anything, indeed, those two men were
less deserving of punishment, since the little creature killed by their
dogs did at least meet with a speedy end.

Have you ever been to a coursing meeting? In case you have
not, let me give you a short description of a typical one. Then,
perhaps, you will join the growing army of civilised people with

4

 




 

, 4

l

l

%

~

 

S/wrt and General Press Age/Icy.

some humane feelings who are demanding that this barbaric

recreation be abolished from our country.

The Chase is On!

The coursing—ground is enclosed on three sides by a deep, wide
ditch; the fourth side is open to the country, where the hares are
kept in preserve, and from which they are driven out by beaters.

Two greyhounds, held in leash by the “slipper”, are waiting
for the heaters to drive a hare towards them. As soon as one
appears within sight, the dogs yelp frenziedly, and a hundred voices
are raised from the crowd in blood-curdling chorus. The small,

frightened animal dashes madly for cover.

When it is eighty to a hundred yards away—not nearly far
enough for it to have a sporting chance of escape—the dogs are
simultaneously released. The mounted judge awards points for
each attempt by one dog to reach the quarry with its jaws in advance
of its rival. And you can take it that each point signiﬁes further
mental, if not physical, agony for the miserable, doomed creature
which is being submitted to this prolonged and torturing death
to provide enjoyment for men and women with warped minds, who

would yet be most indignant were you to suggest that the-y were not
animal—lovers.

 




 

One greyhound closes with the hare, pounces upon it, and throws
it over. The crowd applauds excitedly. No, this is not the kill——
yet. lV'Ierely a “ trip ”, for which the dog responsible will receive
a valuable point.

So the unequal struggle goes on, the hare slowing gradually as
the powers of endurance contained within its brave but tiny heart
reach their limit. The dogs are right up to it now. TWO jaws
snap and miss, snap and miss, snap and close on ﬂesh . . . And
then the green grass is stained red, and the dogs are being pulled

 

away from a small mangled corpse. Sometimes, however, the grey-
hounds ‘do not kill the bare outright, but prefer to chivvy it. The
poor, defenceless creature will then lie wriggling and squealing in
terrible anguish, until somebody runs up to dispatch it.

Have you ever heard the death cries of a hare? They are like
those of a child in pain. But they strike no chord of pity in the
hearts of the spectators t0 who-m this wholesale slaughter is the
occasion for a holiday; who proclaim loudly and querulously that
it’s a “ bad show ” if, by some fluke, a few hares do manage to get
away.

Escape—but Death.

Not that this often happens—arrangements are made too care—
fully for that. However, it is not absolutely impossible for the hare
to escape—and that fact is used by the coursing fraternity as a
sop to their consciences. “ The hare has a chance, if it’s quick and
clever,” they will tell you. So would they have a chance if they
were wrecked in mid-Atlantic—but it’s not the sort of chance they
would readily take. The odds against a hare at a coursing meeting
are just about the same as the odds would be against them in those
Clrcumstances. .

And it is a recognised fact that the hare which does manage
to get away often die-s shortly afterwards from a burst heart . . .

Asked what there is to say for coursing, its supporters will con-
tend—that hares are vermin which do untold damage to crops, and
must be exterminated. That may be perfectly true; but why can-
not they be given a merciful end by being shot, or by being trapped
in such a way that they are sure to die instantaneously? Rats and
mice are vermin, too—but we do not make a practice of slowly
torturing them to death.

The weakest argument, however, put forward by the coursing
man is that this co—called sport must not be allowed to die because

6

 

 




l of the great traditions behind it. That contention is almost too
ridiculous to need a reply; but I will just offer the reminder that

’9

bear—baiting was also a “ sport of tradition once. If attention

 

S/mr/ and General Press Agency.
THli MORNING,S KlLl. OF IIARES AT A SOUTH OF ENGLAND
COURSING MEETING.

were paid to such arguments, we would never have advanced beyond
the barbarous days of ancient history.
Coursing is bound to evolve wanton cruelty, and——like bear-

baiting and cock—ﬁghting—it should have been condemned long ago.

(R6P7’Z'7ch’d7 5y permission from “ 7726 I [wise/30' Pirforz'a/,”
Feémary, 1935.)

‘-
A . i
.. .

 

 




 

Publications
of the

National Society for the Abolition
of Cruel Sports

THE COST OF A FOX. By Charles Oldham, F.L.S. Id.
WHO ARE THE KILL-JOYS? By Henry S. Salt. ‘ 1d.
DRAG HUNTING. By Basil Tozer. 34’. post free.

THE BEASTS THAT PERISH. A West- Country Sketch.
By A. L. Salmon. Third Edition 261. post free.

GENTL EMEN VERSUS IOX By A. P. Herbert. 1d.

WHAT SHALL IT PROFIT? The Economics of Hunting.
By H. G. Chancellor. 2d.

A-HUNTING WE WILL GO. Three poems. By Henry S.
Salt. IL].

IN ENGLAND———NOW. (Stag- huntinw a) 1d.
IN AT THE DEATH : Freeman on Cruelty 1n Sport. 1d.

ETON COLLEGE HARE-HUNT: A Protest and a
Memorial. Gratis.

THE HUNTING OF THE STAG. By Edith Ward. 351.
HARE AND HOUNDS. By Allan Monkhouse. 151.
THE CASE AGAINST COURSING. By T. E. B. Clarke. 1d.
OTTER—HUNTING. By John Tunnard. 1d.

DIGGING-OUT AND EARTH-STOPPING. By Lady
Rolleston. 251.

“Junior Series” Leaflets :
(I) What do Youngr People think about hunting
Animals?
(2) Hunting the Fox to Death.
(3) The Gentle Deer and the Gentle Men.
(4) The Coursing of Hares and Rabbits.
(5) Is-Otter-Hunting Fair Sport?
(6) The Cruelty of Shooting.

Prim la’. ear/z 07' 25 copies for Is.

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS,
4 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.I.
Information from the Secretary.

 

 

 

'London: Strangcwaz/s, Printers.

 




