 
 

WHIII' IS USED IN DIPHTHERIA IMMIINIZMIIIN

By M. Beddow Easily, M.R.C‘.S., 1.13.0.1).

Many people are undoubtedly under the' 1mpress1on that there is a uniform
method of immunization against diphtheria, and that one standard preparation
-—son1etimes loosely referred to as a serum is injected for the purpose. The
Ministry of Health 111 its intensiv e campaign all over the country to popularize
immunization has done a good deal to crea be this impression.

Indeed, the action of the Press Advertising Association in advising its
members, with the connivanCe and approval of the Ministry of Health, to
boycott a booKlet* designed to acquaint the public with the facts regarding
diphtheria immunization can hardly have been actuated other than by a desire
to suppress the truth.1

Added to this inaccurate statements by responsible persons such as
medical officers, in the Press have increased the confusion in the public mind
in regard to this matter.

The fact 1s, as the Report of the Committee of the British .Mecticat Association
on Immunization (1935) confessed. ”the immunologist has evr‘olve u an almost
bewildering multiplicity of prophylactics.’ (p. 12). A brief description of
these, including those in present— —day use, should prove of interest.

Dr. J. Tudor Lewis published in the .Medical Officer (September 23rd,
1939) a table showing-no fewer than 16 different methods and materials used
in 130 areas. He observed: ”It is not difficult to understand why the public
is slow to utilise a service, the very exponents of which are divided among them-
selves on the question of procedure.”

When diphtheria bacilli are allowed to grow in a culture—medium of beef—
broth they elaborate a poison which is called TOXIN. It is this Toxin which
is used both for the initial Schick test and as the basis of the many preparations
Which have been used for prophylactic injections.

Every batch of toxin manufactured is standardized as to its virulence by
being injected into guinea pigs. The amount which, inoculated under the
skin of a series of guinea- pigs weighing 250 grams, kills them in 4 or 5 days is
called the minimum lethal dose (M.L.D.).2

According to a brochure issued by Parke, Davis & Co. in 1935: “ The
ﬁrst product to be employed was Toxin—Antitoxin Mixture, which was used
both in this country and on the Continent until the last few years, when it
has gradually been superseded by Toxin—Antitoxin or Toxoid.”3 This was
the substance which resulted in a good many deaths and serious illnesses in
America, Australia and other parts of the world. It was, as its name indicates,
a mixture of the original toxin with antitoxic serum derived from a horse
which had been repeatedly injected with increasing doses of the toxin (i.e.
the same serum which is used in the treatment of diphtheria). Between 1913
and 1924, according to Abraham Zingher, some 14 varieties had been in use
in New York.4

“ The discarding of these toxin mixtures,” wrote Dr. J. Menton in 1935,
“ has eliminated those fatal and serious accidents which still arise on the
Continent.’ ’ 5

After T.A.T. came TOXOID, sometimes known as Formol-toxoid (F.T.),
Ramon’s toxoid, or Anatoxine. Toxoid is toxin which has been modiﬁed
by combining it with formalin in order to reduce its toxicity. According to
an article by Drs. O’Brien and Parish in 1932: “The only obstacle to the
universal use of toxoid is the tendency to cause local and general reactions
in older children.’ ’ 6

 

 

 

* The “ Schick ” Inoculation for Immunisation Against Diphtheria, obtainable‘from the
N.A.V.S., 92, Victoria Street, London, S.W.1, price 4d., post free.

 

  




So another product, TOXOID—ANTITOXIN (T.A.M.), was introduced,
which, like toxin—antitoxin, is a mixture with antitoxic serum from a horse (or
goat). Both the toxoid and the serum in the mixture, as well as the mixture
itself, are standardized by animal tests"

In order to avoid the “ reactions of the utmost severity recorded by ,
Dr. Saunders, M.0.H. for Cork, as following the inoculation of toxoid-anti—
toxin, 8 a slightly different product of the mixture of toxoid with serum, known
as TOXOID ANTITOZ {IN FLOCCUL ES was introduced. Considered the
safest of the immunizing materials up to 1937, it was in that year followed
by the death from tuberculosis of one child and the severe illness of 23 others
at Ring Irish College, Co. Waterford.

The next product to be put upon the market by the manufacturing chemists
was ALUM T OXOID, but, on account of its tendency to cause severe general
as well as local reactions, including cold. abscesses “ it has attained no popularity
for human immunization,” to quote from page 430 in Recent Advances in
Vaccine and Serum Therapy. (Fleming and Petrie, 1934).

This brings us to the latest concoction, DIPHTHERIA TOXOID ALUM—
PRECIPITATED, which was introduced, according to the makers (Mulford),
in order to overcome ‘the variability of commercial toxoid brands in general”
and avoid “ the severe reactions and the production of the anaphylactic state.”
Not to be confused with its predecessor, alum toxoid, which was just a mixture
of the two substances, it is derived from diphtheria toxoid by precipitation
with aluminium potassium sulphate.

It is the particular material for injection now being foisted pon the public
by the Ministry of Health by every means in its power, and is described in
Circular No. 319/ 1940, issued by the Department of Health for Scotland, as
“ absolutely safe.” Nevertheless, according to The Medical Officer’s com—
ments (April 4th, 1942) upon the recent investigations9 of G. S. Wilson, M.D.,
F.R.C.P., D.P.H., and his colleagues: “ The reactions following injection
appear to have been numerous. . . . . The authors believe that about half
the children developed some degree of redness or swelling at the injection site
. and occasionally the reaction was much more widespread and involved
the whole of the upper arm or even the forearm. A number of sterile abscesses
are also reported.” ,

To recapitulate the seriesT z—wToxinLAntitoxin (T.A.T.), Formol—Toxoid
(F.T.), Toxoid—Antitoxin (T.A.M.), Toxoid—Antitoxin Floccules (T.A.F.),
Alum Toxoid (A.T.), Diphtheria Toxoid Alum—Precipitated (A.P.T.), each on
its introduction claimed as the perfect prophylactic, effective and harmless,
to be discarded on account of some grave disadvantage when the next product
was ready for the market. Only the last awaits the verdict of time and
experience to expose its dangers—alas, too late then to help the millions of
children who will have been inoculated.

))

T NOTE.~On1y Toxin—Antitoxin and Toxoid—Antitoxin contain animal serum ; in T.A.F.
the serum is removed by washing the precipitate; the others are all derived from cultures
of bacteria. But they are all tested and standardized on animals.

References:
1 See Vaccination Inquirer, May—June, 1942, p. 30.
2 A Manual of Bacteriology, Hewlett, 1932, p. 297.
3 Vaccine and Serum Therapy, p. 175.
4 New York State journal of Medicine, February, 1934.
5 British Medical journal, August 10th, 1935, p. 248./
6 Lancet, July 23rd, 1932, p. 176.
7 Recent Advances in Bacteriology, 1929, J. H. Dible, pp. 338, 339.
8 Lancet, April 15th, 1933, p. 795.
9 British Medical journal, March 7th, 1942, pp. 315—320.

 

S. C. Jennings & Sons, Ltd., Redhill, Surrey—J9439

 




