LOOK OUT FOR OUR CHRISTMAS

5

‘h e W “@th E

\\_/__

Issued by the R.S.P.C.A. Caged Bird Poster Fund.
Hon. Sec. : Miss M. Bradish, 95 Park Road, Chiswick, W4.

 

No. 2. JUNE/SEPT., 1936

Quarterly ,'

(Edited by PETER SHAW BAKER
Annual Subscription 1/—, post free.

BIRD- LOVERS’ GREAT RESPONSE

SUCCESS-OF “THE WINGED MESSENGER”

“ THE'WINGED MESSENGER ” is a success. Since the issue of the ﬁrst number,
a continuous. stream of appreciative letters has been received from bird—lovers all over the
country—and abroad. A sufﬁcient number of readers has been obtained already to ensure
the continued publiCation of the journal.

 

We take the opportunity of extending our very

‘ sincere thanks to all these lovers of birds for their kind support.

We are not, however, content to rest on our achievement.
each number of the MESSENGER as interesting as
“ enjoy reading all the bird news, and the articles abo
leave out owing to lack of space.

We will try to make

ossible, but we feel sure you would
birds, whi

'We ﬁfe compelled to

.1 '1‘

' It is therefore ouiiin to secure still more new readers so that we can {nlarge the size

of the paper.

Will you help? Free specimen copies for distribution amongst your friends will gladly
be Sent on request, and an additional copy is enclosed for this purpose.

 

LORD HOWARD of PENRITH
(Patron of the Bird Fund)

writes 2-—

AY I congratulate you on the ﬁrst number
of the WINGED MESSENGER which you have
been good enough to send me.

itI will do good as an instrument of
education amongst those people who
still belieVe that the practice of keep-
ing birds in a cage is a humane and
even praiseworthy one.

I am particularly interested in your
article on page 4 about the efforts
of bird dealers to make the Protec-
tion of Birds Act, 1933, a dead letter
by close ringing adult birds which
are caught and then offered for sale.
I entirely agree with you that if this
practice is a common one, every effort
should be made to remove the ringing
Clause from the Act.

I hope that everything possible will be done to enforce the
provisions of the Act vigilantly to prevent abuses of this

kind.

HOWARD OF PENRITH.

 

I hope that

Mr.

the WINGED MESSENGER.
chronicle of this kind will be of the greatest

 

 

IMPORTANT.

The first number of THE WINGED
MESSENGER was dated January/March
1936. Owing to an unavoidable delay
it was not actually put into circulation
until June. This second number is
therefore dated June/September 1936,
but will all readers please note that they
will receive four numbers for their
shilling subscription i.e., subscriptions
will not become renewable until March,
1937. The third number will be issued
at the end of December.

 

 

ERIC PARKER
Editor of “ The Field”
writes:~—

. ET me congratulate you on the publication of

A printed

use in bringing to the notice of the pub-
lic the cruelties that still continue in the
catching and caging of wild birds, and it
will also be of service in making known
among those who engage in this trafﬁc
the fact that magistrates are deter-
mined to do all in their power to
prevent its continuance.

I hope that the MESSENGER may be
the means of bringing information from
readers who may have seen wild birds
exposed for sale, or subject to cruel
treatment of any kind ; and that it
may also ﬁnd its way into the hands
of school children and others who
thoughtlessly rob birds’ nests.

If children can be taught to study
and take an interest in bird life, we shall
have a new generation growing up in
whose minds birds will be thought of as

wild creatures to be helped in every way possible, and never
to be caged or bought and sold. I send the WINGED MESSENGER

my best wishes for a large circulation and every success in

its efforts.

ERIC PARKER.

 




 

:2.

THE WIN GED MESSENGER

~ JUNE/SEPT, 1936

 

 

THE TRADE IN LIVE QUAIL.

Methods of Capture and Transport : Ex-Governor’s Exposure
NEED FOR INTERNATIONAL .ZXC'I‘ION.~

N August 30th the Sunday Observer devoted a whole column to
0 an exposure by Major C. S. Jarvis, late Governor of Sinai, of

live quail.

the cruel methods employed in the capture and transport of.

Major Jarvis believes that if the full details of the quail trade
were known to those who enjoy them as a pure luxury dish, it is
unlikely that the demand, for them would justify the supply. ‘

The quail, he states, are captured
when they arrive, during the migratory
ﬂight in mid-August, on the North
African shores. .

The birds, ﬂying in small groups of
20 or 30, come in from the Mediterra—
nean in the ﬁrst light before sunrise,
and, being tired from the ﬂight, come
down immediately they reach the shore
and scuttle into the nearest patch of
cover.

TRAPPED.

The Arabs have several methods of
catching them. In Sinai huge trammel
nets 15 feet high are erected on poles
along the shore, and the quail, in the
half light of dawn, either do not see
them or are too weary to evade them,
and are gathered up alive and placed
in wooden crates.

In Libya the natives take advantage
of the birds’ strong migratory instinct.
Small nets are built at the southern side
of every patch of cover. The birds’ one
idea on arrival on la is iﬁst in
concealment,and the followinggnorning,
with the migratory instinct still strong
within them, they run out of cover to
the south to continue their ﬂight, and
so get caught in the nets. .

A third method, used by the Arab
children, is to ﬂush the birds from cover
and then drop a net over them.

FIGHTS TO THE DEATH.

The birds are then packed into four-
storeyed crates. The Word 5‘ packed ”
is literally true, for the compartments
are so low that the birds cannot raise
their heads above their backs, and every
inch of sp eace is utilised so that the occu-
pants have great difﬁculty in moving.

A number of the birds die from
asphyxiation and starvation. Others die as
a result of fights between the cock birds.

The crates are then, continues Major
Jarvis, carried by camel to the nearest
railway station and despatched to Port
Said or Alexandria, whence they are
shipped, still packed like sardines, to
Great Britain, France or Italy, where
“. . . people who should know better
encourage the distasteful trade by
paying a high price for the unfortunate
little victims as they repose on their last
resting place, a piece of toast.”

“ Not only is the quail trade disgust-
ingly cruel,” concludes Major Jarvis,
“ but the bird, through being netted in
this methodical fashion, is being slowly
but surely exterminated.”

In 1908 1,200,000 quail were shipped
abroad from Egyptian ports, and in
1926, though the netting activities were
intensiﬁed, the number had dropped to
500,000.

The R.S.P.C.A. has for many years
been greatly concerned about this trade,

 

 

 

 

and has been in close touch with the
Cairo S.P.C.A. on the question.

Every effort has been made to induce
the authorities to take steps in the
matter,'but the difﬁculty appears to be
that the natives depend upon quail as
an important item of their own food
supply.

The authorities have, however, agreed
to prohibit the erection of nets on Gov-
ernment land within 1,000 metres from
the seashore. .

Nearly . all the land within this
distance belongs to the Government,
and the regulation is undoubtedly
having a beneﬁcial effect in preventing
the wholesale massacre of the quail.

LEAGUE OF NATIONS COVENANT.

The real solution lies in international
action.

Now that a revision ofthe Covenant
of the League of Nations is projected,
the RﬂaP.C.A. is making every effort to
have birds and animals included in the
terms of reference.

A handbill setting out how the general
public can assist in this effort has been
prepared, and can be obtained on
request.

If this reform is secured, it will be a
great achievement, for it will pave the
way towards international agreements
to prevent many forms of abuse to birds
and animals throughout the world.

WINGED MESSENGER readers are
invited to communicate with the
R.S.P.C.A. at 105 Jermyn Street,
London, on the subject.

 

 

_ THEY MUST GO TO
PRISON.

7 A disregard of the Bird Pro-
tection Acts continues amongst
certain bird traders and catchers.
Sometimes the same men come up be-‘

fore the magistrates again and again.
During the period April lst to August

3151:, 1936,

SIXTY CONVICTIONS

were obtained in cases instituted by the
R.S.P.C.A. in respect of birds, resulting
in the imposition of fines totalling
£34 155. and costs totalling £11. s-Thir-ty-
one birds were confiscated and liberated.

Methods used to evade the law are
sometimes ingenious to a degree. In one
case the defendant alleged that he had
agreed to exchange 24 linnets for a
canary, and there was thus no “ sale ”
within the meaning of the 1933 Act.

In another case a woman dealer

. pleaded ignorance. “ I know nothing

about birds. I bought it with others
from a man. I don’t know his name or
where he lives.” Yet she has been in
business since 1918 and has two shops !

There is only one cure for these
people who steal birds’ freedom—they
must be caged themselves.

' Readers who See ANY British iwild
bird offered for sale are invited to advise
the Editor at once. ‘ '

 

 

‘0 ﬂ .
“ If I thought you were a dealer in
these wild birds, you would have had
a pretty nasty time.”——Mr. Herbert
Metcalfe, t0" a man charged with-
selling a linnet (in Club Row) con-
tarry to the Protection of Birds Act.

 

 

 

 

The School where Britain’s Caged
Birds will Learn to Fly.

LANS are well advanced for the establishment of Britain’s ﬁrst

“ ﬂying school” for captive wild birds.

As announced by

Frances, Countess of Warwick in the last issue of the WINGED,
MESSENGER, caged English wild birds will be trained to ﬂy and fen

 

 

“ Last year I took some fifty Japanese
artisans from the Shepherd’s Bush to
the parks. They were awfully
amazed to see the birds in the parks
so tame to come to our shoulders and
hands. Some of the Japanese ex-
claimed, , This is the revelation of the
real civilisation ! ’ ” — YOSHIO
MARKING, in “ My Idealed John
Bullesses.”

 

 

for themselves in the natural state prior
to being liberated ‘

A huge open—air aviary will also be
provided for rescued foreign birds which
cannot be released. .

As soon as the plans are complete, a
notification will be issued announcing
the location, and the date on which the
school will be ready to receive its first
pupils. . .

An ofﬁcial Appeal Fund will then be
opened for the £ 300 required to build
and maintain the school through the
initial stages.

A number of advance donations for
this Fund have already been received,
and will be acknowledged in detail in a
later issue of this journal.




JUNE/SEPT., 1936

 

THE WINGED MESSENGER 3

 

FiiliiNDs 0F BIRDS—No. 1.

In a Quiet Berkshire Garden.

E sat in the we1~

these bird guests of hers, and

 

come shade of a
leafy bower. A

sense of serene peace
and quietness prevaded. The
gentle breeze—warm against
the cheek—came to us laden
with the scents of summer——
the perfume of sweet—smelling
ﬂowers, of grass, of trees, and
of the earth.

Through a rose-covered
archway we could glimpse a
stretch of well trimmed lawn,
with a small ornamental pond
in its centre, and bordered by
gay ﬂower—beds.

Here, in this idyllic setting
in a quiet Berkshire garden,
we sat and listened whilst a
busy woman who has to spend
ﬁve days of the week at work
in the West End of London,
told us how she is yet able to
ﬁnd time to be a true friend
to many birds and animals in
distress.

.. * * *

A few yards away, in an
aviary built in a verandah
running the length of the
house, a dozen birds ﬂuttered
to and fro, their brightly-

 

 

——rather surprisingly—start-
ed whistling loudly.

In a few seconds some two
dozen sparrows came ﬂutter-
ing over the tree—tops from all
directions. Her whistles an—
nounced their tea-time, and
they came quickly in answer.

* >l< *

With them came “ Trou-
sers,” a thrush so named by
Mrs. Kennedy on account of
the feathers on his legs, one
of which is minus a foot.
is... He was found in this muti—
lated condition, and quite
exhausted, in a neighbouring
garden, and brought to Mrs.
Kennedy.

Her careful nursing soon
restored his vitality, and in
due course she decided to
release him.

That was three years ago.
Ever since, he has remained
faithful to her, and comes
daily for his tit—bit: In spite
of his disability, he manages
to get along very well, hop-
ping about on his one remain-
ing foot, with the stump of
the other tucked under his
wing.

 

 

 

c‘oloured plumage ﬂashing in
the sunlight.
There were two Scarlet

Bishops, a Pekin Robin, a here, We only ask to live with you, In this green garden too.”

Canary, two Cut Throat

Finches, two Blue Cordons, two Gold
and one Green Finch, and two Scarlet
Admirals. Each has been rescued from
a wretched life in some tiny cage,
measuring only a few inches either
way. Here they have space to ﬂy,
companionship, air, and sunlight.

“ Believe me, Birds, you need not fear, N o cages or limed twigs are

The great—hearted woman (she would
like to rescue every caged bird in
the country) who has given them anew
home is Mrs. Kennedy.

She has had as many as 30 rescued
birds at a time in her aviary.

She suddenly left off telling us about

Two dogs and a tortoise
also enjoy the hospitality of
Mrs. Kennedy’s happy home.
All three are “ rescue ”cases
-——but that is another story.

We came away with gratitude in
our hearts that there are ‘to—day such
people as this wondcrful woman who,
quietly, efﬁciently and unostentatious-
ly, make it their business to help
unhappy birds and animals.

P. S. B.

 

DON’T BUY CAPON S.

To the Editor, The Winged Messenger.
SIR, ' I
Will you permit me, please, to introduce to your

Welcome new protection of birds periodical, the

gum facts of a wretchedly cruel practice, viz. :
the caponizing of cockerels.

I trust you, Sir, will ever keep this practice ventilated in
your columns, and that the fruits of your efforts will be a
speedy entry of all fowls and birds under the protection of the
Animals (Anaesthetics) Act, 1919.,

For the beneﬁt of the uninitiated, may I quote a few only
of the sickening details of the preparation for the operation,
as given by Helen Molyneux, in her advocacy of this vile
practice, in the Farmers Weeth of June let, 1935.

First we read : “ . .Vthe selected cockerels must be
thoroughly starved . . starve the birds from 36 to 48 hours
and keep without water for 24 hours.” A caponizing board
or table, and ” a sharp pointed, thin-bladed knife, a pair of
removers, and a probe or hook, and a spreader ” are necessary.

“ The cockerels can then be fastened tight against the board
by looping string weighted with half bricks round the legs and
over the nails. Another piece of string holds the raised wings.
The weight of the half bricks keeps the bird ﬁrmly in position
so that it cannot struggle during the operation.”

Helen Molyneux describes the operation as “ simple ” and
immediately adds : “ . there is little risk with experts, but
beginners may kill a few.”

 

“ A few feathers may be plucked if in the way and small
feathers damped down over the ribs where the cut is made.
The skin over the last two ribs is then drawn to the left and
held there by the left thumb. A cut is then made between
the last two ribs downwards about half to one inch from the
backbone. A clean cut, one to one and a—half inches in length,
should be made with the knife point, to the depth of a quarter
to half an inch, with one downward stroke and not a series of
small jabs.

“ The beginner will have to make a larger opening than the
expert, in order to see clearly.”

All this is only the preliminary to the actual operation, details
of which are too sickening to give here, but which can be found
in the article in the “ Farmers Weekly ” mentioned above.

It is hard to believe that the writer is a woman. Personally,
I have never read anything more disgusting or more callous.
I do sincerely hope that no effort will, be spared to make this

vile thing illegal. If anyone doubts the utter frightfulness of
it, I beg him to read the article I have quoted.

Yours, etc.,

ALFRED BRISCO.
Blackwell, Carlisle.
18th August, 1936.

( The Editor would welcome any information or comments on
this subject from readers residing in rural districts, particularly
from those near large poultry farms.)

 

 




THE WINGED MESSENGER

p

JUNE/SEPT, 1936

 

Rabbit Traps Claim 1, 800, 000 Birds Every Year.
MUTILA TED LEGS AND WINGS.

The steel—toothed traps are at
work again. Throughout the

trapplng areas the squeals of
tortured rabbits make the nights
hideous.

It 15 not always realised, though, that
iche traps also take a terrible toll of bird

ife.

Dr. A. H. B. Kirkman, writing in
“ Man versus Rabbit” (published by
the University of London Animal
Welfare Society), estimates that at least
1,800,000 bird victims are caught every
year.

Capt. 'W. H. Buckley, Master of the
Carmarthenshire Foxhounds, states that
out of six partridges shot in one day,
three had only one leg.

A professional trapper in Devonshire
kept a careful record of three seasons’
trapping. Birds listed are: (1931-32)
200, (1932—33) 240, (1933-34) 312. Yet
there is a law forbidding traps to be set
in the open !

There is only one cure—the abolition
of the gin.

 

Empty Cages : a Bradford F ancier’s Lament-

EFFECT OF BAN

PILE of dusty
cages stood in a

WILD BIRDS.

ON SALE OF

hard winter frosts. There are,
people in Bradford who have
kept linnets for 20 years.

 

corner of the

shop—cages meant to
house linnets, larks, chaf—
ﬁnches. . . .

With a gloomy eye upon
them, the Bradford fanciers’
tradesman began his tale of
woe. Leaning across a coun-
ter half—barricaded with pac—
kets of canary food, sacks of
dog meal, and cards of
distemper powders, he warm-

 

This article first appeared in the “
Argus ” of September 8th last, and is reprinted here by
courtesy of the Editor, to whom we extend our thanks. '

In granting permission for the reprint, the Editor of the
Telegraph and Argus added, “. . .
work which we do on behalf of birds and animals.”
indeed refreshing to meet with an Editor of an important
daily journal who holds such a broad and advanced outlook
regarding animal welfare.

Yorkshire readers of the Winged Messenger are invited to
give their support to the Bradford Telegraph and Argus.

Bradford Telegraph and

we are very proud OfItthi: dealing with the reaction

ButIhave yet to hear of a
wild bird surviving beyond
the three- -year mark.”

He spoke scornfully of the
confusion of thought when

of birds to captivity. Bird,
lovers usually credited birds
with almost the same sensir
tiveness to pain as humans.
It was ridiculous: absurd
sentimentalism to credit 3.

 

 

ed to his arguments.

“ There’s no sense in the law, I tell
you. A bird in captivity is happier
than any wild bird. It’s all wrong that
thousands of people should be thrown
out of jobs because unthinking senti—
mentalists have managed to get a law
through Parliament. . .

The public may have already for-
gotten the passing about a year ago of
Lord Buckmaster’ 5 Bill, which prohibits
the sale of wild birds But not my
fancier behind the counter. His cash
desk reminds him too forcibly of the
fact every time he opens the drawer.

STOCK WHICH IS SCRAP.

I listened to his tale, and kept
criticism to myself.

“ I reckon I have £ 100 worth of linnet
mixture and chafﬁnch food on them
shelves,” he says. “ It is just so much
scrap now. I used to sell two or three
gross of bird’s drinking glasses a week :
I don’t sell half a dozen a month now.
I always get through several cwt. of
wasp cake in a year : the insectivorous
birds liked it. But that trade also has
gone into thin air. There’s a small
demand from anglers, and nothing
more.”

 

 

 

 

And had I ever thought about the
indirect effects of that law? Did I
know that wire makers, net makers,
timber mechants and a host of others
felt the draught when that Bill went
through Parliament into law ?’ Even
the railways had lost a substantial
amount of freight because there were
no longer supplies of cages to carry.
Who would believe that he used to spend
hundreds of pounds a year in printing
on packets of bird food and the like ?
That had all dropped off.

“And I am only one of many.
Directly and indirectly throughout the
country thousands of people have been
thrown out of work,” went on the
fancier.

And all because Wild birds were given
their freedom. How could the law be
so blind in its idealism !

CAGED BIRDS ’ SE CURITY.

The fancier tapped the head of a pet
fox terrier on the counter, to emphasise
his arguments.

“ A caged bird is fed regularly, and
is safe in the worst of weather. Com—
pare its lot with the wild bird, which is

slaughtered by birds of prey, or dies in

bird with such a high mental
level.

OTHER SIDE OF THE PICTURE.

But I knew I had not heard all the
story when I left the shop. My mind
went back to a bird—catcher (the new
law robbed him of a proﬁtable spare-
time occupation) whom I met in
Wharfdale one morning. He carried
half a dozen miserable bullﬁnches in a
hooded cage : he had caught them with
a decoy bird, whose call notes had lured
them on to twigs “ doctored ” with bird
lime.

The plumage of the ﬁnches was
hopelessly clogged with the terribly
sticky lime. But the catcher cheerfully
soused them in petrol and packed them
off to Leeds market.

Was there, then, no cruelty in birda
catching, as the fancier would have me
believe 2’

T. H.

 

 

Help the R.S.P.G.A. to make

ALL CAGES EMPTY-
and
KEEP THEM EMPTY

 

Broad and Co.. Printers, High Road, Chiswick. WA

 




BERT, the London Sparrow

sends Christmas Good Wishes, and again begs you to help his imprisoned brothers
by sendmg all sorts of lovely goods to be sold at the stalls of the R.S.P.C.A. Caged
Bird Poster Fund at the following events 2——

On Saturday, November 28th, at
TH E ANIMALS’ FAIR

at the Central Hall, Westminster.

On Wednesday, December 2nd,
Bert has two stalls at the

KINGSTON R.S P.C.A. FAIR
at the Baths Hall, Kingston-on-Thames,

and also at

UNITED CHARITIES CHRISTMAS FAIR

Hyde Park, Hotel
On Saturday, December 5th, at

THE HOME SALE

at 95 Park Road, Chiswick
BERT asks especially for

Useful things to wear—warm woollies, jumpers, stockings, etc. (ppeferably not
baby clothes).

Nice things to eat—cakes, sweets, jam, honey, eggs, butter.
Christmas cards and calendars. Anything for household use.
Afternoon tea cloths, duchesse sets, and all sorts of linen goods.
Handkerchiefs. Toys. .
1/- UP TO £1,000 TOWARDS THE STALLS GRATEFULLY RECEIVED I
Please send all gifts to his Secretary :
Miss M. BRADISH, 95 Park Road, Chiswick, London, W4.

BERT THANKS YOU IN ADVANCE.

‘A

TO AID THE “FLYING SCHOOL"

Book of Bird Poems at bargain price.

A special offer is made to readers of the Winged Messenger of copies of “ Red Clover ”
at the greatly reduced price of 3/6. The book contains 73 charming poems by M. M. Johnson
—-by whose generosity this offer is made—many of them about birds.

Mr. Arthur Waugh, in a Foreword to the book, says :

“ Sympathy with the call of Nature, with the sweet, pathetic succession of
the seasons, with all the ‘ helpless forms of fur and wings,’ that beat themselves
against prison bars, or lift to our own aching eyes the pitiful, mute appeal of a love
that can no longer outstay the summons of death—these are simple, natural deeply
communicable themes, which never lose their charm, nor waste their message.
They are to be found here in fresh abundance, expressed, or so it seems to me, with
a sincere simplicity which is irresistible and with an absence of artiﬁce which is the
very secret of art.”

A limited number of copies only are available, and early application is advised.

 

Broad and 00.. Printers. Chiswick 25/9/36

 




 




