EUMANE WORK

GERMAN AUSTRIAN SWEDISE AND
AMERICAN BACTERIOLOGISTS:

 

 

THE following extracts are taken from German,
American, and English journals. The larger
number appeared in the New York Journal and
A dvertiser .—

EXPERIMENTS ON .PAUPER WOMEN AND BABIES.

The Gé7man Medical TV eelcly (Deutsche Medicinische
lVo ochenschrift), Nos. 46, 47, and 48 (1894), printing the
Reports of Dr. K. Menge, assistant at the University
Hospital for Women, in Leipsic, on experiments with
pyogenic bacteria on thirty- ﬁve pauper women, says: ,.

“ The bacteria I used 1n my eighty experiments on thirty- .
ﬁve different patients of the Royal Institute were taken either
from diseased mammary glands , from the discharges of
recently conﬁned women suffering from puerperal fever;
or from cultivations I had made from the pus in- the
abdominal cavity of a person who had died of peritonitis.
All the bacteria planted were capable of taking root and
ﬂourishing’

Then follows a medical discussion of Doederlein’ s method,
which the author says can be easily discredited:

.‘.‘ My experiments on new born babies (girls) disproved
the correctness of the professor' s deductions. Unfortunately .
I could get. only three babies to experiment on. TheseI took 1
immediately after. birth. They were not bathed, but at once
wrapped up in sterile linens andcarried to my laboratory. ,_

 




 

2

I inoculated these subjects with very considerable quantities
of staphylococci. ”

Dr. B. Kroenig, another assistant at the Leipsic University
Clinic, reports that he has made similar experiments on
eighty- -two pauper Women who were awaiting conﬁnement in
the Royal Institute mentioned, above. He desired to observe
whichNWas athe-"surest'way of breeding purulent bacteria.

FOUNDmNGs CHEAPER THAN ANIMALS:

Dr. Jansen, of the ‘Charity‘I-Iospital in S'tockholm,'reported
as follows on the 12th May, 1891, in a Lecture to the
Medical Society Of Stockholm: —

,_ “When I began my experiments with black smallpox
pus, I should, perhaps, have chosen animals for the
purpose. But the most ﬁt subjects, calves, were obtainable
0111.3??th considerablecost. There was, besides, the costof
their keep, so I concluded to make my experiments upon the
children of the Foundlings’ Home, and obtained kind
perm1ss10n to do so from the head physician, Prefessor
Medin. .
'" “I selected fourteen children, who were inoculated day
after day Afterward I discontinued them, and uSed calves.
I did not continue my eXperiments on calves long,

once because I despaired of gaining my ends within a,

limited period, and again because the calves were so
expensive. I intend, however, to go back to my experiments
in the Foundling Asylum at some future time.

: INJECTED GERMS OF CONSUMPTION.

The .German. Medinal Weekly, No.8, p 306 volume for

1891, contains the following:

-“- I am serry to say that it is very difficult to obtain
subjects for. such experiments. There are, of. couise, plenty
of-hea‘llﬁhy childremin" consumptive families,“ but‘fthe’ parents 1
are not‘rzalways'vVilling to give‘them up Finally, ‘I'gbt' 'a "1
little: boy for" the purpose. ”The ixtreatment .tO‘jwhichj I

 




 

 

3

subjected him: was'jto bea sort of punishment for’ some slight
bit. of . naughtiness of JWhichIheihad‘lbeeniguiltyiats'home. '. I-
had . been entreating' the parents to! let‘m‘e havefthe boy for?
some: time, but the father relented only- when 'ther‘little one
deserved? punishment.‘ He said to him-:7 " NOW, you
shall be inoculated- He will stand it, for he is healthy
enough;’.. ‘ ' i ' '

“ My patient was very susceptible to the poison. After I
gave him an injection of one milligramme, the most intense
fever seized him. It lasted three or four days , [one of the
glands of the Jaw and the small cervical gland, which 111 its
normal state 1s only as big as a pea, swelled up enormously.
I cannot yet say whether the boy will be consumptive in
consequence of my treatment. ” '

PLANTING EURUNCLES.

The Deutsc/ws Volksblatt publishes the rep01t of Dr.
Schimmelbusch, in Halle, who was much interested in the.
nature of the furuncle or malignant boil, an inﬂammatory 1
tumour with a centre core.

“In the Royal University Clinic for Diseases of, the
Ear, Dr. Schimmelbusch discovered a boy who he thought
had only a few days more to live. The doctor took a *
quantity of bacteria about the size of a pea cultivated from
a furuncle in the-ear of a little girl and rubbed this on
the calf of the boy’s leg. The doctor did not inject it,‘
but simply rubbed it into the skin. Next morning Dr.
Schimmelbusch was much pleased to notice ﬁfteen pustules
on the spot.

“ The boy, who had previously been a sufferer from blood
poisoning, did not die as the doctor had anticipated, but re-n.
covered rapidly from his original diseases, and one week after
the inoculation described he was declared out of danger. But
by this time the pustules had developed into full sized furuncles.
At the end of a month the boy died of a malignant growth ‘
of furuncles. ' ‘

 




 

4

Dr. Schimmelbusch reports a similar experiment made" on.
a young man eighteen years old, who was also a sufferer
from blood poisoning. 'Into this patient the‘doctor planted
the entire corruptive matter of a full sized furuncle. ' Next:
morning ﬁfty pustules appeared, but twenty-four ~hou’rslater
the patient died,to the disappointment of the experimenter,
and Dr. Schimmelbusch adds: ‘I learned nothing by this
investigation.’ ”

DR. WENTWORTH’S CRUELTIES.

The Philadelphia Polyclinic, commenting on Dr. Went-
worth’s experiments on Boston children, says :—

“ Recent. numbers of the Boston Medical and Surgical
Journal contain a paper recording some experiments made
on infants to determine whether lumbar puncture of the
subarachnoid space is dangerous.

“ The article in question had been read, the author tells
us, before two medical societies, and recounts how on more
than forty occasions he tapped experimentally the spinal
canal of infants whose symptoms presented no indication for
such a surgical procedure. (Apparently the two Medical
Societies passed no condemnatiOn on the proceedings.) ,

“ He justiﬁes this experimental Vivisection by saying:
‘ The diagnostic value of puncture of the subarachnoid
space is so evident that I considered myself justiﬁed in
incurring some risk in order to settle the question of its

’7,

danger.

TRANSPLANTING EYE DISEASE.

On page 87 of volume V. of the April number of-Moilerii
Medicine and Bacteriological Review, of Battle Creek, Mich.,
is the following about an experiment on the ball of the eye :

“ Dr. Bach has recently obtained by experiments on both
men and animals phlyctenular inﬂammation of the eye by
inoculation with staphylococcus. pyogenes aureus, using a
Small lancet. The disease set up is entirely analogous to

 




 

5

eczema of the skin,— and 1s produced 1n the Same Way. Bach'-
Was of the opinion that these germs cannot obtain 'a footho1d
in the eye except as they lodge upon a raW surface, the
resistance 0f Which 1s, of course, greatly lowered ” ” '

. ' TORTURING INSANE PATIENTS

The medical staﬂ" of the Public Insane Asylum 1n voralberg,“
Austria, in the published 1eport on experiments on insane
patients in 1890 With various poisons, among Others With,
Hyoscyamine sulphate, Says:

“ Results: Painful swelling of the spot where the injection
had been made, the swelling lasting a week or longer;
difﬁculty of breathing, inability to swallow, tOrturing dryness
in mouth and throat, unquenchable thirst, sleep reduced to
one or one and a half hours, terrible pains during the night,
loss of appetite, loss of ﬂesh.

“ While we generally did not experience much difﬁculty;
when inoculating patients, they fought like wild men when;
an injection of Hyoscyamine sulphate was threatened. Many
also asked the doctors on their bended knees to rather let
them die than inject them with this awful medicine.”

 

The above statements, taken mainly from the New
York Journal and Advertiser, were in several cases
also reported in the London Morning Leader last ’
January, and in the Star. In the former paper
(January 25th) the Vienna Correspondent wrote as I
follows: -—

VIENNA, Tuesday (24th January).

The Dentsches Vol/csblati; continues to-day its revelations
concerning human vivisection and the general maltreatment
of patients in Vienna hospitals. '

It gives numerous cases where dangerous operations "were
performed. simply to give the surgeons valuable experience.

 




 

6

Many cases ended fatally, while in others the victims were
maimed for life. - 4-

Eighty cases are cited Where young children betWeen the.

ages of eight and ﬁfteen were inoculated With contagious
diseases for experimental purposes. A similar outrage was
committed on a large number "of Women" "about to become
mothers whereby their innocent oﬁ‘spring were cursed by a
certain terrible disease from the moment of their birth.

The number of human victims mentioned runs into
hundreds, and the Volksblatt demands the suppression of
these barbarous practices.

And again on the following day, Wednesday, 25th,

the same Correspondent wrote: —

"I have made further investigations regarding the treatment ,

of patients in hospitals here. I ﬁnd that the doctors in
institutions where the inmates are received free of charge

have been in the habit of systematically experimenting on,
helpless invalids entrusted to their charge. They kept,

records of the experiments, and circulated them privately in.
medical circles. ‘ ‘

Some of these records fell into the hands of people outside
the privileged circle, and were found to contain particulars
of dangerous experiments on newly- -born children, enceinte
women, and dying patients. -

It 1s certain that Dr. Gross took bacilli from the decompos-‘

ing corpse of a patient who died from an infectious disease,

and injected them into 35 women and three new-born
babes, who were taken into the experimenting chamber .-

almost immediately after birth. The result of this experiment,
unfortunately, is not given.
The same Correspondent added next day :—

VIENNA, Thursday, 26th January, 1899.

.I have seen to—day a number of hospital doctors with a
View to hearing their ”answers to the charges brought against

 

 

 




 

 

7

them. I did not, however, obtain a direct denial that the
dangerous experiments had been practised on patients.

One distinguished surgeon said : “ Of course, these things
may be carried too far, but I think you Will ﬁnd in most free
hospitals that patients are made use of in the cause of
science. Tests must be made on somebody, and patients
in charity hospital are generally the only available subjects.
I think you will ﬁnd this kind of thing is carried on in
Berlin and Paris, and ALSO IN LONDON.”—-—Morning
Leader correspondent.——(Star, January 27th, 1899.)

 

MORAL.

The above instances of inhuman cruelty to men,
women and helpless infants are re-printed as a
commentary on the hypocritical defence oﬂered in
England for the Vivisection of Animals ;——nam‘ely,
that it is always done from pure devotion to
humanity and because the tender-hearted Vivisectors
suﬂer so acutely from witnessing the diseases of men,
women and children, that they are driven to torture
dogs and horses and rabbits to ﬁnd out remedies.
When the satisfaction of SCIENTIFIC CURIOSITY is in
question we now see that the agony or life-long misery
of man or child is no longer of any consequence in
their eyes; and the cruelty which has been whetted
by the vivisection of brutes is gratiﬁed on hapless
human beings.

 

Printed for the BRITISH UNION, 20, Triangle, Bristol, by
PEWTRESS & 00., 28, Little Queen Street, London, W.C.

 




 




