Ninety~one

 

 

M 0 (11' c 27

“Love Among The Snows ”

Love awoke one Winter’s night,

And wandered through the sno-Wbound land,
And calling to the beasts and birds,

Bid them his mess-cge understand.

And from the forest all Wild things,

That crept or ﬂew obeyed Love’s call,

And learned from him the golden words,
Of brotherhood for one and all.

 

 




 

Page Ninety~two

 

r—w

CRUEL SPORTS

STOP THE ANIMAL TOR TURERS

December, l934

 

Are You Helping The Crusade Against Cruelty P

If not, Begin To-day.

T/ie L.P.C.S. Needs Your Help

“ Every August, since it was launched, the League for the Prohibition of Gruel Sports

has waged a campaign to expose and abolish the cruelties of Exmoor stag hunting.

Winter it campaigns against the
out money.

Each

cruelties of fox-hunting. Neither can be done with-
Where its opponents spend a pound the League can spend only a' shilling.

Assist its campaign by responding generously to the League’s Appeal for funds. Do it

NOW.

Send what ever you can afford to-day-_.”

 

In making this appeal to the members and
friends of the League for ﬁnancial help the
League’s Executive feel sure that the response
will be a generous one, when the reader under-
stands from this short article some of the
cruelties on which unceasing War is waged, and
of the plucky campaign carried on in spite of
the tremendous handicap of slender resources.

So far as their resources allow them nothing
is forgotten or left out by the League’s Execu-
tive, their campaign is prosecuted vigorously
against every phase of the welter of heedless sel-
ﬁsh cruelty for pleasure which has become part
and parcel of the tireless orgy of debasement and
desecration in which idle barbarians of. this
land delight to wallow. Indeed there are signs
that the persistence of the League’s campaign,
which incidentally has forced the question of
blood sports to be one of the public questions of
the day, has not failed to have its effect on those
against whom it is principally directed.

There is plain evidence of this in their peculiar
reactions to the campaign of the League. Take
the recent meeting held by the League to protest
against stag-hunting, at Lynton as an example.
Possibly because they felt themselves unable to
resist the plea of reasoned argument the stag—
hunters stayed away, though some of them sent
their grooms to interrupt and try to foment dis-
turbance at the meeting. In this they were un-
successful but it is curious to observe their re-
actions to a reasoned plea put forward by Mr.
Edwin More, a member of the League’s Execu-
tive, who spoke: at the meeting, for the abolition
of the incidents of wanton cruelty involved in the
deer-hunting on Exmoor. Mr. More contended
there was an alternative to all this killing busi-
ness to- be found in the drag-hunt. As for the
deer they could be kept in hand with
decency and dispatch by keepers properly
instructed in the use of a riﬂe. During
the late War, Mr. More pointed out, there ‘was no
hunting and the deer were dealt with in this way.

Cutting out the killing did not appeal to the
hunters’ grooms at the meeting, but observe how

the plea is received by Lord Poltirnore, a member
of the Devon and Somerset Hunt Committee,
who is an educated man, and a peer of the realm.

At Exford Horse Show, one of the usual
stumping pitches for stag-hunt orators, Lord
I’oltimore went out of his way to refer to Mr.
More’s suggestions. Failing to quote from the
speech correctly, Lord I’oltimore said: “ I
can tell him this, that if there were drag-
hunting it would reduce employment so far as
hunting is concerned by at least a quarter.” Lord
I’oltimore added, “ He recommended that hunt-
ing should be stopped and the deer dispatched
with what he calls efﬁciency. I suppose he meant
to shoot them. We all know that shooting deer
with a shot gun is cruel in the extreme. The
only other method is to use a rifle. If I were to
take a rifle and take pot shots at deer, say on
Barton Heath, I might shoot one or more of my
tenants, and if I missed them I should probably
get the best bullock.”

There is no need to carry this nonsense fur-
ther, enough has been quoted to reveal ﬁrstly that
Lord Poltimore clearly admits that the main
reason for hunting is that those who do it, do so
because they enjoy the lust of killing something,
and secondly if he is as wretched a marksman as
he would have his audience of farmers believe,
he is not ﬁt to be trusted with a gun of any sort.

What however is most closely illustrated is
the type of mentality that the League campaign
is directed against. The same stunted mental
outlook which is unable to appreciate the capacity
for feeling physical pain in any being but them-
selves is found equally in the fox-hunter, as it is
in the stag-hunter.

Fox-hunting this winter will be countered by
the League with a campaign which it is hoped
will be so vigorous that the country will ring
with the exposure of the diabolical cruelties it
involves.

The League’s appeal is to you; to help on this
work. Campaigns need money, and the more
money the bigger the ﬁght. Please help all you
can by making your donation as large as possible.

 

 

 

 

 

- «of-v




 

 

 

 

December, l 934

¥

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Ninety~ﬁve

 

IN MEMORIAM :
CA THERINE GRE VILLE

The death of Catherine Greville removes an
’unostentatious bulwark against the surging sea
of animal cruelties.

Vulnerable was her wide and tender heart to
all forms of distress; the sufferings of the most
forlorn tremblers under Life’s lash mainly pierced
her soul. The abuses wreaked on animals were
a perpetual “hair-shirt” to her, and their mitiga-
‘tio-n became the paramount objective of her keen
sympathies and energies.

She was no vague sentimentalist, but a com-
bined idealist-realist: her sighs being schemes;
her tears vows.

Memory is the only Paradise from which we
can never be turned out and I recall now with
a proud if poignant thrill my years of privileged
friendship With this rare soul.

She and another marvellous woman, the late
Mrs. Ada Poole, with myself, were a trio of chums
now shattered by the Great Demolisher, but I
am thankful for the “largesse” of fond recollec-
'tion.

 

 

 

 

 

Undoubtedly she took things—~successes or
failures—tremendously to heart. Her familiar
face and rapt expression often portrayed this
intensity.

She was, however, no pessimist, and could
throw herself with almost girlish relish and en-
joyment into any expedition, etc.. the last one
we took together being to inspect the new
Animals’ Boarding House at Thames Ditton.

If one can ev er discriminate in the attitude of
a four-square humanitarian, I should say the
three aspects of the Animal Movement in Which
she was most passionately interested were
sequentially: Vegetarianism,——the basic reform
as she saw it. the prohibition of cruel sports and
work for hapless animals abroad.

I well remember our Visit to the present editor

 

 

of L.P.C.S. (when the League was in an
embryonic state) at York House, Kingsway, and
her graceful insertion into his hand of a sub-
stantial cheque. She ﬂushed with pleasure at
my subsequent congratulations, for, although her
modesty savoured of the inferiority complex, she
liked appreciation; it encouraged her so, she said.

She loved and she served——thoroughly——and
she has earned her glorious promotion and the
blessing of the merciful. She has forged the
bridgeless river, and traversed the covered way
leading to dazzling light.

Brave Comrade and Saint, unsaid,
Hail and Farewell!

 

unsung ;

M. DUDLEY WARD.

 

 

DECOY BIRD CRUELTY

In our October issue we directed attention to
what seems to be a growing evil in shooting
crows. \Ve refer to the huge decoy traps set up
on Salisbury Plain and other places to lure rocks
and other birds to their destruction.

The Field returns to- the subject in its issue
of November 8rd, where it illustrates an article
by Major C. B. Wlainwright, showing how the
trap looks and explaining its construction and
how it works.

A large trap, it is said, is essential; i.e. one
about 12 feet square and 6 feet high, and they
are best made of wire—netting. It can be station-
ary or movable. It should be placed within 100
or 200 yards of a wood or trees where crows
roost, and the ‘sportsman’ should, of course, be
in position when they return home at night.

From a hole in the roof a funnel about 4 feet
square at the top and tapering to about 2ft. at
the bottom is suspended in the middle of the
cage so that it is about a foot clear of the ground.
Perches of branches are placed inside and
about 4ft. from the ground. '

\Vith regard to the decoys it is recommended
to cut their wings to prevent them getting
out. Certain agents supply decoys—rocks,
crows, jackdaws, magpies, etc., and all these
birds we are told. live “happily together” in
their prison.

Thus the cupidity and the cruelty of man in-
vents new ways of exploiting the creatures of
the wild, to his own selﬁsh pleasure, and the
contempt of the mass of his kindlier fellow men.

As this is not a case of keeping down birds
which may be destroying seeds and young plants,
but of the sheer lust of killing for pleasure, we
shall be glad if our readers will keep us informed
of any crow—traps of the kind they may hear or
read about so that the matter may be exposed
in the press and an agitation promoted for the
protection of the victims.

 




Page Ninety~six C R U E L S P O R T S December, I934

’ The League Fer The Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

lOl, Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l. Phone: Victoria 8496.

 

Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALDSON. Secretary—4'. C. SHARP.

 

— ' Kora-Presidents—
LADY CLARE ANNESLEY. GERALD GOULD, Esq. ' ' F. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, ESQ-

SIR HERBERT BARKER DAME LOUISA INNES LUMSDEN. HENRY W- NEVINSON, ESQ-
MISS MARJORIE BOWEN, F-RoSOC-Lit-i LL.D. (Edinburgh). BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
ALD. 1U. CONWAY, J.P. “ 1) ’OTT E
(EX-Pres, Nat. Un. 'I‘chrs.). LADY EMILY LUTYENS. . LDEN HILLI S, sq.
CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). DONALD MACLEOD. Esq. PERCY A- SCHOLES) ESQ-
G. P. GOOOH, D.Litt. (Ex-Mbr. Brit. Olympic 01.). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE-

 

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR ‘

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport———‘c pleasure ”! _

IT CONDEMNS fOX deer, hare, and otter-hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “Blood Sports Condemned”)

IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds without the cruelty. ( See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting”) '

IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation (See
leaﬂet “Blooded.”) '

 

 

AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application
to the Secretary. We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Socrety, Church
Group, etc., if out-of-pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also
available.

 

JOIN THE LEAGUE.

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

I enclose herewith* ............................ .. ............
State .
Whether ’ loo ...... coo ..... oeoooo oooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
Mr., Mrs., ....... . ......... . ........... . .................. ................ ......
or Miss.

’5/- per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthly. Without the Journal, 2/6. Life Members {5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L.P.C.S.. IOI, Chandos House, Westminster, S.W.I.

 

FORM OF BEQU EST.

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :—

I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OP CRUEL SPORrs, London, the sum '

of .............................. free of Legacy L‘uty. And I direct that the same shall be paid to the
Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society.

 

 

By virtue of the Act. of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and E
attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

BRIGHTON.__Idea,1 Boarding Establishment, pure BUDLEIGH SALTERTON, the Coastal Gem of South Devon-

- - Superior Board Residence. Bedrooms with h. and c.
generous varied dlet’ Bedrooms 11' and c. water, gas running water, varied and attractive food. Adequate
ﬁres, good garden, central, near Sea, and Downs, mclu- vegetarian meals if desired—Mr. and Mrs. Lonsdale
sive terms—Tariff: Mr. and Mrs. Massingham, 16 and Wormald, “Mountway.”

17. Norfolk Terrace. ' WANTED, STAMPS in use before 1880.__SeWell, 51, Lan~

BEAUTIFUL BUTTERMERE.__Victoria Golf Hotel. Season

caster Gate, London.

terms £4/4/-, Swiss balconies 10/ 6d. extra. (Quiet HUMANE FUR! (fabric).__104, George Street, W.1., Wele
perlods 75 per cent.) beck 7257.

Small prepaid advertisements are inserted at the rate of ltd. pe

g

r wo‘rd per insertion or 2/6d. per line for twelve

insertions and they should be received at the ofﬁce by the 15th of the month for the following month’s issue.

Published by the LEAGUE FOB. TH_E PROHIBITION 0F CRUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
Westminster, S.W.1; and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS, LTD., Bond Gate. Nuneaton.

 

 

 

 

 

h-ﬂ-‘.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

December, 1 934

 

CRUEL SPORTS

Page N inety~three

 

 

P UPROAR AT HARE-HUNTING MEETING"

Local Harriers refuse to allow our Speakers fair hearing.
They sang “john Peel” and left the room.

Lively scenes were witnessed at a meeting
in Chapel-en—le-Frith, on November 2nd, called
.to protest against hare hunting. Chapel and
Buxton Foot Harriers were present in force, also
members of the High Peak Hunt.

The Rev. J. R. Towers, M.A. (Vicar of Chinley)
presided, and said the meeting was the ﬁrst of
its kind to be held there. It was non-political
and non-religious. It was not a question of opin-
ions, but of understanding the facts. As this
was an educational meeting, he did not think
any useful purpose would be served by any reso-

lutions. But he would allow questions at the
proper time.
Mr. Arthur Middleton, secretary to the

Humane Education Society, spoke of the aims
of education. \Vhen they spoke of the rights of
animals, they were frequently told it was senti—
ment, and the subject was dismissed. He was
not in the least ashamed of that, because history
told him that many of the greatest movements
for the betterment of mankind had been inspired
by a noble sentiment. The war forced a great
.many people to face the facts of life who never
faced them before, and young people were asking
questions about cruelty and warfare.

Many generations were accustomed from long
habit to exploit animals. That had been done
for pleasure, for sport and research. It was
not a question of whether they should kill
animals or not. He did not object to killing,
provided proper methods were adopted. \Vhat
he objected to was making sport out of the
killing of creatures which were sentient.

They heard of the ‘cruelty’ of stoats, weasels,
*etc., but man, who was above these creatures,
should not imitate them. Man should study
higher and better examples whenever he could.
lVlany people did not believe in killing for mere
sport. He had mingled with friends associated
with hunting, who did not enjoy the killing,
but did enjoy the healthy outdoor exercise, the
comradeship, and the social life attached to
hunting.

Mention was made by Mr. Middleton of the ’

religious aspect, when someone said, “ Leave
religion out of it-”

Mr. Middleton said he could not. The whole
question was based on moral principles. It had
been said that man had been given dominion
over animals, but he had yet to learn that
dominion, considered from the religious, moral
(or ethical point of view. meant the right to kill,
to inﬂict punishment, to cause terror or suffering.

Hunting was said to be of value to young

people for their health and character. As for
the health argument, there were many ﬁne,
healthy sports, such as cross-country running,
without killing animals. It was also quite clear to
him that young people should be kept aWay
from scenes of killing and slaughter. Investiga-
tions revealed that there were peculiar reactions
in the minds of young people when they were
mixed up with things that involved suffering,
terror and death.

He contended that hunting developed hardness
and callousness. Blooding, which smeared the
cheeks of young initiates with the blood of
animals, was a crime against childhood and a
disgrace to humanity. By hunting, moral sus-
ceptibilities were blunted, sympathetic under-
standing, which should exist between human
beings and animals, was frozen out.

Mr. Chas. H. Baldwin, of Chinley, the local
secretary, said they were out for a noble cause
in the hope that hunting the hare. or whatever
animal it might be, would eventually be abolished
by law. Those who engaged in this so-called
sport had been characterised as brutal, mean and
cowardly. He preferred to think that it was
more or less a lack of imagination, and that they
had been heavily prejudiced by their general '
surroundings. »

“ Intensely Indignant "

“ For miles around this district a large number
of people are intensely indignant that the harm-
less hare is allowed to be chased and, when it
is caught by beagles or hounds, killed in a brutal
way. Out of cases I heard of, someone saw
the hare literally torn to bits while alive by the
beagles and the poor thing shrieked in agony.—
(Cries of dissent.)~—I have met many pro-hunting
people and they nearly all say ‘ the hare is such
a cunning animal and it often knows how to
evade capture.’ It may do so, but many times
it does not, and it has to go through a cruel
death after a long chase. When it does escape,
its heart is injured and it can never run again.”
—(Laughter from huntsmen).

Man was given enormous intellectual power in
the world and the privilege of enjoying so much
on the earth. Could they go on, year after year,
abusing this power? Animals were much at
their mercy and were very sensitive to paint

“ This abuse of power meant excitable blood
lust. Is it not a spirit of nature that is with-
out mercy? Think of it, without pity and mercy,
a spirit of war; war on the tiny, defenceless
animals by people so powerful who ought to
know better. Animals tortured beyond all recog-

 




 

 

 

 

Page Ninety~four

nition for the pleasure of these people. Cannot
we leave the hunted animal out of the picture,
as in this age we are able to enjoy so many
forms of open life and exercise? I would like
to see more. people on horseback and, incident—
ally, more able to enjoy the open-air life. Also
I would like to see the riding stables doing
better business. I believe a certain percentage
of people'would be willing to adopt the drag
hunt (of which Mr. Baldwin showed a picture).

“ \Vith any hunt there is a big social side
attached to it. There is no reason why this
should not be so, but the people who actually
do recognise the injustness of the hunt as it
exists in most places appear terriﬁed of hurting
their friends’ feelings. These glorious social
events and hunt balls, some of which are the
most fashionable in the country, are stained with
the approval that it is perfectly right and proper
to have no mercy on some of God’s creatures.”

Huntsmen had told him that all ﬁeld sports
were cruel, but if any one man took the view
that things must continue as they had always
been, everyone would be at liberty to take the
same view. \Vould anything then have been
done in the last 100 years for the protection
of animals? Not a thing.

“ Years ago people were laughed at for trying
to bring in reforms of animal protection. Now
it was not so. Thank God we live in an age
when there is an increasing demand to alleviate
suffering and distress. How long will the patience
of people last concerning those who allow animals
to be tortured for pleasure?”

Mr. J. 0. Sharp, secretary to the League, read
letters of apology from the Vicar of Edale, and
Mr. Carl Fuchs, of \Vhaley Bridge, both of whom
supported the cause. He went on to say he was
no stranger to this district. It was a district
known to thousands of harrassed and hard-
working town dwellers. The behaviour of some
of them might not be all that could be desired,
but they “ Never blend their pleasure or their
pride with sorrow in the meanest thing that
feels.”

Mr. Sharp quoted several opinions against
hare hunting, some of which were disputed by
harriers present. He had heard things described
as “topping,” “As stiff as a poker,” their
“ backs up,” “ extracted from drains and holes.”
The question of cruelty was based on the moral
consciousness of the majority and the hunting
fraternity were so much put to it that they
formed a society for the protection of their sport.

Questions were then asked and answered, after
which Mr. K. Diplock, an ofﬁcial of the British
Field Sports Society, London, spoke. His state—
ments, however. have been so often answered
both in these pages and out of them that

CRUEL SPORTS

December, l 934

we spare our readers the trouble of reading such.
futile and wearisome repetition.

Many of the audience then rose from their-
seats, began to sing “John Peel,” and left the:
meeting. As they were leaving a vote
of thanks was passed to the chairman on the;
call of Mr. Middleton.

The Opposition Criticised

To the Editor of the High Peak Reporter.

Sir,——Will you permit me one or two ob
servations on the Anti-Hunt Meeting, held at.
Chapel-en—le-Frith, on Friday last.

The most noticeable feature was the general
muddle—headedness of the opposition, who never
seemed to know quite where they stood. Either
this or an underlying sense of guilt or uneasiness
of what was wrong and indefensible and which
found expression in endeavouring to show that
hunting was the best method of despatching the
hare, and that hunting the creature to provide
them with “sport” was not their end or aim at
all. This was not even ingenious, it was just
stupid, for I am sure they would have created a
better general impression had they boldly dei—
fended their case as a “sport” they wished to
indulge in without interference. . . .

For the rest, the champions of hunting found
a great deal of joy and satisfaction in laughter,
but for their credit’s sake, they would have done
better to have remained quiet, for there is a
kind of laughter which suggests a total inability
to distinguish between the relative values of
things. V. \«VILSON.
Heald Green, .1984.

Nov. 5th,

 

 

Money Wasted on Hunting

Mr. F. A. Foulkes asserts that twelve
million pounds are spent annually on hunting
in England, and hints that. if itwere abolished,
these who practice hunting would be so bored
by the monotony of their useless existences that
they would be compelled to seek distraction and
spend the twelve millions abroad.

It is not a compliment to the intellectual
powers or the patriotism of the hunting
fraternity, but I have no reason to doubt its
correctness, as Lady Asquith used the same
argument in a recent broadcast.

If, on the other hand, this money were with-
drawn from hunting and used to demolish
slums and re-house their occupants, there would
be no reduction in employment, but simply a
change over from useless to useful work.

We are told that there is no money available-
for this urgent reform, but obviously this can
not be correct, since twelve million pounds are
wasted annually on useless, cruel and cowardly
sport. R. INGLETON ROWE.

Bristol Evening World, Sept. 21.

 




