Manchester Society for the
Protection of Animals from Vivisection.

RARE-£-
17-”-

ADDRESS BY
W. R. HADWEN, Esq.,M.D.

(OF GLOUCESTER), ON

VIVISECIION:

ITS SCIENTIHC, MORAL, AND

POLITICAL BEARINGS.

.‘A‘LXILI'A’.
IT-ﬂLR-R

MEMORIAL HALL, ALBERT SQUARE,
THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 13th, 1902.

MR. HERBERT PHILIPS IN THE CHAIR.

 

MANCHESTER:
TAYLOR, GARNETT, EVANS, & 00., LTD., BLACKFRIARS STREET;
ALSO REDDISH AND LONDON. .

 








 

 

Manchester Society for the
Protection of Animals from Vivisection.

.Q‘LE'LCLI.

lT-IT..X\-\\

ADDRESS BY
W. R. HADWEN, Esq.,M.D.

(OF GLOUCESTER), ON

~VIVISICION

IIS SCIIENIHI), MORAL, AND
V POUIICAL BEARINGS.

MEMORIAL HALL, ALBERT SQUARE,
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13th, 1902.

MR. HERBERT PHILIPS IN THE CHAIR.

 

MANCHESTER:
TAYLOR, GARNETT, EVANS, & (30., LTD., BLACKFRIARS STREET;
ALSO REDDISH AND LONDON.

 




 

MANCHESTER SOCIHY

..forthe..

PROTECTION OF ANIMALS fROM VIVISECTION.

Chairman of Committee:

MR. HERBERT PHILIPS,

Treasurer :

MR. W. P. PRICE HEYWOOD.

Secretary :

MISS M. L. ASHWORTH.

Copies (cm ée oéz‘az'ﬂea’fmm i/ze Secrez‘ary, 9, ALBERT S Q UARE.

2d. each; per 100, 105.

 




 

Manchester Society for the Protection of Animals from
Vivisection.

 

ADDRESS BY w. R. HADWEN, Esa, MD.

(0F GLOUCESTER), ON
VIVISECTION: iﬁfhfé'if'gé‘fk'h'asf‘“
Memorial Hall, Albert Square, Thursday, Nov. 13, 1902.

MR. HERBERT PHILIPS IN THE CHAIR.

Dr. HADVV EN said : Mr. Chairman and Friends,—-
Mr. Philips has undoubtedly taken the highest
ground that can possibly be held upon this question,
and it is certainly the right ground, namely,
that of denouncing the cowardice and cruelty in—
volved in Vivisection ; or, in other words, that the
strong have no right whatever to take advantage
of the weak for their own personal benefit and gain.
(Hear, hear.) I think we can lay it down as a
fairly solid rule, that to torture or to inﬂict suffering
of any description upon the lower creatures who
are unable to defend themselves against us is one
of the most cowardly acts of which we can pos—
sibly be guilty. It is an un—Christian act, too.
It is taking for granted that the end justiﬁes the
means, and without hesitation I most cordially
agree with all that the chairman has said upon that
aspect of the subject.

At the present time I am alive to this fact, that
thereare a great number of people who will say,
“Supposing you can perform certain experimen—
tation upon the lower animals, and‘derive beneﬁcial
results therefrom without inﬂicting any pain or
torture upon those animals ”——-—that is, that they shall
be fully anaesthetised, treated in such a way that
they shall experience no pain or suffering—“ then
we have a perfect right to take advantage of such

 




 

4

means for the purpose of increasing our knowledge
or of gaining material for the cure or help of
disease.” This is the argument that is repeatedly
used, and we must be prepared to face an argument
of that description when dealing with the general
public. So that it comes to this: Can these
experiments for the relief or cure—the alleged relief
._ or cure——0f human suffering, can they be carried
out without inﬂicting pain, or suffering, or torture
upon the creatures submitted to them? I say,
emphatically,‘ ‘No. ”

Now, we have had an experience of something like

3,000 YEARS OF VIVISECTION,

and in all those 3, 000 years something should have
been discovered of a very pronounced character
which would satisfy the mind even of the most
captious critic as to the results which can accrue
from such a method of investigation. I make bold
to say that, having gone most thoroughly into all the
claims of the vivisectors as to the beneﬁts which
are presumed to have been derived from vivisection,
I make bold to say that as the result of that 3,000
years of experimentation the human species has
not derived one single beneﬁt from this method, and
that nothing either to assuage a single pain or to
cure ,a single disease has ever been learned directly
from this loathsome practice. (Applause) This
being the case, after such an extensive experience,
I think it is about time that it was given up and
a more scientiﬁc, a more humane, a more Christian
and common-sense method employed for the cure
and treatment of disease. (Hear, hear.)

Now, as to whether animals can be experimented
upon without their enduring pain, or torture, or
suffering of any description, is a question which has
been considerably discussed; it has been declared
by many supporters of vivisection, ay, and even by
certain so-called anti—vivisectors likewise, that anaes—
thesia can be induced up to a certain point, and that
results such as would be of beneﬁt to the human

 

 

 




 

 

5

race can be thereby obtained, even though the
investigation be not carried beyond the period of
full anmsthesia. The history of these cases and the
records of experiments of the vivisectors themselves
entirely nullify any such idea. What one has to
remember is this, that the mere operative procedure-
upon the animal does not conclude'the experiments,
but that the watching of the animal subsequently,
and very often for weeks and for months together,
forms part—and the main part—of the whole
experiment, and it is during that period that the-
animal has to undergo not only the severest suffering,
but constantly excruciating pain into the bargain.

And remembering that nearly all the experiments
which are carried on are of a nature which necessi-I'
tates this after-investigation, it only shows that the
cry of aneesthetisation is a deceptive cry, and that
it does not wholly relieve the animals of the pain and.
suffering that they are called upon to endure.

It is true there have been a great many excuses
for vivisection, but there never has been a single
crime, there never has been a single torture through-
out the whole history of the world, but what an
excuse can be found for it. It is not for us to listen
to excuses ; they can be found readily enough
What we have to ask ourselves is this :

IS VIVISECTION RIGHT,

or is vivisection wrong P (Hear, hear.)

Now, a gentleman I was travelling in the train
with a few minutes ago entered into discussion
with me upon this subject, and he was most per-
sistent in his statement that cruelty, though it
may be practised on the Continent, is not carried
on in this country. I took some journals out of my
bag which I have brought here with me this after-
noon, and just referred to one or two incidents
in order to show him that cruelty and torture, pain
and suffering, are carried on in this country upon
these sentient and sensitive creatures ; and he was
amazed beyond .measure to ﬁnd that in our own

 




 

6

English laboratories work of this description went
on at the present time. He thought the whole thing
had passed away. I mentioned to him the case
of the Brown Institute in London, and probably
many of you will be interested in knowing what has
been done with regard to that matter during the
past year, because I presume I am speaking now
to a majorityof sympathisers with the conﬂict in
which we are engaged. The Brown Institute in
London, as many of you are aware, is an
institution founded by a philanthropic gentleman
for the purpose of providing a hospital for the
lower animals. They were to be treated like human
beings, there was to be a professor superintendent
for the hospital, the animals were to be most
patiently cared for during life, and when they died
they were to be given decent burial. Now, what
has occurred is this : 'For years past this institution
in London, which ought to have been a philan-
thropic institution, and used solely, according to
the testator’s will, as a place where kindness to
animals should be manifested, has become one of
the great centres of vivisection in London, and
animals that have been taken there for kind treat—
ment supposedly, have been operated upon and
submitted to cruel experiments which had no
bearing upon the ailments or diseases for which
they were expected to be treated. Other animals
have been purchased specially for vivisection experi-
mentation, and as Mr. Brown left in his will that a
certain amount of money was to be put aside in order
to purchase animals which might be suffering from
certain diseases, in order to seek to relieve them,
as far as possible, or to gain whatever knowledge
could be gained with regard to such affections, this
money has been prostituted from its original pur-
pose, and animals have been purchased wholly
and solely for various investigations to be carried out
upon them, not for any beneﬁt to themselves, as
Mr. Brown’s will mentioned, but for the supposed
beneﬁt of human beings, and for thegmost part

 

 




 

7

merely to satisfy the peculiar morbid ideas and
SCIENTIFIC, CURIOSITY
of the investigators. . '

This latter reason appears to be the main point
in practically the whole of the vivisection which is
carried on in our laboratories to-day. Amongst
those experimentations have been some of a very
serious character. When, a short time ago, two
members of Parliament——Mr. Atherley Jones, K.C.,
and Col. Sandys—went as a deputation to the Home
Secretary and laid the case of the Brown Institute
before him, the Home Secretary declared that he
was unable to do anything in the matter, because
the HOme Ofﬁce inspectors’ duty merely consisted
in seeing that the laboratories were properly con-
structed and properly equipped and that the Home
Ofﬁce. had nothing to do with any other points.
“ But,” he said, “if I had left money under such
conditions and found it had been used for such
purposes as these, I think I should turn in my
grave.” Descriptions were given to the Home
Secretary of what was carried on; particulars of
experiments, for instance, published by the professor
superintendent himself, Dr. Rose Bradford, in the
foumal of Physiology. These experiments were per—
formed upon forty-nine little intelligent fox—terriers,
where one kidney was taken away, and then portions
of the remaining kidney cut away piece-meal, upon
different occasions, in order to see with how much
kidney these poor little creatures could sustain
life. In other cases, the ureter—that is, the channel
leading from the kidney to the bladder—was tied in
one or two places, and any of you who have had
any experience in the passage of stone from the
kidney can realise the agonising pain of such an
experience. And these animals were left for days
together under these conditions until huge swellings
formed in the ureter corresponding to distension
of the kidney to the size of the human ﬁst, when the
contained ﬂuid was drawn off periodically. Upon
twelve different occasions in one instance was this

 




 

 

 

 

experiment repeated. The animals were killed by
prussic acid at periods varying from seven to ﬁfty
days.

All this must have occasioned the animals after-
suffering of the most terrible description. Mean-
while they were placed, after the operative procedure,
in glass cases upon a glazed ﬂoor where they could
be viewed under the hard eyes of the operator, for
days and for weeks together. Some died of blood
poisoning, some from bleeding, and some died from—
the experimenter could not tell what; their lives
gradually lingered away in pain and suffering until
death mercifully came to their rescue. And this
all carried on in an institution which; was founded for
the beneﬁt of animals. (Shame) I certainly think
that everybody interested in this subject—even
the public who may not fully see with us upon the
general question—should exert themselves in a
matter of this kind, and be determined that suCh
iniquity be put a stop to in a country which
boasts of her liberty and her Christianity, as England
does. (Applause) A petition was presented upon
the subject a short time ago to the London University
(who are the trustees of the Brown Institute) by
the British Union, signed by a large number of
inﬂuential persons, including a good many medical
men.

THE SENATE OF THE LONDON UNIVERSITY,

after referring the matter to a special committee
for consideration, sent a reply in which they declared
no torture had taken place, and only such experi-
ments had been carried out as would be performed
upon human beings ; and further, that the Brown
Institute had been the means of some great
discoveries of which they gave an illustration——
namely, “ the discovery of means for the accurate diag—
nosis of rabies, or hydrophobia, in consequence of
which hydrophobia had been practically banished
from the country.“ In reply to this a letter has been
sent asking the senate if they considered these




 

9

experiments, which I have just detailed, are experi—
ments that are free from pain and suffering, and
whether they can consistently say that any such
experiments as these have ever been performed,
or are ever likely to be performed, upon human
beings. And as for the means they were supposed
to have discovered for the accurate diagnosis of
rabies, I at once wrote to the professor superintendent,
Dr. Rose Bradford, and asked him if he would kindly
inform me what those “means ” were. Dr. Rose
Bradford sent me a very curt note and declined to
give me the information, but referred me tothe
secretary. I wrote to the secretary, and he referred
me to another secretary, and then at last I got a '
reply. He told me he had referred it to his com—
mittee, and after waiting for two months without
being able to obtain this very simple fragment of
knowledge, he sent me a letter saying his committee
declined to give me any further information!
(Laughter and “ Shame”)

One knows well enough and the very highest
authorities in the country are agreed that there is
no reliable test for hydrophobia known. Of course
I know what the method is that is employed at
the Brown Institute, only I wished to have it in black
and white from the superintendent himself. Their
process is to take a portion of the brain of a dog
which is said to have died from hydrophobia and
inoculate it into the brain of a rabbit, and if the
rabbit becomes paralysed the dog is supposed to
have died of hydrophobia. The peculiar part of
the whole thing is this, that the symptoms produced
in the rabbit are entirely different from the symp-
toms produced in the dog. How, therefore, they
can possibly declare the dog was mad because the
rabbit became paralysed as a consequence of the
injection of this morbid matter passes the com—
prehension of the human mind. (Applause) They
may well decline to supply me with information.
And as to the statement that they have practically

 




IO

BANISHED HYDROPHOBIA FROM THE COUNTRY,
at the very time the senate of London University
wrote this letter there were ﬁve counties in South
Wales, and large diStricts in Devon and Cornwall
where dogs were muzzled because of ofﬁcially
certified rabies in those parts. (Hear, hear.) So
that when we have letters of this kind sent to us by
the senate of London University, composed, supposed-
ly of the most highly—educated body of men that this
world contains—a letter ﬂooded with such fallacies,
such misstatements, and such evasions—we can
well see what a battle we have to ﬁght against this
State-endowed superstitious creed, and the great
necessity there is for us to bind our forces together
and be determined—and when they are determined
we will be determined—that we will not rest until
we have wiped away this foul blot from the statute-
book of this country. (Applause)

During the past year the experiments upon animals
have increased considerably. There have been——
according to the last reports—some 3,000 more
experiments than have ever been performed before.
There are some 257 men who have taken out licenses,
and there are some thirty laboratories scattered about
the country, over which there is no real supervision,
and no one really knows what goes on. There are
two inspectors appointed for England and Wales ;
but their only duty, as I have already remarked, is to
see that the structural conditions and equipment
are in accordance with ofﬁcial regulations. The
work goes on behind closed doors, and the Govern-
ment inspectors have simply to receive reports from
the vivisectors which the vivisectors write them-
selves ; hence we know nothing really of what
transpires except what we glean from the writings
of the vivisectors. I am certain of this, that if the
people of this country could once be roused to take
an interest in what is going on, instead of being
anmsthetised as they are by the spell of “ chloro—
form” and “anaesthetics” and “ antiseptics,” and
all this kind of gibberish, by which they are robbed

 

 

 

 




II

of their senses, we should soon have the moral
consciousness of the people stirred to such an extent
that they would never rest until the whole miserable
practice has been swept away. (Applause)

A great deal has been written lately of wonderful
discoveries which have been made in India with
regard to snake poison. Two English surgeons there
have been performing experiments. I hold in my
hand The journal of Pathology and Bacteriology,
which has a very limited circulation, and which is
very expensive. It is a work which circulates
only amongst a few scientists. There is a good
deal here, reading on for something like thirty-one
pages, of experiments which have been conducted
by Drs. Lamb‘and Hanna upon

SNAKE-BITE POISON IN INDIA;

and what it deals with is this, that Calmette, having
performed a number of vivisection experiments,
had come to the conclusion that snake venom was
practically always one and the same article, no
matter from what animal it might be received;
the venom of the various snakes simply differed in
the strength of its toxic properties ; he had obtained
snake serum by causing snakes to emit some of their
poison upon a plate, drying it, and inoculating it
into a horse ; repeatedly poisoning the horse until
the horse was supposed to be immune (a thing
which could not be proved), then taking some of the
serum of the horse’s blood and inoculating it into
other creatures with a View of neutralising the
inoculated venom of the snake. Calmette had
declared that all the poison was the same, and that
his serum would neutralise every snake-bite poison
in existence. Now the strange part of this vivi-
section work is this : I think I can say this is correct
in practically every instance—I do not know a single
case of investigation by vivisectors but what, if
one set of vivisectors comes to certain conclusions,
another set of vivisectors at once arrives, by per-
forming precisely the same experiments, at an

 




 

12

exactly opposite result. (Laughter.) And nosooner
is that done than the original investigator at once
sets to work to prove that he was right in the ﬁrst
instance, and then arises another class of investigator,
who knocks all the rest of them overboard, and
declares they‘ are all wrong and that they themselves
are the only men in Christendom who happen to
be right. (Renewed laughter.) And in this way
the whole thing goes on ; there is nothing deﬁnite,
nothing reliable, nothing settled in the whole of the
vivisection world, and why P Because the thing is
absolutely unscientiﬁc. (Hear, hear.)

In the ﬁrst place, the physiological and anatomical
condition of animals is altogether different from
that of man. And, secondly, when you come to
operate upon these creatures, what with fright
and the anaesthetics, and the rest of it, the animal
is not in a normal condition and you cannot depend
upon the result. Then, again, with regard to poisons
that are experimented with, we know well enough
that the effects upon different animals are so different
that you never can be sure, when you have obtained
a certain result in one animal that you are going to
get the same result in another, and it is more than
probable that one result in either of them will be
entirely different from that which would obtain in
man. So that, whichever way you look at the
thing,

IT IS ABSOLUTELY UNSCIENTIFIC ;

you cannot experiment upon animals and be assured
that you are going to arrive at a certain deﬁnite
result and that you have certain sound bases to
act upon when you begin your operations, and
unless you have that you have not science, because
the very basis and foundation of science is exacti-
tude. (Applause)

Claude Bernard, we are told by his biographer,
would take the knife in his hand and out here and
there in the body of a living creature, opening up
this organ and that organ, in the hope of ﬁnding
something of value, and, in fact, waiting, in plain

._ :43};

 

 

 




..__.4

 

 

 

__,___-..:;zg,

13

English, like Mr. Micawber, for “ something to turn
up.” It might turn up, or it might not, but he
would be sure to form an interpretation upon it
and write down the result of his opinions. And
then another investigator would interpret the result
in an entirely different way, because animals do not
talk; you can only judge by physical signs, you
cannot judgeby symptoms. Symptoms cannot be
gauged in the case of animals, and therefore for these
reasons the whole system is unscientiﬁc, because
you cannot arrive at conclusive results. (Applause)
Now all these pages are full of a vast number of
experiments that have been performed upon different
creatures, and they consist in putting snake venom
into monkeys, into dogs, into cats, rabbits, and
pigeons, and one after another, sooner or later,they
die in the most fearful convulsions. Seeing there
are something like 50,000 people die of snake bite in
India every year, one would have supposed that they
had plenty of material to go upon in human beings ;
they could perform any amount of post—mortem
examinations without inﬂicting all this suffering
and pain and torture in addition upon these poor,
innocent creatures. And what is it all for? It is
all to show apparently that Calmette was wrong,
that one kind of snake poison differs from another
kind of snake poison, and that Calmette’s serum,
which is supposed to neutralise all snake poison, will
not do anything of the sort. And the conclusions
that they have arrived at wind up thus—that
Calmette’s serum has no power whatever to neutralise
the toxin 0f daboia venom. If you think all this
torture to probably hundreds of these poor creatures
by means of snake poison is worth such a result as
that, all I can say is that we must have a very poor
idea indeed of what science is, what right is, what
justice is, and what common sense is. (Hear, hear.)

Now I turn from that to some experiments which
are published as late as last July, 1902. Here we
have some

 




I4

EXPERIMENTS UPON NERVE IMPULSES.

The writer is Dr. Bayliss, and these experiments
were performed at the laboratory of University
College, London. He says: “ I have referred to
the difﬁculty of ﬁnding a method of electrical
excitation which could be depended upon. . . .
I have excited the peripheral end of the divided
sciatic in curarised and anaesthetised dogs and cats.
. Notwithstanding the disappointing nature
of the above experiments, I thought it worth while
to repeat the extirpation of the posterior root
ganglia, and have ,done so in two dogs. In the
ﬁrst of these experiments the posterior root ganglia
of the fourth, ﬁfth, sixth, and seventh lumbar, and
of the ﬁrst and second sacral nerves were extirpated,
and the result investigated on the eleventh day
subsequently.”

All that means that he was determined to cut down
to the roots of the nerves in order to gain, if possible,
some very abstruse knowledge as to where certain
sensations—certain nerve sensations—arose, and he
had to open the dog, cut right through the muscle,
chip away the backbone, cut through the spinal
cord lying within the backbone, and then apply an
electrode to the ends of those cut nerves and produce
electrical shocks in various parts of the body. I leave
you to judge what torture this must have been. The
animals during the experiments, he tells us, were
put under anaesthetics and afterwards curarised. I
ﬁnd in one of these journals nine different occasions
in which similar remarks are made as to the animals
having been placed fully under curari. Now it is
quite a common idea in these days, and, in fact, a
very short time ago a medical man emphatically—
most emphatically—denied publicly that curari is
ever used in this country. One would have thought
it would have been put on one side, but one has
only to read scientiﬁc works to see that it is as much
in vogue as ever. An animal is curarised, that is,
the whole of the muscles of the body are completely
paralysed. No movement of the muscles can take

 




I5

place after the injection of this hellish drug, so
much so that even the very muscles of the lungs
are paralysed, and artiﬁcial respiration has to be
resorted to, and special apparatus is manufactured
by which air is pumped in and out of the lungs at
regular intervals, otherwise the animal would die.
While the animal is lying like a corpse upon the
table the sensory nerves are fully as much alive as
ever, and - -

THE ANIMAL IS CAPABLE OF FEELING

during that period. In fact, Claude Bernard
declares the sensory nerves are more alive and that
they feel more keenly than before. The experi-
mental procedure goes on. “ But,” you will say,
“ has not an anmsthetic been administered P ” Yes,
but when the animal lies in that absolutely corpse—
like state how can you tell whether that animal
is anaesthetised or not P It would be dangerous to
administer an anaesthetic under such conditions.
This is the great trouble with anaesthetics, and this
will explain why curari is so resorted to by the
experimentalists. Chloroform is the’most dangerous
drug you can give to most of the lower animals. In
a dog, for instance, in consequence of the inter-
mittent action of the heart, whilst it is being put
under chloroform it is apt to suddenly die. You
never can be sure. In fact, take your animal to
any veterinary surgeon and ask him to perform an
operation upon that animal, and to use chloroform,
and he will at once warn you that he cannot be
responsible for the life of the animal. Then the
struggles are so great and the difﬁculties so keen
in the administration of chloroform to an animal,that
the experimenter only needs to give curari, and it
relieves him of any further trouble. The animal
lies apparently lifeless upon the table, and he cannot
tell whether it is under the anaesthetic or not; and
I will guarantee that in many instances he does not
care. The consequence is he can go on with his
experiments absolutely untrammeled whilst the poor

 




 

I6

creature is suffering the most intense agony. Now
take this dog, lying upon the table, the experiment
is of this description: The ﬂesh has to be cut
through, the backbone has to be rent asunder,
the spinal cord has to be divided, and then an
electrode applied to the divided ends to create
muscular contraction in various parts of the body.
Think of the torture to that poor sentient, intelli-
gent creature who trusted man so implicitly and
now lies powerless in his hands! And yet this
is the kind of thing that is going on ! Whilst under
the inﬂuence of an anaesthetic such an experiment
would be robbed of its principal importance.

And then, what is the result of it all, when the
experiment comes to an end ; what is the conclusion
Mr. Bayliss comes to? “ In respect of this last
result, I have only to remark that it is

IN COMPLETE CONTRADICTION

to the well-known work of Sherrington.” He is
another English performer who has carried out a
vast number of similar experiments, and he had
arrived at contrary results, and now we have Dr.
Bayliss, as late as July, 1902 performing these
experiments all over again and arriving at the
conclusion that Dr. Sherrington was absolutely
wrong! Then he goes on with operations on the
intestines of dogs. He says an anaesthetic was given
and the dogs were subsequently curarised. When-
ever you have that expression you know what you
have to look out for. Here, in this long story of
torture, the abdominal viscera were—almost the
whole of them—taken out of the dog, the intestines
cut away, the stomach removed, the kidneys in
some cases extirpated, the spleen resected, and the
poor animal left nothing more nor less than a living
skeleton under curari. And whilst this kind of
thing went on the electric battery was applied to
various nerves in order to see what muscles were
affected and whether the sensory or the motor nerves
were affected in those various parts. That is

 

 

 




 

 

I7

practically the whole result obtained from it, a bit.
of scientiﬁc curiosity, which, with all its cruelty,
could not be satisﬁed.

Then you have, in the foumal of Physiology for
December, further experiments carried out by
English operators. These are described under the
heading “Dissociative Anaesthesia,” and are per-
formed upon monkeys. These were by Dr. Sherring—
ton, whose conclusions had been so ﬂatly contra-
dicted by Dr. Bayliss. He commences by informing,
us that “ For information regarding disturbances
of sensation the evidence obtainable from animals is
gathered under obvious disadvantages ” , and he
still further goes on to say that “ the risk of confusion
from these sources of error, though never absent, is
much reduced by employing absolutely tame animals
in good nutritive condition.” 80 tame monkeys.
were obtained for these experiments. They were held
ﬁrmly in an attendant’s arms, and long pages here
are given as to what was done. Wires were heated
to awhite heat, and the poor thing was poked here
and there. Pincers were employed to pinch its
skin, to ﬁnd out to what extent there was an area
of pain, and the animal was burnt, and every possible
annoyance and pain and torture carried on at the
expense of these

POOR DUMB MONKEYS ;

and after page upon page of this kind of thing,
this is what the experimenter winds up with: “‘ To
know more of the character of this anaesthesia
is urgently desirable.” Why, I do not know 3 who
on earth could beneﬁt from the knowledge as to how
far pain extends when you prick or burn a monkey
I cannot for the life of me tell. “ The information,”
he says, “ is only obtainable from examinaton of
the human subject,” so that the whole of this—-
all these cruel experiments given with minute and
graphic details, were to glean information which,
after all, was “ only obtainable from examination.
of the human subject.” And the last words are

 

 




 

18

these : “ I recognise that the problem here attempted
has been one imperfectly accessible by inquiry upon
animals. It awaits fuller solution in the oppor-
tunities afforded by human disease where the
attention of an instructed human subject can be
enlisted and interrogated verbally.” Here he has
touched the root of the whole matter, the really
scientiﬁc way of arriving at scientiﬁc facts. It is
that you should study your case in a human subject
suffering from disease (and surely our hospitals are
full of them) by careful bedside examination of
those who can tell you all their pain, who can tell
you of the correct areas to which it extends, whom
you can follow, if need be, and if the disease neces-
sitates, to the post—mortem room, and there com—
pare after death the results and conditions with the
physical signs and symptoms that occurred during
life, and which you have already marked down in
your case-book. Then you have something solid
to go upon, then you have something scientiﬁc
and to be relied upon, and which can be a help in
dealing with future cases. In these experiments
on monkeys you have gleaned nothing. After all the
torture and all the cruelty of the investigator, he
winds up by telling us it is impossible to arrive at
any deﬁnite conclusion, because in order to do so
you must experiment upon man himself.

Now, the whole of the satisfactory knowledge
that we possess with regard to disease has been
gleaned by investigation in the human subject.
A short time ago we had a doctor from America
who came here, and performed a large number of
experiments of a most ghastly character in University
College, London, such as holding a dog’s paw over
a ﬂaming spirit lamp and
”" CRUSHING A Doc’s PAW
with a bottle, pouring boiling water into its stomach,
and all that kind of thing, and what for P In
order to write a book upon the physiology of
“ Shock.” The ﬁrst sixteen of those experiments
were carried out under the cognizance of the ofﬁcials

 

 

 




 

 

I9

at Whitehall. Mr., now Sir Victor, Horsley gave
him permission to perform those experiments at
University College, London, and what have we
gained by it P It is true anmsthetics were said to
be used, “partial anaesthesia” in some cases, but
I should judge that for a subject like “ shock ”
full anasthesia would altogether Vitiate the results
sought to be elicited in the majority of instances.
Now, surely, we have men and women every day
of the year examined by physicians and surgeons,
suffering from every shade, every variety, and every
stage of. shock. Every hospital has its case—books
brimful of cases of shock of every description ; and
surely, with such an experience as this in the human
subject, who can tell you, who can reason, who can
speak, who can understand, we should be able,
after all these years, to arrive at sufﬁcient data to
base any conclusions upon without falling back upon
such crude and barbarous methods with their
cruel and horrible experimentation upon these
poor, sensitive, defenceless creatures, from whom
we can obtain nothing scientiﬁc, and where the
results are useless for the purposes for which they
deem them possible. It was but a short time before
his death that Claude Bernard himself—the great
prince of vivisectors—declared “Our mouths are
full of promises, but our hands are empty of results.”
(Applause)

Time is going, but I should like to refer to one or
two more illustrations of this atrocious work. Here
is a long story, by Dr. Sinclair, of experiments
performed in Edinburgh concerning what is called
“Idiopathic Detachment of the Retina.” One
would hardly suppose it to be worth while to go
through all these terrible experiments for the sake
of a matter of this kind. The article mentions in
its opening lines that no less than four contradictory
and erroneous conclusions had been arrived at by
previous investigators, after similar atrocious experi-
ments, and this doctor was now about to put them
all right. By means of a hypodermic syringe,

 

 




 

 

20
COPPER FILINGS WERE INJECTED

into the back of the eye, and the poor creature
was then watched for weeks together. For 25.
days the ﬁrst experiment was watched until at last
the retina became so obscured from View that no
further examination could be made, and the poor
wretch was put out of its misery. In another case
he used a large ﬂat needle, passed it into the eye
to rupture a blood vessel, and so suffuse the cavity
with blood. In another case a salt solution was
injected behind the eye, and so on. At last he
came to the conclusion that the reason that the
retina was detached was because of a certain amount
of inﬂammation set up behind the retina, and that
the formation of adhesions caused subsequent
contraction, and thus drew the retina back out
of its proper focus. For experiments like that,
which are pure theorising after all, and which serve
no useful purpose whatever in the treatment of
disease, we have these dreadful experiments performed
upon poor dumb creatures. An apparatus, which
he describes, was specially manufactured to keep
the animal’s eyes open, the eyeball protruding for
days together, while under the close and cold
observation of the performer, who marks down every
change that takes place in the eye during that
period.

And then there are more experiments I might
mention which have been carried on, also in Edin—
burgh, where artiﬁcial cirrhosis or hardening of the
liver was produced by ligatures of the hepatic
duct. You will have some idea of what all this
means to the poor creatures that are called upon
for weeks to go through suffering of this description
if any of you have ever suffered from the obstruction
of a gall stone.

These are recent books of the last few months,
and I have simply brought these to give you an
idea, from the writings of vivisectors themselves,
of what is carried on, and to show you that this,

 

 




 

\r)

 

21

experimentation—this co-called “ scientiﬁc” experi—
mentation—does not consist merely in the operation,
even supposing anaesthetics were given during that
period, but it means an enormous amount of subse—
quent pain and suffering to the poor creatures
who have become a prey to these cruelties.

In conclusion, I would ask how is the matter to
be dealt with? I think we must all agree with
the chairman that this is a great moral wrong.
Further, I think the moment we come to consider
the matter carefully we must agree that it is a process
which is unscientiﬁc, and that the only ' way to
discover remedies applicable to human disease is
by clinical—that is, by

BEDSIDE OBSERVATION,

accompanied by chemical, microsc0pical, and post—
mortem research. It is only in this way that any
certain results adapted to the beneﬁt of mankind
have ever been obtained, and it is the only way
in which certain results ever will be obtained in the
future.

And now, how are we to face this gigantic evil ;
how are we to save these poor creatures from the
pain and the torture they are undergoing ; how. are
we to take our stand as English men and women,
in defence of the weak, in order to put a stop to
this fearful abomination? I know no way what—
ever but by binding ourselves together upon the
matter ﬁrmly, and by going in, repeatedly and
consistently, for the total abolition of vivisection,
(Applause) There is at the present time a Bill
before Parliament which will not come up again, I
suppose, this session, and which if it should come
up is bound to be an absolute failure, although
supposed by some to be a better policy than that of
total abolition of meeting this difﬁculty. This is

. what is called a Bill of lesser measures, or a restrictive

Bill. A letter has been recently written to the
Press?t by a friend of the society responsible for

this Bill, in which he says the main policy of the;

 

a"? “m r “,

.‘ SI“;

. =52: *‘w'rtdi’rW‘ 2‘ ..

I
If?
i

 




 

 

22

Society 'is to minimise the sufferings of animals,
which are called upon to suffer, not for their own
beneﬁt but “in the cause of humanity.” I have
written to ‘ask, in reply, putting aside the cowardly
and immoral character of such a policy, which
virtually allows vivisection to be necessary and
needful for the cause of humanity—what cause of
humanity has ViVisection ever served P The moment
we attempt to compromise with evil we get on
wrong ground. (Hear, hear.) Not only is it a
sign of weakness, but it is entirely wrong as a
policy of reform. When one looks back upon the
past and considers the great reforms which have
been fought for and secured, one ﬁnds that our
great reformers, and our successful reformers, always
went straight at the evil they intended to combat,
and if any cOmpromises were to be made they
left it for their opponents to make them. It is
not for us to make compromises, it is not for us to
lower our standard, because you know well enough,
and every practical man in the English legislature
knows perfecty well, that if you play your game
low down in the British Parliament the British
Parliament will take good care that you get the
game played lower down still, and you will never
get what you ask for. Therefore

WE MUST AIM HIGH,

as high as ever we possibly can , we must play no fast
and loose game, or else we shall have the whole
movement thrown back for another half century,
and we shall be told‘ ‘We have given you practically
what you have asked for, and you must try this
policy before you come to us again.’ But when
you go for an upright, straightforward policy of
total abolition, you have a right to go year after
year and to knock at their doors and say, “We
have not yet got what we want, and we are never
going to rest until——or, like Pear’s little boy in the
picture, ‘we shall never be happy till we get it.’ ”
(Applause)

 




 

 

 

 

23

The policy of restriction is a dangerous and
cowardly policy. It is practically admitting the
right of ViVisection to be continued, and we have
no right to admit it at all. We are giving our
whole case away to admit it. If we say that vivi—
section is right, then let it go on, if it is wrong
let it be done away with. Besides, what is the use
of talking of putting an animal under an anmsthetic
during the whole operation, and killing it before it
regains consciousness? We know well enough it
cannot be done. Here are volume after volume,
and these are only a few of large numbers, where
abundant evidence’is provided that such a scheme
could never be carried out. You can only put an
animal under an anaesthetic—supposing you do
put it entirely under—~during the operative proce—
dure. But it is the subsequent examination wherein
the whole work of ViVisection of the present day
consists, and therefore a Bill like that is doomed to

failure at the very start. It is no use saying we 7

hope to get abolition further on, or to say that this
Bill means abolition, only that it is hidden under a
cunning cloak. If it be so, let us go in for abolition,
do not let us play with it. Do the framers of this
Bill really think in their innocence that the vivi—
sectors are not as cute as they are? Let us be
men, and let us be out-and—out, and let us say

WE WILL NOT COMPROMISE

with the enemy in any shape or form. Let us not
give the slightest loophole to the supposition that
ViVisection has served or can serve any right purpose
whatever. ViVisection never has served any good
purpose, and ViVisection never can serve any good
purpose. To practise it is a crime—it is a moral
wrong; it is unrighteous, it is unjust, it is un—
scientiﬁc, it is immoral, it is cruel, and therefore
it ought to be done. away with, and at once.
(Applause) Such a Bill as I am criticising gives our
whole case away, and will land us ultimately in a
worse ﬁX than we are in already. .4 (Hear,;hear.)

I i
.
w . - W7... .A -7.-. ., .—. - .~ w-vr v .... » ..:.~ 3 I'r’x-w‘a'ifaﬁﬁ.‘""19'791 1:2“. @921; ’31:? :~ “I‘m-i ‘ .
JR“.-. - i- .., -.-_. ,.-. -— .. ; ..—vr»~r.»x— r4: ”1-,. -:<- -,v-;v up i v"; "-3 .r . v? wen-v? “344‘. . .,- -A’I.“’-r.~,..:‘. .‘ u - .... i. _ . “3;. um an». m‘;,.:'. ﬁ-ﬁv,’,. ”Jimu- . -r,.‘_ 31- .\.v «a, PW" tau... ., 4,5,.“ . Y ._
1 . r; .. ..,. ,1 .50.— .r.‘ .1 .31. 2,7,... , .,;,.4,,~;:_3g:._ -=. ﬁg: 44-; 7., _,_ ;:. y-,,,.-,g,:__,..;,- ﬁgmgx, or; n»,,,_-_- ._~. shy). .. 5'..x;-"Lr.xw.».;;:lcreﬁcu -—. :u- I‘._ ;.,\".>“"-’4"-. Vr. . firs-m m 3:4»: “"«"«"\L' Mei «a, ;,»'?,c»-.::; x w ~21. . ,-‘ ‘ vat-"J ”-‘wwr. , .. ..
‘ .,. . .. A - » , - r - . i

\

3.1.7.va r7gyj- «521-. m 3-2-3

v4 .3 u.
a . c. M... («“4

r ‘k :33" {Z453} ‘9’"

 




 

24

Our policy, then, is to arouse the public. You will
never get a Bill through Parliament unless the
Parliamentary hands know that they have got the
country at the back of them. (Hear, hear.) You
have got to educate the people; you have got to
show and to prove to members of Parliament that
a certain bill means votes. Unless you can show
that it means votes, you will never get members of
Parliament to take the matter up. As soon as
they recognise that fact, as soon as it is brought
home to them, they will take the matter up, but
they will not take it up before. We must educate
the country in every possible way; we must stir
them up upon this matter, we must show them what
are the facts of the case. We must not rest until
a strong public opinion has been created, and
pressure has been brought to bear upon the repre—
sentatives in Parliament, until this legislative per-
mission of the abominable sin of vivisection has
been for ever done away with.

Right may give way to wrong, virtue may yield to crime,
But the strength of our need, and the help of our creed,
Must be energy, faith, and time.

(Loud applause.)

 




 

 




$2

. Viv.:;f+r:§«¥€%ir.ithaqu 5.\ LP“? 1.};qu u it»m...n.\\.r.t\y.1.4ux5\wt\t«\z\:\§\
\

”as? 3“} V3?

2 liganMshro? v12. kl .L a w. in»: ‘ ...L.
\ L31. \ﬁ. A1 L Sul._1\;ﬁ ‘3“..Ngdall333 \q\.\V»..K A

 




