Reprinted from “ Medical World,” April 6th, 1934. ‘

 

‘ SOME LITTLE—UNDERSTOOD
EFFECTS OF SERUM THERAPY

BY

M. BEDDOW BAYLY, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

Issued by

THE ANIMAL DEFENCE 8: ANTLVIVISECTION SOCIETY

15, St. James’s Place, St. James’s Street, London, S.W.I
(formerly at 35, Old Bond Street)

and
4, Cour St. Pierre, Geneva, Switzerland.

President. The Duchess of Hamilton.
Hon. Director and Founder: Miss Lind- af- -Hageby
Secretary: Miss L. K. Schartau.

PRICE 123d.

 

 




 

 




 

Some Little—Understood
Effects of Serum Therapy

By .
M. BEDDOW BAYLY, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

The publication in the MEDICAL WORLD recently* of
Dr. Estcourt-Oswald’s article, in which she describes her
experiences regarding the dangers of inappropriate
serum injections, emphasises the acute necessity for a
wider knowledge both of the immediate and remote
effects of this form of treatment than is commonly held
by medical practitioners.

True, other therapeutic agents may be dangerous to
the health and life of the patient if administered Without
due regard to technique and dosage, but it must be
conceded that to none of them have there been ascribed
such terrible and tragic consequences to health and life
as have all too frequently followed the use of animal sera,
even when accompanied by the utmost skill in manu-
facture and application. V

That they occur far more often than is generally
realised is frankly admitted by those authorities who
from time to time report cases which have come under
their observation. But so great is the almost mystical
veneration in which antitoxic sera are held by medical
science, and so powerful the commercial interests which
beneﬁt by their extended use, that it has come to be
regarded as almost a breach of medical etiquette to
criticise adversely this form of treatment, or even report
untoward results when they occur. There must be few
of my readers who cannot recall instances of cases which
have been, consciously or unconsciously, “ hushed up,”
especially in Coroners’ Courts, for fear that discredit
might be cast upon the practice either of serum—therapy
or vaccinatiOn.

 

" March 30th, 1934.

 

 




 

Truth has no greater enemy than fear. Let us there-
fore, for the sake of the dignity of our profession, frankly
face some of the facts which experience has brought to
light, and then have the courage to think the problem
out afresh for ourselves, without reference to outside
inﬂuences or ulterior considerations. The fact that
many who have already done this have come to the
conclusion that, so far as serum—therapy is concerned, the
game is not worth the candle, should prove at least that
the practice of serum—therapy is by no means so beyond
question as its more fervent advocates would like us to
believe.

There is a classical story related of the great John
Hunter that when he was approached by Edward Jenner,
and was falteringly informed by him that he thought he
had a remedy against small-pox, he replied abruptly:
“ Don’t think ! TRY ! ” This story is supposed to
indicate the genius of Dr. Hunter, but it appears to the
writer that this advice represents precisely the line we
have too often taken, to the detriment alike of our
patients and of our art, namely, to experiment with un-
known remedies first and refuse to think about them
even when their harmful effects have become apparent
to everyone else.

At the present day those three words might well form
the slogan of the manufacturing chemists who, as Lord
Horder remarked recently,1 have become the doctor’s
mental masters instead of his servants ; how often do
they not say in effect, if not literally, when urging us by
means of their specious advertisements to purchase a
supply of some new product of the laboratory : “ Don’t
think ; TRY ! ”

Let us now consider what are the peculiar dangers
associated with serum-therapy, apart from any question
of faulty technique either in manufacture or in adminis-
tration. (I have purposely omitted any reference to
the series of tragic fatalities which, during the past
ﬁfteen years, have been, on investigation, attributed to
such errors.) ‘

2

 

*4.-- ____i_‘

 




 

 

' E_.EEJ

 

THE INHERENT DANGERS.

They fall under three main headings :—

(I) Immediate. This may take the form of sudden
collapse and may sometimes be followed rapidly
by death.

(2) Delayed. This may take the form of (a) rashes,
joint pains, etc., which may occur after a few
days ; (b) a state of hypersensitiveness known
as “ anaphylaxis,” which may lead to severe ill-
ness, prostration and death.‘

(3) Remote. This may take the form of numerous
chronic and intractable types of disease which,
as often as not, are never traced to their true
cause.

Let us examine these in greater detail.

(I) Many cases of sudden collapse and death in pre—
viously healthy individuals, following injection with
serum as “ contacts,” have been recorded in the medical
press ever since the classical tragedy of the death of
Dr. Robert Langerhans’ own son a few minutes after a
prophylactic dose of anti—diphtheritic serum in I896.2
In 1924 Lamson collected data of forty—one similar deaths
due to the administration of sera.3 Numerous instances
occurred during the Great War, both in horses and troops,
but in the general carnage little interest was aroused.

In the Medical Press and Circular of Jan. 19th, 1932,
the statement is made that “ It is almost always with
antitetanic or antidiphtheritic serum that fatal accidents
or paralysis occurs.”

Any inoculation of a foreign proteid through the skin
may have this result. The peculiar chemical idiosyn—
crasy of the blood to which it is ascribed has been termed
“ allergy ” to distinguish it from the acquired sensitivity
(anaphylaxis) presently to be described. The distinc—
tion, however, has never been very clearly or satisfactorily
defined.4

SERUM DISEASE.

(2) (a) Serum Disease, which occurs in about 40 per cent.

of the inoculated, has been investigated by many workers

3

 

 




 

 

since it was ﬁrst studied by Von Pirquet and Schick in
1903—4. The widespread use of antitoxic sera in diph—
theria, and later for tetanus, erysipelas, meningitis,
scarlet fever, etc., has resulted in a large increase in the
actual incidence of this condition according to Dr.
Mitchell, who declared a few years ago that it was
“ evident that some factor is operating to cause an
increase in the incidence of serum- disease, and that
reﬁnement of serum alone will not solve the problem ”5 (my
italics). ‘

In the Medical Press and Circular (Jan. 19th, 1927) it
is estimated that serum reactions occur in 12—15 per cent.
of cases of children after the ﬁrst injection, rising to
50 per cent. for subsequent ones, and in 75 per cent. of
adults.

Even higher ﬁgures are mentioned in the Epitome of
the British M edical journal (Dec. glst, 1932). Statistics
from a Chicago hospital, collected over a period of 19
years, show that reactions occur in 28.1 per cent. of cases
with diphtheria antitoxin, 22.7 per cent. with scarlet
fever antitoxin, and 81 per cent. with meningococcic
serum.

The symptoms usually arise some three to fourteen
days after the injection of the serum. They formed the
subject of an interesting monograph in 1918 by Dr. E. W.
Goodall, who collected and published observations on
3,500 cases of serum sickness following injections of
diphtheria antitoxin.G

They consist of rashes, generally urticaria] in character,
severe joint pains, glandular enlargement, abscesses at
the site of the injection (even when strict asepsis has been
observed), pyreXia, cardiac paralysis, vomiting and diar—
rhoeaf“ These sequelae of antitoxic sera have been so

* NOTE.—Dr. J. H. \Vhitaker, Medical Superintendent or the
Grove Fever Hospital, in an article on diphtheria in the
Practitioner, October, 1926, page 22 , stated that “ The
symptoms met with in serum sickness are now much worse than
in former times, especially in adults. . . . It is not at all uncom-
mon to meet with vomiting and acute abdominal pain~two very
unsatisfactory symptoms in diphtheriaﬁand in a few cases I have
lately met with haematuria, jaundice, extensive subcutaneous
haemorrhage, and suppurative cervical adenitis.”

Jr

 

 

 




 

 

well described that it is unnecessary to deal with them
here in greater detail. Those interested are referred to
the standard text—books on the subject.7

In point of fact, it seems to be eminently desirable that
the serum-therapist should familiarise himself with them
to a far fuller extent than is usually the case, if one may
judge by the extremely casual manner in which advice
is given to the practitioner to inject serum on the
assumption that it may do some good and won’t do any
harm, even if the diagnosis should turn out to be quite
other than that anticipated. '

One would imagine that had the importance of these
not inconsiderable discomforts and dangers to the patient
been more fully appreciated, it would have been realised
how wrong is the practice of administering a serum
before some diagnosis has been reached which would at
least indicate the logical appropriateness of that par—
ticular serum.

Dr. Estcourt—Oswald is by no means the only practi-
tioner who has issued a warning against this unjustiﬁable

' procedure which should, in View of the grave risks to

the patient, be regarded as malpractice.

Dr. L. J. VVitts, Assistant Physician at Guy’s Hospital,
in the course of a clinical lecture delivered not long ago
on Fallacies and Dangers in Treatment,” referred to it
in the strongest terms. He was dealing more particularly
with the use of anti—streptococcal serum “ when there
is no evidence that it is effective.” “ You expose your
patient,” he said, “ to the risk of an immediate serum
accident ; you may inﬂict on him the painful disease of
serum-sickness, in which the tortures of the cutaneous
irritation, and the swollen joints may be almost unbear—
able, and finally you sensitise him to serum so that his
life may be imperilled in the hour of need, when it may
be essential to inject a potent serum.”8

I am not concerned here with discussing whether or
not serums are ever effective or necessary. My View
coincides in this matter with that of Sir Almroth Wright,
who declared that the whole body of beliefs in serum—

5

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

therapy rested, in his opinion, “on a foundation 'of
sand.”9 I believe there are far better ways of dealing
with disease than by the use of sera which, in addition
to the dangers now being discussed, turn our attention
from the investigation and treatment of the real causes
of the various complaints from which mankind suffers.
I hope I may have the privilege and opportunity of
laying my views on these matters before the reader at a
later date.

In this article I am calling attention to what appear
to me to be unappreciated ill-effects of animal sera.

Dr. L. J. Witts’s warning regarding the danger of
anaphylaxis brings me to the next sub-division.

THE DANGER OF ANAPHYLAXIS.

(2) (b) This is a possibility with which medical
practitioners seem peculiarly unfamiliar ; otherwise one
would have been tempted to believe that the importance
and universality of this phenomenon had been
deliberately and wantonly ignored in the interests,
and under the powerful though subtle inﬂuence, of the
proﬁt—making manufacturers. (I have shown elsewhere
that one horse purchased for, say, ten pounds, will in
nine years produce serum of which the retail value is in
the neighbourhood of £48,000)”

In using the word “ universality ” I mean to indicate
that every single person injected becomes sensitised in
more or less degree, no matter what serum has been
employed ; and that this condition may be manifested
at anytime thereafterin that person’slife if a serum of any
type derived from the same species of animal be injected
for a subsequent illness. Moreover, no one can foretell
the likelihood of a severe reaction occurring in any
particular individual.

When one realises the horrible and sometimes fatal
nature of these reactions (presently to be described) the
warning against the indiscriminate use of sera in in—
appropriate cases will be seen to have especial force.
Let me again remind the reader of the advice, constantly

6

*3»;

 




 

 

a. 4km}.

offered to the practitioner by Medical Ofﬁcers of Health
and others, of which the following is a typical example.
Writing in the B.M.]. (July 22nd, 1933), Dr. L. Cobbett
exhorts : “ Let the doctor never wait for the swab
[throat], but “give antitoxin with the least possible
delay. . . .”

THE ARTHUS PHENOMENON.
Anaphylaxis may take the form of sudden collapse
resembling that seen in primary “allergic sensitive-

},

ness; this is serious enough, but the particular form

 

Fig. I. Area of gangrene with ulceration at margin. (Eleventh
day after serum injection.)
which I wish to bring to the notice of the reader consists
in the appearance of massive gangrene at the site of
injection, resulting, in severe cases, in the subsequent
death of the patient. It has been known as the Arthus
phenomenon ever since the French research worker of
that name reported its occurrence in animals in 1903.11
These experiments, however, in spite of the intense
suffering they must have caused to the animals employed,
appear to have been devoid of any beneﬁt to mankind,
for, apart from a few isolated examples little attention
was paid to the phenomenon in man until quite recent
times.

 

 




 

 

 

 

Dr. 1. Harrison Tumpeer, an American authority on the
subject,12 mentions that Lucas and Gay called attention
in 1909 to similar effects in children who had been
inoculated with several doses of diphtheria antitoxin
as a prophylactic,” and suggests that the infrequency of
such reports was due “ to the fact that repeated admini—
stration of antitoxin was not a common practice.” He
then makes the somewhat contradictory statement that
“ Undoubtedly subsequent reactions in the nature of the
Arthus phenomenon occurred following additional use
of horse—serum for other reasons, but they were dis—
regarded or not sufﬁciently appreciated until 1927.”12

As I have pointed out before, it is not difﬁcult to supply
reasons for such omissions. It is quite customary to
ignore the ill-effects of current practices until their
obviousness makes further disguise well-nigh impossible.
Dr. Tumpeer goes on to add, “ With the advent of the
toxin—antitoxin era, a new situation developed in which
sensitisation to horse-serum was produced by three
injections at weekly intervals of the minute quantities
of horse serum present in the ordinary toxin—antitoxin
mixtures. . . .”

In 1927 Gatewood and Baldridge described six cases,
the severest of which occurred in a nurse of twenty—ﬁve.
The particulars they gave are brieﬂy as follows :—14

(1) The nurse was Schick negative in January, 1925,
but, ”in spite of this she was given toxin—antitoxin
mixture in three doses, February 6th, 13th and 20th.”
She developed diphtheria in November, 1925, and was
given antitoxic serum in one arm and the correspOnding
hip. This was followed by acute general enlargement of
the superﬁcial lymph nodes. On the ninth day a further
injection of serum in the other arm and corresponding
thigh resulted in the arm becoming red, swollen and
tender, and by the second day both arm and leg were
twice the normal size. By the ninth day after the second
injection the skin of the thigh lesion had become a black
eschar ; free incision yielded no pus although the tissue
was necrotic. On the twenty—sixth day the discharge

8

 

 




 

 

’. J,

from the wound became purulent. On incision, “ the
abscess cavity was found to extend from the knee to the
hip and around the thigh to the inner aspect. In the
previous wound there presented a mass of necrotic tissue
which was removed. It involved subcutaneous fat,
fascia lata and muscle, and was a mass the size of a ﬁst.”
The left arm, which had undergone all the changes of the
thigh, was later incised, yielding a thick yellow necrotic
material. The nurse eventually recovered.

The authors predicted that the Arthus phenomenon
might logically be expected to be reported more fre—
quently with the increased use of horse—serum. And
they were right, for in 1931, for instance, Dr. I. Harrison
Tumpeer described the following case :—11

(2) A girl of ﬁve years had received the usual three
injections of toxin-antitoxin in 1926 when one year old.
In 1927 she was pronounced Schick negative. She

developed diphtheria in 1930, and an injection of serum

was given in the left gluteal region, followed three days
later by a second dose on the opposite side. In three
hours the buttock began to swell and became'extremely
tender, until eventually the whole region became black
and gangrenous. By the ninth day a deep area of
ulceration appeared at the margin, separating the
necrotic tissue from the normal. (See Fig. 1.)

On the twelfth day the child began to complain of
extreme 1mm over the right lower quadrant of this area,
and an incision yielded thick yellow pus. From now
onwards the condition spread over the abdominal wall
and thigh until the sixteenth day, when a large necrotic
mass, 6 in. by 8 in., was cut away under anaesthesia.
The author writes, “This large piece of gangrenous
skin with subcutaneous fat and fascia was lifted off much
as a lid. from a stove . . . the underlying muscles lay
exposcd almost entirely independent of fascia which
sloughed, and a large amount of which had come away
in the discharge. After apposition, the muscles lay
exposed much as in an anatomic dissection.” (Figs. 2
and 3.) “ The skin was undermined upward as far as the

9

 




 

 

 

Fig. 2. “ Muscles exposed like an anatomic dissection.”
(Eighteenth day.)

umbilicus, medially beyond the midline, and as low as the
lowest portion of the popliteal space. . . . The ﬁnal
summary was massive gangrene of the skin, subcutaneous
fat and fascia of the right buttock, hip and thigh, as far
as the knee joint.” In spite of assiduous irrigation of the
wound she became rapidly worse, suffering considerable
pain. Following a blood transfusion on the twenty-
seventh day of illness, she became cyanotic, vomited,
became unconscious, and died a few hours afterwards.

(3) The third case was reported by Dr. H. E. Irish and
Dr. E. C. Reynolds15 in 1933, and occurred in a
boy aged two years and four months. He developed

IO

*-




symptoms suggesting meningitis and was given
three injections of anti—meningococcic serum on
three successive days, and a further dose four days later.
The three usual toxin-antitoxin inoculations had been
performed at the age of eleven months, and he had been
normal in weight and mentality. The serum was injected
into the buttocks and was followed by an urticarial erup-
tion over the entire body, the edematous swelling of the
face being sufﬁcient to close the eyes. Delirium with a
temperature of 103 persisted for three days, when he
became rigid. He was then given a further injection of
serum in the left buttock ; within an hour the site became
purple, and on the following day a similar injection into
the right buttock resulted in a similar reaction. During
the next few days the areas of purple swelling extended
from the buttocks over the front of the abdomen and
right thigh, and large blebs about one and a half inches
in diameter appeared. Six days later these gave rise to
a bloody watery discharge.

At this time the child was admitted into hospital, and
presented gangrenous areas on both buttocks, both sides
of the abdomen, and the thighs. There was a patch of
pneumonia in the right lung and a left otitis media.
There was no evidence of meningitis present, and, seeing
that no diagnostic test of the cerebro—spinal ﬂuid had
been made, this case supplies a further instance of the
“ inappropriate ” use of serum. Despite the removal of
large masses of necrotic tissues, surgical drainage and
three blood transfusions, the child died in twenty-one
days from admission to hospital. (See Figs. 4, 5 and 6.)

For further details of these carefully recorded cases the
reader is referred to the original articles from which the
foregoing accounts are derived. He will be well repaid
for such study.“ 15 16

It is necessary to emphasise once more that this
phenomenon of mass gangrene is one which may occur
without previous warning in any child who has been at
any time subjected to the ~so—called immunising inocula-
tions of toxin-antitoxin, should a further injection of

II

 




 

Fig. 3. Posterior view (eighteenth day) : nine days before death.

horse serum be given. It is not a particularly comforting
thought for any parent to feel that the possibility of such
a tragedy hangs over his child for an indeﬁnite period,
no matter how carefully the injection has been carried
out, and despite all precautions in manufacture. The
danger is inherent in serum—therapy.

Dr. Harrison Tumpeer remarks :—

“ It is reasonable to suppose that many individuals
inoculated with toxin—antitoxin derived from horse
serum might subsequently require horse serum for such
conditions as scarlet fever, pneumonia, tetanus, hemor—
rhage, or even diphtheria itself. In such individuals there
would be present, to some degree at least, the laboratory
conditions of Arthus.”16

Longcope and Rakemann have stated that “ the
injection of horse serum in small or large amounts in
human beings is always followed sooner or later by the
development of (speciﬁc) hypersensitiveness of the
skin. . . .”17

Nor is the problem affected by the smallness of the
dose ; for in an article on this very point in The journal

I2

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Fig. 4.

of Immunology Dr. S. B. Hooker of Boston writes:
“That such a tiny amount of horse serum (about 0.01
mil. in the total individual dose of toxin—antitoxin, and
0.005 mil. in the test dose) should sufﬁce to develop
allergic conditions in previously non-sensitive human
beings was regarded as a phenomenon of considerable
biological interest . ’ ’ 18

Gatewood and Baldridge, after referring to the de—
ﬁnite demonstration by Hooker of the production of
skin hypersensitiveness in otherwise normal and in-
sensitive individuals by the injection of toxin—antitoxin,
go on to declare that: “ The statement from most
commercial biological laboratories as well as many
workers in the ﬁeld of immunity, that the amount of
horse serum in toxin—antitoxin mixtures is too small to
be sensitising, seems to us to be untenable.”19

This conclusion is borne out by Dr. Harrison Tumpeer’s

 

Rear view : Anaphylactic gangrene, 28 days after. ﬁrst serum injection.

13

 




 

((

experience that minute quantities of foreign protein
are highly antigenic. Clinically this fact has become
amply demonstrated in some of the severe reactions to
scarlet fever antitoxin which resulted in the accusation
of extreme toxicity against that agent. The accusers
had overlooked the fact that most of the children
receiving scarlet fever antitoxin had previously received
horse serum in the form of toxin-antitoxin.”20

FREQUENCY OF REACTIONS.

The probable frequency of such occurrences to be
expected in actual practice is indicated by Gatewood
and Baldridge in a table19 which they give showing the
percentage of reactions after giving diphtheria anti-
toxin in a series of cases. The ﬁgures are as follows :—

Imme—
diate Delayed
N0. of local local Gezzeml Total

Cases Reaction React/ton. Reaction Reactions
Toxin—antitoxin.
N o o t h e r
serum 87 27 I7 I 50.5%

T.A.T. A l s o
therapeutic
dose of serum 26 20

u
0

84'696

Former thera—
peutic dose of
s e r u m. N o
t o x in — a n ti —

toxin 19 9 63-195

OJ
0

Neither T.A.T.
n o r o t h e r
serum given
previously I58 19 I o I 2 . 6%

In The journal of Immunology21 further tables are
given showing that over 70 per cent. of children (116)
who had been immunised by toxin—antitoxin (three
' injections) were hypersensitive to horse serum, com-
pared with 50 per cent. of those children who had no
previous injections (go). In adults the percentage of
hypersensitiveness was 90 per cent. in the immunised,
compared with 74 per cent. in those who had not received

I4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Fig. 5. Front view : “ Sloughing in both buttocks, sides of the
abdomen and thighs.”

any injection of serum or toxin—antitoxin. The whole
difﬁculty is increased by the fact that there is no certain
methodof deciding beforehand if any given case is likely
to react unfavourably, for, as Dr. Harrison Tumpeer
states : “ Reactions may occur even when skin tests are
negative.”22

REMOTE EFFECTS OF SERUM. -

(3) The more remote effects of serum inoculation have
been emphasised by J. E. R. McDonagh in his most
recent writings. His unique work on the chemico—
physical properties of the blood, especially in regard to
the colloidal protein particles, is worthy of the closest
study. One of his particularly pertinent statements is as
follows : “ Serums are very liable to give rise to shock,
and to the more obvious manifestations produced the
term ‘ anaphylaxis ’ is uSually applied. Owing to the
peculiar constitution of protein the appearance of 2716

.—l

13

 

 

 

 




 

signs and symptoms of shock may be delayed months and
even years, and the longer the delay the more difﬁcult
grows the problem of combating them. The long delay
frequently results in the manifestations of chronic disease
which, as often as not, remain for ever unconnected with
the cause. When death occurs, it does so slowly, and after
a long period of time. . . .”23 (My italics.)

Dr. C. A. Stewart, of the University of Minnesota,
wrote in I926 : “ It is proper and pertinent to point out
that the public health ofﬁcials, in urging toxin—antitoxin
inoculations, are paving the way for evils which may well
exceed those they are, no doubt honestly, desirous of
avoiding. ’ ’ 2 4

One of the more deﬁned evil consequences is the onset
of epilepsy. Dr. Prior, Medical Superintendent, Parra—
matta Mental Hospital, N.S.W., records an instance of
this which in his opinion was quite deﬁnitely due to the
injection of a prophylactic dose of antitoxin.25

Finally, the use of the immunising serums may seriously
delay the natural evolution of epidemic diseases into
their milder forms. ” It is extremely doubtful,” writes
McDonagh, “ if the production of an infection, however
mild, with an attenuated virus, with the object of pre-
venting a more severe infection is ever justiﬁed. It
cannot be repeated too often that every infection carries
with it the weapons which are ultimately to destroy it.
The action of these weapons . . . may be seriously in—
terfered with by the production of man—made milder
infections.”28

ONE RESULT OF VACCINATION.

He sees a classical instance of such interference in the
case of vaccination against small—pox. “ Even to—day,”
he writes, ” no true measure of the after—effects of Jenner's
vaccination in man has been taken, and it is becoming
more and more doubtful if the decreased incidence of
small—pox is due to vaccination. Variola appears in
recent years to have been replaced by alastrim. . . . It
certainly cannot be accredited to vaccination because

16

 




 

 

the rise of alastrim coincides with a rise of those who go
unvaccinated. Indeed, it is possible that the change
would have taken place earlier had vaccination not come
into general use.” 28

 

DISTEMPER VACCINE.

McDonagh predicts a similar undesirable effect in the
case of distemper inoculation, which has recently been
claimed as an outstanding triumph of laboratory re—
search. He states: “ In the course of time so—called
‘ canine distemper ’ may undergo a similar change, and
one which may be longer delayed the more widespread

‘ the use of the vaccine becomes.”28

IN CONCLUSION.
It is quite clear from the foregoing facts, which
represent a part only of the available evidence, that both
in its immediate and remote effects, the use of animal

 

 

 

Fig. 6. Side view (also on twenty—eighth day) : 14 days before
death.

77

 

 




 

 

sera is fraught with considerable danger to the health
and even life of the patient.

Moreover, these results are inherent in the properties
of any animal serum sui generis, and are not to be
accounted as ‘accidental ” to its administration. In
addition, in the realm of preventive medicine, the em—
ployment of such inoculations as prophylactics is likely
to defeat the very object for which they are used by so
interfering with the natural reactions of the body that
evolutionary changes which normally occur in the
virulence of epidemics may be seriously hampered.
Their use, therefore, on the grounds of expediency, is
seen to be fallacious and contrary to the interests of
public health.

I

I desire to acknowledge my indebtedness to Dr. 1.
Harrison Tumpeer and Dr. H. E. Irish of Chicago for
their kind permission to publish the photographs of their
cases which originally appeared in the journal of the
American Medical A ssociation.

REFERENCES.

1 Medical World, Oct. 27th, 1933, p. 198.

2 Serums, Vaccines and Toxins, W. Cecil Bosanquet and J. W. ll.
Eyre, 1916, p. 126.

3 Medical I/Vorld, Jan. 23rd, 1931, p. 566.
See also: Medical World, Jan. 2nd, 1931, p. 470

4 Practitioner, Dec., 1932, p. 641 et seq.

5 journal of the JVIedical Society of New jersey, Jan., 1930.

6 The Lancet, lVIarCh 211d, 1918.
See also article by Prof. Bezancon, Physician to the Hopital
Saint Antoine, Paris: Franco—British Review, Sep, 1928,
p. 263. Also article on “The Nature and Clinical Signiﬁcance
of Anaphylaxis,” by J. Chamberlain, M.R.C.S., L.D.S., in
The Jlledical World, Jan. 2nd, 1931, p. 469.

7 E.G. .' Serums, Vaccines and Toxins, Bosanquet and Eyre,
Cassell & C0., 1916, pp. 55, 126, 359.

8 Medical World, Jan. 23rd, 1931, p. 566.

9 Studies in Immunization, 1909, p. 302.

Medical World, Aug. 12th, 1932, p. 484.

journal of the American Medical Association, April 25th, 1931,

Vol. 96, N0. 17, pp. 1373—1376.
Compt. rend. Soc. de Biol, 55 : 817 (June, 1903).

2 American journal of Diseases of Children, Feb., 1933, Vol. 45.
PP- 343‘354-
13 journal of Medical Research, 20 : 251 (April, 1909).

18

HH
HQ

,_1

 

 




 

 

 

 

14 Gatewood, W. E., and Baldridge, C. W. : “ Tissue Hypersensi-
tiveness Following Administration ‘of Toxin—Antitoxin.
Phenomenon of Arthus.” jnl. of Amer. Med. Assoc.,
88 : 1068 (April 2nd, 1927).

15 “ Massive AnaphylacticGangrene.” jnl. ofAmer. Med/15300.,
Vol. 100, No. 7, Feb. 18th, 1933, p. 490.

16 journal of Amer. Med. Assoc., Vol. 96, No. 17, April 25th,
1931, P- 1373~

17 journal of Experimental Med., 27, 341 (1918).

18 journal of Immunology, Vol. IX, No. 1, Jan, 1924, p. 7.

19 journal ofAmer. Med. Assoc., Vol. 88, No. 14, April 2nd, 1927,
p. 1071.

20 journal of Amer. ﬁled. Assoc., April 25th, 1931, p. 1375.

21 journal of Immunology, Vol. IX, No. 1, Jan., 1924, p. 17.

22 journal ofAmer. Med. Assoc., Vol. 88, No. 14, April 2nd, 1927,
p. 1376.

23 Nature of Disease journal, Vol. II (Heinemann), 1932, p. 126.

24 journal of Amer. Med. Assoc., July, 1926.

95 Medical journal of Australia, May 28th, 1927.
28 Nature of Disease journal, Vol. II, p. 192.

I9

 




 

 

 




 

 

 




Printed by ELM PRESS, Elm street,
Gray’s ‘Inn Road, London W.C.x

 




