 

Late judge of Sakammpow;

“CLERGY AND VIVISECTION”; “A MAGISTRATES
EXPERIENCE OF THE INDIAN MUTINY” ; ETC.

 

v T

 

 








 

 

#56“
V._ ‘._. A A, .-'t‘-\.

, {“IQ‘MIZZI‘h ’<,}._ I-' ‘_ ‘.
. :"».-: - .
I 3.51am?“ ‘ :‘.-»t.':.- 3,; < ’ '— ‘

 

 

. "/7172/2, é} ll/[ﬂ'f if, tiff?
EXPERIMENTS

ON

HOSPITAL PATIENTS

BY

MARK THORNHILL,
Late judge of Sakammpow,

AUTHOR OF “CLERGY AND_ VIVISECTION”; “A MAGISTRATE’S
EXPERIENCE OF THE INDIAN MUTINY”; ETC.

 

SECOND EDITION, ENLARGED.

 

LONDON:
VICTORIA STREET AND INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY
FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM
VIVISECTION, 20, VICTORIA STREET, S.W.

 

I894.

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION.

__+____

In preparing this new edition I have considerably
enlarged the Appendices by adding to them notices
of experiments of which accounts have appeared since
the ﬁrst edition was published, and also by quoting
some previous experiments which in the ﬁrst edition
I had overlooked. I have,ibesides, mentioned other
fresh facts and quoted further medical opinions having
reference to the subject.

The arrangement of the Appendices has been
slightly altered, and for facility of reference, explana-
tory headings have been added. While some sentences
have been added to the Pamphlet itself, the commencing
pages have, on the other hand, been considerably
abbreviated.

 




 

 




 

EXPERIMENTS

ON

HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

Being the substance of an Address delivered before the Dover
Branch of the East Kent Anti-vivisection Society -
on the wt of May, 1889.

—-——+———

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,

On the occasion when I last had the honour
of addressing you, I gave a summary of the arguments
that are brought forward in defence of Vivisection. At
the same time, I stated the grounds on whichpwe
Anti-vivisectionists consider those arguments to be
insufﬁcient or erroneous. As I then pointed out, the
argument that in this country is the most insisted on
is the asserted beneﬁts of vivisection to man. By
means of vivisection. it is maintained remedies for
disease, and methods of preventing disease, have been
ascertained, which would otherwise have remained
undiscovered. These assertions have been generally
accepted by the English public as correct, and it is
mainly due to this acceptance that the practice of
vivisection has obtained its present toleration. When
we come to examine them, however, we ﬁnd that these
assertions have little, if any, foundation in fact. The
advantages of vivisection to medical science are denied
by some of the most eminent medical authorities, and

 




 

 

6 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

when we proceed to enquire in detail what precise
cures for disease, or what means of preventing disease,
vivisection has discovered, we obtain no satisfactory
answers. ‘Many such discoveries have” indeed been
announced, and much vaunted. But none of these
asserted discoveries have stood the test of experience.
Each in turn has been abandoned as. useless, or
dangerous, or as founded on incomplete observation
or misconception. Whatever real advance has been
made 'in medicine or in surgery has been the result,
not of these cruel experiments on animals, but of
kindly and patient treatment and observation of human
injury and disease.

But while vivisection has thus failed to prevent or
to mitigate human suffering, there is great reason to-

fear that indirectly it is becoming a means of increasing

it. It is to this subject that I desire to-day to draw
your special attention.

A book was lately published,* which at the time of its
appearance attracted a good deal of attention. Under
the guise of a story, the inner life of one of our great
hospitals was depicted. The name of the author was
not given, but the work is known to be the production
of a physician enjoying an extensive practice. The
contention of .the author is, that the habit of experi-
menting on animals results inevitably, where opportunity
offers, in the performance of similar experiments on man.
Our hospitals afford this opportunity, and as a conse~
quence—so the author maintains—these institutions,
founded for the relief of suffering, are becoming
converted into laboratories for scientiﬁc research.
Cures, he says, are delayed in order that the development

3“ St. Bernard’s. Swan Sonnenschein &_ Co.




ADDRESS. 7

of the diseases may be studied ; drugs are administered
not for the beneﬁt of the patient, but merely that the

properties and effects of the drug itself may be ascer- I
tained ; and, worst of all, operations, even of the most
terrible character, are had recourse to without real
necessity, simply to give experience to students, or to
test the correctness of new theories as to the best

_manner of performing them.

In a supplemental volume* the author, in support of
his assertions, has quoted from the medical journals
descriptions~ of actual operations identical with those
which in his story he has represented. He has also
cited the opinions of various eminent medical authorities,
which are very much to the same effect as his own.

About the same time that this last volume was issued,
a pamphlet appeared from the pen of another medical
gentleman of standing and repute, Mr. Stanford Harris,
a member of the Royal College of Surgeons. In this
pamphlet’r Mr. Harris, quite independently, takes the
same View as the previous author, as to the effects of
the practice of vivisection. He considers that the
practice of experimenting on animals has given rise
to the practice of experimenting on the poor, especially
on the hospital patients. He is of opinion that the
practice is increasing, and he writes with the object,
by calling public attention to its existence, of procuring
its suppression. In support of his statements and
opinions, Mr. Harris quotes numerous cases from
medical works, and from the medical journals.

3“ Dying Scientifically: A Key to St. Bernard’s. Swan
Sonnenschein & Co.

1‘ Vivisection and the Treatment of Patients. By Stanford Harris,
M.R.C.S. John Heywood, Manchester and London.

 




 

 

8 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

In the note-book before me I have entered the parti-
culars of some of the cases quoted, both by Mr. Stanford
Harris and by the anonymous author. I have added
notices of other cases that I have found described else-
where, chieﬂy in the pages of the Z oophz'lz'st. With your
permission a few of these notices I will read. To
avoid unnecessarily occupying your time, I shall conﬁne
myself to those cases which are clearly and unmistakably
experiments. I shall omit from consideration all those
cases in which the treatment, however cruel, rash, and
unjustiﬁable, can possibly be regarded as having for its
object in any way the beneﬁt of the patient.*

Now, as regards these experiments, I desire to call
your attention, and to call it very especially, to the
following circumstances. The ﬁrst is: That our only
knowledge of these experiments is derived from descrip-
tions of them published by the medical men, who were
themselves the performers. The second is: That the
publication of these descriptions did not call forth from
the profession generally any decided expressions of
disapprobation.

From these circumstances we may infer, and I think
V reasonably infer, that the practice of experimenting on
patients is not regarded by the medical profession at

large as either objectionable or as morally wrong. '

And, we may also infer, I think, that the practice of
thus experimenting is by no means at present unusual
or uncommon. We may infer this because treatment
of cases is only described when its results are instructive,
or when the cases themselves are for some reason
scientiﬁcally interesting. We may presume, therefore,
that the amount of experiment of which description

5* See Appendix A.




ADDRESS. 9

has been published bears but a small proportion to
the amount which has been actually performed.

I think you will all agree with me that the existence
of this practice is, for the poor, a very cruel wrong. It
exposes them to danger, to suffering, against which
they are necessarily unable to protect themselves, and
from which they can receive but little protection, either
from the law or from society. The poor, when ill, or
when the victims of injury or accident, have no choice
but to resort to the hospital for cure or relief. When
inmates of the hospital they have no choice either, but
to submit to the treatment there prescribed. Nor have
they the means of ascertaining whether that treatment
is adopted for their beneﬁt, or merely for the advance-
ment, at their expense, of scientiﬁc discovery.
Moreover, if so adopted, it is only in rare and
scandalous cases, where death or unmistakable injury
has resulted, that the fact of its adoption would come
to the knowledge of the public.

I must impress upon you that the evil, the danger to
the poor, of the practice is by no means to be estimated
by the examples of it that I have brought to your
notice, or by the extent to which it at present prevails
in this country. The history of vivisection shows
that the practice of experimenting on living beings,
when once adopted, tends constantly to develop and to
increase. The experiments become more frequent and
more cruel. The experience of the Continent and of
America shows that what, in this respect,,is true of
experiments on animals, is true also of experiments on
men.

In this country, where the practice of human experi-
ment is new, it is conﬁned to the performance of such
experiments as it is presumed will occasion only

 

 




 

 

IO HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

discomfort or temporary suffering. Abroad, where the
practice has longer prevailed, we ﬁnd experiments made
which cause actual torment, life-long injury, even the
probability of death itself. Indeed, weﬁnd occasionally
the'same inhumanity, the same utter indifference to
the inﬂiction of suffering displayed by the performers
towards their fellow-men, as has here excited general
indignation when exhibited towards the lower animals.

Iwill, with your permission, read to you notices of
experiments performed abroad on men, on women,
even on children, which, I think, will amply bear out
my assertions.*

The worst of these experiments we may, no doubt,
regard as at present exceptional in their atrocity. But
it is to be noted that they are only extreme instances of
a practice which is openly defended, justiﬁed, and which
it is even desired should be extended and legalised.t

Itis argued by physicians and physiologists, both in
this country and abroad, that where knowledge cannot
be acquired, or so well acquired, by experiments on
animals, that then it is both proper and permissible that
it should be acquired by means of experiments on men.
The few, it is said, must suffer for the beneﬁt of the
many—the individuals of least importance for the
advantage of the individuals and classes whose value is
greater. As the outcome of this reasoning, it has been
proposed, and seriously proposed, that criminals con-
demned to execution should be previously made over
for the purpose of medical and physiological experiment.
It has been lately stated that in a remote European
dependency these proposals have been actually carried
into effect.

3* See Appendix B. 1' See Appendix C.

 




 

ADDRESS. I I

In the Times of November 19th, 1888—1 quote from
the. Zoophilz’st of December last—it was asserted, on the
authority of an ofﬁcial letter from the President of the
_Board of Health at Honolulu, that a man there, under
sentenCe of death, had, with the consent of the Govern.-
ment, been made the subject of an experiment as to the
communicability by inoculation of one of the most
terrible diseases that afﬂicts humanity. It is further
asserted that the inoculation had succeeded, and that
already in the victim there had commenced that death
in life, that corruption this side the tomb, that marks
the progress of that hideous malady.

It may be thought, no doubt, that experiments such
as this and others that I have described are in this
country impossible. Unquestionably at present they
are. But we have to consider not merely what is now
possible, but also what in the future may become so.
And as to the future, the example of vivisection teaches
us that it may be wise to be difﬁdent. When, not so
very long ago, it was proposed to legalise the practice
of vivisection, one of the arguments in favour of the
proposal—and the one that perhaps most influenced
the general public—was that the horrible, the intensely
cruel, experiments of the Continent would not here in
England be repeated.

English physiologists, it was asserted, and asserted
honestly, would not attempt their performance, nor
English public opinion permit it.

A generation has not passed, and these experiments
have become of ordinary occurrence. They are per—
formed Without reluctance, heard of without disapproval.

It is possible that the same change in opinion that has
taken place in regard to eXperiments on animals may
take place also as regards experiments on men. Such

 

 

 




 

12 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

a change would not certainly be out of harmony with
the tendency of that materialistic philosophy which is
at present so much in the ascendant.

But leaving aside speculation, let us regard facts;
and certain facts are indisputable. Wherever the
practice prevails of the vivisection of animals there also
prevails, more or less, the practice of experimenting on
human subjects—on the poor and the hospital patients.
Further, in proportion as the practice of the vivisection
of animals extends and develops, and receives the
sanction of public approval, so does the practice of
experimenting on man increase both in cruelty and in
amount, and also the more tolerant of it does the
public become.*

It has often been urged against us Anti-vivisectionists
that, in our sympathy for the lower animals, we overlook
the welfare of our fellow-men. To this accusation the
facts that I have now brought forward will, I think, be
a sufﬁcient answer. In denouncing vivisection we are
denouncing a practice that not only inﬂicts torment on
animals, but which also tends to degrade humanity,—a
practice which threatens, in this present age of culture,
to revive against the poor, the friendless, and the
suffering among ourselves some of the worst barbarities
of the ruder ages of the past.

No very long period has elapsed since the above
address was delivered, and yet already there are
indicatlons that the apprehensions I expressed in the
concluding paragraphs are, to some extent, being

ﬁt See Appendix D.




ADDRESS. 13

realised. The practice of experimenting on the poor
and on the inmates of our hospitals appears to be
increasing—as also does the cruelty of the experiments.
But more signiﬁcant still. is the change in public opinion
regarding the1r performance.

.It is now about twelve years since the fact of the
performance of these experiments became publicly
known. Many of my readers will remember the storm
of indignation that the discovery called forth. The
sentiment of the nation was expressed in the strongest
and clearest manner, both in the press and on the
platform, that the performance of such experiments
would not be permitted to continue. Nevertheless, their
performance has continued, and has not only continued
but has increased. To this continuance and increase
the attention of the public has been called again and
again. But the call has elicited no response. No
indignation has been excited. Rarely even has
disapprobation been expressed. It would almost seem
as if experimenting on the poor, has come to be
regarded like experimenting on animals, as a legitimate
method of scientiﬁc research.

But connected with this subject of human experimen-
tation, there is one point especially deserving of
attention, and that is, the very large proportion of these
experiments that are performed on infants and young
children, and also the extreme atrocity of those
experiments. I give, later on, a list and brief abstract
of the various experiments on human beings, that I
have happened to meet with in the course of my
reading, and which I have in other pages described
in detailﬁ“ It will be seen from this list that very nearly

* See Appendix D.

 

 




 

I4 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

one half of these experiments have been performed 'on
children. It will be seen also, that'the cruelty,.th'e
atrocity, I may say, even the abomination of many of
these experiments, thus performed on hapless infancy——
fully equals all but the very worst of the experiments
performed on the lower animals.

Now there is nothing in childhood that renders'it
scientiﬁcally more suitable for experiment than adult
age, but rather the contrary. Why, then, are children
so specially selected P I fear that to this question there
is but one answer, and that it is this—children, and
especially the children of the poor, are selected for
experiment because of their helplessness. Weak,
timid, friendless—they can offer no resistance, obtain
no redress.

But another consideration arises. Several of these
experiments on children, though certainly not those of
the worst kind, have been performed in this country,
and performed but recently. Now for some years past
We have had here in England a law specially enacted
for the protection of children from cruelty, and we
have also a society especially existing for the enforce-
ment of this law. It will hardly be denied that some
of the experiments here performed on children have
been a violation—I may even say, a gross violation of
this law. Nevertheless, so far as I am aware, no pro-
Ceedings have been taken against the performers of
the experiments. It cannot be pleaded that the fact
of the experiments has been unknown, for attention
has been called to them repeatedly. How then is the
non-enforcement of the law to be explained P
» I fear that it is to be explained only by that change
in public opinion that I have above alluded to. The
experiments having been performed for the supposed

 

 




 

 

ADDRESS. L 15

advancement of science, the sufferings they caused to
the children has been regarded as permissible.

One further remark and I will conclude. I think
there can be no doubt but that the habit of experi-
menting on animals gives rise to the desire of
experimenting also on man. If so, then it is a
suggestive, and for the poor an alarming fact, that in
nearly all our great hospitals either Vivisection is
practised or vivisectors are to be found among their
medical staff. Particularly is this the case among the
hospitals especially established for the beneﬁt of the
children of the poor. If the reader will examine the
statement I have given later on he will be able to judge
of the correctness of my assertionﬁ'<

*9 See Appendix E.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

16 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

APPENDICES.

APPENDIX A.

Instances of pure experiments performed on Hospital
patients or on children, or on patients belonging to the
poorer classes. That is, instances Where drugs were
administered, or operations were performed, not in the
least for the beneﬁt of the patient, but purely and solely
for the purpose of medical or scientiﬁc discovery.

Experiments on varnishing the skin—so frequently tried on
animals—tried on men—British Medical foarnal, May 11th,
1878, p. 671.

Patients admitted to hospital in dying condition, made the
subject of minute and tedious examinations, merely to furnish
reports to the medical journals.—British Medical journal,
June 7th, 1879.

Experiment of producing convulsions in a woman by tickling
and pricking her feet—British Medical journal, March 25th,

1887.
I give the full description :——“During the ﬁt the patient
foamed at the mouth. . . . In the evening the soles of her

feet were tickled and tricked with a 15in ; this was followed by the
convulsive movements above described, she shrieked and fell
back with eyes open, and was conscious. . . . Next
morning she was in much the same condition. . . . Pricking
the soles of the feet, &c., produced a ﬁt. On the following
morning the convulsions could not be so easily induced.”
Patient admitted to a hospital suffering from a most painful
skin disease ; “he was in a most miserable condition from pain
and irritation.” His cure was purposely delayed, in order to

 




 

PURE EXPERIMENTS. I7

demonstrate to the students that nature alone, without treat
ment, would not effect it.—British Medicaljournal, January 7th,
1882. . .

The following is the full description given in the British
Medi;al journal :—“ D— could easily have cured him himself,
but he sent him here in order that I might do the miracle of cure
under your eyes, and thus claim your belief in the efﬁcacy
of drugs. You will remember his state when admitted. He
was covered from head to foot with bullae. . . . He was
in a miserable condition from pain and irritation. The irruption
had been out about ten days, and it affected the mucous
membrane of his mouth, as well as the skin. You may remember
that we kept hint in bed for a few days before we used the niagician’s
wand, in order that all might see that there was no natural tendency
to amelioration.”

Experiment of producing acute gout by administration of
salts of lead.——Ringer’s Handbook of Therapeutics, p. 256.
Vivisection and Treatment of Patients.

Poor woman, admitted to a hospital in a dying condition,
made the subject of constant observation and examination
with tuning forks, 850. These examinations were continued
till her death, which occurred twenty-four hours after her
admission.—British .Medical journal, October 27th, 1883.

Experiment of injecting milk into the veins of a dying
patient—British Medical journal, June 6th, 1885.

Variety of experiments on hospital patients with drugs.
The medical man who performed these experiments states
explicitly that they were such, “and had no bearing on
disease.”——British Medical journal, November 28th, 1885,
pp. 1,005 and 1,011.

Experiment of producing a loathsome disease by inoculation
with the matter from sores of persons suffering from it.—
British Medical journal, January 9th, 1886, p. 57.

Calabar bean having been found to produce epileptic ﬁts in
rabbits, its effects Were tried with similar results on human
beings.—Wood’s Therapeutics, p. 319.

Mr. Stanford Harris states that in one medical work alone
——Dr. Ringer’s, Handbook of Therapeutics—experiments are

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

18 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

described performed on patients by no less than nine different
surgeons and physicians as to the effects of drugs.* The
drugs in all the cases being administered for the pure purpose
of experiment, and having no relation to the maladies of the
patients. The administration of the drugs produced painful,
in some instances dangerous, effects.

I quote from Mr. Harris’s pamphlet the following instances :
The drug Gelsemium is a powerful paralyser and respiratory
poisoner. It is described as having been administered to six
persons on seventeen occasions, in order merely to ascertain
its effects on human beings. In the course of this series of
experiments, the drug was administered in doses sufﬁciently
large to produce “ toxic” (poisonous) effects.

It was also administered on thirty-three occasions to test its
effect on the circulation. On these occasions the full “toxic ”
(poisonous) effects were produced. The effects are described
as “ giddiness,” “ dimness of sight,” “strong double internal
squint,” “ weakness of the legs,” “severe headache,” and
“dull aching pain in the eyeballs.”

“ The effects of the drug ‘ Salicine’ were similarly studied
on human subjects—patients in the hospitals. The patients
selected for the experiments were ‘healthy children,’ ‘to
Whom doses were given sufﬁcient to produce “toxic”
(poisonous) effects.’ The results were ‘headaches, often so
severe that the patient buries his head in his pillow;’
‘muscular weakness and tremors,’ ‘ slight fever,’ &c.;
‘ twitchings and tremblings of the legs and arms.’ ”

The ﬁrst set of experiments with this drug were made,
it is said, on a boy of ten. He had been admitted into the
hospital with “belladonna poisoning.” But, it is stated,
“ the observations were not commenced till some days after
his complete recovery.” The effects produced on this child
by the drug were “severe frontal headache,” so severe
“that the lad shut his eyes, buried his head in his pillow,
and, though a lively boy, became very dull and stupid. He
complained of a tingling like pins and needles in his right
ankle, and suffered from very decided muscular weakness,

* Viviseetion and the Treatment of Patients, p. I.

 




 

PURE EXPERIMENTS. 19

soon accompanied by muscular twitchings and tremblings of
the leg and arms.”

Another boy—it is stated that the symptoms continued so
long after the administration of the last dose that the
experimenters “became alarmed.” “They did not know
how long or to what degree they (the symptoms) might
increase.” “ Sixty-ﬁve hours after the last dose he (the boy)
was still dull, rather deaf, and there was a slight tremor of
the hands.”— Viviseetion and Treatment of Patients, pp. 6 to 9.

In the work above referred to—Handbook of Therapeutics,
by Dr. Ringer—some experiments on the effect of alcohol on
the temperature of the human body are described, and others
referred to. These experiments appear to have been per-
formed on numerous patients on several occasions by at
least ﬁve English physicians, and on persons of all ages,
some being children. The alcohol in some of the cases, it is
recorded, was administered “in poisonous” doses. “On
one boy, aged ten, a large number of observations were
made.” One man mentioned as an “habitual drunkard,”
was closed with alcohol till he was made “dead drunk.”

To one “healthy young man” two physicians admin-
istered “for six days a daily amount of absolute alcohol,
varying from one to six ounces.” On a subsequent occasion
they administered to him “twelve ounces of brandy daily
for a period of three days.”—Handbook of T/zerapeatz'cs,.
pp. 342 and 343, 11th edition, 1886.

Note—Some of these experiments appear to have been
supplementary to some similar experiments on rabbits, as a
comparison is made between the effects of the alcohol on the
temperature in rabbits and in human beings.

“The beautiful experiments of Fehleisen on erysipelas
have deﬁnitely established the fact that this disease is due to
the growth of micrococci in the lymphatic vessels of the skin.
He succeeded in cultivating these organisms in meat infusion
and in inducing the disease by the cultivated micrococcus
in rabbits and also in man.”—— British Meiicat journal,
29th December, 1883, p. 1298. ‘

 

 

 




 

 

 

20 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

The Year-Book of Treatment for 1891, p. 24, contains the-
following account of a series of experiments on human
beings performed by Dr. Schott, of Nauheim. “ He induced
“acute strain of the heart in perfectly strong healthy men
“by means of wrestling, which was made more violent until
“breathlessness was produced. In a second series of experi-
“ ments the abdomen was at the same time encircled with a
“girdle, applied below the borders of the ribs, so as to
“compress the bowels, and otherwise the intra-cardiac
“pressure. By these means Dr. Schott succeeded in estab-
“ lishing all the symptoms of acute dilatation of the heart.”

The British Medical journal, of the 5th December, I891,
contains an account of a series of experiments performed
on several young children in an English workhouse. The
experiments consisted in testing the graspingpower possessed
by children in the early periods of infancy. To test this
power, the infants were made to suspend themselves by their
hands from a small branch or stick held horizontally over
their beds. The object of the experiments was to throw light
on Darwin’s theory that man is descended from some ape-like
arborial ancestor. The experiments are stated to have been
performed by the medical ofﬁcer of the workhouse, who him-
self describes them.

The experiments appeared to me, from the description, to
have been objectionable. It seemed to me that they must
have caused the children distress, and might also have
exposed them to the risk of injury. But a gentleman, in
whose judgment I have entire reliance, informs me that in
this opinion I am mistaken. He informs me that he
made very full inquiries at the time, and satisﬁed himself
that the experiments were done with such precautions as to
be quite harmless.

Still, however, the performing of any experiments at all on
workhouse or inﬁrmary children appears to me to be open to
serious objections. These objections are emphasised, more-
over, by the prefatory remarks contained in the description.
Speaking of the workhouse inﬁrmaries, the writer, who it is
to be remembered is the medical ofﬁcer of the establishment,
thus expresses himself: “I should like to call attention in

 




 

PURE EXPERIMENTS. 21

“passing to the magniﬁcent ﬁeld for original work of various
“ sorts these institutions offer. For other branches of re-
“ search of importance to medical and general science, I
“ have found the material there afforded of the greatest use,
“and neither in hospital or in private practice could such
“material have been found or made available. The long
“stay of the patients in the place, the great variety of cases,
“ both acute and chronic, and lastly, the unique and supreme
“position of the medical ofﬁcer, all render possible a course
“ of systematic study which can be carried on equally well
“ under no other conditions.”

In the above passage, the writer appears to me, to regard
the inmates of the workhouse inﬁrmaries as especially
adapted for experiment. Also that the medical ofﬁcers of
these inﬁrmaries have especial facilities for performing ex-
periments on the inmates. And he appears to me, moreover,
to suggest indirectly that these facilities should be taken
advantage of.

If this is the meaning of the writer, then I think that he
discloses grave cause for apprehension. We will assume that
the writer himself would perform no experiments but such as
are unobjectionable, like those he has described. But what
security have we that the other medical ofﬁcers will be always
equally considerate P Continental experience teaches us,
that when the practice of experimenting on the poor and on
hospital patients is once permitted, there is absolutely no limit
to the extent to which it may not be carried, or to the atrocities
to which it may not give rise. And even in this country we have
seen that experiments have been performed in the hospitals
on the poor and on children which violate very greatly our
sentiments of humanity. And, what is more signiﬁcant, we
have seen the performance of these and similar experiments
justiﬁed and defended by very eminent members of the
medical profession.

In Vol. XI. of the fozmml of Physiology, pp. 109—122,
there appears an account of a series of experiments, “ obser-
vations ” they are termed, performed on a patient in one of
the Edinburgh hospitals. The object of the experiments
was to ascertain the amount of the ﬂow of chyle “from the

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

22 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

horacic duct in man,” and also the chemical composition of
the chyle. Imay explain that chyle is the term applied to
that milky ﬂuid which is produced from food during the
process of digestion.

The patient on whom the experiments were performed was-
a man 62 years of age. He had been admitted into the
hospital suffering from a tumour in the neck. On the 5th of
August, the year is not stated, the tumour was removed by
an operation. The operation was not successful. A ﬁstula
formed in the wound, and from the fistula there occurred
a ﬂow of chyle, which continued till the man’s death. The
man died on the 11th of September. The experiments,
it is stated, were only commenced a few days previously.
If I [understand the account correctly, the experiments were
not performed by the physician under whose charge the man
was, but by another physician, previously absent, who had
now returned and obtained permission to undertake them. ,

The operations of the experiments consisted in the
collecting the “ chyle ” as it was discharged, and in after-
wards analysing it. The collecting the chyle proved a
matter of difﬁculty. Several processes were tried, none
proved altogether satisfactory. It was ﬁrst attempted to
collect the chyle by means of a “drainage tube,” but this
attempt had to be abandoned, for the probing the wound
caused immediate bleeding. Next sponge dressings were
applied, and afterwards a “ caoutchouc bag,” but neither
method quite answered. Some days “were occupied in these
unsuccessful attempts,” during which it is stated that “ the
“ patient became markedly weaker.” Finally, “a small
“ measure,” I presume a sort of cup, seems to have been in
some way attached to the wound, and into this the disch‘arge
was made “to trickle.” This last process also proved to
some extent a failure. It could not be continued for more
than a very few minutes at a time, in consequence of the
distress it occasioned the patient. It is stated that he
“became querulous and complained of faintness.” Very
soon after this last p1ocess was adopted the man died.

Now it is evident from the description that when the
experiments were commenced, the man was already dying.

 




 

PURE EXPERIMENTS. 23

Also, we may very fairly conclude that he was suffering. It
is expressly stated, p. III, that he “was too weak to be
“weighed.” Why, then, we may ask, were his sufferings
increased, his last hours made more miserable by these
experiments? That the experiments occasioned the man
distress is clear from the account of them. It is also, to my
mind, to be inferred that the man objected to their perform-
ance. Further, it is to be noted that the experiments were
not performed in the least for the man’s beneﬁt, nor even for
beneﬁt of practical medicine. They were performed merely
to throw light on certain abstract physiological problems.

It is, I have always understood, a maxim in the profession,
that when a case is hopeless, when recovery is impossible,
that then the efforts of the physician should be directed to
alleviate as far as possible the immediate sufferings of the
patient; to render, as far as it can be made so, his condition
easy, his departure tranquil.

In private practice, we may feel conﬁdent that this
procedure is adhered to. This case and others show us that
in hospital practice it may be otherwise. When a case, as did
this, presents points of scientiﬁc interest, then it would appear
that consideration for the patient may be overlooked in the
desire for the advancement of science.

It might be regarded as an exaggeration to describe these
experiments as exactly cruel. Yet the narrative of them
arouses in my mind, and very strongly, feelings of pity and
sympathy. I picture this man, poor, aged, friendless, his
last hours distressed by those who should have been his
consolers, his protectors. I see him, like the wretched
animals in the laboratories, offered up a sacriﬁce to that
modern Moloch—-Scientiﬁc Research.

This case, also, and the many that resemble it, suggest as
well further reflections. The ﬁrst is—How different are the
purposes to which hospitals are now thus applied, to the-
purposes for which, by their founders, they were intended.
The next is—In what opposite lights their inmates are-
regarded by Science and Religion. “The poor,” says the:
Scripture, “ye have always with you.” Practically, Science
answers, “Yes, and for the purpose of experiment.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

‘24 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

The Provincial Medical journal of the 2nd May, 1892, p. 273.
records the experiments of Dr. Kesel, house surgeon to St.
Olga’s Hospital for Children in Moscow, “ On Diuretic Action
of Copaiba Balsam, Copaiba Resin, Milk' Sugar, and Diuretin
in Children.”

The experiments were undertaken, the Provincial Medical
yam/hat says, on a group of children, age not mentioned. In
each instance the “ observation lasted for ﬁfteen consecutive
days. During the whole period the child was kept constantly
in bed.”

Twenty-three experiments were performed with sugar of
milk. '

Seven With copaiba balsam.

The number performed with copaiba resin is not stated.

Six experiments were performed with diuretin.

I presume the meaning of the above is that in experiments
with each drug, that numbers of children were experi-
mented on.

It is satisfactory to note that the reporter of the experi-
ments in the Provincial Medical feta/hat condemns them in the
strongest manner. I quote the following passages, as they
will enable the reader to realise more fully than will the
above brief description, what the real nature of the experi-
ments were, and what, also, must have been their effect on
the children :—

“ We do not know, of course, what exactly all these unhappy
“‘ children were thinking about their kind doctor who kept
“ them conﬁned to bed for ﬁfteen long days and nights solely
“‘ for the sake of some interesting scientiﬁc experimentation,
“ and who in addition was feeding them with such delicious
“medicines as, e.g., a copaiba emulsion. A medical man
“has no moral right whatever to keep any healthy child
“ chained to bed for over a fortnight, be his scientiﬁc purposes
“ and intention a thOusand times more important than Dr-
“ Kesel’s, for (a) the unnatural prolonged rest is directly
“ injurious to the child’s health and strength; ([2) the scientiﬁc
“ deprivation of movement means nothing else than the
“inﬂiction of an acute physical and mental suffering on a
“‘ child ; (c) the enforced absolute rest is direct moral

 

 

 

 




 

PURE EXPERIMENTS. 25

“ violence to the child, a crude violation of the little boys’ or
“ girls’ natural human rights.”

The reader will do well to bear these remarks in mind
when perusing the account I have later on recorded of a
very similar series of experiments performed also on children
in this country.

The same journal, p. 272, May 2nd, 1891, also records the
following experiments on children, performed in Germany,
to ascertain “the physiological condition of the state of
“ sleep in children.”

The experiments “ were performed on a number of children
“ of all ages with an (electric) induction current in order
“ to ascertain the amount of insensibility to irritation present
“in this condition; in other words, to test the depth
“ of sleep.”

From the further notices of the experiments it appears
that they were performed on children of all ages—from
infants, “ new-born," up to children of six years old.

The experiments consisted, I gather, in administering
electric shocks to the children and infants both when awake
and when asleep.

I notice that in regard to these experiments the reporter
of the Provincial Medical journal passes no condemnation,
yet they appear to me even more objectionable than the
experiments just previously recorded. To administer electric
shocks to a newly-born infant for the mere purpose of
abstract scientific inquiry appears to me an abominable
proceeding. Apart from the pain and terror which the
experiments must necessarily have occasioned the children,
the experiments must also have exposed the children to the
risk of serious injury. Any mistake in the strength of the
electric current, any unusual unperceived weakness, or
susceptibility on the part of the child might easily, moreover,
have produced fatal results.

I take the following from the Zooplzvilist of January, 1892,
p. 195 :—

The Gaz. d’ 0515. of November 21st, 1891, gives an account
of a series of experiments performed by a Doctor Bonardi
on a variety of animals and also on a human subject. The

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

26 HOSPITAL PATIENTS».

experiments consisted in the injection of the expectoration
of tuberculous animals; The result of the injection on the
animals on whom the experiments were made, was to cause
abscesses and also paralysis. The result on the human
subject was that swellings were formed which discharged
purulent matter. The man also suffered from headaches,
vertigo, pains in the limbs, and general debility.

The British Medical journal of April IIth, 1891, p. Iig, gives
an account of the inoculation of no less than sixty-seven
persons with Koch’s lymph. The inoculations were performed
by four leading medical practitioners in Berlin. The
persons inoculated were not suffering from consumption.
They were inoculated merely by way of ascertaining the effects
. of the lymph ; they were, in fact, used as what is technically
termed “controls.”

On the 12th May, 1893, Dr. Carl Jansen—I quote from
the Zoop/iilist of August, 1893, p. 82—de1ivered a lecture
before the Society of Swedish Doctors at Stockholm. In the
course of his lecture Dr. J described the results of
certain experiments he had made on children in the Foundling
Hospital at Stockholm. Regarding these experiments Dr.
J spoke as follows :—-—“I chose ‘ variola vaccine’ as the
“disease best suited for experiments; perhaps I ought ﬁrst
“to have experimented on animals, but those best adapted
“ for it, namely, calves, were hard to procure and to keep, on
“account of the expense, and for this reason, by the kind
“ permission of the head physician, Professor M ‘ ,I began
" my experiments on children in the Foundling Hospital.”

The experiments consisted in the inoculating unvaccinated
children with “ variola” pus, and also with milk and blood
taken from vaccinated persons. The object of this second
inoculation was to ascertain if by its means the formation of
the pustules which the ﬁrst inoculation would occasion could
be arrested. This would be, in effect, to retard the recovery
of the children. The experiments were continued for about
the period of a year and were performed on fourteen children.

The experiments were discontinued for some reasons not
stated, but Dr. J expressed his intention of commencing
them again “ as soon as an opportunity occurred.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

PURE EXPERIMENTS. 27

In the British Medical journal of the 9th March, 1889,

pp. 515—519, an account is given of a series of experiments
performed in Scotland on six young boys, the inmates of a
children’s hospital. The object of the experiments was to
make further tests as to the action of a lately introduced drug,
termed “paraldehyde.” The experiments appear to have
been performed by a physician connected with the hospital.
_ The drug paraldehyde, it is stated, was introduced into
medical practice about the year I883. It was introduced by
an Italian physician, Dr. Cervello, of Palermo. The drug
possesses hypnotic properties similar to chloral. It has been
asserted to be equally if not more dangerous.

The account of the experiments purports to be written by
their performer. The account thus commences—I quote the
exact words :—

“ Six boys were selected for the purpose of the experiments ;
“they had suffered from some triﬂing surgical affection, but
“had quite recovered at the time when the observations began.
“One was under observation at a time. Three of the boys
“yielded results sufﬁciently complete to allow of their
“ publication ; the other three, from various causes, failed to
“complete the experiments. Each boy during the period of
“observation was supplied with an ordinary mixed diet ”—a
description of the diet follows, which I omit. The account
then continues: “ He (the boy) was kept in bed when under
“the inﬂuence of the drug; at other times he was allowed
“moderate exercise in the wards of the hospital where the
“ observations were made.”

Much technical detail follows, which I omit. Then “the
“boys being healthy and good sleepers, and as one object of
“the experiments was to observe what effect paraldehyde had
“ as a hypnotic in ordinary health, it was thought best to give
“the dose of the drug in the morning about 9 o’clock.” After
further technical details, the account continues: “ This
“morning dose was continued in the first two recorded cases
“for three consecutive mornings; then followed a period of
“three days freedom from the paraldehyde. This period was
“again succeeded by another three days administration of
“the drug in an increased dose ; then the three days rest or

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

“freedom from the drug took place, and so on till the experi-
“ment was completed. The only difference in Case III. is,
“that the periods of administration and exemption were at
“intervals of two days.”

Thefull record of this Case No. III., is given, the other
cases, it is stated, being, both in their details and results,
nearly precisely similar. From this record of Case No. III.,
we learn that the age of this boy was ten years; that he was
experimented on for a period of precisely twenty-two days;
that although in perfect health, he was for one-half of this
period kept conﬁned to his bed; that for the entire period he
was kept conﬁned to the wards of the hospital, debarred alike
fromfresh air and free exercise, both so essential to the well-
being of a child. Further, we learn that the direct effect of
the drug was to produce results which common sense tells us
must have been deleterious.

In the ﬁrst place, whenever the drug was administered, it
brought on something very closely approaching to diarrhoea.
The child was therefore kept in the condition of suffering,
more or less, from that complaint for the eleven days, during
which the drug was administered.

In the next place, although the child, we are expressly told,
slept soundly all night, he was, on each of the eleven days
that the drug was administered, thrown in a state of artiﬁcial
sleep or drowsiness.

Further, during the entire period that the experiments
continued the child’s skin was dry, and each administration
brought on “ a marked tendency to ﬁushings of the face, which
“ continued for an hour or more.”

Besides this the drug produces a speciﬁc, and for so
young a child, what might prove a dangerous ailment.
Nevertheless though such is shown to be the effect of the
drug, the child is still compelled to take it, and be it noted
always in increased quantities. As shown by the Physicians
journal, the doses rise from ten minims or drops up to no
less than eighty.

Ishould mention that the other two children were kept
in bed and in conﬁnement and under the inﬂuence of the
drug for a period exactly one-third longer.

 

 




 

 

-4...%...¥..r. .4‘mu.-. ..,,. V\.:~_... fr;

PURE EXPERIMENTS. 29

Comment on such facts would be superﬂuous. But one
question I will ask: Do those who support these children’s
hospitals do so that the children of the poor may be cured
of ailment, injury and disease; or do they do so that these
children, for the reason that they are those of the poor, may
be made the subjects of experiment for the beneﬁt of the
rich P

There is one circumstance more that calls for mention.
It is a circumstance very suggestive as to what these
experiments on hospital children may eventually lead. The
experiments were commenced on children; they were con-
tinued on a cat and on frogs. In this country, and at
present, there is a limit to human experimentation which
cannot be safely passed. But who can say, with continental
examples before us, how long that present limit may be
maintained ?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

30 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

APPENDIX B.

Instances of the performance on Hospital patients,
children, and patients belonging to the poorer classes——
of experiments causing extreme suffering, permanent
injury, the risk of death, and even death itself.

Dr. Wachsmuth performed a series of experiments on his
own son, which he himself describes. The child suffered
from haemorrhagic diathesis. Dr. Wachsmuth ascertained
that the attacks of the disease, when they came on, could be
cured by a certain medicine, and that when they threatened
they could be prevented by another medicine. But having
made this discovery, Dr. Wachsmuth did not avail himself of
it. He allowed the child to remain without treatment that
he might study the development of the disease. I have quoted
from Mr. Stanford Harris’s pamphlet, p. 10; the case is
mentioned in Holme’s System of Snygery, 2nd edition, p. 722
.(or 922).

Dr. Lund, of the island of Samso, in. Denmark, also per-
formed a series of experiments on his own child. They are
described in Vol. XI. of the Scandinavian MedicalArchives,
1879, in an article by Dr. Salomon on inoculation of tuber—
culosis, in the following words :—“ Many experiments have
been made in the last few years by administering the ﬂesh and
milk of tuberculous cattle to animals, the Danish physician,
Dr. Lund, of the Isle of Sams'o, communicated the par-
ticulars of an experiment on a human being. The milk was
taken from a wretched, emaciated cow, continually coughing
and suffering from inﬂammation of the lungs. The subject
.of the experiment was Dr. Lund’s youngest son, a healthy
well-made boy. The baby was fed with milk from the said

cow from February, I865, to November of the same year; and

from November, 1865, to August, 1867, the child was fed with
the milk of another similar cow.” The result of the experi-

 




 

PAINFUL EXPERIMENTS. ' 31

ment is described as follows :—“ When eight months old
scrofulous conjunctivitis appeared in the child, which still
continued when Dr. Lund wrote his report. In Dr. Lund’s
opinion the disease could only be rationally accounted for by
reference to the diseased milk.”—Zoophilist, April, 1884, p. 284.

Experiment of Bargigli on two children. Aug. Hirsh in
his Handbztch dez/ Historisch geographischen Pathologze,
2nd Abtheilung, 1883,, p. 32, speaks of the criminal experi-
ment made by Bargigli in inoculating children, from six to
eight years old, with the matter of a leprous tumour. Hirsh
quotes Bargigli’s own words. The Zoophilz'st, after quoting
the description, adds, “Thus it appears that hapless children
of six and eight years old were sold by their parents or
guardians to Bargigli, to risk death by leprosy merely to
satisfy that man of science of the truth or falsehood of his
theory on the nature of that hideous disease.”——Zooj>lzilist,
April, 1884, p. 284.

It is stated on the authority of M. Victor Meunier that a
Dr. Pellican endeavoured to produce what is termed
spontaneous combustion in women who were confirmed
drunkards. “ When they were nearly insensible with drink
he plied them with as much spirits as they could swallow,
and then applied a lighted match to their mouths.”—
Zoophilz'st, January, 1888, p. 147.

Experiments on Mary Rafferty. These experiments were
performed at the Good Samaritan Hospital, at Cincinnati, in
America. Mary Rafferty was a servant maid. She was
admitted into the hospital suffering from some disease or
accident in consequence of which portions of her skull had
become removed, leaving the brain exposed. Her recovery
appeared hopeless, and the surgeon or physician attending
her considered himself justiﬁed in making her the subject
of experiments on the functions of the brain. In the course
of these experiments needles were thrust through the dura
mater into the substance of the brain. The brain was then
stimulated by galvanic or electric shocks. Mary Rafferty
died, it is said, in consequence of these experiments. The

experiments are said to have been undertaken as supple--

mental to those performed in England by Dr. Ferrier on cats

 

 




 

 

 

 

32 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

and monkeys. They are referred to in the evidence taken
before the Royal Commission on Vivisection in 1875, Q. 3390,
and it is there stated that the experiments were believed to
have caused the death of the patient. I have taken the
above account from the Zoophilist of December, 1883.

Experiment on the Italian Rinalducci. This experiment
was performed by Dr. Ezio Sciamanna, and described by
himself in a paper on the “Phenomena produced by the
Application of the Electric Current to the Dura Mater.”
The object of the experiment, it is stated, was to ascertain
whether excitation of the brain produces in man the same
results as in apes. Rinalducci was admitted into the hospital
at Turin on March 23rd, 1882, suffering from fracture of the
skull. He underwent the operation of trepanning, which
left a portion of the surface of the brain exposed. His
recovery appearing hopeless, as in the case of Mary Rafferty,
he was made the subject of experiment. The details of the
experiment are thus described :—A galvanic battery having
been brought, “ negative electrode was moved over the surface
of the brain, and notes taken of the motor phenomena. The
intensity of the current was felt to the ends of the ﬁngers.
The patient was not asleep. Chloral anaesthesia was only
once attempted, and then ineffectually.” The results of the
experiment were as follows :—“ The mouth of the patient
closed, each jaw being in tetanic contraction. Movements
took place of the arm and left hand, and rotation of the
head to the left, opening of the mouth, &c. On dissection
after death the exact points of the brain were perceived
which had been excited.” The brain having been burnt, or
inﬂamed, by the passage of the galvanic current. This
account is copied from the Zoop/zilz'st of December, I883,

PP. 310'313-

N0te.—In order that the intensity of agony that these
experiments must have caused may be understood, I add an
account of the behaviour of animals when undergoing similar
and even less severe operations. In these cases the ordinary
conditions were reversed. The animals being in health could
by their screams and movements express their sufferings—

 




 

PAINFUL EXPERIMENTS. 33,

the human subjects of the experiments were unable to do so.
In Dr. Ferrier’s experiments, which were identical with those
performed on Mary Rafferty and Rinalducci, the behaviour
of a eat when its brain was being similarly stimulated by
galvanic shocks is thus described 2—“ The animal screamed,
kicked out with its left hind leg, gnawed its own legs, pants,
screams, as if in furious rage, utters long continued cries.”—
Eoidenoe Royal Commission Report, pp. 220-221.

The animals in a menagerie in America were subjected
lately to mere ordinary galvanic shocks. The shocks were of
extreme power, but were administered merely to the limbs
or body, not to the exposed brain. These were the results :
—A baboon “ became wild with rage,” other animals
“seemed paralysed," the monkeys “screamed and seemed
to be undergoing agonies,” a wolf “cried piteously.” One
dog had only a moderate current of electricity passed through
the base of the brain, but the effect was such that he became
mad within half an hour, and had to be killed—I quote from
the Zoophilist of March, 1889, p. 206.

The following experiment was performed by three medical
men at Syra, in Greece. It was reported in the British
Medical fozmml of 17th June, 1882, p. 895, in a lecture given
by Dr. The lecturer is not represented as having
expressed any disapproval of the experiment :—

A man whose lungs were perfectly healthy was suffering
from a gangrene in his foot. His death appearing inevitable,
it was thought justiﬁable to inoculate him, by way of experi-
ment, with the “sputum” and blood of a woman suffering
from consumption. Three weeks after the inoculation
tubercles appeared in the lungs. In thirty-eight days the
man‘died.—I quote from the Zoophilist of June, 1884. The
experiment is described in greater detail in the Key to St.
Bernard’s, pp. 113 to 116.

In the Medical Press of 5th December, 1888, p. 583, is an
account of an experiment performed by a foreign physician
on one of his patients, a japoor woman. She was suffering
from cancer in the left breast. By way of experiment, pieces
of the cancerous skin were cut off, and engrafted on to the

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

34 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

healthy skin of the right breast; the cancer was, in conse-
quence, there also developed—The woman is said to have
died from this extension of the disease—I quote from the
Zoophilz'st of January, 1889, pp. 154 and 155. More complete
accounts ofthis experiment, and accounts also of other similar
experiments performed abroad, have since appeared. They
are as follow :—

In June, 1891, a paper was read by Professor Cornel at the
Academy of Medicine at Paris, on the subject of cancer
grafting. In the course of the paper Professor Cornel stated
that two women, hospital patients, had been thus experi-
mented on. They were suffering from cancer in the breast
on one side. They were placed under chloroform, and the
cancers were removed. But while the women were still
unconscious, the operating surgeon took the opportunity to
engraft portions of the cancerous tumours on to the breasts
on the other side, which were healthy. Both these grafts
developed into cancer tumours.

This statement of Professor Cornel excited extreme indig-
nation both in France and on the Continent generally. The
indignation was soon after further increased by the discovery
that two surgeons attached to hospitals in Berlin had been
for some years in the habit of performing similar experi-
ments. The experiments of these surgeons had been very
openly conducted, and had been even described in the
medicaljournals. But, somehow, they had hitherto attracted
no attention. The propriety of their performance now gave
rise to a lengthened controversy, both in the English as well
as in the German medical papers.

The German medical papers generally justiﬁed the experi-
ments. They did so on the ground that the experiments
were necessary for the advancement of medical science, and
inasmuch as they could not be performed on animals, that
therefore their performance on human beings was permissible.
The English papers, on the other hand, condemned the
experiments, but they did so chieﬂy on the ground “that
they would create a prejudice against legitimate research.”
But it was pointed out by the Zoophlilist that the account of
the experiment on the woman when published three years

 

 

 




 

 

PAINFUL EXPERIMENTS. 35

previously in the English Medical Press was unaccompanied
then by any previous expressions of disapprobation.

I have condensed the above from the Zoopliilist of
September, I89I, pp. 99 to I03. In these pages of the
Zoop/iilist'the facts are described very fully, and numerous
extracts are given from both the German and the English
medical papers.

Since writing the above, I have obtained sight of a copy
of the Medical Press above referred to. It is No. 2588, of 5th
December, 1888. I ﬁnd on perusing it, that not only is no
disapprobation of the experiment expressed, but, on the
contrary, it is spoken of with, it seems to me, implied appro-
bation as “important.” Iﬁnd, moreover, what adds to the
atrocity of the experiment, that the original cancer is stated
to have been incurable, not “admitting of surgical inter-
"‘ ference,” is the phrase used. The grafting the pieces of the
diseased skin on the healthy breast, was therefore an
experiment pure and simple, not differing in any way from the
experiments performed on the animals in the laboratories.
It may, moreover, be inferred from the description that the
experiment aided in accelerating the death of the patient.

The Dublin Medical journal of September, 1885, p. 153,
describes an experiment made in Italy on the exposed brain
of a patient who had lost a portion of his skull. The experi-
ment was made with drugs.——I quote from Zoophilist of
October, 1888, p. 95.

The British Medical journal described a series of experi-
ments performed abroad—in Paris, by Fehling, on infants,
with various drugs. The drugs were given to the women who
were nursing the children, and the effect on the infants noted.
The drugs were of the most deleterious, even poisonous
character, consisting of salicylate of soda, iodide of potassium,
ferrocyanide of potassium, iodoform, mercury, morphia,
chloral, atropine, and others.— Key to St. Bernard’s, p. 87.

The Zooplzilist, of June, 1892, p. 3:, quotes from the work
on Bacteria by Dr Sims Woodhead, Director ofthe Labora-
tories of the Roya Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons. In
the passage quoted an account is referred to of an experi-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

36 ’ HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

ment of the inoculation of a human eye with the supposed
bacteria of ophthalmia.

“It can hardly be supposed,” the Zoophilist remarks,
“that any person, however poor, would voluntarily submit
“to such an experiment, which would certainly injure and
“possibly destroy his eyesight. We may, therefore, fairly
“presume that the experiment was performed on some
“ hospital patient, without his consent or knowledge.”

A gentleman has kindly obtained for me a copy of the
entire passage referred to. It is as follows :—“ Bacillus of
“ conjunctivitis has? been described by Weeks as
“obtained from the conjunctival sac in cases of con-
“junctivitis; will not grow on gelatine, but in 5 per cent.
“of agar-agar it grows slowly on plates, forming in about
“48 hours, small pearly growths at the point of inocu-
“lation; about the ﬁfth or seventh day, the growth
“is complete, and at the endof a month the organisms
“appear to have lost their power of growth; it grows
“exceedingly well in ﬂuid ﬂesh broths, but not in solid
“media; grows best at from 34° to 37° C.; a bacillus from
“ 1m. to 2m. in length and 25 m. in thickness; like the
“tubercle bacillus, often forms long threads. As another
“organism was present with this when inoculations into the
“ human subject were made, it is not yet quite proved that this
“organism is the actual cause of conjunctivitis.”

The italics are mine. ‘

The copy is taken from Dr. Sims Woodhead’s work on
Bacteria?“ The gentleman who procured me the copy
informs me that Dr. Woodhead does not mention when or by '
whom the inoculations into the human subject were per-

formed.

In the Medical Press of the 17th March, 1886, pp. 246, 247,
there was published the second of a series of articles, entitled
“ Experimental studies relating to the science and art of
“disinfection.” In this article the author describes the
processes and results of a long series of experiments per-
formed by him on human subjects, who, from certain

* Appendix, p. 436.

 

 

 

 

 




 

PAINFUL EXPERIMENTS. 37

remarks, evidently were Hospital patients. The experi-
ments were undertaken for the purpose of testing on
human beings the efﬁcacy of the process by which
tuberculous bacilli had been destroyed by Dr. Koch in
test tubes in his laboratory. The account of the experi-
ients is given at great length, and is generally very technical.
In the ﬁrst set of experiments the patients were made to
inhale various volatile drugs combined with air. The drugs
used were, many of them, highly injurious. The results are ,
thus described, I quote the exact words of the article. “The
“results of all our trials were perfectly negative,” that is, the
author explains, “negative” as regarded the cure of the
disease. In other ways the results were very decided, for,
as the author continues, “the patients were mostly worse
“under the inﬂuence of the re-agents”-———that is, of the
volatile drugs—“than without them, indeed, the mercurial
“vapour caused speciﬁc effects, which necessitated its
“discontinuance, while the aniline had such a destructive
“effect upon the blood, that the end of one patient was no
“doubt greatly accelerated by it.”

 

This ﬁrst series of experiments was performed on thirty
patients.

In conclusion, the author in effect admits that the experi-
ments ought never to have been attempted, inasmuch as there
was no similarity in the conditions, the destruction of bacilli
in a test tube being an entirely different process from the
destruction of them in the lungs of a living being.

The next series of experiments consisted in the inhalation
of “those gaseous drugs,” one of which had been found
efﬁcacious in the destruction “of the infection of typhoid
“fever.” Sulphurated hydrogen was the drug of which the
effects were tested. It caused extreme suffering to the patients
who inhaled it, producing “ cough, irritation, pain, fever, and
“general depression of system.” These and other ill-effects
were so extreme, that the experiments had to be discontinued.

The inhalation of drugs having proved of no beneﬁt, their
direct administration was next had recourse to. The drug
used was that most deadly poison, “corrosive sublimate.”
'It was first; administered “in the same manner in which

 

 

 

,V,._‘ _—m¢w‘:~tﬁ’:~—u Jun 9" ,‘f '




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

38 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

“ Dr. Cash instituted his prophylactic medication on rabbits
“ and guinea-pigs,” which, it is stated, was “internally by the
“mouth.” Next it was “ subcutaneously injected in solution.”
Lastly, “raised to a state of the highest hopefulness and
“ expectation by some temporary increase in the weight of
“ some of our patients, we brought the solution of the corrosive
“ sublimate in contact with, the bacilli themselves, by injecting
“it percutane-ously and perthoracically,” that is, through skin
and throat, “into the parenchyma of the affected lungs
“ themselves.”

The results of the experiments were, as the author admits,
very deplorable. It will carry most conviction to the
reader, on this point, if I quote his own wordsz—“The
“ perthoracic and parenchymatous injection seemed to cause
“beneﬁt in some cases, but the improvement was not long
“ continued, mercurialism soon appeared.” “The corrosive
“sublimate,” the author also further on states, “like the
“chlorine gas, caused severe cough, leading to hamoptysis
“and other complications, which induced the fatal issue.”
The words“ fatal issue ” refer to a previous admission, which
is as follows: “Highly interesting are the records of the
“ details we collected; deplorable are a iew of the accidents
“which interrupted the progress of our experiments;
“melancholy it is no doubt that a few died, as may be
“suspected, in direct censequence of the anti-bacillar
“ medication.”

The author thus concludes his narrative : “ On the whole,
“therefore, our experiments on human patients afflicted
“with tuberculosis had the same effect and issue as the
“experiments of Dr; Cash on animals, the patients were in
“ a worse position with the bacillicidic medication, and died
“ quicker than without it.”

The author states that the experiments were in all cases
performed with the consent of the patients, and after the
risks had been fully explained to them. But however
honestly made, such assurances as regards Hospital patients
do not altogether carry conviction. There always must
remain the doubt whether the consent was entirely voluntary,
and whether the risk was fully comprehended. Moreover in

 




 

PAINFUL EXPERIMENTS. 39.

these particular experiments, the risk, as the result showed,
was immense, while the beneﬁt was altogether problematical.
Would such experiments, we may fairly ask, have been
performed in private practice, and on the rich? If not,
then we may further ask, was it right to perform them on
the poor?

The name of the performer of the experiments is not
mentioned, nor the place of their performance. But as they
are described by the writer of the article as having been
made by himself, we may presume that they were
performed by an English physician, and in this country.

The following, which I give a good deal condensed,
appeared in the Newcastle Daily Clzmncile of 21st September,
1888:—

“ Much indignation is felt here (at Lyons) by the reported
intention of President Carnot to make M. G , a
physician, Commander of the Legion of Honour. The cause-
of the indignation is this. Some few years back M. G
was condemned in the Courts for his treatment of an orphan
bOy belonging to one of the charitable institutions. By way
of experiment, M. G inoculated the boy with a certain.
horrible disease. The result of the inoculation was that the-
boy took the disease and died. When placed on his trial
M. G defended his conduct on the ground that what he
had done was done for the advancement of science. And
that the death of the boy might have beneﬁted the world.”

 

 

 

 

 

The Zoophilist, of August, 1893, p. 81, quotes the account
given by two physicians in Madeira of their endeavours to
develop artiﬁcially in human beings the “Lepra ” bacillus.
For this purpose they raised blisters on the tubercles of
certain patients who were already suffering from tubercular
skin diseases. This method failed and a different one was.
then adopted. A man was selected who had a tubercular
nodule on his forearm. Into this nodule turpentine was
injected. The result of the injection was that the entire arm
swelled. The swelling was “ as hard as a board” and caused
the man much suffering. Eventually a large abscess formed,
in which on puncturation bacilli were found. The Zoop/zilist

 

 

— —~ -..__. __..._-MM_...-._M.__.“WWW-.~_...~,_,,. 6.x . “City—J




 

 

 

 

 

4O HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

infers from the narrative of the experimenters that the man
in the end died, and died in consequence of the experiment.

It appears, further, that this man and the others who were
experimented on, had been “passed on” to experimenters
by the physician under whose charge they were.

A pamphlet has been recently published in Germany, by
M. Voigt, of Leipzig. The pamphlet is entitled: Medical
Experiments on Human Beings. The author is a physician
of the name of Koch. Translations of portions of the
pamphlet have appeared in the ZOO/)lllil'ist, and from these
translations I take descriptions of the following experi-
ments :—

I.

In the year 1890, an extensive series of experiments were
made on some of the patients of the Insane Asylum at
Voralberg, in Austria. The experiments consisted in the
administration of certain virulent poisons. The poisons
were administered by means of subcutaneous injections.
Six of the patients experimented on were incurable. The
others were more or less healthy. The experiments lasted
for periods varying from two to nine weeks in each case.

The effects of the injections are thus described : “ In the
“ neighbourhood of the puncture inﬂammation accompanied
“ by pain was very frequently set up, lasting in many cases
“for eight days. The patients complained of great dryness
“in the mouth and throat, loss of appetite, nausea, and
“ choking sensations. They drank astounding quantities of
“ water without experiencing any appreciable relief. In one
“ case the injections had to be discontinued after a fortnight
“ on account of the patient refusing all food in consequence
“ of dryness and severe nausea."

“ We could seldom induce sleep to last even an hour, or an
“hour and a half at most.”

“The patients as they staggered about with troubled and
“ often emaciated faces produced a most alarming impression,
“ and ﬁnally isolation was unavoidable.”

It is further stated that in the injection of one drug, the
objection of the patients was such, that “in almost every
case ” the injection had to be made by force, and the




PAINFUL EXPERIMENTS. 41

account adds, “ some of the patients begged and implored
“ us not to use this painful method.”

As regards the results of the experiments it is stated that
they “in no case gave any encouragement to further trials,
“ so that we were obliged to give up the hyoscin treatment.
“ We could discover absolutely no beneﬁts from it, while the
“evil effects were evident.”

I should mention that the drug used in the above series of
experiments is stated to have been “ Hyoscinum Sul-
“ phuricum,” which is the juice of henbane seed mixed with
sulphuric acid. The narrative of the experiments is stated
to have been taken from the report of the doctor who
conducted them.

11.

In the year 1878 a charwoman from Pless, in Upper Silesia,
Katherina Serafin by name, 42 years of age, applied for
treatment to Dr. Fischer at Breslau. She was suffering from
a large tumour on the left breast. With the woman’s consent
Dr. Fischer removed the tumour. The wound which resulted
was so extensive that it left exposed the heart and a portion
of the lungs. Such an operation is usually fatal, but owing
to the woman’s extreme strength of constitution she recovered.
On her recovery she became an object of great interest to
the physicians both at Breslau and other places. Her
condition was so extraordinary with her heart and part of
her lungs exposed that the curiosity manifested was not to
be wondered at, and to a certain extent its gratification in
simply observing the woman’s condition could not have been
objected to. But the physicians did not confine themselves
to mere observation, they made the woman the subject of
direct experiments of precisely the same kind as are performed
on unhappy animals in the laboratories.

The account given of the experiments is too comprehensive
and too technical for quotation. The following summary
will, however, give the reader some idea of their nature, and
also of the suffering they must have occasioned :—

Ist. Tracings of the beatings of the heart were made by
means of a revolving cylinder. The “ tambour ” being
fastened on to the heart itself by small pieces of cork.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

42 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

2nd. The heart and neighbouring organs were felt by the
ﬁngers of the experimenters. The lungs and heart were
directly percussed and auscultated. The arteries of the
lungs were also compressed.

3rd. Further tracings of the heart were made. Extremely
small tambours were used, so that several could be placed
on the heart at the same time.

4th. The heart was stimulated by electric currents. Also
it was pressed, ﬁrst with the ﬁnger, next with the end of the
percussion hammer and the tambour. On one occasion the
experimenting physician even took hold of the heart from
behind with three ﬁngers, and pressed it against the breast
bone, also he pressed it sideways to the right. The effects
of these last operations is thus described by the performer
of them himself. “Under the highest possible pressure,
“ which of course was only maintained for a very short time,
“ emphatic ‘delirium cordis ’ (wild agitation of the heart) set
“in. The sphygmographic tracings showing complete
“ absence of rhythm.” '

5th. Another series of experiments consisted of prolonged
compressure of the arteries. The woman lay on her back,
Professor Z applied the tambour to the heart, while, at a
sign from him, two assistants compressed the arteries.

6th. The phrenic nerve, and then the heart itself, were
stimulated, ﬁrst with an induction current, next with a
continuous current (of electricity). The result being that
the pulse was raised from its natural number of beats per
minute, which was 70, up to I40 and 180 beats per minute.
She died on the 13th August, 1881. The experiments had
been continued for several months. The agony caused by
some of the experiments must have been extreme. The woman
consented certainly to their performance, but then it is to be
presumed that she was driven to consent by her extreme
destitution, for she was entirely, it is stated, without means,
and after the operation she was unable to work.

It is to be noted that the experiments, great as was the
suffering they caused the woman, proved absolutely valueless
to medical science. This is admitted distinctly by the Chief
performer of them himself.

 

 

 




 

 

PAINFUL EXPERIMENTS. 43

III.

On May 28th, 1885, a boy named August Wittman, ten
years of age, was admitted into the Royal Surgical Hospital
at Munich. The boy was suffering from a tumour of much
the same kind as that of the woman Katherina Seraﬁn, in
the case just related. The tumour was in a similar manner
removed. The removal of the tumour in this case, as in
that of the woman, left the heart and a portion of the lungs
exposed to View. The boy made a speedy recovery. In the
summer of the following year, I886, the lad was examined.
It was then found that the aperture was closing up. “As it was
“very possible,” says the account, “ that this process would
“ continue until the opening was entirely closed, experiments
“were begun with all speed.”

“ Dr. Richard H was the ﬁrst to commence operations.”
He did so with the same apparatus which had been used in
the experiments on Katherina Seraﬁn. This apparatus, it is
mentioned, was lent him for the purpose. The experiments
were afterwards continued by Professor Z , the same who
had conducted the chief experiments on the woman Seraﬁn.
The experiments were generally the same as those which
had been performed on her, but were not, apparently,
quite so extensive. This was in consequence of the boy’s
heart being less exposed, for it was, of course, only the
parts exposed to View and touch that could be experimented
on. The chief experiments seem to have been electrical.
Their effect on the boy is thus described by Professor Z ,
who performed them. “The whirl of the battery, combined
“with the sight of the bluish light of the evolved sparks,
“frightened him so much that he fainted away.” The
Professor, in the true spirit of science, utilised the boy’s
terror and agitation by noting its effect on the action of the
heart.

This series of experiments was brought to an abrupt
termination: ‘ The boy’s parents possibly heard of them. At
all events they suddenly appeared at the hospital and took
their son home. The Professor made several attempts to
get the boy returned to the hospital. Eventually he
succeeded. By what means he succeeded is not stated

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

44 - HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

clearly. The boy was now fourteen years old, and strong
and healthy.

The experiments now undertaken were chieﬂy to compare
the natural, or ordinary movements of the heart, with the
same movements when the boy was under the inﬂuence of
alcohol, and of various other drugs. He was made to
drink more than half-a-pint of sherry within the period Of
ﬁfteen minutes. This stimulant sent his pulse Up to 112
beats in a minute. He was next dosed with digitalis; this
lowered the heart’s action to 62 beats in the minute,
and it continued thus for some time. The lowering of the
pulse produced in the boy extreme nervous depression,
and anxiety. The depression and anxiety displayed itself in
“ bitter ﬁts of weeping.” The boy’s distress does not seem
to have excited in the Professor any feeling of human pity.
It called forth apparently only scientiﬁc interest. The drugs
which caused the boy’s distress were not discontinued. Bul-L
the effect of the weeping on the action of the heart was
carefully noted. It was found to raise the pulse by about
50 beats.

The drug next administered was “Chloral Hydrate,” of which
the action, it is said, will, in the very healthiest brain, eventually
produce insanity. It was the intention of the experimenters
to test the action of. other poisonous or deleterious drugs.
But this intention they were not able to carry into effect, for
either the boy himself or his parents insisted that he should
return home, and this, says the Professor, “we were unable
“to longer prevent.” The Professor regrets the termination
of the experiments. For their effects on the boy’s future life,
he expresses no concern whatever.

The above account is taken from the translations of
Dr. Koch’s pamphlet that appeared in the Zooplz-ilist of
September, 1893, p. 101.

I take the following also from Dr. Koch‘s pamphlet, as
published in the August number of the Zooplzi'lz'st for the
same year, 1893 :—

It is'well known that the supposed cure for consumption
announced by the author’s namesake, Professor Koch, of
Berlin, before long became discredited. It failed to effect

 




 

PAINFUL EXPERIMENTS. 45

cures, and in numerous cases it was found to have
aggravated the disease, even to an extent that proved fatal;

It remained, however, doubtful, if by its effects it might not
be useful as indicating whether or no the disease existed.

To test this“point, the medical authorities of the Military
Hospital at Vvurzburg determined, on the inoculation with
Koch’s lymph, on no fewer than 44 of the recruits under their
care. The results of the inoculations were that the recruits
on whom they were performed were made seriously ill. The
medical results were simply that, even as a test for the
existence of consumption, the lymph was valueless.

The military doctors performed these experiments, though
in their report they admit they were perfectly aware of their
dangerous character.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

6 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

APPENDIX C.

Instances of the performance on Hospital patients of
dangerous and unnecessary operations, and of the
testing on them of new and hazardous, methods of
treatment. ,

Also acts and opinions of physiologists, and of certain
medical professors, indicating or openly expressing
approval of such practices, and of experiments generally
on human beings.

Also instances Where the actual vivisection of human
beings has been in former times systematically carried on.

Also acts and opinions, evincing the tendency of
experimentation on living beings, to deaden or pervert
the sentiments of human and moral propriety.

Mr. Timothy Holmes asserts that in his opinion the ﬁrst
object of hospitals should be the instruction of students; the
second, the relief of suffering. This opinion was expressed
at a meeting of the Hospitals Association, held 23rd April.
1884. A report of the meeting appeared in the British
Medical journal.

Dr. Brudenell Carter, in an address delivered at the Mansion
House, 17th June, 1886, reported in Times of the 18th June,
gives utterance to similar opinions.

“The greatest use of hospitals is to promote the advance
of medical science and to afford an improved method of
recognizing and of treating disease.”-—Laneet, june 26th,
1886.

“ Many thought that a clinical hospital was a great insti-
tution for experiments on the sick.”———Meumgement of Hospitals’
Committee, June 10th, 1881.

 




 

HAZARDOUS ME’IHODS. 47

Professor Pajon proposes that Pasteur’s experiments on
inoculation of hydrophobia, should be tried on condemned
criminals with their consent.

Dr. F , in a letter to Lancet, April 7th, 1888, advocates
the feeding of condemned criminals on the flesh of tubercu-
lous animals, or the inoculating them with tuberculous matter,
and examining the result after their execution. I quote his
words. “ I think no better use could be made of those con-
demned to death than by experimenting on them in this
direction. I do not know whether the hyper-sentimental
people, the extreme moralists of the country, would tolerate
such a proceeding, but I do think that criminals should‘be
made to atone to society. Feeding or inoculating such
criminals with the products of tuberculous animals would
solve a most serious sanitary problem.”

 

Claude Bernard advocated experiments on the brains of
human beings, because “human beings have faculties which
animals do not possess.”

The experiments with drugs on out-door hospital patients,
brought to light in 1883, were defended by two leading medical
papers as justiﬁable in principle.

The general principle of experimenting on the poor by a
London physician, Dr. , in a letter in the Standard,
4th November, 1883. In this letter the writer maintains that
the practice is in accordance with the great law of nature,
which ordains that the few should suffer for the beneﬁt of
the many. In the course of the letter hospital patients are
spoken of as 007150241 vilia, and the indignation excited at the
experiments on them, then recently brought to light, is
described as an “ hysterical agitation.”—Zooplzz'list, December,
1883 (Supplement), pp. 222, 223.

 

Dr. Jackson, Lecturer on Surgery to Medical School ot
Shefﬁeld, in a lecture delivered on 9th July, 1884, denounces
the reckless manner in which operations are performed in
hospitals. To this recklessness he attributes the frequent
deaths—Key to St. Bernard’s, p. III.

Dr. Meudorfer states that in his opinion many dangerous
operations are performed merely to glorify “ Lister’s ” method

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

48 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

or in consequence of its inﬂuences—British Medical journal,
December 6th, 1879, p. 892.

Dr. Rumbold expresses a similar opinion—Key to St.
Bernard’s, p. 57.

Hazardous operations by way of experiments are advocated
by a writer in British Medical journal, 14th July, 1883, p. 61.
The writer says, “ Let each mount his hobby, and let us see
who can ride furthest and best. Should any one in his
eagerness deviate on to the forbidden ground of vivisection,
his good intentions shall seem to absolve him.”

The Committee of Inquiry on the operations performed in
the Liverpool Hospital for Women, reported that very serious
operations were performed without the patients being informed
what was being done to them.

Professor Hyrth, in his Anatomie, expresses his opinion
that many physiologists of the present day, if permitted, would
repeat the vivisections of human beings performed in antiquity
and at the period of the revival or learning at the close of
our Middle»Ages.—Zoophilist, May, I882.

Professor Ferrier, speaking of these human vivisections,
appears to excuse them. He says, “We who have derived
much valuable knowledge . . . from these experimenters,
must not be too ready to ﬁnd fault with them.”

Dr. Lefﬁngwell, in his pamphlet, says that want of con-
sideration to the human patients is invariably the case where
the practice of the vivisection of animals prevails.

Dr. Rolleston had long previously, in his evidence before
the Royal Commission, expressed a similiar opinion.

The celebrated surgeon Chisselden, in the reign of King
Charles 11., proposed that all criminals condemned to death
should be given up for vivisection. Speech of Lord
Shaftesbury at the inauguration of the Society for the Pro-
tection of Animals from Vivisection. I quote from Zooplzilist
Special Supplement, April, 1888.

It is said that the ﬁrst experiments on inoculation for
small-pox were‘made on criminals. Evidence Royal Commission
on Vivisection, Q. 563.

 




 

HAZARDOUS METHODS. 49

Herophilus of Alexandria dissected living men. Evidence
Royal C0mmis$i0n on Vivisection, Q. 567.

Dr. expresses the following opinion :——-“ What is the
mortality of this operation now so often and so unnecessarily
performed P We shall never know. I put it down at 25 per
cent., thongh it is probably much higher. In other words,
one out of every four women operated on has till now died
after an operation for the removal of a tumour, that has, as a
rule, a limited active existence, and that of itself rarely
shortens life. We have no wish to rush our patients into
such a fearful risk; yet it is done every day.”—British
Medical journal, December 10th, 1887.

The celebrated physiologist and vivisector, Virchow, thus
expresses himself: “ Sound conclusions in human physiology
“ and pathology can only be arrived at by the study of the
“human body." Virchow, however, adds that experiments
on human beingsshould be “ voluntary, not compulsory.”

I quote the above from the Zoophilist of September, 1891.

I take the following from the Medical Press of 12th August,
1891, p. 161 :—

At the Congress held in Paris in August, 1891, M. Hericourt
read a paper on the “Treatment of Pulmonary Phthisis by
“Injection of the Serum of Dog’s Blood.” He stated that he
had thus treated ﬁfty-six of his patients, some with good
effect. M. Pinard stated that he had adopted the same mode
of treatment. During the last four months he had “ injected
“ the liquid in question into every new-born infant weighing
“less than four pounds with very satisfactory results.”
“ Of the seventeen children thus treated not one succumbed,
“ although they were all congenitally weak and almost unfit
“ to live.”

This was more treatment than experiment, as its purpose
was to benefit the patients. But it is a kind of treatment
that borders very closely on experiment. It is also treatment
of an obviously dangerous and objectionable kind. Who can
tell what maladies may not be communicated, or originated,
by these injections of the blood and humours of animals into
the human frame. It belongs to that system of treatment,
so opposed to nature, to which modern vivisectional science

 

 

 




 

 

 

50 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

has given birth, a system which aims at rendering our bodies
healthy by making them the receptacle of every species of
animal impurity.

I take the following from the Zooplzilist of June last (I893),
p. 23. The Zooph’ilist cites as its authority the Medical
Reprints of May 15th, 1893, p. 57 :—

“ Professors Léon Le Fort and Verneuil, Professor Duplay,
“ and Professor Tillaux have been asked by a public journal
“ for their opinion on the operative mania said to be prevalent ”
(in France) “at present. Professor Le Fort says it is much
“ more wide spread in France than in other countries, and in
“a long letter he protests against the custom among young
“ French surgeons in order to bring their names before the
“public ‘to seek out some operation unknown in France;
“ ‘then seek out a victim on whom they can perform it, in
“ ‘order to report it before a medical society, and perhaps
“ ‘ also show the patients.’ Then, says M. Le Fort, they take
“ up the operation as a speciality, perform it on a hundred or
“ two hundred patients, and thus gain a reputation.”

“Professor Verneuil protests against the abuse of opera-
“ tions in general, and especially of gynaecological operations”
(those performed on females). “ He deplores the ‘prurigo
“ ‘scandi ’ ” (itch for cutting) “with which so many French
“ surgeons are attacked. Professor Duplay and Professor
“ TillauX express the same opinions.”

The following appeared in the Medical Press of 2nd Sept.,
1886 :—

“ The removal of the spleen not appearing to injure rabbits,
“ some practitioners have thought that they could therefore
“remove enlarged spleens from human beings. The results
“ when the idea was put in practice were disastrous.”

I quote from the Zoophilist of October, 1885, p. 95 :—

At p. 262 of the evidence taken before the Royal
Commission of 1875, an account is given of the adminis-
tration of curari—that most deadly poison—to two
young children in the children’s hospital at Manchester.
The drug was given, it is stated, for the purpose
of cure. Still, in reading the description, it impresses one
with the idea of the administration being something of an




A _nmr_/.._~—-—____ uh

HAZARDOUS METHODS. 5]:

experiment. The drug, it is stated, had only previously
been tried on animals. The result in the case of the ﬁrst
child was all but fatal. It is stated by the performer as the
result of experiment. I quote his words as recorded in the
evidence—“ﬁrstly, that the poison did not in any way
“control the disease; ’ and, secondly, that even in small
“doses it .was so dangerous as to render it inexpedient to
“pursue the observations.”

It is to be noted also that Dr. Sharpey in his evidence
previously recorded (pp. 28 and 29). speaks of the use of
curari in medicine as a thing not to be thought of, on account
of its extreme danger.

 




 

 

 

 

 

52 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

APPENDIX D.

A notice has recently appeared in the Daily News of
August 18th, 1893, of the late celebrated French physician,
Dr. Charcot. In this notice, which is highly laudatory, the
following statements are made— I should mention that
Dr. Charcot was the great French authority on diseases of
the nerves, and that for many years he was in charge of the
insane ward of the Hospital of the Salpetriére in Paris.
Regarding his attitude to the patients under his charge the
author of the notice writes thus: “Patients to him were
generally interesting cases which he ‘treated in the spirit oft/2e
vivisectionist.’ ” The italics are mine. “ Again,” the author
says, “ he was reckless of the effects of his experiments on
“individuals, though affectionate in his home relations.”
As an illustration of this the author mentions that a Dr. Burg,
having made some supposed discovery as to the effect of
metals on the nerves, Dr. Charcot at once placed the patients
in the Salpetriere at his disposal as subjects for his
experiments. Dr. Charcot did this although the asserted
discovery was disbelieved in, and was ridiculed by most of
the Paris doctors. Patients in the German hospitals are
spoken of equally with the animals used for experiments as
“Versuchthiere,” that is, “beasts fOr research.” In this
country the patients are spoken of in the medical journals as
“material.” Both terms are suggestive of the light in which
the patients are regarded; more, it would seem, as subjects
for investigation than as fellow creatures with sufferings
to be relieved.

In a leading article which appeared in the Medical Press and
Circular, the suggestion was made that Pasteur’s method of
spreading fatal disease among rabbits might be adopted
towards our enemies 'in case of war. The writer says:
“ It carried out successfully this Pasteur’s proposed method
“ will certainly be the most striking instance of the appli-




VARIOUS OPINIONS. 53

“ cation of science to warfare. By diverting a natural force
“ into this channel, we have more or less under our command
“ a devastating agent, compared to which Gatling guns and
“ Mitrailleuses are mere pop-guns. And although so far it
“is only proposed to deal with rabbits, the future is pregnant
“with new and unthought of possibilities in this direction.”
—-I take the above from the Zoophilist of May, 1888, p. 4.

In the Zoophilist of May, 1890, p. 4, there appears a letter
giving an account of a lecture delivered a few weeks
previously at Cambridge, by a physician, Dr. M The-
lecture, it is stated, was one of a series arranged for by the
Church of England Young Men’s Society and the Young
Men’s Christian Association. The meeting was presided
over by Professor H , who I presume was one of the Pro-
fessors of the University.

In the course of the lecture the experiments of a certain
German physician were referred to. These experiments
were performed on seven of his own patients, and consisted
in inoculating them with the germs of erysipelas. Of these
seven patients all but one became infected with the disease.
The writer of the letter states, that according to the report
of the lecture that appeared in the local paper, no dis-
approval of the experiments was expressed by the lecturer,
or was manifested by the chairman, Professor H , or by
the audience. On the contrary, the chairman, addressing
the audience, said: “ That he hoped that they would not by
“ any nonsensical sentimentality oppose the work that science
“had to do, but that they would heartily encourage and
support it.”

The writer of the letter states that the account of the
lecture and the above quotation are taken from the Cambridge
Chronicle and University journal of March 14th, 1890.

I have endeavoured, but unsuccessfully, to procure a copy
of this paper that I might verify the account and quotation.

A gentleman, however, to whom I applied, has kindly
done so for me at the British Museum. He writes me as
follows :——“ . . . . the extracts given in the Zoophilist for
“ May, 1890, reproduce the words ofthe lecturer and chairman
“with exactitude. Not a word was uttered by anyone

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

54. HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

“ condemnatory of human experimentation . . . .” The
gentleman adds that it would seem from certain subsequent
remarks of the lecturer that these were not the only experi-
ments of a similar nature that this German physician had
performed.

EXPERIMENTS ON EXECUTED CRIMINALS.

At the execution by hanging of John Davy, in May, 1879,
experiments were made on his pulsation. By means of
delicate machinery tracings were made on paper of the
variations of the heart beats while the man was hanging
suspended.

Itake the following account much condensed from the
Zoophilist ofJune, 1882, p. 54.

Some few years ago numerous experiments were made on
the heads of criminals who had been guillotined. The object
of the experiments was to ascertain if life and sensation
, remained dormant in the head after its severance from the
body. The procedure was generally the same, and as
follows :—-After a mock funeral, which was required by the
law, the dead bodies were handed over to the experimenters.
The great artery of the head was connected by a tube with
the carotid artery of a living dog. As the blood of the dog
circulated through the brain of the decapitated head, signs
of animation, real or apparent, were manifested. The face
resumed its natural colour, the lips became full and red, and
the eyeballs rolled. In some instances the nerves of the
h§ad were also stimulated by electric currents. Further
movements resulted. Similar currents were made to
pass through the nerves of the headless body, with the
result that the hands commenced to quiver and the heart
to beat.

In the opinion of some leading French physiologists, there
was some possibility that life had really remained in the heads,
and that the stimulations of the infused blood and of the
electric currents may have aroused it. On this account they
denounced the experiments in the strongest terms, both as
wantonly cruel and also as a violation of the law.




EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 55

' If their opinions were correct, and there was an actual
awakening to life even of a few moments, what moments of
inexpressible horror those moments must have been!

The above is taken from the mo1e detailed accounts given
in the Zoophilist for May, Au.,gust and September, 1885.

The experiments on hypnotism need only be generally
referred to. They have for some years been openly performed
on the Continent, especially in Paris. They have been
performed on the inmates of the lunatic asylums, and also
on epileptic and other suitable patients in the hospitals.
Although not exactly painful, their effect, especially on
females, is asserted to be very injurious. They have also been
strongly condemned as being immoral in their tendency.
The patients, according to the reports of experiments that
have been published, are thrown into such a condition of
emotional excitement that they “can be played on like the
“keys of a piano.” In this state the most sinful and. even
criminal thoughts can be excited, and the patients can even in
imagination be made to commit the acts which the thoughts
suggest.

These hypnotic experiments,it is to be noted, are performed
for the mere purpose of scientiﬁc investigation, and with no
intention or expectation of beneﬁting the patients.

The subject is very fully treated in the British Medical
journal of December 3rd, I892, in an article, entitled
“Hypnotism, Animal Magnetism, and Hysteria,” by Mr.
Ernest Hart. Mr. Hart condemns these hypnotic experiments

very strongly, as useless, as dangerous, and as altogether
objectionable.

HUMAN VIVISECTION.

An article on this subject, by a well-known writer,
appeared in the Zoophz'lz'st of June, 1892, p. 40. I give
a very brief summary of the contents. I may mention
that the authorities for all the statements made 1n the
article are given.

I.

Human vivisections were practised, and to an enormous
extent, by the Greek and Alexandrian physicians. This is

 

 

 




 

 

56 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

asserted not only by the'early Christian writers, but also by
the heathen physician Celsus, who strongly denounces the
practice. The victims were slaves and criminals.

It is to be noted that, according to Celsus, these human
vivisections were justiﬁed by those who performed them on
the grounds that by sufferings inﬂicted on a few persons
remedies might be discovered by which the whole of mankind
might be beneﬁted. And this, it is to be noted, is precisely
the same argument by which at the present day the
vivisection of animals is endeavoured to be defended.

11.

With the revival of learning in the 16th century the practice
of the vivisection of human beings was revived by the Italian
physicians. Both Vesalius and Fallopius are known to
have dissected men alive. In the criminal archives of Pisa
there are records of thirteen criminals having been made
over to the physicians for vivisection.

 




‘3

ABSTRACT. 57

APPENDIX E.

Abstract of Experiments on Human Beings, described

.in preceding Appendices A. and B.

CLASS I.

Experiments on adults—men and women.

I. Varnishing the skin.

2. Tedious and irritating examinations of dying patients,
merely to furnish reports to medical journals.

3. Convulsions produced in a woman by tickling and
pricking her feet.

4. Cure of a man afﬂicted with a most painful skin disease,
purposely delayed for sake of observation.

5. Acute gout, artiﬁcially produced.

6. Dying woman tormented by constant examinations.
Some made with tuning forks. .

7. Milk injected into veins of dying patient.

8. Administration of drugs to patients not suffering from
disease, merely to note the action of the drugs.

9. Inoculation of a loathsome disease.

IO. Administering a drug with the object of producing
epileptic ﬁts artiﬁcially.

II. Administration of alcohol to an intoxicating extent to
ascertain the effect on the action of heart.

12. Making women dead drunk, and applying lighted
matches to their mouth to produce what is termed spontaneous
combustion.

13. Stimulating brain of dying woman with electricity. A
most agonising experiment.

14. Similar experiments on a dying man.

15. Inoculating a man with “ sputum ” and blood of a
woman suffering from consumption in order to produce in
him disease of the lungs.

16. Experiments with drugs on exposed brain of a man.

 

 




 

 

58 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

I7. Producing symptoms of heart disease in healthy men
by inducing them to wrestle to excess with their waists tightly
compressed.

18. Experiments on a dying man causing extreme distress.
The experiments consisted in endeavours to measure the
flow of “ chyle ” from a wound, the result of an operation.

19. Injecting the expectoration of animals suffering from
tuberculosis into a man resulting in the production of
abscesses and other disorders.

20. Inoculation of healthy men with Koch’s lymph.

21. Two women engrafted with pieces of cancerous skin.

22. Inoculating eye of a human subject with the bacillus
of ophthalmia.

23. Experiments on the inhalation and injection of drugs
and vapours of drugs. The results in some instances were
fatal.

24. The injection of a drug into an abscess on a man’s arm
with the object of producing the “lepra” bacillus. The
injection produced most disastrous effects, and it is to be
inferred, in the end proved fatal.

25. Experiments on the inmates of a lunatic asylum with a
variety of drugs. '

26. Experiments on the exposed heart of a woman. The
experiments were of the most painful nature.

27. The injection of Koch’s lymph on several recruits. The
result was to cause illness.

CLASS 11.

Experiments on children.

1. Long series of experiments on healthy or convalescent
children, in a London hospital, by the administration
of drugs merely to ascertain the effects and properties of the
drugs.

2. Series of experiments on same or other children in same
hospital by dosing them with alcohol.

3. Experiments by a physician on his own child. The
experiments consisted in allowing the child’s disease to
continue uncured in order that he might watch its
development.




 

ABSTRACT. 59

4. Shocking experiment by another physician, also on his
own child, by feeding it on the milk of a tuberculous cow,
till he produced scrofula in the child.

5. The inoculation of two children, who appear to have
been sold by their parents, with the matter taken from a
person suffering from a most horrible disease. Had the
inoculation taken effect, the children would have rotted alive.

6. Series of experiments performed in a Russian inﬁrmary
on a variety of children, by dosing them with drugs to ascer-
tain the effects of the drugs.

7. Series of experiments on children, performed in Ger-
many, with electric current, to note the sensibility of the
brain during sleep. They were performed on children of all
ages—from those but just born to those of six years old.

8. Series of experiments on children in inﬁrmary at
Stockholm. They consisted in inoculating the children
with “variola” pus, and with milk and blood taken from
vaccinated human beings. They were performed on the
children as being cheaper than animals.

9. Experiments performed in a Scotch inﬁrmary on six
healthy young boys to ascertain the effect of the drug
Paraldehyde. The effects were deleterious.

10. The inoculation of a boy, procured from a charitable
institution, with a horrible and disgusting disease. The
result was fatal.

II. Series of most cruel experiments on the heart of a boy,
which had become exposed from the effects of an operation.

 




 

 

60 HOSPITAL PATIENTS

APPENDIX F.

List of London Hospitals to which vivisectors are

attached :—

I take the following from the Special Supplement of the
August number of the Zooﬁhilz'st for I893. The list is stated
to have been compiled from the “ Medical Directory” and
the Ofﬁcial Returns.

In order to economise space I have omitted the names of
the medical ofﬁcers. I have also omitted from the numbers
those medical ofﬁcers who are merely attached to the
hospitals as “ Consulting Physicians or Surgeons,” as well
as the hospitals which have only such vivisectors attached
to them.

List of Hospitals having Licensed or Unlicensed Vivi-
sectors at work in their Laboratories or included in their
Medical Staff :—

LONDON' Vivizctzfrs.
I. Alexandra Hospital z
2. Bartholomew’s Hospital 15
3. Belgrave Hospital for Children... I
4. British Lying- in Hospital I
5. Cancer Hospital at Brompton 2
6. Central London Ophthalmic Hospital I
7. Charing Cross Hospital” I
8. Chelsea Hospital for Women 1
9. Children’s Hospital, Paddington .. . 3
IO.

City of London Hospital for Consumption, Victoria
Park .. .

11. East London Hospital for Children

12. Evelina Hospital for Children

13. French Hospital .

14. General Lying- in Hospital, Lambeth"

15. Governesses Benevolent Institution

HHHQQHQ

 

 

 




 

I6.

17.
I8.

19.
2o.
21-

22.

23.
24.
25.

26.

27.
28.

29.

3o.

31.
32.
33-
34-
35-
36.

37-
38.
39-
40.
4t.
42.
43-

44-
45-

46.
47-
43.
49-

LIST OF HOSPITALS. 61

No. of
Vivisectors.
Great Northern Hospital I
Guy’s Hospital II
Hospital for Consumption, Bromptonu I
Hospital for Diseases of the Skin I

H

Hospital for Diseases of the Throat, Golden Square
Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street,
and Highgate 4
Hospital for the Paralysed and Epileptic, Regent s
Park .. .. . .. ... I
Italian Hospital I
King’s College Hospital 8
Look Hospital, Female I
,, Male I
London Fever Hospital 2
London Hospital, Mile End 2
London Ophthalmic Hospital .. I
London Temperance Hospital I
Metropolitan Convalescent Institution I
Metr0politan Dispensary 3
Metropolitan Hospital, Kingsland Road 3
Middlesex Hospital 4
National Hospital for the Paralysed 4
Orthopaedic Hospital I
North London Hospital for Consumption I
N. E. Hospital for Children I
N.W. London Hospital 2
Pimlico Road Dispensary I
Royal Ear Hospital I
Royal Free Hospital 2
Royal General Dispensary .. I
Royal Hospital for Children and Women I
Royal Hospital for Diseases of Chest, City Road 2
Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital... 5
Samaritan Free Hospital for Women and Children I
St. George’s and St. James’ Dispensary, King Street,
Golden Square .. .. 2
St. John’ 5 House Nursing Institution. I
St. Marylebone General Dispensary I

 




62 HOSPITAL PATIENTS.

 

NO. of
Vivisectors.
50. St. Mary’s Hospital, Paddington Green 6
51. St. Thomas’ Hospital .. 6
52. St. Thomas Home I
53. Unive1sity College Hospital, Gower Street 8
54. Victoria Hospital for Sick Children, Chelsea 2
55. West End Hospital . 2
56. West London Hospital ' 3
57. Western Ophthalmic Hospital I
58. Westminster Hospital, S.VV. 3
PROVINCIAL.
BIRKENHEAD Fever Hospital . I
,, VVirral Hospital for Sick Children . ' I
BOURNEMOUTH National Sanatorium for Consumption and
Diseases of the Chest I
BRISTOL Hospital for Sick Children and Women. I
ERITH, C1ayf01d and Belvedeie Cottage Hospital I
LIVERPOOL Royal Inﬁrmary .. I
,, Dental Hospital I

MANCHESTER, Ancoats Hospital and Ardwick and Ancoats
Dispensary I
,, Hospital for ConsumptiOn and Diseases Of
Throat, Hardman St1 eet Deansgate
,, Royal Inﬁrmary and Dispensary
NEWCASTLE- ON- TYNE Dispensary
,, Royal Inﬁrmary .
,, Fleming MemOIIal Hospital for Diseases Of
Children
NOTTINGHAM Dispensary

,,, and Midland Eye Inﬁrmary.

.,, , Samaritan Hospital fOI V‘Vomen, Raleigh St.
OXFORD, Radcliffe Inﬁrmary ..
SALFORD Royal Hospital and DispenSary
SHEFFIELD, Jessop Hospital for Women
VENTNOR Hospital for Consumption
WAKEFIELD, West Riding Asylum

HHHH

NHHHHHHHH

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

LIST OF HOSPITALS. 63

SCOTLAND. No. of
Vivisectors.
ABERDEEN Royal Inﬁrmary 2
EDINBURGH Dental Hospital 3
,, New Town Dispensary I
,, Provident Dispensary I
,, Royal Inﬁrmary Io
,, Royal Maternity .. I
,, Victoria Dispensary for Consumption I
GLASGOW Ophthalmic Institution .. I
,, Royal Hospital for Sick Children 5
,, Royal Inﬁrmary ’ 5
,, Training Home for Nurses I
,, Private Nursing Association I
,, Victoria Inﬁrmary .. I
,, Western Inﬁrmary 5
KILMARNOCK Inﬁrmary I

IRELAND.

DUBLIN, Sir Patrick Dun’s Hospital I
,, St. Vincent’s Hospital I
,, Mater Misericordiae Hospital I

I should mention that the number of Vivisectors connected
with the London Hospitals is not so great as would appear
from the above list, for the same Vivisectors are connected in
some cases with more than one hospital. But the important
matter is, that all the above hospitals have medical men
attached to them who approve of, and themselves practice,
vivisection.

It is further to be noted, and this is a matter of most serious
import, that certain of these medical men have, by their
own admissions, been guilty of performing experiments—pure
and simple experiments—on the patients in the hospitals to
which they are attached.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 




PRIOR Silent Mid @Mmmhmml SOILS IN the
ﬁrﬂiﬁlﬁwﬂ III Hmmalg IIIUIII Oinimﬁm

OFFICES 20 VICTORIA STREET LONDON, S.W.

Vice-PIOSIdents.
. . f 1 . c » THE LORD CHIEF J USTICE OE ENGLAND. . 1
‘ THE DUKE OF PORTLAND. w __ ~ " THE DUCHESS OP PORTLAND.

 

 

' ' The MARQIHS OE BETE. ‘ -_ 2' .1 ~ , . j‘ ' ' BISHOP CRAMER-ROBERTS.-

The MARQUIS OF HERTPORD ,_ ~ - -,-1The BISHOP. OF NOTTINGHAM.

The MARQUIS 0F WORCESTER ' LORD CARDROSS.
' . TheDOWAGEE MARCHIONLSS OI ORMONDF ; LORD CONGLETON.

The. EARL OF DELAWARR - LORD LEIGH.

,T-he EARL OF DARNLEY. ' - ‘ ‘ ' . VISCOUNT POLLINGTON.
.; The DOWAGER COUNTESS :OE PORTSMOUTH LORD ROBARTES.

. VISOOUNT SIDMOUTH . ‘ , Her Excellency LADY PAS ET.

V 1 The BISHOP. OF BATH AND WELLS. 1. V ' ' 1 Rt. Hon. JAMES STANSFELD, M. P.

"3 The BISHOP OF MANCHESTER , . Hon. EVELYN ASHLEY.

1 . ‘fThe BISHOP 0F LIVERPOOL “ 1 The DEAN OF LLANDAFF. ._
- ._- The BISHOP OE. SOUTHWELL. .. 1. SIR GERALD CODRINGTON, Bart.
The BISHOP OE WAKEFIELD ' ' WILLIAM ADLAM, Esq. ., F. S. A.

.. The BISHOP 0F TUAM: , * , FRANK MORRISON, Esq.
_. ' .‘The BISHOP SUFFRAGAN OP COVENTRY ‘ . ROBERT T. REID, Esq” Q. 0., M. P.
" BISHOP BARRY. REV. CANON WILBERFORCE.

- Central ExecutiVe Committee. ‘
The LADY ABINGER. ; 1 » .g :. W S. LILLY, Esq, LL..M

 

j MRS ADLAM ‘ p j 1 » MISS MARSTON. ,
'ARTHUR ARNOLD ESq . .A 1 1. . REV. J. MATTHEWS.-

17' MRS ARTHUPK ARNOLD ‘ ' MISS ,S- S. MONRO.
IADY EDITH ASHLEY . .1 . a 3 MRS. FRANK MORRISON." .
_ "REV". J. P. BAOON PHILLIPS. ” ' § The LADY MOUNT- TEMPLE.

. I ’ MRS. BARRY- ‘ . ' ‘ , JOSIAH OLDPIELD, Esq., M. A., B. C. L.

' - ERNEST BELL, Esq. ., M. A ‘ ' MRS. JAMES PENDER. 1
EDWARD BERDOE, Esq. ., _.L R. 0. P F. E. PIRKIS, Esq. ., R. N., F. R.G. S. 1 .

_i ALLXR BOWIE, ESq. ., M. D;'- j ,_ MR3- LLOYD PRICE
1" .LThe HOn.- MRS R. 0 BOYLE. *~ LESTER REED, Esq. ., F. C. S, F I. C.
, . . .MISS OLIVE BRYANT . ~ , ; .- , . MISS ELLEN E. REES. ‘
7TThe COUNTRSS OE CAMPERDOWN 7 REV- F S ROSS’ 3' A i A
JOHN H CLARKF Esq, MJ. . _ 1 E GEORGE W. E. RUSSELL, Esq, M.P.

,4,1.,gqiif‘3lf'ﬁREV. FRANCIS G; JONES
r .. _~-;-_jMRS LEYOESTER

WEISS FRANCES POWER GORRE ‘ REV. J. H. SATOHELL.
v-J E. 000“, ESq . ; . I 'MARK THORNHILL, Esq.
«it/”MRS. E. M. JAMES . ~ 5 C. HARIDAS VORA, Esq.»
‘ ‘ I LADY WINDSOR ' .
I ,

Hon. Treasurer,——HON BERNARD COLERIDGE, Q 0., M. P.
Secretary -—BENJA MIN BRYAN, ESq.

. 1 ASSIStant Secretary. *SIDNEY Gr TRIST. Esq
HL Object of the SOOIety is the Total Abolition of the practice of ViVisection as V

deﬁned In the Report Of the Royal Commission. .
Those Who sympathise With this object are most earnestly entreated tO afferd the

 

'- 1551.. f‘Society all the help in. their vaVer, by. SubScribing, and indUcing others tO subscribe,

1 A'. libeially to ith funds ,- by obtaining Signatures to Petitions to Parliament and also

, by disseminating the publications of the Society, and especially its Organ THE
"HZOOPHILIST, wherein the latest Information respecting the Anti- VivisectiOn' agitatiOn

I is tO' be found

Member S Annual Subscription, 105 Life Membership, £5. Subscription to ‘

,e . "THE Z OOPHILIST, the Organ of the Cause, 33'. 6d. per annum, post free.

5;}: -- -_W V: , R:

 




