Published by The American Humanitarian League.

 

A DANGEROUS IDEAL

BY

ALBERT LEFFINGWELL, M. D.

Formerly Instructor in Physiology and Hygiene in the Polytechnic

Institute, Brooklyn, New York.

 




 

A DANGEROUS IDEAL.

It seems almost incredible that at the middle of this
Nineteenth Century there was no law in America which
made the cruel treatment of animals, in itself, a punish-
able offense. Those of us old enough to remember
village life, say forty years ago, will recall many an act of
inhumanity which then passed for “sport,” but which
to-day is a crime. I remember certain companions of
my own boyhood for example, all of them regular at-
tendants at the same village‘Sunday School, telling me
of “experiments” they had made in torturing kittens
and rabbits, simply to watch their convulsions in the
agony of death. If a man saw ﬁt to pour alcohol over
his dog and set him aﬁre there was, indeed, protest
against his brutality, but otherwise he was safe. The
law of the land set no limits to his treatment of his own
property. If he chose to burn it alive when its services
were no'longer of value,— who had the right to object?

Have we changed all this? Certainly, to some extent.
Cruelty, the needless inﬂiction of pain, the torture for
amusement, is at last recognized, not only as an
offense against good manners, but as an injury to the
commonwealth. Humane Societies and Bands of Mercy
now inculcate lessons of kindness at the earliest age.
Children are to-day taught that cruelty is wicked, that
there is something of sacredness in every life, and that
mercy is due even to the worm that crawls at our feet.

But is there to be seen any tendency backward at the
present time? The inﬂiction of slow torture upon help-
less animals,—is this again coming into general practice
and to be defended by argument? Is it even about to
be taught to young men and young women as a necessity

 

 




 

 

of education? This seems to me one of the serious
questions of the hour. Within the past thirty years
a new ideal has become prominent; the longing to
penetrate to the inmost heart of things, to solve every
enigma of Nature, and to unravel each mystery of human
existence. Whence comes the origin of life? Whither
are we going? What is the cause of all these curious
phenomena which we sum up in the word Vitality?
These are questions modern science prOposes, and
desires either to answer or prove unanswerable. Man
once sought to know his duty to his God and his fellow-
men; the advanced scientiﬁc spirit of to-day sometimes
asks us if, after all, we are quite certain we have any
duties, or if we are sure that God exists?

What is the ideal of this phase of thought? It seems
to me, this: l/zaz‘ mfm‘ure, t/ze e/zzcy‘ azm of lzzmzcm endeavm
s/zouZ/z’ ﬁe to wrestfmm NdZ‘ZH’C’ leer seerez‘s.

But supposing certain facts are so intimately wrapped
up with life and sensation that we can get at them only
by the inﬂiction of acute agony, of prolonged pain? -What
if one who seeks to penetrate to the innermost sanctuary of
life must unlearn every lesson of pity, must teach himself
to take pleasure in the agony he inﬂicts, must become
almostahuman ﬁend? No matter. What is the sentiment
of compassion that for a moment it should stand in the
way of scientiﬁc investigation? A true physiologist, says
Dr. Claude Bernard, “does not hear the animal’s cries of
pain. He is blind to the blood that ﬂows. He sees ”of/ling
éut Izz's idea, and organisms which conceal from him the
seerel he is resolved to discover.” The question of beneﬁt
to one’s fellow—creatures need not for a moment enter his
thoughts. “I do not believe,” says Dr. Charles Richet,
Professor of Physiology in Paris, “that a single experi-
menter says to himself, when he gives curare* to a rabbit

*Curare is a drug used to keep the animal motionless; sensation is supposed
to be unimpaired.

 




 

or cuts the spinal cord of a dog, ‘Here is an experiment
which will relieve or cure disease.’ No; he does not think
of that. He says to himself, ‘I shall clear up an obscure
point; I will seek out a new faez‘.’ And this scientiﬁc
curiosity which alone animates him is explained by the
idea he has of science. This is why we pass our days
surrounded by groaning creatures, in the midst of blood
and suffering, and bending over palpitating entrails.”l6

How far has this spirit of inquiry—no matter at what
cost—~penetrated American institutions of learning? Does
it govern the teaching of our schools of medicine? In
schools, academies and colleges, shall young men and
young women, boys and girls, be taught that the new
scientiﬁc Ideal of investigation for its own sake, demands a
personal eenﬁrmaz‘z'en of every p/zysz'e/egz'ea/ .rz‘cztemem‘ P Are
text—books to give way before the young student with his
cords and knife? That is a present tendency, it must be
confessed.

In the POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY, Dr. Wesley Mills,
Professor of Physiology in McGill University, has argued
strongly in favor of teaching science by means of experi—
ment. “Introduce scientiﬁc methods and introduce
science itself according to the laws that underlie our organ-
ization and you will revolutionize our schools,” he tells
the teachers to whom he was speaking. “Physiology is
perhaps the most difﬁcult of all sciences to teach well in
schools. Book physiology is rubbish, utter rubbish,” he
exclaims with warmth. “ T/zere 2'5 720 sez'eizee I/z/zt does 7202‘
permit efsz'mple experz'men/s that may be introduced into
any school. T/ze pupils will delzg/zt in there, and they will
prove a source of strength, pleasure and inspiration. I am
not to be understood as claiming that every fact that a
child shall take cognizance of shall be gained through
observation and experiment ; [2112‘ 2722's 2': t/ze ideal, and file

’* “ Revue des Deux Mondes ”Feb. 15th 188".
D 5 ,0

 

 




 

 

 

nearer 2'! 2'5 afpmar/Lm’ ﬂag éez‘z‘er.” '*‘ it it “ From ﬁrst
to last the student should be an investigator. This implies
a great deal.” It does indeed. Not long since I was
given the name of a young girl whose scientiﬁc enthusiasm
had been so keenly stirred that she gave up her pet kitten
to the teacher of physiology that it might be vivisected be-
fore her class I

What is to be the outcome of this new and dangerous
ideal? I do not see how it can result in anything else than
ea’zzz‘az‘z'mz 2'11 1/26 an‘ of scientiﬁc cruelly. By instinct nearly
every lad born into the world is a savage 3 it is by training
and education that he learns compassion and feels pity;
Now suppose the young student is taught that to inﬂict
pain—“to seek out a new fact,” as Richet phrases it—is not
merely excusable, but deserving Of praise? Torture then
ﬁnds an apology; the inarticulate agony of his pet dog or
rabbit will no longer shock. Like De Cyon of St. Peters-
burg, he will approach his vivisections with a “joyful excite—
ment,” perhaps-all the more pleasureable because aroused by
the agony he inﬂicts. Like Mantegazza of Milan, he may
crucify pregnant rabbits with “atrocious .torture ” ( (la/ores
alrocz'ssz’mz' ), conducting his experiments as the Italian
physiologist conducted his, “ with much pleasure and
patience.” Like Klein of London, he will learn to have
"‘ no regard at all” for the suffering he inﬂicts because, in
the progress ofhis investigations in torture, he “has no time,
so to speak, for thinking what the animal may feel or
suffer.”

Now, speaking as a physician, I cannot but regard this
development of the new scientiﬁc spirit in our public schools
and academies,'with grave doubt and keen apprehension.
There are peculiar dangers which invariably accompany
investigations like these. For nothing is more certain than
that there mayarise in some organizations a strange satis~
faction or sensation of content at the sight of agony or
bloodshed, and in these casesa great danger, which cannot

 




 

be fully explained, is close at hand. “ I would shrink with
horror,” said Dr'. Haughton, “from accustoming classes
of young men to the sight of animals under vivisection. 9" *

Science would gain nothing, and the world would have [62“

loose upon it a 6‘6! ofyozmg devils.” " Watch the students
at a vivisection,” suggested the late Dr. Henry J. Bigelow,
Professor of Surgery at Harvard University Medical School.
“It is the blood and suffering—not the science—that rivets
their breathless attention.” Is it not a signiﬁcant fact——
which the last census of the United States reveals—that of
the whole number of murderers conﬁned in jails and pris-
ons, one occupation contributed so many—the one which
pertains to blood-letting and butchery? The State of
Massachusetts once produced a boy murderer who took dia-
bolic delight in cutting and stabbing children to death. In
August, 1891, John Conway was hung at Liverpool for the
inexplicable murder of a little boy. Immediately after the
. drOp fell his confession was read : “ I was impelled to that
crime by a murderous mania—(z moréz'a’ curz'osz'z‘y to observe
[/26 process of dying/ ”

A Canadian physician was executed in London in 1892
for murder. A number of young women, against whom he
had no cause for malice, he had undoubtedly put to death
by one of the most, agonizing of poisons, and under guise of
conferring a beneﬁt, merely that in the contemplation of
their suffering he might ﬁnd pleasure and excitement.
Cicero tells us that in his time men took their sons to
gladiatorial combats in order that youth might learn how to
die bravely when the summons came. Ah, if that had been
the only lesson taught I A century of such lessons passes,
and then this sight of ﬁerce combat and bloody struggle has
stirred into life among the Roman populace a taste for
human agony that the mere death of gladiators could not
satisfy; and then came the infamous exhibitions related by
Tacitus and Suetonius—the feasting of lions upon Christian
martyrs, and living human torches, smeared with pitch,

 

 

 




 

 

 

..
'—

kl

burning at night in the gardens of Nero. Over how much
of her history humanity is obliged to draw the veil ! Dr.
Rolleston, Professor of Anatomy at Oxford University, but
hinted at the truth when he told the Royal Commission
that “ the sight of a living, Harding and quivering 07ganisni
most ana’oaétea’ty acts in a particular way on the nature
within as”—“ that lower nature which we possess, in com-
mon with the Carnivora ! ”

I have written this as a warning of which there seems to
me a growing need. To the practice of vivisection in
medical schools I do not now refer; that is a question by
itself. But let me advise parents and teachers to be
inﬁnitely cautious before—even in the name of science——
they incur the needless risk of awakening the demon of
cruelty in the hearts of the young. No experimentation
upon living animals which involves the causation of pain, or
the ﬂow of blood, should ever be shown to classes of
students in schools. There are no compensating advan-
tages to the positive dangers which the practice involves.
There are no scientiﬁc truths necessary to be known, which
may not be ﬁxed upon the memory of any pupil without
this risk.

 

Copies of this leaﬂet may be obtained at ten cents per
dozen or sixty-ﬁve cents per hundred, postage paid. Anyone
desirous of further information on the subject, or willing to
aid the AMERICAN HUMANITARIAN LEAGUE in this or any
other department of its work, is invited to address the

AMERICAN HUMANITARIAN LEAGUE, ’
Box 215,

PROVIDENCE, R. I.

 




 




