)/j g Pounds and Their Managementy

By Nathaniel J. \Valker, Secretary
The American Humane Association, Albany, N. Y.

[Reprinted from The National Humane Review]

 

ROBABLY no phase of humane work for animals is more misunderstood by the
P general public, and no part of our work is more necessary, than the rescue and
relief work for small animals. Humane Societies have in years gone by hesitated
to engage in kennel work because of the fear that “dog catching” would prejudice the
public against them and interfere with their ﬁnances. Where a Society is engaged
in general work for animals there has been some hesitation in engaging in shelter
work for this reason, but I believe that it has been conclusively demonstrated that
instead of estranging our contributors, shelter work and the picking up of stray,
sick, injured and Vicious dogs can be conducted in such a manner as to win the
approval of right thinking men and women.

, The surplus, dog population in every community of any considerable size must
/be cared for, from both a humane and health standpoint, and who is better qualiﬁed\
to carry out this very necessary work than those who are banded together to }
suppress cruelty and relieve suffering animals? However, the work must be done ,
right or it will receive just and deserved criticism, and it is my purpose brieﬂy to out-f

’ line some of the things which I believe necessary if the work is to receive the
approval and support of the public.

In the first place, we must find means to finance the work. In most of our states
the statutes provide a way by which municipalities can contract with Humane So-
cieties for the enforcement of the dog license law, and where this is possible the
financial end is promptly cared for. It is indeed difficult, unless we are fortunate
enough to discover a number of wealthy persons who are interested in this particular
phase of work for animals, adequately to finance a kennel or pound without public
money. This is particularly true of the smaller cities. In a few of the very largest
cities it can be done, but generally speaking we should make a vigorous campaign
until the municipal authorities are made to realize that the Humane Society is the
prOper agency for handling this work. The limits of this article will not permit me
to go into an extended discussion as to how to ﬁnance a shelter Where it is found
impossible to secure the cooperation of the public authorities. Naturally, many
local conditions must be considered in attempting to raise money to carry on a
shelter and the methods applied in raising money in each locality must depend to a
large extent on the local situation. In Boston the Animal Rescue League receives
thousands of dollars from the sale of dogs and from owners Whose dogs are cared
for. My advice is to start your shelter and then endeavor to get a contract to collect
the dogs and enforce the dog license law, and with the ﬁnancial assistance received
from this source you will be able to maintain a shelter which will be satisfactory
from a humane standpoint and meet with the approval of the authorities.

 




 

Location of the Pounds

The location of your animal shelter is a very important matter. It must be
within reasonable distance of the heart of the city, but should be far enough out so
as not to be a source of annoyance to the neighborhood. This, of course, applies to
the average city Where one can get into the outskirts in not more than half an hour.
The location should. be on the line of a trolley or very near to it. If the shelter is easy of
access you will place more dogs in homes and many more will be redeemed, both of
which should appeal to humane people. However, in picking our location we should
consider running water, sewer, and electric light accommodations. We should also
have in mind the necessity of open air runways, as these are absolutely necessary
for a modern pound. If your pound must be located in a section where outside run-
ways cannot behad, by all means arrange for roof runways.

As brieﬂy as possible I am going to give you my idea of how a modern shelter
for the care of small animals should be built. The size of the building must
necessarily depend upon the service which will be required. A building 30 X 75 feet,
properly arranged, will care for a city of 200,000. The material should be of concrete.

Kennels about four feet wide and eight feet deep with concrete walls about eight
feet high separating them, and with heavy wire doors in front arranged along each
side of the building so that openings may be had in each kennel to the runways,
make a good arrangement. On the wire door, a holder is attached into which a
‘ card will slip. These slips indicate the date the dog in that particular kennel was
received, and of course are necessary where the law requires that dogs be held a
certain number of days before being disposed of. This will give you plenty of space
for your wagons or automobiles to be run in, and it is a good plan, if the ground
arrangement will permit, to have large doors at both ends of the building, so that it
will not be necessary to back out.

In one corner of the building I would have a fairly large room for cats; several
tiers of wire cages around three sides will accommodate a large number of cats, and
an outside compartment divided up into as many compartments as possible will add
greatly to their comfort. It is wise to arrange these cages so that the cats can
wander in and out at will. In the second corner is the killing room. This should be
so arranged that the interior will not be Within the view of any of the animals in the
shelter. I shall later give my ideas in regard to killing methods. In the third corner we
should have a room for keeping feed, supplies, etc., and in the other corner the ofﬁce.
A separate entrance to the ofﬁce from the outside makes for convenience.

As the ﬂoors in the kennels are of concrete, a wooden tray large enough for
several dogs to lie on is placed in each kennel. This tray is raised off the ﬂoor
several inches, and we ﬁnd that plenty of sawdust and ﬁne shavings in the trays are
appreciated by the dogs. In winter we give the dogs a beddingof hay. An important
part of the equipment is separate compartments for sick and injured dogs and those
under suspicion. It is also wise to have several small compartments for particularly
vicious dogs. We owe it to the well dogs and those that are normal not to expose
them to sickness or injury from vicious dogs.

A great deal of discretion can be shown by your care taken in this respect and
perhaps I might here mention, without going into details, that the biggest problem
we have to solve is to get the right sort of man or woman as caretaker. It will not
"make much difference how complete and elaborate your equipment may be if you
do not have the right sort of a person in charge.




Kilfing Apparatus

For the destruction of your animals, I am of the opinion that Mr. Huntington
Smith’s electrical killer is humane and practical. In our own shelter we have used this
killing apparatus for several years with very satisfactory results. When we ﬁrst
installed Mr. Smith’s invention I was somewhat skeptical, and we had Dr. Kelly,
former State veterinarian of New York State, supervise the ﬁrst killing, and after an
exhaustive test he stated that in his judgment this method of destroying small
animals was the most humane he had ever seen.

We have a rather novel arrangement in our killing room which has worked well.
In the side wall of the room a large hole is cut and in this we inserted a V-shaped
receptacle about six feet long and three feet across the top which works on axles at
each end. When animals are to be destroyed this is closed, which brings it inside
the building. When full of bodies it is opened and the bodies are outside the building
and ready to be placed in the disposal wagon.

Feeding

The feeding of our dogs caused us much concern for a time. Some years ago
we discovered a mixture which has been so satisfactory that we have continued to
use it. The ingredients are :

1 bushel Bread, cut ﬁne, 1 qt. Salt,

6 qts. Corn Meal, 5 qts. Beef Scrapplings.
% pt. Molasses,

The ingredients, with the exception of the bread, are thoroughlymixed and then
made into a mush by adding a large pail of boiling water. After standing about
half an hour, it is poured on the bread, it being about the consistency of molasses.
The bread, of course, takes up much of the moisture. We find that this feed is
relished and eaten freely by practically all the dogs received. It is, indeed, very rare
for a dog to leave any in the dish. About a pint of this mixture for each meal Will
keep a dog in ﬁne shape.

If possible running water should be in each compartment. If running water is
not available, iron or other metal troughs with heavy bottoms, which will keep them
from being tipped over can be used. Electric lights sufﬁcient to make the place
bright and cheerful are necessary.

If you don’t do anything else, keep your shelter clean. Nothing will impress
visitors more than a clean shelter. A hose connection with plenty of water for
cleaning purposes is as necessary as food and water for the dogs. If you keep your
shelter clean it will not require much in the way of disinfectant. However, an
occasional spraying with a good disinfectant is a wise precaution, but don’t let the
men kill the smell caused by a dirty shelter with disinfectant. This should be used
after plenty of soap and water. We get a disinfectant known as “C. N.” It leaves
very much the odor we ﬁnd around a hospital and is not at all offensive.

The Men W [)0 Collect the Dogs

And now a few words in regard to the men on the wagons or automobiles. No
man in the employ of a humane societv is more in the public eye than the one who
is charged with collecting the stray dogs. The way he performs his diﬂ‘icult task

a

 




means much to the society. If he uses good judgment and sensible methods, the
society reaps the beneﬁt of public approval. If he is unnecessarily rough or exhibits
temper in seizing dogs, the society suffers. Good men for this work are scarce, but
it will pay you to be persistent in your search until you have secured men who will
perform the work with consideration for the animals. Our men have for years
seized the dogs without any special apparatus, except in the case of particularly
vicious dogs, when a net is used. They wear stout gloves and are rarely bitten.

The modern ambulance for small animals should, of course, be an automobile.
It'should be arranged with as many separate compartments as possible. I would
advise that the openings be on the side, each compartment having a separate door
with a small Window covered with wire screen in each door.

A boarding department should be carried on separate and apart from your
regular shelter. In every city of any considerable size, there is a big demand,
especially in summer, for boarding accommodations for dogs. Dogs that are being
boarded should be kept entirely separate and apart from the seized and surrendered
dogs. A properly conducted boarding department may be made a big source of
revenue, andI would advise any society that is planning to go into this work to
arrange for a boarding department, and if you are in the work and have no boarding
department, you ought to arrange for one as soon as possible.

(Placing Out Dogs V

It should be our aim to ﬁnd homes for as many of our dogs and cats as possible.
owever, in doing so, we should not sell a dog or give a cat to every applicant.
Sufﬁcient inquiry should be made to satisfy us that the animal is going into a house
where it will receive proper care, and we should pick our homes. For instance, we
should not place a big dog, which requires plenty of range, with people who live in a
little two by four ﬂat and no yard.

In conclusion, let me add that if conditions are such that you cannot have the
rather pretentious plant and equipment I have described, get any barn that can be
cleaned up and situated so you will have plenty of fresh air, and fit it up with the

est you can get hold of in the way of kennel boxes. Any makeshift is better than
nothing, as long as the dogs are made comfortable while in your possession. Our
Society started with places that we were ashamed to take visitors to, but by
persistent work we have built and equipped a kennel building very much along the
lines I have described. So, do not be discouraged. Start in with what you

an get, and I am sure that you will ﬁnd the needs of the work so great that you
Will push it until you have a modern up-todate shelter and the necessary equipment
to handle the small animal problem satisfactorily.

 

The American Humane Association publishes many leaflets of interest to
humanitarians Information 1n regard to the same can be obtained by addressing the
Association, Albany, New York, U. S. A. A single copy of any one leaflet will be fur-
nished gratuitously on receipt of stamp for postage. A small charge to cover cost of
printing and mailing will be made for leaflets furnished in quantities. ,Contnbntan
are solicited to aid in the distribution of humane literature and the general purposes
of the work.

\,

PRINTED BY THE BOYS
BERKSHIRE INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL)
CANAAN. N. Y. ,1

 




