The Ofﬁcial. Journal of the League for - Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports. Westminster, S.W.l.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

‘-

VOL. IX. NO. 12. DECEMBER. I935.

post free.

2d MONTHLY: 2/6 per annum

 

CONTENTS. '

PAGE
VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR... 90 BROADCAST CHILDREN’S PARTY
PUBLIC MEETING AT BRISTOL
ST. HUBERT AND EXETER CATHEDRAL, THE WATERLOO HARE-COURSING
BY HENRY B. AMOS 91 ' CAMPAIGN

Tne Editor accepts no responsioility for opinions expressed in signed articles.

 

93
94

95

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, 0.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we no'w inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel Scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 




 

.Page Ninety C R U E. L

S P O R T S December, 1935

 

 

VIEWS AND NEWS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

Christmas

Our ﬁrst thought this month is to wish our
readers “ A Merry Christmas.” We know it
will be difﬁcult for many sensitive souls to be
very “merry” when they think of the many
young people home from the Schools celebrating
Christmas by hunting and shooting, and con-
template the awful holocaust of animals slain to
provide what they may prefer to call a Bacchan—
alian orgy. We hope, however, they will try and
see the brighter side of the Festival and think of
it more in the spirit of Him who was Grace-full-
ness personiﬁed and whose Gospel, when properly
applied, is one of Peace and Goodwill not only
to all men but to the “lesser brethren” as well.

The Waterloo Hare-Coursing Campaign

The recent conference held in Liverpool and
Summarised in another column shows that a
vigorous campaign has been outlined to stOp hare-
coursing at Waterloo. It will be a stiff ﬁght,
but if all our supporters and sympathisers in the
district will put their shoulder to the wheel, the
iniquity can be suppressed. Next year is the
centenary of the starting of hare-coursing at
Waterloo; let us make it an historic occasion and
a landmark in the ﬁght for the freedom and
humane treatment of the creatures of The Wild.
Mr. A. Amos, 37a, Mount Pleasant, Liverpool,
and Miss Cummins, 46, Alma Road, Birkdale,
Southpvort, are the Hon. Secretaries of the
Campaign Committee. -

Hounds at Lord Mayor’s Show

In connection with the London Lord Mayor’s
Show held on November 9th, when the Old
Berkley Foxhounds and hunt servants took part
in the procession, the Executive Committee of
the League passed a resolution protesting against
this innovation which was Sent to the Press. The
resolution was as follows :—

“ The Committee of the L.P.C.S. protests strongly
against the inclusion“ of foxhounds in the Lord
Mayor’s Show. They regard foxhounds and fox—
hunting as being symbolical of the cruelties and bar-
barities of the medieval age which this nation now
abhors, and they consider the suggestion of the Lord
Mayor that the presence of foxhounds in the pro—
cession will emphasise the need of more employ-

ment on the land, is sufﬁciently illogical as to border
on the ridiculous.”

Many letters were written to the Lord-Mayor-
elect, Sir Percy Vincent, protesting against the
introduction of foxhounds to this show, and post
cards condemning foxhunting were freely distri-
buted to the crowd during the procession.

St. Hubert and Exeter Cathedral

On another page I tell the story of a Protest
made on St. Hubert’s Day at Exeter, against
the cathedral authorities for having erected in the
Children’s Chapel a stained-glass window glorify-
ing stag-hunting. The results so far have more
than justiﬁed my action, not only because of the
limelight thrown throughout the land on the per-
nicious principle involved, but also because of the
unusual amount of encouragement and goodwill
from leaders of the humanitarian movement I
This, and the thought that the

present would seem to be the psychological

have received.

moment for going forward with a movement to
convert the churches from their apathy to cruel
sport, has induced me to revive The Fellowship
of St. Hubert, which I started on Brownsea
Island in 1930, but which has been in suspended
animation ever since. I cannot go into details
of this now beyond saying that the dis-
tinctive object of the Fellowship will be
to missionize the Religious Instinct of the
People, particularly of the Churches and the
Schools, against cruel Sports. It should be a
strong ally of the League although independent
of it, and it will be a great deal more of a Regis-
ter or Census of religious-minded workers than
a formal Society. Above all things it will blaze
a trail and thus try and capture and harness for
the Common—weal some of that splendid rapture

and spiritual power which is at present running to.

seed. It is hoped to publish the ﬁrst number
of a quarterly journal for Christmas, and anyone
interested and desiring further information should
write to me at South Saxons, Hastings.

Subscriptions

We beg to remind those members who have
not yet sent in their subscriptions for 1935, that
they should be forwarded to the Hon. Treasurer
before the end of the year so that they can be
included in the current year’s accounts.

New OﬂiCes

Owing to the limitations of space the ofﬁces
of the League are being moved into 7 Victoria
Street, Westminster, SVVJI. as and from Decem-
ber 25th next, and all communications should be
sent to this address from that date.

 

 

 




 

 

December, l 935

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Ninety_-one

 

ST. H UBERT AND‘ EXETER CATHEDRAL

The Story of a Protest against the desecration of the Cathedral, by the erection in- it of a
stained—glass window glorifying a stag—hunter and stag—hunting.

By HENRY B. AMOS

It was on October 8th that the. stained-glass
window glorifying a stag-hunter was dedicatedin
the Children’s Chapel, Exeter Cathedral. The
window is in memory of Hugh, 4th Earl of
Fortescue, who was Lord Lieutenant of Devon
for some years and the leading stag-hunter in
Devon and Somerset for over twenty years dur-
ing which time he was responsible for the kill—
ing of over probably 5,000 stags and binds. I
have said “killing,” but I should say “ tortur-
ing,” for, hunting these highly sentient animals
with thirty dogs and ﬁfty, or ﬁve hundred, fol—
lowers to the death, is not an honourable humane
death as is given to domestic animals, but one of
sustained agony which, when done for “pleasure,“
as in hunting and condoned by the Church, must
be called a crime against man and a sin against

God.

As no protest had been made against the
Memorial, and I had been prominent in directing
attention to the iniquity of stag-hunting for
many years, I felt that a peculiar responsibility
rested upon me to do something by way of
rousing public indignation in the matter. Ac-
cordingly, I went to Exeter. and on Sunday,
November 3rd, St, Itlubert’s Day, I took action
whilst service was proceeding in the evening in
the Cathedral. I did this by heaving a copy of
“ The Creed of Kinship. ” containing leaﬂets and
a letter of Protest to the Dean and Chapter of the
Cathedral, at the offending window. Being
heavily leaded, my missile fell to the ground
without doing any damage. whereupon I
twice - forced my umbrella through the part
containing the crest of the Fortescue family. I
then went and gave myself up to the police. Here
I was talked to and put in the cells for the night.
The next day Iwas brought before the magistrates
who remanded me, in two sums of £50, to come
up for trial in a week’s time. Meantime, I was
taken to the prison where I remained until the
Wednesday, when a friend bailed me out. 1
duly appeared before the magistrates on Armis-
tice Day, pleaded guilty. and was penalised in
the sum of £82 1s. 11d.

This is the outline of my story. Before the
incident happened, however, I had tried on
October r15th, to direct public attention to the
Memorial by sending a letter to the Editor of
The Times. It was not inserted but as both it
and my letter of Protest will interest my readers
I reprint them below :—

MEMORIAL TO THE LATE LORD FORTESCUE.

To the Editor, The Times.

Sin—The dedication, on the 8th inst, in the Child-
ren’s Chapel in Exeter Cathedral of a stained—glass
window glorifying St. Hubert as a stag-hunter and
as part of a Memorial to the late Lord Fortescue,
raises an issue which will be Viewed with deep regret
by that vast section or the community who now
consider stag-hunting cruel and a blot upon our
ciVilisation.

No one who knows of the great public services and
private charities of the late Lord Fortescue can
doubt the high esteem in which he was held by
the people of Devon and Somerset. I think, how-
ever, it is most unfortunate that the Dean and
Chapter of Exeter Cathedral should have allowed a
Memorial of this character to be placed in the

cathedral, thus allying, as it does, religion and our
national church with a View of man’s relations with

 

“ The Conversion of St. Hubert”

 

 




 

 

Page Ninety-two

CRUEL

S P O R T S December, 1935

 

“the lesser brethren” which is deﬁnitely retrograde
and not in keeping either with the spirit of humane
ethics or of practical Christianity.

In their deeper signiﬁcance our cathedrals are the
property of the nation. Under the circumstances we
have a right, I suggest, to expect that the cus-
todians of these priceless heritages will enshrine
and portray in them only those things which exalt
and ennoble, particularly in a Children’s Chapel set
aside to inspire the rising generation in all that is
true and of good report.

May I add that it is increasingly unfortunate that
St. Hubert should be considered the Patron Saint of
The Chase, as he was converted from stag-hunting
and should rather be commemorated as the Patron
Saint of the tortured victims.

On behalf, therefore, of all those humane-minded
people who are longing for the day when man shall
neither hurt nor destroy in all God’s Holy Mountain
for pleasure, I beg most respectfully to protest
against this desecration of one of our most sacred
fanes.——I am. sir, yours faithfully,

HENRY B. AMOS.
Chandos House, Westminster, S.W.1.

15th October, 1935.

(COPY OF PROTEST.)

T0 the Dean and. Chapter of Exeter Cathedral.

Reverend Sirs,——In the name of St. Hubert and of
a humane Christianity, and in the interests of the
hunted Creature-Children of God, I beg, most re-
spectfully, to protest against the desecration of the
Children’s Chapel in the Cathedral by the erection
in it of :a stained-glass-

congratulation be sent to Mr. Amos for his ﬁne
gesture.” It also decided to send the Secretary
to the Court to “ testify to his character.” Mr.
Sharp duly gave evidence, and said I was the
Editor of the League’s Journal and that the
Committee had ‘ every conﬁdence ” in me
although the League “ disassociated itself from

my action.”

Dr. F. N. W. Thomas, barrister of the Middle
Temple, also gave evidence and said “he had
known Amos for ten years as a man of very
high character and irreproachable integrity.”

My counsel, Mr. T. J. W. Temple-man,
pleaded my case, and read ‘an unsolicited
letter ” from the Dean and Chapter of Exeter
Cathedral, in which they assured me they had
“ Ito kind of personal animosity ” for the way
in which I had felt it necessary to “ give way
to my conscientious convictions,” and express-
ing the hOpe that “ no penalty would be im-
posed.”

In announcing the decision of the Bench, the
Chairman, Mr. G. T. White, who was accom-
panied by Messrs. T. W. Ainge and R. W.
Challice, said:

“They could not con-

 

memorial which glorifies

stag-hunting.

This part of the
wind-ow is, if I may
be all-owed to say so,

grotesquely inappropriate

 

A SAVANT SPEAKS.

No animal, wild or domestic, can be treated
as a thing. Wilful disrespect 0f the Sanctities
of physical life in one sphere bears its fruit in
other and higher spheres.

sider it a case to be
lightly passed over by
simply binding over the
defendant. It was a
premeditated act of wilful
damage and desecration
and a most senseless act.
As they went about they
all saw things of which

BISHOP WESTCOTT.

 

 

in this holy place
as it not only glori-
ﬁes organised wan-
t o n c r u e lt y t 0

highly sentient animals as or for ‘pleasure,’ but it
wholly misrepresents and defames the good name of
St. Hubert who was converted from stag—hunting,
and should rather, therefore, be considered the
patron saint of the tortured victims than of the cruel
hunters. It is, moreover, I humbly suggest, a grave
offence against the child-life of the nation, which, in
Scripture, we are warned not to ‘offend’ under pain
of very terrible penalties.

I pray that animal—lovers everywhere will join in
this protest and that they will go forward and de-
mand legislation making not only stag—hunting but
all forms of cruelty to animals in ‘pleasure’ illegal.

New occasions teach new duties,
Time makes ancient good uncouth.
They must upward still and onward.
Who would keep abreast of Truth.
Nor attempt the Future’s portal.
With the Past’s blood-rusted key.

In the Fellowship of Service~The Utmost for the
Highest—

HENRY B. AMos.
Exeter, The Fellowship of St. Hubert,
St. Hubert’s Day (Nov. 3), 1935

The matter was considered by the Executive
Committee of the League, and on November
7th they passed a resolution that “ a vote of

they did not approve,
but they could not take the law into their own hands.
When a man of defendant’s education and experi-
ence did a thing like that the least the magistrates
could do was to order him to pay a fine of £10,
repay the damage of £18 18s. 11d, and pay the costs
of three guineas. They hoped it would be a warning
to him."

HENRY S. SALT INTERVENES.

The following letter was sent by Mr. Henry S.
Salt, the dloyen of the Humanitarian Movement,
to The Times and the Manchester Guardian, but
not inserted by either :—

DESECRATION OF CHURCH WINDOWS.

Sin—Something has been heard of late of a pro-
test made at Exeter against the desecration of one
of the Cathedral windows in honour of a deceased
stag-hunter, and blame has been laid on Mr. H.
B. Amos for the forcible manner in which he pro-
tested.

May I, as one of the oldest of the humanitarians,
who for the past half century have been trying to
save stag, fox, and bare from persecution, say that
I sincerely respect Mr. Amos for his courage in
breaking a window in which St. Hubert’s ﬁgure was
so absurdly and irrelevantly introduced, and that I
regret my own failure in 1913, when honorary secre-
tary of the Humanitarian League, to do the same at
the church of Moor Mo-nckton in Yorkshire, where the

 

 




 

 

December, I 935

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Ninety—three

 

death Of an aged clergyman in the hunting ﬁeld had
led to the erection of a similar window?

I think we are entitled to ask the church authorities
to put a stop to provocative memorials Of this kind,
which are likely tO lead to reprisals.—Yours, etc.,

HENRY S. SALT.
NOV. 16, 1935.

I have received many personal letters, and
messages of sympathy and encouragement,
and I would like tO take this opportunity of thank—
ing these friend-s and Of assuring them that whilst
I, as an Old Ruskinian, had no joy in damaging a
sacred and beautiful building or animus against
Lord Forte-scue personally, I am not ashamed
Of my action. On the contrary I rejoice to think
that it was put into my heart to witness for the
Truth in the way I did. It was a privilege to
Witness tO this higher loyalty and thus tO vindi-
cate the good name and fame of St. Hubert, the
Cause of the children, the tortured creatures Of
The. Wild, and of a humane, honest interpreta-
tion Of Christianity.

H.B.A.

Alderman’s Protest to Council

Bridgwater Town Council, at Thursday’s
meeting, suspended standing orders tO discuss
the killing Of a fox by hounds in the gardens
Of Alderman F. O. Symons, who described the
incident. He said he thought it was not right
that people who desired tO live in quiet and peace
in their own homes should have their gardens
overrun by hounds, and killing taking place in
them, and it was time they had protection.

Councillor Coate suggested that the Council
should be careful in any action they took, point-
ing out that Bridgwater was the centre Of a
hunting district, and that every year millions
Of pounds were spent in this country on hunting.

Councillor Goodman said he was sorry that
those millions were. not better spent.

Alderman Haggett recalled an incident Of a
stag being killed by hounds at Bridgwater a
short time ago. He said that it was an abomin-
able cruelty, and he was astonished that anyone
could enjoy such a sight.

After debating the matter the Council unani-
mously passed a resolution deprecating the in-
cidents, and trusting that steps would be
taken to prevent similar scenes.

—Somerset County Gazette, Nov. 2nd.

A M isnomer

The hunting man is said to be
A savage; but no savage he.
They know not what they say
Who such names give—
He lives to hunt;
The “savage” hunts to live.
——-8. CLAUDE TICKELL.

Broadcast Children’s Party

TO the Director Of Programmes, B.B.C.

Dear Sir,-—The attention Of the Executive
Committee Of this League has been drawn to a
press report Of your world-wide Children’s Party
to be broadcast on October 27th, when Britain’s
part will consist Of songs including “ John Peel.”

The Executive Committee strongly protests
against the inclusion Of “ John Peel” in a pro-
gramme of this character, as the sentiments ex-
pressed in the song are by no means representa-
tive Of the British people at large. In fact, the
particular sport eulogised is anathema to a
rapidly increasing number Of people on account of
its gross cruelty and its prejudicial effect on the
community, especially the rising generation.

The Executive Committee therefore kindly
requests that “ John Peel” _be substituted by
one Of the many songs more typical Of the spirit
Of the nation.

J. C. Sharp, (Secretary).

October 11th.

REPLY.
Dear Sir,

The B.B.C. feels that “ John Peel ” has been
a traditional song for so many years that its
associations are. now those of school and com-
munity singing, and not Of fox-hunting. The
Corporation respects the humane motives Of your
Society, but does not consider that in this case
it is called upon to take the action you suggest.

Yours faithfully,
THE BRITISH BROADCASTING CORPORATION.
Portland Place, London, W.l., Oct. 16.

About Rooks

Sir,——I have consulted with gOOd and success-
ful farmers. They all say they have nothing
against the I'iOOli.

Once the general public realise what the polite
words “pest campaign” and “destruction” really
mean, public Opinion will, I feel sure, put a stop
tO such displays as take place annually in our
woods. ,

W. K. A. J. CHAMBERS HUNTER.
——Aberdeen Press, Sept. 6.

A “Punch” fake

Veterinary Surgeon: “Legs queer, sir!
you ’ack ’im or ’unt ’im?”

Proprietor of Quadruped: “ I hunt him some-
times. but I mostly use him as a hack.”

Veterinary Surgeon: “Ah, sir, that’s where
.it is. It ain’t the ’unting as ’urts ’im, it’s the
’ammer, ’ammer, ’ammer along the ’ard ’igh
road.”

DO

—Punch, May 31, 1856.

 




 

 

Page Ninety-four

CRUEL SPORTS

December, I935

ROUSING PUBLIC MEETING AT BRISTOL

Stormy Interruptions and Discussion

FirewOrks—real ones—enlivened a meeting
held on Thursday, October 81st, under the aus—
. pices of the Bristol Branch of the League at
Redland Park Hall, VVhiteladies Road, Bristol,
when the speakers were Air Commodore L. E. 0.
Charlton, Commander J. L. Cather, R.N., and
Mr. Dennis Fry (VVitham College).

Canon A. H. Sewell, the President of the
Branch, presided, and read letters from the Lord
Mayor of Bristol, several clergymen and others
expressing their warm sympathy with the objects
of the meeting.

He said there was a great amount of selﬁsh-
ness in the world to-day and it expressed itself
in various ways, several of which he mentioned.
One was the selﬁsh enjoyment some people got
out of cruel sports, which it was the object of
the meeting that night to combat. He deplored
the attitude of anyone enjoying sport irrespective
of the pain it caused, and he appealed to the
audience to help in spreading a truer and more
sportsmanlike attitude to all sentient creatures,
particularly to those of the wild, who were so
shamelessly hunted to death.

Air-Commodore Charlton said he had followed
sport in every form. It was the Great War
which cleared up the matter of hunting for him
for it helped him to feel what it was like to
be hunted and shot at. He realised that the
cruelty of hunting was an obstruction to a moral
faculty and that we must apply this standard to
our own behaviour. We had free will and if
we wilfully caused suffering for our pleasure that
was cruelty. The very assence of hunting was
killing for pleasure and it was this killing that
crowned the sportsman’s day of enjoyment. No
hunt would survive if foxes were not killed. The
aim of the sportsman was to kill. There lay
the indictment.

Then there was the ceremonial to be observed
after the ‘kill.’ There was the handing round of
the ‘trophies,’——the severing of the head, the
cutting off the pads or the slots and the brush,
followed by the ‘blooding’ of any children pre—
sent. Scholars from public schools attended the
hunts, particularly hare-hunting, instead of
being encouraged to eschew it. It was most
extraordinary how many parents remained im—
pervious to reasonable humane arguments.

Sport might be in our blood, but it could be
eradicated. The conscience of mankind was now
awake and sooner or later the law would stop
this wanton butchery. The generations to come
will be amazed that Parliament should have had

to be invoked so that the butchery of animals.

in pleasure should cease. Surely they will say
the quality of mercy should not be strained.

Commander Cather said he was profoundly-

impressed with the subject, though, unlike Com-
modore Charlton, he had followed very few

forms of sport, probably because he had few

opportunities of doing so. In any case he was

quite certain that his feelings would not have-

differed from what they are now.
It was only about 100 years since bull-baiting

was common in some of our towns, but this.

and other cruelties have gone. And so will it
be with the cruel sports we are protesting against
now.

The suggestion was often made that hunting
was the only effective way of keeping deer, foxes,
hares and otters down, but this was absurd. The}
fact was that hunting was one of the excuses.

which we invented in order to justify that which

we wanted to do.

The common people who lived amongst or with
the animals were not cruel. They knew them
and loved them. Why then do we hunt? Be-
cause it is an old custom and because many
idle—rich people like this way of spending their
leisure. Ninety-nine per cent. of the men who
fought in the Great \Var had never hunted.

Some people believe in the doctrine of chance:
and that there is no creature intelligence in the
universe, but they have yet to learn that Law
has come into being and that it was the rule-
of human progress. There was purpose behind
the creation of the animal kingdom as well as.
the human kingdom, and we would only make
ourselves better and glorify the human race by
helping and not destroying that which we could
not create.

M“ Fry, who was welcomed with cat-calls,
began by quoting the great words of Lloyd Gar-
rison in connection with the struggles of the-
Negro in America—“ I am in earnest. I will not
equivocate or excuse. I will be heard.”

I appeal to you, continued Mr. Fry, to take
these words and inscribe them in your hearts so
that at a time when the cause of the animals
suffers you may set them before you as a torch
to light the way. In these times of international
disputes he urged that we should make this
country a haven of refuge for the persecuted
creatures of God, for their suffering was terrible,
and sometimes even diabolical.

It was contrary to human nature to go out:
and kill something with all the pageantry of a.

 

 




 

......

opportunity.

Page Ninety-ﬁve

CRUEL SPORTS,

December, I 935

 

Hunt, for the essence of true sport was equal
The odds against the hunted
animal were probably 50 to 1.

Fifteen million pounds are spent annually in
perpetuating hunting, yet thousands of people
live in Bristol in squalour. Was it meet to take
the children’s bread and give it to the dogs?

Mr. Fry concluded with an appeal to the hunt-
ing people present to give up hunting and to try
the Drag and the proposals of the League instead.

The Chairman then asked for questions, but
as most of the speakers tried to make a speech,
they were told that they should arrange a meet-
ing for themselves and bring forward their own

speakers.

One question was, “ If we try to save
£15,000,000 annually (the sum spent on hunting)
for ﬁve years, what about the loss to the
Revenue?” The Chairman explained that this
was not revenue but expenditure. Another ques-
tion was “What about the Royal hunting?”
and was told that “ our loyalty to Royalty does
not mean approving all they do.”

Canon Mainwaring proposed a vote of thanks
to the speakers and the chairman, and in doing
so commended the objects of the League which
he urged them to join. He wound up by saying
that ridicule and interruptions as shown by a
section of the audience that night was “ the last
refuge of those who know they are defeated.”
The motion was seconded by Mr. Taylor, and the
meeting broke up to the accompaniment of
laughing, shouting and the reports of ﬁreworks.

Live-Bait Fishing

Sir,—The paragraph you published in your
October issue, quoted from the Morning Post is
distressing.

Firstly, in Britain, live-bait ﬁshing is illegal.
The Protection of Animals Act, 1911, brings all
captured vertebrate animals under the protection
of the law, and ﬁsh are specially mentioned.

But to return to the New Zealand Professors
of Biology—who are probably vivisectionists.

“ They say that evidence shows that the power
to feel pain is conﬁned to highly organised central
nervous systems such as those of the Higher
Mammals.”

Having denied feeling to vast masses of mam-
mals and consequently to the four orders below
them, (including Birds) they proceed :—--

“ Fish have highly specially and low central
nervous systems, and their capacity to feel pain
is not as great as with animals.” (sic).

What becomes of pain being “ conﬁned to ner-
vous system such as are found in the higher
mammals”? And ﬁsh are more sensitive to

(Continued at foot of next column)

THE WA TERLOO—CUP CAMPAIGN
A Special Committee Formed

The workers in connection with the Liverpool
and Southport Campaign to stop the Hare-
Coursing at Waterloo met“ at 'Liverpool on
October 22nd to discuss ways and means. The
President (Mr. Hamilton Fyfe) and the Secre-
tary (Mr. J. C. Sharp) of the League were pre-
sent, and Mr. Fyfe presided and the Secretary
gave a resume of the campaign up to date.

The Chairman urged that they should now
press the Earl of Sefton, the chief supporter of
the Coursing, to come into the open, in his de-
fence of the sport,—also that Lady Sefton should
be asked to withdraw from the vice-presidency of
the R.S.P.C.A. if she was not prepared to take
part in stopping this cruelty.

A general discussion ensued after which it was
moved by Rev. W. C. Hall, Southport, that “ a
Committee for the suppression of the \Vaterloo
Cup be formed.” This was seconded by Mr.
A. Amos, the Hon. Secretary of the Liverpool
Council for Animals’ Welfare, and carried
unanimously.

It was further decided that a petition to the
Lord Lieutenant and all the Members of Par-
liament for Lancashire, be issued and that the
closing date for signatures be December 31st.
If the petition failed in its purpose, the Com-
mittee were empowered to lay an informative
application to a magistrate with a view to prose-
cuting the promoters of the coursing for cruelty.

A small committee was then elected with Mr.
A. Amos and Miss M. A. Cummins as Hon.
Secretaries, and all humanitarians in the district
are earnestly and urgently invited to co-o-perate
in promoting a. campaign which would rid the
community of what is one of the most callous
blood-sports in the country.

Probably! ' Probably Not!

“ Probably, in the year A.D.2000 the Pytchley
will still be drawing Waterloo Gorse and The
Quorn holding their opening meet at Kirby
Gate.”

—The: Observer, Oct. 20.

 

temperature than human beings! Every scientist
knows that in the Animal Kingdom, locomotion
without the safeguard of pain, would wipe out the
species.

In the R.S.P.C.A. prosecutions for cruelty to
ﬁsh, convictions and ﬁnes have been obtained
without exception.

Yes, ﬁsh are sensitive creatures.

W. L. LONG.
Gillingham, Dorset, Nov. '7.

 




 

 

Page Ninety-six , 1C R U E L S P O R TS : December, )1935 ii

 

_

I The League F or The Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

10], Chandos House, Palmer Street,IWestminster, S.W.I. Phone: Victoria 8496. "

PTesident.—HAMILTON FYFE, - Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALDSON. Secretary—J. C. SHARP.

LADY CLARE ANNESLEY. Vice-Presidents— E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq.
SIR HERBERT BARKER. HENRY W, NEVINSON, Esq.
MIss MARJORIE BOWEN, F.R.Soc.Lit. G, P. GOOCH, D.Litt BEVERLEY NICHOLS, ESQ-
ALD, M. CONWAY, J.P.. GERALD GOULD, Esq. EDEN PHILLPOTS, Esq.
(Ex-Pres, Nat. Un. Tchers.). DONALD MACLEOD, Esq. PERCY A, SCHOLEs, Esq.
CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). ’ (Ex-Mbr. Brit, Olympic CL). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE,

BRANCHES (Hon. Secretaries): WORKING GROUPS (Hon. Dist. Representatives):

BRISTOL: Mrs. Trewman, 9, Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol, 8. BOLTON: Mrs, Margaret Tripp, Heaton Vicarage, Bolton.
HASTINGS: Mrs. Coleman, 11, Laton Road, Hastings. GARLISLE: Mr. George T. Miller, 4, Cumwhinton Road,
LEEDS; Mrs. D. M. Beaumont, “The Valkyrie,” Allerton ﬂarraby, Carlisle.

Drive, East Keswmk, Nr. Leeds. GOLGHESTER: Mr. E. Womack. 138, North Station Road,
SOUTH PORT: Miss M. A. Cummins, 46, Alma Road, Birk- L‘Olchester.

dale, Southport. HOVE: Miss M. M. Reynolds, 42, Osborn Villas, Hove, 3.
SOUTH-WESTERN: Mrs. Crosse, Rokeby, Pennsylvania, IPSWICH; Miss R. M, King, 45, Oxford Road, Ipswich.

Exeter. Mr. W. P. H. Warner, '73, Union Street, NOTTINGHAM: Miss F. M. Roper, Belvoir Mount, Sneinton,

'I'orquay. Nottingham

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”1

IT CONDEMNS fox, deer, hare, and otter-hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “ Blood Sports Condemned?) ‘ p

' IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour

of a run with hounds without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting.”) ‘

IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation (See
leaﬂet “ Blooded.” ) »

AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application. '
We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church Group, etc., if
out-of-pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also available.

JOIN THE LEAGUE

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

 

 

I enclose herewith‘k ........................

O 000000000000 0.0.0....

State

Whether

Mr., Mrs., .: .................................... .. .................... . ......... . ..................
or Miss. ‘

’5/- per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthly. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members £5. .
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L.P.C.S., IOI, Chandos House, Westminster, S.W.I.

FORM OF BEQU EST.

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :—
I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION or CRUEL SPORrs, London, the sum

of .............................. 1'“rear of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be paid to the

Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society.

By virtue of_the Act.of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator and
attested by two Witnesses In the presence of the Testator and of each other. ’

 

 

 

 

BRIGHTON._Ideal Boarding Establishment, pure BEAUTIFUL BUTTERWIEREV-National Trust’s supreme
generous varied diet, Bedrooms h. and c. water, gas Lakeland purchase. Victorla Golf Hotel modernised
ﬁres, good garden, central, near Sea and Downs, inclu- and enlarged. Extensive woodland grounds. Bathing
sive terms—Tariff: Mr. and Mrs. Massingham, 16 and pool. Many rare birds and plants. Photographer’s
17. Norfolk Terrace. paradise.

WANTED, SéI'AMPE induse before 1880._Sewell. 51, Lan-

caster ate. on on. , .

LADY (humanitarian) seeks post. , Secretarial, typing, HUMANE FURI (fabric)._104, George Street, W.1., Wel-
shorthand.—D.. 19, Compton Road, London, N.1. beck 7257. .

Small prepaid advertisements are inserted at the rate of led. per word per insertion or 2/6d_. per line for tweIVe

insertions and they should be received at the ofﬁce by the 15th of the month tor the folloWIng month s Issue.

Published by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION 0F CRUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster
S.W.1; and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS, LTD., Bond Gate, Nuneaton.

,s

 




